# The (Partial) Vindication of the Tea Party

**Source**: inputs/New Docs/reader/douthat.blogs.nytimes.com_2011_03_01_the-partial-vindication-of-the-tea-party.html
**Type**: article
**Created**: 2025-08-25T02:53:54.028467

---

There were a lot of surprising developments during the weeks I just took off from writing (who knew Charlie Sheen had so much to offer the world?), but the “what entitlement problem?” evasiveness of President Obama’s 2011 budget wasn’t one of them. What was a surprise, though, and a pleasant one, was the House G.O.P.’s response: A politically-gutsy pledge that their forthcoming budget would tackle entitlements head-on. And while how all this plays out remains to be seen, it seems fair for the Tea Party movement to claim a measure of vindication from the way Congressional Republicans have conducted themselves to date.  
  
By this I don’t mean that the Tea Partiers have been proven right on the great issues of the day, necessarily. Rather, I mean that their own self-understanding — as a movement aimed at pushing the Republican Party toward real fiscal austerity and greater skepticism of government power — has been at least partially vindicated in the votes that a Tea Partified G.O.P. has taken and the positions that its members have staked out.  
  
This wasn’t a foregone conclusion by any means. The most pungent, attention-grabbing liberal critique of the Tea Parties was that they were either racist reactionaries fomenting violent insurrection, or else the hapless dupes of plutocratic puppetmasters. But the more plausible liberal critique was that the movement’s supporters weren’t actually serious about the issues they claimed to care about the most. Sure, liberals allowed, Tea Partiers said that they cared about runaway government spending, but polls showed that most of them actually felt more strongly about tax cuts than real fiscal discipline, and believed that the deficit could be pared back without touching Medicare or Social Security or defense. Likewise, Tea Partiers claimed to care about individual liberty, but polls showed that their opinions weren’t any closer to real civil libertarianism than those of the average Bush-era Republican. Citing this data, more than a few liberals suggested that the dirty secret of the Tea Partiers was that they were just Bush-era Republicans, rebranded and equipped with newfound populist zeal, but otherwise identical to the right-wing constituency that had accepted Bush’s deficit spending and expansions of the national security state without a peep. (This Jonathan Chait post from a week ago gives the flavor of this argument.) Which meant, presumably, that the movement’s promises of a more fiscally-responsible and libertarian G.O.P. were so much sound and fury, and what we should really expect from Tea Party Republicanism was more of the same: A notional commitment to limited government and individual liberty, joined to a practical politics of deficit-financed tax cuts, defense sector bloat, and Medicare demagoguery.  
  
But here we are, a couple months into the new G.O.P. era, and the party’s Congressional leadership has formally committed itself to providing a blueprint for entitlement reform, the immense political risks notwithstanding. At the same time, while Ron Paul-style libertarianism is hardly ascendant in the Republican Party, it’s more in evidence than at any point in the Bush era: You’ve had surprising Republican votes to delay reauthorizing the PATRIOT Act, a Republican backbencher revolt that killed the F-35 engine and — most importantly, perhaps, for right-wing libertarianism’s long-term prospects — Rand Paul’s emergence as the Republican version of Russ Feingold, making the case for civil liberties in an often-inhospitable environment.  
  
Again, it’s early. But these promises and votes and public stands suggest that many of the Tea Party’s doubters missed something essential about the way small-r republican politics often works. Yes, the typical Tea Party sympathizer probably voted for George W. Bush in 2000 and 2004 without thinking twice about the deficit or civil liberties, and (like most Americans) probably harbors entirely wrongheaded and naive ideas about how and where a would-be deficit hawk would need to cut. But while the essential character of the average Republican voter might have been unchanged from the Bush era to the Tea Party era, America isn’t governed by the essential character of the winning faction’s voters. It’s governed by politicians, and the kind of politicians that the average Republican supported in 2010 differed markedly from the kind of politicians he had voted for in, say, 2002. This was why the Tea Party mattered: Not because each and every Tea Partier held coherent views on entitlement reform or defense spending or civil liberties, but because the movement’s general emphasis on limited government purism led to a change in the particular kind of lawmaker who earned support from right-of-center voters — and, by extension, a change in the kind of pressure brought to bear on incumbent Republicans and G.O.P. leaders alike.  
  
If you really dug into issue-by-issue polling, for instance, I wouldn’t be surprised if the average Republican primary voter in Kentucky held policy views closer to Trey Grayson — and, by extension, George W. Bush — than to the ideologically-eccentric Rand Paul. But thanks to the influence of the Tea Party mentality, that didn’t matter: A large bloc of conservatives were convinced that it was their duty to vote for the most anti-establishment figure in the race, specific policy disagreements be damned. This impulse produced a more crankish slate of nominees and probably cost the Republicans a couple of Senate seats. But it seems to have also produced a Congressional G.O.P. that’s more serious about meaningful spending cuts, and at least marginally more sympathetic to critiques of national-security bloat and overreach, than it was before the Tea Party movement came on the scene.  
  
Again, you don’t have to like what the Tea Party stands for. But to date, at least, you can’t say it hasn’t delivered something close to what it promised.