title: Are People Really More Busy? The Rise of Shadow Work | The Art of Manliness
source: http://www.artofmanliness.com/2015/08/31/shadow-work-and-the-rise-of-middle-class-serfdom/
date: 2025-08-13T18:47:20.919065
tags: []
---
_With our archives now 3,500+ articles deep, weГўВҖВҷve decided to republish a
classic piece each Sunday to help our newer readers discover some of the best,
evergreen gems from the past. This article was originally published in August
2015._

Meet Mike, an average American.

The first thing Mike does when he rolls out of bed in the morning is look at
his phone. He checks for new texts and emails, peruses his social media feeds,
and then surfs around to various news sites.

Then he grabs a quick breakfast and itГўВҖВҷs out the door for a 20-minute
commute to work. But first he stops at a convenience store to fill up on gas.

Once at the office, Mike makes himself some coffee and settles into his desk.
His computer prompts him, as it does every 90 days, to change his password. He
then spends an hour going through his work email, before doing some copy
making and filing.

At lunch, Mike eats at a ГўВҖВңfast casualГўВҖВқ establishment where he orders at
the counter, brings his food to a table, and then cleans it off when he
leaves.

Back at the office, thereГўВҖВҷs more email to answer and tasks to take care of.

After work Mike stops by a grocery store, and swipes and bags his items in the
self-checkout line.

Once he arrives home, Mike makes himself dinner, and then cleans up the
kitchen. Next he sits down at his computer to figure out which flights would
be best for an upcoming trip heГўВҖВҷs planning, and to book a hotel and rental
car as well. Two hours later, Mike makes those purchases, and then shops for a
new bag heГўВҖВҷll need for the trip, looking at numerous sites and reviews, and
then putting in his credit card and shipping information once again to
complete the transaction.

Next, Mike logs into the online portal for his bank and transfers money from
one account to another. Then itГўВҖВҷs a little more web surfing and one last
check of his social media feeds. Right before he turns in, Mike gets a text
from a friend: ГўВҖВңHey man! Want to go mountain biking this Saturday?ГўВҖВқ
ГўВҖВңSorry,ГўВҖВқ Mike replies, ГўВҖВңIГўВҖВҷm too busy. Maybe another time.ГўВҖВқ

While Mike hasnГўВҖВҷt done anything physically strenuous during the day, he
crawls into bed feeling exhausted. And with good reason ГўВҖВ” for in addition to
performing his ГўВҖВңrealГўВҖВқ job at the office, he also worked a wide variety of
other positions: driver, news editor, gas station attendant, banker, waiter,
bus boy, secretary, cashier, grocery bagger, cook, housekeeper, travel agent,
and salesman.

Though Mike nominally only works a 9-5, he has in fact been toiling around the
clock.

## Are We Really Busier Than We Used to Be?

In the modern age, we have [the same 24 hours a
day](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/how-to-live-on-24-hours-a-day/)
that every human has enjoyed for thousands of years. But when you look around,
you might be forgiven for thinking that time has somehow sped up and that our
days have grown shorter. People seem harried and worn out. If you ask them how
theyГўВҖВҷre doing, ГўВҖВңBusy, busy, _busy_!ГўВҖВқ is often the answer.

40% of Americans say theyГўВҖВҷre overworked, half feel there are too many tasks
to complete each week, two-thirds feel they donГўВҖВҷt have enough time for
themselves or their spouses, and three-fourths say they donГўВҖВҷt get to spend
as much time with their kids as theyГўВҖВҷd like. And as far as the other parts
of life, well, they canГўВҖВҷt be bothered with them at all.

Making small talk? _Too tiresome._

Going out and socializing, even with old friends? _Ditto._

Throwing a party? _Too much work._

Going to church or doing service? _Too busy._

Following basic manners and acting civil? _Too tired to make the effort._

Cooking homemade food? _Too time-consuming._

Putting on pants without an elastic waistband? _Why bother?_

Having hobbies? _AinГўВҖВҷt nobody got time for that._

To explain whatГўВҖВҷs behind this apparent time crunch, the instinctive
hypothesis is that weГўВҖВҷre all simply working more ГўВҖВ” that jobs these days
require us to toil for more hours than they used to.

Yet perception is not reality. Since the 1960s, work hours have actually
decreased by almost eight hours a week, while leisure time has gone up by
almost seven hours. Many will likely find this hard to believe, and thatГўВҖВҷs
partly due to the fact that people routinely overestimate how much they really
work by 5-10%. We also greatly underestimate our available leisure time;
Americans think they have, at the most, about 16.5 hours of it a week. In
actuality, nearly all of us have anywhere from 30-40 hours of leisure time at
our disposal. And this includes both men and women, singles and marrieds,
those with children and those without, and the rich and poor alike; in fact,
lower income Americans have more leisure time than higher earners.

So what exactly is going on? What accounts for the gap between how our lives
feel and how theyГўВҖВҷre actually structured?

How is it possible that we ostensibly have 40 hours of leisure time each week,
and yet most of us feel we canГўВҖВҷt even spare 20 minutes a day to read a book
or meditate?

## Stupefied by Shadow Work

Working women have long complained of having to hold down ГўВҖВңthe second
shiftГўВҖВқ ГўВҖВ” i.e., having to do the bulk of childcare and housework after
putting in time at a paid job. While itГўВҖВҷs true and often reported that women
continue to do more of these second shift chores than men, _total_ working
time for men and women these days is actually close to equal. That is, while
working women do more housework, working men put in more hours at the office,
so that the total working hours for each is close to the same.

Amidst the debate over which sex does more, few have noticed the fact that all
of us ГўВҖВ” men and women alike ГўВҖВ” are working not only unpaid second shifts,
but third, fourth, and fifth ones as well. Think about MikeвҖҷs day again: even
though he had one official job, he wore many different hats.

As author and professor Dr. Craig Lambert explains, we all increasingly
ГўВҖВңfind ourselves doing a stack of jobs we never volunteered for, chores that
showed up in our lives below the scan of awareness.ГўВҖВқ Lambert calls these
tasks ГўВҖВңshadow workГўВҖВқ and in [his book of the same
name](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1619025256/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=1619025256&linkCode=as2&tag=stucosuccess-20&linkId=SBIKKDGKMZAW3EIY),
he describes this labor as ГўВҖВңall the unpaid tasks we do on behalf of
businesses and organizations.ГўВҖВқ

You perform shadow work whenever you do jobs that used to be done by a paid
employee, but have now been outsourced to the consumer: pumping gas, booking a
travel itinerary, bussing a table, and so on. We likewise do shadow work
whenever we bank online instead using a teller, check in to flights or a hotel
using a kiosk rather than a human, and wait on hold for an hour to talk to a
scarce customer service representative. When we canГўВҖВҷt find a knowledgeable
salesman to talk to and get a recommendation from at a big box store, and
instead must take over his job and shop online, spending hours comparing model
features and reading reviews, weГўВҖВҷre doing shadow work then too. When we
follow through on these online transactions, entering in our credit card
number and address for the umpteenth thousandth time, we do yet more shadow
work ГўВҖВ” this time as DIY cashiers.

WeГўВҖВҷve all taken over a wide variety of jobs that used to be done by others,
not only in the wider marketplace, but even just a few desks over; many paid
positions have been subject to ГўВҖВңjob creepГўВҖВқ in which a worker must perform
the tasks that used to be done by three other people, and are not included in
his official job description. Support staff ГўВҖВ” secretaries, assistants, and
the like who used to make your coffee and copies, answer your mail, and keep
track of your schedule, have largely been resigned to the dust bin of a bygone
era. And yet the requirement of becoming a jack-of-all-trades has not been
accompanied by an increase in wages.

Shadow work also includes tasks that have resulted from new practices and
expectations, and which you must perform if you wish to use a particular
service or simply keep your job. Think of kowtowing to the shoe-removing
rituals required by airport security, filling out endless paperwork when you
visit a new doctor, and of course doing your taxes, a chore which takes the
average 1040-filer 23 hours of shadow work a year. Suppressing any normal,
negative feelings, and putting on a consistently upbeat, friendly face ГўВҖВ”
which more and more employers require of workers who interact with the public
ГўВҖВ” constitutes tiresome shadow work too.

Finally, the realm of shadow work includes tasks that arenГўВҖВҷt strictly
necessary, but that we perform because of their perceived benefits. At least
2/3 of us surf the web for medical information, often coming up with our own
diagnoses instead of or before seeing a doctor; after our visit, we do more
shadow work to decide between the various treatment plans the good doc
described. Many folks who are looking for love report that online dating
becomes like a second job, as they must spend hours perusing profiles,
responding to messages, and setting up dates. And not only do we have to clean
and organize our physical home these days, but we have to regularly tidy up,
back up, and arrange the songs, emails, files, photos, and videos that line
our virtual ГўВҖВңshelves.ГўВҖВқ Plus, we must not only manage our real world selves
and protect our physical privacy, but also [monitor our online
reputations](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/manage-your-online-
reputation/) and [safekeep the data we put in the
cloud](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/going-undercover-how-to-
protect-your-privacy-online/).

But perhaps the most taxing shadow work of all is managing our information
intake. In times past, magazine, book, and television editors controlled the
flow of information to the public. This restricted the media being put out,
but also filtered it for quality and importance. The web has radically
democratized this process, so that anyone with a computer can create their own
videos, books, articles, films, and so on. This has left the consumer with the
enormous and never-ending job of wading into the torrent of media online and
sifting the wheat from the chaff.

This ever-increasing mountain of shadow work tasks has placed a unique burden
on the modern citizen. Lambert argues that while shadow work has hardly put us
in the position of medieval peasants, it has in fact created a new kind of
middle-class serfdom. We are all Mike, logging hours for corporations we
donГўВҖВҷt realize weГўВҖВҷre employed by, and working around the clock without pay.

## Life as a Middle-Class Serf

Lambert calls shadow work such, because it takes ГўВҖВңplace in the wings of the
theater while we are absorbed in the onstage drama of our lives.ГўВҖВқ Had it
dropped into our routines all at once, we would have noticed, and may have
howled in protest, but instead it has arrived slowly in dribs and drabs.
ItГўВҖВҷs become our new normal and weГўВҖВҷve gotten so used to it that the
phenomenon has largely gone unnoticed and unrecognized.

Taken alone, the tasks of shadow work seem laughably trivial. But itГўВҖВҷs
serfdom by a thousand cuts; together, our shadow work chores have shredded our
days into what the author of
_[Overwhelmed](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1250062381/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=1250062381&linkCode=as2&tag=stucosuccess-20&linkId=F3WZW4RA62CPP462)_
calls ГўВҖВңconfetti time.ГўВҖВқ Rather than experiencing long, unbroken stretches
of time in which we concentrate on completing tasks for a single role in our
lives, we are constantly changing the hats we wear ГўВҖВ” toggling from husband
to cashier, office worker to news editor, father to travel agent.

And while we were formerly forced to largely work during regular work hours
and shop during regular business hours, technology allows us to produce and
consume 24/7. We never fully clock out from our ГўВҖВңrealГўВҖВқ jobs, nor do we
ever fully take a break from the marketplace. Even when weГўВҖВҷre not actively
engaging in shadow work, in the back of our mind thereГўВҖВҷs that ever present
niggling: Is there something I need to buy? Is there something going on I
should know about? Should I check my phone? WeГўВҖВҷre always ГўВҖВңonГўВҖВқ and
constantly mentally switching between roles.

## The Hidden Thieves Stealing Your Willpower

It isnГўВҖВҷt the time that shadow work tasks require that ends up being so
draining (they may even save you time over the traditional route), but their
effect on the psyche. [Willpower is a finite
resource](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/how-to-strengthen-
willpower/). You only get so much of the fuel that allows you to focus and
gives you the mental energy to tackle the world each day. And [what saps this
fuel](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/willpower-part-ii/) is making
decisions, weighing options, and exercising self-control.

Shadow work requires all three behaviors, and is thus a huge willpower
drainer.

I have long felt that this is one of the single most overlooked facts in
modern life; even Lambert largely misses it. I think it gets to the heart of
why people feel overworked, worn out, and harried ГўВҖВ” why they just canГўВҖВҷt be
bothered to be civil or to socialize or to have hobbies, even though on paper
they donГўВҖВҷt seem to have that much going on. The stuff thatГўВҖВҷs eating away
at their willpower arenГўВҖВҷt the things youГўВҖВҷd put in a planner, but the
overlooked shadow work in the wings.

Shadow work does frequently give the average consumer more autonomy; you can
do things when and how youГўВҖВҷd like. But 100% autonomy is actually not a
desirable state. ГўВҖВңSubmissionГўВҖВқ is a word with negative connotations, [but
times of psychic submission are in fact a mental
necessity](https://www.artofmanliness.com/character/sunday-firesides-the-
liberation-of-submission/). Our minds need periods of rest where we can say to
someone else, ГўВҖВңYou take care of all the details on this. I just want to
enjoy the result!ГўВҖВқ ItГўВҖВҷs true that the rich have always enjoyed this kind
of delegated caretaking the most, with their coterie of maids and servants
standing by to fulfill their every need. But as recently as 50 years ago,
everybody, from the overwhelmed housewife to the working class bloke, got to
regularly enjoy at least a few brief moments of respite at stores, gas
stations, and the like; nearly everyone had times both of serving and being
served. Now weГўВҖВҷre always waiting, and never being waited upon. WeГўВҖВҷre
constantly tasked with shouldering all the responsibility, weighing all the
options (of which there are more available than ever!), and making all the
decisions. ItГўВҖВҷs exhausting.

Most wearying of all, is that one of the things which is supposed to act as
our servant ГўВҖВ” the web ГўВҖВ” often becomes our master instead.

Take just the example of working in an office today compared to half a century
ago. Imagine in your mindГўВҖВҷs eye your 1960s desk. ItГўВҖВҷs got some paperwork
on it, a picture of your kids, and nothing else. No computer. As you go about
your work, thereГўВҖВҷs nothing to distract you; you can look at the files on
your desk, or at a plant in the corner, and then back to your files. Now
imagine your desk at work today. Right in the center is your computer where
you do all your work. Every minute you have to resist the urge to check
Instagram or look something up on google to focus on the task at hand. Each
time you feel the urge to surf and resist it, you use up a bit of your
willpower reserve. YouГўВҖВҷre thus actually working two jobs at once: one as
Outgoing Accounts Manager, and the other as Chief Urge-Resister. Your job thus
feels twice as taxing as it did a few decades ago, and you go home feeling
like you just worked a double-shift. Because you pretty much did.

Once our willpower reserve runs low, ГўВҖВңdecision fatigueГўВҖВқ sets in and we shy
away from doing anything thatГўВҖВҷll require mental energy or making choices,
act less patient and civil than weвҖҷd like to, and just generally default to
the path of least resistance.

ItГўВҖВҷs no surprise then, that the time we spend watching television ГўВҖВ” the
ultimate in vegging out for the modern willpower-depleted serf ГўВҖВ” keeps
increasing and currently stands at almost 3 hours a day, or half our total
leisure time. That same leisure time everyone swears they donГўВҖВҷt have.

## Becoming the Lord of Shadow Work

Corporations love creating shadow work because outsourcing formerly paid jobs
to the consumer increases their profits. But they also often claim itГўВҖВҷs a
win for everyone, as the consumer will ultimately save money and time as well.
Of course the rhetoric doesnГўВҖВҷt usually match reality; oftentimes the cost
savings never trickle down, and the new robotic customer service rep is less
convenient than the flesh and blood variety. For example, airline ticket
prices havenГўВҖВҷt fallen now that we buy them online and check in via kiosk.
Similarly, self-check-out at the grocery store might sometimes be faster if
you only have a few items ГўВҖВ” but not if you run into an error, and not if you
have a whole basketful of groceries.

But shadow work does undeniably have its benefits. It lets you shop on your
own time, manage your own information stream, and dine out more often than you
might have otherwise (you may have to bus your own table, but you donГўВҖВҷt have
to tip).

Thus, Lambert goes out of his way to argue that shadow work in and of itself
is not a problem, and is in fact an opportunity; it ГўВҖВңcan both add new tasks
and open up possibilities.ГўВҖВқ But we can only take advantage of it if weГўВҖВҷre
fully aware of the phenomenon and the various ways itГўВҖВҷs insinuated its reach
into our lives. For most, the shadow work they perform goes unrecognized,
though its effects are still felt; itГўВҖВҷs as if someone sleepwalks through
nightly workouts, and canГўВҖВҷt figure out why theyГўВҖВҷre so fatigued during the
day.

Hopefully this post has brought something that typically operates outside of
consciousness to the forefront of your mind.

Now the task is to manage and direct your shadow work towards productive and
desirable ends. Here are a few tips for doing so:

**Develop a new mindset on busyness.** Part of the reason people have failed
to examine their perceived busyness more closely is that many donГўВҖВҷt actually
think itГўВҖВҷs such a bad thing. Busyness these days has become a status symbol
ГўВҖВ” a sign youГўВҖВҷre someone whoГўВҖВҷs doing things in the world. People may
complain that theyГўВҖВҷre overworked, but theyГўВҖВҷre often really just signaling
their membership in the movers and shakers club. Our automatic equation of
being busy with doing something right overlooks important facts ГўВҖВ” such as
whether this busyness is actually making us happy, or even lending itself to
our productivity! Someone may be expending their energy in a hundred different
directions and feel entirely worn out, but be accomplishing very little.

Minimizing shadow work will make you feel less burdened, and itГўВҖВҷs important
you donГўВҖВҷt interpret this greater lightness as doing something wrong. Again,
sheer busyness itself does not equal productivity and creativity.

**Outsource when you can.** The DIY ethic is admirable, but only when youГўВҖВҷre
doing-it-yourself, for yourself! Putting in time for a corporation doesnГўВҖВҷt
satisfy the soul. So if theyГўВҖВҷre going to outsource jobs to you, consider
passing the task along and outsourcing it to someone else. Yes, outsourcing
usually costs money, but this upfront cost should be weighed not only against
the time you save, but the psychic energy and willpower youГўВҖВҷll preserve as
well. Doing things like using a travel agent, hiring a tax preparer, and even
riding the bus to work instead of driving yourself, can actually end up making
you more money in the long run; if you feel so exhausted at night that you
never end up putting in time on [your side
hustle](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/be-your-own-boss-37-side-
hustle-ideas/), itГўВҖВҷll never get off the ground. [The more you outsource
tiresome tasks, the more time youГўВҖВҷll have for satisfying and creative
pursuits.](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/the-pros-and-cons-of-
outsourcing-your-life/)

**Set no-brainer blocks on your devices.** Instead of expending your precious
willpower trying to resist the urge to check your devices when youГўВҖВҷd like to
be working on other things, take that possibility completely off the table by
putting blocks on certain apps and sites at certain times. [This article
covers all the ins and outs of how to do
that](https://www.artofmanliness.com/character/behavior/how-to-quit-
mindlessly-surfing-the-internet-and-actually-get-stuff-done/).

**Clock out from production and consumption.** The average modern American is
either producing or consuming at any given moment during the day. Our
identities are ever tied up in economic pursuits. Take a break from the
marketplace by trying not only to keep regular working hours where possible,
but to adhere to regular business hours when you shop. Just because you can
buy some Beard Growth Spray on Amazon at 11 oГўВҖВҷclock at night, doesnГўВҖВҷt mean
you should. Set parameters for your economic hours, [consider taking a weekly
Tech Sabbath](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/tech-sabbath/), and make
unbroken lengths of time ГўВҖВ” periods in which to pursue things for their own
pleasures and ends, and simply to be a human ГўВҖВ” a sacred part of your
routine.

**Be a****satisficer****rather than a maximizer.** Maximizers seek out every
possibility and weigh every option before making a decision; satisficers pick
the first thing theyГўВҖВҷre happy with and go with it. While maximizers do end
up with better things because of all their effort, research has shown that
theyГўВҖВҷre still less happy with what they get than satisficers! They canГўВҖВҷt
enjoy what they pick because they continue to wonder if they made the right
choice, and whether there might be something else out there theyГўВҖВҷd like even
better.

In our modern life, it pays to be a satisficer. There may be [a dozen
different natural deodorants out
there](https://www.artofmanliness.com/lifestyle/5-best-natural-deodorants-for-
men/), but just pick one and stick with it. That is, whenever you find a
product or service you like, if you remain happy with it, keep on using it
instead of constantly surfing reviews and perusing new products that are only
infinitesimally different than the previous versions.

**Be ruthless in filtering information.** Everyone is now their own media
editor, and how you perform at this task will have much to do with the quality
of your life. Grade channels/sites; do they occasionally have excellent
content, while 80% of it is junk? Give them an F. Does another media outlet
have the reverse ratio of gems to crap? Give it a B-. Then, instead of
randomly surfing, only frequent B-quality sites/channels. Imagine yourself as
a real-life editor, and ask yourself if you would publish/broadcast the
content that crosses your desk; if not, you shouldnГўВҖВҷt consume it either.

If thereГўВҖВҷs a site youГўВҖВҷve come to trust, as you know they examine many
sources and sides of an issue before presenting advice, go right to it when
you have a question, rather than wading through everything yourself.

Also apply this mindset to your social media feeds. Hide everyone and
everything that doesnГўВҖВҷt consistently share at least B-grade content.

When you start ruthlessly filtering your media consumption, [youГўВҖВҷll often
worry that youГўВҖВҷre missing out on
things](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/fighting-fomo-4-questions-
that-will-crush-the-fear-of-missing-out/) ГўВҖВ” that youГўВҖВҷll miss something
important amongst the 20% of good stuff a generally junky site puts out. But
IГўВҖВҷve found that once you give up a particular media outlet for awhile, the
tugging and withdrawal symptoms quickly go away, and you realize it was adding
nothing to your life. Further, the important subjects that the junky site
occasionally covered, invariably pop up on other sites, only executed far
better!

## Conclusion

Shadow work promises greater autonomy, but ends up making us feel more out of
control ГўВҖВ” that we donГўВҖВҷt have the time or energy to do the things we really
want to. DonГўВҖВҷt let yourself be added to the ranks of a corporationГўВҖВҷs
employees without realizing it, and donГўВҖВҷt freely hand over the cream of your
energy to the lords of media and commerce. Willpower is a manГўВҖВҷs most
precious resource; if you wish to be the lord of your life, rather than a
serf, guard it closely and use it wisely.

**_Listen to our podcast on whether people today are the most exhausted in
history:_**

___________________________

_Sources:_

[_Shadow Work: The Unpaid Unseen Jobs That Fill Your
Day_](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1619025256/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=1619025256&linkCode=as2&tag=stucosuccess-20&linkId=SBIKKDGKMZAW3EIY)

[The Overestimated Workweek
Revisited](https://www.bls.gov/opub/mlr/2011/06/art3full.pdf)

[American Time Use Survey
Summary](https://www.bls.gov/news.release/atus.nr0.htm)

[ _Stressed Out on Four Continents_](http://ftp.iza.org/dp1815.pdf)[ _: Time
Crunch or Yuppie Kvetch?_](http://ftp.iza.org/dp1815.pdf)_
_

[The Evolution of Income, Consumption, and Leisure Inequality in The US,
1980-2010](https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w17982/w17982.pdf)

[ _Overwhelmed: How to Work, Play, and Love When No One Has the
Time_](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1250062381/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=1250062381&linkCode=as2&tag=stucosuccess-20&linkId=F3WZW4RA62CPP462)

[Upwards Leisure Mobility: Americans Work Less and Have More Leisure Time than
Ever Before](https://www.heritage.org/jobs-and-labor/report/upwards-leisure-
mobility-americans-work-less-and-have-more-leisuretime-ever#_ftn8)
