title: Every ESPN ‘30 for 30’ Film, Ranked
source: http://www.vulture.com/2013/10/every-espn-30-for-30-film-ranked.html
date: 2025-08-13T20:00:36.607465
tags: []
---
ESPN’s acclaimed “30 for 30” series returns tonight with its 52nd entry,
_Hawaiian: The Legend of Eddie Aikau_ , an examination of the life of a
pioneering big-wave surfer. Even though its name is essentially gibberish now
(“30 for 30” refers to the batch of films rolled out to celebrate the
network’s 30-year anniversary in 2009), the sports-documentary project retains
its critical and ratings impact. The fresh set of films rolling out over the
next six weeks also includes reflections on the Tonya Harding–Nancy Kerrigan
feud, the brutal boxing rivalry of Sugar Ray Leonard and Roberto Duran, and
Jimmy Connors’s stranger-than-fiction run at the 1991 U.S. Open. To get
suitably pumped for the return of “30 for 30,” Vulture did what any true
sports fan would: ranked the previous 51 documentaries in the series from
worst to first.

**51._Little Big Men_**
The story of the 1982 Kirkland, Washington, Little League World Series
champions — who broke Taiwan’s stranglehold on the event. Directed by
television veteran Al Szymanski, _Little Big Men_ captures some of the unique
charm of the LLWS, but ultimately founders in melodrama and junior-sports
jingoism.

****50.**_Broke_
** A jock and his or her money are soon parted, and in often absurd ways.
Billy Corben (_Cocaine Cowboys_ and the much-stronger “30 for 30” documentary
_The U_) tackles the phenomenon of athletes going bust. _Broke_ drags on way
too long and loses steam when first-person war stories give way to grating
doses of pseudo-expertise from business journos. Highlights: Herman Edwards
talks about financial planning the same way he talks about football (which is
to say, he yells about financial planning); Andre Rison is extensively
interviewed and never removes his sunglasses.

**49**.**_House of Steinbrenner_
** Part of the New York Yankees’ brand, at least off the field, is huffy
bombast, and _The House of Steinbrenner_ is very much on message. Braiding
together the story of George Steinbrenner’s ownership of the club with the
demolition of the original Yankee Stadium, this early entry is best left for
Yanks fans only. One of the world’s great sports teams deserved something
better, especially from Oscar winner Barbara Kopple, director of the
phenomenal Oscar-winning 1976 doc _Harlan County, USA_.

**48._The Dotted Line_
** From _Super Size Me_ documentarian Morgan Spurlock, _The Dotted Line_
blends together stories of agent-athlete relationships with the story of a
novice NFL agent recruiting and touting his small stable of clients. Watching
the unctuous but captivating Eugene Lee sell himself to fringe NFL prospects
and their moms is riveting, but _The Dotted Line_ falls flat in the second
half when it goes fishing for moral outrage about the sleazefest that is
college sports.

**47._Ghosts of Ole Miss_
** Sports-doc mainstay Fritz Mitchell (of the marginally better “30 for 30”
documentary _The Legend of Jimmy the Greek_ and more) partnered with ESPN.com
scribe Wright Thompson to explore the aftermath of integration at the
University of Mississippi. In the days following James Meredith’s enrollment,
rioting upended the Oxford campus. The community rallied around the undefeated
Rebels football team. _Ghosts of Ole Miss_ asks tough questions, but
ultimately doesn’t quite connect football history with the much more
significant action off the field.

**46._A Silly Little Game_
** This entry from indie documentary guys Adam Kurland and Lucas Jansen offers
up the origin story of rotisserie baseball — the dorky ancestor of the fantasy
sports games that now generate billions annually — as told by the New York
media folks who invented it in the early eighties. However, seminal moments of
fantasy sports history are brought to life in cringingly goofy reenactments,
and the endeavor reminds us that the problem with fantasy sports as fodder for
pop culture is that no one cares about anyone else’s fantasy team, not even
the very first ones.

**45._King’s Ransom_
** Having directed the movie version of  _Friday Night Lights_ and created the
beloved TV series of the same name, Peter Berg knows from good sports stories.
But _King’s Ransom_ , the documentary that kicked off the “30 for 30” series,
comes off a bit sluggish, like late-round playoff game ice. But it’s not
entirely without charm: Footage of Wayne Gretzky’s wedding to Janet Jones
looks like a fan-fic re-creation of the Princess Vespa–Prince Valium ceremony.

**44._Roll Tide/War Eagle_
** Helmed by veteran ESPN producer Martin Khodabakhshian, _Roll Tide/War
Eagle_ is a gloss on the history and intensity of the Alabama-Auburn football
rivalry. Connoisseurs of college football won’t learn much, but there are a
few highlights: Alabama alum Gay Talese bemoaning the Tide’s 2010 Iron Bowl
defeat, and an extended interview with Harvey Updyke, the infamous Alabama
jailed for poisoning the beloved oak**** trees in Auburn’s Toomer’s Corner.
Also, a quirk about the documentary that’s very, very important to mention:
The film is punctuated throughout by a bizarre piano rendition of “Sweet Home
Alabama” performed by a sweating, grimacing man in a white jumpsuit.

**43._Goose_
** Kevin Shaw, maker of _The Street Stops Here_ about legendary high school
coach Bob Hurley Sr., zooms in on the brief life of underappreciated hoops
pioneer Reece “Goose” Tatum. An early star of the Harlem Globetrotters and his
own barnstorming basketball road shows, Tatum was both a gifted entertainer
and a superstar athlete — as well as an overdue inductee in the Basketball
Hall of Fame, an honor at the center of _Goose_.

**42._There’s No Place Like Home_
** The story of Josh Swade, a Kansas Jayhawks superfan (and co-director of
this doc), and his mildly interesting quest to purchase the original rules of
basketball. The not-quite-endearing Swade networks with rich alums and friends
of the program to solicit funds — the rules are going up for auction at
Sotheby’s. Only complete grouches won’t enjoy the drama of the auction
sequence, but only KU fans will really appreciate what’s at stake.

**41._Winning Time_
** Reggie Miller was an all-world troll, long before “trolling” went
mainstream. In _Winning Time_ , Dan Klores (_Crazy Love_ , _The Boys of 2nd
Street Park_) breaks down Miller’s starring turn in the Pacers-Knicks NBA
playoffs battles the nineties. As the Knicks and Pacers slugged it out for the
Eastern crown vacated by Michael Jordan’s retirement, Reggie Miller waged a
separate war against Knicks courtside superfan Spike Lee. Highlight: Many
interviewees trying to think of a euphemism for saying Miller had balls, and
then deciding to say “balls” anyway.

**40._One Night in Vegas_
** Sporting events can provide a convenient way in to a larger discussion of
complicated, charismatic people, and this film uses Mike Tyson’s September 7,
1996, fight against Bruce Seldon in Las Vegas to focus on the death of Tupac
Shakur, who was gunned down in Las Vegas in the hours following the very one-
sided match that ended with a sub-two-minute knockout of the underdog. Not
counting its terrible slam-poetry entr’actes, _One Night in Vegas_ is
compelling for anyone who idolized either Tyson or Shakur, the gifted, flawed
principals. Bonus points go to Reggie Rock Bythewood (_Biker Boyz_) for
directing the only film in world history to feature interviews with Maya
Angelou _and_ Mickey Rourke, not to mention Suge Knight, Nas, and Al Sharpton.

**39._The Legend of Jimmy the Greek_
** The story of bookie turned TV pundit Jimmy “the Greek” Snyder (_nee_
Demetrios Synodinos) is punctuated with gruff, goofy dramatic voice-overs from
the beyond, and those are by far the most memorable moments in this
documentary from veteran TV-doc-maker Fritz Mitchell.  _Legend_ does involve a
satisfying anecdote about the time Snyder punched Brent Musburger in the face,
if that’s your bag.

**38._The Guru of Go
_** Paul Westhead has won NBA and WNBA titles in a long and amusingly uneven
career, but he’ll always be remembered best for his run-and-gun Loyola
Marymount teams of 1985 to 1990. _The Guru of Go_ (from Bil Couturié, director
of _Dear America: Letters Home from Vietnam_) uses Westhead’s notebooks to
delve into the coach’s technique and the tragic story of Hank Gathers,
Westhead’s star player at LMU who died on the court in 1990.

**37._Elway to Marino_
** A production of NFL Films, _Elway to Marino_ isn’t particularly hard-
hitting, but will satisfy fans looking for a nostalgia trip about the stacked
1983 NFL draft. Based on the notes of Martin Demoff, who was the agent for
both Elway (No. 1 overall pick in the 1983 draft) and Marino (the sixth of six
QBs taken in the first round, and one of its six Hall of Famers), this is a
must-see for fans of dramatic footage involving phones shaped like football
helmets.

**36._Small Potatoes_
** The United States Football League is remembered mostly as a quixotic
challenger to the NFL juggernaut — if it’s remembered at all. But Mike Tollin
(director of _Radio_ and _Summer Catch_ , and a staffer for the USFL in his
youth) ably captures the league’s charm, and how it was undone by its
decisions to move games from spring to fall and bring an anti-trust suit
against the NFL. _Small Potatoes_ is notable for making Donald Trump — a USFL
team owner and key player in the disastrous lawsuit — look even worse than
usual.

**35._You Don’t Know Bo_
** Owing to the legendary nature of its subject, Michael Bonfiglio’s portrait
of the Bo Jackson phenomenon was one of the most watched “30 for 30”
installments. But it turns out that Bo Jackson is mostly a normal guy who
happened to be incredibly athletic, so the attempts by Chuck Klosterman and
other talking heads to explain how Bo is a secret skeleton key to ’80s and
’90s American pop culture are a bit of a strain. More interesting is Bo
Jackson’s post-retirement hobby: making arrows (and then shooting them).

**34._Run Ricky Run_
** A look at the private life of heroically skittish NFL running back Ricky
Williams, active at the time of the documentary’s airing but since retired for
good, from Sean Pamphilon and Royce Toni. Williams, a top-five draft pick and
all-pro for years, briefly retired in 2004, to both find himself and duck a
third positive drug test. Williams battles social anxiety, seriously studies
yoga and natural healing, and eventually returns to NFL glory in this upbeat
oddball story.

**33._Jordan Rides the Bus_
**Ron Shelton (_Bull Durham_) puts his own experience as a minor-league
ballplayer to good use in this thorough examination of Michael Jordan’s
odyssey as a Birmingham Barons outfielder. His Airness himself isn’t
interviewed, but nearly everyone else is — right down to the real estate agent
who rented MJ a home in Birmingham. This is mandatory viewing for Jordan
obsessives, but merely optional for casual fans.

**32._Four Days in October_
** Produced by Major League Baseball’s entertainment wing, _Four Days in
October_ blends commentary, news footage, and gleefully goofy home videos shot
by players into a comprehensive biography of the Red Sox’s (still) jaw-
dropping comeback from three games down in the 2004 ALCS. The historic sports-
talk yowling hasn’t aged well, but _Four Days…_ has a rewarding depth, even
for Boston haters. This is MLB corporate propaganda, of course, but it’s
really enjoyable propaganda.

**31._Tim Richmond: To the Limit_
** Raise your hand if you knew there was a charismatic NASCAR up-and-comer
felled by AIDS in the late-1980s. The story of Tim Richmond, stock racing’s
1980s enfant terrible, confirms the first law of earnest sports documentaries:
If a central figure in the doc doesn’t turn up as a talking head in the first
15 minutes, it’s almost guaranteed that said figure died tragically. Thus, Tim
Richmond is absent from his own party. Even if you’re completely immune to the
charms of auto racing, director Rory Karpf (_Dale_) does commendable work
telling a story that should be better known.

**30._The Real Rocky_
** Jeff Feuerzeig (_The Devil and Daniel Johnston_) helms this look at the
boxer who inspired Sylvester Stallone to write _Rocky_ — by getting pummeled
for 15 rounds by reigning heavyweight champ Muhammad Ali. Wepner’s post-Ali
life was full of partying, non-brilliant decisions, and an unlikely comeback
as a liquor distributor — and overdue acknowledgment from Stallone that Wepner
was the source material for the Italian Stallion.

**29._Marion Jones: Press Pause_
** Sports-career flameouts don’t come much more flaming than that of Marion
Jones. After racking up five medals at the 2000 Sydney Olympics, Jones was the
toast of track and field, but a doping scandal and a perjury conviction
stripped Jones of her Olympic gongs and sent her to prison for six months. In
this painfully honest profile, John Singleton (_Boyz n the Hood_) captures
Jones’ catastrophic downfall and profound contrition with a mix of compassion
and clarity.

**28._Catching Hell_
** Alex Gibney (_Enron: The Smartest Guys in the Room_ , _Client 9: The Rise
and Fall of Eliot Spitzer_ and Oscar-winner _Taxi to the Dark Side_) takes on
the thorny tale of Steve Bartman, the hyper-unlucky Cubs fan unfairly blamed
for the team’s collapse in the 2003 National League Championship Series.
Gibney deftly puts viewers in the moment of Bartman’s scapegoat butterfingers
— and succeeds in capturing sports fans at their jerkiest.

**27._Charismatic_
** Veteran TV producer Steven Michaels’ first director credit is the story of
a screwup horse and a burnout jockey — so of course they came up just a few
lengths short of a Triple Crown. Charismatic had a stellar pedigree
(Secretariat was his great-grandpa) but was reduced to claiming races before
Chris Antley, a talented but troubled rider, took him on in the spring of
1999. No Mister Ed, the horse doesn’t have much to say for himself, of course
of course, but the story of Antley’s brief ups and fatal downs is engrossing.

**26._Right to Play_
** Frank Marshall (_Alive_ , _Congo_ , _Arachnophobia_) tells the story of the
Right to Play NGO, which works in more than 20 countries to bring sports to
children facing adversity. Founded by Norwegian speed skating legend Johann
Olav Koss, Right to Play is a refreshingly earnest — and effective — effort
toward a less crappy world.

**25._The U_
** Billy Corben (_Cocaine Cowboys_) achieves an impressive feat in _The U_ ,
deftly showing how charming, fun, and interesting the peak-swagger Miami
Hurricanes football teams were. Anyone who grew up in the 1980s and ’90s will
remember the moral panic the Hurricanes routinely inspired — but it turns out
they were actually the good guys. Any film that interviews Luther Campbell,
Bernie Kosar, and the guy who wore the Sebastian the Ibis mascot outfit is
hard to dislike — plus, it has a booty bass theme song.

**24._The Band That Wouldn’t Die_
** Barry Levinson, director of _Diner_ , _T_ _he Natural_ , and  _Rain Man_
makes hay of the affecting story of the marching band left behind when the
Baltimore Colts ignomiously decamped for Indianapolis in the middle of the
night in 1984. The band kept right on marching for more than a decade, until
the arrival of the Ravens brought NFL football back to Baltimore. _Band_
stands out in the series for showing how much a team means to a community.
Value added: spectacular Baltimore accents are showcased throughout.

**23._Straight Outta L.A._
** Ice Cube should obviously narrate more movies and, based on _Straight Outta
L.A._ , he should direct more, too. A solid chronicle of the Raiders’ brief,
glorious stint in Los Angeles, which ran parallel to the birth of gangsta rap,
and the genre’s embrace of Raiders gear. Cube can’t quite reconcile the two
storylines, but the frankness of interviewees and sheer richness of the time
and place make this necessary viewing.

**22._Fernando Nation_
** Cruz Angeles (_Don’t Let Me Drown_) imbues this recounting of Fernando
Valezuela’s legendary 1981 season (Rookie of the Year/Cy Young/World Series
championship) with rich psychological texture. So many sports legends have a
sense of “you had to be there” — try explaining Linsanity to someone who
wasn’t in New York for it. But Angeles ably recreates the atmosphere, emotion,
and pride that powered Fernandomania.

**21._Benji_
** About halfway through _Benji_ , from music-video mavens Coodie & Chike
(vids for Kanye West and others), you’ll start to wonder why you’ve never
heard of Wilson, a Chicago prep hoops legend. A few minutes later, you’ll find
out why: Wilson was killed in a senseless shooting before his senior season of
high school. A bittersweet celebration of unfulfilled greatness. Warning:
contains an R. Kelly cameo.

**20._26 Years: The Dewey Bozella Story_
** Dewey Bozella served 26 years in prison for a murder he did not commit.
After his wrongful conviction was overturned, Bozella applied his considerable
energies to realizing a dream: to fight one bout as a professional, a feat he
accomplished at the age of 52. Bozella’s story, as told by Jose Morales, is
effectively irresistible, even if it does contain some corny moments.

**19._9.79*_
** Daniel Gordon has made three great docs related to North Korea —  _The Game
of Their Lives_ , _Crossing the Line_ , and  _A State of Mind_. In _9.79*_ ,
he tells a story from the other, less doomed Korea: the controversial men’s
100M sprint final in the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul. Storylines abound, but
Ben Johnson’s soulful surliness is the most memorable. A rare thing — a subtle
and insightful look at doping in sports.

**18._The Announcement_
** Veteran journo Nelson George directed this excellent piece of micro-
history, zooming in on the brave announcement by Magic Johnson that he was
HIV-positive. The level of detail is bracing — right down to Magic recounting
his emotions as he prepared to tell his wife the news. I dare you to watch
Magic Johnson comforting HIV-positive children in a TV special without getting
misty, a stand-out moment in this heartbreaking but hopeful entry in the
series.

**17._Pony Excess_
** Boosters of the Southern Methodist University football program in the early
1980s were so brazen in their disregard for NCAA regs that SMU received
sanctions known as “the death penalty.” Texas filmmaker Thaddeus D. Matula
crafts a slightly overlong but smart look at SMU’s salad days and scandalous
collapse, which also tells a neat pocket history of a great newspaper war in
Dallas. Warning: contains Skip Bayless.

**16._The 16th Man_
** This is the non-fiction version of the 2009 drama _Invictus_ , as directed
by Clifford Bestall (who also helmed a _Frontline_ episode on Nelson Mandela).
In a South African still choking on the legacy of apartheid, the 1995 Rugby
World Cup was the stage for a brilliant, unexpected championship run by the
South African national team. This one is filled with soaring moments but also
bodacious Afrikaaner accents.

**15._Renee_
** Richard Raskind was a talented amateur tennis player and ophthalmologist —
until 1975, when Raskind, age 40, became Renee Richards. Richards had to win a
legal fight to be allowed to play professionally, and eventually went on to
win a 35-and-over U.S. Open singles title. But the fascinating and moving
_Renee_ talks as much about Richards’ complicated personal life as it does
about tennis, and still succeeds powerfully.

**14._Muhammad and Larry_
** Documentary god Albert Maylses made _Grey Gardens, Salesman, Gimme Shelter_
, and more with his late brother David, but the Maysles siblings never
finished the film they were commissioned to make about Muhammad Ali’s 1980
comeback attempt, largely because the resulting title bout against former
sparring partner Larry Holmes was a shockingly one-sided defeat. Ali was never
the same — inside or outside of the ring — after fighting Holmes, but
_Muhammad and Larry_ , crafted out of mostly unseen footage from 1980 and
contemporary interviews, shows that Ali had already lost a step even before
the pummeling. This is mandatory for boxing or Maysles fans, and contains a
bonus highlight: Larry Holmes’ command performance of his own personal theme
song.

**13._Into the Wind_
** The story of Terry Fox, if you’re not already familiar with it, will
absolutely break your heart. Fox lost a leg to cancer at age 19, but that
didn’t stop him from launching an attempt to run across Canada in 1980. _Into
the Wind_ is directed by Ezra Holland and NBA superstar Steve Nash, and is
best watched without reading anything about Fox beforehand.

**12._The Best That Never Was_
** Running back Marcus Dupree was a legend before he even graduated from high
school in Mississippi. The target of a mythical recruiting battle, Dupree
chose Oklahoma and starred for the Sooners as a freshman before his career
quietly went off the rails. This wistful entry from Jonathan Hock (who also
directed the excellent “30 for 30” entries _Unguarded_ and _Survive and
Advance_) chronicles Dupree’s fall, his brief NFL comeback, and his intensely
dignified humility as a truck driver back home in Mississippi.

**11._Unguarded_
** A second strong contribution from director Heck (see _The Best That Never
Was_ , above), _Unguarded_ is the story of gifted but troubled basketball star
Chris Herren, and his battles against drug addiction. The younger Herren bears
a marked resemblance to _Breaking Bad_ ’s vulnerable, wasted Jesse Pinkman,
right down to the bad tattoo. Deftly incorporating footage of Herren’s
powerful scared-straight talks to at-risk audiences, _Unguarded_ is
unabashedly emotional, and impossible to resist.

**10._Unmatched_**
There’s not much to _Unmatched_ , as a film — it’s mostly just tennis legends
Chris Evert and Martina Navratilova talking through their legendary careers
and rivalry, rounded out with archival footage. But the simplicity of this
series entry from co-directors Lisa Lax and Nancy Stern is deceptive — it’s
rare to get such an extensive, nearly unfiltered insight into one, let alone
two, all-time-best athletes. Rarer still to have them effectively interview
each other.

**9._The Birth of Big Air_
** Co-directed by Jeff Tremaine, Spike Jonze, and Johnny Knoxville, _The Birth
of Big Air_ is a curious juxtaposition — it’s a (relatively) serious film
about an action sports legend, a celebration of selling out your body for
athletic glory, and a quietly insistent look at the dangers of daredevil
worship. The impish Hoffman completely changed BMX vert-ramp riding, and
flashes an easy bravado born of true desire; he also nearly kills himself on a
semi-regular basis. If you get squeamish watching skating vids, this one isn’t
for you.

**8._The Marinovich Project_
** Parenting tip: Don’t raise your kid to be the perfect NFL quarterback. If
you’re still on the fence about that, watch _The Marinovich Project_ ,
directed by Andrew Stephan and John Dorsey. Tabbed for greatness by the time
he was a high-school freshman, Todd Marinovich frayed under high expectations
and a staggering appetite for partying. Nine years removed from being a first-
round pick of the Raiders, Marinovich was playing in the Arena League,
crapping his uniform pants and jonesing for heroin. For the extreme lowness of
Marinovich’s lows, his story ends on a glorious positive note — he’s now a
painter and artist of some accomplishment, and more importantly, clean.

**7._Once Brothers_
** Croat Drazen Petrovic and Serb Vlade Divac were teammates on great Yugoslav
national basketball teams — and they hit the NBA together in 1989. But just as
their NBA careers took off, Yugoslavia was torn apart by a vicious civil war
that turned teammates into enemies. _Once Brothers_ is a tearjerker — and
brings home the cruelty of both war and Petrovic’s unfair death at age 28. The
film superbly frames a conflict with deep political and cultural roots in the
relationship between the two basketball stars, bringing across subtleties
often lost on American viewers. Ding it a few points for being a production of
the NBA’s entertainment wing, though.

**6._Survive and Advance_
** Younger viewers may not remember Jim Valvano as anything but a frequent
star of recycled ESPYs footage, and _Survive and Advance_ features plenty of
clips of Valvano roasting and toasting at the peak of his charisma. But more
than any other “30 for 30,” this third impressive contribution from Jonathan
Hock also captures the power of team through a filmed reunion of the Valvano-
led 1983 NCAA basketball champs North Carolina State squad. The sadness of the
coach’s early death from cancer, the genuine bonhomie of the Wolfpack reunion,
and the sheer wonder of their unlikely title combine in a heady brew.

**5._June 17, 1994_
** Brett Morgen (_The Kid Stays in the Picture_ , _Chicago 10_ , _Nimrod
Nation_) delivers by far the most ambitious “30 for 30.” _June 17, 1994_ has
no narrator or exposition; instead, Morgen uses only news footage of one
strange summer day nearly two decades ago to launch viewers on a surprisingly
transporting experience. From Arnold Palmer’s final U.S. Open round, to the
New York Rangers’ Stanley Cup celebration, to a NBA Finals Game 5 and the
opening of the World Cup in Chicago, all trumped by the surreal O.J. Simpson
televised police pursuit. Morgen carefully builds toward the surreal last
moments of the Simpson chase, when Angelenos hit overpasses to cheer on O.J.
as the White Bronco sped past. A subtly brilliant take on time, spectatorship,
and media saturation.

**4._Fab Five_
** The University of Michigan’s Fab Five could never happen today; in the one-
and-done era of college basketball stars, no program could land five players
as talented as Jalen Rose, Chris Webber, Juwan Howard, Jimmy King and Ray
Jackson in a single recruiting class. Two decades after turning college hoops
upside down, the Fab Five’s edge and swagger seem utterly contemporary, which
is a testament to how ahead of their time they were. Jason Hehir, a veteran
director and producer for Ultimate Fighting Championship, lets four of the
players speak for themselves (Chris Webber declined to participate) on
everything from their captivating tourney runs, their opinion of Christian
Laettner, Webber’s infamous time-out, and the pay-for-play scandal that led
Michigan to vacate their consecutive NCAA tourney runner-up finishes. The film
is an essential document of a defining moment of sports culture and adds
evidence that Jalen Rose should probably be the next president.

**3._Without Bias_
** On June 17, 1986, Len Bias became the second overall pick of the NBA draft,
joining the reigning champion Boston Celtics. Less than 36 hours later, Bias
was dead, his heart stopped by a cocaine overdose. Bias’ story is punishingly
sad and well-known, but “Without Bias” extracts commentary of devastating
clarity on the part of family and friends, and Kirk Fraser’s quiet direction
allows Bias’ brilliant potential and the shock of his death to speak for
themselves.

**2._No Crossover_
** Steve James made one of the greatest documentaries, sports or otherwise, in
_Hoop Dreams_. So it’s not suprising that his take on Allen Iverson, with whom
he shares a hometown, is near the top of the list. Iverson, a prep star in
Hampton, Virginia, was sentenced to 15 months in prison for his disputed role
in a bowling-alley brawl. Iverson and his friends were black; the other side
in the brawl were white. The brawl takes on a _Rashomon_ vibe, and what one
interviewee precisely terms “a fucked-up situation” ensues when Iverson and
several friends are charged with serious offenses. James brilliantly
investigates the seams of identity, race, and community strained by Iverson’s
trial, conviction, and subsequent pardon, with an added charge from his own
ties to home.

**1._The Two Escobars_
** The stakes in a typical sports documentary are usually winning or losing;
in rare cases the question of living or dying can edge into the frame. But
_The Two Escobars_ , the best of the “30 for 30s,” thoroughly captures a time
and a place — Colombia, at the height of its narco-fueld violence — where
soccer became a matter of life or death. As Pablo Escobar and other cartel
kingpins poured cocaine millions into domestic clubs, Colombia’s national club
shot up the FIFA rankings thanks to stars like Carlos Valderrama, Rene
Higuita, and Andres Escobar (no relation to Pablo). The rise and fall of Pablo
Escobar and Colombian soccer are explored with unmatched depth — directors
Jeff and Michael Zimbalist (Jeff made _Favela Rising_ , and the bros are at
work on a Pelé biopic) manage to get inside a Colombian prison to interview
cartel hitmen — making this one of the best sports documentaries of the last
decade.
