title: The Making of the Fox News White House | The New Yorker
source: https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2019/03/11/the-making-of-the-fox-news-white-house
date: 2025-08-13T16:18:26.668357
tags: []
---
Axios recently
[reported](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723132634/https://www.axios.com/donald-
trump-private-schedules-leak-executive-time-34e67fbb-3af6-48df-
aefb-52e02c334255.html) that sixty per cent of Trump’s day is spent in
unstructured “executive time,” much of it filled by television. Charlie Black,
a longtime Republican lobbyist in Washington, whose former firm, Black,
Manafort & Stone, advised Trump in the eighties and nineties, told me, “Trump
gets up and watches ‘Fox & Friends’ and thinks these are his friends. He
thinks anything on Fox is friendly. But the problem is he gets unvetted
ideas.” Trump has told confidants that he has ranked the loyalty of many
reporters, on a scale of 1 to 10. Bret Baier, Fox News’ chief political
anchor, is a 6; Hannity a solid 10. Steve Doocy, the co-host of “Fox &
Friends,” is so adoring that Trump gives him a 12.

It is hardly unprecedented for American media barons to go beyond their pages
to try to influence the course of politics. At the 1960 Democratic National
Convention, Philip Graham, the co-owner of the Washington _Post_ , helped
broker a deal in which John F. Kennedy selected Lyndon Johnson as his running
mate. But now a direct pipeline has been established between the Oval Office
and the office of Rupert Murdoch, the Australian-born billionaire who founded
News Corp and 21st Century Fox. Multiple sources told me that Murdoch and
Trump often talk on the phone. A former aide to Trump, who has been in the
Oval Office when Murdoch has called, says, “It’s two men who’ve known each
other for a very long time having frank conversations. The President certainly
doesn’t kowtow to Murdoch, but Murdoch also doesn’t to him. He speaks to him
the same way he would have five years ago.” According to Michael Wolff’s 2018
book, “[Fire and
Fury](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723132634/https://www.amazon.com/dp/B077F4WZZY/ref=dp-
kindle-redirect?_encoding=UTF8&btkr=1),” Murdoch derided Trump as “a fucking
idiot” after a conversation about immigration. The aide says Trump knows that
Murdoch has denigrated him behind his back, but “it doesn’t seem to matter”
that much. Several sources confirmed to me that Murdoch regales friends with
Trump’s latest inanities. But Murdoch, arguably the most powerful media mogul
in the world, is an invaluable ally to any politician. Having Murdoch’s—and
Fox’s—support is essential for Trump, the aide says: “It’s very important for
the base.”

Murdoch may be even closer to Trump’s son-in-law, [Jared
Kushner](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723132634/https://www.newyorker.com/tag/jared-
kushner). Well-informed sources say that Kushner, an increasingly valued White
House adviser, has worked hard to win over Murdoch, showing him respect and
asking him for advice. Kushner has regularly assured Murdoch that the White
House is a smooth-running operation, despite many reports suggesting that it
is chaotic. Kushner now has an almost filial status with Murdoch, who turns
eighty-eight this month, and numerous sources told me that they communicate
frequently. “Like, every day,” one said.

Murdoch has cultivated heads of state in Australia and Great Britain, and
someone close to him says that “he’s always wanted to have a relationship with
a President—he’s a businessman and he sees benefits of having a chief of state
doing your bidding.” Murdoch has met every American President since Kennedy,
but, the close associate says, “until now a relationship has eluded him.”
Still, Murdoch’s coziness with Trump may come at a cost. Roger Ailes, during
his final days at Fox, apparently warned Murdoch of the perils. According to
Gabriel Sherman, a biographer of Ailes who has written about Fox for _New
York_ and _Vanity Fair_ , Ailes told Murdoch, “Trump gets great ratings, but
if you’re not careful he’s going to end up totally controlling Fox News.”

Trump became famous, in no small part, because of Rupert Murdoch. After
Murdoch bought the New York _Post_ , in 1976, he was introduced to Trump
through a mutual acquaintance, Roy Cohn, the infamous legal fixer, who, as a
young man, was Senator Joseph McCarthy’s chief counsel. Cohn saw the potential
for tabloid synergy: Trump could attain celebrity in the pages of the _Post_
as a playboy mogul, and Murdoch could sell papers by chronicling Trump’s
exploits.

In private, Murdoch regarded Trump with disdain, seeing him as a real-estate
huckster and a shady casino operator. But, for all their differences, the two
men had key traits in common. They both inherited and expanded family
enterprises—an Australian newspaper; an outer-borough New York City real-
estate firm—but felt looked down upon by people who were richer and closer to
the centers of power. As Edward Luce, of the _Financial Times_ , [has
noted](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723132634/https://www.ft.com/content/d860a116-4de1-11e8-97e4-13afc22d86d4),
both men have tapped into anti-élitist resentment to connect with the public
and to increase their fortunes. Trump and Murdoch also share a transactional
approach to politics, devoid of almost any ideology besides self-interest.

Murdoch could not have foreseen that Trump would become President, but he was
a visionary about the niche audience that became Trump’s base. In 1994,
Murdoch laid out an audacious plan to Reed Hundt, the chairman of the Federal
Communications Commission under President Bill Clinton. Murdoch, who had been
a U.S. citizen for less than a decade, invited Hundt to his Benedict Canyon
estate for dinner. After the meal, Murdoch led him outside to take in the
glittering view of the Los Angeles Basin, and confided that he planned to
launch a radical new television network. Unlike the three established
networks, which vied for the same centrist viewers, his creation would follow
the unapologetically lowbrow model of the tabloids that he published in
Australia and England, and appeal to a narrow audience that would be entirely
his. His core viewers, he said, would be football fans; with this aim in mind,
he had just bought the rights to broadcast N.F.L. games. Hundt told me, “What
he was really saying was that he was going after a working-class audience. He
was going to carve out a base—what would become the Trump base.”

Hundt recalled the conversation as “overwhelming.” He said, “I was at this
house more expensive than any I could ever imagine. This person’s made a huge
mark in two other countries, and he had entered our country and was saying,
‘I’m going to break up the three-party oligopoly that has governed the most
important medium of communication for politics and policy in this country
since the Second World War.’ It was like a scene from
‘[Faust](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723132634/https://www.amazon.com/Faust-
Johann-Wolfgang-von-
Goethe/dp/1507547269/ref=sr_1_3?keywords=faust&qid=1551714736&s=gateway&sr=8-3).’
What came to mind was Mephistopheles.”

Blair Levin, at that time the chief of staff at the F.C.C. and now a fellow at
the Brookings Institution, says, “Fox’s great insight wasn’t necessarily that
there was a great desire for a conservative point of view.” More erudite
conservatives, he says, such as William F. Buckley, Jr., and Bill Kristol,
couldn’t have succeeded as Fox has. Levin observes, “The genius was seeing
that there’s an attraction to fear-based, anger-based politics that has to do
with class and race.”

In 1996, Murdoch hired Roger Ailes to create a conservative TV news outlet.
Ailes, who died in 2017, was a master of attack politics and wedge issues,
having been a media consultant on several of America’s dirtiest and most
divisive campaigns, including those of Richard Nixon. Ailes invented
programming, Levin argues, “that confirmed all your worst instincts—Fox News’
fundamental business model is driving fear.” The formula worked spectacularly
well. By 2002, Fox had displaced CNN as the highest-rated cable news network,
and it has remained on top ever since.

In 2011, at Ailes’s invitation, Trump began making weekly guest appearances on
the morning show “Fox & Friends.” In a trial run of his campaign tactics, he
used the channel as a platform to exploit racist suspicions about President
[Barack
Obama](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723132634/https://www.newyorker.com/tag/barack-
obama), spreading doubt about whether he was born in America. (In one segment,
Trump suggested that Obama’s “family doesn’t even know what hospital he was
born in!”) As Hundt sees it, “Murdoch didn’t invent Trump, but he invented the
audience. Murdoch was going to make a Trump exist. Then Trump comes along,
sees all these people, and says, ‘I’ll be the ringmaster in your circus!’ ”

Trump’s arrival marked an important shift in tone at Fox. Until then, the
network had largely mocked birtherism as a conspiracy theory. O’Reilly called
its promoters “unhinged,” and Glenn Beck, who at the time also hosted a Fox
show, called them “idiots.” But Trump gave birtherism national exposure, and,
in a sign of things to come, Hannity fanned the flames. Hannity began saying
that, although he _thought_ that Obama had been born in the United States, the
circumstances surrounding his birth certificate were “odd.”

Fox’s hostility toward the Obama Administration grew increasingly extreme. Its
coverage of the [Benghazi
debacle](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723132634/https://www.newyorker.com/tag/benghazi)—a
tragic embassy ambush not unlike others that had claimed American lives in
previous Administrations—devolved into a relentless attack on Secretary of
State [Hillary
Clinton](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723132634/https://www.newyorker.com/tag/hillary-
clinton). In certain instances, however, Fox executives enforced journalistic
limits. The network cancelled Beck’s show, in 2011, because his paranoid rants
had become too embarrassing. (Among other things, Beck accused the White House
science adviser of having proposed stemming population growth through forced
abortions and “sterilants” in the water.) At the height of the Tea Party
rebellion, Ailes reprimanded Hannity for violating the line between journalism
and politics. Hannity had arranged to tape his evening Fox show at a Tea Party
fund-raiser in Ohio. When Ailes learned of the plan, only hours before the
event, he demanded that Hannity cancel his appearance. According to a former
Fox executive, Ailes then blew up at Bill Shine, who had authorized Hannity’s
trip. “Roger was livid, and ripped the shit out of Shine,” the former
executive says, recalling that Ailes yelled, “No one at Fox is shilling for
the Tea Party!” Afterward, Shine released a statement criticizing Hannity’s
actions. And Murdoch, at a panel about the news, expressed a similar view,
saying, “I don’t think we should be supporting the Tea Party or any other
party.”

[![A couple meets an author at a
booksigning.](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723132634im_/https://media.newyorker.com/cartoons/5c79bc9d37f85a2b950d6831/master/w_1600%2Cc_limit/190311_a22641.jpg)](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723132634/https://www.newyorker.com/cartoon/a22641)

“We have a stack of your books in our home. They make a lovely decorative
feature.”

Such niceties no longer apply. In November, Hannity joined Trump onstage at a
climactic rally for the midterm elections. Afterward, Fox issued a limp
statement saying that it didn’t “condone any talent participating in campaign
events” and that the “unfortunate distraction” had “been addressed.” Many Fox
News reporters were angry, and provided critical anonymous quotes to the
media, but Hannity didn’t apologize, saying that he had been “surprised yet
honored” when Trump called him up onstage. This response was dubious: before
the rally, Trump’s campaign had advertised Hannity as a “special guest.” When
Hannity joined Trump, he not only praised him for “promises kept”; he also
echoed the President’s attacks on the press, castigating the rest of the media
covering the rally as “fake news.” The evening ended with a high five between
Hannity and Shine, who had recently started working at the White House.

For Greta Van Susteren, a host on Fox between 2002 and 2016, Hannity’s rally
appearance illustrates the difference at Fox since Ailes’s departure. For all
of Ailes’s faults, Van Susteren argues, he exerted a modicum of restraint. She
believes that he would have insisted on at least some distance from President
Trump, if only to preserve the appearance of journalistic respectability
embodied in the motto Ailes devised for Fox: “Fair and Balanced.” (That motto
was retired in 2017.) Van Susteren says, “ ‘Hannity’ is an opinion show, but
when he went onstage with Trump he became part of the campaign. That was an
egregious mistake. It was way over the line.”

Although Ailes paid occasional lip service to journalistic integrity, Fox News
was hardly fair and balanced under his leadership. Gabriel Sherman, in his
biography, “[The Loudest Voice in the
Room](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723132634/https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00AD6O6BU/ref=dp-
kindle-redirect?_encoding=UTF8&btkr=1),” reports that Ailes was so obsessed
with bringing down Obama in 2012 that he declared to colleagues, “I _want_ to
elect the next President.”

Yet, during the 2016 campaign, Fox executives were initially uneasy about
Trump’s candidacy. Murdoch tweeted that Trump was “embarrassing his friends”
and “the whole country.” An
[editorial](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723132634/https://www.wsj.com/articles/trump-
and-his-apologists-1437345060) in the _Wall Street Journal_ , Murdoch’s
flagship newspaper, called Trump’s candidacy a “catastrophe.” Murdoch, an
immigrant himself, bridled at Trump’s xenophobia. In 2015, when Trump claimed
that most immigrants coming from Mexico were criminals and rapists, Murdoch
corrected him on Twitter, noting that “Mexican immigrants, as with all
immigrants, have much lower crime rates than native born.” He also tweeted
that El Paso was “the safest city” in America.

Murdoch’s views could scarcely be more at odds with Fox’s current diatribes
about hordes of “illegal aliens” who are “invading” the U.S. and killing
innocent Americans, leaving behind grieving “Angel Moms” and “Angel Dads.” Van
Susteren told me that she wasn’t surprised by this rhetorical turn. “Don’t kid
yourself about his support for immigration,” she said of Murdoch. “Rupert is
first about the bottom line. They’re all going out to play to their crowd,
whether it’s Fox or MSNBC.” (After leaving Fox, Van Susteren was for a short
time a host on MSNBC.) Fox’s mile-by-mile coverage of the so-called “migrant
caravan” was an enormous hit: ratings in October, 2018, exceeded those of
October, 2016—the height of the Presidential campaign.

Fox’s embrace of Trumpism took some time. Sherman has reported that, when the
network hosted the first Republican Presidential debate, in August, 2015, in
Cleveland, Murdoch advised Ailes to make sure that the moderators hit Trump
hard. This put Ailes in an awkward position. Trump drew tremendous ratings and
had fervent supporters, and Ailes was afraid of losing that audience to rival
media outlets. Breitbart, the alt-right Web site led by [Stephen K.
Bannon](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723132634/https://www.newyorker.com/tag/steve-
bannon), was generating huge traffic by championing Trump. What’s more, Ailes
and Trump were friendly. “They spoke all the time,” a former Fox executive
says. They had lunch shortly before Trump announced his candidacy, and Ailes
gave Trump political tips during the primaries. Ken LaCorte contends that
Ailes took note of “Trump’s crazy behavior”; but Trump’s growing political
strength was also obvious. According to the former Fox executive, Trump made
Ailes “nervous”: “He thought Trump was a wild card. Someone Ailes could not
bully or intimidate.”
