title: Reading Room: All about Frank Thomas | South Side Sox
source: http://www.southsidesox.com/2014/7/27/5940879/reading-room-all-about-frank-thomas
date: 2025-08-13T19:38:25.445444
tags: []
---
Today is the day that's been 25 years in the making -- [Frank
Thomas](http://www.sbnation.com/mlb/players/865/frank-thomas)' Hall of Fame
induction. He's receiving warranted attention on the eve of the ceremony, and
so this Reading Room is all for him.

Since Frank Thomas was Baseball America’s Minor League Player of the Year in
1989, the magazine republished its story on him from that season. Like we
learned in writing about his brief minor-league career, Thomas wasn’t short on
confidence, even though -- or because -- he felt like evaluators overlooked
him.

Look back far enough into Thomas’ career, and you’ll start talking about his
football career at Auburn. Here we find ourselves with some conflicting
information. Thomas says football coach Pat Dye said he should pursue
baseball; Thomas recalls Dye saying, “I think you’ll be a very, very good
football player, but you’re not going to be that level that you are in
baseball.”

But Dye now tells the school’s site, “If he had stuck with football, he’d be
going in the Hall of Fame as a football player.”

Either Dye is being polite, or he misspoke and the Sox gained. Either way,
Paul Sullivan talked to Mike Rizzo, the scout who signed Thomas. Thomas’ agent
tried selling football as an alternate career, and Rizzo didn’t buy it.

Time heals all wounds, not just between Thomas and the Sox, but between Thomas
and the people -- media and teammates, mainly -- who thought Thomas paid too
much attention to his stats, because they realize that it’s all just
motivation. And hell, if my baseball card looked like Thomas’, I’d want to
know what my numbers were at all times, too.

Likewise, [Paul Konerko](http://www.sbnation.com/mlb/players/159/paul-konerko)
expresses his admiration for Thomas. Or at least Thomas' preparation.

Joe Posnanski knows that good players’ good stats are good for the team, and
so he raves about Thomas’ legendary eye. These two paragraphs are plenty of
fun:

Even if Thomas wanted to spend his Hall of Fame speech lambasting steroid
users, it would probably sound redundant after answering all the questions
about it over various media sessions dating back to January. Good news --
Thomas said he’s reserving his speech to thank the people along the way who
made his career possible. I’m looking forward to seeing it.
