title: 4 Days, 11 Pounds - The New York Times
source: http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/05/22/4-days-11-pounds/
date: 2025-08-13T19:43:06.290967
tags: []
---
Photo Credit Illustration by Ben Wiseman

_
This article appeared in the May 25, 2014 issue of The New York Times
Magazine._

Losing weight is simple: Ingest fewer calories than your body burns. But how
best to do that is unclear. Most experts advise small reductions in calories
or increases in exercise to remove weight slowly and sensibly, but many people
quit that type of program in the face of glacial progress. A new study,
[published in March in The Scandinavian Journal of Medicine & Science in
Sports](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/sms.12194/abstract),
suggests that minimal calories and maximal exercise can significantly reduce
body fat in just four days — and the loss lasts for months. The catch, of
course, is that those four days are pretty grueling.

Researchers in Spain and Sweden had 15 healthy but overweight Swedish men
restrict their calories to about 360 a day, a reduction of approximately 1,800
calories. What calories they did ingest came in liquid form: Some men drank
mostly sugary carbohydrates, others a high-protein drink. The men also
exercised — a lot. Their days began with 45 minutes of cranking an arm-
pedaling machine for an upper-body workout. Then, as a group, the men strolled
for _eight_ hours across the Swedish countryside, with only a 10-minute break
every hour. They were allowed as much of a low-calorie, sports-type beverage
as they wanted during their walks.

Most of the men “were surprised that it was easier than they thought it would
be,” says José Calbet, a professor at the University of Las Palmas de Gran
Canaria in Spain; he and his colleague Hans-Christer Holmberg, a professor at
Mid Sweden University in Ostersund, led the study. Some of the subjects
experienced “minor problems with pain in the joints” and blisters on their
feet, according to Calbet, but none dropped out or complained of hunger.

After four days, the men had each lost almost 11 pounds, with nearly half of
that coming from body fat; the rest of the loss came primarily from muscle
mass. The researchers had anticipated that the high-protein drink would
protect people against muscle-mass loss. In fact, the losses were the same,
whether the men had been given sugar or protein.

More surprising, the men did not immediately put the weight back on after the
study ended. “We thought they would overeat and regain the weight lost,” Dr.
Calbet says. Instead, when the volunteers returned a month later, most had
lost another two pounds of fat. And a year after the experiment, they were
still down five pounds, mostly in lost body fat.

Dr. Calbet and his colleagues hope to study whether women respond similarly to
men and whether repeated bouts of such a program might affect muscular health
and appetite hormones.

But given the doleful statistics on weight loss — most people regain
everything they lose dieting and more — these results are startling. They
also, at the moment, are inexplicable. “The only explanation we can offer” for
the sustained loss, Dr. Calbet says, is that the men were inspired by their
hypercompressed success to change their lifestyles. The men moved more and ate
less than before.
