title: Why the Electoral College is the absolute worst, explained | Vox
source: http://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2016/11/7/12315574/electoral-college-explained-presidential-elections-2016
date: 2025-08-13T17:46:46.869359
tags: []
---
Hillary Clinton won more votes than Donald Trump in last month’s presidential
election. But due to the magic of the Electoral College, Donald Trump will be
the next president of the United States.

Yes, the November 8 “presidential election” was in actuality the venerable
ritual in which the residents of Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and a few other
states got the privilege of choosing the president of the United States of
America.

Or, to be more precise, it was the venerable ritual in which all the states
chose their representatives in the _Electoral College_. It’s those people who
are going to technically pick the president this Monday.

It’s a patchwork Frankenstein’s monster of a system, which in the best of
times merely ensures millions of Americans’ votes are irrelevant to the
outcome because they don’t live in competitive states, and in the worst of
times could be vulnerable to a major crisis.

Amazingly enough, though, nothing in the Constitution gives American voters
the right to choose their president. That power is reserved for those 538
_actual people_ who will meet in their respective states this Monday — the
electors. It’s up to the states to decide how to appoint them.

Despite the oddness and unfairness of this system, its defenders argue that it
ordinarily “works” just fine. States award electors based on the outcome of
the popular vote in the state. Those electors almost always end up voting the
way they’re expected to. And the winner of the national popular vote is
usually also the winner in the Electoral College.

But “usually” will be cold comfort to Democrats, who have now won the popular
vote and lost the Electoral College in two of the past five elections.

## 1) What is the Electoral College, and how does it work?

The presidential election is generally portrayed as a battle to win states and
their accompanying electoral votes. Hillary Clinton won Vermont, so she got
its three electoral votes. Donald Trump won Alaska, so he got its three
electoral votes. Whoever gets to 270 or more electoral votes first — a
majority of the 538 total — wins the election.

So rather simply trying to win the most _actual votes_ in the country, a
presidential campaign must try to put together a map of _state victories_ that
will amass more than 270 electoral votes. That’s the simplified version.

What’s happening under the hood, though, is more complicated. When people go
to the polls to vote for a presidential candidate, what they are actually
doing is voting for each party’s nominated slate of _electors_ in their
respective states (or, in the case of Maine and Nebraska, in congressional
districts too).

So when Donald Trump won the state of Alaska, the practical effect was that
the Republican Party’s [nominated elector slate
there](https://www.elections.alaska.gov/ec_eia.php) — former Gov. Sean
Parnell, Jacqueline Tupou, and Carolyn Leman — officially became Alaska’s
three electors.

This process repeated itself across the country, resulting in the selection of
the Electoral College — the 538 electors who will cast their votes for
president in their respective states this Monday. (In the modern era, this
ceremonial occasion has been a formality that reiterates an outcome known well
in advance.)

## 2) But the outcome of the presidential election is really just settled in a
few swing states, right?

The Democratic and Republican parties have each developed solid bases in a
series of states that are all but certain to vote for them in a presidential
year. But the Electoral College winner will be determined by those few swing
states that are more divided politically and look like they could go either
way. This year, only the states in gray above were decided by a margin of less
than 9 percentage points, as of Wednesday afternoon.

The swing states’ dominance is a consequence of the fact that almost every
state chooses to allot all its electoral votes to whoever comes in first place
statewide, regardless of his or her margin of victory.

That is, it doesn’t matter whether Clinton wins New York by a 30 percent
margin or a 10 percent margin, since she’ll get the same amount of electoral
votes either way. But the difference between winning Florida by 0.1 percent
and losing it by 0.1 percent is crucial, since 29 electoral votes could flip.

Naturally, then, when the general election comes around, candidates ignore
every noncompetitive state — meaning the vast majority of the country — and
pour their resources into the few that tend to swing back and forth between
Republicans and Democrats. That’s the best strategy for reaching that magic
number, 270.

Well, there’s a lot that’s unfair — or at the very least undemocratic — about
the Electoral College.

For one, the winner of the nationwide popular vote can lose the presidency. In
2000, Al Gore won half a million more votes than George W. Bush nationwide,
but Bush won the presidency after he was declared the winner in Florida by a
mere 537 votes. And that wasn’t the first time — electoral college/popular
vote splits happened in 1876 and 1888 too, and occurred in 2016 too.

Second, there’s swing state privilege. Millions of votes in safe states end up
being “wasted,” at least in terms of the presidential race, because it makes
no difference whether Clinton wins California by 4 million votes, 400,000
votes, or 40 votes — in any scenario, she gets its 55 electors. Meanwhile,
states like Florida and Ohio get the power to tip the outcome just because
they happen to be closely divided politically.

Third, a small state bias is also built in, since every state is guaranteed at
least three electors (the combination of their representation in the House and
Senate). The way this shakes out in the math, the 4 percent of the country’s
population in the smallest states end up being allotted 8 percent of Electoral
College votes.

And fourth, there’s the possibility for those electors themselves to hijack
the outcome.

## 4) Wait, the electors can hijack the outcome of the presidential election?
What?

For decades, it’s been assumed that the 538 electors will essentially rubber-
stamp the outcome in their respective states, and they mostly have. But
there’s scarily little _assurance_ that they’ll actually do so.

According to the [National Conference of State
Legislatures](http://www.ncsl.org/research/elections-and-campaigns/the-
electoral-college.aspx#nomination), about 30 of the 50 states have passed laws
“binding” their electors to vote in accordance with the presidential popular
vote in their state. But in most, the penalty for not doing so is only a fine,
and it’s unclear whether stiffer penalties would hold up in court — it’s never
been tested, and the Constitution does appear to give the electors the right
to make the final call. Furthermore, there are still 20 or so states that
haven’t even tried to bind their electors.

This hasn’t mattered much in the past because, almost always, the parties do a
good enough job of vetting their respective electoral slates to ensure that
they will indeed loyally back their party’s presidential nominee.

But there have been a few rogue, faithless, or just plain incompetent electors
over the years — and their votes have all been counted as cast.

  * In 1837, rogue electors from Virginia briefly [blocked the seating](http://blog.constitutioncenter.org/2016/02/the-day-the-senate-picked-a-u-s-vice-president-on-its-own/) of the vice president-elect because they were offended that he had a mixed-race common-law wife. (The Senate overrode them.)
  * A Democratic elector from Tennessee cast his ballot for segregationist third-party candidate Strom Thurmond in 1948, and a Republican elector from North Carolina voted for segregationist third-party candidate George Wallace in 1968.
  * In 2000, an elector from Washington, DC, withheld an electoral vote from Al Gore, because she wanted to protest the fact that DC didn’t have representation in Congress.
  * Perhaps most bizarrely of all, in 2004, an elector from Minnesota who was supposed to vote for John Kerry for president instead voted for _John Edwards_. (It’s [believed that this was an accident](http://news.minnesota.publicradio.org/features/2004/12/13_ap_electors/), but since the votes were cast anonymously, we don’t really know for sure. Great system!)
  * And this year, one Democratic elector candidate from Washington state has [repeatedly said](http://www.vox.com/2016/11/6/13540504/electors-electoral-college-washington) that he will “absolutely not” cast his ballot for Hillary Clinton if she wins his state. We’ll see whether he follows through.

Rogue electors have never been numerous enough to actually affect the outcome
of a presidential race. But it really doesn’t look like there’s much stopping
them should they choose to do so.

Now, some defenders of the system, like Georgetown professor [Jason
Brennan](http://www.marketwatch.com/story/the-electoral-college-is-anti-
democraticand-thats-a-good-thing-2016-09-12), take the comforting view that
the power of electors to go rogue is a good thing, since they could
conceivably save America from a popularly elected majoritarian candidate who
could oppress the minority.

But it seems just as likely, if not more likely, that electors could _install_
that candidate with dictatorial tendencies _against_ that popular will.
Perhaps some electors are wise sages with better judgment than the American
people, but others are likely malign, corrupt, or driven by their own
idiosyncratic beliefs. (You’ll notice above that several of those historical
rogue electors in history had racist motivations.)

In any case, if we had a process in which the electors were notable citizens
who were chosen _because_ they’re supposed to exercise good judgment, maybe
Brennan’s defense would make sense. But in the system we have today, the
electors are chosen to be rubber stamps. As a result, there’s incredibly
little attention paid to [who those
electors](http://www.politico.com/magazine/thepeoplewhopickthepresident/2016)
even are outside internal party machinations in each state. Any defection by
an elector would, essentially, be a random act that could that could hold our
system hostage.

## 5) Why do we use such a bizarre system anyway?

The Constitutional Convention of 1787. Hulton Archive/Getty

The electoral college is, essentially, a vestigial structure — a leftover from
a bygone era in which the founding fathers specifically _did not_ want a
nationwide vote of the American people to choose their next president.

Instead, the framers gave a small, lucky group of people called the “electors”
the power to make that choice. These would be some upstanding citizens chosen
by the various states, who would make up their own minds on who should be the
president (they’d have to vote on the same day in their respective home
states, to make it tougher for them to coordinate with each other).

The Constitution remained silent on just how these elite electors would be
chosen, saying only that each state legislature would decide how to appoint
them. Initially, some state legislators picked the electors themselves, while
other states had some form of statewide vote in which the electors themselves
would be candidates.

But over the new nation’s first few decades, two powerful trends in American
politics brought attention to the Electoral College system’s shortcomings —
the rise of national political parties that would contest presidential
elections, and the growing consensus that all white men (not just the elite)
should get the right to vote, including for president.

The parties and states responded to these trends by trying to jury-rig the
existing system. Political parties began to nominate slates of electors in
each state — electors they believed could be counted on to vote for the
presidential nominee. Eventually, many states even passed laws _requiring_
electors to vote for their party’s presidential nominee.

Meanwhile, by the 1830s, almost every state had changed its laws so that all
electors were chosen winner-take-all through a statewide vote, according to
[Richard Berg-
Andersson](http://www.thegreenpapers.com/Hx/ElectoralCollege.html). The point
of all this was to try to make the presidential election function like
ordinary statewide elections for governor or senator, at least within each
state.

## 6) Well, are there arguments _for_ the Electoral College?

It’s tough to argue with a straight face that this bizarre system is
_inherently_ better than just a simple vote. After all, why doesn’t any state
elect its governor with an “Electoral College” of various counties? Why does
pretty much every other country that elects a president use a simple popular
vote, or a vote accompanied with a runoff?

Now, you can argue that the Electoral College’s seeming distortions of the
popular will aren’t as bad as they seem — for instance, by pointing out that
swing states [tend to swing along with the
nation](http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2012/10/12/how_likely_is_an_electoral_votepopular_vote_split_115749.html)
rather than overriding its will, or that the popular vote winner almost always
wins. But of course, that’s not guaranteed to always be the case, and the
biggest major exception (the 2000 election) was an incredibly consequential
one.

Others try to fearmonger about the prospect of a [contested nationwide
recount](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/curtis-gans/national-popular-
vote_b_1189390.html) — which, sure, would be ugly, but if you’ll recall, the
Florida recount was also extremely ugly. And since there are so many more
votes cast nationally, it’s much less likely that the national vote would end
up a near tie than that a tipping point’s state vote would end up as a near
tie.

Some argue that the Electoral College ensures [regional
balance](http://www.fec.gov/pdf/eleccoll.pdf), since it’s mathematically
impossible for a candidate with overwhelming support from just one region to
be elected. But realistically, the country is big and broad enough that this
couldn’t happen under a popular vote system either — any regional candidate
would need to get _some_ support outside his or her region.

But when we get down to brass tacks, the most serious objections to reforming
the Electoral College come from rural and small-state elites who fear that
under a national popular vote system, they’d be ignored and elections would be
decided by people who live in cities.

Gary Gregg of the University of Louisville [wrote in
2012](http://www.politico.com/story/2012/12/keep-electoral-college-for-fair-
presidential-votes-084651) that eliminating the Electoral College would lead
to “dire consequences.” Specifically, he feared that elections would “strongly
tilt” in favor of “candidates who can win huge electoral margins in the
country’s major metropolitan areas.” He continued:

> If the United States does away with the Electoral College, future
> presidential elections will go to candidates and parties willing to cater to
> urban voters and skew the nation’s policies toward big-city interests.
> Small-town issues and rural values will no longer be their concern.

And Pete du Pont, a former governor of Delaware (three electoral votes), has
made a similar case, calling proposals for a national popular vote an [“urban
power
grab.”](https://web.archive.org/web/20091001064458/http://www.opinionjournal.com/columnists/pdupont/?id=110008855)

But a national popular vote system wouldn’t _devalue_ the votes of people who
live in rural states and small towns. It would _accurately_ value them by
treating them equal to people who live in cities, rather than giving them an
extra weighting. Furthermore, small-state interests are built into the
Senate’s math (where Delaware absurdly gets as many senators as California),
and many House districts are rural. So rural and small-state areas are hardly
hurting for national political representation.

Sure, candidates might end up spending less time stumping in the rural areas
that currently happen to be lucky enough to fall within the borders of swing
states, and more time in urban centers. But is that really a convincing
rebuttal to the pretty basic and obvious argument that in the most important
electoral choice Americans make, their votes should be treated equally?

## 7) Is there any hope that the US will ditch the Electoral College someday?

For decades, polls have shown that large majorities of Americans [would
prefer](http://www.gallup.com/poll/159881/americans-call-term-limits-end-
electoral-college.aspx) a popular vote system instead of the Electoral
College. For instance, a 2013 Gallup poll showed 63 percent of adults wanted
to do away with it, and a mere 29 percent wanted to keep it. (However, these
margins [have tightened](http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-
room/news/310973-poll-plurality-of-americans-prefer-the-popular-vote) since
the 2016 election.)

But to ditch the Electoral College entirely, the US would have to pass a
constitutional amendment (passed by two-thirds of the House and Senate and
approved by 38 states) — or convene a constitutional convention (which has
never been done, but would have to be called for by 34 states). Either method
is vanishingly unlikely, because each would require many small states to
approve a change that would reduce their influence on the presidential
outcome.

There is one potential workaround, however: the National Popular Vote
Interstate Compact, a clever proposal that uses the Constitution’s ambiguity
on electors to its own ends.

A state signing on to the compact agrees that it will pledge all its electors
not to its state winner but to the victor in the _national_ popular vote —
_but only if_ states controlling 270 or more electoral votes have agreed to do
the same. If they do, and everything works as planned, then whoever wins the
popular vote will necessarily win the electoral vote too.

It’s a fun proposal that’s already been enacted into law by 10 states
(including massive California and New York) and the District of Columbia,
which together control 165 electoral votes. But there’s one big obstacle: All
of the states that have adopted it are solidly Democratic, with zero being
Republican or swing states.

So unless a bunch of swing states decide to reduce their own power, or
Republican politicians conclude that a system bringing the power of small and
rural states in line with that of big urban centers is a good idea, the
compact isn’t going to get the support it needs, [as Nate Silver has
written](http://fivethirtyeight.com/datalab/why-a-plan-to-circumvent-the-
electoral-college-is-probably-doomed/). (Furthermore, it wouldn’t solve the
rogue elector problem.)

As messed up as the Electoral College is, then, we’re likely stuck with it for
some time. Your safe state vote might be wasted, or it might even be subverted
by rogue electors.

But at least you’ll get to [draw fun
maps](http://www.vox.com/2016/11/4/13448928/interactive-presidential-
electoral-college-map-2016).

_This article was originally published before the election. Minor updates have
been made to reflect that the election has concluded._

* * *

## Watch: The bad map we see every election
