title: Walmart is turning its employees into delivery drivers to compete with Amazon
source: https://qz.com/996448/walmart-wmt-is-turning-its-1-5-million-employees-into-delivery-drivers-to-compete-with-amazon-amzn/
date: 2025-08-13T17:15:53.193968
tags: []
---
Walmart, which is aggressively investing in e-commerce to better compete with
Amazon, is unveiling a new strategy: turning its army of 1.5 million US
employees into delivery drivers.

The tactic is being tested at three stores in New Jersey and Arkansas, and
designed to shave costs out of the “last mile” of distribution, the most
expensive part of getting goods to customers. The initiative was announced
today (June 1) at Walmart’s headquarters in Bentonville, Arkansas, and in a
blog post by Marc Lore, who heads e-commerce operations for Walmart. Lore is
the former CEO of e-commerce startup Jet.com, which was [acquired last
year](http://web.archive.org/web/20250719094134/https://qz.com/753018/jet-
coms-3-3-billion-sale-to-walmart-is-a-big-well-timed-win-for-its-investors) by
Walmart for $3.5 billion to take on Amazon.

Under the initiative, store employees will be given the option to deliver
packages on their way home after work, in exchange for extra pay. They’ll be
given an app that allows them to input their routes, and an algorithm will
plot the most efficient path. To take part, the employees will have to pass a
background and vehicle check. In the pilot, most merchandise was delivered the
day after the order was placed, beating Walmart’s pledge of second-day
delivery.

Walmart’s digital strategy relies on leveraging its enormous investments in
infrastructure and employees. The company has 4,700 US stores and 6,100
trucks, and it hopes to be able to use those assets to narrow the gap with
Amazon. Walmart is rolling out a [grocery pick-up
service](http://web.archive.org/web/20250719094134/http://news.walmart.com/2016/06/03/walmart-
online-grocery-pickup), where online orders are delivered to customers’ cars,
and is testing other ways of combining online shopping with its physical
stores.

Walmart’s online deliveries are now shipped from its warehouses to online
fulfillment centers, then taken to customers by couriers like UPS and FedEx,
sometimes hundreds of miles. Under the new plan, e-commerce goods would be
shipped by Walmart’s fleet of trucks to stores, then the last mile by
employees. If there aren’t enough employees available, Walmart will use normal
couriers.

By deputizing its associates as delivery drivers, Walmart may be signaling the
end of its
[experiment](http://web.archive.org/web/20250719094134/https://qz.com/698822/walmart-
is-getting-in-on-the-sharing-economy) of using Lyft and Uber drivers as
couriers. “This is very different from crowd-sourced delivery,” Lore said in
Bentonville. “It pulls out a tremendous amount of time from that last mile,
which pulls out a tremendous amount of cost.”
