title: Pebble upgrades its fitness tracking, drops its price | The Verge
source: http://www.theverge.com/2014/9/30/6872505/pebble-fitness-tracking-upgrade-price-drop
date: 2025-08-13T19:30:44.969045
tags: []
---
Pebble is today announcing an upgrade to its fitness tracking features
initially [launched earlier this
year](http://www.theverge.com/2014/6/24/5837550/pebble-becomes-a-real-
pedometer-with-new-misfit-partnership). The Pebble and Pebble Steel will now
be able to track a wearer's steps and sleep activity in the background,
letting users count their steps and use any watch face they please. Prior to
this, a Pebble wearer had to keep the Misfit app open the entire time to count
their steps. Additionally, Pebble is officially dropping the price of its
watches to $99 for the standard watch and $199 for the Pebble Steel, a drop of
$50 and $30, respectively, from their earlier prices.

To go along with the expanded fitness tracking capabilities, Pebble is
extending its partnerships to include Jawbone and Swim.com, in addition to its
existing partnership with Misfit. Jawbone and Swim.com now have apps available
for the Pebble watch which will sync activity and sleep data to their
respective services. Misfit’s existing app is being upgraded to provide sleep
tracking in addition to basic activity tracking. Pebble is also opening its
activity tracking features to other developers through its API. Pebble says
that the new, always on activity tracking won’t meaningfully affect battery
life on the device and it still expects users to get between five and seven
days between charges.

Pebble is also greatly expanding its retail presence today, launching in
retails stores across the world. In addition to Target, Best Buy, and Amazon
in the US, the Pebble watches will soon be available in Fry’s, Sam’s Club, and
Sprint stores. In October, customers in the UK will be able to get the Pebble
at Dixons, O2, and Amazon. Pebble will also be available across Scandinavia as
well as Belgium, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands.

"It won't be long before fitness trackers and smartwatches are the same thing"

With its price drop and expanded fitness tracking features, Pebble is opening
itself up to many more people than might have considered a smartwatch before.
Though other platforms, such as Google’s Android Wear and Apple’s forthcoming
Watch, promise to do many more things on your wrist, Pebble is sticking to its
mission of doing a few things and doing them well. It won’t be long before
fitness trackers and smartwatches are one and the same (and we’re already
seeing some fitness trackers [adopt smartwatch
features](http://www.theverge.com/2014/9/30/6868953/basis-peak-fitness-sleep-
tracker-announcement-launch)) and Pebble’s announcements today make it one of
the most compelling options if you want a smartwatch that also does fitness
tracking right now.
