title: Bad Education | Online Only | n+1
source: http://nplusonemag.com/bad-education
date: 2025-08-13T20:53:37.052830
tags: []
---
The Project On Student Debt estimates that the average college senior in 2009
graduated with $24,000 in outstanding loans. Last August, student loans
surpassed credit cards as the nation’s single largest source of debt, edging
ever closer to $1 trillion. Yet for all the moralizing about American consumer
debt by both parties, no one dares call higher education a bad investment. The
nearly axiomatic good of a university degree in American society has allowed a
higher education bubble to expand to the point of bursting.

Since 1978, the price of tuition at US colleges has increased over 900
percent, 650 points above inflation. To put that number in perspective,
housing prices, the bubble that nearly burst the US economy, then the global
one, increased only fifty points above the Consumer Price Index during those
years. But while college applicants’ faith in the value of higher education
has only increased, employers’ has declined. According to Richard Rothstein at
The Economic Policy Institute, wages for college-educated workers outside of
the inflated finance industry have stagnated or diminished. Unemployment has
hit recent graduates especially hard, nearly doubling in the post-2007
recession. The result is that the most indebted generation in history is
without the dependable jobs it needs to escape debt.

What kind of incentives motivate lenders to continue awarding six-figure sums
to teenagers facing both the worst youth unemployment rate in decades and an
increasingly competitive global workforce?

During the expansion of the housing bubble, lenders felt protected because
they could repackage risky loans as mortgage-backed securities, which sold
briskly to a pious market that believed housing prices could only increase. By
combining slices of regionally diverse loans and theoretically spreading the
risk of default, lenders were able to convince independent rating agencies
that the resulting financial products were safe bets. They weren’t. But since
this wouldn’t be America if you couldn’t monetize your children’s futures, the
education sector still has its equivalent: the Student Loan Asset-Backed
Security (or, as they’re known in the industry, SLABS).

SLABS were invented by then-semi-public Sallie Mae in the early ’90s, and
their trading grew as part of the larger asset-backed security wave that
peaked in 2007. In 1990, there were $75.6 million of these securities in
circulation; at their apex, the total stood at $2.67 trillion. The number of
SLABS traded on the market grew from $200,000 in 1991 to near $250 billion by
the fourth quarter of 2010. But while trading in securities backed by credit
cards, auto loans, and home equity is down 50 percent or more across the
board, SLABS have not suffered the same sort of drop. SLABS are still
considered safe investments—the kind financial advisors market to pension
funds and the elderly.

With the secondary market in such good shape, primary lenders have been eager
to help students with out-of-control costs. In addition to the knowledge that
they can move these loans off their balance sheets quickly, they have had
another reason not to worry: federal guarantees. Under the just-ended Federal
Family Education Loan Program (FFELP), the US Treasury backed private loans to
college students. This meant that even if the secondary market collapsed and
there were an anomalous wave of defaults, the federal government had already
built a lender bailout into the law. And if that weren’t enough, in May 2008
President Bush signed the Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act,
which authorized the Department of Education to purchase FFELP loans outright
if secondary demand dipped. In 2010, as a cost-offset attached to health
reform legislation, President Obama ended the FFELP, but not before it had
grown to a $60 billion-a-year operation.

Even with the Treasury no longer acting as co-signer on private loans, the
flow of SLABS won’t end any time soon. What analysts at Barclays Capital wrote
of the securities in 2006 still rings true: “For this sector, we expect
sustainable growth in new issuance volume as the growth in education costs
continues to outpace increases in family incomes, grants, and federal loans.”
The loans and costs are caught in the kind of dangerous loop that occurs when
lending becomes both profitable and seemingly risk-free: high and increasing
college costs mean students need to take out more loans, more loans mean more
securities lenders can package and sell, more selling means lenders can offer
more loans with the capital they raise, which means colleges can continue to
raise costs. The result is over $800 billion in outstanding student debt, over
30 percent of it securitized, and the federal government directly or
indirectly on the hook for almost all of it.

* * *

If this sounds familiar, it probably should, and the parallels with the pre-
crisis housing market don’t end there. The most predatory and cynical subprime
lending has its analogue in for-profit colleges. Inequalities in US primary
and secondary education previously meant that a large slice of the working
class never got a chance to take on the large debts associated with four-year
degree programs. For-profits like The University of Phoenix or Kaplan are the
market’s answer to this opportunity.

While the debt numbers for four-year programs look risky, for-profit two-year
schools have apocalyptic figures: 96 percent of their students take on debt
and within fifteen years 40 percent are in default. A Government
Accountability Office sting operation in which agents posed as applicants
found all fifteen approached institutions engaged in deceptive practices and
four in straight-up fraud. For-profits were found to have paid their
admissions officers on commission, falsely claimed accreditation,
underrepresented costs, and encouraged applicants to lie on federal financial
aid forms. Far from the bargain they portray themselves to be on daytime
television, for-profit degree programs were found to be more expensive than
the nonprofit alternatives nearly every time. These degrees are a tough sell,
but for-profits sell tough. They spend an unseemly amount of money on
advertising, a fact that probably hasn’t escaped the reader’s notice.

But despite the attention the for-profit sector has attracted (including
congressional hearings), as in the housing crisis it’s hard to see where the
bad apples stop and the barrel begins. For-profits have quickly tied
themselves to traditional powers in education, politics, and media. Just a few
examples: Richard C. Blum, University of California regent (and husband of
California Sen. Dianne Feinstein), is also through his investment firm the
majority stakeholder in two of the largest for-profit colleges. The Washington
Post Co. owns Kaplan Higher Education, forcing the company’s flagship paper to
print a steady stream of embarrassing parenthetical disclosures in articles on
the subject of for-profits. Industry leader University of Phoenix has even
developed an extensive partnership with GOOD magazine, sponsoring an education
editor. Thanks to these connections, billions more in advertising, and nearly
$9 million in combined lobbying and campaign contributions in 2010 alone, for-
profits have become the fastest growing sector in American higher education.

If the comparative model is valid, then the lessons of the housing crash nag:
What happens when the kids can’t pay? The federal government only uses data on
students who default within the first two years of repayment, but its numbers
have the default rate increasing every year since 2005. Analyst accounts have
only 40 percent of the total outstanding debt in active repayment, the
majority being either in deferment or default. Next year, the Department of
Education will calculate default rates based on numbers three years after the
beginning of repayment rather than two. The projected results are staggering:
recorded defaults for the class of 2008 will nearly double, from 7 to 13.8
percent. With fewer and fewer students having the income necessary to pay back
loans (except by taking on more consumer debt), a massive default looks closer
to inevitable.

Unlike during the housing crisis, the government’s response to a national wave
of defaults that could pop the higher-ed bubble is already written into law.
In the event of foreclosure on a government-backed loan, the holder submits a
request to what’s called a state guaranty agency, which then submits a claim
to the feds. The federal disbursement rate is tied to the guaranty agency’s
fiscal year default rate: for loans issued after October 1998, if the rate
exceeds 5 percent, the disbursement drops to 85 percent of principal and
interest accrued; if the rate exceeds 9 percent, the disbursement falls to 75
percent. But the guaranty agency rates are computed in such a way that they do
not reflect the rate of default as students experience it; of all the guaranty
agencies applying for federal reimbursement last year, none hit the 5 percent
trigger rate.

With all of these protections in place, SLABS are a better investment than
most housing-backed securities ever were. The advantage of a preemptive
bailout is that it can make itself unnecessary: if investors know they’re
insulated from risk, there’s less reason for them to get skittish if the
securities dip, and a much lower chance of a speculative collapse. The worst-
case scenario seems to involve the federal government paying for students to
go to college, and aside from the enrichment of the parasitic private lenders
and speculators, this might not look too bad if you believe in big government,
free education, or even Keynesian fiscal stimulus. But until now, we have only
examined one side of the exchange. When students agree to take out a loan, the
fairness of the deal is premised on the value for the student of their
borrowed dollars. If an 18-year-old takes out $200,000 in loans, he or she
better be not only getting the full value, but investing it well too.

* * *

Higher education seems an unlikely site for this kind of speculative bubble.
While housing prices are based on what competing buyers are willing to pay,
postsecondary education’s price is supposedly linked to its costs (with the
exception of the for-profits). But the rapid growth in tuition is mystifying
in value terms; no one could argue convincingly the quality of instruction or
the market value of a degree has increased ten-fold in the past four decades
(though this hasn’t stopped some from trying). So why would universities raise
tuition so high so quickly? “Because they can” answers this question for home-
sellers out to get the biggest return on their investments, or for-profits out
to grab as much Pell Grant money as possible, but it seems an awfully cynical
answer when it comes to nonprofit education.

First, where the money hasn’t gone: instruction. As Marc Bousquet, a leading
researcher into the changing structures of higher education, wrote in _How The
University Works_ (2008):

> If you’re enrolled in four college classes right now, you have a pretty good
> chance that one of the four will be taught by someone who has earned a
> doctorate and whose teaching, scholarship, and service to the profession has
> undergone the intensive peer scrutiny associated with the tenure system. In
> your other three classes, however, you are likely to be taught by someone
> who has started a degree but not finished it; was hired by a manager, not
> professional peers; may never publish in the field she is teaching; got into
> the pool of persons being considered for the job because she was willing to
> work for wages around the official poverty line (often under the delusion
> that she could ‘work her way into’ a tenurable position); and does not plan
> to be working at your institution three years from now.

This is not an improvement; fewer than forty years ago, when the explosive
growth in tuition began, these proportions were reversed. Highly represented
among the new precarious teachers are graduate students; with so much
available debt, universities can force graduate student workers to scrape by
on sub-minimum-wage, making them a great source of cheap instructional labor.
Fewer tenure-track jobs mean that recent PhDs, overwhelmed with debt, have no
choice but to accept insecure adjunct positions with wages kept down by the
new crop of graduate student-workers. Rather than producing a better-trained,
more professional teaching corps, increased tuition and debt have enabled the
opposite.

If overfed teachers aren’t the causes or beneficiaries of increased tuition
(as they’ve been depicted of late), then perhaps it’s worth looking up the
food chain. As faculty jobs have become increasingly contingent and
precarious, administration has become anything but. Formerly, administrators
were more or less teachers with added responsibilities; nowadays, they
function more like standard corporate managers—and they’re paid like them too.
Once a few entrepreneurial schools made this switch, market pressures
compelled the rest to follow the high-revenue model, which leads directly to
high salaries for in-demand administrators. Even at nonprofit schools, top-
level administrators and financial managers pull down six- and seven-figure
salaries, more on par with their industry counterparts than with their fellow
faculty members. And while the proportion of tenure-track teaching faculty has
dwindled, the number of managers has skyrocketed in both relative and absolute
terms. If current trends continue, the Department of Education estimates that
by 2014 there will be more administrators than instructors at American four-
year nonprofit colleges. A bigger administration also consumes a larger
portion of available funds, so it’s unsurprising that budget shares for
instruction and student services have dipped over the past fifteen years.

When you hire corporate managers, you get managed like a corporation, and the
race for tuition dollars and grants from government and private partnerships
has become the driving objective of the contemporary university
administration. The goal for large state universities and elite private
colleges alike has ceased to be (if it ever was) building well-educated
citizens; now they hardly even bother to prepare students to assume their
places among the ruling class. Instead we have, in Bousquet’s words, “the
entrepreneurial urges, vanity, and hobbyhorses of administrators: Digitize the
curriculum! Build the best pool/golf course/stadium in the state! Bring more
souls to God! Win the all-conference championship!” These expensive projects
are all part of another cycle: corporate universities must be competitive in
recruiting students who may become rich alumni, so they have to spend on
attractive extras, which means they need more revenue, so they need more
students paying higher tuition. For-profits aren’t the only ones consumed with
selling product. And if a humanities program can’t demonstrate its economic
utility to its institution (which can’t afford to haul “dead weight”) and
students (who understand the need for marketable degrees), then it faces cuts,
the neoliberal management technique par excellence. Students apparently have
received the message loud and clear, as business has quickly become the
nation’s most popular major.

When President Obama spoke in the State of the Union of the need to send more
Americans to college, it was in the context of economic competition with
China, phrased as if we ought to produce graduates like steel. As the near-
ubiquitous unpaid internship for credit (in which students pay tuition in
order to work for free) replaces class time, the bourgeois trade school
supplants the academy. Parents understandably worried about their children
make sure they never forget about the importance of an attractive résumé. It
was easier for students to believe a college education was priceless when it
wasn’t bought and sold from every angle.

If tuition has increased astronomically and the portion of money spent on
instruction and student services has fallen, if the (at very least
comparative) market value of a degree has dipped and most students can no
longer afford to enjoy college as a period of intellectual adventure, then at
least one more thing is clear: higher education, for-profit or not, has
increasingly become a scam.

* * *

We know the consequences of default for lenders, investors, and their backers
at the Treasury, but what of the defaulters? Homeowners who found themselves
with negative equity (owing more on their houses than the houses were worth)
could always walk away. Students aren’t as lucky: graduates can’t ditch their
degrees, even if they borrowed more money than their accredited labor power
can command on the market. Americans overwhelmed with normal consumer debt
(like credit card debt) have the option of bankruptcy, and although it’s an
arduous and credit-score-killing process, not having ready access to thousands
in pre-approved cash is not always such a bad thing. But students don’t have
that option either. Before 2005, students could use bankruptcy to escape
education loans that weren’t provided directly by the federal government, but
the facetiously named “Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection
Act” extended non-dischargeability to all education loans, even credit cards
used to pay school bills.

Today, student debt is an exceptionally punishing kind to have. Not only is it
inescapable through bankruptcy, but student loans have no expiration date and
collectors can garnish wages, social security payments, and even unemployment
benefits. When a borrower defaults and the guaranty agency collects from the
federal government, the agency gets a cut of whatever it’s able to recover
from then on (even though they have already been compensated for the losses),
giving agencies a financial incentive to dog former students to the grave.

When the housing bubble collapsed, the results (relatively good for most
investors, bad for the government, worse for homeowners) were predictable but
not foreordained. With the student-loan bubble, the resolution is much the
same, and it’s decided in advance.

In addition to the billions colleges have spent on advertising, sports
programs, campus aesthetics, and marketable luxuries, they’ve benefited from a
public discourse that depicts higher education as an unmitigated social good.
Since the Baby Boomers gave birth, the college degree has seemed a panacea for
social ills, a metaphor for a special kind of deserved success. We still tell
fairy tales about escapes from the ghetto to the classroom or the short path
from graduation to lifelong satisfaction, not to mention America’s collective
college success story: The G.I. Bill. But these narratives are not inspiring
true-life models, they’re advertising copy, and they come complete with loan
forms.

* * *

If you like this article, please

[subscribe](https://www.nplusonemag.com/subscribe/?affid=article)

or leave a tax-deductible tip below to support n+1.
