title: Tinder is secretly ranking how ‘desirable’ you are | The Verge
source: http://www.theverge.com/2016/1/11/10749670/tinder-secretly-ranks-users-desirability
date: 2025-08-13T18:31:34.513740
tags: []
---
Tinder secretly scores the “desirability” of every user, and it seemingly uses
that score to match up people of similar “desirability,” according to [a
report in _Fast Company_](http://www.fastcompany.com/3054871/whats-your-
tinder-score-inside-the-apps-internal-ranking-system). To put this bluntly, it
very much sounds as though Tinder’s scoring system is meant to display
“attractive” people to other “attractive” people, “ugly” people to other
“ugly” people, and so on and so forth. Of course, Tinder’s scoring is based on
swipes, and swipes are, in theory, based on more than just attractiveness —
there’s a brief description in each profile, as well as a person’s job or
school — so a desirability score technically represents an amalgam of how a
person presents their profile. But that assumes everyone is swiping based on
more than photos. Tinder did not respond to a request for comment.

""It’s very complicated," apparently"

 _Fast Company_ doesn’t have many details on how the desirability rating
works. A Tinder engineer pointed out to _Fast Company_ that people don’t
universally value the same things: “Some people really favor facial hair,
while some do not. Same thing with tattoos, photos with pets or children,
excessive outdoors shots, or photos of you with a tiger.” Tinder may look for
deeper patterns in who is swiping who and use that to adjust who you should be
matched with — that would actually make sense — but it doesn’t state that
explicitly.

Tinder’s CEO, Sean Rad, tells _Fast Company_ that there’s at least some level
of complexity to the scoring system. “It’s not just how many people swipe
right on you,” he says. “It’s very complicated. It took us two and a half
months just to build the algorithm because a lot of factors go into it.” A
Tinder data analyst describes a bit of its inner workings, suggesting that a
person’s desirability rating goes up more when someone with a high rating
gives them an approving swipe than when someone with a low rating does. The
analyst compares it to the ranking system used in _Warcraft_. “Whenever you
play somebody with a really high score, you end up gaining more points than if
you played someone with a lower score,” he says.

Tinder calls its desirability ratings an “Elo score,” after the Elo rating
system that Chess players use to rank skill. Naturally, the [ever-
humble](http://www.standard.co.uk/lifestyle/london-life/tinder-im-an-addict-
says-hookup-apps-cocreator-and-ceo-sean-rad-a3117181.html) Rad points out that
his score is “above average.” _Fast Company_ also has [a separate profile on
Rad](http://www.fastcompany.com/3054904/is-controversial-tinder-ceo-sean-rad-
ready-to-grow-up) starting to “grow up,” which includes such tasteful quotes
as, “Have you ever seen this many hot girls? It’s like five hot girls in a
row!” The profile also describes an almost complete absence of women in
Tinder’s decision-making process. Rad apparently thinks input from women isn’t
necessary, describing Tinder as having the mind-reading abilities gained by
Mel Gibson in _What Women Want_. Good luck with that.

**Dating at CES 2016** _A place for technology and love_
