title: Why Restaurant Workers Say They’re Not Returning to Work | Eater
source: https://www.eater.com/22417344/restaurant-labor-shortage-covid-19-unemployment-benefits-risks
date: 2025-08-13T15:38:15.642635
tags: []
---
After eight years in the restaurant industry, Estefanía decided she’d had
enough. Last summer, she quit her job at a New American restaurant in Chicago
where she had worked as a manager and sommelier since 2017. Estefanía, who
asked to be referred to by her first name because she is an undocumented
worker, said she got COVID-19 in June and took two weeks off to recover and
quarantine. When she came back, she noticed a shift in the way her employers
treated her. “I came back to be given the silent treatment from the owner,”
she told me via email. “He said I abandoned him and that he couldn’t trust me
[or] see me as a manager anymore.”

Estefanía said the last straw was when a coworker threatened to call ICE on
her. She quit the restaurant, got a job as a receptionist, and thought she was
done with the restaurant industry altogether. But the pay couldn’t compare to
what she was making before, so now, she’s back. Despite her hesitancy to
return to the industry, Estefanía just started working at a Mexican restaurant
in Logan Square, which she describes as a better experience than her last job.

The fact that Estefanía quit restaurant work and returned makes her a COVID-
era rarity. For months, restaurateurs
[across](https://www.bizjournals.com/stlouis/news/2021/04/23/st-louis-
restaurants-mission-taco-retreat-gastro.html)[
the](https://www.providencejournal.com/story/business/2021/04/23/ri-
restaurant-worker-shortage-pandemic-unemployment/7333158002/)[
country](https://www.staugustine.com/story/business/economy/2021/04/11/st-
augustine-restaurants-are-booming-but-staffing-problem-labor-shortage-service-
industry-florida/7129637002/) have been sounding the alarm about an industry-
wide labor shortage. Managers of small, independent restaurants and [big
national chains](https://www.businessinsider.com/mcdonalds-subway-struggle-to-
find-workers-forcing-changes-2021-4) alike have told the press they’re having
trouble getting longtime staff to return to their jobs or finding new
employees to replace them. Managers and owners are
[largely](https://twitter.com/tamisawyer/status/1382043431208423433)[
blaming](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/04/08/dining/restaurant-worker-
shortage.html) their inability to retain — or even re-hire — staff on expanded
unemployment benefits designed to mitigate the economic devastation of the
pandemic; claims that “no one wants to work” because they’d rather stay home
and cash unemployment checks have become commonplace, even though they aren’t
entirely accurate.

“I haven’t been back because I can’t really trust any restaurant owners to
provide a safe environment for their employees.”

Matt Glassman, the owner of the Greyhound Bar & Grill in Los Angeles, said
unemployment has made it harder to rehire staff, but added that it’s more
complicated than people not wanting to work. Glassman’s restaurant has been
closed since last summer and will reopen in May at reduced capacity. For
servers and bartenders, fewer patrons means less tips — which means that
they’re putting their health at risk while making less money than they would
on unemployment. Glassman said he pays servers and bartenders $15 an hour
before tips, and that before the pandemic, it wasn’t unusual for a bartender’s
hourly wage to come out to $50 or $60 after tips. “Now that number is going to
be closer to $25 to $30,” Glassman said.

The dangers are even more acute for back-of-house staff, like line cooks and
dishwashers. “We do a ton of business out of a 400-square-foot kitchen,”
Glassman said. “There’s no mask in the world that’s going to protect you from
being next to someone for eight hours a day in that hot environment.” Even
with vaccinations on the rise, plenty of people remain scared to go back to
grueling restaurant jobs. A February[
study](https://www.cnbc.com/2021/02/02/jobs-where-workers-have-the-highest-
risk-of-dying-from-covid-study.html) from researchers at the University of
California, San Francisco found that line cooks had the highest mortality rate
during the height of the pandemic in the U.S. Even when cities were under
“lockdown,” plenty of restaurants were open for takeout and delivery, and
back-of-house staff were bearing the brunt of the labor and the risk.

Glassman said he’s offered 10 to 20 percent raises for back-of-house staff,
but acknowledges that it may not be enough to entice people to come back. At
the same time, he said it’s difficult for him to raise wages more than he
already has, since the restaurant will be operating at limited capacity for
the foreseeable future.

When Isaac Furman quit his job as a line cook in early 2020 to go back to
school, he assumed it would be a temporary break from the industry. “I haven’t
been back since,” he said, “because I can’t really trust any restaurant owners
to provide a safe environment for their employees.”

Before quitting, Furman, who had worked in restaurant kitchens for seven
years, thought he’d have a long — and hopefully fruitful — career as a cook.
“I always figured I’d be an industry lifer,” he said. “I never harbored any
illusions about it being easy per se, but I liked the idea of being part of
the community… Restaurant ownership was the ultimate goal.”

Time away from the industry made him realize how disillusioned he had become
with the industry, which he described as unsustainable and exploitative,
especially in places with a high cost of living, like New York City. “By the
time I was 26 at my last place, I was one of the oldest cooks in the kitchen,”
he said. After he aged out of his parents’ health insurance, the subsidized
insurance his work offered him was around $500 a month — which he could hardly
afford with his wages. “Health care is a big part of this. The total lack of
ability to raise a family while working on the line is, too. But there’s also
the physical toll,” he added. “I had a foot injury once and couldn’t work for
a week. What happens if it was longer than that? There’s absolutely no safety
net, and every day you feel worse and worse.”

Furman said these problems aren’t limited to any one restaurant or city;
[they’re industry-wide](/22308106/covid-one-year-later-restaurant-workers-
frustrated-anxious-angry). Nearly two million restaurant and bar workers lost
their jobs between March and April 2020, when cities across the country first
began shutting down due to the pandemic. The wave of re-openings and
subsequent shutterings that came with ever-changing regulations and individual
exposures meant that, in many cases, restaurants were laying off and re-hiring
their staff cyclically. Fed up by the instability, some restaurant workers[
found jobs in other
industries](https://www.restaurantbusinessonline.com/workforce/other-
industries-step-hire-unemployed-restaurant-workers) and didn’t look back.

Those who have decided to stick it out have more choices than ever before.
Joseph Tiedmann, an executive chef in New Orleans, said the problem isn’t just
that people aren’t applying to jobs, but that there are more open jobs than
there are applicants. “The number of responses [to job listings] has
definitely decreased but when we reach out to applicants, we’re way less
successful in actually getting a hold of people or getting them to actually
come in for interviews,” Tiedmann said. “There’s such a wide selection of
restaurants to work at right now. If someone is looking for a job and they use
Indeed or use Culinary Agent to put a resume out there, they’re going to get a
_ton_ of responses. They have so many choices, they’re bombarded by calls for
interviews and may not have time to respond to all of them, or they might take
the one that looks most favorable to them.”

Tiedmann said he’s offered pay increases to current staff members and higher
starting wages for new employees, but hiring has still been difficult. If
there’s any bright side to the current labor situation, he added, it’s that
it’s causing owners and hiring managers to reevaluate everything from wages to
company culture — and for consumers who spent the last year praising essential
workers to realize they need to be paying more for their food.

“I think we’re at a point where people are like, ‘We’re going to have to raise
our prices, because we need to pay our employees more money, and we need to
offer them benefits when we can,’” Tiedmann said. “We need to make this an
attractive business to work in. At the end of the day, it’s all about being
able to do more for your employees. But in order to do that, you’re going to
have to pay for it somehow.”

For those who have never worked in food service, the changes restaurant
workers are asking for may not seem like much. But those who have been in the
industry for a long time know how resistant many bosses are to change. Tara, a
cook in the Washington, DC area who asked that her last name be withheld to
protect her identity while she looks for work, said the pandemic has made her
realize what her non-negotiables are. “I refuse to take [a job] that’s the
minimum serving wage. I need a place that’s at least minimum wage plus tips,”
she said. “We are so sick and tired of [restaurant owners] assuming we want a
handout. We want to work, but we also want to be treated like human beings. We
haven’t been for way too long.”

[ __Gaby del Valle__](https://borderlines.substack.com/) __is a freelance
reporter who primarily covers immigration and labor.__
