title: Baby Boomers - The Ringer
source: https://www.theringer.com/nba/2020/1/2/21043951/baby-bulls-chicago-michael-jordan
date: 2025-08-13T16:02:32.219663
tags: []
---
[](/\[...wordpressNode\])

#

The end of the Jordan dynasty gave way to six long years of suffering in
Chicago. But in 2004-05, a group of young’uns and a defensive-minded coach
overcame a preseason fight, an 0-9 start, and the loss of their offensive
fulcrum to make it back to the postseason. This is the oral history of the
Baby Bulls.

[](/\[...wordpressNode\])

#

The end of the Jordan dynasty gave way to six long years of suffering in
Chicago. But in 2004-05, a group of young’uns and a defensive-minded coach
overcame a preseason fight, an 0-9 start, and the loss of their offensive
fulcrum to make it back to the postseason. This is the oral history of the
Baby Bulls.

With hundreds of thousands of fans assembled in Chicago’s Grant Park on June
16, 1998, to celebrate the third title of a second three-peat, the end of that
decade’s great NBA dynasty could no longer be denied.

“This was our last dance, and it was a wonderful waltz,” Bulls head coach Phil
Jackson said from the park’s band shell stage. “Thank you, all.”

“It’s been a great run,” Scottie Pippen added. “Thank you for our last dance.”

“Nobody knows if we’re going to be in Grant Park next year,” Michael Jordan
said, with a bit more ambiguity. “No matter what happens, my heart, soul, and
love will still be in the city of Chicago.”

Chants of “One more year!” rose from the tearful crowd. But, of course, there
would be no more.

Jackson rode off into the sunset [on a
motorcycle](https://products.kitsapsun.com/archive/1998/06-23/0037_the_nba__easy_rider__jackson_driv.html)
to begin a yearlong sabbatical. On January 13, 1999, in the midst of the
[bitterly waged
lockout](https://www.theringer.com/nba/2019/2/19/18228706/lockout-1999-season-
san-antonio-spurs-new-york-knicks), Jordan retired from the NBA for a second
time. In the 10 days that followed, Bulls general manager Jerry Krause (widely
blamed for the breakup) went about dismantling the dynasty and selling it for
parts. Pippen went to Houston in a sign-and-trade. Dennis Rodman was released.
Steve Kerr was sent to San Antonio, Luc Longley to Phoenix. Krause named Tim
Floyd head coach. Holdovers like Ron Harper and Toni Kukoc marveled at the
swiftness with which the Unstop-a-Bulls had become the Replace-a-Bulls—guys
with names like Rusty LaRue and Kornél Dávid, the league’s first Hungarian
player.

Following the last dance, the Bulls organization suddenly found itself
learning to walk again. The team would go on to compile the second-worst six-
season record in NBA history: just 119 wins and a dismal 341 losses (including
the lockout-shortened 1998-99 season). Along with all the losing came
innumerable indignities. Scoring 49 points in an April 1999 game, a record low
in the shot-clock era. Winning a franchise-worst 15 games in 2000-01.
Suffering a 53-point beatdown in November 2001. Superstar free agents thumbing
their noses at a once-proud franchise that had become the league
laughingstock.

But just as fans were giving up hope along with their season-ticket packages,
there came a glimmer of promise: the so-called Baby Bulls of 2004-05. The
story of that Cinderella season, during which the team ground out 47 wins to
secure a first post-dynasty playoff berth, is a tale of redemption, the stuff
of sports movie mythos: Through hard work and defensive grit, a no-nonsense
coach (Scott Skiles) shepherded his dark-horse squad of precocious rookies
(Ben Gordon, Luol Deng, Chris Duhon, Andrés Nocioni) and grizzled veterans
(Antonio Davis, Adrian Griffin) back into contention, effectively exorcising
the stubborn ghosts of recent futility. Along the way, the Bulls clawed back
from an 0-9 start that tied the franchise-record worst, weathered clashes
between Skiles and center Tyson Chandler, and pulled together after the late-
season loss of scoring leader Eddy Curry, who was sidelined with a career-
altering heart arrhythmia. Gordon asserted himself as the most clutch Bulls
scorer since Michael Jordan, earning the nicknames Ben Jordan and Heir Gordon
in addition to the NBA’s Sixth Man of the Year Award, the only rookie ever to
receive the honor.

That young team gave Chicago basketball fans an invaluable, if illusory, gift:
a reason to believe that the Bulls would soon dance again. But 15 years later,
the misbegotten Boylen Bulls now pitifully limp along on two left feet. And
it’s the first-to-worst Warriors and their fans who are now getting a preview
of the precipitous fall that will come for Golden State, as it has for every
dynasty. This is the story of the Baby Bulls, as told by the coaches, the
players, and others who lived it.

### Chapter 1: Post-Dynasty Misery

**K.C. Johnson (_Chicago Tribune_ Bulls beat reporter, 1996-97, 2000-05,
2006-19):** After the dynasty broke up, the Bulls had the [second-]worst six-
season stretch of losing in NBA history.

**Jack Silverstein (Chicago sports historian, author of the forthcoming _6
Rings: The Bulls, the City, and the Dynasty That Changed the Game_):** The
destruction of the dynasty was complete and devastating. Suddenly it was this
completely different team. The uniforms were the same, but the experience was
totally different. I didn’t think it was going to be as bad as it was. And I
didn’t think it was going to go on as long as it did.

**Sam Smith (_Chicago Tribune_ sportswriter, 1979-2008):** The first post-
dynasty season, there were still remnants of the championship teams. Toni
Kukoc and Ron Harper. [Assistant coach] Tex Winter. Initially there was hope,
like “Who knows what’s ahead?” And the fans were still grateful for all the
winning that had so recently occurred.

**Silverstein:** All of a sudden the Bulls went from 62 wins to being 13-37 in
the 1998-99 lockout season.**** In the ’98 Finals, the Bulls had held Utah to
54 points in one game, a record low for the shot clock era. And then the very
next season, the Bulls go and break that record—but on the losing end—scoring
just 49 points against Miami.

**Smith:** The accumulation of losses grew embarrassing. Seventeen wins in
’99-00. Fifteen wins in ’00-01.

**Silverstein:** You want to talk low points of being a Bulls fan in that era?
We had four games in 2000 with John Starks in a Bulls uniform. Of all the
indignities of that period, having to decide whether or not to root for John
Starks for four games is up there.

**Johnson:** In a 2001 game, the Bulls lost to Minnesota by 53 points.
Afterward, Charles Oakley said, “We couldn’t beat a snappy junior high team
with this group tonight.” The Bulls fined him $50,000 for that.

**Lawrence Funderburke (Bulls center, 2005):** For years, when I was playing
in Sacramento, you would see the Chicago Bulls on your schedule, and it was
like, “Oh, it’s a guaranteed win.”

**Silverstein:** Sometime in ’99, before I went off to college, I put my name
on the Bulls’ season-ticket waitlist. The Bulls were just starting to get bad.
My plan was that by the time my name would be up on the list, I’d be out of
college, I’d have a job, I’d have money to afford the tickets, and the Bulls
would be better. A year later, I get a call. It’s the Bulls’ season-ticket
office: “We’re excited to tell you you’ve come to the top of the season-ticket
waitlist.” I was like, “No! That’s not the plan!” People getting rid of their
season tickets was a sign of how fast the bottom fell out.

**Johnson:** After two or three losing seasons, a sense of frustration crept
in. In 2000, general manager Jerry Krause had targeted big-name free agents:
Tim Duncan, Tracy McGrady, Grant Hill, Eddie Jones—all of whom spurned the
Bulls. They ended up instead with Ron Mercer.

**Silverstein:** That was the big “uh-oh” moment—when it became clear that the
Bulls could be losing for the long haul. After the first three seasons, I was
reminded of the quote from _Macbeth_ : “I am in blood Stepped in so far that,
should I wade no more, Returning were as tedious as go o’er.” In other words,
I’d gone this far with the post-dynasty Bulls, I might as well keep watching
them lose. Among those of us who were still watching the team during that
historic run of losing between ’99 and ’04, there was a strange bond.

**Johnson:** The organization and the fan base and even some of the beat
writers had become ... I don’t want to say _numb_ to all the losing, but the
losing just kind of became part of the Bulls. There was a lot of dysfunction
around the team. I used to get to practice and go, “What’s going to happen
today?” As a young, impressionable beat writer, I had great stuff to write
about every day, but it was chaotic. Krause’s plan and philosophy always
seemed to be changing and shifting, including drafting Elton Brand and then
trading him pretty quickly for the draft rights to Tyson Chandler and rolling
the dice with Chandler and Eddy Curry, two 7-footers who had come to the NBA
straight out of high school.

Tyson Chandler and Eddy Curry on the bench against the Golden State Warriors
on November 17, 2004, in Oakland, California.Photo by Rocky Widner/NBAE via
Getty Images

**Silverstein:** When the Bulls got Tyson and Eddy, it was a big reset of the
hope meter for Bulls fans. It felt like Krause taking his shot, looking for
the next Scottie [Pippen] and Horace [Grant] in one night.

**Smith:** Curry was an amazing athletic talent. The guy was like a gymnast, a
7-foot gymnast.

**Johnson:** The frustration culminated with Floyd’s resignation under
pressure on Christmas Eve 2001. [Former Bulls center] Bill Cartwright came in
as head coach, and with him a surge of optimism. The team started to play a
little better. Jamal Crawford provided some hope initially and there was
excitement around the 2002 trade for Jalen Rose.

**Silverstein:** The ’02-03 Bulls won 30 games for the first time since the
dynasty dissolved. That felt like a huge leap forward.

**Johnson:** In the spring of ’03 came probably the biggest shock: Bulls owner
Jerry Reinsdorf finally decided to part ways with Krause, who had helped build
the dynasty. The Bulls disclosed the reason initially as health. Krause had
been suffering some health issues, but it was more or less a graceful arranged
exit. That led to John Paxson’s ascension to general manager.

### Chapter 2: A Complete Culture Change

**Silverstein:** This gets lost now because of what the Bulls have become in
recent years under John Paxson, but Pax turned the team around at their lowest
point. During the 2003-04 season, he traded Jalen Rose to Toronto for Antonio
Davis, who became the veteran rock of the Baby Bulls. He got rid of Scottie
Pippen, whom he had previously brought back to provide veteran leadership. He
fired his former teammate Bill Cartwright as coach, a sign of moving away from
the Bulls’ long-standing love of nepotism. And he hired Scott Skiles as head
coach. That was the foundation of a new team and truly a new culture.

**Smith:** Paxson built the roster in his own image. He had been an
overachiever; a tough, physical player for his size; the ultimate grinder.
Who’s his first draft pick? Kirk Hinrich, a major grinder. He got rid of
“soft” guys not known for their defense, like Jalen Rose, Jamal Crawford, and
Eddie Robinson. He brought in a hard-nosed coach in Scott Skiles.

**Kirk Hinrich (Bulls guard, 2003-10, 2012-16):** When I got to Chicago in
2003, I sensed everyone was tired of losing, but also that there had become an
acceptance that, well, this is just how it is.

**Tyson Chandler (Bulls center, 2001-06):** We had become one of the worst
teams in the league. We had a losing culture. We had to try to change the
culture.

**Johnson:** Scott Skiles was the perfect coach for that young team. He was
no-nonsense, didn’t accept excuses, didn’t accept mediocrity. He demanded a
lot of his players and held them accountable in a very blunt and fair way. He
would say, “This is what I expect, this is what we need to do, and this is how
we’re going to do it.”

> We had become one of the worst teams in the league. We had a losing culture.
> We had to try to change the culture.
>
> Tyson Chandler, Bulls center, 2001-06

**Smith:** Scott is tough, direct, the ultimate no-bullshit guy. He and Paxson
were in tune completely about playing with discipline, holding players
accountable. Scott also had a great sense of humor. Famously, when reporters
asked him what Eddy Curry could do to rebound better, Scott said, “Jump.” He
also had a staff of veteran assistants who were good teachers, especially Ron
Adams, who’s now with Golden State. It was a far cry from the minor-league
bunch of clowns that Tim Floyd had brought in—his high school buddies and
stuff.

**Ron Adams (Bulls assistant coach 2003-08, 2010-13):** Scott was a marvelous
coach. He was a great organizer and had a clear-cut idea of what he wanted to
do and how he wanted to insert discipline into the Bulls program.

**Hinrich:** Pax and Scott began implementing a complete culture change. The
Bulls for so long had been just a bunch of different talented parts. They were
never one group playing together for a goal. Paxson understood hard work is
what the city wanted. It was going to help us win games, but it’s also
Chicago’s identity. We wanted to gain respectability back in the city and
around the league. When Scott got there partway through my rookie season, it
was clear that things were going to be different. The team culture was going
to be based on character and hard work and defense and playing for the team.

**Chandler:** My prior years with the Bulls, we weren’t playing the right way.
It was guys out for their own. Selfish play. That season was the first time we
started to play team basketball.

**Hinrich:** Scott’s mentality was: _If you aren’t playing defense, you aren’t
going to play. Period. It doesn’t matter if you’re scoring._ That was a big
change. He made it clear we needed to be a group of guys who were buying in,
willing to play hard and do the things asked of them every night, no matter
what. Put the team first, defend, and compete your butt off—that was our
mission statement.

**Smith:** What the 2004-05 team represented was Paxson’s view of what an NBA
team should be. Paxson was intent on changing the character of the team and
adopting the character of what Chicago likes to see in itself—hard-working,
tough, blue collar. He wanted hard-hat, lunch-bucket guys. The veterans he
brought in were the same profile of tough overachievers: Adrian Griffin,
Othella Harrington, and Antonio Davis.

**Silverstein:** The Jalen Rose trade felt like it signaled something deeper
about how Paxson was going to build the team. Because on paper, it’s a loser.
You trade a 20-point scorer plus Travis Best for … _Antonio Davis_? It didn’t
totally make sense.

**Antonio Davis (Bulls forward/center, 2003-05):** Getting to Chicago in 2003
and talking to Scott, I realized veteran leadership was one of the primary
reasons he wanted me there. I took that to heart because I remembered my first
years with the Pacers and having guys take me under their wing and show me how
to be a professional every day.

**Johnson:** Paxson’s team-building philosophy was generally to draft
multiyear players from blue-chip programs. And you can include Andrés Nocioni
in that, because he had won the gold medal with Argentina in 2004. Paxson
started acquiring all these young players who came in as veteran as you could
be as a rookie—the complete opposite of Krause getting high schoolers. In the
’03 draft, Paxson picked Kirk Hinrich, who had gone to the NCAA championship
game in [2003] with Kansas. Then in the ’04 draft, he used the third pick on
Ben Gordon, who won an NCAA championship with UConn. In the second round,
Paxson took Duke’s Chris Duhon, who won an NCAA championship in 2001 and was
in a Final Four in 2004. Duhon’s Duke teammate Luol Deng was drafted seventh
overall by Phoenix and then traded to the Bulls. Nocioni signed as an
undrafted rookie free agent. It just felt different, like a new direction
forward.

### Chapter 3: Youth Movement

Scott Skiles, Ben Gordon, Luol Deng, Chris Duhon, and John Paxson pose after
the press conference introducing the Bulls’ 2004 draft picks at the United
Center in Chicago, Illinois. NBAE via Getty Images

**Chandler:** Going into camp, I didn’t know what to make of the team. I
didn’t know how good Ben and Luol and Chris and Nocioni were. I watched some
of those guys in college, but you never know how it’s going to transfer to the
NBA. I knew we’d had some high draft picks, some guys coming from Duke, some
winners. But that didn’t mean anything until I saw what they could bring to
the table. Initially, I was like, “It seems like they’re pretty good.” But
then as camp went along, I’m like, “OK, no, these guys are _really_ good.”

**Silverstein:** More than a third of that roster was rookies: Gordon, Deng,
Duhon, and Nocioni, plus center Jared Reiner.

**Johnson:** There was certainly an air of excitement going into that training
camp with those four rookies coming in. But the expectations were low because
the Bulls had been losing for so long. There was a mix of veterans and some
exciting new talent. But no one expected the rookies to contribute the way
that they eventually did.

**Smith:** Ben Gordon, he’d had this incredible workout with the Bulls. I
heard stories about it. Apparently he hit, like, 50 straight 3s or something,
from everywhere on the court. Never missed. Hands in his face and everything.

**Chris Duhon (Bulls guard, 2004-08):** I was excited with the guys that the
Bulls had gotten. I’d competed against Kirk in college, so I knew the
intensity he brought to the table. I played with Luol at Duke, so I knew his
work ethic. I’d watched the improvement of Eddy and Tyson. So I knew we had
talent and could compete. At the same time, I was aware of the Bulls’ recent
struggles. I looked at it as a challenge, a chance to turn the franchise
around.

**Smith:** The Bulls initially told Chris Duhon, “We don’t need you on the
team. We’ve got enough guards coming in.” They told him to go to Europe. Back
then, teams would pick guys from U.S. colleges and tell them to go overseas
for a couple of years. Duhon said, “Screw you! Not only am I not going to
Europe, but I’m going to come to camp and beat out your guys. I’m going to
make this team.” And he did! That was Scott’s kind of guy. Duhon would end up
being part of the starting backcourt that season.

**Adams:** Chris Duhon came up to me in the summer and said, “Ron, I’m not
going to make this team unless you invest some time with me.” I’d never heard
that before from a player. I hadn’t paid too much attention to him because
there was no plan to keep him. Chris could guard multiple positions, which
made him valuable. But I told him, “We have to develop your 3-point shot.” And
so for a month, we worked on his shot. He became a decent 3-point shooter and,
progressively, far more than that.

**Chandler:** Duhon came in and it was clear he was a winner. Coming from
under Coach K, you saw that influence. He didn’t get rattled playing pickup.
He was vocal off the top, leading at the point guard position. And then Luol,
I saw his defensive gifts and knack to score. I just started to think,
“Finally! We got a roster! We got guys in every position that can play!”

**Andrés Nocioni (Bulls forward, 2004-09):** The training camp was a really
rough one. Really, really physical. Really competitive. And I knew almost zero
English. I could probably say “hello” and “thank you.” I took English lessons
after practice every day.

**Johnson:** These guys had already been coached hard in college and overseas.
Skiles’s approach just made it a seamless transition for them to the NBA. I
remember talking to Kirk once about Skiles as a hard-nosed coach. He was like,
“Doesn’t faze me at all. I had Roy Williams at Kansas. You do what your head
coach tells you.”

**Adams:** Scott was extremely good with the young point guards. I coached
against Scott in college. Here was a 6-foot-1 guy who was not very fleet of
foot but could shoot the ball so well from the 3-point line and was a
tremendous quarterback in running a team and just marvelous at getting the
ball to people.

**Davis:** Getting to training camp and meeting those guys, I saw how young
they were. They were _really_ young! Guys like Ben and Chris and Luol, they’d
grown up watching me play for the Pacers [in the mid-to-late ’90s]. But I had
experience dealing with young guys. For a couple years when I was in Indiana,
I nurtured Al Harrington, who had come to the NBA straight out of high school.
That role actually really helped me because I knew the rookies were watching
me, so I was getting to practice early and staying late and making sure I got
my lifts in and did everything asked of me. I wanted to show them that after
all these years, it’s still important to remain true to being as good as you
can be every day. So they helped me out a lot too.

**Adams:** Antonio Davis was a critical player for us that year. He was just a
marvelous leader and he could still really play the game at that point, too.
Every day he was a leader in subtle ways. In sports, we often talk about these
peak moments in which someone does something or says something that rallies
people around them. But really, the core work is done every day in that locker
room.

**Duhon:** We had great vets on that team. That was one of the big advantages
for us young guys. I grew up watching AD with the Pacers. There was amazing
leadership from him, Eric Piatkowski, Adrian Griffin, Othella Harrington. We
just followed their lead. Those guys were always there early, always there
late, always were encouraging us to continue to get better and go out and play
as hard as we could.

**Fred Tedeschi (Bulls athletic trainer, 1998-2014):** Othella was a gritty,
physical veteran; Piatkowski could shoot the 3; and Griffin was a hard-nosed
defender that added an air of toughness to the bench.

**Adrian Griffin (Bulls guard/forward, 2004-05):** AD and I had a good cop/bad
cop thing going. He would get on a rookie for making a mistake, and then I
would go and smooth things over. Skiles appreciated us being another voice in
the locker room for him and his philosophy, a bridge between him and the
younger guys. I really bought into Skiles’s vision. He demanded we be
professional. He demanded we play hard and know our jobs. And I thought that
this was the way it should be.

**Davis:** Knowing we had a young squad, Scott did not spend a lot of our team
time talking about how we were going to score the basketball. Mostly we talked
about defense. He knew if he could get the young guys to buy into the
defensive concept, we were going to be pretty good.

**Duhon:** Coach wanted to build our foundation defensively and make us one of
the NBA’s best defensive teams. So practices were very intense: one-on-one
drills, learning how to close out, a lot of running and conditioning.

**Griffin:** Skiles had these speakers, and he would pump in loud crowd noise
during scrimmages to re-create a game atmosphere. He believed that we needed
to play together in order to build chemistry. I remember how intensely
competitive those games would be. It was taxing on me because I was older. It
was hard keeping up with those younger guys! I had to go against Luol every
day and he never stopped moving. And Nocioni had an unbelievable motor. You
could see their talent.

We didn’t do rookie hazing. But I assigned the young guys to get Krispy Kreme
donuts for every practice.

**Nocioni:** We had a schedule. Some rookie always had to bring donuts to the
practice facility. I did it, too. But nothing else. My first practice, Skiles
came to the team and said, “Look, Noce is a rookie, but he’s a special rookie
because he’s played overseas many years.” I was only 23 or 24, but I already
had about nine years of professional basketball experience.

**Griffin:** After practices, the vets would get the team together and say,
“Even though we’re a young group, if everyone buys in and plays for each other
and gets on the same page, we’ve got a chance to do something special.”

**Adams:** Going into any season with a new, young team, you just never know.
The hope is that they will grow and come together and amount to something. And
that’s pretty much what happened with that Bulls team.

**Silverstein:** The first time I heard the term “Baby Bulls,” it was
referring to Tyson Chandler and Eddy Curry, but it actually dates back to the
franchise’s inaugural 1966-67 season. Bob Logan of the _Chicago Tribune_
called that very first team the Baby Bulls.

**Chandler:** We got tagged “the Baby Bulls.” I thought it was pretty dope. We
were babies in the league trying to define ourselves, the same as babies in
the world. I didn’t take it as knock. I took it as a new beginning.

### Chapter 4: A Perfect Storm of Crap

**Jared Reiner (Bulls center 2004-05):** Antonio Davis set the tone for that
whole season in a preseason game against the Washington Wizards. On a fast
break, Larry Hughes shoved Kirk Hinrich into Luol Deng, sending Luol crashing
to the floor. When Kirk got in Hughes’s face about it, the Wizards’ Brendan
Haywood went and shoved Kirk.

**Davis:** When I saw that happen and realized somebody could’ve gotten hurt,
I was like, _No, I’m not gonna let that slide._ That whole season, especially
at the start, I felt like Papa Bear. I felt like I had to protect those young
guys. I was acting completely out of instinct.

**Reiner:** Antonio swooped in and ended up body-slamming and punching
Haywood. When those two were on the ground, Eddy came in and threw punches.

**Griffin:** Antonio Davis, he was the enforcer. No one messed with AD.

**Davis:** We talked about it in the locker room after the game. I said,
“Listen, no matter what happens, the guy next to you has to know you got his
back. Period. It’s us against the world. The only thing that matters is us in
this locker room.”

> The start was brutal. We just had this cloud over us that we couldn’t get
> out from under.
>
> Kirk Hinrich, Bulls guard, 2003-10 and 2012-16

**Hinrich:** I appreciated what AD did. It told us young guys, here’s a guy
who has been through a lot in this league and now he’s looking out for us.
That’s something we look back on and laugh about now. We were fighting in a
_preseason_ game!__

**Davis:** Eddy and I got suspended for the first two regular-season games.
But sitting out wasn’t a big deal to me. I definitely would have done it all
over again.

**Duhon:** During the first game of the regular season in Chicago, I was
excited when Skiles told me to go check in. I ran up to the scorer’s table and
went to take my warm-up shirt off and just felt the cool breeze on my chest.
[_Laughs_.] That’s when I realized I didn’t have my jersey on! Skiles just
looked at me and started laughing. I sprinted back to the locker room and only
missed, like, two possessions.

**Silverstein:** In that game, the Bulls took the Nets, who were then a pretty
good team, to double overtime. Even though the Bulls lost that game,
immediately something felt different about this group. Kirk had 34 points.
Deng had 18 points off the bench. They were more competitive, they were fiery,
they were defending. And there was a feeling that this was the best Bulls team
since the Jordan-Pippen dynasty.

**Smith:** After a few home games to start the season, the Bulls headed out
West on a long road trip. The annual “circus trip” coincided with the Ringling
Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus taking over the United Center for two weeks
every November. In the post-dynasty years, the Bulls had been massacred on
those trips by the top Western Conference teams. The gruesome losing streak on
the circus trip had ballooned to, like, 30-some straight games over the
previous six seasons.

**Davis:** The circus trip was a perfect storm of crap: a bunch of young guys,
a long road trip, some good Western Conference teams. All this stuff was
working against us.

**Hinrich:** The start was brutal. Us young guys were looking at each other
like, “Man, we’re never going to get up this hill. We’re never going to get a
win.” We just had this cloud over us that we couldn’t get out from under. We
continued to get our butts kicked. We were just trying to figure out our
identity, figure out how to win. There is a big learning curve to
understanding how to win in the NBA.

**Chandler:** We kept losing games, but we were _right there_ , getting better
every night. Kirk and I were walking to the bus after losing one close game,
and I was like, “Yo, we’re going to make the playoffs this year.” Kirk was
like, “I was just thinking the same thing!” I was like, “Yo, man, it ain’t
been like this since I’ve been here. We’re playing good basketball, we’re just
losing. It’s going to turn for us if we keep this up.” And eventually, it
turned.

**Duhon:** On plane rides, we’d all hang out together and AD would continue to
encourage us.

**Davis:** When you’re on a losing streak like we were, young guys especially
will start pointing fingers. It’s always somebody else’s fault. My main
message was, “We’ve got to stick together. Don’t get caught up in the ups and
downs.” That was huge because we would have stretches later in the season
where there were a lot of ups and even more downs, but we remained consistent.
I told them, “We’ve got to play to win, not play to not lose.” There’s a big
difference.

**Johnson:** What I remember more than any main problem is how impressed I was
with the defiance of such young players. Gordon and Duhon and Deng and
Hinrich—they were pissed about losing. They were like, “We’re not used to
this.” I was impressed by their refusal to accept losing. It signified a big
change from the Bulls teams of the few previous seasons.

**Smith:** I wrote a tough piece several games in, because the Bulls still
hadn’t won a single game, asking, “What is Skiles doing?” Skiles came to me
later and said, “Let me show you.” He showed me this book in which he had
written down plays since he was in high school, from different games,
different coaches. By the time he came to the Bulls, it had become a pretty
thick book. It was clear he had been studying to be a coach. He said, “It’s
going to take a little time, but it’s going to work.”

**Jannero Pargo (Bulls guard, 2004-06):** No one was happy during that losing
streak. We had some rookies who were not doing their duties, so they got
punished really hard. Veterans at the end of the bench, myself included,
thought we could help, but we weren’t seeing much playing time.

**Hinrich:** Did Scott get angry? Oh, gosh, yeah. In his eyes, the worst thing
you could do is not give effort on defense. And we practiced our asses off.
The veterans were probably like, “Man, this is crazy.”

**Adams:** We had some really intense competitors involved in that team—and
there was no more fierce a competitor than Scott. That’s how he was as a
player. He had to do that to survive. So he expected a lot.

Scott Skiles talks to his teammates during a game against the Portland Trail
Blazers on January 31, 2004.NBAE via Getty Images

**Hinrich:** The biggest shock for some of the younger guys was coming in the
day after a game and getting called out by Scott while watching game film. It
was always worse after a loss. We were held accountable for turnovers, blown
defensive assignments, bad decision-making. The biggest thing to remember was
not to be sensitive. Not to take it personally. To take it as constructive
criticism.

**Chandler:** Skiles and I, we didn’t get along. I respect all my coaches. But
it felt like he had something personal against me. The hard practices and the
discipline? That stuff I liked. I was cool with that. I thought Skiles brought
a great edge. I thought he whipped us in shape, built a defensive identity,
held guys accountable—all of those things I thought were great. But at some
point that turned from a guy coming in to change a culture to him just being
too much, taking things too far.

**Nocioni:** Back then it was a little bit easier to be that kind of tough
coach. Skiles put pressure on everybody, every day. That was rough on some
players. Sometimes Tyson would be upset. He would say, “Man, this guy is
crazy! He’s mad every day!”

**Smith:** Skiles was on Chandler and Deng a lot, because they weren’t his
kind of players. They were more finesse kind of players. He did succeed in
getting them to play tougher and harder, but it was painful. Chandler used to
come into Paxson’s office crying sometimes from Scott yelling at him so much.
As difficult as that was, I think Tyson years later was appreciative of
Scott’s tough love.

**Chandler:** AD is the only reason I survived that season with Skiles. He was
constantly in my ear and he helped me keep my head together. When I would get
frustrated, he would always be right there at my locker afterwards, smiling,
calm, bringing my focus back to where it needed to be. He’d tell me, “Hey,
just don’t let that stuff get to you.”

### Chapter 5: 0-9

**Smith:** In the ninth game, the Bulls got blown out by Phoenix.

**Johnson:** That tied the franchise record for worst start at 0-9. With one
more loss, they would set a team record for futility to open a season.

**Griffin:** We had a very young team, so we expected to hit some adversity
early. But we never thought that it would be to that level. _0-9?_ I don’t
care who you are, whether you’re rebuilding or not, 0-9 is tough to swallow.

**Smith:** On the way to Utah for the 10th game, Skiles says to me, “I’m
telling you, we are _really close_ to being a good team.” I’m thinking the
guy’s nuts. At that point, all the predictions were that they would be lucky
to win 20 games, that Skiles is Tim Floyd all over again, that the Bulls are
dead, done.

**Hinrich:** We said as a collective, “Nobody thinks we can do anything. We
are putting so much work in behind the scenes. Let’s not let all this hard
work go to waste. If we’re gonna work our asses off in practice every day,
let’s give it everything we’ve got in the game. Let’s come together and figure
it out and make this thing work.”

> On the way to Utah for the 10th game, Skiles says to me, ‘I’m telling you,
> we are really close to being a good team.’ I’m thinking the guy’s nuts.
>
> Sam Smith, _Chicago Tribune_ sportswriter

**Tedeschi:** After the ninth-straight loss in Phoenix, Scott and his
assistant Jim Boylan had a glass of wine at the hotel where we were staying,
and I listened to them talk about what they thought they needed to do to turn
the team around. They mentioned putting Chris Duhon in the starting lineup.

**Silverstein:** The regular starters became Hinrich, Curry, Deng, Duhon, and
Davis. Sometimes Nocioni.

**Chandler:** I was OK coming off the bench. I could not care less as long as
we won. It wasn’t so much the demotion that I was upset about. It was the way
that I was treated through miscommunication about the change. I thought Skiles
was playing a lot of petty mind games that were unnecessary because I was
already all in for whatever it took for the team to win. You just got to be
straight with me in meetings and tell me what’s going on, and I’m gonna do
what I can for the team. We just didn’t have a great relationship. It wasn’t a
relationship, to be quite honest. I don’t think he dealt with me correctly.

**Tedeschi:** After Chris was inserted into the starting lineup, things
started improving. He just knew how to run a team and was a hard-nosed
defender.

**Johnson:** That 10th game in Utah was a ridiculously entertaining way to win
their first of the season. It was a tight game down to the final minute. And
then the jubilation …

**Hinrich:** We didn’t even know what to do. Like,_For real, we just won? Did
it really happen?_ It was as if the weight of the world had come off of us.

**Pargo:** That was a great feeling. On the plane ride home, there were lots
of laughs and smiling faces and playing cards and not a lot of guys wanting to
sleep. It felt like finally we had gained some momentum and could start
winning games.

**Smith:** After the win in Utah, Skiles told me, “Really, we are going to be
good.” This is after winning _one_ game! The Bulls were 1-9! But then they
absolutely took off.

### Chapter 6: Digging Out With Defense

**Nocioni:** After we won in Utah, we started to feel it. We started to say,
“We overcame this. We _are_ a good team. We have the young guys who can
compete, we’ve got the veteran leaders, we’ve got the dude from Argentina. He
can’t speak English, but he can play!” [_Laughs_.]

**Silverstein:** When you start 0-9 and you end up with 47 wins, there’s
something really special happening there between the players.

**Chandler:** We started to understand how to play together. We were learning
on the job: how to start games, how to make adjustments at halftime, how to
finish games. We learned and all the hard work finally started to pay off.

**Hinrich:** The next thing we knew, we were stringing together wins. A five-
game winning streak in December. A seven-game winning streak in early January.
Another five-game winning streak at the end of January.

**Johnson:** Scott deserves a lot of credit for the Bulls digging themselves
out of that 0-9 hole. This young team had a desire to win and was thirsty for
coaching, and they lapped up what Scott was selling.

**Davis:** We knew we were only going to be as good as we defended. Scott
homed in on all the little things it was going to take for us to win. We began
taking pride in each deflection, each box-out.

**Griffin:** He would track the game behaviors he wanted to see. Did we sprint
the floor? Did we box out? The next morning, Skiles would post our individual
scores on our lockers. Some guys would complain about their scores, and he
would say, “Hey, there’s the film right there.” He would also give us pop
quizzes on the offense. We’d just walk in the locker room and he’d hand out
notebooks and pens and say, “Draw up this set.” It kept us engaged, built us
up, brought us together.

**Smith:** Skiles saw things on the court that other people don’t see. He had
such a gift for knowing how to play the angles, teaching his players to
anticipate what opponents are going to do. He was always playing 3-D chess. I
always thought he could’ve been a great mathematician.

**Davis:** Scott created games within the game. Hold opponents to only so many
points in the first quarter. Win the third quarter. If we held teams to under
100, we knew we had a good chance to win.

**Duhon:** Actually, our goal was 88 points or less—22 points or fewer per
quarter. So if a team would score 26 in a quarter, we would all start
challenging each other: “Hey, we gotta buckle down!”

**Johnson:** Through December and January, the Bulls went on a streak of
holding opponents to under 100 points in 26 straight games—a franchise record.
Of course, that was a different NBA era, you have to remember. What’s more
telling is that they went from last in the league the previous season to first
in the league that season in opponents’ field goal percentage.

**Hinrich:** Our goal was to keep every opponent at or below 42 percent field
goal shooting every night.

> Skiles would post our individual scores on our lockers. Some guys would
> complain about their scores, and he would say, ‘Hey, there’s the film right
> there.’
>
> Adrian Griffin, Bulls guard/forward, 2004-05

**Adams:** We had several guys with a defensive mentality: Kirk, Chris, Luol,
Andrés Nocioni. Adrian Griffin was a bear defensively. Tyson was a defensive
factor on the interior. We emphasized the small things such as challenging
shots. Everyone made an attempt to defend on that team. Even guys who were not
as gifted in that regard or were more offensive-minded, such as Ben Gordon and
Eric Piatkowski. Our team defense then was structured to help the guys who
were not top-of-the-line defenders.

**Hinrich:** Part of what made us so good defensively was our communication.
I’d be on the wing guarding Allen Iverson, and AD and Tyson would be
constantly talking to me, telling me what’s going on behind me.

**Griffin:** One of our competitive advantages was that we were young and
mobile and fast and in great condition. We wore teams down. We played so hard
on defense in the first three quarters, most of our opponents seemed to
dwindle a bit in the fourth quarter. Their legs would be gone and we would
wrap it up. That’s how we won a lot of our games.

**Hinrich:** We were young and a bit overconfident and would need to be
reminded along the way that we couldn’t win the way that other teams in this
league win. We had to win our way.

**Griffin:** If you practiced hard, Skiles would find minutes for you. Jannero
Pargo and myself, we were sometimes the 11th and 12th guys on the bench. We’d
be losing by 20 in the fourth quarter, and Skiles would put me and Jannero in.
Jannero, he’d hit a few 3s in a row. I’d get a couple steals. We’d bring
energy and turn the game around. We ended up winning three, four games in the
fourth quarter.

**Duhon:** That’s just how that team was going to be. We were going to scrap,
play until the end, no matter if we were up 20, down 20. That was the mind-set
of that group.

### Chapter 7: Heir Gordon

**Silverstein:** Eventually Ben Gordon started cooking as the sixth man, and
the team just really took off.

**Smith:** Offensively, Eddy Curry was the Bulls’ most talented player, the
leading scorer. He would have these great first halves, but he would get
nervous at the end of games and didn’t want the ball down the stretch, so he
often wouldn’t play much in the fourth quarter. Skiles coached around it. Down
the stretch, he’d put in Ben Gordon, who began saving the Bulls. After the New
Year, Gordon had this incredible stretch where he was making big shots all
over the place, and they started winning. He became a feared scorer, despite
playing off the bench. He had 21 double-digit fourth quarters that year,
second only to LeBron James. That galvanized the group, like “Hey, we got a
go-to guy, even though our go-to guy doesn’t start!”

Ben Gordon passes the ball to Tyson Chandler as DeSagana Diop and LeBron James
of the Cleveland Cavaliers defend during a game on December 8, 2004, at the
United Center in Chicago, Illinois. Getty Images

**Davis:** Ben would come off the bench and score 18 in a quarter,
20-something in a quarter once he really got going.

**Hinrich:** BG was a talented, talented scorer, man. About as good as I’ve
ever seen. He was unbelievable. Strong, athletic. Ben knew he could go out
there and get 20 every night, but he was willing to buy into the team
mentality and play the sixth-man role. For a guy like that to buy in without
complaint, it says a lot about his character. He did an amazing job of being
selfless.

**Tedeschi:** Ben was so impressive coming off the bench. I don’t think it was
a role he completely loved, but it suited him well. And, obviously, he ended
up winning the Sixth Man of the Year Award.

**Duhon:** We fed Ben, relied on him to be our closer, and he was coming
through, making big shot after big shot. We felt a lot more confident late in
close games knowing that we had a guy who could get us points when we most
needed them. Michael Jordan had been one of the best clutch players in the
league, and now Ben was starting to build that type of reputation.

**Smith:** People were calling him “Ben Jordan” and “Heir Gordon” because he
was hitting game-winning shots. He was absolutely clutch, wanted the big shot,
loved the moment. The Bulls hadn’t had anybody like that for years.

**Silverstein:** In mid-January, the Bulls had this goofy schedule with back-
to-back games against the Knicks. Both ended up being nail-biters. The first
game, at the United Center, was tied 84-84 in the final seconds, when Nocioni
blocked a potential Knicks game-winner with eight seconds left, Tyson saved
the ball to Kirk, who threw it ahead to Eddy for a go-ahead layup with two
seconds left on the clock. Tyson then made a huge block on the Knicks’ buzzer-
beater and immediately began high-fiving fans. The Bulls won 86-84. In the
second game, on Martin Luther King Day at Madison Square Garden, Ben hit a
big-time running floater in the final seconds to win it, 88-86. That was the
Bulls’ seventh win in a row.

**Duhon:** Ben used to call it “Madison Square Gordon.” A lot of his Big East
tournament games were there, and he always seemed to play well in New York.

**Johnson:** In that postgame locker room at Madison Square Garden, you could
feel the belief and the excitement that the team had. That belief built
gradually over the course of the season.

**Duhon:** Those Knicks games were big wins for us, because we were building
confidence to be able to finish games, to close out teams late.

**Griffin:** When Ben started winning games for us, I made a rule that he
didn’t have to fetch donuts anymore. All the other rookies said, “Hey, that’s
not fair!” I said, “Well, get us 20 points tonight and you don’t have to get
donuts in the morning.”

**Tedeschi:** In late January, we had a good win in Detroit against the
defending NBA champions to finally get to .500—19-19. The next game was in
Atlanta. Atlanta being Atlanta, famously teams would usually go out at night
and do whatever and not play well on game day. Antonio told Scott, “Don’t
worry. I’ll make sure these guys are ready to play against Atlanta.” Sure
enough, the team came out and played really well and beat the Hawks. That’s
the moment I realized that this team might be for real, because finally we had
some true leadership.

**Hinrich:** When we started bringing it together and playing really well
together toward the second half of the season, the atmosphere in the United
Center was pretty amazing.

**Smith:** They were the kind of blue-collar team that Chicago likes to
embrace. They didn’t have a superstar like Jordan—but Jordan wasn’t the
archetypal Chicago athlete.

**Duhon:** Even though the Bulls had been struggling the last couple of years,
the stadium was packed. You could feel their appreciation for us going out
there and playing our tails off, and I think that helped build up our
confidence.

**Joe O’Neal (Bulls senior director of ticket operations), quoted in the
_Chicago Tribune_ :** People have called and wanted their [United Center]
seats back, but in some cases somebody else has them now. They were like,
“Hey, Joe, it’s a blast from the past, guess who?” … I’ve only seen this type
of response here once before. That was 1986.

### Chapter 8: Matters of the Heart

**Smith:** Along with Gordon, Eddy Curry kind of exploded that season. He was
a big part of the team digging themselves out of the 0-9 hole. He was as good
a big man as there was in the NBA in that stretch. After all the difficulties
under Tim Floyd, he had looked like a draft bust. But he bloomed that season
under Skiles. Internally among the Bulls front office, the discussion was
“We’re going to give Curry a maximum extension. He is who we thought.” Then,
suddenly, just as the team was rolling, they lost the centerpiece of their
offense when Curry went out with the heart condition.

**Chandler:** I remember when it happened. We were in Charlotte at the time.
He was on the sideline and he was telling me that he felt a little weird. And
that’s when it all started.

**Davis:** Eddy came up to some of us at one point before the game and he was
like, “Man, look at my chest.” You could literally see his heart pumping.
Like, you could see a little lump coming out of his chest. We were like, “What
the heck?” He wasn’t panicked. He wasn’t hyperventilating or anything like
that. He was concerned, but he wasn’t feeling bad. It was just weird that his
heart was beating so hard and so fast.

**Duhon:** I remember Eddy saying he felt something wasn’t right. “My heart
should not be beating this fast.”

**Johnson:** The Bulls initially said Eddy was out with flu-like symptoms, but
somebody gave me a wink to pursue it a little bit more. They didn’t tell me
what it was, but they said, “No, you should check into that.” I remember going
to where the team buses parked postgame and basically grilling everybody to
find out the truth. It turned out to be a serious life-and-death issue. The
Bulls worried that Eddy was predisposed to a heart-muscle disorder called
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, which is what contributed to the deaths of
basketball players Hank Gathers [of Loyola Marymount University] and Reggie
Lewis [of the Boston Celtics].

**Davis:** Losing Eddy at that point in the season wasn’t just like losing any
old player. It was losing a big piece of who we were. Shoot, Eddy was having a
good year. His numbers were great. He was really starting to understand things
about the game. So I really felt awful for him. That really sidetracked his
whole career. I don’t think he ever recovered.

**Chandler:** It was such a tough blow, personally. I didn’t care about the
basketball stuff. At that time I was concerned for my friend, for his life and
his livelihood. I thought about his children. It was just a shock, especially
because we were both only 23 years old.

> Losing Eddy at that point in the season wasn’t just like losing any old
> player. It was losing a big piece of who we were.
>
> Antonio Davis, Bulls forward/center, 2003-05

**Johnson:** The prevailing vibe among the players was one of care and concern
for Eddy as a person and as a teammate, but also one of not being deterred
from the belief that they had to keep moving forward as a team. That team was
just so tough-minded.

**Duhon:** In meetings, Coach Skiles would update us on how Eddy was doing.
Losing him for the rest of the season was tough. At the same time, we knew we
still had a job to do. We knew we were all going to have to step up and pick
up his slack. He was our leading scorer.

**Smith:** Who were they going to get inside scoring from now? Adrian Griffin?

**Hinrich:** A lot of what we did was feed Eddy the ball inside. But when we
lost him, we turned into more of a drive-and-kick offense. We leaned heavily
on our defense to create offense.

**Duhon:** We had some lineups where Ben, myself, and Kirk were out there at
the same time, just trying to play faster on the offensive end but still able
to maintain what we were doing defensively. Around that time, Noce started
playing really well, too. So we ended up playing a lot more small ball. Noce
was a pest! He took the challenge of guarding bigger guys and was always
taking charges.

**Duhon:** Not long after Eddy went out, Luol tore a ligament in his wrist.
Out for the season. It was tough to lose him. So guys had to step up even
more. Eric Piatkowski and Jannero Pargo came in and played good minutes. We
all just rallied around each other, knowing that we had to play even harder.

**Tedeschi:** Any team poised for a playoff run that loses two significant
contributors—that’s a blow any way you shake it.

**Davis:** With the momentum we had, losing Eddy _and_ Luol put us in a real
pickle. When you lose players, it’s a big deal. But you’ve got to find a way
to regroup and get back in and do your thing. I don’t think our young guys
knew how to adjust, and we never really, truly regrouped.

### Chapter 9: The Playoffs

**Johnson:** There was an accumulative power to that season. It built slowly
and climbed up from this 0-9 hole. There was this growing belief and
confidence that permeated throughout the locker room. The national writers
really never discovered the Bulls that year, never really paid much attention.
The local beat writers, we had the team all to ourselves as this little
undiscovered gem. That changed somewhat once the playoffs approached.

**Adams:** Spirits were high seeing as we’d even made it to the playoffs and
we started 0-9 and were relying on a number of rookies. It was miraculous,
really.

**Smith:** The fourth-seed Bulls got the fifth-seed Washington Wizards in the
first round. Like the Bulls, Washington was another surprising young team on
the upswing that year. They were considered more talented than the Bulls.
Larry Hughes and All-Star Gilbert Arenas were a really electric backcourt,
superior to Hinrich and Duhon. They also had Antawn Jamison, who was an All-
Star.

**Johnson:** The Bulls had home-court advantage, and they sensed that they
could win. They had been through so much that season.

**Hinrich:** The playoff preparation was crazy. Scott wanted me to know all
the Wizards’ plays and the tendencies of all their personnel, so I knew what
was coming. It was like studying for final exams.

**Funderburke:** A lot of the young guys would ask some of the veterans advice
about playing in the playoffs. We told them to expect the intensity level to
increase, along with the pressure, the focus required, and the
physicality—hand-checking, pushing, bumping, hard fouls. “Look, whatever
happened in the regular season, put that on the back burner.”

**Duhon:** Being a lengthier team across the board, the Wizards gave us
matchup problems. They had big guards Gilbert Arenas and Larry Hughes on the
perimeter and Antawn Jamison and Brendan Haywood in the frontcourt. Gilbert
was one of the best scoring guards in the league.

**Silverstein:** I’ve never climbed a mountain, but I watched the 1999 through
2004 Bulls. And being at the first playoff game at the United Center in six
seasons, it was like being on the mountaintop. It wasn’t a championship, but
it finally felt like, _Ah, we’re back._

**Nocioni:** The people in Chicago had been waiting for many years to be in
the playoffs again. So there was a lot of emotion there.

**Chandler:** It was exciting to be playing at that level. That was my first
taste of what basketball was really supposed to be like.

**Hinrich:** The atmosphere was electric. It was awesome. I knew right there
that’s why you play in the league, for playoff basketball. That intensity,
that excitement on every possession.

**Johnson:** Nothing compares to the atmosphere of the Jordan-era playoff
games, but I have a strong memory from Game 1 of Nocioni going off.

**Smith:** Nocioni was flying all over the court, making plays, downing shots,
pulling down rebounds. The arena went nuts, especially after all those
terrible years. To go so quickly from dynasty to laughingstock, it was a much-
appreciated revival. It felt like the championship years again.

**Johnson:** This chant of “NOC-I-O-NI” started in the upper reaches of the
300 level. It was kind of faint at first and built in intensity and cascaded
down to the 200 and 100 levels. It grew louder and louder as Nocioni went
crazier and crazier. He was practically frothing at the mouth that night. Near
the end of the game it was a full-throated chant around the arena. Andrés
looked like he was ready to bite the head off of a live chicken because he was
so fired up.

**Nocioni:** That was one of the most special nights in my career. The Chicago
fans showed me love for how I play: work hard and give everything I got in my
body.

**Silverstein:** Nocioni had 25 points and grabbed 18 boards, and the Bulls
won Game 1. I remember being in the men’s room at halftime. I was washing my
hands and there was a kid at the sink next to me. I said, “Hey, you having
fun?” He said, “Yeah.” He was wearing fresh, new Bulls gear. I asked, “When
were you born?” He said, “1997.” I thought, “Good, the Bulls are back and this
kid doesn’t even know what he missed.”

**Hinrich:** Us young guys were high off winning Game 1. But then Scott
brought us back to earth, like, “Hey, great job. On to the next one.”

> This ‘NOC-I-O-NI’ chant started in the upper reaches of the 300 level. Near
> the end of the game it was a full-throated chant around the arena. Andrés
> looked like he was ready to bite the head off of a live chicken.
>
> K.C. Johnson, _Chicago Tribune_ Bulls beat reporter

**Davis:** Going into the locker room, I remember the young guys being
excited, getting that feeling of being in that situation, and responding the
way that they did. We talked about: “Go out and celebrate a little bit, then
back to work tomorrow.” And they responded.

**Hinrich:** The first game I played well but knew I could play so much
better. In Game 2, I was more aggressive and playing more confidently. I hit
some shots early and just kept going. I ended up with 34.

**Silverstein:** The Bulls won Game 2. And then they went to Washington ...
and there was this free fall. They ended up losing Games 3 and 4.

**Hinrich:** Games 3 and 4, they took care of us pretty good. Road playoff
games are a whole other challenge. For a young team like us, we just didn’t
play as well, didn’t know how to close.

**Davis:** You’ve gotta give the Wizards some credit, man. They made
adjustments and we were short-manned. I definitely think it would’ve been a
different story if we’d had Eddy and Luol. Things just fell apart and we
didn’t recover.

**Duhon:** Our youth started to show. We made too many mistakes and not enough
winning plays late in those games.

**Silverstein:** In Game 5, the Bulls were getting blown out at home by, like,
20 points. But they fought all the way back. The big push came at the very
end, when Skiles put in Jannero Pargo.

**Pargo:** There was 41 seconds left. We were down 10 points after battling
back from a 20-point deficit. Back then it wasn’t a good sign if I was in a
game. It meant we were not playing well and we needed a spark. Any time I got
put into a game at the end of the fourth quarter, it was my job to score a lot
of points quickly and give us a chance. So I got in, made one 3. We fouled
Gilbert Arenas, who made one of his two foul shots. Then I made a second 3,
cutting their lead to five. And now I was feeling pretty good. Antawn Jamison
missed both of his free throws. Then Kirk hit a 3 to cut the lead to two.
Larry Hughes then split a pair of free throws to put the Wizards up by three.
Kirk got fouled with nine seconds remaining. He missed both free throws but
got his own rebound and scooped it over to me for the 3 to tie the game. It
was an out-of-body experience. That was like no other feeling that I’d ever
had. Washington called a timeout with five seconds remaining. Coming out of
the timeout, I was guarding the inbounder. He hit Gilbert, who wound the clock
down, drove left on Kirk, pulled up, and shot. Kirk was all in his face. Tyson
was a quarter-inch from getting the block.

**Chandler:** As Gilbert was running the clock down, I was thinking, “He
doesn’t have time to get this shot off if we press up.” I was screaming to
Kirk to press up on him, but he couldn’t hear me. So I just took off at him
myself. Gilbert dribbled and went up to shoot. I thought I was going to make
the game-winning block. I got within a fingertip.

Gilbert Arenas shoots the game-winning shot over Kirk Hinrich and Tyson
Chandler in Game 5 of the Eastern Conference quarterfinals during the 2005 NBA
Playoffs on May 4, 2005 at United Center in Chicago, Illinois. NBAE via Getty
Images

**Pargo:** Gilbert made a hell of a shot. He was called Agent Zero for a
reason.

**Smith:** Arenas kind of pulled that one out of his ass.

**Chandler:** It was heartbreaking. It took all the air out of us. That shot
changed the series. If we go up three games to two at that point, we probably
go on to win. But instead they go up, and the rest is history.

**Pargo:** We could’ve been fueled off the late comeback in Game 5 and use
that as momentum going into Washington. But it seemed most guys already felt
like the series was over.

**Funderburke:** Looking at the guys in their eyes after we lost Game 5, it
was like a different team. The mentality from Game 1 to Game 6 had changed
dramatically.

**Smith:** The Bulls put themselves in position to win Game 6 in Washington
and bring the series back home for Game 7. Then they made a bad turnover at
the end and things got away from them. That play turned the game.

**Hinrich:** I remember the turnover. It was a tie game. We had the ball with
about 30 seconds left. I inbounded the ball to Chris, but he wasn’t looking,
and it hit him in the back.

**Duhon:** Kirk and I were not on the same page. I thought I was supposed to
come out and be a decoy on the inbound and Kirk was going to hit somebody
else. But while I was running, I stopped looking at Kirk, he threw the ball to
me, and it hit me on the back. Jared Jeffries picked it up, went down, and
dunked it to put Washington ahead and ultimately win the game.

**Hinrich:** The atmosphere in the locker room after we lost Game 6 was quiet.
There wasn’t much to be said. Losing four straight was really tough.

**Duhon:** Us having been up 2-0 and then to lose four straight? We felt, in a
way, that we got swept. Guys were really disappointed. There was also a sense
of confidence that we’d be back in the playoffs the next year, knowing that we
had a lot of young guys. So that was encouraging.

### Chapter 10: A New Hope?

**Smith:** Everyone was disappointed, but the feeling was, “Hey, this could be
the start of something big.” This was a great first step for this team. They
lost a tough series, but they’d come from nowhere to have a great season and
had the possibility to continue being an interesting team. That Bulls team had
a chance to become something special, maybe a championship team. Having guys
with talent is the main thing, and they had that. But they also had high-
character guys and a knowledgeable coach enforcing accountability. A lot of
teams are constructed by fantasy, by putting together a lot of talent. That
doesn’t necessarily always make a team. Just because you have five All-Star
players doesn’t mean you’re going to win. You also need guys who are willing
to play roles. That Bulls team had all the elements.

**Davis:** After having a dynasty like Jordan’s Bulls, how do you bounce back?
Taking a chance on some young guys was bold. But after that season, the
organization started feeling like, “Hey, this was a good gamble.”

**Tedeschi:** You had a team of no stars that brought the city back to
basketball. It reengaged fans in Chicago. Basketball became more relevant
again.

**Duhon:** The lesson of the ’04-05 Bulls is that you can compete with a young
team if you get guys that can buy into the system. With us, everybody bought
into Coach Skiles’s vision and plan. Everybody was selfless. Everybody made
sacrifices to accommodate putting the team first. And if you’re able to do
that, you might be able to build a special team.

**Johnson:** You got the sense that this could be the start of something
special. This team helped you forget the futility of the post-dynasty years,
and it certainly looked like a young team planting its flag for possible
ascendancy through the Eastern Conference. When Paxson took over for Krause as
GM, he talked about changing the culture. The main theme that I took away from
that season was, OK, culture changed. Now, what can this team accomplish
moving forward?

**Duhon:** We made it back to the playoffs the next two years. The main thing
was we still continued to be really, really good on the defensive end. That
was our identity and each year we made being one of the top defensive teams in
the league our main goal. That drove us and helped us win a lot of games.

**Johnson:** The Bulls traded Eddy after the ’04-05 season.

**Davis:** Once Eddy was gone, I knew that the team was going to be different.
It wasn’t going to work unless you had both Eddy and Tyson along with the
young guys, because they had depth at each position and could fill in the gaps
with veterans. But without Eddy there, the whole team was just a different
dynamic.

**Johnson:** When they signed Ben Wallace in the summer of 2006, they thought
he was the final piece to the championship puzzle. He certainly wasn’t as
impactful as he was with the Pistons, but he was pretty instrumental in the
Bulls beating the Heat in the first round of the ’06-07 playoffs. It wasn’t a
championship, but at last they’d won the first playoff series since the
dynasty ended.

**Hinrich:** We just kept adding pieces. B.G. got really good, started
averaging 20 points. Luol became a big scoring threat. Noce became a good
shooter and a tough matchup offensively. We were good enough to play with
anybody. In ’06-07, when we had Ben Wallace and P. J. Brown, we won 49 games.
We were able to get by the first round and then just ran into Detroit.

**Johnson:** The Baby Bulls of ’04-05 started out as a fun team that looked
like it could challenge the Eastern Conference. It was such an unexpected
story. The postscript is that they went from the Baby Bulls to the Try-Hard
Bulls. That’s what the sound bite is on that team now, because they just
weren’t quite good enough. As good as Gordon was down the stretch, as
dependable as Hinrich was, and as effective as Deng could be as a two-way
player, they weren’t superstars. Then the Bulls crashed and burned when Skiles
flamed out in ’07-08. That was a quick era. Four years—2004 to 2008. The
positive, of course, from that era flaming out was the Bulls kicking into
winning the 2008 draft lottery and landing Derrick Rose. He won Rookie of the
Year, became the franchise’s first All-Star since MJ and the youngest MVP in
league history in 2011. A new era of greatness seemed possible—until he tore
his ACL.

**Silverstein:** No matter what happened later, that ’04-05 team gave Bulls
fans a gift, a reward for sticking around during the previous six dismal post-
dynasty years. To this day, when I come across someone else who was watching
the Bulls from 1999 to 2004, there is an unspoken connection. We know what
we’ve both been through. We respect each other because for six years we said,
“This ride sucks, and I’m staying on.”

 _Jake Malooley is a writer and editor based in Chicago._
