title: On the Road to Recap: - Above the CrowdAbove the Crowd | By Bill Gurley
source: http://abovethecrowd.com/2016/04/21/on-the-road-to-recap/
date: 2025-08-13T18:11:06.827768
tags: []
---
April 21, 2016:

## Why the Unicorn Financing Market Just Became Dangerous…For All Involved

In February of last year, Fortune magazine writers Erin Griffith and Dan
Primack declared 2015 “[The Age of the
Unicorns](http://fortune.com/2015/01/22/the-age-of-unicorns/)” noting —
“Fortune counts more than 80 startups that have been valued at $1 billion or
more by venture capitalists.” By January of 2016, that number had[ ballooned
to 229](http://venturebeat.com/2016/01/18/there-are-now-229-unicorn-startups-
with-175b-in-funding-and-1-3b-valuation/). One key to this population growth
has been the remarkable ease of the Unicorn fundraising process: Pick a new
valuation well above your last one, put together a presentation deck, solicit
offers, and watch the hundreds of million of dollars flow into your bank
account. Twelve to eighteen months later, you hit the road and do it again —
super simple.

While not obvious on the surface, there has been a fundamental sea-change in
the investment community that has made the incremental Unicorn investment a
substantially more dangerous and complicated practice. All Unicorn
participants — founders, company employees, venture investors and their
limited partners (LPs) — are seeing their fortunes put at risk from the very
nature of the Unicorn phenomenon itself. The pressures of lofty paper
valuations, massive burn rates (and the subsequent need for more cash), and
unprecedented low levels of IPOs and M&A, have created a complex and unique
circumstance that many Unicorn CEOs and investors are ill-prepared to
navigate.

Many have noted that the aggregate shareholder value created by all of the
Unicorns will vastly overshadow the losses from the inevitable failed
unicorns. This likely truism is driven by the clear success of this
generation’s transformational companies (AirBNB, Slack, Snapchat, Uber, etc).
While this could provide some sense of comfort, most are not exposed to a
Unicorn basket, and there is no index you can buy. Rather, most participants
in the ecosystem have exposure to and responsibility for specific company
performance, which is exactly why the changing landscape is important to
understand.

Perhaps the seminal bubble-popping event was John Carreyrou’s [October 16th
investigative analysis of Theranos](http://www.wsj.com/articles/theranos-has-
struggled-with-blood-tests-1444881901) in the Wall Street Journal. John was
the first to uncover that just because a company can raise money from a
handful of investors at a very high price, it does not guarantee (i)
everything is going well at the company, or (ii) those shares are permanently
worth the last round valuation. Ironically, Carreyrou is not a Silicon Valley-
focused reporter, and the success of the piece served as a wake-up call for
other journalists who may have been struck by Unicorn fever. Next came Rolfe
Winkler’s deep dive “[Highly Valued Startup Zenefits Runs Into
Turbulence.](http://www.wsj.com/articles/highly-valued-startup-zenefits-runs-
into-turbulence-1447375220)” We should expect more of these in the future.

In late 2015, many public technology companies saw a significant retrenchment
in their share prices primarily as a result of a reduction in valuation
multiples. A high performing, high-growth SAAS company that may have been
worth 10 or more times revenue was suddenly worth 4-7 times revenue. The same
thing happened to many Internet stocks. These broad-based multiple
contractions have an immediate impact on what investors are willing to pay for
the more mature private companies.

Late 2015 also brought the arrival of “mutual fund markdowns.” Many Unicorns
had taken private fundraising dollars from mutual funds. These mutual funds
“mark-to-market” every day, and fund managers are compensated periodically on
this performance. As a result, most firms have independent internal groups
that periodically analyze valuations. With the public markets down, these
groups began [writing down Unicorn
valuations](http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-04-06/venture-fund-
stakes-discounted-amid-unicorns-valuation-doubts). Once more, the fantasy
began to come apart. The last round is not the permanent price, and being
private does not mean you get a free pass on scrutiny.

At the same time, we also started to see an increase in startup failure. In
addition to high profile companies like Fab.com, Quirky, Homejoy, and Secret,
numerous other VC-backed companies began to shut their doors. There were in
fact so many that [CB Insights started a
list](https://www.cbinsights.com/blog/startup-failure-post-mortem/). Layoffs
have also become more prevalent. [Mixpanel, Jawbone, Twitter, HotelTonight and
many others made the tough decision to reduce
headcount](http://techcrunch.com/2016/01/08/burn-slower-or-vaporize/) in an
attempt to lower expenses (and presumably burn rate). Many modern
entrepreneurs have limited exposure to the notion of failure or layoffs
because it has been so long since these things were common in the industry.

By the first quarter of 2016, the late-stage financing market had changed
materially. Investors were becoming nervous and were no longer willing to
underwrite new Unicorn-level financings at the drop of a hat. Moreover, once
high-flying startups began to struggle on the fundraising trail. In Silicon
Valley boardrooms, where “growth at all costs” had been the mantra for many
years, people began to imagine a world where the cost of capital could rise
dramatically, and profits could come back in vogue. Anxiety slowly crept into
everyone’s world.

About this same point in time, the journalists that focus specifically on the
venture capital industry noted something quite profound. In 1999, record
valuations coexisted with record IPOs and shareholder liquidity. 2015 was the
exact opposite. Record private Unicorn valuations were offset by increasingly
fewer and fewer IPOs. If 1999 was a wet (read liquid) bubble, 2015 was a
particularly dry one. Everyone was successful on paper, but in terms of real
cash-on-cash returns, there was little to show. [In Q1 of 2016 there were zero
VC-backed technology IPOs.](http://qz.com/652261/the-market-for-tech-ipos-
hasnt-been-this-awful-since-the-great-recession/) Less than one year since
declaring it the “Age of the Unicorns,” Fortune Magazine was back with a dire
warning, “[Silicon Valley’s $585 Billion Problem: Good Luck Getting
Out.](http://fortune.com/silicon-valley-tech-ipo-market/)”

As we move forward, it is important for all players in the ecosystem to
realize that the game has changed. Equally important, each player must
understand how the new rules apply to them specifically. We will start by
highlighting several emotional biases that can irrationally impact everyone’s
decision making process. Next we will highlight the new player in the
ecosystem that is poised to take advantage of these aforementioned changes and
emerging biases. Lastly, we will then walk through each player in the
ecosystem and what they should consider as they navigate this brave new world.

#### Emotional Biases

When academicians study markets, one common assumption is that the market
participants will act in a rational way. But what if the participants are in a
position that leads them to non-optimal and potentially irrational behavior?
Many biases bring irrationality to the Unicorn fundraising environment:

  1. Founder/CEO — Many Unicorn founders and CEOs have never experienced a difficult fundraising environment — they have only known success. Also, they have a strong belief that any sign of weakness (such as a down round) will have a catastrophic impact on their culture, hiring process, and ability to retain employees. Their own ego is also a factor – _will a down round signal weakness?_ It might be hard to imagine the level of fear and anxiety that can creep into a formerly confident mind in a transitional moment like this.
  2. Investors — The typical 2016 VC investor is also subject to emotional bias. They are likely sitting on amazing paper-based gains that have already been recorded as a success by their own investors — the LPs. Anything that hints of a down round brings questions about the success metrics that have already been “booked.” Furthermore, an abundance of such write-downs could impede their ability to raise their next fund. So an anxious investor might have multiple incentives to protect appearances — to do anything they can to prevent a down round.
  3. Anyone that has already “banked” their return — Whether you are a founder, executive, seed investor, VC, or late stage investor, there is a chance that you have taken the last round valuation and multiplied it by your ownership position and told yourself that you are worth this amount. It is simple human nature that if you have done this mental exercise and convinced yourself of a foregone conclusion, you will have difficulty rationalizing a down round investment.
  4. A race for the exits — As fear of downward price movement takes hold, some players in the ecosystem will attempt a brisk and desperate grab at immediate liquidity, placing their own interests at the front of the line. This happens in every market transition, and can create quite a bit of tension between the different constituents in each company. We have already seen examples of founders and management obtaining liquidity in front of investors. And there are also modern examples of investors beating the founders and employees out the door. Obviously, simultaneous liquidity is the most appropriate choice, however, fear of price deterioration as well as lengthened liquidity timing can cause parties on both sides to take a “me first” perspective.

#### The Sharks Arrive With Dirty Term Sheets

_Who are the Sharks?_ These are sophisticated and opportunistic investors that
instinctively understand the aforementioned biases of the participants and
know exactly how to craft investments that can exploit the situation. They lie
in wait of these exact situations, and salivate at the opportunity to exercise
their advantage.

“Dirty” or structured term sheets are proposed investments where the majority
of the economic gains for the investor come not from the headline valuation,
but rather through a series of dirty terms that are hidden deeper in the
document. This allows the Shark to meet the valuation “ask” of the
entrepreneur and VC board member, all the while knowing that they will make
excellent returns, even at exits that are far below the cover valuation.

Examples of dirty terms include guaranteed IPO returns, ratchets, PIK
Dividends, series-based M&A vetoes, and superior preferences or liquidity
rights. The typical Silicon Valley term sheet does not include such terms. The
reason these terms can produce returns by themselves is that they set the
stage for a rejiggering of the capitalization table at some point in the
future. This is why the founder and their VC BOD member can still hold onto
the illusion that everything is fine. The adjustment does not happen now, it
will happen later.

Dirty term sheets are a massive problem for two reasons. One is that they
“unpack” or “explode” at some point in the future. You can no longer simply
look at the cap table and estimate your return. Once you have accepted a dirty
offering, the payout at each potential future valuation requires a complex
analysis, where the return for the Shark is calculated first, and then the
remains are shared by everyone else. The second reason they are a massive
problem is that their complexity will render future financings all but
impossible.

Any investor asked to follow a dirty offering will look at the complexity of
the previous offering and likely opt out. This severely heightens the risk of
either running out of money or a complete recapitalization that wipes out
previous shareholders (founder, employees, and investors alike). So, while it
may seem innocuous to take such a round, and while it will solve your short
term emotional biases and concerns, you may be putting your whole company in a
much riskier position without even knowing it.

Some later-stage investors may be tempted to become Sharks themselves and
start including structured terms into their own term sheets. Following through
and succeeding at such a strategy will require these investors to truly
embrace being a Shark. They will need to be comfortable knowing that they are
adverse to and in conflict with the founders, employees, and other investors
on the capitalization chart. And they will need to be content knowing that
they can win while others lose. This is not for the faint of heart, and
certainly is not consistent with the typical investor behavior of the past
several years.

Let us now take a deeper dive into what this new fundraising environment means
for each participant in the ecosystem.

#### Entrepreneurs/Founders/CEOs

Today’s Unicorn entrepreneur has been trained in an environment that may look
radically different from what lies ahead. Here is the historic perspective.
Money has been easy to raise. The market favors growth over profits.
Competition also has access to capital. So, raise as much as you can as fast
as you can, and be super-ambitious. Take as much market share as you can.

Never in the history of venture capital have early stage startups had access
to so much capital. Back in 1999, if a company raised $30mm before an IPO,
that was considered a large historic raise. Today, private companies have
raised 10x that amount and more. And consequently, the burn rates are 10x
larger than they were back then. All of which creates a voraciously hungry
Unicorn. One that needs lots and lots of capital (if it is to stay on the
current trajectory).

For the first time, perhaps in their lives, these entrepreneurs may face a
situation where they cannot raise a clean incremental financing at a flat to
up round. This is uncharted territory. There are a few alternatives:

  1. The first option available to many Unicorns today is a dirty term sheet. As discussed above, these terms can cleverly fool the inexperienced operator, because they are able to “meet the ask” with respect to cover valuation, and the accepting founder does not realize the carnage that will come down the road. The only reason one would accept such a deal is to maintain valuation appearances that simply do not matter. Taking a terms-laden deal is like starting the clock on a time bomb. Your only option is to hit the IPO window as fast as possible (Note: Box and Square were able to thread this needle successfully), otherwise, the terms will eat you alive. The main problem is that you will never raise another private round again, as no new investor will want to live on top of the termy round. So you will be stuck negotiating with the lender that already proved they were smarter than you.
  2. Take a clean round at a lower valuation. This will seem like a massive failure to many modern entrepreneurs, but they should quickly adjust their thinking. Reed Hastings at Netflix raised money in a high profile down round as a public CEO. Every single public CEO has had days where the stock price falls — it is common and accepted. The only thing you are protecting is image and ego and in the long run they absolutely do not matter. You should be more concerned about the long-term valuation of your shares, and minimizing the chance that you have the whole thing taken away from you. Terms are the true Godzilla that should scare you to death. A down round is nothing. Get over it and move on. Option #2 is way better than option #1.
  3. Buckle down and do whatever it takes to get cash-flow positive with your current cash balance. This might be the most foreign of all the choices, as your board of directors has been advising you to do the exact opposite for the past four years. You have been told to be “bold” and “ambitious” and that there is no better time to grab market share. Despite this, the only way to be completely in control of your own destiny is to remove the need for incremental capital raises altogether. Achieving profitability is the most liberating action a startup can accomplish. Now you make your own decisions. It will also minimize future dilution. Gavin Baker, a high-profile portfolio manager at Fidelity has a message for Unicorn CEOs: _“Generate $1 of free cash flow, and then you can invest everything else in growth and stay at $1 in free cash flow for years. I get that you want to grow and I want you to grow, but let’s internally finance that growth by spending gross margin dollars rather than new dilutive dollars of equity. Ultimately, internally financing growth is the only way to control your own destiny rather than being at the mercy of the capital markets.”_
  4. Go public. In the long run, the very best way for founders to look after their own ownership as well as that of their employees is to IPO. Until an IPO, common shares sit behind preferred shares. Most preferred shares have different types of control functions and most of them have a senior preference over common. If you really want to liberate your own common shares and those of your employees, then you want to convert the preferred to common and remove both the control and the liquidation preference over your shares. Many founders have been erroneously advised that IPOs are bad things and that the way to success is to “stay private longer.” Not only is an IPO better for your company (see [Mark Zuckerberg](http://techcrunch.com/2013/09/11/zuckerberg-says-he-was-too-afraid-of-taking-facebook-public/) and [Marc Benioff](http://www.businessinsider.com/benioff-unicorns-are-a-huge-mistake-2015-11) on this subject), but an IPO is the best way to ensure the long-term value of your (and your employees’) shares.

It is worth noting that stock prices go up and stock prices go down. There is
not a single high-profile public company that has been able to avoid time
periods where their shares underperformed. Amazon went from $106 to $6 as a
public company. Salesforce went from $16 to $6 and stayed below $10 for many
months. Netflix went from $38 to $8 in six months. Remember Facebook’s first
six months as a public company?

If you cannot handle a down valuation you should seriously consider abandoning
the CEO position. Being a great leader means leading in good times as well as
tough times. Taking a dirty deal is jeopardizing the future of your company,
solely because you are afraid to lead through difficult news.

#### **Employees**

The explicit details of the capital structure of a company are typically
obfuscated from the average employee. You know you work for a Unicorn, and you
know you have some common shares. You might also know what percentage you own.
And unfortunately, you may assume that the product of your Unicorn valuation
and your percentage ownership is what you are worth. Of course, for that to be
true, you need to reach a liquidity event (IPO or M&A) at or above the last
round valuation with no incremental dilution from new rounds. But guess what:
M&A is scarce (no large company wants to pay these prices or absorb these burn
rates), and many founders have been told IPOs are bad. So how will you ever
get liquid?

For the most part, employees are in the exact same position as founders
(above), with the exception that they don’t participate in the decision tree
outlined above in 1-4. That said, they should be asking the exact same
questions of management:  _Can we get to break-even on the money we have? Do
we need to raise more money? If so, can we do it on clean terms (vs. dirty)?_
Employees should want to know if the founder/CEO would/did take a dirty deal,
because common is at the most risk in such a situation. And then you should
want to know if your leader is anti-IPO. If your CEO/founder will take a dirty
round, and is also anti-IPO the chance that you will ever see liquidity for
you shares anywhere near what you think they are worth is very, very low. You
should probably move on to another company.

#### INVESTORS

_Disclosure: It should be noted that the author of the article and his
investment firm reside in this category._

For the most part, early investors in Unicorns are in the same position as
founders and employees. This is because these companies have raised so much
capital that the early investor is no longer a substantial portion of the
voting rights or the liquidation preference stack. As a result, most of their
interests are aligned with the common, and key decisions about return and
liquidity are the same as for the founder. This investor will also be wary of
the dirty term sheet which has the ability to wrestle away control of the
entire company. This investor will also have sufficient angst about the
difference between paper return and real return, and the lack of overall
liquidity in the market. Or at least they should.

The one exception to this is the late-stage investor or the deep-pocketed
investor who may represent a substantial part of the overall money raised.
This particular type of investor may have protected their ownership through
the use of active pro-rata or super pro-rata investing. They may have even
encouraged the aggressive “spend-to-win” mentality knowing that they can keep
writing checks. They have been acting like a loose-aggressive player at a
poker table.

There are two forces which have began to slow down this type of investor.
First, as failure has begun to arrive on the scene, these investors have
suffered some really big write-offs. These spectacular losses result in a lack
of confidence not only for the investor, but more importantly for their LPs.
The second problem is that for many of these investors, a single holding can
become too large relative to the overall fund. They basically cannot afford to
expose themselves to any more risk in a particular name. They use euphemisms
to describe having over-eaten such as “fully allocated” or “at capacity.”

This form of big investor indigestion has created a really bizarre and
unprecedented activity in the Unicorn world. High-profile investors, who are
already armed with plenty of capital, have resorted to hitting the phone banks
to solicit others to pile in behind them in their names. The voracious
Unicorns need even more capital than these big-boys can afford. Ironically, if
you look at the big historic wins of this investor class, there is no record
of sending out Evites to other investors. But now they “need” others, which
should signal risk to all parties involved. More on this later.

Investors also have to worry about raising their next fund, which can lead to
unusual behavior that is independent of each individual company’s situation.
_Do you support the dirty term sheet because this allows you to keep your
paper-mark and not spook your investors? Even though you know this may be bad
for the company in the long run? Do you feel the need to raise more capital
quickly before the prices erode further and bring down your IRR? Do you feel
the need to have more money to keep feeding the cash hungry companies you have
already funded?_

#### LIMITED PARTNERS (LPS)

LPs are the large pools of capital, such as endowments and foundations, that
invest in VC firms, hedge funds and the like. They are the real capital that
make the system work. LPs evaluate the performance of the different investors
in the ecosystem and make decisions about whether to fund their next effort or
not. It’s a difficult job because the feedback cycles are so long — especially
when it comes to investing in illiquid assets like startups (and Unicorns).

Another big challenge for LPs is that they are asked to measure the
performance of these illiquid assets even though doing so is quite difficult
and may not be indicative of future real cash returns. In this case, many LPs
have incorporated the high performance of Unicorn valuations into their
overall results which has created very strong performance gains for the
venture capital category. In a sense they have already “banked” the gains. The
problem obviously is that the lack of any material liquidity in the market
combined with the recent correction creates a risk that they may not see the
actual cash returns for the paper gains they already booked.

Furthermore, as mentioned earlier, they may face increased solicitation from
VC firms who want to accelerate their fundraising process in the middle of
this highly anxious environment. A recent WSJ article, “[Venture-Capital Firms
Draw a Rush of New Money](http://www.wsj.com/articles/funds-flow-to-venture-
firms-1459295426),” highlights that VC firms are raising new funds from LPs at
the highest rate in 15 years, even though cash liquidity is sitting at a
seven-year low. A few sentences from the article are worth republishing here:

  * _In recent years venture firms have written bigger checks and encouraged companies to spend to battle for market supremacy. That left some venture firms short of cash, requiring them to raise money sooner than in years past to continue reaping fees and making new investments._
  * _Some venture capitalists say the fundraising spike is timed to ensure that paper gains on startup investments still look attractive._
  * _Cash distributions are what matter at the end of the day, but big paper gains still make for good fundraising pitches._

In addition to these issues, there has also been an increase in “inside
rounds” where investors write new checks into companies where they are already
investors, avoiding the “market check” that might have resulted in a
potentially down valuation. This activity, which has an obvious conflict of
interest, makes the LP’s job of judging VC performance even more difficult.

Against this difficult backdrop, many firms are asking their LPs to make new
accelerated commitments to their next fund, exactly when evaluation is most
difficult and anxiety may be at a cyclical peak. Moreover, deep down most LPs
know that performance in the VC sector is counter cyclical to the amount of
money raised by VCs. If you over-fund the industry, aggregate returns fall.
Writing huge checks to bloated multibillion dollar VC funds could easily
exacerbate the problems that already exist.

One response from the LP community might be to demand commitments from new
funds that prohibit inside-led rounds and cross-fund investing. This can help
to ensure that new capital is not put to use in an attempt to save previous
investment decisions — an activity known as “throwing good money after bad.”

If this were not enough, some LPs are also being solicited to participate in
SPVs (Special Purpose Vehicles), frequently from the very funds they have
backed. As discussed earlier, some investors have reached a stage when they
are overcommitted to a particular company in a particular fund (“at
capacity”). Yet these investors want to keep providing capital to their
Unicorns and support a growth-over-profits attitude. So they create a one-time
special purpose investment vehicle (while greedily asking for even more
carry). And the SPV has the added risk that is has no portfolio
diversification or “look-back” feature to provide downside protection.

Obviously the LPs can just say “no” to participating in the SPV (even though
they may feel the pressure of obligation from the fund). This is likely the
smart move. First, someone is asking you to write a check at the exact time
everyone else is overcommitted.  _Hey, come help us out, we are drowning over
here!_ Second, you already have ample exposure to this exact company, through
your original investment. Lastly, it is quite unlikely that a historical study
of peak-cycle SPV participation shows good returns.

#### ALL PREVIOUSLY UNTAPPED FINANCIAL SOURCES (FAMILY OFFICES, SOVEREIGN
WEALTH FUNDS, ETC)

If you have a large pool of money and you haven’t been approached to invest in
a Unicorn, it’s simply because people do not know where to find you. There are
three types of people who are likely now approaching you, all of whom you
should engage with quite carefully:

  1. SPV promoters – As mentioned in the section on LPs, investors have also broadened their SPV marketing more broadly to family offices and other pools of capital. The pitches typically involve phrases such as “you are invited to” or “we will provide access to” an opportunity to invest. This “you are so lucky to have this opportunity” pitch is eerily Madoffian. And remember, this solicitation is coming from investors who actually have money, but already know they are overcommitted.
  2. Brokers and 3rd-tier investment banks promoting the sale of secondary shares in Unicorn companies – If you ask any large family office, they will tell you they are being bombarded with calls and emails offering secondary positions in Unicorn companies. Often with teasers such as “20-40% discount to last round price.”
  3. Incremental Unicorn round – You might also be called on simply to pump more capital into a standard Unicorn round. With many investors “at capacity” due to the historic amounts of capital already raised, some companies are looking under any and every rock they can for more dollars.

One of the shocking realities that is present in many of these “investment
opportunities” is a relative absence of pertinent financial information. One
would think that these opportunities which are often sold as “pre-IPO” rounds
would have something close to the data you might see in an S-1. But often, the
financial information is quite limited. And when it is included, it may be
presented in a way that is inconsistent with GAAP standards. As an example,
most Unicorn CEOs still have no idea that discounts, coupons, and subsidies
are contra-revenue.

If an audit is included, it might have massive “qualifications” where the
auditor lists all the reasons that this particular audit may not comply with
GAAP standards and that things could change materially if they dig in deeper.
Investors need to really open their eyes to the fact that these are not IPOs.
The companies have not been scrubbed in the same way, and the numbers they are
looking at on a PowerPoint deck are potentially erroneous. Here is a
recommendation: If you are about to write a multimillion dollar check for an
incremental Unicorn investment, ask to speak to the auditor. Find out exactly
how much scrutiny has been applied.

New potential investors might also be surprised how few Unicorn executives
truly understand their core unit economics. One easy way to spot these
pretenders is that they obsessively focus on high level “gross merchandise
value” or “multi-year forward bookings” and try to talk past things like true
net revenue, gross margin, or operating profitability. They will even claim to
be “unit profitable” when all they have really done is stopped being gross
margin negative. These companies will one day need real earnings and real
profits, and if the company does not proactively address this, you should not
be giving them millions of dollars in late stage financings.

Perhaps the biggest mistake untapped investors will make is assuming that
because there are branded investors already in the company, that the new
investment opportunity must be of high quality. They use the reputation of the
other investors as a proxy for due diligence. There are multiple problems with
this shortcut. First, these investors are “pot committed.” They invested a
long time ago, and without your money their investment is “at risk.” Second,
as discussed, they are already full and nervous. They didn’t call you before
when they built their reputation.  _Why are they friendly now?_

The main message for investors who are just now being approached is the
following: it’s not the second inning or even the sixth, it’s the fourteenth
inning in a five-hour baseball game. You are not being invited to a special
dance, you are being approached because you are the lender of last resort. And
because of how we meandered to this place in time, parting with your dollars
now would be an extremely risky move. Caveat emptor.

#### SEC Visits Silicon Valley

A few weeks ago, on March 31, 2016, the Chair of the SEC made a trip to
Silicon Valley and gave a speech at an event at Stanford Law School. For those
that are participating in Unicorn investing or for those considering investing
in Unicorns, it would be a good idea to read the entirety of her presentation
([which can be found here](https://www.sec.gov/news/speech/chair-white-
silicon-valley-initiative-3-31-16.html)). Bloomberg’s interpretation of her
presentation was that “[Silicon Valley Needs To Corral Its
Unicorns.](http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-04-01/silicon-valley-
needs-to-corral-its-unicorns-sec-s-white-says)”

Chair White seems quite aware of the issues and pressures that have an ability
to distort the Unicorn fundraising process:

_Nearly all venture valuations are highly subjective. But, one must wonder
whether the publicity and pressure to achieve the unicorn benchmark is
analogous to that felt by public companies to meet projections they make to
the market with the attendant risk of financial reporting problems._

And then she sends a message to all former and future investors regarding the
need for increased due diligence:

_As I will discuss, the risk of distortion and inaccuracy is amplified because
start-up companies, even quite mature ones, often have far less robust
internal controls and governance procedures than most public companies.
Vigilance by private companies about the accuracy of their financial results
and other disclosures is thus especially critical._

It would be quite unfortunate if the fundraising behavior of the Unicorn herd
led to increased SEC involvement and rules with respect to private venture-
backed startups. But if those involved believe that “not being public” also
means “not being responsible,” we will quickly find ourselves in that exact
place. We will have deservedly invited more scrutiny.

#### Mo Money Mo Problems

Perhaps the biggest lapse in judgment for all of those involved is the
assumption that if we can just raise “one more round” everything will be fine.
Founders have come to believe that more money is better, and the fluidity of
the recent funding environment has led many to believe that heroic fundraising
is a competitive advantage. Ironically, the exact opposite is true. The very
best entrepreneurs are relatively advantaged in times of scarce capital. They
can raise money in any environment. Loose capital allows the less qualified to
participate in each market. This less qualified player brings more reckless
execution which drags even the best entrepreneur onto an especially sloppy
playing field. This threatens returns for all involved.

The reason we are all in this mess is because of the excessive amounts of
capital that have poured into the VC-backed startup market. This glut of
capital has led to (1) record high burn rates, likely 5-10x those of the 1999
timeframe, (2) most companies operating far, far away from profitability, (3)
excessively intense competition driven by access to said capital, (4) delayed
or non-existent liquidity for employees and investors, and (5) the
aforementioned solicitous fundraising practices. More money will not solve any
of these problems — it will only contribute to them. The healthiest thing that
could possibly happen is a dramatic increase in the real cost of capital and a
return to an appreciation for sound business execution.

### _Related_
