title: Tom Brady Is the Greatest Quarterback of All Time. Period. | GQ
source: http://www.gq.com/story/tom-brady-chuck-klosterman-gq-man-of-the-year-2015
date: 2025-08-13T18:37:02.509439
tags: []
---
These questions shall remain unasked, simply because Brady refused to repeat a
one-word response he claims to have given many times before. Now, I’m not a
cop or a lawyer or a judge. I don’t have any classified information that can’t
be found on the Internet. My opinion on this event has as much concrete value
as my opinion on Brady’s quarterbacking, which is exactly zero. But I strongly
suspect the real reason Brady did not want to answer a question about his
“general awareness” of Deflategate is pretty uncomplicated: He doesn’t want to
keep saying something that isn’t true, nor does he want to directly contradict
what he said in the past. I realize that seems like a negative thing to
conclude about someone I don’t know. It seems like I’m suggesting that he both
cheated and lied, and technically I am.

But I’m on his side here, kind of. Yes, what Brady allegedly did would be
unethical. It’s also what the world wants him to do. And that may seem
paradoxical, because—in the heat of the moment, when faced with the specifics
of a crime—consumers are programmed to express outrage and disbelief and self-
righteous indignation. But Brady is doing the very thing that prompts athletes
to be lionized; the only problem is the immediacy of the context. And that
context will evolve, in the same direction it always does. Someday this media
disaster will seem quaint.

* * *

The Oakland Raiders of the 1970s broke every rule they could, on and off the
field, sometimes for no reason. They were successful and corrupt, and fans
living outside the Bay Area hated what they represented. But nobody hates the
’70s Raiders now. In fact, we long for those teams, nostalgic for the era when
their sublime villainy could thrive. It’s widely assumed Red Auerbach bugged
the opponents’ locker room when he coached the Celtics, an illicit subterfuge
retrospectively re-imagined as clever and industrious. When former Tar Heels
basketball player Buzz Peterson talks about the greatness of his college
roommate Michael Jordan, he sometimes recounts a story of the evening Jordan
tried to cheat Peterson’s mother in a card game, an anecdote employed to
reinforce how MJ was so supernaturally competitive that even middle-aged women
got sliced. The defining memory of Kansas City Royals legend George Brett
involves the illegal use of pine tar on his bat, an unambiguous infraction
that was ultimately reversed on appeal, just like Brady’s suspension.

“I’m the pine-tar guy,” Brett would say years later. “And it’s not a bad thing
to be remembered as.”

In the present, we overvalue the rules of sport and insist that anyone caught
breaking those parameters must be stopped, sanctioned, and banned. But as the
decades slip away, such responses tend to invert. Who won and who lost matters
less than the visage of the experience; as long as nobody got hurt and nobody
took drugs and nothing was fixed by gamblers, a little deception almost
becomes charming. A deficiency of character _adds_ character, somehow. It
proves that the cheater cared.

The Patriots are the Raiders of now, despite the fact that the Raiders still
exist. They push the limits of everything, and that’s how they dominate.
Sometimes that limit-pushing is lawful and brilliant: When Belichick placed
seven “eligible” receivers on the field against the Ravens in last season’s
divisional playoff, it was a stroke of strategic genius. Sometimes that limit-
pushing is (perhaps) significantly less than totally legal. But it’s all
philosophically essential to what makes them who they are. They don’t need to
cheat in order to win, but it certainly doesn’t hurt. I mean, how do rich
people stay rich? By avoiding all the taxes specifically designed for rich
people. How does a football franchise sustain a dynasty within an NFL system
designed to instill parity? By attacking the boundaries of every rule in that
system, at every level of the organization. And in both cases, the
_perception_ of those actions does not matter to the individuals involved.
Perception is other people’s problem. Brady does not hide from this: “I don’t
really care how the Patriots are perceived. I really don’t.”

There is nothing more attractive than a person who does not care if other
people find him attractive.

These are all just games. Within the grand scheme of existence, they have no
intrinsic value. A game can matter only as much as the involved players
believe it to matter. This is why no one watches the Pro Bowl. It’s also what
makes Brady different from normal people, and from other quarterbacks: He will
do whatever it takes to win, regardless of what that win represents. He is, by
definition, a winner. Which is what everyone has _always_ said about him. We
always knew this. He is precisely the man society demands him to be. It’s just
that society doesn’t like to think about what that means in practice.

Before I asked Brady about Deflategate, I asked him about playing golf with
Donald Trump. He explained how this is an amazing experience, and how you
never really know what the actual score is, and that there’s always some sort
of side bet, and that Trump always goes home with the money. I ask him if this
means Trump cheats, as it’s hard to imagine how someone could always win,
particularly since _Golf Digest_ estimates Brady’s handicap as an 8.

“Nah,” says Brady. “He just—he doesn’t lose. He just doesn’t lose.”

The scoreboard is the scoreboard is the scoreboard. Everything else is just,
like, _your opinion,_ man.

* * *

[Chuck Klosterman](https://www.gq.com/contributor/chuck-klosterman)
(_[@CKlosterman](https://twitter.com/cklosterman)) is the author of eight
books, most recently_ I Wear the Black Hat: Grappling with Villains (Real and
Imagined).
