title: Why So Many Smart People Aren’t Happy - The Atlantic
source: http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2016/04/why-so-many-smart-people-arent-happy/479832/
date: 2025-08-13T18:09:59.606584
tags: []
---
There are three things, once one’s basic needs are satisfied, that academic
literature points to as the ingredients for happiness: having meaningful
social relationships, being good at whatever it is one spends one’s days
doing, and having the freedom to make life decisions independently.

But research into happiness has also yielded something a little less obvious:
Being better educated, richer, or more accomplished doesn’t do much to predict
whether someone will be happy. In fact, it might mean someone is less likely
to be satisfied with life.

That second finding is the puzzle that Raj Raghunathan, a professor of
marketing at The University of Texas at Austin’s McCombs School of Business,
tries to make sense of in his recent book, _[If You’re So Smart, Why Aren’t
You Happy?](http://www.indiebound.org/book/9781101980736) _Raghunathan’s
writing does fall under the category of self-help (with all of the pep talks
and progress worksheets that that entails), but his commitment to scientific
research serves as ballast for the genre’s glib tendencies.

I recently spoke to Raghunathan about his book. The interview that follows has
been edited and condensed for the sake of clarity.

* * *

**Joe Pinsker:** One of the premises of your book is that people may have a
sense of what will make them happy, but they approach those things in ways
that don’t maximize happiness. Could you provide an example of that
disconnect?

**Raj Raghunathan:** If you take the need for mastery—the need for
competence—there are two broad approaches that one can take to becoming very
good at something. One approach is to engage in what people call social
comparisons. That is, wanting to be the best at doing something: “I want to be
the best professor there is,” or something like that.

There are many problems with that, but one big problem with that is that it’s
very difficult to assess. What are the yardsticks for judging somebody on a
particular dimension? What are the yardsticks for being the best professor? Is
it about research, teaching? Even if you take only teaching, is it the ratings
you get from students, or is it the content that you deliver in class, or the
number of students who pass an exam or take a test and do really well in it?
So it gets very difficult to judge, because these yardsticks become
increasingly ambiguous as a field becomes narrower or more technical.

So what happens in general is that people tend to gravitate toward less
ambiguous—even if they’re not so relevant—yardsticks. People judge the best
professors by the number of awards they get, or the salary that they get, or
the kind of school that they are in, which might on the face of it seem like
it’s a good yardstick for judging how good somebody is, but at the same time
it’s not really relevant to the particular field.

And those yardsticks are ones that we adapt to really quickly. So if you get a
huge raise this month, you might be happy for a month, two months, maybe six
months. But after that, you’re going to get used to it and you’re going to
want another big bump. And you’ll want to keep getting those in order to
sustain your happiness levels. In most people, you can see that that’s not a
very sustainable source of happiness.

**Pinsker:** What’s the other mindset?

**Raghunathan:** What I recommend is an alternative approach, which is to
become a little more aware of what it is that you’re really good at, and what
you enjoy doing. When you don’t need to compare yourself to other people, you
gravitate toward things that you instinctively enjoy doing, and you’re good
at, and if you just focus on that for a long enough time, then chances are
very, very high that you’re going to progress toward mastery anyway, and the
fame and the power and the money and everything will come as a byproduct,
rather than something that you chase directly in trying to be superior to
other people.

If you were to go back to the three things that people need—mastery,
belonging, and autonomy—I’d add a fourth, after basic necessities have been
met. It’s the attitude or the worldview that you bring to life. And that
worldview can be characterized, just for simplicity, in one of two fashions:
One extreme is a kind of scarcity-minded approach, that my win is going to
come at somebody else’s loss, which makes you engage in social comparisons.
And the other view is what I would call a more abundance-oriented approach,
that there’s room for everybody to grow.

**Pinsker:** I was really interested by the line you were drawing in the book
between abundance and scarcity, because instantly that makes me think of
economics: Economics is, in many ways, the study of things that are scarce.
Can you talk about the mental processes that are at play when people are
thinking in terms of scarcity?

**Raghunathan:** I’m not trying to argue in the book that the scarcity mindset
is either shallow or completely useless. If you’re caught in a warzone, if
you’re in a poverty-stricken area, if you’re fighting for your survival, if
you’re in a competitive sport like boxing, the scarcity mindset does play a
very important role.

Most of us are the products of people who survived in what was for a very,
very long time, in our evolution as a species, a scarcity-oriented universe.
Food was scarce, resources were scarce, fertile land was scarce, and so on. So
we do have a very hardwired tendency to be scarcity-oriented. But I think what
has happened over time is we don’t have to literally fight for our survival
every day.

I think that as intelligent beings we need to recognize that some of the
vestiges of our evolutionary tendencies might be holding us back. If I’m at an
advertising agency, for example, or in software design, those are the kinds of
fields where it is now being shown in quite a lot of studies that you actually
perform better if you don’t put yourself under the scarcity mindset, if you
don’t worry about the outcomes and enjoy the process of doing something,
rather than the goal.

**Pinsker:** Since we’re hardwired to think in terms of scarcity, I’m very
interested in what can be done to prod someone into a different mindset. One
experiment you talked about in the book found that workers who received a
daily email to remind them to make decisions that maximize happiness reported
being markedly happier than those who didn’t get the email. Is it really as
simple as that sort of thing?

**Raghunathan:** On the one hand, we are hardwired to focus more on negative
things. But at the same time, we are also all hardwired to be seeking a sense
of happiness and the desire to flourish, and to be the best we can be.
Ultimately, what we need in order to be happy is at some level pretty simple.
It requires doing something that you find meaningful, that you can kind of get
lost in on a daily basis.

When you observe children, they are very good at this. They don’t get
distracted by all those extrinsic yardsticks. They go for things that really
bring them a lot of enjoyment. In my book I talk about when we got my son a
little mechanical car when he was about 3 years old, because he saw a neighbor
get that car. He was into the car for about three days. After that, he wanted
to play with the box in which the car came. It was just a box. He didn’t have
any idea that the car cost more, or was more valuable, or more technologically
advanced. He was into the box because he saw a character on a TV show called
Hamilton the pig, who lives inside a box. He wanted to replicate that life for
himself.

What we were trying to do in that particular study is bring that focus back
into people’s attention. For example, rather than sitting in front of the TV,
a father might decide to play a little game of baseball with his son. What
people might do varies, but when there’s a reminder, what we discover is
that—and these are studies conducted with Fortune 500 employees, undergraduate
students—they make seemingly small, you might even call them trivial,
decisions, but they add up to a happier life overall. This simple reminder on
an everyday basis is a kind of reality check, which puts things in perspective
for people.

**Pinsker:** What do you think it is about the messages people receive about
what it takes to be successful in business that runs counter to this mindset?
In other words, do you think that working your way up any professional ladder
requires not thinking in terms of abundance?

**Raghunathan:** Daniel Pink, in his book _Drive_ , talks about how what used
to be used as motivators to employees—what he calls the carrots and sticks
approach—are now being replaced by what he calls “Motivation 2.0,” which is
more trying to figure out what is it that people are really passionate about.
Google is a famous big company that tries to practice this, and Whole Foods is
another.

I do think that we carry lots of baggage from how businesses used to operate.
Simon Sinek, in one of his books, makes the argument that businesses and the
rules by which businesses operate are structured along the lines of how the
military used to operate—very hierarchical and scarcity-oriented. But he talks
about how, actually, if you look a little bit deeper into the best leaders in
the military, they tend not to be that way. So there’s been a mistaken
adoption of a certain set of ideas based on how things used to operate in the
past, but in fact, what’s now emerging as a much more successful approach to
doing business and to being successful is having a more abundance-oriented
approach.

In the big picture, the business world’s messages are a little jumbled. In
business schools, I see that there’s a huge push toward corporate social
responsibility and finding a passion, but at the same time, if you look at the
kinds of people who get invited to come give keynote addresses, or what it is
that we focus on to improve our _Businessweek_ rankings, it’s things that are
extrinsic. We invite people who made a million bucks, and we look at incoming
MBA students and their outgoing salaries.

**Pinsker:** You mentioned earlier how easily people adapt to positive changes
in their lives, and I’m familiar with [the
research](http://nymag.com/scienceofus/2016/01/classic-study-on-happiness-and-
the-lottery.html) showing that lottery winners are no happier, a year later,
than even people who just as recently suffered serious injuries. That
resonates with me: If you told me back in high school that I was going to be
writing for a magazine, I’d have been overjoyed. And right now, I am happy in
many ways, but I still have a lot of the same old insecurities and worries
about the future. I assume it’s something a lot of others experience too. Can
you talk about what’s necessary to steer yourself away from that mindset?

**Raghunathan:** That’s the plight of most people in the world, I would say.
There are expectations that if you achieve some given thing, you’re going to
be happy. But it turns out that’s not true. And a large part of that is due to
adaptation, but a large part of it also is that you see this mountain in front
of you and you want to climb over it. And when you do, it turns out there are
more mountains to climb.

The one thing that has really, really helped me in this regard is a concept
that I call “the dispassionate pursuit of passion” in the book, and basically
the concept boils down to not tethering your happiness to the achievement of
outcomes. The reason why it’s important to not tie happiness to outcomes is
that outcomes by themselves don’t really have an unambiguously positive or
negative effect on your happiness. Yes, there are some outcomes—you get a
terminal disease, or your child dies—that are pretty extreme, but let’s leave
those out. But if you think about it, the breakup that you had with your
childhood girlfriend, or you broke an arm and were in a hospital bed for two
months, when they occurred, you might have felt, “Oh my goodness, this is the
end of the world! I’m never going to recover from it.” But it turns out we’re
very good at recovering from those, and not just that, but those very events
that we thought were really extremely negative were in fact pivotal in making
us grow and learn.

Everybody’s got some kind of a belief about whether good things are going to
happen or bad things are going to happen. There’s no way to scientifically
prove that one of these beliefs is more accurate than another. But if you
believe life is benign, you’re going to see lots of evidence for it. If you
think life is malign, you’re going to see lots of evidence for it. It’s kind
of like a placebo effect. Given that all of these beliefs are all equally
valid, why not adopt the belief that is going to be more useful to you in your
life as you go along?

**Pinsker:** It’s become clear to me after reading your book and talking to
you that American culture, and maybe even capitalism in general, doesn’t do
very much to encourage the abundance approach over the scarcity approach. Are
there any societies or cultures that in your mind have figured this out, or is
it the case that society will almost always send certain messages, and it’s up
to individuals to have their own counterprogramming?

**Raghunathan:** On the face of it, it might look like I’m saying that
capitalism in general is not very good at promoting an abundance mindset. But
I don’t think that that is entirely accurate. If you were to break capitalism
down into two very important tenets, one is the freedom of movement of people,
thought, and goods, and the freedom of choice. The second aspect is a
distribution of resources according to people’s abilities rather than
according to people’s needs.

That first tenet of capitalism, I think, is beautiful, and I wouldn’t let go
of it. And if that ideology comes with the baggage of distribution of
resources according to abilities, then I take that package, rather than a
package where you restrict people’s freedom of thought and what kinds of
choices they can make, even if it’s combined with a distribution of resources
according to people’s needs.

Ultimately, you can’t force people to adopt an abundance mindset. They’re
going to have to select it themselves, through self-exploration and soul-
searching, and looking at the science. Then, some people consciously arrive at
a more socialistic way of living, by choice. That’s the way in which I think
this is going to work out best—for capitalism to kind of flip itself on its
head to arrive at that.
