title: Cribsheet: City of Water
source: http://copirite.blogspot.com/2005/03/city-of-water.html
date: 2025-08-13T20:51:49.034946
tags: []
---
CITY OF WATER

Can an intricate and antiquated maze of tunnels continue to sustain New York?

by DAVID GRANN
The New Yorker

No one knows how many sandhogs are, at any given moment, working beneath the
streets of New York City, but one morning this winter half a dozen men could
be spotted gathering around a hole on the northwest corner of Tenth Avenue and
Thirtieth Street. The hole, surrounded by a tall aluminum fence, was thirty
feet wide and reinforced with concrete. A priest had visited months before, to
offer a brief prayer: "May God be with all ye who enter here, that the earth
shall return ye safely." Now, as the sun rose, the men stepped from the snow-
covered ground into a green metal cage, which was suspended over the chasm by
an enormous winch. They wore yellow slickers and rubber boots with steel tips;
they carried, among other things, flashlights, scissors, cigarettes, cough
drops, knives, extra socks, and several twenty-pound crates marked
"explosives."

A worker who was to remain above ground pulled a lever, and the cage began to
descend. As it accumulated speed, and the light from the surface grew thinner,
James Ryan, one of the older men in the crew, peered over the edge into the
void. He had a long, hard face flecked with scars. "We got nine cases of
dynamite," he said. "That should be plenty."

His voice reverberated in the shaft as the men went down thirty, forty, fifty
feet, then another fifty, then a hundred more. "Two hundred," one of them
called out. By three hundred feet, they could no longer see anything above or
below. Surrounded by darkness, and pressed closely together, the men exchanged
sight for sound-the ping of dripping water, the echo of voices, the cable
groaning overhead. At five hundred feet, the air became warmer, denser; one of
the men put on a mask to keep out the dust that floated through the shaft.
"All right," Ryan told me. "We're almost there."

A thin beam from a flashlight suddenly rose up from the bottom of the shaft,
catching the men's faces. They were all part of the fraternity of sandhogs, a
rare breed of tunnel digger whose name comes from the workers who excavated
the soft earth under the Brooklyn Bridge in the eighteen-seventies. The men in
the cage with me were mostly middle-aged, with barrel chests and knotted
fingers; dust had already begun to streak the skin around their eyes. A bell
sounded, and the cage came to a halt, bouncing up and down on the cable. "This
is it," Ryan said. "Brace yourself." He unsealed the cage door. We were nearly
six hundred feet underground.

Until that moment, I had only heard tales of New York City's invisible empire,
an elaborate maze of tunnels that goes as deep as the Chrysler Building is
high. Under construction in one form or another for more than a century, the
system of waterways and pipelines spans thousands of miles and comprises
nineteen reservoirs and three lakes. Two main tunnels provide New York City
with most of the 1.3 billion gallons of water it consumes each day, ninety per
cent of which is pumped in from reservoirs upstate by the sheer force of
gravity. Descending through aqueducts from as high as fourteen hundred feet
above sea level, the water gathers speed, racing down to a thousand feet below
sea level when it reaches the pipes beneath the city.

It is a third water tunnel, however, that is the most critical. Designed to
meet expanding demand and to serve as a backup system in case something ever
happens to City Tunnel No. 1 or City Tunnel No. 2, City Tunnel No. 3 has been
under development since 1969, and was initially billed as "the greatest
nondefense construction project in the history of Western Civilization."
Already, twenty-four people have died building it-roughly a man a mile-and it
is not expected to be completed until 2020.

As an engineering feat, the water-tunnel system rivals the Brooklyn Bridge and
the Panama Canal. Yet it has the odd distinction that almost no one will ever
see it, save for the sandhogs who are building it. Over the years, the men
have constructed an entire city under the city, a subterranean world as
cluttered as the Manhattan skyline: it includes four hundred and thirty-eight
miles of subway lines, six thousand miles of sewers, and thousands of miles of
gas mains. "If it's deeper than a grave," sandhogs often say, "then we built
it." The water tunnels have become the sandhogs' greatest and most elusive
achievement, an often deadly effort that has consumed generations. "I'll take
you down there if you want," Jimmy Ryan had said when I asked him to show me
the tunnel's newest section. "But, trust me, it ain't like Macy's down there."

A large, reticent man of fifty who prefers gestures-an upturned eyebrow or a
curled lip-to words, he has spent nearly as many hours underneath the earth as
above it. "I started working on the third water tunnel when I was a kid," he
told me. "I'm still working on it, and I'll probably be buried in it." Ryan,
who was elected president of the sandhogs' union, Local 147, in 1999, has
trouble lifting his shoulders; his red hair has turned silver, and his broad
chest is compressed, as if it were about to collapse.

After Ryan opened the cage, I stepped out with him and the other men into the
bottom of the shaft. Water seeped down the sides of the opening and dripped on
us. There was a pool at our feet, and as we moved forward the icy water
spilled over the tops of our boots. I began to sink in the muck, and Ryan gave
me his hand to pull me out.

"Don't stand under the shaft," he said. "If somethin' falls from the top,
it'll go right through you." I looked up and could barely see the opening.
Once, in Queens, a sixteen-ton winch fell down the shaft, crushing one worker
and injuring seven others; another time, a man died after being impaled by a
broken icicle.

As I followed Ryan into the tunnel's main artery, it was hard to orient
myself. There were only a few scattered electric bulbs, suspended from wires
clamped to rocks and shrouded in mist, and I blinked, trying to adjust to the
watery light. Several of the men turned on flashlights; through the shadows I
could see a hospital stretcher and emergency medical supplies propped against
a wall. At last, the tunnel came into focus: a cramped, crumbling cavern that
extended a hundred yards or so in either direction. This stage of Tunnel No. 3
will eventually run nine miles, reaching down to the Manhattan Bridge and
looping up to Central Park; its walls will be honed into a smooth cylinder,
ten feet in diameter and lined with concrete. But at this early stage swords
of black schist-formed more than four hundred million years ago-hung from the
ceiling, which was buttressed with steel bolts to prevent collapse.
Ventilation pipes ran along the sides of the tunnel, circulating the choked
air, which, unlike the freezing air at the surface, was nearly seventy
degrees, a humid mist of dust and fumes.

The men split into two groups and went to opposite ends of the tunnel, where
they began painting detailed patterns on the rock face. Moving out from the
center of the rock, they carefully dabbed white dots about three feet apart,
forming an elaborate grid. Then the sandhogs mounted hydraulic drills and
bored a ten-foot-deep hole into each mark, their arms and legs rattling up and
down, the lamps on their hard hats shaking.

As the men prepared the rock face, listening to each echo for any sign of
danger, they spoke in a private language: a jackhammer was known as a "jack-
leg"; a bucket, a "battleship"; the Nerf-like sponge used to clean a pipe was
called a "rabbit." Sometimes, because of the noise, the men would simply draw
images in the air, like mimes. After a while, they took out blowpipes, which
blasted air and water into the holes, washing away the dirt. "Everything has
to be done just right," Ryan told me.

With his knife, he opened one of the boxes of explosives. Inside were dozens
of red sticks of dynamite. The men packed the sticks into the holes as if
loading muskets. Each piece of dynamite was wired to the next, and soon dozens
of cords crisscrossed the rock face. Then the men turned off the lights, one
by one, until the tunnel was completely dark, except for a single flashlight
that guided us back to the metal cage. "We need to be a thousand feet away,"
Ryan said, as we slowly rose to the surface. "It's not like the old days, when
they'd blow the son of a bitch in your ear."

When we reached the street, the sun was fully in the sky, and Ryan squinted
uncomfortably in the light. He leaned over a small detonator while the men
cleared the intersection of pedestrians. A woman in a camel coat, who insisted
that she was late for work, tried to force her way past. "One minute," Ryan
said, cocking an eyebrow. Another sandhog put his hand on the T-shaped lever.
"Now," Ryan said. The sandhog slammed the lever with both hands, yelling,
"Fire in the hole! Fire in the hole!"

There was a great roar, a percussive rumble that grew louder and louder. The
sidewalk and fences began to tremble, along with the ground beneath our feet.
The crane that was suspended above the hole rattled from side to side. One
bystander looked up at the sky, then down at the ground, not sure what was
happening. "Is it a bomb?" another asked. A plume of dust rose out of the
shaft. Then everything fell silent. The tunnel had advanced another nine feet.
"All right, hogs!" the foreman yelled. And before anyone noticed, Ryan and the
other men vanished into the hole.

At the end of the day, the sandhogs congregated in the hog house, a small
white shack with wooden benches, lockers, and a shower, inside the fenced area
on Thirtieth Street. Yellow slickers, now black with mud, hung from hooks. A
television set murmured in the corner, and several men stood around it in
towels while another mopped the floor around their feet.

Ryan sat down at a table to talk with me. His elbow rested on his hard hat; a
line of mud traced the side of his cheek. He had lost part of his hearing from
the constant concussions, and he spoke louder than normal.

"No one wants to talk about it, but we're flirting with disaster," he said.
Like the country's electricity grid, which recently left parts of the city in
the dark for more than twenty-four hours, the city's water system is deeply
antiquated. The old tunnels, Ryan explained, were leaking "like a sieve"; some
of the sections were built nearly a century ago and were in desperate need of
repair. But until Tunnel No. 3 is virtually complete there will be no way to
fix them. In part, this is because getting inside Tunnel No. 1 or No. 2 would
require the city to shut the water off, and without a backup supply there
would be serious water shortages. But it was more than that, and, as several
sandhogs peered over his shoulder, Ryan started to draw a circle on the table
with his muddy finger. "See this?" he asked me. "These are the valves that
control the flow of water."

"They're hundreds of feet underground," another sandhog said.

The valves were designed, Ryan said, to open and close guillotine-like gates
inside the cylindrical tunnels, stopping the flow of water. But they had
become so brittle with age that they were no longer operable. "They're afraid
if they try to shut the valves they won't be able to turn 'em back on," Ryan
said.

He wiped some mud from his eyes. "Look," he said. "If one of those tunnels
goes, this city will be completely shut down. In some places there won't be
water for anything. Hospitals. Drinking. Fires. It would make September 11th
look like nothing."

Ryan wasn't the only one who spoke of the tunnel system's frailties, even if
the others did so in slightly less alarming terms. One day this spring, I met
Christopher Ward, the head of the city's Department of Environmental
Protection, which is responsible for designing and operating the tunnel
system. With a broad chest and a blunt, goateed chin, he looks more like a
sandhog than a politician, and has a tendency to lean forward when he speaks,
as if about to leap to his feet. "People don't want to acknowledge it, but the
useful life of a tunnel does exist, and at some point it does start to fail,"
he said. The metal valves, in particular, degrade until they can no longer
withstand the pressure. Ward said that the original two tunnels were so
dilapidated that it was too risky to try to shut off the water and repair them
until City Tunnel No. 3 was operational. He added that there is still time
before the aging tunnels collapse-"We're not talking about today or
tomorrow"-though it is impossible to predict how much.

Others are more pessimistic. One D.E.P. scientist told me, "Some of the
aqueducts are already hemorrhaging water badly," while a recent study by
Riverkeeper, an environmental organization, concluded, "In some cases, this
extraordinary infrastructure is literally crumbling." Upstate, in the
industrial town of Newburgh, for example, water has begun to pour out of
cracks in the underground aqueduct that feeds into the city tunnels-so much
that the leaks have created a giant sinkhole.

Many experts worry that the old tunnel system could collapse all at once.
"Engineers will tell you if it fails it will not fail incrementally," said
Ward. "It will fail catastrophically." If City Tunnel No. 1, which is
considered the most vulnerable, caved in, all of lower Manhattan and downtown
Brooklyn, as well as parts of the Bronx, would lose its water supply. If the
aqueducts gave out, the entire city would be cut off. "There would be no
water," Ward told me. "These fixes aren't a day or two. You're talking about
two to three years."

In the past, the city sometimes tried to assuage concerns about New York's
water system, but Mayor Michael Bloomberg recently noted at a press conference
that the aging pipelines were "very vulnerable" and that "this city could be
brought to its knees if one of the aqueducts collapsed." Anthony DelVescovo,
the project manager who has been working on City Tunnel No. 3 for nearly
fifteen years, echoed Bloomberg's warning. "What no one knows is that we're
facing a potential apocalypse," he told me. "It's a race against the clock."

It is hard to imagine a city without water, its faucets empty, its hydrants
dry, its plazas filled not with fountains but with citizens suffering from
diseases spread by dirt and desiccation-to imagine, as Charles Einstein put it
in the title of his 1964 futuristic novel, "The Day New York Went Dry."

For much of its history, however, New York was a parched city. Though
surrounded by the sea, its principal supply of freshwater remained, as late as
the eighteenth century, a single fetid pool in lower Manhattan called the
Collect Pond. Human waste was dumped into it, along with the occasional dead
body. Distribution of water was dominated by racketeers known as teamen, who
roamed the streets with giant casks, gouging customers. In 1785, with the
city's population reaching nearly thirty thousand, the New York Journal
published an open letter to government officials complaining that the water
supply had become a "common sewer." One daily newspaper declared that it was
"sickly and nauseating," adding, "The larger the city grows, the worse this
evil will be."

Even as the paper warned that a "plague will make a yearly slaughter until you
furnish better water," pestilence spread through the squalid streets. In 1798,
yellow fever wiped out two thousand New Yorkers, and venders wandered the
streets yelling, "Coffins of all sizes!" The plague returned in 1805, 1819,
and 1822. "New Yorkers are like the rich man told of in the Parable," one
resident noted in the local paper. "They have no clean cool water to slack
their thirst when the flames of the plague are devouring their vitals."

One summer morning in 1832, two children woke up in Manhattan with severe pain
in their intestines. They stopped urinating and were overcome by thirst; they
began to vomit and their skin turned blue. By the next day, they were dead,
and two days later so was their mother.

Asiatic cholera, an excruciating disease that is spread, in large part, by
water contaminated with feces, had struck. In barely a month, two thousand New
Yorkers were dead, their bodies marked by a bluish tinge and puckered
extremities; more than a hundred thousand residents-half the city's
population-fled to outlying villages. By the time the scourge ended, the death
toll had reached more than three thousand. A group of doctors who visited the
city at the time reported a "constant and imploring" cry: "Cold water, cold
water, give us cold water!"

Finally, in the winter of 1834, the Common Council vowed to locate new sources
of water. But before plans got under way a fire broke out near Wall Street.
Without enough water to extinguish it-the rivers were frozen solid-the flames
leaped from roof to roof, carried by a gale-force wind. Within minutes, the
fire had spread from Exchange Place to Water Street, then on to Front and
South Streets, and still onward. (The smoke was visible as far away as
Philadelphia.) The fire burned for twenty-four hours, and after it had
consumed nearly seven hundred buildings and caused such mass looting that the
military was called in, roughly a third of New York City lay in ruins. One
witness, who called it "the most awful calamity which has ever visited these
United States," wrote, "I am fatigued in body, disturbed in mind, and my fancy
filled with images of horror which my own pen is inadequate to describe."

And so at last the city began to construct its first aqueduct.

By today's standards, the Croton Aqueduct is modest in scope, but at the time
it was considered an architectural marvel. Begun in 1837 and completed in
1842, it extended more than thirty miles, running from the Croton Reservoir
down the east bank of the Hudson River-an elegant, eight-by-seven-foot brick
pipeline. When it was finished, church bells rang out across the city and
thousands poured into the streets to parade past new fountains, whose water
sparkled in the sun. Philip Hone, who eventually became mayor of New York,
wrote in his diary, "Nothing is talked of or thought of in New York but Croton
water. . . . Water! water! is the universal note which is sounded through
every part of the city, and infuses joy and exultation into the masses."

Twelve years later, however, the city's demand for water again exceeded
supply, and the pressure in the pipeline fell so low that the water could no
longer reach the third story of a building. By 1882, with thousands of
immigrants arriving each week, the Times pleaded, "More Water Wanted," adding,
"The health of families . . . was jeopardized because sufficient water could
not be secured." Yet, unlike the previous century, when the city had looked on
impassively at civic problems, there was now an almost evangelical faith in
human progress. In 1905, Mayor George McClellan, who had just inaugurated the
city's first subway system, laid out a vision of "an additional supply of pure
and wholesome water," a vision so bold that it struck many as evidence of
hubris. At an estimated cost of a hundred and eighty-five million dollars-3.7
billion in today's dollars-it would be the largest municipal water system in
the world. In 1907, at the groundbreaking, McClellan declared, "The course of
human events is not permanently altered by the great deeds of history, nor by
the great men but by the small daily doings of the little men."

Before long, thousands of laborers arrived in the Catskill Mountains and began
clearing away vegetation. Under the expansive McClellan Act, which one judge
complained gave "power that the Almighty would not delegate to an archangel,"
the city appropriated more than twenty-five thousand acres of land, including
hundreds of homes around the area of Shokan, which is just south of Woodstock.
Nine villages were torn down, some burned to the ground, and nearly three
thousand residents driven out; even cemeteries were dug up. "The trees are all
cut down and the village is fading as a dream," the Kingston Freeman reported.

Then dams were built, water was diverted from streams in the Catskills, and
rain was collected. The entire elevated basin was flooded, creating one of
several reservoirs that, together, are nearly as large as the island of
Manhattan. In photographs of the Shokan area taken before the flooding, the
land is green and expansive; months later, it is covered by a glasslike inland
sea.

Meanwhile, sandhogs burrowed through mountains and under hillsides to
construct the Catskill Aqueduct, a ninety-two-mile conduit that slopes gently
downhill from Shokan to Storm King Mountain and then down to White Plains. At
one point, it crosses below the Hudson River, at a depth of eleven hundred
feet-an achievement that New York City's new mayor, William Gaynor, called
"one of the greatest engineering feats in history." The hardest part of the
project, however, was yet to come. According to the engineers' elaborate
design, water would flow from the aqueduct into a reservoir in Yonkers. From
there, it would be channelled into another tunnel-one dug deep beneath the
city, and able to withstand the pressure of more than half a billion gallons
coursing through it each day. This water would then begin flowing upward, into
smaller and smaller pipes, ultimately discharging into the millions of faucets
around the city. Construction on what become known as City Tunnel No. 1 began
in 1911. Many men went down once and never went back. Those who stayed
received about two dollars a day. Once, under the strain, a riot erupted
twelve hundred feet underground, and workers attacked each other with picks
and shovels.

The situation was equally difficult on the banks of the East River. According
to "Liquid Assets," a history of the city's water system by Diane Galusha,
natural groundwater made the rock so soft that the shafts which allowed
sandhogs to descend into the tunnel became watery death traps. Engineers were
forced to build on each bank a giant inverted box called a caisson-a risky
device that was pioneered during the laying of the foundations of the Brooklyn
Bridge. About fifteen feet on each side and weighing as much as two thousand
tons, the steel-and-concrete boxes were sealed on all sides except the bottom.
As they were lowered into the soft ground, compressed air was pumped into the
caissons, pushing out the mud and water. To get into the caisson the sandhogs
were lowered in a bucket down a steel shaft; from there they entered an air
lock, much like a diving chamber. Air was pumped in, and the sandhogs could
feel their eardrums strained to bursting, the blood rushing to the center of
their bodies. Many assumed that they were dying.

Once the pressure in the air lock was equal to that inside the caisson, the
sandhogs crawled through a trapdoor into the caisson, where, standing ankle-
deep in mud, they began to dig from the bottom, removing the muck in a bucket
through a hatch in the ceiling. As they dug, under pressure that was so great
they could work for only two hours at a time, the caisson would slowly sink,
allowing the sides of the box to carve the lining of a shaft. An engineer who
had been in a caisson during the construction of the Brooklyn Bridge described
the sensation this way: "The pulse was at first accelerated, then sometimes
fell below the normal rate. The voice sounded faint, unnatural, and it became
a great effort to speak. What with the flaming lights, the deep shadows, the
confusing noise of hammers, drills, and chains, the half-naked forms flitting
about, with here and there a Sisyphus rolling his stone, one might, if of a
poetic temperament, get a realizing sense of Dante's Inferno."

More unnerving, though, was the threat of a "blowout"-a breach in the lining
of the caisson wall, caused by a sudden imbalance of pressure, which created
suction much like that of an airplane door opened in mid-flight, accompanied
by a terrifying kettle-like screech. Men had a few seconds to climb inside the
air lock; if they didn't make it, they could be sucked into the earth, as
happened in 1916, during the construction of a tunnel under the East River,
when three men were swallowed through a crevice; two died, while a third,
Marshall Mabey, was propelled safely into the afternoon sky on a geyser said
to be four stories high. "I felt myself being pushed into the hole," Mabey
later explained to a reporter. "As I struck the mud it felt as though
something was squeezing me tighter than I had ever been squeezed. I was almost
smothered."

It's not known how many sandhogs died building the Catskill system, but in
1913 the Pine Hill Sentinel reported, "Approximately ten out of every 100
workers are killed or injured every year. More than 3,800 accidents, serious
and otherwise, to workers on the great aqueduct have been recorded. . . . The
men doing the rough work are virtually all foreigners or negroes. Owing to the
laborers being so inconspicuous, the death by accident of one or more of them
attracts no public attention."

In 1917, more than a decade after the work began, the last explosion was
sounded. It was now possible to walk underground from Manhattan all the way to
the Catskills. The city marked the accomplishment, but the event was more
subdued than the Croton celebration. The moment a new fountain by the
reservoir in Central Park was turned on, the skies opened up and rain poured
down.

"Hey, can you smell it?" Jimmy Ryan asked.

"What is it?" I asked.

"Dynamite."

We were back inside City Tunnel No. 3, watching the sandhogs scoop out the
blasted rock-"mucking it out," as Ryan called it. It had been only minutes
since I watched the men detonate the explosives, and the misty air was laden
with smoke and dust; soon, a thin yellow film covered everything. Rocks that
had endured earthquakes had been smashed against the surrounding walls. Some
were cracked in two, revealing bits of mica, beautiful white glimmers amid the
dust; others were black and dull.

At this early stage, the method of digging through the rock was similar to
that used on the first water tunnel. As Ryan put it, "You stick the dynamite
in, blow the motherfucker up, then haul the shit out." It was a repetitive,
driving ritual, one in which there was no day or night and the sound of
concussions replaced the passage of time. The men now loaded crushed granite
into enormous buckets that carried as much as twenty-eight tons in a single
load and were hoisted out by a crane through the same shaft that the men had
come down. Each sandhog had his own role in the operation. There were muckers
and blasters and signalmen and nippers; these last remained above the hole,
connecting materials to the hoist. One veteran nipper, Brian Thorne, told me,
"Everyone has a skill. My best skill is rigging. The guys downstairs want to
know they can trust the guy that's upstairs to put stuff over their head and
not worry. If you hit someone, you can't say, 'Oops, I'm sorry.' That person
is dead. So you always have to be on top of your game."

Over the years, Ryan had risen from mucker to foreman, or "walking boss," and
now, as president of the sandhogs' union, he is largely responsible for the
whole gang. One colleague paid him the highest compliment you can give a
sandhog: "No job is too dirty for Jimmy." But as Ryan waded through the mud,
his eyes peering out from under his hard hat, he seemed slightly removed. When
younger sandhogs started to recall some near-death tale, he would arch an
eyebrow and say, "You got some line," or "You're a real bullshit artist,
aren't you?" Unlike the other men, who tell stories about the tunnel the same
way fishermen spin tales about the sea, Ryan rarely speaks of his time
underground. When his shift is over, he heads home to Queens, where he often
changes from his digger uniform into bright golf pants and plays the links,
trying to propel the ball with his sore arms as he breathes in the smell of
freshly cut grass. His wife told me, "He never says a word about the tunnel. I
don't know what he does down there."

Ryan is not, by the standards of the trade, a particularly superstitious man-
he doesn't carry a lucky crescent wrench or refuse to go down on Friday the
thirteenth-but he maintains a constant watchfulness. And now, while the others
told jokes, Ryan stood off by himself, quietly inspecting the walls to make
sure there were no cracks that might cause chunks to shear off.

After a while, he trudged to the end of the tunnel, where there was a pile of
smoldering rubble. At lesser depths, sandhogs had been known to uncover
jewelry, murder weapons, false teeth, a chest of coins, a Colonial dungeon.
"In the sewer tunnels, you sometimes find rats," Ryan said. "But this far down
there are only sandhogs."

He reached into his pocket and pulled out a plastic bag, which he carefully
unwrapped, revealing not his lunch but a pack of Marlboros. He was the only
one who, in spite of the stinging dust, seemed always to work with a cigarette
dangling from the corner of his mouth-like the detectives in the old dime
novels he likes to read.

Some of the men propped a ten-foot ladder against the rubble and Ryan started
to climb it, the embers of his cigarette leading the way. "Come on," he said.
When I reached the top, he pointed down the tunnel, as if to say, Go on, take
a look. And I saw a dozen figures moving through the dusty haze. There was a
cacophony: men slamming picks into the jagged rocks, drills probing new holes,
buckets moving back and forth amid sparks that flickered like fireflies. After
five months of blasting and mucking, of two shifts working sixteen hours a
day, of engineers and contractors measuring the quickest route, they had
advanced only two city blocks, from Twenty-ninth Street to Thirty-first
Street. But as I peered from one end to the other at the ceiling of rock,
dripping with water and bathed in sulfurous light, I could sense the first
hint of a design.

"So, what do you think of our cathedral?" Ryan asked.

Later, as he was taking off his boots in the hog house, Ryan told me, "You
know, my grandfather did the same thing." He clapped his boots together. "He
came to this country in 1922, from England. He started working first on the
Holland Tunnel, but then they started the second water tunnel and he moved
over to that. It was even bigger than Tunnel No. 1. It was pretty brutal. That
much I can tell you."

In 1929, to keep pace with water consumption, which had increased by thirty-
five million gallons per day since the first tunnel was built, the city began
to construct Tunnel No. 2. Once again, another aqueduct was built, this one
drawing water from the Delaware River. (It is still listed in the "Guinness
Book of World Records" as the world's longest water-supply tunnel.) Once
again, villages were flooded and cemeteries were dug up.

Nick Ryan, Jimmy's grandfather, was tall, with a broad chest and red hair.
Jimmy Ryan is said to resemble him, but Nick was more of "a wild man," as his
grandson puts it, with a distinct hint of understatement. He was known for his
penchant for whiskey, which in those days was often consumed in the tunnel. He
had little, if any, formal education. Most of the sandhogs of his generation
were recently arrived immigrants, typically from Ireland, Italy, and the West
Indies, who would show up for work in their only set of clothes and wrap
plastic bags around their shoes. The Board of Water Supply would sometimes put
them in camps, and try to teach their children to read and write; the
townspeople occasionally complained of "immigrant hordes." Black-and-white
photographs taken at the time show Nick's gang standing in the tunnel, only a
few beams of timber supporting the crumbling rock over their heads. Instead of
a hard hat, Nick Ryan wore something more like a cowboy hat. In a 1936 log
from one of the earliest meetings of Local 147, to which Nick belonged, there
is a warning to the men not to pack pistols.

"Even during the Depression, most men wouldn't take these jobs," one miner who
was in the union with Nick Ryan recalled in an oral history. "Nobody was going
to go down and work with a shovel all day and then work in compressed air. We
had some hard, hard people, and you had to be a rough commander. . . . They
told you, Do it or get the hell out. So the only ones, as the insurance
adjusters will tell you, that survived were the most fit."

Nick Ryan endured chest pains, broken limbs, bleeding sinuses, and caisson
disease-the bends. Then, in 1937, with his family still in need of money, Nick
Ryan took his eighteen-year-old son, Joe, down the shaft with him. "That's how
my father learned how to survive underground," Jimmy Ryan recalled.

"Years ago, it started as a father-son business," a sandhog whose father
worked side by side with Joe Ryan told me. "The fathers brought the sons in,
then the brothers brought the brothers in, and the sons brought the cousins
in. I don't know how you word this, but no one ever asked you your pedigree if
you came here. They didn't care if you had a criminal record-as long as you
worked you could stay in the hole."

Shorter and more compact than his father, Joe Ryan was known as Red. A
ferociously driven and, to those who didn't know him well, intimidating man,
he carried the burden-and perhaps the anger-of someone who had given up a
football scholarship at Wake Forest University to work underground, helping to
support a father who was sometimes out too late to make it to work on time.
After Nick Ryan died, in 1958, his son briefly ran a gas station. But before
long he returned underground-to the place that he knew best.

By the fifties, the city was already in frantic pursuit of more "pure and
wholesome water." This time, it was not simply demand from an exploding
population, or even droughts, that provoked alarm. This time, it was something
that few, if any, had ever contemplated.

In 1954, unbeknownst to most residents of the city, several engineers went
into a shaft to try to turn off the water supply in City Tunnel No. 1, to see
if the tunnel needed repairs after being in operation for almost half a
century. "Imagine your faucet after only ten years," Christopher Ward, the
D.E.P. commissioner, said. "These things had been pounded away at for
decades."

At the bottom of the shaft, sticking out of the tunnel, was a long bronze stem
with a rotating wheel at the end. It was supposed to control the six-foot-
diameter valve inside the pipeline. But when the engineers started to turn the
handle, using all their might, it began to tremble and crack. "There was too
much pressure on it," Ward said.

"They were afraid if they turned it any more the whole fucking thing would
break," Richard Fitzsimmons, Jr., the business manager of the sandhogs' union,
said.

After decades of building the world's greatest water system, the city had
stumbled across its weak point, a single flaw that had rendered an otherwise
invincible body mortal. "It scared the bejeezus out of people," Doug Greeley,
an engineer in charge of the city's water distribution, said. There was no
effective way to shut off the water, no way to get inside and weld a crack, no
way to know if a tunnel was about to burst.

By the late sixties, officials had decided that something had to be done. "One
of the original tunnels was seventy years old, and we were unable to repair
any valves," Ed Koch, who was a congressman at the time, recalled. In some
cases, he said, "we didn't even know where the valves were." Koch, who later
served three terms as mayor, added, "You can exist without food, but you can't
exist without water."

On a cold January day in 1970, the ground was officially broken for the third
water tunnel, which would dwarf both of its predecessors. Designed to be
constructed in four stages, it would extend sixty miles, from the reservoir in
Yonkers through the Bronx and down to the southern tip of Manhattan, and then
into Brooklyn and Queens. The project would include another underground
aqueduct. More important, at the center of the entire system would be thirty-
four specially designed valves that would be made not of bronze but of
stainless steel, with shorter stems that could withstand greater force. (Most
were manufactured in Japan, where city inspectors lived for two years to
insure that they were made according to precise measurements.) All of the
valves would be contained in a single centralized chamber, where they could be
easily reached and turned off.

Construction on the chamber began in 1970 and was not finished until 1998.
Though the tunnel sections that will feed into the chamber have not yet been
completed, this past spring the D.E.P. gave me a glimpse inside the vault-
which is in the Bronx, not far from the sandhogs' union hall. There is nothing
above ground to indicate the vault's existence except a small guard tower and
a sealed door that leads into a grassy hillside. "Ordinarily, we're not
supposed to let anyone in," Greeley told me, standing outside the door.

Like many of "the pencils," as the sandhogs call the engineers, Greeley is a
fastidious man: he has a neatly trimmed mustache and was wearing a blue blazer
and a tie. The main door, which he unlocked as if it were a safe, was
constructed out of solid steel. "They built this place during the Cold War,"
he said. "It's supposed to withstand a ten-megaton nuclear bomb."

As he pressed his weight against the door, it gradually gave way, emitting a
loud sigh. It was damp and cool inside; the corridor was made of concrete.
After descending a flight of metal steps, we rode an elevator twenty-five
stories down. As Greeley opened another thick door, he said, "Prepare to have
your perception of the water supply permanently altered."

The vault resembled an airplane hangar; it extended more than two hundred
yards, with a domed ceiling that was forty-one feet high and walls that were
cloaked in condensation and algae. Lights hung from the top like crescent
moons. Suspended twenty feet off the ground, one after the other, were the
valves, or, rather, the pipes that contained them: seventeen thirty-five-ton
steel cylinders with studded bolts that reached horizontally from one side of
the forty-two-foot-wide vault to the other. Each cylinder contained two
valves. A metal gangplank ran alongside them, and Greeley walked excitedly to
the first cylinder, running his hand along the torpedo-like shell. "This way,
if a tunnel develops a crack, we can shut it off from here," he said.
"Everything's right at your fingertips."

If a valve broke, the cylinder could be lowered down to the bottom of the
vault, and carried out on tracks. One piece, Greeley explained, could be
removed without disrupting the rest of the system. The old tunnels had run in
a straight line from the reservoirs into the city, but City Tunnel No. 3 was
designed with various redundant loops (upper Manhattan has a loop; Brooklyn
and Queens have a loop) that would pass through the chamber, so that parts of
the city can be taken off-line without cutting the water supply entirely.

Putting his hand on a small wheel that jutted out of the cylinder, Greeley
said, "Here we can turn the valves on and off electronically or, if there's a
power outage, even manually. Of course, if you did it manually, you'd have to
turn it twenty-nine thousand times, but if you had to you could get a couple
of guys down here and crank it away."

It was cold in the chamber, and Greeley shuddered as he held out his hand to
demonstrate another innovation. "They're called butterfly valves," he said of
the sluices inside the cylinder. Unlike the old guillotine-like sluices, these
gates rotated slowly into position. "That takes off the pressure and makes it
easier to close," he said, turning his hand clockwise. Though he had been in
the vault dozens of times, he paused for a moment and looked out at the dozens
of valves. Then he said, "Once the third water tunnel is finished, all the
water in the city will flow like Zen."

In 1969, just before construction on the first stage of the third water tunnel
began, Jimmy Ryan's father took him below the streets. "When I was eighteen,
he said, 'Come with me,' " Jimmy Ryan recalled. "He was old school. You never
asked what your father did. . . . Then they put us in this big bucket. I had
no idea what to expect. It got darker and darker. My father told me to stay
close and watch what he did. And that's how I became a sandhog. I was born
into it."

Jimmy Ryan became known as the Red-Headed Hippie. "That was the style back
then," Jimmy told me, somewhat defensively. "Even the old-timers had
sideburns." If he was slightly rebellious, he had his father's unrelenting
drive: he told me that he wanted to prove to his "old man" that he could do
the job. Jimmy also had a forthrightness that made him popular among the men.
"I can't say a bad word about Jimmy," Buddy Krausa, one of his old foremen,
said, adding that Ryan was the type "who would never steal a crescent wrench."

After short stints on other jobs, the Ryans moved to the third water tunnel.
On a summer day in 1982, Jimmy Ryan, Krausa, and a dozen or so other sandhogs
went down a hole near Van Cortlandt Park, in the Bronx, where they were
connecting a tunnel that would feed into the new valve chamber. The section
had already been bored and they were in the final stages: building a steel
form-it resembled the skeletal hull of a ship-around the contours of the
carved-out earth, then pouring in concrete. To reach the cavern's ceiling,
Ryan had climbed atop eighteen feet of scaffolding.

Around noon, some of the men stopped for lunch, but Ryan and a few others were
still working when another sandhog, George Gluszak, who was a mile up the
line, saw two twenty-ton agitator cars, which were used to mix concrete,
racing down the tunnel. They had broken free from the brake car and were
picking up speed along the steady decline. Some of the men tried to throw
things on the tracks to slow them down, but it had no effect.

Jimmy Ryan was drilling when the cars slammed into the scaffolding,
catapulting him twenty-five feet through the air. "Everything turned upside
down," Ryan said. "I was knocked unconscious, and when I came to, all the
lights had gone out. All I could hear were moans."

Krausa, who had not been injured, felt his way through the tangle of steel,
rock, and machines. He could hear the other men calling out for help.
Eventually, he found a flashlight and pointed the beam in front of him. "It
was like nothing I'd ever seen," he said.

Sandwiched between two flatbed cars was Johnny Wademan, who had been drilling
alongside Ryan. The two cars had collided under his shoulders and he was
suspended in midair, his legs dangling, his arms outstretched. "He looked like
Jesus Christ," said Gluszak, who, along with his team, had run through the
darkened tunnel to the scene. One of the men shouted that Wademan was dead.

Ryan was bleeding profusely from his head. "Jimmy was hurt pretty bad," Krausa
said. "God bless him, he was still looking for people, trying to help them. I
don't know how he could walk."

In the corner, trapped between a concrete pipe and the wall, was a sandhog
named Mike Butler. Most of his leg had been cut off, the crushed bone exposed;
his foot, where the skin and tissue had been butterflied open, was pinned, so
that he couldn't move. "He was bleeding to death," said Ryan.

Someone pulled out a penknife and, guided only by the unsteady beam of a
flashlight, tried to pry him loose. His heel wouldn't budge. "I told him we
were going to have to cut part of his foot off," Gluszak said. "He said, 'Do
whatever you have to do.' "

While one sandhog held a cigarette to Butler's lips, another began to slice
off his heel, severing what remained of the tendons and bone. "I took off my
shirt, and wrapped his foot up in my undershirt and put a tourniquet around
his leg," Gluszak said.

While Butler was being freed, the other men pulled Wademan down from where he
had been suspended. As he hit the ground, they heard a groan. He was still
alive.

It had been one of the worst accidents to date in the third water tunnel.
Butler later had the rest of his leg amputated. Wademan's legs and hips were
broken, six of his ribs were shattered, and he suffered severe head trauma.
Ryan got a hundred and twenty stitches in his forehead and chin; he also had a
broken knee, six fractured ribs, and two separated shoulders. It took him
eight months to recuperate. When I asked him why he returned to work, he
replied, "I'm a sandhog. That's all I know." He never went back to the scene
of the accident, and he grew even quieter. "The accident took the life out of
Jimmy," another sandhog said. "The exuberance."

"They ain't gonna do any psychological work on me," Ryan told me. "They ain't
ever gonna penetrate this head."

Shortly after Ryan resumed working, he noticed that his father was having
trouble breathing. "He'd walk thirty feet and have to stop," Ryan said. Then
Joe Ryan started to cough up black phlegm. When Joe visited the doctor, X-rays
showed spots on his lungs. He had contracted silicosis, a disease caused by
years of breathing dust.

Jimmy Ryan said his father had always told him that sandhogs die unexpectedly.
They die of cave-ins and blowouts. They die of explosions and electrocutions.
They die of falling rocks and winches and icicles. They die of drowning. They
die of decapitation and the bends. They die without legs, without arms. They
die by plunging hundreds of feet or simply a few. They die quickly and, more
often than not, painfully.

In May, on Ascension Thursday, Ryan put on a neatly pressed tweed jacket and a
tie and drove from his home, in Queens, to St. Barnabas Church in the Bronx
for a service in honor of all those who had died in the third water tunnel.
The stone church had stained-glass windows that could be opened, allowing in
the unfiltered sunlight. Ryan sat toward the front, his jacket tight around
his broad shoulders. Packed in the pews around him were Christopher Ward, the
D.E.P. commissioner; Anthony DelVescovo, the contractor; and dozens of
sandhogs and engineers. "Let us pray for all those who have been hurt or
killed in construction of City Tunnel No. 3," the priest intoned.

"Lift them up," a sandhog responded. "Lift them up."

Ryan knelt against the front of his pew as the priest read the names of the
twenty-four men who had died in the tunnel. "Lord have mercy on them," the
priest said. When the service was over, Ryan and the others headed down the
street to an Irish pub. "My father was one of the lucky ones," he said. "He
held on until 1999. That's when the silicosis finally got him."

"I'm John Ryan. I think you met my father."

The young man was standing by a shaft for a tunnel on the corner of Thirty-
sixth Street and First Avenue. Short, with compact arms, he looked more like
his grandfather than his father. He was twenty-eight, and his face had yet to
develop the hard etchings of a sandhog. It was broad and frank, with bright-
green eyes; red hair poked out of the front of his hard hat.

The other sandhogs called him "Jimmy's kid," but he had little of his dad's
reticence. "You never know what's going on up there," he said of his father,
with a smile. "I'm more of a bullshit artist." He looked up at the crane that
was lowering materials down the hole. "I used to think my father was out of
his mind. I was about eight years old when he got hurt. I still remember it.
He didn't want to stay in the hospital and came home in a wheelchair. That's
when I first realized what it meant to be a sandhog, and I said, 'Christ, I
ain't ever gonna do that.' " He peered down the hole. "It's in your blood, I
guess." Holding out his arms, he added, "We've probably got more muck in our
veins than anything else."

"Nobody wants their kid to go into it," Jimmy Ryan told me later. "You'll
always hope they'll find some kind of pencil job."

"I grew up wanting to be a baseball player," John Ryan said. "Then I dropped
out of college, and one day my father came in the bar where I was working and
said, 'All right, mister, you want to bartend? Come with me.' I'd never been
in the hole before. I was scared. I won't lie to you."

"I can only imagine what he was thinking," Jimmy Ryan said. "We try to help
each other."

John Ryan's great-grandfather brought home only a few dollars a week from his
work on the water tunnel; today, sandhogs earn as much as a hundred and twenty
thousand dollars a year. Though many are descended from tramp miners, they now
often emerge from the hog house in tailored suits, their hair perfectly
combed, as if they were bankers or accountants. Chick Donohue, the head of the
hog house, has a degree from the Kennedy School at Harvard and is well known
in city politics. He wears his Harvard ring on one hand and his sandhogs'
union ring on the other. "That way, if I can't outsmart 'em with the left, I
hit 'em with the right," he told me.

Just as sandhogs have gradually transformed the city, the city has gradually
transformed the sandhogs. Some now arrive at the hole in a Cadillac or a BMW.
John Ryan, who is engaged to be married, is buying a Colonial house in Nassau
County. "A lot of guys are drawn to the money," he admitted. He paused. "And
there's the camaraderie. That's a big part of it, too." He paused again, as if
still searching for the deepest reason, then added, "Hell, I like it down
there."

After five years on the third water tunnel, John Ryan had risen to foreman.
His current mission was to build the city's newest "mole," a two-hundred-and-
thirty-ton drill that would be placed at his father's site, on Tenth Avenue.
Experimented with as early as the seventies, the mole was officially
introduced in the water tunnels in 1992, and had become the sandhogs' most
critical instrument-comparable, in the world of tunnelling, to the invention
of the printing press. In February, the latest mole was transported from New
Jersey to Manhattan, in pieces weighing sixty to a hundred and thirty tons, on
a flatbed truck; the payload was the largest ever to cross the George
Washington Bridge. The components were then lowered into the Thirtieth Street
hole by a special crane that could withstand the enormous weight.

One day in February, after the mole had been assembled in the tight confines
of the tunnel, John Ryan invited me to go down with him and see it. The
pipeline was twelve and a half feet in diameter. The mole had already been
driven nearly half a mile, and to reach the heading we had to ride a railroad
car called a "man trip," which rattled from side to side. Groundwater seeped
out of the surrounding rock, splattering against the walls as we sped past.
After about five minutes, we came to a sudden stop. In the distance, I could
see a monstrous machine that looked more like a space shuttle than a drill.
The mole's hydraulic engines churned, and its blinking lights gleamed. "Come
on," Ryan said excitedly, walking toward it. "That's only the trailing gear."

This gear-including a conveyor belt that carried out the crushed rock-took up
most of the tunnel. A narrow gangplank had been built on the tunnel's side.
Occasionally, to pass one of the fifteen or so sandhogs, we had to turn
sideways, pressing our faces against the damp rock. As we went deeper, the
mole began to resemble a colossal organism: its giant cylindrical arms gripped
the walls and pushed the machine's mouth forward through the rock. In some
compartments of the mole, engineers were peering at computer screens; the mole
had lasers that registered the precise type of rock at the heading.

A siren sounded, and the men began to run up and down the plank. "What's
happening?" I asked nervously.

"Nothing," Ryan said. "We're just starting it up."

The mole coughed and sputtered and shook. The temperature had been twenty
degrees at the surface, but the mole heated the tunnel air to eighty degrees,
and some of the men began to strip off their layers. After walking seventy-
five yards, we reached the front of the mole: a round shield with twenty-seven
cutters, each weighing three hundred and twenty pounds, pressed against the
rock face, obscuring it completely. The cutters, driven forward by hydraulic
propulsion, spun ferociously and noisily, chipping away at the granite, which
was then carried out on the conveyor belt and loaded into muck cars. Ryan, who
had grown up listening to tales of his forebears, said it was hard to believe
that "my great-grandfather had only a goddam muck stick"-sandhog slang for
shovel.

Indeed, until the mole was invented, tunnelling had changed only incrementally
since the days of the Romans, who used fire and water to crack the rock and
horses to carry it out. When a prototype of the mole was introduced in New
York, in the seventies, many of the sandhogs feared it as much as caving rock.

"It's like that old story about John Henry," Chick Donohue explained,
recalling the fabled contest between man and machine after the invention of
the steam drill. "Well, when they introduced the first mole over in Brooklyn,
the cutters kept breaking, and the sandhogs would jump in with their shovels
and picks. They knew they were competing for their jobs, and they were
actually beating the mole! Of course, they then perfected the mole, and there
was no contest."

The construction of the first water tunnel required no fewer than eighty men
to drill and blast for at least a week in order to advance a hundred feet. The
mole, with a fraction of the manpower, can tunnel that far in a day.

Yet, even with the mole, the third water tunnel has already taken six times as
long as either City Tunnel No. 1 or No. 2; some people think it won't be
completed, as scheduled, by 2020. "We should've been done with this thing
twenty years ago," Jimmy Ryan said. "But the city keeps fucking around."

Conditions above ground have proved almost as difficult as those below. After
the initial phase of a billion-dollar contract to build the tunnel was awarded
to a consortium of companies, costs began to exceed estimates by the millions.
When the city balked at the rising costs, the companies sued and the work
stalled. Then, in 1974, when the city went bankrupt, construction was halted
altogether. In all, nearly a decade was lost, and in 1981, with work
proceeding only piecemeal and the ever-growing demand for water forcing the
old tunnels to carry sixty per cent more capacity than intended, city
officials were so desperate that they pleaded with the federal government to
fund the project.

Meanwhile, charges began to surface that Tammany Hall-like machinations were
contributing to the delays. The once vaunted Board of Water Supply, which
oversaw the construction, had become a "Democratic patronage plum tree," as
one critic put it. Stanley M. Friedman, the Bronx Democratic power broker who
was later convicted of racketeering, was given a lifetime position on the
board, with a salary of twenty thousand dollars, as well as an office, a
secretary, a chauffeured car. "When I came in as mayor, it was a lifetime job
given to retiring politicians," Koch told me. "They didn't do anything."

The board was dismantled. But in 1986 the man in charge of supervising
purchasing for the water tunnel at the D.E.P., Edward Nicastro, warned that
contracts were still not being properly monitored. "You'd be amazed at how
easy it is to steal in the system," he told a reporter at the time.

In recent years, the greatest delays seem to be caused not by efforts to
defraud the public but by attempts to placate it. Where the old water board
once plowed over communities, the D.E.P. is now impeded by them. In 1993, when
it tried to sink a shaft on East Sixty-eighth Street, Councilman Charles
Millard protested that his office had received calls from parents whose
children were "finding it difficult to concentrate." numby, or "not under my
back yard," movements sprang up. In 1994, after engineers had spent two years
planning a new shaft site, residents in Jackson Heights held a protest,
carrying signs that said, "don't give us the shaft." Engineers were forced to
find a new location. "When we want to choose a shaft site, everyone says, 'Oh,
the water system is a miracle, but please find another place,' " Ward told me.
" 'We're building a co-op'-or hotel or park-'there.' " A D.E.P. engineer and
geologist, Scott Chesman, added, "Instead of taking seven years to finish,
we're on thirty years, and hardly any of it's been done. It's like the
eighteen-hundreds again."

Indeed, for the first time, the historic Delaware Aqueduct-the eighty-four-
mile underground pipeline that carries the water from reservoirs upstate down
to Yonkers, where it connects to City Tunnels No. 1 and No. 2-has begun to
crack. According to some D.E.P. reports, in 1995 the aqueduct was losing about
five hundred million gallons a month from leaks, which were creating massive
sinkholes in Ulster and Orange Counties; in 2000, the monthly loss sometimes
exceeded a billion gallons. An investigation by Riverkeeper warned of a
potential "collapse" of the aqueduct, which would cut off as much as eighty
per cent of the water flowing into the city.

In the spring of 2000, the D.E.P. decided to send a team of deepsea divers
down to do repairs on one of the original bronze valves in the Delaware
Aqueduct, in the Dutchess County town of Chelsea, which had cracked, spewing a
torrent of water through a hole the size of a quarter at eighty miles per
hour. "For about two or three months, we built a mockup of the valve and a
mockup of the bottom of the shaft," said John McCarthy, the engineer who
oversaw the project. "We took the crew and experimented in a tank of about
fifty feet of water, without any light, trying to simulate the conditions."

After practicing for days, the engineers transported a diving bell and a
decompression chamber to the leak site. Four divers, who were hired from the
same company that had helped to salvage the Russian nuclear submarine Kursk
after it sank in the Barents Sea in August, 2000, had to remain inside the
decompression chamber for twenty-four hours, in order to adjust to the intense
water pressure underground. The chamber was about the size of a van, only
round. On the outside were valves and hoses and an air-lock door to send in
food (mostly fluids and peanut butter) and to remove human waste. The pressure
in the chamber was gradually brought to the same pressure as that of the water
seven hundred feet underground.

After breathing a mixture of ninety-eight per cent helium and two per cent
oxygen for twenty-four hours, two of the divers crawled into a thirteen-foot
diving bell that was attached to the top of the chamber. Once they had sealed
themselves inside, the bell was lifted by a crane and lowered down the shaft
that led into the aqueduct. There were only inches between the bell and the
walls of the shaft. When the divers reached the bottom, one climbed out and
swam toward the leak. (The other diver remained in the bell in case of an
emergency.) He wore a wetsuit, a mask, and scuba equipment, and carried a
small waterproof tool set. While struggling to stay in position against the
pressure of the escaping water, he placed a brass plug in one of the holes,
then sealed it with a clamp and an epoxy compound.

Each shift lasted at least four hours, then the bell was lifted up and two
other divers went down. "It was not for the faint of heart," McCarthy said.
The men spent ten days finishing the repairs, and fifteen more in the
decompression chamber.

Still, far greater leaks are suspected somewhere between the Rondout
Reservoir, in the Catskills, and a reservoir in Putnam County. This June, the
D.E.P. sent a custom-made two-million-dollar submarine through forty-five
miles of the Delaware Aqueduct. (The job was deemed too dangerous for a
human.) The eight-hundred-pound craft, which was nicknamed Persephone, took
three hundred and fifty thousand photographs. "The sub looks like a torpedo
with catfish antennas," Commissioner Ward told me. "While a motor pushes it
through, the antennas help it bounce back off the walls to stay within the
middle of the tunnel." The Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, on Cape Cod,
and the D.E.P. are now examining the pictures to evaluate the structural
integrity of the pipeline.

But even if the locations of the leaks are determined, and if engineers can
then concoct some way to plug them, most D.E.P. officials I spoke with do not
consider this section of the aqueduct the most vulnerable. They are more
worried about pipelines closer to the city-in particular, Tunnels No. 1 and
No. 2, which, because of their greater depth and buried valves, are far less
accessible, even to a self-piloted submarine. Some sandhogs believe that the
only thing preventing these sections from collapsing is the pressure of the
water pushing against their walls. A former chief engineer on the water
system, Martin Hauptman, has noted, "We see headlines in the streets
frequently where a 24-inch water main breaks and the street's flooded,
basements are flooded, the subway is flooded, and people think that is a
horrible situation. Failure of a tunnel is an entirely different situation.
What bothers me most . . . is the element of time. You cannot buy time with a
situation like that."

And there is now the additional threat of terrorism. Although the public's
attention has focussed on the danger of someone's poisoning the water supply,
officials believe that the system would likely dilute a toxin's effects. The
greater danger, they say, is that a terrorist might blow up one of the
pipelines before the third water tunnel is up and running. "That's the scary
thing," Ward said. Fitzsimmons, the sandhogs' union leader, added, "If you
attacked the right spots-I hate to say this, but it's true-you could take out
all of the water going into New York City."

On the morning I went down the hole with John Ryan, he told me, "My hope is
that we can finish the third water tunnel, so my father will be able to see it
completed."

The mole was boring into the rock. Several sandhogs had laid new tracks on the
floor, pounding them into the rock with sledgehammers.

"All right!" Ryan yelled. "Let's check the cutter heads."

He looked up at me from under his hard hat. "You want to go?" he asked.

"Where?"

He pointed underneath the mole, where a small passageway led into the bowels
of the machine. Two other sandhogs were already crawling in and, after a
moment, I followed. First we had to crouch in a cavity no more than three feet
by four feet. One of the sandhogs, who introduced himself as Peter, fumbled
with the lamp on his hard hat. "Fucking thing's busted," he said.

The other worker turned his light on, and I could see that the passage led to
a five-foot-long corridor that connected to the head of the mole.

"Whenever you're ready, John," Peter yelled to Ryan, who was outside the
cavity, directing the operation. "You can roll the head."

We stayed in a crouch for several more minutes, watching the mole's cutters
rotate several degrees one way, then the other, until at last they came to
rest.

"This is the most dangerous part," Peter said. He then lay on his stomach and
stuck his hands straight out in front of him and began to squirm, feet first,
through the narrow passage leading to the mole's cutters. He slid through the
mud and water, and I followed on my stomach. Soon, I was standing in mud and
water up to my knees, staring at the giant metal blades. I tried to step away,
but my back hit something hard: the head of the tunnel. We were sandwiched
between the mole and the rock. "You just don't want anything to move," Peter
said.

As groundwater seeped from the ceiling, hitting the machine, puffs of steam
filled the cavity.

"Go ahead, touch it," Peter said, pointing to one of the blades.

I reached out and touched the edge: it was scalding hot, from friction. "You
could fry an egg on it," Peter said.

The other sandhog squeezed into the crevice. Now the only wiggle room was
above our heads. As the water crept up to our thighs, Peter craned his neck,
inspecting the front of the tunnel to make sure the rock was sound. There was
a series of grooved concentric circles where the blades had cut. "It looks
like a dartboard, doesn't it?" Peter said.

"Like a tree," the other sandhog said.

They checked the blades to make sure they didn't require replacement.

I told them I thought I needed to leave.

"Just a second more," Peter said.

The other sandhog exited first, followed by me, then Peter. When I saw John
Ryan again, he looked at my muck-covered clothes, then clapped me cheerfully
on the back. "Welcome to our fucking world," he said.

There was no man-trip car to take me back to the shaft, so I set out by
myself, walking the length of the tunnel. "If you see a muck car coming," Ryan
told me, "just hang on to the pipes on the side of the tunnel."

A few minutes later, the noise from the mole faded, and the tunnel was empty
and still. Though it extended as far as the eye could see, this tunnel was not
even one-sixtieth the projected length of the third water tunnel; it was a
mere one-thousandth of all the miles of water tunnels and pipelines and
aqueducts combined. For the first time during my underground excursion, I had
some sense of this city under the city-of what many engineers refer to as "the
eighth wonder of the world."

After a while, a light flickered in the distance and I thought it was a muck
car. As Ryan had instructed, I hung on to the pipes on the side of the tunnel.
But it was only a sandhog come to escort me out.

When I reached the top, I went into the hog house to change. On the bench
beside me was a slender boy with a hard hat cocked to one side, as if it were
a fedora. He looked astonishingly like Jimmy Ryan. It was Jimmy's younger son,
Gregory. "I started in 2000, over on the third water tunnel in Queens," he
said. "They call us the millennial hogs."

Only twenty, he looked like a slightly ungainly teen-ager in his dirty white
shirt and a slicker that seemed too loose for his narrow waist. He hung his
Yankees cap in his locker and wrapped his supper, a veal cutlet sandwich, in a
plastic bag. "It saves time to eat underground," he said.

Greg glanced at another sandhog who was dressing nearby. His left hand had
been crushed under a beam in the hole, and his index finger was missing. "I
still get scared sometimes," Greg said, lifting his hard hat and removing a
pack of menthol cigarettes. He lit one and let it dangle between his teeth,
the way he had often seen his father do. "My father told me not to think about
it. It'll only make it worse."

Greg turned and headed outside, where his brother John was emerging from the
cage, his face covered in mud. As John stepped onto solid ground, shielding
his eyes from the blinding light, he clapped his hand on Greg's shoulder.
"I'll see you, O.K.?" Greg nodded and, without a word, descended into the
darkness.
