title: Science is not the Enemy of the Humanities | The New Republic
source: http://www.newrepublic.com/article/114127/science-not-enemy-humanities
date: 2025-08-13T20:00:15.442587
tags: []
---
Unfortunately, this entente unravels as soon as you begin to examine it. The
moral worldview of any scientifically literate person—one who is not blinkered
by fundamentalism—requires a radical break from religious conceptions of
meaning and value.

To begin with, the findings of science entail that the belief systems of all
the world’s traditional religions and cultures—their theories of the origins
of life, humans, and societies—are factually mistaken. We know, but our
ancestors did not, that humans belong to a single species of African primate
that developed agriculture, government, and writing late in its history. We
know that our species is a tiny twig of a genealogical tree that embraces all
living things and that emerged from prebiotic chemicals almost four billion
years ago. We know that we live on a planet that revolves around one of a
hundred billion stars in our galaxy, which is one of a hundred billion
galaxies in a 13.8-billion-year-old universe, possibly one of a vast number of
universes. We know that our intuitions about space, time, matter, and
causation are incommensurable with the nature of reality on scales that are
very large and very small. We know that the laws governing the physical world
(including accidents, disease, and other misfortunes) have no goals that
pertain to human well-being. There is no such thing as fate, providence,
karma, spells, curses, augury, divine retribution, or answered prayers—though
the discrepancy between the laws of probability and the workings of cognition
may explain why people believe there are. And we know that we did not always
know these things, that the beloved convictions of every time and culture may
be decisively falsified, doubtless including some we hold today.

In other words, the worldview that guides the moral and spiritual values of an
educated person today is the worldview given to us by science. Though the
scientific facts do not by themselves dictate values, they certainly hem in
the possibilities. By stripping ecclesiastical authority of its credibility on
factual matters, they cast doubt on its claims to certitude in matters of
morality. The scientific refutation of the theory of vengeful gods and occult
forces undermines practices such as human sacrifice, witch hunts, faith
healing, trial by ordeal, and the persecution of heretics. The facts of
science, by exposing the absence of purpose in the laws governing the
universe, force us to take responsibility for the welfare of ourselves, our
species, and our planet. For the same reason, they undercut any moral or
political system based on mystical forces, quests, destinies, dialectics,
struggles, or messianic ages. And in combination with a few unexceptionable
convictions— that all of us value our own welfare and that we are social
beings who impinge on each other and can negotiate codes of conduct—the
scientific facts militate toward a defensible morality, namely adhering to
principles that maximize the flourishing of humans and other sentient beings.
This humanism, which is inextricable from a scientific understanding of the
world, is becoming the de facto morality of modern democracies, international
organizations, and liberalizing religions, and its unfulfilled promises define
the moral imperatives we face today.
