title: Abundant Delusion - The Atlantic
source: https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2025/09/abundant-delusion/684124/
date: 2025-09-08T12:16:29.312644
tags: []
---
_This article was featured in the One Story to Read Today newsletter._[_Sign
up for it here._](https://www.theatlantic.com/newsletters/sign-up/one-story-
to-read-today/)

Back in July, following an eight-month fetishization of [Luigi
Mangione](https://www.piratewires.com/p/the-killer-inside-you) on the far
left, another gunman in New York City killed several people, including a
mother of two school-age kids who happened to work at—uh-oh—Blackstone. It
was, unambiguously, a horrifying tragedy. But on the Luigi Left, reaction to
the gruesome murders was not only neutral, or ambivalent, but celebratory, and
explicitly supportive of the killer. (One [prototypical
post](https://archive.is/h7uD0) featured the woman’s image with the word
LUIGI’D stamped over her face, along with the caption “Death is not always
tragic.”) This was no small group of crazies, either. Some version of the
reaction was shared thousands of times across X, Threads, and Bluesky on the
grounds that cartoonish caricatures of “the rich” were, in a sense, physically
harming the poor. Therefore, killing the rich was an act of self-defense.

Question: Is this Abundance?

Potentially, I mean. _Can this be Abundance?_ Can center-left liberals, who
claim they want to introspect and reform and actually build a lot of housing
and infrastructure, and generate new resources rather than punitively
redistribute us all into stagnation, open their tent in such a way that there
is room for committed, eat-the-rich communism and sensible housing policy
alike? Can they not only wrench the youth of their party from Hasan Piker’s
armpits, but actually get Hasan, _a real authentic bad-boy socialist_ , to
join them? What do you say, fellow kids, mass murder but make it YIMBY?

Yeah, man, sorry, I don’t see it. Provided that the purpose of the Abundance
movement is earnestly to galvanize the left under the banner of Abundance,
which it will then produce, the project is obviously doomed to fail. Partly
this is because of structural issues innate to our political system, and
partly this is because large swaths of the left, which Abundance Dems need to
win elections, are actively and often publicly fantasizing about sending
Abundance Dems to the guillotine.

Nonetheless, from what I can tell, such an alliance does seem to be the hope
of the center-left, as Democrats set out to defeat the great orange menace in
Washington, D.C. It’s a desperate move, courting people who compulsively call
for your death as often as they call for the death of Republicans, though
after this summer, I understand the desperation to just get _something_
working. I mean, at this point, what even is a Democrat?

* * *

Let’s review: Following a string of Tesla firebombings and Cory Booker’s
25-hour speech in Congress that nobody remembers, Jake Tapper and Alex
Thompson released their [great
book](https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2025/05/original-sin-book-
excerpt/682810/), _[Original Sin](https://bookshop.org/a/12476/9798217060672)_
, and we were finally all permitted to say out loud that Joe Biden has
dementia. Down in sunny Los Angeles, Mayor Karen Bass expressed a great deal
of understanding for her city’s rioters (before quickly clarifying that
violence, amidst all of the violence she was doing nothing about, was never
the answer), a bunch of vandals torched a bunch of Waymos, and Katy Perry
informed the world that L.A. was actually, when you really think about it, _if
you understand history_ , Mexican territory. _Viva!_

In one incredible July [report from
Axios](https://www.axios.com/2025/07/07/democrats-trump-resistance-violence-
congress), Democratic politicians seemed to admit that they were frightened of
their own base, as their voters attended town halls and openly requested
political violence. This in turn triggered a season of Democratic politicians
performatively getting themselves arrested while fighting with ICE agents. And
in terms of America’s increasing hunger for political violence, we’re no
longer in the realm of anecdote.

Polling before the 2024 election indicated [a growing
trend](https://www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/1-in-5-americans-think-violence-
may-solve-u-s-divisions-poll-finds) of Americans expressing support for
political violence, with the right wing in the lead. But after Donald Trump’s
reelection, and two attempted assassinations, a stunning [survey from _City
Journal_](https://www.city-journal.org/article/progressives-political-
violence-donald-trump-assassination-attempt) found that “38 percent of
respondents, and 55 percent of those left of center, said assassinating
President Trump would be at least somewhat justified; 31 percent of
respondents, and 48 percent of those left of center, said the same about” Elon
Musk. Another [recent
survey](https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2025/07/how-political-
violence-ends/683432/) shows that even more Americans—including one in three
attendees at a handful of anti-Trump protests—believe we “may have to resort
to violence in order to save our country.”

[Adrienne LaFrance: How much worse is this going to
get?](https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2025/07/how-political-
violence-ends/683432/)

Finally, right after Jim Acosta interviewed an AI-generated dead victim of a
mass shooting and the leftists who live on Threads and Bluesky went to culture
war over Sydney Sweeney’s “good genes,” Gavin Newsom out-Newsomed even himself
in his never-ending quest for attention. Months into his _debate me, bro_
podcast journey, California’s budding tough guy who _calls it like he sees it_
and _doesn’t care what the MAGAtards think_ waded into controversy following
yet another mass shooting after he, or whoever is running his social media,
posted [something on X](https://x.com/GavinNewsom/status/1961139199484330194)
that seemed to indicate the prayers of children in a Minneapolis church had
clearly gone unanswered … as they had been shot.

Okay.

The left is in an interesting place right now.

* * *

As America’s political right embraces economic populism, appealing to voters
who care about issues like the affordability of groceries and housing, along
with crime and immigration, it’s not yet clear what the Democratic Party of
2028 will look like, or who will be its leader. What is clear, however, is
that centrists and elitists in the party will need to tap into the left’s own
growing populist wing to win, and everyone seems to understand that a game
like that, with a group of people who genuinely want violence, requires …
delicacy, let’s say.

Democrats need a unifying vision that encompasses everything the far left says
it wants, while still maintaining the post–World War II liberal order. This is
how the left wound up with “abundance,” essentially a rebrand of the word
“progress,” which has been co-opted by people generally opposed to the
concept.

This is all great news for me, as I am myself an abundance enjoyer. A
progressive, I think. But, just to be sure, let’s share some quick definitions
and make certain we’re all on the same page.

Here is what I’m talking about when I use the word _progress_ : affordable
housing; affordable groceries; affordable high-quality health care;
incredible—actually, _inspiring_ —public infrastructure; amazing public
education; safe, clean streets; and enormous economic opportunity with plenty
of class mobility. But I also want grand projects, okay?

I want a bullet train that rips across the country from San Francisco to New
York in half a day. I want to take that ride in a first-class cabin, with a
little bar car somewhere onboard where I can talk shit with strangers over
martinis as we travel through the Rockies. Fuck it, let’s throw in a robot
bartender. I want genetically modified hydroponic gardens. I want special
economic zones for manufacturing, for rare-earth-metals mining and processing,
for rocketry and electric vehicles, and every other high-tech project you can
think of, a reality in which Americans are liberated from local regulations
that kneecap our industrial output—a reality in which our capacity is limited
only by our imagination. I want gene drives, which means the eradication of
invasive Burmese pythons in the Florida wetlands, the screwworm, and pretty
much all mosquitoes. I want weather modification. I want geoengineering. I
want to terraform Mars into a habitable world. I want a giant “Justice”
statue, to complement the East Coast’s “Liberty,” on Alcatraz Island. I want
this statue to depict an objectively hot person. Finally, Moon should be a
state, and no I won’t be taking any further questions.

In most of this, I think I’m basically aligned with Abundance Democrats, or at
least their stated goals, and I’ve written as much repeatedly for [Pirate
Wires](https://www.piratewires.com/).

The “Abundance agenda” was [coined in this
magazine](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2022/01/scarcity-crisis-
college-housing-health-care/621221/) by _Atlantic_ contributing writer Derek
Thompson, who went on to co-write a book on the topic with Ezra Klein called
[_Abundance_](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2025/03/abundance-
americas-next-political-order/682069/). Housing, infrastructure, energy: How
do we make these things safe, clean, and abundant? More important, how do we
get politicians who say they want these things to reverse their own policies
that have made these things impossible? At its most optimistic, in the opening
pages of Thompson and Klein’s book, the Abundance movement extends well beyond
the basics and paints a vivid portrait of a whizzing, whirling futuristic
landscape of automation and innovation, one that includes self-driving cars
and modular nuclear power. It is an attractive vision. It is also a familiar
vision.

[Derek Thompson: The political fight of the
century](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2025/03/abundance-americas-
next-political-order/682069/)

I moved to San Francisco in 2011, and discussions of our world “post-
scarcity,” or in “superabundance,” were standard among “techno-utopians,” a
common media pejorative. Such ideas were shared throughout the Bay Area by
optimistic young men and women of every political affiliation. This was the
language of AI enthusiasts, of Burning Man libertarians, of effective
altruists.

Now the most recent incarnation of “techno-utopianism” as imagined by
Abundance libs is explicitly a Democratic project. The notion of Thompson and
Klein is something like, _Well, we believe the government is broken, but it
could and should be used for great things, while Republicans don’t seem to
believe in the_ concept _of government at all. So we’re appealing to libs
rather than right-wingers._ Fair enough. Or, it would be fair enough if we
pretended Donald Trump did not exist, and these past eight years of right-wing
evolution were just an especially embarrassing daydream. But what I’m saying
is, I hear you. I get it. We’re banking on the openly violent left over MAGA
moms who voted for Trump because their preschool teacher told little Sally she
might be a man. Also, the eggs were _really_ expensive.

My question is only … if this is your strategy, how on earth do you plan on
surviving?

Earlier this summer, with much of the far left comically furious over the
slight bit of criticism leveled at them by Abundance libs, I was at first
surprised by the democratic socialist Zohran Mamdani’s embrace of the
Abundance agenda in his primary run, as he set out to become the next mayor of
New York, and on [Thompson’s podcast](https://www.derekthompson.org/p/what-
speaks-to-me-about-abundance), _Plain English._ Was the man really ready to
cut regulations impeding manufacturing, energy, and housing? The libs got
together to discuss this question, and there was a great conversation all
about it, from podcast to podcast. The consensus seemed to be: _Maybe!_

Unfortunately, I know too much about the Democratic Socialists of America to
entertain such staggering naivete.

* * *

Mamdani is a Karl Marx–quoting nepo baby who (after failing to find success as
a
[rapper](https://www.tiktok.com/@dailymail/video/7519520533596212493?lang=en))
just defeated Andrew Cuomo on a platform of government-run grocery stores, a
$30 minimum wage, and rent freezes. Yes, _The New York Times_ would like you
to know that democratic socialists [aren’t really
socialists](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/08/30/nyregion/zohran-mamdani-nyc-
mayor-democratic-socialism.html) because they believe in democracy (truly,
they argued this). But I was still living in the Haight when our local chapter
was holding literal Mao Zedong reading groups as the city hemorrhaged jobs and
businesses during the pandemic. Mamdani’s own housing adviser
[believes](https://x.com/ceaweaver/status/1164152364145598464) private
property—and especially housing—is “a weapon of white supremacy” and should
all [be seized](https://nypost.com/2025/09/02/us-news/zohran-mamdanis-brain-
trust-is-full-of-young-privileged-lefty-radicals-with-little-government-
experience-who-could-one-day-lead-
nyc/?utm_campaign=nypost&utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=social). Oh right, and
he has referred to _himself_ [as a
socialist](https://x.com/ZohranKMamdani/status/1334627216978817033).

Mamdani has been an outspoken advocate of defunding the police, a policy he
only recently, and clumsily, attempted to walk back, which we are for some
reason not supposed to mention. He believes that the ongoing existence of rich
people is a policy failure. But he is also young, which means he understands,
correctly, that the cost of housing is sort of the main ball in play among
issues across the country. This is where, I guess, he has enough overlap with
our favorite Abundance Dems for them to all “lib out” together.

Housing is a major issue for the DSA, and has been for many years. But the
DSA’s focus is, as one would expect from an openly socialist party, radical:
the elimination of all misdemeanor offenses and the closure of all jails;
opposition to homeless shelters in favor of government banks to finance
government housing (also known as free one-bedroom apartments), which the
public will fund forever, for anyone who wants it, including every drug addict
in every city in the country; tenant rights to the point that eviction is
functionally impossible; and opposition to market-rate housing construction on
the grounds that it leads to gentrification. In other words, these people are
the actual reason we can’t have nice things.

There is certainly a chance Mamdani is lying about his DSA affiliation, or
doesn’t believe in the DSA platform. I guess his eight-year membership in the
organization, including a successful run as a DSA-affiliated candidate for New
York State Assembly and then as the Democratic nominee for New York City
mayor, might have been an elaborate ploy to attract young Millennials. Or, who
knows, maybe the Abundance Dems truly did convert him. But my sense is that
he’s just looking for rhetorical cover from the center left to make his
_actual Marxism_ more palatable to people who aren’t insane, and the center
left is beginning to accept him because their only other choices are a loser
criminal and a loser pervert. That means, yet again, the crazy local Democrats
are playing the thoughtful wonkish local Democrats, not the other way around.
The thing is, I’ve already seen this movie, back in San Francisco, and I can
tell you with some confidence: _The socialists are lying._

[Michael Powell: The mainstreaming of Zohran
Mamdani](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2025/08/zohran-mamdani-
socialism-party/683890/)

From that point on, almost no politician running for office in the Bay Area—be
they a center-left Democrat, a communist, or a self-proclaimed centrist
(translated from Californian: “Republican”)—could publicly oppose the idea of
new construction. The significance of this movement is difficult to overstate.
To this day, everyone in San Francisco claims to support “affordable housing.”
Nobody wants the label of “NIMBY,” and not even the far left wants to leave
the impression that it stands in the way of new construction. It’s just that
the far left defines _affordable housing_ as 100-percent-government-subsidized
housing for poor people, and they will dutifully stand in the way of
everything else.

The best-case scenario here, as far as I can tell, is that virulent leftists
will embrace their new Abundance brand to champion the same policies they’ve
always championed, but they will maybe be slightly more open to building
things once they’re in power, and this will lead to incremental progress. We
can call this, maybe, the power of a good think piece. But there is no
incremental path to solving the housing crisis. If you want more housing, _if
you want abundant housing_ , building housing has to be your goal—not giving
everyone a voice, not averting gentrification, not even focusing on some
nebulous “equity.” You need policies that make building easier. You need to
kill policies that make building more expensive. And then you have to build.

Fortunately, we do have examples of American men who prioritized building.

Robert Moses was born in 1888, and came into power in the 1920s. Though, not
exactly democratically. He did once run for governor as a Republican, but he
moved on from that loss in a manner fairly apolitical, and dominated New York
City politics from the bureaucratic shadows until the late 1960s. At the end
of his career, he had overseen construction of 416 miles of highways, seven
major bridges, dozens of public parks, more than 600 playgrounds, 11 public
pools, and major civic works like Lincoln Center and the United Nations
Headquarters. This one man completely reshaped New York City, and he is the
last American who ever effected this degree of material change in our country.
Probably, there should be a holiday in his honor. But, as we are living in the
clown world, he’s _incredibly_ controversial—especially on the left.

As it turns out, meaningful change requires power, and not of the symbolic
sort so popular today. Moses navigated New York City’s snake-pit politics for
years, quietly accumulating allies and influence—he held 12 government posts
simultaneously at his peak, as he wrote new laws and created various agencies
as needed—which allowed him to bypass elected officials and fund projects
through tolls and bonds. Committees were meant to be conquered, and there was
no “community review.” He bulldozed entire neighborhoods when necessary, and
he built.

But as successful as he was, he was not nearly so successful as Franklin D.
Roosevelt.

FDR is a hero of the Democratic Party and is often regarded as the greatest
“liberal” of the 20th century. He also served four terms as president, built
basically our entire deep state, and was the closest thing this country ever
had to a dictator. But! The man was effective. Not even a Republican can take
that away from him, and they tried.

From the Great Depression into the war years, FDR presided over what must have
felt to most Americans like the End Times. He faced numerous existential
crises. To overcome them, he dramatically expanded the power of the executive
branch, building out an entire shadow state of federal agencies—the Works
Progress Administration, the Public Works Administration, the Civilian
Conservation Corps, the Rural Electrification Administration. One of the most
illustrative examples of FDR’s power is probably the Tennessee Valley
Authority, a federally owned utility that seized land, displaced residents,
and was set up to operate beyond accountability from any local election, yet
electrified and modernized _a seven-state region_. (The federal utility is run
by presidential appointees to this day.)

These unelected nodes of power bypassed governors, mayors, and every local
NIMBY council in the country (before we called them that), running nationwide
infrastructural development straight from the Oval Office.

FDR’s new government distributed contracts, hired workers, and selected
projects based on federal priorities. “Community input” was not a thing, or at
least it was not a thing the president cared about. Democracy meant that FDR
was democratically elected … to do basically whatever he wanted. This entailed
a dramatic increase to the national debt, which jumped from $22 billion to
nearly $260 billion under his leadership. But much of what the nation bought
for that money is still being used today.

In the end, despite endless Republican crying, Roosevelt’s administration
built more than 70 percent of all public schools constructed in the 1930s,
along with libraries, post offices, courthouses, and roads—often steering
resources to politically useful allies while freezing out his opposition
(yikes, but a library’s a library, I guess). He also, in his spare time,
defeated the Nazis.

* * *

Liberal values might be reduced to something like _democracy, equality, and
progress_. But the far left’s definition of progress is primarily social—in
that democracy, or the performance of democracy, along with material equality,
by which the far left means a flattening of outcomes, are more greatly prized
than material change. And progress defined as something more like material
change—meaningful change that improves the lives of everyone, permanently—is
impossible without hierarchy, vision, and power. This means, first, that the
left’s values are fundamentally in conflict, which is how we so often wind up
having conversations about, for example, the cost of a bus ride in New York,
which Mamdani believes should be free.

Wonks who value the existence of the subway understand that more revenue—like,
say, the millions of dollars annually that come from rider fares—means more
resources for ride improvement and policing, which increases ridership, which
in turn keeps the entire system alive. More honest wonks will even admit that
a _slight_ barrier of entry improves the ride dramatically for most people.
But the far left fundamentally does not care about this. Ideologically, its
adherents do not believe that an amazing transit system that only an
overwhelming majority of people can afford is preferable to a grossly degraded
system that everyone, technically, can access. This belief extends to roads,
housing, schools, everything.

Abundance is not a democratic project. Abundance inherently requires
authority, and accepting trade-offs that are very much at odds with the
socialist project, or at least as that project is currently imagined by
_American_ socialists. In the U.S.S.R., they did—you really have to give it to
them—have infrastructure. They just also had the Holodomor. But Democrats will
need to pick a lane here, the endless performance of “democracy” in every
aspect of our lives, or building shit that works.

Then, although a properly executed Abundance agenda would certainly produce
jobs, another thing progress _isn’t_ is a jobs program.

[Derek Thompson: A simple plan to solve all of Americans**’**
problems](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2025/05/abundance-
democrats-political-power/682929/)

A century ago, it took Americans 410 days to build the Empire State Building.
In San Francisco, officials took more than 540 days to build a $1.7 million
public toilet. This is the same city, unbelievably, that took just four years
to build the Golden Gate Bridge, completed in 1937. Back in 2021, Biden passed
his now-infamous [Trillion Dollar Paint
Job](https://www.piratewires.com/p/trillion-dollar-paint-job?f=home). He
promised Americans infrastructure as part of a $1.2 trillion jobs and
infrastructure plan—what seemed to me like quite a lot of money for a couple
new bridges. But the biggest problem here was not the price. It was that we
didn’t get the bridges. It’s 2025. Where’s the infrastructure?

People often wonder how such failures happen. Have we simply forgotten how to
build? The answer is simple and depressing. Biden’s bill did not result in
meaningful large-scale infrastructure because, as I wrote at the time, the
bill [did not](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/infrastructure-investment-and-jobs-
act/apportionment.cfm%20https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-
content/uploads/2022/05/BUILDING-A-BETTER-
AMERICA-V2.pdf%20https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/01/us/politics/mitch-
landrieu-infrastructure-biden.html) outline, or even indicate the existence
of, a plan to build infrastructure. This was not an oversight.

Just as the primary interest of a teacher’s union is not to ensure the best
possible education for young people, but to secure better pay and more time
off for teachers, the primary interest of our bloated state and local
workforce on any given project is not to ensure that project’s swift and
magnificent completion. Its purpose is to secure money—as much of it as
possible, for steady work that takes as long as possible. What was
California’s high-speed-rail fiasco but a jobs program? What is to this day
the chief purpose of every homeless NGO in San Francisco but the employment of
NGO staff? Because it’s sure as hell not solving homelessness.

The center left can have its thoughtful debate about housing policy. Pete
Buttigieg can appear on every podcast in the echo chamber to ask questions
about how hard it should be for me to build something new on property I own,
as if this were some kind of very advanced puzzle. But the reality is that the
Democratic base isn’t actually voting for abundance. The voters who make up
the backbone of the party, representing everything from government and
private-sector unions to NGOs, are voting for steady work paid at a bloated
premium (and in perpetuity for those lucky enough to score a pension), not to
fix any of the problems their jobs ostensibly exist to solve. We have the
country we have today because this is what the voters requested. _This is
democracy._

This means that even if Abundance libs are somehow able to survive an alliance
with the Luigi Left, which will never—I’m really very sorry—ever take orders
from Ezra Klein, they will still have to contend with the fact that nobody in
any position of power, be they Democrat or Republican, is structurally
incentivized by our political system to build. Our problem is that solving
most of our problems in infrastructure, in housing, in manufacturing means
crossing labor, which is to say the roughly 14 million American union workers.
There is a reason Trump just very publicly came out against automated labor at
our ports to keep the longshoreman union happy. And that reason is: He had to.

Abundance Democrats can have abundance or they can be popular in Brooklyn, but
they can’t have both, which is why my sense today is that the movement is made
up entirely of well-meaning but hopelessly naive optimists, and very clever
propagandists who understand that the project is hopeless, but communists need
better branding.

And look, “Abundance!” is a good brand. Or, it’s better than cheering for
murder. But the brand alone can’t build a bullet train, and if the socialists
win, there won’t be any bullet train fast enough to save us.
