title: Casual Viewing | Issue 49 | n+1 | Will Tavlin
source: https://www.nplusonemag.com/issue-49/essays/casual-viewing/
date: 2025-08-13T15:08:31.361142
tags: []
---
Until recently no Hollywood studio had ever released two movies with the same
name at the same time. At most studios, such a strategy would be unthinkable.
Audiences might accidentally buy tickets to the wrong film, and the PR fallout
would be disastrous: snipes from trade-magazine writers; angry calls from
investors questioning the studios’ business acumen; angrier calls from agents
demanding to know why their clients’ images were being intentionally
sabotaged.

Netflix, however, is not most studios. On April Fools’ Day, 2022, the company
released a Judd Apatow comedy titled _The Bubble_ , which takes place on the
set of a Hollywood dinosaur franchise that’s forced to quarantine in the
middle of the Covid-19 pandemic. Four weeks later, it released an animated
film by Tetsurō Araki, director of the popular Japanese anime shows _Death
Note_ and _Attack on Titan_ , about a postapocalyptic world in which the law
of gravity ceases to exist. Araki’s film was called _Bubble_.

There were no box office mix-ups, no snipes from the press, no angry calls.
The few critics who bothered to write about it panned Apatow’s _Bubble_ , an
unfunny comedy that’s duller than the blockbuster franchises it makes fun of.
Nobody had anything to say about Araki’s _Bubble_ , a TV movie better suited
to a graveyard slot on a children’s cable network. Like all Netflix movies,
_Bubble_ and _The Bubble_ floated away as quickly as they appeared, becoming
tiles in the company’s sprawling mosaic of content, destined to be autoplayed
on laptops whose owners have fallen asleep.

For years Ted Sarandos, the Netflix co-CEO who pioneered this distribution
strategy, has been hailed by the press as a visionary. Even after the
streaming giant faltered in 2022, recording an overall loss of subscribers for
the first time in a decade, the podcast impresario Scott Galloway raced to
Sarandos’s defense in the _New York Times_ , comparing him and Netflix
cofounder Reed Hastings to “A-Rod and Barry Bonds.” He added, “You don’t want
to bet against these guys.” Galloway had apparently forgotten that the two
baseball players he named had tested positive for performance-enhancing drugs
at the height of their careers. In this way his comparison was more accurate
than he intended. Netflix is a steroidal company, pumped up by lies and
deceit, and has broken all of Hollywood’s rules.

For a century, the business of running a Hollywood studio was straightforward.
The more people watched films, the more money the studios made. With Netflix,
however, audiences don’t pay for individual films. They pay a subscription to
watch everything, and this has enabled a strange phenomenon to take root.
Netflix’s movies don’t have to abide by any of the norms established over the
history of cinema: they don’t have to be profitable, pretty, sexy,
intelligent, funny, well-made, or anything else that pulls audiences into
theater seats. Netflix’s audiences watch from their homes, on couches, in
beds, on public transportation, and on toilets. Often they aren’t even
watching.

Over the past decade, Netflix, which first emerged as a destroyer of video
stores, has developed a powerful business model to conquer television, only to
unleash its strange and destructive power on the cinema. In doing so, it has
brought Hollywood to the brink of irrelevance. Because Netflix doesn’t just
survive when no one is watching — it thrives.

* * *

As Reed Hastings tells it, the Netflix eureka moment came in 1997, when he
rented a VHS of _Apollo 13_ from Blockbuster Video. Some weeks later, he
discovered the tape under a pile of papers in his dining room. He had
forgotten to return it. When he did return it, Hastings was shocked to learn
that he owed $40 in late fees. “I felt so stupid,” he later said of the
experience. “I was embarrassed about it.”

Hastings wasn’t alone. In the 1990s, Blockbuster was reviled by its customers.
As the journalist Gina Keating found in her 2012 history _Netflixed_ ,
Blockbuster’s own research showed that customers usually had to visit stores
for five weekends in a row to get what they wanted. Stores were overstocked
with movies no one cared about and employees left empty VHS boxes on shelves,
giving the appearance that a store’s inventory was larger than it actually
was. Worst of all were the late fees: a late return often tripled the price of
a Blockbuster rental, and a lost tape could set you back as much as $200. The
system was widely despised — customers filed twenty-three separate class-
action lawsuits against Blockbuster over unfair late charges — but
outrageously profitable. In 2000, near the company’s peak, Blockbuster
collected nearly $800 million in late fees, accounting for 16 percent of its
annual revenue. Internally, company executives described its business model as
one of “managed dissatisfaction.”

****

The year of the _Apollo 13_ incident, Hastings sold his software business Pure
Atria to another tech company for more than $700 million. His experience at
Blockbuster got him thinking. “Was there another model,” he wondered, “to
provide the pleasure of watching movies in your own living room without
inflicting the pain of paying a lot when you forgot to return them?” Hastings
and Marc Randolph, Pure Atria’s chief of product marketing, began to
brainstorm a new kind of movie rental business. They had noticed Amazon’s
success selling books over the internet. Why not do the same with movies?

Using $2 million of Hastings’s own money, the duo began testing hundreds of
ways to sell and rent DVDs by mail. The model Hastings and Randolph eventually
solidified, in 1999, was simple. Netflix would charge customers a fixed
monthly fee to rent up to four movies at a time. (This was soon reduced to
three.) Customers could keep the discs as long as they wanted — no more late
fees — but could only rent new movies after they mailed back the old ones. The
open-ended approach was more convenient for customers than Blockbuster’s. But
for Hastings and Randolph, customer satisfaction was secondary. The duo was
trying to solve a logistical problem.

Netflix’s DVD catalog was not constrained by the size and shelf space of a
brick-and-mortar store. Whereas Blockbuster might have to stock fourteen
copies of a “big” title — like Steven Spielberg’s _A.I._ — at the expense of
other options, Netflix could stock _A.I._ and Mario Bava’s _Four Times That
Night_ and Richard Lester’s _The Three Musketeers_ , too. But even with fewer
spatial constraints, housing several hundred thousand DVDs in the Netflix
warehouse was inefficient. “Reed and I began riffing,” Randolph later
explained. “‘It’s kind of a shame that we have all these DVDs sitting here in
a warehouse doing no good. I wonder if there was some way to store them in our
customers’ houses? Can we let them keep the DVDs? Can they just hold on to
them as long as they want?’”

A decade before Airbnb persuaded homeowners to transform their homes into
hotels, Netflix convinced its users to turn theirs into mini Netflix
warehouses. Customers who held onto their DVDs for longer meant fewer shipping
costs for Netflix, and fewer DVDs for the company to manage and store. Netflix
tracked heavy users of its service — labeling them internally as “pigs” — and
secretly throttled their deliveries. It didn’t matter if Netflix rented fewer
DVDs than Blockbuster, because the company would keep collecting its monthly
fee. The difference between Blockbuster and Netflix was this: Blockbuster
punished customers for being forgetful; Netflix rewarded them for being
mindless.

* * *

Netflix grew its business by targeting companies that Americans hated, and the
only company that Americans hated more than Blockbuster was their local cable
provider. In the early 1990s, cable providers began working with the
television networks to push the limits of what they could extort from
customers, building on a rich history of viewer-screwing innovations like fees
for set-top boxes and annual contracts that were impossible to cancel. Between
1995 and 2005, providers doubled the number of channels in the average cable
package and raised prices at three times the rate of inflation. In 2007, FCC
chairman Kevin Martin wrote in a letter to advocacy groups that “the average
cable subscriber was paying for more than eighty-five channels that she didn’t
watch in order to obtain the approximately sixteen channels that she does.”
The average cable package cost more than $700 per year.

Hastings had always wanted to push Netflix toward cable television. Film
producer Mynette Louie learned this firsthand in the late ’90s. Before she
entered the film industry, Louie worked for a market-research firm that
specialized in internet companies. It was the height of the dot-com bubble,
and each week different start-up CEOs dropped by Louie’s office to pitch their
businesses. She still remembers the day Hastings came in to speak about
Netflix. “He said, ‘We’re not in the DVD business. The only reason why we have
these DVDs is to scale the customer base for what we ultimately want to do,
which is streaming,’” Louie told me in an interview this year.

Out of all the start-up founders Louie met, Hastings stuck out. “He was so
impressive,” she said. “We didn’t know it was going to destroy the film
business as we knew it.” During its first decade of operations, Netflix waited
patiently for broadband internet speeds to become fast enough to support a
streaming platform, draining Blockbuster of its customers and insinuating
itself into the homes of millions of Americans in the process. In 2007, the
same year Martin wrote his letter, the technology was finally sufficient, and
Netflix launched its streaming platform.

****

The service, initially called Watch Now, was primitive. Netflix made just one
thousand titles available, which users could access only through Internet
Explorer on PCs. Still, long-oppressed cable subscribers immediately
recognized Watch Now’s appeal. Netflix’s streaming site offered viewers many
of the shows and films they’d find on cable for a fraction of the price, as
little as $5 per month. Hollywood studios were happy to license their second-
run content to Netflix, which at first seemed incapable of threatening their
cable interests. But the studios overlooked that streaming was more convenient
than cable, as Netflix beamed images directly onto viewers’ laptops — and,
soon enough, televisions and smartphones — with no annual contracts,
cancelable at any time. Above all, there were no ads.

Streaming made perfect sense for Netflix. Since it began shipping DVDs,
Netflix had hoarded customer data to improve its recommendation algorithms,
and Watch Now gave the company access to granular insights about audience
behavior in real time. The streaming platform eventually noted when viewers
watched from their computers, televisions, or phones; which scenes they
skipped, paused, or rewound; and how long it took them to abandon a show they
didn’t like or finish a season that they loved. This proved useful when
Netflix produced its first original series, in 2013, _House of Cards_. Company
executives claimed that they acquired the show, a political thriller starring
Kevin Spacey and directed by David Fincher, based on data that showed Netflix
users flocked to Spacey and Fincher films. Data helped with the show’s
release, too. Netflix engineers had observed that most viewers consumed
episodes of television in large batches, often without breaks in between.
Company executives called this “binge-watching.” Ted Sarandos, then Netflix’s
chief content officer, decided to feed the habit, releasing all thirteen
episodes of _House of Cards_ at once in defiance of the television industry’s
model of appointment viewing.

Netflix argued in its 2013 “Long-Term View” report to shareholders that the
company’s “originals” acquisition strategy was just one of many reasons that
“the linear TV experience” was “ripe for replacement.” “The data we have on
our members’ viewing habits,” Netflix stated, “enables us to avoid overpaying
for content” and “do as good or [a] better job than our linear TV peers in
choosing projects.” The company explained how its formal advantages — its lack
of prime-time slots, its varying episode and season lengths — “provide a
platform for more creative storytelling.” “A show that is taking a long time
to find its audience is one we can keep nurturing. This allows us to prudently
commit to a whole season, rather than just a pilot episode.”

None of this was true. Netflix did commit to producing two seasons of _House
of Cards_ without seeing a pilot (outbidding HBO and AMC with an up-front
offer of over $100 million — the very definition of “overpaying”), but this
had little to do with “nurturing” the show. “More creative storytelling” was
also a stretch: _House of Cards_ resembled much of the bland and high-budget
television that had dominated premium cable channels since the late 1990s. And
it wasn’t clear how much insight into Netflix’s members’ viewing habits was
really needed to green-light the show. After all, it didn’t take complex data
analysis to know that _House of Cards_ — an adaptation of an already popular
British series, remade with Hollywood stars — would find an audience.

* * *

For decades, television — with its episodic, high-volume format — had been
Hollywood’s most powerful economic engine. With a successful pilot, a
television producer could employ actors, directors, writers, and crew for as
many as thirty-four episodes over a single season. After a string of
successful seasons, the producer could sell the show in foreign territories,
screen it in other formats (DVDs, video on demand, airplanes), and eventually
syndicate it for reruns. All these sales produced residual payments: shares of
the profits for the writers, actors, and directors who worked on the show.

Residuals had been a fixture of Hollywood since the collapse of the studio
system in the 1950s, providing job security for tens of thousands of
professional artists. But streamers, which by 2014 included Hulu and Amazon,
saw residuals in a new light. They had no intention of rebroadcasting their
shows on linear television networks, in foreign territories, or on planes.
They already owned exhibition platforms — Netflix.com, Hulu.com, and
Amazon.com — that were increasingly accessible from all over the world and
from the most common internet-connected devices.

“The philosophy of the guilds was always, ‘If you reuse our material, and you
make money off the reuse of our material, then we should be compensated for
that,’” a former Writers Guild of America officer told me. The officer
recalled a 2014 conversation he had had with a studio executive about
streaming. “His response was, ‘I don’t pay my plumber every time I flush my
toilet.’” Netflix pioneered a different model. Instead of residuals, the
streamer offered producers a payment model known as “cost-plus.” With cost-
plus, Netflix offered to pay for an entire season up front — as it did with
_House of Cards_ — plus a “premium” that Netflix calculated, as Sarandos once
explained in an interview, “via what we think the back end would have been.”

****

Initially, the guilds didn’t see Netflix as a threat. “The WGA had its head in
the sand,” the former guild officer told me. “The guild thought, ‘If and when
Netflix becomes a proper studio, we’ll deal with it like how we deal with the
other studios.’”

But the guilds like the WGA and the Screen Actors Guild under-estimated just
how quickly Netflix would take over the industry. Suddenly, most of the work
in Hollywood was in streaming. And as the journalist Nicole LaPorte found in
an investigation for _Fast Company_ in 2018, little of it paid well. While
A-list showrunners like Shonda Rhimes and Ryan Murphy signed nine-figure
streaming production deals, everyone else saw their salaries shrink. Writers
who were paid per episode noticed that Netflix’s varying season lengths really
meant shorter seasons and smaller paychecks overall. Without residuals, small
jobs that used to generate reliable income for years became worthless. Some
actors learned they were making thirty times less than they would have on a
network show. Five years before the WGA and SAG’s historic overlapping strike,
which in part sought to redress the streamers’ elimination of back-end
payments, LaPorte concluded what it would take major newspapers and magazines
years to report: streaming had brought about “the death of Hollywood’s middle
class.”

In the years after _House of Cards_ debuted, Netflix flooded the market with
television shows. Its spending on content ballooned from $2.4 billion in 2013
to $12 billion in 2018. The other streamers — Hulu, Amazon, and Apple —
clamored to outspend one another and fill their content pipelines. Studios
like Disney withdrew their content licensed to Netflix and started their own
streaming services. By 2018, Netflix had taken over television, just as it had
taken over the video store. But by the time the other studios followed suit,
Netflix already had a new target: the film industry.

* * *

A few years after Mynette Louie had her run-in with Hastings, she quit her job
at the market-research firm and eventually became an independent film
producer, shepherding films by Andrew Bujalski and Karyn Kusama. In 2013, she
helped launch a financing company called Gamechanger Films that specialized in
funding narrative feature films directed by women. By then Netflix had already
been streaming for half a decade, and Louie’s timing seemed ideal. While
Netflix already had its eye on the mainstream — in 2014 it announced a $250
million four-picture deal with Adam Sandler — much of its film budget was
devoted to funding small- to mid-budget projects and aggressively acquiring
finished independent films at top American festivals.

Louie benefited from Netflix’s splurge. In 2015 the company picked up the
streaming rights to Kusama’s _The Invitation_ after the film’s premiere at
South by Southwest. Louie sold two more films to the streamer the following
year, both for generous fees. “We were made whole by those sales, which was
amazing,” Louie told me. “Amazing for our filmmakers, amazing for our
investors, and at the time we thought, ‘Great, we’ll just keep making movies.’
We were all very hopeful about indie film having a place.”

It had been a long time since independent film had occupied anything like a
prominent place in Hollywood. In the 1990s, the emergence of home video and
foreign television outlets provided a rising generation of auteurs — Richard
Linklater, Allison Anders, Gus Van Sant, and so on — with a deluge of new
markets that multiplied their commercial success. Ted Hope, a film producer
and cofounder of the indie production company Good Machine, recalled how
foreign buyers helped his films thrive. “If you picture about one hundred
different territories where you could find an audience,” he told me, “and a
minimum of five different distributors in each market, you had five hundred
different ways to find success. Everybody had a structure where they could
take more chances.” The sheer number of buyers meant that indie filmmakers
could fund their entire movies through foreign distribution sales alone, all
before they shot a single scene. The competitive environment was good for
audiences, too, as new indie distributors like Miramax, Fine Line, and
October, aiming to make a name for themselves, raced to acquire work made by
the most audacious filmmakers from the United States and abroad.

Rather than cultivate this success, the largest Hollywood studios spent the
first decade of the new millennium stamping it out. Despite launching and
acquiring indie film wings of their own, the Hollywood majors began focusing
their resources on IP-driven, family-oriented blockbuster franchises and used
their vast resources to book these films on thousands of screens at once,
crowding out competition from smaller films. After the 2008 crash, risk-averse
executives increasingly gave themselves permission to drop their mid-budget
fare entirely and produce predictable blockbusters about superheroes that,
when successful, generated billions of dollars in box-office revenue.

The optimism Louie felt when Netflix and Amazon began acquiring indie films in
the mid-2010s was warranted. What Hope described as five hundred ways to find
success had always involved a degree of risk. Producing an indie film required
cobbling together funding sources, many of which were contingent and could
fall through at a moment’s notice. With Netflix and Amazon, there was just one
deal for global distribution, and the streamers’ cost-plus premiums guaranteed
that investors made a profit. As the streamers increasingly paid enormous sums
for the global rights to independent films — like Amazon’s $10 million for Dan
Fogelman’s _Life Itself_ , or Netflix’s $8 million for Marti Noxon’s _To the
Bone_ — they simplified the indie film production process and enriched
investors all at once.

And global distribution meant larger audiences, or so the thinking went.
Speaking to Business Insider in 2017, Elijah Wood, the star of that year’s
Netflix film _I Don’t Feel at Home in This World Anymore_ , was enthusiastic.
“There was a time in the ’90s that this would have been a title that would
have gone direct to video, which would have been some certain kind of death,”
Wood told his interviewer. “But that’s not the case anymore. If anything,
[Netflix] created this equal opportunity for filmmakers.”

As many journalists have pointed out, Netflix and Amazon weren’t traditional
Hollywood studios in any sense. The streamers were tech companies, outsiders
whose business models didn’t rely on making a billion dollars at the box
office from a single franchise film. “The tech giants have more leeway to
experiment,” wrote _Wired_ ’s Julia Greenberg __ in 2016. “A single movie or
show on Netflix and Amazon needn’t appeal to everyone; the key for both
platforms is making sure they offer enough of everything to attract anyone.”
The streamers could acquire fringe and pathbreaking films that the largest
studios had ignored. Perhaps indie cinema could rise once again.

Netflix took risks on films from distinguished auteurs, like Bong Joon-ho’s
_Okja_ , a science fantasy about ecoterrorists trying to rescue an enormous
bioengineered pig, and Alice Rohrwacher’s portrait of an ingenuous
sharecropper in the Italian countryside, _Happy as Lazzaro_. And it acquired
ambitious documentaries, like _13th_ , Ava DuVernay’s history of the American
prison–industrial complex, and _Icarus_ , Bryan Fogel’s film about a Russian
sports scientist who helped his athletes avoid doping regulations for years.
(The latter delivered Netflix its first Academy Award for a feature-length
film.)

But its commitment to good filmmaking was short-lived. As with its DVD-rental
business and its pivot into streaming, Netflix’s concern was scale, rather
than the cinema it was scaling. Movies, as the founder had told Louie, were
merely a means to an end: acquiring subscribers who paid for access to
Netflix’s entire library of content every month.

The range of indie films on Netflix didn’t resemble the ’90s boom and its
cultivation of new auteurs. As the years went on, the streamer picked up
lifeless vehicles for A-list talent like _The_ _Polka King_ , a comedy
starring Jack Black as Jan Lewan, the real-life Polish immigrant and polka
band leader who launched a multimillion-dollar Ponzi scheme; preposterous
directorial feature-length debuts like Brie Larson’s _Unicorn Store_ , a
fantasy-comedy starring Larson as a failing artist who learns that unicorns
are real and that Samuel L. Jackson wants to sell her one; and found-object
curios not worth remembering, like the 2016 biopic _Barry,_ starring __ Anya
Taylor-Joy as Barack Obama’s white college girlfriend.

Film studios have always released duds: movies that fail to gain traction and
are shuttled to the studios’ archives, where they disappear into obscurity.
Until recently, for most studios, a forgotten film was a sign of failure. But
Netflix, uniquely, seemed to relish making its films vanish as soon as they
were released, dumping them onto its platform and doing as little as possible
to distinguish one from the next. “Your film ends up as a thumbnail, and
culturally it doesn’t make a splash. It’s not the same,” one producer with
movies on Netflix told me. “Unless you’re Scorsese or something, the streamers
don’t craft custom bespoke marketing campaigns for these films.”

Netflix’s antimarketing strategies made no sense to anyone in the movie
business. Marketing had always been part of the lifeblood of cinema, the
driving force that raised audience awareness, drove ticket sales, and aided
films as they wormed their way through their ancillary windows. It was
especially vital to independent films. “In the old days,” Hope told me, “one
of the great inefficiencies that existed was when you made a movie, you had to
go ahead and tell everyone about it in order to get the small percentage of
people that you’d actually be able to drive to become a ticket buyer. Whether
your movie was crap or beautiful, you still had to tell everybody.” Print
advertising, TV and radio spots, press junkets, magazine interviews and
profiles, college screenings, cast appearances on the late-night talk-show
circuit: all this was part of the playbook for cementing a small-budget film
in the memory of the moviegoing public and turning it into an enduring hit
that could generate profits in perpetuity.

None of this mattered to Netflix. All viewing of its movies was confined to
its platform, which supplied users with algorithmic recommendations tailored
to their every whim. As Sarandos bragged in 2015 during an interview with TV
Insider about Netflix’s television series: “A lot of the heavy lifting of
getting audiences to the show is done with the user interface. . . . Marketing
spends we do mostly to attract subscribers to join Netflix. The actual viewing
of shows, the user interface is driving almost all of that.”

But Netflix’s user interface was hardly a replacement for the traditional
marketing distributors once used to get audiences into theaters. Between 2016
and 2017, Netflix spent tens of millions of dollars acquiring indie films and
documentaries to fill out its platform: _The Polka King_ and _Unicorn Store_ ,
but also _The Incredible Jessica James_ , _The Mars Generation_ , a movie
called _Fun Mom Dinner_ , and many, many more. The vast majority of these
films have effectively disappeared, like the thousands of silent films from
the 1910s and ’20s that Hollywood studios lost before they standardized film
preservation.

Unlike those films, Netflix’s movies still exist and can be watched on their
website. But for the most part they aren’t. If Netflix’s executives learned
anything from indie film it was this: on the platform, you didn’t need to make
a hit to succeed. You didn’t even need your film to be remembered. You just
needed, in Greenberg’s words, “enough of everything to attract anyone.”

* * *

It didn’t take long for the streamers to abandon independent film altogether.
Ted Hope learned this the hard way. Back in 2015, when Amazon was first
attempting to break into original movies, the streamer hired Hope as the head
of development of its film division. It seemed like a natural fit. Amazon was
trying to distinguish itself by distributing sophisticated auteurs, the kinds
of filmmakers Hope had been producing since the early 1990s. The pairing
started off well. In 2016, the studio’s first full year of releases, Hope
acquired Kenneth Lonergan’s _Manchester by the Sea_ and Asghar Farhadi’s _The
Salesman_ , which together collected three Oscars: best screenplay, best
actor, and best foreign-language film.

But as Hope learned, making a successful movie on a streaming platform didn’t
necessarily make a streaming platform successful. At Amazon, Hope discovered
he was in the customer acquisition business, not the film business. “And the
way you win the customer acquisition business,” Hope said, “is by maintaining
a regular cadence at a consistent quality in an environment that people
trust.” Competition intensified, with Apple, Disney, Paramount, and
NBCUniversal all entering the fray, and “it became tougher to keep a
customer,” said Hope, “as people would dip in and dip out.”

In an effort to reduce “churn,” the rate at which customers canceled their
subscriptions, the streamers began pushing a different kind of production
model. Instead of acquiring films by auteurs, which had gotten them into
trouble — Maïmouna Doucouré’s _Cuties_ , a film about preteen dancers in
Paris, sparked a baseless right-wing panic that Netflix was sexualizing
children — they turned to a safer, more uniform product that could be made in-
house, and replicated and tailored to the diverse tastes of their enormous
subscriber bases. (This also guaranteed they’d keep global distribution rights
instead of having to negotiate for them.) “They no longer wanted that
outlier,” Hope said. “They wanted someone to have correct expectations: ‘Oh,
look at those two couples kissing. One’s wearing pool flippers. That must be a
romantic comedy. I get it, do you want to watch a romantic comedy tonight?’
And that’s what it reduced down to. As long as people got what they expected,
they stayed in tune.”

In documentaries, too, executives shifted to conventional feed. “It’s not
enough to do something that a few million people might really love when you’re
trying to reach twenty-five million people or fifty million people,” a former
Netflix executive told the journalist Reeves Wiedeman in a 2023 article in
_New York_ about the documentary streaming “boom.” “A lot of documentaries — I
would say the majority of documentaries — don’t meet that bar.” So what did?
Grisly true crime, garish cult exposés, celebrity hagiography, sports and food
miniseries, pop science, and pets. Netflix’s documentary slate quickly became
a supermarket aisle of tabloid magazines.1

In 2021 Netflix announced that it would start releasing a new original movie
every week. A certain style soon began to take shape, a mind-numbing
anticinema that anyone who has subscribed to Netflix in recent years knows by
sight. I’ll call it the Typical Netflix Movie (TNM). From the outside, the TNM
looks algorithmically constructed, as if designed to cater to each of
Netflix’s two thousand “taste clusters,” the genre-like groupings Netflix uses
to segment its audience, green-light programs, and recommend films and shows
to subscribers. The TNM covers every niche interest and identity category in
existence, such as a movie about a tall girl, _Tall Girl_ , but also _Horse
Girl_ , _Skater Girl_ , _Sweet Girl_ , _Lost Girls_ , and _Nice Girls_.
Seemingly optimized for search engines, the title of a TNM announces exactly
what it is — hence a romantic comedy about a wine executive called _A Perfect
Pairing_ , or a murder mystery called _Murder Mystery_. The opening credit
sequence looks thrown together, as if its designer were playing roulette with
Adobe templates in After Effects. A typical shot frames two characters, waist
up, in profile as the camera slowly dollies across them, a slow and constant
whir meant to inject motion into an otherwise inert frame. There is a
preponderance of drone shots. The characters’ dialogue is stilted, filled with
overexplanation, clichés, and lingo no human would ever use, like two bots
stuck in a loop. “Want to catch a beer?” a buddy asks Adam Sandler in _Murder
Mystery_ :

> Nick (Adam Sandler): I can’t . I gotta run a few errands.
>
> Jimmy: What? You don’t want a beer? What’s wrong?
>
> Nick: I got the results back from the detective exam.
>
> Jimmy: You failed again. This is why I never took that test . All the
> anxiety and disappointment . At some point you have to realize you have hit
> your ceiling and just give up .

The editors of these films seem to have just given up, too. The cutting
between shots is frenetic. The lighting is terrible. The TNM looks both
oversaturated and flat, with the blacks brightened and the highlights dulled,
a result of Netflix’s insistence that its originals be shot with powerful
digital cameras that compress poorly on viewers’ laptops and televisions.
(Netflix might be the first studio in Hollywood history to consistently make
daylight look bad.) The TNM also never turns down an opportunity to use CGI
for shots that don’t need it, such as the kicking of a soccer ball in _The
Kissing Booth_. Worst of all is the music: in the absence of any mise-en-
scène, the TNM pipes in recognizable tunes from expensive, blue-chip artists
to create moods, such as the vacuous, third-order use of David Bowie’s “Let’s
Dance” in _Irish Wish_ , the mercilessly random Lindsay Lohan body-swap
fantasy in which she schemes to marry a rich Irish novelist who lives in a
castle.

In 2022, after Netflix’s subscriber numbers dipped and its stock tanked,
journalists were quick to link the company’s excessive output with a drop in
what they tepidly referred to as “quality control.” Responding to claims that
Netflix had pursued “drunken sailor spending,” Sarandos provided a
justification to Maureen Dowd in the _New York Times_ : “We were trying to
build a library to make up for not having ninety years of storytelling.”

But high output alone can’t account for Netflix’s garbage quality. In the
1920s and ’30s, studios like Paramount and Warner Bros. put out as many as
seventy movies per year. Around its peak in the ’90s, Miramax tried releasing
a new film almost every week. The difference between Netflix and its
predecessors is that the older studios had a business model that rewarded
cinematic expertise and craft. Netflix, on the other hand, is staffed by
unsophisticated executives who have no plan for their movies and view them
with contempt. Cindy Holland, the first employee Sarandos hired, who
eventually served as vice president of original content, once compared
Netflix’s rapacious DVD acquisition strategy to “shoveling coal in the side
door of the house.” This remained true as Netflix ramped up its original-film
production. In researching this essay, I was told by sources about two high-
level Netflix executives who have been known to green-light projects without
reading the scripts at all.

Such slipshod filmmaking works for the streaming model, since audiences at
home are often barely paying attention. Several screenwriters who’ve worked
for the streamer told me a common note from company executives is “have this
character announce what they’re doing so that viewers who have this program on
in the background can follow along.” (“We spent a day together,” Lohan tells
her lover, James, in _Irish Wish_. “I admit it was a beautiful day filled with
dramatic vistas and romantic rain, but that doesn’t give you the right to
question my life choices. Tomorrow I’m marrying Paul Kennedy.” “Fine,” he
responds. “That will be the last you see of me because after this job is over
I’m off to Bolivia to photograph an endangered tree lizard.”)

One tag among Netflix’s thirty-six thousand microgenres offers a suitable name
for this kind of dreck: “casual viewing.” Usually reserved for breezy network
sitcoms, reality television, and nature documentaries, the category describes
much of Netflix’s film catalog — movies that go down best when you’re not
paying attention, or as the _Hollywood Reporter_ recently described _Atlas_ ,
a 2024 sci-fi film starring Jennifer Lopez, “another Netflix movie made to
half-watch while doing laundry.” A high-gloss product that dissolves into air.
Tide Pod cinema.

* * *

Marc Randolph, who quit Netflix in 2002, has explained that his cofounder’s
origin story about the Blockbuster late fee for _Apollo 13_ was made up. “[It
was] a lot of crap,” Randolph told the _Netflixed_ writer Gina Keating. “It
never happened.” According to Randolph, the _Apollo 13_ story began as “a
convenient fiction” to explain the benefits of Netflix’s subscription model
but took on a life of its own. In the mid-2000s, Blockbuster demanded that
Hastings stop repeating the anecdote in public. “Blockbuster had searched its
databases after hearing the story,” Keating reported, “and never found such a
transaction.”

Hastings’s lie marked the beginning of a campaign of deception and
obfuscation. Despite harvesting large troves of data on users’ viewing habits,
Netflix for years refused to release any of it — not even to the producers,
directors, and stars of its supposed “hit” movies and shows. Keeping talent in
the dark proved to be a useful negotiating tactic when the streamer renewed a
television show or green-lit a movie sequel. At the same time, withholding
data protected the company from public scrutiny by obscuring how little
audiences were watching its original programming in a meaningful way — from
start to finish, or even at all.

****

Netflix was no different from its competitors. “The number of things that tank
on Amazon is remarkable,” a former Amazon Studios executive told me. “There
are so many things that people hardly watch and it would be embarrassing to
release those streaming numbers. I used to get this daily email, which
basically said, ‘here are the one hundred movies that people are watching most
on Amazon SVOD today by the minute.’ It was always a lot of Tom Cruise sci-fi
movies, action movies from the ’90s and aughts, and _Talladega Nights_.”

That audiences clearly prefer the films of the past has been an inconvenient
fact for the streamers who tout themselves as the future of entertainment.2
But rather than address the problem by improving the quality of their
programming and distribution, the streamers obscure the failure of their
originals even further with PR bluster. Ever since it moved into original
content, Netflix had been making ridiculous claims about its films and shows
with little to no pushback from the Hollywood press. In a 2018 article about
Netflix published in _New York_ , Sarandos described _The Kissing Booth_ , an
unmemorable teen romance starring Jacob Elordi and Joey King, as “one of the
most-watched movies in the country, and maybe in the world.” His evidence? The
rankings of Elordi and King on something called the “Star-o-Meter,” a user-
derived measurement for the popularity of celebrities on IMDb.com. “Three
weeks ago on the IMDb Star-o-Meter, which is how they rank their popularity,
[Elordi] was No. 25,000. Today he is the No. 1 star in the world,” Sarandos
claimed. “And Joey King, the female lead, went from like No. 17,000 to No. 6.
This is a movie that I bet you’d never heard of until I just mentioned it to
you.”

Every week Netflix seemed to deliver a new movie no one had ever heard of that
somehow broke every viewing record in the world. There was _Army of the Dead_
, Zack Snyder’s 2021 zombie heist film whose ensemble cast included retired
wrestler Dave Bautista and the comedian Tig Notaro; according to Netflix’s
bottom-of-the-barrel PR organ Tudum, it was “the #1 film around the world and
is projected to be one of Netflix’s most popular films ever in its first 4
weeks.” _Airplane Mode_ , a 2020 Brazilian comedy about an influencer, wasn’t
covered by any major outlet. But on Twitter, Tudum issued a “✈ hit alert ✈”
calling it “the most popular non-English film on Netflix” of 2020. A few
months later, Tudum announced a new record breaker: _The Old Guard_ , an
action movie starring Charlize Theron released at the height of the pandemic.
No one could claim with a serious face that the film was as popular as the
junk television Netflix released during the company’s pandemic boom, like
_Tiger King_ and _Emily in Paris_. Still, Tudum described _The Old Guard_ as a
“blockbuster” that was “already among the top 10 most popular Netflix films
ever,” and “on track to reach 72M households in its first 4 weeks!”

Reaching seventy-two million households didn’t mean what it sounded like it
meant. What it actually meant was that seventy-two million accounts watched at
least two minutes of _The_ _Old Guard_. According to Netflix, two minutes was
“long enough to indicate the choice was intentional,” even though Netflix
designed its viewing experience to be totally _unintentional_. An essential
part of Netflix’s platform is its autoplay feature, which launches users into
the next episode of a television series, or an algorithmically chosen movie,
seconds after a program ends and sometimes just before the credits roll.

In 2023, in response to industry pressure, and as a flex against other less
successful streaming platforms, the company began releasing biannual reports
that contained the total number of “views” for each of its eighteen-thousand-
plus titles over the previous six months. On a conference call with reporters,
Sarandos claimed this was the most transparent representation of its data ever
shown to the public.

Netflix’s “views” might look impressive on paper (even _Sweet Girl_ , the TNM
starring Jason Momoa as a vengeance-seeking survivalist whose MMA-trained
daughter takes up his cause, was viewed 6.7 million times in the first half of
2024), but these figures remain a sham. To get to 6.7 million, Netflix first
tallies the film’s “viewing hours,” the total amount of time that users have
spent streaming the movie. Here, Netflix makes no distinction between users
who watch _Sweet Girl_ all the way through, those who watch less than two
minutes, and those who watch just a few seconds thanks to autoplay, or skip
around, or watch at 1.5x speed. All this distracted, piecemeal activity is
rolled into _Sweet Girl_ ’s total viewing hours (12.3 million at last count),
which the company then divides by the program’s runtime (110 minutes, or 1.83
hours) to produce those 6.7 million views. According to Netflix’s rubric, two
users who watch the first half of _Sweet Girl_ and close their laptops equal
one full “view” — as do 110 users who each watch a single minute.

Such sleight of hand would be illegal in any other industry. Ford could never
tell its shareholders that it sold two hundred thousand F-150 trucks over a
single quarter, when in truth the company sold one hundred thousand F-150s to
married couples who co-owned their vehicles. But for Netflix, a movie is an
accounting trick — a tranche of pixels that allows the company to release
increasingly fantastical statements about its viewership, such as the absurd
notion that _Leave the World Behind_ , a dubious Julia Roberts apocalypse
movie produced by Barack and Michelle Obama, was “viewed” 121 million times.
How could anyone believe that?

* * *

“There’s a movie on Paramount+ right now called _On the Come Up_ ,” a
Hollywood producer told me in 2022. “I’m sure you haven’t heard about it
because you don’t hear about any of these movies. It’s about a Black female
rapper in Chicago and her journey in rap battling. It’s like the Black, female
_8 Mile_. It’s not a great movie, but in another era, it would have been a
crowd-pleaser that could cross over and play a few hundred screens, like _Set
It Off_ or _Down in the Delta_. That was a film by a major poet in her
directorial debut, with Wesley Snipes, and that movie comfortably played on
four to five hundred screens, a smallish-medium release from Miramax in 1998.
What has happened to that movie is that it has become _On the Come Up_ , which
just disappears into the ether, and the studios put up two billboards in LA
because they know the creators live in LA and want some sort of vision that
they are being marketed. Like with Amazon — if you drive through Culver City
you will see billboards for Amazon movies everywhere. Why? Because the
directors who come to the studio lot to take a meeting there to make a movie,
they drive there and they’re like, ‘Oh they’re marketing my movie.’ But
they’re not.”

Last winter, while visiting Los Angeles, I went to see the signage for myself.
Encircling the intersection of Venice and La Cienega Boulevards were eight
towering billboards promoting the latest Amazon original movies and shows. Two
advertised _The Burial_ , a legal drama starring Jamie Foxx and Tommy Lee
Jones. I hadn’t heard of it, nor had anyone else I talked to that week. I
drove to more studios, down Sunset Boulevard past Netflix’s headquarters,
toward Melrose Avenue and the Paramount lot. Every studio had token billboards
for their latest pseudomovies, designed to be played but not watched.

In the past, whenever the movies in Hollywood went stale and executives
exerted too much control over artists, the industry had an important hand
brake: the audience. If a movie bombed with audiences and box office numbers
plummeted, then studios would have to change course. After all, the box office
has always been viewed as the gold standard of metrics in Hollywood for a
reason: it’s the most distilled and straightforward measurement of audience
interest. Moviegoers must choose to buy tickets. They cannot skip around,
fast-forward, or order groceries through the Prime app on their phone. No
moviegoer enters a theater expecting to leave after two minutes. Until
Netflix, one of cinema’s essential qualities, the thing that distinguished it
from television, was the way it commanded an audience’s attention. Whether a
movie grossed big numbers or bombed, a box office report carried an
inadmissible truth: the vast majority of the audience experienced the movie in
full, and its taste couldn’t be ignored.

How to predict the audience’s taste — what will make money and what won’t — is
a question that’s plagued Hollywood since its inception. The problem was
captured by the screenwriter William Goldman in 1983. “Nobody knows anything,”
he wrote in his book _Adventures in the Screen Trade_. “Not one person in the
entire motion picture field knows for a certainty what’s going to work.”
Netflix’s greatest innovation was that it found a way around this uncertainty:
it provided a platform on which there are no failures, where everything works.

This is an important milestone for the largest Hollywood studios as they all
set their sights on integrating artificial intelligence into their
productions. In March, news outlets reported that OpenAI CEO Sam Altman had
held meetings with top studios to showcase his company’s text-to-video
generator, Sora. Clips generated by Sora that circulated online alternated
between drone shots of cityscapes that look ripped from video-game cut scenes
and animals rendered in the 3D animated style common to Hollywood productions
today. Streaming platforms are the only place where this garbage makes any
sense — a place where it would never be watched at all.

But by insulating their films from failure, the streamers have destroyed the
meaning of success. Thierry Frémaux, head of the Cannes Film Festival and a
vocal critic of streamers, understood this well when he presented the dilemma
at a Cannes press conference in 2021. “What directors have been discovered by
[streaming] platforms?” he asked. It wasn’t a rhetorical question. Frémaux
began calling on journalists to name an auteur whose career had been launched
by a streamer. By this point, Netflix had released more than seven hundred
films in the US alone, with hundreds of directors attached. Yet as the
_Guardian_ later reported of the scene, “nobody could name any at all, in
fact.”

Here, streaming platforms have achieved a strange paradox. Never has a group
of studios gained so much control over the production, distribution,
exhibition, and reception of movies by making movies no one cares about or
remembers. Having not only failed to discover a new generation of auteurs, the
streamers have also ensured that their filmmakers are little more than
precarious content creators, ineligible to share the profits of any hit. It’s
a shift that has induced a profound sense of confusion.

“What are these movies?” the Hollywood producer asked me. “Are they successful
movies? Are they not? They have famous people in them. They get put out by
major studios. And yet because we don’t have any reliable numbers from the
streamers, we actually don’t know how many people have watched them. So what
are they? If no one knows about them, if no one saw them, are they just
something that people who are in them can talk about in meetings to get other
jobs? Are we all just trying to keep the ball rolling so we’re just getting
paid and having jobs, but no one’s really watching any of this stuff? When
does the bubble burst? No one has any fucking clue.”

Netflix has created a pyramid scheme of attention, with no end in sight. And
yet if the streamer admitted how little impact its movies make, it would
undermine its long-running pitch to audiences, Hollywood talent, and their
business representatives that the company is a grand star-making enterprise
that produces great cinema with commercial appeal. This was always the logic
behind Netflix’s superficial foray into funding established auteurs like
Alfonso Cuarón with _Roma_ , Jane Campion with _The_ _Power of the Dog_ , and
Alejandro Iñárritu with _Bardo_. Netflix gives these films exclusive
theatrical runs for a few weeks — just long enough to qualify them for Academy
Awards — in a small number of theaters, a few of which the company owns or
operates like the Paris in New York, or the Egyptian in Los Angeles. After
that it dumps them on the platform. Some of these films, including Martin
Scorsese’s _The Irishman_ , have been rescued by the Criterion Collection,
whose Blu-Ray editions offer an escape route out of Netflix’s walled garden.
Most of the auteurs who end up at the streamer, however, simply languish. To
Netflix, auteurs are a means of legitimacy, nothing more.

****

After all, Netflix has a more important coterie of stakeholders to keep happy:
Wall Street investors. In an attempt to keep its stock price high, Netflix has
moved away from auteurs and embraced big-budget projects that telegraph the
company’s supposed mass appeal. Since 2019, Netflix has increasingly funded
blockbuster-style event movies with expensive actors like Ryan Reynolds (_6
Underground_ , _Red Notice_ , _The Adam Project_), Ryan Gosling (_The Gray
Man_), Mark Wahlberg (_The Union_), and Eddie Murphy (_Beverly Hills Cop: Axel
F_). As giant burning piles of money that barely register in the cultural
sphere, these attempts at generating beloved IP make the least sense in the
company’s production slate. “Apparently for Netflix, Ryan Reynolds has made
$50 million on this movie and $50 million on that movie,” Quentin Tarantino
told a Deadline reporter last year at Cannes. “Well, good for him that he’s
making so much money. But those movies don’t exist in the zeitgeist. It’s
almost like they don’t even exist.” What everyone in Hollywood knows but
doesn’t care to admit is that no Netflix film has ever achieved the name
recognition of the streamer’s most popular television shows: _Stranger Things_
, _Bridgerton_ , and _Squid Game_.

Netflix is first and foremost a television company, one whose recent business
strategies have made the company resemble the cable providers it’s tried to
make irrelevant. Netflix is no longer the cheap service that freed cable
subscribers from the tyranny of the bundle. The company’s standard
subscription price has risen almost 100 percent over the past thirteen years,
and any cord-cutter who wants access to the major networks’ latest shows must
subscribe to several streaming platforms, whose prices have also shot up.
Netflix is also no longer ad-free, as the company launched a lower-cost, ad-
supported subscription tier in 2022. (When the streamer debuted its ad tier,
it sought to charge advertisers around $65 to reach one thousand viewers, an
eye-watering sum on par with NFL games. Perhaps an indication that advertisers
aren’t buying Netflix’s astounding viewership numbers, this dollar amount has
since dropped by more than half.) Netflix is also no longer dedicated to
giving subscribers purely on-demand content. Over the past several years, the
streamer has flirted with live programming, and this year it made its first
big commitment, inking a $5 billion, ten-year deal for the exclusive rights to
stream WWE’s live flagship program, _Raw_. It won’t be long before Netflix
starts packaging shows into preprogrammed “channels” that run synchronously
24/7, and claiming it’s something brand new.

But if Netflix now occupies a place in the market similar to cable companies,
the business it’s most spiritually aligned with is Blockbuster: a widely
disliked service staffed by people who know nothing about movies, stocked with
thousands of titles to see, few of them worth watching. Even Netflix knows its
users can’t find titles that they like. In 2021, the company briefly
introduced a new feature on its home page, called “Play Something,” to help in
what the streamer called “times when we just don’t want to make decisions.”
When clicked, Play Something instantly began playing for users an
algorithmically chosen series or film. “Whether you’re in the mood for a new
or familiar favorite,” Netflix wrote, “just ‘Play Something’ and let Netflix
handle the rest.”

“Play Something,” as in: play anything. It doesn’t matter if it’s good or bad,
if a user is on their phone or cleaning their room. What matters is that it’s
on, and that it stays on until Netflix asks its perennial question, a prompt
that appears when the platform thinks a user has fallen asleep: “Are you still
watching?”
