title: Gillette used to rule razors - then came Harry’s and Dollar Shave Club | Vox
source: https://www.vox.com/the-goods/2018/12/11/18134456/best-razor-gillette-harrys-dollar-shave-club
date: 2025-08-13T16:25:45.963032
tags: []
---
“We’re debuting a razor with 19 razors and 74 lubrication strips,” Gillette’s
head of North American grooming Pankaj Bhalla announces to a room of trade
journalists and general shaving enthusiasts at Gillette’s Global Innovation
Summit in early November.

“Just kidding — no, we’re not,” he adds, without taking a breath.

There are 50 or so spectators eating banana-and-Nutella mini waffles and tiny
rounds of avocado toast among cocktail-height tables. The tables have what
look like modest wedding centerpieces, except there are no goldfish or
floating flowers and there _are_ Gillette razors stabbed into piles of blue
rocks ostensibly designed for fish tanks. Bhalla tells the crowd that the
theme of 2019 will be “to design with meaning.”

The glitz of this “summit” implies unquestioned success; the stress sweat
visible on the brows of its speakers implies disaster. Neither is exactly
untrue. Though Procter & Gamble’s Gillette brand (tagline: “The Best a Man Can
Get”) still holds about 54 percent of the global market share for razors,
[that’s down](https://www.marketwatch.com/story/procter-gambles-gillette-
razor-business-dinged-by-online-shave-clubs-2017-04-26) from 70 percent in
2010.

The entire razor industry is flailing. It’s not just that Gillette is getting
a smaller piece of the pie; the pie itself is also getting smaller. That’s
partly driven by the fact that the population of the United States is
[aging](https://www.census.gov/newsroom/press-
releases/2018/cb18-41-population-projections.html): When you get old, you
don’t grow as much hair, so you don’t shave as much, and then (unrelated) you
die.

We are also, as a society, becoming relaxed about hair. Too relaxed, if you
are in the market of selling razors. Beards and mustaches and stuff are en
vogue. The country is getting less interested in pressuring women to keep
themselves as hairless as infants seven days a week. A recent report from the
global market research firm Mintel highlights the fact that 25 percent of
women ages 18 to 23 — and 22 percent of men, but who cares — agree that it is
“acceptable for women to have visible underarm hair.”

According to Mintel, sales of “shaving and hair removal tools” are estimated
to see about $3.5 billion in sales in 2018, a decline of nearly 4 percent from
the year before. Worse, Mintel’s analysts predict there will be no growth for
at least the next five years.

Yet in tandem with the downward spiral of the necessity of shaving tools, we
are experiencing the arrival of an extreme number of new shaving tools to buy.
At the same time, there’s only so much true innovation possible for an item
like a razor, which does one thing and almost always does it well.

It’s a classic example of capitalism working not quite the way that was
promised but the way it does when put into practice by humans. We see it time
and again — with the [hotel industry](https://sistercitynyc.com/), with [cable
TV](https://trends.cmf-fmc.ca/the-long-tail-in-2018-niches-meet-streaming-and-
social-media/), now with razors: Shrinking markets are not allowed to simply
shrink, but instead inspire aggressive pandering, bizarre advertising, and
nichification of products that have no reason to be so differentiated.

A surplus of choice implies to consumers that this is the type of purchase
they should care deeply about. Why else would there be so many options?

* * *

Gillette, or rather the inventor King C. Gillette, patented the first safety
razor more than 100 years ago. It was the official razor of World War I,
thanks to a government contract that put 3.5 million of them into the hands of
American soldiers, therefore becoming the official razor of the United States.

For decades, Gillette was mostly alone, with just its lackluster drugstore
aisle competitor Schick (owned by Pfizer until 2003, now by Playtex parent
company Edgewell Personal Care) for company. When the high-end mall brand the
Art of Shaving posed the briefest of threats in the late ’90s, Procter &
Gamble just bought it. But then came the budget subscription service Dollar
Shave Club, launched by Mark Levine and Michael Dublin with a viral, [fratty
YouTube commercial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZUG9qYTJMsI) in 2011; it
raised a total of $163.5 million by the end of 2015 and was acquired by P&G
archrival Unilever for $1 billion in 2016.

There is little incentive to improve the shaving experience, as it is fine,
but there is plenty of incentive to come up with something new to patent, as
this is how you combat competition

Then came Harry’s, the difference-splitter, an affordable direct-to-consumer
brand with appealing millennial-courting aesthetics, from Andy Katz-Mayfield
and Warby Parker co-founder Jeff Raider in 2013. When its latest round of
funding closed in January 2018, Harry’s had raised $375 million and was valued
at $1 billion; the company promised it would turn a profit by the end of this
year.

The two startups have a combined share of a little over 12 percent of the
market, with another 15 percent going to Schick (which
[recently](https://money.usnews.com/investing/news/articles/2017-09-25/p-gs-
gillette-sues-schick-maker-edgewell-over-razor-blade-design) started selling
discount blades that fit on Gillette handles).

There’s also Supply, funded through a series of six-digit Kickstarter
campaigns, promising to bring back the perfect single-blade safety razor.
Walker & Company’s Bevel, collecting $33 million in venture capital, which is
also putting out a single-blade safety razor, designed specifically for people
of color with coarser and curlier facial hair. Billie, a women-focused brand
with a $6 million seed round. The British startup Cornerstone, which has
raised just under $10 million and sells subscription boxes containing razor
replacements, toothpaste, and face wash.

All of them are going up against the original shaving disrupter: Gillette,
“the best a man can get,” which patented the disposable razor in 1903 (and
has, [kind of](https://www.amazon.com/Subscribe-Save-Eligible-Health-
Household/s?ie=UTF8&page=1&rh=n%3A10200576011%2Cp_n_is_sns_available%3A2617006011),
offered a blade subscription service via Amazon since 2007). The company is
[known for](https://www.economist.com/business/1998/04/16/taking-it-on-the-
chin) spending tens of millions of dollars a year on research and development,
and has the market clout to appear on the shelves of every pharmacy and big-
box retailer in the world. It is also bleeding market share to companies that
are ... cooler.

This is why, at its Global Innovation Summit, Gillette launched a line of
customizable 3D-printed razors, and why we were welcome to try 3D-printing our
own razors in the back of the room after the presenters were done talking.
This is why, next year, Gillette is launching a $169 heated razor, “the
ultimate indulgence” for a man who loves a “hot towel experience,” which we
were also welcome to try at a shaving station in the back of the room, if we
were men.

The company’s history shows that its fixation on arguably needless innovation
is not new. Schick was founded in 1926, just as Gillette’s first patent was
expiring.

For the next several decades, Gillette would experiment with “adjustable”
razors, razors with oxidized blue steel, razors with “microfins” that push the
face with their little rubber bodies to make facial hairs pop out like
blackheads, or, as Gillette puts it on its website, “gently stretch loose,
gel-like facial skin.” And so on — all kinds of things that would
differentiate the product it invented from the products made by the
competitors it had no legal means to crush.

Razor innovation had become a literal punchline by 1975, with _Saturday Night
Live_ [predicting](https://snltranscripts.jt.org/75/75atriple.phtml) the
triple-blade Mach 3 a full 23 years before its inevitable birth. (Gillette
[reportedly](http://articles.baltimoresun.com/1998-08-17/business/1998229063_1_mach3-razor-
new-mach3-gillette) spent $200 million on advertising and $750 million to
revamp its production system to make that first triple-blade Mach 3 in 1998.)

In the 1980s, Gillette
[reportedly](https://www.bostonglobe.com/magazine/2017/06/21/the-razor-wars-
have-begun-and-somebody-going-get-hurt/WbNBl0OSk1BgiHFZdkp16M/story.html)
spent more than $200 million to develop the Sensor, a razor with tiny springs
that allowed each blade to move separately from one another. This was a
response to the expiration of its patents on the [double-edged safety
razor](https://patents.google.com/patent/US775134A/en), the [“tiltable” safety
razor
handle](https://patents.google.com/patent/US1890334A/en?assignee=gillette&before=priority:19400101&after=priority:19010101),
and the [blade
guard](https://patents.google.com/patent/US2119998A/en?q=B26B19%2f12&assignee=gillette&before=priority:19400101&after=priority:19010101),
among others. As patents expire on meaningful innovations — and said
innovations become industry standards — they have to be replaced with new,
less meaningful ones that give an updated competitive edge.

To put it carefully: There is little incentive to improve the shaving
experience, as it is fine, but there is plenty of incentive to come up with
something new to patent, as this is how you combat competition. This can
prompt some strange behavior, and even stranger product lines.

At the beginning of this year, Procter & Gamble
[reported](https://www.forbes.com/sites/andriacheng/2018/01/24/pgs-gillette-
woes-have-translated-to-this-good-news-for-consumers/#1e04cd147d54) that the
“grooming” segment of its business (more than $1 billion in sales per quarter)
was performing worse than any other (the company is made up of about 65
brands, across beauty, grooming, health, home, and family care categories). It
saw a 3 percent decline in sales even as the company’s overall sales were up 2
percent; for comparison, beauty sales were up 10 percent.

The same factors that are making Gillette’s grooming division less profitable
are the ones that allowed low-cost, direct-to-consumer razor brands like
Harry’s and Dollar Shave Club to get a foothold. More casual shaving attitudes
logically mean wanting to spend less on a product that removes hair, whether
or not it can be justifiably called “the best a man can get.”

This does not mean it’s been easy to compete. According to Mike Dodd, a board
member at the venture capital firm Silverton Partners, which invested in
Billie’s seed round, there are fewer than 10 manufacturers of razor blades in
the world, and contracts with them are extremely difficult to come by. Billie
co-founder Georgina Gooley refuses to provide the name of her company’s blade
supplier, and when I ask why, she says it’s an industry standard not to. Dodd
also declines to tell me where Billie gets its blades but says it took years
of negotiations for the manufacturer to agree to sell to a startup.

Gillette spent years trying to kill the new, lower-cost alternatives. It
ordered hundreds of dollars’ worth of Harry’s razors immediately upon the
company’s launch, apparently to examine them before [suing for patent
infringement](https://www.scribd.com/document/140679416/Gillette-Company-v-
ADKM-Inc-d-b-a-Harry-s-Razor-Company-et-
al?campaign=SkimbitLtd&ad_group=122276X1582760X25d61358e93f3134da5788e06fff4120&keyword=660149026&source=hp_affiliate&medium=affiliate).

The patent in question was filed in 1998 and described an invention simply
called “Razors”; Gillette asked for a jury trial and reparations in the amount
of three times the damages of lost sales. The case was dismissed in less than
a week.

This did not stop Gillette from pursuing further litigation. In December 2015,
the company filed a patent infringement suit against Dollar Shave Club. In the
filing, Gillette alleged that the manner in which its competitor was coating
its razor blades to maintain sharpness was in violation of a 2004 patent,
asking that the state of Delaware immediately block the sale of all Dollar
Shave Club razors. Dollar Shave Club filed a countersuit two months later, and
both were dropped.

In December 2016, Gillette pivoted back to attacking Harry’s, with a
[30-second ad](https://www.wsj.com/articles/p-gs-gillette-swipes-at-harrys-in-
new-ad-campaign-1481827836) that claimed most customers who tried Harry’s
didn’t become repeat buyers. It was odd timing, given that it was Dollar Shave
Club, not Harry’s, that had just been purchased by Unilever for $1 billion.

Harry’s sent Gillette’s parent company a letter accusing the brand of false
advertising. (Gillette said it was citing
[data](https://www.fastcompany.com/3067202/harrys-lawyer-sends-gillette-and-
pg-a-letter-accusing-big-razor-of-false-advertising) from a market research
firm, but Harry’s pointed to data from the same firm that proved its side.)

More casual shaving attitudes logically mean wanting to spend less on a
product that removes hair, whether or not it can be justifiably called “the
best a man can get”

Finally, in 2017, the company slashed prices of replacement blades and other
key products an average of 12 percent, writing an apologetic [blog
post](https://gillette.com/en-us/lowerprices) that started, “You told us our
blades can be too expensive and we listened.”

Outside of legal scrambling and price lowering, Gillette has had little choice
but to make its products more and more noticeably different from those of its
millennial-friendly competitors, which prioritize simple design and a good-
enough approach to function. (It’s a razor. It shaves. What is “best”?) Its
attempts to reinvent this thing that can’t be reinvented tend to involve one
baby step of progress and four bounding leaps toward the absurd.

In 2014, for example, Gillette announced it had [“rebuilt”
shaving](https://news.gillette.com/press-release/product-news/gillette-
declares-shaving-rebuilt-launch-new-fusion-proglide-flexball-tec) with the
Fusion ProGlide FlexBall razor, which was unveiled at a press event at New
York’s Highline Ballroom and was reportedly capable of cutting hairs 23
microns shorter than Gillette’s previous premium razor. Also worth noting: It
is [so
ugly](https://mms.businesswire.com/media/20140429006363/en/413400/4/Movement_webready.jpg).

More recently, in October, Gillette announced its partnership with the Boston-
based 3D printing company Formlabs — which typically focuses on jewelry and
orthodontia — to launch its “Razor Maker” site, where customers can customize
a razor that will be built for them from scratch, using stereolithography
technology, in five to seven business days. (The idea is that young people
care about custom sneakers, and therefore young people will care about custom
face razors.)

This is the new product line it models at its Innovation Summit, though I, a
journalist obsessed with men’s razors, was already aware of it and had ordered
a custom 3D-printed razor a week prior.

The Razor Maker offers many choices; the dominant aesthetic is, I would say,
Disney’s _Atlantis: The Lost Empire_ (2001). The premium option is to swap out
3D-printed plastic for chrome, running up your bill an extra $20, though
getting your name embossed on any handle is free. Other than that, these are
just standard Gillette three-blade or five-blade razors, which is probably
why, when I placed my order for a $19 bright blue “coral”-themed,
“Kaitlyn”-engraved razor a week after Razor Maker’s launch, it was only the
644th order to be processed. It was delivered to me wrapped in a silky purple
ribbon.

* * *

The ludicrousness of today’s open market means, mostly, having the option to
pay a lot of money for something or not a lot of money for something, without
ever really approaching a concrete, evidence-backed reason for the decision.

That includes not just a custom 3D-printed razor with your name immortalized
in the handle, or a razor modeled after a hot towel, but also $80 razors
designed by former military fighter jet engineer Patrick Coddou, who describes
the merit of his product — the Supply single-blade razor — by telling me,
“It’s how our fathers and grandfathers and everybody before us used to shave.
It’s not like you’re going to slice your face off.”

The premise of a single-blade razor is that it causes less irritation, swiping
the skin once rather than three or five times, and tugging at hairs only once
as well. “We’re trying to convince guys to wake up from the myth and the
marketing of the last 20 years that more blades is better,” Coddou says.

“Around the time I came up with the idea, there were these other companies
coming out with new multi-blade razors and acting like they were improvements
on previous products,” he explains. “That was really frustrating to me. They
weren’t improvements; they were just cheaper and easier to get.”

The best is … what we started with?

On the same side of the debate, there’s Bevel founder Tristan Walker, who says
his company’s single-blade razor is the “first and only shaving system
designed specifically to reduce irritation, a problem faced by 80 percent of
black men and women and 30 percent of everyone else.” He too points out that
cutting hair so short that it slides back underneath the skin is demonic,
particularly for people with curly hair, which will spiral back into their
face.

“Full disclosure, we don’t have science or clinical tests to back up our
claims,” Coddou adds. “But what I can tell you is based on the plenty of
reviews we get from our customers and the comments we get, it reduces
irritation and ingrown hairs. The only ‘science’ that exists — and I’m using
air quotes right now, you can’t see me — that proves multi-blades work better
was funded by Gillette. They won’t really give any insight into the procedure
or the processes used to come to that claim.”

That characterization of the science is only slightly unfair. Last year, Amy
Couture-Rizzo, a product researcher at Gillette, walked the [Boston Globe’s
Jeff Harder](https://www.bostonglobe.com/magazine/2017/06/21/the-razor-wars-
have-begun-and-somebody-going-get-hurt/WbNBl0OSk1BgiHFZdkp16M/story.html)
through the company’s history of adding blades. It started with one,
obviously, and did not debut a two-blade razor until 1971 (the Trac II, which
was supposed to reduce irritation by cutting down on the number of times the
razor touched your face).

The three-blade Mach 3 debuted in 1998; the five-blade Fusion 5 debuted in
2006. She explained the shift to him saying, simply, “Five blades are really
better than three.” (Gillette doesn’t make four-blade razors. Still, it
[sued](https://www.washingtonpost.com/archive/business/2004/01/02/crossing-
blades-for-face-
time/a5191c81-0a90-449f-94eb-034917b36bd2/?utm_term=.3e13caca86ce) Schick when
it launched the Quattro in 2003, arguing that it was based on Gillette’s
patented “progressive blade geometry.”)

To justify five blades, Gillette loves to tout what’s called “the hysteresis
effect,” in which the first blade pulls the hair above the skin and each
subsequent blade cuts it just a little bit shorter. Sherwin Parikh, founder of
the Tribeca Skin Center and a practicing dermatologist affiliated with New
York-Presbyterian Hospital, tells me this is correct: “Yes, five-blade razors
do create a better, smoother shave for many men.” But! “For some, the
closeness actually leads to ingrowns, because the hair becomes trapped under a
layer of thicker regrowing skin within days. This is known as
pseudofolliculitis barbae.”

Jules Lipoff, an assistant professor of clinical dermatology at the University
of Pennsylvania’s medical school, says, directly, “More blades translates to
more unnecessary cutting, ingrown hairs, and irritation of the skin.” Lipoff
also stresses to me that our society’s obsession with clean-shaven men (and
their “professional” appearance) is misguided as, “in fact, the act of
removing hair may increase risk for infections.”

“We’re trying to convince guys to wake up from the myth and the marketing of
the last 20 years that more blades is better” —Patrick Coddou

Single-blade razors, then, are safer. However, the blade gets duller quicker
when there’s only one doing all the work, so you have to replace your razor
far more often. Though Coddou emphasizes that his 50-cent blades are a
“fraction of the cost of Gillette’s” and half the price of Harry’s, it
probably evens out.

Then there’s the $80 handle, which Coddou acknowledges is up there, saying his
customer is “willing to stomach it” in exchange for the better experience of
diminished irritation and, it’s implied, feeling like a badass. He points out
that Oui Shave, a New York-based startup founded by Estée Lauder alum Karen
Young, is doing the same thing, but for women. It sells a $75 rose-gold
single-blade razor, which it recommends you pair with the company’s $30
signature shaving cream.

So single-blade razors are the best? They are perfect? Actually, no. “Double-
or triple-blade razors achieve the best balance of getting a close shave with
fewer ingrowns,” Parikh says.

Which perhaps is why, at its November Innovation Summit, Gillette is also
launching SkinGuard, a razor with just two blades, plus a skin guard in
between those two blades to push the skin flat and prevent irritation. This
has something to do with firefighters, so we watch a short film about them.

Here’s the gist: If a man is happy with a five-blade razor, and not
experiencing irritation, and not, like two in three men, a haver of “sensitive
skin,” the SkinGuard razor is not for him. This point is reiterated several
times — the SkinGuard razor is only for 67 percent of men, who have complained
of irritating their faces with Gillette’s existing product line.

Gillette has “committed itself to a metamorphosis,” we are told.

* * *

What about women’s razors? Doesn’t anyone care about me, and the anecdote I
tell with alarming frequency about the time I shaved off my pinky fingernail
with a new $2 Bic razor and then passed out at the sight of my own blood?
(They are extremely sharp, extremely good bang for the buck! Bic has
[acknowledged](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-bic-results/bic-
shaves-2017-sales-growth-forecast-on-tough-u-s-razor-market-idUSKCN1C42RS)
that it cannot compete in the razor market and will instead focus on
lighters!)

Well, yes, though the US women’s shaving industry is much smaller than the
men’s ($1 billion versus $2.5 billion). For decades, the razor has been
marketed to men as a tool, a piece of machinery, and for decades, it has been
marketed to women as a waterfall, a goddess’s sigh, the smell of coconut, the
kiss of a beach babe, the glitter of a poolside bartender’s immaculate grin —
he loves your calves. They are so clean, have always been clean, hairless is
clean, and you have never seen something dirty in your life. If your
experience of the world could be violently broken down to a single chemical
element, it would be chlorine.

Gillette’s women’s brand, Venus, is an originator and epitome of this cultural
myth, and it is also what venture capitalist Mike Dodd calls “an afterthought
brand,” a rough draft of “a ’60s ad man” type of concept about what women
might want and how to sell it to them. “It’s right there in the tagline,” he
says. “You know, the best a _man_ can get.” Venus wasn’t launched until 2001,
though Gillette had been encouraging women to remove [“objectionable”
hair](https://www.refinery29.com/en-us/body-grooming-history#slide-1) since
1915, when it debuted the single-blade “Milady Décolleté” safety razor.

Which is to say: For a very long time, no one has considered the possibility
that while exploiting women’s insecurities and cultural stigmas might be
profitable, there could be an even _more_ profitable way to sell razors to
women.

Gillette has handed a free one to the competition here. Flamingo, the women’s
line Harry’s introduced this fall, and Billie, a “wellness company” that
hinges its hopes and dreams and branding on eradicating the [pink
tax](https://www.listenmoneymatters.com/the-pink-tax/) — the phenomenon of
companies putting unexplained markups on women’s products even when they’re
identical to men’s in all ways except ludicrous aesthetics — can step strongly
into the space by disrupting not razors themselves, but the speech around
them. For this demographic, the “best” razor may just be one that’s sold on
fair terms.

Billie, Dodd tells me, “stands for not getting ripped off.” It’s growing
faster than Dollar Shave Club was at this point in its history, he claims. And
it’s easy enough to see why: Billie razors are cheap ($9 for a starter kit
that includes the handle, a wall mount, and two five-blade razors) and come in
what we can call fun ’n’ funky colors, like coral, blush, and “cool blue.” In
November, it launched a “limited edition” ’90s-nostalgia-inspired color scheme
[called “DreamPop”](https://hypebae.com/2018/10/billie-dreampop-razor-shaving-
campaign), which ships with butterfly hair clips, a scrunchie, and temporary
tattoos. The ads are all [_Melodrama_
purple](https://www.thecut.com/2018/04/melodramatic-purple-spring-
shopping.html) eyeshadow, red lips, and visible armpit hair, cool gal pals
with punchy makeup and an accessible aesthetic.

Co-founder Georgina Gooley says the razors are designed to look nice in your
bathroom, and that the wall mount that comes in the starter kit is the first
one she’s ever used that hasn’t fallen down in the shower. Women hate the
Venus’s suction cups, she says, and prefer Billie’s proprietary putty. Women
also hate that pink tax, which is abused perhaps most egregiously by razor
makers and the dry-cleaning industry. Women hate being told not to have body
hair, so they love [a shaving company that tells
them](https://mybillie.com/pages/projectbodyhair) to shave “when they want, if
they want.”

“I think women are going to engage well with that,” Mintel home and personal
care analyst Olivia Guinaugh says. “Especially with all these female
empowerment movements going on.”

Women hate being told not to have body hair, so they love a shaving company
that tells them to shave “when they want, if they want”

This is also the general idea behind Harry’s women’s brand Flamingo, which
launched in October.

Brittania Boey, the senior VP of research and development for Harry’s while
the new brand was being developed, and now the company’s chief commercial
officer, says that Flamingo’s design prompt was to think of a razor for women
as a tool, the same way razors for men are thought of as tools.

“The best tools [are designed] to find their way in your hand,” she says,
explaining how the Flamingo handle was created to be as easy-to-use and
functional as a men’s razor. “And then the second thing for us is that we
think aesthetics really matter.” That’s why the Flamingo razor has a thick,
heavy handle with details in metals like rose-gold.

Flamingo’s razor, like Harry’s, has five blades. Like Harry’s razors, it comes
in multiple colors, which Boey says customers “collect” because they look so
nice in a bathroom.

“We wanted textures and materials that work well in wet and dry environments
and also look aesthetically beautiful, like something you want to have in your
bathroom. For the handle design, the packaging, the colors — we looked at
beautiful bathrooms and comfortable bedrooms, environments that women feel
good in and want to take care of themselves in.”

There is no price difference between the two brands, she points out. (No pink
tax!) When I ask how Flamingo will be marketed at launch, Boey says it won’t
be, and the company will focus on putting the products “in the hands of
extended friends of the brand.” Two weeks after it launches, I see a Flamingo
poster on the newsstand in front of an indie movie theater in the West
Village, and the following week, I see a much bigger poster on the side of a
building in Williamsburg. Two weeks later, the entire Spring Street subway
station is plastered with posters.

“If you notice their branding, they completely copied our branding and our
angle,” Billie investor Dodd says of Flamingo, before quickly acknowledging
that the Billie ethos is a pretty obvious one in 2018. “They’re gonna be a
good competitor. There’s room for two.”

* * *

The word “disruption” no longer has a working definition; this is just
something we have to accept. Disruption is supposed to get us to the best but
can often feel like it gets us to [something
worse](https://www.theverge.com/2017/12/29/16820474/2017-tech-recap-uber-
scandal-waymo-lawsuits-travis-kalanick). Or different, but the same in terms
of value and function and everything but framing, or the same, but more
confusing.

Gillette, nevertheless, is constantly and expensively working to disrupt the
totally acceptable, functional object it introduced more than 100 years ago.
Gillette scientists also have [a virtual reality
studio](https://www.bostonglobe.com/magazine/2017/06/21/the-razor-wars-have-
begun-and-somebody-going-get-hurt/WbNBl0OSk1BgiHFZdkp16M/story.html) at the
company headquarters in Boston, which they use to preview new products. In VR.
For some reason. Before these products touch faces!

Though it is still much bigger than everyone else, Gillette is no longer the
sole shaving industry power player. So, it stands to reason, Gillette is also
no longer the only shaving industry power player that is totally wigging out
about the state of the declining industry, undergoing an existential crisis
resulting in curious products and odd brand moves.

Take, for example, Dollar Shave Club founder Michael Dubin, who announced in
September that his company would pivot away from its bro-y reputation and
revamp itself as “Dollar Shave Club 2.0” — a wellness brand. “Our mission at
Dollar Shave Club is to help guys take care of their minds and bodies so they
can be their best selves,” he [told Adweek](https://www.adweek.com/brand-
marketing/once-the-brand-of-bros-dollar-shave-club-is-looking-for-a-new-
competitive-edge/). “We are approaching that mission in two ways: with great
products for your body and great content for your mind.”

Fortunately, the content he is referring to includes the delightful [Mel
Magazine](https://melmagazine.com/), which publishes smart and insightful
reported features about modern masculinity. Unfortunately, the great products
for your body he is referring to includes a line of totally generic skin care
products, hair creams, toothbrushes, and body washes. Most recently, it
launched a line of six colognes called Blueprint, because its market research
in Austin and Los Angeles said that 62 percent of men wear cologne every day
and that 76 percent of men own more than two different colognes. (More than
two different colognes!)

Of this launch, Dubin [told Adweek](https://www.adweek.com/digital/dollar-
shave-club-is-rolling-out-a-new-fragrance-line-and-getting-into-
retail/?utm_content=position_1&utm_source=sailthru&utm_medium=email&utm_term=AWK_TodayTech&utm_campaign=Digital_Newsletter_2018110707&s_id=5b85692420122e2ec765b7d6),
“I believe fragrance is the defining feature of many products across
categories. Dollar Shave Club has chosen to make fragrance an investment and a
defining feature of our product line.” I’m not allowed to end a paragraph with
four lines of question marks, but just know what I would do if I were in
charge.

And we are just now, if you can believe it, getting to the newest and biggest
complicating factor in the razor wars. Gillette’s dread about losing even more
market share to Bevel (which is now in Target and Macy’s), or Harry’s (which
is now sold in both Target and Walmart, as well as Barneys and its own
Manhattan flagship store), or Dollar Shave Club (which now has the might of
Unilever behind it) may actually be eased in the coming months by an unlikely
hero: President Donald Trump.

In March, the Trump administration announced that imported steel would be
subject to a tariff of 25 percent, one of [a slew of new tariffs](/policy-and-
politics/2018/8/5/17653632/trump-tariffs-trade-war-steel) that affect dozens
of consumer-facing industries. Gillette applied for and [was
granted](https://www.cnn.com/2018/10/10/business/gillette-steel-tariff-
exemption/index.html) an exemption from the tariff, arguing that the type of
steel it needs is not made in the US. The “very specialized steel” is imported
from Sweden, the company stated, also claiming to have helped develop the
recipe for this steel 20 years ago. Schick was reportedly granted a similar
exemption on the same grounds.

In 2014, Harry’s spent $100 million to buy a German razor factory, and
declined to comment on whether it had received a tariff exemption. Dollar
Shave Club buys its blades from a South Korean manufacturer, and also declined
to comment. Billie declined to divulge both which country it procures its
blades from and whether the company would be exempted from the tariff. Ditto
Bevel.

For Supply, blade prices will go up even though the blades are made in the US
— the company’s manufacturer, which Coddou does not name, imports its raw
steel from Japan and Germany and has not been exempted.

* * *

While my 3D-printed Gillette razor was being constructed in a lab in Boston
(under the loving care of a woman named Desiree, according to a note included
in the box), I was still shaving.

I shaved with a five-blade Billie razor I ordered just to see if the putty
wall mount was as good as advertised (yes!). I immediately loathed it because
the brand announced the cooler-looking “DreamPop” version three days after I
placed my order for boring Coral, which is coral and doesn’t come with
stickers. I also shaved with a green two-blade Bic razor that I probably got
in a Christmas stocking. I hated that too, because it made me feel like I did
not care enough about myself to invest in something nice.

While my 3D-printed Gillette razor was getting rerouted through the US postal
system, having apparently been delivered to Vox Media headquarters with
insufficient information about its intended recipient, I shaved with my
sister’s three-blade Comfort Glide Venus razor because I forgot to pack my own
when I went home for Thanksgiving, and with my mom’s cheaper Simply Venus
razor (also three blades!) because sometimes I prefer to use her shower — it’s
fancier. In all instances, hair left my body, and I was annoyed by the
unspecialness of the task.

Rationally, I know this makes no sense, and that I don’t need to own anything
that’s the “best” or even “cool” to have decent personal hygiene. Shaving is
shaving, and I rarely feel like doing it, and though I live in a world full of
seductive branding and have bought plenty of things for hardly any reason at
all, I do still have my wits about me enough to realize that there is no
amount of marketing that is going to make me care deeply about what razor I
pass over my armpits when I am half asleep.

To that end, I haven’t used my custom Gillette razor yet. When I do get a
chance to try it, I will consider filling out the survey Gillette sent me
three days before I received the razor, asking that I let them know what I
think about their “passion project,” Razor Maker. I will say that it cut my
hair, like every razor I have used before and every razor I will use after,
and that whether it is the best a man can get will remain up for discussion
forever.

* * *

**Correction:** An earlier version of this article misstated Harry’s total
funding, which is $375 million.
