title: Meet The People Who Listen to Podcasts Crazy-Fast
source: https://www.buzzfeed.com/doree/meet-the-people-who-listen-to-podcasts-at-super-fast-speeds
date: 2025-08-13T16:52:35.249652
tags: []
---
Sam Borley, a 28-year-old charity shop worker in Felixstowe, England, listens
to his 56 weekly podcasts at different speeds, calibrating each one depending
on the content and how fast or slow the hosts speak, though he said he listens
to most at speeds between 2x and 3x. Like Kenny, when he finds a new podcast,
he makes a point of listening to the entire back catalog. "I have often, when
finding out about a new podcast with a large back catalog, made myself a
100-hour-plus playlist to catch up, and then set my favorites to automatically
jump the queue and play next so I can catch up on some without falling behind
on others," he said. "_The[Joe
Rogan](https://www.buzzfeed.com/natashajokic1/joe-rogan-donald-trump-guest-
apology) Experience_, for example — it's up to nine hours a week of content,
so it would be hard enough to keep up with that one alone if not listening at
faster speed."

Laura McCavera, a second-year medical student in Vegas, said she started out
listening to her medical school lectures at faster speeds before using the
practice with podcasts as well. When she starts a new podcast, she begins at
normal speed "to get a sense of the cadence, and then I increase it as
necessary," maxing out at 2.5x. She compared listening to a sped-up podcast to
skimming a book, explaining that podcasts are easier than lectures to listen
to casually, “so it's less stressful to try to make sure you get every word."

Podcast producers and hosts were mixed on their feelings about podfasters.
Georgia Hardstark, who cohosts the Apple Podcasts top 25 [_My Favorite Murder_
podcast](https://www.myfavoritemurder.com/) with fellow comedian Karen
Kilgariff (tagline: Stay sexy, don't get murdered), said it doesn't bother
her: "Everyone's brain works at a different pace so it doesn't worry me. Plus
each person listens to a podcast for a different reason, so if they're just
looking for information and not humor, then they won't be missing anything."
She added that she personally listens to some podcasts at a _slower_ speed
when she's trying to fall asleep.

Gina Delvac, the producer of [_Call Your
Girlfriend_](http://www.callyourgirlfriend.com/), in which long-distance best
friends Ann Friedman and Aminatou Sow catch up weekly about women's issues,
said she understood how someone would listen to _CYG_ at a faster speed. "It's
loose, it's conversational, it's meant to feel free-flowing. But for some
programs I've worked on, or if you think about people who do really densely
produced stuff, there's a whole experience that's built around that kind of
audio experience." She added, "I don't have hate because I'm very intrigued by
how people decide to consume what we make."

Some podcast apps include a feature that automatically gets rid of pauses,
which Delvac is more conflicted about. "There are kinds of intentional
storytelling where you put a pause in there for a reason.”

But Eric Eddings, host of _The Nod_ , feels that sped-up listening is
unequivocally bad. "I don't think it should ever happen," said Eddings, who
used to host the now-ended podcast _For Colored Nerds_. "The shows I've worked
on have all been really sound- and music-rich. And you're just fundamentally
gonna miss that if you're listening at even 1.5." He recalled the first story
he ever produced, about some men from his mother's hometown in Louisiana. "It
was just stacked with things that would not work at 1.5 speed. You have all
these elderly Southern men recounting their life, which is really serious and
intense. On top of that, we had sound effects and scoring music coming in. We
took a song from this meeting that happened in the '70s and slowed it down and
built it into the episode. My soul _dies_ when I think of somebody listening
to that at 1.5 or 2."
