title: Why We Need For-Profit Colleges - The New York Times
source: http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/18/magazine/why-we-need-for-profit-colleges.html?ref=magazine&pagewanted=print
date: 2025-08-13T20:35:12.817887
tags: []
---
To start with the obvious, a college education has never been more necessary
for a decent life in America. Many manufacturing jobs now demand a level of
skill and education that virtually requires a college degree. A lot of white-
collar employers won’t even consider a job applicant who hasn’t graduated from
college.

And yet for the poor and the working class, that education is not easy to
attain. State university systems have become increasingly expensive. Community
colleges are terribly overcrowded. The schools most capable of meeting the
country’s growing education needs are the for-profits. In the decade beginning
in 1998, enrollment in public and private universities went up less than 25
percent. Enrollment in the for-profit colleges, meanwhile, was up 236 percent.

What’s more, the traditional university isn’t really set up to educate a
person who has a full-time job. The for-profits can offer class times that are
convenient for students, rather than for professors. They can offer online
classes, which many traditional universities have been reluctant — or unable —
to dive into. They pay professors to teach, not conduct research. A well-run
for-profit college could teach its nonprofit counterparts a thing or two about
efficiency and innovation. That’s the part of the profit motive that grades
well.

The bad part, of course, is that capitalists will always behave more or less
like greyhounds chasing a mechanical rabbit, motivated by whatever incentives
are put in front of them. Just as the federal government created perverse
incentives that helped bring about the subprime crisis, so have the
government’s rules for the for-profit industry unwittingly led to its
excesses. When industry reaps all the profit from student loans and the
taxpayer has to pick up the losses, how can we be surprised when things turn
out badly? What is needed now is creative, enlightened policymaking that will
change the incentives so that good outcomes matter more than sheer volume.

Recently, the Department of Education issued a series of regulations that are
supposed to do just that. Unfortunately, the new rules are cumbersome,
complicated — and more than a little punitive. The most controversial of them,
known as the gainful employment rule, is built in part on the actual earnings
of all the graduates of a given for-profit college. Yet, astonishingly, the
schools themselves are never allowed to see the income numbers of individual
graduates because the government considers them private. Rules like that
aren’t likely to help fix anything.

There is an easier way. Robert Silberman, the chairman and chief executive of
Strayer Education, widely regarded as one of the better for-profit companies,
suggests replacing the plethora of regulations with two simple changes. First,
he says, the government should force the for-profits to share in the losses
when a student defaults. And second, the government should set up a national
eligibility test to screen out students who lack the skills to attend college.
Would there still be defaults? Of course. But plenty of students at nonprofit
universities default, too. Silberman’s solution would help ensure that both
the government and for-profit companies are taking smarter risks on the
students they enroll and educate.

There is nothing inherently wrong with the idea of for-profit education. The
for-profits have flaws, but so do nonprofits, with their bloated
infrastructure, sky-high tuition, out-of-control athletic programs and
resistance to change. In a country where education matters so much, we need
them both.
