title: How to Make the NBA a 12-Month League - The Ringer
source: https://theringer.com/how-to-make-the-nba-a-12-month-league-we-have-some-notes-80c6f53e96ba
date: 2025-08-13T18:00:09.913801
tags: []
---
#### We Have Some Notes

# **How to Make the NBA a 12-Month League**

## Bill Simmons and Chris Ryan have a few tweaks that would keep basketball
going all year long

Ringer illustration

The 2015–16 NBA season technically ended when Cleveland won the championship
on June 19, but the action has hardly died down. The basketball world quickly
moved on to the NBA draft on June 23, which was immediately followed by the
free-agency frenzy. And even that’s not over. (LeBron, when are you signing
your contract?) It’s now mid-July, and we’re in the midst of the first lull in
the NBA calendar since September, 10 months ago. Can’t the NBA find a way to
close the gap by filling two more months? [Bill
Simmons](http://web.archive.org/web/20170607183133/https://theringer.com/@BillSimmons)
and [Chris
Ryan](http://web.archive.org/web/20170607183133/https://theringer.com/@chrisryanringer)
discussed the topic on the latest episode of the [_Ringer NBA
Show_](http://web.archive.org/web/20170607183133/https://theringer.com/ringer-
nba-show-podcast-d4d316eb4ce#.s7kwx2i4t). With just a few tweaks, Adam
Silver’s league could conquer the entire calendar. Bill and Chris already have
a blueprint for how to do this. They’ve got some notes.

#### Move Free Agency Up and Make the Draft a Multi-Night Event

**Bill Simmons:** Mike Zarren from the Celtics had this idea, so I’m going to
credit him. What if you flipped free agency and the draft?

The Finals end. The latest [possible] date for Game 7 is around June 21. [As
it stands now], free agency starts the Friday before July 4 weekend. But
during June, because there’s only two teams left, everyone else is ready for
free agency. Thursday after July 4 becomes the draft, only it’s a two-night
extravaganza. First night: lottery, one through 14. Ten minutes between picks,
we take our time. Really blow it out.

Then Friday night, we go rest of the first round, second round. … That’s for
the nerds; that’s for us. We get the whole extra day; we get to digest what
happened.

The most interesting case for free agency being before the draft is — this is
what Zarren was saying — it would determine who we drafted.

**Chris Ryan:** Yeah, it determines whether or not you’re two or three years
away. If the Thunder knew that they were going to lose [Kevin] Durant or they
had lost Durant, maybe they make a much more aggressive move to get to the top
of the draft. Maybe they trade [Russell] Westbrook to the Lakers and take
[Brandon] Ingram. “Bang, now we have [Victor] Oladipo, Ingram, and [Steven]
Adams. That’s a bottom playoff team; we could see where we’re going.”

#### Invest in the D-League

**C.R.:** Add a third round of the draft where you’re drafting for the
D-League teams. Then, start [the] D-League season early in August. Let’s say
Ben Simmons would play one game a week for the Sixers’ D-League team, just to
get his legs ... You would be able to see the late third-, second-round guy
that got picked who’s showing some signs. Check in on James Young’s upper-body
strength. You get to watch those young guys in August, and then the season
starts.

**B.S.:** Maybe summer league becomes the D-League. And it just goes for 10
weeks in Vegas; it just never stops, it just keeps going.

Make it so that guys can come right out of high school and be in the D-League,
and they’d actually make $200,000 a year. There’s a lot of stuff they could
do.

#### Introduce a Meaningful Knockout Tournament, the David Stern Cup

**C.R.:** I would want to have a cup, a knockout tournament that goes parallel
to the season. It’d be a knockout tournament that had some sort of incentive,
whether it was lottery balls, or cap space, or a bonus structure for the
players — a couple million bucks.

Teams could choose whether to play their benches or their starters [to]
advance. Because what happens in these cups [in soccer] is a team like
Manchester United will play its kids until the quarterfinals and then they’ll
bring in the real guys. Maybe you shorten the season and add this. It would
also be cool to have the Commissioner’s Cup and somebody would have something
to win other than—

**B.S.:** The David Stern Cup?

**C.R.:** Yeah, the David Stern Cup. It’s just a frozen envelope.

**B.S.:** Yeah, a permanently frozen envelope trapped in a cup.

_For more on their ideas on how to expand the NBA season, listen to the full
episode_
[_here_](http://web.archive.org/web/20170607183133/https://theringer.com/ringer-
nba-show-podcast-d4d316eb4ce#.8utj115oj) _. Bill and Chris also break down the
new-look Warriors with Kevin Durant, the outlook for the 2016–17 Sixers, and
Russell Westbrook’s future. The text above has been edited and condensed._
