title: Opinion | What We’re Fighting For - The New York Times
source: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/10/opinion/sunday/what-were-fighting-for.html
date: 2025-08-13T17:32:19.283363
tags: []
---
What to make of that oath, anyway? The Constitution seems to mean different
things at different times and places — whether in my unit’s dusty little
combat hospital, or in Eric’s interrogation booth, or in a stadium where a
crowd cheers a presidential candidate vowing to torture his nation’s enemies.
We live in a democracy, so that document can be bent and twisted and re-formed
to mean whatever we want it to.

If we choose to believe in a morally diminished America, an America that
pursues its narrow selfish interests and no more, we can take that course and
see how far it gets us. But if we choose to believe that America is not just a
set of borders, but a set of principles, we need to act accordingly. That is
the only way we ensure that our founding document, and the principles embedded
within, are alive enough, and honorable enough, to be worth fighting for.

Which brings me back to Brian Chontosh, that man with such incredible skill at
killing for his country. Years after I left the Corps I was surprised to learn
that he didn’t really put much stock in his exceptional kill count. He told
Mr. Zabriskie this about killing: “It’s ugly, it’s violent, it’s disgusting. I
wish it wasn’t part of what we had to do.”

When people ask him if he’s proud of what he did, he answers: “I’m not proud
of killing a whole lot of people. That doesn’t make sense to me. I’m proud of
who I am today because I think I’ve done well. I think I’ve been honorable.
I’ve been successful for my men, for the cause, for what’s right.”

Brian Chontosh doesn’t dwell on the dead, but he does wonder whether there
were times when, perhaps, he need not have killed. One of these is that last
soldier in the trench. He’ll remember him, trying to pretend he’s dead but
wiggling a bit. “It’s not a haunting image,” he told Mr. Zabriskie. “It’s just
— man. I wonder. I wonder if I would have just freaking grabbed the dude.
Grabbed his hand, thrown the grenade away or something. I could have got him
some medical treatment.”

If he had, then that enemy soldier would have ended up with a unit like mine,
surrounded by doctors and nurses and Navy corpsmen who would have cared for
him in accordance with the rules of law. They would have treated him well,
because they’re American soldiers, because they swore an oath, because they
have principles, because they have honor. And because without that, there’s
nothing worth fighting for.
