title: To Make Perfect Scrambled Eggs, Add Cornstarch
source: https://skillet.lifehacker.com/have-you-heard-the-good-news-about-cornstarch-eggs-1835699803
date: 2025-08-13T16:13:19.712515
tags: []
---
Being subjected to rubbery, overcooked scrambled eggs is enough to ruin the
genre, but properly cooked scrambles are creamy, indulgent piles of comfort. I
have long been a fan of [the super-slow
scramble](http://web.archive.org/web/20210517231120/https://skillet.lifehacker.com/how-
to-make-perfect-scrambled-eggs-no-matter-how-you-l-1819089160), but I only
enjoy them about once a month, as they take a full 45 minutes to cook.

I can barely get it together enough to shower before noon, so standing over a
stove for the better part of an hour is simply not an option during the
workweek. But I do long for custardy, creamy eggs more mornings than I care to
admit, which is why I will name my first child after [Mandy of Lady &
Pup’s](http://web.archive.org/web/20210517231120/http://ladyandpups.com/), the
woman who let the world know (via
[Food52](http://web.archive.org/web/20210517231120/https://food52.com/recipes/36211-lady-
pups-s-magic-15-second-creamy-scrambled-eggs)) about the sheer and utter
genius of adding cornstarch to scrambled eggs. (Just kidding, I’m never
reproducing.)

Cornstarch—a common thickening agent—works wonders here, letting you cook eggs
that seem slow-cooked in a fraction of the time. The curds are larger than the
truly slow bois, but texture is just as rich, and still has that whole “cheesy
without cheese” vibe going for it which, in my esteemed, highly-valued
opinion, is the whole point of the slow scramble. These eggs are so creamy and
so good that, after taking my first bite, all I could manage was a very quiet,
very sincere, “well, fuck me.”

Just like any other recipe that uses cornstarch as a thickening agent, this
one has you make a slurry. Mandy recommends milk, but I used heavy cream,
because it’s what I had. Stir the slurry until there are no lumps, creating an
almost non-Newtonian fluid, then whisk it in with some beaten, salted eggs.
The mixture noticeably thickens and, after a quick spell in a very hot pan,
you have a pile of tender, velvety, creamy scrambled eggs. To make them
yourself, you will need:

  * Eggs, at least 3
  * Cornstarch, 1/2 + 1/8 teaspoon for each egg
  * Milk (or cream), 1 tablespoon for each egg
  * Salt to taste
  * Butter, 1 tablespoon for each egg

Beat the eggs and, in a separate bowl, beat the starch and dairy. Combine,
season with salt, and beat into a uniform mixture. Heat a pan over high heat,
then add the butter and, once it’s melted and foaming, add the eggs. Leave
them alone until the edges start to set, then turn off the heat, move them to
a cool burner if you’re using an electric stove, and push them around in
circular, sweeping motions until they are just set, but still look not quite
done. I had to move the pan back to the off-but-still-hot burner a couple of
times, as the residual heat of the pan was not enough to finish the job. If
you’ve been stirring your eggs for over half a minute, and they’re not quite
done, pop ‘em back on low heat for a moment. Once they start to look “almost
done,” spoon ‘em on a plate, and enjoy with lots of crisp, buttered toast.

G/O Media may get a commission
