title: Endeavor IPO: How Ari Emanuel's Outsize Dreams Were Dashed | Hollywood Reporter
source: https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/news/how-ari-emanuel-s-outsized-ipo-dreams-were-dashed-1244772
date: 2025-08-13T16:06:25.236873
tags: []
---
##  Faced with the potential for its stock to fall below $20 on the first day
— stripping hundreds of millions from its valuation — top execs pulled the
plug as its headstrong CEO declares, "We’re not willing to undervalue our
company."

It was past 4 p.m. on Sept. 26 and the stock market had closed for the day as
WME president Ari Greenburg and other executives sat in a car making their way
to the New York Stock Exchange. They were going to preside over the unfurling
of a banner bearing the name of his agency’s parent, Endeavor Group Holdings,
that was to be on display when the markets opened the next morning. The
company was about to make history as the largest Hollywood agency to go public
and the first to do so since ICM’s brief foray in the '80s.

Then Greenburg got the call: The banner would not be needed. The bold plans of
Endeavor CEO Ari Emanuel, executive chairman Patrick Whitesell and their
backers at Silver Lake Partners had abruptly gone from dream to debacle. The
dramatic last-minute decision to pull the plug on the IPO was not just an
embarrassment. It was at least a temporary end to the hope of raising capital
to pay down Endeavor’s heavy debt and finance further expansion. And it has
created a morale problem for some 400 of Endeavor’s 7,000 employees who hold
shares and had been convinced by the leadership to sit tight and be rewarded
by buying mansions (or mega-mansions) with IPO loot.

But as awful as those consequences were, the principals felt pulling the plug
was far less sickening than watching Endeavor’s stock open low and then
potentially fall by double digits, stripping hundreds of millions from the
company’s valuation. Emanuel had hoped to raise as much as $600 million from
the IPO, which would have valued the company at as much as $8 billion, but
those numbers shrank as the offering neared. “Endeavor is highly leveraged for
its size, and that’s a major concern,” notes Tuna Amobi, an analyst with CFRA,
who adds, "The timing was bad, and [the] large range of pricing for their
shares … suggests trepidation from the bankers."

The Endeavor team had been through an exhausting slog over the previous two
weeks: 65 meetings in seven cities to court investors. But it was a tough time
to try going public. The market was unforgiving (see Uber and WeWork), and
Endeavor did not have a simple story to tell. (The Writers Guild would claim
that its standoff with agents created turbulence, too, though a source says
that never came up during the roadshow.) Despite the potential for trouble, an
Endeavor insider says Emanuel “doesn’t choose the easy path.” And who knew
when the market would calm down? “In the world we live in,” says the insider,
“waiting for a calmer time was not possible.”

And the thing seemed doable. Emanuel, Whitesell, Endeavor president Mark
Shapiro and board chairman and Silver Lake managing partner Egon Durban had
desirable buyers lined up. They thought they had overcome doubts on big
points. Prospective investors had objected to a stock structure that would
have made it difficult for the board to make management changes. This type of
structure is not uncommon for companies with superstars at the helm —
Facebook, for example — and apparently Emanuel and Whitesell were cast in
those roles.

But that wasn’t the main sticking point, according to an insider who says the
biggest obstacle for prospective investors was the need to accept that
Endeavor couldn’t be expected to generate profits as predictably as a company
in a less volatile business might.

In the decade since Endeavor merged with the William Morris Agency, the
company had grown (expensively) to include everything from IMG (acquired for
$2.4 billion) to the UFC ($4 billion) to the Miss Universe Pageant (purchased
from Emanuel’s ex-client Donald Trump). “How do you model it when you make
money 20 different ways?” asks a source.

Yes, Endeavor is more than a talent agency, but still, some of its ways of
making money — the ones involving movies, for example — are highly
unpredictable. The principals argued that though Endeavor was not so easy to
explain as a quarter-to-quarter business, it would make sense year to year.
The morning of Sept. 26, the key players gathered at the Goldman Sachs
offices, planning to move ahead. They believed the stock could start at $28 or
even $30 a share. The idea was to price it low enough that it would go up
about 10?percent on the first day of trading, signaling its attractiveness.
But even before the market opened, it became clear that fitness company
Peloton’s rough IPO was going to cause problems. Endeavor’s listing price
range was adjusted from $30 to $32 a share to $26 to $28.

Then Peloton launched, and instead of starting at the projected $29 a share,
it traded at $27. Instead of shooting up to maybe $35, by the end of the
trading session its share price had fallen more than 10?percent in the third-
worst public debut of the past 10 years. The Goldman advisers said, in
essence: “The market’s gone crazy. What about going out at $26, $25?” It was
doable, but a quick canvass revealed that Endeavor would not attract the right
quality of investor. The principals saw the horrifying potential for the stock
to drop below $20 on its first day, pulverizing the company’s valuation. They
pulled the plug, opening themselves to recriminations within the agency and
kicking off something of a schadenfreude festival in Hollywood. Emanuel sent
an email to staff soon after the decision was made, around 5?p.m. ET. It read
in part, “While I know this may be disappointing, we’re not willing to
undervalue our company.”

Says one WME agent of the move: “Everyone was told before it was announced in
the press. We were told in the most respectful way possible. And everyone was
supportive of the decision. There were no negative feelings at all, despite
what is being reported. Everyone wants to count us out. But Ari is as bullish
as ever.”

Still, Emanuel, Whitesell and Shapiro made phone calls to staff through the
weekend to reassure jittery insiders. Endeavor has used stock to compensate
many employees, who were expecting to cash in after a one-year lockup period
ended. The company has permitted them to sell some of their stock at certain
points and will launch another such program in 2020 to help prevent some from
heading for the exits. (Emanuel himself has taken more than $160 million out
of the company, according to its S-1 filing.)

Endeavor sources say the company has enough cash to service its debt and the
failed IPO will crimp potential acquisitions but will not level the company.
Some suggest deconsolidation and layoffs might now be in the cards. “A path
forward for Ari [Emanuel] and Endeavor means changing its culture and
aspirations. It means getting smaller by unloading units and people that are
not profitable,” says Gene Del Vecchio, an adjunct professor of marketing at
the USC Marshall School of Business.

Several factors conspired to doom the Endeavor IPO, for now, says Mary Ann
Halford of OC&C Strategy Consultants: Industry risk due to the battle with the
WGA; the financial risk of debt that is about eight times EBITDA; and the
market risk caused by “recent IPO failures.”

As for the question of trying again, a source says Endeavor will take a
breather and revisit it, perhaps in six months. The company issued a
statement, saying, perhaps wistfully, “Endeavor will continue to evaluate the
timing for the proposed offering as market conditions develop.”

_Tatiana Siegel and Paul Bond contributed reporting._

_This story first appeared in the Oct. 2 issue of The Hollywood Reporter
magazine. To receive the magazine,[click here to
subscribe](http://web.archive.org/web/20210308095701/https://subscribe.hollywoodreporter.com/sub/?p=THR&f=saleb&s=IH1402HR20)._
