title: Trump can’t make a health care deal because he doesn’t understand health care | Vox
source: https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2017/7/19/15997776/trump-health-care-complicated-deal
date: 2025-08-13T17:09:49.925374
tags: []
---
The blame in [the Senate’s health care omnishambles](/policy-and-
politics/2017/7/18/15993116/voxcare-past-24-hours-in-health-care-explained) is
attaching to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, and understandably so — he wrote
the bill, he designed the process, he owns the result. But the absence of
President Donald Trump from the story is, itself, an important part of the
tale.

For better and for worse, policy leadership in the modern era tends to come
from the White House. Take the Affordable Care Act. Though the bill was
written in Congress, President Obama and his staff were involved at every step
of its construction — they set the policy vision, used the technical resources
of the executive branch to work through trade-offs, were deeply involved in
the legislative process, and led the communications effort on the bill’s
behalf.

The apex of this was the Blair House summit. As the bill was floundering,
Obama invited congressional leadership from both parties to the Blair House to
debate the legislation on live television for hours. Obama was trying to prove
to congressional Democrats that they could win the argument on health care,
that he could win the argument on health care, and that they should trust him
and pass the bill. It really is worth watching a few minutes of Obama’s
performance in this, and contrasting it with Trump’s role in the replacement
effort:

Obama’s performance was effective because it was, to Democrats, persuasive.
Obama knew the details of the legislation, he knew the issue, and he knew how
Democrats thought — and so he made arguments they believed, and persuaded them
that even if the Affordable Care Act was a dangerous vote to take, it was
still a vote worth taking.

What happened publicly at the Blair House happened privately every day. Obama
and his team were constantly working to sell wavering Democrats on the bill,
to persuade them that the trade-offs made were the right ones, to convince
them this was a historic opportunity to achieve the Democratic Party’s 80-year
dream of universal health care. It’s no accident that Obama’s [health care
address](http://www.cbsnews.com/news/transcript-obamas-health-care-speech/2/)
to a joint session of Congress ended by wrapping the bill in the legacy of the
late Sen. Ted Kennedy, and framing it as the “great unfinished business of our
society.”

The campaign worked. In the Senate, Democrats had 60 votes, they needed 60
votes, and they got 60 votes.

The Affordable Care Act was a heavy lift, and there are many who deserve
credit for its passage — notably Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid. But I don’t know
anyone involved in that effort who thinks it could’ve been done without Obama
and his White House.

The GOP’s repeal-and-replace effort was also a heavy lift, and it’s been done
without the productive involvement of Trump and his White House — in fact,
Trump often made the process considerably harder.

The core problem is Trump has no idea what he’s talking about on health care
and never bothered to learn. “Nobody knew health care could be so
complicated,” he famously, and absurdly, said. His inability to navigate its
complexities meant he couldn’t make persuasive arguments on behalf of the
bills he supported, and he routinely made statements that undercut the
legislative process and forced Republicans to defend the indefensible.

Trump’s [post-election promise](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-
vows-insurance-for-everybody-in-obamacare-replacement-
plan/2017/01/15/5f2b1e18-db5d-11e6-ad42-f3375f271c9c_story.html?utm_term=.eeab6b49521b)
of “insurance for everybody” with “much lower deductibles” set up a standard
Republicans had no intention of ever meeting but kept having to answer for. At
his occasional
[meetings](http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2017/03/obamacare-vote-paul-
ryan-health-care-ahca-replacement-failure-trump-214947) with wavering members
of Congress, he’s made superficial political arguments to people who had deep
policy concerns. The discussions left legislators feeling insulted and annoyed
that the president hadn’t bothered to do the barest amount of homework.

Because Trump doesn’t understand the legislation or the trade-offs it made, he
can’t make persuasive arguments on its behalf in public or private, and so he
mostly doesn’t try. Trump and his team are not frequent presences in the
public debate trying to sell the legislation they’re so keen to sign. That’s
one reason the various bills routinely polled around 20 percent — without
Trump using the bully pulpit to argue on behalf of the legislation, critics,
terrible Congressional Budget Office reports, and news of congressional
infighting filled the void.

When Trump does weigh in, it’s often a disaster. Asked by Fox News’s Tucker
Carlson how he responded to analyses showing the House health bill would hurt
the people who voted for him, he replied, “Oh, I know,” and said the bill was
“very preliminary.” Later, after holding a Rose Garden ceremony to celebrate
the passage of the House health bill, he called it “mean.” But he never
articulated a standard for a bill that wouldn’t be mean, and he never came up
with a policy that wouldn’t hurt his supporters.

Later, during a particularly delicate moment in the Senate’s negotiations, he
[tweeted](http://www.politico.com/story/2017/06/30/trump-obamacare-repeal-
replace-tweet-240132) that Senate Republicans should perhaps abandon the
current process and “immediately REPEAL, and then REPLACE at a later date!”
This tweet of no confidence didn’t make McConnell’s job any easier. At another
point, Trump [suggested](http://www.latimes.com/politics/washington/la-na-
essential-washington-updates-trump-on-healthcare-bill-if-we-
don-t-1498601363-htmlstory.html) it would be fine if Republicans failed to
pass anything at all.

In this context, Trump’s missive this morning is comical. No one has ever
heard Trump discuss, with any specifics, how good the Senate health care bill
is. No one believes he can, or that it would be a good idea if he tried.

In a prescient post-election piece for the conservative Weekly Standard,
[Yuval Levin and Gerard Alexander](http://www.weeklystandard.com/apathy-in-
the-executive/article/2005624) worried that Trump’s disinterest in policy
would lead to chaos in the legislative process:

> In the absence of an opinionated final arbiter who could always be brought
> in, the policy process can easily become far less, rather than more,
> productive. If President Trump is indeed to remain above the details, and if
> the executive branch is unlikely to be able to compensate for his relative
> apathy or absence, congressional leaders may have to think very differently
> about their own role in the policy process. That might make for some
> opportunities, but only if members of Congress are prepared for what to many
> of them will be an unfamiliar and challenging task.

Members of Congress, we now see, were not prepared for that task. McConnell is
a legislative tactician. He might be the guy you want to pass your health care
bill. But he’s not the guy you want to write your health care bill, decide its
contours, make its policy trade-offs, and argue its merits.

By making McConnell that guy through his own inattention and ignorance, Trump
set up the process for failure. The result was legislation nobody liked, that
nobody could defend, and that looks likely to fail. And failure is, it’s worth
saying, a better outcome for the GOP and the country: The legislation is so
poorly built, and sold on so many lies, that if it did pass, implementation
would be a catastrophe.

During the campaign, Trump posed as a master dealmaker. But you can’t make a
deal if you don’t understand what’s being discussed, what the various sides
want, or what the trade-offs involved in different concessions would mean. And
you really can’t make a deal if you don’t know what you want or why you want
it. Preparation, information, and clarity matter in policymaking, and the
widely acknowledged reality that Trump is completely underprepared, woefully
uninformed, and personally confused mattered here.
