title: The Tin Man Gets His Heart: An Oral History of ‘Terminator 2: Judgment Day’ - The Ringer
source: https://www.theringer.com/movies/2021/6/30/22555687/terminator-2-judgement-day-t2-oral-history
date: 2025-08-13T15:37:29.303966
tags: []
---
[](/\[...wordpressNode\])

#

Three decades ago, James Cameron, Arnold Schwarzenegger, and Linda Hamilton
joined forces again to make the biggest, baddest, most eye-popping sequel
ever. Here’s the story of how the machines took over Hollywood.

[](/\[...wordpressNode\])

#

Three decades ago, James Cameron, Arnold Schwarzenegger, and Linda Hamilton
joined forces again to make the biggest, baddest, most eye-popping sequel
ever. Here’s the story of how the machines took over Hollywood.

_Ahead of the release of James Cameron’s latest boundary-pushing project,_
Avatar: The Way of Water _, there’s no better time to revisit this oral
history of_ Terminator 2: Judgment Day.

* * *

James Cameron wanted a villain made out of liquid metal. In the brainstorming
phase for _Terminator 2: Judgment Day_ , he knew the sequel to his first big
hit had to have something no one had seen before. Something that, in the early
’90s, had never even been attempted. He’d landed on the idea of the T-1000, an
android assassin seemingly made of flowing mercury that could shape-shift into
any other organism. And by the time he was done, he’d created one of 20th
century cinema’s greatest “Holy shit!” moments.

Yet the science-fiction epic, released 30 years ago this week, hinged on more
than technical wizardry. To its director, _T2_ is the story of a boy and the
father he never had. The sequel wouldn’t work without a strong bond between
the reprogrammed title character and the teenager he’s sent back in time to
protect. “Sure, there’s going to be big, thunderous action sequences, but the
heart of the movie is that relationship,” Cameron says from his home in New
Zealand. “I have always loved _The Wizard of Oz_. This movie is about the Tin
Man getting his heart.”

_T2_ is a departure from the far bleaker original, 1984’s _The_ _Terminator_ ,
which its creator calls a “science-fiction slasher film.” Linda Hamilton’s
franchise protagonist, Sarah Connor, has transformed from a put-upon heroine
to a self-trained commando whose attempts to thwart the coming apocalypse land
her in a psychiatric hospital. Her son, John, the future leader of the
resistance in the war against the genocidally self-aware defense system
Skynet, is in foster care. And the T-800, once a remorseless killer with a
curious but hypnotic Austrian accent, somehow helps bring them together as a
family—then helps them save the world.

“Look at _Titanic_ , it’s all about relationships,” says Arnold
Schwarzenegger, who relished the chance to turn the cybernetic bad guy he
played in _The Terminator_ into a good guy. “That’s what makes it touching.”

The juxtaposition of warmth and spectacle is what elevates _Terminator 2_
above nearly all other ’90s popcorn flicks. But that somehow undersells its
appeal and influence. Industrial Light & Magic’s cutting-edge visual effects,
a Kevlar-tough woman as the lead, dozens of memorable one-liners, and
terrifyingly prescient themes combined to form a blockbuster that pushed the
limits of the medium. The top-grossing movie of 1991 escalated a big-screen
arms race that’s played out in American cineplexes every summer since.

Precious few massively budgeted, VFX-laden, star-filled tentpole pictures,
however, have been able to replicate the alchemy of _T2_. Most imitators,
ILM’s nine-time Academy Award recipient Dennis Muren says, are like “Xeroxes
of Xeroxes of Xeroxes. And every time you copied something, you lost
something.” Many of the facsimiles are entertaining, but they’re still
facsimiles. In hindsight, there’s no mystery why.

“There’s only one Jim Cameron,” Schwarzenegger says. “It’s as simple as that.”

### Part 1: “If We Pull It Off, It Will Be Huge.”

 _The saga of_ Terminator 2 _begins with its predecessor. Cowritten and
produced with Cameron’s second wife, Gale Anne Hurd, the first installment
cost $6.4 million to make and_[ _grossed $78.4
million_](https://www.boxofficemojo.com/title/tt0088247/?ref_=bo_se_r_1) _.
The surprise smash, initially dismissed as a glorified B-movie, made
Schwarzenegger an A-list star and gave its director instant Hollywood cachet.
He went on to helm the mega-hit_ Aliens _(1986), in which Sigourney Weaver’s
Ellen Ripley cements her status as an action icon, and then the underwater
sci-fi adventure_ The Abyss _(1989)_. _The latter had_[ _a nightmarish
production_](https://ew.com/article/2016/11/29/ed-harris-movies/) _and
underwhelmed at the box office, but its trippy visual effects were proof of
concept for his next project._

_But before_ T2 _could be made, the rights needed to be secured. Enter Carolco
Pictures, the flashy independent that at the time was financing
Schwarzenegger’s soon-to-be-released_ Total Recall. _To make the sequel,
studio head Mario Kassar_[
_reportedly_](http://www.terminatorfiles.com/media/articles/t2_006.htm) _had
to buy out both the_[ _Hemdale Film
Corporation_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hemdale_Film_Corporation) _and
Hurd. It didn’t come cheap._

**Mario Kassar (executive producer, Carolco Pictures cofounder):** It’s $15
million, I have the rights, and we haven’t done anything yet.

**James Cameron (director-cowriter):** The first film made money and it was
definitely a hit, but it wasn’t like _Star Wars_. You didn’t have to start on
the sequel the next day. And frankly, in order to get that film made, I made
this deal, to sell the rights. Whatever it took to get the film made, to get
my foot in the door. And so I think it was justified. But then I didn’t
control the rights.

I’d already made another couple films and forgotten about it, and I got a call
from Carolco and they said, “We want you to make another _Terminator_ film.
We’ll pay you $6 million.” I said, “You have my full attention.”

**Kassar:** I have lunch with him at a place called
[Madeo](https://la.eater.com/2020/9/16/21437074/madeo-restaurant-beverly-
hills-closes-again-news-coronavirus-covid-19-pandemic-los-angeles). And I
said, “Well, it’s a go. I mean, I already spent the money. You know I’m doing
it, so go with God. Go write the script.”

**Cameron:** I talked to Dennis Muren at ILM. I said, “I’ve got an idea. If we
took the water character from _The Abyss_ , but it was metallic so you didn’t
have the translucency issues, but you had all the surface reflectivity issues
and you made it a complete human figure that could run and do stuff, and it
could morph back into a human, and then turn into the liquid metal version of
itself, and we sprinkled it through the movie, can we do it?” He said, “I’ll
call you back tomorrow.”

**Dennis Muren (visual effects supervisor, Industrial Light & Magic): **I had
an idea of what’s possible not only from _The Abyss_ , but I’d seen there was
work being done and research at universities, and commercials on TV at that
time that had computer graphics, and their figures were moving and animated.

**Cameron:**[Tom Sherak](https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/news/general-
news/tom-sherak-hollywood-remembers-fox-676866/) ran all distribution for Fox
for years, and he said, “Who would have known that we made a $60 million movie
that was just a test run for _Terminator 2_?” They were still stinging a
little bit from the fact that _The Abyss_ broke even, just barely.

**Muren:** James is a big lover of technology and of effects work, and really
wanted to impress the audience with stuff they’ve never seen before.

**Cameron:** He called me back and he said, “We can do it. We can’t do a huge
volume, we don’t have a pipeline, so pick your battles.”

**Muren:** It took a few months to get it in place. And Jim was very detailed
on the storyboards; not every frame, but every single shot.

**Cameron:** We used the CG very sparingly. We had 14 CG shots in _The Abyss_
and we had only 42 two years later in _T2_. There were probably another 50 or
60 shots that were practical prosthetic effects done by Stan Winston Studio,
which today would have been done as CG.

**William** **Wisher (cowriter):** I think we were 18, 19 when we met. I did
some writing on _The Terminator_. We had been talking about doing something
else and he called me up one day and said, “I have some good news and some bad
news. The good news is that _Terminator 2_ is going to happen and the bad news
is that we’re already behind schedule, so why don’t you come on over here
right now.”

**Cameron:** I basically had two competing ideas. One was Skynet sends a
terminator, another Arnold terminator, to take out John, and the resistance
sends one that’s been reprogrammed, that would’ve been Arnold too. So Arnold
would become a dark hero character, obviously.

**Wisher:** Having Arnold fight another Arnold is just boring. Boring, boring,
boring.

**Cameron:** When I first conceived the story idea, it was in two parts. In
the first part, Skynet sent a cyborg with a metal endoskeleton and the good
guys sent the protector. The protector crushes him under a truck or throws him
through some big gear structure or machine. And then, up in the future, they
realize the ripples of time are progressing toward them. They still haven’t
won the battle.

[Skynet would] think long and hard about pulling the trigger on sending the
experimental, one-off super weapon that they’ve created, that even they’re
terrified to use. I didn’t call it the T-1000—it was just a liquid metal
robot. And so now the thing that’s coming at you is much, much scarier than
that other metal endoskeleton guy with his skin hanging off. I took that guy
out of the story, but then I thought, “Let’s bring that guy back. Let’s make
him the adversary.” I merged the two ideas. Instead of Arnold versus Arnold,
it was Arnold versus the scary liquid metal weapon.

**Wisher:** We made him a cop. We thought, “Well, if he’s a police officer, he
can go places and do things and won’t be questioned.”

**Cameron:** That was just me having fun with an authority figure. But there
is a thematic point to that, which is that we, as human beings, become
terminators. We learn how to have zero compassion. _Terminator_ , ultimately,
isn’t about machines. It’s about our tendency to become machines.

> _Terminator_ , ultimately, isn’t about machines. It’s about our tendency to
> become machines.
>
> James Cameron

**Wisher:** We watched the first _Terminator_ again and we were spitballing
and thinking, “Where would these characters be?” So we thought, “Sarah, she
knows what the future is—no one will believe her. She’s probably spent some
years hanging out with survivalists or paramilitary types.”

**Cameron:** I remember sitting there once, high on E, writing notes for
_Terminator_ , and I was struck by [Sting’s
song](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wHylQRVN2Qs), that “I hope the Russians
love their children too.” And I thought, “You know what? The idea of a nuclear
war is just so antithetical to life itself.” That’s where the kid came from.

**Brad Fiedel (composer):** The first film was really dark and propulsive. It
just never stopped moving forward. But this had a little bit of a warmer
heart.

**Wisher:** It’s a mother-son story where the stakes just happen to be the
survival of the human race.

**Cameron:** Linda, I called her up and I said, “Look, they want to pay us a
lot of money to make a sequel. Are you in or are you out? But just between you
and me, I don’t really want to do it if Sarah doesn’t come back and I don’t
want to recast Sarah, so you got to say you’re in.” And she and I weren’t
involved. [_Editor’s note: Cameron and Hamilton were married from 1997 to
1999._] We hadn’t even really hung out at all much since the first film. She
was making a movie somewhere down South.

And so she said, “Yeah, in principle, I’m in, but I want to be crazy.” I said,
“Well, what do you mean, crazy? How crazy?” She said, “Crazy, like I’ve been
driven crazy.” I said, “Like you’re in an insane asylum, like you’re
institutionalized?” She said, “Yeah, sure. Let me play crazy. Let me go nuts.”
I said, “All right. Well, you’re going to get my version of nuts,” and she
said, “All right. I’m down.”

**Linda Hamilton (Sarah Connor, to**[ _**Entertainment
Weekly**_](https://ew.com/article/1991/07/12/bench-pressing-linda-
hamilton/)**):** Anything that scares me I want to do.

_Editor’s note: Through her agent, Hamilton declined to be interviewed for
this article._

**Wisher:** We had to call Arnold up and go, “We’ve got this great idea.” He
listened to us and he said, “Just make me cool.”

> We had to call Arnold up and go, ‘We’ve got this great idea.’ He listened to
> us and he said, ‘Just make me cool.’
>
> William Wisher

**Cameron:** I wound up writing right up until the very last second where I
had to get in a limo and squirt to the airport and jump on a big charter jet
that Carolco was using to fly in all of its stars and filmmakers to Cannes in
early May of 1990. And I’m scrambling down to the wire to get this script done
and printed out and my printer fucked up. I’m printing this thing out and I’m
supposed to have left already 20 minutes ago. I literally pull it out of the
laser printer hot, put a clip on it, and shove it in a gym bag and haul ass to
the airport. And I walk on the plane and all of the big agents and movie stars
and filmmakers in Hollywood are all sitting there, all in their seats, and you
could hear a pin drop. And I have to walk all the way down the aisle past all
these accusing eyes. It’s like, “Oh, yeah, you think you’re special, don’t
you? There’s always one.” I’m like, “I know, guys, I know. Sorry.”

Anyway, as I’m going by, I hand the script to Arnold.

**Arnold Schwarzenegger (T-800):** I read it on the plane on the way over
there. I remember that very well.

**Cameron:** Horrible flight, incredible turbulence. I’m thinking, literally,
“Movies are going to grind to a halt because this plane is going down in the
Atlantic.” It’s like the _Titanic_ times five, right?

**Schwarzenegger:** Several times I read something that I had no fucking idea
what he was talking about. I said, “What is polyalloy?”

**Cameron:** He and I had a breakfast meeting. Arnold always had the same
thing—oatmeal with nuts and dates and fruit in it—so that’s what I had. I
could tell there was something bugging him, right? We were pals at this point.
Post-_Terminator_ , we rode motorcycles together. And he said, “Jim, I have a
big problem with the script.” I said, “Well, what is it?” And he said, “I
don’t kill anybody.” I said, “I know, right? They’ll never see that coming.
Nobody will guess it.” He said, “I know, but one thing is surprise. Another
thing is I don’t kill anybody and I’m the terminator.”

This is happening on some terrace at Cannes and everybody’s looking. I’m like,
“Let’s talk this out.” I give him all the reasons how it’s going to work. He
said, “I know, but everybody knows I kick in the door and shoot everybody.
That’s what I do.”

**Schwarzenegger:** How do you make people believe that this is the same guy
we’ve seen in the first _Terminator_? Now all of a sudden, he’s protecting the
human race and protecting this kid? How do I switch over to that?

**Cameron:** I finally got him to get his head around that part of it.

**Schwarzenegger:** It was strange, but I thought, “If we pull it off, it will
be huge.”

CBS via Getty Images

### Part 2: “This Would Be Like a Super Bowl Win for Me”

 _With Schwarzenegger and Hamilton on board, Cameron and the late casting
director_[ _Mali Finn_](https://variety.com/2007/film/markets-
festivals/casting-director-mali-finn-dies-1117976924/) _built a unique
ensemble around the two leads. That meant eschewing Hollywood stars for
talented character actors, some of whom were in search of their big break. And
one who hadn’t even acted at all._

**Edward Furlong (John Connor):** I was at a Boys Club in Pasadena. I was just
hanging out there. And Mali was there, and she was kind of like looking at me
from across the way.

**Cameron:** We looked at all the boys of that age that were coming up and
they either were overexposed in the wrong context or they were these little
smiling machines that were being churned out by the advertising industry.
Because you get these kids that are kid actors and they teach them how to be
perky in family settings and sell cereal.

**Furlong:** I mean, who knows, in this frickin’ town what’s going on when
this older lady is staring at you and comes up to you?

**Cameron:** She walked up to him and he said, “What do you want, frog lips?”
She said, “I like you. Have you ever been in a film?” And he said, “No, and
don’t like me,” or something like that. And she said, “No, seriously, have you
ever been in a film?” He said, “My dad films my birthdays.” And so it was like
you’re just starting from scratch.

**Furlong:** It was crazy. I went in there and she just asked me to improv a
scene. That was the first audition. Once the scripts started coming in, it
started actually becoming a real thing. And I’m getting nervous. And Mali, she
just believed in me.

**Cameron:** There was a pain. There was a surliness. There was an
intelligence. It was all there. What you see in the movie was all there, it
was just a question of pulling it out. The credit totally goes to Mali.

**Furlong:** I landed [it] on my last audition. It went from hundreds of kids
to, I think, me and one other kid. And I’m sweating balls.

**Cameron:** I remember when we made the final decision, I said to Mali, “I’m
going to pick up this phone, I’m going to call this kid. It’s going to change
his life.” And that’s a responsibility.

**Furlong:** It’s basically one of those life-changing events.

**Joe Morton (Cyberdyne Systems computer scientist Miles Dyson):** One of the
questions that James asked me was, “Why do you want this role?” And I said,
“Because of a joke that Richard Pryor told.” And he said, “What’s that?” And I
said, “Well, Richard Pryor said that the reason Hollywood either kills off the
Black actors in sci-fi or they’re not in it at all is because Hollywood
doesn’t think we’re gonna be here in the future.” He laughed, and I think I
got a call that night.

**Robert Patrick (T-1000):** My agent said, “You’re going to go meet Mali
Finn. We don’t know anything about the role other than that. There’s no
script, but just go and meet with her and know that they’re looking for an
intense presence.”

**Cameron:** Robert, he was one of a number of actors that I saw in that age
range. I wanted him to be late 20s, like he was a young recruit cop. I wanted
a little bit of a contrast to Arnold and I wanted somebody physical, but not
big. Not Conan. I wanted to create a contrast. I thought of it as an East
meets West kind of energy, brute force versus the fluid. Like, the terminator
punches him and he flows around him and all of a sudden he’s behind him.

**Schwarzenegger:** He was just so opposite, right? I was big, he was lean. I
was powerful, he was fast. I had basic technology that we had in the first
movie. What this guy had was sophisticated abilities.

**Cameron:** I dallied briefly with Billy Idol in that role because I thought
he had a really interesting look and presence. I can’t say, sitting here years
out, that I would’ve actually followed through with that, but it was something
we were discussing. It got taken off the table when Billy had a bad
[motorcycle crash](https://www.latimes.com/archives/la-
xpm-1990-02-07-me-72-story.html).

**Patrick:** I met with Mali and I tried to do something physically that when
she looked at me, she kind of got an intense vibe. And she said to me, “Well,
whatever you’re doing right now, I like what you’re doing. Let’s go put that
on film.”

**Cameron:** I said, “He’s chameleonic. He has to physically touch things to
be able to read them.” And so he just did this acting exercise in front of me
where he was touching the floor and he was touching the wall and he was in a
mental state of being a hunter. I said, “And it’s emotionless. You only
project emotion when you need to.”

**Patrick:** I kept trying more and more things. And I could kind of get the
sense that it was going my way. And then I think there was a third day where
they had me actually come in and he let me read the script. I remember it took
me about five hours. It just blew my mind. If I could pull this off, this
would be like a Super Bowl win for me. I went in there and I put the script
down on James’s desk and I said, “I can do this.” And he said, “Well, that’s
why you’re here, Robert, because we’re going to go throw a cop uniform on you
and do a little screen test.”

**Cameron:** I wanted to see how his face took the light, how his eyes and the
planes of his face took the light, because that’s important. And he just
emerged. There was a moment where there was Robert and then there was
everybody else.

**Schwarzenegger:** He was so perfect.

**Muren:** We did a lot of scans of him walking. He had a certain little style
to his walk that Steve Williams, the animator, picked up on right away. And it
was a surprise to me and most of us, I think, that [when] walking, _this_
person could look completely different than _that_ person.

CBS via Getty Images

### Part 3: “One of the Most Amazing Transformations That I’ve Ever Seen”

 _For reprising their roles from_ The Terminator _, Schwarzenegger and
Hamilton landed eight- and seven_[ _-figure_](https://www.newsweek.com/conan-
humanitarian-205026) _paychecks, respectively. That disparity irked the
latter. “It was quite a bit more than the first one, but still when I look at
my contribution next to Arnold’s, there’s a great inequity there,”_[ _Hamilton
said in 1991_](https://www.deseret.com/1991/7/6/18929344/pay-for-terminator-
role-can-t-compare-to-arnold-s) _. “I’d have been thrilled to play the part
for free, too, but I have to look after all parts of my life and one part of
that is about earning money and feeling OK about earning that kind of money.
I’m worth it.”_

 _This time around, Arnold wasn’t the only jacked action star on set. Before
and during shooting,_[_Hamilton worked
tirelessly_](https://ew.com/article/1991/07/12/bench-pressing-linda-hamilton/)
_with both a personal trainer and weapons specialist_[ _Uzi
Gal_](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0301546/) _. The costars set the tone for
the rest of the cast._

**Cameron:** This idea that we invented the strong woman in the ’80s is
bullshit. They’ve been there in Hollywood the whole time. But building a movie
around one was really the breakthrough.

**Jenette Goldstein (John Connor’s foster mother, Janelle):** He just wrote
what’s in the world without any of the fluff over, “Ooh, look at that big,
strong woman.”

**Wisher:** When you first see her, she’s doing pull-ups on her bed and she’s
got muscles.

**Goldstein:** She got herself into this incredible shape.

**Schwarzenegger:** It was kind of like with _First Blood II_ , where Sly for
the first time was absolutely ripped. The first thing you said was, “Holy
shit.”

**Morton:** We were in San Jose, just before they blow up the [Cyberdyne]
building. I was on my way out somewhere and she was just coming from the gym.
And I just remember being embarrassed that she was in far better shape than I
was.

**Schwarzenegger:** She told me that she has been running on the beach with
this guy Uzi, who was a trainer with the boots on and the combat gear.

**Linda Hamilton (to**[ _**EW**_](https://ew.com/article/1991/07/12/bench-
pressing-linda-hamilton/)**):** I learned to load clips, change mags, check
out a room upon entry, verify kills. Because Sarah would have. And it was
sheer hell.

**Schwarzenegger:** It inspired _me_ to train hard. It was really one of the
most amazing transformations all-around that I’ve ever seen in my 40-some
years of acting.

**Patrick:** He’s Arnold fucking Schwarzenegger. I grew up watching him on the
_Wide World of Sports_. He created the whole body-building world. I mean, he’s
that charismatic.

**Morton:** He’s a guy who is completely aware of his strengths and his
weaknesses as an actor.

**Wisher:** Arnold’s presence lends itself to gravitas.

**Patrick:** He watched me take after take. And he had such an appreciation
for the physicality of the performance. I would look over and he would have a
cigar, and he’d give me a big thumbs-up.

**Wisher:** We kept his dialogue brief, not because he’s not a good actor. He
is a good actor. But having someone with that presence speaking mostly in very
small bites, you as an audience can infer a lot of meaning into that.
Terminator’s not really a chatty guy.

**Cameron:** He’s the straight guy and the kid and Linda, they do so much
around him. He knew how to play it down the center and not overemote.

**Furlong:** I was a 13-year-old kid. And _Predator_ and _Total Recall ..._ he
was Arnold. It was my first movie. I was so starstruck. I just couldn’t
believe it.

**Danny Cooksey (John Connor’s friend Tim):** It was his _first_ thing. [His
performance] had this honesty about it because it hadn’t been tampered with.
He was just out there as a kid, having fun and just being natural.

**Schwarzenegger:** It’s really hard to go in to act for the first time in
front of cameras in front of like 50 people standing around. The first time I
was in a movie, I know how scary it was. And I can imagine what it was like as
a 13-year-old kid.

**Furlong:** I think the best way to get over all that was actually working
alongside him.

**Schwarzenegger:** I felt like it was up to me to kind of make him my friend,
rather than being his mentor. I just started playing games with him and
hanging out with him, so that when we eventually started doing the scenes
together, he was not any different.

**Cameron:** He totally glommed on to Arnold as a father figure, and Arnold
loved Eddie and loved torturing him. Jumping him through his hoops, making him
do push-ups, and all that. “Come on, Eddie. Don’t be so lazy. You’ve got to
get fit. You’ve got to get fit.” You could picture it.

CBS via Getty Images

### Part 4: “He Becomes Literally Like a Machine.”

Terminator 2 _was no ordinary sequel. Its size and scope eclipsed the original
in every way imaginable. Shot in late 1990 and early 1991 in Los Angeles and
in other locations around California and the Southwestern United States,_ T2
_was, at the time, the most expensive movie ever made. It_[ _reportedly had a
budget_](https://www.nytimes.com/1991/04/14/business/taming-hollywood-s-
spending-monster.html?pagewanted=all) _upward of_[ _$90
million_](https://www.boxofficemojo.com/release/rl3396699649/) _, a figure
that Carolco denied back then. Yet the pressure of steering such a huge ship_
_didn’t intimidate the exacting Cameron, who still relied on the same DIY
ethic that he developed as a young man working for B-movie king Roger Corman.
Even while filming complex set pieces—like when the T-1000 morphs into John’s
foster mother and stabs her husband through a milk carton—he took the smallest
details into account._

**Kassar:** The budget was supposed to be $60 million or $80 million or $90
million, but I knew that was a ghost number. I knew it was going to be higher,
because with James, it usually goes a little higher no matter what.

**Fiedel:** Jim would come in, and I was in a little refurbished garage studio
in Studio City, and he said, “Brad, I just want you to know you’re scoring the
most expensive film ever made in your garage.”

**Wisher:** I remarked one day that just the opening title credits on _T2_ was
about the same budget for _The Terminator_.

**Morton:** We were about to finish my death scene. Before we finished
shooting it, James decides to blow out all the windows that Linda has to crawl
past. There’s no cameras rolling. He just wants to blow them out so he can see
what it looks like. I was shocked. I thought, “What?”

**Kassar:** With James, you write the check, you close your eyes, you go two
minutes to the set to say “Hi” every once in a while, and you let him be.
Because if you think you’re going to control him, you’d be wasting your time.

**Xander Berkeley (John Connor’s foster father, Todd):** It was just something
about the meticulousness in combination with the expertise and intelligence
that he brought to every situation; whatever risks were being taken had a
level of calculation that was just so impressive.

**Goldstein:** He was working just like he was working on a Corman with you.
Something didn’t work, he was like, “We’re not waiting. We’re going to just
[gaffer tape](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaffer_tape) that thing up and
we’re going.”

**Berkeley:** I knew it was going to be spectacular, like nobody had ever seen
before, because of the attention being given to details.

**Goldstein:** I read the script and it’s like, “Your arm turns into a sword
…”

**Berkeley:** I had to practice sword swallowing for two weeks before we shot
it. With a dulled aluminum blade. They did a casting of my head so that they
could put a retractable blade coming out the back that flashed sideways. But
the blade has to be far enough down my mouth that it could sell the gag as if
it was coming through the back of my head.

**Goldstein:** They made a model of my arm and they painted the flesh with
little freckles up to the sword and then they had to place it inside Xander’s
mouth.

**Schwarzenegger:** Stan Winston was a genius.

**Berkeley:** There were three different blades that went down my throat at
any point. There’s one that’s straight that had a handle on the far end so
that the puppeteers could hold it out of frame and they’d just pan the length
of the blade to me pinned. And then when they unpinned me and I fall to the
ground, I had to remain in that position for four or five hours until four
o’clock in the morning without moving. My body is on the ground and there’s a
pool of milk and a pool of blood, which Jim personally swirled each time. He
impressed upon me very clearly that if I moved a hair in any of the following
sequences, that it would fuck up the shot. I don’t think I could walk for
several days after that, but he sent me a nice bottle of Cristal for my
efforts.

**Morton:** When you have that kind of budget hanging over your head, every
moment counts, every decision counts. The pressure must be enormous.

**Schwarzenegger:** He transforms a day before shooting. We will go out for
dinner, and the next day he’s a totally different person. He becomes literally
like a machine. He has a very clear vision of what he wants. He’s very
demanding and he will not go for anything that is almost there. It has to be
_there_. That’s it. Everyone is kind of scared on set. Because Jim doesn’t use
much psychology. He just screams at everybody.

**Patrick:** My main thing was just, “I’ve got to figure out a way to satisfy
James and make him happy with the shots.” Because he’s not moving on until you
get it right.

**Schwarzenegger:** I’m not good with names. He remembers everyone’s name. He
remembers everything. Page numbers. He says, “Yeah, Page 78. Trust me. I wrote
the fucking script.”

**Berkeley:** The Steadicam operator in one of the sequences where we were
just in the house interacting, his machine wasn’t functioning and Jim was
furious. The guy said, “Look, it’s jammed. I don’t know what’s happened. It’s
not working.” Jim just grabbed it out of his hand and said, “Give it to me.”
And put it down on the table, busted it open, _bang, bang, bang_ , did a
couple of very precise, surgical moves on this thing, slammed it shut, handed
it back to him and said, “Now try it.” And it worked perfectly, and we got the
shot, and he kept his head.

**Schwarzenegger:** He just goes off the deep end about any little thing. But
at the same time, he’s very supportive when you act. He would inspire you and
he’d say, “Oh, it will be so cool [when you turn the gun like
that](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E8OsYE8kiqg). I want you to practice
this. It’s so cool.” He would just push you and he would encourage you.

> Cameron would say something like, ‘Hey, look man, we’re creating something.
> This is film history we’re doing right now. It’s never been done.’
>
> Robert Patrick

**Patrick:** We were sitting there in the [[Bull Creek
spillway](https://la.curbed.com/maps/terminator-2-movie-arnold-
schwarzenegger)] and we were trying to do the walk out of the fire. And it was
tough. And I was frustrated, losing my patience, not feeling like I was able
to do what they wanted me to do. But I didn’t know what it was they wanted me
to do. And I’m trying to figure this shit out, too. And Jim could pick up on
that kind of stuff. He was aware of what I was going through. And he would say
something like, “Hey, look man, we’re creating something. This is film history
we’re doing right now. It’s never been done.”

CBS via Getty Images

### Part 5: “At Some Point, the Emulation Becomes Real.”

Terminator 2 _is a violent action movie, but the film wouldn’t be a classic
without an underlying sense of humanity. As the narrative progresses, the
T-800 gradually learns what humanity is while Sarah Connor regains it. For
Hamilton’s character, the turn comes when a nightmare of the coming nuclear
holocaust—which Cameron depicts in gruesome fashion—leads her to hunt down and
attempt to kill the unwitting Skynet architect, Miles Dyson, before he creates
the defense system that ultimately will wipe out billions. But in the end, she
can’t go through with it._

**Cameron:** Her survival was all about her son’s survival. Her son’s survival
was all about the survival of the human race. She was doing it for the burning
children that she saw in her dreams.

**Berkeley:** It was an insane financial risk for them to spend as much as
they spent on the seconds-long sequence of the nuclear annihilation. And I
remember Jim talking about it at the time: “Maybe I’m crazy. But we had to do
it.” And that is the moment to me that elevates the movie to art.

**Cameron:** There’s a whole unseen arc that’s happened between the first film
and the second film, where she’s gone cold. She’s gone dark, she’s become a
machine. And when she goes after Miles Dyson, she is a Terminator.

**Morton:** At the moment that he meets them, Miles is sort of the most human
character going until Linda makes her transition. What I did very purposely is
I never hung out with either Linda or Arnold, because I wanted to keep them
feeling alien. I wanted to keep them feeling like, “I don’t know who you
people are, or what you’re about, but it’s nuts.”

**Cameron:** She empties that magazine, drops that gun, pulls the .45, walks
in, chambers a round, shoots him in the back. It’s like she is just all
business and we went for that. She trained so rigorously to be able to pull
that off better than any guy in the fucking history of movies. She was
terrifying.

**Furlong:** She’s the emotional crux of that movie.

**Cameron:** His kid is there, and his wife is there, and all he cares about
is protecting his family, and her finger is tightening on that trigger. She’s
one neuron away. The dime is bouncing on its edge right at that moment. She
could’ve pulled it. She had 6 billion lives on one side of her conscience.

And then there’s her not being able to. The way she chose to play it, where
[Dyson is] yelling and crying and begging and she just puts her hand out and
says, “Shhhh …” It’s almost the way you’d quiet a child and it’s like she
can’t turn away, she just backs away and collapses against the wall. To this
day, I don’t think that type of moment—that precipice moment of “it could go
either way”—has ever been done better.

_Connor refrains from killing Dyson, but he doesn’t survive their subsequent
raid on Cyberdyne Systems. This sets up Sarah, John, and the T-800’s climactic
showdown with the T-1000 in a steel mill. The show-stopping sequence features
Patrick’s doomed alter ego getting frozen by dry ice, smashing into a million
pieces, reforming from a mercury-like ooze, and morphing into several other
characters—including the film’s heroine. In its final moments,
Schwarzenegger’s character shows how far it’s come by accepting its own
termination._

**Wisher:** Linda Hamilton has a twin sister and she was used in one of the
shots as Sarah; so they’re both in the same frame.

**Hamilton (to _EW)_ : **They were going to use a process shot for the double,
but they flew Leslie in and were delighted.**** We were shooting in freezing
temperatures in a steel mill, and they had to wet us down. Leslie got a
glimpse of how tough it can be to do this stuff.

**Wisher:** It’s a lot simpler than having ILM go create you a CG Sarah.

**Patrick:** My memories of that are just walking and moving through the shots
the way Jim wanted me to. It was beautifully lit. Our DP [Academy Award
nominee Adam Greenberg] was phenomenal. All the sparks that were flying
everywhere. And they were hitting my head, burning my scalp.

**Furlong:** It was a big emotional thing and I really wanted to do it.
Because my hair was so long—it was really gross—I had a habit of chewing on
it. And I just remember Jim came up to me with a pair of scissors and just cut
my hair. He’s like, “Stop chewing your hair.”

**Wisher:** The whole thing is that Arnold, the longer he stays, the more he
learns, the more he starts to become kind of human. There was a scene that was
[cut for the initial release](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wrDo7wVXrBQ)
where they took the CPU out of his head and turned the chip from read to write
which meant he could learn. Jim covered it with an
[ADR](https://nofilmschool.com/what-is-adr-in-film) line, off-screen: “The
longer I stay, the more I can learn.”

**Cameron:** It’s real emotion. He’s been built to emulate humans. At some
point, the emulation becomes real.

**Schwarzenegger:** I’ve learned from this kid about human behavior to make me
understand it more.

**Morton:** The monster sort of makes the ultimate sacrifice of giving his
life in order to save humanity.

**Wisher:** Having him [lowered] into the molten steel was always there. The
thumbs-up—I think Jim came up with that on set.

**Schwarzenegger:** Jim doesn’t show emotions at all, so you would think that
he wouldn’t be able to write emotions. But he can. You see it over and over
and he’s just such an expert in little details. Me holding [Sarah’s] hand or
wiping [John’s] tears, talking about, “I know now why you cry, but it’s
something I can never do.”

**Cameron:** People have always asked me, “Don’t you ever want to just do
those little films that are just actors in a room talking?” I say, “I make
that little film every time I make a movie.”

**Schwarzenegger:** It played so well in the test screening. People were just
saying, “My favorite scene of the movie, the ending. It was so touching.” So
we knew that it was solid gold.

**Cameron:** He never really gets emotional, but the ending is very emotional.
It’s like [when Iron Giant says
“Superman.”](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D4dT2eBWI2M) Come on, who doesn’t
cry when the Iron Giant says “Superman”?

### Part 6: “The Whole Idea Is That There Is No Fate but What We Make for
Ourselves.”

 _By the summer of 1991,_ Terminator 2 _was everywhere, an age-spanning pop
culture explosion that served as a blueprint for every single mega-release
that followed. There were_[ _fast food and soft drink tie-
ins_](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VWCJLmWjuas) _,_[_trading
cards_](https://www.amazon.com/1991-Topps-T2-Terminator-
Stickers/dp/B003KC3MH8) _,_[_action
figures_](https://www.etsy.com/market/terminator_2_toys) _,_[_video
games_](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8W9juT-4aP0) _, and even a partnership
with Guns N’ Roses._

**Cameron:** The machinery at TriStar Sony is working and they’re saying,
“Well, we’ve got to do a music video.” And so they go to Arnold—they didn’t
talk to me—and they say, “We want you in a music video with some act.” Arnold
says, “OK, look, if you’re going to do a music video, you get the biggest band
in the world. I don’t even care who they are.” They flip open _Billboard_ :
“Guns N’ Roses makes sense. We’ve got a rose in the movie and bloody guns.
Good, do it.”

**Schwarzenegger:** We had a specific screening, it was just for us, the cast,
James and myself, and Guns N’ Roses. I think that Axl Rose was extremely
impressed. I remember him going to Jim and saying, “I’m in.”

**Cooksey:** We were just on set and someone had delivered another cassette
tape to me. And it was “You Could Be Mine.” And at that point I was pretty
much the shit because I had an advance copy of at least one song off the new
album, before it was out.

**Cameron:** I could see John listening to this, even though he’s running
around in a Public Enemy shirt.

**Furlong:** When I was 13, I had no idea what I was fucking listening to. I
liked rock, but then I’d listen to Slick Rick. I’ve come to appreciate Guns N’
Roses.

**Schwarzenegger:**[Stan Winston] subsequently directed the music video with
Guns N’ Roses.

**Cameron:** Arnold and Stan Winston got to be really, really good friends on
that film. And then the three of us became this midlife crisis motorcycle club
after that. We’d go out and ride our Harleys every Sunday.

_The marketing machine behind Cameron’s film built an almost impossible amount
of hype. But unlike many big-budget extravaganzas,_ this one _actually lived
up to it. Released nationwide to rave reviews on July 3, 1991,_ T2 _made_[
_$520.9
million_](https://www.boxofficemojo.com/title/tt0103064/?ref_=bo_se_r_1)
_worldwide to become the year’s box office champ; for more than a decade, it
was the_[ _highest-grossing R-rated
movie_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_highest-grossing_R-rated_films)
_of all time._

_Muren’s and Winston’s teams won_[
_Oscars_](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0103064/awards) _for visual effects and
makeup. People incessantly quoted Schwarzenegger’s most memorable lines, like,
“I’ll be back,” and, “Hasta la vista, baby.” Hamilton also became an iconic
action hero; by that November she was hosting_[Saturday Night
Live](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NHNRiRun_cI) _._

_Naturally, the film’s success supercharged the careers of the supporting
cast, especially the instantly in-demand Furlong. It also launched the future
governor of California and future Oscar-winning director into new
stratospheres of fame and fortune; three years later they teamed up again on
the action-comedy_ True Lies.

**Kassar:** We used VHS tapes in those days. And [Cameron] puts it on the
screen in my office, and I see all the effects, [the floor becoming the
[T-1000]](http://www.oafe.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/12/t2d.jpg); the
mercury man. And then, I said, “Oh, my God, this is going to be un-fucking-
believable.”

**Muren:** After that [movie], I really encouraged all the writers around to
throw away everything and write with no restrictions in mind. Let’s see what
we can do.

**Cameron:**[ILM] were looking for the next thing to act as what I like to
think of as the grand provocation, that thing which will bring in money within
a defined period on a project basis to push the R&D to the next level. And I
would submit that there wouldn’t have been a _Jurassic Park_ if _Terminator 2_
hadn’t been the right impetus at that moment.

**Muren:** If we hadn’t had _Terminator 2_ , we wouldn’t have been able to do
_Jurassic Park_.

> If we hadn’t had _Terminator 2_ , we wouldn’t have been able to do _Jurassic
> Park_.
>
> Dennis Muren

**Morton:** After I got the job, [Cameron] was talking about all the things
the movie would do. I thought the only thing people would remember about this
movie is, “Oh, my God. You see how [Schwarzenegger] shot him in the knee?” I
went to the cast and crew screening and thought, “Oh, my God. This film has
done everything he said he was going to do.” I actually made a point of
finding him before I left to tell him that.

**Schwarzenegger:** That screening went really well. Jim came over to me
afterwards. “What did you think of it?” I said, “Oh, it is fantastic. This
movie’s going to be huge.”

**Cameron:** Arnold, he becomes the biggest cheerleader for the film.****

**Cooksey:** I went to the premiere. It was massive. Everything about that
movie was just on this enormous scale.

**Fiedel:** It was a big deal. As opposed to the original _Terminator_ , where
everybody was sitting in there skeptical and actually laughed at the wrong
times, and Jim looked pale as a ghost outside the theater when people were
leaving.

**Furlong:** I remember asking my buddy, “Dude, I need to show up at the
premiere with a chick. What should I do?” And then they were like, “You should
get a hold of Punky Brewster, man.” And I was like, “Yeah, man!” And I reached
out to Soleil Moon Frye, and I was like, “Hey, will you go on this date with
me to this movie?” And we became friends.

**Patrick:** It was a lot to take in. It was a lot to deal with. I wasn’t
ready for the celebrity part of it. I wasn’t ready for all the recognition. No
one can really prep you for that.

**Morton:** The joke in my household, for the longest time, was that it was
the only movie I ever made.

**Patrick:** I remember being in Chicago and I was walking down the street,
business guys were coming up to me: “T-1000! Do the walk, do the walk! Do the
run, do the run! Do that thing with your arms!” Yeah. I’ve heard it all.

_While Judgment Day was averted_ ,_the sequel spawned a television series and
four more movies, the last of which, 2019’s_ Terminator: Dark Fate _, saw the
return of Schwarzenegger, Hamilton, and Cameron as a producer. While the
franchise is dormant for now,_ T2 _remains as relevant as ever._

**Cameron:** I have been surprised at how well it holds up. The makes and
models of some of the cars that get mowed down by various trucks look a little
early ’90s, which they are, of course. There is that one “Bad to the Bone” big
guitar extravaganza at the beginning, but it doesn’t really hinge much on pop
culture.

**Berkeley:** It’s one of those movies that people watch 50 times, and there’s
only a handful. People bought it on video cassette and watched it until the
tape melted.

**Patrick:** You say to yourself, “Man, am I lucky that I have something
that’s recognizable. I’m so lucky that I have that until the day I die.” I can
honestly tell you as I get older what a nice compliment that is. “That guy
over there still looks like the T-1000.” It’s not bad.

**Furlong:** My second name should be John Connor.

**Schwarzenegger:** Besides the line, “I’ll be back,” and those kinds of
things, just the philosophy itself is good.

**Cameron:** It’s almost, in a funny way, more germane now than it was when it
came out because AI is now a real thing that we have to deal with, and then it
was a fantasy like HAL 9000. There have been films that predicted the rise of
AI, and the _Terminator_ films just jumped on that bandwagon and made them
into action movies.

**Schwarzenegger:** The whole idea is that there is no fate but what we make
for ourselves. We don’t have to say, “Well that’s the way it’s going to go.”
We have control over ourselves.

**Cameron:** Even if we win the fight for our existence against the rise of
machines, how do we define ourselves? Now it’s a real thing and a real concern
and a real philosophical, existential question for the human race.

**Schwarzenegger:** We are in charge. We don’t have to take this shit that’s
coming our way. We can go and create a future, the one that we want, which is
a good future without those machines. We just have to fight for it.

 _Interviews have been edited and condensed._

[ Alan Siegel](/creator/alan-siegel)Alan covers a mix of movies, music, TV,
and general nostalgia. He lives in Los Angeles and is the author of ‘Stupid
TV, Be More Funny How the Golden Era of “The Simpsons” Changed Television—and
America—Forever.’
