title: How Physics Explains Thor’s Hammer And Captain America’s Shield | FiveThirtyEight
source: http://fivethirtyeight.com/datalab/avengers-physics-ultron-thor-hammer-captain-america-sheild/
date: 2025-08-13T18:59:56.537286
tags: []
---
“Avengers: Age of Ultron” hits theaters Friday. To get prepped, I talked to
Professor Jim Kakalios of the University of Minnesota, who researches
nanocrystalline semiconductors by day and is the author of “[The Physics of
Superheroes](http://www.amazon.com/The-Physics-Superheroes-Spectacular-
Edition/dp/1592405088)” and a scientific consultant on films like “Watchmen”
and “The Amazing Spider-Man” by night (and day).

Real-life scientists aren’t looking to nitpick these movies — they don’t
debate pesky questions about the Hulk’s Incredible Pants — but instead like to
use the movies as a jumping-off point to talk about the real-life research
being done on stuff we see on-screen. Kakalios gave me a theory that explains
Thor’s hammer, Captain America’s shield and the deal with a newcomer to the
team, the Vision. This interview has been edited for length and clarity.

**Walt Hickey** : When you see these Avengers movies, which character changes
between the comic books and the movies do you think ground them more or less
in the real world?

**Jim Kakalios** : In the comic books, Thor is a Norse god, and basically his
powers, strengths and abilities were all magic-based. And in the movies, they
made a very deliberate decision to move away from that. They accounted for
Thor and all of the other characters in Asgard as coming from another world,
another dimension whose science is so sophisticated and so advanced that for
us, it appears like magic.

This is like [the standard Arthur C. Clarke dictum
](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clarke%27s_three_laws)that “any sufficiently
advanced technology would appear to a less advanced society to be magic.”

They did this deliberately with Thor in the first Thor movie because they knew
the plan was to eventually make an Avengers movie. And they wanted Thor to be
able to exist in the same universe as Tony Stark.

If everything that Thor does is just completely magic, Tony Stark’s going to
have a problem with that. But if you tell Tony Stark, “well, this is just
science that’s so much more advanced that you don’t understand its operation
yet,” he could at least presumably accept that.

**WH:** When we watch the Thor movies, yes, there’s a lot of mysterious stuff
going on, but the flight-by-hammer-twirl, that’s kind of based on the rules of
physics we see in our everyday life.

**JK:** It almost seems like he’s violating conservation of momentum when he
does that, but not actually! If he twirls the hammer, and gets it up to a high
velocity, and then flings it, and then breaks his contact between his feet and
the ground, and then grabs on to the thong handle of the hammer, he’s going to
be dragged behind it. (I’ll presume he can throw it so hard because he’s
Thor.)

The same way that someone who’s doing the hammer toss in a track-and-field
event is twirling this heavy mass around in a circle and if he loses his
footing but holds on to the hammer wire, he’s going to find himself flying out
of the circle. Thor is doing this but in a much more controlled manner.

The fun part is not to explain the superheroes, but to use the superheroes to
explain other physics. And so the question is: Why are only those who are
worthy able to lift Thor’s hammer? And it’s not a simple case that it’s very
heavy, because The Hulk is very strong and he can’t lift it.

VIDEO

Then you ask: Why are things heavy? Why do things weigh what they weigh? And
there’s a theoretical idea that the gravitational force of attraction is
actually transmitted by [a particle called the
graviton](http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/blogs/physics/2014/05/what-are-
gravitons/). It has been theoretically suggested to exist but has not been
experimentally confirmed to date. Well, Thor’s hammer operates on super
science very much more advanced than anything we have under control.

In the comic books, it’s said it’s composed of “uru” metal, and I don’t know
what uru metal is so that means I can make up whatever I want.

Let’s say uru metal has the ability when properly stimulated to emit
gravitons. If the person who’s trying to lift the hammer is unworthy, the
person trying to lift the hammer is providing a large upward force. But Newton
tells us that things will not move if the upward force is balanced exactly by
an equal downward force. The downward force normally is just the mass of the
hammer — the weight of the hammer — and it’s being attracted by the Earth. But
suddenly, if someone’s trying to lift it, if it emits more gravitons, it’s
equivalent to increasing its mass, and if it emits as many gravitons as it
needs to, it can be heavier and heavier.

VIDEO

It doesn’t fall through the table because it’s only becoming heavier in
proportion to the upward force. And as soon as the person lets go of the
hammer, it stops emission of the gravitons, and it doesn’t sink through the
table or sink through the ground, it just stays where it is. If someone like
Thor or Captain America or Beta Ray Bill from the comics [tries to lift the
hammer] and the hammer determines they’re worthy, then it doesn’t emit the
gravitons, and the hammer just weighs 40 pounds, or whatever it weighs.

**WH** : So that sort of answers the question of what happens if Thor forgets
the hammer in an elevator?

**JK** : There’s a lot of other interesting physics — you could talk about
Captain America’s shield, you could talk about why is it so indestructible.

**WH:** Uh, can we talk about that?

**JK:** In the comic books, it’s explained as a unique alloy of steel and
vibranium. Steel is a very stiff, rigid, hard material, which is great if
you’re throwing the shield and you want to ricochet it off of various surfaces
exactly the way Cap does.

VIDEO

But something that’s stiff and rigid makes a really bad shock absorber. For a
shock absorber — to cushion the blow — you want something that’s soft, that
will give a little. Which would you rather smack your head into, the steering
column in your automobile or an airbag? The airbag is softer, it deforms under
pressure and takes a little bit longer to slow you down. The longer the time,
the less force needed to stop your motion. Whereas the steering column is very
stiff and rigid — it takes a very short time to stop you, and that very short
time means a very large force applied to your head.

So you want Cap’s shield to have this combination of strength and rigidity
from the steel and amazing vibration absorption properties from the vibranium,
which doesn’t really exist — it’s a fictional mineral. But then you could ask
the question:

Energy can’t be destroyed, just transformed from one form to another. And if
you take the energy of Thor’s hammer striking Captain America’s shield,
there’s a large amount of kinetic energy in the hammer that is transferred to
vibrational energy in the shield. If the vibranium absorbs it, that energy has
to go some place, and where does it go?

VIDEO

In the first Avengers film, we see where it goes! When Thor strikes Cap’s
shield — when he puts the hammer down in that scene when Thor, Iron Man and
Captain America are skirmishing in a forest — when he strikes the shield, you
see this enormous blast of light in the visible and ultraviolet part of the
spectrum. So the vibrational energy is being transformed into light energy,
which then radiates out from the shield.

**WH** : We’re not super familiar with new characters like Quicksilver,
Scarlet Witch and the Vision. What can you tell us about them?

**JK** : One thing I wanted to say about Vision — and I haven’t seen the movie
yet, so I don’t know what direction they’re going to go with this: In the
comic books, the Vision is an android-type creature — technically a synthezoid
(I don’t really know the difference). But he’s able to change his density at
will. So he can be “as hard as a diamond” or such low density that he can pass
through solid walls.

And that part isn’t quite so right.

In the first place, diamond is hard not because it’s very dense; it’s hard
because the bonds between the carbon atoms are very stiff and rigid. Diamond
and graphite — pencil lead — are made of the exact same material: carbon. They
have almost exactly the same densities. But pencil lead is very soft. And
diamond is very hard.

The difference isn’t what the substance is made out of, or the density, but
the nature of the chemical bonds that are holding those carbon atoms together.
Those bonds are very strong in diamonds in all three directions, and in
graphite, they’re very strong in two directions but very weak in the third.
Graphite is like sheets of a thin-crust pastry that has many thin layers, like
a baklava dessert, so it peels apart easily layer by layer. So strength of
materials frequently has nothing to do with their density; it has to do with
the strength of their chemical bonds.

No matter how low your density, you’re not passing through a solid wall! I
mean air is less dense than the wall, but the air doesn’t just leak throughout
the wall. That’s really good news for the astronauts on the space station. If
air just leaked through, they would go out into the vacuum of space and not
come back. That would spoil their whole day.

**WH** : Non-ideal, yeah.

**JK** : So that part of the Vision, meh. If they say “density” and “changing”
in there, I’m going to probably be a grump. But if they do something really
cool with it? They can win me over.
