title: Happy 10th anniversary to Gossip Girl, TV’s coldest teen soap | Vox
source: https://www.vox.com/culture/2017/9/20/16333206/gossip-girl-10th-anniversary-chuck-bass
date: 2025-08-13T17:00:23.191960
tags: []
---
Ten years ago this week, one of the coldest and most nihilistic teen soap
operas ever made premiered on The CW.

But you wouldn’t have known that’s what [_Gossip
Girl_](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0397442/?ref_=nv_sr_1) was going to be from
the first episode, or even from the first 13 episodes. It was a series about a
group of wealthy private school teenagers living on the Upper East Side,
designed to be slick, trashy fun in the vein of its predecessor [_The
OC_](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0362359/?ref_=nv_sr_1) _._ It was not meant
to be a chilly ode to power and how it makes wealth and sex and love
synonymous. But over the course of its six seasons, that’s exactly what it
became.

_Gossip Girl_ may have begun as a show full of beautiful, wealthy
20-somethings with perfect hair pretending to be high schoolers in designer
uniforms, getting into sexy shenanigans and then crying and group-hugging as
they remembered the power of friendship. But by its final seasons, it was
about how extreme wealth makes all relationships transactional, and how all
romantic relationships are based in exploitation. And the show didn’t so much
condemn this nihilism as luxuriate in it: Subliminally, at least, it was as
much a part of the _Gossip Girl_ ethos as the lingering close-ups on Blake
Lively’s shiny hair and Leighton Meester’s giant tear-filled eyes.

_Gossip Girl_ ’s slow transition into nihilism is in large part a result of
its decision to embrace its breakout character, Chuck Bass, originally
designed as a one-note villain. Chuck gradually became the show’s central
character, and his chilly cynicism became its animating perspective. Watching
his takeover is a case study in the dangers of letting a single character
consume a narrative — and in the deep, subliminal attractions that white male
wealth and power can exert over a narrative.

## _Gossip Girl_ was originally about human connections. That version of the
show didn’t last long.

Serena and Blair stage their own photo shoot. CW

 _Gossip Girl_ was originally meant to be about Serena ([Blake
Lively](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0515116/?ref_=tt_cl_t1)), her best friend
Blair ([Leighton Meester](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm1015262/?ref_=tt_cl_t2)),
and their fractured relationship; it was also supposed to be about Serena’s
burgeoning romance with the hipster Brooklyn outsider Dan ([Penn
Badgley](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0046112/?ref_=tt_cl_t3)). Histrionic,
overachieving Blair was clearly the most compelling character of the central
trio, but the show was aligned along the moral compass offered by friendly,
good-natured Serena and righteous, bootstrapping Dan: They provided the lesson
at the end of the episode, and the heart.

In one early episode, Blair and Serena argue over which of them should get to
appear in a photo shoot for Blair’s fashion designer mother’s brand. The photo
shoot is the kind of slick aspirational nonsense that the show built its brand
on, but it’s the backdrop for a real emotional problem: Serena, who is
effortlessly sparkly and charismatic, wins the chance to appear in the shoot
even as she claims that she doesn’t want it. Blair, who desperately _wants_ to
be charismatic and sparkly, who wants her mother’s approval, and who feels
that this photo shoot will provide her proof of both, is cut out.

“You take everything from me!” Blair screams at Serena. Dan, overhearing,
realizes for the first time that Blair is not just a scary high school mean
girl but a human being capable of feeling pain, and they share a moment
bonding over how awful it feels to constantly strain for the love and
attention of your mother without ever being sure that you can reach it.

And then Serena, having successfully begged Blair’s forgiveness, steals all of
the clothing from the photo shoot. Together, Serena and Blair run out into the
streets of Manhattan in their stolen designer clothes and wrap their arms
around each other as they take a string of selfies. “Serena and Blair?” the
narrator says in voiceover. “They do besties better than anyone.”

In this earliest iteration, _Gossip Girl_ was a show about friendships and
human connection. Dan’s endless judgment and moralizing was often frustrating
and self-righteous, but it provided a grounding for all the sexy scandalous
hijinks: As fun as the money and the luxury goods were, when Dan provided the
central viewpoint of the show, they weren’t the point. The point was being
able to authentically connect with someone else, even in the emotionally
deadening world of wealth and extreme privilege.

But that version of _Gossip Girl_ was pretty short-lived. It started to fall
apart as early as episode seven, when Chuck Bass ([Ed
Westwick](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm2067953/?ref_=nv_sr_1)) became one of the
most popular characters on the show.

## Chuck Bass was originally a villain. Then he became a romantic lead, and
everything changed.

Chuck Bass was originally a minor background character, a villain who
epitomized the amoral privilege of the Upper East Side against which Serena
struggled and which Dan staunchly opposed.

In the first few episodes, he was clearly meant to be entertaining: He wore
flamboyant outfits and was forever swinging a checked scarf around his neck
and remarking that it was his “signature,” and he tossed off more bon mots per
episode than anyone besides Blair.

But he was also unambiguously a villain. In the pilot, he sexually assaults
first Serena and then Dan’s little sister, Jenny. Over the next few episodes,
he casually dehumanizes women and anyone who is less wealthy than he is. The
Chuck of _Gossip Girl_ ’s beginnings was clearly positioned as a love-to-hate
character, a polished and witty sociopath it would be easy and fun to root
against.

Then came the seventh episode. Blair, reeling from a breakup with her longtime
boyfriend, gets drunk and goes out partying with Chuck. Up until now, Blair
maintained an ice-princess persona, with her collars all buttoned up to the
chin and the intention of losing her virginity to the boy she’d been dating
since kindergarten, whom she planned to marry. But in this episode, she gets
daring and does a striptease, pulling off the conservative dress her mother
zipped her into and dancing in her slip and jewelry. And then she and Chuck
hook up — and the fan base watching at home in 2007 went nuts.

“We savored every precious moment of this episode,” [Daily Intel
announced](http://nymag.com/daily/intelligencer/2007/11/photo_courtesy_cwlast_weeks_re.html).

“I just have to write I LOVE Blair and Chuck together,” wrote one fan in the
now-defunct Television Without Pity fan forums, to widespread agreement. It
was, another opined, “delicious television.”

The prim girl losing her virginity to the bad boy is a classic teen soap trope
for a reason: It subverts expectations in a satisfying and sexy way, and it
suggests that the good girl is at last rebelling against the expectations
placed on her by her restrictive family. Once and for all, she’s making
contact with her true self. She’s free. And the bad boy is the one who frees
her, which makes him immensely attractive — so Chuck was suddenly, to the
confusion of many viewers, wildly appealing.

“It’s becoming frustratingly harder and harder to figure out whether he’s
physically attractive or not,” wrote one fan on the TWOP forums shortly after
the seventh episode aired. “When I first saw him, I thought to myself, ‘he
could totally play the lovechild of Voldemort and some normal-looking human
being,’” another agreed, but “I do feel guilty for ever having thought so.”

The fact that Chuck was an attempted rapist did not, fans insisted, matter all
that much for this storyline. That was all in the pilot, after all, and
everyone knows that pilots only half-count. In the pilot, Chuck also had a
living mother and rode the bus to school, while later episodes established
that Chuck’s mother was dead and that he traveled everywhere exclusively by
limo. The attempted rapes were like the bus: not really canon.

What went mostly unsaid was that Chuck’s backstory as an attempted rapist
actually made his tryst with Blair more compelling than it would have been
otherwise. “Are you sure?” he asks her after she kisses him, in a moment that
both recalls Chuck’s history of sexual assault and establishes that it matters
to him that this particular encounter be consensual.

For the viewer identifying with Blair, the pleasure of this scene comes from
the idea that Blair is so special that Chuck does not want to rape her — and
by extension, that the women who Chuck _did_ want to rape are worth less than
Blair. In real life, no rape victim is worthless, but the “Are you sure”
moment depends in large part on a subliminal fallacy, instilled by rape
culture, that victims of sexual assault have been degraded somehow. When
projected onto the experiences of fictional characters, the idea of being the
special woman worthy of being asked for consent offers a heady pleasure, even
if it’s illogical.

“Re: Chuck’s ‘Are you sure?’ comment...” wrote one fan on the TWOP forums. “I
can see how one could think that was sort of out of character, considering his
previous date-rapist ways. Since the first episode, however, it’s been pretty
clear to me that Blair is supposed to be the one girl Chuck really admires and
has a connection with. That is to say, while he’s generally a huge asshole who
wouldn’t care if he took advantage of a girl, with this girl in particular he
is concerned about messing anything up. … it makes him a more multi-layered
and interesting character, and I’m all for it.”

The audience was in love with Chuck, and the writers’ room seemed to be, too.
“Just because someone comes into a show as a villain doesn’t mean you’re not
going to end up falling in love with them,” [showrunner Josh Schwartz told
Vulture](http://www.vulture.com/2016/10/gossip-girl-showrunner-talks-chuck-
and-blair.html). “They [Chuck and Blair] came into the show as very different
kinds of roles, but the chemistry between them took over.”

Dan and Serena were gradually pushed aside to make room for the story of Chuck
and Blair, which came to take over the show. In the second season, the central
season-long arc concerned the question of whether Chuck would ever be able to
tell Blair that he loved her.

## When Chuck became the romantic lead, his worldview took over the show

Chuck as romantic hero, showering Blair with gifts. CW

It’s not unusual for teen soaps to fall in love with a secondary bad boy
character and bump him up to romantic lead, or even for his sensibilities to
take over the show. [_Dawson’s
Creek_](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0118300/?ref_=nv_sr_1) did it with Pacey,
and [_Veronica Mars_](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0412253/?ref_=nv_sr_1) did
it with Logan Echolls.

But traditionally, when the bad boy takes over the show, he has to prove that
he has been reformed and establish his good-guy bona fides. Pacey spends a
year wooing Joey Potter, building a boat, buying her a wall, and being there
for her “in a very Ducky-like fashion” before he gets the girl. Logan Echolls
apologizes profusely for his sins, stands by Veronica when she’s solving the
mystery of her own rape, and saves her life on multiple occasions.

The result is that the heart of the show doesn’t change significantly as it
switches out one male lead for another. _Dawson’s Creek_ is still a nostalgic
WASP fantasy about being terrified of teen sex, whether it’s about Pacey or
Dawson, and _Veronica Mars_ is still a neo-noir about the vicious scars of
adolescence, whether Duncan or Logan is backing up Veronica.

_Gossip Girl_ never quite managed to give Chuck the standard bad-boy-to-
romantic-lead redemption arc. Occasionally it would gesture at doing so — one
time Chuck faked amnesia and reinvented himself as Henry Prince, the humble
Parisian café waiter — but every time it suggested that Chuck was about to
turn over a new leaf, he would rapidly return to his old ways instead.

So when _Gossip Girl_ switched its focus from Dan to Chuck, it stopped being a
glossy aspirational soap about a group of teens fighting to build authentic
connections with each other in a world of obscene privilege. Instead, it
became a show that repeatedly suggested there are no true authentic
connections, and that all human relationships are at their base transactional
and exploitative.

## In the new _Gossip Girl_ , romantic relationships were bought and sold

“Look, babe, it’s the hotel I sold you for.” CW

In the third season of _Gossip Girl_ , [Chuck sells Blair to his uncle in
exchange for ownership of a hotel](https://decider.com/2016/05/07/so-that-
happened-gossip-girl-chuck-sold-blair/). The exchange is explicit and is meant
to be sexual (although the uncle backs out of consummating it at the last
second), and is set up without Blair’s knowledge or consent.

Within the moral universe of the new _Gossip Girl_ , this event was dramatic,
but not morally abhorrent; all relationships, the show suggested, are at their
core transactional and exploitative. Every time Chuck made a declaration of
love to Blair, it was accompanied by expensive gifts: a jeweled necklace,
imported candies, a custom-made couture gown. Essentially, he had bought her.
She was his property, and now he was selling her. It was only fair. Within a
few episodes, Chuck and Blair were back to declaring their eternal love to
each other in romantic scenes drenched in candlelight.

The same thing happened again in the fourth season, in which a drunk Chuck
violently grabs a newly engaged Blair, screaming, “You’re mine!” and smashes a
window pane over her face, cutting open her cheek. It was unpleasant, the show
allowed, but look: Blair _was_ his. He bought her. Only a few episodes later,
Blair declares her love for Chuck once again. And when Blair goes through with
her wedding (to a prince of Monaco; this show was absurd) only to realize her
mistake and wish for a divorce, Chuck buys her freedom. He pays her dowry.

To be clear, I’m not suggesting that the show’s writers and producers intended
for late-run _Gossip Girl_ to be read as a sordid and cold story of
prostitution and emotional horror. In most of their interviews, they framed
the show in general, and Chuck and Blair’s storyline in particular, as an
epic, star-crossed romance.

“It was just _so beautiful_ ,” [said showrunner Stephanie
Savage](https://youtu.be/Ovh9ijKkQuU?t=11m31s) of one Chuck and Blair scene,
holding back tears, “the visual of her in her orangey-red gown with her
incredible jewels. … And the image of them with the train station in the
background as Chuck was about to leave, _forever_ , and turn his back on his
identity [this was during the Henry Prince plot line] — for me, that’s
everything of the show.”

It seems Savage and her colleagues found the Chuck and Blair storyline to be
incredibly romantic, even when he was selling her for a hotel, and they seem
to have meant for the audience to feel that way too. But regardless the
writers’ intent, the fact remains that the storylines they returned to again
and again were at their core storylines of prostitution and degradation. And
it’s worth noting that part of what Savage seemed to find romantic about her
favorite Chuck and Blair scene was the idea of Blair as an exquisite,
expensive object — she rhapsodizes about Blair’s costly Harry Winston jewels —
and Chuck as the owner.

Such storylines weren’t even reserved solely for the woman: Blair’s ex-
boyfriend Nate spent a string of episodes prostituting himself to a wealthy
older woman in order to save his family from financial ruin after his father
loses everything. The show framed that particular plot line as naughty and
scandalous — but it’s worth noting that it also didn’t frame the relationship
as true love. Nate, the show seemed to feel, deserved better than to be the
exploited one in his central relationship. But it seems that Blair — and,
ultimately, Serena — did not deserve better.

The sole bright spot in the midst of this cold universe in which relationships
are bought and sold like real estate came in the form of Blair’s brief season
four romance with Dan, which was beloved by most critics and by half of the
show’s fan base, and despised by the other half. It was a quippy breeze of a
relationship that was explicitly modeled on Katharine Hepburn and Jimmy
Stewart in [_The Philadelphia
Story_](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0032904/?ref_=nv_sr_1), with Chuck as Cary
Grant, and it marked the last hurrah of the first version of _Gossip Girl_ :
In a world in which money is so powerful that it makes romantic relationships
indistinguishable from prostitution, Dan and Blair were working to create an
authentic, meaningful bond outside of the influence of wealth and privilege.

But it couldn’t last. In _Gossip Girl_ ’s final episodes, Chuck asks Blair to
marry him so that she couldn’t be forced to testify against him in a court of
law, because all relationships are transactional. And Dan reveals that he was
the titular Gossip Girl all along, obsessively tracking his friends’ doings
and secrets and posting them all online (this reveal makes no logical sense
and no one can ever make it make sense), but he convinces Serena to marry him
anyway, because all relationships are exploitive. _Gossip Girl_ may have begun
as a trashy-fun rich-kid soap with heart, but it finished its run as a curdled
and soulless treatise about monsters treating each other as property to be
bought and used and sold.

In large part, it’s a cautionary tale. _Gossip Girl_ designed Chuck Bass to
stand for the attractions and the dangers of the Upper East Side — and then it
fell in love with him and let him take over the story. It took a show
ostensibly about people struggling for authentic human relationships and
turned it into a [_Liaisons
Dangereuses_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Les_Liaisons_dangereuses) redux —
only in this version, the villains turn out to be right about everything, and
the people who thought it was possible to authentically care about anyone turn
out to be suckers.
