title: Why College Students Are Losing Their Religion - The Atlantic
source: http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2011/04/why-college-students-are-losing-their-religion/236874/
date: 2025-08-13T20:59:42.148840
tags: []
---
_Do university professors really possess the power to make students more
secular?_

![church
full.jpg](https://cdn.theatlantic.com/media/mt/politics/church%20full.jpg)





Dennis Prager, as thoughtful a voice as you'll find on talk radio, has a new
[column](http://www.google.com/url?q=http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/263877/why-
god-isn-t-doing-well-dennis-
prager&ei=-uibTfXnMYWusAPt8pGFBA&sa=X&oi=unauthorizedredirect&ct=targetlink&ust=1302065154817816&usg=AFQjCNGdQiktN1nnIPKKDz2ROcJ1jLemng)
up in _National Review_ that presumes "God isn't doing well" and tries to
explain why. His initial theory is that "increasingly large numbers of men and
women attend university," and that "the agenda of Western universities is to
produce (left-wing) secularists." Let's say for the sake of argument that most
institutions of higher education really were trying at their core to produce
left-wing secularists (a motive I very much doubt).

How on earth would they succeed?

Typically a faculty member has one or two classes at most with a given
student. Often as not these are giant introductory classes on subjects
unrelated to religion. Am I to believe that the subset of professors out to
secularize their students are so persuasive that in this short interval, they
successfully propagandize them into abandoning God? Or do they join forces,
each contributing a small part of a larger brainwashing program that runs
through Introduction to Economics, Topics In Gender Studies, and Comparative
African Politics? It would be quite a feat to build such a program: at once
unacknowledged, unorganized, and more intellectually effective than the actual
curriculum on offer, which many students absorb only long enough to pass the
final.

This beggars belief, especially if you're someone like me who attended
Catholic school for 14 years. The institutional structure was expressly
designed to turn out practicing Catholics, and given more than a decade of our
most formative years and formal religious instruction they didn't manage to
hold onto most of my peers. Do the university professors know something they
didn't? I just never understand it when conservative critics of academia
presume it is so single-minded, effective and powerful in its impact.

To me, there are better explanations for the fact that "the more university
education a person receives, the more likely he is to hold secular and left-
wing views." One is that people who attend college leave home. That is to say,
they leave their church, the community incentives to attend it, and the
watchful eye of parents who get angry or make them feel guilty when they don't
go to services or stray in their faith. Suddenly they're surrounded by dorm
mates of different faiths or no faith at all. For many of these students, it
turns out that their religious behavior was driven more by desire for
community, or social and parental pressure, than by deeply held beliefs.
Another reason education correlates with secularism is that secularists are
more likely to seek advanced degrees, partly because they're more focused than
their religious counterparts on career.

If you're someone who wants to see organized religion do a better job of
holding on to young people - I have no strong preference either way, having
friends for whom religion is the best thing in life and others for whom it's
been a terrible burden - the most problematic part of Mr. Prager's argument is
the lack of agency he gives to religions and their congregations. They're cast
as powerless in the face of university influence that is somehow made out to
be irresistible.

But if four years of college undo 18 years of parenting and religious
affiliation, perhaps the faith community's tenuous hold is the problem, not
the particular place outside its bubble where that hold evaporates. Consider
the believers we've seen in history. With all the persecution that Judaism and
Christianity have survived over the centuries, an argument that sites
America's Top 310 Colleges as a first order adversary is hard to credit.
(Tangentially, Prager writes: "It takes higher education to learn that America
and Israel are villains." Really? Would he rather be governed by the first
hundred degree-less men in the Riyadh phone book or the faculty of Harvard?)

If high school graduates moved away from home to work in a restaurant or open
a muffler repair shop or serve coffee in a Starbucks rather than to attend
college, young people would still be falling away from religion - and many
others would never take it up in the first place. If Prager wants to reverse
the trend, he should focus more on root causes and less on the American
university, a perennially convenient whipping boy that is denigrated by
conservatives as ineffective, and simultaneously thought to be imbued with
ill-defined, superhuman powers to shape the minds of its charges.

Image via Flickr user

[Lux.Musica.Khaos](http://www.flickr.com/photos/luxmusicakhaos/)
