title: Invisible Child: Dasani’s Homeless Life - The New York Times
source: http://www.nytimes.com/projects/2013/invisible-child/
date: 2025-08-13T19:47:42.849470
tags: []
---
Chanel trails him, her chin high, her daughters’ hair freshly braided.

It is a rare moment of belonging in a year of rootlessness.

As the sun sets, Dasani and her family step out for some air. A man brushes
past them, walking along West 127th Street. His hooded sweatshirt is pulled
low over his face, which is dusted by a salt-and-pepper beard. He moves with
the purposeful air of a celebrity in hiding.

“I seen your videos,” Chanel says, stopping him in his tracks.

For years, Dasani’s family had been watching the DVDs of this former convict
turned fitness guru who calls himself Giant. His team, Bartendaz, combines
pull-up acrobatics on city playgrounds with a militaristic message of self-
improvement, steering followers away from drugs and alcohol to “the bars of
health.”

Giant looks Chanel up and down, noting the open beer she has sheathed in a
brown paper bag.

“Bud don’t make you wiser,” he observes, flashing a smile that reveals a
perfect row of teeth.

Chanel ignores the comment. She is already thinking through the possibilities
presented by this accidental meeting. She steers Dasani to some empty pull-up
bars at a nearby playground.

“Show him what ya got!” she calls out.

Giant, whose name is Hassan Yasin-Bradley, accepts the impromptu audition the
way a famous film director takes the waiter’s latest screenplay. While Giant
remains on the fringe of prime-time America, he has his share of acolytes in
Harlem.

Dasani springs to the bars and begins to knock out an impressive set of pull-
ups, her shoulders popping with the muscles of an action figure.

Giant is still chatting with Chanel when he looks over and pauses.

“Whoa,” he says.

Chanel senses that she may be on to something. She explains that Dasani has
been doing pull-ups in Fort Greene Park for years. She can also dance, do
gymnastics, run track. All she lacks is training — of any kind.

Now it is Giant’s mind that races through the possibilities. The girl is
uncommonly strong. She has a telegenic smile. She’s spunky.

“She seems like just the kind of girl we could use on our team,” he says,
grinning at Dasani, who grins back.

Giant quickly explains how his team works: It has a limited partnership with
Nike that will hopefully lead to bigger things. In the meantime, the team
earns modest pay in exchange for holding training clinics, and performing at
concerts and other events.

At the very least, he concludes, Dasani merits a proper tryout.

“Meet me at the park next Saturday,” he says, leaving his number before
disappearing.

Dasani lies awake that night.

It is the first time in her life she can see a path to something else. What
exactly, she is not sure. She has not even had her tryout. But for a girl who
has spent her life tempering expectations, she cannot stop herself from
dreaming just a little.

“I’ma save all my money so we can get a house,” she tells her mother.

“Use your money for you,” Chanel says. “We’ll be O.K.”

“No,” Dasani insists. “I’ma save all my money.”

Money is especially tight. This might explain why, in Dasani’s words, Mommy
goes “loco” during an inspection of the family’s room at Auburn. ■ There is a
knock at the door. Chanel lets in the inspector, who promptly demands that she
surrender the family’s forbidden microwave oven.

Chanel refuses. She cannot afford to buy a new one, nor can she fathom having
to wait in line every night to reheat 10 dinner trays in one of the shelter’s
two microwaves. The inspector leaves, and by the time two security officers
with the Department of Homeless Services arrive to confiscate the microwave,
Chanel has hidden it in a friend’s room.

As for the inspector, Chanel offers to “punch that bitch in the face.”

Dasani believes that her mother’s biggest problem is her mouth.

She reflects on this as her homeroom teacher, Faith Hester, delivers a lesson
that week on personal responsibility.

“I don’t ever wanna hear, ‘Well, my mother told me to do this,’ unless you
know that that’s the right thing,” Miss Hester tells the class.

The teacher has shimmied into an empty desk next to Dasani.

“I am telling you, as sure as I’m sitting here,” Miss Hester says, her arm
resting across Dasani’s desk, “you’re gonna be held responsible for the
choices you make.”

Hands shoot up in the air.

“Yes, Miss Dasani?”

Dasani recounts how her longtime rival, Sunita, began following her after
school, and slapped her. “And so, my mom is a violent parent, so you can’t
tell her anything about fights because then she gonna want to get a stick and
tell you to knock the chick out.”

Miss Hester arches her brows.

“O.K.,” Miss Hester says. “Now, let me ask you: Do you think that was the
right thing to do?”

The class erupts in chaos.

“O.K., O.K.!” Miss Hester yells. “I’ma tell you what I would have told my
kid.”

They fall silent.

“Not everybody has something to lose,” Miss Hester says.

“You care about your life,” she continues. “There are people out there who are
so hurt they don’t care about leaving here. They are looking for an
opportunity to do something crazy and ridiculous. They have nothing to live
for.”

Dasani ponders this.

“I am telling you to listen to your internal barometer,” Miss Hester says.
“Think about your next move before you make your next move.”

Dasani is still in bed the next morning when her mother rises from a fitful
sleep and heads to the corner store with her sister Avianna. All around, men
are leaving the projects to report to early work shifts. Chanel stands in the
cold, watching them. “Your father should be doing that,” she says.

Just that week she had stopped a flag waver at a construction site. It seemed
like a job that Chanel could perform beautifully. The woman told her about an
organization that helps people with G.E.D.’s find work.

For Chanel, words like “G.E.D.” end a conversation. It has been 20 years since
she sat in a high school classroom. She can feel like a foreigner in her own
country, unable to speak the language of bank accounts and loan applications.
When filling out medical forms, she stops at the box requiring a work number,
frozen by its blankness.

“I want my kids to be able to come see me at my job, pick up my paycheck,” she
says that afternoon, standing with Dasani outside Au Bon Pain, where the day’s
pastries will soon sell at a discount. “Just be reliant on my money, you know
what I’m sayin’?”

Dasani stares at her mother anxiously.

“I’m tired of my kids seeing me dull,” Chanel says. “It’s my time to shine.”

“I don’t see you dull,” Dasani says quietly. “I see you shine.”

Dasani spends the week before her tryout for Bartendaz in focused preparation,
training on the fitness bars next to the basketball court in Fort Greene Park
in Brooklyn. At night, she replays the team’s DVDs over and over, studying the
members closely.

At school, she tells no one.

This new dream is carried on practical terms. It is less about helping herself
than about making her parents whole. In the meantime, Dasani worries about the
most immediate challenge, which is to get to Harlem on time. Punctuality is a
miracle in her family.

On Saturday morning, there is no sign of Dasani as the Bartendaz start to warm
up at the playground at 144th Street and Lenox Avenue.

Soon they are causing a commotion that slows the traffic. One after another,
they fly onto the bars, whipping through moves that seem to defy gravity. Some
of them wear black T-shirts with the logo of a man bending a bar, his brain
lit by a bulb.

“Salute that mind!” Giant calls out to his followers.

There is Cinderblock, Honey Bee, Sky, Earth, Water, Blaq Ninja, Salubrious and
Mel Matrix. Giant’s second in command is Dr. Good Body, a self-described
athletic alchemist (“the library is my alma mater”) who transforms the “base
metal” of a person’s character into “gold.”

Giant orbits around his team, issuing commands in a lyrical code that is
impenetrable to outsiders. He is especially fond of abbreviations. A favorite
is “C.A.P.” — Character, Attitude and Personality. His nickname, Giant, stands
for Growing Is a Noble Thing.

It is a bold name for a man who stands just 5-foot-7. Born Warren Hassan
Bradley, he grew up in the Baruch projects on the Lower East Side, where in
his teens he became known as a D.J. and street fighter skilled at hiding
razors in his mouth and spitting them out in combat. He started selling drugs,
and was sent to prison in 1989 on two felony drug charges.

Like Dasani’s father, Giant left prison transformed. He had earned a high
school equivalency diploma and devoted himself to Islam. (He looks askance at
the teachings of the Five Percent.) He also found a way to capitalize on the
pull-up bar routines that he taught himself in prison yards. By the time he
started Bartendaz in 2003, he was already drawing crowds to Harlem’s
playgrounds.

Dasani finally arrives, her mother and two siblings in tow, as the team’s
practice winds down. Dressed in bright-pink shorts and matching flip-flops,
she is a dwarf among titans.

“What’s your name again?” Giant says.

“Dasani.”

“Dasani with a D?”

“Like the water,” Chanel says.

He turns to the group.

“Everyone say, ‘Peace, Queen.’”

“Peace, Queen!” they shout.

The tryout begins with a set of pull-ups, demonstrated by Blaq Ninja and Sky.
Dasani coasts through the exercise.

“Damn!” a team member says as the others whistle. Giant remains cool to the
newcomer, telling Dasani “stay there, breathe” as she pedals her feet in the
air while holding her head level with the bar.

Her next test comes on the parallel bars, where she knocks out a set of dips
in good form, and then pedals again as Giant counts aloud, shaking his head
incredulously. Next, they hit the floor for push-ups.

“Do some diamonds!” Chanel calls out. Dasani connects her hands in the shape
of a diamond as she dives into a set of flawless push-ups.

Then she goes for broke, clapping her hands behind her back, mid-push-up.
Honey Bee captures the image on the team’s iPad before Dasani comes crashing
to the ground, promptly dusting herself off.

“Look at this! Look at this!” Giant says, running over to show Dasani the iPad
photo. “You tellin’ me I can’t sell this poster for $100?”

He turns to Chanel: “She’s in.”

A young boy sidles up. The team has drawn spectators who live as far away as
Norway and Japan. This one is a local.

“Excuse me,” he says to Dasani. “Can you do a pull-up again?”

She nods gamely as he calls out to his friends: “Yo! Come here! She about to
do it!”

Giant smiles.

“Wait till they see you in three weeks,” he says.

The family is ecstatic.

Supreme runs to the corner store for a dozen roses. He hands them to Chanel.

“Dag, I love it here,” he says, looking at her tenderly. “We should come back
to Harlem.”

Chanel soon finds reason to be suspicious of Giant. He is charming, she
thinks, but confusing on details like payment and a promised contract. Giant,
too, can spot a hustler, and he seems wary of Chanel. ■ On the day of the
tryout, he treats her children to lunch at a local bodega, joined by Malcolm
X’s grandson Malik, a friend of the team. Malik congratulates Dasani, handing
her a bottle of peach-flavored Snapple. She carries the bottle with both
hands, later writing “Malcolm X grandson” on the label before stashing it in
her dresser at Auburn.

The next day, when Dasani’s siblings tag along to practice again, Giant senses
that Chanel expects him to repeat the invitation.

He skips the meal, but reassures Chanel that her daughter, like his other team
members, will be compensated for events. The first one is a training clinic
this Thursday. All Chanel needs to do is bring Dasani. The rest is Dasani’s
job.

“That’s why we got the word ‘responsibility,’” Giant tells Dasani in front of
Chanel. “Response” — he holds up his right hand — “Ability” — then his left
hand. “So respond to what? Your ability. Not your mom’s ability.”

On Thursday afternoon, Dasani asks if her mother has heard from Giant. Chanel
is tired after a long day and cannot imagine taking Dasani all the way to
Harlem.

“He never called,” Chanel tells Dasani.

Up in Harlem, Giant had been calling repeatedly. He checks his phone, looking
for a response. He shakes his head.

Dasani goes to sleep feeling crushed.

She wakes at 5 a.m. for the long-awaited school trip to Washington. Still
feeling glum, she boards the bus on an empty stomach, sitting alone with a
thin blue blanket laid carefully across her legs. Five hours later, as they
approach the Capitol, Dasani presses her face to the window.

It looks different here. People walk slower. There is space everywhere —
trees, monuments, water. She can see off into the distance, her view
unobstructed by skyscrapers.

She is paying special attention, trying to record what she sees so she can
describe it later to her sister Nijai.

Remember every single detail, Nijai had implored. It is not just that her
blindness prevents her from seeing it herself. It is that Washington
represents Nijai’s roots, the city where she was born and last saw her mother
alive.

Every detail.

After a tour of the memorials, the bus stops near the White House. Dasani runs
to the tall, wrought-iron gate and looks between the bars. On the sidewalk, a
group of protesters wearing orange suits and black hoods are chanting foreign-
sounding names.

“Obama, close Guantánamo!” they yell.

Dasani has never heard of Guantánamo. But she knows what a jail uniform looks
like from visiting her Uncle Carnell. These people, she concludes, are
supposed to be prisoners, and they want President Obama to close their jail.
She shakes her head.

“I don’t know why they protesting in front of Obama’s house like he gonna be
in here,” she says.

There is hardly a trace of the child who had once scoured Gracie Mansion for a
glimpse of the mayor.

A week has passed with no word from Giant. Dasani keeps doing her pull-ups.
Tucked in the top drawer of her dresser is the empty Snapple bottle given to
her by Malcolm X’s grandson. ■ “It’s all right,” Dasani tells her mother. “I
didn’t get attached.”

Detachment is as much a rite of Dasani’s summers as sunbaked afternoons in the
park. She bids farewell to Miss Hester and the principal, Paula Holmes,
bracing herself for a 10-week absence from the Susan S. McKinney Secondary
School of the Arts.

Summers also bring more regular visits to Grandma Sherry’s, where the children
can ride up and down Lincoln Avenue on rusted bikes. But this year, Sherry has
bad news. The bank is coming for her house. In another month, a court marshal
will see her out the door if she is not gone.

Sherry has two bad choices: She can enter the shelter system or she can leave
her children and grandchildren behind in New York and move in with her sister
in Pittsburgh. If Sherry leaves, Chanel will have lost her only support, the
woman who partly raised her.

Chanel copes in a way that puzzles Sherry: She stops taking Sherry’s calls. It
is Chanel’s way of detaching, of leaving a relationship before it leaves her.
Sherry finally decides to go to Pittsburgh. When she does get the children on
the phone, she tells them that she is not sure when she is leaving, but that
“the Lord will take care of you.”

In the midst of this, Dasani finds herself thinking about Bartendaz. A month
after her tryout, she resolves to give it another chance: She will report to
practice by herself, as if nothing has changed. But as she announces her
departure one morning, Supreme stops her at the door.

“Not before this place is straightened up,” he says. By the time Dasani
finishes, practice is over.

The next morning, she gets up feeling defiant. She looks at Supreme, who is
still asleep. _How you gonna take my destiny away from me?_ she thinks. Dasani
turns to her mother, and Chanel waves at her to leave before he wakes.

Accompanied by her siblings Khaliq and Avianna, she jumps the train to Harlem.

“Long time no see,” Giant says by way of a greeting. He gives Dasani a stern
lecture: “If you know you’re not gonna be consistent, then I need to know so I
can invest in someone else.”

Dasani is confused. Her parents say that he never called. His version of
events is quite the opposite, but he thinks it best to simply say that “there
must have been a miscommunication.”

Dasani does not know what to believe, but she begins training with Giant every
weekend, accompanied by her twin in all things, Avianna.

They are in Harlem on the day a moving truck pulls up to Sherry’s house.
Alerted by phone, Chanel arrives moments before Sherry’s departure.

“I’ma hide in the truck,” 8-year-old Maya says.

Chanel walks through the house she has known since she was born. She pauses at
the bathroom’s worn wooden door, which reminds her of her father.

He is there at that door, some flicker of a memory. Those are the things one
loses with a house, not the shelter itself but the irretrievable belonging it
brings.

On the stoop, Sherry and Chanel hold each other for a long time.

Dasani does not get to say goodbye.

The sadness of Sherry’s departure is eclipsed a week later when Dasani makes
her big Bartendaz debut. Her routine is captured on video for the opening
sequence of Giant’s forthcoming DVD, and Dasani receives her first earnings:
$70.

She is too excited to think twice when Supreme asks if he can borrow some of
it. He buys pizza for the children and keeps the rest. Dasani is distracted by
the day’s other gifts — the cheering crowd, the chance to pose with the
rappers Jadakiss and Styles P.

She is still floating two days later, when Giant summons her to a basketball
clinic for boys. He wants her to “mentor” them. It seems like an odd request
for a girl who was recently suspended from school. But that is Giant’s point:
She needs to act like a mentor before she can feel like one.

She soon takes to the task, guiding boys several inches taller as they
struggle into feeble pull-ups. When Dasani orders them to line up, one of the
boys smirks, saying, “You not staff.”

“Oh yes I am,” Dasani shoots back.

She is bonding with her team — most of all with Sky, a nursing student, and
Earth, who just got her bachelor’s degree in psychology at Queens College.

“I’ma take all of Sky’s moves,” Dasani says jauntily as she hits the low bars.
They laugh and laugh, never ceasing to delight in their youngest member. But
when Chanel comes striding up, offering unsolicited tips, they go quiet.

Later that afternoon, Dasani tells Giant about her loan to Supreme. Long after
she leaves practice, he is still livid. Can this even work, he wonders.
“You’re fixing a child to send back to broken parents.”

Summer’s end marks the third anniversary of Dasani’s arrival at Auburn, on
Aug. 26, 2010. ■ Three years — a quarter of her life — most of it spent in one
room. She has gotten so used to the smallness of it that she can scarcely
recall how to live with more space.

To Dasani, sometimes it seems like only tragedy brings change.

The next morning, on Aug. 27, she wakes to a high-pitched scream. It is her
neighbor in Room 445, a single mother named Aisha. Her 3-month-old daughter,
Casshanae, has turned blue.

“My baby’s not breathing!” she wails.

A petite 27-year-old from Pennsylvania, Aisha had come to Auburn in early May,
seven months pregnant with Casshanae. She was born premature with respiratory
distress syndrome and developed feeding problems, all of which was noted in
the records that Auburn received.

The infant’s problems were serious enough that a hospital social worker asked
the Department of Homeless Services to transfer the baby, Aisha and her
1-year-old son to another shelter equipped to handle medical needs.

The agency declined to do so, even after Aisha filed a complaint that a male
resident had sexually assaulted her in her room at Auburn on June 18.

Nor did the shelter’s staff members heed Aisha’s repeated complaints when they
gave her a damaged metal crib for the infant, with a loosefitting sheet and a
mattress permanently stuck in the lowest position.

But now she is screaming, and everyone hears her.

A security guard calls 911. None of the staff members try to resuscitate the
baby, even though they are certified in CPR. Aisha fumbles to breathe air into
her baby’s lungs as paramedics rush into the lobby.

They race to Brooklyn Hospital Center, where a doctor pronounces Casshanae
dead at 8:10 a.m.

Later that morning, Aisha returns to the fourth floor to pack her things. Her
screams rattle the shelter again.

As she leaves, Dasani lingers by the door. She hears a security guard telling
a superior that Aisha left the children alone the previous night. The official
asks the guard to file a report. Dasani shudders and closes the door. That
will never happen to Baby Lele, she tells herself.

The next day, the Administration for Children’s Services takes custody of
Aisha’s son pending the results of an investigation into the baby’s death.
Soon after, Dasani sees inspectors walking through the shelter as new cribs
are delivered to residents and crib-safety posters are slipped under doors.

Aisha is summoned back to Auburn by investigators from the medical examiner’s
office. At their request, she re-enacts the morning of her baby’s death, when
she says she found Casshanae lifeless in the crib. They take pictures of the
crib, its sheet still crumpled. An autopsy was unable to determine the cause
of death.

Dasani tries not to think about the dead baby. ■ Her room is sweltering. The
children want nothing more than to get out and cool off. They put on their
bathing suits. They have gone swimming only once this summer.

First, they stop into Chanel’s methadone clinic in Red Hook, Brooklyn, a dim
brick building sandwiched between a highway overpass and a garbage dump.
Chanel waves at Dasani to come inside.

She has been bragging to the staff about Giant, who continues to work with
Dasani on the condition that she is paid in kind, not cash. “No one can take a
pair of sneakers,” he reasons. “He just stingy,” Chanel says. But she has gone
along with it, proud as a stage mother.

“So look out for Dasani, man,” Chanel tells a woman behind the desk. “She
gonna be out soon.”

“I believe I am already out,” Dasani says.

Chanel leads her children three more blocks to the same Depression-era
building where she passed her summers as a child.

They carry one thin towel to share.

Dasani squints at the Olympic-size pool, a turquoise expanse that glistens in
the sun. She dives in first. All is cool and silent.

She comes up for air, releasing a rapturous cry.

The uncertainty of Dasani’s life is deepening. Supreme is now gone, having
checked into a residential treatment program to try to get off methadone.

Right before school starts in September, Chanel uproots Dasani from McKinney,
reasoning that she will be less likely to fight in the company of Avianna and
Nijai at a neighboring school.

Dasani is unsettled. Every afternoon, the three sisters turn up at McKinney
like stray puppies, passing the time with Miss Holmes and Miss Hester. The
principal offers to enroll all of them. Finally, on Sept. 25, Chanel relents.

“Oh my gooney goo hoo,” Miss Hester squeals as Dasani, Avianna and Nijai skip
up the hallway. “I’ve been praying on this.”

Back at Auburn, residents begin to notice small changes. In the wake of
Casshanae’s death, the shelter is providing a steadier supply of formula,
diapers and other items to mothers, and the cafeteria has a few more items on
its menu.

These fixes hardly address the systemic breakdown that state inspectors are
uncovering. On Oct. 1, they inform the Department of Homeless Services of a
[devastating litany of
violations](https://www.nytimes.com/projects/2013/invisible-
child/index.html#).

The fire safety system is virtually inoperable. The shelter has no certificate
of occupancy. Its record-keeping is a mess. The registration cards of 25 of
its security guards are expired or missing. Black mold is spreading in the
shelter’s bathrooms, many of which spew exhaust thick with dust and debris.

During one visit, inspectors see an asthmatic 3-year-old child coughing and
vomiting so much that 911 is called. With no air-conditioning, the rooms reach
dangerously high temperatures. A month before she died, Casshanae was living
in a room where temperatures reached 102 degrees.

[The state’s conclusion:](https://www.nytimes.com/projects/2013/invisible-
child/index.html#) No child with chronic breathing problems should be at the
shelter, and no children under age 2 should live there at all “due to the lack
of amenities for this young and vulnerable population.”

In other words, Dasani’s family — with a 1-year-old, two asthmatic children
and another who is legally blind — should never have been living at Auburn in
the first place.

In the early afternoon of Oct. 17, Chanel is summoned to the office of the
shelter’s administrators. ■ They have stunning news: The family can finally
leave Auburn. A space has opened at another shelter — an apartment with a
kitchen. But they must go today. They have a few hours to pack. Other families
are also moving, and the Department of Homeless Services has arranged for
vans.

Chanel has longed for this moment. But now that it is here, she feels wholly
unprepared.

Supreme is still in rehab. Her food stamps have been stolen. She has $9 in
cash. How will she instantly produce three meals a day for eight children? She
has no frying pans, dishes, utensils or toilet paper. She does not even have
the address of this new shelter.

“I don’t know what to do,” Chanel says.

She returns to Room 449 and tells the children.

Dasani is in shock. Chanel rushes them off to therapy. Whatever happens, she
needs the cash.

It is drizzling out, and Dasani’s head is spinning. All she can think about is
her school. Just after willing her way back to McKinney, she is poised to lose
it again.

It is strange, this feeling of heading toward an address they don’t yet have,
while having to say goodbye — in the span of a few hours — to the place where
they have lived for years.

After therapy, it is getting dark. The shelter’s lights blaze from within.
Chanel orders the children to pack only the most essential things. Auburn has
given them 20 clear plastic bags. That is the limit. They will have to come
back for Turtle.

At 9:26 p.m., Chanel and her children board the last van just before it pulls
away. An hour later, the van approaches their new residence.

They are in Harlem.

Of the 152 shelters where Dasani’s family could have landed, they have somehow
wound up at a six-story brick building on West 145th Street.

It is one block from the Bartendaz base.

“I am right next to the park,” Dasani tells Giant on the phone, enunciating
each word. “I’m here! I’m in Harlem!”

Chanel grabs the phone, eager to hear his reaction.

“You see?” Giant tells Chanel. “The Lord sent you right here next to me.”

The children wait on the front steps as Chanel fills out paperwork in the
office.

It feels different here. The block is awash in streetlights and teeming with
pedestrians. There are fewer trees. But in other ways, Harlem is like Fort
Greene. Nearby is a new bistro called Mountain Bird that offers a foie gras
soup and a shrimp-bisque mac and cheese.

One by one, the children peek in on their mother, anxious for updates.

They will be living on the third floor, Avianna announces. She locates the
silver button on the intercom, gently running her finger over it.

Finally, Chanel appears with the keys. They climb three flights and step
inside.

It is a real apartment, with clean, beige walls and hardwood floors.

There are two bedrooms, a full bathroom and a kitchen joined to a living room.
Metal blinds hang from the windows, and clean sheets are folded on the bunk
beds.

Fresh, home-cooked meals again, Dasani thinks to herself as the children race
about maniacally. Hada opens a closet to find a diaper on the floor. Chanel
smells it, declares it clean and stashes it for Lele.

She inspects the mattresses, which are in good condition. She opens the
refrigerator, looks at the stove and sink, and then turns toward the living
room. She clasps her hands in front of her face, as if in prayer.

“Oh, man, I’m happy!” she says, her eyes shining. “I thank God for this. Thank
you.”

Chanel cannot sleep that first night. ■ She keeps checking the locks as her
children lie deep in slumber. The five older girls share two bunk beds
alongside Lele’s crib. The boys sleep in the living room. Chanel reserves one
bedroom for herself and Supreme. It will be their first privacy in years,
whenever he comes back.

Chanel is feeling more panicked than celebratory.

“I got to make sure I provide,” she says.

The move has plunged Chanel into the ice-cold waters of independence.

She now has $39, counting the money gleaned from therapy. It will be more than
two weeks before her next food-stamp allotment arrives.

When the children wake, Chanel drags a rolling cart onto the subway and
returns to Auburn to retrieve more of their belongings. Thankfully, the room
has still not been cleared. Chanel leaves with Turtle hidden in an empty baby-
wipes container.

By the next morning, Supreme has left rehab and rejoined the family. Now they
are almost broke. Chanel can think of only one solution. She heads downtown to
Macy’s, where she tries to steal a stack of men’s Polo briefs and undershirts,
planning to sell them on the street for quick cash.

A security guard intervenes, leading Chanel to the store’s private jail, along
with Nijai, Avianna and Baby Lele, who toddles about the small, enclosed cell
saying, “Out, out.” After Supreme collects the children, Chanel is arrested by
the police and spends the night in jail.

When she comes home, Supreme declares that the stealing is over. If they have
to, they can beg.

“Better to ask than take,” he says.

It doesn’t quite feel like “begging” to Dasani, the way she has seen it in the
movies, with peasants holding out hands for coins. It is a little more
dignified, how Supreme stands outside the local Pathmark, his children
silently lined up next to him.

As shoppers enter the store, he asks them to buy a few extra groceries “so I
can feed my babies.” Dasani runs in with a woman who pays for Froot Loops and
Corn Flakes. And so it goes, until a particularly generous man tells them to
just “get what you need,” and they fill up the cart.

Back in the apartment, the family’s spirits begin to lift. It is easy to
forget they are still homeless as Supreme hovers at the stove, making corn
bread from scratch, popcorn shrimp, honey-barbecue wings and glazed turkey
bacon. He has joined a new methadone program in Harlem.

“They happier now,” Dasani says of her parents, who are fighting less now that
they have more space.

Miss Holmes is worried. ■ Dasani and her sisters have been absent for days.
Under federal legislation, homeless children are granted the right to stay in
one school even as their families move around. But in practice, there are no
guarantees.

Even if the girls were old enough to ride the subway alone, the trek from
Dasani’s new shelter to McKinney takes at least an hour. When Chanel requests
a bus pickup, only Nijai is approved because of her blindness.

Chanel has already found new schools for four of her other children. She
thinks it best that Dasani and her sisters switch to a Harlem school.

If this happens, Dasani will be starting her third school in six weeks.

“No, Mommy,” she protests.

Her sisters also plead. They are learning to play an instrument at McKinney.
If they make enough progress, Avianna can keep her trombone, and Nijai, her
clarinet. She shows her mother the march she is learning for the school band,
holding her invisible clarinet aloft as she stomps her feet.

Chanel is persuaded when she hears that Miss Holmes and Joshua Goldfein, a
lawyer for Legal Aid, are pressing the Education Department to approve a bus
for all three sisters.

In the meantime, Chanel decides that she will take the girls herself.

Early on Nov. 4, they board the No. 2 train, hurtling back to Brooklyn. In
Fort Greene, the children walk along North Portland Avenue, passing Auburn and
the projects, where they used to be called “shelter boogies.”

_See?_ Dasani thinks to herself. _I’m gone and you are still in the projects._

Minutes later, they enter the warm corridors of McKinney.

“Hi, Miss Holmes,” Chanel squeaks to the woman who always makes her feel like
a schoolgirl again, back in the principal’s office.

Dasani flies into Miss Holmes’s arms. She feels safe again, “like I was made
to be there.”

The principal is shocked to see them. She did not think it would happen
without the bus. As the girls are handed new backpacks and sent to class, Miss
Holmes makes Chanel an offer: She can volunteer at the school during the day,
whenever she needs shelter. She can even bring Baby Lele.

“We always need plenty of help,” Miss Holmes says.

“That will work out nice,” Chanel says.

“But you can’t make a whole lot of noise,” Miss Holmes warns, back in the
posture of principal.

At the end of the day, the girls gather in Miss Holmes’s office to wait for
their mother.

“You have come home,” Miss Holmes says. “Everybody here is fighting to get you
girls back here. There are certain things you have to do. Homework.”

Soon, Chanel has arrived and is chiming in with the principal. No more bad
behavior, she tells her daughters.

“We not gonna have that, you understand?” Chanel says. “Because soon I’m about
to be volunteering here.”

The girls are silent.

“So it’s gonna be a totally different song this year,” Chanel says.

As they leave, Dasani turns and races back into Miss Holmes’s office. She
leans in for another hug before darting out.

“Goodbye, Dasani,” Miss Holmes calls after her. “And do your homework.”

“Yes!” Dasani shouts over her shoulder.

The child skips down the hallway toward her mother and sisters. The front door
swings open, bringing a rush of air. Together, they step out into the cold.
