title: HBO: How it revolutionized television.
source: http://www.slate.com/id/2304569/pagenum/all/#p2
date: 2025-08-13T20:33:19.135217
tags: []
---
Boardwalk Empire

When I was growing up in the 1970s, the lowliest form of cultural consumption
was to stay home and watch television. All other art forms, any other art
forms, were fine. To have made the effort to leave the house, travel to a
temple of culture and see a performance or exhibition was proof of a refined
engagement with the arts. To slouch on a sofa and be in thrall to a grotesque
diet of cop shows, quizzes and soap operas was to opt out of culture
altogether.

Even television executives knew this. They played fast and loose with our
capacity to watch rubbish by finding fresh nadirs to which to stoop. Were they
having bets to goad each other? In the mid-1980s, the entire ninth series of
_Dallas_ was revealed to be a bad dream, a twist that might have hinted at
Borgesian surrealism but gave every impression of having been scribbled on the
back of a spent cocaine packet in a Los Angeles traffic jam.

The lowliest sub-section of the lowliest art form was US prime-time TV. As
other popular culture forms, namely music and the movies, thrived and
reinvented themselves, US TV gave us _Dynasty_ , _The A-Team_ , _The Dukes of
Hazzard_ , _CHiPS_ , _Magnum PI_ , _Falcon Crest_ , and all the rest. The odd
classy sitcom snuck through the mire. _M*A*S*H*_ managed to negotiate a fine
line between black humour and sentimentality. _Taxi_ was worth watching for
the mercurial Andy Kaufman. They were drops in the ocean. It was odd: a
country that had some of the greatest novelists and journalists in the world
seemed, when it came to TV drama, to resort to infantilism, treating its
viewers with contempt.

How different things are today. At the beginning of the 21st century, there is
nothing sharper in the cultural firmament than  [American television
writing](http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/2/76f8b020-b169-11df-b899-00144feabdc0.html#axzz1YLmUrQIQ).
You don’t have to brave the multiplex or pay exorbitant theatre ticket prices
to watch the most compelling drama, the most scabrous satire, the most
committed actors. From the sassy 23-minute sitcom to the magisterially drawn-
out series, TV as an art form has grown up. It is changing our habits, and our
scale of values. The ultimate act of cultural immersion used to involve going
to see a Polish mime troupe in a downtown warehouse that couldn’t afford its
heating bills. Today, it is to sink into a DVD box set for an evening of home-
comfort transcendence.

This near-miraculous transformation is almost entirely down to one company.
This year, for the 10th successive year, HBO, the pay-TV network, received
more prime-time  [Emmy
awards](http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/2/e8d99d32-d88f-11e0-8f0a-00144feabdc0.html#axzz1YLmUrQIQ)
than any other network. HBO shows and artists challenged for 104 awards in
last weekend’s ceremony. They included 21 nominations for the mini-series
_Mildred Pierce_ , 18 for the prohibition-era epic _Boardwalk Empire_ , 13 for
the fantasy series _Game of Thrones_ , and 11 for the financial meltdown movie
_Too Big to Fail_. HBO won a total of 19 awards, the most successful network.

The company, which started life as a cable channel in 1972 – the dark days of
television – by transmitting a National Hockey League game, is now one of the
most culturally significant forces on the planet. The fact that it  [makes a
handsome
profit](http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/4d0ea8f4-afad-11df-b45b-00144feabdc0.html#axzz1YLmUrQIQ)
– it is estimated to have turned over $4bn for its parent Time Warner in 2010
– is almost the least interesting thing about it. Its history in pioneering
new business models in an unprecedentedly fast-moving media landscape is
undeniably impressive. But it is not what its 30m US subscribers (plus another
45m international subscribers to HBO and its subsidiary Cinemax) are talking
about. The truly radical thing about HBO is its commitment to quality.

It has been one of the most depressing sights of the past decade to watch most
popular culture forms lurch ever lower in the quest for higher profits. The
highest-grossing movies and pop songs today are almost invariably formulaic
and banal. The obsession with the bottom line has caused the manufacturers of
culture to hit rock bottom. Playing to the lowest common denominator meant
that no one bothered to look upwards any more. Why would they, when dumbing
down artistically meant cleaning up financially?

This was foreseen by conservative cultural commentators such as Allan Bloom,
whose overwrought _The Closing of the American Mind_ , published in 1987,
argued that pop culture was betraying the nation.

Bloom would never have predicted that the flat-screen TV would come to the
rescue. But he surely would have recognised that programmes such as _The
Sopranos_ , _The Wire_ , _Boardwalk Empire_ , all produced by HBO, had
effectively reversed the cultural trend that he wrote so despairingly about.
Quality has become cool. The principal medium of mass entertainment is
producing some of the most rigorous and challenging art works of the new
millennium.

Richard Plepler, co-president of HBO, has been with the company since 1992 and
has overseen some of its greatest recent successes. When I ask him in his
Manhattan office what marked the point at which he knew the network was doing
something different, he points to an unlikely harbinger: _The Larry Sanders
Show_. First broadcast in 1992, Garry Shandling’s foul-mouthed and devastating
deconstruction of the TV chat show, in which celebrities parodied themselves,
put out an important signal, says Plepler. “It was the tipping point. That was
the show that made people notice we were doing something original and
distinctive. Garry sent a flare up to the creative community, which said, ‘You
can paint here, and you will be seen.’”

_The Larry Sanders Show_ was a new departure for HBO. The company which had
made its name through technological innovation (its first satellite
presentation was the “Thrilla in Manila” boxing match between Muhammad Ali and
Joe Frazier in 1975) had begun to produce well-received original programming
but little that could be called groundbreaking. The critical plaudits for
Shandling’s show encouraged the network to take more risks.

From its debut in 1998, _Sex and the City_ focused, with unusual frankness, on
a hip new demographic: urban, single women in New York enjoying a dazzling
array of sexual relationships. _SATC_ ran for six seasons and two film spin-
offs. Then in 1999 came David Chase’s _The Sopranos_. Based on the comic
premise of a small-time Mafia don needing psychotherapy to deal with his
stress, the series gradually expanded into a rich, slow-moving, character-
driven study of power. _The Sopranos_ , drooled The New York Times after the
first series, was “the real sequel to Francis Ford Coppola’s _Godfather_
movies”. HBO’s marketing department went for the minimal approach on its
billboards: “Family: Redefined”. But in truth it was television that was being
redefined. There had been nothing as subtle and confident as this on the small
screen. It became axiomatic to label the show as the “best television series
ever made”.

In 2002, HBO premiered David Simon’s _The Wire_ , a seemingly unsellable show
that even the writer described as a “dry, deliberate argument against the
American drug prohibition”. Simon, a former journalist who had worked on NBC’s
well-crafted cop series _Homicide: Life on the Street_ , wrote an
extraordinary pitch to HBO in support of his new project. “It would be a …
profound victory for HBO to take the essence of network fare and smartly turn
it on its head,” he wrote, “so that no one who sees [its] take on the culture
of crime and crime-fighting can watch anything like _CSI_ , or _NYPD Blue_ ,
or _Law & Order_ again without knowing that every punch was pulled on those
shows.”

HBO, in other words, was in a position to place truth before entertainment. As
mantras go, it had a pretentious whiff about it. But the network’s executives
bought it. Ratings for the first series were unspectacular but critics became
absorbed by the darkness and narrative complexity of the drama. By the time of
the third series, there was a new “best television series ever made”. It
focused as much on the drug dealers as it did on the police who pursued them.

Simon’s latest series for HBO is _Treme_ , a profile of New Orleans as it
attempts to recover from the appalling consequences of hurricane Katrina. Like
_The Wire_ , _Treme_ attempts to revolutionise form in TV drama, this time by
using music almost as a character in the action, pulsing rambunctiously
through every city sidestreet. Plepler says Simon asked him and Michael
Lombardo, president of programming, to read the script accompanied by a CD of
the soundtrack. Once more, the writer’s intensity and originality of vision
carried the day. “Mike and I called each other and said, ‘How can you say no
to this?’”

Despite its relatively low ratings, _Treme_ was recommissioned for a second
series. Plepler says the show works for HBO because it is “an elegant show
that elevates the brand”. The network’s focus on innovation and good writing
is what will attract creative artists, he says. “Networks have different
requirements for what constitutes success.” He compares the role of HBO to
that of a gallerist. “Great artists want to be with a gallery owner who gets
them, and with whom they have a shared vision. When Leo Castelli saw Jasper
Johns, Rauschenberg, he recognised their talent. But they also wanted to be
with him because they knew he got them. We are only as good as the painters.”

And the painters are flocking to HBO from all directions: British television,
traditional US networks, Hollywood. Martin Scorsese won an Emmy for directing
the pilot episode of _Boardwalk Empire_. Industry rumours are rife of a
forthcoming collaboration between Scorsese and Mick Jagger on the history of
rock music.  [Dustin Hoffman and Michael
Mann](http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/2/f71b5774-dd62-11df-
beb7-00144feabdc0.html#axzz1YLmUrQIQ) are among the distinguished names
shooting a drama series, _Luck_ , that centres on the world of horseracing.
Aaron Sorkin, fresh from winning an Oscar for his writing on _The Social
Network_ , has been commissioned to make a series about television news.

The Brits are joining in. Tom Stoppard has adapted Ford Madox Ford’s _Parade’s
End_ for a mini-series, jointly produced with the BBC, starring Benedict
Cumberbatch and Rebecca Hall, shooting now. The writer and producer Armando
Iannucci is making _Veep_ , a comedy starring _Seinfeld_ ’s Julia Louis-
Dreyfus as the US vice-president.

Speaking on the telephone from Los Angeles, Iannucci confirms the idyllic
relationship between creators and network described by Plepler. “The pilot
went absolutely smoothly. They hardly interfere at all, and when they do make
comments or notes, they are useful and intelligent. HBO said to me: ‘We are
interested in people who make things. Why would we interfere? What’s the point
of signing you up?’” I ask if the series will be as dyspeptic as his British
political comedy _The Thick of It_. “It is a more truthful version of politics
than _The West Wing_. And I think that is a plus point for HBO.”

On the Brooklyn set of  [_Boardwalk
Empire_](http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/2/0626f51a-2fe4-11e0-a7c6-00144feabdc0.html#axzz1YLmUrQIQ)
_,_ (its recreation of prohibition-era Atlantic City is the largest standing
set in New York since the days of the silent movies) writer Terry Winter, who
also worked on _The Sopranos_ , says the success of HBO has inverted
traditional entertainment structures. “The world has been turned upside down,”
he says. “The lead-in for [the season one premiere of] _Boardwalk Empire_ was
[the Hollywood blockbuster] _Transformers 2_. It used to be the other way
around. Actors are dying to do TV series because they can dig deep. We did 83
hours of _The Sopranos_ – that’s 42 movies. The reason all these names like
Martin Scorsese and Michael Mann want to do television is that they are story-
tellers. And look where they are coming to tell their stories.”

HBO’s raising of the bar for television has inevitably spawned imitators. It
is difficult to imagine AMC’s smoothly-paced  [_Mad
Men_](http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/2/145766a2-8fb1-11df-8df0-00144feab49a.html#axzz1YLmUrQIQ)
__or Showtime’s explicit comedy drama _Californication_ without HBO’s
boundary-breaking antecedents. Even traditional networks have upped their
game: ABC’s zesty mockumentary _Modern Family_ has just won its second Emmy
for outstanding comedy series. A benign cycle is under way. Viewers are being
treated with intelligence and respect, and  [TV as an art
form](http://podcast.ft.com/index.php?pid=1041) is rising rapidly through the
ranks. A cultural paradox is playing itself out: as previously elitist art
forms such as contemporary art become more accessible (and in many cases more
superficial), the mass entertainment industry of television has begun to
nurture its own elites. Drama series such as _The Wire_ and _Treme_ remain
minority interest shows but their followers talk about them with near-
religious zeal.

The result is a profound change in our cultural habits. Television, in the
shape of 50-in flat screens and growling sound systems, has already developed
the technology to seduce us back into our homes. Now, thanks to the HBO-
inspired revolution, it can deliver the quality too. The movies continue to
deliver the numbers but they are increasingly the province of adolescents. Why
else would anyone want to remake _The A-Team_ for the big screen? It is
commonplace for trite magazines, in times of recession, to declare that
“staying in is the new going out”. Culturally speaking, for once they may just
have a point.

_**This article originally appeared in Financial Times _. Click_**_
[**_here_**](http://www.ft.com/)** _to read more coverage from the Weekend
FT._**
