title: AOC Puts Her Own Spin on Bernie Sanders’s Pitch at Las Vegas Rally - The New York Times
source: https://www.nytimes.com/2025/03/20/us/politics/aoc-bernie-sanders-vegas-denver.html
date: 2025-08-13T15:05:54.866462
tags: []
---
Even as Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont has fired up the American left over
the past decade, his speeches have the flavor of a sociology lesson. He rarely
makes himself the main character.

Which is why it is striking how differently the young leader often seen as his
successor, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, approaches
politics.

As she kicked off a Western tour with Mr. Sanders on Thursday in North Las
Vegas, Nev., she introduced herself by name — which he never does — and used
her experience waitressing to explain her politics to a crowd of several
thousand people.

“I don’t believe in health care, labor and human dignity because I’m a Marxist
— I believe it because I was a waitress,” she said. “Because I worked double
shifts to keep the lights on and because on my worst day, I know what it feels
like to feel left behind. And I know that we don’t have to live like this.”

Mr. Sanders, by contrast, delivered a version of the same speech he has given
since before Ms. Ocasio-Cortez was born, railing against corporate greed. “Eat
the rich,” someone yelled.

The divergent styles illustrate how, after Mr. Sanders built a political
movement by emphasizing inequality in America, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez brings a
contemporary flourish to their shared progressive politics.

Mr. Sanders, 83, learned politics in the 1960s. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, 35, has
undertaken her political education in the Trump era.

For Mr. Sanders, his political story relies on making a cogent case about
inequality at the macro level. Only [rarely does he speak in
detail](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723202936/https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/02/us/politics/bernie-
sanders-2020-democrats.html?smid=nytcore-ios-
share&referringSource=articleShare&sgrp=g&pvid=2B9AC26A-CB64-4932-AACE-67E6F81B4BF3)
about his feelings, his middle-class upbringing or how he lost both parents by
age 21. Instead, he rails against billionaires who squeeze workers and, now,
run the federal government.

“The worst addiction in this country today is the greed of oligarchy,” he told
supporters on Thursday. “They are like heroin addicts — they need more and
more and more. And if they have to destroy Social Security and Medicaid to get
what they want, that is what they will do.”

Ms. Ocasio-Cortez understands the power of placing herself in her audience’s
shoes. On Thursday, she spoke of feeling helpless in the face of swirling
personal and national chaos.

She even went a step further, borrowing a tactic patented by President Trump
to portray a political attack on her as a broadside against her supporters.

Under a spring sun hot enough to disable cellphones, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez told a
crowd dressed in vintage Sanders campaign gear about [a recent television
appearance](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723202936/https://www.mediaite.com/tv/trump-
adviser-mocks-aocs-bartender-past-you-were-in-a-bar-not-to-have-a-drink-but-
to-serve-one/) by one of Mr. Trump’s lawyers. She recalled the lawyer
describing her as a mere bartender without the sufficient life experience to
have important input on national affairs.

Ms. Ocasio-Cortez declared that the slight against her intelligence was in
fact a public dismissal of the brainpower of all working-class people.

“She isn’t just talking about me here. She’s talking about you — she is
talking about all of us,” she said. “Imagine what it means for our country
that the president’s own lawyer cannot even conceive of a working-class person
being intelligent simply because of the job that they have.”

It was the kind of political skill that has many progressive Democrats ready
to anoint her as the next leader of the left-wing political movement built by
Mr. Sanders, who has mostly — but not totally — [ruled out running for
president again in
2028](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723202936/https://www.nytimes.com/2025/02/21/us/politics/bernie-
sanders-iowa-trump.html). Several attendees at the rally wore shirts or hats
indicating that they were ready for Ms. Ocasio-Cortez to step up.

“You know, Biden waited way too long to pass the torch, right?” said Lorita
Loftus, a retired postal worker from Henderson, Nev. “If that’s what is
happening, it’s a wise move.”

Still, there are few topics Mr. Sanders wants to discuss less than his
mortality or who might succeed him as the leader of the left.

In an interview with The New York Times this week, Mr. Sanders — who mentioned
Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s name just once in his 42-minute speech on Thursday —
declined to entertain discussion about whether inviting her on tour with him
represented a passing of the torch.

“That’s inside-the-Beltway gossip,” he grumbled. “You got any better
questions?”
