title: Why Is It Hard to Make Friends Over 30? - The New York Times
source: http://www.nytimes.com/2012/07/15/fashion/the-challenge-of-making-friends-as-an-adult.html?_r=2&pagewanted=all
date: 2025-08-13T20:15:53.908418
tags: []
---
Manipulators, drama queens, egomaniacs: a lot of them just no longer make the
cut.

Thayer Prime, a 32-year-old strategy consultant who lives in London, has even
developed a playful 100-point scale (100 being “best friend forever”). In her
mind, she starts to dock new friend candidates as they begin to display
annoying or disloyal behavior. Nine times out of 10, she said, her new friends
end up from 30 to 60, or little more than an acquaintance.

“You meet someone really nice, but if they don’t return a call, drop to 90, if
they don’t return two calls, that’s an immediate 50,” she said. “If they’re
late to something in the first month, that’s another 10 off.” (But people can
move up the scale with nice behavior, too, she added.)

Having been hardened by experience, many people develop a more fatalistic view
of friendship.

“When you’re younger, you define what it really means to be friends in a more
serious way,” said my screenwriter friend, Brian. (His full name is Brian
Koppelman, and he wrote and is a co-director of “[Solitary
Man](http://web.archive.org/web/20250614172706/http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1294213/
"IMDB profile."),” a 2010 film starring Michael Douglas about a middle-aged
man trying to reconnect with friends and family.)

“My ideas of friendship were built by ‘The Godfather’ and ‘Diner,’ ” he said.
“Your friends were your brothers, and anything but total loyalty at all costs
meant excommunication. As you get older, that model becomes unrealistic.”

By that point, you have been through your share of wearying or failed
relationships. You have come to grips with the responsibilities of juggling
work, family and existing friends, so you become more wary about making
yourself emotionally available to new people. “You’re more keenly aware of the
downside,” said Mr. Koppelman, 46. “You’re also more keenly aware of your own
capacity to disappoint.”
