title: 'Serial' Season 2 Wasn't a Phenomenon-But It Was Still Pretty Phenomenal | GQ
source: http://www.gq.com/story/serial-season-2
date: 2025-08-13T18:15:55.118896
tags: []
---
_Serial_ , in telling his story, ended up experiencing what he experienced.
Last season was a tightly wound mystery. (Maybe too tightly wound, in
retrospect.) This one, and I say this lovingly, is kind of a morass. It's a
fascinating study of that morass. But in reporting it, Koenig and Boal seemed
to find out what Bergdahl found out: the truth of what happens at war,
particularly at the lowest levels of war, is so confusing and foggy and
unverifiable, that many people, including actual soldiers, just shrug their
shoulders and give up trying to understand it.

This season of _Serial_ was an invaluable document of what it was like to
serve in the modern, often purposeless wars we've been fighting since 9/11.
The detail and the thoroughness that Boal and Koenig bring to that experience
alone made this season worth it. But the reaction to the show—or, more
precisely, the lack of reaction—tells the tale as much as the tale itself
does. Last season, _Serial_ was about a murder in Baltimore and half the
podcast's audience ended up trying to help the show solve it; this season
_Serial_ retained its vast listenership, as far as I can tell, but the
audience took one look at the scale and scope of what the show was describing
and went mute and a little abstract. Exactly the vast existential shrug that
Berghdahl was trying to somehow trump when he walked off. And the way
Bergdahl's story grew and knotted to include President Obama and Guantanamo
and unofficial geopolitical negotiations in Europe and two random intel
analysts in Florida? _Serial_ grew and knotted to encompass it all, too. It
was fascinating, watching the form of the show expand and double back on
itself, in mimicry of the story it was trying to tell.

In fact, one of the most delightful parts of this season was watching Koenig
and Boal fight, in an amiable way, over which story they were telling in the
first place. In the show's seventh episode, "Hindsight, Part 2," Koenig and
Boal have a fascinating conversation. Koenig is trying to figure out,
basically, whether Bergdahl is a reliable narrator. Is he telling the truth
about why he did what he did? She's been dubious. But now she's learned that
Bergdahl has recently been diagnosed with schizotypal personality disorder.
Bergdahl's account of his own reasoning has been so insane that this
diagnosis, paradoxically, makes Koenig actually believe him—it makes the
irrational rational. Boal, well, he's not so sure. "I guess it's an
interesting data point," he says. "I don't know if it's the north star of the
story."

To Koenig, her subject is Bergdahl: Who was he, and why did he do what he did?
To Boal, whose more than 25 hours of interviews with Bergdahl—a low-key
pleasure of the show is listening to Boal do dishes, chew food, yawn, and
execute other household tasks while Bergdahl talks and talks and talks—the
subject is the military and the war. As for Bergdahl—whatever. What Boal is
after is whether Bergdahl had a point about military leadership and the
fucked-up way things were happening over there.

The show ended up landing where those goals meet—that hazy zone where one
person embodies or triggers something so big that no matter how far back you
pull the camera, you still can't see the whole picture. In yesterday's series
finale, you don't hear Bergdahl until the episode is almost over, and when you
do, he doesn't talk about the war, or the court-martial he now faces. He talks
about the stars—looking up, seeing them, realizing that "Things went so far
beyond me." Koenig and Boal and Serial, in telling his story, didn't get all
way up there. But they got close.
