title: Lil Miquela and the virtual influencer hype, explained | Vox
source: https://www.vox.com/the-goods/2019/6/3/18647626/instagram-virtual-influencers-lil-miquela-ai-startups
date: 2025-08-13T16:15:03.085581
tags: []
---
Every story about a virtual influencer starts the same way: She is beautiful.
She has a ton of followers. She is mysterious, yet her personality is
fantastic. She loves Calvin Klein. Also — she’s not real! She was made by a
computer to look as much like a hot and charming human being as possible
without scaring people. Her body casts a shadow. She has flyaways and
freckles.

The most famous example of the virtual influencer is Lil Miquela, who debuted
on Instagram in April 2016, as if from nowhere. Of course, no arguably useless
technological innovation actually comes from nowhere, and she was no
exception. After months of speculation in Instagram comments and on news sites
— with theories ranging from “Sims marketing stunt” to “horrifying social
experiment” — the secret was revealed and was shockingly mundane: Yeah, it’s
advertising.

In January, TechCrunch [reported](https://techcrunch.com/2019/01/14/more-
investors-are-betting-on-virtual-influencers-like-lil-
miquela/?sr_share=twitter&utm_source=tctwreshare) that Lil Miquela’s creators
had closed a $125 million investment round led by Spark Capital. Suddenly,
virtual influencers were the future of ads. The future of fashion. The future
of commerce.

Are these lithe, high-resolution bodies really coming for the jobs held by
models and scene kids for the last several decades?

But are these lithe, high-resolution bodies really coming for the jobs held by
models and scene kids for the last several decades? There is little evidence
so far that this is the case, beyond a handful of successful Instagram
accounts and a lot of conversation. The way funding is heaped onto every
startup that gets 15 minutes of attention from the press typically makes the
success of bizarro-world innovations feel inevitable and unavoidable — the
most barbed response we can summon the energy for is to drag out that same
tired [_Jurassic Park_ meme ](https://knowyourmeme.com/photos/877596-jurassic-
park)about the hubris of making shit for no reason. (And if this isn’t going
to _happen_ , why are people lining up to throw millions of dollars at it? We
forget they are gambling.)

The virtual influencer could be a novelty technology, destined to flash in the
pan like “hoverboards” or movie theaters equipped to spray people with “rain”
in the middle of Batman movies. Like the blockchain! Or you know, it could
take all of the hot people’s jobs.

* * *

## There aren’t really that many virtual influencers — yet.

First, the cast of characters. Lil Miquela, the effortlessly hip
forever-19-year-old with 1.5 million followers, also has two friends:
[Blawko](https://www.instagram.com/blawko22/), a boy and self-described “young
robot sex symbol” whose mouth is constantly covered with designer [pollution
masks](/the-goods/2019/3/19/18262556/face-mask-air-filter-pollution-vogmask-
airpop) and who has a paltry 135,000 followers; and
[Bermuda](https://www.instagram.com/bermudaisbae/), his ex-girlfriend and Lil
Miquela’s blonde, Trump-voting foil, whose bio boasts that she is a
“Robot/Unbothered mogul with daddy’s PIN and a flawless highlight.” All three
were created by the team at the mysterious Los Angeles startup Brud for vague
reasons.

Lil Miquela, the effortlessly hip forever-19-year-old, has 1.5 million
followers.

Jenna Sauers, writing [for Cultured](https://www.culturedmag.com/lil-miquela/)
in April, paid special attention to the strange myth-building Brud has done
around its creations and its founders, some of which has included outright
lies. Brud calls itself “a technology startup specializing in artificial
intelligence and robotics,” she points out, and news outlets from
Architectural Digest to CNN are simply parroting this verbatim. But “Brud
holds no patents in AI, robotics, or related fields,” and Lil Miquela is
little more than a well-crafted image. The piece walks through other
exaggerations: co-founder Sara DeCou’s one-time claim to be President Obama’s
“special adviser on the ethics of AI development, and the other co-founder
Terver McFedries’s claim to have written a bill of rights for AIs.”

The team has argued here and there that Lil Miquela’s support of Black Lives
Matter, reproductive rights, and LGBTQ+ causes can inspire real change. Last
year, The Cut’s [Emilia Petrarca wrote](https://www.thecut.com/2018/05/lil-
miquela-digital-avatar-instagram-influencer.html) about Brud’s statement that
it hoped to be the modern _Will & Grace_, saying “As with all things Brud,
it’s hard to tell if they’re trolling us with this reference or if they’ve
been sipping too much of the Silicon Valley Kool-Aid.”

Less vague, Balmain creative director Olivier Rousteing’s #BalmainArmy of
virtual models. The first, Shudu, was designed by British photographer
Cameron-James Wilson in early 2018. She racked up followers after the managers
of the Instagram for Rihanna’s Fenty Beauty line apparently mistook her for a
real customer and briefly reposted a photo of her “trying out” the brand’s
matte lipstick. Shudu’s bio declares her “the world’s first digital
supermodel,” and she is much taller and more classically beautiful than Lil
Miquela. In 2018, Rousteing hired Wilson to make two more digital supermodels,
[exclusively for
Balmain](https://www.harpersbazaar.com/fashion/models/a22875448/olivier-
rousteing-virtual-models-balmain/). He came up with Xhi — a gorgeous Chinese
woman modeled after David Bowie — and Margot — a gorgeous French woman modeled
after Rousteing’s childhood fantasies about French women. Neither Xhi nor
Margot have their own Instagram accounts, and they exist solely for Balmain
ads.

My personal favorite is Lu, the very strange virtual influencer who appears in
ads for Brazil’s Bed Bath & Beyond-equivalent [Magazine
Luiza](https://www.instagram.com/magazineluiza/?utm_source=ig_embed). She
listens to Lana Del Rey while she jogs. When I first learned this about her, I
was moved enough to write about it [for
Racked](https://www.racked.com/2018/8/31/17802088/magazine-luiza-brazil-
instagram-influencer-lil-miquela), asking “While she is deliberately dragging
down her own morning jog vibe with [music](https://thenewinquiry.com/the-fake-
as-more/) [about](https://thenewinquiry.com/full-time-daughter/) the
disposability of the female body, the danger of icons, and the inherent
violence of American popular culture, is Lu also subtly ribbing Lil Miquela,
all of her ilk, and me?”

## Conversations about diversity and representation in the fashion industry
were already at a fever pitch. An influx of avatars makes it even more
complicated.

This brings us to the controversy of virtual influencers. They are physically
perfect women made of pixels, standing in for women who have long been
pressured to _become_ physically perfect, without the advantage of that even
being possible. Lil Miquela herself acknowledged this, sort of, [when she
asked](https://www.thecut.com/2018/05/lil-miquela-digital-avatar-instagram-
influencer.html) YouTube conspiracy theorist Shane Dawson, in response to a
question about the manipulation of her image, “Can you name one person on
Instagram who doesn’t edit their photos?” The women of the fashion industry
and particularly of Instagram are already pushed to Photoshop themselves, or
to real-life-Photoshop themselves, which is to say “get cosmetic surgery.”

Isn’t it interesting the way we can talk out both sides of our mouths,
simultaneously espousing a new age of body positivity and self-acceptance,
while also making it clear that _supermodels_ are incapable of reaching beauty
standards set by things that are not even alive?

To add insult to injury, this collection of virtual influencers is far more
diverse than the roster of brand ambassadors and runway models that major
fashion brands have employed for most of their existence. This May, Calvin
Klein rolled out its #MYTRUTH campaign, which featured actual famous people
like Troye Sivan, Billie Eilish, and the brand’s favorite permalancer A$AP
Rocky. It also involved a video in which supermodel Bella Hadid made out with
Lil Miquela. In her Calvins! This was [a
disaster,](https://www.thecut.com/2019/05/bella-hadid-lil-miquela-calvin-
klein-apology.html) with critics immediately pointing out the double whammy:
In the first place, it was queer-baiting, presenting two women kissing as
exotic and bizarre. But also, could they not even cast an actual gay person?
There are limits to the usefulness of “representation,” seen here when a job
that could have gone to an underrepresented group went instead to a collection
of pixels with no personal political context at all.

There are limits to the usefulness of “representation” — e.g. when you replace
real people with avatars.

In [an email newsletter](https://tinyletter.com/robhorning/letters/new-face-
of-america), the writer Rob Horning compared this to _Time_ ’s infamous 1993
cover for its “New Face of America” immigration issue, which showed a
surreally smooth, smiling face — a computer-generated projection of what
future “deracialized” generations of America might look like. Lil Miquela, he
argues, is “a figure from an idealized future where human difference is
resolved not through political struggle but through process of automated
averaging and morphing. ... a visual expression of an algorithmic sublime.”

Similar criticism was levied at Shudu, a black woman avatar designed by a
white man. Writing [for the New
Yorker](https://www.newyorker.com/culture/culture-desk/shudu-gram-is-a-white-
mans-digital-projection-of-real-life-black-womanhood), Lauren Michele Jackson
says the character reminds her of black minstrelsy and dryly quotes the
creator saying that his biggest influence was “a special-edition Princess of
South Africa Barbie doll.”

## Also ... these things are just plain scary?

The term “uncanny valley” was coined by the Japanese roboticist Masahiro Mori
in 1970. It refers to the feeling of discomfort we experience when something
is close enough to human-looking or seeming to trick our brains into
approaching it that way — but we can’t be fooled fully. We always find what’s
wrong.

Lil Miquela speaks as if she is a person with feelings. In [a cover story for
High Snobiety ](https://www.highsnobiety.com/p/lil-miquela-cover-story-
issue-16/)last April, she’s quoted at length. Discussing her critics, she
tells a reporter via email, “I think people feel a little vulnerable in
general right now. They have a lot of frustration and need something to target
it at, usually it’s something that they don’t understand. So, I try not to let
it get to me too much, because it’s a symptom of people trying to digest all
of the change happening every day.”

This is not so different really than other types of [first-person
speech](/the-goods/2019/5/2/18527110/burger-king-unhappy-meals-steakumms-sad-
brand-twitter) on the part of brands — Sunny-D threatening to kill itself, HBO
[texting its boss](https://www.theringer.com/2019/1/16/18184386/netflix-mtv-
hbo-tweeting-first-person) (?) — because despite what her copywriters would
tell you, Lil Miquela is not actually a robot. None of this is artificial
intelligence. It’s just computer motion graphics and captions written with,
one can only guess, a meticulous company style guide.

As Business of Fashion’s Christopher Morency [pointed out in February
2018](https://www.businessoffashion.com/articles/intelligence/meeting-
fashions-first-computer-generated-influencer-lil-miquela-sousa), virtual
celebrities aren’t exactly new either. We are more than two decades out from
the founding of virtual band Gorillaz, and 13 years past their first Grammy
win. The Japanese virtual pop star Hatsune Miku has been on multiple arena
tours and was dressed in 2013 by Marc Jacobs. Louis Vuitton hired a Final
Fantasy character for a 2016 ad campaign. Lil Miquela is more technically
complicated than these characters, but not by much.

The Verge’s Julia Alexander [explained in
January](https://www.theverge.com/2019/1/30/18200509/ai-virtual-creators-lil-
miquela-instagram-artificial-intelligence) that, while Lil Miquela herself
does not involve any AI or robotics, she might motivate the creation of a
virtual influencer who could:

> Her success has inspired venture capitalists like Betaworks to invest
> heavily in virtual creators and work with startups to progress the
> technology forward. The future of influencers, according to the general
> director of Betaworks’ startup boot camp, Danika Laszuk, is digital beings
> who actually are powered by AI. Betaworks’ next startup camp will focus on
> what Laszuk calls “synthetic media” — a combination of computer-generated
> imagery and AI capabilities. The company plans to make a series of $200,000
> investments in 10 startups that want to build technology that can create
> better digital influencers.

Alexander goes on to paint a picture of a future in which virtual influencers
need no human assistance at all once they’re published, and quotes Edward
Saatchi, the co-founder of “virtual beings” company Fable Studio, who promises
to make influencers who can move between platforms. They’d be, basically,
sentient avatars dancing between YouTube, TikTok, Instagram, and so on, using
machine learning to talk and evolve.

## Whether digital influencers catch on or not, the fashion industry is about
to spend a ton of money on them

The biggest selling point of virtual influencers if you work in advertising or
fashion isn’t the perfection of an avatar’s body or face but the
predictability of its behavior.

“You remove some of the PR risks from influencers who may do something that
could impact [your] base of customers,” Andrew Dunst, a vice president at the
marketing and software conglomerate Sage Group [told
WWD](https://wwd.com/beauty-industry-news/beauty-features/influencer-ex-
machina-shudu-lil-miquela-virtual-celebrities-instagram-1202755789/) last
July. “Everything this virtual influencer does is in a controlled setting by
the people who are managing that account.” It’s a funny argument. The biggest
public relations risks for brands have never been the paycheck-dependent
influencers or rigorously trained celebrities who stand at the front of their
ad campaigns — it’s always been the tone deafness or general idiocy of the
people behind the campaigns, the immoral or poorly executed business decisions
made the people in charge, or the simple undesirability of whatever they’re
selling.

Nevertheless, in April, the “virtual human planning and production” company
[1sec](http://1sec.world/#!page4) — one of the first of the post-Lil Miquela
boom — unveiled its first virtual influencer, a Japanese-American boy born in
Los Angeles. Named [Liam Nikuro](https://wwd.com/business-news/technology/ai-
liam-nikuro-virtual-influencer-1203108160/), he’s an “all-CG head made with
the use of 3-D tools on a body filmed in live action,” and he will find work
in music, fashion, and entertainment as a “multimedia producer,” according to
his creators. This will involve “innovative creative content in combination
with AI technology,” although [what exactly that might
mean](https://www.theverge.com/2019/1/28/18197520/ai-artificial-intelligence-
machine-learning-computational-science) goes unexplained. Liam loves 2Pac and
Justin Bieber, he says; Juniper Research estimates that the global fashion
industry will invest $3.6 billion in artificial intelligence technology this
year.

“The boundary between science fiction and social reality is an optical
illusion,” Donna Haraway wrote in her famous 1985 essay “A Cyborg Manifesto.”
She was talking about possible futures for feminism and ways to use technology
to make bodies more livable — as well as society more ethically coherent while
more emotionally and intellectually ambivalent — and she was not at all
talking about the question of Lil Miquela. This was decades before commercial
social media!

Still, it’s striking how well her somewhat trollish predictions have held up.
We are spending so much time riddling out whether we can trust robots to
represent us or sell us underpants, whether these images are robots at all,
whether the people behind them can be trusted, whether any of it matters. At
this point, if it’s what we’re talking about, it’s kind of what we’re doing.

[_Sign up for The Goods newsletter._](http://vox.com/goods-newsletter)_Twice a
week, we’ll send you the best Goods stories exploring what we buy, why we buy
it, and why it matters._
