title: The Unique Genius of Hong Kong's Public Transportation System - The Atlantic
source: http://www.theatlantic.com/china/archive/2013/09/the-unique-genius-of-hong-kongs-public-transportation-system/279528/
date: 2025-08-13T17:18:05.232160
tags: []
---
Passengers walk out of MTR railway carriage featuring Disney characters in the
Sunny Bay station in Hong Kong. (Paul Yeung/Reuters)

New Yorkers are famous for complaining about the city's subway: despite an
ever-increasing rise in fares, service never seems to get any better. And even
still, ticket-sales still only funds part of the New York City subway system;
the city still relies on supplementary taxes and government grants to keep
trains running, as fares only cover about 45 percent of the day-to-day
operating costs. Capital costs (system expansions, upgrades, and repairs) are
an entirely different question, and require more state and federal grants as
well as capital market bonds. And New York’s system is not unique: as in other
cities, New York struggles to pay existing expenses and must go into debt to
pay for upgrades, that is, without raising prices.

Is this problem intractable? Not exactly. Take Hong Kong for example: The Mass
Transit Railway (MTR) Corporation, which manages the subway and bus systems on
Hong Kong Island and, since 2006, in the northern part of Kowloon, is
considered the gold standard for transit management worldwide. In 2012, the
MTR produced revenue of 36 billion Hong Kong Dollars (about U.S $5
billion)—turning a profit of $2 billion in the process. Most impressively, the
farebox recovery ratio (the percentage of operational costs covered by fares)
for the system was
[185](http://www.mtr.com.hk/eng/investrelation/2012frpt_e/E130.pdf) percent
_,_ the world's highest. Worldwide, these numbers are practically unheard
of—the next highest urban ratio, Singapore, is a mere 125 percent.

In addition to Hong Kong, the MTR Corporation runs individual subway lines in
Beijing, Hangzhou, and Shenzhen in China, two lines in the London Underground,
and the entire Melbourne and Stockholm systems. And in Hong Kong, the trains
provide services unseen in many other systems around the world: stations have
public computers, wheelchair and stroller accessibility (and the space within
the train to store them), glass doors blocking the tracks, interoperable
touch-and-go fare payment (which also works as a debit card in local retail),
clear and sensible signage, and, on longer-distance subways, first-class cars
for people who are willing to pay extra for a little leg space.

How can Hong Kong afford all of this? The answer is deceptively simple: “Value
Capture.”

Like no other system in the world, the MTR understands the monetary value of
urban density—in other words, what economists call
"[agglomeration](http://press.uchicago.edu/ucp/books/book/chicago/A/bo8143498.html).”
Hong Kong is one of the world’s densest cities, and businesses depend on the
metro to ferry customers from one side of the territory to another. As a
result, the MTR strikes a bargain with shop owners: In exchange for
transporting customers, the transit agency receives a cut of the mall’s
profit, signs a co-ownership agreement, or accepts a percentage of property
development fees. In many cases, the MTR owns the entire mall itself. The Hong
Kong metro essentially functions as part of a vertically integrated business
that, through a "rail plus property" model, controls both the means of transit
and the places passengers visit upon departure. Two of the tallest skyscrapers
in Hong Kong are MTR properties, as are many of the offices, malls, and
residences next to every transit station (some of which even have direct
underground connections to the train). Not to mention, all of the retail
within subway stations, which themselves double as large shopping complexes,
is leased from MTR.

The profits from these real estate ventures, as well as that 85 percent
farebox surplus, subsidize transit development: proceeds pay for capital
expansion as well as upgrades. The MTR’s financial largesse means that the
transit system requires less maintenance and service interruptions, which in
turn reduces operating costs, streamlines capital investments, and encourages
more people to use transit to get around. And more customers means more money,
even if fares are relatively cheap: most commutes fall between HK $4 and HK$20
(about 50 cents to $3), depending on distance. (In London, by comparison, a
Tube journey can cost as much as $18). Fare increases in Hong Kong are
[limited](http://www.mtr.com.hk/eng/whatsnew/fam2013.html) by regulations
linking fares to inflation and profits, and the territory’s government
[recently](http://www.scmp.com/article/1000788/mtrs-highest-fare-still-far-
stop-financial-burden) started giving a HK $600-per-month travel stipend to
low-income households, defined as those earning less than HK $10,000 a month.

This model of transit management works partly because Hong Kong is a closed
system: There are no suburbs from which people can commute by car, so there
are strong incentives for everyone within the territory to use the system.
This feature, combined with other regulations, has kept car ownership low: 6
of every 100 vehicles in Hong Kong are for personal use, whereas the number in
the U.S. is closer to 70. And while the NYC subway was built over a century
ago and was neglected during much of the 20th century’s suburban sprawl, Hong
Kong’s metro was only developed in the late 1970s. As a result, it doesn’t
have to rely on signals technologies from the 1930s that are only slowly being
upgraded (hence the track closures in New York).

As an independent corporation with the government serving as majority
shareholder (rather than a public agency, ministry, or authority), the MTR has
the freedom to develop real estate, to hire and fire who it will, and to take
business-minded decisions—whereas other transit systems, including the one in
New York, must deal with union contracts and legal restrictions. In Hong Kong,
these value charges are often displaced onto consumers, causing real estate
prices to go up a little faster than they otherwise might.

Still, value capture is a powerful idea for transit management. New York has
tested the waters of this approach with its $2 billion 7-train extension to
the Hudson Yards project, working with the state’s Metropolitan Transportation
Authority and the project’s developers to fund the extension with property
taxes from the newly served area. Dedicated taxes, too, serve a similar
purpose. But fundamentally, Hong Kong’s metro succeeds because it understands
that a subway system is more than just a means of transportation—it is also
essential to the well-being of a city’s population and economy.
