title: Niantic partners with Sleep No More creator to build immersive AR theater experiences | The Verge
source: https://www.theverge.com/2020/6/30/21307285/niantic-punchdrunk-ar-immersive-theater-sleep-no-more-pokemon-go
date: 2025-08-13T15:54:51.092754
tags: []
---
_Pokémon Go_ creator Niantic Labs is partnering with Punchdrunk, the UK-based
production company behind seminal immersive theater piece _Sleep No More_. The
partnership will see both companies work toward “developing multiple projects
that will reinvent storytelling for a 21st century audience and further expand
the horizon of interactive entertainment.”

 _Sleep No More_ , launched in its current iteration in New York City back in
2011, is a landmark immersive theater production that lets audiences walk
through a series of rooms and experience various storylines and other elements
of the production at their own pace. Influenced in part by haunted houses and
other nonlinear live productions, immersive theater sounds like a prime fit
for augmented reality because it could allow for Niantic and companies like
Punchdrunk to create fantastical virtual worlds that are then overlaid over
real spaces.

Immersive theater seems like a prime fit for augmented reality

“It is hugely exciting to be joining forces with the preeminent AR company in
the world. At Punchdrunk we create richly cinematic 3D worlds where audiences
can explore, touch and smell the environment; where the boundaries between
reality and fantasy are indistinguishable,” Felix Barrett, Punchdrunk’s
artistic director, said in a statement. “Those that have seen _Sleep No More_
often liken the experience to how it might feel to walk into a video game.
What happens if you take that sense of adventure into the real world? Tear
down the walls and the world becomes your stage. “

Niantic offered a few more updates to its current production pipeline, too.
The company is still currently working on the [mobile AR adaptation of popular
board game Catan](/2019/11/21/20976421/settlers-of-catan-ar-niantic-world-
explorers-pokemon-go-augmented-reality) called [_Catan: World
Explorer_](/2019/11/21/20976421/settlers-of-catan-ar-niantic-world-explorers-
pokemon-go-augmented-reality)[ _s_](https://catanworldexplorers.com/) _._ The
game is being built on top of Niantic’s Real World Platform in partnership
with the company behind the board game and French game publisher Asmodee.
Niantic now says the game will enter a beta phase “very soon.”

Niantic also says it’s building “new forms of gaming” for both smartphones and
AR glasses, although the company did not elaborate on exactly what headsets
from which companies it may be building for. “Currently, we have more than 10
new games in development including prototypes for AR wearables, each with
unique and innovative gameplay, centered around outdoor exploration, movement
and social interaction,” the company says.

In December 2019, Qualcomm [announced it was working with
Niantic](/2019/12/5/20997493/niantic-qualcomm-xr2-ar-glasses) on a smart
glasses reference design as part of the chipmaker’s Snapdragon XR2 platform.
And back in 2017, when support for Apple’s ARKit was [first added to _Pokémon
Go_](/2017/12/20/16798388/pokemon-go-niantic-apple-iphone-ios-arkit-augmented-
reality-ar-plus), Niantic strongly hinted it was working with Apple on
experiences that could arrive for the iPhone maker’s [not-yet-announced but
strongly rumored AR glasses](/2020/6/19/21296674/apple-vr-ar-headset-glasses-
external-hub-jony-ive-bloomberg-go-read-this).

_**Correction:** A previous version of this article incorrectly stated
Punchdrunk is a New York City-based production company. Punchdrunk was founded
and is headquartered in the UK. We regret the error. _
