title: College freshmen pick certain friends for stressful times
source: https://qz.com/1070110/the-friends-you-make-in-the-first-year-of-college-can-impact-how-well-you-do/
date: 2025-08-13T17:00:05.289869
tags: []
---
College freshmen turn to empathic people during stressful times, research
shows.

“The transition to college can be tumultuous,” says Jamil Zaki, an assistant
professor of psychology at Stanford University and coauthor of the study.
“Whom you end up making friendships with can play a significant role in how
you’ll deal with the stress and hardship of freshman year.”

A 2008 poll conducted by the Associated Press and mtvU found that 40% of
college students said they felt stress regularly—and almost one in five
seriously considered dropping out of school.

With those high stress levels in mind, the researchers, including Stanford
economics professor Matthew Jackson and former Stanford doctoral candidate
Desmond Ong, put nearly 200 Stanford freshmen—who had recently moved into
first-year dorms—through a battery of personality tests and questionnaires.
Students also answered questions related to social networks within their
dorms, for example, “Who usually makes you feel positive?” or “Who do you turn
to when something bad happens?”

Their goal was to determine which students occupied central roles in these
different networks—notably groups based on trust, fun, and excitement. The
researchers found that individuals were more particular about whom they
included in their trust networks compared to groups related to fun and
excitement. In those selective trust networks, freshmen were more likely to
include highly empathic students.

In contrast, when students wanted to feel positive and have fun, they were
more likely to seek out dorm mates high in happiness. This suggests that
students’ personalities are related to the different roles that they play in
supporting their communities.

“What we find here is not only that people’s networks of fun-based friendships
are denser than their more trust- and stress-based networks,” Jackson says,
“but also that more central people in a network have personalities that match
the purpose of that network in intuitive ways. ”

Just as you need the right outfit for a particular occasion, college freshmen
need certain friends for certain situations.

When you need a dose of fun, engaging with a positive and happy friend can
lift your mood. But that friend may not be the best person to go to when you
need someone to confide in. An empathic friend, on the other hand, may be just
the right person for helping you through difficult and challenging times.

“Empathic individuals were more likely to help their dorm mates and provide
support during difficult times,” says Sylvia Morelli, an assistant professor
of psychology at the University of Illinois at Chicago and lead author of the
study. “These freshmen became magnets for close relationships in their new
dorms.”

“Empathic people are the ears and shoulders of these communities,” Zaki says.

This research shows that people know the difference between these two types of
individuals. They spend time with individuals high in positive emotion, but
target empathic individuals when they are stressed.

“The study offers an opportunity for college students to examine their own
relationships,” says Morelli, a former postdoctoral fellow in Stanford’s
Social Neuroscience Lab, “especially against the landscape of social media
where they can have seemingly countless ‘friends’ across the country and the
world. Our work suggests that people will turn to only a small handful of
these friends when things get stressful, and that they will trust their
friends who show empathy and concern.”

An additional coauthor of the study is Rucha Makati of the University of
Illinois at Chicago. The National Institute of Mental Health, the National
Science Foundation, and an A*STAR National Science Scholarship supported the
work.

_This article was originally published in_[
_Futurity_](http://web.archive.org/web/20250318175818/http://www.futurity.org/college-
freshmen-friends-1533722-2/) _. Edits have been made to this republication. It
has been republished under the_[ _Attribution 4.0 International
license_](http://web.archive.org/web/20250318175818/https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)
_._
