title: Breaking Down the Father on BBC Being Interrupted by His Children | by Ben Thompson | Medium
source: https://medium.com/@benthompson/breaking-down-the-father-on-bbc-being-interrupted-by-his-children-9840cdc8857b
date: 2025-08-13T17:28:34.467889
tags: []
---
# The Hand

Press enter or click to view image in full size

This is where Kelly is getting the most grief on social media. The prevailing
wisdom from folks who have never been on worldwide-TV-as-a-means-of-
validating-12-years-of-academia is that Kelly should have gracefully placed
his daughter on his lap and continued on with the interview as if nothing had
happened.

Let’s back up.

What you may not know about these TV spots is that you don’t get paid a dime.
Why, then, does the BBC, or CNN, or MSNBC, or all of the other channels have
an endless array of experts who are willing to not just call-in from their
home office but will also go to the trouble of putting on a suit-and-tie and
arrange books just so? BECAUSE YOU’RE ON TV!

Here’s the deal: the male ego is both remarkably fragile and remarkably easy
to satiate. Tell said ego he will be featured as an expert in front of a
national or global audience and he will do whatever it takes — including 12
years of academia and wearing a suit at home—to ensure it is so.

The flipside of said ego-soothing, though, is a potential level of
embarassment that is hard to fathom. In this case Kelly is fulfilling his
self-selected destiny: he is appearing as an expert across the world on the
BBC. But it’s not going well! His daughter has appeared, and while he
certainly loves her, he must, MUST, keep up appearances. Thus the hand, and
not the overt affection.
