title: ‘I don’t know how this happened’: A $3B secret program undermining Biden’s tech policy - POLITICO
source: https://www.politico.com/news/2024/05/23/3-billion-secret-program-undermining-bidens-tech-policy-00158757
date: 2025-08-13T15:13:26.446398
tags: []
---
Several members of Congress involved in the CHIPS law say they were taken by
surprise to see the money shifted to Secure Enclave, a classified project to
build chips in a special facility for defense and intelligence needs, and they
worry it will hurt the law’s other policy goals.

“There should be no Secure Enclave in the CHIPS program,” said Rep. Zoe
Lofgren (D-Calif.), ranking member of the House Science Committee, “and any
secure program that might be necessary should be funded by the Department of
Defense … not from CHIPS funding that should be focused on revitalizing our
domestic chip capacity.”

Critics say the shift in CHIPS money undermines an important policy by moving
funds from a competitive public selection process meant to boost a domestic
industry to an untried and classified project likely to benefit only one
company.

“I don’t know how this happened, but it should not have,” said Charles
Wessner, an expert on global innovation policy at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies.

No company has been named yet to execute the project, but interviews reveal
that chipmaking giant Intel lobbied for its creation, and is still [considered
the
frontrunner](http://web.archive.org/web/20250729131120/https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-03-06/intel-
stands-to-win-3-5-billion-to-produce-chips-for-military?srnd=undefined) for
the money.

An Intel spokesperson referred to CEO Pat Gelsinger’s previous remarks that
the company is “in conversations” about the project, but declined to comment
further.

The $3.5 billion hole also amplifies a larger concern about the landmark CHIPS
Act shared by many of its original supporters — that a taxpayer-funded law
meant to boost America’s skills and know-how in a key industry could be
turning into a spigot for large corporate players, at the expense of the rest
of the ecosystem it was intended to support.

The project has already forced changes to the administration’s plans for its
CHIPS grant program. After the spending bill passed, the Commerce Department
canceled a planned round of grants and [blamed congressional
appropriators](http://web.archive.org/web/20250729131120/https://www.nist.gov/chips/frequently-
asked-questions-commercial-fabrication-facilities) for sending the money
elsewhere.

Now at least two companies are reconsidering their plans to build
semiconductor research centers that depended on that grant money, including
one project [touted by Vice President Kamala
Harris](http://web.archive.org/web/20250729131120/https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-
room/speeches-remarks/2023/05/22/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-the-
implementation-of-the-chips-and-science-act/).

## A quiet deal to fund an old idea

POLITICO spoke with more than 30 people, including four former officials and
congressional staffers for both Republicans and Democrats, to trace the
origins of the Secure Enclave and how it claimed $3.5 billion of CHIPS Act
money. Most were granted anonymity to share non-public details. The White
House declined to discuss the project.

Secure Enclave is a national security initiative to make and package
microchips in a special facility for defense and intelligence applications,
including classified projects, according to several people familiar with the
project. A defense industry expert described it as one proposed solution to a
much older, known problem: the [Pentagon’s
struggle](http://web.archive.org/web/20250729131120/https://rollcall.com/2021/04/06/special-
report-microchip-security-continues-to-confound-pentagon/) with sourcing
trustworthy high-end microchips.

The term never appeared in legislation before March, but the idea of a Secure
Enclave goes back years. It was a pet project of the intelligence community,
which heavily promoted the concept, according to former officials and several
congressional staffers. U.S intelligence agencies contracted with Intel to
sketch out an earlier version of a secure facility and provide rough cost
estimates in a 2018 report.

Even before the CHIPS Act passed, Intel and the intelligence community
repeatedly pitched DOD officials about the need for the Secure Enclave, two
former Defense officials said. The company has also met with lawmakers, at
their request, to discuss the project.

An industry person familiar with the Secure Enclave project said the idea was
pushed by a single U.S. company. Others called Intel the logical recipient,
saying they are unaware of any intention to award the money competitively and
have not heard another company name suggested. The Commerce Department said no
decisions have been made.

Some members of the congressional intelligence committees defended the program
as necessary on principle, although there are no public details about what
specific security requirements it exists to solve.

“I have long supported efforts to fund Secure Enclave,” Rep. Jim Himes of
Connecticut, the ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, said in
an email. “Throughout my years on the Committee, I have consistently heard
from defense and intelligence professionals that they need access to state-of-
the-art microelectronics.”

A spokesperson for Senate Intelligence Chair Mark Warner (D-Va.) said he
“believes Secure Enclave is critical to our national security and that it
should be fully funded.” Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), the committee’s ranking
member, and House Intelligence Chair Mike Turner (R-Ohio) did not respond to
requests to explain the project backstory and their involvement.
