title: The nihilism behind Nathan Fielder’s real-world marketing success | The Verge
source: http://www.theverge.com/2015/11/5/9677120/nathan-for-you-comedy-central-show-success-summit-ice
date: 2025-08-13T18:38:09.590917
tags: []
---
Recently you may have seen a [_Nathan For You_
ad](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-FJgwwtiVnUA/ViQVKsK3sFI/AAAAAAACKyg/DL5ugBQV1Yc/s1600/Nathan%2BFor%2BYou%2BBlacklist%2Bbillboard.jpg)
that features a series of familiar magazine covers — _Rolling Stone_ , _GQ_ ,
_Time_ , _Wired_ — all featuring Nathan Fielder, the Canadian comic and star
of the show. His name is plastered across the covers and he assumes a
different brand-appropriate look for each one, snapshots from an alternate
media universe in which he is the biggest — and only — star. It’s a clever
summary of the program’s philosophy: for Fielder, the intersection between
marketing, consumption, and American culture is only as organic as we pretend
it is. Peel back the layers and everything is revealed to be kind of bullshit.

At least, that’s the ethos the show relies on to sell everything from Dumb
Starbucks coffee to fake self-help books. _Nathan For You_ , now in its third
season on Comedy Central, follows Fielder — who graduated from “one of
Canada’s top business schools” — helping small businesses by coming up with
outrageous marketing stunts. In the debut episode of season three, Fielder
tries to help a small electronics store triumph over Best Buy. The solution?
Use Best Buy’s price match policy to buy up TVs for $1 and resell them for
massive profit. The show is entertaining both for the awkward situations
Fielder creates with his deadpan character and the wondrous ways his ideas
crash and burn.

"Fielder's ideas are succeeding because of their outright phoniness"

But something strange is beginning to happen on _Nathan For You_. Fielder’s
ideas are beginning to succeed — not in spite of, but because of their
outright phoniness. When trying to help out a moving company owner whose
largest labor cost is his employees, Fielder fashions an older workout buff as
a lifestyle guru who preaches that moving boxes and furniture will help you
stay fit. Fielder hired a random Craigslister to ghostwrite his guru’s life
story, and the book is [now an Amazon
bestseller](http://www.amazon.com/Movement-This-Never-Going-
Life/dp/1517159393/ref=sr_1_7?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1446746724&sr=1-7&tag=theverge02-20),
ballooned by fake five-star reviews. You can find it featured in the top 10
list for books in the Motivational and Self-Help categories.

In another season three episode, Fielder discovers that a jacket company he
fancies recently published a tribute to a notable Holocaust denier in its
catalog. So he decides to start his own clothing line, [Summit
Ice](http://www.summiticeapparel.com/jackets/), with the seemingly incongruous
purpose of promoting Holocaust awareness. Not only has Fielder been [tweeting
out photos of famous
celebrities](https://twitter.com/nathanfielder/status/661227871457800192?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Etweet)
wearing a $110 Summit Ice jacket, but [sales have surpassed
$45,000](http://www.ew.com/article/2015/11/02/summit-ice-jacket-nathan-for-
you-holocaust), with the proceeds going to the Vancouver Holocaust Education
Centre.

_The New York Times_ aptly said last month that Fielder’s show “[mixes
absurdity and
economics](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/14/arts/television/nathan-for-you-
on-comedy-central-mixes-absurdity-and-economics.html?_r=0),” highlighting the
nonsensical relationship between what we consume and why we consume it. But
Fielder has moved from underlining the sickness and onto selling it. The
question now is why we’re buying.

In one way, Fielder is reversing the laws of internet virality, which assert
that something only deserves our attention and our money if it’s genuine. It’s
no coincidence that his first brush with internet fame on _Nathan For You_ was
a fake viral video. The clip featured a [pig saving a
goat](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g7WjrvG1GMk) in a ploy to help a petting
zoo by giving it a “hero animal” for foreigners to come visit. In reality,
Fielder hired dozens of people to pull the video off, creating a PVC track for
the pig to swim through with scuba divers nearby to assist. He uploaded it to
YouTube under a fake name with a deadpan, one-sentence description. It
[appeared on the _NBC Nightly
News_](http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/27/arts/television/pig-rescues-goat-and-
the-video-is-really-cute-but-totally-faked.html) and caught the attention of
Anderson Cooper. The video now has nearly 9.5 million views.

"Nathan For You reverses the laws of internet virality"

By that logic, buying a Summit Ice jacket or a copy of _The Movement: How I
Got This Body By Never Going To The Gym In My Life_ signals that you’re in on
such an elaborate joke. But Fielder’s pranks go further, not simply because
they’re adding money into the equation. In the same vein that a fake US
presidential candidate called Deez Nuts could illuminate our broken political
system by [polling at 9 percent in three major political
battlegrounds](http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/meet-deez-nuts-the-
teen-presidential-candidate-punking-america-20150819), purchasing a Fielder
product over a sincere competitor is recognizing and embracing that any sense
of fairness in our economy doesn’t exist.

By pretending hard enough that something is legitimate, Fielder makes it so.
It’s appealing because every seemingly earnest social share or every fake
Amazon review is contributing to the success of something that, on the
surface, shouldn’t deserve it. But maybe buying a Summit Ice jacket is no more
or less genuine than purchasing a North Face.

The show wouldn’t be in this position if not for the season two episode, “Dumb
Starbucks.” Fielder’s idea to exploit parody law to allow him to open a
copyright infringing coffee shop was already entertaining on paper. Yet almost
overnight, the store had lines around the block, international news coverage,
and its coffee cups selling on eBay for hundreds of dollars. People read into
the stunt so deeply that a rumor began percolating that [British street artist
Banksy was behind it](http://heavy.com/news/2014/02/what-where-is-dumb-
starbucks-california-pictures-banksy/).

I wouldn’t go so far as to call Fielder the comedy world’s Banksy. But
Fielder’s satire of taste-making and economic success is rooted in the shared
idea that advertising resembles brainwashing, marketing is a polished lie, and
popularity is manufactured. Dumb Starbucks opened the door for Fielder to
explore a number of pranks that expertly ride viral waves until they overtake
news cycles. If something so benign as tacking the word “dumb” in front of a
corporate logo can be mistaken for high-concept art, you can imagine the
lengths at which Fielder might go to say something more substantive.

Of course, _Nathan For You_ isn’t for everyone, and there’s often a hint of
maliciousness, intentional or not, in the way Fielder pushes his interactions
way past the point of discomfort. His unfazed reaction when people are shocked
or repulsed by his shiver-inducing awkwardness is part of the act. (The
comedian cut his chops writing for Demetri Martin’s short-lived Comedy Central
show.) But he also walks dangerously close to making both his willing and
unwilling participants the punchline of a joke they may never understand, in
ways similar to the humor of Sacha Baron Cohen. Fielder’s manipulative nature
can turn off viewers to the show’s absurdist end result, even if the real
target is more often than not the system he’s exploiting.

But the genius of _Nathan For You_ lies in forcing viewers to ask whether the
corporations and brands we subscribe to are really all that different from the
borderline-criminal character he assumes. We already maneuver the internet
with a deep-set suspicion that anything vaguely organic or surprising may in
fact just be a stunt — like a secretive Samsung plot to get [Ellen DeGeneres
to take an Oscar selfie](http://adage.com/article/media/ellen-degeneres-
samsung-selfie-ups-social-marketing-game/291989/) or another stupid hoverboard
hoax to promote a car company. Fielder is aware of this and its effects on how
we treat every subtle act of brand awareness or viral marketing stunt.

"Tapping into the nihilist consumer in all of us"

It’s not farfetched to imagine his terrible and unethical advice becoming
real-world marketing tactics._The Onion_ once [refashioned an anti-foodie
Applebee’s ad campaign](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tpSo-VJTeE8) as a ploy
to get millennials to visit its restaurants. The trick was to ask them to do
so ironically, with the tagline “wouldn’t it be funny to go to Applebee’s?”
and fake menu items like “Fajita Cordon Bleu!” It was one of the rare _Onion_
pranks that fooled even the most cynical of internet natives. And three years
later it now feels like something Fielder would suggest to a Denny’s or
perhaps Burger King. Think of the creepy “Sneak King” mascot luring urban
diners away from Chipotle with the promise of purposefully poorly sourced
ingredients, for those times when you just don’t want to know where your food
comes from.

Much in the same way HBO host John Oliver has learned to [manipulate and
direct the firehose of social media
outrage](http://www.mediaite.com/online/philip-morris-responds-to-john-oliver-
ripping-big-tobacco/) at, say, Philip Morris or the opponents of net
neutrality, Fielder has been able to tap into the viral-loving, nihilist
consumer in all of us. Instead of riling us up on Facebook, Fielder has us
buying jackets for charity. And for viewers of the show, it’s become clear
they’re purchasing something else as well: the acknowledgment that there is
something profoundly phony and shameless about the state of American commerce.
And we’re all complicit in it.

[](/2015/11/5/9677120/nathan-for-you-comedy-central-show-success-summit-
ice#comments)

**Follow topics and authors** from this story to see more like this in your
personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates.

  * Nick Statt
  * Entertainment

  * Features

  * Report

  * Tech

  * Web
