title: The Mystery of the Millionaire Metaphysician: Slate republishes one of the greatest magazine stories ever written.
source: http://www.slate.com/articles/life/culturebox/2012/02/the_mystery_of_the_millionaire_metaphysician_slate_republishes_one_of_the_greatest_magazine_stories_ever_written_.single.html
date: 2025-08-13T20:22:27.900167
tags: []
---
_In the July/August 2001 issue of the late, great magazine_ Lingua Franca,
_James Ryerson published an enthralling article about an anonymous benefactor
who was paying professors huge sums of money to review a strange 60-page
philosophical manuscript.**Slate** editor David Plotz talked about “The
Mystery of the Millionaire Metaphysician” on this week’s [Political
Gabfest](https://www.slate.com/articles/podcasts/gabfest/2012/02/the_gabfest_the_santorum_surge_the_contraception_debate_and_the_9th_circuit_on_prop_8_.html),
citing it as one of his favorite magazine articles of all time. Ryerson gave
**Slate**_****_permission to republish the story in full.___

In June 2000, the philosopher Dean Zimmerman moved from the University of
Notre Dame to Syracuse University with his wife and three kids, only to see
their new house catch fire the day they moved in. Much of what they owned was
destroyed. “We were out of the house for six months,” he recalls. “It was a
miserable experience.”

The week after the fire, Zimmerman got a fortune cookie at a Chinese
restaurant that brought encouraging news: “You will move to a wonderful new
home within the year,” it read. Zimmerman, a metaphysician with side interests
in resurrection and divine eternity, was heartened by the prophecy. And when
he returned to the restaurant three months later, his second fortune was
equally promising: “A way out of a financial mess is discovered as if by
magic!”

The next day Zimmerman received a letter from the A.M. Monius Institute.
Printed on official-looking stationery and signed by the institute’s director,
Netzin Steklis, the letter offered Zimmerman a “generous” sum of money to
review a sixty-page work of metaphysics titled “Coming to Understanding.” As
the letter explained, the institute “exists for the primary purpose of
disseminating the work ‘Coming to Understanding’ and encouraging its critical
review and improvement.” For Zimmerman’s philosophical services, the institute
was prepared to pay him the astronomical fee of twelve thousand U.S. dollars.

Meanwhile, three thousand miles away in England, the University of Reading
philosopher Jonathan Dancy returned from a short vacation to find his house in
dire need of repairs. He also discovered a letter waiting for him. “I arrived
home thinking that the roof has collapsed and I must do something about it,”
he remembers. “I wasn’t sure how I was going to do it.”

Dancy’s letter from the A.M. Monius Institute made him the same remarkable
offer that had been made to Zimmerman. “I thought, this is very weird,” Dancy
says. “At first, I thought they were offering me twelve  _hundred_ dollars.”
And the roof? “This was a godsend,” he says, “as far as that goes.”

Zimmerman and Dancy were not the only scholars who received lucrative
offers—and ultimately payment—from the institute. Soon the roster had grown to
include at least nine other philosophers: Ermanno Bencivenga of the University
of California at Irvine; Jan Cover of Purdue University; John Hawthorne of
Syracuse University; Trenton Merricks of the University of Virginia; Eugene
Mills of Virginia Common-wealth University; Gideon Rosen of Princeton
University; Michael Scriven of Claremont Graduate University; Theodore Sider
of Syracuse University; and Ted Warfield of the University of Notre Dame.

The institute’s letter claimed that a “very substantial sum” had been
earmarked to help contribute to “the revival of traditional metaphysics.”
Given the number of philosophers involved, that sum was at least in the
neighborhood of $125,000. Who could afford to spend that much money on
philosophy? And of those who could, who would want to? No one had a clue.

The institute, for its part, was maddeningly secretive. Many of the
philosophers spoke by telephone with Steklis, who refused to disclose any
information about the author of the manuscript, the institute’s funding, or
her superiors. (“She made these mysterious references to ‘the board,’”
Zimmerman remembers.) As instructed, the philosophers downloaded “Coming to
Understanding” from [the institute’s Web site](http://www.ammonius.com/).
Then, with a collective sense of puzzlement and excited disbelief, they
awaited the arrival of their contracts in the mail.

To judge from both the reviewer’s contract and “Coming to Understanding”
itself, the institute meant business. For one thing, the manuscript, signed by
one A.M. Monius, suggested the handiwork of a serious thinker—not a prankster.
“It didn’t seem like a joke,” Zimmerman says. “It wasn’t  _that_ funny. It was
clearly the work of a fairly able writer—a smart person, one capable of making
some gross philosophical errors while at the same time having some clever
ideas.” Theodore Sider was pleasantly surprised. “To tell you the truth,” he
says, “when I actually got into it, I enjoyed it.” Dancy concurs: “There are
enterprises you wouldn’t want to be associated with. But I was much reassured
by the work. It was better than many manuscripts I had refereed for leading
publishers. It was at least different.”

The contract looked even more professional. Written in fluent legalese, it
featured an eleven-point list of terms and conditions, including the
requirement that the reviewer had published “an article (not merely a review)
in  _The Journal of Philosophy, The Philosophical Review, Mind, The Monist,
Noûs,_ and/or  _The Review of Metaphysics._ ” Reviewers were offered the
choice of writing a “substantial critical review” or a “testimonial.” A review
meant a “reasoned criticism (whether favorable or unfavorable)” that offered
“detailed positive suggestions” for improving the work; it had to be at least
thirty pages long and “consistent with professional standards regarding
reviews of this nature.” Alternatively, for a two-page testimonial that would
“praise ‘Coming to Understanding’ and highlight its merits and significance,”
the institute was willing to pay four thousand dollars.

Despite the institute’s evident professionalism, its anonymity and
mysteriousness made reviewers skittish—even after they had received
countersigned contracts. “Some of us were wondering, what the hell? Is this
for real?” says Jan Cover. Sider acknowledges that “it was a bit of a risk,
because I had no idea who these people were.” Dancy assumed that he had only a
“one-in-ten chance” of getting paid and confesses that he is “still wary about
the whole affair.” Trenton Merricks shares that anxiety, noting that he had
hoped A.M. Monius was “George Soros—and not some cult leader!”

For all the reviewers’ reservations, their checks came through as promised.
All their reviews, except for Gideon Rosen’s, now appear on the institute’s
Web site, and all eleven reviewers have been paid in full. (Only Ted Warfield
chose to write a testimonial.) “My hourly rate went way up,” noted one
reviewer, who wished not to be identified. Merricks, who received a three-
thousand-dollar bonus for his review, laughs when he confesses that he spent
the extra money on Lasik eye surgery. “It’s so embarrassing,” he says
sheepishly. “I could never justify paying the money under normal
circumstances. But with the bonus—bada bing!”

Eventually the excitement of actually having been paid began to die down. But
curiosity about the institute and the identity of the author only continued to
grow. “It is certainly the most bizarre philosophical undertaking in anyone’s
memory,” Zimmerman contends. “It’s unheard of. It’s insane. You ordinarily get
paid two hundred dollars by Oxford to review a six-hundred-page book.” A few
inquisitive reviewers snooped around and made some preliminary Web searches
and telephone calls. But they turned up few leads.

Early this April, one reviewer contacted  _Lingua Franca,_ hoping to interest
some “literary sleuths.” I was assigned to the story. At one point in my
research, the available evidence pointed to suspects as diverse (and as
seemingly improbable) as the esteemed Princeton philosopher Mark Johnston, the
film actress Sigourney Weaver, and a suspiciously named professor of religious
studies at the University of Virginia, Anne Monius. None of those individuals,
it turns out, is in any way responsible for the work or financial backing of
the A.M. Monius Institute. But I have discovered who is. So here, for the
first time, I recount the mad hunt for—and the unmasking of—the mysterious
A.M. Monius.

* * *

My investigation began with the little information that the A.M. Monius
Institute provided about itself. Dialing the telephone number on the
institute’s letterhead put me in contact with the institute’s voice mail,
which I called for several weeks without a reply. In addition, the letterhead
listed a bricks-and-mortar address in Pennsylvania. On a map, it appeared to
be located at the end of a small road just off Interstate 95, near the New
Jersey-Pennsylvania border.

In a reverse-address directory, the institute matched three other telephone
numbers, all under the name Jitendrah Shah. When I called one of these
numbers, I reached a computer-sales business. I asked for Netzin Steklis and
was assured that I had the wrong number. I called back several times, asking
repeatedly for the A.M. Monius Institute until I provoked an irritated
outburst: “Their number is 321-5809!” I asked the man how he had come to know
the number so suddenly. “Why don’t you ask them?” he barked back. “You want to
buy a computer, you talk to me.” Then he hung up.

Perhaps a more fruitful lead, I thought, was the institute’s name. Antiquity
boasted two Neoplatonist philosophers by the name Ammonius. Ammonius, son of
Hermeas, produced commentaries on Aristotle’s works, including  _On
Aristotle’s Categories._ Since “Coming to Understanding” discusses Aristotle’s
Categories at some length, the son of Hermeas seemed a likely candidate for
the institute’s eponym. As for the other Ammonius—Ammonius Saccas, thought by
some to have been the founder of Neoplatonism—he was a figure clouded in
mystery, having sworn Plotinus and his other students to secrecy about his
teachings. That sounded a bit like A.M. Monius, too. But it was all moot: Of
the few scholars who know much about either Ammonius, none had heard of a
well-to-do dilettante with a passion for their object of study.

It was time to turn to Netzin Steklis, a woman with a name that seemed
designed by God for clean and economical database searches. (“Netzin” is short
for “Nenetzin,” which means royal doll in Mayan; “Steklis” is a German name.)
Having spoken with Steklis by telephone, most of the reviewers told me that
they assumed she was simply an office assistant who carried out the daily
chores of running the institute.

The truth was far stranger: Netzin Gerald-Steklis, when not performing grunt
work for this enigmatic institute of metaphysics, is the director of the
Scientific Information Resource Center for the Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund
International. She is thirty-four years old and married to Horst Dieter
Steklis, a distinguished anthropologist at Rutgers University twenty-one years
her senior. They live in Arizona with their two children, though they travel
often to Rwanda, where they conduct field research as primatologists. The
Steklises immediately became suspects, though doubtful ones. Given their
intense commitment to gorillas—reported in both  _People_ magazine and  _The
New York Times_ —neither fit the part of a philosopher manqué musing on the
unworldly abstractions of speculative metaphysics. They did not respond to
telephone messages I left on their home answering machine.

As far as I could tell, Steklis’s only connection to exorbitant wealth was
through her affiliation with the Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund. The fund’s board of
trustees included a number of wealthy mavericks (and thus suspects), not least
among them the intrepid alien-slaying actress Sigourney Weaver and the
multibillionaire software guru Larry Ellison, chairman and CEO of the Oracle
Corporation.

The final important piece of information available about the institute was its
deed of incorporation, which yielded two names: Joseph H. Hennessy and Marc
Sanders. A Web search produced Hennessy’s name on a list of members of the
Philadelphia Bar Association. By telephone, the bar association identified
Hennessy as a partner in the Philadelphia office of the law firm Morgan, Lewis
& Bockius.

Hennessy made a strong suspect: In addition to earning undergraduate and law
degrees, he had master’s and doctorate degrees in political thought from Notre
Dame. As a lawyer, Hennessy presumably had some disposable income. (His
company profile mentioned neither a wife nor kids.) But would A.M. Monius be
that careless, leaving a relatively uncommon and easily traceable name on a
public document? I decided to put Hennessy on the top shelf until I had more
to go on.

Sanders was another story. He didn’t seem to work at Hennessy’s firm. But that
fact wasn’t much help, for his was a fairly common name. Searches on the Web
and on Lexis-Nexis produced a list of matches all across the country: a
mathematical consultant to a program for gifted youth, a realtor, a legal
assistant, a high school basketball coach, an Immigration and Naturalization
Service agent, a contributor to a lay journal of Catholic thought called
_Eutopia,_ and many others. Worse, directory assistance seemed to cough up an
“M. Sanders” in just about every town with a plausible connection to the
institute. Even if I could identify and confront a potential suspect with that
name, would I be prepared to call his bluff if he were to play dumb?

Reaching the end of my factual rope, I turned to a close reading of the
manuscript “Coming to Understanding” for possible clues.

* * *

“Coming to Understanding” is a remarkable document. As Ermanno Bencivenga
observes in his review, in its sheer temerity the work resembles such
philosophical landmarks as René Descartes’s  _Meditations,_ Immanuel Kant’s
_Critique of Pure Reason,_ and Arthur Schopenhauer’s  _The World as Will and
Idea._ (Bencivenga describes it as “a self-standing piece of reflection which
asks to be judged on its own merit.”) With few citations and nary a footnote,
the manuscript seeks to provide “a large-scale account of reality, its origin,
purpose, and how it hangs together.” The questions it engages are grand: Does
reality have a purpose? Why are things intelligible at all?

As a work of metaphysics, “Coming to Understanding” picks up where science
leaves off. The purview of science is the world of “contingent beings”—things
that might not have existed, or might have been otherwise, such as you, me,
electrons, mountains, and the law of gravity. Science strives to explain the
nature, properties, and causes of these contingent beings, which as a whole
make up our physical reality.

But science does not and cannot explain why there are contingent beings in the
first place. That is a question for metaphysics: Why do contingent beings
exist? Or, put plainly, why is there something rather than nothing?

“Coming to Understanding” aspires to answer this “antique, impassable”
question, but first it must rule out three of its “more familiar competitors”:
theism, Spinozism, and the Many Worlds hypothesis. All of these positions,
A.M. Monius feels, share the same basic flaw: Instead of actually explaining
the existence of contingent being, they wind up claiming that contingent being
is not really  _contingent_ but  _necessary._ Contingent being, so construed,
is “an illusion and so not there to explain at all.”

Theism, for instance, originally argued that contingent being is the result of
a necessarily existing God who necessarily creates “the world as it actually
is.” Voilà: the explanation of contingent being. But as Baruch Spinoza pointed
out in his  _Ethics,_ theism thereby shows that contingent being is necessary
(for it could not have been otherwise). This conclusion was problematic for
theism, which intended to distinguish God from physical reality. Spinoza, on
the other hand, was willing to bite the heretical bullet, and he accepted the
conclusion that God and nature were equivalent and equally necessary.

“Coming to Understanding” deems such a result unacceptable and declares that a
satisfactory metaphysics must figure out a way to explain contingent being
without explaining it away by necessitating it. The key, the work argues, is
to realize that theists, in attempting to overcome Spinoza’s challenge,
produced an argument of “the right form” but with “the wrong content.”

After Spinoza, theists realized that contingent being could remain contingent
(and thus distinct from God) if it had been created to serve some
_purpose._(The fact that a hammer exists for some purpose makes its existence
intelligible without making it necessary.) Theism concluded that God’s purpose
in creating contingent beings was that contingent beings would come to love
God, a love that God recognized as a fundamental good. Contingent beings thus
exist not necessarily but “because they should, i.e., because it is good that
they do.”

A.M. Monius believes that theism made subtle but important mistakes with this
argument, and “Coming to Understanding” presumes to salvage the theistic
explanation by correcting for its flaws through a series of intricate
arguments. “Coming to Understanding” proposes replacing the theists’ God with
reality as a whole, or Being. It also advocates replacing God’s personal
intention (that contingent beings come to love God) with an impersonal,
fundamental good (that contingent beings come to understand the form of
Being). Having made these substitutions, A.M. Monius reaches the following
conclusion: “Contingent being exists for the sake of the coming to
understanding of the form of Being Itself by contingent being.” In other
words, “the central theme of the whole drama of reality” is that beings like
you and me and A.M. Monius come to understand the purpose and structure of
reality.

And as it happens, the purpose and structure of reality are precisely what
A.M. Monius has on offer. In sophisticated detail, the last two-thirds of
“Coming to Understanding” are devoted to a discussion of categories similar to
Aristotle’s, such as the Universal, the Particular, the Spatio-temporal, and
the Cognizable. A.M. Monius believes that these categories demarcate the
fundamental types of Being and—in light of their interrelations—suggest the
purpose of contingent being.

* * *

Given this glimpse into the mind**** of A.M. Monius, what might an
investigator infer about the author? First, consider the ambition and bravado
with which A.M. Monius attempts to revamp metaphysics in a mere sixty pages.
This is no meek, closeted egghead but rather a poised and confident builder of
worlds. “Whoever wrote this,” Dancy says with some admiration, “speaks with an
authority that you have to earn, normally.”

The overarching conclusion of “Coming to Understanding” also betrays a touch
of egotism, for the argument is stunningly self-important in its implications:
The meaning of life is, in effect, to come to understand the message of
“Coming to Understanding.” And yet there are signs of self-perspective as
well: “Perhaps in this task mistakes will be made,” A.M. Monius muses before
exposing the structure of Being, “but at least it is the right task.”

Many reviewers point out in addition that “Coming to Understanding” bears the
telltale marks of an amateur’s effort. Though many of the philosophers were
genuinely impressed with features of A.M. Monius’s argument, they are not
under the illusion that it is a great work of philosophy—or even, most
reviewers felt, one that meets professional standards.

“It’s what you would expect from an intelligent amateur,” says Sider, “someone
who does not have any training in speculative metaphysics but who is very
smart.” The argument, he adds, includes “a common pattern of non sequiturs
that you get beaten out of you as a graduate student.”

Bencivenga complains in his review that there is feeble hand waving at
critical junctures in the argument. For instance, the impersonal purpose, or
fundamental good, that A.M. Monius believes makes reality intelligible is
“just a name for a mystery,” Bencivenga explains, “which itself calls for a
solution.” A major problem that struck Sider was the manuscript’s failure to
address “the typical, atheistic, materialist response to this sort of
argument.” Namely, if everything must have an explanation, then
everything—including the coming to understanding of Being—must have an
explanation. Something is going to have to remain unexplained. So, Sider asks,
“why not just be content with the mundane, materialist description of the
world, rather than bringing in God or Coming to Understanding or whatever you
like?”

* * *

Despite their criticisms, most of the academic reviewers were predisposed to
appreciate this sort of metaphysical speculation. Many of them first learned
of the A.M. Monius Institute from Zimmerman, whom they know from an annual
conference he founded called Metaphysical Mayhem (originally Mighty Midwestern
Meta physical Mayhem). “Zimmerman and Sider”—a fellow Mayhemite—“are probably
the two best people in the world under the age of forty working primarily in
metaphysics,” says Ted Warfield.

The Mayhemites differ from their many peers who descend from the
antimetaphysical tradition of logical positivism. As Zimmerman explains, the
Mayhemites admire philosophers like Princeton’s David Lewis and Saul Kripke,
Notre Dame’s Alvin Plantinga, and the late Roderick Chisholm of Brown
University, all of whom helped to revive metaphysics by arguing that a range
of traditional philosophical topics—ontology, existence, essence, natural
kinds—are in fact central to contemporary philosophical concerns about
reference, meaning, necessity, and possibility. Some paper titles from past
Mayhems provide a flavor of their arcane interests and humor: “The Varieties
of Vagueness (Fewer Than You Think)”; “Impenitent Cartesianism”; and “The
Homogeneous Stuff Objection to the Doctrine of Temporal Parts.”

Jan Cover, a former mountain climber who speaks in the distinctive accent of
the Anabaptist community in which he was raised, describes the Mayhemites as
“a bunch of up-and-coming, some people say, ‘stars,’ who are just hard-nosed,
analytic-style, logic-chopping, think-real-hard-and-do-kick-ass-old-fashioned-
metaphysics types.” Cover’s enthusiasm is infectious. In his review of “Coming
to Understanding,” he claimed that one “would be hard-pressed to locate a
richer, deeper contemporary approach to the most fundamental questions of
metaphysics.” He even went to the trouble of appending a list of typographic
corrections—including suggestions for better ways of formatting the
indentation of paragraphs.

* * *

As I became increasingly consumed by the A.M. Monius Institute, I began to
think of A.M. Monius in very much the same way that A.M. Monius thought of
Being—as something that existed for the purpose of my coming to understand it.
With the stakes this high, I felt I needed to bring in some bigger guns. Armed
with my impressions of the manuscript as well as my tentative suspect list, I
placed a call to the renowned literary detective Donald Foster.

Foster, a professor of English at Vassar College, is perhaps best known for
using meticulous textual analysis to expose the journalist Joe Klein as
“Anonymous,” author of the political roman à clef  _Primary Colors._ I sent
Foster a copy of “Coming to Understanding” and a set of writing samples from
suspects on my list. Foster agreed to see what he could do for me.

Given the limited information that I had provided, Foster was not able to
identify the author of “Coming to Understanding.” But with some confidence he
felt he could rule out a few of my suspects: “Though one can admire Sigourney
Weaver’s force and form when blasting space aliens,” he wrote in a memo,
“she’s not a writer to take on the logical positivists.” As for Larry Ellison?
“My oracle says ‘no way,’” he said. “Same for Horst Dieter Steklis.”

Foster suggested I look for a white male who had attended Notre Dame, though
again he was merely going on instinct—not offering his professional opinion.
“Another possibility,” he added, “is that A.M. Monius may be a bright and
ambitious, but somewhat shy, Rwandan gorilla.”

* * *

I confess: We were having some fun at A.M. Monius’s expense. And who could
blame us? It’s not every day that you find yourself scripted into a Thomas
Pynchon novel.

Still, all of the philosophers I spoke with made a point of emphasizing how
much they admire the spirit behind A.M. Monius’s attempt to help revive
metaphysics. They applaud his intellectual commitment, not just his financial
one. Zimmerman notes that modern philosophers have rarely had patrons in the
way that thinkers like Gottfried Leibniz once did. And though it’s true that
Roderick Chisholm was for a short time supported financially by Dr. Albert C.
Barnes, wealthy inventor of the medicine Argyrol, in few such cases does the
apparent benefactor also serve, as A.M. Monius does, as the chief
philosophical instigator and problem poser.

“Would that there were more nonprofessionals who got jazzed about philosophy!”
Zimmerman exclaims. With palpable excitement, he ponders the possibility that
the institute might back “slightly broader projects, like a research
center”—or better yet, he adds in jest, “support the Mayhem!”

Certainly, there was something right about this conception of A.M. Monius.
This was not your stereotypical amateur metaphysician, the kind who stumbles
into rarefied speculation about the structure and purpose of the universe as
part of a more general descent into paranoia and madness. The institute’s
philosophy was far too disciplined for that.

And yet there was some evidence—such as the belief that the institute had made
a genuine methodological breakthrough in metaphysics—that the author of
“Coming to Understanding” might not have a completely realistic outlook. After
all the reviews were in, the institute’s Web site began promoting a new round
of lucrative research grants for the purpose of “directly improving central
aspects” of “Coming to Understanding.” The advertisement for these grants
makes the rather strong boast that the “closest analogy to the upcoming
program of the Institute is the widespread collaboration on specific problem-
solving found in the bio-medical sciences, along with its pinnacle achievement
of the mapping of the human genome.”

As one reviewer groaned: “Oh, no—not more money to think about Monius.”

* * *

The discovery of the identity of A.M. Monius came about much faster—and with
much more serendipity—than I had expected. When I spoke with Foster about the
text of “Coming to Understanding,” he told me of one intriguing clue that he
had ferreted out. The term “kindmates,” which A.M. Monius uses on page 7 of
the manuscript, does not appear in the  _Oxford English Dictionary._ As far as
Foster could tell, the term appeared only in essays from the late 1980s by
Mark Johnston, chair of the Princeton philosophy department.

Johnston made a poor candidate for the author; he is much too professional a
philosopher. But perhaps he had been hired by A.M. Monius as a tutor? Or
perhaps A.M. Monius had attended some of Johnston’s seminars at Princeton?
When I called Johnston, he admitted that he had been using “kindmates” for
approximately fifteen years, but he hadn’t thought “that it was original with
me.” He couldn’t think of anyone he had taught who might fit the bill. But my
suspect profile now included a likely Princeton connection.

Around this time, I finally made contact with Steklis at her home in Arizona.
She was extremely courteous and apologized for having to “play this game with
you.” As expected, she could not divulge much information, though she did deny
that her husband or the Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund were in any way involved,
save for the connection to her. She also informed me that the funding behind
the institute was “not drug money.”

Having spoken with Steklis, I felt I could call Hennessy without setting off
any alarm. Hennessy, too, could not have been kinder or less forthcoming.
“You’re going to have to tell me why you’re talking to me,” he explained
politely, “because I’m a lawyer and I need to be careful whom I’m talking to
because of client confidences.” He was willing, however, to deny that he was
A.M. Monius.

So I returned to Marc Sanders. Following up on Foster’s “kindmates” tip, I
checked directory assistance in Princeton, which did in fact produce a listing
for a Marc Sanders. Furthermore, a database search on “Marc Sanders” and
“Princeton” turned up a red-hot clue. In the “Institutions” listings of the
June 1978 issue of  _Current Anthropology,_ there was a peculiar announcement:
“The Institutum Philosophiae Naturalis [IPN], located in Princeton, N.J., has
been formed to encourage theoretical and epistemological inquiries in the
physical, natural, and social sciences which, because of their unusual scope
or method, cannot be adequately supported within the confines of a single
scientific discipline or traditional funding source.” The IPN owed “its
conception and backing to its Executive Director, Marc Sanders, a Princeton-
area businessman.”

To my ear, the listing read like the promotional materials for the A.M. Monius
Institute: Both institutes existed to “encourage” a brand of far-ranging
inquiry beyond the traditional boundaries of science; both bore ancient-
sounding names; and IPN, like the A.M. Monius Institute, seemed to be able to
draw academic heavyweights to its cause. Indeed, IPN’s advisory board included
some of the most famous names in postwar American intellectual life: the
physicist Freeman Dyson, the paleontologist Stephen Jay Gould, the historian
of science Thomas Kuhn, and the psychologist B.F. Skinner.

Sanders thus became my primary suspect. Even if he was not the actual author
of “Coming to Understanding,” I figured, he had to be financially involved.
With no success in tracking down a sample of his writing, I decided to call
his home in Princeton. When he picked up the telephone, I explained that I was
writing an article about the A.M. Monius Institute, that I had already spoken
with Steklis and Hennessy, and that I wanted to speak with him as well. He
asked if I could call back the next day, and I agreed. An hour later I
received an e-mail from him. Assuming that I had already figured him out, he
confessed to being A.M. Monius.

* * *

And then, just like that, it was over. But not before Sanders made an appeal
to leave his anonymity intact. “Now that you have discovered that I am
Ammonius,” he wrote, “I know that you will think it your job to inform the
world.” He had chosen to remain anonymous, he explained, so that his “failure
to become a professional philosopher” would not come to light and thus tempt
professional philosophers to “simply dismiss the idea of reviewing my work out
of hand because the work was known to be by a devoted amateur.”

It was a sad note. Having read it, I found that the unveiling of the man
behind the great tapestry of the A.M. Monius Institute reminded me of the
scene at the end of  _The Wizard of Oz_ when the dog Toto pulls back the
curtain to reveal that the Wizard is actually a small and timid-seeming
character, with nothing like the presence of his imposing facade.

But wait one melodramatic second: Wasn’t there also something odd about
Sanders’s plea? After all, the philosophers I had spoken with had assumed from
the very beginning that “Coming to Understanding” was the work of an amateur.
Not only did the draft itself suggest an amateur’s hand, but the whole
elaborate production of the institute was a bright, shining neon advertisement
for the fact that this was not a professional philosopher working through
professional channels.

No, quite obviously it was the  _money_ that had convinced the reviewers to
write their reviews. If anything, the institute’s anonymity had only made
reviewers reluctant to participate. So I wrote Sanders back, suggesting that
if his primary goal was, as he stated, to attract reviewers, then he should
rest assured that my article would only broaden the range of philosophers who
might be interested in contributing to his project.

His reply was revealing, for his message had changed. He explained that he no
longer expected that he could genuinely interest the sort of professional
academics who read  _Lingua Franca._ Despite his deep admiration for the work
of trained philosophers, he had come to form a poor impression of the insular,
cliquish culture of their discipline. “I have found professional philosophers
to be a proud, demanding bunch who protect their terrain with great contempt
for outsiders,” he wrote. “My past attempts to publish my work did not get
beyond the first contact stage because I had ‘no standing in the academy.’”

Even the exciting process of having “Coming to Understanding” reviewed on his
institute’s Web site had left him somewhat dejected. “Obviously, none of the
philosophers who reviewed the work would have done so without the substantial
honorarium each was paid,” he conceded. But that, on its own, did not concern
him: “I look on the sums involved as probably inadequate remuneration for
serious philosophical engagement, which I have come to value more than
anything else.” What actually disappointed him was that many of the
philosophers failed to take his work seriously  _even after_ they had been
offered a charitable sum of money to do so. He noted that there were some
“intellectually honest people”—he cited Jan Cover as an example—who “really
engaged with the work,” rather than merely “going through the motions,” and
thus “made the whole enterprise worthwhile.” But by and large, his worst
suspicions about the profession had been confirmed. Having said that, he
refused to provide me with any further details.

* * *

By cutting off contact, Sanders had left me with some loose ends. What was his
connection to Steklis? How had he made his fortune? How much philosophical
education had he had? What kind of organization had the Institutum
Philosophiae Naturalis been? I could have pushed harder on these questions,
but my deadline was nearing, and my leads had run dry. (Steklis and Hennessy
had been forbidden to speak with me further, and the two surviving Institutum
board members that I knew of, Dyson and Gould, never responded to my queries.)

Or perhaps it was something else that kept the investigation from pressing on.
It was perfectly true that there were enough tantalizing contradictions in
what I knew about Marc Sanders to sustain further inquiry. Here was a man who
wanted to participate in scholarly debate as just another philosopher but who
had managed to participate in so eccentric a fashion that he had made himself
unlike any other philosopher before him. He was an independent scholar who
resented his professional counterparts enough that he showered them with
money. And he sought to join in the postpositivist world of contemporary
metaphysics while retaining the mystical ornaments and trappings of the
majestic visionaries of past philosophy that the positivists had so
effectively mocked. All this was true of Sanders, and genuinely intriguing.

But the mystery of the A.M. Monius Institute had come to seem all too human in
the aftermath of having solved it. One began to long for some sense of the
enigma again, instead of the dreary realities of worldly motivation,
embarrassment, and pride. As Socrates so eloquently reflects in Plato’s
_Phaedrus_ —in a passage close to A.M. Monius’s heart: The seeker of pure
knowledge is “delighted at last to be seeing what is Real and watching what is
True, and so feeds on all this and feels wonderful…. And when one has seen all
things as they really are and feasted upon them, one sinks back inside heaven
and goes home.”
