title: Making It in America - The Atlantic
source: http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2012/01/making-it-in-america/8844/?single_page=true
date: 2025-08-13T20:23:40.633283
tags: []
---
I first met Madelyn “Maddie” Parlier in the “clean room” of Standard Motor
Products’ fuel-injector assembly line in Greenville, South Carolina. Like
everyone else, she was wearing a blue lab coat and a hairnet. She’s so small
that she seemed swallowed up by all the protective gear.

Tony Scalzitti, the plant manager, was giving me the grand tour, explaining
how bits of metal move through a series of machines to become precision fuel
injectors. Maddie, hunched forward and moving quickly from one machine to
another, almost bumped into us, then shifted left and darted away. Tony, in
passing, said, “She’s new. She’s one of our most promising Level 1s.”

**Also see:** [Live Chat With Adam
Davidson](https://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2012/01/live-chat-with-
adam-davidson/251016)

The author will be answering questions about his article and American jobs on
January 31 at 4 p.m. Click the link above for details.

Later, I sat down with Maddie in a quiet factory office where nobody needs to
wear protective gear. Without the hairnet and lab coat, she is a pretty,
intense woman, 22 years old, with bright blue eyes that seemed to bore into me
as she talked, as fast as she could, about her life. She told me how much she
likes her job, because she hates to sit still and there’s always something
going on in the factory. She enjoys learning, she said, and she’s learned how
to run a lot of the different machines. At one point, she looked around the
office and said she’d really like to work there one day, helping to design
parts rather than stamping them out. She said she’s noticed that robotic arms
and other machines seem to keep replacing people on the factory floor, and
she’s worried that this could happen to her. She told me she wants to go back
to school—as her parents and grandparents keep telling her to do—but she is a
single mother, and she can’t leave her two kids alone at night while she takes
classes.

I had come to Greenville to better understand what, exactly, is happening to
manufacturing in the United States, and what the future holds for people like
Maddie—people who still make physical things for a living and, more broadly,
people (as many as 40 million adults in the U.S.) who lack higher education,
but are striving for a middle-class life. We do still make things here, even
though many people don’t believe me when I tell them that. Depending on which
stats you believe, the United States is either the No. 1 or No. 2 manufacturer
in the world (China may have surpassed us in the past year or two). Whatever
the country’s current rank, its manufacturing output continues to grow
strongly; in the past decade alone, output from American factories, adjusted
for inflation, has risen by a third.

Yet the success of American manufacturers has come at a cost. Factories have
replaced millions of workers with machines. Even if you know the rough outline
of this story, looking at the Bureau of Labor Statistics data is still
shocking. A historical chart of U.S. manufacturing employment shows steady
growth from the end of the Depression until the early 1980s, when the number
of jobs drops a little. Then things stay largely flat until about 1999. After
that, the numbers simply collapse. In the 10 years ending in 2009, factories
shed workers so fast that they erased almost all the gains of the previous 70
years; roughly one out of every three manufacturing jobs—about 6 million in
total—disappeared. About as many people work in manufacturing now as did at
the end of the Depression, even though the American population is more than
twice as large today.

I came here to find answers to questions that arise from the data. How,
exactly, have some American manufacturers continued to survive, and even
thrive, as global competition has intensified? What, if anything, should be
done to halt the collapse of manufacturing employment? And what does the
disappearance of factory work mean for the rest of us?

Across America, many factory floors look radically different than they did 20
years ago: far fewer people, far more high-tech machines, and entirely
different demands on the workers who remain. The still-unfolding story of
manufacturing’s transformation is, in many respects, that of our economic age.
It’s a story with much good news for the nation as a whole. But it’s also one
that is decidedly less inclusive than the story of the 20th century, with a
less certain role for people like Maddie Parlier, who struggle or are unlucky
early in life.

**The Life and Times of Maddie Parlier**

The Greenville Standard Motor Products plant sits just off I-85, about 100
miles southwest of Charlotte, North Carolina. It’s a sprawling beige one-story
building, surrounded by a huge tended lawn. Nearby are dozens of other
similarly boxy factory buildings. Neighbors include a big Michelin tire plant,
a nutrition-products factory, and, down the road, BMW’s only car plant on
American soil. Greenville is at the center of the 20-year-old manufacturing
boom that’s still taking place throughout the “New South.” Nearby, I visited a
Japanese-owned fiber-optic-material manufacturer, and a company that makes
specialized metal parts for intercontinental ballistic missiles.

Standard makes and distributes replacement auto parts, known in the industry
as “aftermarket” parts. Companies like Standard directly compete with Chinese
firms for shelf space in auto-parts retail stores. This competition has
intensified the pressure on all parts makers—American, Chinese, European. And
of course it means that Maddie is, effectively, competing directly with
workers in China who are willing to do similar work for much less money.

When Maddie says something important, something she wants you to really hear,
she repeats it. She’ll say it one time in a flat, matter-of-fact voice, and
then again with a lot of upstate South Carolina twang.

“I’m a redneck,” she’ll say. “I’m a _reeeeeedneck_.”

“I’m smart,” she told me the first time we met. “There’s no other way to say
it. I am _smaaaart_. I am.”

Maddie flips back and forth between being a stereotypical redneck and being
awfully smart. She will say, openly, that she doesn’t know all that much about
the world outside of Easley, South Carolina, where she’s spent her whole life.
Since her childhood, she’s seen Easley transform from a quiet country town to
a busy suburb of Greenville. (It’s now a largely charmless place, thick with
chain restaurants and shopping centers.) Maddie was the third child born to
her young mother, Heather. Her father left when Maddie was young, never
visited again, and died after he drove drunk into a car carrying a family of
four, killing all of them as well.

Until her senior year of high school, Maddie seemed to be headed for the
American dream—a college degree and a job with a middle-class wage. She got
good grades, and never drank or did drugs or hung out with the bad kids. For
the most part, she didn’t hang out with anybody outside her family; she went
to school, went home, went to church on Sundays. When she was 17, she met a
boy who told her she should make friends with other kids at school. He had an
easy way with people and he would take Maddie to Applebee’s and cookouts and
other places where the cool kids hung out. He taught her how to fit in, and he
told her she was pretty.

Maddie’s senior year started hopefully. She had finished most of her high-
school requirements and was taking a few classes at nearby Tri-County
Technical College. She planned to go to a four-year college after graduation,
major in criminal justice, and become an animal-control officer. Around
Christmas, she found out she was pregnant. She did finish school and, she’s
proud to say, graduated with honors. “On my graduation, I was six months
pregnant,” she says. “ _Six months_.” The father and Maddie didn’t stay
together after the birth, and Maddie couldn’t afford to pay for day care while
she went to college, so she gave up on school and eventually got the best sort
of job available to high-school graduates in the Greenville area: factory
work.

If Maddie had been born in upstate South Carolina earlier in the 20th century,
her working life would have been far more secure. Her 22 years overlap the
final collapse of most of the area’s once-dominant cotton mills and the birth
of an advanced manufacturing economy. Hundreds of mills here once spun raw
cotton into thread and then wove and knit the thread into clothes and
textiles. For about 100 years, right through the 1980s and into the 1990s,
mills in the Greenville area had plenty of work for people willing to put in a
full day, no matter how little education they had. But around the time Maddie
was born, two simultaneous transformations hit these workers. After NAFTA and,
later, the opening of China to global trade, mills in Mexico and China were
able to produce and ship clothing and textiles at much lower cost, and mill
after mill in South Carolina shut down. At the same time, the mills that
continued to operate were able to replace their workers with a new generation
of nearly autonomous, computer-run machines. (There’s a joke in cotton country
that a modern textile mill employs only a man and a dog. The man is there to
feed the dog, and the dog is there to keep the man away from the machines.)

Other parts of the textile South have never recovered from these two blows,
but upstate South Carolina—thanks to its proximity to I-85, and to foresighted
actions by community leaders—attracted manufacturers of products far more
complicated than shirts and textiles. These new plants have been a godsend for
the local economy, but they have not provided the sort of wide-open job
opportunities that the textile mills once did. Some workers, especially those
with advanced manufacturing skills, now earn higher wages and have more
opportunity, but there are not enough jobs for many others who, like Maddie,
don’t have training past high school.

Maddie got her job at Standard through both luck and hard work. She was
temping for a local agency and was sent to Standard for a three-day job
washing walls in early 2011. “People came up to me and said, ‘You have to hire
that girl—she is working so hard,’” Tony Scalzitti, the plant manager, told
me. Maddie was hired back and assigned to the fuel-injector clean room, where
she continued to impress people by working hard, learning quickly, and
displaying a good attitude. But, as we’ll see, this may be about as far as
hustle and personality can take her. In fact, they may not be enough even to
keep her where she is.

**The Transformation of the Factory Floor**

To better understand Maddie’s future, it’s helpful, first, to ask: Why is
anything made in the United States? Why would any manufacturing company pay
American wages when it could hire someone in China or Mexico much more
cheaply?

I came to understand this much better when I learned how Standard makes fuel
injectors, the part that Maddie works on. Like so many parts of the modern car
engine, the fuel injector seems mundane until you sit down with an engineer
who can explain how amazing it truly is.

A fuel injector is a bit like a small metal syringe, spraying a tiny, precise
mist of gasoline into the engine in time for the spark plug to ignite the gas.
The small explosion that results pushes the piston down, turning the
crankshaft and propelling the car. Fuel injectors have replaced the
carburetor, which, by comparison, sloppily sloshed gasoline around the engine.
They became common in the 1980s, helping to solve a difficult engineering
problem: how to make cars more efficient (and meet ever-tightening emission
standards) without sacrificing power or performance.

To achieve maximum efficiency and power, a car’s computer receives thousands
of signals every second from sensors all over the engine and body. Based on
the car’s speed, ambient temperature, and a dozen other variables, the
computer tells a fuel injector to squirt a precise amount of gasoline
(anywhere from one to 100 10,000ths of an ounce) at the instant that the
piston is in the right position (and anywhere from 10 to 200 times a second).
For this to work, the injector must be perfectly constructed. When squirting
gas, the syringe moves forward and back a total distance of 70 microns—about
the width of a human hair—and a microscopic imperfection in the metal, or even
a speck of dust, will block the movement and disable the injector. The tip of
the plunger—a ball that meets a conical housing to create a seal—has to be
machined to a tolerance of a quarter micron, or 10 millionths of an inch,
about the size of a virus. That precision explains why fuel injectors are
likely to be made in the United States for years to come. They require up-to-
date technology, strong quality assurance, and highly skilled workers, all of
which are easier to find in the United States than in most factories in low-
wage countries.

The main factory floor of Standard’s Greenville plant is, at first,
overwhelming. It has the feel of a very crowded high-school gym: a big space
with high ceilings but not a lot of light, a gray cement floor that’s been
around for a long time, and row after row of machines, going back farther than
the eye can see, some the size of a washing machine, others as big as a small
house. The first two machines, in the first row as you enter, are the newest:
the Gildemeister seven-axis turning machines, two large off-white boxes each
about the size of a small car turned on its side. Costing just under half a
million dollars apiece, they gleam next to all the older machines. Inside each
box is a larger, more precise version of the lathe you’d find in any high-
school metal shop: a metal rod is spun rapidly while a cutting tool approaches
it to cut at an exact angle. A special computer language tells the
Gildemeisters how fast to spin and how close to bring the cutting tool to the
metal rod.

A few decades ago, “turning machines” like these were operated by hand; a
machinist would spin one dial to move the cutting tool large distances and
another dial for smaller, more precise positioning. A good machinist didn’t
need a lot of book smarts, just a steady, confident hand and lots of
experience. Today, the computer moves the cutting tool and the operator needs
to know how to talk to the computer.

Luke Hutchins is one of Standard’s newest skilled machinists. He is somewhat
shy and talks quietly, but when you listen closely, you realize he’s
constantly making wry, self-deprecating observations. He’s 27, skinny in his
dark-blue jacket and jeans. When he was in his teens, his parents told him,
for reasons he doesn’t remember, that he should become a dentist. He spent a
semester and a half studying biology and chemistry in a four-year college and
decided it wasn’t for him; he didn’t particularly care for teeth, and he
wanted to do something that would earn him money right away. He transferred to
Spartanburg Community College hoping to study radiography, like his mother,
but that class was full. A friend of a friend told him that you could make
more than $30 an hour if you knew how to run factory machines, so he enrolled
in the Machine Tool Technology program.

At Spartanburg, he studied math—a lot of math. “I’m very good at math,” he
says. “I’m not going to lie to you. I got formulas written down in my head.”
He studied algebra, trigonometry, and calculus. “If you know calculus, you
definitely can be a machine operator or programmer.” He was quite good at the
programming language commonly used in manufacturing machines all over the
country, and had a facility for three-dimensional visualization—seeing, in
your mind, what’s happening inside the machine—a skill, probably innate, that
is required for any great operator. It was a two-year program, but Luke was
the only student with no factory experience or vocational school, so he spent
two summers taking extra classes to catch up.

After six semesters studying machine tooling, including endless hours cutting
metal in the school workshop, Luke, like almost everyone who graduates, got a
job at a nearby factory, where he ran machines similar to the Gildemeisters.
When Luke got hired at Standard, he had two years of technical schoolwork and
five years of on-the-job experience, and it took one more month of training
before he could be trusted alone with the Gildemeisters. All of which is to
say that running an advanced, computer-controlled machine is extremely hard.
Luke now works the weekend night shift, 6 p.m. to 6 a.m., Friday, Saturday,
and Sunday.

When things are going well, the Gildemeisters largely run themselves, but
things don’t always go well. Every five minutes or so, Luke takes a finished
part to the testing station—a small table with a dozen sets of calipers and
other precision testing tools—to make sure the machine is cutting “on spec,”
or matching the requirements of the run. Standard’s rules call for a random
part check at least once an hour. “I don’t wait the whole hour before I check
another part,” Luke says. “That’s stupid. You could be running scrap for the
whole hour.”

Luke says that on a typical shift, he has to adjust the machine about 20 times
to keep it on spec. A lot can happen to throw the tolerances off. The most
common issue is that the cutting tool gradually wears down. As a result, Luke
needs to tell the computer to move the tool a few microns closer, or make some
other adjustment. If the operator programs the wrong number, the tool can cut
right into the machine itself and destroy equipment worth tens of thousands of
dollars.

Luke wants to better understand the properties of cutting tools, he told me,
so he can be even more effective. “I’m not one of the geniuses on that. I know
a little bit. A lot of people go to school just to learn the properties of
tooling.” He also wants to learn more about metallurgy, and he’s especially
eager to study industrial electronics. He says he will keep learning for his
entire career.

In many ways, Luke personifies the dramatic shift in the U.S. industrial labor
market. Before the rise of computer-run machines, factories needed people at
every step of production, from the most routine to the most complex. The
Gildemeister, for example, automatically performs a series of operations that
previously would have required several machines—each with its own operator.
It’s relatively easy to train a newcomer to run a simple, single-step machine.
Newcomers with no training could start out working the simplest and then
gradually learn others. Eventually, with that on-the-job training, some
workers could become higher-paid supervisors, overseeing the entire operation.
This kind of knowledge could be acquired only on the job; few people went to
school to learn how to work in a factory.

Today, the Gildemeisters and their ilk eliminate the need for many of those
machines and, therefore, the workers who ran them. Skilled workers now are
required only to do what computers can’t do (at least not yet): use their
human judgment. This change is evident in the layout of a factory. In the pre-
computer age, machines were laid out in long rows, each machine tended
constantly by one worker who was considered skilled if he knew the temperament
of his one, ornery ward. There was a quality-assurance department, typically
in a lab off the factory floor, whose workers occasionally checked to make
sure the machinists were doing things right. At Standard, today, as at most
U.S. factories, machines are laid out in cells. One skilled operator, like
Luke, oversees several machines, performing on-the-spot quality checks and
making appropriate adjustments as needed.

The combination of skilled labor and complex machines gives American factories
a big advantage in manufacturing not only precision products, but also those
that are made in small batches, as is the case with many fuel injectors. Luke
can quickly alter the program in a Gildemeister’s computer to switch from
making one kind of injector to another. Standard makes injectors and other
parts for thousands of different makes and models of car, fabricating and
shipping in small batches; Luke sometimes needs to switch the type of product
he’s making several times in a shift. Factories in China, by contrast, tend to
focus on long runs of single products, with far less frequent changeovers.

It’s no surprise, then, that Standard makes injectors in the U.S. and employs
high-skilled workers, like Luke. It seems fairly likely that Luke will have a
job for a long time, and will continue to make a decent wage. People with
advanced skills like Luke are more important than ever to American
manufacturing.

But why does Maddie have a job? In fact, more than half of the workers on the
factory floor in Greenville are, like Maddie, classified as unskilled. On
average, they make about 10 times as much as their Chinese counterparts. What
accounts for that?

Tony Scalzitti, the factory manager, guides me through the logic of Maddie’s
employment. He’s bookish and thoughtful—nothing like my mental image of a big,
hulking factory manager. Trained as an engineer, he is constantly drawing
charts and making lists as he talks, in order to explain modern American
manufacturing. Sitting at a table in his office in the administrative area off
the factory floor, Tony takes out a pen and writes down the definitions.

“Unskilled worker,” he narrates, “can train in a short amount of time. The
machine controls the quality of the part.”

“High-skill worker,” on the other hand, “can set up machines and make a
variety of small adjustments; they use their judgment to assure product
quality.”

To show me the difference between the two, Tony takes me from Luke’s station
through an air lock and into Standard’s bright-white clean room—about a
quarter the size of the dirtier, louder factory floor—where dozens of people
in booties, hairnets, and smocks, most of them women, stand at a series of
workstations.

Tony points out that most of the factory’s parts go through roughly the same
process. Metal is cut into a precise shape in the “unclean” part of the
factory and is then washed in a huge industrial washing machine to remove any
bits of dirt, flakes of skin, or other contaminants, and, pristine, enters the
clean room. Here, machines build the outer housing of the fuel injector, the
part that is open to the engine and doesn’t require anything like the
precision of the inner workings.

The injectors progress through a series of stations, at each of which an
unskilled worker and a simple machine perform one task. The machines here are
much smaller, and are in one key respect the opposite of the Gildemeisters;
these machines can work in only one way and require little judgment from the
operator. This is not a throwback to the old system, in which workers manually
ran single-purpose machines. This new technology is the other side of the
computer revolution in manufacturing. Computers eliminate the need for human
discretion; the person is there only to place the parts and push a button.

Take Maddie’s station. She runs the laser welding machine, which sounds
difficult and dangerous, but is neither. The laser welder is tiny, more like a
cigarette lighter than like something you might aim at a Klingon. Maddie
receives a tray of sealed injector interiors, and her job is to weld on a cap.
The machine looks a little like a microscope; she puts the injector body in a
hole in the base, and the cap in a clamp where the microscope lens would be.
The entire machine—like most machines in the clean room—sits inside a large
metal-and-plexiglass box with sensors to make sure that Maddie removes her
hands from the machine before it runs. Once Maddie inserts the two parts and
removes her hands, a protective screen comes down, and a computer program
tells the machine to bring the cap and body together, fire its tiny beam, and
rotate the part to create a perfect seal. The process takes a few seconds.
Maddie then retrieves the part and puts it into another simple machine, which
runs a test to make sure the weld created a full seal. If Maddie sees a green
light, the part is sent on to the next station; if she sees a red or yellow
light, the part failed and Maddie calls one of the skilled techs, who will
troubleshoot and, if necessary, fix the welding machine.

The last time I visited the factory, Maddie was training a new worker.
Teaching her to operate the machine took just under two minutes. Maddie then
spent about 25 minutes showing her the various instructions Standard engineers
have prepared to make certain that the machine operator doesn’t need to use
her own judgment. “Always check your sheets,” Maddie says.

By the end of the day, the trainee will be as proficient at the laser welder
as Maddie. This is why all assembly workers have roughly the same pay
grade—known as Level 1—and are seen by management as largely interchangeable
and fairly easy to replace. A Level 1 worker makes about $13 an hour, which is
a little more than the average wage in this part of the country. The next
category, Level 2, is defined by Standard as a worker who knows the machines
well enough to set up the equipment and adjust it when things go wrong. The
skilled machinists like Luke are Level 2s, and make about 50 percent more than
Maddie does.

For Maddie to achieve her dreams—to own her own home, to take her family on
vacation to the coast, to have enough saved up so her children can go to
college—she’d need to become one of the advanced Level 2s. A decade ago, a
smart, hard-working Level 1 might have persuaded management to provide on-the-
job training in Level-2 skills. But these days, the gap between a Level 1 and
a 2 is so wide that it doesn’t make financial sense for Standard to spend
years training someone who might not be able to pick up the skills or might
take that training to a competing factory.

It feels cruel to point out all the Level-2 concepts Maddie doesn’t know,
although Maddie is quite open about these shortcomings. She doesn’t know the
computer-programming language that runs the machines she operates; in fact,
she was surprised to learn they are run by a specialized computer language.
She doesn’t know trigonometry or calculus, and she’s never studied the
properties of cutting tools or metals. She doesn’t know how to maintain a
tolerance of 0.25 microns, or what _tolerance_ means in this context, or what
a micron is.

Tony explains that Maddie has a job for two reasons. First, when it comes to
making fuel injectors, the company saves money and minimizes product damage by
having both the precision and non-precision work done in the same place. Even
if Mexican or Chinese workers could do Maddie’s job more cheaply, shipping
fragile, half-finished parts to another country for processing would make no
sense. Second, Maddie is cheaper than a machine. It would be easy to buy a
robotic arm that could take injector bodies and caps from a tray and place
them precisely in a laser welder. Yet Standard would have to invest about
$100,000 on the arm and a conveyance machine to bring parts to the welder and
send them on to the next station. As is common in factories, Standard invests
only in machinery that will earn back its cost within two years. For Tony,
it’s simple: Maddie makes less in two years than the machine would cost, so
her job is safe—for now. If the robotic machines become a little cheaper, or
if demand for fuel injectors goes up and Standard starts running three shifts,
then investing in those robots might make sense.

“What worries people in factories is electronics, robots,” she tells me. “If
you don’t know jack about computers and electronics, then you don’t have
anything in this life anymore. One day, they’re not going to need people; the
machines will take over. People like me, we’re not going to be around
forever.”

**The Fragility of Industrial Profit**

It’s tempting to look to the owners of Standard Motor Products and ask them to
help Maddie out: to cut costs a little less relentlessly, take slightly lower
profits, and maybe even help solve America’s jobs crisis in some small way.

I tracked down the people who run Standard to put this possibility to them. I
was surprised to learn they were based in Long Island City, Queens, a quick
subway ride from my house.

Standard’s headquarters is in the same massive but elegant Art Deco building,
curving along Northern Boulevard, that has been its home since 1936. Until the
late 1990s, Standard made many of its auto parts here as well; the company
filled the six floors with machinery and workers. But running a factory in New
York City is expensive and filled with logistical hassles, and over time,
these problems became more severe. As early as the 1960s, the company had
begun to move some production to lower-cost locations: Puerto Rico;
Independence, Kansas; Grapevine, Texas; Mexico; Poland; and, of course,
Greenville. The last part made in Queens—a distributor—came off the line in
2008. The building was sold soon after and is now home to a variety of small
offices and an art gallery. Senior executives of Standard Motor Products and a
host of engineers and salespeople occupy much of the second and sixth floors.

Larry Sills, age 72, is nothing like what I imagined the CEO of one of
America’s largest aftermarket auto-parts companies would look like. His easy
smile, scattered curiosity, and rumpled look seem more characteristic of a
college professor. His hair—thick, brown, and tightly curled—looks almost like
a joke wig sitting on his head. I met him in his large office—dominated by his
wife’s paintings and mementos of their time in Africa—and asked him about his
business. But before he got into that, he said he wanted to show off the crazy
thing up on the roof, an organic farm: some young hipsters had brought 650
tons of dirt to start it. (“That was scary,” Larry says. “We didn’t know if
the building could hold it.”) They grow fresh vegetables and have a farmers’
market every Wednesday. “Sometimes someone gets a bit excited with a pitchfork
and cuts through our roof and we got water on a desk. But I love it. I love
it.”

Larry was born into Standard Motor Products. The company was founded by his
grandfather, Elias Fife, a Jewish immigrant from Lithuania who knew nothing
about cars but saw an opportunity, in 1919, when he learned that many people
were frustrated with Ford and the other car manufacturers because they never
made enough replacement parts, since all the money was in building new cars.
The tiny aftermarket auto-parts industry was a mess: countless mechanics and
hobbyists made parts by hand in their garages, and many of these parts didn’t
fit or would break. Fife decided to build a trustworthy, reliable brand whose
products met or exceeded the quality of the original parts.

Elias worked until he died, at which point his son, Bernard, and son-in-law,
Nathaniel Sills, took over the company. Larry, Nathaniel’s son, was never
particularly interested in cars and dreamed of being a reporter for _The_ _New
York Times_. He spent a few years as a country manager for Pfizer in Ghana,
where he had some adventures. But by 1967, he knew it was time to come home
and start work at Standard. “Nobody ever told me I had to,” he says. “I just
knew it was expected.” He’s never regretted that decision, he told me.

When Larry came to work, the aftermarket had matured since its wild early
years, but was still a fairly sleepy business. Standard was one of hundreds of
aftermarket manufacturers and distributors, many still owned by the founder,
in many cases an immigrant, or his children. These companies sold to thousands
of small garages or distribution warehouses, many also run by old families
that the Sillses had known for years. It was rare for a customer to demand
lower prices or to stop buying from Standard altogether. Even if one did, the
bottom line didn’t suffer all that much.

“Our biggest customer was about 1 percent of our business,” Larry says.
“That’s changed. Now, our biggest four customers are more than 50 percent of
our business.”

As Autozone, Napa, and other huge auto-parts stores expanded their reach, they
used the bargaining power that comes with size to pressure companies like
Standard to lower their prices. Failure to do so could cost them the chain
stores’ business, which could mean bankruptcy. Larry says this new price
pressure came exactly when many of his old friends in the parts trade were
retiring and couldn’t persuade their kids to join the business. Throughout the
1970s, ’80s, and ’90s, dozens of Larry’s old friends and competitors gave up
and sold out. Larry’s son, Eric, decided to work at Standard after college and
now runs many of the company’s manufacturing operations.

As his friendly competitors retired, Larry bought many of their companies. He
paid for these acquisitions by borrowing money or selling more company shares.
For years, Standard had been, technically, a publicly traded company, but
since the Sills and Fife families owned most of the stock, it had been run
more like a family business. But eventually, to fund acquisitions, the
families gave up majority ownership. They now hold less than 10 percent of the
company stock.

Standard might have grown too quickly. The company was deeply in debt in 2009
when the financial markets seized up. Like countless companies during that
chaotic time, Standard couldn’t raise enough money to pay off the bonds it had
already sold. Larry began to fear bankruptcy. “It was awful,” he says. “The
only time in my career I lay awake worrying.”

Acting quickly, he sold the building in Queens, laid off 10 percent of the
administrative staff, and cut costs everywhere he could. Standard did survive,
of course, and is actually doing quite well now. Larry paid off most of the
debt, and by concentrating on what the company is best at, he has increased
its profits. Economic slowdowns are, perhaps paradoxically, a good time for
the aftermarket auto-parts business. Many people delay the purchase of a new
car, instead replacing parts on their old one.

While the business is doing well today, “the main thing I think about is
survival,” Larry says. Standard is now the last of the old breed of family-run
companies. Its stock is worth about $400 million, which is far more than
Larry’s grandfather would have dreamed of; but that’s only a small fraction of
the market value of Bosch, Denso, or NGK—three of the big, global parts
suppliers the company competes with.

To keep the business of the giant auto-parts retailers, Standard has to
constantly lower costs while maintaining quality. High quality is impossible
without good raw materials, which Standard has to buy at market rates. The
massive global conglomerates, like Bosch, might be able to command discounts
when buying, say, specially formulated metals; but Standard has to pay the
prevailing price, and for years now, that price has been rising. That places
an even higher imperative on reducing the cost of labor. If Standard paid
unskilled workers like Maddie more or hired more of them, Larry says, the
company would have to charge its customers more or accept lower profits.
Either way, Standard would collapse fairly soon. (Industrial profit margins
are notoriously thin to begin with—typically in the low single digits—and
reduced profits or losses would drive down Standard’s stock price, making it a
likely target for predatory acquisition.)

**The Continual Offshoring Calculus**

I came to think of Standard Motor Products as an enormous machine that
regularly scans every tiny part of every engine in every car on the streets of
the United States to answer two closely related questions: What makes sense to
manufacture here in the U.S., and what should be made in a low-wage country,
like Mexico or China?

Standard’s customers, the big auto-retail stores and wholesalers, see the
company more as a distributor than as a manufacturer. They expect Standard to
be able to deliver any part in its categories—known as engine management and
temperature control—to any place in the U.S. in less than 48 hours. Standard
doesn’t sell the big stuff—batteries, engine blocks—but it does sell many of
the cables and sensors and electrical components that surround those large
things. If you look at your car’s engine, Standard has, in stock, many of the
small parts that you can’t identify—for your car and for every other make and
model with more than 10,000 vehicles on American roads. Standard’s enormous
warehouse in Disputanta, Virginia, has tens of thousands of different sorts of
parts ready to ship at any moment.

Standard makes only about half of the parts it stocks; it buys the rest from
other manufacturers, most of them in China. The company’s engineers are
constantly reviewing the parts they buy, to see whether they could make the
parts more cheaply in-house. Not infrequently, Standard finds that by doing so
it can control costs, quality, and delivery speed far better, and thus can
better serve the superstores.

I sat in on a meeting between two engineers—the tall and talkative John
Gasiewski, and the shorter, less outgoing Marty Doelger—who were reviewing a
new batch of crankshaft-position sensors, tiny parts that monitor precisely
where in its rotation a crankshaft is at any microsecond.

Marty dumps a box of the sensors—each about the size of a thumb drive—on the
table. The new sensor that General Motors uses is a no-brainer, he says: of
course Standard should make it. More than 3.5 million cars on the road are
equipped with this family of sensors, and many of those cars are brand-new,
which means this business will be huge, peaking many years from now. “We’ll be
selling a lot of these in 2018,” John says, smiling.

The sensor is made up of a magnet and coil inside a plastic housing attached
to a mounting bracket. Its size can vary considerably without causing any
problems in the engine, and for that and other reasons, John says, its
manufacture requires nothing like the precision needed for making a fuel
injector, so it doesn’t need to be made on the most expensive machinery by the
most highly skilled workers. The part’s mounting bracket is even less precise.
“Feel it,” Marty says. “It’s rough. They just shear it. There’s no precision
at all.” So while Standard will make this part, it will do so at its plant in
Reynosa, Mexico.

A few months ago, in a meeting like this one, Standard engineers evaluated a
type of ignition coil—the tiny voltage transformer that sits on top of a spark
plug and converts the battery’s 12 volts into the 30,000 volts needed to fire
a spark. It’s a precision part, since the wires on the coil need to be wrapped
just so, and Standard was at the time manufacturing the coil in Greenville.
Recently, though, the plant Standard owns in Bialystok, Poland, had been
impressing the company’s top engineers, and the production of some of these
coils will be moving there. “Poland is also low-cost, and they’ve got some
really qualified engineers,” Larry says. “They do good work.”

These meetings can lead the company to move dozens of jobs to another country
or, in some cases, to create new jobs in the U.S. When Standard decided to
increase its fuel-injector production, it chose to do that in the U.S., and
staffed up accordingly (that’s how Maddie got her job). Standard will not drop
a line in the U.S. and begin outsourcing it to China for a few pennies in
savings. “I need to save a lot to go to China,” says Ed Harris, who is in
charge of identifying new manufacturing sources in Asia. “There’s a lot of
hassle: shipping costs, time, Chinese companies aren’t as reliable. We need to
save at least 40 percent off the U.S. price. I’m not going to China to save 10
percent.” Yet often, the savings are more than enough to offset the hassles
and expense of working with Chinese factories. Some parts—especially
relatively simple ones that Standard needs in bulk—can cost 80 percent less to
make in China.

Nearly every manufacturing company in the U.S. goes through this same process:
regularly, carefully studying its products to see if they could be made more
cheaply in a lower-wage country. The calculation constantly changes, because
the world changes. Sometimes that’s bad news for American industrial workers,
other times it’s good news. Workers in China and Poland and Mexico, for
example, have become more highly skilled, and their factories are now able to
produce more-precise goods than they could a decade ago. But at the same time,
the wages of those workers have risen, as have shipping costs. Unrest in
northern Mexico or an oil-price spike caused by trouble in the Middle East can
encourage manufacturers to keep production lines in the United States. The
development of increasingly complex machinery can do the same: because
expensive machines are more likely to pay off when they can be counted on to
run 24 hours a day, every day, the availability of steady electricity, for
instance, is essential.

Yet however chaotic and contradictory these forces can be at any moment, over
the years and decades they point in one direction: toward fewer jobs for low-
skilled American workers. People who can be replaced by machines or lower-paid
workers somewhere else, eventually will be. Unless people like Maddie learn
how to do things that computers and overseas workers aren’t able to do, they
are likely to lose their jobs one day.

Since at least the 1970s, when the farsighted could see the consequences of
Japan’s rising manufacturing power, some observers have declared a crisis in
American manufacturing, and have called for the federal government to fix it.
Some suggestions, such as higher tariffs or fewer free-trade agreements, have
been politically attractive but economically unconvincing. (Retreating from
global trade might help save some manufacturing jobs in the short term, but at
the cost of making the entire country poorer.) Other proposals have been self-
serving and unlikely to have much impact, like subsidies and tax cuts for
manufacturers (the benefits of which go disproportionately to the owners of
factories, not to the workers, who still must compete with legions of ever-
cheaper robots). Probably the most popular rallying cry lately has been the
demand that China stop interfering with currency markets. Just about every
economist would argue that China should stop artificially cheapening its
currency, but getting it to do so would not dramatically increase low-skill
manufacturing employment in the U.S. Most analyses show that in response to a
rising yuan, American manufacturing companies would more likely shift
production to other low-wage countries—like Indonesia, Bangladesh, or
Mexico—than to U.S. factories.

Is there a crisis in manufacturing in America? Looking just at the dollar
value of manufacturing output, the answer seems to be an emphatic no. Domestic
manufacturers make and sell more goods than ever before. Their success has
been grounded in incredible increases in productivity, which is a positive way
of saying that factories produce more with fewer workers.

Productivity, in and of itself, is a remarkably good thing. Only through
productivity growth can the average quality of human life improve. Because of
higher agricultural productivity, we don’t all have to work in the fields to
make enough food to eat. Because of higher industrial productivity, few of us
need to work in factories to make the products we use. In theory, productivity
growth should help nearly everyone in a society. When one person can grow as
much food or make as many car parts as 100 used to, prices should fall, which
gives everyone in that society more purchasing power; we all become a little
richer. In the economic models, the benefits of productivity growth should not
go just to the rich owners of capital. As workers become more productive, they
should be able to demand higher salaries.

Throughout much of the 20th century, simultaneous technological improvements
in both agriculture and industry happened to create conditions that were
favorable for people with less skill. The development of mass production
allowed low-skilled farmers to move to the city, get a job in a factory, and
produce remarkably high output. Typically, these workers made more money than
they ever had on the farm, and eventually, some of their children were able to
get enough education to find less-dreary work. In that period of dramatic
change, it was the highly skilled craftsperson who was more likely to suffer a
permanent loss of wealth. Economists speak of the middle part of the 20th
century as the “Great Compression,” the time when the income of the unskilled
came closest to the income of the skilled.

The double shock we’re experiencing now—globalization and computer-aided
industrial productivity—happens to have the opposite impact: income inequality
is growing, as the rewards for being skilled grow and the opportunities for
unskilled Americans diminish.

I went to South Carolina, and spent so much time with Maddie, precisely
because these issues are so large and so overwhelming. I wanted to see how
this shift affected regular people’s lives. I didn’t come away with a handy
list of policies that would solve all the problems of unskilled workers, but I
did note some principles that seem important to improving their situation.

It’s hard to imagine what set of circumstances would reverse recent trends and
bring large numbers of jobs for unskilled laborers back to the U.S. Our
efforts might be more fruitfully focused on getting Maddie the education she
needs for a better shot at a decent living in the years to come. Subsidized
job-training programs tend to be fairly popular among Democrats and
Republicans, and certainly benefit some people. But these programs suffer from
all the ills in our education system; opportunities go, disproportionately, to
those who already have initiative, intelligence, and—not least—family support.

I never heard Maddie blame others for her situation; she talked, often, about
the bad choices she made as a teenager and how those have limited her future.
I came to realize, though, that Maddie represents a large population: people
who, for whatever reason, are not going to be able to leave the workforce long
enough to get the skills they need. Luke doesn’t have children, and his
parents could afford to support him while he was in school. Those with the
right ability and circumstances will, most likely, make the right adjustments,
get the right skills, and eventually thrive. But I fear that those who are
challenged now will only fall further behind. To solve all the problems that
keep people from acquiring skills would require tackling the toughest issues
our country faces: a broken educational system, teen pregnancy, drug use,
racial discrimination, a fractured political culture.

This may be the worst impact of the disappearance of manufacturing work. In
older factories and, before them, on the farm, there were opportunities for
almost everybody: the bright and the slow, the sociable and the awkward, the
people with children and those without. All came to work unskilled, at first,
and then slowly learned things, on the job, that made them more valuable.
Especially in the mid-20th century, as manufacturing employment was rocketing
toward its zenith, mistakes and disadvantages in childhood and adolescence did
not foreclose adult opportunity.

For most of U.S. history, most people had a slow and steady wind at their
back, a combination of economic forces that didn’t make life easy but gave
many of us little pushes forward that allowed us to earn a bit more every
year. Over a lifetime, it all added up to a better sort of life than the one
we were born into. That wind seems to be dying for a lot of Americans. What
the country will be like without it is not quite clear.
