title: TechCrunch | Startup and Technology News
source: https://techcrunch.com/
date: 2025-08-18T15:37:22.558327
tags: []
---
Genetic testing company 23andMe announced on Friday that hackers accessed
around 14,000 customer accounts in the company’s recent data breach. In a new
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange C

Fisker, the California-based EV startup, cut its annual production guidance in
an effort to free up $300 million in working capital, the company said in a
business update Friday. Fisker said it expect

OpenAI’s app store for AI, the GPT Store, will not launch this year as
previously announced, but rather on an unspecified date in early 2024, the
company said. The delay is almost certainly due

We will deliver quick hits of the biggest news from AWS re:Invent as they are
announced.

After four years, the long-awaited launch of the Tesla Cybertruck electric
pickup has come and gone. The boxy vehicle is Tesla’s first new model since
2020, when it started delivering the Model Y. Y

Welcome to Startups Weekly. Sign up here to get it in your inbox every Friday.
Hello, you scrumptious specimen of a human being. Have you looked yourself in
the mirror and given yourself a high five t

Amazon has purchased three Falcon 9 launches from SpaceX to support deployment
of its Project Kuiper mega-constellation, the company said Friday. The new
deal comes scarcely two months after it was re

With dubstep as the soundtrack and neon lighting as the backdrop, Elon Musk
handed the first Cybertrucks over to a select group of customers that included
Reddit co-founder and VC fund Seven Seven Six

Remember a year ago, all the way back to last November before we knew about
ChatGPT, when machine learning was all about building models to solve for a
single task like loan approvals or fraud protect

Gathering data to monitor forests that are conserved or restored is tedious,
leaving the door wide open for startups in the space.

Bluesky, the startup aiming to build a decentralized social network to take on
Twitter/X, says it has begun deploying new safety tooling to help moderate
content on the network through automation. Alt

We're going to put the deck Scalestack used to raise its $1M seed round under
the microscope to see what it got right, and where it could have done better.

A new report by the Financial Times says X will now turn to small and medium-
sized advertisers to shore up revenue after the company’s owner Elon Musk
alienated big brands fleeing X over antisem

The Rover deal is expensive, but it has some notable caveats that tell us
quite a lot about the state of the market for tech, and tech-enabled,
companies.

We’ve seen how non-dilutive, revenue-based financing has risen up the priority
ranks for companies as the era of ZIRP — as the Zero Interest Rate Period is
now lovingly and somewhat longingly know

Microsoft Gaming CEO Phil Spencer says Microsoft is talking to partners about
launching an Xbox mobile store, as first reported by Bloomberg. Spencer made
the comment during an interview at the CCXP c

"This might be the first time where people looked and said that Amazon isn't
in the pole position to capitalize on this massive opportunity."

A Paris-based startup called Capsule wants to transform the way users seek out
their daily news. Instead of offering a standard news aggregator experience,
Capsule’s mission is to become the &#8

Book blurbs have become a central part of the publishing industry: Who better
to endorse a book than other authors and thought leaders? In that same spirit,
we asked several writers to recommend books

Standing on the rear bed of his greatest boondoggle, his face obscured in
shadow, the billionaire who built a rabid fanbase through seemingly inhuman
feats of engineering and willpower cut a greatly r

[ Load More
](http://web.archive.org/web/20231202000540/https://techcrunch.com/page/2/)
