title: Can Emotional Intelligence Be Taught? - The New York Times
source: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/09/15/magazine/can-emotional-intelligence-be-taught.html?pagewanted=all
date: 2025-08-13T20:00:38.998702
tags: []
---
One day last spring, James Wade sat cross-legged on the carpet and called his
kindergarten class to order. Lanky and soft-spoken, Wade has a gentle charisma
well suited to his role as a teacher of small children: steady, rather than
exuberant. When a child performs a requested task, like closing the door after
recess, he will often acknowledge the moment by murmuring, “Thank you, sweet
pea,” in a mild Texas drawl.

As the children formed a circle, Wade asked the 5-year-olds to think about
“anything happening at home, or at school, that’s a problem, that you want to
share.” He repeated his invitation twice, in a lulling voice, until a small,
round-faced boy in a white shirt and blue cardigan raised his hand. Blinking
back tears, he whispered, “My mom does not like me.” The problem, he said, was
that he played too much on his mother’s iPhone. “She screams me out every
day,” he added, sounding wretched.

Wade let that sink in, then turned to the class and asked, “Have any of your
mommies or daddies ever yelled at you?” When half the children raised their
hands, Wade nodded encouragingly. “Then maybe we can help.” Turning to a tiny
girl in a pink T-shirt, he asked what she felt like when she was yelled at.

“Sad,” the girl said, looking down.

“And what did you do? What words did you use?”

“I said, ‘Mommy, I don’t like to hear you scream at me.’ ”
