title: Meet the man building a stock exchange that doesn’t screw people over | The Verge
source: http://www.theverge.com/2015/7/2/8877203/this-man-is-building-a-stock-exchange-that-will-screw-you-over-less
date: 2025-08-13T18:54:08.486087
tags: []
---
**How did you get your start in this industry?**

I started as a clerk at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto. I was taking paper
files and turning them into digital files. Press a button and scroll through,
it was like a giant elevator of documents, pull out a stack and stick it on my
desk and punch it in by hand. I ended up on the trading desk in Canada and
moved to the US in 2002. And eventually I became the head of trading in the
US.

**When did you realize there was something fishy happening in the markets?**

In 2006, if I saw 100,000 shares of AMD offered, and I wanted it, I could go
out and buy it. It was a simple as that. In 2007, if I tried to buy 100,000
shares, I would get 80,000. Then in 2008 I would get 60,000. The market is
showing me a volume at a price that I can no longer buy or sell at. I can’t
buy or sell what I see on my screen.

Traders still have this problem today. People say it has gone away; it hasn’t.

**What was creating this problem?**

If I saw 100,000 shares offered, for instance at $2.91, this 100,000 wasn’t
just at one exchange. AMD lists on the NSYE, but it can trade at any one time,
on as many as 11 exchanges. Let’s pretend there are four major exchanges with
25,000 each and I want to buy 100,000. My order goes to a smart router that
would look out and say DirectEdge, BATS, NYSE, and NASDAQ each have 25,000
shares; it would take my orders, line them up, and blast them out.

RBC’s data center was at One Liberty Plaza. All the exchanges are located in
New Jersey. You pull up CNBC, and it shows you the floor of the NYSE in
Manhattan. You see all these guys running around in jackets. But no trading
actually happens there. All the trading happens in a data center in New
Jersey. Those guys are actually farther away from the point of sale than they
have ever been! It’s a TV set.

So my order travels across the fiber to New Jersey. First it gets to BATS,
then DirectEdge, then NASDAQ, the NYSE. The difference between getting to BATS
and to NYSE was 2 milliseconds. It takes 300 milliseconds to blink your eye,
so I thought, 2 miliseconds, that’s pretty fast. Well one of the guys I hired
was Ronan Ryan who was building infrastructure for HFT [high-frequency
trading] clients. He said, I can get there in 476 microseconds, which was four
times faster than me.

They could see my order at BATS, race me to the next exchange, and cancel all
their sell orders and buy whatever is left, buy everything up, then turn
around and try and sell stock back to me at a higher price. So that was the
game.
