title: Inside Dope | The New Yorker
source: http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2004/10/25/inside-dope-6
date: 2025-08-13T19:01:01.721588
tags: []
---
"There is always some new tidbit,” Mark Halperin said. “You just have to
ferret it out.” It was the first day of the Republican Convention, in New
York, and although the sun had not yet risen, he had already laid out all he
needed for his peculiar trade—three television monitors, a laptop, a
BlackBerry, a cell phone, a pager—in a makeshift space on the fifth floor of
Madison Square Garden. Outside the Washington establishment, Halperin is
known, if at all, as a journalist (his official title is political director of
ABC News), but within it he is considered the leading purveyor of inside dope.
As the founder of The Note, a political news digest that appears on the ABC
News Web site each weekday morning by eleven o’clock, he collects information
the way bookies keep tabs on the latest odds, or photographers chase the
fading light. He collects polling data, no matter what the time of year or the
size of the sample. He collects any rise or fall—even the smallest blip—in the
projected electoral count. He also collects dirt, such as the unsealed divorce
records of Jack Ryan, a Senate candidate from Illinois, which detailed visits
to an alleged “sex club,” and which forced Ryan out of the race. He collects
other things, too: arcane statistics from documents that government agencies
churn out but few read; embargoed political books (The Note footnoted Kitty
Kelley’s gossipy portrait of the Bush family twenty-four hours before it was
released, beneath the teaser “Here Kitty, Kitty”); wire reports; radio
transcripts; pieces of legislation; the guest lists of Georgetown dinner
parties; and other minutiae that are of little interest to the ordinary
citizen but are essential to his calling (“2:00 _p.m._ : Sen. John Kerry and
his family hold a barbeque at the Heinz Farm, Fox Chapel, Pa”). Mostly,
though, Halperin collects leaks and scuttlebutt from the campaign consultants,
strategists, pollsters, pundits, and journalists who make up the modern-day
political establishment, or what Halperin calls “the Gang of 500.”

“We try to channel what the chattering class is chattering about, and to
capture the sensibility, ethos, and rituals of the Gang of 500, which still
largely sets the political agenda for the country,” Halperin explained during
one of several recent conversations.

Mary Matalin, a campaign adviser to President Bush, described Halperin as “the
insider’s insider’s insider” and the readership of The Note as a kind of
“Skull and Bones for the political class.” The Note is written in a runic
argot that is often incomprehensible to the outsider. A typical edition
includes comments like this one:

> So for the Rs, the formula is simple: Positive ads (to boost the _POTUS_
> favs back up) + negative ads (to define Kerry) + free media from the
> negative ads (to increase the bang for the buck and bracket Kerry’s free
> media message, as with today’s gas tax ad) + presidential and vice
> presidential speeches and trips to swing states (like today’s economic
> message in Wisconsin by Mr. Bush) + a crafty congressional agenda (except
> for that pesky highway bill . . .) + a foreign-trips-
> Olympics-9/11-anniversary-debates strategy like you wouldn’t believe = 270
> electoral votes or more.

Karl Rove, Bush’s chief strategist, is sometimes described as S.M.I.P.
(“smartest man in politics”), and Kerry’s former campaign manager Jim Jordan
as S.S.M.I.P. (“second smartest man in politics”). Halperin’s references can
be so obscure that they baffle even members of the Gang of 500. Recently,
after The Note joked that a cabal of left-wing journalists was holding
meetings, “per usual,” on the top floor of Lauriol Plaza, a Mexican restaurant
in the Adams Morgan neighborhood of Washington, Rush Limbaugh announced on his
radio show that he finally had proof of a liberal-media conspiracy. “Ladies
and gentlemen . . . it’s been admitted to, if I’m reading this correctly, by
ABC’s The Note,” he said.

ABC does not release the number of hits that The Note receives each day, but
it is believed to be about thirty thousand—less than one per cent of the
readership of the _Times_. Yet its readers are, as Halperin puts it, “among
the most sought-after eyeballs in the country.” And the Note’s very
knowingness about those in the know has made it, since its creation, in
January, 2002, the most influential tip sheet in Washington. “The President
has the P.D.B., the Presidential Daily Briefing, where the C.I.A. takes all
its information and gives it to the President,” Paul Begala, a former campaign
adviser to Bill Clinton and a co-host of CNN’s “Crossfire,” told me. “For
everyone else in Washington, Halperin and The Note are our version of the
P.D.B.” Bill and Hillary Clinton are said to read it, as do Bill Frist, the
Senate Majority Leader, and Terry McAuliffe, the head of the Democratic
National Committee; when Rove is on the road, he has a printout sent to him.

In each edition, The Note tries to offer a comprehensive repository of
political news, with Web links to what it considers the “must reads” in major
and minor newspapers, and summaries of ephemera from cable news, talk radio,
and the blogosphere. Its original reporting is often based on leaks from
unnamed sources. During the Democratic primary season, the Howard Dean
campaign spent months futilely trying to find out who kept sending Halperin
its internal memoranda.

Many of The Note’s scoops are presented in riddle form. On August 19th, after
The Note learned that the Kerry campaign was about to hire two former Clinton
advisers, Joel Johnson and Joe Lockhart, it broke the news with the headline
“Pick Up Hazy Joely and Killer Joe.” Buried in that day’s edition was another
hint: “There are those who are Harbouring a willingness to Park themselves at
15th and Eye Streets.” When I asked Halperin to decode these allusions, he
explained that Johnson worked at the Harbour Group, a consulting firm, and
that Lockhart was an employee at another consulting firm, the Glover Park
Group; Kerry’s campaign headquarters is at the corner of Fifteenth and I
Streets. Halperin explained further that Lockhart was a Bruce Springsteen fan,
and that the headline was a play on the song “Spirit in the Night,” which
includes the lyric “We’ll pick up Hazy Davy and Killer Joe.” (After the item
appeared, another Web site for political devotees, wonkette.com, mockingly
solved the puzzle with an entry entitled “Translating The Note.”)

Weeks earlier, Halperin had offered clues to a more important mystery—Kerry’s
choice of running mate. Halperin and ABC News had assigned a reporter to tail
each potential nominee around the clock, and The Note was the first to
determine that Kerry had visited former Secretary of State Madeleine
Albright’s home late one night to meet with his choice. Initially, The Note
suspected that it was Richard Gephardt who had somehow slipped, undetected,
through the door. Then, the next day, under the headline “Georgetown Alley
Cat,” it published the sentence “Gift to our competitors: the key to the whole
Veepstakes puzzle might just be found by clicking on this link.” The link
connected readers to a page from an Indonesian travel Web site, featuring the
following text: “Distance between Washington, District of Columbia, United
States, and Orlando, Florida, United States . . . 759 miles.” For The Note’s
savviest readers, the message was clear: Senator John Edwards, who had been
vacationing at Disney World, had made a clandestine trip to Washington to meet
with Kerry at Albright’s home, and was thus the nominee. As Halperin told me,
“The Note can function on at least two levels—something for insiders and
something for hyper-insiders.”

It was so early at Madison Square Garden that the arena was all but empty.
Given the amount of information that Halperin has to consume daily, he told
me, he has had to synchronize his “biological rhythms with the news cycle, so
that information is not lying out there unanalyzed for too long.” He measures
time not by conventional units—hours, minutes—but by news programs. “Twelve
o’clock for a normal person might be ‘Let’s think about having lunch,’ but for
me it’s ‘Rush Limbaugh is on,’ ” he said. “Six-thirty is not dinnertime; it’s
time for Peter, Dan, and Tom.”

Technology has both liberated and tyrannized Halperin, at once allowing him to
move from Washington to Manhattan—“my dirty little secret”—and inundating him
with an ever-greater, faster barrage of data. In his New York office, amid
piles of campaign memorabilia, he has mounted six television screens, each
tuned to a different news channel, and he has learned to watch them all
simultaneously. He can read and send e-mails on his BlackBerry, even as he
does live television interviews (though he tries to wait until a cutaway). He
carries newspapers rolled under his arm, the way an architect totes his
drawings, so that during free moments—the six minutes it takes (he’s timed it)
to get from his apartment to the newsroom, say, or at 5 _a.m._ on the
StairMaster, before the “Imus in the Morning” radio show—he can absorb new
information. He also depends on his longtime girlfriend, Karen Avrich, who
works as a researcher on nonfiction books, as “a fail-safe system” to catch
details that he might miss. In addition, he has a small team of young
reporters, who share the burden of producing The Note, and who are often, to
their chagrin, mistaken for “the Googling monkeys,” a term that Halperin
jokingly invokes in his newsletter to explain the mystifying way in which The
Note processes so much information. “I couldn’t do this alone,” Halperin said.
“Ten papers, maybe twenty—but not fifty.”

Halperin, who is thirty-nine, is invariably described by those who know him as
a “political junkie” or a “political animal.” Both terms rankle him. “People
don’t describe sports fans or historians as junkies or animals,” he said. Yet,
in order to avoid missing a single moment of the news cycle, he has forsaken
much that he used to enjoy: sports pages, novels, naps, uninterrupted
vacations, Broadway shows, leisurely walks, silence. Halperin admits that his
singular fixation sometimes gives him a feeling of “psychological oppression.”
Dan Balz, the veteran Washington _Post_ reporter, says, “Politics is his life,
in a way that I certainly don’t even come close to.” During the 1992 campaign,
he was on the phone so much that he damaged his vocal cords. The Democratic
strategist Chris Lehane insists that, based on the evidence, “the man doesn’t
sleep.”

Still, Halperin has tried to swear off caffeine, which he considers poison.
“Many people believe you can’t cover politics without caffeine,” he said.
“It’s one of my little challenges.” He will find himself, as he did during the
Democratic Convention, starting to slip with a Diet Coke, then another. “I try
to resist,” he said. “But, as Election Day approaches and I’m putting myself
at a competitive disadvantage, I begin to drink it again.”

Lately, Halperin has been offering more on-air political commentary on ABC; he
has cut his black hair like an anchorman, and lost thirty pounds by reducing
his consumption of carbs. (He calls it “the Newt Gingrich diet.”) These
cosmetic changes aside, he cannot hide that he is of a different breed from
many television reporters. His nose is both large and slightly crooked, like a
boxer’s; he tends to grow a five-o’clock shadow by two o’clock, and he sweats
even when it’s cold. An introvert, he sometimes has trouble when the
conversation wanders from politics, as if he were caught in the elevator with
a stranger. He compensates in such moments with wit. In fact, he has become an
uncanny mimic of the politicians he covers; his impression of Al Gore is
considered as sharp as any that have appeared on “Saturday Night Live.”

Yet it is his understanding of politics that distinguishes him. Begala said,
“Halperin is the best. No. 1, he lives, sleeps, eats, and breathes it. No. 2,
he’s smarter than the average bear. He can sense where a political story or
line of argument is going, and he can remember details from a campaign that
took place decades ago.”

At 6 _a.m_., Halperin began sorting through hundreds of press releases that he
had received via e-mail: “Rumsfeld Said U.S. Was Prepared for ‘Catastrophic
Success’ ”; “Remarks of Senator John Edwards”; “Press Schedule of Mrs. Bush.”

“You have to be relentless and disciplined about your in-box,” he said. “Just
the press releases alone can swamp you.” There was also a constant flow of
“pool reports”—summaries from the rotating group of reporters who accompany
the President of the United States (_potus_) or the First Lady (_flotus_) to
private events. He had one from the day before that said, “ _potus_ . . .
escorted _flotus_ , wearing a gray pantsuit, out of a black S.U.V. and into
the chapel,” where “a boisterous toddler . . . made a brief run at the
presidential pew.” Later, one came in from Nantucket, headlined “Wind Is
Favorable,” and saying, “JK will test his brand spankin’ new windsurfer sail
this afternoon. . . . If he’s brought close by the winds, we will toss a q
[question].”

As Halperin deleted the more superfluous e-mails, he expressed a fear that, in
his haste, he might have erased some divine piece of trivia that his readers
might want to know. “We’re on a tight deadline,” he said. “There’s no margin
for error.” As he watched the television monitors, spoke on the phone, wrote
an e-mail, and ate a granola bar, he turned to a young reporter for The Note
named Annie Chiappetta. Between them, they had already sifted through twenty
papers, but, Halperin said, “we need more.” A runner was quickly dispatched to
a newsstand and, moments later, returned with two dozen more papers. Halperin
took a New York _Post_ and rolled it under the crook of his arm. He paused by
a cooler filled with drinks and looked at the Diet Cokes. After a moment of
hesitation, he removed a bottle of water. As he opened it, his eyes caught the
television monitors in the corner of the room. It was 7 _a.m._ —time for the
morning shows. His eyes darted back and forth, as if he were watching a
foreign film with rapid subtitles. Suddenly, he said, “Can you turn that up?”
