title: Why Boxing Is Worth Fighting For - WSJ.com
source: http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111903927204576570880162670032.html?mod=WSJ_hp_LEFTTopStories#printMode
date: 2025-08-13T20:34:03.866356
tags: []
---
The great sportswriter Budd Schulberg once remarked, "As much as I love
boxing, I hate it. And as much as I hate it, I love it." Boxing is a rough
sport, which may explain why it is used so often as a metaphor for life. It
requires being able to move forward, take blows, and rise from the canvas. It
demands acute self-awareness and respect for others.

I know that the young fighters I've trained would say that they've learned a
lot about life while in the ring. The question is whether those lessons will
still be available to them a few years from now.

Hyoung Chang/The Denver Post

It's not clear that boxing is more dangerous than other popular sports.

In late August, the American Academy of Pediatrics threw a haymaker at the
sport of boxing. In a position statement, the doctors' group fell just short
of recommending that boxing be banned for children and teenagers: "Amateur
boxers are at serious risk of face and brain injuries, including concussion.
Children's brains are more vulnerable to concussion, and recovery takes longer
than for adults."

Claire LeBlanc, co-author of the paper, said that "while most sports have some
risk of injury, boxing is especially dangerous because these athletes are
rewarded for dedicated and deliberate hits to their opponent's head." She
advised young athletes to opt instead for noncontact sports like swimming,
tennis and volleyball.

The boxing world is in a dudgeon about these recommendations. If there is no
more youth boxing, the American martial art could soon disappear altogether.

It's not clear that boxing is really so much more dangerous than other popular
sports. As the AAP itself admitted, there are many other sports in which
youngsters are more likely to get injured. A 2006 study published in the
British Journal of Sports Medicine found an injury rate among amateur boxers,
ages 15 to 37 years, of 1 per 1,000 hours of participation. This is lower than
the reported injury rates for high-school athletes (from a 2007 study cited by
the AAP) of 4.4 per 1,000 hours of participation in football, 2.5 in wrestling
and 2.4 in soccer. The authors of the AAP paper do emphasize, however, that
"intentional face and head injuries" are more frequent in boxing.

As a longtime boxing coach, I must confess that some of my colleagues can be
too defensive about our sport. Listening to them sometimes, you might think
that the art of hitting and avoiding being hit is no more dangerous than
ultimate Frisbee.

Though only a portion of youngsters stick with boxing long enough to compete
seriously, those who do certainly have to spar. And like aspiring linebackers,
they are indeed subject to some brain rattling.

But does it follow from this that we ought to close city boxing gyms and tell
wannabe pugilists to take their energies to the courts at the local country
club? I don't think so.

Like much of life, sports is largely a matter of risk-benefit analysis.
Sometimes we engage in potentially harmful behavior because we believe that
the payoff justifies the price. For children and teens, the rewards of boxing
can be especially bountiful.

Victor Ortiz, the WBC welterweight champion who will soon defend his title
against Floyd Mayweather Jr., grew up in an impoverished home in Garden City,
Kan. His mother left when he was 7, and his father a few years later.

But before his dad disappeared, he brought Victor to the local boxing gym. As
a child, the champion-to-be had rage and fear that no swimming competition
could have washed away. He told me that boxing saved him: "It gave me self-
discipline and a sense of self-respect."

There are many young people who, like Mr. Ortiz, endure blows from life that
produce a fury inside them, a fury that needs to be addressed in a controlled
environment. A great many of them, I might add, do not have access to the most
popular "noncontact" sports.

There are other benefits unique to amateur boxing. As Aristotle taught, in
order to develop courage, we need drills in dealing with fear. And there is no
better workshop than boxing for getting that practice. In the U.S., it was the
military that pushed for the adoption of boxing because the brass wanted young
recruits to experience the sense of being under fire.

The Hall of Fame boxing trainer Angelo Dundee recently told me that the main
lesson he had learned from working with thousands of fighters was that "no two
fighters—and no two people—are alike." Different children need different
psychological curricula. Many of the youngsters attracted to boxing crave
systematic exercise in negotiating their fury and fear.

In a society that obsesses about risk, we need to understand that there is a
danger in being too risk-averse. There are tragic injuries in boxing, no less
than in football or mountain climbing. But the gains in character and self-
control that can accrue from finding a place in a well-supervised boxing gym
are well worth the risk.

—Mr. Marino, a professor of philosophy at St. Olaf College, trains amateur and
professional boxers.
