title: When Will Life Be 'Normal' Again, Post-Pandemic? - The Atlantic
source: https://www.theatlantic.com/family/archive/2021/02/pandemic-daily-life-normal-summer-fall/618108/
date: 2025-08-13T15:42:25.192003
tags: []
---
_Updated at 10:12 a.m. ET on February 24, 2021._

The end of the coronavirus pandemic is [on the
horizon](https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2020/11/vaccines-end-
covid-19-pandemic-sight/617141/) at last, but the timeline for actually
getting there feels like it shifts daily, with updates about viral variants,
vaccine logistics, and other important variables seeming to push back the
finish line or scoot it forward. When will we be able to finally live our
lives again?

Pandemics are hard to predict accurately, but we have enough information to
make some confident guesses. A useful way to think about what’s ahead is to go
season by season. In short: Life this spring will not be substantially
different from the past year; summer could, miraculously, be close to normal;
and next fall and winter could bring either continued improvement or a
moderate backslide, followed by a near-certain return to something like pre-
pandemic life.

Here, in more detail, is what Americans can expect daily life to look like for
the next four(-ish) seasons.

* * *

#### **Spring 2021**

For the most part, daily life will continue to be far from normal for the next
few months. _Normal_ is of course a slippery word, given that many Americans
have had to report to work or have chosen to dine out, travel, and do all
sorts of things that others have avoided. But whatever people have not been
doing for the past year, they can expect to keep not doing it this spring.

It’s unlikely that enough people will get vaccinated in the spring to restore
normalcy. In fact, experts fear that the pandemic could get much worse in the
near term, because [variants of the virus that are more contagious or vaccine-
resistant](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2021/health/coronavirus-
variant-tracker.html) than the original version have begun circulating in the
United States. The damage those variants will do is still unknown; “March to
May is the mystery,” as my colleague Robinson Meyer [wrote earlier this
month](https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2021/02/will-there-be-
another-surge-spring-mystery/617900/).

The good news, though, is that even with these variants, existing vaccines
appear to reduce the risk of severe illness, meaning more and more people will
be protected as vaccinations continue. And vaccines can change individuals’
risk calculus. Ashish Jha, the dean of Brown University’s School of Public
Health, told me that in a month or so, in the absence of a variant-driven
surge, he’d probably be comfortable going to a friend’s house for a drink,
mask-free and indoors, if he and his friend were both fully vaccinated. “As we
get into late spring, a lot of that stuff—the smaller gatherings of vaccinated
people—I think starts becoming quite possible,” Jha said.

![With a view of Throgs Neck Bridge crossing to the Bronx in the background,
people enjoy an evening from a jetty at Fort Totten Park in Queens, May 24,
2020. Memorial Day weekend in New York City usually marks the beginning of a
vibrant summer to come, but this year traditions have been altered under the
shadow of the
coronavirus.](https://cdn.theatlantic.com/thumbor/WYdOofb6cQHpkMkCwPZYpvDZ3Qk=/0x0:3000x2000/655x437/media/img/posts/2021/02/h_15375341/original.jpg)(Victor
J. Blue / The New York Times / Redux)

#### **Summer 2021**

Whatever happens in the spring, the summer should be a sublime departure from
what Americans have lived through so far. As my colleague James Hamblin [wrote
last
week](https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2021/02/summer-2021-pandemic/618088/),
“In most of the U.S., the summer could feel … ‘normal,’” even “revelatory.”

“Barring some variant that is just really crazy, I expect the summer to be a
lot like the summer of 2019,” Andrew Noymer, a public-health professor at UC
Irvine, told me. Based on [the drop-off in cases and
hospitalizations](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2021/02/why-
covid-19-cases-are-falling-so-fast/618041/) over the past few weeks, he thinks
life could even be close to normal as soon as sometime in May.

Other experts I consulted were slightly less optimistic, but they generally
agreed that at some point between June and September, the combination of
widespread vaccinations and [warmer
weather](https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2021/02/will-there-be-
another-surge-spring-mystery/617900/) would likely make many activities much
safer, including having friends and family over indoors, taking public
transit, being in a workplace, dining inside restaurants, and traveling
domestically (whether for work, visiting loved ones, or a vacation).

Regardless of when vaccines for children become available, all of the above
applies to kids and their families, according to Emily Oster, an economist at
Brown who writes about everyday pandemic decision making in [her newsletter
_ParentData_](https://emilyoster.substack.com/). In-person schooling should
become safer as well. Though the timing for kids’ vaccines is uncertain,
Oster’s guess is that they might become available over the summer for children
12 and up, and later on for children under 12, perhaps in the fall.

[Read: A quite possibly wonderful
summer](https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2021/02/summer-2021-pandemic/618088/)

The safest way to phase activities back in will be for people to gradually go
from smaller, private social settings (such as a friend’s house) to bigger,
public ones (such as a restaurant)—which is also what many will probably feel
most comfortable with. “People will slowly expand the social world that they
engage in, building [their] pod back up,” predicts Oster.

Jha, for instance, expects to host 20 or so friends for a Fourth of July
barbecue in his backyard, with every adult vaccinated and no one having to
wear a mask. He imagines himself being comfortable eating indoors at a
restaurant later on in the summer, provided it’s not packed and the
ventilation is decent.

The summer will still have its limitations, though. The experts I spoke with
didn’t foresee the return of indoor concerts, full attendance at sporting
events, or high levels of international travel.

They did, however, expect that Americans will be able to ease up on mask
wearing and social distancing in other contexts. “I think when people are
vaccinated themselves, they will start letting their guard down, but it will
also genuinely be safer from a public-health perspective,” said Jennifer Beam
Dowd, a professor of demography and population health at the University of
Oxford and the chief scientific officer of [Dear
Pandemic](https://dearpandemic.org/), a COVID-19 public-education campaign.
Noymer’s prediction is that masking will be necessary in public settings until
every American has at least been offered a vaccine, at which point he figures
he would be okay with repealing mask mandates.

Even once these precautions are no longer strictly necessary, many people will
probably keep up some of them, opting to wear a mask, say, on public
transportation or in a grocery store. Oster thinks that while certain
activities should become much safer over the summer, many people might not be
comfortable resuming them until the end of the year or even later.

#### **Fall/Winter 2021–22**

Even if the summer feels like the end of the pandemic, it could turn out to be
more of a temporary reprieve.

Most of the U.S. population should be vaccinated by the fall, but some
resurgence of the virus seems likely in the colder months. “It won’t be as bad
as this winter, but I don’t know if it’s going to be pretty bad or [if] just a
few people will get it,” Noymer said.

Thankfully, the latter scenario seems more likely, and could still allow for
additional normalcy; indoor concerts might even come back. “The summer might
be a little early for really large crowds,” Dowd said. “I see the autumn as
the important turning point for those kinds of mass gatherings.”

This scenario might result in isolated viral flare-ups, but vaccines should
significantly reduce the likelihood that anyone who gets infected would end up
in the hospital, and could also make them less likely to spread the virus.

[Read: What if we never reach herd
immunity?](https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2021/02/herd-immunity-
might-be-impossible-even-vaccines/617973/)

Another outcome seems less probable but more troubling: Whether because a
variant ends up evading existing vaccines or because infections surge among
unvaccinated people, cases might climb again. Even after a wonderful summer, a
rise in cases could necessitate a reversion to many of the precautions from
earlier in the pandemic, even if it doesn’t require full-on lockdowns. “I’m
not saying that the return of the masks and working from home and all the crap
that we hate is guaranteed,” Noymer said. “But if it does return, it won’t be
in the summer. It’ll be in the fall.”

Thankfully, though, if stubborn variants do circulate, new vaccines should be
able to tame them relatively quickly. Adjusting an existing vaccine recipe
could take only a few months, meaning that the disruption to daily life would
not be as drawn out as what Americans have lived through already.

#### **Spring/Summer 2022**

Beyond next winter, experts’ predictions are blessedly simple: Life in the
warmer months of 2022 should be normal, or at least whatever qualifies as
normal post-pandemic. The virus will still exist, but one possibility is that
it will be less likely to make people severely ill and that it will, like the
flu, circulate primarily in the colder months; some people would still die
from COVID-19, but the virus wouldn’t rage out of control again. Meanwhile,
Americans should be able to do most, if not all, of the things that they
missed so much in 2020 and 2021, mask- and worry-free.

Of course, this dreamy era is still more than a year away, and some unforeseen
obstacle could delay the resumption of normalcy. Jha said he couldn’t picture
what that might be, though. After a year spent gaming out how bad the pandemic
could get, he can finally see ahead to a time when there are no more
catastrophes to imagine.
