title: Osama Bin Laden's take on the Egyptian uprising.
source: http://www.slate.com/id/2283752/?from=rss
date: 2025-08-13T21:16:47.020303
tags: []
---
_Read more of**Slate** ’s coverage of the _ [_Egyptian
protests_](https://www.slate.com/id/2283323/) _._

Osama Bin Laden

Demonstrations in Egypt are exciting Arabs around the world, giving them hope
that democracy can at last flourish in their home countries. The same news
images of brave demonstrators in Cairo’s Tahrir Square also probably animate
another possible viewer—Osama Bin Laden—but in a completely different way. The
master terrorist and his followers are likely to see the earthquake in Egypt
as a grave threat to their legitimacy but, at the same time, an opportunity to
exploit.

Egypt has always had a special place in the hearts of al-Qaida members.
Several of the organization’s key leaders and operatives first bloodied
themselves in the struggle against the Mubarak regime before finding a home
with Bin Laden. Bin Laden’s deputy, Ayman Zawahiri, led one group, Egyptian
Islamic Jihad, which, along with its more important cousin the Islamic Group,
staged a bloody uprising in the early 1990s. Calling Mubarak an apostate as
well as a despot, the jihadists struck at Coptic Christians, secular
Egyptians, and foreign tourists as well as regime and security-force targets.
By the end of the decade, the Mubarak regime had brutally repressed the
jihadists and co-opted less radical elements of Egypt’s Islamist
scene—measures greatly aided by the jihadists’ brutal attacks, which alienated
most Egyptians. A rump of these fighters joined with Bin Laden, taking
advantage of the Saudi leader’s money and accepting his worldview that the
United States, not the government of Egypt, was the primary enemy.

The doctrinal disputes that arose in Egypt, such as the acceptable level of
civilian casualties from terrorist attacks and how much deviation from “true”
Muslim behavior is acceptable before one becomes an apostate, still roil
jihadists today. And the condemnation of al-Qaida by former leaders of the
Islamic Group and Egyptian Islamic Jihad has caused great consternation among
Bin Laden’s followers.

Nor is the spark of jihadism completely extinguished in Egypt. The middle of
the last decade saw several attacks, the worst being the July 23, 2005, strike
in the resort city of Sharm el-Sheikh that killed 88 people. But the problem
seemed contained if not completely eradicated.

The demonstrations and the probable end of the Mubarak regime change the
situation, though. For now, al-Qaida and other jihadists have been caught off-
guard. And although Egypt’s army is standing by as violence erupts between
demonstrators and pro-regime thugs, it is still careful to police the
country’s borders to make sure jihadists do not slip in.

But if or when Mubarak goes, al-Qaida will face some immediate challenges. The
first comes from the [Muslim Brotherhood](https://www.slate.com/id/2283616/),
the Arab world’s oldest Islamist organization and a strong force in Egyptian
politics today. This may surprise many: Several leading al-Qaida members
entered Islamist politics through the Brotherhood; the Brotherhood has at
times used violence, such as its unsuccessful 1978-82 war against the Syrian
regime, which is also loathed by al-Qaida; and Brotherhood martyrs such as
theologian Sayyid Qutb, whom the Egyptian regime hanged in 1966, are revered
ideologues for people like Zawahiri. Yet the relationship between the
Brotherhood and the jihadists is notable for the scorn and contempt both sides
feel for the other. In his book _The Bitter Harvest_ , Zawahiri excoriates the
Brotherhood for renouncing the use of violence against the Mubarak regime and
for polluting itself by participating in more mainstream politics. The
Palestinian group Hamas, itself a Muslim Brotherhood spinoff, has tried to
crush al-Qaida-like groups in Gaza and, in turn, has found itself blasted by
the al-Qaida core.

A second challenge comes from the demands of the majority of the
demonstrators, who came to Tahrir Square and other rallying points not in the
name of Islam but in opposition to tyranny. These protesters have demands that
fit better with reformers of all stripes around the world: an end to
dictatorship, an end to corruption, and a government that reflects the will of
the people. Al-Qaida, however, is virulently anti-democratic; its ideologues
fear that governments of the people place man’s will above God’s and that they
might produce anti-Islamic laws (say, permitting the drinking of alcohol).
Even more important, al-Qaida feeds on the frustration many Muslims have about
their own corrupt and brutal governments. Peaceful revolution in Egypt
undermines their message that change will only come through violence.

Yet Bin Laden may see opportunities as well as risks. In any successor regime,
the hated security services will be purged, and the same men who arrested and
harassed peaceful dissidents also kept the jihadists down. So pressure against
the few jihadists who remain and any who might return may ease.

And as the violence between protesters and Mubarak loyalists (and their hired
thugs) makes clear, the country’s future is far from set. The transition from
Mubarak may be peaceful, but chaos and bloodshed often follow the road that
peaceful protesters first walk. Al-Qaida thrives on chaos. In Iraq,
Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Somalia it has exploited local issues and worked
with local groups to advance its cause. Should Egypt descend into violence,
al-Qaida may find a similar niche.

The Muslim Brotherhood’s new role also may offer al-Qaida opportunities. If
the Brotherhood joins in a transitional government and does not fall prey to
its more radical tendencies regarding Israel and Islamicizing Egyptian society
(something U.S. policy should strive to accomplish), then the hardliners
within its ranks will criticize it for selling out, offering al-Qaida a means
to woo them. But should the Brotherhood lose out in a power struggle or fall
prey to repression from the army or a new regime, there will be a new
generation of embittered young Islamists who may find al-Qaida’s more radical
message more convincing than calls for renewed participation in a system that
cheated them.

To close off opportunities for al-Qaida and other radical voices, managing the
transition from Mubarak to a new government is vital. In the end, the greatest
threat to Bin Laden and his allies will come from a stable, democratic Egypt
that offers its citizens and other Muslims proof that peaceful political
activity, not jihad, is how they can better their lives.

_Like[**Slate** on Facebook](http://www.facebook.com/Slate). Follow
[**Slate**](http://www.twitter.com/Slate) and the [**Slate** Foreign
Desk](http://www.twitter.com/slateforeign) on Twitter._
