title: The Dollar Store Economy - NYTimes.com
source: http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/21/magazine/the-dollar-store-economy.html?pagewanted=print
date: 2025-08-13T20:39:29.988528
tags: []
---
Heather Mann writes a blog called [Dollar Store
Crafts](http://web.archive.org/web/20110825205153/http://dollarstorecrafts.com/),
which evolved from her occasional trips to the extreme-discount dollar stores
near her home in Salem, Ore. Her readers admire her gift for buying really
cheap stuff and then making cool and beautiful things from the pile. Her
knockoff “[alien abduction
lamp](http://web.archive.org/web/20110825205153/http://dollarstorecrafts.com/2009/03/alien-
lamp/)” is jury-rigged from a small light fixture, two plastic bowls (flying
saucer), a clear acrylic tumbler (tractor beam) and a small plastic toy cow
(abductee) — all purchased for about five bucks.

As we entered her favorite store, a Dollar Tree in Salem, Mann warned me that
I’d have to hustle to keep up with her. “Look at these,” she said. “Cute.”
Before I could even examine her find — a rack of smushy yellow chickens on
sticks (plastic toy? Garden ornament? Edible peeps?) — she had ricocheted down
another aisle, where I found her studying a prominent display garishly pushing
a superabsorbent shammy. Mann noted that this was not the famously kitschy
ShamWow! but a very cheap imitation called, merely, Wow. The display boasted,
“As Seen on TV.”

“As in, you’ve seen the _real_ ad on TV,” she said.

All around, the stacks of products and aisles of merchandise screamed a
technicolor siren song. I found four AA batteries for my tape recorder for a
dollar ($5.49 when I spotted them the next day at RadioShack), and dish towels
that might have sold for $5 elsewhere were just a buck. Mann now brandished
something called a “wineglass holder” the way Jacques Cousteau might have held
up a starfish. It was a small aluminum device meant to clip onto your plastic
picnic plate “for hands-free dining and socializing.” At a price of four for a
dollar, it’s a good deal if your world is overrun with miserly wine
connoisseurs.

When I looked up, Mann was already around the corner, having fun with a bottle
of discount detergent boasting a “bingo bango mango” scent. Just up the way
was a bin of brown bags marked either “A Surprise for a Boy” or “A Surprise
for a Girl.” Mann’s 5-year-old niece accompanied us on our tour and was crazed
with excitement over these, and the truth is, we were all in the same exact
mood. All around us, strange things hung here and there, urging us on an
unending treasure hunt. Perhaps, like me, you have driven by and occasionally
stopped in a dollar store and assumed that there were two kinds of customers,
those there for the kitschy pleasure of it all — the Heather Manns of the
world — and those for whom the dollar store affords a low-rent version of the
American Consumer Experience, a place where the poor can splurge. That’s true.
But current developments in this, the low end of retail, suggest that a larger
shift in the American consumer market is under way.

**We are awakening** to a dollar-store economy. For years the dollar store has
not only made a market out of the detritus of a hyperproductive global
manufacturing system, but it has also made it appealing — by making it
amazingly cheap. Before the market meltdown of 2008 and the stagnant, jobless
recovery that followed, the conventional wisdom about dollar stores — whether
one of the three big corporate chains ([Dollar
General](http://web.archive.org/web/20110825205153/http://www.dollargeneral.com/Pages/index.aspx),
[Family
Dollar](http://web.archive.org/web/20110825205153/http://www.familydollar.com/pages/home.aspx)
and [Dollar
Tree](http://web.archive.org/web/20110825205153/http://www.dollartree.com/home.jsp))
or any of the smaller chains (like “99 Cents Only Stores”) or the world of
independents — was that they appeal to only poor people. And while it’s true
that low-wage earners still make up the core of dollar-store customers (42
percent earn $30,000 or less), what has turned this sector into a nearly
recession-proof corner of the economy is a new customer base. “What’s driving
the growth,” says James Russo, a vice president with the Nielsen Company, a
consumer survey firm, “is affluent households.”

The affluent are not just quirky D.I.Y. types. These new customers are people
who, though they have money, feel as if they don’t, or soon won’t. This
anxiety — sure to be restoked by the recent stock-market gyrations and
generally abysmal predictions for the economy — creates a kind of fear-induced
pleasure in selective bargain-hunting. Rick Dreiling, the chief executive of
Dollar General, the largest chain, with more than 9,500 stores, calls this
idea the New Consumerism. “Savings is fashionable again,” Dreiling told me. “A
gallon of Clorox bleach, say, is $1.44 at a drugstore or $1.24 at a grocery
store, and you pay a buck for it at the Dollar General. When the neighbors
come over, they can’t tell where you bought it, and you save anywhere from 20
to 40 cents, right?”

Financial anxiety — or the New Consumerism, if you like — has been a boon to
dollar stores. Same-store sales, a key measure of a retailer’s health, spiked
at the three large, publicly traded chains in this year’s first quarter — all
were up by at least 5 percent — while Wal-Mart had its eighth straight
quarterly decline. Dreiling says that much of Dollar General’s growth is
generated by what he calls “fill-in trips” ­— increasingly made by wealthier
people. Why linger in the canyons of Wal-Mart or Target when you can pop into
a dollar store? Dreiling says that 22 percent of his customers make more than
$70,000 a year and added, “That 22 percent is our fastest-growing segment.”

This growth has led to a building campaign. At a time when few businesses seem
to be investing in new equipment or ventures or jobs, Dreiling’s company
announced a few months ago that it would be creating 6,000 new jobs by
building 625 new stores this year. Kiley Rawlins, vice president for investor
relations at Family Dollar, said her company would add 300 new stores this
year, giving it more than 7,000 in 44 states.

And yet, how do dollar stores expand and make impressive returns, all the
while dealing in an inventory that still largely retails for a few dollars?
How does a store sell four AA batteries for $1? In part this market takes
advantage of the economy degrading all around it. When I asked Dreiling about
the difference in the cost of RadioShack batteries, he said that “RadioShack
is probably in a better spot in the same shopping center,” while Dollar
General might be in a “C+, B site.” RadioShack pays the high rent, while the
dollar stores inhabit a “no-frills box.”

The dollar-store combination has more to it than low store rents and really
cheap products. The labor force needed to run a dollar store is a tiny, low-
wage staff. Do the math of Dreiling’s announcement: 6,000 jobs divided by 625
stores equals about 10 jobs per store.

Perhaps this is all merely our grandparents’ Woolworth’s five-and-dime updated
by inflation to a dollar and adapted, like any good weed, to distressed areas
of the landscape. But a new and eroding reality in American life underwrites
this growing market. Yet even deep discounters have limits. In early June,
Dollar General predicted that its sales growth would slow slightly for the
rest of the year. Dreiling told analysts in a conference call that his company
would be very careful about raising prices, even though its costs for fuel and
such were rising. “This sounds almost silly,” he said, “but a $1 item going to
$1.15 in our channel is a major change for our customer.” Such delicate price
sensitivity suggests what is changing. Howard Levine, the chief executive of
Family Dollar, said to me, although “not necessarily a good thing for our
country, more and more people are living paycheck to paycheck.”

**Profit margins have** always been thin in the dollar stores. But now that
they are competing for the shrinking disposable income of the middle class,
there is a new kind of consultant out there — the dollar-store fixer. Bob
Hamilton advises the troubled independent-dollar-store manager on the tactics
needed to survive and thrive in the dollar-store economy. One afternoon he
drove me to Beaverton, Ore., to give me a tour of a Dollar Tree store whose
layout and strategy he thinks is exemplary in its competitive cunning.

In Hamilton’s view, the secret of a good dollar store is an obsessive manager
who can monitor 8,000 to 10,000 items, constantly varying product display
tactics, and sense the changing interests of a local customer base. This
frenzied drama requires a sharp eye for tiny details. “The market is moving
all the time,” Hamilton said as we entered the store. Right away, he threw up
his arms, thrilled. This was just before Easter, and he pointed out the big
holiday display practically in the doorway, an in-our-face explosion of color
and delight that herded us away from the exit. “The natural inclination is to
move to the right,” Hamilton said, nodding at the cash registers on the left.
The hunt was on.

Hamilton pointed out that the aisles are about two inches wider than two
shopping carts, which themselves are comically tiny, giving the buyer a sense
that even a small pile of goods is lavish. Despite the dollar store’s
reputation for shoddy products, the mise-en-scène nevertheless suggests a kind
of luxury, if only of quantity. “The first thing you feel is this thing is
packed with merchandise,” Hamilton said, pointing out the high shelves along
the walls. Helium balloons strained upward, everywhere. Any empty wall space
was filled with paper signage proclaiming savings or “$1” and framing the
store’s goods.

But wait! There, in the middle of the aisle, was a tower of candy boxes,
razored open and overflowing with cheap sweets. “They do this a lot with
facial tissue or back-to-school items,” Hamilton said. But it was blocking the
aisle — a deadly error in his view. Worse are the managers who deliberately
create cul-de-sacs by closing off the back of an aisle with goods. “You have
to turn around and come back!” Hamilton said, shaking his head in disbelief.
“You just watch the customers, and they will skip the aisle, every one of
them.”

The idea, Hamilton explained, is to create a kind of primal experience and a
certain meditative flow. “My theory was to get them in a pattern, and they
will just go up and down and go, ‘Oh, I forgot I need that,’ and pick it up.”

At one point in the tour, Hamilton spotted patches of bare shelf space and was
practically ashamed. His model store was committing egregious mistakes. “This
is probably the worst aisle we’ve been down,” he whispered. He dashed to a
single barren metal hook and pointed in horror. “They have an empty peg!
People are thinking, I’m getting the last one!” The stuffed bins, the boxes on
wood pallets sitting on the floor, the merchandise piled to the ceiling — all
this breeds an excited sense that everything just got here and you’re getting
to it first.

“You always keep things full,” he said. And always keep the higher part of the
shelves engorged with product. “People buy at eye level,” he added. Hamilton
advised that products should be hung in vertical strips so that in a walk up
the aisle, the eye can distinguish one item from the next. We arrived to a
back wall covered entirely in plastic, pillar after pillar of household
cleaning supplies, a kaleidoscopic blaze of primary colors. Bob Hamilton was
one happy man.

“Shopping is our hunting and gathering,” says Sharon Zukin, a professor of
sociology at Brooklyn College who specializes in consumer culture and suggests
that the dollar-store experience is a mere updating of our evolutionary
instincts. “This bare-bones aesthetic puts across the idea that there is
nothing between you the consumer and the goods that you desire. You are a
bargain hunter, and it’s not like a bazaar or open-market situation in other
regions of the world. It doesn’t require personal haggling between the
shopkeeper and the shoppers. Right? The price is set, and it’s there for the
taking. In many cases the cartons there have not been unpacked! You are
getting the product direct from the anonymous large-scale producer. You have
bagged the deer: you have your carton of 36 rolls of toilet paper.”

As strange as sociological metaphors sound in this context, this is very close
to how the corporate chain executives describe the next stage of dollar-store
evolution, as they try to please their new, more affluent customer. Both
Dollar General and Family Dollar are moving toward uniformity in their design
and layout, throwing off the serendipity that came of buying random lots and
salvage goods and was so admired by, say, crafts bloggers. The new design has
opened up the front of the stores “for those whose trip is all about, ‘I’m
getting what I need and getting out,’ ” said Rawlins of Family Dollar. As a
result, the design of the store is no longer catch-as-catch-can but built
around groupings of products that all make sense for the mission-oriented
hunter. Store designers call these groupings “adjacencies” and draw them up in
fine detail in an architectural schematic called a planogram. Toys, wrapping
paper and gift cards, for instance, are laid out in a logical sequence that
has been revealed by elaborate customer research and designed with precision.

“A hundred percent of our stores are planogrammed,” Dreiling of Dollar General
says. “We used to have what was called ‘flex space,’ and 25 percent of the
store was where the store manager could put in whatever they wanted.” No more.
“Everything is planogrammed now.”’

“Today we have very little in terms of closeouts,” said Family Dollar’s
Rawlins. “Forty-five percent of our merchandise are national brands that we
carry every day.” Even though the goods are still deeply discounted, the
stores will begin to have a similar look and layout — like the higher-end
stores already do. Same inventory, same layout, same experience — from coast
to coast.

As all these stores expand into really cheap food, they are creating their own
store brands. Just as A.&P.; long ago, or Target more recently, pronounced its
market significance by creating store brands like Ann Page or Archer Farms
foods, Family Dollar now sells Family Gourmet packaged meals, and Dollar
General promotes its line of discounted packaged foods with the bucolic handle
Clover Valley.

**What does all** this mean for the independent dollar stores? Is there a
place for them in the evolving dollar-store economy? There is, but only if
they are willing to hustle for pennies.

I called JC Sales, one of the big warehouse suppliers of independent dollar
stores located south of Los Angeles, and talked to Wally Lee, director of
marketing and technology. He agreed there was little room for error now. If I
wanted to open a dollar store, I asked him, where would he suggest I locate
it? “Right next to a Wal-Mart or a Target,” he said. And how large should my
new store be? “If you want to be profitable, start with an 8,000-square-foot
store,” he said. “That is the most optimally profitable among all our
customers.” Stores can be as small as 1,000 square feet and go up to 20,000,
but Lee implied that there is practically an algorithm of size, labor and
expenses — 8,000 to 10,000 square feet is profitability’s sweet spot. But it’s
not all science, Lee said. The very absence of a plan­ogram is the other
advantage independents can have.

“You need to have a good store manager who loves to talk to people,” Lee said.
“If it is a Spanish market, then it has to be a Spanish manager to speak to
them to see what their needs are. If you don’t do that, you’ll never beat
anybody else.”

In other words, even as the corporate chains standardize their inventory and
planogram their stores down to the last Wow shammy, the independents flourish
by retaining a Bob Hamilton-like sensibility — the sense that the market is in
motion — with managers buzzing about the store, constantly tweaking the
inventory, moving stuff around, ordering things that people request, changing
the lineup again, trying out a different placement, listening, yakking and
hand-trucking more product onto the floor.

In the basement of American capitalism, you can see the invisible hand at
work, except it’s not invisible. It’s actually your hand.

The streamlining of the big dollar stores opens up, for other outlets, their
original source of cheap merchandise: distressed goods, closeouts, overstock,
salvage merchandize, department-store returns, liquidated goods, discontinued
lines, clearance items, ex-catalog stock, freight-damaged goods, irregulars,
salvage cosmetics, test-market items and bankruptcy inventories.

This secondary market supplies another stratum of retail chains below the
dollar-store channel, one of the best known being [Big
Lots](http://web.archive.org/web/20110825205153/http://www.biglots.com/).
Hamilton explained that if these guys don’t sell the merchandise, it bumps on
down the line to another level known as liquidators.

Hamilton drove me out to Steve’s Liquidators outside Portland, Ore. It was
marked by only a sign on the road. The store itself was an unadorned massive
warehouse, with not even a sign over the door, a Euclidean concrete cube
painted a bright lime green with lemon yellow trim.

As we entered, a scruffy man exited, pushing a busted cart — each palsied
wheel pulling in a different direction — into a busy parking lot brimming with
older-model automobiles. Inside, the store could not have been more spare, a
decrepit imitation of a standard suburban grocery store. Exposed warehouse
ceilings above, and below, an unfinished shop floor occupied by metal
industrial shelving with aisles wide and deep enough to forklift in the goods.
Here is where food products minutes away from expiration hover, on the cusp of
becoming compost.

A pallet of giant restaurant-grade cans formed a giant ingot of eggplant in
tomato sauce. Hamilton examined the cans, each dented and dinged, labels torn
— all still sitting on a wooden pallet, partly in its shrink-wrap. “Must have
fallen off a truck,” he mused. There were sparse fruits and vegetables and
rows of salvaged canned goods. Scattered throughout and along the sides were
whatever else had been left behind at the dollar stores and then the closeout
stores and maybe even the thrift shops — dozens of princess night lights, a
single mattress leaning against a wall, a pallet of car oil, an array of
carpets, a thousand boxes of the same generic cornflakes, a leaf blower. Back
in the car, I asked Hamilton where the merchandise would go if it didn’t sell
here.

“The Dumpster,” he said.

Jack Hitt (jackhitt2011@gmail.com) is a contributing writer for the magazine
and author of a forthcoming book on amateurs in America.

Editor: Vera Titunik (v.titunik-MagGroup@nytimes.com)
