title: Why Is It So Much Harder to Be Nice to Ourselves Than to Other People?
source: https://melmagazine.com/en-us/story/why-is-it-so-much-harder-to-be-nice-to-ourselves-than-to-other-people
date: 2025-08-13T16:06:15.952610
tags: []
---
A glaring omission from modern behavioral science is the study of the hand
movements made by the singers of soulful ballads. For those with eyes to see,
all of human life’s deepest truths are contained in the expressive
gesticulations of divas. A perfect example — and a good place to inaugurate
the formal discipline of what we may as well call hand-throw-pology — is the
video for Toni Braxton’s 1996 hit [“Un-Break My
Heart.”](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Un-Break_My_Heart) Sexily grieving for
her sexy boyfriend (whom we see tragically, yet somehow still sexily, killed
at the start, in a slow-motion motorcycle accident) by moping around her
house, bumping into walls and refusing to put on some clothes, Braxton makes a
number of hand gestures throughout that are equally revealing.

“Don’t leave me alone in the rain…,” she sings while clutching her own upper
arms in her wispy black mourning negligée. “Uncry these tears…,” she pleads as
she first presses her palms together, then caresses her hairline in the
shower. “Undo this hurt that you caused when you walked out the door…,” she
demands, on stage now and with a few more clothes on, bringing it home and
purposefully placing both hands over her still un-unbroken heart.

VIDEO

These are all classic chanteuse maneuvers to be sure. But according to actual,
peer-reviewed research, they’re also power moves in the application of
psychological self-compassion. For many of us, they might even prove potent
weapons in combating a particularly unhelpful quirk in our natures: The fact
that most of us find it easy to be kind to others when they’re in need of
emotional support, yet will act like callous shitbags when it comes to
reflecting on our own personal crises and failings.

The good news is that while singers’ hand-choreography isn’t yet the object of
scientific investigation, this odd dearth of self-compassion is — and progress
is being made. Having, in 2003, come up with what is now the definitive scale
psychologists use to quantify and measure people’s self-compassion, [Kristin
Neff](https://self-compassion.org/about/) is the leader in this emerging
field. And per a recent study of hers, fully three-quarters of us are
habitually “significantly” nicer to others than we are to ourselves. While the
rest, she finds, will show kindness to themselves and others in equal amounts,
Neff estimates that only “maybe five percent are more compassionate to
themselves than others. I haven’t studied them yet; I don’t know if they’re
narcissists, but they’re really weird!”

She has studied the vast majority who seem prone to self-disdain, though, and
Neff, who is associate professor of human development and culture at the
University of Texas at Austin — has found that self-comforting hand movements
are one surprisingly effective way to avoid our unfortunate tendency to do
ourselves down. “We use physical touch as a really useful [technique] because
it happens at the preverbal level. We help people find the type of touch that
feels supportive. For some people, it’s hands on heart; other people, cradling
their face; some people, holding their own hand.” For T. Braxon _circa_ 1996,
as we’ve seen, it was all three.

As co-founder of [the educational non-profit Center for Mindful Self-
Compassion](https://self-compassion.org/), Neff also teaches other methods of
self-support, including the regular habit of talking to yourself, whether out
loud or in your head, in warm, encouraging terms. We’ll come on to exactly why
these tactics might prove so successful in bolstering our mental health — and
the explanation gets right to the heart of the weird duality that’s at work
when we’re doling out our sympathies. But first it’s worth outlining what Neff
and other psychologists who study it mean by self-compassion, and why they
think it’s such an important trait to acquire.

“When you go into battle, who do you want for your side — an ally or an
enemy?” asks Neff. “With self-compassion, it’s like you’ve got your own back.”
It’s much stronger, she says, “to have an ally inside your head than an enemy
who’s cutting you down and saying, ‘You can’t do it,’ and ‘You’re not good
enough.’”

She draws a distinction between this cheerleader approach to self-worth and
the perhaps more familiar notion of self-esteem, which she characterizes more
in _Mean Girls_ terms, as “a fair-weather friend” and believes is nowhere near
as helpful to our overall well-being. “Self-esteem, if you think of it just as
a positive judgement of oneself, can sometimes work and sometimes not. So when
we fail, for instance, our self-esteem takes a huge hit, right when we need it
the most. Our self-esteem deserts us.”

### **What’s Self-Love Got To Do with It?**

As a mental-health insurance policy, actively being kind to yourself, compared
to merely investing pride in yourself, comes with a range of added
protections. “The research is clear that people who lack self-compassion tend
to have trouble in many important areas of human flourishing,” says [Taylor
Kreiss](https://www.taylorkreiss.com/), an L.A.-based life-coach and speaker
who draws on positive psychology and philosophy to advise clients on “the art
and science of a happy life.” “People who lack self-compassion,” he continues,
“tend to experience more stress, less motivation toward valued goals,
diminished resilience, maladaptive perfectionism, isolation and insecurity.”
For men in particular, he thinks a reluctance to offer yourself support can
pose a “devastating hazard,” in that “a lack of self-compassion impedes our
ability to live authentically; to become the men we want to be.”

If the practice of self-compassion is the answer, though, cradling yourself in
soothing hands and softly giving yourself pep talks might not seem like the
guy-est thing to do. “Unfortunately,” says Kreiss, “many men tend to think
it’s weak or woo-woo bullshit to engage in the elements of self-compassion.”
Instead, inherited, baked-in ideas of heterosexual masculinity will very often
prevail: “Many men have been culturally conditioned to berate themselves with
brutal self-criticism when they find imperfection or weakness. They have your
stereotypical angry football coach or the gunnery sergeant from _Full Metal
Jacket_ in their head, just waiting to curse them out whenever they mess up.”

VIDEO

It’s an apt analogy. In addressing the idea that the habits of self-compassion
might come across as a sign of weakness, Kristin Neff points to a study led by
the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, which assessed levels of post-
traumatic stress disorder among combat troops who had served in Iraq and
Afghanistan. In their paper, published in April 2015, the researchers said
they’d “found a negative association between self-compassion and PTSD symptom
severity at baseline and 12-month follow-up.” Which means, explains Neff,
“those soldiers who were kinder and more supportive about what they had
experienced toward themselves were actually less likely to get PTSD.”

Evidently at least some men, then, even in as towel-snappingly masculine an
environment as the military, are routinely giving themselves a break. “The
barriers to self-compassion are akin to the barriers that keep men out of
therapy,” says Kreiss. But while “they often come up in coaching male clients
and in everyday life,” he says, “thankfully as a society we’re trying to
overcome many of these characteristics of toxic masculinity.”

Clearly, though, it’s not just emotionally inhibited men who struggle with
bestowing appropriate levels of kindness on themselves. Neff suggests that
cultural norms, particularly in the U.S., mean many might associate self-care
with other frowned-upon “selfies” like self-indulgence and selfishness. “We
use the whip with ourselves because we assume that that’s the most effective
way to motivate ourselves,” she says. “It _kind of_ works but it has all these
unintended consequences, like to make you depressed and ashamed; it can give
you performance anxiety; it can make you afraid of failure.”

### **You Are the Wind Beneath Your Wings**

According to positive psychologists, developing a healthy self-compassionate
disposition is closely associated with mindfulness, a word that might cause
more than a few to flinch at the self-help hype and Buddhist mystique
surrounding it. While, according to Neff, being mindful of your suffering is
an essential ingredient in any act of self-compassion — because you can’t
extend a helping hand to yourself if you aren’t first aware that you need it —
she insists you don’t need to be an eighth-level bodhisattva to get the
benefit. “You don’t have to practice mindfulness meditation to do self-
compassion; you can just be aware. And you’ve done the practice your whole
life, probably — where people learn how to be a good friend and how to be a
support to someone. You can fall back on that.”

Getting practical, Kreiss suggests cultivating kindness by “searching for a
thought you had earlier in the day that was overly critical, writing it down,
then turning your criticism into a statement of self-compassion.” His top
recommendation is “to set a series of alarms on your phone, so that eight
times a day a message pops up on your screen reminding you to “Practice self
compassion.” “Try this for two weeks,” he says, “and see if you don’t find
your spontaneous natural reactions becoming more self-compassionate.”
Alternatively, of course, you could schedule eight internal choruses of Celine
Dion’s “My Heart Will Go On” and let your hands do the talking.

VIDEO

Another of the central aspects of Neff’s concept of self-compassion is one we
should all be able to relate to. To be truly kind to yourself, she argues, is
to realize that whatever shame, embarrassment, disappointment, sorrow or
anxiety you might be experiencing, those feelings are being shared, somewhere,
by someone else. Because they’re all inescapable aspects of being biological
humans dealing with our universal human shit. And it’s this element, waking up
to what Neff calls our “common humanity,” that helps explain why some 75
percent of us are emotionally generous with friends but are continually short-
changing ourselves.

Our emotional asymmetry, she says, springs from the fact “that self-criticism
and self-compassion tap in to two different physiological systems.” When we
self-criticize, explains Neff, it’s often a trigger for our body’s fight-or-
flight stress response, which is controlled by a neurological network known,
slightly confusingly, as the sympathetic nervous system. Evolved in our
hunter-gatherer past to put us in a state of high alertness and heart-thumping
readiness for action, it’s a system that’s all too quick to activate whenever
we feel threatened. When the threat arises from ourselves, “because we’ve
failed or we aren’t good enough,” says Neff, “then we try to fight ourselves,
control ourselves, so we can be safe. But when my _friend_ fails, I’m not
directly threatened. So I don’t have to go into that fight, flight or freeze
mode.”

“The thing we have to remember,” she says, is that our aggressive reaction
toward ourselves “is all about wanting to be safe.” But it turns out our
bodies have a second mechanism for helping us do that. This parasympathetic
nervous system is “a later thing evolutionarily — the mammalian care system,”
says Neff, which regulates the heart rate and our levels of “feel-good”
hormones such as oxytocin. This system helps mammals bond with each other “in
the context of warmth, care, kindness, touch and gentle sounds. That’s what
motivates children to be near their parents and motivates parents to take care
of their children.” But compared to the fight-or-flight path to feeling
secure, this system “doesn’t come online as quickly and it takes a little
extra effort.”

“So all we’re doing with self-compassion,” says Neff, “is we’re teaching
people to use this other safety system — the care system — for themselves, to
help them feel safe. It’s very doable. That’s the crazy thing: It’s not that
hard for people to do. Because they already have it!”

Which makes sense of why the mannerisms of being nice to yourself — those kind
words and ballad-singer heart-pressing and head-caressing — might actually
have a great deal of merit in fortifying our mental defenses. “I don’t want to
make self-compassion sound like some sort of tonic for all of life’s ills,”
says Kreiss, “but the research suggests it’s a learnable skill that unlocks
many of the most sought-after goods of life.”

It’s just as Whitney Houston once sang while lightly tapping on her chest:
“Learning to love yourself, it is the greatest love of all.” (See? Diva hands:
_All_ of life’s truths. Someone really should get on this.)

VIDEO

* * *

Chris Bourn is a writer and editor who has writed and edited for many a title,
including British Maxim and Time Out. He does stories for MEL covering health,
happiness, and how things came to be.
