title: The Anti-SNARF Manifesto
source: https://www.buzzfeed.com/jonah/the-anti-snarf-manifesto
date: 2025-08-13T15:07:10.384381
tags: []
---
AI undermining human agency is breaking classical economic theories and also
undermining the established theories about the tech industry and competition.
Leading analysts like Ben Thompson have missed this major shift and continue
to argue that the big tech companies are consumer friendly and winning market
share by delivering utility to customers. In his view, the social media
companies are “aggregators” that provide a phenomenal benefit to consumers by
providing a product they love at zero cost. He claims that this consumer-
centricity is why most anti-trust efforts are misguided. But he is missing
that this was only true in the early years before the platforms used more
advanced AI to maximize the addictiveness of their services. If the early
internet was serving beer and wine that brought people together, today’s
internet is dealing crack and fentanyl that tears people apart. The consumer
isn’t winning when they are addicted to a product that makes them unhappy, and
when they are spending hours each day using products they would pay money to
make disappear. Any theory of business competition needs to be updated with
deeper analysis drawn from addiction psychology and behavioral economics.

People haven’t realized it yet, but the AI-powered platforms have already
shipped the dystopian AI future many people are worried might come in the
future. They’ve already delivered a MAGA President that spews SNARF and a woke
counter-culture that celebrates the assassination of a health insurance
executive — big stakes, lots of novelty, and plenty of anger, retention, and
fear! They’ve already delivered an information ecosystem where you can’t get
basic information in a crisis like the recent LA fires, but instead get
endless fights about identity politics, fake images, and conspiracy theories.
It is hilarious to me that so many people still blame “The Media” when the
behaviors of the media are largely shaped by the much larger tech platforms,
who distribute most of the world’s content, despite being mostly disinterested
in the content itself. These tech companies are worth literally trillions of
dollars, control the flow of information, and sit next to the President during
the inauguration ceremonies. Nevertheless, they love to blame the media and
take zero responsibility for the media ecosystem that they were instrumental
in creating, almost by accident as a byproduct of the AI wars. But the public
is beginning to catch on. Everyone is beginning to realize that the system is
broken. People are beginning to crave something different.



**Time To Fight Back**

Unlike the platforms, we care about internet content and know that it moves
culture and the world forward. We have an opportunity to fight back against
SNARF and bring some joy and fun back to the internet. People are craving the
“beer and wine” era of the internet and we can bring that back on BuzzFeed,
HuffPost, and Tasty. We can make content that gives you a little buzz, helps
you relax, have a good time, and connect with your friends. But we can’t be
naive about how hard it is to sell beer when your competitors are offering
hard drugs free of charge. We need to be maniacal about packaging our content
so it can compete in the social media feeds against SNARF. We need to select
stories where the stakes and novelty are actually high, and not fake it. We
need to cover stories where anger and fear are justified, but also balance it
with joy and entertainment, and prove that positive and truthful content can
also perform if we give it the right care and attention. We need to tell great
stories that keep people engaged, without annoying retention hacks, but still
be savvy about what makes people want to stay until the end. Put simply, we
need to inject some truth, joy, creativity, and positive entertainment into
the social web so people have better alternatives in the sea of SNARF.

Here is how we will do it….

**BuzzFeed** will provide human curation of the best of the internet,
providing an alternative to algorithmically recommended SNARF. We do the
doomscrolling for you, so you can follow the biggest trends, find the hidden
gems, and be in the loop without wasting your time and risking your mental
health. We will also counter the anger and fear with a sense of humor,
laughing at the buffoonery and ridiculousness of the most powerful people. We
will counter the increase of gaslighting and misinformation by speaking to our
diverse audience in ways that other institutions, media, and platforms clearly
won’t, and no matter the external pressures, we will ensure that our
community's joy and humanity are preserved and celebrated. SNARF drives
engagement, but if we do our job we can still break through with humor, with
joy, and with a small dose of righteous anger. And we will bring more fun and
playfulness back to the internet with low stakes content that is pure
entertainment, from celebrity stories to shopping to personal advice.

**HuffPost** will break through by zeroing in on topics where the **stakes**
are legitimate, the **novelty** is real, and the **fear** and **anger** are
justified, and we won’t be above using clever **retention** tactics, all while
maintaining high journalistic standards. You might call this using “SNARF for
good,” but we need to be savvy about how to spread our important work in a
tough information environment. Audiences are getting more sensitive to content
that fakes the stakes, manufactures novelty, and manipulates
[emotions](http://web.archive.org/web/20250727033727/https://www.buzzfeed.com/evelinamedina/which-
human-emotion-are-you) for engagement, and HuffPost can stand out by telling
it like it is and having higher standards. At a time when establishment,
billionaire-owned publications are succumbing to power and softening their
coverage, HuffPost will be loud, direct and honest. And HuffPost will continue
to counter-program with Life, Voices and Personal stories where the journalism
provides an escape from SNARF, because living a good, joyful life means taking
breaks from politics, culture wars, and existential fights about the future of
society.

**Tasty** will fight SNARF with utility and social connection, as the leading
food entertainment brand, on the forefront of food trends, bringing audiences
entertaining formats with beloved creators and famous faces. Tasty provides an
alternative to a sea of terrible engagement bait food content, that
manipulates the audience into watching disgusting and pointless videos. The
Tasty brand is trusted, our creators are beloved, and our scale is massive,
across audiences both young and old, so we are a rare food brand that can
still attract an audience without resorting to toxic engagement bait tactics.
And the Tasty app will give us our own platform to grow usage and loyalty by
integrating capabilities such as AI recipe remixing, community tips and
challenges, and creator-led content.

**BuzzFeed Studios** will escape SNARF by creating well-developed, quality
longform video and premium content that is distributed on streamers and
platforms that _do_ care about what they air. In only a few years, we’ve
released 19 original movies and TV shows, and countless digital series that
have driven billions of views and entertained global audiences across genres.
We will continue to produce beloved video formats, TV series, docs, films and
podcasts, and offer opportunities for creators and talent to create with us.
Our audience-first approach to development allows us to create IP that can
stand on its own, and transcend any deep learning algorithm.

We know we are swimming against the tide, the platforms don’t care or
understand content, and they have all surrendered to a depressing form of AI-
powered recommendation that gives SNARF a structural advantage. But I know we
can still have success, and look forward to counter-programming with our human
creativity fighting against the machine. The tide is starting to shift and we
will benefit from the growing dissatisfaction with the big platforms.

Before I go, I want to tell you about something big we are starting to build.
**We are creating** **a new social media platform** **built specifically to
spread joy and enable playful creative expression**. This social media
platform will use AI to give users agency instead of stealing their agency.
I’m fed up with giving the platform companies advice about how to fix the
internet, if we want this done right, we have to do it ourselves!
