title: 'Documentary Now!' Is TV's Last Truly Unbothered Show - The Atlantic
source: https://www.theatlantic.com/culture/archive/2022/10/documentary-now-tv-show-ifc-cate-blanchett/671742/
date: 2025-08-13T15:25:21.838409
tags: []
---
On an atypically sunny morning in April, an octogenarian actor rested her eyes
on a black leather couch in an Airbnb in Blackpool, a seaside town on
England’s northwestern coast known for its [risqué
postcards](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2043065/Oo-er-missus-
The-1-300-postcards-saucy-seaside.html) and dilapidated Victorian grandeur.
The house, whose aesthetic fell somewhere between canary-yellow cheer and acid
comedown, was in fact filled with grandmotherly women, immaculately groomed,
swaddled in beige knits, drinking tea and waiting for their close-ups. Less
soigné among them was the movie star Cate Blanchett, who wore prosthetic
buckteeth, a permed orange wig, chunky plastic spectacles, and a pink nylon
apron. “You certainly look totally unrecognizable,” her co-star, the actor
Harriet Walter, told her. “Thank you,” Blanchett replied, deadpan.

The double Oscar winner—heavily tipped to win a third Academy Award next
spring for [her ferocious performance as a conductor in
](https://www.theatlantic.com/culture/archive/2022/10/tar-movie-review-cate-
blanchett/671665/)[_Tár_](https://www.theatlantic.com/culture/archive/2022/10/tar-
movie-review-cate-blanchett/671665/)—was taking the day’s work seriously, or
as seriously as you can take an absurdist homage to a 1994 BBC documentary
about hairdressers called _Three Salons at the Seaside_. She was there because
she’s one of the people who has bought into the vision of [_Documentary
Now!_](https://www.theatlantic.com/entertainment/archive/2015/08/for-
documentary-now-the-jokes-in-the-details/401864/), the recondite passion
project dreamed up by a squad of _Saturday Night Live_ veterans almost 10
years ago. The series amounts to a long-running in-joke among friends: It’s an
earnestly loving tribute to film history and a regular reunion for people
whose schedules are filled with obligations such as embarking on global comedy
tours, hosting late-night talk shows _,_ and working on Marvel TV spin-offs.
“I’m really glad that everybody else enjoys it,” Alex Buono, one of the show's
directors, told me. “I feel like it’s a show that we make for ourselves to
amuse each other.”

[Read: How
](https://www.theatlantic.com/entertainment/archive/2019/02/documentary-now-
season-3-review-ifc/583027/)[_Documentary
Now!_](https://www.theatlantic.com/entertainment/archive/2019/02/documentary-
now-season-3-review-ifc/583027/)[spoofs male
genius](https://www.theatlantic.com/entertainment/archive/2019/02/documentary-
now-season-3-review-ifc/583027/)

There are two remarkable things about _Documentary Now!_ One is that it works
at all—that a series whose objective blends comedic parody and authentic
tribute doesn’t get lost in esotericism. The other is that, thanks to the
power and prestige of its creative team (which includes Seth Meyers, Fred
Armisen, John Mulaney, Buono, and the director Rhys Thomas), it is probably
TV’s last truly unbothered show. Everybody does what they want, and we, the
viewers, get to see what oddball, magical art that kind of creative freedom
can manifest—such as the sight of Blanchett, mousy and muted, furiously
yanking a brush through an elderly woman’s hair.

“There’s not an ounce of preciousness in it, you know?” Blanchett told me
between takes. “And it’s so buoyant. Often, you can get so bogged down trying
to perfect things. The deliberate imperfection in this series is really
great.” She was also struck by the care that Meyers, who wrote the episode,
had for the source material: “It was amazing how much Seth understood the
language and the atmosphere of [_Three Salons_], being an American man
describing the elderly female experience in 1994.” (When I relayed this to
Meyers later, he said it was the “highest possible praise” he could imagine.)
The series might be comedy, but it is sincerely devoted to documentary and to
the thing that documentary captures better than any other art form: the
extravagant, fascinating spectacle of humankind.

* * *

If the new season of _Documentary Now!_ has a theme, it’s passion projects
more generally—bewildering, uncompromising schemes dreamed up by bewildering,
uncompromising people. In a two-part episode, Alexander Skarsgård plays a
director named Rainer Wolz (a lightly fictionalized Werner Herzog), who has a
regal bearing, an absurd German accent, and a plan to use a trip capturing
Indigenous communities in a desolate region in Russia to also somehow direct a
CBS sitcom called _Bachelor Nanny_. (The episode is largely based on Herzog’s
documentary _Burden of Dreams_.) Another pays tribute to the French New Wave
director Agnès Varda and her films _The Beaches of Agnès_ and _Faces Places_ ,
in which she revisited her life through a kind of cinematic scrapbooking.
There’s one inspired by the Oscar-winning boxing documentary _When We Were
Kings_ that follows a legend in the (fictional) Welsh sport of rock throwing.
And there’s a parody of the Oscar-winning documentary _My Octopus Teacher_
called _My Monkey Grifter_ that also manages to wink at the conventions of
morally dubious true-crime series.

In each episode, commitment to a conceit is matched by visual verisimilitude:
the exact graininess of footage, the nuances of language, even the spiritual
vibe of a scene. When the creators first dreamed up the series, Armisen told
me, “we might have had different ideas of it. For me, it was that I wanted
[the episodes] to be convincing. That someone could watch it and say, ‘I think
this is real.’ Even that people could have arguments about it.” (When we
spoke, he was wearing a David Lee Roth–esque wig and a starchy blue uniform
for his small but vital role as the hair salon’s postman, George.)

The idea to pay tribute to _Three Salons at the Seaside_ , a documentary so
obscure it seems to exist only in a fuzzy and likely illegal YouTube
recording, came from Blanchett. She made her _Documentary Now!_ debut in
Season 3, playing a performance artist (based on Marina Abramović) whose
career included running through a gallery with a bucket on her head and
yowling like a cat. (The episode, with its shrewdness and jubilant ending, is
one of the most memorable pieces of television I’ve ever seen.) While filming
the show [_Mrs.
America_](https://www.theatlantic.com/culture/archive/2020/04/hulu-mrs-
america-phyllis-schlafly-long-shadow/610129/), in which she played the
conservative firebrand Phyllis Schlafly, Blanchett spent significant amounts
of time having her hair styled into Schlafly’s immutable waves. Her stylist
recommended _Three Salons_ during a discussion about what hair salons can mean
to women—how they can be a place of refuge, a community center, a locus of
care. “Even though it’s set in Blackpool and I’m from Melbourne, watching it
felt like stepping back into my childhood,” Blanchett said. “Because my
grandmother lived with us, and I spent my entire childhood in [the hair salon]
_Ezio of Rome_ ”—she pronounced it so emphatically that everyone else in the
room fell into giggles—“around all these elderly women. Between there and the
croquet club. I just absolutely fell in love with it.”

For the resulting “Two Hairdressers in Bagglyport,” Meyers decided to combine
the salon concept with _The September Issue_ , R. J. Cutler’s chronicle of
_Vogue_ and the loaded relationship between the magazine’s longtime editor in
chief, Anna Wintour, and its former creative director, Grace Coddington.
Harriet Walter plays Edwina, the immaculate proprietor of Salon de Edwina, and
Blanchett is Alice, a kind but clumsy helpmeet who goes to work for Edwina
after her bricklayer husband is killed by a falling pile of bricks. The jokes
abide—Edwina, ordering a sandwich, is given options of “butter and pickle,
tomato mayonnaise, and ham with vinegar,” and a collection jar is passed
around for someone named Mary, who’s “been kidnapped. Again.”

As with other _Documentary Now!_ episodes, though, the precision with which
“Two Hairdressers” emulates its source material is notable, down to filming in
one of the original locations, a near-identical score, identical shots of hair
being wound onto rollers, and matching B-roll of a roller skater loudly
rattling down the street. “The original has got such a sweet tone to it; it’s
a very innocent, humorous thing,” Walter told me. “I was worried that we would
be sort of sending it up, or a bit patronizing or something.” A different show
might have. But _Three Salons at the Seaside_ (directed by Philippa Lowthorpe,
who later won a BAFTA for her work on _Call the Midwife_) is intent on
portraying the dignity of its subjects amid difficulty, and _Documentary Now!_
was just as intent on doing the same.

Later that afternoon, I watched Walter shoot a scene in which Edwina talks
about the salon’s significance. “These women have all had hard lives,” she
said, her brow furrowed. “And this is the place where we’re supposed to make
it a little better for them.” Walters ran through the scene several times; she
suggested using the word _ladies_ instead of _women_ , to evoke more intimacy.
(_Ladies_ did indeed make it into the final cut.) “For us, at least,” Rhys
Thomas told me, “you really do forget the audience. In a fun way. That’s the
beauty of documentaries too, that they’re real life.” The second the show
starts trying to lean away from “truth” and toward comedy, he thinks, is the
second it falls apart. But it hasn’t yet.
