title: Arcade Fire - One Very, Very Indie Band - Darcy Frey - The New York Times
source: http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/04/magazine/04arcade.t.html?_r=1&pagewanted=print
date: 2025-08-13T21:10:08.136177
tags: []
---
Damn, this church is getting hectic, what with Régine in the organist’s alcove
coaxing the backup singers to let loose — Sing like really hungry wolves! Like
you’re sending a desperate alarm to the other wolves! — and Win down in the
sanctuary trying to keep the upright double bass and tenor sax from veering
toward smooth jazz, and Jeremy picking through dozens of black-metal shipping
crates to make sure the equipment’s all there — Win’s dobro, Régine’s hurdy-
gurdy, the glockenspiel, the accordions, the giant Asian cymbals and the neon
Jesus sign — everything packed up tight and ready to be shipped off to London
for the start of the band’s yearlong world tour. It’s a snowy January night
just outside Montreal, and each time the front door opens, gusts of frigid air
blow through the nave: Hey, close the. . . . Oh, it’s Liza! Hey everybody,
Liza’s here! Earlier, the church got so crowded that Sarah had to record her
violin part (Régine: Make it weird, like a ghost violin, a sci-fi violin, a
violin from outer space!) squished into the sound booth while Richie took his
guitar into the stairwell because someone was playing a Mexican reveille on
the trumpet and there was a French horn warming up in the kitchen.

When the members of the Arcade Fire, a Montreal art-rock band led by Win
Butler and his wife, Régine Chassagne, were trying to find studio space to
record their second full-length album, they took an inventory of their
instruments — the hurdy-gurdy and the accordions, but also the baby-grand and
upright pianos, the organ and the harpsichord, the xylophone and the Caribbean
steel drums. Then they considered the acoustics that would best suit their
music — a kind of surging, post-punk rock with dense orchestrations cut
through with painful and, at times, quite beautiful noise collages. Finally,
they discussed their ambition to record their rousing, emotionally charged
songs with the entire band playing live, though the band has seven permanent
members and swells, when strings and horns are added, into an antic carnival
orchestra. With the men in suspenders and vests and the women in dresses and
lace fingerless gloves, and everyone employing yelps, hand claps, megaphones
(for vocal distortion), motorcycle helmets (so they can drum on each other’s
heads) and the occasional snare drum tossed high into the air, an Arcade Fire
show has the feel of a Clash concert infiltrated by Cirque du Soleil.

Given its outsize musical ambitions and unabashed theatricality, the Arcade
Fire could have filled a three-ring recording studio. The place it ultimately
found to record “Neon Bible,” the band’s follow-up to its successful and
surprisingly poised 2004 debut album, “Funeral,” was a 19th-century redbrick
church in a small farm town an hour outside of Montreal. The church already
had a stage in front, a hundred-foot ceiling that returned rich, live-sounding
reverberations and a rear balcony that could be turned into a glassed-in sound
booth. Once they bought the place, moved in their equipment and hired two
engineers, all they had to do was convert the basement into bedrooms and hire
Liza (Win’s brother’s fiancée’s younger sister) as their cook so they could
live out there for most of last year, working roughly three weeks on, one off,
sometimes playing through the wee hours to get their meticulously arranged and
recorded songs just right. (“Neon Bible” will be released March 6.)

The church-turned-recording-studio, the year of living undergraduately — those
were merely the latest unexpected events that have transpired since the Arcade
Fire started playing hole-in-the-wall clubs in Toronto and Montreal four years
ago, then put out “Funeral,” an album that, largely because of word-of-blog
and a gushing review on pitchforkmedia.com, the influential music Web site (an
album “at last capable of completely and successfully restoring the tainted
phrase ‘emotional’ to its true origin”), would go on to sell 750,000 copies,
which is a lot for an album that was recorded for $10,000. Once “Funeral” was
released, the small gigs started selling out, only to be replaced by larger
gigs that sold out too, and before long the Arcade Fire was touring North
America and Europe and playing to rapt audiences in Japan and Brazil. Most of
the band members are in their mid- to late 20s, but the keyboardist and bass
player, Will Butler, who is Win’s younger brother, had to ask his professors
at Northwestern for permission to miss class so he could appear with the band
on Conan O’Brien. Fortunately, he’d graduated by the time David Byrne wrote
them a fan letter and joined them onstage for a cover of his song “This Must
Be The Place,” and David Bowie (who’d been giving “Funeral” to his friends)
asked them to cover “Queen Bitch” at one of their shows and made a surprise
appearance in a white suit and straw hat. After the band opened three arena-
size shows for U2 in Montreal and Ottawa, Bono and his mates pronounced the
Arcade Fire their favorite new act.
