title: Netflix's Earnings, Netflix's Price Raise, Additional Netflix Notes (Stratechery Daily Update 2017-10-18)
source: http://mailchi.mp/stratechery/goodbye-gatekeepers-688377?e=ef6eeda78d
date: 2025-08-13T16:56:31.687814
tags: []
---
|  |  |
---
|  |  | The Daily Stratechery email, including exclusive content for members of [Stratechery.com](http://stratechery.com/)
---

|  |  |  |  |

# Netflix's Earnings, Netflix's Price Raise, Additional Netflix Notes

Wednesday, October 18, 2017

[blog post](https://stratechery.com/2017/netflixs-earnings-netflixs-price-
raise-additional-netflix-notes/) / [forum
thread](https://forum.stratechery.com/t/netflixs-earnings-netflixs-price-
raise-additional-netflix-notes/1373)
---
Good morning, A quick update on the marked-as-spam scourge that has struck
Stratechery over the last week: yesterday was better, but numbers were still
lower than usual. Stratechery’s DNS issue is fixed (for what it’s worth, the
issue has been present for years, so it’s not entirely clear if that was the
cause of now three emails in a row being marked as spam); we’re also working
on other measures to get a hold of the problem. In the meantime, in case
you’ve missed the last few days of updates and articles, please visit the
website: you paid for them, and I worked hard on them. 😞 I’m very sorry for
the trouble. On to the update:
---
|  |  |
---
Netflix Inc.’s wagers on original programming and international expansion are
paying off as the streaming service again posted strong subscriber growth amid
an increasingly competitive streaming video market. The Los Gatos, Calif.,
company ended its third quarter with 104 million paid streaming subscribers
globally. It added 5.3 million streaming users in total, outpacing the 4.4
million net additions it had projected. Netflix has been pouring money into
original programs such as “Stranger Things” and “The Crown” to fend off
competition from other streaming services and continue to attract new
subscribers around the world. The company now says it plans to spend as much
as $8 billion on content next year — up from an earlier estimate of $7 billion
— far outstripping the investments expected from rivals Hulu, Amazon.com Inc.
and HBO.
There was a funny moment at the end of Netflix’s [earnings
interview](https://ir.netflix.com/eventdetail.cfm?eventid=185123), the
ridiculous substitute for an investor earnings call that ensures Netflix
executives aren’t asked anything too hard to handle:
---
|  |  |
---
**Reed Hastings:** Doug, I think we’ve time for one last question. **Doug
Mitchelson (the chosen interlocutor from USB)** : Well, it was interesting
because I had two that I was going to go with, so for Reed, I’m going to let
you try and divide between the two of them. And one was, I was curious, I
think the investors are really focusing on competition and access to content
these days as the market really evolves. And so one was, I was sort of curious
if you would wrap up with the sustainable competitive advantages for Netflix.
And I think, separately I was going to ask a regulation question Reed and that
is that when you look at sort of content overseas and local quotas when you
think about what some of your peers are going through around scale issues, is
there anything on the regulatory side regarding those two specific issues that
Netflix is focused on right now? **Reed Hastings:** Well, Doug, very good
about staying in character. We’ve all got our Stranger Things sweaters on
because we’re celebrating both the amazing content that’s coming in 10 days or
so, and also targets a great promotional strategy, we’re learning how to do
merchandising, we’ve got some amazing displays and amazing materials out at
target. And Ted, do you want to tell us a little bit about Stranger Things?
Needless to say, Hastings didn’t answer the question about Netflix’s
sustainable competitive advantage. But hey, that is why you are subscribed to
Stratechery! Throughout the conversation Mitchelson seemed obsessed with
Netflix’s competition — Disney, Amazon, the shift to OTT cable services — and
of course that eternal Netflix bear bugaboo: what happens when the content
creators _finally_ wake up and pull their content from the service as [Disney
promised to do](https://stratechery.com/2017/disney-shifts-to-streaming-
disney-versus-netflix-espn/)? In fact, the answer to his unanswered question —
and his concerns — were in the results themselves: those 5.3 million new
subscribers (particularly the 4.45 million international), and the promise to
spend up to $8 million on content in 2018. That is a landmark: for years the
biggest spender on TV has been Disney’s ESPN, which is paying out $7.3 billion
for content in 2016; Netflix will soon be the biggest, but critically, the
nature of their content is very different from ESPN in particular. I’ve
emphasized this point [again and again](https://stratechery.com/tag/netflix/):
the fact that Netflix has not and will not invest in sports is the single best
way to understand the company’s strategy. What makes sports so valuable to
ESPN and to the TV industry generally is that they are only good live: that
means you have to have cable (to get ESPN), and there are massively more
opportunities to sell ads, which means the opportunity to double-up on revenue
streams — carriage fees and advertising. Netflix has a completely orthogonal
strategy: content is only valuable if it is evergreen; that means drama,
comedy, documentaries, movies, etc. The reasoning is straightforward: while a
live event may, in theory, draw an audience in anticipation of a sporting
event, it does nothing to retain an audience, or draw an audience once the
event has passed; evergreen content, on the other hand, not only draws
audiences at the time of release, but also retains audiences over time _and_
is accretive to the lure of would-be audiences in the future. That leads to
the differentiation I suggested was shown in Netflix’s results:
---
| • |  | First, the company’s expanding stable of original content draws new customers, retains old customers, and attracts marginal customers not just today for for years to come.
---|---|---
| • |  | Second, the fact that Netflix is international by default even as its competitors for content are geographically limited means the latter has a far larger addressable market over which it can spread the fixed costs of content acquisition. That Netflix can reach the entire world is, of course, a consequence of the Internet and Netflix’s advantage here is [that of an aggregator](https://stratechery.com/2016/does-uber-have-a-strategy-problem-netflix-and-aggregation-theory-google-trips/).
---|---|---
| • |  | Third, Netflix’s budget is defined not by its current user base but rather by its anticipated user base of the future — that is the luxury of growth. Most of Netflix’s competitors, on the other hand, are facing a declining user base. This advantage is not just financial but also psychological.
---|---|---
These sustainable advantages were all over Netflix’s [investor
letter](http://files.shareholder.com/downloads/NFLX/5340990173x0x959841/8E7F87AB-2E5C-41DB-862B-E872EF39B039/Q3_17_Shareholder_Letter_COMBINED.pdf)
and earnings call.
---
The most obvious example is Netflix’s price raise, which was announced earlier
this month. From [Business Insider](http://www.businessinsider.com/netflix-
raising-prices-october-2017-10?op=1):
---
|  |  |
---
Netflix will raise prices for its US subscribers starting Thursday, the
company confirmed to Business Insider. The price of the lowest-tier plan will
not change from $7.99 monthly. But the most popular, the “standard plan,”
which allows HD and two simultaneous streams, will increase to $10.99 a month
from $9.99. The highest-tier plan, which supports features like 4K video
resolution and four simultaneous streams, will increase to $13.99 a month from
$11.99.
Hastings was quite clear on why Netflix feels this increase will stick:
---
|  |  |
---
Prices are relative to value. We’re continuing to increase the content
offering and we’re seeing that reflected in viewing around the world. So we
try to maintain that feeling that consumers have that were a great value in
terms of the amount of the content we have relative to the prices.
This is _exactly_ what I have been hammering on with regards to Netflix: it is
a fool’s errand to evaluate the company statically. The entire strategy
depends on a dynamic increase in customer value through the creation of
original content which not only [decreases customer acquisition
costs](https://stratechery.com/2017/the-great-unbundling-follow-up-netflixs-
earnings-the-new-york-times-2020-report/) but also retains customers and, once
the surplus consumer value is great enough, allows for an increase in average
revenue per user (ARPU). To that end, the most impressive tidbit about
Netflix’s earnings was this, from the company’s Investor Letter:
---
|  |  |
---
Global streaming revenue in Q3 rose 33% year over year, driven by a 24%
increase in average paid memberships and 7% growth in ASP.
Netflix increased both its user base _and_ its average selling price — that
is, ARPU — and, I suspect, is one of the tell-tale sign of an aggregator.
---
There is one more bit: remember, aggregators are defined by their ability to
take advantage of the Internet’s drastically reduced distribution costs and
minimal transaction costs; that means, for digital products, marginal costs
are effectively zero. What matters is fixed costs, and the best way to
leverage fixed costs is to spread them over the largest number of users
possible. To that end, I thought this bit from the investor letter was quite
telling:
---
|  |  |
---
Ironically, as linear networks move outside of the traditional bundle and into
direct-to-consumer applications, we are working more closely than ever with
MVPDs/ISPs and other distributors. Building on our Q2 partnership with
SFR/Altice in France, where Netflix is sold in a package with high speed
Internet and TV services, and an earlier, comparable partnership with Proximus
of Belgium, this past quarter we announced the bundling of Netflix into
T-Mobile’s ONE family plan. Our partners are enthusiastic about the response
to these bundles as the excitement around our big content enhances their
offerings. Our goal with all of our partnerships is to make it easy for
members to sign up, pay and enjoy Netflix. We are pleased with the early
results and we will continue pursuing these bundling opportunities as a
complement to our core direct-to-consumer approach.
This is the shot: Netflix is willing to partner with anyone who will drive
sign-ups. This, though, from Hastings on the earnings interview, is the
chaser:
---
|  |  |
---
I think everyone is going to have their own strategies and it’s exciting that
everyone is trying to make over-the-top television better and better. I think
that is good for all of us and we just have to focus on creating content that
our members can’t live without and get excited about it every month. So that’s
really the — and not get too distracted by the competitive landscape around us
and whether or not one of our partners decide to produce for us or to compete
with us, that’s really a choice that they have to make based on their own
business. And we’re thrilled that more people are doing it, because I think
it’s great for the — for innovation. I think it’s great for consumers to have
a lot of choice, and that we just have to be the best choice out there.
Did you get that? Netflix is arguing that companies like Disney going over-
the-top are, in fact, helping Netflix. Sure, they are competitors if you only
consider streaming, but if you back out to consider entertainment broadly,
than more OTT services actually mean a higher likelihood of cutting the cord.
And, if a customer cuts the cord, which service has the highest likelihood of
being in the OTT basket they ultimately pay for? Netflix, of course. To that
end, if Disney makes it easier to cut the cord, the better for Netflix. One
more bit, from the earnings call:
---
|  |  |
---
**Doug Mitchelson:** I think that it’s an interesting dynamic because
increasingly the license content seems to be going to either Hulu or you have
a Disney situation with OTT, so I think investors are struggling with Netflix
as you look farther and farther down the road, that major U.S media companies
might be licensing less and less to Netflix, but you have a strategy of more
and more original content. And I’m curious how do you sort of derive the
confidence that your ramping original exclusives on Netflix will offset any
loss of licensing content in the future? **Ted Sarandos:** Well, what I’m
confident of is that it will not be an erratic shift, because like I said we
have these long-term agreements and those deals kind of run out as we’re
ramping up. And that has been pretty — a pretty smooth transition to date. I
think that the in those partnerships, where there’s still a lot of value that
I’m sure producers and networks and studios are evaluating is something like
Riverdale where having Riverdale on Netflix in the second window meant an
enormous audience growth for it in Season 2. In fact, 400% audience increase
on CW from Season 1 to Season 2, and the only thing different from that in
This Is Us is Riverdale was on Netflix. So I think people have to look at that
and look at those trade-offs in value and to see when does the partnership
become too competitive and make those decisions when the threat of the
competition outweighs the value of the partnership.
This is Netflix laying down the disruption gauntlet that traditional TV
companies must walk: Netflix’s ability to drive short-term value is massive;
is it worth forgoing that to compete directly, particularly when said
competition may actually help Netflix? It’s good to be the disruptor.
---
The Daily Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding
is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your
team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. Thanks for
being a supporter, and have a great day!
---
