title: Don’t Let It ‘Go’ Away: The Frantic, Furious Making of a Cult Movie Classic - The Ringer
source: https://www.theringer.com/movies/2019/3/29/18283794/go-making-of-doug-liman-john-august-sarah-polley-katie-holmes-no-doubt
date: 2025-08-13T16:17:46.540007
tags: []
---
[](/\[...wordpressNode\])

#

How one wild night in L.A. was captured by one wild production, headed up by
an unpredictable auteur, a hungry screenwriter, and a cast of about-to-be
superstars

[](/\[...wordpressNode\])

#

How one wild night in L.A. was captured by one wild production, headed up by
an unpredictable auteur, a hungry screenwriter, and a cast of about-to-be
superstars

Doug Liman had a decision to make. [_Getting
In_](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vlM6ZrnJ7Wc), the movie he’d directed
right after getting out of USC film school, had gone straight to video. But
then 1996 brought his indie sensation,
[_Swingers_](https://www.theringer.com/2017/5/26/16043532/doug-liman-swingers-
hockey-game-podcast-achievement-oriented-19c7faac0b9a). Made for only
$250,000, it followed the lives of crying**** and carousing unknown actors in
Los Angeles. Its release attached a scotch-powered jetpack to the careers of
Vince Vaughn and Jon Favreau. _Swingers_ earned $4.55 million at the box
office, though it found an even greater audience once it hit the home video
market. It’s had such a deep cultural impact that 23 years later, jag-offs are
still yelling “Vegas, baby!” when their planes touch down at McCarran.

So what was Liman going to do next?

To the delight of his representation, major film studios were offering him
comedies with budgets in the low $20 millions. He was heading toward
_Heartbreakers_ , a film about a mother-daughter conwoman team written by the
guys behind _Liar Liar_ and _The Little Rascals_. Then one day, when Liman was
leaving his Manhattan apartment, he heard his phone ringing as he stood in the
hallway waiting for the elevator. He was hoping it was a girl, but it turned
out to be the producer Mickey Liddell, pitching him to direct a movie called
_Go_.

The film told three interlocking stories, each tied to an ecstacy deal
initiated in the checkout line of a cruddy Hollywood supermarket. It featured
crackling dialogue, a Christmas-themed rave, closeted soap opera stars, a car
chase on the Vegas strip, _Beverly Hills, 90210_ jokes, iodine poisoning, a
tantric threesome, and a telepathic cat named Huxley.

Even before the phone call, Liman felt like _Heartbreakers_ was too easy, that
it was too much money for a comedy. _Go_ had a proposed budget around one-
fifth of what he’d spend on _Heartbreakers_. His agent cautioned that if Liman
did another indie and things went down in flames, he wouldn’t get the
opportunity to work with a major studio again. On the other hand, if he
completed _Heartbreakers_ now, regardless of how well it did, his career would
be set.

Unlike other marquee indie directors of the era, Liman wasn’t a writer, so he
wasn’t generating his own material. It was the ethos driving _Go_ ’s __ script
that convinced him to pick the project. “I had a charmed youth in that I did a
lot of crazy things and no one ever got hurt,” Liman says. “I had this belief
that you have a get-out-of-jail-free card when you’re 18. And I recognize
there’s a lot of white privilege connected to that get-out-of-jail-free card
now that I wasn’t as sensitive to at the time because I only knew my own
experience.”

“What I saw in _Go_ was a story that was celebrating: Do crazy shit while
you’re young,” he continues. “You can get away with it when you’re young.”

When you talk to people who’ve worked with Liman, they’ll describe him as “a
character and a half” or “an interesting cat.” What they mean is that he’s a
weirdo who makes preposterous choices that should result in failure but often
end in success.

Looking at _Go_ now, 20 years after it was released in April 1999, you can see
a convergence of several film trends of that era. There’s the absorption of
the creators of 1990s indie cinema into the mainstream moviemaking landscape.
There’s a new generation of bright young actors ready to make the leap from
teenage fare to more adult material. There’s Quentin Tarantino’s cinematic
quirks becoming modern conventions. Yet throughout the making of _Go_ , there
was moment after moment that should have led to disaster. Still, things
managed to work out. Sort of.

_Go_ wasn’t an abject financial disaster, but it was far from a hit. It’s not
quite a cult classic, but over the years it’s built a contingent of dedicated
fans. Assistants squealed when I told them which film I wanted to interview
their bosses about. Lauded careers were launched off of it. Over the two
ensuing decades, the amount of success that’s come to the people involved in
the film—from the actors, to the crew, to the studio executives who got
involved—is incredible.

Liman has made other films that have grossed far more money, like _Mr. & Mrs.
Smith _and _The Bourne Identity_. Some of his work is more beloved by film
devotees, like _Swingers_ and _Edge of Tomorrow_. Still, Liman considers _Go_
his best film. “We’re so trained toward short-term rewards that the true
success of a movie has to be evaluated in 10 or 20 years after it comes out,
and so, if you ask how I feel about how [_Go_] was received from where I sit
today, I couldn’t be more proud of it and it couldn’t have been received
better,” Liman says. “I do like films, like _Mr. & Mrs. Smith_, where you do
get some huge opening weekend, but if I had to trade one or the other, it
lasting and being something that people will watch today is something that is
more important to me.”

There’s a scrappiness to _Go_ that could only have been generated by a group
of people who, much like the movie’s characters, often found themselves in
situations where they were in over their heads. As the film’s editor, Stephen
Mirrione, says, “One of the things I like about [_Go_] is it’s a movie about
idiots that’s made by a bunch of goofballs, a bunch of knuckleheads.”

Doug LimanColumbia/TriStar

Sitting inside his home in L.A.’s Hancock Park neighborhood, screenwriter John
August repeats one of his maxims: “My favorite genre of movie is movies that
get made.” His filmography includes _Big Fish_ , the _Charlie’s Angels_
adaptation from 2000, the _Charlie and the Chocolate Factory_ remake, and the
forthcoming live-action _Aladdin_. But back in 1998, when he was nearing the
end of his 20s, nothing August wrote had made it to the screen. He’d been
hired to adapt _How to Eat Fried Worms_ for Ron Howard at Imagine
Entertainment and _A Wrinkle in Time_ for Dimension/Miramax, neither of which
was anywhere close to being made. “I was really fortunate to be getting those
jobs,” he says, “but I was only being considered for movies involving gnomes,
elves, dwarves, and Christmas.”

To expand the type of offers he was getting, he returned to a script for a
short film called _X_ that he wrote while enrolled in USC’s graduate film
program. _X_ is basically the first segment in _Go_. It tracks a young
supermarket worker on the verge of eviction named Ronna who gets caught up in
an ecstacy deal and ends up lying in a ditch outside a rave. In his head,
August had already built out more of a backstory for Adam and Zack, the two
guys who come into the grocery store looking to score, and Simon, Ronna’s
English coworker who usually deals to them. For _Go_ he created two more
segments that focused on these characters and increased the connections among
all three parts.

There had been movies that had broken up the narrative and told related
stories from different perspectives before—most famously Akira Kurosawa’s
_Rashomon_ and Jim Jarmusch’s _Mystery Train_ —but those were the type of
movies mostly taught at film school or shown at sticky-floored repertory
theaters. Then 1994 brought Quentin Tarantino’s _Pulp Fiction_ , which managed
to popularize the concept. “The idea of restarting your movie was fine; it
wasn’t just an experimental art-film kind of thing,” August explains of _Pulp
Fiction_ ’s impact. “It was a thing that people could have said, ‘Oh, it’s
like that.’ The ‘Oh, it’s like that’ has sort of been a blessing and a curse.
It made it possible to make [_Go_], but also made it really easy to dismiss
the film or to dismiss that gimmick as ‘ _Pulp Fiction_ did it first.’”

(It might not help that along with the pop-culture-peppered dialogue, _Go_
also features two Tarantino-style [trunk shots](https://vimeo.com/106708439).)

When August began taking meetings for _Go_ , the big studios were still buying
spec scripts. But the real motivation was to show them what he was capable of.
Because of its tonal shifts, _Go_ could be read as an action movie, a comedy,
a thriller, or whatever sample they needed it to be. Executives would tell
August they loved his script, but they couldn’t make it. Instead they gave him
dialogue-polishing work or offered him other gigs that didn’t involve gnomes.

Then Banner Entertainment, a small production company, decided it wanted to
put together _Go_ as an independent feature with a $3.5 million budget, and it
would bring August on as a coproducer who would be on set every day. Liman was
always at the top of the list for director. “Doug, to this day, doesn’t take
‘no’ for anything, and it’s probably his strongest quality as a director,”
says August. “He wasn’t scared of anything in the script.”

To assemble the large ensemble, they brought on Joseph Middleton, a casting
director who was still diversifying his résumé. No one was attached to the
film, so Middleton had a blank slate when filling out the roles. He had seen
Taye Diggs in a production of _Rent_ , so he had Liman fly out to New York to
meet him for the part of Marcus, Simon’s far more capable friend. He booked
Katie Holmes to play Ronna’s hesitant coworker, Claire, when she had only shot
the pilot for _Dawson’s Creek_ and before the show turned her into a [_Rolling
Stone_ cover star](https://www.rollingstone.com/tv/tv-features/katie-holmes-a-
girl-on-the-verge-231077/). Timothy Olyphant came in to audition for Zack or
Adam and ended up with the role of the [not too
menacing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a6e-UHBx__I) drug dealer Todd
Gaines.**** Middleton even got Melissa McCarthy in her first film role for a
memorable one-scene appearance.

Middleton, who is now the head of casting for Paramount Pictures, continued
working with Liman through the 2008 sci-fi action film _Jumper_. “The one
thing I think about our relationship from the very beginning, and now I’ve
known him for many years, is that he always made me defend who I thought was
right,” says Middleton. “In that process I always knew if I was right, because
I could fight for it.”

Even though _Go_ was an indie, it quickly became a project that lots of young
actors wanted to be a part of. “When they’re casting these ensembles, you go
to the audition and you know everybody,” says Breckin Meyer, who won the role
of Tiny, a white boy who is convinced his mother’s mother’s mother was black.
“It’s every young actor you know. You go in there and you go, ‘Oh, it’s Seth
Green. It’s this dude, Scotty Caan.’ And it always comes down to: _We all like
this thing. I wonder who’s going to get it?_ With _Go_ , everyone knew it was
a very cool script.”

For the role of Ronna, Liman and Co. were determined to cast Sarah Polley, a
Canadian teenager who had already soured on Hollywood. Though Christina Ricci
was considered for the part, Polley remained the target. “I was a little bit
obsessed,” Middleton confesses. (One of the few major differences between
August’s [spec script](https://johnaugust.com/downloads_ripley/Go-Spec.pdf)
and the final film is that in the original, Ronna is African American.)

Katie Holmes and Sarah PolleyTCD/Prod.DB/Alamy Stock Photo

Polley’s performance in Atom Egoyan’s film [_The Sweet
Hereafter_](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upeFO4qwfXM) convinced Liman that
she was right for Ronna. “She just had this intensity in a young person I had
never seen before,” he says. “Then when I met with her, clearly she was the
best young actress working. I’m sure it was like meeting with Meryl Streep
early in her career.”

But before that meeting, Polley declined the role several times. “Every way in
which they would’ve been pitching this movie to her is her worst nightmare,”
says Liman. “Hot up-and-coming director who won MTV’s best new filmmaker
award. That’s not the kind of movies she’s interested in being in.”

When the producers found out Polley was coming to L.A., they told her agent
that if she didn’t take a lunch meeting with Liman they wouldn’t see any other
clients for the film. So the two got together and as Liman described _Go_ ,
she became intrigued. She told him she would read the script as she flew home
to Toronto. Liman told her he’d send her a copy, but she explained that a car
was waiting for her right then to take her to the airport and she was
incredulous that he hadn’t thought to bring a script with him.

Liman ran to his car and rummaged through the mess in his trunk, looking for a
copy. He found the script he’d passed to his editor, Mirrione, for notes.
Liman and Mirrione had been working together since Liman’s student thesis
film, and while Mirrione is direct with his opinions normally, when
communicating with Liman he felt the freedom to be particularly harsh. “I look
at the script because I know [Mirrione] had marked it up a little bit,” Liman
recalls. “So I open it up and there’s a line circled and he’s written,
‘Stupid.’ And I flip to the next comment and he’s like, ‘Dumb line.’ I flip a
few more pages and it says, ‘This makes no sense.’ Flip a few more pages and
it says, ‘Why???’”

> I do like films, like _Mr. & Mrs. Smith_, where you do get some huge opening
> weekend, but if I had to trade one or the other, it lasting and being
> something that people will watch today is something that is more important
> to me.
>
> Doug Liman

With no other options, Liman gave Polley the script anyway. He is now
convinced that it was this unexpected, and what some might call
unprofessional, decision that ultimately won her over. “Sarah’s become a very
close friend,” he says, “Knowing her personality, it was going to take
something that drastic to get her to see that this was not going to be a
traditional Hollywood movie.”

Then, with filming set to start in a few weeks, Banner Films producer Liddell
learned that all the financing had dropped out. Without notifying anyone else,
he sent the script to Harvey Weinstein, since Miramax had distributed
_Swingers_. On a Sunday, Weinstein passed on the project, so Liddell informed
the other producers and Liman that _Go_ was dead. (Liddell declined to comment
for this article, saying that he was on location in France for a project.)

Undeterred, Liman, August, and producer Paul Rosenberg (who died in 2015),
came into the film’s office on Monday morning looking for ways to revive the
project. Liman and August didn’t have the connections to get the movie made,
but Rosenberg, a former executive, began making calls as production assistants
Xeroxed copies of the script and ferried them around town. “Paul was just
calling up anybody he knew, anywhere in the business, and being like, ‘We have
this amazing cast, a great script,’” says Liman. “Then he’d pass the phone to
John August or myself to keep talking about the movie and he’d get on the
phone with somebody else.”

On Tuesday, they met with Ricky Strauss and Andrea Giannetti, two young
executives at TriStar, a division of Sony Pictures. Strauss and Giannetti
quickly convinced their bosses to take on _Go_ as what was essentially a
negative pickup deal, where the studio agrees to purchase an indie for a set
dollar amount (regardless of whether it goes overbudget) in return for a split
of the profits. “People were head-scratching a little bit about how high-
concept [_Go_] was and how marketable it could have been, but it was such a
good script, and people really wanted to be in business with Doug Liman and
John and the cast,” says Strauss, who now works as the president of content
and marketing for the forthcoming Disney+ streaming service.

By Wednesday, Liman was back scouting locations around L.A.

Taye Diggs and Desmond AskewUnited Archives GmbH/Alamy Stock Photo

When Liman signed on, one of the first things the producers told him was that
the car chase on the Las Vegas Strip that concludes the film’s second act
would have to be cut for budget reasons. Liman instead decided to shoot the
car chase as if he were helming a major studio film, dedicating almost a third
of his budget to the scene and scrimping in other ways throughout the rest of
the production. (With Sony’s involvement, the budget got bumped up to about $5
million, but all the extra money went toward making it a union- and Directors
Guild–compliant shoot.)

He employed many of the cost-saving techniques he’d developed on _Swingers_.
He shot it on an Aaton 35-millimeter, a camera usually reserved for making
documentaries in the days before everything went digital. He could reload the
Aaton**** with film in a matter of seconds, while for traditional cameras it
took at least four minutes and caused delays in shooting as everyone used
those opportunities to relight the scene or take breaks. The only problem with
the Aaton was that it isn’t constructed for recording dialogue and makes as
much noise as a sewing machine, so Liman would wrap it in a down jacket as he
filmed. “Jon Favreau used to describe acting in _Swingers_ like acting for a
big fluffy snowball,” says Liman.

While making _Swingers_ , instead of trying to manufacture settings, Liman
would just film scenes that took place in parties or at bars in actual parties
or bars, using unassuming bystanders as extras. Before anyone got too upset or
the police came, he’d be gone. For _Go_ he adopted a similarly frenetic pace.

Some actors, such as James Duval, whose first films included [Gregg Araki’s
microbudgeted teen
apocalypse](https://www.theringer.com/movies/2019/3/8/18255682/sex-drugs-
prestige-tv-how-culture-came-around-to-gregg-araki) trips _Totally F***cked
Up_ and _The Doom Generation_ , were used to Liman’s approach. “[_Go_] still
had a little bit more money, so we were running and gunning it, but not in the
guerrilla style that I actually was used to,” Duval says. “That was really
getting kicked out because you didn’t have money for locations. We had permits
on [_Go_], which was a wonderful thing.”

For others it was an adjustment. Jay Mohr had been booking lots of parts after
[his role in _Jerry Maguire_](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PGaLYBKeX8w),
but _Go_ was a different type of production. “He showed up exhausted because
he had been out partying the night before for his first day of shooting,” says
Liman. “By the end of the day he was like, ‘Jesus Christ, I haven’t been able
to go back to my trailer once to nap. You literally haven’t stopped
shooting.’”

Mohr says he came to enjoy Liman’s method because it reminded him of his work
as a stand-up comic in New York, where he’d have to run around to different
clubs in the city to get up at as many spots as possible in a night. There was
only one occasion on _Go_ when he objected to the breakneck speed. Says Mohr,
“I remember in the scene where Bill Fichtner is naked when I come out of the
bathroom in his house, I came out one time and he was standing there and I
said, ‘Just so you guys know, it’s going to take me six takes to even not
burst out laughing.’ And they said, ‘Well, the sun’s coming up, it can’t be
six.’ Me not going with the flow for the first time in the movie, I said,
‘Well, you better put some
[duvetyne](https://www.filmtools.com/expendables/fabric/duvetyne.html) over
those windows, because it ain’t happening within six. I know how far I can
kick this football, and it’s six takes.’”

The production fell behind schedule after only a few days, so the producers
asked August to lead a small second-unit crew, picking up insert shots or
handling reshoots once Liman moved on. As a result, August says you can often
see his hands fill in for other actors on screen, whether it’s a little kid
taking money from under a hotel room’s door or Scott Wolf rearranging the
contents in the trunk of his Miata. After principal shooting wrapped, August
would drive Liman’s Saab convertible around Los Angeles at night as the
director stole cutaway shots out of the back.

To trim the budget, Liman acted as his own director of photography and often
operated the camera himself, as he had on _Swingers_. It had an effect on the
actors’ performances. “Doug had that camera on his shoulder and it had this
immediacy and this feel to it that felt like there was a third eye that was
always in the room,” says William Fichtner, who plays the police officer
Burke.

> There was one point where I went to Doug and I said, ‘Maybe you should stop
> talking so much, because they can hear everything you’re saying and I think
> you’re scaring them, because you sound crazy.’
>
> Stephen Mirrione

Recalling the scene where the cops tape a recording device onto Scott Wolf’s
character’s crotch, Fichtner says, “We got in a little tiny bathroom. There
wasn’t room for anybody. There was a boom in there, the four actors in the
scene, and Doug with his camera. He would move that camera around so
seamlessly. I remember that more than anything. And Jay Mohr being a maniac.”

 _Go_ was the first movie that Strauss had championed at TriStar, and he
visited the set two or three times a week. “It was definitely hectic because
there were constant changes,” he says. “The pages would come in the morning or
the night before. People would talk about what the blocking was going to look
like and how it was going to go, then there were some last-minute changes that
were made from rehearsals or from Doug maybe changing his mind about lighting
packages or where the scene should take place. And also we didn’t have a ton
of money, so it was definitely scrappy, but it was wildly creative.”

Another habit that Liman had developed on _Swingers_ was not turning off the
camera between takes, so when screening the dailies, everyone could hear his
conversations with the actors. “Doug, sometimes his brain is working on a
different frequency than the words that come out, so sometimes what he’s
saying sounds a little idiotic, so it’s especially frightening if you’re a
producer and you’re spending a lot of money and have all this responsibility,”
says Mirrione. “There was one point where I went to Doug and I said, ‘Maybe
you should stop talking so much, because they can hear everything you’re
saying and I think you’re scaring them, because you sound crazy.’”

Drugs play a major role in _Go_ , but it’s not a drug movie. Both Liman and
August say they were never really into mind-altering substances. August says
that of all the characters he created for the film, he’s most like Katie
Holmes’s Claire, the wet blanket who manages to have more fun than anyone
else, despite herself. Liman didn’t see himself in any of the characters, but
says he had met a lot of people like Simon, the European eager to take in the
full excitement and ridiculousness of the American experience. Desmond Askew,
the English actor who plays him, remembers, “I was still growing up at that
time. I wasn’t shooting bouncers or stealing Ferraris, but I think that’s what
Doug and I talked about, and he really impressed upon me that that was what
attracted him to my performance, this kind of wide-eyed sense of wonder. I
remember him constantly saying, ‘Just think: puppy dog, puppy dog.’”

 _Go_ was also one of the first movies that touched on American dance music
culture as it spread from its foundational homes in Detroit and Chicago. For
the soundtrack, Liman brought on Julianne Jordan (neé Kelley), the now-
celebrated music supervisor who got her first gig in that role on _Swingers_.
Before shooting began, Liman, Jordan, and some of the producers would go to
raves around L.A., where the director would surreptitiously steal shots that
ended up in the [ecstasy-evoking opening
credits](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QdF_3U16SHk).

Jordan was able to license tracks by ascendent electronic music acts Fatboy
Slim, Leftfield, and Air, but the biggest coup was getting the Orange County
ska pop band No Doubt to record the song “New” for the soundtrack. “For No
Doubt, who at that time was massive, to say they will write an original song
for a 6 million–dollar movie!” says Jordan. “You don’t see Ariana Grande
saying she’s going to do that.”

For the film’s score, Jordan recommended that Liman work with BT, a young
music producer and DJ who began playing classical piano when he was 4 and
enrolled at the Berklee College of Music when he was 15. Liman showed up at
BT’s house in Rockville, Maryland, unannounced with his dog and a VHS copy of
rough-cut scenes from _Go_. The artist hadn’t even seen _Swingers_ at that
point. “We watched it in my living room,” says BT. “I had a studio in the
upstairs of my house at the time. We kept running back and forth to upstairs
and I was literally coming up with ideas on the fly.”

Shortly thereafter, BT moved to Los Angeles and still works as a film
composer. “It was a special project,” he says. “It was something that had no
[temp score](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temp_track). I was like, ‘Oh my
god, all movies are this awesome. They play you a film without any music in it
and you just write whatever you want.’ Cut to me last week. I’m like pulling
my frickin’ hair out, the director is going, ‘Can you make it more like the
temp?’ And I’m like, ‘Yeah, we’re going to get sued if it’s anything more like
the temp.’”

Scott Wolf, Jay Mohr, and William FichtnerAF archive/Alamy Stock Photo

When John August watched an initial edit of _Go_ , he felt sick. “When you
talk to screenwriters, the first time you see your first cut of your first
movie, you do just want to kill yourself,” he says. “It’s just like, nothing
works the way you wanted it to work.”

Unfortunately the studio felt similarly, and even recommended cutting the
middle Las Vegas sequence. But the movie did surprisingly well at a test
screening in the San Fernando Valley. The crowd even said that the Las Vegas
segment was their favorite.

Still, the production would need reshoots to fix the problems, which included
having all the segments essentially begin with the same starting point—Simon
giving his supermarket shift to Ronna. They also altered the ending so that
Simon brings a comedic climax to Claire and the drug dealer Todd Gaines’s arc,
which was originally far more violent.

As they continued editing, and as test-screening responses got even better,
the film began to cohere. “Some of the most interesting editing I was doing in
that movie was because Doug had no idea how to transition from one thing to
the next, or he just forgot to get coverage of something,” says Mirrione. “We
just had to be like, ‘OK, this is the intention, this is what we want to do.
How can I just repurpose five different things and make something?’ For me,
the palette of how to do that became the culture. The rave culture, the remix
DJ culture, where you’re taking all this stuff and ripping it apart and
deconstructing it, putting it back together in a different way. That was
partly born out of the necessity of us just not knowing how to plan well
enough ahead.” (Mirrione says he began working with Steven Soderbergh after
the director saw _Go_. They’ve since collaborated on nine films together,
including the _Ocean’s Eleven_ trilogy. Mirrione won an Oscar in 2001 for his
editing on _Traffic_.)

> Movies about this age are always like, ‘That’s the night that everything
> changed. I wanted to go against that trope.
>
> John August

Sony decided to premiere _Go_ at Sundance in January 1999, which was
vindication for Liman since the festival had rejected _Swingers_. With 15
relatives and 10 friends coming in for the showing, he learned he’d get only
four tickets to the screening. Ever ingenious, he proposed that instead of the
normal black hand stamps that audience members get when they turned in their
ticket, they should have special flourescent _Go_ stamps to align with the
film’s rave theme. When the festival said the theater would need two of the
special hand stampers, he ordered three and then stamped all his guests’ hands
at dinner before they went to the movie.

The Sundance reception created anticipation for the film’s April release. When
it hit theaters, critics were enthusiastic. In an A-rated [review in
_Entertainment Weekly_](https://ew.com/article/1999/04/16/go-4/), Owen
Gleiberman wrote, “ _Go_ is a rave-generation joyride, a kind of junior _Pulp
Fiction_ that courses along on waves of freedom and excitement. For all that,
there’s a ticklish intimacy to its tone.” Still, it disappointed at the box
office, bringing in just under $17 million.

“I think that the audience was in the middle of changing its moviegoing
habits,” says Strauss. “It wasn’t a broad, mainstream, bawdy comedy like
others that had been successful during that late-’90s time. It was
distinctive, and sometimes distinctive movies take time to get discovered. But
it’s always been successful to me.”

Though August has gone on to an accomplished career writing commercial films,
_Go_ was something different. He’d wanted to create something about young
people who didn’t learn anything or weren’t severely affected by their
mistakes. “Movies about this age are always like, ‘That’s the night that
everything changed,’” he says. “I wanted to go against that trope.”

The movie ends with Mannie, who has just survived an overdose, asking his
friends Ronna and Claire what their plans are for New Year’s. And for all of
Liman’s talk about picking _Go_ because it was his last chance to make an
antiestablishment film, he’s spent the past two decades confounding, and often
frustrating, Hollywood with his [distinctly unbridled
approach](https://variety.com/2008/film/columns/a-look-at-liman-s-filmmaking-
process-1117981300/) to moviemaking, with routinely bigger financial stakes.

“Like the characters in _Go_ who didn’t really grow up by the end of it, I
made _Bourne Identity_ afterward and if you talk to the people who worked on
that movie, they wouldn’t think that I learned some lesson about, ‘Now he has
to play by the rules,’” Liman says. “I think the emotional experience of
making _Go_ wasn’t necessarily followed entirely by quote-unquote growing up.
But it was the last time I didn’t have to be self-conscious about being
rebellious.”

[_Eric Ducker_](https://twitter.com/ericducker?lang=en) _is a writer and
editor in Los Angeles._

[ Eric Ducker](/creator/eric-ducker)Eric Ducker is a writer and editor in Los
Angeles.
