title: How Much Is the Backlist Worth?. The following article is a response to… | by Authors Guild | Medium
source: https://medium.com/@AuthorsGuild/how-much-is-the-backlist-worth-a116d9094e0#.tlvql4ck8
date: 2025-08-13T17:33:26.272941
tags: []
---
# How Much Is the Backlist Worth?

_The following article is a response to an article in the October 27, 2016
issue of_ The New York Review of Books _,_[_“The New Hillary
Library?”_](http://www.nybooks.com/articles/2016/10/27/new-hillary-library/)
_by Robert Darnton._

by Richard Russo

Press enter or click to view image in full size

Photo by Elena Seibert

Back in November my daughter Emily and her business partner opened a bookstore
called Print, in Portland, Maine, where we live. It was an enormous
undertaking — finding the right location, getting a small business loan,
hiring a store designer, doing a build-out, ordering fixtures, installing the
custom-built shelves — all of which had to be done before we could address the
business of the books themselves. But eventually they started arriving, the
backlist, hundreds of boxes containing thousands of books. It was a daunting
sight, inventory piled so high that we had trouble navigating the stacks. The
books themselves came utterly disorganized, history mixed with science fiction
mixed with children’s books mixed with cookbooks. Immediately put in charge of
unskilled labor (that is, in charge of myself), I spent whole days breaking
down cardboard boxes, bagging bubble wrap and carting it all off to the dump.
It took six people nearly a week to get all these books shelved properly.
Allow me to repeat: this was _the backlist_ , that is, _not_ this season’s
books. Some of them were published a year or two ago, some a decade ago, some
fifty years ago, and others much, much older. In other words the very books
Google and some academic writers have argued are of so little economic value
that they should be made available to the public for free. If they are right,
what a bunch of damned fools we were for wasting our time on what we might as
well give away, like bookmarks. But of course they aren’t right, and they know
it.

> The backlist is at the heart of any indie bookstore’s success.

So do indie booksellers. According to Oren Teicher, CEO of the American
Booksellers’ Association, “the backlist is at the heart of any indie
bookstore’s success.” Store owners I’ve spoken to say that backlist titles
account for anywhere from twenty-five to a whopping fifty percent of their
sales. Moreover, the segment is growing. According to Betsey Burton, of The
King’s English in Salt Lake City, “independent bookstores all over the country
are putting more and more effort (and dollars) into deep backlist because they
know these books are economically viable.” Publishers understand too. Many
offer incentives to promote the deep backlist because they know, as Burton
says, that “often all it takes is the smallest nudge for older titles to
return to the market in a big way.” Even without incentives many backlist
titles unexpectedly surge in ways that can perhaps only be explained by chaos
theory. “Without backlist,” says Annie Philbrick, of Bank Square Books and
Savoy Bookshop & Cafe, “our shops would look more like brick and mortar Amazon
stores displaying only frontlist titles, shelved face-out.” Yeah, okay, but
what about Amazon the e-tailer, you ask? Do _they_ think there’s money in the
backlist? Well, Amazon rarely discusses numbers (or anything else) but Jeff
Bezos is a numbers guy, and if there’s little economic value in a book after a
year or two, as Mr. Darnton has suggested, then why did the Amazon CEO go to
such lengths to corner that particular market? Could it be that he knows what
Mitch Kaplan, owner of Books and Books, a chain of indie bookstores in
Florida, knows — that “without backlist the entire publishing industry would
collapse”?

Why? Well, that’s when books really begin to pay off for publishers whose
costs — advances to authors, editing, copy-editing, marketing, and manufacture
— are largely front-loaded. Depending on the size of the advance given to the
author and the amount of money spent on promotion, many frontlist books are
probably not yet profitable. Some, if the publisher has paid too much for the
title, may never be. It’s money dependably generated by the backlist that
allows publishers to take chances on new titles, some by writers of
reputation, others by unknowns. Publishing is expensive and the better you do
it, the more expensive it gets. What publisher would make an expensive wager
(and all trade books are bets) if he knew that after a short time the book
would lapse into public domain? Publishers — I’m using the term broadly here
to include the Big Five, smaller presses, and even self-published authors —
know all too well that some of their bets will be bad, just as gamblers
understand that even the most educated wagers on thoroughbred horses won’t all
pan out. But publishers also know that over time other books will be far more
profitable than anyone imagined when the book was purchased, which cannot be
said about pari-mutuel wagering. It’s that “over time” that makes publisher
and author alike willing to gamble, the very time that Mr. Darnton and others
would like to decrease significantly. Reduce the period under which a book is
protected by copyright, though, and you change the entire calculus by
undermining a publisher’s incentive to take risks.

> Out of economic fear, I may not write the book I should.

The same is true for authors. The risk factor may be on a smaller scale for an
individual writer, but the stakes — her livelihood — are higher. The career
author invests an enormous amount in her writing — education, time,
experience, research. Risks must be taken every step of the way, wagers made
on projects that seem likely to pay dividends versus “slow burn” projects that
have long term potential if you can manage not to starve in the interim. Most
of my novels are long and on average they take me four or five years to write.
That means that if I’m wrong about a book, I’ve wagered most of my income for
four years. The only hedge I have, if hardcover sales are underwhelming, is
that the paperback will catch fire or perhaps that at some later date the
topic takes on unexpected urgency and the book is rediscovered. Should any or
all of this become impossible thanks to weakened copyright protection, I may
be forced to play things safer, choosing the more commercial project, or the
one that can be completed more quickly, instead of the one my heart is really
in. Out of economic fear, I may not write the book I should.

Mr. Darnton maintains that “the founding fathers designed a copyright system
to balance the interests of authors with the public good.” That may be true,
but it’s important to remember that publishers and booksellers are also
important to the literary ecosystem. We at the Authors Guild understand that
authors don’t do it alone. As every self-published author quickly learns,
there’s more to publishing a book than writing it. The primary mission of the
Guild is to defend the writing life by standing up for the rights of authors,
but we also understand that the publishing ecosystem is fragile and that any
serious threat to publishers and booksellers will have equally serious
ramifications for us. That said, though, we _are_ indeed the ecosystem’s
primary stakeholders for the simple reason that without us there are no books,
just as there are no movies without scripts. Mr. Darnton believes that current
copyright law, parts of which are under review in Congress during the coming
months, is out of whack because “after a few years…the main interest of
authors is to reach readers rather than collect royalties.” This is, frankly,
bullshit. I’m a successful author, at least by my own reckoning, in that for
the last two decades I’ve been able to support myself and my family by my pen.
I taught for many years, but quit as soon as I could afford to. Let me be
clear: there are not a few writers who make more money than I do, some a _lot_
more, but still it wouldn’t surprise me to learn that I’m in the top one or
two percent in terms of earnings, earnings that have allowed me to pay for my
kids’ education and can contribute to my grandchildren’s. My wife and I own a
nice house. We occasionally travel. So yeah, I’m one of the blessed. But it’s
also important to understand that in the writing business — unlike, say, law
or medicine — you can be in the top one or two percent and not be rich.
Moreover, if you’re in the bottom third, maybe even half, you’re courting
poverty pretty seriously or already in bed.

> Despite its “insignificance,” I can’t recall a single time when I didn’t
> know what to do with the money or wasn’t grateful to see it.

But the real story of a writer’s earnings has as much to do with process as
sums. _Mohawk_ , my first novel, was published in 1986, thirty years ago.
Since then it’s never been out of print, and during that time the book has
always earned royalties. Mr. Darnton argues that after a few years most books
don’t produce “significant income,” and it’s true that some years _Mohawk_
probably generated only a couple hundred bucks, but you know what? Despite its
“insignificance,” I can’t recall a single time when I didn’t know what to do
with the money or wasn’t grateful to see it. I was also glad to see the
slightly larger (“less insignificant”) earnings generated by my second book.
Actually, all of my books have remained in print, and small sums have a way of
adding up, in my case, to a living. Am I unusual? Well, for a writer of
literary fiction, I suspect so. Over the last decade author incomes are down
across the board here in the US and Canada, as well as in the UK, by roughly
thirty percent according to a recent Authors Guild study. There are lots of
reasons. Cheap e-books and e-readers undermined print books’ platforms for a
time, and other forms of digital storytelling that didn’t even exist two
decades ago have provided additional stiff competition. Advances are down in
part because publishers, many of whom are owned by larger entities, are
increasingly pressured to be as profitable as the division of the parent
company that sells refrigerators or cereal. I was lucky indeed to have made my
reputation before all this happened; it gives me a tremendous advantage over
today’s emerging authors. So, yes, I’m among the blessed. But in other
respects I’m pretty typical. Every new book a writer publishes breathes new
life into his backlist. (Winning awards has a similar effect, as does a film
or television series based on something you’ve written.) This year I published
a novel called _Everybody’s Fool_ , a sequel to _Nobody’s Fool_ , that came
out twenty-three years earlier, and for many months during the spring and
summer, _Nobody’s_ sold almost as many copies as _Everybody’s_. If Mr.
Darnton’s assertion that most books have little economic life after a couple
of years were taken as true, it might suggest that twenty years or so would be
a reasonable period of copyright protection, after which a book might, for the
public good, enter public domain. But in my case it would mean that “in the
public interest” my publisher, the stores that sell my books and I would be
cheated out of, yes, _significant_ sums. Okay, you say, but how often does
_that_ happen? Does literary fiction like mine usually have such a long tail?
Not as often as we’d like, but it’s growing. The tools are now available for
anyone to republish their long out-of-print books, and for an older writer
with a significant backlist the earnings can be the difference between abject
poverty and getting by. And regardless of its length, when the tail in
question is attached to your own coccyx, you tend take a dim view when someone
approaches with a knife, arguing that lopping off said tail won’t hurt (_Easy
for you to say_) and will actually benefit others (_More than it does me?_).

> Deep backlist titles remain the bedrock of the publishing industry.

Moreover, move out of the realm of literary fiction and nonfiction and the
writerly tail gets longer. Indeed, from Harry Bosch to Harry Potter, a long
appendage is more rule than exception. Hercule Poirot and Miss Marple continue
to generate income more than a century after Agatha Christie imagined them,
and the same is true for many science fiction, fantasy, thriller, and romance
titles. Genre readers are famously voracious. And what about children’s books?
Who wouldn’t love to have the income generated each year by _A Child’s Garden
of Verses_? That’s not to say that Robert Louis Stevenson should still be
under copyright with the money going to his distant heirs, only that deep
backlist titles remain the bedrock of the publishing industry. Sure, the most
successful frontlist titles generate loads of income in any season. But at our
store in Portland, we didn’t start unpacking the frontlist until the backlist
was shelved. The hottest new titles didn’t even arrive until mere days before
we opened. They were placed in the front windows and on the center tables, the
“New Fiction and Nonfiction” shelves at the front of the store, and the
endcaps, like Coke products in the supermarket. But book lovers — as we
already knew from experience — don’t judge a store by its windows and center
tables. You assume every supermarket sells Coke. It’s the alternatives to Coke
that you judge the store by.

Mr. Darnton has been writing about the publishing industry for a long time and
he’s obviously a smart guy, so it’s fair to assume he knows all this. Why then
do he and his friends continue to maintain, with Birther insistence, that
there’s little value in the backlist? Well, for one thing, if you plan to take
something that doesn’t belong to you “for the public good,” it’s not a bad
strategy to suggest that what you’re purloining isn’t worth much to begin
with. That was essentially Google’s argument when they digitized our books
without asking our permission. But Mr. Darnton and his academic colleagues at
the Authors Alliance (he sits on their board and urges us to support them),
have a different agenda from the Borg-like tech sector. Academic authors make
their money from the universities that employ them, which renders their
financial relationship to the books they write tangential at best. Their
purpose is to win the writer promotion and tenure and the cumulative pay
raises that follow over an academic lifetime, either that or to elicit a
better job offer from a competing institution. When academic authors argue
that trade books written by people who write for a living have little
commercial value after a relatively short period of time, it’s more than a
little ironic, given that _most_ of their own books have little economic value
_from the beginning_. How could they? Most are aimed at tiny, targeted
audiences of specialists and feature esoteric, jargon-riddled prose that has
about as much in common with Esperanto as English. I have a PhD myself and I
spent twenty years hitched to the academic sled, so I know these folks. Many
fancy themselves writers and when our paths cross, they love to stress their
kinship with us. “Writing is writing,” they say, not so much confident in the
truth of the assertion, I suspect, as that we’ll be too kind to tell them
they’re full of shit. I was finishing up my doctoral dissertation when I first
started writing fiction, or trying to. I gave one of my first stories to the
director of creative writing at the university where I was studying. Returning
it, he tried to be encouraging, but it wasn’t easy. “Most writers have about a
thousand pages of really crappy prose in them, and they have to expel these
before than can begin to write seriously,” he told me, before adding, “But
_you_ have a PhD in English, so make that _two_ thousand.”

Press enter or click to view image in full size

Photo by Maggie Chen

Okay, I’m riffing, and I’ll stop. Like all sweeping generalizations, this one
about scholarly writing is leaky. Not all academics are bad writers, and not
all of their books are aimed at tiny, specialized audiences. For proof I need
look no further than the council of the Authors Guild itself. Jim Shapiro’s
books on Shakespeare read like novels and his intended audience is by no means
a handful of Elizabethan scholars. The real issue here isn’t the quality of
academic work or its intended audience but rather how academic writers get
paid. They would like people to believe that in their vigorous defense of
copyright working writers are motivated by greed, whereas _their_ only
interest is in the democracy and the common good. Let’s take the first point,
because, historically speaking, it’s hard to imagine a more generous group
than authors, most of whom have warm relationships with libraries that loan
out our books for free. I doubt that Mr. Darnton, himself a librarian, would
dispute this, though he’d probably stipulate that authors are not entirely
selfless in the bargain. Someone who reads and enjoys a novel of mine borrowed
from the library may purchase my next book. But the free flow of information
and ideas _is_ essential to a working democracy, as Mr. Darnton and his
friends argue, and most working writers would agree, especially those like me,
for whom the public library was once a lifeline. For us, being able to share
the magic, the sheer joy of a good book with someone who can’t afford to
purchase it is worth the loss of revenue. Mr. Darnton may be wrong about the
long term economic value of the backlist, but he’s dead right that all writers
do, within reason, want to share their work with as many readers as possible.
But artists — painters, photographers, musicians, writers — far more than
people in other professions, are expected to contribute to the common good as
a matter of course, and it’s that expectation, so narrow in its bandwidth,
that grates. Look. Some people have to work three different jobs in three
different locations to make ends meet, and then have to rely on public
transportation to get there. Wouldn’t it be nice if car dealerships provided
loaner cars so that these hard-working folks could get from one job to the
next? Wouldn’t _that_ be in the public interest? But no one expects anything
like that to happen, because the common good — Jacob Marley to the contrary
notwithstanding — is not the business that automobile manufacturers and car
dealerships are in. Grinning ear to ear, they may inform us that love is what
makes a Subaru a Subaru, but any car company that proclaims with a straight
face that “Mankind Is Our Business,” will be a new kind of car company indeed.
No, it is artists who routinely shoulder the burden of working for free in a
good cause, and for the most part we do so cheerfully. But there are limits,
and when organizations like the Authors Alliance assume the moral high ground
because they favor giving away that which, at least in their case, _the
market_ (academics publishing with university presses are seldom given
advances, a dead giveaway) has deemed to be without economic value, well, I’ve
reached mine. Okay, I admit, they paint (just as Google did) a lovely picture
of a modern day, digital Library of Alexandria, its books accessible to all
for free, but it rests on the fallacy that a writer’s backlist has little or
no value. Moreover, the common good argument can be tricky. It’s assumed that
readers benefit when books are cheap or free, but if they become so cheap that
the writing life becomes untenable, then a book that needs to be read by
everybody will instead be read by nobody because the author never wrote it.
She couldn’t afford to. And isn’t it also in the public interest to ensure
that books continue to be written by authors who are _not_ beholden to
institutions? How will we manage that if the writing life continues to be
eroded? But what chafes our writerly behinds even more is the fact that people
who like to fly the Common Good banner are in reality no more selfless than we
are. They just feed at a different trough. Granted, no one snarfing at the
academic trough this year will do nearly as well as J.K. Rowling, but it’s not
a bad trough, and I doubt that Mr. Darnton, who’s been feeding at the Harvard
one, would disagree. The income of working writers may be down significantly
over the last decade, but professors’ salaries have continued to rise, and
those who do the best have reputations that are inextricably tied not to
teaching excellence but to research and publication. Mr. Darnton is himself a
prolific author, having published books with both commercial and academic
presses, and I don’t doubt for a second that he is sincere and well-
intentioned in his desire to make as many books available to as many readers
as quickly and efficiently as possible, but the largesse he proposes will be
funded by writers like me, not writers like him. _Of_ _course_ Authors
Alliance writers want their work to be more accessible sooner and for free.
_It has no monetary value_ to begin with, so why not? The currency that
academics traffic in is not so different from Facebook “likes.” It’s not
money, but it can, after a fashion, be monetized. Compare our lives to theirs.
I know many writers, some household names, some my own age (67) or older who
live book to book, who have little savings and no retirement account. We get
paid twice a year, and we don’t know how much until the check from our
publisher arrives. By contrast, academic authors get paid every two weeks,
even during the summer when many needn’t even be on campus. They have health
insurance. Their futures are predictable and secure. Why _should_ they trouble
themselves over the health of a literary ecosystem — about publishers and
authors and booksellers — that they aren’t really a part of? What is any of
that to them?

> Authors, publishers and booksellers don’t just _want_ to be paid for both
> new and old work, they _need_ to be if they are to survive.

To us in the Authors Guild, it’s everything, in part because that ecosystem is
so fragile, but also because copyright is one of the few protections we have.
Authors, publishers and booksellers don’t just _want_ to be paid for both new
and old work, they _need_ to be if they are to survive. Mr. Darnton says he’s
never argued against copyright and only wants to correct what he sees as an
imbalance, but his argument doesn’t give one the impression that he thinks
we’re half a bubble off of plumb here. I’m happy he sees some common ground
between our positions. We can agree that writers who want to opt out of
copyright in order to better manage their rights through Creative Commons
licenses should be permitted to do so, provided their publishers concur. And,
despite the reservations of some librarians who would like to claim fair use
for everything, both sides seem to agree that a European style management
organization representing all writers and publishers that would collect fees
in the interests of all stakeholders, is a good idea. But given the current
political climate, that’s unlikely to happen quickly. In the meantime
copyright continues to be assailed on all fronts, by companies like Google and
Amazon that, given their monopolistic ambitions, have far too great a stake in
the outcome, but also by groups like the Authors Alliance and the “Information
Wants to Be Free” crowd that have no stake at all.

What would a _real_ compromise look like? Well, in the end, we’re looking for
a number: the life of the author plus X. Anything less than the life of the
author is not a serious bargaining position, nor is any number for X that is
based on the false claim that there’s little significant value to the
backlist. That Mr. Darnton’s arguments to the contrary have been made in _The
New York Review of Books_ , whose publishing arm, _Classics_ , has given new
life to so many great out-of-print titles, is an irony that seems to have
eluded him. John Williams’s _Stoner_(originally published in 1965 and for
decades out of print)__ alone has sold over a hundred and fifty thousand print
copies, and another fifty thousand e-Books, and the novel has had similar
success with European publishers. Or what about 1977’s travel classic _A Time
of Gifts_ , by Patrick Leigh Fermor, which has sold fifty thousand copies
since being reissued? Two different independent booksellers mentioned to me
over the holidays how well Wallace Stegner’s first novel _Remembering
Laughter_ , first published in 1937, was doing for them. Every writer I know,
as well as every bookstore employee, could furnish other examples. Who
deserves the windfall from the many books that unexpectedly begin to sell
again, if not the men and women who wrote them, the publishers who invested in
them, the booksellers who made them “staff picks”? Most of us, regardless of
the work we do, imagine our success benefitting our children and perhaps our
grandchildren. People in most other professions are accorded the necessary
legal means and protections to make that happen. Should writers and other
artists be the exception?

No, we need to solve for X using real numbers but also moral imagination and
compassion. I’m certain that the absolute baseline for X needs to be at least
the life of the author plus ten years (and this assumes we could vacate dozens
of international treaties). Why? Several years ago I had the honor to write an
introduction to _The Collected Short Stories of Richard Yates_ , one of my
literary heroes. A year or so after the book came out, I met his daughter and
literary executor, Monica Shapiro. It was a melancholy experience for both of
us. We were delighted the book had sold so well, but it was heartbreaking to
learn that it had sold more copies than all her father’s novels combined
during his lifetime. In a just world Yates, who was deeply wounded by the fact
that his books didn’t find a wider audience, would have lived to see this
success, but he’d died a decade earlier. Had he lived longer, I might have had
the opportunity to tell him how much his stories had meant to me, how helpful
they were in expelling my two thousand pages of wretched prose, but who knows?
Maybe our paths wouldn’t have crossed, even “over time.” But I do remember
being pleased to tell his daughter, and very pleased indeed to know that his
novels and stories had been “nudged into the market,” as Betsey Burton put it,
“in a big way.” Every writer who’s fallen into neglect dreams that such a
thing could happen to him. Or, if overdue success comes too late for him, as
it too often does, then maybe for his kids. Significantly reduce the span of
copyright and you not only steal a writer’s revenue but also the possibility
that his words may be of “value” after his death. He’s earned both.

**_Richard Russo_** _is the bestselling author of seven novels, including_
Straight Man _,_ Bridge of Sighs _,_ Nobody’s Fool _, and_ Empire Falls _, for
which he won the Pulitzer Prize. Russo is also the author of_ The Whore’s
Child and Other Stories _,_ Elsewhere _, and most recently,_ Everybody’s Fool
_. Russo currently serves as Vice President of the Authors Guild. He and his
wife live in Portland, Maine._
