title: Grading Barack Obama - Reason.com
source: http://reason.com/archives/2011/01/24/grading-barack-obama/print
date: 2025-08-13T21:23:28.780171
tags: []
---
[Politics](https://reason.com/category/politics/)

# Grading Barack Obama

## Libertarian legal scholar Richard Epstein on his former University of
Chicago colleague

[Nick Gillespie](https://reason.com/people/nick-gillespie/ "Posts by Nick Gillespie") | From the [February 2011 issue](https://reason.com/issue/february-2011/)

Few legal scholars have blown as many minds and impacted as many national
arguments as Richard Epstein. His 1985 volume _Takings: Private Property and
the Power of Eminent Domain_ made the controversial argument that zoning,
environmental regulations, and other government actions that substantially
limit the use or decrease the value of property should be viewed as a form of
eminent domain and thus strictly limited by the Constitution. The result was a
firestorm of outrage, followed by a trickle of acknowledgment that maybe the
guy was onto something.

As Epstein told **reason** in a 1995 interview, "I took some pride in the fact
that [Sen.] Joe Biden (D-Del.) held a copy of _Takings_ up to a hapless
Clarence Thomas back in 1991 and said that anyone who believes what's in this
book is certifiably unqualified to sit in on the Supreme Court. That's a
compliment of sorts.…But I took even more pride in the fact that, during the
[Stephen] Breyer hearings [in 1994], there were no such theatrics, even as the
nominee was constantly questioned on whether he agreed with the Epstein
position on deregulation, as if that position could not be held by responsible
people."

Born in New York in 1943, Epstein splits his time between faculty appointments
at the University of Chicago and New York University; he is also a senior
fellow at Stanford's Hoover Institution, an adjunct scholar at the Cato
Institute, and a contributor to **reason**. In books such as _Forbidden
Grounds: The Case Against Employment Discrimination Laws_ (1992), _Simple
Rules for a Complex World_ (1995), and _Skepticism and Freedom: A Modern Case
for Classical Liberalism_ (2003), Epstein has been pushing his ideas and
preconceptions to their limits, taking readers along for a thrilling
intellectual ride. Epstein, who writes a weekly column slugged "The
Libertarian" for Forbes.com, is a die-hard individualist who believes the
state should be limited and freedom expanded. He is also a consummate
intellectual who demands of himself ironclad proofs for his characteristically
counterintuitive insights into law and social theory.

Indeed, Epstein's enduring value may be not any particular legal or policy
prescription he has offered over the years but rather his methodology. He
believes in robust and unfettered argument and debate as a way of gaining
knowledge. If you don't put your ideas out in the arena, you can't be doing
your best work, he argues. "The problem when you keep to yourself is you don't
get to hear strong ideas articulated by people who disagree with you," he
says.

**reason.tv** Editor Nick Gillespie interviewed Epstein at NYU's law building
in October. They talked about legal challenges to ObamaCare, the effects of
stimulus spending and TARP bailouts, and a former University of Chicago
adjunct faculty member by the name of Barack Obama, with whom Epstein
regularly interacted in the 1990s and early 2000s.

"He passed through Chicago without absorbing much of the internal culture,"
says Epstein of the future president. "He's amazingly good at playing
intellectual poker. But that's a disadvantage, because if you don't put your
ideas out there to be shot down, you're never going to figure out what kind of
revision you want."

A video version of this interview, filmed and edited by Jim Epstein with help
from Michael C. Moynihan and Josh Swain, is online at **reason.tv**.

**[Print interview continues below the video]**

VIDEO

**reason:** The economy has lost 3.3 million jobs, consumer confidence is half
its historical average, and unemployment is 9 percent. To what extent is Obama
responsible for this?

**Richard Epstein:** He's not largely or exclusively responsible, but he's
certainly added another nail into the coffin. The early George Bush—I think he
got a little bit better through his term—and Obama have a lot in common. Bush
wanted a pint-sized stimulus program that failed and Obama wanted a giant-
sized stimulus program that failed. Neither of them is a strong believer in
laissez-faire principles. The difference between them, which is why Obama is
the more dangerous man ultimately, is he has very little by way of a skill set
to understand the complex problems he wants to address, but he has this
unbounded confidence in himself.

**reason:** So he's the perfect Chicago faculty member.

**Epstein:** He was actually a bad Chicago faculty member in this sense: He
was an adjunct, and we always hoped he'd participate in the general
intellectual discourse, but he was always so busy with collateral adventures
that he essentially kept to himself. The problem when you keep to yourself is
you don't get to hear strong ideas articulated by people who disagree with
you. So he passed through Chicago without absorbing much of the internal
culture.

**reason:** What kinds of interactions did you have?

**Epstein:** Usually in the breezeway, because he was always running and
gunning for some other kinds of things. I also knew him because my next-door
neighbor, Marty Nesbitt, is one of his best friends, and I would see him there
and speak about him.

He was always a tremendously engaging and charming individual, but he's not
the kind of guy who likes to be pushed. He has a way of listening to you to
make it appear as though you're the only person in the world who matters. And
then when it's all done, now what does he believe? He's amazingly good at
playing intellectual poker. But that's a disadvantage, because if you don't
put your ideas out there to be shot down, you're never going to figure out
what kind of revision you want. His mind is set in concrete. If he thought a
stimulus would work in 2009, he thinks it today.

**reason:** Are there any surprises with the stimulus spending?

**Epstein:** No. When you run these stimulus programs you tend to use models
of consumer behavior that work in good times, but there's no guarantee that
they'll work in bad times. The idea was that if you put money into the pockets
of middle- and lower-income people, you get higher levels of consumption. It
hasn't worked out that way. Why should it work out that way? These people have
consumer debts, they're behind on their mortgages, they want to save for
colleges. As they see the world of opportunity shrink, they'll save more and
spend less.

**reason:** What about the argument that we would have been much worse off
without the stimulus?

****

Epstein: That becomes completely unfalsifiable. If you spend twice as much
money and lose twice as many jobs, well, that means we just didn't do enough.

The only way you can put money into public hands is to take it out of private
hands. You then must make an estimate as to the kinds of projects you're
doing. The Works Progress Administration in 1936 did projects that made a lot
more sense than the stuff that we're doing today. Right now there's nothing of
value that's coming out of the stimulus program.

**reason:** Would tax cuts stimulate the economy?

**Epstein:** Permanent tax cuts would have that effect, and a flattening of
the tax rates. The old Adam Smith adage is correct: Low and easy and reliable
taxation is what commits people to long-term investments. If you give a short-
term cut with a gimmick, people are going to think, "Well, what about next
year?"

**reason:** David Stockman, who was Reagan's budget director, says that given
the huge amounts of federal debt and deficit, extending the Bush tax rates
forward at any level is a problem.

**Epstein:** I think he's probably wrong about that. If you raise taxes,
Congress will just gobble all that money up and find some senseless way to
spend it again. If you keep the taxes low and force people to sell debt paper
that in effect is a warning sign, my guess is that it will have some adverse
effect on the expenditure side. David Stockman doesn't realize that revenues
don't go to discharge debts; they go to new debts. So I have no confidence in
that proposal. What you need to do is to take a pickax or a hammer or some
large tool and cut out huge numbers of government programs from top to bottom.

**reason:** What's the first government program that you would cut?

**Epstein:** Agricultural subsidies and import barriers are an obvious place
to start. Knock out something like ethanol. Certainly you want massive
liberalization with respect to labor markets. You don't want to have strong
civil rights laws, which only gum things up. You want to get rid of the Family
Medical Leave Act. You want to knock out the minimum wage.

**reason:** What about entitlements?

**Epstein:** Medicare is a very hard thing to deal with, because you create
all these expectations for people who are in midstream. What I would like to
see done is to increase the co-pays and to try to reduce the time in which
you're in the program by raising the eligibility requirements. And the same
thing with Social Security.

**reason:** Should they be means-tested?

**Epstein:** That can be counterproductive, because then you increase the
level of income redistribution, you get more high marginal taxes on your most
productive individuals, and what you gain in the savings you're likely to lose
in overall terms of productivity. I'm just basically a strong flat tax guy,
because I don't think an economy runs as well when you've got all these pits
and valleys inside the operation. What you really need to do is find some way
to privatize it.

**reason:** Can you privatize it without having massive stranded costs?

**Epstein:** Probably not. What I mean by "privatize it" is you get somebody,
for example, who can think up a sensible way to reimburse physicians for their
time. Right now, Medicare doesn't know how to deal with email communications.
The office visit is still the unit by which you determine compensation. And
every time you reduce the compensation for the office visit, it becomes a
smaller operation and the system becomes less efficient.

**reason:** Do you think ObamaCare is an intentionally roundabout way of
destroying the private health care system in order to enact a single-payer
system?

**Epstein:** There's a lot of blood on the road if that's the case. I think
there are some people who believe that's the case. I think there are many
people who see it in exactly the opposite way. When you're talking about
collective intentions of the many people who voted in support of the bill, my
guess is that you'll find them randomly distributed up and down the line.

I think what you can say is that none of the promises that it makes will it be
able to deliver on. The mechanism is too cumbrous, too awkward, too confusing;
the minimums that they require by way of provision are too great; and the
amount of cash contributions that they demand of individual persons in there
are too small. So in the end the government is still paying 90 percent or more
of the health care for many people in the country.

**reason:** What's the outlook for the legal challenge to ObamaCare?

**Epstein:** Better than one had thought. There are two kinds of challenges
that could be made. One of those is a facial challenge on the medical mandate.

**reason:** That's the coverage mandate, that everybody has to enroll.

**Epstein:** I read the opinion in the [Bill] McCollum case down in Florida,
and the judge seemed to be rather impressed with the argument. I was a bit
surprised about it. But Randy Barnett, who helped organize this, did a very
clever job of advocacy for two reasons. One is he dreamed up an argument that
didn't threaten Social Security and Medicare with constitutional extinction.
And secondly he provided a relatively clear line, so now it's the government
that has to face the slippery slope problem. If you could force us to spend
$2,000 because there's a coordination problem and a free rider problem, why
can't you force us to brush our teeth three times a day, to have certain kinds
of balanced diets, to do exercise? It turns out you get yourself a
totalitarian state. It was a peculiar mixture of libertarian sentiments with
jurisdictional issues. It was very well done.

Another challenge, which will take longer to develop, is that these guys are
converting all the private health care companies in the United States into
public utilities, and they're not guaranteeing them anywhere close to a normal
rate of return with respect to their investments. It's very hard to make that
challenge on a facial basis, because health care's got so many moving parts
that you don't know what's going on. But when you start to see people
withdrawing from their plans in droves, or saying "look, my sum costs are X
and the revenues you're giving me are too small to meet that," those
challenges could actually work.

The third set of challenges that could work is the Medicaid challenges, which
say it's too tough to tell a state, "Sure, you're entitled to go outside of
Medicaid, but you have to have your taxpayers continue to pay into this
program, and by the way pick up all the expenses for people under 133 percent
of the poverty level." The correct way to let people out of a program is to
say: "Tennessee, you don't want to be in Medicaid, that's fine, you keep your
tax revenues and you don't get anything from the federal government. Organize
it yourself." That would create an immense amount of competition at the state
level, which would do a world of good. But of course no federal politician
will voluntarily relinquish money if he could find some way to condition its
departure upon your assumption of some yet greater obligation.

**reason:** What do you think the odds are of a legal challenge working to
invalidate ObamaCare?

**Epstein:** Less than even—20 or 25 percent, I would say. But this is up from
5 to 10 percent. As the politics become more controversial, and the
unpopularity of the plan becomes more evident, the willingness of judges to
entertain novel arguments will increase and therefore the odds will start to
move up.

Also, as these challenges start to go through the courts and the Democrats
start to blink a little bit and you get a new Congress, my guess is that some
of these hard deadlines will be postponed, because you will not be able to put
these systems in place in the time that's allotted for it. The amount of just
sheer computer work that has to be done to make every program of every private
health care company comply with every federal mandate on an annual basis is
mind-boggling.

**reason:** In July, Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Financial Reform Act. Will
this bill make good on claims that it will simplify consumer credit markets
and inoculate us from bank bailouts?

**Epstein:** Nothing will inoculate us. These banks are insanely large.

Just to give you some perspective: TCF—Twin City Federal—is a pretty big bank.
It has $18 billion in assets. It's a real company. Chase is 100 times that
size. It's $1.8 trillion or something. The left hand does not know what the
right hand is doing. You cannot run from the center an organization that
large. And as the other banks start to fail, just keep stuffing things into
the big banks. So you've got fewer banks, higher concentration. Now if one of
those guys goes down it's a national catastrophe. With this high level of
concentration you are really much too big to fail.

Sen. Dodd spoke at NYU and somebody asked him, "What about Fannie and
Freddie?" And he said, "Oh, we couldn't tackle it at this point." Well that's
obviously the biggest source of problems that we have, and if that continues.…

**reason:** How is that the biggest source of problems?

**Epstein:** Because these people are completely irresponsible in the way they
issue and guarantee loans. They put more crapola into the market, you get
cheap mortgages, you bid up the price of assets, you wait for the crash to
come, and you get more defaults. One of the terrible things in the Obama
administration is they will not let nature take its course. They constantly
try to fend off foreclosures, which means that the market never clears, these
properties are held in overhang, and people who could actually afford to buy
them at market prices are excluded from the market. On this issue they get
themselves a straight F.

**reason:** What policies could Congress and the president have gotten behind
that would prevent massive bank bailouts?

**Epstein:** For one thing, make it very clear that we don't guarantee you in
the event of loss, and that if counter-parties want protection they'd better
get it either from their trading partners or from a third party. The tougher
you are at the beginning, the less likely it is that you're going to have
these kinds of situations, and you won't get the mad scramble where an AIG
bailout essentially works for the benefit of Goldman Sachs, which is by far
the shrewdest player in all this stuff.

**reason:** Is it politically plausible to expect Congress or the president to
actually act that way and say, "Look, the bailout stops here"?

**Epstein:** It's very, very hard to do it, to put it mildly. But it's going
to get worse. So what you really want to do is reverse the earlier situation.
You want to get Washington Mutual out from underneath Chase and have them as a
separate bank with a fairly substantial size. The market depends on having a
large number of intermediate-sized players. Something like BB&T bank has about
$150 billion of assets. That's plenty big to do virtually any transaction that
you need, but it's not going to create systemic risk. The real systemic risk
that you create is having five major banks which amongst them have $10
trillion worth of assets floating around in their coffers.

What you want to do is to encourage new entry by smaller banks in a
specialized niche, so that every time somebody gets big, fat, and happy,
there's some competitor who's coming in there. To the extent that you make it
difficult to charter new banks, you're going to only increase the dominant
position of those banks that are already in effect.

You want to tell the bankruptcy courts to do their jobs, not to pull another
stunt like they did with Chrysler and General Motors. If you had some degree
of regularity in your political and social institutions, then the environment
for private banks to operate will be a bit more wholesome, and without those
perturbations the risk of failure starts to go down.

I wrote a book called _Simple Rules for a Complex World_. When you're dealing
in small families and intimate social arrangements, you can have a special
deal for every one of your children, right? But when you're trying to deal
with a nation, the single largest mistake you can make is treating it as one
large but rather dysfunctional family. You want to be able to establish ways
in which people could act impersonally with strangers and very cooperatively
with their intimates. So you don't want a credit card system to essentially
depend on all sorts of personal verifications—I can't get this money out of
the bank until I tell the teller what I'm going to do with it, and so forth.

Take the two markets that matter the most in many ways for long-term
stability: real estate and labor. Both of them are overregulated at both the
federal and the state level. Every regulation should have to be justified,
because the moment it limits gains from trade you have to explain why it's
needed. But Obama's guys treat these regulations like they're candy going down
the throat of a 2-year-old. "They just taste sweet; we'd better do more of
it." The Republicans are guilty of it in the sense that they don't fight it
very hard. And the Democrats are guilty of it because they think it's a real
panacea.

**reason:** In shifting from a rule by fiat, where you come and plead your
case and get your special single deal, to a government of rules, you shift
from a kind of feudal mentality to a republican one. What do you do to spread
that and make that more persuasive to people?

**Epstein:** You show people that all of the ingenuity of gimmicks fails. We
have more debt, more unemployment, and less happiness in this country now
because hope and change turn out to be discord and confusion. And there's no
way that you can stop that. You cannot stop the blunders of one government
program by putting another one on top of it.

That's what I learned in Yale Law School. You don't like what the minimum wage
does, you create a welfare program. You don't like what a welfare program
does, you have a back-to-work program. If you just got rid of the minimum
wage, you'd get rid of three programs and you'd free up lots of economies.
Mies van der Rohe was essentially a political theorist when he said "less is
more."

**Watch Reason.tv's interview with Richard Epstein:**

VIDEO

[Politics](https://reason.com/category/politics/)[Nanny
State](https://reason.com/category/nanny-
state/)[Economics](https://reason.com/category/economics/)[Policy](https://reason.com/category/policy/)[Obamacare](https://reason.com/tag/obamacare/)[Barack
Obama](https://reason.com/tag/barack-obama/)[Libertarian
History/Philosophy](https://reason.com/tag/libertarian-history-
philosophy/)[Constitution](https://reason.com/tag/constitution/)
