title: Why Every Man Should Study Classical Culture | The Art of Manliness
source: http://www.artofmanliness.com/2015/11/23/why-every-man-should-study-the-ancient-classics/
date: 2025-08-13T18:36:26.406542
tags: []
---
If youГўВҖВҷve been following the Art of Manliness for awhile now, youГўВҖВҷve
likely caught on to the influence that the classical cultures of Greece and
Rome exert on a lot of our content. We promote an idea of ГўВҖВң[manliness as
virtue](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/what-is-manliness/)ГўВҖВқ that
was espoused by both of these ancient civilizations. And thereГўВҖВҷs a reason
for that: In college, I majored in ГўВҖВңLettersГўВҖВқ вҖ” a degree program connected
with the Classics Department. I studied Latin and took classes on the history
of freedom in both ancient Greece and Rome. I read and discussed the Greek
tragedies and even took an entire course on Ovid. ItГўВҖВҷs during this time that
I developed a deep and lasting love for classical culture; despite having
graduated from college nearly ten years ago, IГўВҖВҷm still reading and pondering
the works of Homer, Plato, and Cicero.

An understanding of the culture, philosophy, and literature of antiquity has
greatly enhanced my life, and itГўВҖВҷs an education I think every man should be
well-versed in. Even if you didnГўВҖВҷt study the classics in high school or
college, thereГўВҖВҷs a case to be made that you should begin doing so now. Below
are eight reasons why every man should dive into the classics, as well as a
list of suggested works to get you started.

### 1\. Enhances your cultural literacy.

Do you know what it means when someone is said to be facing a choice
ГўВҖВңbetween Charybdis and ScyllaГўВҖВқ? Do you understand the reference to someone
having вҖңcrossed the RubiconвҖқ? Does it make sense to you to hear Alexander
Hamilton called the ГўВҖВңAmerican CiceroГўВҖВқ?

Western culture is infused with references to the history and literature of
classical Greece and Rome. With just a passing allusion to an ancient myth or
story, an artist, author, or statesman can pack [a mighty rhetorical
punch](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/classical-rhetoric-101-an-
introduction/). But for that punch to land, the audience must have fluency in
the symbols and ideas of the classical era.

Unfortunately, because fewer and fewer people study the classics in high
school or college, fewer and fewer are able to grasp the significance of
classical allusions in literature, poems, and even film. Without that cultural
knowledge of the Greeks and Romans, these folks are missing out on a much
richer and deeper intellectual and emotional encounter with these works. Heck,
even watching a movie like _[OвҖҷ Brother, Where Art
Thou?](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003V5CFV8/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=B003V5CFV8&linkCode=as2&tag=stucosuccess&linkId=FSXA3GZUT5SFDAZ4)_
is more enjoyable when youГўВҖВҷre well-versed in HomerГўВҖВҷs _Odyssey_.

If youГўВҖВҷd like to make art and even politics more vibrant and vital in your
life, then start boning up on the ancient classics. YouГўВҖВҷll be amazed at the
new insights youГўВҖВҷll uncover in your favorite books or movies, and youГўВҖВҷll
be better able to engage in meaningful dialogue with your family, friends, and
community:

### 2\. Allows you to take part in the ГўВҖВңGreat Conversation.ГўВҖВқ

When the famous [Great Books
curriculum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_books) was created in the
1930s at the University of Chicago, its purpose was to acquaint students with
the primary source texts that had played a fundamental role in shaping Western
thought and culture. University president Robert M. Hutchins wanted Americans
to be able to take part in what he called ГўВҖВңthe Great Conversation.ГўВҖВқ For
him, this universal dialogue was made up of the deep discussions which form
around the philosophical pursuit of Truth, which began with the ancient Greeks
and continues today.

Topics of the Great Conversation concern the Big Ideas that philosophers,
theologians, and artists have been mulling over for thousands of years. What
is justice? What is true friendship? What is love? What is honor? How do you
live a good life?

Like any discussion that you take part in, to actively participate in the
Great Conversation, you need to have an idea of whatГўВҖВҷs already been said;
you donГўВҖВҷt want to be the guy who jumps in and blurts out things that make no
sense. Lots of people today are willing to state their opinion on the Big
Ideas in life without having taken the time to study the threads of discussion
that have come before them. They think theyГўВҖВҷre contributing to the
conversation, but they come off like anyone who jumps into a discussion
without bothering to get filled in on whatГўВҖВҷs already been said вҖ” their
thoughts are fragmentary, out-of-turn, needlessly repetitive, and lacking in
context.

Getting ГўВҖВңfilled inГўВҖВқ on the Great Conversation requires you to go back and
read the ancient classics. For example, to understand any philosophers from
the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries, you first have to achieve an understanding
of the philosophy of Plato and Aristotle. No philosophy exists in a vacuum;
rather, all philosophers have been having an extended conversation with each
other for thousands of years, whether explicitly or implicitly. And the origin
of this conversation traces back to ancient Athens. Once youГўВҖВҷve got this
foundation down, from there you can see how successive philosophers have
added, transformed, and rebutted what came out of that city-state. And then,
at last, you can start making your own constructive contributions to the Great
Conversation.

### 3\. Allows you to see the interconnectedness of ideas.

Our educational system has become increasingly specialized. WeГўВҖВҷve created
artificial barriers between different fields of study. When youГўВҖВҷre in
history, you largely just focus on history. When youГўВҖВҷre studying physics,
you mostly focus on physics. Historian Richard Weaver referred to this as the
ГўВҖВңfragmentationГўВҖВқ of knowledge.

But when you read the classics, those walls disappear. For the ancient Greeks
and Romans, all knowledge was interconnected. When you read _The Histories_ by
Herodotus, youГўВҖВҷll see him connect historical events to political theory,
anthropology, and even geography. Plato doesnГўВҖВҷt just muse about Truth,
Justice, and Beauty, but also math and physics. The Roman Stoics werenГўВҖВҷt
just interested in learning how to live in alignment with Nature, but also how
to govern empires and interact with people you donГўВҖВҷt get along with.

My exposure to the classics has instilled in me a drive to connect even the
most disparate of topics and ideas. I love the challenge of trying to
[synthesize these divergent concepts into a coherent and well-thought-out
argument or position](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/ooda-loop/).

And hereГўВҖВҷs the thing: As technology and the economy advances and more and
more work is outsourced to algorithms and computers, knowing how to make new
connections and synthesize data and ideas will be a skill in high demand. It
wonГўВҖВҷt be enough to be a good computer programmer; companies can hire cheap
computer programmers in India. But a computer programmer who has a firm grasp
of behavioral psychology, and can impute that understanding into a line of
code? ThatГўВҖВҷs a far rarer skillset, and consequently a much more valuable
one. Some experts argue that the reason Apple has been so successful in the
past two decades is that many of the people who work there вҖ” particularly the
executives вҖ” have a background in both the humanities _and_ technology.

### 4\. Instills virtue and morality.

Us moderns typically approach history and art from a very utilitarian, almost
scientific view. WeГўВҖВҷre more interested in the factual minutia of history,
while art is only useful to the extent that it entertains us.

But for the ancient Greeks and Romans, such subjects had a much broader and
inspiring purpose. History and art were not just interesting and informative,
but were also thought to instill virtue and morality. If you read _The
Histories_ by Herodotus, _The History of the Peloponnesian War_ by Thucydides,
or _Lives_ by the Greek-turned-Roman historian Plutarch, and only walk away
with an understanding of events that took place thousands of years ago, youвҖҷve
completely missed the point these authors were trying to make. For them,
[history was a way to teach a man to live more
virtuously](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/should-a-man-be-inspired-
by-history/). Woven into their recitation of history is editorial commentary
about the morality and immorality of the choices made by the great men at the
center of these events. They want you to look at the men and nations that
displayed excellence and seek to emulate them, while avoiding the mistakes and
missteps of the men and nations that floundered.

The same went for Greek art. The Greek tragedies werenГўВҖВҷt just entertainment.
They were put on for the edification of the soul. The tragedies taught the
Greeks to be wary of hubris and that even the greatest of men were susceptible
to moral failings. The audience was not to watch as passive spectators, but to
experience a catharsis вҖ” the release of stress and the rejuvenation of moral
spirit. One was to leave the theater with a renewed dedication to acting in
excellence as a citizen.

Whenever I read the classics, I truly feel edified. IГўВҖВҷm inspired by CatoГўВҖВҷs
devotion to republicanism in the face of tyranny; AeschylusГўВҖВҷ Oresteia
reminds me how my actions can influence the generations to come; PlatoГўВҖВҷs
Allegory of the Cave motivates me to constantly peer beyond the ГўВҖВңshadowsГўВҖВқ
of this life; CiceroГўВҖВҷs insights about fulfilling oneвҖҷs duty inspires me to
serve my family, faith, and country with honor.

Now, of course, thereГўВҖВҷs going to be the naysayers who will argue that
thereГўВҖВҷs no way you can learn virtue and morality from the ancient Greeks and
Romans because these were the same people who kept slaves, had sex with boys,
and felt no qualms about massacring entire cities вҖ” including women and
children вҖ” during war. This is all true, and yes itГўВҖВҷs abhorrent and
repulsive.

Yet this perspective would be entirely foreign to the cultures some seek to
malign. The ancient Greeks and Romans held a far more nuanced, and
intelligent, view of history. They avoided the unfortunate black-and-white
perspective of our day, in which one can only learn from historical figures
who were nearly perfect in character and who espoused views that directly
align with our own вҖ” thus ruling out the possibility of learning from, well,
anyone. Understanding the dual nature of all humans, Plutarch gleans both
positive and negative lessons from a Roman emperor he highlights in his
_Lives_. And it was not uncommon for the ancients to look to the empires and
city-states of even their avowed _enemies_ for insights on how to live a good
and virtuous life. For example, in his _Histories_ , Herodotus often pointed
out lessons the Greeks could learn from the Persians.

Moreover, when you read the classics, youГўВҖВҷll see that men during this time
hardly gave an unquestioned pass to the practices we now find abhorrent.
Indeed, many regularly wrestled with the moral issues of their time. Aristotle
and the Greek tragedians werenГўВҖВҷt entirely comfortable with the concept of
honor and the blood feuds it spawned, and Roman statesmen like Cicero thought
it better to have his farms worked by tenants than by slaves.

Finally, we must keep in mind that these are the same people who birthed the
very ideas that would eventually lead to the eradication of these morally
bankrupt practices. If it werenГўВҖВҷt for Greek democracy, we wouldnГўВҖВҷt have
had the liberal representative democracy that would eventually bring the end
of slavery in the West.

All this is to say, that while these men certainly fell short of modern moral
and ethical standards, we can still learn much from them because they grappled
with the same underlying questions of virtue and morality that we struggle
with today вҖ” and bequeathed to us the very tools that have allowed us to deal
with them in a
[proactive](https://www.artofmanliness.com/character/habits/7-habits-
proactive-not-reactive/) way.

### 5\. Increased understanding of your government and founding principles.

As historian Carl Richard shows in his book _[The Founders and the
Classics](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0674314263/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0674314263&linkCode=as2&tag=stucosuccess&linkId=FSXA3GZUT5SFDAZ4)_
, all of the American Founding Fathers were steeped in the literature and
culture of antiquity. As children, they learned Greek and Latin and read the
great epic poems and political treatises in what would now be considered their
high school years. Even as middle-aged and old men, they returned again and
again to the works of Ancient Greece and Rome. Thomas Jefferson wrote to John
Adams about his love for the classics: ГўВҖВңI feel a much greater interest in
knowing what has happened two or three thousand years ago than in what is now
passing.ГўВҖВқ

Many of the founding principles of the American government were cribbed
directly from the principles espoused in antiquity. During the debates
surrounding the writing and ratification of the U.S. Constitution, the
Founders used ancient Greek and Roman political texts as precedents for the
creation of the new nation. ItГўВҖВҷs thanks to the classics that the U.S. has a
mixed form of government вҖ” one consisting of an executive, legislative, and
judicial branch. The Founders also looked to the Greeks and Romans in
considering the type of military that America was to create (citizen-soldiers
were preferred to a standing army because standing armies could be used by a
strong executive to take away freedom) as well as its foreign policy (be wary
of entangling alliances).

The Founders didnГўВҖВҷt just look to classical culture for inspiration for the
structure of the American government; they also used the classics to inform
them of the type of [personal
character](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/what-is-character-
its-3-true-qualities-and-how-to-develop-it/) which would be necessary among
the citizenry for this great experiment in republican democracy to be a
success. For example, while the Founders abhorred the cruelty and the complete
submersion of individuality of the ancient Spartans, they admired the ethos of
ГўВҖВңcivic dutyГўВҖВқ and decadence-fleeing frugality that the city-state instilled
in its people. Samuel Adams wished Boston to be a ГўВҖВңChristian Sparta,ГўВҖВқ and
John Taylor celebrated the courage and patriotism of the Spartan 300, seeing
them as a model for all citizen-soldiers to emulate.

From the ancient Romans, the Founders hoped Americans would draw lessons on
the importance of temperance and rectitude in a republic. James Wilson argued
that the Roman Republic was a success as long as its people maintained a
strict austerity and [sense of
honor](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/manly-honor-part-i-what-is-
honor/). But once Rome became a massive empire, it forsook those values to
pursue luxury and hedonism, which led to its eventual downfall. Wilson argued
that the ГўВҖВңfate of Rome, both in her rising and in her falling state, will be
the fate of every other nation that shall follow both parts of her example.ГўВҖВқ

The classics thus give us ample examples вҖ” both positive and negative вҖ” of how
a democracy should function. They also inspire us to a higher level of
citizenship, showing us the potential and pitfalls of [rousing political
oratory and
rhetoric](https://www.artofmanliness.com/character/advice/resurrecting-the-
lost-art-of-oratory/), the necessity of full participation by good men, and
the needfulness of watching for the creep of corruption.

### 6\. Disciplines the mind.

Reading the classics can be hard. The texts often require you to [gird up your
intellectual loins](https://www.artofmanliness.com/skills/manly-know-how/how-
to-gird-up-your-loins-an-illustrated-guide/) if you really want to understand
and comprehend them. But with that mental exertion comes a strengthening and
disciplining of the mind that carries over to other aspects of your life.

One reason I read the classics is because they serve as my intellectual
sharpening stone, keeping my mind keen and sharp.

### 7\. ItГўВҖВҷs fun!

One thing I love about reading the classics is that it never gets old. The
tales and characters evince an evergreen engagingness. I finished _The
Odyssey_ this year for the umpteenth time, and I found it more enjoyable this
time than when I first read it many years ago. IГўВҖВҷve started to dig into
CiceroГўВҖВҷs treatises again and IвҖҷm having lots of fun with them. The guy had a
sharp wit.

The thing about the classics is that the more and more you read them, the more
youГўВҖВҷll enjoy them. As your knowledge of the classics grows, youГўВҖВҷre better
able to see and understand allusions classical authors make to each other.
WhatГўВҖВҷs more, the impact of classical literature on you will change as you
enter different parts of your life. As a young, single man filled with vim and
vigor, I resonated most with Achilles; but now as a married father, I find
myself relating more to Hector and Odysseus. IГўВҖВҷm looking forward to seeing
how my readings of the classics will continue to change as I grow older.

### 8\. Fills you with thumos.

The ancient Greeks believed that [a manГўВҖВҷs soul or psyche was made up of
three parts](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/what-is-a-man-the-
allegory-of-the-chariot/): Reason, Appetites, and
[Thumos](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/got-thumos/). Thumos
represented manГўВҖВҷs ГўВҖВңfire in the bellyГўВҖВқ вҖ” his energy, fight, drive towards
excellence, and eagerness to do great deeds.

We have no true word in our modern languages which corresponds to the Greek
concept of thumos. And for good reason вҖ” the ancients viewed life as far more
epic and heroic than we do. But studying the classics can help renew our sense
of thumos and the vitality with which we live our lives.

This was certainly the case for Henry David Thoreau. He was an avid reader of
the classics throughout his life, studying the history, literature, and
philosophy of the likes of Caesar, Cicero, Horace, Xenophon, Demosthenes,
Sophocles, Homer, Seneca, Virgil, Plato, and many more вҖ” typically in the
original Greek and Latin. [As ThoreauГўВҖВҷs biographer Robert D. Richardson Jr.
explains](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0520063465/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0520063465&linkCode=as2&tag=stucosuccess&linkId=FSXA3GZUT5SFDAZ4),
because Thoreau believed that the same forces of life and nature that existed
thousands of years ago, existed in his day, he regarded ГўВҖВңthe classics as the
still-vital expression of the real world in a living language. The world of
_The_ _Iliad_ was as much his as HomerГўВҖВҷs.ГўВҖВқ Consequently, reading the
classics reminded Thoreau that he could live just as heroically in the present
age as any other:

> ГўВҖВңWhat he would later write in _Walden_ he already felt to be true. ГўВҖВҳThe
> heroic books, even if printed in the character of our mother tongue, will
> always be in a language dead to degenerate times.ГўВҖВҷ The classics were
> heroic books, always alive to those who were themselves aliveГўВҖВҰ
>
> ThoreauГўВҖВҷs sense of the nature of the classical achievement hadГўВҖВҰtwo main
> emphases. The first is the assertion of the importance and permanence of
> nature. In November, reading VirgilГўВҖВҰThoreau was struck by passages about
> the buds swelling on the vines and fruit scattered about under the trees.
> The point, he told himself, was that ГўВҖВҳit was the same world.ГўВҖВҷ His second
> observation followed naturally enough. If VirgilГўВҖВҷs was the same world as
> ours, then ГўВҖВҳthe same men inhabited it.ГўВҖВҷ Neither nature nor human nature
> had changed, in essence, from VirgilГўВҖВҷs time to ours. Zeno and the Stoics
> taught the same thing. In early February 1838, Thoreau noted that ГўВҖВҳZeno
> the stoic stood in precisely the same relation to the world that I do
> now.ГўВҖВҷ And reading Homer brought home the same point once more. In early
> March Thoreau wrote in his journal, ГўВҖВҳThree thousand years and the world so
> little changed!ГўВҖВ”The _Iliad_ seems like a natural sound which has
> reverberated to our day.ГўВҖВҷ
>
> Because he saw history as he did, the classics were not a burdenГўВҖВҰbut a
> promise of what he might also achieveГўВҖВҰIn enunciating this belief in the
> permanence of human nature and the equivalence of all erasГўВҖВ”that is any age
> is a heroic age to the heroic individualГўВҖВ”we come to what is perhaps the
> single most important set of convictions for the young ThoreauГўВҖВҰSince we
> are the same men and women as those Greeks and Romans we so much admire, we
> may achieve as well as they did if we only willвҖҰвҖҷThis lament for a golden
> age,вҖҷ Thoreau once said, ГўВҖВҳis simply a lament for golden men.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

I find, as Thoreau did, that reading the classics fills me with vim and vigor
and the desire to live more heroically in my own day. When I read about epic
battles in _The Iliad_ or ponder CatoГўВҖВҷs stirring defense of republicanism,
my ГўВҖВңblood runs hot with thumosГўВҖВқ as the Greeks would say, and IГўВҖВҷm primed
to get out there and [do great
deeds](https://www.artofmanliness.com/character/advice/10-overlooked-truths-
about-taking-action/).

### How to Get Started Studying the Classics

It doesnГўВҖВҷt take much to start studying the classics. Just start reading
them! IГўВҖВҷd recommend beginning with the Greeks and then moving to the Romans,
as they built upon the cultural inheritance they had received from their
Hellenistic forebearers.

You can find most of the classical texts [online for
free](https://www.gutenberg.org/). HereГўВҖВҷs a suggested reading list to help
you get started. ItГўВҖВҷs not exhaustive, but itГўВҖВҷs a good start.

**Ancient Greeks**

  *  _The Iliad_ and _The_  _Odyssey_ by Homer
  * Tragedies of Aeschylus
  * Tragedies of Sophocles
  * Tragedies of Euripides
  *  _Histories_ by Herodotus
  *  _History of the Peloponnesian War_ by Thucydides
  *  _Dialogues_ by Plato
  *  _Works_ by Aristotle
  *  _Letter to Herodotus_ and _Letter to Menoecus_ by Epicurus

**Ancient Romans**

  * Treatises of Cicero
  *  _On the Nature of Things_ by Lucretius
  *  _Aeneid_ by Virgil
  * Works of Horace
  *  _History of Rome_ by Livy
  *  _Metamorphoses_ by Ovid
  *  _Parallel Lives_ and _Moralia_ by Plutarch
  *  _Germania_ and _Dialogue on Oratory_ by Tacitus
  *  _Enchiridion_ and _Discourses_ by Epictetus
  *  _[Meditations by Marcus Aurelius](https://www.artofmanliness.com/character/manly-lessons/manvotional-selection-from-the-meditations-of-marcus-aurelius/)_
  *  _Letters From a Stoic_ by Seneca

If youГўВҖВҷre looking for a big picture tour of classical culture, I highly
recommend two lecture series from my favorite college professor, Dr. J. Rufus
Fears: _[Famous Greeks](https://www.thegreatcourses.com/courses/famous-
greeks.html) _and _[Famous
Romans](https://www.thegreatcourses.com/courses/famous-romans.html)._ Dr.
Fears made classical culture come alive to both me and Kate when we were at
the University of Oklahoma. He was a short, bald, older man with a potbelly,
but he was a master storyteller with a vitality that was infectious. He walked
around campus with a staff and heГўВҖВҷd bring it into class. When he was
recounting the gruesome battle scenes in _The Iliad,_ heГўВҖВҷd pretend his staff
was a sword and heГўВҖВҷd walk around the lecture hall slitting the throats of
his students while describing the vivid blood that would be oozing from their
necks. It was awesome.

Dr. Fears masterfully made parallels between what happened in ancient Greece
and Rome and the events that have happened in recent history, and continue to
unfold today. Just like Herodotus and Plutarch, Dr. Fears believed the purpose
of history was to teach morality and virtue.

Sadly, Dr. Fears died a few years ago, but you can buy his lectures on the
history of Greece and Rome from The Great Courses Company. Do it. You wonГўВҖВҷt
regret it.

Whether through audio lecture, books, or both, start diving in the world of
Homer and Plato, Cicero and Marcus Aurelius вҖ” itГўВҖВҷll make you a better man
and a more engaged citizen.
