title: Inside Trump’s Hour-by-Hour Battle for Self-Preservation - The New York Times
source: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/09/us/politics/donald-trump-president.html
date: 2025-08-13T16:49:50.150046
tags: []
---
In the months before Mr. Kelly took over last summer from his embattled
predecessor, Reince Priebus, the Oval Office had a rush-hour feel, with a
constant stream of aides and visitors stopping by to offer advice or kibitz.
During [one April
meeting](http://web.archive.org/web/20250721165222/https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/05/us/politics/trump-
interview-susan-
rice.html?action=click&contentCollection=Politics&module=RelatedCoverage&region=EndOfArticle&pgtype=article)
with New York Times reporters, no fewer than 20 people wandered in and out —
including Mr. Priebus, who walked in with Vice President Mike Pence. The door
to the Oval Office is now mostly closed.

Mr. Kelly is trying, quietly and respectfully, to reduce the amount of free
time the president has for fiery tweets by accelerating the start of his
workday. Mr. Priebus also tried, with only modest success, to encourage Mr.
Trump to arrive by 9 or 9:30 a.m.

The pace of meetings has increased. Beyond Mr. Kelly and Mr. Kushner, they
often include Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, the national security adviser; Ivanka
Trump, the president’s daughter and senior adviser; Hope Hicks, the
communications director; Robert Porter, the staff secretary; and Kellyanne
Conway, the president’s counselor.

Mr. Trump, who enjoyed complete control over his business empire, has made
significant concessions after trying to micromanage his first months in
office. Despite chafing at the limits, the president actually craves the
approval of Mr. Kelly, whom he sees as a peer, people close to Mr. Trump said.

He calls Mr. Kelly up to a dozen times a day, even four or five times during
dinner or a golf outing, to ask about his schedule or seek policy advice,
according to people who have spoken with the president. The new system gives
him “time to think,” he said when it began. White House aides denied that Mr.
Trump seeks Mr. Kelly’s blessing, but confirmed that he views him as a crucial
confidant and sounding board. Mr. Kelly has also adopted some of Mr. Trump’s
favorite grievances, telling the president recently that he agrees that some
reporters are interested only in taking down the administration.
