title: 9 questions with Adam Gopnik | Vox
source: https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2017/9/16/16309488/9-questions-adam-gopnik-interview
date: 2025-08-13T17:01:03.747360
tags: []
---
This week, Adam Gopnik — a staff writer for the New Yorker and author of [_At
the Strangers’ Gate_](https://www.amazon.com/At-Strangers-Gate-Arrivals-
York/dp/1400041805) — answers our questions.

**What’s the first piece of media you consume every day?**

After, obviously, first checking the New Yorker webpage to see what my
colleagues have written, I make the rounds of the websites I like (Talking
Points Memo is a favorite) and of the Twitter feeds of political writers I
admire. I check in on Jonathan Chait, I look at Vox (really), I see what
[Paul] Krugman is tweeting and who’s on first at Slate.

**Name a writer or publication you disagree with but still read.**

Writers we think are all wrong and want to read anyway come in two kinds:
those who are good writers and bad thinkers — Christopher Hitchens, Norman
Podhoretz, and Gore Vidal, each in his terribly different way, are instances
of that — and those who may not be original stylists but who we admire for
trying to be better thinkers than they were before, stumbling toward truth
from a starting place very different from the one we happened to inherit.

I disagree, for instance, with David Frum about almost everything, from Iraq
to the legacy of Pierre Trudeau in our native Canada, but never doubt his
integrity or desire to tell the truth about the world. (It is still
astonishing to me that this simple reality — that much of what we believe is
shaped by our background, and we ought to try and disbelieve it to find out
what you might think if you had been born some other way — is hard for people
to accept. Saying “Imagine you were born a Palestinian…” to a Likudnik, and of
course the other way around, is still the hardest of intellectual exercises.
As of course it is for me, too, as in saying, “What if you were the child of
right-wing parents from an insecure Southern family? Would your views be so
safely and piously liberal then?”)

**Who is the person who has most influenced the way you think?**

Well, John Stuart Mill. One only has to read a page of Mill to be reminded
that passionate advocacy and particularized argument are allies, not enemies.
We sometimes forget, reading his circumspectly argued pages, that he was the
most passionate advocate alive for progressive causes in his day — some of
which occupied the outer edge of plausibility, women’s rights above all. The
same is true of his resolute lack of “realism” about the American Civil War;
Mill was as responsible as any one man could be for the North-of-England
millworkers’ refusal to work with Southern cotton, at great cost to their own
well-being.

And then, however ridiculous this may sound, Darwin and Shakespeare. Darwin by
showing that there is no idea too large to be made lucid. (He had the single
biggest idea anyone has ever had, and wrote the single most lucid book about
it.) And Shakespeare because he reminds you, again and again, what punditry
can make you forget: that human beings are irredeemably double and always do
the opposite of what they believe and plunge into perils they know not of. All
of us, all the time.

**When was the last time you changed your mind about something?**

I was a vehement proponent of what has been called the standard orthodoxy on
American imprisonment and the epidemic of incarceration, which so many of us
believe to be the moral crisis of our time. (Until this second moral crisis
struck, perhaps, last year.) Briefly, it was the view that the epidemic of
incarceration, among minorities particularly, had to do with “Draconian” drug
laws and mandatory sentencing and private prison contractors.

Then this year I read John Pfaff’s book and articles showing, with evidence
that seems to me irrefutable — and taking a shot or two at me along the way —
that however horrific the epidemic might be, these were not its cause. (Pfaff
thinks that mass incarceration is a horror, but that it has more to do with
the epidemic of prosecutorial swashbuckling than any other single factor.) I
read the book, saw the facts, swallowed hard, and wrote a piece saying that I
was wrong and he was right, and was glad to have written it.

**What’s your worst intellectual habit?**

My very wise and politically savvy 17-year-old daughter says I get too
emotional about political issues. I think she’s right. She knows that if she
sees me race across a room, I have just read something about Trump. Turning
ideas into feelings is the thing an essayist is supposed to do, but political
punditry should probably be more detached. (Rick Hertzberg, for instance,
never loses his cool, or his good humor.)

If my recently arrived-at “political” stuff has value, though — as in what
I’ve written about gun control and the misreading of the Second Amendment —
perhaps it’s because it connects the feelings we have as parents to the
arguments we need as citizens.

**What inspires you to learn?**

Love of reading. I don’t read in order to resolve my curiosity; I kindle my
curiosity because it gives me the chance to read. I am an addict of the
printed page. If I get on a four-hour flight without a book to read, I panic
like that character on _The Twilight Zone_ seeing a demon on the wing.

**What do you need to believe in order to get through the day?**

I’m a liberal. A 19th-century liberal humanist, who believes in progress and
reform, and in parliamentary democracy as the key to both. But an old-tyme
liberal who has learned the painful 20th-century lessons that progress and
reform and parliamentary democracy are infinitely more precarious, less
obviously, the leading edge of history, than 19th-century liberals hoped. So,
I need to believe that liberalism remains vital and potent, while also
recognizing that this belief is in itself more fragile than I would like it to
be. Every morning, you seek a place between fallibilism and faith.

**What’s a view that you hold but can’t defend?**

I suppose every liberal has a key belief that can’t be defended, in the sense
of being shown to be inarguably true. That’s the belief that it is better to
live in a peaceful, prosperous, and pluralist society than in a war-torn and
tribal one. We can show that cosmopolitan civilizations have produced more of
the good things in life for more people than any other kind, but we can’t have
a “ground” to tell people that those values are naturally the most important.

I did a lecture series last year at the Metropolitan Museum in New York about
Jerusalem in the year 1000. It was a city governed by uneasy but persistent
habits of coexistence, all destroyed, willfully, by century’s end. The
undismissible truth is that many people prefer a life of violence and
impoverishment if they feel that it is necessary to the triumph of their
tribe, particularly if they feel their tribe has been insulted by the
cosmopolitans.

**What book have you recommended the most?**

There are two. I urge everyone I like to read [James] Boswell’s _Life of
Johnson_ , the most entertaining book ever written in English. It reminds good
liberals that [Samuel] Johnson — a hyper-Tory, a hierarchy-loving
authoritarian in politics, and a devout Christian in faith — was also one of
the most humane men ever to have lived. We need that truth. It also is a book
that reminds me, at least, that Boswell’s unashamed lack of dignity, his
willingness to write in detail about his friends and risk looking foolish, was
the key to his genius.

The other book I urge on everyone is Karl Popper’s _The Open Society and Its
Enemies_ , which still seems to me the best-argued, the most profound,
philosophical defense of liberalism that we have. (And Popper, contrary to
what many believe, was a social democrat when he wrote it, as far from
“reaction” as you can be.) His still-cogent point is that the history of
mankind is one of progress toward openness — and just as resolutely of
regression toward tribalism.

Whenever anyone tries to get too granular about political causes — oh, it’s
the economic distress of the Midwest, or, for that matter, Oh, it was the
inflation in Germany — I want to remind them of this inexorable truth of human
existence. Open societies are beacons leading us onward, but closed societies
are magnets, drawing us back. We live on the brink of backwardness at every
moment. Or to put it another way, when asked to choose between Athens and
Jerusalem, always choose Alexandria. They have libraries there.
