title: " Figuring Out the Falcons
source: http://grantland.com/features/atlanta-falcons-matt-ryan-2014-nfl-preview/
date: 2025-08-13T19:37:48.136398
tags: []
---
It was like clockwork. The Atlanta Falcons (Matt Ryan and Mike Smith edition)
posted a winning record by virtue of dominating their opposition in close
games. For their first five seasons together, the only knock you could throw
at Atlanta’s star quarterback and head coach was that they couldn’t do much in
the playoffs. At the end of Year 5, when Atlanta came within one Harry Douglas
slip in the open field of making the Super Bowl, even that went away. They
were a [credible Super Bowl pick heading into
2013](http://www.espn.com/nfl/preview13/story/_/id/9605608/experts-nfl-
predictions-2013). And then, suddenly, the bottom fell out. Injuries [tore
Atlanta apart to reveal a soft, chewy interior](https://grantland.com/the-
triangle/julio-jones-goes-down-the-falcons-are-out/). Atlanta had nine players
hit injured reserve by the turn of the year. Even worse? That ability Ryan had
exhibited to pull out the close ones disappeared. It was some bizarro Falcons
team that didn’t belong with its predecessors:

Year | Record | Pythagorean Wins | Diff | Close Record
---|---|---|---|---
2008 | 11-5 | 9.7 | +1.3 | 6-2
2009 | 9-7 | 9.0 | 0 | 3-2
2010 | 13-3 | 11.2 | +1.8 | 7-2
2011 | 10-6 | 9.3 | +0.7 | 4-3
2012 | 13-3 | 11.0 | +2.0 | 7-2
2008-12 | 56-24 | 50.2 | +5.8 | 27-11
2013 | 4-12 | 5.9 | -1.9 | 3-7

So, which one is it? Were the 2013 Falcons a sign that Atlanta needs to
rethink and reshape its organizational philosophy before taking that leap
forward into a Super Bowl? Or was it a blip caused by problems that are
unlikely to recur in 2014? Let’s try to make both cases and see which one has
more evidence in its corner.

[_Click here for more from our 2014 NFL
preview._](https://grantland.com/tags/2014-nfl-preview/)

## Atlanta Will Be Right Back

When Robert Mays and I [were talking about Atlanta last
year](https://grantland.com/the-triangle/nfl-preview-podcast-series-atlanta-
falcons-and-carolina-panthers/) in our preseason podcast, we both agreed the
team was likely to fall short of what were lofty expectations. I don’t say
that to brag about getting predictions right — even we had them at 9-7 (Mays)
and 8-8 (me), and that came right before we each boldly predicted that Tampa
Bay would win the NFC South — but instead to suggest there were visible
problems with the Falcons as constructed at that time. Nobody could have
predicted that Atlanta would fall all the way to 4-12, but there were
noticeable flaws with the personnel assembled by general manager Thomas
Dimitroff. The good news, if you’re a Falcons fan, is that Dimitroff has used
this offseason to work on fixing or at least concealing those flaws. Here are
their main issues and how they addressed them in the offseason:

**The lines were weak.** The Falcons were a team built to throw the football
around on offense and create takeaways on defense. That can be a viable game
plan (see the recent vintages of the New England Patriots), but Atlanta went
so far in that direction that it simply didn’t have enough to work with at the
line of scrimmage. The offensive side of the line was particularly bad; while
the Falcons attempted to address what had been an aging line with draft picks,
the players they drafted just failed to develop into worthwhile players. 2012
second-rounder Peter Konz and third-rounder Lamar Holmes have been huge
problems since arriving in Atlanta, with Holmes forced into the lineup after
2010 third-rounder Mike Johnson suffered a gruesome leg injury in August. 2009
fifth-rounder Garrett Reynolds wasn’t much better, and 2008 first-rounder Sam
Baker, the first lineman selected by Dimitroff, simply hasn’t developed into
the left tackle of the future that the Falcons envisioned. Put it this way:
When you end up with Jeremy Trueblood as a regular starter on your line, bad
things have happened.

Things weren’t much better on the other side of the line, where Atlanta was
relying on a paper-thin rotation of regulars. The Falcons were stuck using
useful spare parts like Kroy Biermann and Corey Peters as close to every-down
players, and it wasn’t necessarily a surprise that each broke down with
season-ending Achilles injuries during the campaign. Osi Umenyiora was a shell
of his former self, and Atlanta’s pass rush was virtually nonexistent; the
Falcons had [a league-low Adjusted Sack Rate of 5.3
percent](http://www.footballoutsiders.com/stats/dl). Some of the blame there
must fall on Dimitroff, who attempted to find his pass-rusher of the future in
free agency with Ray Edwards in 2011 and came away holding a stump. The
Falcons just finished paying for that mistake, as the final $4.65 million in
dead money from the Edwards deal fell off their cap after 2013.

Dimitroff’s most important job this offseason was to fix those problems.
First, the team [fired offensive line coaches Pat Hill and Paul Dunn and
defensive line coach Ray
Hamilton](http://www.ajc.com/news/sports/football/falcons-fire-offensive-
defensive-line-coaches/ncYXS/?__federated=1), replacing them with respected
offensive line coach Mike Tice and longtime NFL star Bryan Cox on the
defensive side. Then, Dimitroff used his most valuable assets to upgrade on
either side of the line. Perhaps owing to the presence of former Chiefs
general manager Scott Pioli in Atlanta’s front office, the Falcons targeted
Kansas City players and came away with guard Jon Asamoah and defensive end
Tyson Jackson from the resurgent Chiefs. The biggest move, though, was signing
30-year-old Dolphins nose tackle Paul Soliai, who will be the anchor in an
Atlanta defense that will show more 3-4 looks in 2014. Jackson is a natural
5-technique end, while Asamoah will slot in at right guard.

Most notably, though, Atlanta used the sixth overall pick on Texas A&M tackle
Jake Matthews. It’s unclear where Matthews will end up as a pro, because the
strength of his game at the moment is unquestionably his run blocking. That’s
a skill set more closely associated with right tackles, but he could follow
the same career path as somebody like Joe Staley, who excelled as a right
tackle before moving to left tackle and becoming equally as effective at the
more critical position. Even if Matthews is just a decent right tackle this
season, he would be an enormous upgrade on Holmes and his ilk on the edge,
both in terms of keeping Ryan upright and opening holes for Steven Jackson.

**The roster will be healthier.** Oh, if only for [the sake of Rembert
alone](https://grantland.com/the-triangle/falcons-30-seahawks-28-or-the-day-i-
became-a-sports-fan/), let’s pray this roster will be healthier. Atlanta had
just six players start all 16 games last season, with a litany of key players
walking wounded throughout the season. Among the notable players who missed
time:

Player | Injury | Time Missed
---|---|---
Mike Johnson | Fractured fibula | 16 games
Kroy Biermann | Torn Achilles | 14 games
Sam Baker | Knee | 12 games
Julio Jones | Fractured foot | 11 games
Sean Weatherspoon | Lisfranc injury | 9 games
Asante Samuel | Thigh | 5 games
Steven Jackson | Hamstring | 4 games
Roddy White | High ankle sprain | 3 games

And that table even undersells the impact of those injuries: An already-slow
Jackson appeared to be running at three-quarters speed after coming back from
his hamstring issue, while White was tough but useless while trying to play
through his ankle injury during the first five games of the year; he averaged
three catches for a total of 26 yards per game during that stretch, with a
more typical six-catch, 73-yard average after his return in November.

Of course, we already know that one player on that list will be returning to
the sideline. Weatherspoon tore his Achilles in June and will miss the season,
leaving Atlanta without its best linebacker.

**They’re likely to be better in close games.** It feels weird to type that in
reference to the Falcons, and there’s no guarantee they’ll return to the days
when Ryan was winning 70 percent of Atlanta’s one-touchdown contests, but the
Falcons are just as unlikely to lose 70 percent of their close games next year
as anybody else in the league. Many of their close losses came down to a
single play or drive. They failed to convert two times from the 3-yard line in
the final moments against New Orleans in Week 1. A missed Matt Bryant field
goal gave way to a game-winning score with 43 seconds left for the Dolphins in
Week 3. Four shots from the 13-yard line to tie it up against New England late
in Week 4 failed to produce a touchdown. An 80-yard drive inside the two-
minute warning from Geno Smith produced a game-winning Jets field goal in Week
5. A missed Bryant field goal and a failed fourth-down conversion cost them a
win over the Packers in Week 14. You get the idea. There were plenty of games
in which a Falcons loss came down to a play here or a couple of third-down
conversions there. If the Falcons win 70 percent of those 10 one-touchdown
games, the rate at which they had won close games previously under Mike Smith,
their 4-12 record is an 8-8 season, and we’re not having this discussion about
whether they’re done competing with this core.

**The statistical combination of Pythagoras and plexiglass.** Because the
Falcons lost so many close games and were blown out by more than two
touchdowns only twice all season, Atlanta ended up with the point differential
of a 5.9-win team. That 1.9-win difference is meaningful; teams since 1989
that underperformed their [Pythagorean
expectation](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pythagorean_expectation) by 1.5 to 2
wins have improved by an average of 2.8 wins the following season.

Atlanta also benefits from the bounce of plexiglass. The “plexiglass
principle” suggests that teams that make enormous leaps or suffer precipitous
falls tend to regress toward the mean the following season, just as the
Falcons did when they followed a 4-12 season in 2007 with Ryan’s 11-5 mark in
2008 before dropping to 9-7 in 2009. After going 13-3 in 2012, the Falcons
were a full nine wins worse in 2013; as I wrote about in [Monday’s Texans
preview](https://grantland.com/features/houston-texans-preview/), teams that
declined by six wins or more in a given season improved by an average of 3.1
wins the following campaign.

## The Case Against an Atlanta Comeback

**There’s still no pass rush.** For all the improvements Atlanta made this
offseason in adding run-stuffers, they didn’t spend a single dime on anybody
who could really improve this team’s chances of getting to the quarterback in
2014. Jackson and Soliai aren’t pass-rushers, and while Biermann will be back,
his value comes with his versatility and ability to drop into coverage; he had
just three sacks in his lone season as a starting defensive end in 2010.
Umenyiora and third-year reserve Jonathan Massaquoi will be Atlanta’s prime
pass-rushers this season.

**And the secondary is still a work in progress.** After building and
maintaining a top-notch secondary as recently as 2012, Atlanta’s last line of
pass defense is a huge question mark. Of Atlanta’s five core defensive backs
heading into the 2012 campaign, four (Asante Samuel, Brent Grimes, Dunta
Robinson, and Thomas DeCoud) have scattered around the league. Just one
remains, and strong safety William Moore wasn’t the star of the group. Atlanta
will need its replacements to shine, especially if the pass rush gets stuck on
the highway. 2013 draft picks Desmond Trufant (first round) and Robert Alford
(second round) should each get better after their rookie season, but throwing
them to the wolves as a starting cornerback combination is certainly a daring
move from Dimitroff, especially given that Samuel remains a free agent. Backup
corners Robert McClain, Javier Arenas, and Josh Wilson are stopgaps at best.
And next to Moore will be former Jags safety Dwight Lowery, a former corner
with the Jets who’s quietly emerged as a competent safety for the Jaguars over
the past few seasons. Rookie third-rounder Dezmen Southward could figure into
the safety plans by the end of the year, but this could very easily be a
terrible pass defense, with a disappointing pass rush joining an inexperienced
secondary to produce lots of 35-31 games.

**Tony Gonzalez is gone.** The one reliable star who seemed to stay healthy
last year was Gonzalez, who managed to find his way into an 83-catch, 859-yard
season at age 37 despite attracting double-teams on most plays with Jones out
and White hobbled. Barring another unexpected comeback by Gonzalez, Atlanta
will be turning the tight end position over to Levine Toilolo, a 2013 fourth-
round pick who offers little more than a 6-foot-8 frame in the red zone. The
Falcons are deep and talented at wide receiver when Jones, White, and Douglas
are all healthy, but there will naturally be an adjustment period after losing
their future Hall of Fame tight end.

**Their schedule isn’t easy.** Unlike Houston, which Vegas projects to face
the easiest schedule in football, the Falcons are set to do battle with the
league’s [11th-toughest set of matchups in
2014](http://www.footballperspective.com/vegas-has-the-seahawks-as-the-best-
team-in-2014/). Much of that obviously owes to a very difficult NFC South, but
the Falcons also have to contend with games against the AFC North, the NFC
North, the Giants, and the Cardinals. Things don’t start easy for the Falcons,
either, as they open the season against back-to-back playoff teams. They host
New Orleans in the latest edition of that always-entertaining rivalry to start
the season before traveling to Cincinnati in Week 2.

**They’re still top-heavy.** Atlanta has added more talent to the places where
it needed it most, but it still doesn’t have the sort of depth that teams like
the 49ers and Seahawks enjoy. As [I wrote about last year after the Julio
Jones injury](https://grantland.com/the-triangle/julio-jones-goes-down-the-
falcons-are-out/), that makes them a higher-variance team. Everyone faces
injuries during the season, but the wildly disparate paths of 2012 and 2013
tell us just how important it is for Atlanta’s stars to stay both healthy and
productive, and that’s easier said than done. Weatherspoon’s already out.
Jones has now broken the same foot twice in three-plus years. While the likes
of Joplo Bartu and Paul Worrilow emerged as useful contributors after injuries
and poor play took down the guys in front of them last year, Atlanta’s not
going to win the South with a team of undrafted free agents.

## The Verdict

I don’t think there’s any question the Falcons will bounce back this year. The
question, then, is whether that bounce will bump them back up into mere
respectability or push them all the way into the playoffs after a single-year
absence. Some of that depends on the teams around them, of course; it would be
nice if 10 wins would guarantee them the NFC South, but that just isn’t the
case; 10 wins would have won the South just once (2012) in the past five
seasons. A six-win jump from 4-12 seems like a lofty improvement, but this is
much of the same team that won 36 games from 2010 to 2012. Barring something
dramatically unexpected, like an injury to Ryan, I think the Falcons get back
to 10 wins and claim a playoff spot in the crowded NFC.
