title: As Populations Age, a Chance for Younger Nations - The New York Times
source: http://www.nytimes.com/2010/10/17/magazine/17Aging-t.html?ref=magazine&pagewanted=print
date: 2025-08-13T21:55:50.231401
tags: []
---
In the United States, the transformation of older workers into a giant
contingent work force is just getting started. This year, as baby boomers
begin to hit 65, the “elder share” of the U.S. population begins a sharp
climb. From 2010 to 2030, the number of Americans between 25 and 64 will climb
by 16 million, but two-thirds of the increase will consist of people 55 and
64. Countries that are older than the U.S., that are further along in
reshaping their workplaces, give a glimpse of the future. In Japan, retirees
from the biggest companies are well provided for, but for many of the rest —
workers at smaller companies, the self-employed — the fear of outliving their
money is real. One in five elderly Japanese lives in poverty. So the Japanese
stay on the job when they can. Since 2006, the number of Japanese still
working after the customary retirement age of 60 has risen by more than 11
million. Most are officially retired but are back at their companies, under
contract. They typically earn about half their former wages.

**WILL THE WORLD** ever grow young again? Perhaps, but not anytime soon.
Today, many of the places that are growing old the fastest are in the
developing world, largely because that’s where urbanization is most rapid. It
is hard to conjure a situation in which people move back to the countryside
and again have larger families. Instead, if past is prelude, today’s young
countries like China will be the countries that in the not-distant future go
shopping for younger workers in younger places. Those places will be
transformed by satisfying an older China’s needs, and the cycle will repeat
itself: when the world finds its next young place, that country may well age
even more quickly than the formerly young countries that preceded it.

The rough adjustments that global aging imposes on populations can sound
bleak. Nonetheless, the challenges do not trump what we gain by living longer.
Remember, too, that smaller families enable parents to make greater
investments in themselves and the children they do have. Still, as the world
gets older, we need to anticipate how this extraordinary change might
undermine our communities, weaken nations and push able older people to the
side. There are also sobering geopolitical consequences to consider. It now
looks as if global power rests on how willing a country is to neglect its
older citizens. Faults in the welfare states of the West are highlighted by
the world debt crisis. Fiscal woes driven by age-related expenses plague every
level of government in the United States. Europeans take to the streets,
strike and close down governments struggling to cover unsupportable pensions.
The most advanced countries owe trillions in age-related public expenses. The
most straightforward solutions, like higher payroll taxes to pay for benefits,
raise the cost of doing business and chase off investors and producers to
lower-cost economies. Mark Haas of Duquesne University has argued that aging
forces all high-income democracies into triage mode. They can pay for income
support and services for their elderly and drastically reduce financing for
schools, defense, infrastructure and everything else, or they can decide older
people will have to make do with far less.

China has gained new financial clout in relation to advanced industrial
nations because it has grown rich enough as the youthful factory of the world
to act as the developed countries’ banker. Yet the Chinese government says the
country is still too poor to put a more comprehensive social safety net in
place. Perhaps, but it is the financial sacrifices of its people that give
China the means to lend trillions of dollars to the United States and other
industrialized nations. That’s a bargain China may be happy to accept, but it,
too, is caught in the irreversible dynamic of aging, and its demographic
denouement is coming. By then, the United States will be older than it is now,
but younger than most of the rest of the developed world, younger than much of
the developing world and far younger than China. If we understand how aging
populations and economic forces interact, perhaps we can make the most of our
age and our youth.
