title: The Age of Double Standards - The American Prospect
source: http://prospect.org/article/age-double-standards
date: 2025-08-13T20:20:15.663142
tags: []
---
_"But, Yossarian, suppose everyone felt that way."_

_"Then," said Yossarian, "I'd certainly be a damned fool to feel any other
way, wouldn't I?"_ -Joseph Heller,_Catch-22_

Last November 29, American Airlines declared bankruptcy under Chapter 11, the
provision of the bankruptcy code that allows a corporation to stiff its
creditors, break contracts, and keep operating under the supervision of a
judge. This maneuver, politely termed a "reorganization," ends with the
corporation exiting bankruptcy cleansed of old debts. In opting for Chapter
11, American joined every other major airline, including Delta, Northwest,
United, and US Airways, which has been in and out of Chapter 11 twice since
2002. No fewer than 189 airlines have declared bankruptcy since 1990. As the
sole large carrier that had _not_ gone bankrupt, American missed out on
savings available to its rivals and thus was increasingly uncompetitive.

Bankruptcy is intended to give a fresh start to persons and enterprises
overwhelmed by creditors. In the case of American (like other airlines before
it), the main "creditors" are its employees. The costs of American's
bankruptcy will be borne mainly by its workers and secondarily by taxpayers.
The contracts being broken are union contracts and legal promises to honor
pension obligations. American is laying off 13,000 workers, slashing wages,
and reducing its annual pension contribution from $97 million to $6.5 million.
The airline hopes to stick the federal Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
with liability for much of the $6.5 billion that it owes its workers and
retirees.

This national indulgence for corporate bankruptcy has a certain logic. _The
Wall Street Journal_ editorial page recently termed bankruptcy "one of the
better ways in which American capitalism encourages risk-taking," and that is
the prevailing view. Thanks to Chapter 11, a potentially viable insolvent
enterprise is given a fresh start as a going concern, rather than being
cannibalized for the benefit of its creditors.

However, what's good for corporate capitalism is evidently too good for the
rest of us. _Suppose everyone felt that way?_

Wall Street has convinced lawmakers that relief for the masses, even in a
deflationary economic emergency, would not only inflict unacceptable costs to
bank balance sheets; it would also promote "moral hazard"-the economist's term
for rewarding and thereby inviting improvident behavior. Thanks to a revision
in the bankruptcy law passed in 2005 and signed by President George W. Bush
after nearly a decade of furious lobbying by the credit-card industry and the
banks, consumers generally face far more onerous bankruptcy terms than do
corporations.

The housing collapse, depressing trillions of dollars of consumer assets, is
the single biggest drag on the recovery. But underwater mortgage holders,
unlike submerged corporations, have never been eligible for bankruptcy relief.
Homeowners are explicitly prohibited from using the bankruptcy code to reduce
the amount of the mortgage to the present value of the house or to a monthly
payment that could enable them to keep their home.

The selective privileges of bankruptcy display yet another facet of the
convenient concept of corporate personhood. Some persons are evidently more
equal than others. The gross disparity in the way that bankruptcy law treats
corporate persons and actual people is only one of multiple double standards
that increasingly define our age.

Petty felons and 200,000 small-time drug users do prison time, while corporate
criminals whose frauds cost the rest of the economy trillions of dollars are
permitted to settle civil suits for small fines, with shareholders bearing the
expenses. Ordinary families pay tax at a higher rate than billionaires. When
fracking contaminates a property and makes a home uninhabitable, the homeowner
rather than the natural-gas company suffers the loss. The mother of all double
standards is taxpayer aid and Federal Reserve advances-running into the
trillions of dollars-that went to the banks that caused the collapse, while
the bankers avoided prosecution, and the rest of the society got to eat
austerity.

Linking all of these disparities between citizens and corporations is the
political power of a new American plutocracy. Until our politics connects
these dots and citizens start resisting, the financial elite will rule.
Despite the Occupy movement, most regular people have yet to experience the
sudden enlightenment of Captain Yossarian, who decided, unpatriotically, that
he didn't want to die. In the face of economic pillaging, we are behaving like
damned fools.

Bankruptcy privileges for the elite have been with us for centuries. On
October 29, 1692, Daniel Defoe, merchant, pamphleteer, and the future best-
selling author of _Robinson Crusoe_ , was committed to London's King's Bench
Prison because he could not pay debts that totaled some 17,000 pounds. Before
Defoe was declared bankrupt, his far-flung ventures had included underwriting
marine insurance, importing wine from Portugal, buying a diving bell to search
for buried treasure, and investing in 70 civet cats whose musk secretions were
prized for the manufacture of perfume.

In that era, there was no Chapter 11. Bankrupts like Defoe ended up in debtors
prison, an institution that would persist well into the 19th century.
Typically, creditors could obtain a writ of seizure of the debtor's assets
(historians record that Defoe's civet cats were taken by the sheriff's men);
if the assets were insufficient to settle the debt, another writ would send
the bankrupt to prison, from which he could win release only by negotiating a
deal with his creditors. Defoe had no fewer than 140 creditors. However, he
managed to negotiate his freedom by February 1693, though he dodged debt
collectors for the next decade. His misadventures later informed _Robinson
Crusoe_ , whose fictional protagonist faces financial ruin as "an overseas
trader" and lands bankrupt in prison four times, deeply in "remorse at having
ruined his loyal and loving wife."

It gradually dawned on enlightened opinion that putting debtors in prison
might be economically irrational. Once behind bars, a debtor stripped of his
remaining assets had no means of resuming productive economic life, much less
satisfying his debts. In this insight was the germ of Chapter 11.

Defoe soon became England's leading crusader for bankruptcy reform. In 1697,
he published the book-length _Essay upon Projects,_ in which he proposed a
novel solution. Rather than leaving the debtor to the mercy of his creditors,
a "Court of Inquiries" could tally the bankrupt's assets, allocate them to
creditors at so many pence in the pound, and leave the debtor with enough
money to carry on his business. This legal action, undertaken with the full
cooperation of the debtor, would result in the full "discharge" of any
remaining obligation to creditors.

London was suffering from the aftermath of bubonic plague and the costs of
Britain's recent wars with Spain. Debtors prisons were overflowing, not only
with sundry speculators and deadbeats but also with solid businessmen whose
enterprises had been ruined by general economic dislocations. In 1705, with
the support of Queen Anne's ministers, Parliament took up a reform act,
introducing for the first time the concept of _discharge_.

The legislation, however, was aimed at relief for merchants. Ordinary
citizens, fraudulent or just unlucky, could rot in jail. Discharge required
the consent of four-fifths of the creditors. When the law was passed in 1706,
Defoe himself could not qualify, and he fled to Scotland. Nonetheless, an
important concept had been invented. A bankrupt merchant could settle his
debts at less than the full sum owed, avoid going to prison, and resume
economic life with his debts considered legally discharged. From the outset,
there was a double standard of relief for capitalists, but not for the hoi
polloi.

Almost a century later, the same scenario played out in the fledgling American
republic. After the War of Independence came the financial crash of the 1790s.
Robert Morris, the leading financier of the Revolutionary War but later a
ruined speculator, was in jail, as was James Wilson, an associate justice of
the U.S. Supreme Court. When Congress enacted a temporary bankruptcy law in
1800, it was much in the spirit of the British Act of 1706, providing relief
and discharge only for commercial debtors owing at least $1,000, a threshold
that excluded ordinary artisans and farmers. When the immediate economic
crisis passed, the law was repealed.

Not until 1898 did Congress enact a general and permanent federal bankruptcy
statute. It would be amended several times, with oscillating solicitude for
debtors and creditors. In the depressed 1930s, Congress added the forerunner
of the current Chapter 11 as well as relief for farmers. By the 1980s, the use
of Chapter 11 was becoming more frequent, especially in formerly regulated
industries that desired to shed wage and pension costs and in companies ruined
by hostile takeovers or other leveraged buyouts.

There is indeed a moral-hazard problem, it turns out, but it lies in the
increasingly promiscuous use of _corporate_ bankruptcy. The vaunted economic
efficiency of Chapter 11 depends on a tacit balancing act between the
expedient temptation to blow off your debts and the lingering shame attached
to "going bankrupt." If Chapter 11 becomes too common, it ceases to be
efficient because it frightens off investors. The supposed shifting of norms,
in which people no longer feared the stigma of bankruptcy, was the argument
made by bankers in the legislative battle to make bankruptcy less available to
ordinary citizens. It was an epic case of corporate America admonishing the
citizenry to do as I say, not as I do.

The airline industry is only the extreme case. In the past two decades, the
roster of companies that declared bankruptcy includes Enron, WorldCom, Global
Crossing, Adelphia, General Motors, Chrysler, Delphi, Kmart, and LTV Steel,
not to mention several major financial houses.

Private-equity companies routinely use Chapter 11 after they bleed dry the
operating companies they acquire, load them up with debt, extract capital, and
then declare that debts unfortunately exceed assets. Once out of bankruptcy,
the company can be sold for more profit. Bain Capital, Mitt Romney's firm,
pocketed hundreds of millions of dollars as special dividends from such
companies as KB Toys, Dade Behring, Ampad, GS Technologies, and Stage Stores,
all of which subsequently filed for bankruptcy. In industries such as steel,
airlines, and autos, where good union contracts were once common, one of the
biggest appeals of a Chapter 11 reorganization is that contractual pension and
retiree health obligations can be swept aside.

In Chapter 11, even the executives who drove a company into the ground get a
second chance. Post-bankruptcy, American Airlines' president, Tom Horton, was
promoted to CEO. And why not? Declaring bankruptcy will save American a small
fortune. American, while in bankruptcy, has nonetheless found the money to pay
a firm $525,000 a month to advise it on labor cuts. The firm is Bain Capital.

In the late 1990s, the financial industry concluded that what was available to
corporations was too good for the common people. The ease of bankruptcy,
supposedly, was inviting consumers to run up credit-card debt and other forms
of profligate consumption. The Chamber of Commerce, Business Roundtable,
conservative think tanks, and, above all, bankers lined up behind bankruptcy
"reform." Congress passed a harsh measure in 2000, but it was pocket-vetoed by
President Bill Clinton.

Harvard law professor Elizabeth Warren came to national prominence with her
research demonstrating that the charge of frivolous consumer bankruptcies was
a red herring. As she demonstrated, most consumer bankruptcies were in fact
driven by medical bills that overwhelmed family resources or by other
unforeseen financial calamities such as the death or disability of a
breadwinner or the breakup of a marriage. She testified in 2005 that during
the eight years that the financial industry was promoting a harsher consumer
bankruptcy law, the number of bankruptcy filings actually increased a modest
17 percent, while credit-card profits went up 163 percent to $30.2 billion.

With the accession of President George W. Bush and Republican control of
Congress in 2001, the banking industry increased its efforts to tilt the
bankruptcy code against consumers, spending about $100 million in lobbying
over eight years. In 2005, Bush signed the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and
Consumer Protection Act. Its key provisions made it more difficult for
consumers to file under Chapter 7, under which most debts are paid out of only
existing assets and then forgiven, and compelled more people to file under
Chapter 13, which requires a partial repayment plan over three to five years.
The act introduced for the first time a means test, in which only debtors with
income below the state's median are exempt from the more onerous provisions of
the law. If a citizen has above-median income, there is a "presumption" of
abuse, and future income is partly attached in order to satisfy past creditor
claims, no matter what the circumstances. Many states have a "homestead
exemption" protecting an owner-occupied home, up to a dollar limit, from
creditor claims. This, too, is overridden by the 2005 federal act.

In promoting the law, financial executives testified that if losses could be
reduced, savings would be passed along to the public in the form of lower
interest rates. But after the law passed, the credit-card industry increased
its efforts to market high-interest-rate credit cards to consumers, including
those with poor credit ratings. Adding insult to injury, the industry invented
new fees. Thanks to the "reform," when overburdened consumers did go broke,
credit-card companies now had far more latitude to squeeze them for repayment.

Testifying against the bill, Elizabeth Warren warned:

> Women trying to collect alimony or child support will more often be forced
> to compete with credit-card companies that can have more of their debts
> declared non--dischargeable. All these provisions apply whether a person
> earns $20,000 a year or $200,000 a year.
>
> But the means test as written has another, more basic problem: It treats all
> families alike. It assumes that everyone is in bankruptcy for the same
> reason-too much unnecessary spending. A family driven to bankruptcy by the
> increased costs of caring for an elderly parent with Alzheimer's disease is
> treated the same as someone who maxed out his credit cards at a casino. A
> person who had a heart attack is treated the same as someone who had a
> spending spree at the shopping mall. A mother who works two jobs and who
> cannot manage the prescription drugs needed for a child with diabetes is
> treated the same as someone who charged a bunch of credit cards with only a
> vague intent to repay. A person cheated by a subprime mortgage lender and
> lied to by a credit-counseling agency is treated the same as a person who
> gamed the system in every possible way.

At bottom, this trend was a rendezvous between flat or falling wages and banks
making it ever easier for consumers to go more deeply into debt. Inflated
assets-which turned out to be a bubble-were advertised as a substitute for
income. Are your earnings down? Just borrow against your home. Between 1989
and 2004, credit-card debt tripled, to $800 billion, while earnings stagnated.
Homeowners borrowed trillions more against the supposed value of their home.
The moral vocabulary of debt is filled with denunciations about improvident
borrowers, but who ever heard of an improvident lender? Yet it was the
recklessness of banks that caused the financial collapse.

The financial crash that began rumbling in 2007 had numerous consequences, but
in many ways the most durable and destructive one is the continuing undertow
of the housing collapse. The collapse began with a housing bubble pumped up by
subprime mortgages. It is being prolonged by the loss of several trillion
dollars in household assets representing the collapse of housing prices. With
about one homeowner in five holding a mortgage that exceeds the value of the
house, and more than a million homeowners defaulting every year, the result is
forced sales into a depressed housing market. This puts further downward
pressure on prices, prolonging and deepening a classic deflationary spiral.

The housing deflation is such a widely recognized cause of the persistent
economic slump that even the Federal Reserve has publicly criticized the Obama
administration for its feeble response to the housing/mortgage crisis. Bill
Dudley, president of the New York Federal Reserve, recently told a bankers'
convention, "The ongoing weakness in housing has made it more difficult to
achieve a vigorous economic recovery. With additional housing-policy
interventions, we could achieve a better set of economic outcomes."

The administration's housing policy has been built on two programs of shallow
relief, both intended to avoid direct reduction in principal owed and both
widely dismissed as failures. The first, the Home Affordable Modification
Program (HAMP), gives mortgage servicers bonus payments for voluntarily
reducing monthly payments. It has helped fewer than one underwater homeowner
in ten, and as many as half of those who get HAMP relief go right back into
default. The program is a well-documented bureaucratic nightmare for the
homeowner. The second, more recent program, known as HARP, for Home Affordable
Refinance Program, allows moderately underwater homeowners to refinance
mortgages held by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as long as the debt is not more
than 125 percent of the value of the home. But HARP does not reduce the
principal owed, and its terms exclude those most in need of relief. The much-
touted legal deal announced February 1, supposedly worth $26 billion, would
actually give homeowners about $3 billion in mortgage write-downs (the rest is
accounting changes and counseling outlays), compared to a $700 billion gap
between the market value of homes and the mortgages against them.

The more straightforward solution, analogous to a corporate Chapter 11, would
be to give a bankruptcy judge the power to adjust the outstanding mortgage
debt. When congressional progressives proposed this as part of the legislation
creating HAMP, Wall Street fiercely resisted. Several Democrats as well as
nearly all Republicans ended up voting against it. Direct relief, from the
perspective of the financial industry and its allies in the Treasury, is
odious because it would require banks to acknowledge the actual, as opposed to
nominal, condition of their balance sheets.

So while corporations continue to get a fresh start under Chapter 11, the
aftermath of the financial crisis continues to sandbag millions of homeowners
and the economy as a whole. This double standard is not just a question of
fairness. The selective relief for corporations and banks, but not for the 99
percent, is killing the recovery. None of this will change until the citizenry
builds a politics that demands a single standard.

_This piece draws on the themes of a book that Robert Kuttner is completing
for Knopf, titled_ Debtors Prison.
