title: A Plan to Win Universal Health Care
source: http://jacobinmag.com/2017/06/trumpcare-obamacare-repeal-ahca-single-payer
date: 2025-08-13T17:12:46.286229
tags: []
---
Last week, the Republican-controlled Senate
[released](http://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2017/06/22/533942041/who-
wins-who-loses-with-senate-health-care-bill) its version of the American
Health Care Act (AHCA). It is a brutal assault on Medicaid that would strip
health insurance from untold millions. If the AHCA passes, people will die.

Now is the time to redouble the fight for truly universal health care in the
United States. We must defeat Trumpcare, force the question into the 2018
midterm election, and make universal health care the definitive question of
2020.

There is a clear and urgent moral argument for universal health care, and you
know it already: no one should be forced into poverty by illness. Every one of
us has a civil right to life without the burdens of crippling medical debt.
And in the wealthiest nation in the history of nations, we have the means to
achieve this.

The clear and urgent argument for universal health care is also the most
practical. The single-payer state is the only actor that bears the costs of
providing health care and the costs of _not_ providing health care. Why is it,
then, that to speak the words “universal health care” aloud is to invite the
worst ghouls in America — self-serving [corporate insurance
lobbyists](https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billAnalysisClient.xhtml?bill_id=201720180SB562),
cruel [neoconservative think-tankers](http://www.heritage.org/health-care-
reform/report/single-payer-why-government-run-health-care-will-harm-both-
patients-and), and the [just plain
craven](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/single-payer-health-care-
would-have-an-astonishingly-high-price-
tag/2017/06/18/9c70dae6-52d2-11e7-be25-3a519335381c_story.html) — to rise up
to oppose it?

Anyone who argues in 2017 that single-payer health care is
[unfeasible](https://www.jacobinmag.com/2017/06/single-payer-health-care-
universal-medicare-for-all) is either ignorant, malignant, depraved enough to
rationalize profit from human suffering, or absent of the basic moral
imagination to aspire to something better. Delivering care — performing
surgery, diagnosing diseases, comforting the sick — is complicated. Paying for
that care is simple.

But the craven and the cowardly will seize upon the first snag in the single-
payer movement to validate their cold vision of the world. The Democrats and
liberal pundits who tell us that single-payer will “[never, ever come to
pass](https://www.jacobinmag.com/2017/03/single-payer-health-care-medicare-
obamacare-sanders-clinton-democrats/)” will take any trouble in its
implementation as justification for their reluctance to fight. When we seize
universal health care from corporate America, we must do it in such a way that
those who would oppose its implementation have no option but to champion its
success.

The fight for universal health care requires the normalization of aggressive
price regulation and broad coverage expansion — a series of movements that
both provide better care for as many people as possible while creating the
political momentum that makes opposing single-payer politically unappealing.

Below I outline one such series of these reforms, which merges the successes
of international health care movements and the capabilities of our own federal
infrastructure. Here is a five-step process through which we can win universal
health care in the United States.

### 1\. Expand the federal and state health programs that already exist.

To understand the potential of Medicaid and Medicare and how they can be
morphed into a single-payer program, we must understand the idea of the “risk
pool.” It starts with a simple fact: caring for sick people is expensive, but
most people are not sick. Of the people who are sick, most are less sick, and
some are extremely sick.

In 2010, according to the [Kaiser Family
Foundation](http://www.kff.org/health-costs/slide/concentration-of-health-
care-spending-in-the-u-s-population-2010/), over one-fifth of all American
health care spending was concentrated in 1 percent of patients, the sickest of
the sick, and half of all spending was concentrated in 5 percent of patients.
Contrast that to the least expensive 50 percent, who accounted for less than 3
percent of total medical costs.

A risk pool is the group of sick people who need care and the healthy people
whose contributions are used to pay for it. The larger the risk pool, and the
higher the percentage of healthy people within it, the more sustainable it
becomes.

In private insurance, the risk pool is the total mass of people covered by a
given insurer. If the risk pool is sicker, higher care costs need to be met;
per-person costs then increase, and insurers raise their premiums to preserve
their profit margin.

In a universal health care system, the risk pool is composed of everyone — the
healthy and the ill, the young and the elderly, the East Coast and the West
Coast, the Badlands and the Deep South, from whom and to whom money flows to
meet each others’ needs.

This universal risk pool is significantly more resilient than private ones.
That pool is able to divide costs across a much larger number of people.
Regional private insurance, meanwhile, can be shaken by even a single very
sick person racking up millions of dollars of costs with a particularly
complicated emergency.

Medicare and Medicaid were originally designed to liberate private insurers
from needing to include the elderly and the poor, who are generally sicker
than other people, from their risk pools. These programs can be used to give
greater leverage to a future federal single-payer.

One crucial piece of such an expansion would be to expand Medicaid in states
that have failed to do so since 2012. [2.6 million
people](http://kff.org/uninsured/issue-brief/the-coverage-gap-uninsured-poor-
adults-in-states-that-do-not-expand-medicaid/), mostly in the South, live in
states where the governor or state legislature has elected not to expand
benefits using federal money. We must put the pressure on governors and state
representatives, who as Medicaid administrators are more sensitive to local
constituencies. They’re vulnerable — four Republican governors have [spoken
against](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2017/03/17/four-
republican-governors-come-out-against-obamacare-repeal-plan/99301698/) the
draconian American Health Care Act — and we must capitalize upon their Obama-
era sins.

Another interesting idea, [advanced by Matt
Bruenig](https://www.jacobinmag.com/2016/06/bernie-sanders-new-york-times-
schmitt-single-payer/), is to expand Medicare to children and young adults
under age twenty-six. This large demographic group is, for the most part,
inexpensive. Adding them to Medicare rolls accomplishes two immediate and
obvious tasks: one, it more than triples the size of the Medicare risk pool
while adding relatively low incremental medical costs, thus driving overall
per-capita Medicare spending down.

Two, since Medicare patients [like
Medicare](http://www.gallup.com/poll/186527/americans-government-health-plans-
satisfied.aspx) more than the privately insured like private insurance,
Medicare expansion [builds a loyal
constituency](https://editor.jacobin.com/2017/05/obama-foreclosure-crisis-
recession-hamp) for federal health care. This is the core of the “Medicare for
All” argument: a [rejection of the
myth](https://www.jacobinmag.com/2016/11/donald-trump-democratic-party-
welfare-state/) that Americans hate federal services, a rejection of the idea
that these services are bloated or inefficient, and a belief that enough
people, given the choice between being jerked around by a private insurer that
needs to minimize its costs and a properly calibrated public Medicare that can
absorb them, will find the latter more appealing.

This natural extension of Lyndon Johnson’s “[kiddie
care](https://books.google.com/books?id=v6DaAwAAQBAJ&pg=PA639&lpg=PA639&dq=kiddiecare+history+medicare&source=bl&ots=BUSMuwRXSa&sig=Rlr8_pJlTrMFm3qorgnfbLqKdtk&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwif0fSC4aXUAhVFJCYKHWEcDvcQ6AEIPDAD#v=onepage&q=kiddiecare%20history%20medicare&f=false)”
movement can show a vulnerable constituency a better vision of health care as
they experience freedom from crushing premiums, challenges in in-network
hospital selection, and out-of-pocket costs.

Most importantly, expanding Medicare to the young and healthy begins to
disentangle health care from employment. Under the American health care model,
one’s health and risk of crippling medical debt is dependent on one’s employer
(and, in a post-[_Hobby Lobby v.
Burwell_](https://www.supremecourt.gov/qp/13-00354qp.pdf) world, an employer’s
religious affiliations).

It is cruel that the poorest among us are coerced into remaining in unsafe or
unjust working environments for fear of losing health care access; crueler
still is that children’s health costs are shackled to the quality of their
parents’ employer.

This is an invented problem. By severing health care access from employment,
we reduce this cruelty and help reduce employers’ domination of workers.

### 2\. Regulate prices.

In America, not only do we leave [a quarter](http://www.kff.org/report-
section/the-burden-of-medical-debt-section-1-who-has-medical-bill-problems-
and-what-are-the-contributing-factors/) of our citizens unable to afford care
— we also have runaway health care costs. Fortunately, these problems can be
addressed at once: we can use a larger, more powerful Medicare to start the
process of aggressive cost regulation to make care and medicine cheaper.

This is hardly a radical proposition. Every universal health care program
across the globe depends upon national price regulation.

Almost all medical spending in the United States is derived as a function of
Medicare costs. Your local hospital probably negotiates rates with insurance
companies based on Medicare pricing — for example, a given procedure is billed
at “3.4x Medicare” or “1.3x Medicare.” With 44 million members, Medicare is
the largest health care payer in the United States.

This size gives the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) tremendous
leverage in negotiating prices. They can set a low price, and a large share of
America’s providers and hospitals accept it because they don’t want to turn
their backs on such an enormous group of people (and an enormous amount of
money).

If we give Medicare broader, healthier membership with lower per-person costs,
it will have even greater pricing leverage and should be able to exert strong
downward pressure on health care costs throughout the country.

To best use this leverage, the Department of Health and Human Services needs
to clean house and reduce Medicare’s dependence on the American Medical
Association. The AMA, which purports to represent all doctors but more
accurately represents only [15 percent of
them](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3153537/), is a parasitic
organization with unusual policy influence.

Every year, its Rules Update Committee assembles a list of recommended changes
to Medicare reimbursement rates — often predicated on low-volume member
surveys that amount to little more than pseudoscientific
[skulduggery](http://content.healthaffairs.org/content/31/5/965.full). These
are generally accepted wholesale by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services.

In effect, every year the AMA compels CMS to approve higher prices for
specialty procedures, then shifts the scope of procedures performed to
maximize revenue — increasing the reimbursement rates of specialists like
anesthesiologists while devaluing the work of front-line primary care
providers.

An advocacy organization like the AMA should not determine the government’s
payment rates for procedures. The group is a cartel. It is harmful to health
care justice.

There is also the issue of pharmaceutical costs — surfaced most recently by
the failure of Bernie Sanders’s [Affordable and Safe Prescription Drug
Importation Act](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-
releases/affordable-and-safe-prescription-drug-importation-act-introduced-to-
help-lower-skyrocketing-cost-of-medicine). While drug prices compose 15
percent of annual health care spending, their excesses are ready in the minds
of many Americans — abetted in the national imagination by the open greed of
world-class asshole Martin Shkreli.

Only the “Big Four” federal programs are permitted to negotiate the cost of
pharmaceuticals — the Department of State, Veterans’ Affairs, the Coast Guard,
and Public Health Service. This is an invented problem and can be resolved
with only a little political courage.

Reimportation of drugs originally manufactured in the United States then sent
abroad is only a partial solution: instead, we must demand of our
representatives that the federal government permit itself to negotiate drug
prices. There is no justification — other than “shareholder interest” — for
why Hepatitis C medications cost Medicaid
[$85,000](http://www.reuters.com/article/us-gilead-sovaldi-
idUSKBN0H72KR20140912), the Coast Guard
[$17,000](http://www.sfchronicle.com/health/article/SF-working-on-ambitious-
plan-to-eliminate-10944594.php), and [$336 in
India](http://www.chicagotribune.com/business/ct-drug-price-sofosbuvir-
sovaldi-india-us-20160104-story.html).

Pharmaceutical companies will claim they need their exorbitant margins to
cover the cost of research and development and FDA approval. Why should public
money be used to subsidize pharmaceutical companies’ corporate
responsibilities? And if pharmaceuticals are so expensive to profit from
without restricting access to them through high prices, shouldn’t we just
nationalize the industry altogether?

### 3\. Develop localized models of community health care.

With the foundations of a contemporary health care system in place, we finally
have the opportunity to define what health care could look like across
America.

The relationship between the federal government and state Medicaid officials
provides a model for universal health care. The Social Security Act defines a
list of requirements for every Medicaid program — coverage requirements,
treated conditions, access — and state Medicaid programs must submit their
plans to CMS, which affirms they meet federal criteria.

States can submit waivers to use federal funds to explore new models of care.
Under a conservative federal administrator, these programs can be used to
restrict care or impose barbaric punishments on the sick — like the proposed
MacArthur amendment to the AHCA, which permits insurers to dramatically
increase costs for people with preexisting conditions whose insurance lapses.

But under a sufficiently demanding set of federal requirements, prohibiting
waiver projects from sloughing off their responsibilities to the entire
enrollment in their state, Medicaid waivers let communities build public
health care plans specific to their needs (one of the few times that “states’
rights” isn’t being screamed by doughy racists).

Some waivers are small and gentle — appropriating federal money to develop new
ways of caring for the poor and elderly without institutionalizing them.
Others are broad blueprints to a better world.

In Maryland, a waiver program leveraged state power to pay the dominant
hospital system in the western, Appalachian part of the state a fixed annual
income, contingent on providing care to all who sought it. Make your own
profit margins, the state argued. The hospital complied, and set up primary
care centers absent in its community.

Why does this matter? Because although primary care is invaluable in reducing
health care costs, it’s a low-margin and high-volume service, so few people
want to give it a shot outside of urban centers. By shifting more of their
resources to primary care, this Maryland hospital provided more care to more
people at a lower cost — residents were healthier, able to access better
treatment more quickly, and expensive hospital admissions decreased.

This is a good model — a properly empowered state with a strict federal
mandate to cover its citizens can bear down on its local providers and compel
them to provide better care, for more people, for less money.

Health care is regional and will remain so for the foreseeable future. So let
New York City develop the health care model that works for New York City; let
rural Kentucky develop the health care model that works for rural Kentucky —
and let the federal government enact strict and detailed standards of care
which ensure that all enrollees are cared for across all programs, without
exception.

### 4\. Build a public option.

Opponents of the public option in the Affordable Care Act feared it might be
too aggressive a competitor with insurance companies. They didn’t know the
half of it.

It is reasonable to expect that people might be wary of joining a public
option, especially considering the massive resistance from the insurance,
pharmaceutical, and provider lobbies. But by now, after strong federal
regulations and expansions to the risk pool have paved the way, there should
be a body of evidence making it clear that the public option is preferable to
paying premiums to private insurers.

At this point, the twenty-six-year-olds on Medicare will see the private
options afforded to them after their next birthday and be eager for
continuation of federal care. The larger, healthier Medicare population will
have been an effective tool for aggressive cost regulation, and the more
robust Medicaid program will have further developed the community
relationships and local models of care. There is, at this point, a federal
health care network that is effective, efficient, and humane — and it is ready
for more members.

It is time to develop a public option to compete in the private insurance
marketplace. Since the public option can use Medicare-negotiated prices, and
is in the same risk pool as an expanded Medicare, overall per-person costs
will be significantly lower than what private insurers can wrangle.

Of course, this needs funding — and it needs to prevent people from feeling
shirked by paying into benefits they don’t receive. Thus, a public option must
be created with an aggressive piece of legislation: remove the requirement for
corporations to provide insurance for their employees and instead levy a
corporate tax to pay for the public option.

Because per-person cost is lower under single-payer than private insurance,
overall cost to corporations under this approach is  _less_ than what they
currently pay to cover their employees, without the shell games involved in
finding ways to deny employee coverage. And more importantly, employees will
be freed from employer coverage (which, since it covers a smaller risk pool,
more often than not comes with stringent deductibles and challenging
premiums).

### 5\. Outcompete and nationalize.

The neoliberal insistence on letting the private market dictate health care in
America rebels against government intervention — except when that intervention
(like removing the elderly and poor from risk pools) made it easier for
insurers and providers to reap a profit. It is ironic, but just, that the
single-payer movement uses that same market to beat the private insurers at
their own game.

The administrative functions of the insurance industry are legitimate and
essential even to a federal single-payer program, and a healthy public option
with a large, diverse risk pool and federal price regulation will annihilate
any private insurer who contests it.

A cowed insurance industry would then be ripe for nationalization.

As Enrique Diaz-Alvarez [has argued](https://www.jacobinmag.com/2013/12/the-
backroom-deal-that-couldve-led-to-single-payer/), nationalizing a weakened
insurer is cost-efficient and essential. After ingesting the software
architecture and claims and billing processes of the insurance industry, and
dissolving the [$375
billion](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4283267/) in unnecessary
annual costs from our current duplicative, multi-payer system, the dream will
become real: we will have a comprehensive, universal federal-payer system.

There will still be work to do — obvious next steps include removing
redundancies across the three federal programs — but finally, we will have a
national health care program, the beginning of a universal risk pool, and an
end to our long national pastime of humiliation and degradation of people’s
health for corporate profit.
