title: Better Call Saul’s terrible, casual cruelty is thrown into stark relief in “Chicanery” | Vox
source: https://www.vox.com/culture/2017/5/14/15631500/better-call-saul-episode-5-recap-chicanery
date: 2025-08-13T17:19:17.467671
tags: []
---
_Every Sunday, we pick a new episode of the week. It could be good. It could
be bad. It will always be interesting. You can_[ _**read the archives
here**_](http://www.vox.com/episode-of-the-week) _. The episode of the week
for May 7 through 13 is_[
_**“Chicanery,”**_](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt5719536/?ref_=tt_eps_cu_n)
_the fifth episode of the third season of AMC’s_[**Better Call
Saul**](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt3032476/?ref_=nv_sr_1).

One of the most famous lines from the classic romantic comedy _Annie Hall_ is
when its protagonist, Alvy, turns to Annie and tells her, “A relationship, I
think, is like a shark, you know? It has to constantly move forward or it
dies. And I think what we got on our hands is a dead shark.”

Both _Better Call Saul_ and [_Breaking
Bad_](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0903747/?ref_=nv_sr_1), the series that spun
_Saul_ off, are shows about dead sharks.

When they begin, their protagonists are trapped in fundamentally broken
relationships they feel some need to persist with. But the deeper they get,
the more pain these relationships cause them.

It might be better if everybody involved just gave up and admitted they don’t
know how to save the relationship, then moved very far away from each other.
But because they don’t know how to do that — because none of us knows how to
do that — they end up in spirals of misery and grief.

In _Breaking Bad_ , that relationship was the marriage between Walter and
Skyler White, two people who didn’t quite realize how little they had in
common anymore, who seemed to have little affection for each other even before
Walter became a drug lord.

But [_Better Call Saul_](http://www.amc.com/shows/better-call-saul) isn’t
built around a broken marriage, a situation that’s theoretically solvable via
divorce or separation. No, _Better Call Saul_ is built around something more
primal, something harder to fix — a relationship between brothers.

## “Chicanery” pits Jimmy McGill against his brother Chuck in court. It’s a
fight that destroys them both.

From the first, _Better Call Saul_ has had a bigger heart than its parent
series. _Breaking Bad_ often suggested that when the chips are down, most
people will make the morally expedient choice. Those who love them will be
forced to choose: call out the one you love, or go down with the ship? At a
certain point, if you’re bound to someone through marriage or other familial
ties, they can damn your soul simply by choices they make. As such, much of
the show’s later seasons hinged on what the characters around Walter did as
they learned of his actions.

_Saul_ , on the other hand, is about people wanting others to be better,
despite the best interests of both parties. In this case, brothers Jimmy (the
man who will become Saul Goodman) and Chuck McGill are trapped by perceptions
of each other they came to when they were much younger, which continue to
influence their interactions in the present, to the detriment of both.

Chuck can only see his brother as the shady, not-to-be-trusted kid who stole
from the till of their parents’ store. Jimmy can only see his brother as the
super smart, super competent lawyer he knew way back when. Both have changed
noticeably. But both also seemingly expect the other to revert to their old
self at any given moment.

Chuck’s aversion to electricity has driven much of the series. AMC

They’re not without reason to expect that reversion. Jimmy may now be a
lawyer, one who’s devoted himself to elder law and done some promising work,
but he’s still constantly tempted to take the easy route, which often leads
him down unethical paths. And Chuck might be stuck in his home, thanks to an
imaginary illness that’s actually a manifestation of his troubled mental
state, but he continues to have a crackerjack mind that devotes itself mostly
to outwitting his brother.

These two perceptions are set on a collision course in “Chicanery,” which
centers on Chuck’s attempts to have Jimmy disbarred for felonious actions he
undertook in the wake of Chuck taping Jimmy confessing to one of his bigger
sins. He sees this as a mercy — he won’t have Jimmy jailed, but he will keep
Jimmy away from the law, which Chuck considers sacred.

Jimmy, of course, wants to keep being a lawyer. And he can’t be disbarred
without a hearing, which he and his lover/best friend/lawyer Kim turn into a
high stakes game of chicken with Chuck. Almost all of Chuck’s objections to
his brother can be tossed aside if the two can just convince the court Chuck
is mentally ill, not physically sick. And to do that, they have to cause him
to have an outburst on the stand. In other words, Jimmy will have to abjectly
humiliate the brother he venerates so much.

That he does is a foregone conclusion — we know Jimmy will continue to
practice law in New Mexico for years to come, even if he eventually changes
his name. But “Chicanery” makes viewers feel the weight of every moment of
that showdown, from the early going when Chuck seems to have the upper hand,
to the moment when Jimmy delivers the killing blow — and seems utterly
destroyed by having done so.

## “Chicanery” is a great example of just how exquisitely crafted this show is

There’s something effortless to the way _Better Call Saul_ makes great TV. It
has maybe 20 percent of the outward flash of _Breaking Bad_ — it’s probably
not going to start blowing up nursing homes any time soon — but just as much
emotional and psychological depth. If _Breaking Bad_ was often ostentatious in
its stylishness, _Better Call Saul_ takes a worn down TV genre (the legal
drama) and makes it deeply compelling through sheer force of craft.

Look at how “Chicanery” is shot, by Daniel Sackheim (who also shot the past
week’s exemplary _Leftovers_ episode, in a neat coincidence). The final shot
of the episode — Chuck, tiny, on the witness stand, looking up at a humming
EXIT sign dominating the foreground — carries with it multiple meanings in a
single image.

First, consider that Chuck’s imagined illness causes him acute sensitivity to
electricity. Earlier in the episode, he was informed the exit signs would have
to remain on in the courtroom in order to stay up to building codes, and he
said that, sure, he could deal with that small amount of pain.

But after Jimmy proves the illness is all in his head (by having _Breaking
Bad_ carryover Huell nimbly plant a cell phone battery in Chuck’s pocket), the
final shot gains added poignancy: Chuck not only continues to feel the
imagined pain of the exit sign, but also the actual pain of what his brother
has done to him in front of trusted friends and colleagues. He might be
looking at a way out, but he has no way to take it.

Jimmy and Kim ponder their next move. AMC

The episode’s script, by Gordon Smith, similarly displays how good the series’
writers are at being casually clever. It foregrounds, at every moment, the
fact that Jimmy and Kim are Up To Something, but it never once lets you know
precisely what they’re doing, leaving you more or less in Chuck’s shoes.

When Jimmy somehow convinces Chuck’s ex-wife to attend the hearing, is that
his trump card? When Jimmy pulls a cell phone out of his own pocket, is that
the final grace note? Chuck never sees the battery gambit coming, and neither
do we, because the episode keeps us in the dark. But because we know we’re in
the dark, we somehow don’t mind. It somehow becomes compelling to wait for the
other shoe to drop.

This almost workmanlike devotion to small-scale but gorgeously crafted drama
has earned _Better Call Saul_ accusations of being too boring from some
corners, and as if to compensate, season three has steadily ramped up
storylines about Albuquerque’s criminal element, now featuring _Breaking Bad_
favorite Gus Fring. These stories, too, brim with beautiful shots and clever
story turns, along with tremendous performances.

But for me, they’ll never be as compelling as the story of Jimmy and Chuck,
two brothers bound together in fierce love and fierce hate, strapped to the
same shark, not quite realizing it’s dead, plunging into the abyss together.
This isn’t a show about violence against the body. It’s about violence against
the heart. That’s made all the difference.

Better Call Saul _airs Mondays at 10 pm Eastern on AMC. Previous seasons are
on Netflix._
