title: TYWKIWDBI ("Tai-Wiki-Widbee"): Islamic views of evolution
source: http://tywkiwdbi.blogspot.com/2012/05/islamic-views-of-evolution.html
date: 2025-08-13T17:33:15.426804
tags: []
---
Selected passages from the Wikipedia entry on the subject.

> **Islamic views on evolution are diverse, ranging from theistic evolution to
> creationism**. Muslims believe in a God as the Creator, as explained in the
> Qur'an. Throughout history some Muslim thinkers have proposed and accepted
> elements of the theory of evolution, while believing in the supremacy of God
> in the process. **In modern times, some Muslims have rejected evolution, and
> teaching it is banned in some countries. The main schism between Islam and
> evolution is in the Adamic descent of human beings** , a concept which
> modern biological anthropology rejects as mythology...
>
>  The Qur'an does not contain a complete chronology of creation. It declares
> variously that it took "six ayums" to create the "seven heavens [or
> firmaments] and earth" An 'ayum' is defined as a stage, or a relative
> quantity of time rather than a 24 hour period...
>
>  Certain verses in the Qur'an are claimed by Muslims to be compatible with
> the expansion of the universe, Big Bang and Big Crunch theories...
>
>  **The Mu'tazili scientist and philosopher al-Jahiz (c. 776-869) was the
> first of the Muslim biologists and philosophers to develop an early theory
> of evolution**. He speculated on the influence of the environment on
> animals, considered the effects of the environment on the likelihood of an
> animal to survive, and first described the struggle for existence, a
> precursor to natural selection. Al-Jahiz's ideas on the struggle for
> existence in the _Book of Animals_ have been summarized as follows:
>
>

>> "Animals engage in a struggle for existence; for resources, to avoid being
eaten and to breed. **Environmental factors influence organisms to develop new
characteristics to ensure survival, thus transforming into new species**.
Animals that survive to breed can pass on their successful characteristics to
offspring."...

>
> In the 13th century, Nasir al-Din al-Tusi explains how the elements evolved
> into minerals, then plants, then animals, and then humans. Tusi then goes on
> to explain how hereditary variability was an important factor for biological
> evolution of living things:
>
>

>> "The organisms that can gain the new features faster are more variable. As
a result, they gain advantages over other creatures. [...] The bodies are
changing as a result of the internal and external interactions." ...

>
> **Evolutionary biology is included in the high-school curricula of most
> Muslim countries**. Science foundations of 14 Muslim countries, including
> Pakistan, Iran, Turkey, Indonesia, and Egypt, recently signed a statement by
> the Interacademy Panel (IAP, a global network of science academies), in
> support of the teaching of evolution, including human evolution. Little is
> known about general societal views of evolution in Muslim countries.
>
>  A 2007 study of religious patterns found that only 8% of Egyptians, 11% of
> Malaysians, 14% of Pakistanis, 16% of Indonesians, and 22% of Turks agree
> that Darwin's theory is probably or most certainly true, and a 2006 survey
> reported that about 25% of Turkish adults agreed that human beings evolved
> from earlier animal species. In contrast, the 2007 study found that only 28%
> of Kazakhs thought that evolution is false. According to Salman Hameed,
> writing in the journal _Science_ , **there exists a contradictory attitude
> towards evolution in the Muslim world. While Muslims accept science as fully
> compatible with Islam, and most accept microevolution, very few Muslims
> accept the macroevolution as held by scientists, especially human
> evolution**.

I find it interesting to see "Darwinian" theories expressed a millennium
before Darwin. This post is of necessity a rather perfunctory summary of a
complex subject, so feel free to add comments. And see also "The Qur’an &
Space Science" at

[The Turbid Blog](http://theturbidblog.blogspot.com/2011/06/quran-space-
science.html)

.

Here's a

[relevant prior post](http://tywkiwdbi.blogspot.com/2009/01/public-acceptance-
of-evolution.html)

.

**Reposted**

from 2009 in recognition of

[Darwin Day](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Darwin_Day)

.
