title: LA Is Doing Water Better Than Your City. Yes, That LA | WIRED
source: https://www.wired.com/story/la-is-doing-water-better-than-your-city-yes-that-la/
date: 2025-08-13T16:33:49.375711
tags: []
---
The frantic phone calls to the Community Water Center began in the summer of
2014. In the 7,000-strong unincorporated community of East Porterville,
nestled against California's Sierra Nevada mountains, homeowners' wells were
failing amid a historic drought. Folks were hauling water from their
workplaces or from agricultural wells. Parents were sending their kids to
shower at the local high school. Residents with still-functional wells were
snaking hoses over fences to nourish their neighbors.

"People were in dire straits. They were desperate," says Ryan Jensen of the
Central Valley's Community Water Center. "Elderly people or people battling
chronic illnesses that need water to be able to deal with their health issues
had no access to it. There was just absolute desperation."

In total, the wells at 300 properties had failed. So a local nonprofit
distributed 275-gallon tanks and officials trucked in water. That didn't cut
it.

On account of being unincorporated, East Porterville only had a handful of
buildings connected to the water system in Porterville proper. So beginning in
August 2016, workers hurried to connect 750 homes, the last of which tapped
into Porterville this past February.

LA's sprawling Hyperion Water Reclamation Plant processes the wastewater of
4.5 million people.

wired

East Porterville's situation is extreme, but it is not an outlier. If
anything, it is a harbinger. "It was only an outlier in the concentration and
sheer number of people who lived in a very small area that were affected by
this," Jensen says. "There's approximately 300 communities in the state of
California and more than a million residents who don't have reliable access to
safe drinking water, and that's not even counting people who are on domestic
wells."

California is in trouble. Computer models show that with climate change will
come harsher droughts and less frequent, yet more powerful storms. The state
is not ready for this new reality, but one city south of Porterville could
teach California how to survive desiccation: Los Angeles.

That is not a typo. Agreed, Los Angeles doesn't exactly have a sterling
reputation as a responsible consumer of water. After all, in the early 1900s
it drained Owens Lake, 200 miles away, materializing a dust bowl in its place
and giving local residents the old ¯\\_(ツ)_/¯. These days, it imports the vast
majority of its water from Northern California and the Colorado River to the
east at a cost of hundreds of millions a year.

But Los Angeles is in the midst of an aqueous awakening, setting an ambitious
goal to cut its reliance on imported water in half by 2025 by following an
increasingly urgent rule of good water policy: diversification. In a nutshell,
that means getting your water from a range of sources—rain capture, aquifers,
wells, desalination, even right out of the air. A [study from
UCLA](http://web.archive.org/web/20250522194202/http://newsroom.ucla.edu/releases/ucla-
study-los-angeles-independence-from-imported-water) earlier this year even
said the city could feasibly reach 100 percent locally sourced water. To do
it, the city is diving into a series of high- and low-tech campaigns that
could transform Los Angeles into a model city for water management.

Again, not a typo.

Water Begins With Dirt

Art Castro of the LA Department of Water and Power stands atop his city's
future: the San Fernando aquifer, which sprawls for 175 square miles. It is,
essentially, a giant underground water tank that can provide some 28 billion
gallons of water. (Usage fluctuates from month to month and year to year, but
in July 2017, Angelenos consumed [102 gallons a day per
capita.](http://web.archive.org/web/20250522194202/https://www.ladwp.com/ladwp/faces/ladwp/aboutus/a-water/a-w-
factandfigures?_adf.ctrl-state=x3c32ulc3_4&_afrLoop=482289133387696)) Behind
Castro, tractors push massive amounts of dirt. Dirt to the left, dirt to the
right. In fact, this place is nothing _but_ dirt, which is weird considering
it's just 25 miles north of downtown LA. This should be concrete. Maybe a
condo complex or two.

Concrete, though, is the enemy of Los Angeles' future. Back when the city
sprouted, designers laid it out to channel stormwater away as quickly as
possible. City Planning 101. SoCal's notorious downpours and flash floods were
a menace. There were properties and human lives to consider, after all. "Now
there's been there's been a shift in that thinking," Castro says. "Now we see
stormwater as an asset."

At the Edward C. Little Water Recycling Facility, engineers turn wastewater
into something so pure, it'd do terrible things to your body if they didn't
add minerals back in.

Wired

The answer is this rare empty plot of land, the 150-acre Tujunga Spreading
Grounds, laid out in 1930 and preserved as open space to this day. Stormwater
flows in, gathering in giant basins and slowly percolating into the dirt and,
eventually, the aquifer. When these crews are done excavating 1.9 million
cubic yards of soil to consolidate 19 basins into 9 deeper basins (fewer berms
= more surface area for soakage), enough water will be captured each year to
hydrate an average of 50,000 households.

Sure, the LADWP serves more than 4 million customers, so it's but a drip. But
the Tujunga Spreading Grounds are just the start. A mile and a half away in a
frenetic LA street is a beautified median—some nice little trees, shrubs, and
dirt, with a walking path meandering through—that doubles as a spreading
ground in miniature. Stormwater from the neighborhood flows here and soaks
into the ground, instead of flowing to the sea.
