title: Best-Ever Streaming Algorithm Found for Huge Amounts of Data | WIRED
source: https://www.wired.com/story/big-data-streaming/
date: 2025-08-13T16:54:31.985638
tags: []
---
“Instead of spending 50 million units of time looping over the entire
universe, you only have four algorithms spending 100 units of time,” Nelson
said.

The main problem with this divide-and-conquer strategy is that while it’s easy
to split a big number into small numbers, the reverse is trickier—it’s hard to
fish out the right small numbers to recombine to give you the right big
number.

Imagine, for example, that your data stream frequently includes two numbers
that have some digits in common: 12,345,678 and 12,999,999. Both start with
12. Your algorithm splits each number into four smaller numbers, then sends
each to a sub-algorithm. Later, you ask each sub-algorithm, “Which numbers
have you seen most frequently?” Copy one is going to say, “I’ve seen a lot of
the number 12.” An algorithm that’s trying to identify which eight-digit
numbers it’s seen most frequently can’t tell if all these 12s belong to one
eight-digit number or, as in this case, to two different numbers.

“The challenge is to figure out which two-digit blocks to concatenate with
which other two-digit blocks,” Nelson said.

The authors of the new work solve this dilemma by packaging each two-digit
block with a little tag that doesn’t take up much memory but still allows the
algorithm to put the two-digit pieces back together in the right way.

To see one simple approach to how the tagging might work, start with
12,345,678 and split it into two-digit blocks. But this time, before you send
each block to its respective sub-algorithm, package the block with a pair of
unique identifying numbers that can be used to put the blocks back together.
The first of these tags serves as the block’s name, the second as a link. In
this way, 12,345,678 becomes:

12, 0, 1 / 34, 1, 2 / 56, 2, 3 / 78, 3, 4

Here the number 12 has the name “0” and gets linked to the number named “1.”
The number 34 has the name “1” and gets linked to the number named “2.” And so
on.

Now when the sub-algorithms return the two-digit blocks they’ve seen most
frequently, 12 goes looking for a number tagged with “1” and finds 34, then 34
goes looking for a number tagged with “2” and finds 56, and 56 goes looking
for a number tagged with “3” and finds 78.

In this way, you can think of the two-digit blocks as links in a chain, with
the links held together by these extra tagging numbers.

The problem with chains, of course, is that they’re only as strong as their
weakest link. And these chains are almost guaranteed to break.

Building Blocks

No algorithm works perfectly every time you run it—even the best ones misfire
some small percentage of the time. In the example we’ve been using, a misfire
could mean that the second two-digit block, 34, gets assigned an incorrect
tag, and as a result, when it goes looking for the block it’s supposed to be
joined to, it doesn’t have the information it needs to find 56. And once one
link in the chain fails, the entire effort falls apart.

Mikkel Thorup, a computer scientist at the University of Copenhagen, helped
develop an error-resistant way of remembering
data.[uniavisen.dk](http://web.archive.org/web/20250325121227/http://uniavisen.dk/)

To avoid this problem, the researchers use what’s called an “expander graph.”
In an expander graph, each two-digit block forms a point. Points get connected
by lines (according to the tagging process described above) to form a cluster.
The important feature of an expander graph is that instead of merely
connecting each point with its adjoining blocks, you connect each two-digit
block with multiple other blocks. For example, with 12,345,678, you connect 12
with 34 but also with 56, so that you can still tell that 12 and 56 belong in
the same number even if the link between 12 and 34 fails.

An expander graph doesn’t always come out perfectly. Sometimes it’ll fail to
link two blocks that should be linked. Or it’ll link two blocks that don’t
belong together. To counteract this tendency, the researchers developed the
final step of their algorithm: a “cluster-preserving” sub-algorithm that can
survey an expander graph and accurately determine which points are meant to be
clustered together and which aren’t, even when some lines are missing and
false ones have been added.

“This guarantees I can recover something that looks like the original
clusters,” Thorup said.

And while Twitter isn’t going to plug in the expander sketch tomorrow, the
techniques underlying it are applicable to a far wider range of computer
science problems than tallying tweets. The algorithm also proves that certain
sacrifices that previously seemed necessary to answer the frequent-items
problem don’t need to be made. Previous algorithms always gave up something —
they were accurate but memory-intensive, or fast but unable to determine which
frequent items were trending. This new work shows that given the right way of
encoding a lot of information, you can end up with the best of all possible
worlds: You can store your frequent items and recall them, too.

_[Original
story](http://web.archive.org/web/20250325121227/https://www.quantamagazine.org/best-
ever-algorithm-found-for-huge-streams-of-data-20171024/) reprinted with
permission from [Quanta
Magazine](http://web.archive.org/web/20250325121227/https://www.quantamagazine.org/),
an editorially independent publication of the [Simons
Foundation](http://web.archive.org/web/20250325121227/https://www.simonsfoundation.org/)
whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering
research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life
sciences._
