title: Facebook is the new AOL | The Verge
source: http://www.theverge.com/2015/1/4/7488495/facebook-is-the-new-aol
date: 2025-08-13T19:15:54.115710
tags: []
---
## Google is the new Microsoft; Qualcomm is the new Intel

Google has been the new Microsoft for so long that this shouldn't surprise
anyone: nearly everything that happens on the internet touches Google in some
way, giving the company nearly incomprehensible power. It's way beyond obvious
things like search and YouTube, each of which are behemoths in their own right
— it's all the way down to Google's DoubleClick for Publishers ad server and
Google Analytics, which sit behind almost every major website. (Like this one,
for instance.)

Google knows so much about how people spend their time and money on the web
that it can easily make or break any new businesses it wants. This power is so
huge that European countries keep threatening to break Google up, just as
Microsoft was constantly under regulatory threat at home and abroad. And
Google's ever-increasing complexity means that it will eventually create
opportunities for competitors with simpler, more focused products to come
along and disrupt it, just as Google and the web disrupted Microsoft and
Windows.

"The coming Sensor explosion is a dangerous moment for Qualcomm"

But while the Google / Microsoft comparison is fairly obvious, no one seems to
be paying attention to Qualcomm's incredible chipset dominance in mobile.
Android and Snapdragon look an awful lot like Windows and Intel; every
hardware maker except for Apple is beholden to the two giants behind the
platform. (And even Apple uses Qualcomm's LTE radios and other chips in the
iPhone.) Qualcomm has an incredible patent moat and it seems to be pushing
Snapdragon along right on schedule, but that's exactly where Intel was before
the smartphone explosion sent its roadmap spinning wildly off course. The
coming explosion of internet of things devices, wearables, and other sensor-
laden gadgets is a huge opportunity for every company that failed in mobile,
and a dangerous moment for Qualcomm.

## Facebook is the new AOL

Just think about it for a minute. Of _course_ Facebook is the new AOL.
Facebook is the beginning and the end of the internet for a huge number of
normal people, a combination of primary service provider (user profiles,
messaging, photo sharing) and '90s-style portal to the wider web. Facebook has
its own IM platform, Messenger, just like AOL had AOL Instant Messenger. Then
it went and bought WhatsApp, the messaging platform more popular
internationally, just like AOL bought ICQ. Facebook groups are just AOL chat
rooms; Facebook's permanently doomed commerce plays are AOL's permanently
doomed commerce plays. (AOL's ultimate doomed ecommerce play? The [acquisition
of Netscape](http://www.businessweek.com/1998/51/b3609107.htm).)

And Facebook's core business of selling ads into the News Feed is the same
combination of incredibly vulnerable and apocalypse-proof as [AOL's dial-up
business](http://www.theverge.com/2014/8/6/5975591/2-34-million-people-are-
still-paying-aol-20-bucks-a-month): it will continue minting money for as long
as the parents and grandparents of the world start their day with Facebook,
and it will stop growing the second all of their kids move on to something
better.

"The only remaining move is for Facebook to up and buy a media company"

You can keep going: Facebook is now pitching itself to media companies as
their savior, just as AOL once did. Most websites get a tremendous amount of
traffic from Facebook; it's only a matter of time before Facebook starts
aggressively charging for that traffic. And there's word that Facebook even
[wants media companies to start publishing directly onto Facebook's
platform](http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/27/business/media/facebook-offers-
life-raft-but-publishers-are-wary.html?_r=0), ostensibly in the name of a
better user experience — being kicked from the Facebook app to a browser or
web view on mobile kind of sucks, after all. That's a play straight out of the
AOL playbook; the only remaining move is for Facebook to up and buy a media
company of its own, just like AOL spent the 90s building up to its disastrous
January 2000 purchase of Time Warner.

You're laughing, but there's an old media company — probably a cable network
scared to death of YouTube — looking at Jeff Bezos buying _The Washington
Post_ and thinking hard about how to sell itself to Facebook.
