title: 23 American mothers on what it’s like to go back to work after maternity leave
source: https://qz.com/1275938/22-american-mothers-on-what-its-like-to-go-back-to-work-after-maternity-leave/
date: 2025-08-13T16:37:48.733003
tags: []
---
_To celebrate Mother’s Day, Quartz staff collected story ideas from their
mothers and sought to answer them. This mother asks:__**How do Americans
experience going back to work after maternity leave?**__Read more stories from
the series_[
_here_](http://web.archive.org/web/20250712074735/https://qz.com/re/momsaskqz)
_._

For women in countries that offer several weeks or months of paid maternity
leave, it can be unfathomable to think about returning to work only a week or
even days after giving birth. But for many American women, it’s an everyday
reality.

The US is the only rich nation in the world that [doesn’t
require](http://web.archive.org/web/20250712074735/https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2018/02/05/the-
worlds-richest-countries-guarantee-mothers-more-than-a-year-of-paid-maternity-
leave-the-u-s-guarantees-them-nothing/?noredirect=on&utm_term=.8c6d62c275cd)
companies to offer their employees paid maternity leave. Only
[14%](http://web.archive.org/web/20250712074735/https://qz.com/942535/the-
male-dominated-tech-and-finance-sectors-have-the-best-maternity-leave-in-the-
us) of US civilian workers in 2016 had access to paid family leave in 2016,
according to the Pew Research Center. One in four US mothers return to work
[10
days](http://web.archive.org/web/20250712074735/https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation-
now/2017/05/17/paid-maternity-leave-elite-benefit-u-s/325075001/) after giving
birth. And just over one-third of American mothers [don’t return to
work](http://web.archive.org/web/20250712074735/http://flhcc.org/uploads/Projects/Babies%20Business%20and%20the%20Bottom%20Line%202017/Motherhood-
In-America%20Report.pdf) (pdf) after having a baby. (The [economic
losses](http://web.archive.org/web/20250712074735/https://www.jec.senate.gov/public/_cache/files/646d2340-dcd4-4614-ada9-be5b1c3f445c/jec-
fact-sheet---economic-benefits-of-paid-leave.pdf) of not having paid family
leave are significant.)

Quartz asked American women to describe their experience of going back to work
after giving birth. Some were lucky to have flexible schedules and found
fulfillment in going back to work; others struggled with unreliable child
care, unsupportive bosses, health problems, and anxiety. Here are their
stories (slightly edited for clarity and length).

_Shannon, 52, talent development_



 _Duration of leave: seven weeks to three months for three kids_

The hardest was returning after a four-year leave. I used the time well with
education, consulting, leading parts in the community. Yet my resume was a
lead balloon. I ended up in a different profession via referral by a friend.
It took a few years to get back. I felt handicapped yet wasn’t, but couldn’t
shake the stigma.

_Claudia, 43, journalist_



 _Five months_

My boss let me work from home and start at three days a week, so I was lucky
compared to most American parents. However, I was not ready to leave my son
when he was still so small and ended up quitting a few months later. One
advantage of being an older mother is that I am in a position financially to
make that choice. Others are not so fortunate, especially earlier in their
careers.

_Amanda, 38, lawyer_



 _Five months_

It was challenging finding a good nanny who we trusted and felt comfortable
leaving our son with—and it was hard to leave him in someone else’s hands all
day long—but it was also somewhat of a relief to go back to work. It turns out
working full-time is in many ways much easier than taking care of a baby full-
time! But I wish I had eased back in a bit more.

I actually find it to be more difficult now that my son is three and has so
much personality, so much to say, and feelings about things. In retrospect, a
little baby is relatively easy to leave in the morning and come home to at
night. I would love to spend more time with my three-year-old each day.

_Sara, 32, digital communications_



 _Twelve weeks (four parental leave, two accrued paid time off, six unpaid)_

I was incredibly lucky in that I was the first woman to be pregnant at my
company. I negotiated a ramp-up period where I started at 24 hours a week,
including one day from home, then bumped up to 32 hours per week with two days
from home. It allowed me to transition gently and set a reasonable expectation
for my ability to fulfill my job function. That said, money was very tight
from being on one income for so long and then a part-time income. I definitely
missed out on opportunities because I wasn’t easily able to travel for client
meetings.

_Tia, 37, journalist_



 _Three months, broken up into two six-week stints_

My first pregnancy I went back after six weeks; I was depressed and this
helped me dig out of it, plus I was a contractor with no paid benefits. This
time (my third child), I went back after six weeks, went on to leave again at
three months, then back again at four and a half months. It was hectic but I
hate not being at work. What I really hate is how I had three different layers
of bureaucracy to navigate in order to utilize any paid leave. I had six weeks
of paid bonding leave through San Francisco, six weeks of disability through
California, and my company covered the same six weeks of disability at a lower
level—so they pitched in nothing rather than pushing me up to full pay.

_Melissa, 27, nurse practitioner_



 _Fifteen weeks_

I work three days during the week, and every third weekend. Having the days
off during the week with the baby really helps with the adjustment. My husband
is also on paternity leave now, so I know my baby is in great hands. It will
be harder in a month when he starts at a home daycare. Sometimes I feel like
my milk supply suffers when I work more than one day in a row and that can be
really stressful.

_Allison, 31, administrative assistant_



 _Eight weeks_ _**,**__but extended to nine_

I was a restaurant manager then. It was horrible. There was obvious guilt of
leaving your kiddo so young. And the normal issues: pumping and postpartum
depression. I would tell my boss that I needed to go pump, and he would yell
at me that it wasn’t a good time and he didn’t have to provide time for me if
it inconvenienced the company’s day-to-day. I really didn’t choose when I
needed to pump, your body tells you. Needless to say, I dried up quickly and
before I was ready.

We had issues finding affordable child care. We had one babysitter leave my
son (six months at the time) in a running car for hours. She’s lucky we didn’t
press charges.

After returning to work, I would go days without seeing my son because I would
leave for the restaurant before he got up, then would get home after he had
gone to bed. Ultimately I was forced out, and it was a good thing.

Nobody tells you how hard it is to be a first-time mom, with hormones, with
baby, and then with the government’s “policies,” and then the stigma of
society and working mothers. It’s just unbelievable, yet we do it. And we do
it with grace and a BAMF Mommy attitude.

_Sophie, 33, database migration and management_



 _Ten weeks_

It was hard. I had a flexible schedule, and daycare was close by, so I was
still able to breastfeed the way I wanted to. But about two weeks after I went
back to work, my daughter got sick. It started as a respiratory virus, and
then turned into full-blown pneumonia, which left her struggling to breathe.
She was admitted to the hospital, and I worked from her hospital room with my
laptop, taking care of emails while nurses checked her oxygen levels and dosed
her with antibiotics. I’m planning on taking more unpaid leave [for my next
child], so hopefully this baby will be bigger before going into daycare, but
it weighs on me a lot.

_Kathleen, 27, human resources coordinator_



 _Eleven weeks_

I had a good experience. We love our son’s daycare, which is only four minutes
from my office. I would nurse him on my lunch hour—this helped break up my
time away from him. I did miss out on the office camaraderie because of
missing lunches and having to take pumping breaks, but now he is one year old,
and I get good adult conversation over lunch!

My employer is also extremely flexible with hours and work from home which
makes it less stressful. We also have a doctor that does wellness visits on
weekends and evenings so I haven’t had to miss work for that.

_Jessica, 25, finance_



 _Six weeks_

The first thing that comes to mind was how sad and overwhelmed I was. I even
felt like a failure having to leave my child so early. I had negative thoughts
every day from knowing I was failing at providing breast milk to not spending
enough time bonding with my child. I wish I had more time to bond and
understand my new life as a mother.

_Coty, 34, lawyer at a non-profit_



 _Three months_

I had a really hard maternity leave—a premature baby who got sick a lot—and
expected to dread going back to work because that is the predominant societal
narrative. But I have actually loved it. As soon as I picked up my son from
daycare the first time and saw that he was okay, I relaxed. I’ve been back in
the office for three and a half months now. Of course I miss my baby. But I
get to use my brain and talk to adults and if I want to go grab a sandwich for
lunch, I can do that without having to pack a diaper bag.

It has definitely made a big difference that I have an office of my own with
privacy to pump, and a supportive workplace that allows me to continue doing
so. It’s a constant juggling act, but being back at work has made me a better
parent. When I am with my son, I am grateful to be with him and not dreading
the long expanse of day to fill. And when he’s at daycare and I’m at work, I
know that he’s safe and learning. I have made an effort to talk about how
happy I am to be back at work to friends and coworkers in an effort to dispel
some of the “every mother secretly wants to be at home with the baby”
stereotype.

_Erin, 32, technology_



 _Sixteen weeks_

To be honest, it was quite positive. My company provided 16 weeks paid and at
the end of it I felt excited to return to work. The transition back was, as
expected, an adjustment at first, but my team and family were both supportive
which made a huge difference. I’m due with baby number two in November and
feel very optimistic about the process being just as smooth.

_Margo, 35, digital marketing specialist_



 _Three months_

A full nightmare. An actual waking nightmare. My daughter had feeding and
weight issues that we were still trying to sort out. (It turned out she was
pooping blood because she was allergic to both dairy and soy. What a fun
mystery to solve that was!) I hadn’t yet had a full night of sleep and
wouldn’t for months and months after, because she didn’t sleep through the
night until after she was one.

I don’t know how I did it, and I’m one of the lucky ones. I cobbled together
10 weeks paid and only had to take two unpaid. It honestly humbled me to my
core and made me militant in my belief that all new parents need at least six
months paid, minimum.

_Lindsay, 36, certified public accountant_



 _Eleven weeks_

My experience has been positive. I am able to set my own pump schedule and
have a clean, nice space to do it. I am able to shift my hours to leave on
time to get my baby from daycare. I can work from home when I need to. I can
go to all baby appointments as needed without penalizing my paid time off. My
only criticism is I wish I received my full paycheck while I was out, rather
than the 60% my short-term disability provided.

_Melinda, 37, early intervention program manager_



 _Twelve weeks unpaid_

I could only go back part time due to my infant’s needs and my own health
issues. It was extremely difficult to find quality and affordable care, pump
enough milk for him to be fed when I wasn’t there, but also impossible to pay
the bills without my job. And it feels terrible to not be able to rest and
enjoy your baby, and to go back to work when you’re still barely getting any
sleep. I am thankful my employer was flexible and understanding, otherwise it
would have been impossible, not just hard! This is a big part of the reason I
only have one child.

_Ashley, 28, teacher_



 _Six weeks_

It was hard leaving my newborn daughter with someone that I had only recently
met. It’s even more difficult finding adequate time to pump and the stress of
producing enough is at times unbearable. My workplace is more than
accommodating, but being a teacher makes it difficult to leave the students
during class not knowing if they’re getting the help that they need, let alone
knowing that their behavior changes when I’m not there. It’s a catch-22: I
love my job. But I miss my daughter.

_Cynthia, nonprofit_



 _Eleven and a half weeks_

Two kids at two different jobs. Both unpaid. I was a wreck after my
first—colic, no sleep, came back to a giant pile of work and pumping
accommodations that maybe just barely met the law. Wasn’t covered by FMLA [the
Family and Medical Leave Act] with the second, was warned I could be fired and
advised to take an even shorter leave. [At the second job] my department and
coworkers were much more supportive, though. They had pumping space and no one
seemed mad when I took time with my baby on leave or to pump.

_Annalyn, 25, mammographer_



 _Eight weeks_

I’m a first-time mom and I knew I would miss my child but didn’t know it was
going to be as difficult as it turned out to be. My heart ached everyday and
still does even with her at seven months old. As much as I would love to be
home with her, I always think about how hard I worked for my degree and how
fulfilling my job is. I sometimes feel selfish for thinking that, but I’m so
damn proud of what I’ve accomplished career-wise that I can’t give that up, at
least just yet. I wish we could stay home with our babies for more than the 12
weeks some employers allow (if you’re eligible for FMLA that is), because
there’s so much growth and self-discovery that our babies go through that we
miss out on.

_Jenn, 30, teacher_



 _Five months_

I work for a super-awesome, alternative-options, year-round high school
program. I had five months paid time off while working from home 15-20 hours a
week to extend it as long as possible. All my coworkers are very supportive of
breastfeeding and understood when I had to pump, as most of them have kids.

_Susan, 35, nanny_



 _Four weeks_

I told my boss I’d need “at least a month” off before coming back to work. [It
would be] unpaid, so I really couldn’t afford any longer. He interpreted that
to mean four weeks and scheduled me to be back 28 days after my baby was born.
Somehow I felt like 30 or 31 days (a whole month!) would have made a
difference, but I guess not much in the end. I’m lucky though, I get to bring
my baby with me [to work] and I can breastfeed whenever I need to.

_Jennifer, 43, content editor_



 _Twelve weeks_

[It was] disorienting. I was grateful to be back in a more familiar element,
but I was sleep-deprived and had a hard time catching up. At three months, my
baby still wasn’t sleeping through the night, so we were waking up every three
hours (or less) to her cries. And while my work had a lactation room for
nursing mothers to pump, it was windowless, dark, and depressing. Plus, since
I was having a hard time producing milk, I would always take longer than I had
planned for, which would eat into the time I needed to spend catching up on
work. So I ended up giving up on breastfeeding less than a month after I had
returned to work. I don’t know how women do it with even shorter maternity
leaves.

_Sheena, 38, software engineer_



 _Four and a half months_

It was hard. My project had been taken over by someone else and all the other
good projects were snapped up also. I lost a lot of momentum and it took me a
year to get it back. And I was pregnant again, so I lost the opportunity to
see my project through.

_Gail, 41, chef_



 _Four months_

It was complicated. A part of me was ready to work again, and another part of
me knew I was missing out on being with my baby. For my last child, I had
started a family business, so when I went back to work, she went with me. A
niece met me at job sites where I worked making the food. She would hold my
baby on site while I worked and bring her to me when it was time to nurse.
After a few months of that, she went to day care with her brother and sister.
I had to give her formula then, another decision that was complicated for me.
I always thought I would be a stay at home mom, but it turns out I am not.

## 📬 Sign up for the Daily Brief
