title: Jeb Bush and reform conservatism: Is Bush a reformocon? A founder of the movement weighs in.
source: http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/politics/2015/02/jeb_bush_and_reform_conservatism_is_bush_a_reformocon_a_founder_of_the_movement.html
date: 2025-08-13T19:10:16.523668
tags: []
---
I’ve never met Jeb Bush. But this week our lives intersected in a funny way.
On Wednesday, Bush addressed the Detroit Economic Club, in what many saw as a
coming-out party for his nascent presidential campaign. In the wind-up to the
speech, Dana Bash and Jeremy Diamond of CNN
__[reported](http://www.cnn.com/2015/02/03/politics/jeb-bush-2016-detroit/)
that Bush would offer up something called “reform conservatism,” which they
described as similar to the “compassionate conservatism” of his older brother,
George W. Bush. For reasons that will soon become clear, the comparison made
me wince a bit. I couldn’t exactly blame Bash and Diamond for not being fully
up to speed on reform conservatism, as the term is used almost exclusively by
a handful of nerds. But if Jeb Bush is serious about running as a reform
conservative, and if other would-be reformers, like Marco Rubio, also throw
their hats into the ring, that will soon change.

Bash and Diamond aren’t the first journalists to cotton onto the existence of
reform conservatism. On Tuesday, Bob Davis of the _Wall Street Journal_
[reported](http://www.wsj.com/articles/republican-conservative-reformicons-
put-new-twist-on-tax-debate-1423010939) on the young “reformicons”—a term that
brings to mind a hitherto unknown faction of Transformers—challenging the GOP
establishment. (For the record, most reform conservatives favor “reformocons”
over “reformicons,” so I’ll use that spelling from here on out.) According to
Davis, the really distinctive thing about the reformocons is that they prefer
middle-class tax cuts over the rate cuts for the rich favored by many supply-
siders. Last summer, _Washington Post_ columnist E.J. Dionne offered [an
extended critique](http://www.democracyjournal.org/33/the-
reformicons.php?page=all) in _Democracy Journal_. For Dionne, reform
conservatism is the anti–Tea Party. Whereas the Tea Party represents (in his
view) “extreme opposition to government,” reformocons are (also in his view)
people that the left can do business with, if only they would acknowledge how
much they have in common with Barack Obama. Others have weighed in on reform
conservatism, too. Rush Limbaugh, one of America’s most influential
conservatives, has given it [a definitive thumbs
down](http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/397927/rush-limbaugh-conservative-
reform-and-me-ramesh-ponnuru), as have others on the right who see the
reformers as RINO moderate squishes.

So what do the reformocons believe, exactly? Are they the GOP’s answer to the
New Democrats, a moderate faction devoted to making their party more electable
by dragging it to the center? Or are they clever marketers trying to rebrand
Reaganism for the 21st century? The simplest answer is that reform
conservatives are garden-variety free-market conservatives who believe that a
well-designed safety net and high-quality public services are essential parts
of making entrepreneurial capitalism work. This separates them from more
emphatically libertarian conservatives for whom the first priority is to
eliminate as many government programs as possible. Then again, this anti-
government zeal tends to be more rhetorical than real. Most rank-and-file
conservatives tenaciously defend old-age social insurance programs like Social
Security and Medicare. Meanwhile, most conservative lawmakers who call for,
say, shutting down the U.S. Department of Education [routinely
vote](http://www.nationalaffairs.com/publications/detail/a-federal-education-
agenda) to spend on every major program it oversees. You could say that reform
conservatives are just acknowledging the obvious: Government is in the
business of protecting people from some of the downside risks of economic
life, so we might as well get used to it. Reformocons go further than that,
though, in arguing that government can do a lot of good, provided that it
sticks to doing a few things well.

Instead of defending the welfare state in its current form, reformocons look
at the goals of programs like Social Security and Medicare and then try to
find better, fairer, more cost-effective ways of achieving them. They believe
a few other things as well. To the extent possible, social programs that help
those who fall on hard times should be geared toward helping them achieve
economic self-sufficiency, rather than letting them become permanently
dependent. The tax code should encourage savings and investment. But it should
also help low-wage workers out of poverty and do more for families with
children. Barriers to upward mobility, like licensing restrictions that bar
access to employment opportunities or urban land-use regulations that make
housing unaffordable, are suspect. Reform conservatives, like most
conservatives, favor greater competition in education and health care. Yet
they also insist that government has a big role to play in making sure that
everyone, particularly the poor, can reap the benefits of competition.

I feel pretty confident in talking about the reformocons because I’ve been one
of them from the beginning. In 2008, I co-authored [_Grand New
Party_](http://www.amazon.com/dp/0307277801/?tag=slatmaga-20) __ with Ross
Douthat. Oh, you haven’t heard of it? Let’s just say it never became a
publishing phenomenon on the order of _Fifty Shades of Grey_. What it did do
was give us an opportunity to talk about where the GOP had gone wrong, and why
we believed the party was in for a massive defeat. While the Republican Party
had long derived its electoral strength from working- and middle-class
Americans, we argued that it had done a poor job of championing their economic
interests, a problem that had grown particularly acute during the George W.
Bush years. Douthat and I first bonded when we flipped out over how Bush, who
had won re-election in part by winning over stressed-out lower-middle-class
moms, pushed private Social Security accounts and comprehensive immigration
reform as his top priorities in 2005. We literally thought the president had
gone loco, and we became convinced that the Democrats would sweep Congress in
2006. Unfortunately, we were right.

On the surface, not much has changed since then. Yes, Republicans have done
much better in midterm elections. But when Republicans gather to talk about
the chief economic challenges facing the country, they tend to talk, as Jeb
Bush did in Detroit, about how excessive regulation and high taxes get in the
way of business owners. Though these issues are vitally important, they tend
not to resonate with Americans who don’t own businesses or for whom federal
taxes are a lot less burdensome than, say, their insurance premiums or their
student loan debt. Compassionate conservatism, the rallying cry of George W.
Bush’s 2000 campaign, rested on the premise that while working- and middle-
class Americans were in fine shape, inner-city youth, less-skilled immigrants,
and other people living on the margins of society needed the help of faith-
based initiatives funded by Uncle Sam. During the prosperous late 1990s, when
compassionate conservatism first came into being, this vision might have
seemed somewhat plausible. Yet even then it should have been clear that there
were far bigger problems on the horizon. The basics of a middle-class life (a
paycheck that grows a bit from year to year, medical insurance you can rely
on, an affordable education for your kids) were already starting to slip away
for tens of millions of Americans, not just for the unfortunates deserving of
our compassion. Reformocons believe that fixing what’s wrong with the American
economy will take more than just tinkering around the edges.

The good news is that there is a new intellectual ferment on the right, thanks
in part to the rise of reform conservatism and the Tea Party, movements that
have more in common than you might think. Over the past few years, reform
conservatism has grown from a small clique to a broader tendency. You’ll find
reform conservatives at think tanks, like the American Enterprise Institute,
and at magazines like _National Review_ and the _Weekly Standard_. But you’ll
also find them among younger conservatives frustrated by today’s GOP. We now
have a house organ in the policy journal founded by Yuval Levin, _National
Affairs_ , and a mainstream outlet for our ideas in the form of Douthat’s _New
York Times_ column and Ramesh Ponnuru’s writing for _Bloomberg View_. All the
while, Tea Party conservatives have been taking on the GOP establishment for
its coziness with K Street and Wall Street, to the delight of reformocons who
also want to shake up the Republican status quo. It’s no coincidence that
you’ll often hear reformist themes from Sen. Mike Lee, the Tea Party stalwart
from Utah. And on Wednesday, we also heard them from Jeb Bush—or some of them,
at least.

The [central theme](http://www.tampabay.com/blogs/the-buzz-florida-
politics/jeb-bush-in-detroit-to-issue-attack-on-washington-call-for-a-new-
vision/2216329) of Bush’s speech, that government often gets in the way of
Americans trying to climb the economic ladder, is an important and valuable
one that has the potential to resonate not just with conservatives, but with
anyone who’s had to wrestle with red tape. Bush’s emphasis on the importance
of committed families was welcome, if not exactly controversial. School
choice, one of Bush’s preoccupations during his two successful terms as
governor of Florida, is very much a cause worth fighting for. I even applaud
the sentiment behind Bush’s declaration that the U.S. shouldn’t settle for
anything less than 4 percent growth a year, a target that is wildly
unrealistic but not a bad thing to shoot for. My problem with the speech is
that Bush was playing it safe.

Though Bush spoke movingly about the challenges facing the tens of millions of
Americans who live paycheck to paycheck, he never really reckoned with the
fact that America’s economic woes began long before Barack Obama became
president and that the bloated government he rightly criticizes is very much a
bipartisan failure. What I really wanted was for Bush to demonstrate that he
understood why so many Americans had lost their faith in the Republican Party,
and why he deserved their trust. He failed to do that. Instead of offering an
agenda worthy of a future president, he offered compassion for those who’ve
missed out on the fruits of America’s sluggish economic growth and a series of
minor tweaks that are better suited to a governor or a mayor than to the next
president. To be the candidate of reform, he’ll have to do better.

My reformocon homework assignment for would-be GOP presidential candidates is
simple. Don’t just tell us what you’re against. Tell us what you’re for, and
be specific. You don’t like Obamacare? I don’t either. Got anything cheaper
[that will cover at least as many
people](http://www.forbes.com/sites/theapothecary/2015/02/05/the-impressive-
new-obamacare-replace-plan-from-republicans-burr-hatch-and-upton/)? Not a fan
of stagnant wages? Neither am I. Walk me through how deregulation or corporate
tax reform or a bigger tax benefit for low-wage workers might help. Think our
immigration system is broken? Me too! On what basis should we choose who does
and does not get to become an American? Republicans have been trying to get by
on government-bashing swagger and vague, poll-tested generalities for too
long. The time has come to put some meat on the bone.
