title: Amazon’s Big Breakdown - The New York Times
source: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/05/27/magazine/amazon-coronavirus.html
date: 2025-08-13T15:55:46.238965
tags: []
---
## Listen to This Article

_To hear more audio stories from publishers like The New York Times, download_
_[Audm for iPhone or
Android](https://www.audm.com/?utm_source=nytmag&utm_medium=embed&utm_campaign=amazons_big_breakdown)_
_._

In the middle of March, as Americans faced down a terrifying pandemic caused
by a novel and poorly understood virus, only one choice felt certain, or at
least safe. It was time for America’s all-­purpose disaster response; it was
time to stock up. But this time-­honored routine was newly challenging. The
broad, sterile, fluorescent aisles of supermarkets and big-box retailers
suddenly felt more like viral gantlets. In some cities, lines stretched out
the doors, suggesting chaos and barren shelves inside. In many states, whole
categories of brick­and-­mortar retail were shut down, either voluntarily or
by edict. It was, at perhaps more than any moment in its history, Amazon’s
time to shine.

At the online retailer, however, things were not going well. For many
shoppers, it was the first place to turn, but demand for certain items was
overwhelming the company’s ability to fulfill orders, not just for panic
buyers but in general. By March 17, Amazon had suspended shipments to its
warehouses of items that were not in ‘‘high demand,’’ scrambling, and often
failing, to keep up with orders for soap, sanitizers and face masks, as well
as a wide range of household staples, including food. By then, customers
looking for these items were, for the first time, experiencing an Amazon that
was conspicuously broken. Empty shelves in a supermarket are
self-­explanatory. But on Amazon, customers were confronted with failures that
were much weirder and harder to understand, with, of course, nobody around to
explain them.

Searches for antibacterial soap and hand sanitizer turned up page after page
of irrelevant products, scams and overpriced items with shipping times weeks
or months in the future. (By the end of March, the company said it had removed
over 3,900 seller accounts and half a million products in the U.S. for
price-­gouging alone.) As time went on, widening shortages told the story of
customers’ evolving attitudes, lifestyles and needs in the time of ­Covid-19:
webcams, exercise equipment, video-­game consoles, diapers, bleach. (By April,
hair clippers.) In categories under high demand, well-known brands appeared to
be sold out, as were direct competitors, also-rans and half-­related items. By
May, some customers searching for hand sanitizer were still being presented,
on the first page of search results, with Kindle ­e-books about how to mix it
at home.

Here, in a time of crisis, Amazon’s vaunted e-­commerce machinery was failing,
and at the very tasks for which its millions of customers flocked to it. All
of a sudden, the Everything Store wasn’t even as well stocked as, say, an
urban corner store, or a gas station, or a smaller online retailer. To
customers trying to place orders, it didn’t just seem overwhelmed — the site
seemed broken, more like a sprawling, malfunctioning machine than a retailer
under unusual stress. More than just failing them, it seemed to be exposing
them to scams and exploitation, a peculiar sort of store that seemed to have
lost control of its own shelves. There were signs of distress in Amazon’s vast
network of fulfillment centers, too. Employees were falling ill. Some workers
were staying home out of fear for their own health; others staged walkouts.

In so many ways, this was the future Amazon had been planning for:
Brick-­and-­mortar stores were closed, consumers were eager to order all
manner of things online and the brand was all but synonymous, already, with
e-­commerce. And yet in a statement released with Amazon’s first-­quarter
earnings, the company’s chief executive, Jeff Bezos, braced investors for a
rocky period. ‘‘If you’re a share­owner in Amazon, you may want to take a
seat, because we’re not thinking small,’’ he said. About $4 billion in
expected operating profit for the next quarter — ‘‘and perhaps a bit more’’ —
would instead be absorbed into Covid-­related expenses. The company had
experienced a surge in demand, but quarterly operating income had fallen by 43
percent in North America year over year. Internationally, it had lost money.
In the statement, Bezos praised his company’s ‘‘adaptability and durability’’
but said the Covid crisis had been ‘‘the hardest time we’ve ever faced.’’

In April, however, Amazon announced that it had hired 175,000 workers in its
fulfillment-­and­delivery network — a sign of supreme confidence. Wall Street,
too, has proved to be more confident in the company than ever; after a brief
dip at the height of Amazon’s Covid-­related troubles, the company’s stock
price is hovering near a record high, assuring Bezos’s status as the richest
person in the world by a large margin. Indeed, few doubt that Amazon will
overcome this ‘‘hardest time.’’ To customers and investors alike, the company
has long been the alternative to modes of shopping that may now be in
accelerated and terminal decline. But for a few weeks, Amazon — the
borderline-­magic website that makes things appear on your doorstep — showed
us what it was really made of, revealing something more complicated and
delicate than its seamless surface usually lets on: machinery half-built and
already straining under its own success, supported by an army of invisible
middlemen and kept running by hundreds of thousands of workers.

**As of its most recent disclosure,** Amazon employed 840,400 workers around
the world. More than 150 million people subscribed to Prime, paying an annual
fee in exchange for, among other things, access to free, fast shipping. In
recent years, Amazon has been scaling up aggressively in virtually every
dimension that matters: Each year, its systems are bolstered to handle more
people, more demand, more volume, more stress. Since 2014, its revenue has
tripled.

Entering 2020, well into its third decade of ruthless expansion, Amazon was
operating with a powerful tailwind. More Americans were doing more shopping
online; its biggest online competitors were still hopelessly behind; the
collapse of American brick-­and-­mortar retail — Amazon’s true competition —
was accelerating, and its acquisition of Whole Foods had successfully given
the company a way into another industry on which it had ambitious designs. For
regular customers, ordering from Amazon is less an experience than a routine —
a repetitive, second-­nature interaction with a machine that brings you
things; a faint but recognizable consumer version of the processes that
repeat, ever faster, in Amazon’s warehouses.

It benefits Amazon to be understood as an online store because it leads to
underestimation. Amazon competes with Walmart, but Walmart isn’t its
competition — at least not in the way that Target was to Walmart, or Walmart
was to Kmart. Rather than a retail operation with a website, Amazon is better
understood as a set of far more ambitious commerce-­related systems overseen
by a single company. This arrangement might be easiest to see in Amazon Web
Services. Through A.W.S., Amazon rents hosting and computing infrastructure to
companies big and small. Instead of buying, operating and updating their own
data centers, clients including Netflix, Apple and the United States
government rent space and computing power from Amazon. Where possible, Amazon
engages with this infrastructure as something like a customer. Netflix runs on
A.W.S. — but so does Amazon’s Netflix competitor, Prime Video.

Beneath the surface, Amazon’s retail operation works in much the same way. It
is not a unified retail company through which Amazon sells products it has
sourced or manufactured itself. It’s a platform connecting millions of
customers with millions of sellers — none, of course, as large as Amazon
itself. In exchange for a fee, Amazon lets a wide variety of parties sell
goods through Amazon, right alongside those sold by Amazon. In exchange for
more fees, Amazon will let you advertise those items against others, and its
own. In accordance with another fee structure, Amazon will receive your
products into its warehouses, process your orders and ship them to customers
with the urgency associated with Amazon Prime, with which your listings will
be badged. More than half of the products sold through Amazon are sold by
third parties, many of which are effectively leasing floor space and logistics
capacity — not computer servers but an actual work force — from the company.
For brands and manufacturers, not entirely unlike regular users, Amazon is a
thing you sign up for and give money to and then live inside, and with, for
better or for worse.

Amazon’s systems are designed to scale up without clear limits. ‘‘On the
internet, companies are scale businesses, characterized by high fixed costs
and relatively low variable costs,’’ Bezos told Businessweek in 2001. ‘‘You
can be two sizes: You can be big, or you can be small.’’ Amazon, two decades
later, is a collection of systems that are either already big or that Bezos
believes might one day become big: its stores, including Amazon, Zappos and
Whole Foods; Amazon Web Services; its media platforms, Prime Video and Music,
the Kindle store and Audible; its newer acquisitions and platforms, like the
streaming site Twitch, or Ring, the home-­security-­camera company. Most
Amazon investments are engineered for the possibility, at least, of category
supremacy. Some have already achieved it.

Amazon’s oldest and most important marketplace, of course, is the one that
already makes it the largest online retailer by far; it’s a system designed to
gradually accommodate the decades-­long shift away from brick-­and-­mortar
retail, in as many ways and to the greatest extent possible. Before ­Covid-19,
the outlook for the retail industry was grim. Now it’s apocalyptic. Analysts
at the investment bank UBS said they expected around 100,000 American stores
to close permanently over the next five years. About 2.1 million retail jobs
were lost this April alone. A report by the real estate research firm Green
Street Advisors suggested that 50 percent of the department stores anchoring
American malls would close by the end of 2021, darkening the already dim
projections for their other tenants.

As recently as 2018, in a letter to shareholders, and in the context of
increasing scrutiny from politicians, Bezos was returning to a favorite
refrain. ‘‘Amazon today remains a small player in global retail,’’ he wrote.
‘‘We represent a low-­single-­digit percentage of the retail market, and there
are much larger retailers in every country where we operate. And that’s
largely because nearly 90 percent of retail remains offline, in
brick-­and-­mortar stores.’’ The UBS report suggests that post-­pandemic, by
the end of 2025, that number could be as low as 75 percent. By the end of
April, according to Earnest Research, total offline sales were down by more
than 20 percent, year over year; online sales were up nearly 20 percent.
(While Amazon’s competitors saw greater proportional increases in sales,
Amazon’s increase in sales dwarfed their totals.)

In other words, April 2020 wasn’t far off from where things might be in 2025
or even 2030. When millions of people showed up five or 10 years too soon,
Amazon’s systems weren’t ready to accommodate them. The burden of this surge
tested Amazon from top to bottom, pushing to the breaking point not just the
Amazon most familiar to customers but also the less-­visible systems that keep
it running: its warehouses and the employees who operate them; the complex and
suddenly confused software that generates Amazon anew, constantly, for its
customers; and, crucially, its vast network of small sellers, who, just out of
sight and mostly out of mind, carry Amazon on their backs.

Illustration by Tyler Comrie

**A majority of products** sold on Amazon are not sold by Amazon but rather
through it, by an army of hustling merchants. Conceptually, this part of
Amazon is closer to eBay or even Etsy, but Amazon tends to conceal those
similarities. Imagine a listing on Amazon — say, a pack of eight bars of
antibacterial soap. From a customer’s perspective, clicking ‘‘Buy Now’’ does
what it says it does: Amazon will charge you $5.19 to ship the soap within a
specified time frame. Behind the button, however, is a competition: in this
case, between several different sellers, including Amazon itself, each with
its own supply chain. Amazon selects one automatically.

These sellers compete on price, shipping time and customer ratings, among
other factors. Some of these sellers pay Amazon to warehouse, handle and ship
their products, for a fee; others don’t, but in doing so forgo ‘‘Prime’’
branding, and often their chance of winning the auction. But now imagine that
the first seller, Amazon, is out of stock. Maybe the price goes up. Imagine
that the second and third sellers, both shipping through Prime, are out, too.
This is what the pandemic did to the system: A real-time bidding process
designed to keep prices and shipping times down was now, instead, dealing with
widespread shortages and creating what might have looked to customers like
automated price-­gouging. As every retailer struggled to keep pandemic
essentials in stock, Amazon’s challenge was to keep a complex, interconnected
and broadly ill-­prepared marketplace, with millions of independent actors on
which it relied for much of its recent growth, from breaking down completely.

According to estimates by Market­place Pulse, an e-­commerce research firm, a
third of the top Amazon sellers — those doing more than $1 million in annual
U.S. sales — are based in China, bidding abroad for algorithmic supremacy and
relying on Amazon to handle nearly everything after their products reach the
U.S. In calmer times, this globe-­spanning complexity is mostly invisible to
the customer, who experiences a familiar, quick transaction and, in many
cases, opens an Amazon-­branded box, shipped from an Amazon facility, maybe
even delivered by an Amazon truck.

In contrast to the relatively straightforward and deliberately low-stress
buying experience on Amazon, selling on Amazon is complicated, hugely
competitive and populated by a wide range of actors: inventors hoping to sell
a genuinely unique product alongside agnostic hustlers who base their entire
businesses on what analytics software tells them is doing well on Amazon that
week. In a common American seller model, the seller spends her time devising a
plan to break into Amazon’s search results or find a way into a growing
category; she finds a manufacturing partner in China; Amazon handles the rest.
A model for a Chinese seller inverts this, hiring Americans to sort out
trademarks, translations and sometimes marketing, while she figures out the
manufacturing through local connections and lets Amazon handle everything
after the product leaves port.

Amazon sellers are encouraged, both explicitly and implicitly, to operate like
miniature Amazons; that is, keeping product inventory no higher than it needs
to be to meet expected sales. Amazon charges sellers who are part of
Fulfillment by Amazon, or F.B.A., by the amount of warehouse space they use,
so if they have reliable shipments coming from a manufacturer, it’s cheaper to
cut things close. Everyone who does business in China knows to take the Lunar
New Year’s interruptions into account, but this year, rather than reopening
after the holiday, many factories in China stayed closed. The resulting
product shortages affected virtually every major retailer, but they hit Amazon
twice: It wasn’t just suppliers going offline or vendors passing along their
own manufacturing delays. Sellers, who might otherwise act as an auxiliary
force, simply ran out of goods.

Successful merchants are used to guessing at how the systems that govern
Amazon’s marketplace work, and establishing a good reputation and gaining a
foothold in Amazon’s search results can take years. Suddenly, these systems
seemed confused. Sellers reported being suspended for sudden surges in sales.
Others were accumulating negative feedback as shipping dates lagged, out of
their control. Some fretted about plummeting Inventory Performance Index
scores, which Amazon uses to rate how well sellers meet demand. They watched
search rankings for their listings fall and worried about the long climb back.

As Amazon’s breakdown created surreal outcomes for customers, it was breaking
down in strange and unpredictable ways for sellers, too. Rachel Johnson Greer,
a former Amazon employee who now advises sellers, saw some of her formerly
successful clients having terrible months and others having great ones,
depending on new factors: whether they had inventory stored in the U.S.;
whether their product had been deemed essential by Amazon (soap, beauty
products and sex toys were; folding cots, though in high demand, were not).
Then there are the algorithms that determine what a customer sees when he
searches through Amazon’s vast library of goods. ‘‘There are 10 or 20 inputs
that decide how a product shows up,’’ Greer said, and the pandemic has thrown
some of them completely out of whack. ‘‘The system is so automated, they can’t
turn it off.’’

For some sellers, it was a bonanza. Peter Spenuzza, the founder of the health-
food company Rise Bar, saw protein-­bar sales surge: He’s pretty sure it was
considered an essential product; more important, it was manufactured in the
U.S., and it was in demand. One of his listings suffered, he thinks, for
temporarily selling out, but the rest more than made up for it. He said that
in the future, he’ll be shifting more of his business over to Amazon. But on
Amazon’s seller forums, others were losing patience.

‘‘The vast majority of my inventory is held hostage at F.B.A. warehouse,’’ one
seller wrote in April. ‘‘My message box is full of messages from customers
asking where is their stuff,’’ the seller said. ‘‘It is becoming more and more
apparent that we are just a number.’’

**In its latest financial disclosure,** Amazon claimed a physical footprint
for its facilities at more than 333 million square feet worldwide, with more
than 192 million square feet categorized as American ‘‘fulfillment, data
centers and other.’’ To customers, Amazon is most visibly a website, an app
and a bunch of boxes. To many of its employees, it’s a network of hidden
24-hour cities.

In mid-March, before many state and local lockdowns were in effect,
Street­Light Data, an analytics firm that uses app-­location data to track how
much people travel, started to notice a sharp decline in movement. By late
March, it reported that daily miles traveled fell to around four billion from
15 billion. It was the lowest road activity the firm had ever seen. As
Street­Light looked deeper into the data, however, it found pockets where
there was no decline at all, and in some cases an increase in activity. A few
streets on Staten Island, for example, were still bustling: Gulf Avenue,
Chelsea Avenue, Fifth Street and Sixth Avenue. They all led to one place:
JFK8, Amazon’s new state-of-the-art fulfillment center, which employs about
4,000 people full time, the only Amazon fulfillment center within New York
City’s five boroughs. While overall vehicle traffic on Staten Island had
fallen to around one-fifth of its usual levels, activity around JFK8 was
elevated by 25 percent in March and then 34 percent in April.

Derrick Palmer works in the ‘‘pick’’ department at JFK8. In most Amazon
warehouses, this job would entail walking miles a day between shelves,
searching for items to be collected and handed off for packing. At JFK8, which
opened in 2018, robots bring sections of shelves, each loaded with bins, to
Palmer, who removes the products and places them in a yellow plastic box, or
‘‘tote,’’ which is then whisked away immediately by a conveyor belt. It’s
exhausting work — the literal mileage once demanded of human pickers has been
replaced with a test of dexterity and endurance.

‘‘You’re judged by your rate,’’ Palmer said. ‘‘Everything is on the screen,
the amount of units you did, the time at the station.’’ Through the screen, he
is reminded of his ‘‘takt time’’ — basically, his time per given task.
(‘‘Takt’’ is derived from the German word Taktzeit, sometimes translated as
‘‘clock interval,’’ an industrial-­process concept popularized in German and
Japanese wartime manufacturing.) He knows he needs to hit 325 totes an hour,
about one every 11 seconds; it has been suggested to him by management that a
good target is about 400, or one every nine seconds. ‘‘Hitting your rate is a
little difficult,’’ he said. ‘‘People well over 60 are held to the same
standard as someone who is 25.’’ (Palmer is 31.) A lot of them can’t quite
keep up, he said, which is a good way to get written up, which is a good way
to get fired.

Palmer has been able to keep up and has worked at Amazon for a few years now.
What happened, he said, was like Christmas in April, during a pandemic.
December is the busiest time of year at Amazon fulfillment centers, which in
2019 added 200,000 seasonal workers to meet holiday demand. Palmer said he has
noticed many new people around — Amazon needs the extra help but also needs to
replace workers who have quit, stopped showing up or become sick. JFK8, with
its four sprawling floors and thousands of employees, is as busy as he has
ever seen it.

In March, rumors of infections at JFK8 were spreading among employees, who,
according to several I spoke with, were getting conflicting reports from their
direct managers: two positive cases; 10; more. (Amazon says that when a
­Covid-19 case is confirmed in one of its buildings, it communicates this
information to all employees who work in that building.) Outside of work, it
seemed as if everyone knew someone who was sick; as the month progressed,
hospitals in New York were flooded, and daily deaths were rising rapidly.

To the fulfillment-­center staff, it was clear that Amazon was already
responding to the pandemic on behalf of its customers — it was increasing
hiring and holding classroom-­style group orientation classes as usual.
Workers were showing up for their shifts in large groups and gathering during
breaks and in the lunchroom. (Amazon says it implemented social-­distancing
guidelines on March 15, including staggering shifts and spreading out break-
room tables.) Sick pay was available for workers who tested positive for
coronavirus, but some still went to work pending their results. Some started
taking leave and using vacation days; others noticed managers going home too
and started wondering if they should be doing the same.

As they waited, it became clear to some workers that they were Amazon’s
response to the pandemic. On March 30, a week after Amazon confirmed its first
case to JFK8 workers, an employee named Chris Smalls, citing worker-­safety
concerns like a lack of protective equipment, led a walkout; about two hours
after it ended, Smalls was told he had been fired. Earlier that month, Smalls
said, he was in contact with a co-­worker who later received a ­Covid-19
diagnosis. Smalls was dismissed, officially, for ‘‘putting the health and
safety of others at risk’’ by violating social-­distancing policies and a
company-­imposed quarantine. (Smalls has described his firing as ‘‘targeted
retaliation.’’) Notes from a meeting held after Smalls was fired, attended by
senior Amazon staff as well as Bezos, were obtained by Vice News. In the
meeting, David Zapolsky, Amazon’s general counsel, explained why the company
should not shy from letting Smalls take the spotlight: ‘‘He’s not smart or
articulate, and to the extent the press wants to focus on us versus him, we
will be in a much stronger P.R. position than simply explaining for the
umpteenth time how we’re trying to protect workers.’’ (In a statement,
Zapolsky told Vice News that his ‘‘comments were personal and emotional’’ and
that he was frustrated that an Amazon employee would put other employees’
safety at risk.)

**By Smalls’s own estimation,** his walkout numbered a few dozen at most, but
multiple workers at JFK8 point to it as the moment Amazon started making
meaningful changes. Workers are now supplied with gloves and paper masks.
There are hand-­sanitizer stations set up around the facility, although
they’re not always full. The company says it is cleaning the facility between
shifts and is working ‘‘closely with health authorities to respond
proactively,’’ by, among other things, tripling the size of the janitorial
team.

In February, the company drew backlash by firing Justin Rashad Long, an
employee who had called attention to working conditions at the facility,
helping to renew a drive by the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union
to organize workers there. ‘‘Normally, we’re reaching out to workers,’’ Stuart
Appelbaum, the president of the union, said about Amazon. ‘‘Now, people are
reaching out to us.’’ No Amazon warehouse workers in the United States are
currently unionized, and the company has been aggressive in pushing back
against workers’ efforts to do so. At Whole Foods, the company reportedly
maintained a ‘‘heat map’’ of stores’ ‘‘risk’’ of unionizing, taking into
account factors like local union membership, diversity (greater diversity is
less ‘‘risk’’) and sales.

Appelbaum sees the pandemic as a possible turning point, not just for labor
but for the public’s attitude about Amazon. ‘‘They feast on public subsidies,
they avoid paying taxes and they mistreat employees,’’ he said. The pandemic,
he added, ‘‘magnified the health and safety problems that were there
already.’’ The workers’ demands during the pandemic are, by and large,
unchanged: more safety; more attentiveness to worker health, both physical and
mental; more pay, especially considering the risks they take on. If they have
more leverage now, it may be fleeting, and it won’t be easy to use. In France,
unions successfully secured a court order preventing the company from selling
non­essential goods until new safety precautions were put in place. Amazon
appealed the decision, saying it was ‘‘perplexed,’’ but lost. After the court
order was issued, Amazon temporarily closed its six distribution centers,
placed 10,000 workers on paid furlough and began applying for government
assistance to pay them. (The employees returned to work in mid-May.)

In the month and a half after Smalls was fired, eight Amazon warehouse workers
were reported to have died of ­Covid-19. The company has not shared how many
employees have been infected or died; the company’s worst outbreak, at AVP1 in
Pennsylvania, is estimated by local lawmakers to exceed 100 cases. Smalls is
planning more labor actions and hoping to organize workers under a new banner
— the Congress of Essential Workers. ‘‘We want to use a union­like structure
but not call it a union,’’ he said. ‘‘A lot of employees at Amazon are afraid
of unions.’’

Amazon is at the height of its powers, and many of the forces that might hold
it back are in decline. Much of the retail landscape is in ruins, ready to be
finished off, or acquired, by one of the few remaining giants. The president’s
frequent broadsides against Bezos notwithstanding, Amazon is operating in a
profoundly friendly regulatory and tax environment; at the National Labor
Relations Board, charged with investigating labor complaints, Trump appointees
are firmly in control. Millions of Americans are looking for work, and Amazon
has more than a hundred fulfillment centers spread around the country, with
more planned.

Then there are the customers. Amazon’s obsessive focus on making finding,
purchasing and returning things online as easy and fast as possible has won it
loyalty; its most fervent wish is to be taken for granted by shoppers, a
casual faith that was shaken during the pandemic but will no doubt return. To
the people who actually make the process work, this single-­minded focus on
serving the customer reads differently. ‘‘I like to say they brainwashed us to
think that we need it,’’ Smalls said. ‘‘One click to buy, and a package
magically appears. It’s a luxury. The package you just ordered was handled by
about six or seven people.’’

For now. Amazon is a leader in warehouse robotics and makes no secret of its
desire to automate as much of its logistics operation as possible, in the name
of customer satisfaction and, of course, to satisfy its patient shareholders.
Until it can do that, however, Amazon needs workers. In 2020, they’re arriving
into workplaces where their labor is both urgently needed and conspicuously
treated as a problem to be eventually solved.

One employee at JFK8, who did not wish to be identified for fear of
retaliation, described the material response as improving but inadequate. She
has seen news reports about disinfecting and deep cleaning at her workplace
but little evidence in person — she wipes down her station herself. At the
beginning of her day, she’s given a baggie with two sets of plastic gloves and
a disposable mask — this didn’t start until mid-­April. The word she kept
using was ‘‘facade.’’ The media sees a facade. Rank-and-file employees see a
facade. Customers, conditioned to click ‘‘Buy Now’’ without a thought, are
interfacing with a facade. Amazon is none of the things people think it is — a
website, a store, Alexa, a futuristic enterprise so novel and incomparable
that it simply must be inevitable, delivery drones and all. Beneath its layers
and layers of highly scalable systems, it’s hundreds of thousands of people
still at work, packing boxes.

* * *

John Herrman is a media and technology reporter for The Times Styles. He
previously wrote for the magazine about the tangled empire of the tech giants.
