title: Tips for Traveling With Kids When You Don't Share the Same Last Name - The Points Guy
source: https://thepointsguy.com/guide/tips-for-traveling-with-kids-when-you-dont-share-the-same-last-name/
date: 2025-08-13T16:27:46.577652
tags: []
---
It’s no secret that what was once a "traditional family" structure has
drastically evolved over the past few decades. Now, with all types of family
arrangements, children may not always share the same last name as their
parents. (See our related story on the [documents LGBTQ families should never
travel
without](http://web.archive.org/web/20230205233433/https://thepointsguy.com/guide/lgbtq-
families-travel-documents/).)

In today’s modern world, it’s increasingly common for adults to travel with
kids that don’t share the same last name. From an immediate family standpoint,
perhaps the children have the same last name as the other parent while you
still kept your own (like in my case), or maybe the kids have a last name that
is a hybrid of both.

Maybe you’re a grandparent, step-parent, legal guardian or [chaperone that’s
taking a trip with
children](http://web.archive.org/web/20230205233433/https://thepointsguy.com/news/dont-
forget-this-document-if-youre-a-group-trip-chaperone/) that aren’t
biologically your own. Of course it's perfectly legal to travel with kids who
don't share your last name or may not be related to you, but these
circumstances do require a bit more preparation beforehand to avoid any
headaches with security and customs. This is true even if you are the child's
parent.

As a mom that travels solo often with my two young kids with different last
names than mine, I'm aware that there's a bit more preparation needed on my
end before I hit the skies with my offspring.

Photo courtesy of Angelina Aucello

## ID for Kids On Domestic Flights

The TSA does not require children under 18 to provide identification when
traveling with a companion within the United States, but some airlines have
their own protocols. For example, Southwest strictly enforces its policy
requiring adults to provide a copy of a birth certificate for children under
the age of 2 traveling as lap infants — even on domestic flights. You should
always contact the airline for information on its policies or questions
regarding specific ID requirements for travelers under 18.

Of course, traveling domestically with kids is a lot easier than traveling
internationally — where you’ll most likely run into more questioning and extra
security screenings. But, having your documents in order will allow you to
breeze through the process — no matter where you're flying. Here are our
thoughts on the best domestic airlines for families.

## ID for Kids On International Flights

Traveling internationally with kids subjects travelers to more ID and consent
requirements.

First and foremost, passports are required for all passengers traveling
internationally, regardless of age or last name. Unlike the case of domestic
flights, taking a child on an international flight without presence/permission
of the other parent or legal guardian is not permitted.

This requirement is in place to prevent the unfortunate cases of kidnapping,
even in families. There is no "official consent form," so you'll have to
prepare one on your own. As a guideline, it's generally a _notarized_ and
dated statement from one parent/guardian granting permission to the other
parent or traveling adult to travel internationally with the child.

Sign up for our daily newsletter

In the letter, be sure to include a statement of permission to travel along
with the names of the children, the intended travel dates/destination, the
names of the adult(s) permitted to travel with the children, and the names and
contact information of the parent(s) granting permission.

Photo courtesy of Angelina Aucello

I always keep a generic signed/notarized consent form with me when I travel
internationally with the kids, but I've rarely been asked to show it. In fact,
even if both parents are flying together, it’s not a bad idea for each parent
to carry a signed and notarized consent form just in case you somehow get
separated. If you're curious, here are our thoughts on the most family-
friendly international carriers.

## Be Prepared for Extra Time at the Airport

On a recent trip to London with my 4-year-old son, the UK immigrations officer
quickly noticed that my son’s last name differed from mine and slyly
“interviewed” my son in a playful manner: “What’s your name, buddy? Are you
traveling with just your mom today?”

Then he turned to me and asked me to verify my son’s middle name and DOB. He
was looking to see how quickly I responded, kind of like when a bouncer at a
nightclub questions if the ID you forked over really is yours.

Mind you that process was rather quick and, of course, the questioning of both
the child and parent stems from good intentions to verify the relationship
between the two.

The UK Home Office tweeted about this process not too long ago.

## Bottom Line

Sadly, parental kidnapping, abduction and child trafficking are very real
threats in the world we live in. So, if you’re traveling internationally with
a child — even your own — and you don’t share the same last name, you'll have
to come with extra documentation and be prepared to spend some extra time at
the airport in some cases. Though it may seem like a hassle, it serves an
important purpose.

Even if you're just traveling domestically, if you think you may run into
issues at security or at the check-in counter, it may be wise to bring along a
copy of the child's birth certificate/adoption papers/legal guardianship
documents and a generic consent form just for the extra peace of mind. Having
a copy of those documents not only works as an ID that shows proof of age, but
it also proves your relationship to the child, especially if your last names
differ.

What have your experiences been like when traveling with kids who don't share
your last name?

_Angelina Aucello covers family travel for TPG and writes the popular
blog,[Angelina
Travels](http://web.archive.org/web/20230205233433/https://go.skimresources.com/?id=108360X1565867&sref=https%3A%2F%2Fthepointsguy.com%2Fguide%2Ftips-
for-traveling-with-kids-when-you-dont-share-the-same-last-
name&url=http%3A%2F%2Fangelinatravels.boardingarea.com%2F). Follow along with
all her travel adventures on
[Twitter](http://web.archive.org/web/20230205233433/https://twitter.com/angelinaaucello)
and
[Instagram](http://web.archive.org/web/20230205233433/https://www.instagram.com/angelinatravels/)._
