title: Simple Tips for Building a Gallery Wall
source: https://food52.com/blog/22133-how-to-create-a-gallery-wall-simple-tips-diy
date: 2025-08-13T16:39:24.496728
tags: []
---
My wall is all about the good vibes (and lots of pink)!

Building a gallery wall is an excellent home design project. Achievable for
anyone—regardless of design acumen or handiness (I am a good example!)—a
gallery wall turns art into art. You can take art and photos that you love on
their own, and transform them into something that stands out as a collection.

There’s really no wrong way to build a gallery wall. Tailor it to your own
taste and to the vibe of your particular space. You can make yours sleek and
minimal by using all of the same frames and spacing them evenly. On the
opposite end of spectrum, you can mix and match frames (colors and materials),
and space them in an intentionally haphazard way for a funkier look. Then
there’s an entire range in the middle: Choose all white and black frames,
maybe, or choose all gold frames in a variety of sizes.

My blank canvas of wall looking as intimidating as possible.

There are a few useful tips I’ve gleaned through trial and error to help you
succeed at building a gallery wall of your own. The most important bit of
advice is to have a vision before you begin. It’s best to have a firm plan to
lay out before starting.

First, decide on your style. My style for this gallery wall was eclectic and
colorful. We have a very minimal, white, uncluttered house—small and right on
the water in a sleepy little beach town—so I wanted a pop of interest and
color to brighten up our bedroom. Consider your own space and what would work
best.

My first apartment (with my sister) was a sprawling pre-war space with old,
polished floorboards and lots of character. We decided to install a huge
gallery wall of family photos, but we went with all white wooden frames of
different sizes—this helped to create a simple look that balanced out the
busyness of the rest of the space. To help you think through your style, break
it down into two components:

**1\. Color:** Do you want your frames to all match? Consider the colors of
your art and photography. Choose complementary hues and tones. If you have a
lot of color in your art, it’s nice to go with less mixing of frame color and
material.

**2\. Scale:** You can mix and match the sizes of frames, which creates a nice
look to the wall and helps to fill the space. I like this method when you have
a variety of art and photography. If you’re hanging all similar items (20
black-and-white photos, for example), consider using all uniformly-sized
frames and spacing them evenly.

Once you have decided on a style and framed all of your pieces, you’re ready
to begin. If you’re planning on evenly spacing all of your art, you simply
need to measure out where to hang, and go at it. If you want the look of
uneven spacing like my gallery wall, you have two options for laying out the
wall. One is for very organized, methodical people and the other is for…people
who are less so!

**1\. Plan Ahead:** If you want to be extra cautious about how the art will
look, you can cut out pieces of paper and tape them up to figure out the
layout you like. I like to use brown construction paper for this. Cut out
pieces that correspond with the size of each of your frames, then tape them to
your wall. You can move them around until you like the spacing between each.
This is a useful method as you can simply nail through the paper and pull it
off after, which allows for more precision in hanging.

**2\. Freestyle:** I’ve done the more methodical approach before, but this
time I decided to live on the edge and freestyle my gallery wall. To do this,
I placed all of my frames on the floor and arranged them in roughly the layout
I wanted. Then I started hanging the first frame, and spaced each subsequent
frame in relation to the ones next to it. This is slightly riskier, but the
silver lining is you get a more organic arrangement of frames, which I like
the look of.

Start at one corner and take the plunge to build "at random."

Make sure you test out your wall before starting to build. Check that it’s
strong enough to hold heavier art, if you have heavy pieces. To do this, use a
stud finder to check where the studs are in your wall: That’s where you want
to nail or otherwise affix your frames.

Try and choose frames that are similar in thickness, so that none stick out
from the side view.

If your wall or surface has some unusual features, like moldings or paneling
(as mine does), that's okay! Just decide whether you want to use those
features as borders, or whether you want to just ignore them and treat the
wall as one big blank canvas. I decided to just frame over the paneling,
rather than using it to break up the wall visually into sections.

Mixing colors and shapes to create the final effect!

Wondering where to get art for your gallery wall? There are so many wonderful
options online for affordable art. Personally, I love using a mix of
sentimental and non-sentimental art. In my staircase, I have a gallery wall of
all family photos. In this gallery wall in my bedroom, I chose all pieces of
art that I found online or in shops that caught my eye or otherwise gave me
good feelings. My favorite places to source art online is
[20x200](http://web.archive.org/web/20250125194238/https://20x200.com/),
[Etsy](http://web.archive.org/web/20250125194238/https://www.etsy.com/), and
[Society6](http://web.archive.org/web/20250125194238/https://society6.com/).

Another great tip (thanks to [Joanna
Goddard](http://web.archive.org/web/20250125194238/https://cupofjo.com/2017/06/framing-
wallpaper-as-artwork/) for showing me the light!) is to find really beautiful
wallpaper or wrapping paper and frame squares of it. This is such a clever and
affordable way to create a big, colorful statement within a frame.

Whatever you go with, remember a gallery wall can be a living installation.
Change it over time! Swap out pieces and photos with the seasons! With so many
elements, it’s easy to refresh it bit by bit to reflect your current taste.

_Have you ever done a gallery wall before? Let us know about your own
experiences below._
