title: Michele Bachmann's Holy War - Rolling Stone
source: http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/michele-bachmanns-holy-war-20110622?print=true
date: 2025-08-13T20:43:53.455980
tags: []
---
Close your eyes, take a deep breath, and, as you consider the career and
future presidential prospects of an incredible American phenomenon named
Michele Bachmann, do one more thing. Don't laugh.

It may be the hardest thing you ever do, for Michele Bachmann is almost
certainly the funniest thing that has ever happened to American presidential
politics. Fans of obscure 1970s television may remember a short-lived
children's show called _Far Out Space Nuts_ , in which a pair of dimwitted
NASA repairmen, one of whom is played by Bob (Gilligan) Denver, accidentally
send themselves into space by pressing "launch" instead of "lunch" inside a
capsule they were fixing at Cape Canaveral. This plot device roughly
approximates the political and cultural mechanism that is sending Michele
Bachmann hurtling in the direction of the Oval Office.

Bachmann is a religious zealot whose brain is a raging electrical storm of
divine visions and paranoid delusions. She believes that the Chinese are
plotting to replace the dollar bill, that light bulbs are killing our dogs and
cats, and that God personally chose her to become both an IRS attorney who
would spend years hounding taxpayers and a raging anti-tax Tea Party crusader
against big government. She kicked off her unofficial presidential campaign in
New Hampshire, by mistakenly declaring it the birthplace of the American
Revolution. "It's your state that fired the shot that was heard around the
world!" she gushed. "You are the state of Lexington and Concord, you started
the battle for liberty right here in your backyard."

[Videos: Michele Bachmann's Craziest
Moments](/web/20171009110609/http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/photos/michele-
bachmanns-craziest-moments-20110616)

I said lunch, not launch! But don't laugh. Don't do it. And don't look her in
the eyes; don't let her smile at you. Michele Bachmann, when she turns her
head toward the cameras and brandishes her pearls and her ageless, unblemished
neckline and her perfect suburban orthodontics in an attempt to reassure the
unbeliever of her non-threateningness, is one of the scariest sights in the
entire American cultural tableau. She's trying to look like June Cleaver, but
she actually looks like the T2 skeleton posing for a passport photo. You will
want to laugh, but don't, because the secret of Bachmann's success is that
every time you laugh at her, she gets stronger.

[Matt Taibbi's 'The Truth About the Tea
Party'](/web/20171009110609/http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/matt-
taibbi-on-the-tea-party-20100928)

In modern American politics, being the right kind of ignorant and
entertainingly crazy is like having a big right hand in boxing; you've always
got a puncher's chance. And Bachmann is exactly the right kind of completely
batshit crazy. Not medically crazy, not talking-to-herself-on-the-subway
crazy, but grandiose crazy, late-stage Kim Jong-Il crazy — crazy in the sense
that she's living completely inside her own mind, frenetically pacing the
hallways of a vast sand castle she's built in there, unable to meaningfully
communicate with the human beings on the other side of the moat, who are all
presumed to be enemies.

Bachmann's story, to hear her tell it, is about a suburban homemaker who is
chosen by God to become a politician who will restore faith and family values
to public life and do battle with secular humanism. But by the time you've
finished reviewing her record of lies and embellishments and contradictions,
you'll have no idea if she actually believes in her own divine inspiration, or
whether it's a big con job. Or maybe both are true — in which case this hard-
charging challenger for the GOP nomination is a rare breed of political
psychopath, equal parts crazed Divine Wind kamikaze-for-Jesus and calculating,
six-faced Machiavellian prevaricator. Whatever she is, she's no joke.

Bachmann was born Michele Amble in Waterloo, Iowa, to a pair of lifelong
Democrats, but grew up in tiny Anoka, Minnesota. By her teen years, her
parents had divorced; her mother remarried and brought step-siblings into the
home, creating a Brady Bunchian group of nine kids. One of Bachmann's step-
siblings, Helen LaFave, would later come out as a lesbian, a fact that
Michele, who became famous opposing gay marriage, never mentions on the
campaign trail. For the most part, though, Bachmann's upbringing seems like
pure Americana, a typical Midwestern girl who was ["in a couple of beauty
pageants"](http://web.archive.org/web/20171009110609/http://www.citypages.com/2006-10-04/news/the-
chosen-one/2/) and "not overtly political," according to her stepbrother
Michael LaFave.

Young Michele found Jesus at age 16, not long before she went away to Winona
State University and met a doltish, like-minded believer named Marcus
Bachmann. After finishing college, the two committed young Christians moved to
Oklahoma, where Michele entered one of the most ridiculous learning
institutions in the Western Hemisphere, a sort of highway rest area with legal
accreditation called the O.W. Coburn School of Law; Michele was a member of
its inaugural class in 1979.

Originally a division of Oral Roberts University, this august academy,
dedicated to the teaching of "the law from a biblical worldview," has gone
through no fewer than three names — including the Christian Broadcasting
Network School of Law. Those familiar with the darker chapters in George W.
Bush's presidency might recognize the school's current name, the Regent
University School of Law. Yes, this was the tiny educational outhouse that,
despite being the 136th-ranked law school in the country, where 60 percent of
graduates flunked the bar, produced a flood of entrants into the Bush Justice
Department.

Regent was unabashed in its desire that its graduates enter government and
become "change agents" who would help bring the law more in line with "eternal
principles of justice," i.e., biblical morality. To that end, Bachmann was
mentored by a crackpot Christian extremist professor named John Eidsmoe, a
frequent contributor to John Birch Society publications who once opined that
he could imagine Jesus carrying an M16 and who spent considerable space in one
of his books musing about the feasibility of criminalizing blasphemy.

[Take the Bachmann-Palin Challenge: Can You Tell Them
Apart?](/web/20171009110609/http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/blogs/national-
affairs/take-the-bachmann-palin-challenge-can-you-tell-them-apart-20110609)

This background is significant considering Bachmann's leadership role in the
Tea Party, a movement ostensibly founded on ideas of limited government.
Bachmann says she believes in a limited state, but she was educated in an
extremist Christian tradition that rejects the entire notion of a separate,
secular legal authority and views earthly law as an instrument for
interpreting biblical values. As a legislator, she not only worked to impose a
ban on gay marriage, she also endorsed a report that proposed banning anyone
who "espoused or supported Shariah law" from immigrating to the U.S. (Bachmann
seems so unduly obsessed with Shariah law that, after listening to her
frequent pronouncements on the subject, one begins to wonder if her crazed
antipathy isn't born of professional jealousy.)

This discrepancy may account for why some Tea Party leaders don't buy Bachmann
as a champion of small government. "Michele Bachmann is — what's the old-
school term? — a poser," says Chris Littleton, an Ohio Tea Party leader
troubled by her support of the Patriot Act and other big-government
interventions. "Look at her record and see how 'Tea Party' she really is."

When Bachmann finished her studies in Oklahoma, Marcus instructed her to do
her postgraduate work in tax law — a command Michele took as divinely
ordained. She would later profess to complete surprise at God's choice for her
field of study. "Tax law? I hate taxes," she said. "Why should I go and do
something like that?" Still, she sucked it up and did as she was told. "The
Lord says: Be submissive, wives, you are to be submissive to your husbands."

Moving back to Minnesota, she and Marcus settled in Stillwater, a town of
18,000 near St. Paul, where they raised their five children and took in 23
foster kids. Stillwater is a Midwestern version of a Currier & Ives set piece,
complete with cozy homes, antique stores — and no black people. In short, the
perfect launching pad for a political career built on Bachmann's retro-
Stepford image. Stillwater's congressional district is the whitest district in
Minnesota (95 percent) and one of the wealthiest in America (with a median
income $16,000 above the national average).

Michele took a job as a tax attorney collecting for the IRS and spent the next
four years sucking on the tit of the Internal Revenue Service, which makes her
Tea Party-leader hypocrisy quotient about average. (At least she didn't
collect more than $250,000 in federal farm subsidies between 1995 and 2006 —
that was her father-in-law.) It was after Bachmann quit the IRS in 1993 that
her political career really began; although she had volunteered for Jimmy
Carter in her youth and had been an anti-abortion protester, she didn't become
a major player in Stillwater until she joined a group of fellow Christian
activists to form New Heights, one of the first charter schools in America.

Anyone wanting to understand how President Bachmann might behave should pay
close attention to what happened at New Heights. Because the school took
government money, like other charter schools, it had to maintain a separation
of church and state, and Bachmann was reportedly careful to keep God out of
the initial outlines of the school's curriculum. But before long, parents
began to complain that Bachmann and her cronies were trying to bombard the
students with Christian dogma — advocating the inclusion of something called
the "12 Biblical Principles" into the curriculum, pushing the teaching of
creationism and banning the showing of the Disney movie Aladdin because it
promoted witchcraft.

"One member of Michele's entourage talked about how he had visions, and that
God spoke to him directly," [recalled Denise
Stephens](http://web.archive.org/web/20171009110609/http://www.citypages.com/2006-10-04/news/the-
chosen-one/3/), a parent who was opposed to the religious curriculum at New
Heights. "He told us that as Christians we had to lay our lives down for it. I
remember getting in the car with my husband afterward and telling him, 'This
is a cult.'"

Under pressure from parents, Bachmann resigned from New Heights. But the
experience left her with a hang-up about the role of the state in public
education. She was soon mobilizing against an educational-standards program
called Profile of Learning, an early precursor to No Child Left Behind. Under
the program, state educators and local businesses teamed up to craft a
curriculum that would help young people prepare for the work force — but
Bachmann saw through their devious scheme. "She thought it was a socialist
plot to turn our children into little worker-automatons," says Bill
Prendergast, a Stillwater resident who wrote for the town's newspaper and has
documented every step of Bachmann's career.

The theme of socialists scheming to herd children into a factorylike system of
predetermined occupations still comes up often in Bachmann's rhetoric. In a
recent speech in Iowa, for instance, she talked wistfully of the early Midwest
settled by her Norwegian ancestors, a place where "we can choose whatever
profession we want, and no one tells us what profession we go in." Bachmann
likewise rejected AmeriCorps as an attempt to build "re-education camps for
young people, where young people have to go and get trained in a philosophy
that the government puts forward," and blasted a schools program started by
Bill Clinton for trying to brainwash kids into accepting "government central
planning of our economy and our way of life."

To combat this dark outcome, Bachmann joined up with a Junior Anti-Sex League-
type outfit called the Maple River Education Coalition, which was largely
composed of Christian conservatives rallying against educational standards.
The group met in a church, and its sessions resembled old-time religious
revivals, complete with whooping and hollering. "There were enormous amounts
of 'amens,'" recalls Mary Cecconi, a Stillwater resident who attended an early
meeting of Maple River. "It's like a mission from God with those people."
Maple River was so out there that Minnesota's then-governor, Jesse Ventura, no
slouch in the batshit-conspiracy department, dismissed the group as nothing
but a bunch of people who "think UFOs are landing next month."

Maple River eventually morphed into an organization called EdWatch, which
railed against various dystopian indoctrination plans, including the
U.N.-inspired International Baccalaureate program, offered in some American
high schools. Bachmannites despise IB because its "universal" curriculum
refuses to recognize the superiority of Christianity to other religions. You
and I might have thought William Butler Yeats, for example, was a great poet
who died half a century before the Age of Aquarius, but EdWatch calls him a
"New-Age Pantheism Guru" who was aggressively "undermining Christianity."

Bachmann's anti-standards crusade led her to her first political run. In 1999,
she joined four other Republicans in Stillwater in an attempt to seize control
of the school board. The "Slate of Five" proved unpopular: The GOP candidates
finished dead last. Bachmann learned her lesson. "Since then, she has never
abdicated control of her campaign or her message to anyone," says Cecconi, who
defeated Bachmann in the race — which remains the only election Bachmann has
ever lost.

The slate of five had been put together by a local Republican kingpin named
Bill Pulkrabek, who this spring was jailed for domestic assault after he
allegedly pulled his mistress down a set of stairs by her hair. According to
Pulkrabek, Bachmann initially came to him asking for advice on how to defeat
Gary Laidig, a moderate Republican state senator, but he advised her to run
for the school board first. "We talked about knocking Gary off later,"
Pulkrabek recalled. And indeed, right after the school-board fiasco, Bachmann
decided to take on Laidig.

In her later telling of the story, however, Bachmann substituted a higher
authority than Bill Pulkrabek. It was God, she insisted, not a girlfriend-
abusing politician, who instructed her to get involved in politics. "As if we
didn't have enough to do, He called me to run for the Minnesota State Senate,"
she said in 2006. "I had no idea, no desire to be in politics. None."

In another version of the story told by Bachmann, she ran against Laidig only
because a GOP endorsing convention in April of that year spontaneously
selected her, prompting yet another _Home Alone_ extreme-surprise moment. "[I
came in wearing jeans, a sweatshirt and
moccasins](http://web.archive.org/web/20171009110609/http://www.citypages.com/2006-10-04/news/the-
chosen-one/4/), and I had no makeup on at all," she said. "I had made not one
phone call, and spent not five cents, and I did not solicit a vote." Laidig,
who calls Bachmann a "cold and calculating" person, didn't buy it. "Absolute
bullshit," he [told
reporters](http://web.archive.org/web/20171009110609/http://www.citypages.com/2006-10-04/news/the-
chosen-one/4/). "She planned this all along."

Bachmann's entire political career has followed this exact same pattern of
God-speaks-directly-to-me fundamentalism mixed with pathological, relentless,
conscienceless lying. She's not a liar in the traditional way of politicians,
who tend to lie dully, usefully and (they hope) believably, often with the aim
of courting competing demographics at the same time. That's not what
Bachmann's thing is. Bachmann lies because she can't help it, because it's a
built-in component of both her genetics and her ideology. She is at once the
most entertaining and the most dangerous kind of liar, a turbocharged cross
between a born bullshit artist and a religious fanatic, for whom lying to the
infidel is a kind of holy duty.

It has taken just over 10 years for Bachmann to go from small-town PTA maven
to serious presidential contender, a testament to both her rare and unerring
talent for generating media attention, and to her truly astonishing energy
level and narcissistic tenacity. Minnesota politicians who have squared off
against Bachmann all speak with a kind of horrified reverence for her martial
indomitability, her brilliantly fortifying lack of self-doubt, even the fact
that she hasn't appeared to physically age at all in 10 years. "She will not
stop," says Cecconi.

Bachmann ended up unseating Laidig — and since then, getting herself elected
is pretty much the only thing she has accomplished in politics. That's not an
exaggeration: As both a state senator and a congresswoman, Michele Bachmann
has never passed a piece of meaningful legislation. Her time in the Minnesota
legislature was concentrated in two lengthy and unsuccessful protest
campaigns. The first was a jeremiad against school standards, which fizzled
out when Ventura's replacement, then-governor and current presidential rival
Tim Pawlenty, backed his own version of school standards with the coming of No
Child Left Behind. The other was a hysterical campaign against gay marriage
that involved some of the strangest behavior ever attributed to an American
elected official.

In 2003, after the Massachusetts Supreme Court issued its famous ruling
permitting gay marriage, Bachmann proposed an amendment to the Minnesota
constitution banning gay marriage — despite the fact that the state
legislature had already passed a law making same-sex unions illegal. Even the
politicians who were sufficiently gay-phobic to have passed the original
anti-­marriage law were floored by the brazen pointlessness of Bachmann's
bill. "It's unnecessary, it's redundant, it's duplicative," said Assistant
Senate Majority Leader Ann Rest.

The episode was classic Bachmann, whose political strategy throughout her
career has mostly revolved around having her Little House on the Never-Existed
Fundamentalist Prairie sensibilities rocked by something she has read (or
misread) in the news, then immediately proposing a horseshit, total-waste-
of-­everybody's-time legislative action in response. In 2009, after she saw a
news story about the Chinese calling on the world to abandon the dollar as its
reserve currency, Bachmann somehow took this to mean that the Obama
administration might force ordinary Americans to abandon their familiar green
dollar bills for some international and no doubt atheist currency. To combat
this possibility, Bachmann introduced a resolution to "bar the dollar from
being replaced by any foreign currency." Even after the gaffe was made public,
Bachmann pressed on, challenging Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner to
"categorically renounce the United States moving away from the dollar."
Imagine Joe McCarthy dragging Cabinet members into hearings and demanding that
they publicly disavow the works of Groucho Marx, and you get a rough idea of
the general style of Bachmannian politics.

Bachmann's anti-gay crusade in Minnesota was born of similar stuff. Right from
the start, she made sure that everyone knew the awesome importance of the task
she was taking on, trying to outlaw an already outlawed practice. "This is
probably the biggest issue that will impact our state and our nation in, at
least, the last 30 years," she said. She called gay marriage an "earthquake
issue," insisting that failure to pass her proposal would mean that "sex
curriculum would essentially be taught by the gay community" and that "little
K-12 children will be forced to learn that homosexuality is normal, natural,
and perhaps they should try it." Much as Sarah Palin's actual speeches
sometimes melt indistinguishably into Tina Fey's SNL parodies, Bachmann's
anti-gay rhetoric at times features a campy, over-the-top quality that makes
it hard to tell her apart from a tranny cabaret act. She described the gay
lifestyle as "bondage" and "personal enslavement," even claiming that suicide
among gay teens is due not to discrimination but to "the fact of what they're
doing."

Bachmann's obsession with gay culture led her to bizarre behavioral extremes.
In April 2005, after the State Senate refused to even vote on her
constitutional amendment, she hid in the bushes outside the State Capitol
during a gay-rights rally. A photo shows Bachmann, only the top of her
Stepford head visible, crouched alone in an extreme catcher's squat behind the
Capitol shrubbery. She later insisted she wasn't hiding at all, but resting
because her heels hurt.

That same year tensions between Bachmann and some gay activists grew heated
during a town-hall meeting she attended. Depending on whom you believe — and
by that I mean which of Bachmann's own competing versions of the story you
believe — Bachmann either left the meeting to avoid the activists, or excused
herself to "use the restroom" only to be "held against her will" there by what
may or may not have been a pair of angry lesbians. She reported the incident
to the Washington County sheriff: "Sen. Bachman [sic] stated that when she was
trying to leave, 2 women blocked her in and told her they wanted to continue
talking. Sen. Bachman stated she was afraid and screamed for help. The 2 women
let her leave the restroom when she screamed."

Images of Michele Bachmann squatting behind a bush or hiding from lesbians in
a bathroom would seem to be punch lines of funny stories, but they are not.
The real punch line is that rather than destroying her politically, these
incidents helped propel her into Congress. In her first two races, in 2006 and
2008, she defeated experienced, credible opponents who failed to realize what
they were dealing with until it was too late. Her 2006 win was an especially
extraordinary testament to her electoral viability. In a terrible year for
conservatives, with the death-spiraling Bush administration taking Republican
seats down with them all over the country, Bachmann won a fairly independent
district by an eight-point margin. In her runs for Congress, Bachmann
discovered — or perhaps it is more accurate to say we all discovered — that a
total absence of legislative accomplishment and a complete inability to tell
the truth or even to identify objective reality are no longer hindrances to
higher office.

Emboldened by the lack of consequences for her early freakouts, Bachmann's
self-mythologizing became more and more overt. In October 2006, she stepped
before a packed house at the Living Word Christian Center in Brooklyn Park,
Minnesota, and told her life story. All of history's great madmen have had
that one gorgeous moment where the cackling hairy hunchback that has been
gestating within for years finally comes out and shows itself, strutting up
and down the catwalk for the world to see. This was Michele's catwalk moment,
a lengthy autobiographical speech in which she claimed "callings" from God had
pushed her to every major decision in her life — from studying tax law to
running for Congress. She even told the congregation that she and hubby Marcus
— who by then had opened a Christian counseling center — had been united not
by love but by a unique series of divine visions experienced by three people
simultaneously.

Bachmann claimed that back in her college days, she was up one night praying
with a female friend of hers when "the Lord gave each one of us the same,
exact vision... It was a picture of me, marrying this man, in the valley where
his parents have a farm in western Wisconsin." Meanwhile, miles away, Marcus
"was repairing a fence on the farm where he worked, and the Lord showed him in
a vision that he was supposed to marry me." According to Bachmann, Marcus
initially complained to God that he wanted to see the world first, and only
later relented.

Snickering readers in New York or Los Angeles might be tempted by all of this
to conclude that Bachmann is uniquely crazy. But in fact, such tales by
Bachmann work precisely because there are a great many people in America just
like Bachmann, people who believe that God tells them what condiments to put
on their hamburgers, who can't tell the difference between Soviet Communism
and a Stafford loan, but can certainly tell the difference between being
mocked and being taken seriously. When you laugh at Michele Bachmann for going
on MSNBC and blurting out that the moon is made of red communist cheese, these
people don't learn that she is wrong. What they learn is that you're a dick,
that they hate you more than ever, and that they're even more determined now
to support anyone who promises not to laugh at their own visions and
fantasies.

Bachmann is the champion of those tens of millions of Americans who have read
and enjoyed the _Left Behind_ books, the apocalyptic works of Christian
fiction that posit an elaborate fantasy in which all the true believers are
whisked off to heaven with a puff of smoke at the outset of Armageddon. Here
on Earth, meanwhile, the guilty are bent to the will of a marauding Satan who
appears at first in the guise of a smooth-talking, handsome, educated, pro-
government, superficially pacifist, internationalist politician named Nicolae
Carpathia — basically, Barack Obama. Bachmann has ties to the Left Behind
crowd and has even said that Beverly LaHaye, wife of LB co-author and
fundamentalist godfather Tim LaHaye, was her inspiration for entering
politics.

As Bachmann has told and retold her story as one of divine inspiration, she
has recast her biography in ever more grandiose directions. A great example is
the issue of her "28 children." Bachmann has five kids and, something even her
most withering critic should acknowledge, has cared for 23 foster kids. But in
2008 — 10 years after any of her foster children had been in her home —
Bachmann was talking as though she was still dashing home from Congress to
cook for them. "Every weekend now when I go home, I will go to the grocery
store, I'll buy food for the family," she said. "We have five kids and 23
foster kids that we raise. So I go to the grocery store and buy a lot of
food."

It is difficult to tell whether this sort of thing is delusion, artifice or
both. "I think Michele honestly believes whatever she says in the moment,"
says Cecconi.

It was the same in October 2008, when Bachmann went on _Hardball With Chris
Matthews_ and effectively accused both her fellow members of Congress and
soon-to-be-president Barack Obama of being witches who should be thrown in a
lake to see if they sank from lack of patriotism. "I wish the American media
would take a great look at the views of the people in Congress and find out,
are they pro-America or anti-America?" she said. "I think people would love to
see an exposé like that." When the comment sparked a furious controversy,
Bachmann responded by blaming Matthews, insisting that "I did not suggest the
word 'anti-American.'" She wasn't mad that she was misquoted — she was furious
because her views had been conveyed accurately, in a live television
interview.

"There's always this mechanism available to Bachmann," says Elwyn Tinklenberg,
the Democrat she defeated in the congressional election that fall. "No matter
what they say, there is this attitude that 'these poor Christians are being
picked on.'" Cecconi agrees, saying that Bachmann has discovered her blunders
only serve to underscore her martyrdom. "I've seen her parlay that into 'Look
how downtrodden I am,'" she says. "It works for her."

Given how Bachmann's stature rises every time she does something we laugh at,
it's no wonder she's set her strangely unfocused eyes on the White House.
Since arriving in Congress, she has been a human tabloid-copy machine,
spouting one copy-worthy lunacy after another. She launched a fierce campaign
against compact fluorescent lights, claiming that the energy-saving bulbs
contain mercury and pose a "very real threat to children, disabled people,
pets, senior citizens." She blasted the 2010 census as a government plot and
told people not to comply because the U.S. Constitution doesn't require
citizens to participate, when in fact it does. She told her constituents to be
"armed and dangerous" in their resistance to cap-and-trade limits on climate-
warming pollution. She insisted that Obama's trip to India cost taxpayers $200
million a day, and claimed that Nancy Pelosi had spent $100,000 on booze on
state-paid flights aboard military jets.

This is not to say that Bachmann hasn't played a prominent role in Congress.
Most significantly, she cannily positioned herself as the congressional
champion of the Tea Party; last summer she formed a Tea Party caucus, which
she now leads. The public has become acquainted with some of Bachmann's other
excellent qualities as a politician — her TV-ready looks, her easy confidence
in public speaking, her quick command of a mountainous database of (frequently
bogus) facts — but often overlooked is her greatest quality, the gigantic set
of burnished titanium Terminator-testicles swinging under her skirt.

While other Republicans floundered in the wreckage of the post-Bush era,
Bachmann boldly presented herself as an unfazed, unbowed answer to Obama,
leading the GOP charge to overturn the president's two signature legislative
efforts, the health care bill and Wall Street reform. That she hasn't actually
succeeded is beside the point; at a time when other Republicans seem weighed
down by the party's recent failures, Bachmann has pressed on like she isn't
even aware of them — which, of course, is a distinct possibility.

At the republican debate at St. Anselm College in New Hampshire on June 13th,
which marked the unofficial beginning of the GOP presidential race, Bachmann
wiped the floor with the other candidates — admittedly not a terribly
difficult thing to do, given that this may be the sorriest group of
presidential hopefuls ever assembled. Mitt Romney, Ron Paul, Herman Cain, Rick
Santorum, Newt Gingrich and Tim Pawlenty looked like a bunch of rumpled
businessmen in a subway car watching an old lady get mugged, each waiting for
the other to do something about it. Bachmann, by contrast, radiated confidence
and energy — prompting Washington Post columnist Ezra Klein to wonder if he
had been right when he half-jokingly suggested that "Michele Bachmann is the
candidate Sarah Palin was supposed to be."

Here's the difference between Bachmann and Palin: While Palin is clearly bored
by the dreary, laborious aspects of campaigning and seems far more interested
in gobbling up the ancillary benefits of reality-show celebrity, Bachmann is
ruthlessly goal-oriented, a relentless worker who has the attention span to
stay on message at all times. With a little imagination, you can even see a
clear path for her to the nomination. Though she outraged Des Moines
Republicans by blowing off a party dinner in late May, she had already visited
the state four times this year and scored key endorsements there. Obamacare
progenitor Mitt Romney has already half-conceded Iowa by dropping out of the
straw poll there, leaving fellow Minnesotan Tim Pawlenty as Bachmann's main
competition for the first big prize of the race.

Pawlenty and Bachmann have tangled for years over a variety of issues ranging
from school standards to health care to a cigarette tax. Pawlenty reportedly
views Bachmann's decision to jump in and spoil his long-planned assault on the
presidency as the equivalent to her having crouched over and peed in his
Cheerios. Asked about Bachmann's run, Pawlenty seethed, "I'm not running for
comic- or entertainer-in-chief."

Even other Republicans, it seems, are making the mistake of laughing at
Bachmann. But consider this possibility: She wins Iowa, then swallows the Tea
Party and Christian vote whole for the next 30 or 40 primaries while Romney
and Pawlenty battle fiercely over who is the more "viable" boring-white-guy
candidate. Then Wall Street blows up again — and it's Barack Obama and a
soaring unemployment rate versus a white, God-fearing mother of 28 from the
heartland.

It could happen. Michele Bachmann has found the flaw in the American Death
Star. She is a television camera's dream, a threat to do or say something
insane at any time, the ultimate reality-show protagonist. She has brilliantly
piloted a media system that is incapable of averting its eyes from a story,
riding that attention to an easy conquest of an overeducated cultural elite
from both parties that is far too full of itself to understand the price of
its contemptuous laughter. All of those people out there aren't voting for
Michele Bachmann. They're voting against us. And to them, it turns out, we
suck enough to make anyone a contender.

**Related:**[Matt Taibbi's 'The Truth About the Tea
Party'](/web/20171009110609/http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/matt-
taibbi-on-the-tea-party-20100928)[
Take the Bachmann-Palin Challenge: Can You Tell Them Apart?
](/web/20171009110609/http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/blogs/national-
affairs/take-the-bachmann-palin-challenge-can-you-tell-them-apart-20110609)[
Videos: Michele Bachmann's Craziest
Moments](/web/20171009110609/http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/photos/michele-
bachmanns-craziest-moments-20110616)

 _This story is from_ Rolling Stone _issue 1134/1135, available on newsstands
and through Rolling Stone All Access on June 24, 2011.
_
