title: Can Andy Byford Save the Subways? | The New Yorker
source: https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2018/07/09/can-andy-byford-save-the-subways
date: 2025-08-13T16:32:05.797425
tags: []
---
Cuomo, like most of his predecessors, not to mention de Blasio, is too canny
to want to be the face of the M.T.A. Byford, on the other hand, is happy to be
out front, fully identified with the subways and buses and fully accountable.
When he took the job, Cuomo asked him, “Are you sure you’re up for this?” He
was. As he told me, with a grin, “I will give it a red-hot go.”

Down the hall from his office, Byford had commandeered a small, windowless
“war room” in which to concentrate his thinking. The furniture was minimal,
the lighting bright, and the walls, made of whiteboard, were covered with
lists, charts, arrows, boxes, job titles, question marks, and exhortations in
red and black and blue and green Sharpie. “I’m determined to change the
structure of the organization, make it more lean and decisive,” Byford said,
pointing at an ornate flowchart with numerous inscrutable acronyms. “I want to
get it down to eight levels between the president and the front-line worker,
allow for lateral movement, career advancement. You see?” I did not see. He
directed my attention to a large planet labelled “Customer,” which was being
orbited by boxes bearing “Capital” and “Ops Support” and other important
cargo. “It’s a customer-centric continuous-improvement model,” he said.

Byford’s first hire in New York was for a position he created: chief customer
officer. Sarah Meyer, who is thirty-four, came from Edelman, the global
communications firm, and took a pay cut to join N.Y.C. Transit. She’s a native
New Yorker, and the brick-and-mortar challenge appealed to her. “It’s real
people,” she said. “They need to get to work.” Meyer rides the subways and
buses, looking for annoyances, such as incomprehensible signage. If she has to
ask what B/D means (“both directions”), then it should be spelled out. She’s
having “Out of Order” signs made to use on rest rooms and MetroCard vending
machines, replacing the endemic hand-scrawled notes. The subway’s Lost and
Found turns out to be itself hard to find; she located it in Penn Station,
behind a set of gates. “We’ll move it,” she said. “Make it easier. But it’s
amazing what’s in there. Laptops, cell phones. I can’t believe how much cash
is left in trains. Last week we thought we had an organ. It turned out to be a
biohazardous spit sample.”

Much of Meyer’s work takes place online, where riders blow off steam. A
typical tweet, from @TotoroVSBatman, on May 31st: “I want the #mta to stop
thanking me for my patience. I’d prefer if they just told me to go fuck myself
. . . because that’s what they really mean anyway.” It’s true that Meyer and
her colleagues do more than their share of thanking and apologizing. But, she
said, “the main thing is to explain things clearly and quickly, and to make
sure the tech is working.”

Byford wants everybody, customers and staff, to imagine a big sign hanging
across the whole system: “Under New Management.” For seen-it-all New Yorkers,
that’s a tough sell. As Byford travels the city—introducing himself to train
crews, bus drivers, tower operators, mechanics—he’s trying to fire people up.
Some of his impromptu pep talks seem to delight front-line workers, others not
so much. In a lunchroom for drivers at the Mother Clara Hale Bus Depot, in
Harlem, he bombed with a sparse crowd of dudes who just wanted to get back to
their backgammon. Byford, unfazed, headed into the next room, where a general
supervisor of transportation gave him a huge smile. “Where’d you start?” he
asked her, a habitual question of his. Bus operator, she said. Twenty-two
years ago. “Great!” They bumped knuckles. Byford often gets quizzical looks
from employees when he talks about “this company.” The looks seem to say,
“What company? I thought I worked for the M.T.A.”

The M.T.A.’s public board meetings, held each month, can be slightly rowdy.
Byford’s first meeting came four days into the job, and he was greeted by
protesters from Rise and Resist, a group that, among other things, advocates
for people with disabilities. They presented him with a framed map of the
subway system, with blue marks on the stations that are wheelchair-
accessible—those amounted to fewer than one in four—and invited him to hang
the map in his office. Byford was enthusiastic. He gave an upbeat speech about
a “top-to-bottom modernization of every aspect of what we do.”

Some weeks later, Byford met in Times Square, at dawn, with three activists
from Rise and Resist. They had offered to give him a tour of the subway from
their perspective. The idea had alarmed some of his colleagues. He told me,
“People at the office said, ‘They’re militants! They’re suing us!’ That’s the
wrong attitude. I don’t want to call it ‘hand-wringing,’ but . . .” The
meeting spot was a subway entrance on the south side of Forty-second Street.
Three women appeared. April Coughlin, a _SUNY_ New Paltz professor, was in a
wheelchair. The others were Jennifer Bartlett, a poet who has cerebral palsy,
and Jessica Murray, a doctoral student at City University. The area around the
street-level elevator was immaculate and smelled of new paint. The activists
sensed a setup. “I think you’re right,” Byford said. He made inquiries. In
fact, the door frames of the Seventh Avenue entrance had been painted just
hours before. “People can see into my calendar,” Byford said ruefully. “I
didn’t know I had that much power. Tell you what—you set the route, so you
won’t think we put all the elevators right.” That suited everyone. First,
though, Bartlett wanted to point out that the button for opening the
wheelchair-access gate to this station was around a corner, with no sign.
Also, this very elevator had been out of service several times that week.

On the 7 train to Grand Central, the activists called attention to the gap
between the train and the platform, which is problematic for a wheelchair.
“That won’t do,” Byford said. “We can get rubber fill-ins for those horizontal
gaps. For vertical gaps, which vary between lighter and heavier trains, we can
install auto-adjustment. It’s expensive, but necessary.”

Coughlin was paralyzed below the waist in a car accident when she was six.
Radiating self-possession, she told horror stories of broken elevators, broken
intercoms, of having to be carried up flights of stairs by kind strangers.
“Last week, I rolled into an elevator and realized too late that the floor was
covered with excrement,” she said. “My wheels were coated. I use gloves, but
come on.” Broken elevators were the bane of her route planning, she said.
“Sometimes I just give up and push fifteen or twenty blocks to my destination.
I’ve become a frustrated rider.” She smiled, not quite beatifically.

One model for saving New York’s subways is the London Underground. After the
Second World War, the Tube suffered neglect and deterioration, a victim of
capricious, bare-minimum, politics-driven public budgets. In 1987, a
catastrophic fire started on an escalator at the King’s Cross station, and
thirty-one people died; a painstaking official inquiry into its causes
revealed the depth of the neglect. In the following years, Byford was heavily
involved in a system-wide review, which helped start the modernization of
London Transport. He also served as the group station manager at King’s Cross,
the city’s busiest rail station. “To do that job, after the fire, you had to
be very switched on,” Rob Mason, one of Byford’s superiors then, told me.
“Football night, Friday night, he’d be out on the platforms.”

[![“I just worry that Trumps giving money laundering and pornography a bad
name.”](http://web.archive.org/web/20250617155402im_/https://media.newyorker.com/cartoons/5b36c81255194323de6f3dc8/master/w_1600%2Cc_limit/180709_a22040.jpg)](http://web.archive.org/web/20250617155402/https://www.newyorker.com/cartoon/a22040)

“I just worry that Trump’s giving money laundering and pornography a bad
name.”

A series of reforms gave the Underground a secure, generous source of funds.
The 2012 Olympics, which London hosted, also helped concentrate minds. Mike
Brown, the transport commissioner, told me that the run-up to the Games
provided an ideal opportunity to start changing the company culture—to
encourage employees to take pride in their jobs and to be more responsive to
customers. “I briefed all twenty thousand people who worked for me, in a
hundred and one separate sessions,” Brown said. “We faced some skepticism.
That’s London. ‘Oh, the Underground will never work. The Olympics will be an
embarrassment.’ Nothing gave me more pleasure than to prove those people
wrong.”

The transformation of the Tube has transformed London. Ridership is at an all-
time high, and automobile traffic has declined. The Tube’s on-time rate is now
above ninety-seven per cent. Its efficiency and capacity—thirty-six trains can
run each way each hour on the Victoria Line, for example—are unimaginable in
New York. A contactless fare system, which allows you to pay by tapping a
credit card, was introduced in 2003. Boston, Chicago, and Mexico City have
similar systems. New York is a generation behind.

For a modernization on the scale of London’s, Byford will need a budget that
politicians cannot touch. In 2013, the New York State Legislature passed a
“transit lockbox” bill, an attempt to limit the diversion of funds. Governor
Cuomo vetoed it, and also rolled back other protections. His predecessor
George Pataki, in 2000, borrowed billions from Wall Street to fund public
transit, promising that the state would pay the service charges on the debt.
Cuomo has retired that promise and compelled the M.T.A. to pay the charges.

Cuomo and Mayor de Blasio have different ideas, naturally, about how to
finance the great subway upgrade. De Blasio wants to impose a “millionaire’s
tax” on the wealthy. Such a tax will need to be approved by the Legislature,
and this seems unlikely, particularly without Cuomo’s assent. Cuomo supports
congestion pricing, in which drivers would pay a stiff charge to enter the
busiest parts of Manhattan between 6 _a_._m_. and 8 _p_._m_. Congestion
pricing has worked well in London, Stockholm, and Singapore, but it hasn’t
been tried in automobile-centric American cities. The Legislature is
unpersuaded so far, and, though Cuomo seems to rule Albany without constraint
or peer, his office maintains that he is unable to make it happen.

“I am agnostic,” Byford likes to say, when asked about congestion pricing. “I
don’t care where the money comes from.” That’s what he told the annual
conference of the Regional Plan Association, a high-octane civic group, in the
ballroom of the Grand Hyatt, in April. The conference’s keynote speaker was
Hillary Clinton, but Byford had a full house in the morning. He gave the
conference-goers, an affluent-looking tri-state business crowd, a swift tour
of New York’s transit crisis. “People want to know how much a complete M.T.A.
modernization will cost,” he said. “Be careful what you wish for.” The crowd
stirred. “I’ve seen wacky politics before,” he went on. “I walked into the Rob
Ford—may he rest in peace—mess in Toronto.” People who remembered Toronto’s
erratic, crack-smoking, now deceased mayor laughed. “People ask me, ‘Are you
on the Governor’s team? Are you on the Mayor’s team?’ I say, ‘I’m on the
customer’s team.’ ”

The Canarsie local, a.k.a. the L train, runs from Eighth Avenue and Fourteenth
Street, in Manhattan, to Canarsie, in southeastern Brooklyn. That’s ten miles,
twenty-four stops, with a scheduled running time of thirty-seven minutes. The
L train gets crowded, but its on-time rate, above ninety per cent, is by far
the best of any line in the system. Its outstanding performance is apparently
the result of a computerized signalling system, installed more than a decade
ago, called communications-based train control. C.B.T.C. has provided
transformative improvements to train service in cities throughout the world,
but in New York the L is so far the only line using it.

Traditional signalling, known as fixed block, divides the track into segments,
or blocks—on New York’s subways, they’re usually about a thousand feet long.
As a train enters a block, it trips a circuit, which prevents following trains
from entering until it has left. Fixed block has been around since the
nineteenth century and, barring grievous human error, it is reliable and safe.
But its understanding of the location of a train is crude. All it knows is
whether a block is occupied or unoccupied. C.B.T.C., by contrast, uses radio
signalling to create a moving block, which allows a controller to see each
train’s precise location and speed. The moving block, constantly updated and
reconfigured, is smaller than the old fixed block, which means that trains can
travel closer together—exactly what is needed to solve “overcrowding.”
C.B.T.C. signalling is also significantly cheaper to maintain and, according
to most analysts, even safer than fixed block, because it removes the “human
element.”

On a recent morning, a train operator named Philip Dominguez checked the
brakes, tooted the horn, and tested the P.A. system. The Canarsie local was
ready to leave Eighth Avenue. The conductor, whose cab was in the middle of
the eight-car train, closed the doors, and the train accelerated smoothly out
of the station, heading east. Dominguez sat in front of two screens that
showed the train’s speed, its next stop, its destination. But, because these
were C.B.T.C. screens, their overarching message was that there wasn’t much to
do: an onboard computer was running the train. The red steel pillars of the
station hurtled by, and then the grotty cavern walls of the tunnel, its bare
light bulbs and heavy cables telescoping past.

Dominguez didn’t seem entirely smitten with the system. It was, after all, the
competition. C.B.T.C. is supposed to make perfect stops at every station. As
we traversed the L-train stations of Manhattan, following Fourteenth Street,
Dominguez studied each of the computer’s stopping points critically, and then
made a face that seemed to say, “Not bad.”

The M.T.A. first started looking into C.B.T.C. after a bad wreck, in 1991,
just north of Union Square—five people killed, more than two hundred injured,
in an accident attributed to operator inebriation and excessive speed. Eight
years later, after a typically thorough set of studies, the M.T.A. hired
Siemens, the German multinational, to install C.B.T.C. on the Canarsie line.
The project went hundreds of millions of dollars over budget and missed a
series of deadlines, but by luck it turned out to be well timed. An
unanticipated population explosion had taken place along the L line in
Brooklyn, as young people were driven out of Manhattan by high rents.
Ridership on the L has tripled since 1990, to more than four hundred thousand
trips a day. With C.B.T.C., capacity grew from fifteen trains an hour to
twenty-four, and it is expected to go higher still.
