title: How has my thinking on prizes vs. grants evolved? - Marginal REVOLUTION
source: https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2020/02/how-has-my-thinking-of-prizes-vs-grants-evolved.html
date: 2025-08-13T15:59:12.988613
tags: []
---
Chris, a loyal **MR** reader, writes to me:

> I’ve been turning to your insights on prizes vs. grants over the years. Your
> [Google talk from
> 2007](http://web.archive.org/web/20240327083648/https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YOjAdjWgtgY)
> is without question the best discussion I’ve found of their respective
> merits…I was wondering if your thinking on prizes vs. grants has evolved,
> and in particular [TC has added the numbers here]:
>
> 1\. In the Google talk, you talked about an equilibrium in which there would
> be a growing ecosystem of big prizes complementing one another. I’m not sure
> it has turned out this way. Do you agree, and what happened? Did the
> “failure” of some high profile prizes (e.g. the Google Lunar XPrize) dampen
> down the enthusiasm?
>
> 2\. More generally, there seemed to be an expectation in the 2000s and early
> 2010s that prizes would take off and become a more significant feature of
> the R&D funding landscape. Again, I don’t think that has really happened.
> What explains that?
>
> 3\. Looking specifically at government funding of R&D, do you think there is
> an equilibrium in which grants can coexist with prizes? Or do grants squeeze
> out prizes through some form of adverse selection (the best researchers
> opting for grants over prizes)?
>
> 4\. How important do you think public choice reasons are for us being in a
> grant-dominated equilibrium? It seems that the science sector has done a
> great job of positioning itself as something other than an interest group,
> with its interests squarely aligned with the public good. (Even suggesting
> that the science sector is _also_ an interest group seems slightly
> heretical. It’s interesting that Dominic Cummings, for all his radicalism,
> seems to see little need for any reform of the science/research ecosystem
> beyond ARPA).

First a general remark: I now see the current scientific (and cultural)
establishment as having more _implicit_ prizes than I used to realize. In
fact, getting a grant is one of the biggest prizes you can receive, if the
grant is sufficiently prestigious. By an “implicit prizes,” I mean a prize
where the target achievement is not quite spelled out, but if “we” (however
defined) judge you to have achieved enough, we will pour grants, status, and
high quality social networks into your lap. For instance, Alex and I have
received significant “prizes” for writing **MR** , although none of those
prizes have names or bring explicit public recognition, as opposed to general
recognition. We have in contrast never received a grant to write **MR** , so
are prizes really so under-provided?

So my current thinking is a bit less “grants vs. prizes,” and somewhat more
“implicit prizes vs. explicit prizes, each combined with grants to varying
degrees.” Implicit prizes are more flexible, but they also are easier to cheat
with, since the standard of achievement is never quite clear. Implicit prizes
also are much more valuable to people who can use, build, and exploit their
social networks, and of course that is not everyone (but _shouldn’t_ we be
giving more prizes to those people?). Implicit prizes also can be revoked
through subsequent loss of status. Implicit prizes are more likely “granted”
by the hands of social networks rather than judging panels, all of those
features being both cost and benefit.

Now to the specific points:

1\. As the venture capital ecosystem grows, and as the value of publicity
rises (it is easier to monetize scientific and other sources of fame), and
there are more “influencers in the broad sense,” _there are more implicit
prizes to be had_. And did the Lunar XPrize fail? If an end is not worth
accomplishing, a prize is one way to find that out.

2\. In addition to my point about the proliferation of implicit prizes, the
scientific, academic, and political communities are far too conservative in
the literal sense of that word. How many top schools experiment with different
tenure procedures? Different ways of running a department? It is sad how
difficult it is to experiment with changes in academia and science, whether
the topic be prizes or not.

3\. The best researchers get both grants and prizes (one hopes).

By the way, here is [a recent
piece](http://web.archive.org/web/20240327083648/https://www.nber.org/papers/w26737)
on the empirics of prizes, mostly positive results.
