title: The Police in America Are Becoming Illegitimate - Rolling Stone
source: http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/the-police-in-america-are-becoming-illegitimate-20141205
date: 2025-08-13T19:20:27.280331
tags: []
---
Nobody's willing to say it yet. But after Ferguson, and especially after the
Eric Garner case that exploded in New York yesterday after yet another non-
indictment following a minority death-in-custody, the police suddenly have a
legitimacy problem in this country.

Law-enforcement resources are now distributed so unevenly, and justice is
being administered with such brazen inconsistency, that people everywhere are
going to start questioning the basic political authority of law enforcement.
And they're mostly going to be right to do it, and when they do, it's going to
create problems that will make the post-Ferguson unrest seem minor.

The Garner case was a perfect symbol of everything that's wrong with the
proactive police tactics that are now baseline policy in most inner cities.
Police surrounded the 43-year-old Garner after he broke up a fight. The
officers who responded to that call then decided to get in Garner's face for
the preposterous crime of selling "loosies," i.e. single cigarettes from a
pack.

When the police announced that they were taking him in to run him for the
illegal tobacco sale, Garner [balked and demanded to be left
alone](http://web.archive.org/web/20180425001425/http://www.theguardian.com/us-
news/video/2014/dec/04/i-cant-breathe-eric-garner-chokehold-death-video). A
few minutes later he was in a choke hold, gasping "I can't breathe," and en
route to fatal cardiac arrest.

On the tape you can actually hear the echo of Garner's years of experience
with Broken Windows-style policing, a strategy based on a never-ending stream
of small intrusive confrontations between police and residents in target
neighborhoods.

The ostensible goal of Broken Windows is to quickly and efficiently weed out
people with guns or outstanding warrants. You flood neighborhoods with police,
you stop people for anything and everything and demand to see IDs, and before
long you've both amassed mountains of intelligence about who hangs with whom,
and made it genuinely difficult for fugitives and gunwielders to walk around
unmolested.

You can make the argument that the policies work, as [multiple
studies](http://web.archive.org/web/20180425001425/http://www.jjay.cuny.edu/Telep_Weisburd.pdf)
have cited "hot spot" policing as a cause of urban crime-rate declines (other
studies disagree, but let's stipulate).

But the psychic impact of these policies on the massive pool of everyone else
in the target neighborhoods is a rising sense of being seriously pissed off.
They're tired of being manhandled and searched once a week or more for riding
bikes the wrong way down the sidewalk (about [25,000 summonses a
year](http://web.archive.org/web/20180425001425/http://www.streetsblog.org/2013/07/09/nypd-
issues-more-tickets-for-sidewalk-riding-than-speeding-on-local-streets/) here
in New York), smoking in the wrong spot, selling loosies, or just "obstructing
pedestrian traffic," a.k.a. walking while black.

This is exactly what you hear Eric Garner complaining about in the last
moments of his life. "Every time you see me, you want to mess with me," he
says. "It stops today!"

This is the part white Middle American news audiences aren't hearing about
these stories. News commentators like the _New York Post's_ Bob McManus
("[Blame Only the Man Who Tragically Decided to
Resist](http://web.archive.org/web/20180425001425/http://nypost.com/2014/12/04/eric-
garner-was-a-victim-of-himself-for-deciding-to-resist/)"), predictably in
full-on blame-the-victim mode, are telling readers that the mistake made by
Eric Garner was resisting the police in a single moment of obstinacy over what
admittedly was not a major offense, but a crime nonetheless. McManus writes:

**He was on the street July 17, selling untaxed cigarettes one at a time —
which, as inconsequential as it seems, happens to be a crime.
**

The press and the people who don't live in these places want you to focus only
on the incidents in question. It was technically a crime! Annoying, but he
should have complied! His fault for dying – and he was a fat guy with asthma
besides!

But the real issue is almost always the hundreds of police interactions that
take place before that single spotlight moment, the countless aggravations
large and small that pump up the rage gland over time.

Over the last three years, while working on a book about the criminal justice
gap that ended up being called _The Divide,_ I spent a lot of time with people
like Eric Garner _._ There's a shabby little courthouse at 346 Broadway in
lower Manhattan that's set up as the place you go to be sentenced and fined
for the kind of ticket Staten Island cops were probably planning on giving
Garner.

I sat in that courtroom over and over again for weeks and listened to the
stories. I met one guy, named Andre Finley, who kept showing up to court in an
attempt to talk his way _into_ jail as a way out of the $100 fine he'd got for
riding a bike on a sidewalk in Bedford-Stuyvesant. He couldn't afford the
hundred bucks. It took a year and multiple all-day court visits to clear up.

I met a woman who had to hire a sitter so she could spend all day in court
waiting to be fined for drinking wine on her own front porch. And in the case
of a Bed-Stuy bus driver named Andrew Brown, it was that old "obstructing
traffic" saw: the same "offense" that first flagged Ferguson police to stop
Michael Brown.

In Andrew's case, police thought the sight of two black men standing in front
of a project tower at 1 a.m. was suspicious and stopped them. In reality,
Andrew was listening to music on headphones with a friend on his way home
after a long shift driving a casino shuttle. When he balked at being stopped,
just like Garner balked, cops wrote him up for "obstructing" a street
completely empty of pedestrians, and the court demanded 50 bucks for his
crime.

This policy of constantly badgering people for trifles generates bloodcurdling
anger in "hot spot" neighborhoods with industrial efficiency. And then
something like the Garner case happens and it all comes into relief. Six armed
police officers tackling and _killing_ a man for selling a 75-cent cigarette.

That was economic regulation turned lethal, a situation made all the more
ridiculous by the fact that we no longer prosecute the countless serious
economic crimes committed in this same city. A ferry ride away from Staten
Island, on Wall Street, the pure unmolested freedom to fleece whoever you want
is considered the sacred birthright of every rake with a briefcase.

If Lloyd Blankfein or Jamie Dimon had come up with the concept of selling
loosies, they'd go to their graves defending it as free economic expression
that "creates liquidity" and should never be regulated.

Taking it one step further, if Eric Garner had been selling naked credit
default swaps instead of cigarettes – if in other words he'd set up a
bookmaking operation in which passersby could bet on whether people made their
home mortgage payments or companies paid off their bonds – the police by
virtue of a federal law called the Commodity Futures Modernization Act would
have been barred from even approaching him.

There were more cops surrounding Eric Garner on a Staten Island street this
past July 17th then there were surrounding all of AIG during the period when
the company was making the toxic bets that nearly destroyed the world economy
years ago. Back then AIG's regulator, the OTS, had [just one insurance expert
on
staff](http://web.archive.org/web/20180425001425/http://www.gao.gov/htext/d07154.html),
policing a company with over 180,000 employees.

This is the crooked math that's going to crash American law enforcement if
policies aren't changed. We flood poor minority neighborhoods with police and
tell unwitting officers to aggressively pursue an interventionist strategy
that sounds like good solid policing in a vacuum.

But the policy looks worse when a white yuppie like me can live in the same
city as Garner for 15 years and never even be asked the time by someone in
uniform. And at the very highest levels of society, where corruption has
demonstrably been soaring in recent years, the police have almost been
legislated out of existence.

The counter-argument to all this is that the police are sent where there's the
most crime. But that argument doesn't hold up for long in a city that not only
has recently become the [unpunished economic
corruption](http://web.archive.org/web/20180425001425/http://www.cbsnews.com/news/prosecuting-
wall-street/) capital of the Western world – it's also a place where white
professionals on the Upper East and West Sides can have their coke and weed
safely home-delivered with their Chinese food, while minorities in Bed-Stuy
and Harlem are catching real charges and jail time for the same thing.

City police have tough, brutal, dangerous jobs. Even in the "hot spots,"
residents know this and will cut officers a little slack for being paranoid
and quick to escalate.

Still, being quick to draw in a dark alley in a gang chase is one thing. But
if some overzealous patrolman chokes a guy all the way to death, on video, in
a six-on-one broad daylight situation, for selling a _cigarette_ , forget
about a conviction – someone at least has to go to trial.

Because you can't send hundreds of thousands of people to court every year on
broken-taillight-type misdemeanors and expect people to sit still while yet
another [coroner-declared
homicide](http://web.archive.org/web/20180425001425/http://www.nydailynews.com/new-
york/nyc-crime/eric-garner-death-ruled-homicide-medical-examiner-
article-1.1888808) goes unindicted. It just won't hold. If the law isn't the
same everywhere, it's not legitimate. And in these neighborhoods, what we have
doesn't come close to looking like one single set of laws anymore.

When that perception sinks in, it's not just going to be one Eric Garner
deciding that listening to police orders "ends today." It's going to be
everyone. And man, what a mess that's going to be.
