title: An Oral History of Will Smith's 'Miami' | GQ
source: http://www.gq.com/story/will-smith-miami-oral-history
date: 2025-08-13T18:18:08.711723
tags: []
---
**Smith:** I told Poke and Tone (a.k.a. Trackmasters) that they could come
hang around, since they produced the track. That was my second mistake. I
shouldn't talk about the first.

**Tone:** In the video you hear Will say “Alright, Tone, get the plane!” But
the original line is “What if some day or night a demon were to steal after
you into your loneliest loneliness and say to you: 'This life as you now live
it and have lived it, you will have to live once more and innumerable times
more.' ... Would you not throw yourself down and gnash your teeth and curse
the demon who spoke thus? Or have you once experienced a tremendous moment
when you would have answered him: 'You are a god and never have I heard
anything more divine.’ Let’s go to Miami now.”

**Poke:** Will was a corny man, almost definitely the corniest man in all the
land. He’d tell you knock-knock jokes and be angry when you didn’t laugh. He
would do this posh British accent whenever he was getting frustrated, like
he’d mess up a line in the booth and be like “ _Blimey_!”

**Willow Smith (daughter):** He still says “blimey” when he gets a splinter or
slams the car door on his hand or falls headfirst down the stairwell. And
sometimes, instead of snoring, he screams.

**Pinkett-Smith:** [_laughs_] Sadly, night-screaming is most assuredly some
vintage Will Smith.

**Isham:** When a man screams in his sleep he is not broken, he is merely
attempting to restore order to a world that exalts only the decadence of
mayhem. And furthermore, I believe the devil does exist, and that's he's
probably very boring.

"They were real, but they looked garish, like some idiot’s idea of what a palm
tree should look like. I knew they would ruin the video’s authenticity. So we
borrowed a page from _Full Metal Jacket_ and imported our own palm trees."

**Poke:** Man, when we recorded the _Men In Black_ song I almost lost my mind.
I still have no idea what that song was about. Will insisted it was based on a
“true story” but that if he told me he’d have to kill me, and not in a “cool”
way. As far as “Miami” is concerned, yeah, I don’t really remember that one.

**Tone:** It was my idea that the woman would say “Bienvenidos a Miami” which
at the time Will was not in favor of as it might confuse non-Spanish speakers.
It was Nas who finally convinced him.

**Nas (Hip-hop legend, alleged ghostwriter):** What? Hell no. I had nothing to
do with that. Who told you that? Give me their name, their number, and the
five things they fear most in this world. No, I ain’t fucking kidding. Give me
that list. My third least favorite thing is asking someone for a list and not
getting the list. You’d know that if you ever played _Illmatic_ backwards.

**Smith:** The only thing Nas did was give me the idea to shoot the video for
“Miami” in Miami. We were going to shoot in Bel-Air and make it look like
Miami, but my Uncle Phil wouldn’t let us use his house. But Miami was better.
Authenticity. That’s what the Big Willie Style is all about.

* * *

## ON LOCATION

**Smith:** The first day on set I saw this horrible man holding a camera and I
said, “Oh no, tell me that dweeby nerd is not the cameraman!”

**Daniel C. Pearl (cinematographer):** I said something like “Pleased to meet
you Mr. Smith I am a very big fan, my name is Dan, I am the cinematographer,”
and he punched a brick wall and told me to call him the Fresh Prince if I must
call him anything. I went to Arby’s and wept.
