title: The Liberals Who Can’t Quit Lockdown - The Atlantic
source: https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2021/05/liberals-covid-19-science-denial-lockdown/618780/
date: 2025-08-13T15:38:16.666101
tags: []
---
Lurking among the jubilant Americans venturing back out to bars and planning
their summer-wedding travel is a different group: liberals who aren’t quite
ready to let go of pandemic restrictions. For this subset, diligence against
COVID-19 remains an expression of political identity—even when that means
overestimating the disease’s risks or setting limits far more strict than what
public-health guidelines permit. In surveys, Democrats express more worry
about the pandemic than Republicans do. People who describe themselves as
“very liberal” are distinctly anxious. This spring, after the vaccine rollout
had started, a third of very liberal people were “very concerned” about
becoming seriously ill from COVID-19, compared with a quarter of both liberals
and moderates, according to a study conducted by the University of North
Carolina political scientist Marc Hetherington. And 43 percent of very liberal
respondents believed that getting the coronavirus would have a “very bad”
effect on their life, compared with a third of liberals and moderates.

Last year, when the pandemic was raging and scientists and public-health
officials were still trying to understand how the virus spread, extreme care
was warranted. People all over the country made enormous
sacrifices—rescheduling weddings, missing funerals, canceling graduations,
avoiding the family members they love—to protect others. Some conservatives
refused to wear masks or stay home, because of skepticism about the severity
of the disease or a refusal to give up their freedoms. But this is a different
story, about progressives who stressed the scientific evidence, and then
veered away from it.

For many progressives, extreme vigilance was in part about opposing Donald
Trump. Some of this reaction was born of [deeply felt
frustration](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2020/09/coronavirus-
american-failure/614191/) with how he handled the pandemic. It could also be
knee-jerk. “If he said, ‘Keep schools open,’ then, well, we’re going to do
everything in our power to keep schools closed,” Monica Gandhi, a professor of
medicine at UC San Francisco, told me. Gandhi describes herself as “left of
left,” but has alienated some of her ideological peers because she has
advocated for policies such as reopening schools and establishing a clear
timeline for the end of mask mandates. “We went the other way, in an extreme
way, against Trump’s politicization,” Gandhi said. Geography and personality
may have also contributed to progressives’ caution: Some of the most liberal
parts of the country are places where the pandemic hit [especially
hard](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/26/nyregion/coronavirus-brooklyn-
hospital.html), and Hetherington found that the very liberal participants in
his survey tended to be the most neurotic.

The spring of 2021 is different from the spring of 2020, though. Scientists
know a lot more about how COVID-19 spreads—and how it doesn’t. Public-health
advice is shifting. But some progressives have not updated their behavior
based on the new information. And in their eagerness to protect themselves and
others, they may be underestimating other costs. Being extra careful about
COVID-19 is (mostly) harmless when it’s limited to wiping down your groceries
with Lysol wipes and wearing a mask in places where you’re unlikely to spread
the coronavirus, such as on a hiking trail. But vigilance can have unintended
consequences when it imposes on other people’s lives. Even as scientific
knowledge of COVID-19 has increased, some progressives have continued to
embrace policies and behaviors that aren’t supported by evidence, such as
[banning access](https://calmatters.org/children-and-youth/2020/12/california-
backtracks-playground-ban/) to playgrounds, [closing
beaches](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/16/nyregion/nyc-beaches-
coronavirus.html), and [refusing to
reopen](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2020/10/schools-arent-
superspreaders/616669/) schools for in-person learning.

“Those who are vaccinated on the left seem to think overcaution now is the way
to go, which is making people on the right question the effectiveness of the
vaccines,” Gandhi told me. Public figures and policy makers who try to dictate
others’ behavior without any scientific justification for doing so erode trust
in public health and make people less willing to take useful precautions. The
marginal gains of staying shut down might not justify the potential backlash.

[Read: Overcaution carries its own danger to
children](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2021/02/vaccines-are-
banishing-any-debate-about-reopening-schools/618155/)

Even as the very effective COVID-19 vaccines have become widely accessible,
many progressives continue to listen to voices preaching caution over
relaxation. Anthony Fauci recently[
said](https://www.businessinsider.com/fauci-how-behavior-activities-changed-
after-covid-19-vaccination-2021-4) he wouldn’t travel or eat at restaurants
even though he’s fully vaccinated, despite CDC
[guidance](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/vaccines/fully-
vaccinated-guidance.html#anchor_1617376520653) that these activities can be
safe for vaccinated people who take precautions. California Governor Gavin
Newsom[ refused](https://www.sfgate.com/politics/article/Gavin-Newsom-school-
reopening-fall-vaccines-COVID-16104201.php) in April to guarantee that the
state’s schools would fully reopen in the fall, even though[ studies have
demonstrated](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2020/10/schools-arent-
superspreaders/616669/) for months that modified in-person instruction is
safe. Leaders in Brookline, Massachusetts,
[decided](https://boston.cbslocal.com/2021/05/01/coronavirus-brookline-keep-
outdoor-mask-mandate-in-place/) this week to keep a local outdoor mask mandate
in place, even though the CDC recently relaxed its guidance for outdoor mask
use. And scolding is still a popular pastime. “At least in San Francisco, a
lot of people are glaring at each other if they don’t wear masks outside,”
Gandhi said, even though the risk of outdoor transmission [is very
low](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2021/04/are-outdoor-mask-
mandates-still-necessary/618626/).

Scientists, academics, and writers who have argued that some very low-risk
activities are worth doing as vaccination rates rise—even if the risk of
exposure is not zero—have faced intense backlash. After Emily Oster, an
economist at Brown University,
[argued](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2021/03/go-ahead-plan-
family-vacation-your-unvaccinated-kids/618313/) in _The Atlantic_ in March
that families should plan to take their kids on trips and see friends and
relatives this summer, a reader sent an email to her supervisors at the
university suggesting that Oster be promoted to a leadership role in the field
of “genocide encouragement.” “Far too many people are not dying in our current
global pandemic, and far too many children are not yet infected,” the reader
wrote. “With the upcoming consequences of global warming about to be felt by a
wholly unprepared worldwide community, I believe the time is right to get
young scholars ready to follow in Dr. Oster’s footsteps and ensure the most
comfortable place to be is white [and] upper-middle-class.” (“That email was
something,” Oster told me.)

Sure, some mean people spend their time chiding others online. But for many,
remaining guarded even as the country opens back up is an earnest expression
of civic values. “I keep coming back to the same thing with the pandemic,”
Alex Goldstein, a progressive PR consultant who was a senior adviser to
Representative Ayanna Pressley’s 2018 campaign, told me. “Either you believe
that you have a responsibility to take action to protect a person you don’t
know or you believe you have no responsibility to anybody who isn’t in your
immediate family.”

Goldstein and his wife decided early on in the pandemic that they were going
to take restrictions extremely seriously and adopt the most cautious
interpretation of when it was safe to do anything. He’s been shaving his own
head since the summer (with “bad consequences,” he said). Although rugby teams
have been back on the fields in Boston, where he lives, his team still won’t
participate, for fear of spreading germs when players pile on top of one
another in a scrum. He spends his mornings and evenings sifting through
stories of people who have recently died from the coronavirus for [Faces of
COVID](https://twitter.com/facesofCOVID), a Twitter feed he started to
memorialize deaths during the pandemic. “My fear is that we will not learn the
lessons of the pandemic, because we will try to blow through the finish line
as fast as we can and leave it in the rearview mirror,” he said.

Progressive politics focuses on fighting against everyday disasters, such as
climate change and poverty, struggles that may shape how some people see the
pandemic. “If you’re deeply concerned that the real disaster that’s happening
here is that the social contract has been broken and the vulnerable in society
are once again being kicked while they’re down, then you’re going to be
hypersensitive to every detail, to every headline, to every infection rate,”
Scott Knowles, a professor at the South Korean university KAIST who studies
the history of disasters, told me. Some progressives believe that the pandemic
has created an opening for ambitious policy proposals. “Among progressive
political leaders around here, there’s a lot of talk around: We’re not going
back to normal, because normal wasn’t good enough,” Goldstein said.

[Read: Schools aren’t super-
spreaders](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2020/10/schools-arent-
superspreaders/616669/)

In practice, though, progressives don’t always agree on what prudent policy
looks like. Consider the experience of Somerville, Massachusetts, the kind of
community where residents proudly display rainbow yard signs declaring In this
house … we believe science is real. In the 2016 Democratic primary, 57 percent
of voters there
[supported](https://www.nytimes.com/elections/2016/results/primaries/massachusetts)
Bernie Sanders, and this year the Democratic Socialists of America [have a
shot](https://www.bostonglobe.com/2021/04/05/metro/welcome-socialist-
revolution-somerville/?event=event12) at taking over the city council. As
towns around Somerville began going back to in-person school in the fall,
Mayor Joseph Curtatone and other Somerville leaders delayed a return to in-
person learning. A group of moms—including scientists, pediatricians, and
doctors treating COVID-19 patients—began to feel frustrated that Somerville
schools weren’t welcoming back students. They considered themselves
progressive and believed that they understood teachers’ worries about getting
sick. But they saw the city’s proposed safety measures as nonsensical and
unscientific—a sort of [hygiene
theater](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2021/04/end-hygiene-
theater/618576/) that prioritized the appearance of protection over getting
kids back to their classrooms.

With Somerville kids still at home, contractors conducted in-depth assessments
of the city’s school buildings, leading to proposals that included extensive
HVAC-system overhauls and the installation of UV-sterilization units and even
automatic toilet flushers—renovations with a proposed budget of $7.5 million.
The mayor told me that supply-chain delays and protracted negotiations with
the local teachers’ union slowed the reopening process. “No one wanted to get
kids back to school more than me … It’s people needing to feel safe,” he said.
“We want to make sure that we’re eliminating any risk of transmission from
person to person in schools and carrying that risk over to the community.”

Months slipped by, and evidence
[mounted](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2020/10/schools-arent-
superspreaders/616669/) that schools could reopen safely. In Somerville, a
local leader appeared to describe parents who wanted a faster return to in-
person instruction as “fucking white parents” in a virtual public meeting; a
community member accused the group of mothers advocating for schools to reopen
of being motivated by white supremacy. “I spent four years fighting Trump
because he was so anti-science,” Daniele Lantagne, a Somerville mom and
engineering professor who works to promote equitable access to clean water and
sanitation during disease outbreaks, told me. “I spent the last year fighting
people who I normally would agree with … desperately trying to inject science
into school reopening, and completely failed.”

In March, Erika Uyterhoeven, the democratic-socialist state representative for
Somerville, compared the plight of teachers to that of Amazon workers and
meatpackers, and described the return to in-person classes as part of a “push
in a neoliberal society to ensure, over and above the well-being of educators,
that our kids are getting a competitive education compared to other suburban
schools.” (She later asked the socialist blog that ran her comments to remove
that quote, because so many parents found her statements offensive.) In
Somerville, “everyone wants to be actively anti-racist. Everyone believes
Black lives matter. Everyone wants the Green New Deal,” Elizabeth Pinsky, a
child psychiatrist at Massachusetts General Hospital, told me. “No one wants
to talk about … how to actually get kindergartners onto the carpet of their
teachers.” Most elementary and middle schoolers in Somerville finally started
back in person this spring, with some of the proposed building renovations in
place. Somerville hasn’t yet announced when high schoolers will go back full-
time, and Curtatone wouldn’t guarantee that schools will be open for in-person
instruction in the fall.

[Read: Are outdoor mask mandates still
necessary?](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2021/04/are-outdoor-
mask-mandates-still-necessary/618626/)

Policy makers’ decisions about how to fight the pandemic are fraught because
they have such an impact on people’s lives. But personal decisions during the
coronavirus crisis are fraught because they seem symbolic of people’s broader
value systems. When vaccinated adults refuse to see friends indoors, they’re
working through the trauma of the past year, in which the brokenness of
America’s medical system was so evident. When they keep their kids out of
playgrounds and urge friends to stay distanced at small outdoor picnics, they
are continuing the spirit of the past year, when civic duty has been expressed
through lonely asceticism. For many people, this kind of behavior is a form of
good citizenship. That’s a hard idea to give up.

And so as the rest of vaccinated America begins its summer of bacchanalia,
rescheduling long-awaited dinner parties and medium-size weddings, the most
hard-core pandemic progressives are left, Cassandra-like, to preach their
peers’ folly. Every weekday, Zachary Loeb publishes four “plague poems” on
Twitter—little missives about the headlines and how it feels to live through a
pandemic. He is personally progressive: He blogs about topics like Trump’s
calamitous presidency and the future of climate change. He also studies
disaster history. (“I jokingly tell my students that my reputation in the
department is as Mr. Doom, but once I have earned my Ph.D., I will officially
be Dr. Doom,” he told me.) His Twitter avatar is the plague doctor: a beaked,
top-hat-wearing figure who traveled across European towns treating victims of
the bubonic plague. Last February, Loeb started stocking up on cans of beans;
last March, he left his office, and has not been back since. This April, as
the country inched toward half of the population getting a first dose of a
vaccine and daily deaths dipped below 1,000, his poems became melancholy.
“When you were young, wise old Aesop tried to warn you about this moment,” he
wrote, “wherein the plague is the steady tortoise, and we are the
overconfident hare.”
