title: Economist Emily Oster Is Helping Parents Stay Sane in the Coronavirus Pandemic - Bloomberg
source: https://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2020-10-08/economist-emily-oster-is-helping-parents-stay-sane-in-the-coronavirus-pandemic
date: 2025-08-13T15:49:21.686444
tags: []
---
Over the course of a few days in mid-May in Providence, in between
homeschooling her 5- and 9-year-olds, grading undergrad research papers,
baking bread, revising her first book, and co-chairing Brown University’s
Healthy Fall 2020 Task Force over Zoom, Emily Oster sat down in front of her
laptop with a steady supply of coffee. A few months earlier she’d started
writing a [newsletter called
_ParentData_](http://web.archive.org/web/20250404200020/https://emilyoster.substack.com/
"Link to newsletter website"), aimed at the following of pregnant women and
new parents she’s amassed over the years. It started as a guide to making
data-driven decisions about such things as side sleeping and sippy cups. But
as with everything else, the pandemic had taken over. She’d wake up each day
to an inbox full of frantic questions: Was it safe to visit the grandparents?
Are play dates off the table? What about sending kids back to school?

Oster, an economics professor, has built a thriving career applying the tools
of her discipline to everyday life. Her first book, 2013’s _Expecting Better:
Why the Conventional Pregnancy Wisdom Is Wrong—and What You Really Need to
Know_ , shot her from academic obscurity to household name. It dug into data
to bat down blanket bans issued by obstetricians (including hers during her
pregnancies) on deli meats, sushi, and alcohol. “Economists’ core decision-
making principles are applicable everywhere,” she wrote. “And that includes
the womb.”
