title: The 21 games that should be installed on every iPhone | The Verge
source: http://www.theverge.com/2014/10/14/6974135/best-iphone-games
date: 2025-08-13T19:27:54.862112
tags: []
---
### Angry Birds

_Angry Birds_ popularity isn't a fluke. Its creators — intentionally or not —
made a beautiful version of the browser classic _Crush the Castle_. On its own
that would have been enough, in those gold rush days of the app marketplace,
to earn its studio a few million dollars. But the small studio did the extra
work, releasing free updates for over five years, retaining the app's spot on
so many iPhones.

Now _Angry Birds_ is a franchise and a phenomenon. There are plush toys, brand
partnerships, and a feature-length film. You can play pseudo-sequels like
_Angry Birds Seasons_ , _Angry Birds Rio_ , and _Angry Birds Star Wars_. And
its sequel _Angry Birds Space_ is perhaps a more enjoyable game than the
original.

But _Angry Birds_ is the most approachable game in the franchise, and after
all those updates, it's humongous. Costing 99 cents, _Angry Birds_ is one the
best deals in video games.

[Download _Angry Birds_ here](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/angry-
birds/id343200656?mt=8)

[Download _Angry Birds_ on
Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.rovio.angrybirds)

### Eliss

_Eliss_ is the sort of game you see people play in sci-fi films. You're not
entirely sure what it is or how it works, as it appears all anyone's doing is
moving around pulsating balls and dodging vibrating squiggles. Those
impossible-to-decipher sci-fi game always look incredible. I remember the
first time I saw _Eliss_. I stared at it like somebody had plucked a game from
such a sci-fi film and placed it in front of me, like some sort of
supernatural challenge — solve this riddle!

_Eliss_ is actually easy to learn. Using all of your fingers, you split,
combine, and move planets, so that they align with targets that appear on the
screen. As the game progresses, the playspace fills with planets and you must
be careful to avoid traps. It's a test of digit dexterity. Developer Steph
Thirion released an update, _Eliss Infinity_ , in early 2014. _Infinity_ has
better image resolution and widescreen support, and also includes a sandbox
mode, a nice place to pretend you're in the sci-fi movie of your dreams.

[Download _Eliss_
here](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/eliss/id306950009?mt=8)

[Download _Eliss Infinity_ on
Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.littleeyes.eliss_infinity)
