title: South Carolina and the individual mandate: Why aren’t conservatives complaining about the state’s insurance law?
source: http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/the_best_policy/2011/09/south_carolina_and_the_individual_mandate_why_aren_t_conservativ.html
date: 2025-08-13T20:32:09.501411
tags: []
---
The “individual mandate” in President Obama’s [Affordable Care
Act](http://www.healthcare.gov/law/index.html) has provoked incredible
enthusiasm among the act’s supporters and towering rage in its opponents. The
obligation either to purchase insurance or to pay a fine whose proceeds would
be used to offset the cost of care to the uninsured is viewed either as an
essential part of the architecture of health care reform or as an affront to
liberty. In few places has the attack on the individual mandate been more
vociferous than in South Carolina, where both new Governor Nikki Haley and
Senator Jim DeMint are leading members of the Tea Party movement. They view
the individual mandate as inimical to our Constitution and the worst
manifestation of government excess.

So it may surprise you to know that South Carolina has its own individual
mandate—structured exactly like the federal health care mandate, but for auto
insurance. Unlike virtually all other states, which require every driver to
carry liability insurance, South Carolina has a more complex system. Under
South Carolina state law, in effect for more than a decade, a car owner in the
state must either have liability insurance _or_ obtain an “[uninsured motorist
registration](http://www.scdmvonline.com/DMVNew/forms/dmvb-18.pdf).” The fee
for the uninsured registration is $550 and is deposited into the “uninsured
drivers fund.” The website of the South Carolina Department of Insurance
explains that the $550 fee is used to “[offset the costs of uninsured motorist
coverage](http://doi.sc.gov/Documents/Consumers/Consumer%20-%20Auto%20-%20Auto%20Facts%20and%20Tips.pdf).”
(Some portion is also used for consumer education programs.) The “uninsured
motorist coverage” is a cost borne by drivers who have their own liability
insurance but also need additional insurance to provide for coverage in the
event they have an accident caused by a driver who does not have liability
insurance—the “uninsured driver.” By statute—SC Code section 38-77-155—funds
from the uninsured drivers fund are distributed to insurers who offer this
uninsured motorist coverage. Bottom line: South Carolina forcibly transfers
money from drivers who refuse to buy insurance to drivers who do buy insurance
to cover the costs of risk created by the drivers who don’t buy insurance.

The $550 fee is a rough approximation of the cash needed to insure that those
who have not purchased insurance pay their fair share to the system.
Eliminating free riders—those who create risk but don’t pay for it—is the
worthy objective of South Carolina’s uninsured motorist registration.

South Carolina even has an enforcement mechanism to make sure people abide by
this structure: Any driver stopped by a police officer who can’t produce an
insurance certificate or a certificate of “uninsured registration” is charged
the $550. In other words, if they stop you and catch you, they make sure you
buy into the system.

Make no mistake, this structure is precisely what the health care act
requires: Either be insured or pay a fine—a fine calibrated to subsidize the
costs and risks you create by participating without insurance. And also
understand: This makes perfect sense. Eliminating “free riders” is the only
way to make an insurance system work. Everybody from the Heritage Foundation
to Newt Gingrich to Mitt Romney to President Obama has come to this same
conclusion.

Opponents of the individual mandate in the health care reform bill have tried
to deal with the auto insurance analogy before. Senator DeMint and others have
attempted, valiantly, to distinguish auto insurance by arguing that driving is
a voluntary act and, therefore, that those who chose not to drive are not
forced to buy insurance. But this is, as lawyers say, a distinction without a
difference. The core logic in each case is identical: If you create risk and
costs to other individuals and society at large by your activity, and yet you
refuse to pay for those costs and risks, so that others are being forced to
cover your free-riding, then it is fair to require you to share part of the
burden. The fact that one can theoretically opt out of driving has no impact
on this argument. Opponents refuse to acknowledge the logic of the individual
health-insurance mandate despite their embrace of it in the case of auto
insurance. (Their other argument about the constitutional authority of
Congress to impose the health mandate, which I view as being equally lacking
in merit, will nonetheless have to be resolved by the Supreme Court, most
probably this term.)

The only escape hatch for Senator DeMint and others would be if they were
truly willing to let people “opt out” of the health care system. Then only
those who “opted in” could be forced to participate—as with auto insurance.
But what would that mean? That if somebody came to an emergency room with a
heart attack and that person could not pay cash on the barrel, didn’t have
insurance to cover, or hadn’t paid the equivalent of the “uninsured
registration fee”—we would really throw them out on the street and say, Sorry,
no care for you? Having listened to the audience reaction at the recent
Republican presidential debate, where death seemed to be a popular means to
resolve social ills, there clearly may be a few fringe voices who have that
view. But I don’t believe there is a significant number of people who truly
want us to deny critical or emergency care to the sick based on the absence of
payment. Indeed, federal law requires that care be provided.

Since opting out is neither morally nor legally possible, we must create a
system that then requires everybody to participate in covering some portion of
the costs. That is what South Carolina has done for auto insurance and what
the nation must do for health care.
