title: Among the Cabin Fanatics of Mississippi’s Giant Houseparty | The New Yorker
source: https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2023/10/09/among-the-cabin-fanatics-of-mississippis-giant-houseparty
date: 2025-08-13T15:16:39.033646
tags: []
---
DeWeese declared Fair Saturday “the No. 1 night of the year, to a teen-ager in
central Mississippi.” Girls planned their outfits for months: “I expect ’em to
come in here in short shorts and cowboy boots, and titties showin’.” The
previous night, a visitor from Los Angeles had stumbled, drunk, into a cabin
at the north end of the racetrack and commented on all the “pretty bitches” he
had seen. One of the men in residence informed him, “Down here, we refer to
them as ‘ladies.’ ”

Cabin 220, the color of a ripe banana, sits just beyond Founders Square, at
the entrance to Happy Hollow, the fair’s first “suburb,” a short stretch of
cabins separated by a sawdust-covered footpath. When I came across it, the
owners, William and Barbie Bassett, and their daughter, Gracie, were sitting,
where else, on the porch. Barbie, a former television meteorologist, had
written “92°” on a whiteboard—the daily Faircast.

Not long ago, cabins were known to sell for as little as a few thousand
dollars. “This is a camp house, not a condo,” William said. Lately, some
families have been spending more than it would cost to buy an actual Neshoba
County home. Fairgoers love gossiping about it. The Bassetts had heard that a
two-story cabin recently sold for a hundred and eighty-nine thousand dollars;
they told me that the new owners gutted it and painted it Pepto Bismol pink
with green racing stripes. Another went for three hundred and ninety thousand
dollars; the buyers planned to raze it and rebuild, higher. “She’s an interior
designer, and her husband’s in real estate,” Barbie said. “It’s gonna be the
Taj Mahal of the fair.”

Fair Saturday is “the No. 1 night of the year, to a teen-ager in central
Mississippi,” a longtime fairgoer said.

On Founders Square, everyone was talking about a cabin that had recently sold
for around the same amount, to a family with no apparent connection to the
fair or to Neshoba County. Neighbors disdained the newcomers’ “massive”
television; worse, they kept their door closed. “Not to have your cabin open
is kind of tacky,” one neighbor told me.

Cabin people, traditionally, are hospitality extremists. At the fair, I was
offered water, lemonade, iced tea, beer, Gatorade, a souvenir apron, boiled
shrimp, homemade ice cream, a pork chop, a taco, a bed, a toilet, the remains
of a funnel cake, a book about doughnuts, an introduction to “some really
obnoxious cousins,” two ibuprofens, two more ibuprofens, help “fixing” a
traffic ticket (offer declined), and numerous iterations of chicken. Gail
Long, who is eighty and has been a fair person since girlhood, told me about
the time her mother invited a visitor to help herself to supper at Cabin 271,
and then to dessert. After the woman left, Gail and her sisters asked, “Who
was that lady?” Their mother said, “I thought _y’all_ knew her.” A late-night
reveller once happened into Cabin 19 and obliviously ate raw meat loaf out of
the refrigerator; the fridge is now divided into sections marked “ _PREP_ ”
and “ _DRUNK_.”

This year, Cabin 19’s twice-daily buffet stretched from its single stove all
the way to the front porch. Roxanna McCarty, who runs the culinary operation
with a rotating staff of eight, prepared “fried green tomatoes, fried okra,
fried squash, fresh tomatoes, cream corn, fruit—we come in here and deseed
everything—and pasta salad. We do black-eyed peas, green beans, lady peas, and
butter beans every day. Devilled eggs at every shift. We did five pork loins,
six turkey breasts. We had brisket. We had racks of ribs. We had Boston butts
and ham. We had chicken and dumplings, chicken and dressing, lasagna.” McCarty
cuts her okra lengthwise, instead of in rounds; it tastes “more okra-y” that
way. The weather was so hot her green tomatoes turned red.

Cabin 19 served more than six hundred plates this year. McCarty told me, “Just
here today, we’ve seen kids whose mother is in jail, they’re on welfare,
they’re living in foster care. We have a president of a big company, we have
single mothers, we have people that run their own house-cleaning business, we
have people that flew in here on a private plane. Every walk of life is here.”

The fair has a board that functions almost like a municipal government,
overseeing the budget and making policy: parking, garbage. Gate and cabin fees
generate the operating revenue; the Neshoba County Fair Association, the
nonprofit that runs the fair, took in eight million dollars between 2017 and
2022. Cabin owners pay the association up to five hundred dollars annually per
cabin, and fifty dollars per air-conditioner. During the fair, the utility
bill alone totals half a million dollars.

[![Pilots in cockpit freak out midflight when they see a flying
squirrel.](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723170840im_/https://media.newyorker.com/cartoons/65173cb43d7db55fbbeb4e19/master/w_1600%2Cc_limit/231009_a26446.jpg)](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723170840/https://www.newyorker.com/cartoon/a26446)

“Squirrel!”

Cartoon by Liam Francis Walsh

Individuals build and own the cabins, and pay the property taxes, but the
association owns the land. The cabins tend to pass down through families,
making the fair largely a self-perpetuating, closed system. “The old saw here
is that, in a divorce, people fight harder over the cabin than the children,”
Sid Salter, a well-known columnist and Neshoba native, who co-owns Cabin 16,
told me. Most sales happen privately, by word of mouth. An owner may not sell,
rent, raze, rebuild, or renovate a cabin without the association’s permission.
C. Scott Bounds, a state legislator and the fair’s president, recalled a
former colleague who discouraged change by saying, “We ain’t never done it
like ’at before.” Kevin Cheatham, the fair’s manager, said, “We try to keep
things as simple as possible.”

In 1980, the National Register of Historic Places added the fairgrounds to its
list, describing the institution’s contributions to “this very rural region of
Mississippi” as “immeasurable.” By then, the fair was approaching sewer
capacity, and there were concerns about inauthenticity: the newer sections
contained too many modern amenities for some people’s taste. “They’re putting
_Sheetrock_ in there,” DeWeese told me. The fair stopped adding cabins in
1982.

The fair has a daily newspaper, the _Fair Times_ , which is published by the
_Democrat_. An annual profusion of advertising makes it thicker than some
actual newspapers. The _Fair Times_ overwhelmingly consists of photographs of
fairgoers in situ. How else is everyone supposed to know that Cabin 612 hosts
a “Golden Girls”-themed bunco night; Cabin 755 won a giant stuffed banana;
Cabin 163 (“The Plaza on the Fairgrounds”) puts on an “Eloise”-themed tea
party with antique dishes; Caleb Mayfield lost a tooth; and Kenny (Slick)
Hillman fixed a weed-eater? Kids beg to have their picture taken. It is on
record that this year’s fair was attended by Azlee, Bensley, Payzlee,
Rhettley, Easton, Creeth, Halen, Tuff, Collyns, Kollyns, Jacks, Jax, Kelby,
Karsten, Karter, Jagger, Bayleigh, Everleigh, Hadleigh, Jayleigh, Mosleigh,
Ryleigh, Maverick, Banks, Anistyn, Gracyn, Hudsyn, Hollyn, Lakelyn, Rylen,
Aspen, Aspin, and multiple Baylors.

The fair has been called “the Carnegie Hall of stump speaking.”
