title: What Is It Like to Be a Baby? | Scientific American
source: https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/what-is-it-like-to-be-a-b/
date: 2025-08-13T15:29:04.105396
tags: []
---
September 1, 2009

5 min read

#

What Is It Like to Be a Baby?

Alison Gopnik investigates the infant mind

 _Alison Gopnik is a psychologist and philosopher at the University of
California, Berkeley. She's also the author of the newly released book_[The
Philosophical Baby](http://www.amazon.com/Philosophical-Baby-Childrens-Minds-
Meaning/dp/0374231966/ref=pd_bbs_sr_2?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1231481777&sr=8-2)
_, which explores the inner world of young children. Mind Matters editor Jonah
Lehrer chats with Gopnik about why babies might be more conscious than adults,
the benefits of having an imaginary friend and why play, not necessity, is the
mother of invention._

LEHRER: What first drew you to study the baby mind? As you point out in The
Philosophical Baby, there's a longstanding assumption that babies are mostly
mindless little people, concerned solely with their physical needs.

GOPNIK: There were three currents that converged in my own life. I’m the
oldest of six children and I had my own first baby when I was 23. So I’ve
always been interested in babies, and I had lots of opportunities to watch
them. If you look at babies casually, as most philosophers and psychologists
did for 2500 years, you don’t see much. But if you look at them carefully, as
generations of mothers did, and as the great psychologist Jean Piaget did, you
begin to suspect that there is much more going on. The trouble is that
caregivers didn’t have the scientific evidence to back up those intuitions,
and even Piaget was constrained by the limited methods that were available 70
years ago. If you just observe and interview children you’ll still miss a lot.

* * *

## On supporting science journalism

If you're enjoying this article, consider supporting our award-winning
journalism by [subscribing](/getsciam/). By purchasing a subscription you are
helping to ensure the future of impactful stories about the discoveries and
ideas shaping our world today.

* * *

Then I became a philosopher and got interested in some of the big deep
classical philosophical problems, especially the problem of how we come to
know about the world around us. And I began to wonder whether babies and
children might hold some of the answers. Putting together philosophy and
children would have been difficult for most of history. But very fortunately
for me, when I started graduate school there was a real scientific revolution
taking place in developmental psychology. New video-recording technology meant
that for the first time we could take those natural observations of children
and turn them into a real science. And it became clear that that science could
start to answer some of those deep philosophical questions about the human
mind.

LEHRER: You provocatively argue that, in some respects, babies might be more
conscious than adults. Could you explain?

GOPNIK: The conventional wisdom has been that babies must be somehow less
conscious than adults, if, in fact, they are conscious at all. Even
developmental psychologists, including me, have tended to say that the amazing
thinking that we see in babies is “just unconscious”. But there has been a lot
of interesting work on the neural and cognitive bases of consciousness in the
last few years, and that leads to a very different picture.

As adults when we attend to something in the world we are vividly conscious of
that particular thing, and we shut out the surrounding world. The classic
metaphor is that attention is like a spotlight, illuminating one part of the
world and leaving the rest in darkness. In fact, attending carefully to one
event may actually make us less conscious of the rest of the world. We even
know something about how the brain does this: connections from the prefrontal
part of the brain both enhance our perception of the attended event and
inhibit our perception of other events. And there is a chemical basis for
this, too. When we pay attention to an event certain brain chemicals called
cholinergic transmitters make a small part of the brain more flexible and
“plastic”, better at learning, and simultaneously other inhibitory
transmitters actually make irrelevant parts of the brain less flexible.

If you look at baby’s attention you see a related but very different picture.
Babies and young children are much worse at intentionally focusing their
attention than adults. Instead, they seem to pay attention to anything that’s
unexpected or interesting – anything they can learn from. We say that children
are bad at paying attention but we really mean that they’re bad at _not_
paying attention – they easily get distracted by anything interesting. And
young brains are much more generally “plastic”, more flexible and better at
learning than adult brains. Young brains are bathed in the cholinergic
transmitters that enhance attention in adults, but the inhibitory transmitters
that damp consciousness down haven’t yet come on line. If you put all that
together it suggests that babies consciousness is more like a lantern than a
spotlight – that it illumines the entire world around them.

Finally, you can think about what adult experience is like when we put
ourselves in the same position as babies. When we travel for instance, we are
suddenly surrounded by an unexpected new world and, instead of just focusing
on the important things, we take in lots of information at once. That actually
makes us more vividly conscious of our surroundings, not less. I think that
for babies, every day is like first love in Paris.

LEHRER: You begin _The Philosophical Baby_ by investigating the purpose of
pretending. How does make-believe help young children understand how the world
actually works?

GOPNIK: Why do young children spend so much of their time pretending? The
traditional answer was that children were confused about the difference
between fantasy and reality. But more recent studies show that children know
quite well that they are just pretending. Instead they seem to use their
imagination the way that creative scientists do. One of the big new ideas
about how babies learn is that they use what computer scientists call
“Bayesian inference”. That means that you imagine lots of different
possibilities and test how likely each possibility is.

When we have a theory of the world, we can not only say what the world is like
now, we can also explore what would happen if the world was different. We can
ask what would happen, for instance, if there was a rocket that traveled close
to the speed of light. In fact, the ability to imagine these possibilities is
one of the biggest advantages of understanding how the world works. Because we
imagine, we can have invention and technology. It's actually play, not
necessity, that is the mother of invention.

LEHRER: And what about imaginary friends? Do they serve an important
psychological function?

GOPNIK: Imaginary friends are one of the weirder forms of pretend play in
childhood. But the research shows that imaginary friends actually help
children understand the other people around them and imagine all the many ways
that people could be.

LEHRER: You eloquently write: "This remarkable ability to find the truth
depends on the capacity to imagine and to love." Could you explain what you
mean by that?

GOPNIK: Scientists and philosophers tend to treat knowledge, imagination and
love as if they were all very separate parts of human nature. But when it
comes to children all three are deeply entwined. Children learn the truth by
imagining all the ways the world could be, and testing those possibilities.
And children can only learn so much because adults help care for them. There
is a special intense love between human children and the people who take care
of them, not just mothers but also fathers and older sisters and great-uncles
and baby-sitters. And that love doesn’t just provide us with emotional warmth
and sustenance. It also lets human beings, as a species, understand the world
and create new worlds ourselves.

_Are you a scientist? Have you recently read a peer-reviewed paper that you
want to write about? Then contact Mind Matters editor Jonah Lehrer, the
science writer behind the blog The Frontal Cortex and the book_ Proust Was a
Neuroscientist _. His latest book is_ How We Decide _._
