title: Left out in the rain | The Economist
source: http://www.economist.com/node/17848419/print
date: 2025-08-13T21:36:18.483949
tags: []
---
**Not Quite Adults: Why 20-Somethings Are Choosing a Slower Path to Adulthood,
and Why It's Good for Everyone**. By Richard Settersten and Barbara Ray. B
_antam; 272 pages; $15._ Buy from
[Amazon.com](http://web.archive.org/web/20150603220659/http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0553807404/theeconomists-20%20
" \(opens in a new window\) ")

Correction to this article

PLUGGED in, narcissistic and upbeat, America's twenty-somethings may be the
most educated, diverse and digitally savvy generation in the country's
history. They are also most likely to be living with their parents. Though
they burst into the workforce with expectations of fun and fulfilment (leading
employers to grouse about their sense of entitlement), they have been
delivered a slap by the recession. Nearly 16% of 18-24-year-olds are
unemployed, almost double the national average. Most are simply struggling to
keep their heads above water, according to the MacArthur Research Network.

The young in previous generations have also tended to drift, yet “opportunity
structures today are less forgiving of trifling mistakes.” That is one of the
conclusions of “Not Quite Adults”. Drawing on eight years of data and more
than 500 interviews with young people between 18 and 34, Richard Settersten
and Barbara Ray dismantle the common belief that this generation has been
coddled into laziness. Rather, these young adults have come of age at a
particularly merciless moment. Even before the recession, which will wreak
lasting havoc on their earning power and trust in government, the market had
ceased rewarding diligent, low-skilled labour with reasonable pay and
benefits. Employment is now largely divided into well-paid, highly-skilled
jobs and the poorly paid, less-secure jobs of the service sector. The middle
has been hollowed out, on-the-job training is rare and good posts hard to come
by.

A university degree has never been more essential for securing good
employment. Graduates earn 54% more on average than those who never graduated,
yet only a quarter of Americans between 25 and 34 have a bachelor's degree.
Nearly half of the 3m people who enroll in university in America drop out
within six years (among wealthy countries, only Italy has a worse rate). Part
of the trouble, Mr Settersten and Ms Ray point out, is that in the absence of
reliable public schools, parents must play a big role in the academic careers
of their children. Good quality, low-cost options for higher education abound
(despite the rising price of private tuition), yet the children of poorly
educated adults are less likely to make the necessary investment in education.
The debt that young people carry today is often not from college, the
MacArthur research finds, but from the cost of not investing in college.

Mr Settersten, a sociology professor at Oregon State University, and Ms Ray, a
writer attached to the MacArthur Research Network, use statistics and
anecdotes to map out a growing divide between the haves and the have-nots—the
generation's “swimmers” and “treaders”. The former often have supportive
parents, wider social networks, university degrees and a greater sense of
civic engagement. Many “swimmers” even choose to move back home to help pay
off student loans and save for the future.

Most twenty-somethings, however, are “treaders”, who simply replicate the
lessons of their poorer, less stable, non-voting and hands-off parents, but to
worse effect. The authors argue that when young adults invest in themselves
and their careers before taking on the baggage of marriage, children and a job
to pay the bills, they are equipped to make better choices down the road, for
themselves and as citizens. Having a child too early can be one of the
costliest barriers to advancement, whereas postponing nuptials until careers
are in place leads to lower divorce rates.

“Not Quite Adults” offers a valuable portrait of the diverging destinies of
young people today. In a country that prizes self- reliance and private
solutions for social problems, more young adults are doomed to sink.
Regardless of where one assigns blame, when nearly two-thirds of the next
generation is struggling to find “a secure foothold in the middle class”,
everyone ends up paying the price.
