title: Disney World During the Pandemic Is Extremely Weird - The Atlantic
source: https://www.theatlantic.com/culture/archive/2020/07/disney-world-during-pandemic-extremely-weird/614617/
date: 2025-08-13T15:53:57.799342
tags: []
---
Earlier this month, Walt Disney World began reopening, following almost four
months of closure due to the pandemic. I flew to Orlando to experience the
magic. The week I arrived, [Florida](https://covidtracking.com/data#state-fl)
had registered the highest single-day case count of any state thus far. In
Orlando’s airport, I felt a vague sense that Floridians considered such
statistics a source of secret pride, as if they had set a record for fattest
alligator or ugliest serial killer or most senior citizens in a golf cart. The
airport where I had started my day, in Connecticut, had required masks, and
everyone wore them. Here in Florida, some passengers went totally unmasked,
but most wore masks in a defiant fashion, either slung under their chin or
with their nostrils gaping out over the top, sucking and spewing potentially
viral particles with every breath. A friend who lives a couple of hours away
in St. Petersburg likens this latter style to “wearing a condom that covers
only the shaft.”

Disney World is in Florida only in the sense that Vatican City is in Italy, or
the Principality of Monaco is in France. All the land that touches Disney
World is Florida, but it is its own polity, with its own infrastructure, its
own transportation, and, to a surprising extent, its own laws and regulations.
Florida law applies, of course, but on Disney property—which covers more than
25,000 acres, about 50 times the size of Monaco—you can go weeks without
seeing an employee of the local, state, or federal government. When you are at
the Disney parks and resorts, you see no letter carriers, no police officers,
no city bus drivers—just tens of thousands of Disney employees (always called
“cast members”), who recognize no authority higher than Walt Disney (1901–66),
the eternal _líder máximo_.

_To hear more feature stories,[get the Audm iPhone
app.](https://www.audm.com/?utm_source=atl&utm_medium=embed&utm_campaign=went_disney_world_wood)
_

When you arrive in Orlando, your transit through Florida lasts only minutes.
You emerge from the miasma of the airport and reach a check-in counter for the
“Magical Express,” a free direct bus to Disney World. The counter resembles
the passport-control desk of a benevolent and well-run nation, perhaps Norway
or Japan. Upon reciting your name and confirmation number, you cease
interacting with non-Disney entities for the rest of your stay. The woman who
welcomed me—through a properly worn mask and face shield, plus a layer of
plexiglass—gave me a pleasant wave as I walked up. On a typical day before the
pandemic, I was told by another tourist, thousands of people would pass
through this check-in area. Today there was no line at all.

[Read: The real reason to wear a
mask](https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2020/04/dont-wear-mask-
yourself/610336/)

“Just you?” she asked.

“Just me, a 40-year-old man going to Disney World by himself,” I answered. “Is
that strange?”

“Not at all,” she lied chirpily. (The correct answer, of course, was “Not
until you put it that way.”) Then she handed me a piece of paper, my laissez-
passer, and directed me to an area where a few families were lined up, every
one of them already wearing Disney paraphernalia.

One family from Ohio—a dad with graying hair in a military-style brush cut, a
mom, and two kids about 8 and 10—arrived after me and sat in a circle on the
ground, as families do, munching on snacks while waiting for the bus. One of
the kids asked his mom whether they had to wear their masks between bites of
sandwich. “Well,” she said, and looked around. “ _Florida_ ,” she said, a word
instantly understood by the kids to mean _Yes, you should, but[in this place
there is no law](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2020/07/lauren-
groff-kent-russell-florida/612259/)_.

The dad told me they had planned this Disney vacation, the most recent of
several, long in advance, and had waited patiently for the parks to reopen. I
told him I had never been to Disney, had made my hotel reservation only
yesterday, and hadn’t even gotten a pass to enter a park. (There are four
operating theme parks at Disney World: Animal Kingdom, an exhibition of live
beasts; Epcot, which blends rides with science, futurism, and an upbeat expo
of world cultures; Hollywood Studios, focusing on golden-age cinema, and
[whatever movies the Disney empire is flogging at
present](https://www.theatlantic.com/entertainment/archive/2015/11/the-hunger-
games-theme-park-and-the-death-of-the-disney-dream/413653/); and the iconic
Magic Kingdom.)

He looked at me worriedly. “You know, you _need_ to get a pass. They fill up,”
he said. “I would do that now.” He seemed concerned that I would be subjected
to the universe’s ultimate irony, which would be to go to “the most magical
place on Earth,” only to be barred at the gates, like Moses looking longingly
at the land of Israel from across the Jordan. “Get the iPhone app,” he told
me. “That will be your salvation.”

[Read: Paging Dr. Hamblin: Can AC spread the
coronavirus?](https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2020/06/is-air-
conditioning-safe-pandemic/613438/)

The bus from the airport to my resort gave me plenty of time to contemplate my
life decisions. An [air-
conditioned](https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2020/06/is-air-
conditioning-safe-pandemic/613438/) trip through a hot zone of the worst
disease outbreak in a century will concentrate the mind, even if television
screens and the voices of cartoon characters are constantly attempting to
break that concentration.

When Disney World reopened, sectors of the elite commentariat ridiculed it for
flouting the advice of public-health officials, which discourages unnecessary
travel, gathering in large groups, and interaction with strangers. The last of
these is what pushes a visit to Disney World into a potentially new category
of bad idea. It is one thing to infect your family—at least these are people
you see all the time. If you go to a restaurant and infect 25 other people,
then in some sense even that disaster is a limited one, since they probably
all live near the restaurant, and they may even have other common social
characteristics. Disney attracts tourists from everywhere—people who have
nothing in common—and a virus that spread there would proliferate madly,
falling like fairy dust all over the country.

I should admit that a Disney vacation, even in pre-coronavirus conditions,
sounds to me like the most elaborate way to have a miserable time yet invented
by humankind. I have enough friends who are parents to have heard the stories
of long lines, staggering expense, and (for them, if not the kids) boredom.
The whole park is an obstacle course of expensive treats that your children
will beg you to buy. Corn dogs cost $11. I do not dislike Disney films, and I
am especially fond of Pixar and the Muppets. But my desire to meet Mickey
Mouse evaporated around the age of 8, when I asked my mother about this
wonderful place called Disney World and she said, in effect, that she loved me
very much, but that she would rather die of dysentery than take me to Florida
to have her pocket picked by anthropomorphic vermin. I don’t think I asked
again. The chance of being struck dead by a mysterious disease has not
sweetened the appeal of the park.

I stayed at Disney’s Contemporary Resort. (Everything Disney is “Disney’s,” as
if you could ever forget that the hotel where you are staying, the restaurant
where you are eating, the monorail you are riding, and the theme park whose
cartoon characters are beckoning to you are all the property of the same
megacorporation.) On arrival, a clerk named Miguel checked me in and outfitted
me with a MagicBand, a radio-frequency-emitting wrist strap that would let me
wander the Disney microstate without any danger that Disney authorities would
lose track of me, or (since it was attached to my credit card) that I would
tragically find myself without a means to pay for an ice-cream cone or a
T-shirt.

Miguel explained the wonders of this device from behind a layer of plexiglass,
a face shield, and a surgical mask, so it was difficult to hear him, or even
tell when he had finished speaking. He had a name tag that suggested fluency
in American Sign Language, and he confirmed that he had studied it for three
years. I knew just enough to sign “thank you” and ask him where my room was.
He signed back, and I think we were both relieved to have found a means of
communication less disrupted by masks. I had five other conversations
unimpeded by masks during the next three days, almost all because the person
with whom I was speaking was eating or drinking at the time, and therefore
temporarily exempt from hygiene rules.

I dropped my bag at my ground-floor, parking-lot-facing room. At first I was
disappointed by the view, then realized my good fortune at not having to take
an elevator potentially stagnant with the exhalations of the guest who took it
before me. I headed by monorail to the parks.

[Read: The ‘Hunger Games’ theme park and the death of the Disney
dream](https://www.theatlantic.com/entertainment/archive/2015/11/the-hunger-
games-theme-park-and-the-death-of-the-disney-dream/413653/)

“This is how Walt Disney wanted it,” a mom chaperoning her grown son told me.
(The son had gone off on his own, as grown sons do.) She sounded traumatized
by previous trips, and healed by this one. “There are no lines. You can walk
around the gardens. You can go on the rides.”

At the entrance to the park—by now I had bought my passes for the coming
days—the lines to enter were at most two people deep. The wait lasted seconds,
not minutes, and would not have existed at all, except that some of the gates
were failing to register guests’ MagicBands. Mine elicited a green light, and
with the wave of another faceless cast member, I entered the Kingdom.

When you arrive at the Magic Kingdom, you walk through a tunnel and pass under
a small plaque that reads HERE YOU LEAVE TODAY AND ENTER THE WORLD OF
YESTERDAY, TOMORROW AND FANTASY. You emerge from the tunnel into a town
square, the first of several themed sub-parks of the Magic Kingdom, and the
only one that is compulsory, because you must pass through it to reach the
others. It is designed to look like small-town Middle America roughly 100
years ago, during the heyday of sarsaparillas and the Model T. The square has
a train station, then one shop-lined avenue leading to the rest of the park.
This sub-park, called Main Street, U.S.A., is unique in that it has no
rides—nothing to do at all, really, other than buy merchandise with your
MagicBand and, in normal times, enjoy the first of many interactions with
beloved cartoon characters, or, rather, sweaty adults entombed in costumes.

[Read: Watching ‘Hamilton’ is like opening a time
capsule](https://www.theatlantic.com/culture/archive/2020/07/disney-plus-
hamilton-2020/613834/)

Main Street, U.S.A., is fairly crowded and mirthful compared with a small town
in America a century ago, when the country had only about a third of the
population it has today. But compared with a normal, pandemic-free day, it is
desolate and somber, like a small town hit hard by scarlet fever and bad news
about local boys off fighting in the Great War. The music still plays, but
every 10 minutes a voice interrupts to instruct us all to “please wear a face
covering. Wash your hands often and thoroughly. Cover your mouth and nose when
coughing and sneezing, and maintain physical distancing.” This memento mori is
especially grim when it is played between “Yankee Doodle Dandy” and “When You
Wish Upon a Star.”

The characters keep their distance. In fact, I do not think I saw a proper
Mickey, Minnie, Pluto, or Jiminy Cricket during my entire visit. On the
balconies of certain buildings, occasionally a princess dances around and
calls out to visitors. And at intervals, a parade of characters passes—but
preceding it there are surgical-masked, uniformed cast members, clearing the
streets like Secret Service agents to make sure the princesses have a path
forward and perhaps to intercept any overly enthusiastic children who want to
run up to give them a hug. Among the most American elements of Disney magic is
that it lets kids imagine
[princesses](https://www.theatlantic.com/entertainment/archive/2011/04/the-
evolution-of-the-princess-myth-from-disney-to-diana-to-kate/237939/) as
accessible and pure-hearted, rather than as aristocrats worried they might be
coughed on by proles. That particular magical spell is temporarily broken.

[From the July/August 2020 issue: The dark soul of the Sunshine
State](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2020/07/lauren-groff-kent-
russell-florida/612259/)

Main Street leads, majestically, to Cinderella Castle—the iconic structure
that you and your children imagine when you close your eyes and think not only
of Disney, but of storybook castles in general. It is one of the few parts of
Disney World that is wholly undiminished by the coronavirus, because it can be
seen from everywhere.

A cast member offered to take my photo in front of the castle, and she
extended to me an electronic device on which I could tap my MagicBand, so
copies would automatically upload to my Disney account. “Smile,” she
commanded, and before I could ask her how she could tell through my mask
whether I was smiling, she added, “With your eyes. Smile with your eyes.” She
was referring to the “Duchenne smile,” named for the 19th-century French
neurologist Guillaume-Benjamin-Amand Duchenne, who discovered that if you
electrocute someone’s face just right, you can jolt him into smiling, but you
can still tell the smile is a fake because a real one makes crow’s feet beside
your eyes. I crinkled my eyes hard. The results look somewhat convincing, but
I can’t say for sure, because Disney has watermarked the photos, and will
charge my MagicBand $69.99 for clean copies. In one photo, to increase the
fun, Disney digitally added a snowman named Olaf, a bucktoothed simpleton from
the _Frozen_ franchise, to prance next to me.

From the castle, roads radiate to a handful of other sub-parks and what would
normally be an inexhaustible source of amusement for a young family. In these
other sub-parks, you can experience rides focusing on characters including
Winnie the Pooh, Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, and the Mad Hatter from
_Alice in Wonderland_. Others are tie-ins to more recent Disney films;
_Pirates of the Caribbean_ is a clear favorite. (Some restaurants and
attractions are still closed. Most are open.) Another corner, Tomorrowland,
presents a vision of the future as seen from the not-so-distant past. The park
has wisely decided to update that vision only slightly, so the future you see
is Kennedy-esque in its optimism (peaceful conquest of outer space, the
ingenuity of American-made kitchen appliances), with not a whisper about the
[rising tide of
nationalism](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2020/02/the-sad-path-
from-reaganism-to-national-conservatism/606304/) in central Europe, or the
[countrywide dementia induced by social
media](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2019/12/social-media-
democracy/600763/?gclid=EAIaIQobChMI-
abE29Dr6gIVlq_ICh3QtQU8EAAYASAAEgJRpvD_BwE).

[Read: Florida: Images of the Sunshine
State](https://www.theatlantic.com/photo/2020/04/florida-photos/610483/)

The amusement would be inexhaustible; your own exhaustion would be assured.
That is because in normal times you must choose perhaps four or five big
rides, each lasting mere minutes, and spend hours waiting in line to be
admitted to each. That was then. On a single day that weekend, I went to every
available attraction in the park. I neglected nothing, rode my favorite rides
more than once, and had a leisurely chicken-and-waffles lunch in the middle of
it all. Normally to accomplish this feat a person would need almost a week in
the Magic Kingdom.

![Mickey Mouse in a
bubble](https://cdn.theatlantic.com/thumbor/HCiFQcaw1rwZ6g-rvexT3e0YknM=/0x0:2001x1027/655x336/media/img/posts/2020/07/webart_disney2/original.jpg)(Getty
/ The Atlantic)

I could see signs of the frustration that visitors who came to the park in
years past might have experienced. To enter every attraction, I first had to
traverse a set of switchbacks usually packed with families putting in their
hours before being ushered into a mine car, jolly boat, or spaceship and sent
off on their adventure. To walk past the haggard ghosts of these families felt
like cheating—which is to say it felt like a magnificent relief, almost enough
to make me forget that the cost of this convenience might be a permanent loss
of some lung capacity.

Disney has, in case the crowds return, marked queues with floor tape, to
remind you where to stop to avoid impinging on the space of your fellow
guests. But I rarely encountered a serious line. To go on Splash Mountain, one
of the more popular rides in the Kingdom, I waited exactly eight minutes
before I was loaded into a hollowed-out log and sent downstream.

One irony is that, in pre-pandemic times, you had to wait in line outside in
the heat and breathe with relief upon entering a cool, dark building (a
dungeon for Pirates of the Caribbean, a Gold Rush mining house for Big Thunder
Mountain), where you boarded the ride. Now the outdoors feels safe, and when
you get indoors you start wondering whether the air is circulating fast enough
for you to inhale safely. On some rides, like Epcot’s Mission: SPACE,
announcements dating from before the pandemic warn you that you should skip
the ride if you dislike “enclosed dark space.” Now the fear of enclosed spaces
applies to all sane people, not just claustrophobes. Epcot also warns that the
ride can induce vomiting. As it whirred into motion, I considered what it
might be like to puke up $11 worth of corn dog into a mask strapped to my
face, and I thought: _At least I didn’t have to wait in line for this_.

[Read: When will we want to be in a room full of strangers
again?](https://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2020/05/theater-
survive-coronavirus-art-west-end-broadway/611338/)

Many of the attractions take place in theaters, including two of my favorites,
Muppet*Vision 3D (a part-filmed, part-animatronic, part-live performance at
the Hollywood Studios park) and the Hall of Presidents. For those, every other
row—and every other block of four seats in the remaining rows—has been
restricted. If you are a lone visitor like me, you get four seats to yourself.
On most rides, I got my own conveyance, or shared it with a couple of other
people at a distance of six feet or more.

Many of the rides take your photo and, having detected your MagicBand, send
you images of yourself at climactic moments—when your mine car on the Seven
Dwarfs ride hits its top speed, say, or Space Mountain sends you into negative
g’s. I examine the photos of myself and see a most improbable image: a man in
early middle age, his face concealed by a surgical mask, riding a roller
coaster alone.

The experience of Disney World under these circumstances is one of unsettling
solitude. It reminded me of a Swedish film project, _Experiment Ensam_
(“Experiment Alone”), in which the director, Anders Helgeson, filmed people
doing alone what they would typically do in a crowd. The most famous of these
was a Bob Dylan concert, performed for one fan in an otherwise empty theater.
Another was going to an amusement park. The Magic Kingdom is not, of course,
empty—just emptier than usual. But social distancing has rendered even the
minimal density lonely, and not only because I visited without company. The
masks worn by everyone at the park (with the exception of babies, people in
the act of eating, and princesses in the course of their duties) make it hard
to hear what people are saying, unless you lean in close—which, if you did,
would surely get you admonished by whoever’s space you had impinged upon. The
result is little to no interpersonal contact all day, except when you walk
past Miguel on your way back to your room at the Contemporary and get flashed
a greeting in sign language.

[Read: The day the live concert
returns](https://www.theatlantic.com/culture/archive/2020/05/dave-grohl-
irreplaceable-thrill-rock-show/611113/)

In fact, the isolation is even greater. The uncanny experience of the Magic
Kingdom without Mickey and Pluto running up to shake your hand is nothing
compared with the uncanny experience of the Magic Kingdom—where many visitors
wear T-shirts that read the Happiest Place on Earth—without even a glimpse of
a human face. Mask compliance at the parks was nearly perfect. For that I was
grateful. There was not even a trace of the freak-out behavior one sometimes
sees in videos of lines at Costco or Piggly Wiggly, of customers who demand
the right to go unmasked and threaten to assault cashiers and fellow customers
who object. Everyone visiting Disney World just wore masks, and if some dad
resented having to do so, he endured his chagrin stoically, like a grown-ass
man, scowling privately behind his mask on the Winnie the Pooh ride.

What is an amusement park in which visible smiles are forbidden, and laughter
and screams of delight are muffled to the point of inaudibility? If you think
it is like watching sitcoms without a laugh track (they seem quiet at first,
but you get used it, and realize _Curb Your Enthusiasm_ was better than
_Seinfeld_ all along), you do not fully appreciate the inhumanity of this
situation, the strangeness of being in a place that exists to elicit joy—wiped
clean of all legible emotion.

[Read: Celebrities have never been less
entertaining](https://www.theatlantic.com/culture/archive/2020/03/celebrities-
have-never-been-less-entertaining-coronavirus/608452/)

The psychologist Paul Bloom has noted that the pandemic is unlike other
catastrophes, because our suffering and collective response are solitary. To
be a hero during the Blitz, you pulled neighbors from rubble; you commiserated
with friends and encouraged them, in person, to buck up. To be a pandemic
hero, you stay home and binge-watch _Project Runway_ in your underpants. In
Disney World more than anywhere else, this odd and psychically depleting fact
about the pandemic—that it robs us of shared emotional space—haunts you. It
may still be the happiest place on Earth, but you can’t tell by looking at
anyone. If you want a freaky experience, I invite you to ride “It’s a Small
World” under these conditions: You are surrounded by chanting dolls— _their
intentions unclear_ —while every live human around you is expressionless. The
dolls repeat “It’s a small world after all” with slightly varying pitch about
200 times in 10 to 15 minutes. I have not seen the world for months. What are
they telling me about it? That whole nations have been replaced by these
relentless, diminutive automatons—and they are pleased by these events, and we
large people must accept this new reality?

But I also caught glimpses of humanity. I had seen little of that in person,
outside my own household, since March. The Disney photographers strictly
forbade me from removing my mask for photos. Occasionally, though, I saw moms
and dads look around furtively and tell their kids to tug down their masks for
just long enough to get a photo. Once, I saw a girl of about 8, a safe
distance from anyone other than her parents, do this in front of Cinderella
Castle. The mask went down under her chin, and she revealed a huge smile and
flashed a peace sign to her parents. It lasted about a second, enough time for
a phone photo. Cynicism withers when subjected to happiness like that, even
when the child is not yours. It grows back quickly, but Disney is a romantic
place again for just a moment.

Perhaps for others this illusion remains the dominant experience of Disney. I
am, as I warned earlier, not the ideal Disney customer. I am nonetheless
forced to admit, having observed Disney’s most fervent fans—the ones willing
to court infection for one of Snow White’s royal waves—that their decision to
visit at this moment is not, as it first appeared to me, made out of ignorance
or stupidity. Almost all seemed to accept that the coronavirus is real, or
real enough that it would be churlish to object when others ask you nicely to
keep your distance. Disney just matters more to them than it does to me,
because to me it is a corporation that makes children’s entertainment, and to
them, it is something worth risking their life for.

On Sunday, I saw a family boarding a monorail car for the Magic Kingdom, and I
noticed that both the mom and the dad had crucifix tattoos. (Tattoos are
common these days among Disney parents.) I looked online to see whether the
Disney micronation had any chapels or scheduled services, and an unofficial
website declared that “there are no religious services held on Disney
property.” I don’t think that statement is as straightforward or accurate as
it appears, unless you suppose, naively, that religion is just a set of things
you believe—that Jesus rose from the dead; that Muhammad is the final prophet
of God; that the Buddha achieved Enlightenment under a fig tree; that one day
Zeus had a migraine, and then Athena popped out of his head. Another view of
religion is that it is more subtle and pervasive. It is the base layer of our
imagination and consists of stories and ideas so deeply imprinted on our minds
that we do not realize that our realities are formed by them. By that
standard—authorship of the imagination—Disney is a religion and going to
Disney World is a pilgrimage.

Of course, few visitors to the park describe it that way, and I am confident
that the family with cross tattoos believe that Jesus and not Donald Duck is
their redeemer. But if you ask them about love, they will tell you about
_Beauty and the Beast_. If you ask them about growing old, they will tell you
about _Up_. If you want to know about overcoming adversity, they will ask if
you have heard the good news about _Aladdin_. If enough of your imagination
consists of stories like these, authored by (or filtered through) the Disney
corporation, then what else is Disney World—where these narratives are
ubiquitous and glorified—but a place to nourish your soul in a time of famine?

Many attractions are designed explicitly to boost morale, and to advance your
belief in the improvement of all things. On Saturday I visited the Hall of
Presidents, which is a tonic for the American civic religion. It is a pageant
of progress, an uncomplicated history of America that begins with a quest for
freedom, stumbles over slavery and Jim Crow, and emerges in a new birth of
freedom. The show encourages awe for the presidents of the United States and
ends with a dramatic curtain-raise, revealing Barack Obama and 43 white men in
animatronic form, breathing and moving their heads and limbs with a level of
realism tantalizingly close to _Westworld_ ’s. (It’s not there yet, but give
it time: I hope someday my grandchildren will be able to return to this spot
and murder a realistic robot version of Rutherford B. Hayes in a duel.) This
exhibition is, according to the introduction, “reverent,” and even an extended
oration by a robot Donald Trump does not diminish the effect. (It helps that
the presentation treats Martin Luther King Jr. as a kind of unofficial
president and makes multiple moving references to John Lewis, who died the day
before I saw the exhibit.)

At the hotel bar that night, I met a schoolteacher from New York City who had
come to Disney World secretly, to avoid scandalizing her friends and
neighbors. She said Disney was her “paradise,” and she loved the holiday from
the rancor of New York. “Black lives matter here because all lives matter
here,” she told me. “New York is a _war zone_. We have a mayor who doesn’t
support the police, police who don’t care about the mayor, 1-year-olds getting
shot on the street.” She said the only other time Disney World had short lines
was after 9/11, when no one was quite sure whether terrorists would massacre
everyone, or whether the funnel cakes would be dusted with anthrax spores.
“This is like that,” she said. “A wonderful time to be here.”

[From the May 2002 issue: Lost in the Magic
Kingdom](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2002/05/lost-in-the-
magic-kingdom/302503/)

Here is the point in the story when I tell you that she should wise up and
realize that Disney is _problematic_ —that maybe she would consider the Magic
Kingdom less of a paradise if she weren’t white, took the Jungle Cruise (a
lighthearted boat ride through savage country), and saw spear-wagging natives
with bones through their noses dancing on the shores; or if she were Chinese,
and saw one of the shops in the Frontierland section marked in big letters as
CHINESE LAUNDRY. But the truth is that I saw lots of nonwhite families in the
park, and they all seemed to be having such a good time that I would have felt
awful disturbing their holiday to ask whether they cared to join me in
scolding the park management for this or that transgression. (Disney has
revised certain relics of insensitivity, and has announced that it will
renovate Splash Mountain to replace characters from the racist embarrassment
_Song of the South_ with characters from _The Princess and the Frog_ , which
featured Disney’s first African American princess. Still, whenever I boarded
any ride more than 20 years old, I prepared to wince at least once.)

Where is the outrage? My best guess is that it is in the same hiding place
where one would look to find the mask tantrums, also so conspicuously absent
in the park (and, I should add, completely indefensible, unlike the complaints
above). The guests have willingly submitted to the authority of the microstate
of Disney World, and their submission is total, because they have judged
Disney to be a trustworthy custodian of that authority.

Consider the anarchy of Florida, the state that surrounds it. Roughly one in
10 citizens has filed paperwork to carry a gun concealed on his person. The
state song until recently still used the word _darkies_. The people are so
ornery that they cannot be persuaded to wrap bandannas around their faces to
save their own lives. Mosquitoes are large enough to engage in dogfights with
hummingbirds. The state lizard is Roger Stone.

[Read: The declining power of the American
passport](https://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2020/07/american-
passport-travel-coronavirus/614485/)

And then there is Disney World—a little bit of Singapore in the midst of
America’s Yemen. [Walt
Disney](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2006/12/walts-
world/305375/) is its Lee Kuan Yew. It is nothing if not competently
administered. It has a public-transportation system far exceeding the capacity
of the systems of the hometowns of many of the visitors. Those who enforce the
law are trusted and proportionate: If you refuse to wear a mask, a cast member
will find you and correct you, gently. The list of incidents at the park reads
like the police blotter of a sedate New England town, not of a fantasyland
surrounded by quarrelsome, armed eccentrics. Even the natural world at Disney
appears to have been harnessed and controlled. When a white ibis, a bird
typical of Florida swampland, approached me while I ate lunch one day in
Sleepy Hollow, it had been so long since I had seen a wild animal that I had
to examine it carefully to be sure it was not animatronic. I saw only one
mosquito during my entire visit. Nothing lives in the park without Disney’s
dispensation.

The visitors to Disney World reciprocate with a docility that would be the
envy of any authoritarian regime. When offered a MagicBand, I gladly submitted
to tagging and monitoring—an encroachment on my privacy I would never permit
to the federal government of the United States. Indeed, I hoped Disney would
track me _more closely_ , so it could tell me if a guest who had been in line
near me reported coming down with COVID-19. (Disney told me it is not using
the MagicBands for contact tracing.) I accepted high levels of authoritarian
intervention as long as the tyrant in question was wearing those ridiculous
mouse ears at the time. If the penalty for obstinate refusal to wear a mask
were public whipping, I would have cheered the administration of justice in
Main Street, U.S.A.’s town square. If the same thing happened in the city
where I live in Connecticut, I would probably donate to the ACLU and lament my
city’s regression to 17th-century Puritanism.

[Derek Thompson: The technology that could free America from
quarantine](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2020/04/contact-tracing-
could-free-america-from-its-quarantine-nightmare/609577/)

The lessons of this hypocrisy are weird and profound. For months, the world
has wondered [what happened to the United
States](https://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2020/06/america-
image-power-trump/613228/)—why we are so lacking in decency and public-
spiritedness that we refuse to take simple measures to make coronavirus case
numbers sink, as all evidence suggests they would if we all wore masks. One
theory is that we are just imbeciles, or that enough of us are imbeciles to
foil public-health measures. That is a pessimistic theory, because imbecility
is generally incurable.

But at Disney I saw many Americans (the park is usually cosmopolitan; on this
trip the only languages I heard spoken by guests were English and Spanish) and
no obvious imbeciles. Some were surely the type to be suspicious of the
government. If so, that suspicion somehow coexisted with total confidence in a
$212 billion company whose profit margins rely on novelty-T-shirt sales. I
cannot say that suspicion and that confidence are misplaced. The demise of
public institutions has caused Americans to turn to private institutions, and
we should probably brace ourselves for more of this trend. If you cannot trust
the police, get ready to pay for private security. Don’t trust the public-
health policies of the president? Instead listen to a talking mouse. The catch
is that the replacement of these public goods (law enforcement, health care,
infrastructure) by private ones is available only to those able to pay for
them. A long weekend at Disney World cost about $2,500, which is more than I
have ever paid for a vacation twice that long.

[Read: Air travel is going to be very bad, for a very long
time](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2020/05/james-fallows-flying-
will-never-be-same/611413/)

On the way home, however, I was reminded of what that money bought, and how
serene a weekend in the American Singapore could be, compared with the
alternatives. The Magical Express deposited me back at the Orlando airport,
and the hour I spent waiting for my flight home was among my most
uncomfortable since the dawn of the pandemic. Orlando’s airport isn’t a
connection hub, so most of us in the terminal had been in central Florida for
days at least, at the peak of the peak of the pandemic. We were all enemies to
each other. The attitude toward masking was insouciant at best, and I passed
bench after bench of men and women with bare faces, or with their masks
hanging low over their chins, like beard nets worn by cooks.

I boarded my flight, and the passenger next to me—a man with an Orlando Police
cap—promptly passed out and began snoring in my direction, his nose poking
over the top of his mask. I adjusted the overhead vent to blow the air from
his nostrils out into the aisle. A Disney cast member would have corrected the
issue, and I am sure the guy would have accepted the correction. Instead the
flight attendant who saw me messing with the vent just shrugged
sympathetically, with an expression that said, _Florida_.

* * *

### **Related Podcast**

Listen to Graeme Wood talk about this story on _Social Distance_ , _The
Atlantic_ ’s podcast about life in the pandemic:

Subscribe to

 _Social Distance_

on

[Apple Podcasts](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/id1502770015)

or

[Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/show/60YRpZwOSq0GPqGXrfpzut?si=v1You0IDRlSAkZrQrEAxEA)

(

[How to Listen](https://www.theatlantic.com/how-to-listen/)

)

* * *
