title: The Times's Dealings With Julian Assange - The New York Times
source: http://www.nytimes.com/2011/01/30/magazine/30Wikileaks-t.html?pagewanted=print
date: 2025-08-13T21:22:45.117869
tags: []
---
WikiLeaks was roundly criticized for its seeming indifference to the safety of
those informants, and in its subsequent postings it has largely followed the
example of the news organizations and redacted material that could get people
jailed or killed. Assange described it as a “harm minimization” policy. In the
case of the Iraq war documents, WikiLeaks applied a kind of robo-redaction
software that stripped away names (and rendered the documents almost
illegible). With the embassy cables, WikiLeaks posted mostly documents that
had already been redacted by The Times and its fellow news organizations. And
there were instances in which WikiLeaks volunteers suggested measures to
enhance the protection of innocents. For example, someone at WikiLeaks noticed
that if the redaction of a phrase revealed the exact length of the words, an
alert foreign security service might match the number of letters to a name and
affiliation and thus identify the source. WikiLeaks advised everyone to
substitute a dozen uppercase X’s for each redacted passage, no matter how long
or short.

Whether WikiLeaks’s “harm minimization” is adequate, and whether it will
continue, is beyond my power to predict or influence. WikiLeaks does not take
guidance from The New York Times. In the end, I can answer only for what my
own paper has done, and I believe we have behaved responsibly.

The idea that the mere publication of such a wholesale collection of secrets
will make other countries less willing to do business with our diplomats seems
to me questionable. Even Defense Secretary Robert Gates called this concern
“overwrought.” Foreign governments cooperate with us, he pointed out, not
because they necessarily love us, not because they trust us to keep their
secrets, but because they need us. It may be that for a time diplomats will
choose their words more carefully or circulate their views more narrowly, but
WikiLeaks has not repealed the laws of self-interest. A few weeks after we
began publishing articles about the embassy cables, David Sanger, our chief
Washington correspondent, told me: “At least so far, the evidence that foreign
leaders are no longer talking to American diplomats is scarce. I’ve heard
about nervous jokes at the beginning of meetings, along the lines of ‘When
will I be reading about this conversation?’ But the conversations are
happening. . . . American diplomacy has hardly screeched to a halt.”

As for our relationship with WikiLeaks, Julian Assange has been heard to boast
that he served as a kind of puppet master, recruiting several news
organizations, forcing them to work in concert and choreographing their work.
This is characteristic braggadocio — or, as my Guardian colleagues would say,
bollocks. Throughout this experience we have treated Assange as a source. I
will not say “a source, pure and simple,” because as any reporter or editor
can attest, sources are rarely pure or simple, and Assange was no exception.
But the relationship with sources is straightforward: you don’t necessarily
endorse their agenda, echo their rhetoric, take anything they say at face
value, applaud their methods or, most important, allow them to shape or censor
your journalism. Your obligation, as an independent news organization, is to
verify the material, to supply context, to exercise responsible judgment about
what to publish and what not to publish and to make sense of it. That is what
we did.

But while I do not regard Assange as a partner, and I would hesitate to
describe what WikiLeaks does as journalism, it is chilling to contemplate the
possible government prosecution of WikiLeaks for making secrets public, let
alone the passage of new laws to punish the dissemination of classified
information, as some have advocated. Taking legal recourse against a
government official who violates his trust by divulging secrets he is sworn to
protect is one thing. But criminalizing the publication of such secrets by
someone who has no official obligation seems to me to run up against the First
Amendment and the best traditions of this country. As one of my colleagues
asks: If Assange were an understated professorial type rather than a character
from a missing Stieg Larsson novel, and if WikiLeaks were not suffused with
such glib antipathy toward the United States, would the reaction to the leaks
be quite so ferocious? And would more Americans be speaking up against the
threat of reprisals?
