title: This is the Trump administration’s dark reboot | Vox
source: https://www.vox.com/2017/7/29/16060614/trump-john-kelly-immigration-dhs
date: 2025-08-13T17:07:18.702587
tags: []
---
The firing of communications director Anthony Scaramucci on Monday, after just
10 days on the job — and after having all but forced out chief of staff Reince
Priebus, who was replaced with Homeland Security Secretary Gen. John Kelly on
Friday — looks, from one angle, like a White House finally spiraling out of
control after months of wild skidding.

But it’s also plausible that Scaramucci’s ouster is the end of the Trump
administration acting like an office farce, and the beginning of something
much darker.

Kelly was brought into the White House, reports indicate, because Trump
expects the retired Marine general to discipline a staff that’s been anything
but. That doesn’t necessarily mean that the Trump administration will start to
look more conventional. Far from it. Trump himself doesn’t want to be
disciplined, and it’s not clear that he can be. What it means is that there’s
a new interest in the White House in speaking with a single voice — not just
the voice of Trump, but the voice of Trumpism.

Kelly, who caught the president’s attention by [carrying out Trump’s
immigration agenda](/2017/7/28/16059120/john-kelly-chief-of-staff), is
perfectly in line with the brand that first brought Trump to campaign success:
the idea that the world is a terrifying place full of people (mostly
foreigners) who want to undermine social order and the American way of life,
and that the tough American men who stand up to them shouldn’t be too closely
questioned about how they keep those threats at bay.

That brand has succeeded for Trump — it’s made the right people happy (his
base and the cable news networks that generate endless debate over
inflammatory remarks), it’s made the right people angry (Democrats and people
who go on cable news networks), and if it’s terrified certain groups, they’ve
been people who don’t seem to matter to Trump (immigrants and black Americans
who vote for Democrats).

The appointment of Kelly — along with a speech Trump gave in Long Island on
Friday afternoon that [harkened back to the most chilling rhetoric of his
campaign](/policy-and-politics/2017/7/28/16059486/trump-speech-police-hand) —
is a sign that the Trump administration is rededicating itself to placing
those ideas front and center. And it’s rhetoric that, even beyond the policy
agenda it represents, invites violence into the crevices of American life.

## Kelly represents Trumpism as its most authentic

Reince Priebus was doomed from the beginning. He was hired as the White
House’s resident Republican insider — which is to say, from the perspective of
Trumpworld, its resident outsider.

Priebus’s notion of the White House was alien to Trump’s — he had quaint ideas
about managing Trump’s time and working with factions of Congress to pass
bills. But just as importantly, when he did the things Trump expected his top
staffers to do — namely, go on television and defend the president’s agenda —
he wasn’t a credible messenger. It was too obvious that he was the kind of
person who thought that life had been basically okay before 2017, that
Washington _hadn’t_ abandoned Americans to the rampages of criminal gangs.

Technically, Priebus was fired after the project he’d been assigned — getting
Congress to repeal the Affordable Care Act — failed in the Senate. But really,
he was fired because, whether he succeeded or not, he didn’t perform in a way
Trump understood or respected.

While Trump’s health care agenda has foundered — as has much of the rest of
his platform — his immigration agenda has not. As he promised, federal
immigration agents are “unshackled.” As he promised, immigrants are being
treated more harshly upon being apprehended at the border. The wall is
happening slowly (and really, everyone involved agrees it’s more of a fence)
but it’s moving along.

But while it’s true that Trump is simply elevating the man who’s overseen the
administration’s biggest substantive success so far — Kelly — the reality is
substantially more complicated.

Kelly wasn’t the brains behind the Trump immigration agenda. Most of it was
designed by then-Sen. Jeff Sessions (before he became Attorney General and
[got shut out of Trump’s inner circle](/2017/7/27/16053096/sessions-interview-
trump-carlson-quit)) and former Sessions staffers now highly placed in the
White House, Department of Justice, and Department of Homeland Security.

But over the course of Kelly’s six months at the head of DHS, he became the
_face_ of the Trump immigration agenda. And to Trump, that’s even more
important.

It’s not just that Kelly looked the part, or that his appearances on Sunday
shows gave off the air of an upstanding military man who was a little
uncomfortable doing a media appearance when there were wars to be fought. It’s
the fact that Kelly spoke — and to all appearances believed — as if the Trump
administration _was_ a constant war against the forces of lawlessness and
disorder.

To Chuck Todd, he [called intelligence leaks](http://www.nbcnews.com/meet-the-
press/video/full-kelly-interview-every-single-day-terrorists-are-plotting-
against-u-s-955097667819) “darn close to treason.” He warned [Martha
Raddatz](http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/week-transcript-28-17-dhs-secretary-
john-kelly/story?id=47680357) that “you just have to be vigilant” about
terrorism because “this is nonstop. They are out there trying to hurt us every
day.” He told John Dickerson that he was [kept awake at
night](http://www.cbsnews.com/news/face-the-nation-transcript-
april-23-2017-rubio-kelly-sanders-kasich/) and distracted four to five times a
day by the threat of a terrorist attack “to knock down an airplane in flight.”

To[ Chris Wallace of Fox
News,](http://www.foxnews.com/transcript/2017/05/28/sec-john-kelly-on-
manchester-investigation-keeping-america-safe.html) he justified the Trump
administration’s travel ban by saying, “We have to figure out a way to
determine who they are and why they come into the United States. Otherwise,
we’re guessing. And this president and John Kelly doesn’t want to guess when
it comes to national security and protection of the US population.”

Trump, easily distracted, hadn’t often returned as president to the
apocalyptic rhetoric of an America under siege that he used at the most
important moments on the campaign trail. Kelly did.

In a speech at George Washington University in May — a mission statement about
Kelly’s priorities as secretary, delivered to an audience of Washington elites
— Kelly was shockingly martial. “Make no mistake — we are a nation under
attack. We are under attack from criminals who think their greed justifies
raping young girls at knifepoint, dealing poison to our youth, or killing just
for fun.”

It wasn’t the Kelly that many had expected when he was nominated — the
regional Latin America expert who hated politics and would think a wall was
total bunk. It sounded, well, a lot like Donald Trump, at a time when Trump
wasn’t spending much time sounding like his old self.

Now, though, that passage from Kelly’s speech might sound familiar. It’s
awfully close to [the rhetoric Trump used on
Friday](/2017/7/28/16059554/trump-long-island-speech), during a speech in Long
Island that was ostensibly about MS-13 but really about how important it was
for ICE to be rough on immigrant “criminals.”

The Long Island speech came on the heels of Trump’s [defeat on health care in
the Senate](/health-care/2017/7/28/16055284/gop-massive-health-care-failures-
explained). It wasn’t the first time his administration had pivoted back to
immigration in an attempt to move on from an embarrassing setback on something
else. But it was notable in its total lack of restraint — its insistence on
turning subtext into text. President Trump (and even, for the most part,
candidate Trump during the general election) hadn’t explicitly endorsed
physical violence. On Friday, he called on police officers to [shove suspects
into cars without protecting the suspects’ heads from the impact](/policy-and-
politics/2017/7/28/16059536/trump-cops-speech-gang-violence-long-island).

It was, at once, absolutely bone-chilling and inevitable. It was a return to
form. But it was a return to a form that many hoped Trump would have retired,
for good, once assuming office.

## Trumpism isn’t just an ideology, but the belief that talking about
something makes it so

Trump may like the idea of having “a general” in charge of his White House
staff, and he’s certainly given Kelly more control than he ever gave Priebus:
communications director Anthony Scaramucci was fired within hours of Kelly
being sworn in, because Scaramucci insisted on reporting directly to Trump.

But it’s not clear just how manageable this White House will ever be. The
president himself can’t be managed: He hasn’t shown any restraint on Twitter
since Kelly’s appointment, for example. And it’s not clear that Trump’s
interest in having a disciplinarian Chief of Staff will override his preferred
management style of many factions competing for his attention.

To a certain extent, though, Kelly’s success might not be defined by
management. Managing isn’t how Trump believes things get done. He believes
things get done by talking about them. Now that he’s president, his rhetoric
of America under siege has a counterpart: that under Trump, as he said on
Friday, America is being “liberated.”

To a certain extent, this requires exaggerating his accomplishments, ignoring
his setbacks. Sometimes it means that an extremely moderate policy is treated
as a huge repudiation of progressivism or Obama; the administration has
happily trumpeted a few dozen miles of border fencing in a House bill as
“money for the wall.” When that happens, Trumpism’s bark really is worse than
its bite.

But here’s the thing. Trump isn’t entirely wrong that using the bully pulpit
to broadcast his worldview makes it real. It creates a space for other people
to enact Trumpism on Trump’s behalf, outside the diktats of policy — either
for people to use it as an excuse for violence against others, or as something
to avoid by changing their own behavior.

It _is_ true that if you tell immigration officers that the handcuffs are off,
and then let them do what they want, they’ll be more assertive and aggressive.
It’s true that if you tell police officers that protesters are a threat to
social order and you don’t care whether people get beaten up while being
loaded into cars, some of those police officers will rough people up while
loading them into cars.

It’s true that you can, at least temporarily, deter people from coming to the
United States without papers if you make it clear they’ll be put in prison
even if they seek asylum, or that parents might be tracked down and deported
for sending for their children to join them. It’s true that you can stop
people from asking for food stamps or taking their children to school if
they’re afraid of deportation — or if they’re afraid of violence at the hands
of your supporters.

John Kelly is very good at telling people to be afraid — either of the
government, or of the people the government is fighting. That’s not just
Trump’s brand. It’s his theory of governance.
