title: Kanopy Is Becoming the Best Free Streaming Service Out There | WIRED
source: https://www.wired.com/story/kanopy-best-movies-streaming/
date: 2025-08-13T16:26:04.560768
tags: []
---
When the classic-movie streaming service FilmStruck [shuttered last
month](http://web.archive.org/web/20250315184521/https://www.wired.com/story/rip-
filmstruck-streaming-wars/), it caused a palpable panic among cineastes.
Overstuffed with exceptional big-studio films and arthouse gems, the service
represented a viable alternative to the big streamers, many of which offer
relatively meager film catalogs. And FilmStruck's demise was especially
troubling when you realize just how many movies, from Oscar-winners to low-
budget oddities, are [completely missing from streaming
services](http://web.archive.org/web/20250315184521/http://johnaugust.com/2018/missing-
movies) altogether. What are America's raging _Cocoon_ -heads supposed to do?

For those looking for a flick-filled streaming alternative, however, there's
[Kanopy](http://web.archive.org/web/20250315184521/https://www.kanopy.com/),
an impressively stocked service available to many university students and
library-card holders around the world. Though Kanopy's availability and
selection varies based on your location, its catalog features must-watch
titles from such outlets as the Criterion Collection, Paramount Pictures, and
the recently-added A24, home of _Moonlight_ and _Lady Bird_. You _still_ won't
find _Cocoon_ , but here are a few choice Kanopy kuts that will get you
started.

_Metropolis_ (1927)

If you haven't seen Fritz Lang's silent future-set classic in a while—or if
you only know the movie from its pop-culture footprint—now's the perfect time
to plunge into its gorgeous art-deco dystopia. It's just as visually majestic,
and as politically astute, as it was nearly a century ago.

_The Hitch-Hiker_ (1953)

Director Ida Lupino's three-man noir follows a pair of average-joe road-
trippers who pick up a murderous roadside hitchhiker—and are subsequently
forced into a slow-boiling sojourn through Mexico. A tense ripper full of
great performances, including William Talman as the bastardly kidnapper, _The
Hitch-Hiker_ is just as relentless as the desert sun itself.

_Purple Noon_ (1960)

Decades before Matt Damon slimmed down for 1999's _The Talented Mr. Ripley_ ,
Patricia Highsmith's classic stolen-identity novel was chillingly adapted by
French director René Clément. With its gorgeous European locations, cruel
twists of fate, and distractingly foxy cast, _Noon_ is thoroughly beguiling.

_Save the Tiger_ (1973)

A forgotten existential-crisis classic, _Save the Tiger_ stars Jack Lemmon as
a troubled LA businessman whose flailing career forces him to take desperate
measures. Lemmon, rough and wry, plays a middle-aged man who no longer
recognizes the world around him; it's one of his greatest roles, and would
eventually win an Oscar.

_Clue_ (1985)

A once-drubbed novelty that has grown into [a genuinely beloved latter-day
hit](http://web.archive.org/web/20250315184521/https://www.buzzfeed.com/adambvary/something-
terrible-has-happened-here-the-crazy-story-of-how), _Clue_ nowadays feels like
a true rarity: A zippy, quippy screwball murder-mystery in which several
fantastic performers—from Michael McKean to Madeline Kahan—gamefully play
along without ever batting a wink.

_Dogtooth_ (2009)

Nearly a decade before _The Favourite_ , Greek director Yorgos Lanthimos
enjoyed an international breakout with this discomforting drama about a family
whose young children have been kept completely away from the modern world.
It's sometimes funny, frequently shocking, and impossible to forget—no matter
how much you might try.

_Let the Fire Burn_ (2013)

In 1985, Philadelphia police dropped a bomb on a row house occupied by members
of a radical group called MOVE. Nearly a dozen occupants were killed and
multiple properties were destroyed—yet the incident remained, in many ways, a
local story. _Let the Fire Burn_ chronicles the incident via remarkable
archival footage and sharp editing. One of the best documentaries of the past
10 years.

_Beyond the Lights_ (2014)

Director Gina Prince-Bythewood's epic music-industry romance is the kind of
smart, sumptuous grown-up movie that rarely gets made anymore. Gugu Mbatha-Raw
is a troubled young pop icon; Nate Parker is a cop who gets pulled into her
glitzy orbit. A ridiculously catchy love story.

_Good Time_ (2017)

A grimy, giddy tale of big-city desperation, starring Robert Pattinson as a
greaseball charmer who robs a bank with his brother—and then spends the rest
of the time trying to bail him out of jail. A little bit _After Hours_ , a
little bit _Dog Day Afternoon_ , and definitely worth a late-night viewing.

_Madeline's Madeline_ (2018)

Anchored by a trio of remarkable performances, Josephine Decker's experimental
drama is enchanting, confounding, and sometimes downright difficult—in other
words, everything a deeply personal indie _should_ be. Newcomer Helena
Howard—in a mesmerizing, almost mind-meldy turn—plays a young theater
performer torn between her put-upon mom (Miranda July) and her increasingly
invasive director (Molly Parker). As Madeline's life intensifies, so does
_Madeline's Madeline_ , in ways that are all but impossible to predict.

* * *

More Great WIRED Stories
