title: Mutual funds make air travel more expensive: Institutional investors reduce competition.
source: http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/view_from_chicago/2015/04/mutual_funds_make_air_travel_more_expensive_institutional_investors_reduce.html
date: 2025-08-13T19:01:40.155150
tags: []
---
The great drama of our time is the rise of the 1 percent. Thomas Piketty has
done more than anyone else to put this question on the public agenda. But
while his book [_Capital in the Twenty-First
Century_](http://www.amazon.com/dp/067443000X/?tag=slatmaga-20) documents the
growth of inequality, he does not offer much of an explanation or a solution.
He thinks that capitalism naturally favors investors over workers, and
proposes as a remedy a global wealth tax, which no one thinks is feasible. Yet
recent work by a brilliant young economist suggests that the problem is not
capitalism per se, but the way our financial system is organized. The key to
the problem—and to the solution—is the rise of the institutional investor.

Institutional investors are companies that own other companies. A familiar
example is the mutual fund. A mutual fund owns shares of dozens or hundreds of
companies. Many mutual funds pursue specific investment strategies; others
just try to mimic the market or certain segments of the market. When you
invest in a mutual fund, you indirectly invest in companies that supply goods
and services, and obtain the benefits of diversification of investments
without having to bother to manage your own portfolio. Other types of
institutional investors include pension funds and hedge funds.

Mutual funds have a benign reputation. They make life easier for ordinary
people who don’t have the time, resources, or expertise to pick stocks. They
are also thought to improve corporate governance. They have the resources to
monitor the companies they own shares in, and they can put pressure on them if
managers overpay themselves or engage in other bad behavior. And they are
familiar: Nearly everyone with a 401(k) owns shares of a mutual fund.

Yet mutual funds have a dark side. José Azar, an economist now at Charles
Rivers Associates, argued in his ingenious dissertation that mutual funds can
reduce market competition and raise prices for consumers. The idea behind this
argument dates to the late 19th century, another period of rapidly growing
inequality. Back then, economists argued that firms can reduce competition in
markets by buying up the firms that operate within them. At the time, the
firms that bought up other firms were called “trusts” to conceal their
monopolistic goals. They were broken up by progressive reformers after
Congress passed the first major antitrust law, the Sherman Antitrust Act of
1890. Azar’s insight—[drawing on](http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/47993)
some [other](http://www.nber.org/papers/w3303) recent
[work](http://www.jstor.org/stable/40843443?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents) by
economists—was that modern institutional investors such as mutual funds are
trusts in sheep’s clothing.

In a new [paper](http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2427345),
Azar and co-authors Martin C. Schmalz and Isabel Tecu have uncovered a smoking
gun. To test the hypothesis that institutional investors gain market power
that results in higher prices, they examine airline routes. Although we think
of airlines as independent companies, they are actually mostly owned by a
small group of institutional investors. For example, United’s top five
shareholders—all institutional investors—own 49.5 percent of the firm. Most of
United’s largest shareholders also are the largest shareholders of Southwest,
Delta, and other airlines. The authors show that airline prices are 3 percent
to 11 percent higher than they would be if common ownership did not exist.
That is money that goes from the pockets of consumers to the pockets of
investors.

How exactly might this work? It may be that managers of institutional
investors put pressure on the managers of the companies that they own,
demanding that they don’t try to undercut the prices of their competitors. If
a mutual fund owns shares of United and Delta, and United and Delta are the
only competitors on certain routes, then the mutual fund benefits if United
and Delta refrain from price competition. The managers of United and Delta
have no reason to resist such demands, as they, too, as shareholders of their
own companies, benefit from the higher profits from price-squeezed passengers.
Indeed, it is possible that managers of corporations don’t need to be told
explicitly to overcharge passengers because they already know that it’s in
their bosses’ interest, and hence their own. Institutional investors can also
get the outcomes they want by structuring the compensation of managers in
subtle ways. For example, they can reward managers based on the stock price of
their own firms—rather than benchmarking pay against how well they perform
compared with industry rivals—which discourages managers from competing with
the rivals.

Competition among mutual funds cannot substitute for competition among
corporations. Consider two mutual funds, A and B, each of which owns
substantial stakes in the airlines. Both A and B benefit when the airlines
fail to compete because they share the airlines’ above-market profits. The
managers of A and B don’t need to meet in a smoke-filled room in order to
hatch a conspiracy. All they need to do is reward the airline managers if
those managers make large profits.

One might argue that none of this matters. After all, a large fraction of
ordinary households own shares of mutual funds, so they benefit from the
bonanza. They pay higher airline prices out of one pocket, but their share of
the above-market stock returns goes into the other. However, high-income
people [put much more of their
money](http://money.cnn.com/2014/09/09/investing/stock-market-investing-us-
families/) in mutual funds and stocks than ordinary people, who use most of
their money to buy goods and services. So the profits mainly accrue to the
rich, while the costs are paid by the middle class and poor. Moreover, the
high prices lead to waste, as people who are able to pay market prices but not
monopoly prices are deprived of goods and services. The institutional
investors shrink the size of the market while giving the rich a larger share
of what’s left.

While Azar and his co-authors studied only the airline industry, there is good
reason to think that their findings apply more broadly. As they point out, the
investment management company BlackRock is the top shareholder of the three
largest banks in the United States; BlackRock is also the largest shareholder
of Apple and Microsoft. The companies that are the top five shareholders of
CVS are also the top five shareholders of Walgreens. (And yes, one of them is
BlackRock.) Institutional investors dominate the economy.

And this brings us back to Piketty. His famous U-shaped curve showed that
inequality was high in the 19th century, fell during the middle of the 20th
century, and then rose again over the last 40 years. The rise of the
institutional investor coincides with this 40-year growth. The share of the
stock market owned by institutional investors rose [from about 5 percent after
World War II to about 67 percent at the end of
2010](http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2147757). Thus, the
two periods of high inequality correspond to the dominance of trusts at the
end of the 19th century and the dominance of institutional investors toward
the end of the 20th and beginning of the 21st centuries. We see the two as
substitutes. Trusts and institutional investors are both devices for
capitalists to monopolize the market at the expense of workers and consumers.

If all this is true, can anything be done about it? Absolutely. One question
is whether the managers of institutional firms are directing the managers of
the firms they own not to compete over price. If so, this is a violation of
the antitrust laws, and the Department of Justice should investigate. But we
suspect that nothing so obvious is going on. When all the people with the
power over pricing share a common interest in raising prices, they don’t need
to enter conspiracies or even talk to one another.

Another approach would be for Congress to pass a law that restricts the
holdings of mutual funds and other institutional investors. The law would be
very simple. Currently, employees and employers get tax advantages when
employers set up retirement accounts for employees. The government regulates
the types of funds that employers may offer to their employees. The government
should direct employers to offer only mutual funds that do not own a
significant number of shares of more than one firm in a specific industry. In
other words, mutual funds would be allowed to own shares of only a single firm
in any specific industry, but could invest in as many industries as they
wanted.

For example, a mutual fund could own shares in United or Delta or Southwest,
but not more than one airline. The same mutual fund could also own shares in
GM or Ford or Tesla, but not more than one car manufacturer. By owning shares
in different industries, mutual funds could continue to offer the
diversification benefits that investors value them for. But because mutual
funds would not be allowed to own shares of firms in the same industry, they
would have no incentive to encourage firms not to compete on price.

While our proposal might seem radical since it would indirectly require the
mutual fund industry to reorganize itself, it should produce huge benefits for
society. By reducing the monopolization of markets, it should lower prices for
everyone. The returns to investors would decline, but their losses would be
much less than the gains to society from the price reductions. And because
low-income people are more sensitive to prices than rich people are, the
proposal would help alleviate the high level of inequality. Just like the
trust busters of the 19th century, we seek to save markets from themselves.
