title: Building American Dynamism | Andreessen Horowitz
source: https://future.a16z.com/building-american-dynamism/
date: 2025-08-13T15:30:20.512620
tags: []
---
Two weeks before the start of our perpetual lockdown, _The New York Times_
columnist and [Substack writer](https://douthat.substack.com/) Ross Douthat
released “[The Decadent
Society](https://www.firstthings.com/article/2020/03/back-to-the-future),” a
survey of America’s general apathy toward building a more dynamic future.
While the book itself isn’t particularly surprising in its critique, the
timing of its release was important: it was among the last public critiques of
American stagnation before the world changed forever in March 2020. In the
Before Times, Douthat noted four indicators of malaise in the Western world,
some of which were magnified during the pandemic: institutional failure and
loss of civic trust; economic and technological stagnation; declining birth
rates and sterility; and mimetic, derivative culture. By April, many seemed
hopeful that some of these trends might reverse — if anything could pull
America out of its decades-long march toward decline, perhaps it was a global
pandemic.

Almost two years later, it’s clear that the stagnationists were right about
some aspects of American decline and very wrong on the ones most within our
control. [Institutional failure](https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-
tank/2019/07/22/key-findings-about-americans-declining-trust-in-government-
and-each-other/) is the most glaring and far-gone aspect of American
stagnation: look no further than the U.S.’s shoddy exit from Afghanistan and
the associated $2 trillion of spend, and it’s clear that the military, the
governmental institution with the highest degree of trust — before the
Afghanistan withdrawal, 69 percent of Americans had a “quite a lot of
confidence” in the U.S. military — has been damaged. Other institutions like
public schools and the medical establishment have lost so much trust during
the pandemic years that they could go the way of mainstream newspapers,
plateauing into a [distrustful
malaise](https://news.gallup.com/poll/355526/americans-trust-media-dips-
second-lowest-record.aspx) where only a fraction of the country cares about
what they have to say at all.

But the major error of the stagnationists — claiming technological stagnation
as a factor in American decline — revealed a countertrend that’s easy to miss
if you’re not immersed in technology. Though the Manhattan Project and the
Moon Landing happened when America was arguably at her most dynamic, the
technology sector is the only sector of the American economy that has
maintained its vibrancy, dynamism, and growth through innovation over the last
25 years. The top six companies by market capitalization in the U.S. are now
technology companies, two of which were founded in the 2000s. In 1996, none of
the top six companies were technology companies. Indeed, tech has been
propping up all other sectors including the institutions that have lost all
civic and public trust. In 2020, this fact became so obvious that there isn’t
much of a counter argument: From the Moderna vaccine to the uninterrupted
service of Amazon Prime, Zoom and Netflix, the scientific and operational
excellence of consequential technology companies made up for the shortfall of
our flailing governmental institutions.

The prevailing trend of the 2020s is not that we’re destined for decline. It’s
that the technology sector is augmenting and improving the functions of
institutions that we used to trust, especially those in the realm of
government. Indeed, I believe the _only_ way to reverse the course of
stagnation and kickstart nationwide renewal post-Covid is through
technologists building companies that support the national interest. I call
this American dynamism: it’s the recognition that seemingly insurmountable
problems in our society — from national security and public safety to housing
and education — demand solutions that aren’t simply incremental changes that
perpetuate the status quo. These problems demand solutions from builders — and
it’s never been more vital that startups tackle these serious American
problems.

## The problem with American government

It’s not surprising that the last remaining holdout from the [software
revolution](https://a16z.com/2011/08/20/why-software-is-eating-the-world/) is
government, and that due to regulatory capture, special interests, and
perverse structural incentives, the last sectors of the American economy to be
transformed by technology will be those that the government deems most
important to its power. But if software can stave off stagnation in all other
industries — industries that have similar problems attracting the talent
needed for 21st century innovation — why can’t software fix government? In
some ways, it’s already happening.

In 2018, [I wrote in the Washington
Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/how-should-we-address-the-
growing-power-shift-from-washington-to-silicon-
valley/2018/11/19/1470eb9a-e9e4-11e8-bbdb-72fdbf9d4fed_story.html) that
startups have begun usurping the responsibilities of governments at
breathtaking pace. Whether it was Uber and Lyft supplementing much of public
transport in major cities or Palantir assisting in the important work of the
U.S. intelligence community, it is becoming clear that government cannot meet
the needs of its citizens without the tech sector’s aid.

While some Senators will lament this fact, the private sector is taking on
important missions of government because it has the specialized talent and
means to do so. In aerospace, the private sector has outpaced government
agencies in milestones once reserved for nation states: yes, billionaires are
going to space, but that’s because of the extraordinary private sector
investment leading to the declining cost of a rocket launch that propelled the
industry and science forward at a time when government ignored its potential.
Now, a glut of venture-backed aerospace companies are all innovating on the
economics of launch, constellations, connectivity, and travel.

And it’s not only capital investment where the private sector is helping
government. When politicians panicked at the supply chain crisis at the Port
of Long Beach in November 2021, the man to [get on a boat and figure
ou](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/supply-chain-crisis-60-minutes-2021-11-14/)t
immediate solutions was not an elected official but Ryan Petersen, founder and
CEO of Flexport. Ryan arguably understands supply chain and freight forwarding
better than anyone on the planet, and by [tweeting his
remedies](https://twitter.com/typesfast/status/1451543776992845834) for the
crisis, citizens better understood why the things they needed were sitting off
the coast of California. Flexport isn’t often viewed as a government company,
but at a time when government lacks critical tools and voices to understand
complex national problems, founders like Ryan are doing important civic work
and pushing [solutions](https://future.com/global-shipping-infrastructure-and-
ever-given/) forward.

These examples prove that dynamism in America is not being spurred by policy
in Washington — it’s being driven by a growing group of technologists that are
solving problems of immense national importance. And as technology becomes
less of a “sector” and more of a means of acceleration that touches every
industry and aspect of society, we’ll see more solutions for American problems
coming from engineers, technologists, and startup founders. Washington and
Silicon Valley are going to have to become friends.

Some critics of the tech industry believe that software only touches the
digital world and that we’re wasting valuable talent ignoring the physical.
But these critics are missing this current movement to the physical sector and
the interplay between hardware and software: some of the most disruptive
companies are remaking the physical world with software at their core. And
these companies are often entrenched in the work and mission of government,
such as in aerospace (Blue Origin, SpaceX), intelligence (Palantir), and
defense (Anduril, Shield, Skydio). These categories feature fast followers
powered by software that depend on selling to government. In public safety,
Citizen, Flock Safety, and Mark43 are innovative competitors to the legacy
incumbents, which have benefitted from traditional government contracting
models that don’t prioritize innovation. And in transportation, companies such
as Applied Intuition and Samsara are taking on the OEMs and Honeywells of the
world by putting software and cheap sensors inside the industrial sector to
improve safety and efficiency simultaneously. Though these sectors may seem
disparate, the most striking element of these businesses is that they’re so
regulated that the government is either a customer or competitor — and at
times both.

## Why build for America now?

It’s now easier to solve critical national problems through startups. For one,
many of these companies and their respective problems require large capital
investment, and venture capitalists are better at taking on risk and
allocating capital than agencies in Washington. Venture capital is also better
at monitoring outcomes: it turns out that professional investors, even in a
bull market, care more about value creation than bureaucrats who are not
measured by or compensated for their success. The best comparison is that in
the last two decades, roughly $1 trillion has gone to venture-backed companies
in the U.S., while $6 trillion went to the War on Terror and failed nation-
building in Afghanistan. The outcomes are different due to incentives, not
investment. In the last two decades, venture capital has matured from a niche
asset class to a global industry. And finally, it’s clear investors are
actively looking for opportunity in government sectors: the global capital
glut is a boon for capital-intensive companies with venture-scale return
profiles. The hard things to build now have real private capital bases to
sustain them — and enough examples of success that investors are excited to
back these sectors.

Second, the U.S. government has had a [growing talent problem since the
1970s](https://boyle.substack.com/p/make-government-cool-again). This is not
an unknown problem: the government began studying its talent shortage and
decline in public service ethos thirty years ago, calling it “[a quiet
crisis.](https://www.washingtonpost.com/archive/politics/1987/09/11/addressing-
a-quiet-crisis-in-the-civil-service/29fb4c3b-7e55-4369-b107-f1d2f5b6a00d/)“
Financialization and a cultural shift away from collective responsibility have
led to a decimation of the bureaucracy and a permanent, aging governing class.
A country without a vibrant public service culture cannot thrive, especially
when competing with countries with effectively mandatory public service in the
technology sector, such as China. Many of the young people who would have
stayed in public service or adjacent worlds — such as think tanks, academia,
or nonprofits — are moving to startups instead to solve thorny problems of
government on time horizons that would be impossible for bureaucrats to
fathom. Fortunately, more and more founders are interested in building
companies that genuinely solve important missions for their communities, with
or without the support of government.

Third, the customer is changing — albeit reluctantly — because it knows it
must innovate. Those who work in government are now sensing the tech
acceleration in their lives as consumers and have yet to see real change in
the types of technology they use at work. Ask a procurement officer how
frustrating it is to use 20-year-old software in their work life, and it’s
clear that government recognizes the software revolution must transform its
work too. The Department of Defense (DOD) realized this shift in the early
2010s: without links to the technology epicenter of the world, can the DOD
actually compete with adversaries? This realization may have started with
defense, but all departments are downstream national security. The government
has to embrace software to continue functioning, and procurement shifts and
cultural shifts are already improving the speed of new acquisitions.

## American dynamism and founders

When discussing how technology can solve America’s biggest problems, I’ve seen
a language problem that leads many well-meaning people to ineffectual results.
Many mission-driven founders are eager to innovate in govtech, i.e. companies
that sell to government to make the bureaucratic operations slightly more
efficient. They’re also eager to innovate in “ESG”, or “Environment, Social
and Governance,” a term defined for and by bureaucrats, not builders. Dynamism
is neither govtech nor ESG. I don’t believe those categories will solve the
biggest problems most Americans face.

It would be simple to say that American dynamism is just the inverse of
decadence: a reversal of economic stagnation, mimetic culture, and the
collective casual dismissal of our future prospects as a nation. And maybe
that simple definition is a good start. We believe technology is the font of
this reversal, and the only immediate way to kickstart American renewal is
through startups building for critical problems. But most importantly,
dynamism requires optimism and a belief in growth and opportunity. A Pew
Research Forum poll recently asked Americans the famous political question:
will your children be better off than you will? [Sixty eight percent of
Americans](https://www.cnbc.com/2021/07/21/many-americans-think-children-will-
be-financially-worse-off-than-their-parents.html) said no, putting the U.S. as
the sixth-most pessimistic country in the survey. I don’t believe our outlook
has to be this way. Technology is a solution, not the perpetuator of this
crisis of faith.

American dynamism is for builders. It is the belief that the values upon which
the country was founded are real and worth defending. Dynamism is also a
feeling: the feeling of growth, movement, momentum, and opportunity that makes
America the country people want to be from, to immigrate to, and to build a
life, career or company in. I believe strongly in this ongoing and historic
American experiment and the values that unite us. And I look forward to
championing the founders who believe that America’s best days are just ahead.
