title: Prosecutors Are Not Amused by Hidden Trading Markups - Bloomberg View
source: http://www.bloombergview.com/articles/2016-04-05/prosecutors-are-not-amused-by-hidden-trading-markups
date: 2025-08-13T18:14:30.928927
tags: []
---
The financial industry is largely an industry of middlemen, and some of its
deepest and most creative thinking goes into finding ways to get paid for
intermediating transactions. There are two classic, time-honored, traditional
ways to get paid:

  1. _Markups_ , or _spreads:_**** I buy a thing from someone for $60, sell it to you at $65, and pocket the $5.
  2. _Commissions:_ I sell a thing to you at $65, and charge you $1 for my trouble.

But of course there are lots of other ways to get paid, too; the only limit is
my imagination, and also probably the law. For instance, I could lend you the
$65 to buy the thing and charge you interest. I could keep custody of the
thing and lend it out to short sellers, charging them fees that I don't pass
on to you. I could pass your order to an electronic market-maker who pays me
for your order flow. I could charge you an annual fee for managing your thing-
purchasing program, or for sending you research reports about things.

Most notably, I can get paid in  _more than one_ of these ways. Just because I
have charged you a markup doesn't necessarily mean that I can't also charge
you a commission, or an annual fee, or whatever. Now, maybe in practice I
can't: Different markets and jurisdictions have different rules about fees and
markups and disclosure, and I certainly don't want to give you legal advice.
But as a bare conceptual matter, there is nothing necessarily illegitimate
about making money off of a customer in more than one way. If you buy foreign
currency at the airport, or stocks from a broker, you may well pay both a bid-
ask spread and a commission.

That is lovely for me, but rather daunting for you. You don't want to pay
twice, or four times, for the same thing. You want to know how much I am
making off the transaction, so you can decide if I'm worth what you're paying.
So you can ask me what I'm charging. But you have to phrase the question
carefully. If you pay me an annual fee, and you ask me if I'm also charging
commissions, I can answer "no," and chuckle to myself about the markups I am
charging. If you ask about markups, I can again answer "no," and chuckle even
more quietly about the payment for order flow that I am receiving. But perhaps
you have given this a lot of thought, and you ask me something comprehensive
and unavoidable, like "please confirm that this fee is the sole revenue for
your firm and/or any of its affiliates on this event." And then I will be
stuck.

Unless I cheat! Today federal prosecutors [unveiled criminal fraud
charges](http://web.archive.org/web/20160423010858/http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-04-05/boston-
based-bank-executives-indicted-over-commissions-scheme) against two former
State Street employees, Ross McLellan and Edward Pennings, for allegedly going
a bit too far in hiding fees from clients. We [talked about this
case](http://web.archive.org/web/20160423010858/http://www.bloombergview.com/articles/2014-01-31/state-
street-proves-that-you-get-what-you-pay-for) two years ago, when State Street
[settled
with](http://web.archive.org/web/20160423010858/http://www.fca.org.uk/news/state-
street-uk-fined-transitions-management-failings) the U.K. Financial Conduct
Authority for a 22.9-million-pound ($32.4 million) fine for the transactions
at issue here. The U.S. authorities, I guess, moved more slowly -- but they
brought  _criminal_ charges instead of settling for a fine.

According to [the
indictment](http://web.archive.org/web/20160423010858/http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-04-05/boston-
based-bank-executives-indicted-over-commissions-scheme), McLellan and Pennings
worked in State Street's transition management business, which does very large
and boring transactions for institutional investors in exchange for very small
and boring fees. I mean, the fees are very small relative to the size of the
transactions, and boring in the sense that that they are often a flat
percentage of the assets involved: In the three transactions described in the
indictment, State Street's fees ranged from zero to 1.75 basis points of
assets.

Now, while 1.75 basis points of a 1.3 billion-pound transaction is real money
-- 227,500 pounds -- it is not, perhaps, enough to motivate an executive vice
president and a senior managing director of an international financial-
services business. Also, zero basis points of any transaction is zero dollars,
which is rarely enough to motivate anyone. So McLellan and Pennings allegedly
got to work adding other fees to their transactions, to make them worth their
while.

Some of this was easy. On that zero-basis-point deal, with a Middle Eastern
sovereign wealth fund, McLellan and an unnamed co-conspirator ("CC-1") could
just silently charge markups on the prices they provided to the customer:

> In a telephone call among CC-1, in London, and two Boston-based traders on
> or about June 15, 2010, CC-1 instructed the traders that "before you book
> out the client side, send the executions across and we will have a look and
> figure out what levels we want to put on the client side." On the same day,
> MCLELLAN, who was in London at the time, asked one of the traders for "the
> range [of prices] across the day ... " adding, "Basically, I want the high."

That is: If a bond traded between $100 and $102 in a day, and State Street
bought that bond for the Middle Eastern customer that day, then the customer
paid $102 for it -- whatever State Street paid. Pennings allegedly told the
co-conspirator that McLellan had told him, "it's a rounding error, so no one
is ever going to notice that."

I guess that is bad, but on the other hand, how much loyalty did the sovereign
wealth fund think it was buying for zero dollars? The second trade, with an
Irish government pension fund, also allegedly snuck in some extra charges, but
you can just about see a defense in the indictment itself. Here's the deal:

> The Bank ultimately proposed a flat management fee of 1.25 basis points
> (0.0125%) of the value of the transitioned assets. The proposal specified
> that there would be no fixed income or equities commissions.

("The extra quarter point makes it look like we actually thought about it and
did the calculations," Pennings said in an e-mail.) But that word
"commissions" is subject to interpretation, and State Street interpreted:

> In a subsequent telephone call, PENNINGS told CC-1 that "we just need to be
> very, very creative, which we will," and added: "Make sure it ... doesn't
> say anything about not taking any spreads, because we're going to have to in
> the U.S."

The grand jury apparently disagreed, but I interpret this to mean that State
Street promised not to add  _commissions_ , but did  _not_ promise anything
about adding  _markups_. In fact, according to the indictment, Pennings
proposed a no-commission/yes-markup structure from the beginning, as State
Street was preparing its bid for the Irish transaction:

> In an email to MCLELLAN on or about December 1, 2010, PENNINGS wrote: "Gotta
> win this one! Any ideas how to get more revenue would be appreciated. ...
> How about a 1 [basis point] management fee or something of that nature, no
> commissions and then take a spread?

And the documentation apparently reflected that: a fee (ultimately 1.65 basis
points), no commissions, and ... well, I guess it didn't specifically allow
State Street to take a spread, but it didn't specifically prohibit it either.
("Make sure it ... doesn't say anything about not taking any spreads.") And so
State Street charged the customer a spread that, under the agreement, it was
allowed -- or, at least, not prohibited -- from charging.

But the third case in the indictment is the troublesome one. This was a
British government pension fund that agreed to pay State Street 1.75 basis
points for a 1.3 billion-pound transaction. And this fund was a bit clearer-
eyed about the ways in which it could be charged. Right from the beginning,
when State Street answered the fund's request for proposal, there was trouble:

> In its response to the RFP, the Bank proposed a flat fee of 1.75 basis
> points (0.0175%) of the value of the assets and promised to "provide full
> disclosure" of "all costs incurred in the transition and any additional
> revenue sources ... resulting from the transition."

That's not a term of art like "commissions"; that's "all costs" and "any
additional revenue sources." That sounds like a promise of full disclosure.
And then the fund really did demand full disclosure:

> For example, in response to a June 21, 2011 email from an executive of the
> British Government Pension Fund requesting confirmation that "£242,305
> (equal to 1.75 [basis points] on the [assets under management] ... is the
> sole revenue for [the Bank] and/or any of its affiliates on this event,"
> PENNINGS responded: "Yes -- £242,305 (It should equal 1.75 [basis points] of
> the total assets)."

Yeah, once you are asked if the fee "is the sole revenue for [the Bank] and/or
any of its affiliates," you really do have to come clean about any other
stuff. Those are kind of the magic words. The British pension fund cracked the
code; if Pennings was charging any other fees or markups or whatever else you
want to call them, he really should have come clean. The indictment claims
that he was, and that he didn't come clean.

But the British fund didn't just know the magic question to ask; it also knew
how to check the answer:

> When the fund executive informed PENNINGS that auditors reviewing publicly
> available data had discovered what appeared to be a one basis point
> commission on all U.S. trades, PENNINGS responded: "That doesn't seem right
> so let me investigate with the US desk and get back to you."

A lot of trading data is public! If the customer really wants to check to make
sure that he's not being charged extra, often he can. It's just that part of
the point of hiring a transition manager, and paying a negotiated fee, is to
outsource this sort of administrative work. It's not, you might think,
unreasonable for the customer to trust the manager. But that also means that
it's not unreasonable for the manager to trust that the customer will trust
him, and thus feel safe in adding a few markups here and there. (Especially
when the customer is asleep -- as ConvergEx [once literally
did](http://web.archive.org/web/20160423010858/http://www.bloombergview.com/articles/2013-12-20/don-
t-sleep-on-your-trades-with-convergex) in its transition-management business.)
And so it turns out that the customer can't really trust the manager after
all.

McLellan [denies any
wrongdoing](http://web.archive.org/web/20160423010858/http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-04-05/boston-
based-bank-executives-indicted-over-commissions-scheme):

> “The evidence will ultimately and compellingly show that Ross McLellan
> committed no criminal acts and had no criminal intent,” his attorney, Martin
> G. Weinberg, said in a statement. “Every major bank charges its clients
> markups on its bond transactions in order to generate profits.”

He no longer works at State Street; he is the founder and president of a firm
called Harbor Analytics. You will never guess [what Harbor Analytics
does](http://web.archive.org/web/20160423010858/http://www.harboranalytics.com/Consulting_Firm_About_Us_Hingham_MA.html):

> Harbor Analytics is a leading provider of independent analytics on
> transition management events. Our Transition Management Scorecard™ evaluates
> the relative performance of any transition, the risk management of the
> transition provider, evaluates all trading for any compliance violations and
> compares each result against the largest independently audited transition
> management universe.

It isn't enough, McLellan understands, to just bid out a transition management
event and go with the lowest bidder. You can't just blindly trust your
transition manager; you need an independent consultant to monitor the
manager's performance and check for compliance violations. You don't want to
be a sucker, to be tricked into paying extra markups by a transition manager
who preys on your carelessness or ignorance. So you need to hire a consultant
who knows all the tricks, to avoid having them played on you.

I have to say that that is a very traditional model in the financial industry.
It's why a lot of former derivatives structurers end up [atoning for their
sins](http://web.archive.org/web/20160423010858/http://www.bloombergview.com/articles/2015-01-09/former-
bp-gas-salesman-is-sorry-about-how-much-money-he-made) by helping clients
avoid derivatives trickery. "Caveat emptor" is the motto, and clients who know
the magic questions and audit the answers get better results than clients who
sleepily put their trust in their brokers.

But it isn't the only model! You could imagine a financial industry with much
stronger norms of trust and disclosure and forthright honesty, in which the
general assumption is that if a broker doesn't mention a (fee/markup/whatever)
specifically, that means that he  _isn't_ charging it, rather than that he
probably is. And it's pretty clear that that is the model that U.S.
prosecutors like to imagine. With prosecutions of [bond
traders](http://web.archive.org/web/20160423010858/http://www.bloombergview.com/articles/2015-12-08/when-
can-bond-traders-lie-to-their-customers-) who are arguably dishonest about
their markups, and now with this prosecution of transition managers who
allegedly hid theirs, the Justice Department is sending a message. It wants
customers to be able to put more trust in their brokers. And if the customers
fail to monitor and check up on their brokers, well, that's OK. The
prosecutors will keep an eye on them too.

This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or
Bloomberg LP and its owners.

To contact the author of this story:
Matt Levine  at
[mlevine51@bloomberg.net](http://web.archive.org/web/20160423010858/mailto:mlevine51@bloomberg.net)

To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff  at
[jgreiff@bloomberg.net](http://web.archive.org/web/20160423010858/mailto:jgreiff@bloomberg.net)
