title: ESPN.com - Appreciating the Zen Master in full
source: http://sports.espn.go.com/espn/print?id=6538445&type=Story&imagesPrint=off
date: 2025-08-13T20:51:19.935409
tags: []
---
When I think of Phil Jackson, two guys come to mind: Young Phil and Old Phil.
Young Phil was skinny with dark hair and a goofy mustache; he looked like he
came from another era, like someone Larry Dallas would bring over to the Regal
Beagle to meet Jack Tripper. Old Phil didn't look anything like Young Phil:
white hair, a clean-shaven face, a heavier frame, and a body that was
scattered in nine different directions. Still, Young Phil and Old Phil had one
thing in common: They kept their cool at all times.

That trait defined Jackson as a coach. He couldn't be rattled. He never
overreacted. He measured every response, thought out every media barb, dealt
with every player with the same steady hand. These past 20 years weren't
exactly easy for Jackson, even if the narrative has morphed into "Well, anyone
could win eleven titles with Jordan, Shaq and Kobe!" In 1992, a best-selling
book called "The Jordan Rules" nearly imploded the Bulls. In 1993, his best
player disappeared for 18 months. In 1997, the relationship between Scottie
Pippen, Michael Jordan and Bulls general manager Jerry Krause became so
contentious that Jackson asked Krause to stop traveling with the team. In
1998, Dennis Rodman started partying so much that Jackson and a few others had
to have a makeshift intervention. In 2001, Shaq and Kobe's relationship
started to deteriorate, a three-year spiral that bottomed out when Kobe was
accused of sexual assault. In 2005, his general manager traded his second-best
player for Kwame Brown. In 2007, Kobe spent the summer and the first month of
the regular season desperately pushing for a trade. Jackson managed
everything. There were times when he failed -- the 2004 Finals, most notably
-- but you could never say he lost his cool.

His defining moment happened during the 1994 playoffs, when Pippen refused to
re-enter Game 3 against New York after Jackson called the final play for Toni
Kukoc. Instead of laying into Pippen after the game, Jackson trusted his
players to handle the immediate aftermath. It ended up being done by Bill
Cartwright, who screamed at Scottie with tears rolling down his face,
incredulous that one of the league's most unselfish players would undermine
that dogfight of a season -- when the Bulls somehow remained contenders with
Jordan playing baseball -- by acting so selfishly.

Jackson waited for the room to calm down, judged the moment for what it was,
chalked it up as an aberration and moved on. More than a few coaches would
have abandoned Pippen, claimed that he lost the team, pushed for him to be
traded that summer. Jackson knew that Pippen's mistake came from a complicated
place, a Molotov cocktail of insecurity, ego and frustration about his unfair
salary. When Jordan left, everyone pushed Scottie to be the leader --
including Jackson -- but the Bulls didn't pay him like other franchise
players, and now they were giving away his "You the man!" moment? Jackson
wanted to understand why Pippen handled it so poorly, figured it out,
determined it wouldn't happen again (hopefully), and defended him going
forward. Coaching isn't just about calling plays, riding the officials and
figuring out strategies. Really, it's management more than anything else. You
manage people. Jackson managed people better than anyone.

He did it by keeping his cool, always, which is what made it so jarring when
Jackson unraveled in Game 3 of this month's Dallas series. Kobe couldn't save
them this time; his prime was suddenly slipping away like Jackson had feared.
Pau Gasol had fallen into a spiritual funk and couldn't be shaken from it. The
last four players in Jackson's nine-man rotation were effectively useless;
Dallas' bench was destroying them. Almost as a last resort, the Zen Master
morphed into Norman Dale on the sidelines for Game 3, yelling and screaming
more than ever before. There was one moment in the first half -- endlessly
replayed all weekend, simply because it was so foreign to watch -- when
Jackson laid into Gasol and pounded him in the chest for effect, the urgency
practically spilling out of him. None of it worked. The Lakers lost.

Two days later, after Dallas had blown the doors off and turned Game 4 into a
rout, two of Jackson's players basically quit on him. The first was Lamar
Odom, who drifted through that series much like he drifts through his crappy
reality show, finally deciding to leave for good with a premeditated body
block of Dirk Nowitzki. A few minutes later, Andrew Bynum delivered a Triple
H-like flying elbow to tiny J.J. Barea, earned an automatic ejection, then
ripped his jersey off while being escorted away. As a Celtics fan, I couldn't
have been more delighted to watch the Lakers disintegrate like that. It was
like basketball porn. As a basketball fan? I hated it. That's not how Phil
Jackson should have gone out: with him losing his cool, then his players doing
the same. Those last two games had nothing in common with his career.

Like so many other times, Jackson could see Game 4 coming. Four of his five
children had flown into Dallas to dine with him the night before -- a Viking
funeral of sorts -- and once I heard about that, I knew that _he_ knew. Your
kids fly in on short notice when something is coming to an end: your life,
your career, your health, your marriage, something. Either they sense
something is wrong, or you sense it. But you want to be with them, and they
want to be with you. When Jackson thinks back to that final series, I bet he
thinks about that dinner first: the stories they told, the wine they drank,
the food they ate. He will forget what happened in the four games. He will
remember the dinner.

Just like I will remember our lunch. We finished our meals and landed on an
outdoor bench in downtown El Segundo, talking about basketball and watching
cars meander by. We talked about the Knicks and what they meant once upon a
time, how there's a connection between the fans, the building and the team
that just doesn't exist anywhere else. When I theorized that New York was the
logical finishing chapter for his career -- maybe he takes a year off, then
returns in 2012 (the fortieth anniversary of the last Knicks title season),
the ultimate full-circle move -- he laughed it off, repeatedly saying, "No,
no, when I'm done with this, I'm done."

I wanted to believe him, even if it's too perfect, too symmetrical, too
everything. When the Knicks scenario became a national story this week, I
thought it was fascinating that Jackson never totally denied it. He might
think that Red Holzman's spirit could heal his broken body, that the grind of
an NBA season would be easier in New York, that the atmosphere in Madison
Square Garden would energize him, that the holy grail of another Knicks title
is the only thing left for him. Or he just might like the fact that people are
still talking about him.

My take: I don't think Jackson is ever coming back. Nothing can top those
Jordan years for him. It's impossible. He already had his holy grail. In El
Segundo, our conversation kept circling back to MJ, and really, that's why we
ended up having lunch in the first place: Jackson had quoted a Jordan argument
from my NBA book in two separate interviews (that we need to stop looking for
another Michael Jordan, because it's never happening), making me wonder,
"Wait, did he read my book?" As it turned out, he had simply thumbed through
it in a store for a few minutes before buying it for Odom for Christmas.

Was it telling that he thumbed through a 700-page book just to read the Jordan
section? You tell me.

We talked about their last three years in Chicago together, when Michael's
fame trapped him in hotel suites and casinos, surrounded by only a couple of
trusted friends. We talked about Michael playing 36 holes of golf before
playoff games, how he stayed up until all hours, how he needed only an hour of
sleep and he was fine. We talked about Michael and Scottie as a tandem, how
much ground they covered, how well they connected, how they compared to LeBron
and Wade, how they loved eviscerating teams on the road more than anything. We
talked about Michael's controversial Hall of Fame speech, which Jackson loved
because, as he put it (while laughing), "that was Michael," the guy who became
the greatest player ever by fueling himself with so many petty slights and
grudges. We talked about Michael's steadfast refusal to blow random,
meaningless road games in Sacramento, Vancouver, Cleveland or wherever, how
those were the nights that made him truly special, when his entire team was
dragging, when the NBA schedule demanded a Chicago loss, yet Michael just
couldn't allow it.

I never asked Jackson to compare Michael and Kobe simply because the question
didn't need to be asked. Jackson made his answer clear over the years, doing
his best never to frame it in a way that antagonized Kobe. You know, "There
will never be another Michael Jordan," stuff like that. His own career is
harder to assess. You can't deny Jackson's timing (first Jordan, then Shaq and
a young Kobe, then Kobe), and if we learned anything about NBA coaching over
the years, it's that you're only as good as your players. But that belittles
what Jackson accomplished, because clearly, eleven titles mean _something._

He never gets enough credit for successfully handling two of the three most
difficult NBA superstars ever: Jordan and Kobe (with Wilt being the third).
Jordan's ongoing ruthlessness threatened the basic concept of a "team" --
instead of being supportive, he was withering. He had to win all the time,
every time. If he sensed someone might be a weak link, Jordan shattered their
confidence rather than building it up. During any times of real struggle on a
basketball court, he trusted himself over everyone else and played
accordingly. Jackson tempered his most unlikable qualities while accentuating
the good ones, steering him toward a team framework without compromising the
ferocity that defined him.

His smartest small-picture move was pitting Pippen and Jordan on opposite
sides in every scrimmage, which kept both players sharp and ensured their
practices were properly competitive; otherwise, Jordan would have gone for a
shutout every game. His smartest big-picture move was his handling of Jordan's
baseball sabbatical, when he reminded Michael that he was an artist more than
a basketball player, and that, by walking away, he would be depriving millions
of a chance to experience that art. He never tried to change Michael's mind,
just reminded him what was at stake. For Jordan, that cemented their
relationship and opened the door for Michael's eventual return; he knew
Jackson cared about him as something more than a meal ticket. When people
dismiss Jackson's credentials with "Anyone could have coached Michael Jordan,"
they are wrong.

Kobe presented a different set of issues, as we've rehashed ad nauseam over
the past ten years. Jackson won five rings with him, but not before walking
away in 2004 (and ripping Kobe to shreds in an astonishingly critical book),
then returning a year later and eventually working out a manageable
compromise. Jackson dealt with Kobe the same way parents deal with raising
young kids: You know you'll have good days and bad days, so you can't dwell on
the bad ones. Only once did Kobe nearly shoot the Lakers out of a title --
Game 7 of the 2010 Finals, when Boston's strategy hinged on doubling Kobe,
forcing "hero" shots and hoping his ego would compel him to keep shooting
(which it did) -- but in another classic Jackson-era moment, Kobe's teammates
(Derek Fisher, especially) pulled him back into the fold. Bryant regrouped in
the fourth quarter, made better decisions and helped the Lakers win the title.

And really, that's the night Jackson's career should have ended. Other than
money and the tantalizing chance for a fourth three-peat, he talked himself
into another year for the same reason everyone does: You never totally know
until you have that one awful moment when you realize "Crap, I should have
left a year ago." Watching Jackson sitting on the bench in Dallas in Game 4,
his face working overtime to churn out a barely visible smile, you could
almost see that thought bubble forming over his head.

_I stayed too long. I should have left._

The good news: Nobody will remember that Dallas sweep in eleven years, just
the eleven rings and every relationship he fostered along the way. Steve Kerr
told me once that what made Jackson special -- and Popovich too -- was that he
cared about his twelfth guy as much as his best guy. He spent time with his
players, bought them gifts, thought about what made them tick. He connected
with them, sold them on the concept of a team, stuck up for them when they
needed him. His actual coaching -- calling plays, working refs, figuring out
lineups and everything else that _we_ see -- was a smaller piece of a much
bigger picture. His players competed for him for many reasons, but mainly
because they truly believed Jackson cared about them. Which he definitely did.

And now, he's walking away. At least that's the hope. I can still see him
hobbling across the street in El Segundo after we said our goodbyes -- walking
with his butt, basically -- and hoping he'd eventually land on a beach
somewhere and never look back. Our greatest living basketball coach played in
874 NBA games and coached another 1,977 of them. That's 2,851 games in all,
and trust me: When you watch him walk away, you feel every one of them.

Bill Simmons is a columnist for ESPN.com and the author of the recent New York
Times No. 1 best-seller "The Book of Basketball," now out in paperback with
new material and a revised Hall of Fame Pyramid. For every Simmons column and
podcast, check out [Sports Guy's
World](http://sports.espn.go.com/espn/page2/simmons/index) or the [BS Report
page](http://espn.go.com/espnradio/show?showId=bsreport). Follow him on
Twitter at http://twitter.com/sportsguy33.

[Back to Page 2](http://espn.go.com/espn/page2/)






* * *
