title: The Kindle Fire, the iPad, e-readers: What happened when I abandoned print for pixels.
source: http://www.slate.com/articles/arts/ft/2011/10/the_kindle_fire_the_ipad_e_readers_what_happened_when_i_abandone.single.html
date: 2025-08-13T20:30:53.624270
tags: []
---
Towards the end of last year it became apparent that the Stourton household
was[ heading for a book
crisis](http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/2/b148f006-e84a-11df-8995-00144feab49a.html#axzz1ZfXrvTCG
"FT - Balancing the books"). My wife and I both brought substantial
collections into our marriage. I get a steady stream of review copies and
manuscripts from friends and acquaintances hoping for endorsements. She makes
factual television programmers and is often sent books by aspiring producers
and presenters. I am incontinent when the urge to buy a new hardback novel
comes upon me, and she reads incredibly quickly. All these factors had
conspired to fill our shelves. The books had become Triffid-like, taking over
our home and lives. Something had to be done.

So, almost a year ago, in this paper, I took these vows: “My resolution is
that for 12 months I shall buy no new books and shall limit my leisure reading
to books already in my library. There are bound to be professional reasons for
bending the rule from time to time. But if I devote myself to our existing
collection I might learn something about myself and my family … I shall catch
up with some of the friends’ books which have been neglected, and I shall
attack the many review copies that still have a marker stuck somewhere in the
first couple of chapters … ”

I also—partly at the instigation of the editors at the FT, and very much
through gritted teeth—promised to try an e-reader. It might, we thought, be
one solution to the overstuffed shelves. And I said I would report back on my
reading habits, both paper-based and electronic.

Eleven months on, abstinence from new book buying has proved one of the
hardest challenges I have ever undertaken—far tougher than giving up alcohol
(which I have had to do on reporting trips to Saudi Arabia) or any Lenten
effort I have made to deny myself some pleasurable form of food. It means
avoiding what in Catholic teaching are known as “occasions of sin”. Bookshop
windows become bright bordellos of temptation, and a walk down Piccadilly
(Hatchards and a huge Waterstone’s within yards of one another) is like some
Homeric trial of will.

I also realized that I had to stop myself reading the review sections of the
weekend papers. On Saturdays and Sundays, I find that my eyes naturally slide
away from the heavyweight political commentaries I ought to be reading for
work purposes and on to the books pages, and giving into that temptation is
one of my great weekend pleasures—not, in normal circumstances, a very grave
sin. But a glowing review of a new book by one of your favorite authors is
simple torture when you cannot buy it.

I did, I confess, find some inventive “professional reasons for bending the
rule”.

The most pleasurable was a serendipitously timed invitation to chair the
judges of the Desmond Elliott Prize for a first novel. I had to finish 10
books over a period of six weeks or so—enough to satisfy my new book lust for
a while and, of course, the books were sent to me for free, so I could add
them to our crowded shelves without feeling guilty about breaking my vow. On
the other hand, they were extremely good (I recommend Anjali Joseph’s
_[_Saraswati
Park_](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0007360789/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=slatmaga-20&linkCode=as2&camp=217145&creative=399373&creativeASIN=0007360789)_
, the winner, and, the other two finalists, _[_Boxer,
Beetle_](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0340998415/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=slatmaga-20&linkCode=as2&camp=217145&creative=399373&creativeASIN=0340998415)_
by Ned Beauman, and _[_Pigeon
English_](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0547500602/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=slatmaga-20&linkCode=as2&camp=217145&creative=399373&creativeASIN=0547500602)_
by Stephen Kelman), so the experience also made me feel antsy about all the
other new writing I was denying myself.

The other excuse I found to break my vows was associated with a Pyrenean trek.
This summer I took part in a four-day commemorative hike in the footsteps of
second world war escapers and evaders (I am making a BBC Radio 4 series on the
subject). The experience opened a door on to such a fascinating chapter of
history that it is growing from a radio series into a book project and I have
begun to read some of the memoirs written by those who made the journey “for
real” during the dark days of the Nazi occupation of France.

These tales were popular in the 1940s and 1950s, when memories of the war were
still vivid, and some of them—such as George Millar’s _Maquis_ and _Horned
Pigeon_ —are still classics. Others are out of print and, rootling around on
Amazon and AbeBooks, I discovered that you can buy first editions and early
reprints for really not very much money. So I have been buying like crazy.

It is almost impossible for people of my age or younger to manage the
imaginative leap required to get inside the minds of those who made that
journey some seven decades ago. But reading what they did in a book printed
close to the time of their exploits helps. There is a period feel to these
early editions that takes you closer to those who wrote them.

All of this has restricted the reading time I have been able to devote to our
existing collection of books—the only one of my vows I was really looking
forward to. I began by revisiting Evelyn Waugh and Graham Greene, and honesty
compels me to admit that I have got no further. Indeed, I find that I am in no
great hurry to get further. Waugh’s _[_Sword of
Honour_](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0679431365/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=slatmaga-20&linkCode=as2&camp=217145&creative=399369&creativeASIN=0679431365)_
trilogy has restored to me the youthful pleasure of laughing loudly at a book
in public places, while Greene’s _The Quiet American_ , my current bedside
companion, leaves me as awestruck as I was when I first read it as a teenager.
How can anyone do so much with so few words?

Here is a cheerful conclusion: on the basis of the experiment to date I am
persuaded that, if I have to, I can go on re-reading my existing library
without ever getting bored—I estimate I have enough good literature in the
house to last me for the rest of my life.

So why bother with an e-reader? Well, a promise is a promise. I bought my
Kindle in April. It was a purchase made without pleasure and for weeks it lay
unopened in its Amazon box—a sullen presence sulking on my desk. Only when the
BBC sent me on assignment to investigate corruption in the nations of the
former Soviet Union was I galvanized into powering it up.

It was one of those reporting trips that really test your physical stamina.
There were several days of frantic scurrying around Moscow collecting
interviews, followed by an overnight sleeper to Kazan, the capital of
Tartarstan. The drunken Russian oil engineer who shared my compartment thought
he spoke English but he was mistaken; the unbroken miles of birches that
flashed passed as we rattled through that night seemed never-ending as he
fired out words that never quite added up to a coherent sentence. Then there
was a complicated sequence of flights to Ukraine, more journeys in cramped
taxis, and finally a long flight home. I spent quite a lot of time hanging
around in the antechambers of the rich and the powerful waiting for
interviews. Easy access to reading material is essential to staying sane on
such a trip.

The Kindle passed this test with flying colors; indeed, it proved itself the
ideal reporter’s companion. It is light and a convenient size—you can just
about stuff it into a jacket pocket. Downloading a book takes seconds (if you
have an Amazon account, you pay almost without noticing the transaction, which
can be dangerous). It never ran low on power, flashing cheerfully into life
whenever I needed a distraction.

By the time I reached Kiev I had discovered that I could buy newspapers
wirelessly, and I used the Kindle to read them over breakfast in a floating
hotel on the Dnieper river. Even my producer, a battered paperback man, was
impressed. My conversion—and I sense this is a common experience among those
who have taken the plunge—was swift but far from complete.

The first book I read on the Kindle was _The Book Lover’s Tale_ , a
psychological drama about a bibliomaniac gone to the bad. A failed writer, he
makes his living by putting together libraries for rich men; his revenge for
disappointment is to seduce the clients’ wives. The novel is, in part, a hymn
to the seductive power of the book as a physical object. The (anti) hero loses
his virginity in the basement of a second-hand bookshop in Soho, where “the
smell of dust on old pages filled my lungs and my nose, mixing with the smell
of her cheap lipstick, and the taste of chewing gum and cigarettes on her
breath.”

I might have chosen _The Book Lover’s Tale_ to begin my e-book life out of a
sense of irony—in fact, I did so because the book is my eldest son Ivo’s
second novel. Its publication coincided with my purchase of the Kindle and I
have, of course, bought several hardback copies as well as the e-book. My
bibliomania is still at the benign stage; I love having books about me so I
can look at them, revisit them and (sometimes) share them. The way Ivo writes
about books has hurried me to a conclusion I would have anyway reached before
long; if I buy and like a book on Kindle, I shall almost certainly buy a
hardback copy too. So I shall end up spending more money, not less, as a
result of the e-book revolution.

It is just possible, however, that the e-reader will kill the paperback; I
have done my Waugh and Greene reading with old paperbacks and, handsome as
those Penguin covers are, there is no denying that they are, at best, fragile.
The Kindle is remarkably resilient. During our summer holiday in France, our
dog leapt out of the lake and thwacked mine—it was lying on the picnic
rug—with a wet paw; he inflicted no damage at all. So if I need to buy a new
copy of _The Quiet American_ before I finish rereading it (quite possible,
given the signs of strain on the spine of my venerable copy), I can imagine
downloading it rather than buying a new paperback.

But Kindle’s recent advertising carries one of the silliest boasts I have ever
read: it can store 3,500 books. Assuming I live for another 25 years (which
would take me to my late seventies), I would need to read 2.6 books a week to
reach that total. More to the point, what possible sense would it make to
substitute a thin grey slate-like object that I might forget on the Tube for
the groaning shelves of the beautiful and instructive artifacts that adorn my
house?

I am keeping my Kindle but I am giving up my vows of abstinence. I have
started reading the reviews again and have already drawn up a list of
hardbacks I would like to buy. I am off to the shops for a bender.

We shall just have to find more room somewhere.**__**

**_This article originally appeared in Financial Times_** _**. Click**_[
_**here**_](http://www.ft.com/) _**to read more coverage from the
Weekend**_**FT.**
