title: The Curious Case of the Le Guennec Picassos | Culture | Vanity Fair
source: http://www.vanityfair.com/culture/features/2010/12/picasso-201012?printable=true
date: 2025-08-13T21:38:46.982625
tags: []
---
Electrician Pierre Le Guennec outside his home in Mouans-Sartoux, France. _By
Valery Hache/AFP/Getty Images._

The announcement last week that Pierre Le Guennec, a 71-year-old French
electrician, was the owner of 271 previously unknown or presumed missing works
by Pablo Picasso, has created a furor on both sides of the Atlantic. For
installing burglar alarms on Picasso’s homes, including the villas near Cannes
on the French Riviera, Le Guennec claims that the artist and his second wife,
Jacqueline, gave him the drawings, prints, and collages, dating from 1900 to
1932, which are estimated to be worth upward of $60 million. When shown the
works, Picasso’s son Claude confirmed that they were authentic but suggested
that they must have been stolen.

It is my belief that this treasure trove belonged to a massive group of some
70 portfolios of works on paper which the artist had been obliged to remove
from his Paris apartment on the Rue la Boétie and his studio on the Rue des
Grands Augustins after the French government enacted regulations preventing
people from having multiple residencies. Picasso had tried and failed to fight
this injunction, but since he had apparently forsaken his Paris properties to
reside in the Villa La Californie at Cannes, he was unsuccessful. To his rage,
he was forced to relinquish them and have their contents stored or sent down
to Cannes.

Douglas Cooper, the celebrated British Picasso collector, and I happened to be
visiting Picasso when this vast shipment arrived. He asked us to help him go
through some of the portfolios. The next two days were spent sitting on the
floor of the principal studio rediscovering these treasures. He hadn’t looked
at most of the material for 20 or 30 years, Picasso said, and the contents
were as much a surprise to him as they were to us. The artist’s excitement was
infectious and his comments fascinating.

The contents, which had never been photographed or catalogued, were
exceedingly varied—and anything but systematically organized. Virtually
everything was on paper, so you never knew what was going to emerge. Nor were
the contents confined to the artist’s work. One portfolio had nothing in it
but blank sheets of rare paper, which Picasso collected: 17th- and 18th-
century sheets, French, Italian, Japanese. Another portfolio might contain
little of consequence—exhibition catalogues, pamphlets, mementos from his
Russian Ballet years. It was the luck of the draw.

Picasso was especially excited to re-discover a group of portrait drawings
(circa 1900) of fellow members of Els Quatre Gats, a Barcelona group that was
sacred to his memory. These portraits have reappeared in Le Guennec’s cache.
Picasso would _never,_ in my opinion, have given away these works—so relevant
to his early development—not even to his wife.

As soon as I heard about Le Guennec’s Picassos, I realized they had to have
been part of this horde that had arrived in Cannes more than 50 years ago. How
such a large chunk of the artist’s private collection ended up in the
possession of Le Guennec is another matter. Picasso was exceedingly generous
with his work, but he never gave away anything from earlier periods, always
from whatever he was working on at the time and available in the studio. Also,
when he gave someone a drawing or a print, he _always_ signed and also
inscribed it. Of the 271 works said to be in Le Guennec’s cache, reportedly
only one of them bears the artist’s signature, and none of them is inscribed.

The Le Guennec affair puts me in mind of the large collection of works, mostly
on paper and mostly executed at the end of the artist’s life, belonging to the
heir of his driver, Maurice Bresnu, which appeared on the market in the 1990s.
Bresnu (nicknamed “Nounours”) and his wife endeared themselves to the
Picassos. At first mistakenly thought to have been fakes and, later, to have
been stolen—only a fraction had been inscribed—they were ultimately O.K.’d by
the Picasso administration and put up for sale at Christie’s (November 19,
1998). It will be interesting to see how the Picasso administration, not to
mention the French judiciary, reacts in this new, far graver case.
