title: " The Career Arc: Eddie Murphy
source: http://www.grantland.com/story/_/id/7189740/eddie-murphy?view=print
date: 2025-08-13T20:27:02.008445
tags: []
---
_“T here’s this little box that African-American actors have to work in, in
the first place, and I was able to rise above that box.”
**— Eddie Murphy,_Rolling Stone_ (Nov. 10, 2011 issue)**_

We don’t consider Eddie Murphy as a pioneer because he never overcame
anything. Or so we thought. Bill Russell, Jackie Robinson and Oscar Robertson
overcame the worst kind of prejudice imaginable. Muhammad Ali did the same
_and_ became part of the Vietnam movement. Sidney Poitier and Bill Cosby broke
ground for African-Americans in their respective fields and paved the way for
everyone who followed. Richard Pryor pushed racial boundaries while barely
containing his seething anger about them. Eddie? He was just funnier than
everyone else. That’s it. His color mattered, but not as much as it could
have. Eventually, he transcended race the way Ali and Jordan did, and Will
Smith does right now. We came to think of him as Eddie and Eddie only.

Over the last 30 years, Eddie enjoyed too much success and made too much
money; his career became governed by a higher degree of difficulty, almost
like we collectively started squeezing his strike zone in 1989 and never
stopped. Ask anyone under 35 what they think of Eddie and they’ll probably
say, “Hasn’t been funny for 15 years.” Ask anyone from 35 to 50 what they
think and they’ll say either, “One of the funniest ever” or “Loved that guy,
wish he stopped making so many shitty movies.” We don’t argue about Eddie, we
don’t celebrate him, we don’t really do anything. You’re not exactly going out
on a limb by praising Eddie Murphy. It’s much more interesting to say he
sucks, or that he isn’t nearly as good as he once was.

Eddie could have shaped that discussion by giving more interviews, making a
viral video or three, grabbing meaty supporting parts in indie movies,
returning to stand-up clubs, or doing anything else to shed that “hasn’t been
funny in 15 years” rap. Even an occasional _Saturday Night Live_ hosting gig —
something he could have ripped off in his sleep — would have done the trick,
but Eddie hasn’t returned to 30 Rock since he left. He swerved the other way
publicly, taking seemingly safe roles and barely interacting with the media:
partly to protect his privacy, and partly because of an embarrassing incident
in 1997, when Eddie’s car was pulled over in the wee hours, in a relatively
seedy part of Hollywood, with a transvestite prostitute in the passenger’s
seat … and Eddie driving. He claimed to be giving her a ride (the “Good
Samaritan” defense), few believed him, and we never really heard from Eddie
again. He just kept cranking out those kids’ movies.

Well, until this weekend. At age 50, Eddie Murphy is making a comeback of
sorts by co-starring in Ben Stiller’s new action comedy, _Tower Heist_. The
consensus seems to be, “Fairly entertaining movie, but more importantly, Eddie
is Eddie again.” You know, the Eddie we loved (and in my case, revered), not
the dude from the kids’ movies. He even consented to a few interviews this
time around, including a candid one in _Rolling Stone_ that should have
resonated more than it did. Let’s dive into [Eddie’s IMDb
page](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0000552/) and figure out what happened to his
career, why it happened, when things turned … and why we have so much trouble
remembering it quite the right way.

* * *

### STAGE I: THE COMET

_“I bet you could figure out the combined grosses of people who came off_
Saturday Night Live _in the movies — me, Adam Sandler, Will Ferrell, Mike
Myers, Bill Murray, Dan Aykroyd. I bet it’s like $15 billion. That show’s like
Harvard for the comic actor. When you come off that show and get into the
movie business, it’s like you’re moving into slow motion for a couple of
years. You’ve been working like a crazy person in this pressure cooker, then
you’re in the movies, just sitting in your trailer.”_

**_SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE_ (1980-1984)**

Eddie came to _SNL_ right when black TV characters were being marginalized as
tokens and parodies. That wasn’t always the case. In the mid-to-late 1970s,
Fred Sanford (_Sanford and Son_), George Jefferson (_The Jeffersons_), James
and J.J. Evans (_Good Times_), Benson (_Soap_), James Hayward (_The White
Shadow_), and even wisecracking pipsqueak Arnold Jackson (_Diff’rent Strokes_)
carried themselves with dignity, stood up for themselves, railed against
prejudice, used humor to disarm uncomfortable situations, talked frankly about
the plight of poor people and, over and over again, handed some insensitive
white person his comeuppance. By 1981, that spirit had faded away. George and
Arnold had been neutered. James, Fred and JJ were long gone. Benson had been
defanged and spun off into his own show. _The White Shadow_ was getting
canceled, and only after CBS’ deplorable effort to rescue it by making it
whiter.

You know which black characters got to stick around? People like _The Love
Boat_ ‘s Isaac, a good-natured bartender who happily pointed at the camera in
the opening credits. _Heyyyyyyyyyyyy! I’m the token black guy! Would anyone
like a pina colada?_ You always knew what you were getting from Isaac: He’d
serve some drinks, laugh at everyone else’s jokes, and on those rare occasions
when a black actress came on the show (say, Lola Falana), you knew Isaac was
stepping in because God forbid a white character talked to her. Of the top
twenty shows from the 1981-82 season, only one revolved around black
characters (_The Jeffersons_) and only one other even _featured_ a black
character (_The Love Boat_). Of the quality dramas that year, only _Hill
Street Blues_ bothered to incorporate black characters — police officers Bobby
Hill and Neil Washington, both relegated to supporting roles because that’s
just how it went in the early 80s.

So on _Saturday Night Live_ (and television in general), 19-year-old Eddie
stood out … to say the least. For its first five years, Garrett Morris had
been _SNL_ ‘s weak link, its least funny cast member, someone who seemed
fifteen years older than everyone else, someone who never fit in … and, of
course, someone who was black. Great. Viewers never latched onto any Garrett
character except for his Chico Esquela; the show’s writers never respected
him, repeatedly making him dress in drag and even humiliating him by casting
him as the monkey in a _Wizard of Oz_ sketch (which would cause an Internet
riot if it happened now). According to 1985’s fantastic _SNL_ book, _[Saturday
Night: A Backstage History of Saturday Night
Live](http://www.amazon.com/Saturday-Night-Backstage-History-
Live/dp/0688050999/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1320431421&sr=8-1)_ by Doug Hill and
Jeff Weingrad (now out of print, because God forbid we could read it), a
deeply depressed Morris started freebasing to cope with his unseemly plight.
That only caused their writers to bury him even more. For a cutting-edge
comedy show that became such a pop-culture phenomenon in the late 1970s (and a
ratings smash), it’s kind of startling how **white** _SNL_ really was. Only
the show’s diverse musical acts and Richard Pryor’s electric hosting job in
1975 — _[dead honky](http://www.hulu.com/watch/1477/saturday-night-live-word-
association)_ — saved it from any real criticism. During the show’s first
seven seasons (139 shows in all), only five blacks hosted the show: Pryor, Ray
Charles, Cicely Tyson, O.J. Simpson and Bill Russell. Five!

By sheer coincidence, a show that desperately needed diversity stumbled into
one of the most talented young celebrities who ever lived … and on top of
that, someone created by God to appear on that show every weekend. I can’t
even think of an athletic parallel. He’s the most talented _SNL_ cast member
ever, the only one to host the show _when he was starring on it._ Of the
biggest stars in _SNL_ history — Eddie, Ferrell, Myers, Dana Carvey, John
Belushi, Chevy Chase, Gilda Radner, Sandler, Billy Crystal, Bill Murray,
Aykroyd in some order — only Eddie broke into show business on the show. He
was a cast member at 19, the show’s meal ticket by 20, a movie star by 21, and
a full-fledged superduperstar by 22. Tell me when we’ll see that again.

Eddie never catered to _SNL_ ‘s mostly white audience, that’s for sure. His
most popular running sketch was “[Mr. Robinson’s
Neighborhood](http://www.hulu.com/watch/4189/saturday-night-live-mr-robinsons-
neighborhood),” which was basically Mr. Rogers in the projects (and almost
always ended up with him escaping the police). His most popular “Weekend
Update” character was [Raheem Abdul-
Muhammed](http://www.hulu.com/watch/271859/saturday-night-live-raheem-abdul-
muhammed) (who vented about various injustices while always finding a way to
play the race card). His most popular running characters were Mr. Robinson,
[Velvet Jones](http://www.hulu.com/watch/2333/saturday-night-live-velvet-
jones) (a goofy pimp) and Dion (a gay hairdresser who wanted to sleep with
various black celebs). His most popular celebrity imitations were Stevie
Wonder (someone who had always been off-limits in the black community), [James
Brown](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QC3fueXJdcY) and Michael Jackson (two
other black icons), [Little Richard
Simmons](http://www.hulu.com/watch/4103/saturday-night-live-little-richards-
simmons-show) (just a genius creation) and Buckwheat (the retroactively
offensive _Little Rascals_ character). His edgiest sketches always involved
Eddie tapping into the black/white thing: like [“Images” by Tyrone
Green](http://www.hulu.com/watch/4168/saturday-night-live-prose-and-cons) (a
poem by a convict about killing white people) or [“Kill the White
People”](http://video.google.com/videoplay?docid=-8442222719771220551&hl=en#)
(Tyrone’s rasta band singing that song in front of an all-white audience).

Watch these clips on Hulu or YouTube now and they won’t feel groundbreaking.
Back in the early 80s? You can’t even imagine. With Pryor battling a career-
killing drug problem and _The Cosby Show_ still just a pitch on a piece of
paper, only Eddie kept America from relying on white people and British people
for laughs. His second-finest moment: the watershed “[Buckwheat’s Been
Shot](http://www.hulu.com/watch/10389/saturday-night-live-buckwheat-buys-the-
farm)” series (an inspired parody of the assassination attempt on Ronald
Reagan), when Eddie played Buckwheat and his creepy assassin, [John David
Stutts](http://www.hulu.com/watch/10400/saturday-night-live-john-david-
stutts). His finest moment: when Stevie Wonder hosted the show right as Eddie
was doing a wicked (and slightly controversial) impression of him at comedy
clubs. You watched that show live thinking, “There’s no way Eddie will do
Stevie in front of Stevie, right?” … while secretly hoping he would.

It happened in a sketch with Joe Piscopo (playing an agent) bringing Stevie
(playing a celeb impersonator) to audition for Murphy (who was a music
executive) … with the catch being that Stevie’s character billed himself as
the Stevie Wonder Experience. So Stevie does his Stevie “impersonation” and
botches it horribly. Murphy interjects, “No, no, you’re doing it all wrong,”
then proceeds to slip on a pair of sunglasses as the crowd goes batshit. And
he does Stevie _with Stevie standing right next to him._

I was 13 when this happened. You can think I’m crazy, I don’t care, but the
most exciting TV moments of the early ’80s were (a) this sketch, (b) Letterman
taking his show to L.A. and having Carson as a guest, (c) Michael Jackson
[singing “Billie Jean” and doing the
moonwalk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kXhy7ZsiR50) on the “Motown 25”
special, (d) Reagan getting shot by Hinckley, (e) Roddy Piper smashing the
coconut into Jimmy Snuka’s head, and (f) the premiere of “Thriller” on MTV. No
other arguments can be accepted. Anyway, Eddie brings the house down with an
impression of Stevie singing _My Cherie Amour._ Unbelievable. Crushes it. With
Stevie standing right there. The crowd settles down and Stevie “tries” his
impersonation again … still terrible. Eddie’s turn. He nails Stevie a second
time. After the crowd settles down, the scene shifts back to Stevie for one
last “attempt.”

Only this time, Fake Stevie suddenly turns into Real Stevie and belts out an a
cappella version of _My Cherie Amour_ that was like … I mean, I can’t possibly
describe how good this was. Nobody could bring it quite like Stevie in his
prime. When he nails the last note, the crowd erupts like someone made a
midcourt shot to win an NCAA Tournament game; if you watch the tape, even
Piscopo breaks character and lets out a delighted yelp. That’s how remarkable
it was. I know he’s a first-ballot Hall of Famer and a musical icon, but I
can’t imagine Stevie Wonder ever brought the house down quite like that. Eddie
pushed him there.

Of course, Eddie never breaks character. He waits for the applause to die
down, waits for an extra second and finally says, “No, man, it _still_ sucks.”
Huge laugh. Perfect ending.

At that specific moment, you would have bet anything that Eddie Murphy would
be one of the biggest stars in the world someday. Nobody had felt that way
about a black entertainer before. Within two years, Eddie would flee the show,
star in three smash-hit movies, become a millionaire and even record a
cutting-edge comedy special for HBO. We put Dwight Gooden’s Mozart-like 1985
season on a pedestal because of his age (20). Same for a 19-year-old Magic
jumping center in the 1980 finals and demolishing the Sixers, Mike Tyson
winning the heavyweight title at 20, even 22-year-old LeBron dragging a crappy
Cavs team to the 2007 finals. Eddie Murphy had an entire _career_ before he
turned 24. We should probably mention this every once in a while.

### STAGE II: THE APEX

_“My significance in film — and again, I’m not going to be delusional — was
that I’m the first black actor to take charge in a white world onscreen.
That’s why I became as popular as I became. People had never seen that
before.”_

**_48 HRS_ (1982)**
One of the great movie experiences of my life. We went on opening weekend in
December (me, my mother, my stepfather and a friend) to the old Avon Theater
in Stamford, Connecticut. The crowd couldn’t have been more jacked up — it was
about 70 percent black and 100 percent pro-Eddie. If you remember, Eddie
didn’t appear on-screen for the first 15 minutes. When he finally showed up
(the scene when Nick Nolte’s character visits him in jail), there was an
electricity within the theater unlike anything I can remember. People were
hanging on every line, every joke, everything. At the end of the scene, when
Nolte storms off and Eddie screams, “Jack! Jack! (Defiant pause.) FUCK YOU!,”
someone who had already caught a few showings stood up on cue and screamed
“FUCK YOU!” with Eddie. And it went from there. The scene when Eddie rousts
the redneck bar practically caused a riot. _Bullshit, you’re too fucking
stupid to have a job._ People were doubled over. People were cheering. I’ve
never seen anything like it.

Look, I’m biased: I have watched _48 Hrs_ more times than any other movie.
(It’s not close, actually.) I know every line. I love Reggie Hammond, I love
Ganz and Billy Bear, I love the Bus Boys, and I even love that irascible
racist with a heart of gold, Jack Cates. So it’s tough for me to talk about it
rationally — it’s one of the most ripped-off movies of the last 30 years.
(Think how many wisecracking buddy-cop movies or black/white-didn’t-like-each-
other-right-away movies have been made since 1982.) But this couldn’t have
been a smarter first movie for Eddie, and just when it couldn’t get any
better, fate intervened: Nick Nolte was supposed to host _SNL_ on the movie’s
opening weekend, partied too hard, had to cancel … and [Eddie hosted in his
place](http://www.hulu.com/watch/274821/saturday-night-live-eddie-murphy-
monologue) … and crushed it. At that specific point, Eddie Murphy’s stock was
like Apple’s right after the first iPad came out.

**_DELIRIOUS_ (1983)**
A crucial career move because of the salty language, the edgy content and the
comedy itself (it’s on the short list of “funniest stand-up specials ever”).
Eddie taped this for HBO right as HBO was starting to become **HBO** — they
played the show constantly, and really, I can’t remember another reason to
watch HBO in 1983 unless you were hoping for late-night nudity. I cannot
defend Eddie’s gay-bashing other than to say that, in 1983, nobody knew any
better. I remember laughing at every one of those jokes without even a shred
of guilt. When the gay community protested, I even remember thinking they
needed to lighten up and get over themselves. Seven years later, when one of
my family members came out, I thought differently. It’s tough to re-watch
those specific parts in 2011; there’s no question. But in 1983? That may have
been the funniest hour I ever spent. I remember going away for one holiday
vacation, bringing the _Delirious_ cassette with me and listening to it, James
Brown and Ice Cream Man dozens of times over the course of a week.

Something bigger was happening, of course: From 1982 to 1985, our “cutting-
edge” comedy tastes undeniably shifted from the
Carson/Pryor/Carlin/Martin/Imus generation to Eddie, Howard Stern, Letterman,
_SNL_ (revived by Eddie, then by the Crystal/Short/Guest season) and every up-
and-coming comedian on Letterman’s show (Jerry Seinfeld, Jay Leno, Richard
Lewis, etc.). By 1985, poor Carson was starting to feel like a dinosaur. Eddie
was more responsible than anyone.

**_TRADING PLACES_ (1983)**
The movie that made it clear (a) Eddie wasn’t a fluke, (b) Eddie would become
Hollywood’s biggest star sooner than we thought, (c) Dan Aykroyd could survive
without John Belushi, and (d) the next time an actress feels pigeonholed by a
specific genre (like Jamie Lee Curtis and horror films), she should just make
a comedy and show off her fantastic boobs. And you know what? The movie holds
up shockingly well 28 years later — there’s absolutely no reason to remake it.
One crucial point: _Trading Places_ was released on June 8, 1983. Within a
week, it became clear that Eddie needed to leave _SNL_. Like, as soon as
possible.

**_BEST DEFENSE_ (1984)**
You know someone became a giant star when they release a dogshit movie almost
as a dare. _You really like me that much? Well, I dare you to see this._
You’re only allowed one of these — you could call them Mulligan Movies. Julia
Roberts in _Dying Young._ Leo in _The Beach._ Eddie in _Best Defense._ Cruise
in _Legend._ Sandra Bullock in _The Net._ It’s harder to make these now
because of social media; if a movie stinks, the word gets out by Friday night.
Not in 1984. I saw _Best Defense_ on opening weekend and refused to believe
these murky reports that it was secretly a terrible Dudley Moore movie with a
few Eddie cameos. _How could it suck? Eddie’s in it!_ Well, it totally sucked.
Even though it was marketed like an Eddie movie, he probably appears in 15
percent of it. When he hosted _SNL_ the following year, [he joked about the
movie](http://www.hulu.com/watch/272445/saturday-night-live-eddie-murphy-
monologue), “What?! How dare you give me a script like this! Oh, THAT much
money? Let’s go!” It wouldn’t be the last time that happened.

**_BEVERLY HILLS COP_ (1984)**
Apex Eddie. Total command. Killer premise, killer execution, more than a few
laughs, everything you’d ever want from a cop movie. _Cop_ completed the best
three-year run by a funny person: from 1982-84, Eddie was the funniest person
alive by any calculation, as well as our single most popular celebrity other
than Michael Jackson. It also unleashed one of the better movie-related “What
Ifs”: What if _Beverly Hills Cop_ had been made with the star who originally
developed it … that’s right, the one and only Sylvester Stallone?!?!?!? My
head just exploded.

**_SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE_ (1984)**
Eddie’s much-ballyhooed return as host delivers the goods. _[White Like
Me](http://www.hulu.com/watch/10356/saturday-night-live-white-like-me)_
becomes the piece everyone remembers … yes, Eddie poking fun at the race thing
again. Still holds up. And just like that, he never came back. I still say
this was his single biggest career mistake — every two or three years, no
matter how many crappy the movies he was making, he should have been showing
up at 30 Rock specifically to remind everyone that Eddie Murphy was still a
funny motherfucker. Not taking advantage of that was a bigger mistake than
_Pluto Nash,_ _Vampire in Brooklyn,_ _I Spy_ and _Imagine That_ combined.

**_PARTY ALL THE TIME_ (1985)**
OK, here’s where things start to get a little goofy. Eddie had just spent the
past four years becoming America’s second-most popular celebrity (trailing
only Michael Jackson). He still hadn’t turned 24. Naturally, he thought he
could do anything … you know, like make a no. 1 pop album. That’s how _Party
All the Time_ happened. America indulged it the same way that Seth
MacFarlane’s party guests indulge his Sinatra songs. _That’s great, Eddie! We
love it! Um … you think you’re going to make a movie again soon?_ Only one
thing redeemed this song: [Rick James’ epic performance in the
video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m5LX16zia2k). They need to make a
provision in the NBA lockout settlement that three players per year have to
play an 82-game season while wearing Rick James’ hair from the _Party All the
Time_ video.

**_2nd MTV VIDEO AWARDS_ (1985)**
Why didn’t Eddie make a movie in 1985? I don’t know. This turned out to be his
best achievement: hosting a relevant-at-the-time show (while wearing a
terrible sweater) to protect his “funniest person alive” title, even
[introducing Run-DMC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=geiXI4GeQws) at one
point, a moment that turned out to have a little more meaning than we thought.
I remember thinking Eddie and Bernard King were the two coolest people alive
in 1984 … and within a few years, people like the Run-DMC guys and the NWA
guys started popping up, rap took off and Eddie suddenly didn’t seem so cool
anymore. It happens.

**_THE GOLDEN CHILD_ (1986)**
This might be a terrible movie and I’ve been in denial for 25 years. Here’s my
defense: Eddie hadn’t made a film for two years, so by the time this came out,
we were ready to laugh at anything. You know on _Survivor_ when they haven’t
eaten for days, then somebody wins a challenge and gets to eat a meal, and
they’re just stuffing their face like animals? That was every Eddie fan with
_The Golden Child._ It was Eddie food. We didn’t care about the quality.

**_BEVERLY HILLS COP II and RAW_ (1987)**
_Cop II_ ended up being the third-best movie Eddie ever made. Totally
underrated. Still holds up. One of the few sequels that actually exceeded the
original. (In particular, Rosewood and Taggart were fantastic.) And by the
way, comedy sequels almost always fail … as Eddie would find out three years
later. Can you name three comedy sequels that you _liked?_ Meanwhile, _Raw_
remains the no. 1 stand-up comedy film of all time even all these years later
($9.1 million opening weekend, $50 million domestically). I didn’t like it
quite as much as _Delirious,_ but only because it wasn’t quite as much fun —
it’s a little angrier, a little more full of itself, a little less funny, and
as far as vanity projects go, the opening credits of _Raw_ make _Party All the
Time_ look like child’s play. I think Eddie was pretty much convinced he was
the Black Elvis at this point. And why not? What evidence did we have that he
wasn’t?

**_COMING TO AMERICA_ (1988)**
Eddie’s last great movie, as well as his first foray into the whole “playing
multiple characters” routine … and a really smart career choice. _Coming to
America_ feels different than any Eddie movie before it — a little softer, a
little smarter, a little more family-friendly. When lumped with _The Cosby
Show,_ _A Different World,_ Arsenio Hall’s talk show, Spike Lee’s movies,
Michael Jordan’s Nike commercials and Magic Johnson’s swelling popularity, the
message was pretty clear: Black people could make successful family movies,
carry smash-hit sitcoms, take chances cinematically and sell shoes just like
white people could. (In other words, farewell to the days of Isaac the
Bartender.) And by the way, we just ended the most
successful/funny/creative/original seven-year movie run any comedian ever had.
Will Ferrell, Steve Martin, Chevy Chase, Bill Murray, Adam Sandler, Mike
Myers, Pryor … nobody can touch Eddie’s stretch from 1982 to 1988. It’s
morbid, but if you applied the Kurt Cobain Test here (in other words, what
would have been the optimal time for an athlete or artist to drop dead as a
career move?), had Eddie died in an airplane crash four weeks after _Coming to
America_ came out, we would have forever discussed him in reverential tones,
cried that he was taken too soon and bemoaned every Eddie movie we never got
to see (with every hypothetical movie being fantastic, of course). Real life
doesn’t work that way. As we were about to find out.

### STAGE 3: THE INEVITABLE SWOON

_“You have to remember, there was no hip-hop back then, or hip-hop was just
novelty music, and for years, I’m the whipping boy. Anybody that wanted to
vent, I was the one. I got a lot of shit that wasn’t fair. The root of it was
racist. If I was rubbing you the wrong way, at the core of it was some racist
shit: ‘look at this arrogant nigger, two thumbs _waaaaaay_ down.’ Then I
wasn’t helping either. I wasn’t giving no humble pie: ‘Fuck y’all, suck my
dick, motherfucker.'”_

**_HARLEM NIGHTS_ (1989)**
During Eddie’s ascension and peak, the man lacked any haters other than the
gay community (who had rightfully turned on him). Even cynical dickheads loved
him. At the height of his fame, Eddie always joked about how people worried
about him burning through his money or throwing his career away. His success
eventually derailed Eddie from a pure “funny” standpoint, but not for the
typical reasons: Funny people need to be around _people_ to stay funny. Poor
Eddie was too famous. By 1989, Eddie was either holed up in his New Jersey
mansion (surrounded by friends and family) or partying in Hollywood with
Arsenio Hall and Magic Johnson (the self-proclaimed “Black Pack”). How can you
notice funny things, pick up goofy quirks or find humor in various situations
if you’re trapped in your mansion, protected in a club by bodyguards or
dealing with an endless onslaught of ingratiating ass-kissers? Wouldn’t you
lose perspective on anything and everything?

My buddy Gus believes that movie comedians have a “funny” shelf life of seven
years, almost like a carton of milk. When you look at what happened to
Sandler, Carrey, Myers, Ferrell and everyone else over the years, it’s hard to
disagree. You almost have to reinvent yourself at that seven-year mark and
turn into something else (like Tom Hanks did). Maybe Eddie realized that, and
maybe that’s why he thought it would be a good idea to star in and direct the
unwatchable _Harlem Nights._ His intentions were noble: share a screen with
two other African-American comedy icons (Redd Foxx and Pryor), branch out by
directing it, make a period piece, take a career chance … I just know that I
limped out of the theater afterwards and haven’t seen a frame since. The movie
got skewered and it affected every choice Eddie made from that point on,
despite what Eddie claimed in _Rolling Stone_.

“I’m never gonna go, ‘I want to do this role because it’s a challenge. I might
not be able to pull it off, that’s why I’m excited about doing it.’ For
someone to sit on the outside, talking about, ‘They need to push themselves,’
it’s so ridiculous. Push myself? I’ve had a whole fucking career already,
these are the gravy years. I have more than distinguished myself in the movie
business.”

Bullshit. Once upon a time, I think he _wanted_ to push himself: That’s why
_Coming to America_ happened (a good push), and that’s why _Harlem Nights_
happened (a bad push). He never totally gambled with another movie.

**_ANOTHER 48 HRS_ (1990)**
Tough year for me: _Rocky 5,_ _Another 48 Hours,_ _Godfather 3_ and Larry Bird
missing a dunk during a series-deciding loss to the Knicks _in the Boston
Garden._ My whole childhood fell apart in 1990. And by the way, I will never
forgive them for screwing up the _48 Hrs_ sequel so badly that it actually
affects how you watch the first movie. Wait, Kehoe from the first movie was
the bad guy all along? What? It’s inexplicable. I despise this movie. Eddie
didn’t do himself any favors by plodding through it while carrying an extra 15
pounds; it was like watching his fat brother doing a Reggie Hammond
impersonation. Let’s just move on.

#### SPORTS GUY’S WEEK 9 PICKS

My last 3 weeks of picking games: 13-22-2 against the spread. That’s so
unconscionably atrocious that I banned myself from writing a football column
this week or explaining any of these Week 9 picks.

_HOME TEAMS IN CAPS_

Jets (+2) over BILLS
Seahawks (+11.5) over Cowboys
Falcons (-7) over COLTS
CHIEFS (-4) over Dolphins
SAINTS (-8.5) over Bucs
49ers (-3.5) over REDSKINS
TEXANS (-10.5) over Browns
TITANS (-3) over Bengals
Giants (+9) over PATRIOTS
RAIDERS (-7.5) over Broncos
CARDINALS (-3) over Rams
CHARGERS (+6) over Packers
Ravens (+3.5) over STEELERS
Bears (+7.5) over EAGLES

**Last Week: 4-9
Season: 54-56-6
**

**_BOOMERANG_ (1992)**
Eddie’s first “comeback” movie. I’m a total _Boomerang_ defender — Eddie felt
like Eddie again, the story was funny, it’s an adult comedy (with sex scenes
and everything), it’s one of the better “here’s what happened when you get
whipped” premises, and most important, it features young Halle Berry _and_ an
in-her-prime Robin Givens. Robin Givens is so hot in this movie that, after
you watch it, Mike Tyson’s abrupt downfall, eventual prison sentence and
subsequent bankruptcy make total sense. Anyway, I would have bought Eddie
stock in 1992. He had seemingly righted the ship. Or so we thought.

**_THE DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN_ (1993)**
Not as bad as you remember … but not good, either. This one felt cheap, like
they used all their money for Eddie and saved everywhere else on little things
like the cast, director and production crew. Meanwhile, Michael Jordan had
quietly grabbed the “Most Famous/Successful/Revered Black Guy” championship
belt from Eddie and his friend Michael Jackson, and rap artists like Dr. Dre,
Snoop Dogg and 2Pac were collectively hoisting the “Coolest Black Celebrities”
belt. Eddie and Michael Jackson didn’t totally fit in anymore. Only they
didn’t totally know it yet. Which led to …

**_“WHATZUPWITU”_ (1993)**
[Ahhhhhhhhhh!
AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=78CukN0wXDM)

**_BEVERLY HILLS COP III_ (1994)**
The ultimate desperation move: running Axel Foley back a third time. I tried
to watch this one recently, had one of those, “Wait, this is better than I
remembered, was I too harsh on this movie?” moments about six minutes in … and
10 minutes later, I was shaking my head and flipping channels. I’m actually
shaking my head as I’m typing this.

**_A VAMPIRE IN BROOKLYN_ (1995)**
Eddie explains: “The only way I was able to do _Nutty Professor_ and to get
out of my Paramount deal, I had to do _Vampire in Brooklyn_. But you know what
ruined that movie? The wig. I walked out in that longhaired wig and people
said, “Oh get the fuck out of here! What the hell is this?” I wish he had told
me that before I paid for the movie.

_Vampire_ concluded a seven-year run that undid much of the cache of the
previous seven-year run … which, again, was the greatest run by any comedian
ever. How does that make sense? We certainly don’t approach sports this way.
If Albert Pujols signs with the Angels for $250 million next month and doesn’t
live up to that deal — an inevitable statistical swoon, followed by a few DL
trips, the slowing of his bat speed and whispers that he’s three years older
than he claims — it won’t change the fact that Albert’s first decade ranks up
there with anything that’s ever happened in baseball. When the Rolling Stones
released 30 straight years of forgettable albums from 1982 on, it didn’t
change how we felt about everything before 1982. Why wouldn’t Eddie get the
same leeway?

### STAGE 4: THE NOT-SO-SUBTLE SHIFT

_“I’ve been making movies for so long that now it’s all just one body of work.
If you have a flop movie, so what? And if you have a hit movie, it’s ‘so
what,’ too, it’s on to the next movie. If I do something and I die in it, at
least I took a chance.”_

**_THE NUTTY PROFESSOR_ (1996)**
Smart career choice, terrific use of Eddie (the “multiple characters” thing
again) … oh, and it made almost $274 million worldwide. So much for Eddie
being washed up.

We’ll let Eddie explain (via _Rolling Stone_): “I had a bunch of movies that
didn’t work. People were saying, ‘Eddie’s not good,’ so I was like, ‘Not good?
Let me show you what I can fucking do. I’ll do something where I play all
these different characters.’ It’s a trip, it seems like every five or six
years, you have to do something to remind them that they like you. Then you
get offered a bunch of stuff, because you were in a hit, and some of the
movies might be shitty, but they throw so much paper at you that you can’t say
no to it. The problem when you’re doing those flicks for a lot of paper,
though, is on TV they show your hit right next to your flop, on there
forever.”

**_METRO_ (1997)**
Just to be sure it’s gone, Eddie tries the “wisecracking cop in an R-rated
action movie” ploy one last time. And fails. His career strategy falls into
place: stop trying to relive the ’80s, start cranking out kids’ movies for a
lot of paper.

**_DOCTOR DOOLITTLE_ (1998)**
IMDb’s description: “A Doctor finds out that he can understand what animals
are saying. And the animals find out that he understands.” (Grimly nodding.)
This movie made $294 million worldwide.

**_HOLY MAN_ (1998)**
IMDb again: “Eddie Murphy stars as an over-the-top television evangelist who
finds a way to turn television home shopping into a religious experience, and
takes America by storm.” Yikes. This one bombed ($12 million U.S. gross) and
might be more unwatchable than any of Adam Sandler’s most dreadful movies with
the possible exception of _Little Nicky._ Even worse, Eddie had disappeared
from the public eye because of the transvestite incident — we could only judge
him movie by movie, so when he released one _this_ bad? You couldn’t shake the
stink.

**_LIFE_ (1998)** and **_BOWFINGER_ (1999)**
Eddie in _Rolling Stone_ : _“I could have done a bunch of movies when I stayed
as the Axel Foley or Reggie Hammond persona. But I didn’t want to be doing the
same thing every time. Every now and then, you crash and burn, but that’s part
of it.”_

Post-1988 Eddie took more chances than you think, even if it didn’t totally
seem like it. _Life_ didn’t work; _Bowfinger_ did. He’s great in the second
one. Maybe it’s not a top-five Eddie movie, but it’s unequivocally one of his
best performances. [As Dan Silver pointed out on
Grantland](http://www.grantland.com/blog/hollywood-
prospectus/post/_/id/36630/youtube-hall-of-fame-eddie-murphys-greatest-hits)
earlier this week, Eddie played two different characters so well that it felt
like watching two different actors. He absolutely should have been nominated
for an Oscar (and wasn’t). You can guess what happened next.

**_NUTTY PROFESSOR II_ (2000)**
**_SHREK_ (2001)**
**_DR. DOOLITTLE 2_ (2002)**
Kids, kids, kids! Eddie had a big family at this point — if you already did
everything you ever wanted to do in Hollywood, and you were wealthier than
your wildest dreams, would you be able to resist the urge to make big-budget
movies for your kids? We should mention that the _Nutty Professor_ sequel made
$166 million worldwide; _Shrek_ made $484.4 million (Eddie provided the voice
of the donkey); and the _Doolittle_ sequel made $176.1 million. If you rip
Eddie for making kids’ movies these past 15 years, make sure you point out
that nobody enjoyed more success cranking out movies for that genre … a genre
which, by the way, became infinitely more important in the DVD/Blu-
ray/PPV/iTunes “I need to throw something on to entertain my kids for 90
minutes” era. I would argue shifting this way was a _good_ career move, not a
bad one. But whatever.

**_ADVENTURES OF PLUTO NASH_ (2002)**
**_I SPY_ (2002)**
**_DADDY DAY CARE_ (2003)**
**_THE HAUNTED MANSION_ (2003)**
**_SHREK 2_ (2004)**
Rough stretch here with the exception of _Shrek 2,_ even if _Haunted Mansion_
and _Daddy Day Care_ made a combined $346.7 million worldwide. Suddenly, we’re
approaching the quarter-century mark of the Eddie Experience.

### STAGE 5: THE GRAVY YEARS

_“I turned 50 in April. I know this is a business where success is the
exception not the rule. There’s nothing you could say — even if you don’t like
me, you have to give it up. I’ve been around for 30 years. I think Stallone
said it: you don’t do 25 years in this business being stinky.”_

**_DREAMGIRLS_ (2006)**
Yet another Eddie comeback, yet another special Eddie performance … yet
another time when the Academy Awards robbed him. Eddie lost the “Best
Supporting Actor” Oscar to Alan Arkin (_Little Miss Sunshine_), in what turned
out to be his only Oscar nomination. He should have had three: _Dreamgirls,_
_Bowfinger_ and … (wait for it) _Trading Places._ You tell me, what was a
better supporting actor performance in 1983: Rip Torn in _Cross Creek,_ Sam
Shepard in _The Right Stuff,_ John Lithgow in _Terms of Endearment,_ Charles
Durning in _To Be or Not to Be_ … or Eddie’s iconic performance as Billy Ray
Valentine? That could have been one of those excruciating Chris Rock parts and
Eddie singlehandedly saved it. He’s fantastic in it. Too bad the Academy
ignores “funny” performances unless there were mitigating circumstances … you
know, like someone dying in the movie. This is a whole other column.

**_NORBIT_ (2007)**
**_SHREK THE THIRD_ (2007)**
**_MEET DAVE_ (2008)**
_Norbit_ made $159 million worldwide. _Shrek_ made $484.4 million. _Meet Dave_
sort of bombed, but not really ($50.7 million). Two for three, along with more
paper and gravy. True fact: According to
[boxofficemojo.com](http://boxofficemojo.com/), Eddie’s movies have [grossed
over $6.5 _billion_
worldwide](http://www.boxofficemojo.com/people/chart/?id=eddiemurphy.htm)
before adjusting them for inflation. Will Smith’s total: $5.735 billion.
Denzel Washington’s total: $2.788 billion. I’m just sayin’.

**_IMAGINE THAT_ (2009)**
Eddie in _Rolling Stone_ : “Would the 27-year-old Eddie have wondered what I
was doing in _Dr. Doolittle_? Or _Shrek_? No. Or in those _Shrek_ movies? No.
But you know, both the 27-year-old and the 48-year-old was like, “Why am in
_Imagine That_?” That movie didn’t have a chance at the box office — it’s just
me and a little girl and a blanket.” They should put this quote on the Blu-ray
cover.

**_SHREK FOREVER AFTER_ (2010)**
More paper, more gravy. Eddie to _Rolling Stone_ : “After all these years,
I’ve done well and I’m cool. I feel comfortable in my skin. I’ve saved some
paper, everybody’s healthy, my kids are beautiful and smart, doing different
things, it’s all good. I’m trying to maintain my shit like this and do a
different project now and then.” Can you really mock him for this? And yet …

**_TOWER HEIST_ (2011)**
There’s been a subtle Eddie renaissance these past few months: his decision to
host the Oscars next February; his candid _Rolling Stone_ interview; a few
late-night interviews; even a well-reviewed performance in Ben Stiller’s new
movie. Could Eddie enjoy one last run of mainstream relevancy? Could he rip
off a few movie-stealing supporting roles, a little like how Nicholson kept
things fresh post-50 with _Broadcast News,_ _Batman_ and _A Few Good Men_?
Would Eddie have the balls to return to 30 Rock and host _SNL_ for the first
time in 27 years? Does he realize that two generations of people don’t
remember when he _truly_ mattered? Does any of this matter in the first place?
Could you begrudge him for just being 50, rich and happy, for doing whatever
he wants, for trying to “maintain his shit?”

Here was his best _Rolling Stone_ quote (in my opinion, anyway): “I saw this
documentary on Ronald Reagan and it was like, ‘Whoa.’ They say he came into
the house, and he had the toy White House that he had taken out of the fish
tank, and he goes, ‘I don’t know what I’m doing with this, but I know it had
something to do with me.’ He had even forgotten he was the president. No
matter what you do, all that shit is getting turned into gobbledygook. In 200
years, it’s all dust, and in 300 years, it ain’t nothing, and in 1,000 years,
it’s like you weren’t even fucking here. But if you were really lucky, if you
really did something special, you can hang around a little longer.”

It all depends on your definition of hanging around. He’s right — all that
shit is getting turned into gobbledygook someday.

But in the meantime, couldn’t we remember that gobbledygook a little more
accurately? Why don’t we remember Eddie’s peak from 1981 to 1988 a little more
reverentially? How he exceeded any other non-musician’s apex in my lifetime?
How he meant more, did more, wielded the highest approval rating, earned a
ridiculous amount of money, took the best chances, bridged classes and
ethnicities … I mean, what else could he have done?

Why don’t we think about race when we think about Eddie? Why doesn’t Eddie get
mentioned with Poitier, Cosby and Pryor every time? Why doesn’t it matter that
_every_ successful black comic or actor that came after him — Chris Rock, Dave
Chappelle, any of the Wayans brothers, Will Smith, you name it — profusely
credited Eddie for influencing him?

Why doesn’t Eddie get more credit for flipping _Saturday Night Live_ on its
lily-white ass, reinvigorating it _and_ becoming its only truly successful
black cast member?

Why doesn’t Eddie get more credit for, as he puts it, becoming “the first
black actor to take charge in a white world onscreen?”

Why doesn’t everyone ever point out that Eddie is the most successful comedian
ever, by any calculation … and really, it’s not even close? That he’s one of
the best stand-ups ever? That, before Eddie, only white actors were considered
sure things at the box office? That Eddie made more money making kids’ movies
than anyone ever? Doesn’t this seem … I don’t know … relevant?

I don’t know why we stopped caring about Eddie, why we never give him the
benefit of the doubt, why we never consider him a pioneer, why we were in such
a hurry to marginalize him. I just know that we don’t, and we don’t, and we
don’t. And we did.

_A previous version of this story incorrectly stated that Alan Arkin died
after shooting_ Little Miss Sunshine _. Bill is delighted to report that Arkin
is very much alive and he only died in the movie. Related: Bill is getting
old._

_Bill Simmons is Grantland’s Editor in Chief, the host of the BS Report
podcast, the author of the New York Times no. 1 best-seller _The Book of
Basketball_ and the co-creator of ESPN’s Peabody-award winning “30 For 30”
series. Follow him on [Twitter](http://twitter.com/#!/sportsguy33) and
[Facebook](http://www.facebook.com/billsimmons)_

* * *

Previously from Bill Simmons:

[Bill and Jay’s YouTube Adventure](https://grantland.com/bill-jay-youtube-
adventure)
[NFL Quarterback Power Rankings](https://grantland.com/nfl-quarterback-power-
rankings)
[Proactively Mourning the NBA](https://grantland.com/proactively-mourning-nba)
[Behind the Pipes: Into the Arms of the NHL](https://grantland.com/arms-nhl)
[Avoiding the Lockout and the Red Sox](https://grantland.com/avoiding-lockout-
red-sox)
[We Need a Renegade Basketball League](https://grantland.com/we-need-renegade-
basketball-league)
[A Running Diary of Game 162](https://grantland.com/a-running-diary-game-162)
[Welcome to Amnesty 2.0 in the NBA](https://grantland.com/welcome-
amnesty-20-nba)
[NFL Preview: It’s All About Continuity](https://grantland.com/all-continuity)
[Summer of Mailbag V: Passing the Buck](https://grantland.com/passing-buck)
[Summer of Mailbag IV: Dawn of the Mailbag](https://grantland.com/dawn-
mailbag)
[Summer of Mailbag III: Attack of the Mailbag!](https://grantland.com/attack-
mailbag)
[The Glorious Return of the Mailbag](https://grantland.com/the-glorious-
return-mailbag)
[Summer of Mailbag: The Revenge](https://grantland.com/revenge)

To submit questions for Bill’s mailbag, [click
here](https://grantland.com/e-mail-sports-guy); to comment on this story
through Facebook, [click here](http://www.facebook.com/GrantLand33).
