title: Is Amazon Unstoppable? | The New Yorker
source: https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2019/10/21/is-amazon-unstoppable
date: 2025-08-13T16:06:05.920584
tags: []
---
Although Freed was thriving at Amazon, he could see that there was something
dizzying about its flywheel mentality. “It was hard,” he said. “That’s the
culture—do whatever it takes, even if it seems impossible.” Amazon’s obsession
with expansion made it the corporate equivalent of a colonizer, ruthlessly
invading new industries and subjugating many smaller companies along the way.
In 2006, the company had launched Fulfillment by Amazon, an initiative in
which outside sellers—everyone from mom-and-pop venders to major Chinese
manufacturers—housed inventory inside Amazon’s giant warehouses and paid a fee
for Amazon to handle logistics, such as packing and shipping products and
fielding customer-service calls. Companies enrolled in Fulfillment by Amazon
often appeared in the Buy Box, the top search listing on Amazon.com. To
participate, many venders had to pay about two dollars per item. They also had
to let Bezos collect valuable data on which products were becoming popular and
which companies were having trouble satisfying demand. Soon, some venders felt
as though they _had_ to participate in Fulfillment by Amazon; they couldn’t
otherwise attract much attention on Amazon.com, or ship products inexpensively
enough to compete with rivals.

Today, Amazon.com lists more than three hundred and thirty million products
sold by other companies. Scott Needham, whose company, BuyBoxer, sells about
seventy thousand products on Amazon, ranging from toys to sporting goods, paid
the company roughly twenty million dollars in fees last year. “There’s really
no other choice,” Needham said. “There’s a lot of things I don’t like about
Amazon, but that’s where all the customers are.” Recently, the U.S. House of
Representatives and the European Union began scrutinizing Fulfillment by
Amazon and similar programs, out of concern that they impede competition.
“Amazon is the gatekeeper,” Needham said. “It makes all the rules.”

Tim Wu, a law professor at Columbia, said, “Amazon is a microeconomist’s wet
dream. If you’re a consumer, it’s perfect for maximizing the efficiency of
finding what you want and getting it as cheap and fast as possible. But, the
thing is, most of us aren’t just consumers. We’re also producers, or
manufacturers, or employees, or we live in cities where retailers have gone
out of business because they can’t compete with Amazon, and so Amazon kind of
pits us against ourselves.”

Freed loved how things whizzed along at Amazon headquarters, but he understood
that the “Speed matters” credo meant something different at the warehouses.
“Is it the role of a company to only do what’s best for shareholders?” he
asked me. “Yes, shareholders are critical, but it’s also important to
understand the impact on employees.” More than a hundred thousand people work
at Amazon’s fulfillment centers, and nearly everything they do is digitally
tracked and evaluated, meaning that if someone falls behind—even for just a
few minutes—it can be grounds for reprimand. Many employees carry handheld
scanners that deliver a constant stream of instructions, such as a countdown
clock detailing how many seconds remain until the next item must be plucked
from a shelf. Workers can walk more than fifteen miles a day, and their
breaks, including trips to the bathroom, are brief and closely measured. A
company document explains, “Amazon’s system tracks the rates of each
individual associate’s productivity and automatically generates any warnings
or terminations regarding quality of productivity without input from
supervisors.” A former warehouse employee told me that she knew of people who
got fired largely “because they were too old, or their knees started acting
up, or they just had a bad week.” She added, “Managers are always vague about
what will get you fired, which creates this paranoia.” Employees, she said,
sometimes ask questions about “what exactly will get them fired, and the
responses are so vague that you basically know that if you’re not constantly
moving, you’re probably gone.” Employees line up at vending machines that
dispense free over-the-counter painkillers. For years, some Amazon warehouses
lacked sufficient air-conditioning; this changed only after [reports
emerged](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723093854/https://www.mcall.com/business/mc-
sg-amazon-warehouse-series-storygallery.html), in 2011, of workers passing out
and requiring emergency medical treatment for heat-related problems.

William Stolz, who has worked for two years at an Amazon warehouse in
Shakopee, Minnesota, told me that he’s expected to grab an item every eight
seconds, and has seen co-workers injure their wrists, knees, shoulders, and
backs by repeatedly kneeling, or by rushing up and down ladders. “There’s a
constant pressure to hit your numbers,” he said. If you get four writeups
within ninety days for falling below the expected productivity rate, you will
be fired. Stolz said, “I’ve seen people who aren’t even thirty years old get
injuries they’re going to have for the rest of their lives, but whenever we
ask for the speed of work or the repetitive motions to be changed we’re told
that’s not going to happen.”

[![A bird in a human hand yells back to its friend in the
bush.](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723093854im_/https://media.newyorker.com/cartoons/5d9f46f9e054a100087aa0d8/master/w_1600%2Cc_limit/191021_a23254.jpg)](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723093854/https://www.newyorker.com/cartoon/a23254)

“My situation may not be the greatest, but I’ll tell you this—I’m worth two of
you!”

Cartoon by Liana Finck

When Safiyo Mohamed moved from Somalia to Minnesota, in 2016, at the age of
twenty-two, she found work at the Shakopee warehouse, sorting products and
moving boxes on and off conveyors. The job was taxing and the pressure
relentless, she said. One day, when she picked up a heavy box, she tore an
intervertebral disk in her back. The pain was excruciating, but Amazon didn’t
offer her time off; her managers seemed not to care. “If you can’t work all
the time, you are nothing to them,” she said. A doctor told her that the
injury was pinching a nerve, and that the discomfort might never abate. She
quit Amazon, and got an office job that allows her to pause, or stretch, when
her back hurts. “How am I going to have a baby when I can’t pick him up, when
I’m worried about being pregnant?” Mohamed said. “I’m so angry. Amazon doesn’t
want humans, they want robots. I will have this forever because of them. They
don’t care at all.”

At Amazon’s corporate headquarters, many executives’ performances are
similarly quantified and ranked. “It can be a hard place for women,” a former
executive told me. “If you have a kid, it’s a disadvantage to your career,
unless your husband is the primary parent.” (Amazon said, in a statement, that
it “disagrees strongly with this perspective,” and noted that it offers twenty
weeks of paid parental leave.) A former senior female executive told me she
counselled younger colleagues that “it’s not the company’s job to create a
work-life balance—it’s your job,” adding, “The idea of a company as a
caretaker is _not_ our culture.” There is only one woman on Amazon’s S-Team,
the group of eighteen executives who largely run the firm. The lack of female
representation is a sensitive topic at the company. A current high-ranking
executive told me, “I’m not sure it would be any different for a woman at an
investment bank or a big law firm. The pace is fast, yes, and it’s not for
everyone or every stage of life, but these are highly compensated people who
know they can easily get other jobs. No one works at Amazon—at least, in
corporate—unless they want to.”

Amazon argues that criticisms of working conditions in its warehouses are
unfair. Dave Clark, the senior vice-president for worldwide operations, told
me that work expectations at its facilities “are very achievable for folks.”
He said that the company has increasingly automated its warehouses, to ease
physical tasks. “We make mistakes,” Clark said. “And, when we do hear about
it, we learn from it, and we go out and fix it.” Amazon pays all U.S.-based
employees at least fifteen dollars an hour—more than the minimum wage in many
places—and full-time warehouse workers have access to the same health and
retirement plans as executives. A company statement noted that workers at
Amazon begin and end every shift with a short meeting and a group stretching
session; it also said that employee performance is evaluated over extended
periods, noting, “We would never dismiss an employee without first ensuring
that they had received our fullest support, including dedicated coaching.”

Many Amazon executives have become defensive about the fact that even centrist
politicians like Joe Biden see the company as a symbol of capitalism gone
awry. (On Twitter, Biden [recently said of
Amazon](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723093854/https://twitter.com/joebiden/status/1139188173131591685?lang=en),
“No company pulling in billions of dollars of profits should pay a lower tax
rate than firefighters and teachers.”) Jeff Wilke, one of Bezos’s top
lieutenants, told me that Amazon “tries to be a good corporate citizen,” and
added, “We’ve built a for-profit enterprise that is improving the lives of
customers and taking great care of employees. There’s a lot to be proud of.”
The company, he said, has committed to spending seven hundred million dollars
to train its workers in such subjects as coding and robotics. One senior
Amazon executive said of its warehouses, “It’s a hard economy for people
without college degrees right now. We can’t run a philanthropy, but we’re
trying to be the best of those bad kinds of jobs.” Another top executive
suggested that Amazon was merely a cog in the American economic machine—and
inevitably reflected how contemporary inequality had created winners and
losers. “We’re doing what we can,” he said. “But ultimately this is a problem
only the government can really solve—by changing how the economy works.”

Amazon has always been unabashed about being a cutthroat competitor. When the
company started, in 1995, with fewer than a dozen employees, Bezos considered
naming it Relentless. (The company still owns the URL for relentless.com—it
redirects you to Amazon.com.) Amazonians know that outsiders want them to
change, but listening to outsiders is not one of the Leadership Principles.
One executive told me, with barely suppressed resentment, “What has made us
great for so long is suddenly being seen as something we ought to be _ashamed_
of!”

In 1913, an employee of the Ford Motor Company went to the Swift & Co.
meatpacking plant, in Chicago, to study how hogs moved through the facility on
conveyor belts while butchers stayed in place, making the same cut again and
again. Someone prepared the carcass; another person cut the left haunch;
another was responsible for incisions along the shoulder. The knives never
stopped moving as the animals sped through the plant. When the Ford employee
returned to headquarters, he told his colleagues, “If they can kill pigs and
cows that way, we can build cars that way.” The man’s boss, Henry Ford, a
lifelong tinkerer, had developed a radical new product: an automobile, with an
inexpensive internal-combustion engine, that could be manufactured in a couple
of days and sold for less than a thousand dollars. When Ford managers heard
about the meatpacking plant, they began work on another major innovation: the
mechanized assembly line. Within four years, Ford’s plants could manufacture a
car in less than two hours and sell it for about four hundred dollars.

In 1918, a man named Alfred P. Sloan began working as an executive at a much
smaller company, General Motors. Sloan wasn’t especially interested in
automobiles. He loved making money—and figuring out how to manage people in
order to make profits grow faster. Once installed at G.M., Sloan staged a coup
by way of a memo, “Organization Study,” which eventually reoriented the firm
around himself and a set of foundational credos that included five
“objectives.” A chart of eighty-nine boxes connected by a blizzard of lines
mapped out each executive’s place in the hierarchy. It was the first org chart
of its kind. Sloan’s theory was that G.M. could codify the processes that
delivered information up to headquarters and guidance down to managers. “If
the whole General Motors central organization should be hit by an atomic bomb,
Pontiac could go on just exactly the same,” Sloan boasted to a reporter. Soon,
the company had standard procedures for budgeting, hiring, firing,
prototyping, promoting, and resolving disputes. Within this rigid framework,
executives were given the freedom to be creative; G.M. essentially became the
first company to segment the automobile market, selling Chevrolets to the
middle class and Cadillacs to the wealthy.

When Sloan joined the company, G.M. was on the verge of bankruptcy. Within a
decade, it had outpaced Ford, becoming the nation’s largest carmaker, and for
the next eighty years it dominated the auto business and, eventually, a wide
variety of other industries. Sloan’s systems made G.M. one of the country’s
biggest loan financiers and a powerful real-estate investor, and placed it
among the largest manufacturers of refrigerators, industrial magnets, home
appliances, aeronautic equipment, military gear, and medical equipment. In
1952, G.M. made the first mechanical heart. Sloan launched a sophisticated
corporate polling division—another first—that uncovered customer tastes that
other companies had overlooked; the R. & D. department used this information
to create new products. The same playbook that dreamed up Cadillac’s space-age
tail fins was soon designing sleek Frigidaire iceboxes. G.M., in other words,
was adept at creating flywheels. It sold plenty of cars, but, unlike Ford, it
wasn’t a product company—it was a process company.

Silicon Valley is filled with product companies. Google invented two
products—a spectacular search engine and a set of algorithms for matching
people’s online behavior to ads—that today deliver eighty-five per cent of its
revenue. Facebook invented (and acquired) addictive social-media products and
then basically imitated Google’s ad-matching algorithms, and gets ninety-eight
per cent of its revenue from those products.

Amazon is a process company. Last year, it collected a hundred and twenty-two
billion dollars from online retail sales, and another forty-two billion by
helping other firms sell and ship their own goods. The company collected
twenty-six billion dollars from its Web-services division, which has little to
do with selling things to consumers, and fourteen billion more from people who
sign up for such subscription services as Amazon Prime or Kindle Unlimited.
Amazon is estimated to have taken in hundreds of millions of dollars from
selling the Echo. Seventeen billion came from sales at such brick-and-mortar
stores as Whole Foods. And then there’s ten billion from ad sales and other
activities too numerous to list in financial filings. No other tech company
does as many unrelated things, on such a scale, as Amazon.
