title: Get Ready for Skyscrapers Made of Wood. (Yes, Wood) | WIRED
source: https://www.wired.com/2017/05/wood-skyscrapers/
date: 2025-08-13T17:16:03.635958
tags: []
---
When Chicago’s John Hancock Center was built in 1965, it required 5 million
pounds of aluminum, roughly enough metal to manufacture the equivalent of 96
tour buses. Five years later, engineers did Hancock one better when they
constructed the Sears Tower, a 1,400 foot skyscraper that used more than 176
million pounds of steel. Chicago has always been a city defined by metal and
concrete, but now, an ambitious new proposal promises to introduce a new
material to Chicago's skyline, and to skyscrapers around the world: wood.

Today, on a site along the Chicago River, architects are exploring a new kind
of high-rise structure built entirely from timber. The River Beech Tower is a
spindly, beechwood building whose 80 stories cut a blonde silhouette against
Chicago’s dark, glassy horizon. The concept building hasn't been constructed
yet, and may never be. It's part of an ongoing research project between
[Cambridge
University](http://web.archive.org/web/20250724164414/http://www.natmat.group.cam.ac.uk/),
architects at Perkins + Will, and engineers at Thornton Tomasetti that aims to
answer lingering questions around how, exactly, architects and engineers might
bring these massive timber towers to life.

River Beech is just one of a handful of ambitious ideas that have popped up in
the past couple of years. Designers have proposed a scheme for an equally tall
wooden skyscraper in London called Oakwood Tower. In Stockholm, plans for a
436-foot residential building---the tallest in the city---are in the works.
And Zaha Hadid’s firm recently won the commission to construct an undulating,
all-timber soccer stadium in England.

The age of timber has officially begun, and it’s set to transform the way our
cities look and feel. “I’ve always believed that every great movement in
architecture has been born on the back of a structural innovation,” says
Michael Green, a Vancouver architect who recently finished T3, a seven-story
building in Minneapolis that is currently the tallest wooden structure in the
US.

Wood isn’t new, of course. Up until the late 19th century, timber was still
the dominant building material. That changed after a series of brutal city
fires tore through major American cities, showcasing wood's flammability and
encouraging architects to explore new materials like steel and concrete. But
new innovations have made wood more attractive again. Take cross-laminated
timber, a kind of super-strong plywood, made by gluing together different
pieces of wood to form a layered composite that rivals the strength of steel.
This new material, paired with precision digital manufacturing processes like
CNC milling, allows architects to build with timber at heights unimaginable a
century ago. And its
[environmental](http://web.archive.org/web/20250724164414/http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/10549811.2013.839386)
properties make it even more attractive; wood acts like a lock box for carbon
dioxide, sequestering excess CO2 from the air.

Today, the tallest timber building in the world is just north of Green’s T3,
an 18-story dormitory in Vancouver called Brock Commons. The building, set to
finish construction in the next couple of weeks, looks similar to any other
steel or concrete building---a boxy, rectangular frame built from wooden
modules that snap together like oversized Lego. But it provides important
proof that timber can be used in large buildings. “I would look at Brock
Commons as a demonstration of using a product to a height that’s attainable, a
timeline that’s quick, and one that’s very economically viable,” says Robert
Jackson, a structural engineer at Fast + Epp who worked on the project.
