title: Donald Trump can absolutely ban Muslims from entering the US, without Congress | Vox
source: http://www.vox.com/world/2016/11/10/13577474/president-elect-donald-trump-muslim-ban
date: 2025-08-13T17:46:39.583133
tags: []
---
After US citizen Rizwan Farook and his Pakistani wife Tashfeen Malik murdered
14 people in San Bernardino on December 2, 2015, [Donald
Trump](http://www.vox.com/2015/12/7/9867900/donald-trump-muslims) called for a
“total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States.”

Trump tweaked the plan, but never abandoned it. He later rephrased it as
suspending “immigration from terror-prone regions where vetting cannot safely
occur,” vowing to implement it on [his first day in
office](http://www.npr.org/2016/11/09/501451368/here-is-what-donald-trump-
wants-to-do-in-his-first-100-days). This covers immigration only, not tourist
or student visas, and isn’t explicitly a religious test. But everyone knows
where “terror-prone regions” are, and who lives there.

Candidate Trump was never particularly specific on the policy details of how
the Muslim ban would work. But with President-elect Trump set to take office
in January, and his pledge to implement the ban on day one now about to be put
to the test, the question looms: Will he be able to do it, and if so, how?

I put that to several experts on US immigration law. Their answer was
unanimous: Trump would be able to implement his ban. In fact, he would be able
to do it easily. Congress has already granted wide power to the president to
alter immigration rules, so he will not need congressional approval. If the
ban is designed properly, it is virtually guaranteed to survive court
challenges from liberal advocacy groups determined to derail it.

The consequences of implementing such a ban, the experts warned, could be very
bad. America’s reputation in the world, its economy, and even its struggle
with militant groups like ISIS would all suffer. The ban would be a slap in
the face to America’s basic commitment to the equal treatment of all people,
regardless of their faith or background, and to welcoming in the downtrodden.
In the aftermath of Tuesday’s upset, many Muslim Americans are openly
wondering whether they will be safe in Trump’s America.

But given the state of the law, everything hinges on Donald Trump deciding
that those potential problems override what he appears to see as a way of
improving American national security.

## The president has nearly unchecked authority to ban people from entering
the country

In 1952, Congress passed something called the Immigration and Nationality Act.
It has been amended dozens of times subsequently, and currently exists as a
600-page behemoth with lots of very specific rules.

There is one section,
[212(f)](https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/USCODE-1994-title8/pdf/USCODE-1994-title8-chap11-subchapII_2-partII-
sec1182.pdf), that is particularly relevant to the Muslim ban. It sets out
criteria for “excludable aliens” — which noncitizens the president can choose,
using executive powers, to prevent from entering the United States. Its
wording is exceptionally broad:

> Whenever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of
> aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interests of the
> United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem
> necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as
> immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any
> restrictions he may deem to be appropriate.

Translated from legalese: The president can ban whoever he wants, however long
he wants, for whatever reason he wants.

“All he has to do is say ‘I think Muslims are not in the interests of the
United States,’” says Stephen Legomsky, a professor emeritus at Washington
University School of Law in St. Louis and the former chief counsel for US
Citizenship and Immigration Services.

The formulation that Trump initially used on the campaign trail might not
survive a court challenge. The First Amendment has some very clear things to
say about religious discrimination, and no president has ever attempted to use
212(f) to implement a religious test on migration. A ban phrased that bluntly
could very well be overturned.

“I think there would be a serious constitutional question as [a ban]
specifically based on religion would violate the establishment clause of the
Constitution,” Legomsky says.

This is where Trump’s new phrasing, based on nationality, comes into play.
Nationality, as my colleague [Dara
Lind](http://www.vox.com/2016/6/30/11924940/trump-muslim-ban-work) explains,
is not a constitutionally protected class like religion. If Trump wanted to
exclude anyone who’s a Saudi or Pakistani national from entering the United
States, the First Amendment wouldn’t be a barrier.

And indeed, it’s quite explicitly legal for the president to discriminate in
immigration policy, under something called the “plenary power” doctrine. This
basically says that the court should grant extreme deference to the executive
when it decides to exclude non-citizens from entering the country, and that
non-citizens don’t have equal protection rights in the way that citizens do.

“The [Supreme] Court quickly came to the conclusion that the judiciary had
little or no role in reviewing decisions prohibiting foreigners from entering
the country, nor in reviewing decisions to arrest, detain, and deport non-
citizens who were already inside the country,” [Michael
Kagan](http://michiganlawreview.org/plenary-power-is-dead/), a law professor
at the University of Nevada-Las Vegas, writes.

So if Trump sticks with his newer formulation, and structures the ban around
regions of the world or specific countries, it’s extremely unlikely that any
court would stop him.

“It’s pretty easy for him to get at what he was [originally] talking out
within legal parameters,” Marshall Fitz, managing director of the pro-
immigration Emerson Collective, tells me. “To make it excessively difficult
for Muslims, for people from certain regions of the world, from certain
countries to enter.”

## Here’s what Trump’s Muslim ban would actually look like

(Sean Gallup/Getty Images)

How would Trump’s Muslim ban work in practice?

One very simple way, according to the experts, is that he could deny anyone
who holds a passport from certain countries from entering the United States.
He has never been clear on which countries, exactly, would qualify — whether
you need to be a Muslim-majority country, or merely have a large Muslim
population, or literally be limited to countries that have experienced or been
tied to terror attacks.

Regardless of which countries are included, the system would be very simple:
If you’re using a Saudi passport, or an Iraqi one, or a Pakistani one, or an
Indonesian one — sorry, no immigration into America for you.

This system, though, would be a bit broad — and might end up banning people
Trump would want to admit. This includes Iraqi Christians, computer engineers
from Muslim-majority countries hired to code at Silicon Valley firms, or a
foreign scholar hired to teach at an American university. If the ban extends
beyond immigration, and includes tourists or business travelers, it could ban
representatives from some of America’s key allies from even stepping foot in
the country.

“The easiest way to implement it, the least bureaucratically difficult, would
be a nationality-based system,” Theresa Cardinal Brown, the director of
immigration policy at the Bipartisan Policy Center, says. “Of course, that
would mean that if you’re a Christian from that country, or someone else, you
could also be part of that.”

Presumably, evangelicals would bristle at banning Syrian Christians fleeing
ISIS from entering the country. So Trump might, for political reasons, want to
create exceptions to the ban. This is tricky, because most countries don’t
list religion in their passports.

The way around this problem is to structure the ban a bit more subtly. Instead
of outright saying “ban Iraqi immigration,” you could impose additional
requirements on anyone trying to emigrate from those countries — barriers that
are so onerous that immigration from these countries would be virtually
impossible

One example, Fitz says, is requiring “multiple, non-delegable Cabinet level
signatures that an individual does not pose a threat to the United States.”
Making the attorney general _and_ the secretary of homeland security
_personally_ sign off on every entry from a Muslim-majority country would
effectively end immigration from those places.

“Even getting one such certification directly from a Cabinet-level secretary
would probably be sufficient to bar people,” Fitz says. “What secretary has
time, bandwidth, [or] resources to individually … certify that someone is not
a security threat?”

This would avoid the appearance of formally banning non-Muslims from Muslim
countries, while in effect accomplishing the same thing. It would be as
bureaucratically easy to implement: If you have a passport from a banned
country, and don’t have a permission slip from Attorney General Rudy Giuliani,
then you can’t immigrate. And to top it all off, Fitz says, it would be
constitutionally ironclad.

There are other ways to accomplish the same goal without simply saying “ban
Muslims.” Trump could cut staffing resources and funding in State Department
offices that cover specific countries, so it would take an incredibly long
time to process any immigration requests. He could also make the vetting
requirements even more onerous than it already is for potential immigrants
from Muslim, to the point where it would be impossible for anyone to satisfy
the kind of examination he wants.

Trump could ban immigration from Muslim countries, and he could do it easily.

## The ban would be a disaster

While the ban might be easy to do, as a matter of policy, it is not a very
good idea.

“The consequences of doing this could be significant,” Brown says. “And that’s
where the rubber hits the road.”

For one thing, the US gets a lot of money from immigrants and tourists from
the Muslim world. Either by settling in and contributing to the US economy, or
by simply visiting and spending their money here, they put dollars in the
pockets of American consumers and the US government.

The costs to specialized industries like technology, which need to attract top
notch talent whenever it’s available, could be severe: Steve Jobs, as you
might know, was the [son of a Muslim immigrant from
Syria](http://www.macworld.co.uk/feature/apple/who-is-steve-jobs-syrian-
immigrant-father-abdul-fattah-jandali-banksy-3624958/). It’s hard to put a
precise figure on how many would-be Silicon Valley employees would be
impacted, since no reliable estimates exist of how many Muslims would be
denied entry or would choose not to visit, but the damage to American firms in
one of the most competitive industries in the world could be severe.

More fundamentally, the Muslim ban would screw up the entire global migration
system.

International migration depends on something called “reciprocity:” the idea
that if I let your people visit and migrate to my country, you let my people
visit and migrate to yours. Countries are free to limit the absolute number of
migrants, but putting onerous restrictions on travel and banning people from
one place altogether is generally considered a no-no.

This can lead to retaliation against the country imposing the rules. In the
wake of 9/11, for example, the US set up a fingerprinting requirement for
foreigners entering the country. Brazil, annoyed at the hassle to its
citizens, retaliated, imposing a fingerprinting requirement on Americans
entering Brazil. This is how reciprocity works: You limit our citizens’
freedoms, we limit yours’.

Banning people from a truly diverse range of countries could very well provoke
serious retaliation. Remember, there are 1.6 billion Muslims around the world.
Using nationality as a blunt tool to ban Muslim immigration would punish a
hell of a lot of countries. Three of the world’s 20 largest economies — Saudi
Arabia, Indonesia, and Turkey — have Muslim majorities (as well as terrorism
problems).

You could easily imagine these countries placing restrictions on American
travel in retaliation — or impose other kinds of restrictions on American
trade and business with their countries.

The potential costs of are incalculable. In a global economy, American
corporations depend on being able to send their people wherever they need to
go to function, and on exports to foreign markets. If, say, Indonesia responds
to a Muslim ban by limiting US travel or restricting American corporations’
rights to operate, this would cause serious damage to the US economy.

“You start to deny admissions of people from certain countries or regions, and
how do they respond? Do they respond by declining to engage in certain kinds
of economic activity with the United States? Do they start to bar US
corporations from operating in that region?” Fitz asks, rhetorically. “You can
imagine, quickly, how the kind of standoff could escalate.”

There are national security implications, too.

A lot of these Muslim-majority countries are key partners in America’s
counter-terrorism campaigns. In places like Saudi Arabia and Jordan, the US
depends on partnerships with local security officials to get intelligence on
extremist activity. Washington desperately wants Pakistan, meanwhile, to honor
its past promises to protect its nuclear arsenal and allow American drones to
operate in its skies.

What happens to that cooperation in a world where the United States is openly
discriminating against their citizens? And how much more successful does ISIS
and al-Qaeda recruiting propaganda, which depends on casting the US as an
enemy of Islam, become?

This is all to say nothing of the morality of treating people as potential
terrorists, based solely on their nationality or religion — how much it
contravenes what we see as bedrock American values of tolerance and openness.
We’ve violated these principles many times before — think of the Chinese
Exclusion Act of 1882, which did exactly what it sounds like.

But a lot of Americans thought we were past that. It’s up to Donald Trump to
decide whether they were right.

* * *

## Watch: It’s now on America’s institutions to check Trump
