title: We Asked 12 Young Men Across America How They Feel About Trump, Masculinity, and Money.
source: https://www.esquire.com/news-politics/a63613007/young-men-america-2025/
date: 2025-08-13T15:07:40.504983
tags: []
---
What exactly is going on in the minds of young men? It’s a question that
society keeps coming back to these days because, truth is, we’re worried.
Everything we’re told about the rising generation of men in America—everything
they’re told about themselves, in the media, the academic research, the
employment data, the mental-health studies—is about how royally screwed they
are. And that has consequences for all of us.

You’ve read the headlines. Young men today are angry. They’re lonely and
friendless. The data shows that they are falling behind young women in school
and at the workplace, living with their parents longer, playing too many video
games, watching too much porn, getting married much later in life (or not at
all), having fewer kids (or none at all), and facing a lifetime of student-
loan debt, credit-card debt, and medical debt. As a result, many of them are
adopting increasingly extreme beliefs, getting hooked on opioids, and killing
themselves at alarming rates. They feel ignored by politicians, blamed for
society’s ills, and forced to keep their toxic, privileged, microaggressive
mouths shut about it.

But what no one can seem to agree on is why. Is social media to blame? There’s
no doubt that growing up in the age of the smartphone has profoundly shaped
the lives (and brains) of anyone under twenty-five, and most of the rest of
us, too. But that applies to young women as well, and they don’t seem to be
drifting as badly as men are.

![comparison of labor force participation rates for men aged 25 to 34 in 2004
and 2024](https://hips.hearstapps.com/hmg-
prod/images/pq1-67aa503ead8ab.png?resize=980:*)

Sources: Aspen Economic Strategy Group. Pew Research Center. CIRCLE Tufts.

Rather than add our voice to the chorus of speculation about what guys are
thinking and feeling about the world, we had a radical idea: Let’s just ask
them. Not all of them, of course. There are nearly 16 million men in the U. S.
between the ages of eighteen and twenty-four. We weren’t looking to conduct
yet another survey. Instead, we wanted to have long conversations with a
relatively small group about what it’s like to be a young man in America right
now.

Our first step was to seek out regular, everyday guys. No influencers or
celebrities or lunatics. Just guys like the ones we all know. Guys with so
many of their big life decisions still ahead of them. In the end, we settled
on twelve men from different parts of the country representing a wide range of
backgrounds and experiences. We asked them to submit portrait photos of
themselves, and most of them did. As you’ll see, they reflect much of the
frustration and alienation we expected—but not always in the ways we
anticipated. They were thoughtful and candid. They surprised us.

![data on average daily time spent alone by men and women aged 25 to 34 in
2023](https://hips.hearstapps.com/hmg-
prod/images/pq2-67aa5069522bd.png?resize=980:*)

Sources: Aspen Economic Strategy Group. Pew Research Center. CIRCLE Tufts.

If there was one subject that came up again and again, it was Donald Trump.
Timing had a lot to do with it. Our conversations followed Trump’s reelection
in November, a victory powered in part by young male voters. Men between the
ages of eighteen and twenty-nine voted for Trump over Kamala Harris by a
margin of 56–42, a dramatic reversal of 2020, when they voted for Biden over
Trump by a 56–41 margin. For the young men we spoke with—guys who’ve come of
age in the MAGA era—talking about Trump was often shorthand for discussing
class, race, masculinity, and the big subjects that were really on their
minds. Here’s what they had to say, in their own words.

* * *

## AIDAN SILVA

## College student, age 19

## San Jose, California

![a person seated on grass with mountains in the
background](https://hips.hearstapps.com/hmg-
prod/images/1aidan-67aa39d87ad17.jpg?resize=980:*)

Self-Portrait by contributor

I noticed the shift in people of color moving conservative a year, maybe a
year and a half in advance. I remember a conversation with my mom about seven
months before the election—we were in the swimming pool, and she was like,
“Oh, this election, I’m not sure what’s going to happen.” And I told her,
“Trump has already won the election. I know for a fact.” Because he’d stolen
the support of people of color from the Democrats, especially men.

You could just see it. The first thing I noticed was how conservative so many
young Hispanic men were—it is mind-­boggling to me how conservative. My
girlfriend is half Latino, and she kept telling me, “Aidan, Latino men are
more conservative than people think.” This notion that Latinos always support
Democrats—it’s very false. I was also noticing in my community, a bunch of
Asian American men, they were thinking the same way. They were starting to
talk out loud about supporting Trump.

> > To me, it’s not necessarily that men were drawn to Trump—it’s men pulling
> away from Democrats.

The first thing was the LGBTQ community normalizing the idea that you can have
a bunch of genders, you can have whatever pronouns you want, and that you can
introduce that to very young children. And then with Asian men, the Harvard
case that overturned affirmative action a few years ago—remember, the people
who filed the lawsuit were not white. They were Chinese. They were like,
_Wait, affirmative action discriminates against us._ That’s when the Chinese
vote started to go. And then I did not realize this, but my friend’s also
Vietnamese, and she was telling me that most Vietnamese people are
conservative. So guess what? Now Trump’s got the Vietnamese support. And
obviously his white male support is only growing. So in my head I’m like, _How
is Biden going to win this election? He’s lost half the people of color to
Trump._

To me, it’s not necessarily that men were drawn to Trump—it’s men pulling away
from Democrats. That’s one key thing I really want to say. I think this shift
happened not necessarily because of anything Trump was doing. It’s because of
what the Democrats did. They decided to let in all this pronoun stuff and this
whole idea of censoring young men and emasculating them. And then with people
of color, like me, they seem to assume, like, Of course you’re going to vote
for us. We’re your allies. We’re going to help you. The Republicans aren’t
going to do anything for you. But then the Democrats get in power in 2020, and
people of color are kind of waiting, like, Okay, so . . . what are you going
to do for us? And then you look at the end and the Black community is still in
the same position. Asian Americans are now getting discriminated against in
educational systems, and you’re losing Latinos because of this LGBTQ stuff
that’s relevant to literally 1 percent of the population and you’re trying to
kind of force it on everyone else.

* * *

## ZACHARY LONG

## Social-media video producer, age 27

## Las Vegas, Nevada

![person seated in a casual pose wearing a shirt with jeff rosenstock branding
against a textured wall](https://hips.hearstapps.com/hmg-
prod/images/2zach-67aa3a17958fc.jpg?resize=980:*)

Self-Portrait by contributor

I dropped out of community college because I got a job as a butler at the
Venetian casino and I was making good money, so I put everything else on the
back burner. What a butler does is, from the moment the whales and high-end
guests arrive, we greet them, we grab their things, we bring them their food,
we do everything they need—personalized and intimate service. The tips can get
pretty big. I got $750 once. I know a guy who once got $5,000.

But that job didn’t work out. There was an issue where I accepted a tip—for
one dollar—and I forgot to write it down on my log at the end of the day. The
next day I had to go out of town, and by the time I came back, HR was already
involved. Every square inch of that building is monitored. When they saw on my
log that I didn’t have anything tipped in, one of the other coworkers was
like, “No, no—I was right there when he accepted his tip.” He ratted me out.
They went back into the footage and I got fired.

I was very, very upset. I was ready to settle down and get really good at that
job. I like learning new things, and it was this world of whiskeys and wine
and fine dining—all this luxurious stuff that I’d never been exposed to. I
grew up lower middle class, so it was an entirely new world. That was the best
part about coming into work every day—something new to learn, a new problem to
solve. And then all of a sudden I was back at my job at Domino’s.

Being a butler definitely jaded me. Look, I feel like successful people should
be able to appreciate the fruits of their labor. That doesn’t bother me. And a
lot of rich people aren’t insanely rich—they’re millionaires, not
billionaires. They’re normal people when it comes down to it. But when you
start dealing with old-money people—how they treat the people around them and
the people under them—it opens your eyes. I would overhear conversations
around a poker table where executives are talking like, “Well, if we get rid
of this department here and we lay off six hundred people here, we can put
that money here.” Meanwhile they’re playing poker with $100,000 a hand. The
most insane thing I can remember was buying suitcases for a guest because they
bought all these bottles of liquor from us and they needed something to take
them home in. Two suitcases full of approximately $300,000 worth of wine and
liquor.

> > I have friends going hungry, not because they don’t want to work but
> because they’re not given enough hours to be full-time and get health
> insurance.

It’s the frivolousness that’s the breaking point for me—the way they can spend
all that money and have no repercussions, but those repercussions spread to
us, lower down. It’s fucking bullshit. I have friends going hungry, not
because they don’t want to work but because they’re not given enough hours to
be full-time and get health insurance.

Five years ago, if you had a job that paid fifteen to twenty dollars an hour,
you were set. And now it doesn’t feel like that anymore. Your dollar just
doesn’t go as far. Real estate has doubled here in Vegas. The eleven-hundred-
square-foot apartment that I rented with my girlfriend in 2018 for $1,100—I
looked a few weeks ago, and now it’s going for $1,950. It’s so hard to build
savings right now. I spent years building up enough for a down payment on a
house, and I’d just gotten to the point where I could feasibly do it, and then
I needed to pay for a car repair earlier this year and a lot of that money
went away. You learn to live with this fear and paranoia, like, _What if I
shatter my leg and I can’t work? What would I do?_

I am not a fan of Donald Trump—I’d say I lean very left—but at the end of the
day, he understands that Americans are angry and upset, and he’s really good
at channeling that. As Americans, we’re all feeling the same pressures, we all
see prices are rising, we’re all making less money. We all notice it. But the
Republicans are a lot more ready to say, “This is the reason. It’s that guy.
This is who you should be mad at.” The bigger split in America for me is not
left or right. It’s class—it’s whether you’re bourgeois or you’re proletariat.
It comes down to whether you make enough money to be in their special club.

* * *

![data comparison showing the percentage of male college students aged 18 to
24 in 2011 and 2022](https://hips.hearstapps.com/hmg-
prod/images/pq3-67aa5093e1309.png?resize=980:*)

Sources: Aspen Economic Strategy Group. Pew Research Center. CIRCLE Tufts.

* * *

## TJ SNIPES

## College student, Age 20

## Walnut Creek, California

There’s this pastor I like to listen to named Voddie Baucham, and he talks
about how men think the definition of manhood is the Three B’s: the billfold,
the ball field, and the bedroom. Like, it’s all about how much money you make,
how well you perform at sports, and how many girls you can get with in the
bedroom. And I think that’s . . . not totally wrong? I mean they are signs. If
you can perform on the ball field, that shows power and strength and your
ability to protect yourself, which is important. If you’re making money, that
doesn’t automatically mean you’re competent, but it shows signs of competency.
And then bedroom—I don’t know, that one doesn’t make as much sense. But his
point was that the Three B’s are how the culture is defining manhood today,
and the correct way is how the Bible defines it, which is all about love and
family and sacrifice.

My friends say I’m a based Christian guy—“based” like based in truth, someone
who’s more realistic and objective. I appreciate the objective truth of
conservatism, but I also understand the compassion of liberals. Overall, I’d
say I’m like 60 percent conservative, 40 percent liberal. Maybe 70–30. And
Christianity is a really good guide for being conservative, because there’s
this objective eternal being at the center of it who’s been unchanged the
whole time.

> > I think minority guys are tired of feeling like they are expected to vote
> a certain way just because of their color.

And I do believe some things are just objectively true, like: I am a man. It
doesn’t really matter if someone wants to be called a man—that doesn’t change
what you are. Sorry, that’s it. You weren’t assigned it by a doctor. You were
assigned it by God. And going against that is rebellion. If God’s making these
rules, it’s not because He wants to be a cosmic killjoy. If I’m going to trust
anyone about the world, I would trust the person who made it. It’s like going
against the video game developer’s ideas for how to play the video game.
You’re just going to lose.

For thousands of years, men have been the rock of society. And now because
there have been so many tyrannical leaders, people want to take that power
away from men and say it’s for everybody. Just because some men did it the
wrong way. Like, it’s kind of unfair to men to say, “We don’t need you anymore
because of how well you did at building a society.” And I’m like, “Well, we
kind of built this country and fought and died for it . . .”

I didn’t vote, because I didn’t feel like going through the process, and I
didn’t see the point, because Biden was going to win California, even though
it was way closer than I thought. But if someone had put a gun in my head and
told me to vote, I would’ve voted for Trump. I think minority guys are tired
of feeling like they are expected to vote a certain way just because of their
color. Even Obama, who basically shamed Black guys for not voting for Kamala—I
don’t owe you anything. I don’t owe this party nothing. I’m not going to get
reprimanded by you when I’m an autonomous man who can make decisions for
myself. I don’t need you to browbeat me like I’m your son.

* * *

## ETHAN GREENE

## Urban planner, age 27

## Golden, Colorado

![person standing in the snow wearing a vest and a
beanie](https://hips.hearstapps.com/hmg-
prod/images/3ethan-67aa3ea3601f6.jpg?resize=980:*)

Self-Portrait by contributor

Sometimes I think we’re like an anti-welfare state. We’re not really into
helping people in this country. I just feel like we live in a very
individualistic society, and so it’s all about “How do you stand out as an
individual? How do you make yourself stand out from the pack?” You can even
see this with car culture in our country—young men always want to buy the most
massive truck and drive around in it. I live outside Denver in a town called
Golden, and the Colorado School of Mines, which is a big petroleum and gas
college, is here in Golden. So a lot of guys come out here from Texas and they
drive these giant lifted pickup trucks—these massive old F-150’s that’ve been
jacked up so there’s like three feet of separation between the wheels and the
body.

I grew up with a lot of these guys in Bozeman, Montana—cowboy-type dudes.
That’s manhood out here in the western states: Every man wants to be a cowboy.
They want to buy cowboy boots and the cowboy hat and drive an old pickup
truck, or the new pickup truck if they’re wealthy. And they vote for
Republicans. I didn’t really like those guys. I grew up with two sisters, so I
guess I’ve always been more comfortable around women.

If you’re not overconfident, it’s really hard to get ahead in this country.
You really have to act like you know what you’re talking about all the time.
And that’s definitely not something that I was doing in the past. I hate
talking about myself, promoting myself. But when I decided to go to grad
school, I just kind of made up my mind that I was going to start. I made this
separation in my brain between my home life and my work life—at work, I was
going to be this alternative person who was really competitive and confident
all the time and could talk about himself very easily. And as soon as I made
that switch, people were a lot more attracted to me. I’m getting treated
better by this country, by our systems, our culture. That’s how America works.

> > My generation—I don’t think we have very much power, so maybe that’s part
> of our anger. Our lives are being dictated by people who are decades and
> decades older.

People in this country love confident people who seem like they’re smart, who
seem to know what they’re talking about, even if they don’t. And Donald Trump
is the embodiment of the confident man who doesn’t know what he’s talking
about. He’s like: Take what you want, grab it, it’s yours—everyone else is
telling you you’re not supposed to be this way, but you’re allowed to be this
way because I’m this way. He’s kind of a reaction to all the beta cucks out
there—men like me, I guess.

But I don’t think that it’s just my generation of men that’s angry. I think
it’s all of them. It’s the emotion that men are taught. It’s the one that we
get. It’s not manly to feel all the other ones. But anger is for sure. My
generation—I don’t think we have very much power, so maybe that’s part of our
anger. Our lives are being dictated by people who are decades and decades
older than us, and they just don’t get it. They just don’t understand that the
world has changed, that you can’t buy a house for three lucky magic beans
anymore.

I feel like our generation is just waiting for our moment to take up our
power, but I don’t know if we’re ever going to get there, because it seems
like these boomers are trying to hang on forever. I see it in my work,
too—anytime you go to a public hearing or a city-­council meeting, they
dominate those meetings, because they have time and resources to show up.
They’re really dictating our future even though it’s not going to affect them.
And that’s really frustrating. It’s like they were raised in a time of bounty
and we don’t get a slice of the pie. They have the entire pie.

* * *

## JACINTO OBREGON

## High school chemistry teacher, age 26

## El Paso, Texas

![individual sitting at a table with personal items in the
background](https://hips.hearstapps.com/hmg-
prod/images/4jacinto-67aa3f7c649a0.jpg?resize=980:*)

Self-Portrait by contributor

I was born in Nicaragua and immigrated with my parents to the United States
when I was really young. We lived in Miami for a few years, then in 2004 we
moved to El Paso, Texas, and that’s where I grew up. Now I teach at an all-
boys Catholic private school in California, and my kids are juniors—the age
where they think they know everything and can get away with anything. Before
the election this past November, some of them were asking me political things,
like, “Yo, Mr. O”—that’s what they call me, Mr. O—“what do you think of
Trump?” And I’d always say, “That’s not your business.” I’d tell them that the
faculty handbook says I have to be nonpartisan. And one of them said, “But we
need to know! Please don’t tell me you voted for Kamala!” And this was
actually a Black student, by the way. Not that just because you’re Black, you
should be voting for Kamala—it was just a little more unexpected. I come to
find out that a lot of my students, and I mean a lot of them, are very
conservative.

Our school is very, very sports heavy. Our academics are amazing, don’t get me
wrong—but sports are where it shines. Out of about 1,100 total students, maybe
900 are student athletes, and of course football is king. There was even a
movie about our team that came out like a decade ago. I’ve been there three
years now, but when I first started, I was this five-foot-eight, soft-spoken
Hispanic teacher, and I’m teaching all these sixteen- and seventeen-year-olds
who were six-foot-five, these enormous—like, what are they putting in the
water here? Think of a hobbit in the Shire—that’s me, and everyone else is the
elves.

> > I do feel—not marginalized, but I feel like when people think of men or
> masculinity, I’m not the image that comes to their head.

My first year, especially, was really hard because they could get very
disrespectful. I had students yell at me, berate me just for asking them to
put their phones away. It’s like, “Why am I being abused right now?” They
wouldn’t necessarily make it obvious that it was because they think I’m less
of a man or because I’m smaller. But I could tell it didn’t help. For a lot of
these kids, their norm was coaches who would yell at them, which is not how I
roll. There were days when I broke down in front of the students. I just
couldn’t handle it anymore. It was like they were experimenting with
dominance. And I mention all this because I think they really want that
dominance to continue. I think they like getting away with talking very, very
confidently. And I think they see Trump talking what I think is nonsense, but
they’re like, “Oh, wow—he gets away with saying that!” And so they want to
emulate that. They want that power.

There was this friend group in my class that year—all of them were athletes
for different sports, and they actually ended up becoming one of my favorite
groups of students. The next year, they told me I was their favorite teacher.
Even the ones who gave me a lot of issues said that. And I was like, “Wow,
thank you—but if I’m your favorite teacher, why did you behave like this to
me? Are you only going to follow the people who berate you? Are those the only
people you’re going to respect? Because that’s kind of a crappy way to live,
no?” And they said it was because my class was the only break they got from
hard teachers and hard coaches. It was like a period of peace. They’d spend
the rest of the day getting taught that weakness must be stamped out and
eradicated. And then they meet me and I flip the whole thing on its head.

Sometimes I do think to myself, _Why am I like this? I’m not going to get
anywhere being like this_. I do get resentful sometimes. I’m not going to lie.
I do feel—not marginalized, but I feel like when people think of men or
masculinity, I’m not the image that comes to their head. I’ve always felt that
way. At the same time, so many people, whether it be my classmates, my
friends, my relatives, my students, my coworkers, everyone has said, “Jacinto,
you’re one of the kindest people I’ve ever met—please don’t ever, ever
change.” And it’s like, “Okay, see? So we do celebrate this other side of the
coin. Sometimes.”

* * *

![poll results showing voting preferences among young men in a presidential
election](https://hips.hearstapps.com/hmg-
prod/images/pq4-67aa50af110c8.png?resize=980:*)

Sources: Aspen Economic Strategy Group. Pew Research Center. CIRCLE Tufts.

* * *

## EMILIO RIOS

## Aspiring filmmaker & NYU student, age 21

## Brooklyn, New York

![person in a black leather jacket and white shirt in front of greenery with
yellow flowers](https://hips.hearstapps.com/hmg-
prod/images/5emilio-67aa42d95bd59.jpg?resize=980:*)

Self-Portrait by contributor

When the election happened, I was so blindsided and distraught that for a
month or so I just kind of turned that whole part of my brain off. I guess I
live in a bubble, right? I go to NYU—a very liberal school, very
performatively progressive, though I think the key word there is
_performative_. But needless to say, I don’t have anybody close to me who
voted for Trump or even considered voting for him. I guess that’s why I really
thought Kamala was going to win. I wasn’t even that worried, because in my
mind, I was like, _We already went through four years of this douchebag. We
know the type of person that he is._ I just really thought that people were
sick of him, regardless of where you are on the political spectrum. And then I
was watching those numbers on election night, and that sinking feeling
started, just like in 2016.

I’m trying to make sense of it now. I’ve really tried to put myself in the
mindset of just your average twenty-year-old Latino dude, because I know
that’s where he gained a surprising advantage, and that shocked me the most. I
guess a couple things jump out. Like, whether you like it or not, Trump does
fall into that ultramasculine, ultra-fragile-ego archetype, and he disguises
the fragility with machismo, with bravado, with boldness. Saying things with
his chest. No matter how wrong he is, he carries this energy of absolute
confidence. And I think that when you’re an impressionable young man, that’s
appealing. It’s like, “I want to be a guy who’s not afraid to say whatever I
want to say.”

> > My generation is not in an optimal position. Honestly, it kind of feels
> like I was born too late.

I’m the son of a Mexican immigrant who’s legal now—he has a green card—but for
a while, he wasn’t. And I remember being a young kid in 2016 and hearing Trump
say those things about Mexicans being rapists and criminals. And so obviously
I’m like, _That’s not who I am. That’s not who my father is_. So in my mind,
from a young age, there was an immediate fuck-you toward Trump. I identify
with the immigrants from all these Latin American countries. I identify with
that struggle. I see their pain.

But not all Latino people, and especially not all Latino men, think that way.
They feel like they’re citizens, they’re good, their family’s good. Whereas
the people coming here now—they think they can just walk in, hand themselves
over to border authorities, and then get shipped off to a sanctuary city
without having to go through all of the pain that my family went through?
That’s not fair.

I definitely sense this sort of Democrat-­equals-good sentiment among my
friends, but I very much do not identify with the Democratic Party. Seeing how
people like Joe Biden were utterly indifferent to—actively in support
of—Israel’s genocide, like, yes, on paper, at a glance, the Democratic Party
has more of a progressive agenda, but in practice, do they? That was how I
felt about Kamala, to be honest. Obviously I wasn’t going to vote for
Trump—hell no, never—but I wasn’t a fan of Kamala, either. Her history, the
fact that she was a prosecutor, that she put so many Black and brown people in
jail—she kept showing she had no spine and no actual beliefs leading up to the
election.

I was debating who to vote for right up until I walked into that stall in the
voting station—Harris or a third party. I voted for Kamala largely due to my
mom, just how important her victory would’ve been for female reproductive
rights and how catastrophic it would be if Trump won. And then he did.

I need to make money and be self-­sufficient as soon as I can because my mom
turns sixty next year, and if she’s still hustling and working her ass off at
eighty, I’m going to feel like I failed. I’ve got to make sure that in some
way, shape, or form, I can give back to my parents and start helping them out
by the time I’m like thirty. That’s a big priority for me. And I don’t doubt
that I’ll make money. I know I have skills, and it’s not like I’m just going
to be sitting around. The doubt is about whether I can make enough to support
my parents one day, to live an actually comfortable life, to have savings, a
401(k), a retirement plan. The doubt is about living a financially stable life
as opposed to just living check to check or gig to gig. I will try my best,
but I’m going to be honest, I know that the odds are not good. My generation
is not in an optimal position. Honestly, it kind of feels like I was born too
late. Like I missed out on something. It feels like I’m living in a generation
where we’re cleaning up after someone else’s mess.

* * *

## PADRAIG FOURNIER

## Para-educator, age 24

## San Mateo, California

I like to tell people I went to college undecided and I kind of came out the
same way. I graduated in May of 2023. When I came home, I didn’t really know
what I wanted to do. I moved back in with my parents, and that’s where I am
now. My mom’s a school librarian, so she said, “Why don’t you try being a
para-­educator?” And I said, “Well, I don’t have any other plans,” so now I
help with third graders. It’s been a good year, and I’m grateful to have done
it, but I don’t think I’d want to be a teacher. And being a para-educator is
not a job where I’d be able to move out and afford rent and groceries and
such. And you can’t really pay your bills with a philosophy degree.

I play a lot of video games. This hat I’m wearing is from a game called
Oblivion that came out in 2006. It’s like a fantasy role-playing kind of game.
I’ve played several thousand hours throughout that series, and it’s like a lot
of online spaces where you find young dudes—whether it’s video games or TV
shows or _Star Wars_ or sports or music or whatever. It’s not something you
pick up on unless you’re in these spaces a lot. But take _Star Wars_ : A lot
of the top creators in those spaces are right-wing people talking about how
some new Disney show is woke and bad, or how it’s forcing some lib agenda.
Like, the most famous _Star Wars_ YouTuber is a guy named Star Wars Theory,
and most of his videos are just trashing all the new _Star Wars_ shows for
being DEI, whatever the term of the day is.

> > It’s just a lot easier to feel like you’re the victim of some wrongdoing.
> And if you’re a young man, that pipeline is ready and waiting.

In a lot of spaces that young men naturally gravitate toward, there’s already
kind of a pipeline built, a feeling or environment of “This thing I like is
under attack.” I don’t know who said it, but there’s a quote that sticks with
me: “When you’re accustomed to privilege, equality looks like an attack.”

A lot of reactionary sentiment is built on nostalgia. And the Right in America
has realized that you can weaponize that natural disenchantment with the world
and spin it as: Something that you like is being attacked by the Left. And to
me, it’s a uniquely right-wing phenomenon—the ability to infiltrate any space
and be able to steer people toward that intellectual viewpoint. Once I noticed
it, it was hard not to be aware of it. Whereas I think the Left, broadly
speaking, does not have anything remotely equivalent.

It’s the same tenor in these manosphere communities about women. I’ve only
really had one serious relationship—a long story, but it didn’t work out. I’m
not a big fan of the whole manosphere and red pill and all that stuff, but
there were definitely times when I’d find myself scrolling on my phone, and
I’d come across videos, obviously framed to show how women are bad, and I
wouldn’t agree with them, but I could kind of say, at least for a little
while, “Yeah, that’s how it feels.” It’s just a lot easier to feel like you’re
the victim of some wrongdoing. And if you’re a young man who suffers some sort
of ego injury, that online ecosystem is very easy to plug yourself into. That
pipeline is ready and waiting.

* * *

## SEBASTIAN PRANGLEY

## MMA fighter, age 20

## Coeur d’Alene, Idaho

![individual in athletic attire engaged in a movementbased
activity](https://hips.hearstapps.com/hmg-
prod/images/6sebastian-67aa4327ee278.jpg?resize=980:*)

Self-Portrait by contributor

I want to be champion, bro. My life is very difficult right now, and I do that
to myself. I have to make it. It’s not about plan B. It’s not about plan C,
bro. This isn’t like wrestling or football where there’s scholarships to
college. If you don’t make it in MMA, you’re back to square one. That’s kind
of the thrill of it, too, if I’m being honest.

I had a really tough upbringing, and it turned me into kind of a sad person.
My dad’s from Cape Town in South Africa. I had neighbor kids who had all this
cool shit, got to play video games for eight hours a day, or who lost a tooth
and then the tooth fairy came and dropped a Nintendo DS under their pillow. I
never had that stuff. We were living paycheck to paycheck. We couldn’t afford
meat every day of the week. My father opened up this gym, but it didn’t make
any money for eight years. So he worked another full-time job, and then he
also fought a little bit. The gym’s super successful now, but it was tough,
bro. Life’s tough.

So Coeur d’Alene—I’m pretty sure they say it’s the fastest-growing city in the
nation. I mean, it’s just crazy, bro. Like holy smoke. When my dad moved here
for college, this was a one-stoplight town, and now it’s just a massive city.
We get a ton of people from California who are like, “We don’t like our state
anymore—it’s getting dangerous down there. So we’re going to go over to Idaho
and change things.” Then they make it more like California. What they’re doing
in the schools is just wrong. After Covid, the underclassmen just got
progressively worse. Kids wearing weird stuff. Just really borderline satanic
stuff. Weird colors. It’s gotten super free, in the wrong sense. Then after I
graduated, they started doing the transgender bathroom stuff, so now they got
a bathroom for them folks. So that is courtesy of the California people.

> > Common sense is coming back a little bit—that’s what I thought when Trump
> won.

I can’t name a Democrat in this gym right now. I can’t name a friend who’s a
Democrat. I don’t know anybody who voted for Kamala, honestly—anybody that’s
sober. Maybe some pothead buddies that aren’t really friends of mine. But the
blue side is winning, dude. This younger generation—these kids are getting
brainwashed into thinking blue. And blue is definitely not a righteous route.
I mean, we still don’t have the full list of Epstein’s folks. A lot of these
blue guys are just totally numb to the fact that there’s right ways and wrong
ways to do things in life. They just don’t care.

But common sense is coming back a little bit—that’s what I thought when Trump
won. And I’m so thankful he won, because he says common-sense stuff, like
building up the border wall. That sounds offensive, but it makes sense,
because we all know where the drugs are coming from, and it’s not Canada.
Also, I used to work in construction, so I see all these Hispanic folks that
are working for nine or ten bucks an hour, and they’re doing double the work
the Americans are doing, because they have to survive. Like, they actually are
taking our jobs. They are. So I’m not a fan of immigration in that sense.

* * *

## JAHMIEL JACKSON

## Senior at the University of Chicago, age 23

## Chicago, Illinois

![individual wearing a textured goldenbrown hooded
shirt](https://hips.hearstapps.com/hmg-
prod/images/9-67aa441431d77.jpg?resize=980:*)

Self-Portrait by contributor

The neighborhood where I grew up in Philadelphia—it wasn’t the worst, but it
definitely wasn’t the best. My mother struggled through so much raising us. I
learned from her that it’s okay to falter, but you can’t give up. I went to a
horrible, underfunded public school. I wanted to be the first person in my
family to graduate college, and I could see that my school wasn’t going to get
me anywhere close. So I secretly applied to a private school that my mother
didn’t know about. And they were so impressed that they reached out to me,
gave me a tour, gave me a financial-aid package, and I started there my junior
year. I went from a school that was like 98 percent Black to a predominantly
white school—one of the best private schools in the country, where I got
exposed to different opinions and learned how to challenge the current
ideology that exists in any atmosphere. And that’s really guided me through my
political transition to this day.

A couple of years ago, like in 2020, 2021, I had blue hair. I was very far-
left progressive. I protested for Black Lives Matter. I was 100 percent pro-
choice. But the shift really began at this private school—all boys as well. In
class we’d talk about things like the American Dream, and does it exist for
African Americans? Everyone was saying the same thing: Systemic racism is the
issue, and how horrible our country is. And just to be a contrarian, I said,
“What if there are cultural or personal-responsibility issues that lead some
people to fall short of their dreams? I went to a public school where I saw so
many kids, the number-one obstacle in their lives wasn’t not having a father
in their life—they just weren’t doing their homework.”

> > I’d been told for so long not to go look at these sources because they're
> racist, they're regressive, they're harmful. And actually, it turns out I'm
> left wanting more. That's when I did a full factory reset. I tried to
> relearn things from the ground up.

The Black students at this private school, who were predominantly wealthy,
found that offensive. They said, “You just got here, and you’re giving these
white boys permission to think they’re right. You should just shut up.” They
started a campaign of threatening me. If I sat next to them at lunch, they’d
get up and walk away. I was completely iced out. I even got kicked out of the
Black Student Union. They said, “If you come to another meeting, we’re going
to have a problem.” And then all the slurs came. _He’s an Uncle Tom. He’s just
a Black mouth with white talking points._ I’m very used to that now—if you
call me those things, I don’t really care. But back then I felt like I was a
horrible person, so I just bottled up all of my doubt. I basically had to
neuter myself.

One of the things I started to notice while I was arguing my leftist points to
my conservative friends—like about getting vaccinated, supporting Trump—they
would just ask me a lot of questions. They wouldn’t get mad at me. One of the
conservatives I hated the most was Tucker Carlson, but I finally listened to
one of his most controversial takes—about white replacement theory, and
immigration—and I thought, “Look, I want to hate the guy, but I can’t really
disagree with what he’s saying.” I’d been told for so long not to go look at
these sources because they’re racist, they’re regressive, they’re harmful. And
actually, it turns out I’m left wanting more. That’s when I did a full factory
reset. I tried to relearn things from the ground up.

When I look at most of the young men in my life, a lot of them are very
sheepish about what they believe. They hold their beliefs to themselves. And
conservatives have to talk in a certain way so they don’t alienate you, they
don’t polarize, they don’t make it seem as if they’re trying to disrespect
you. They’re always on the back burner trying to defend themselves.

A few weeks ago in class, we had a group assignment, and this one girl in our
group—I knew she was a feminist, I knew she was a control freak, and I knew
she was going to sink our grade. But none of the guys in my group, including
me, wanted to tell her no about anything. We didn’t want to speak over her.
You could tell we were subconsciously teaming up to protect her from the idea
that we were trying to mansplain to her, or that we were trying to hurt her
feelings. And when I talk to older men who are in the corporate world, they do
the same thing.

We’re all holding ourselves back from our natural behavior. We’ve ceded so
much power. Voting for Trump has made me more unyielding. I don’t necessarily
care who I offend. I’m not doing it to harm you. I’m doing it because
sometimes ideas have to offend people. They have to invoke some kind of
passion. Out of all the hardest things someone can do in life, I think coming
out of poverty is first. And then coming out of the progressive trap is
probably second.

* * *

This article appeared in the March 2025 issue of Esquire
[subscribe](https://shop.esquire.com/esquire-all-access-
membership-2.html?cds_tracking_code=esqengredirect)

* * *

## ANIKAIT KONATALAPALLI

## Student at St. Mary’s College, age 22

## Moraga, California

![a person wearing a blazer over a collared
shirt](https://hips.hearstapps.com/hmg-
prod/images/5anikait-67aa44a6751e7.jpg?resize=980:*)

Self-Portrait by contributor

I’m cisgender. I’m heterosexual. I’m not white, but I tick all the other
categories that seem to form like the bad straw-man character on the Left, if
you know what I mean. In these discourses you see on the Internet, on social
media, you’ll have a lot of these left-wing influencers, these feminists just
going on tirades against men—like, men are responsible for this, men are
responsible for that, yada, yada, yada. Part of the reason why we’re
experiencing a loneliness epidemic and we have all these crazy influencers
like Andrew Tate out there is because we as a society, I think, have told men
that they’re not valued and that whatever natural traits they exhibit are
written off as toxic masculinity.

We’re told to express ourselves, be vulnerable—but then the moment we are
vulnerable, we’re still judged. Like, “Why are you _that_ vulnerable?” Or if
you grew up in a really tough, traditional, machismo family, you’re told the
exact opposite: Keep everything in. So you either keep everything in and let
that balloon grow and grow until one day it pops, or you try to let some of it
out, get judged, and then never do it again.

I’m not one of those manosphere guys or anything like that, but for a long
time I did feel like, as a guy, I was kind of being sidelined. There was a
time in my life when I considered myself pretty liberal, but then just the way
I’d get shut down if I had a viewpoint that was maybe a little different—like,
on abortion, there was a time in high school when I genuinely didn’t know what
abortion was because my Indian parents never talked about it. I learned about
it in school when _Roe_ v. _Wade_ got overturned. This one girl who I grew up
with, I asked her, “Oh, what’s abortion? I don’t know what that is.” And she
was like, “It’s when a pregnancy gets terminated.” And I was like, “What do
you mean terminated? The baby dies?” And she was like, “Yeah, basically.” And
I was like, “Well, isn’t that murder? Why would someone want to do that?” And
she got super mad at me. She actually threatened to hit me.

> > I’m not one of those manosphere guys or anything like that, but for a long
> time I did feel like, as a guy, I was kind of being sidelined.

I’m a child of immigrants, but you seem to get more benefits as an illegal
migrant than if you’re a citizen here. They get housed in hotels, they get
debit cards, and yet there’s so many veterans on the streets who don’t get any
of it. Last summer I applied for this internship at a major investment firm on
their portfolio-management team, and I clicked on this scholarship application
where they’ll give $20,000 toward your tuition. And I got an offer for an
accelerated interview. So I tell my dad about it—an accelerated interview at
the biggest asset manager in the world! And he was like, “What do you mean
‘accelerated interview’? They only give those to marginalized communities—they
only give those to people who are LGBT and Black and Hispanic and all that.”
He said, “You should email them and tell them you’re not one of those.”

So I send an email. I tell them, “Hey, thank you for the offer, but I don’t
think I should be interviewed in this way because I don’t fit into those
categories.” They were like, “Okay, well, thanks for telling us.” And then a
few weeks later, I got rejected. So my initial thought was like, _Okay, so
they were going to consider me because I ticked a few identity markers—but now
that I don’t, they get rid of me?_ I still have this negative view of
affirmative action because of it—because it’s like they were willing to lower
the standard for me. It’s demeaning. And obviously you’re never going to be
happy because—whether people say it out loud or not—you’ll always be seen as
the guy who got in because there was a lower standard.

I voted for Biden in 2020, and I voted for Trump in 2024. I didn’t like Trump
back in 2020, and I still don’t really like him. He’s got the kind of persona
that I despise—that kind of main character, center of the universe, got
pampered a lot as a kid, all that. And he was definitely a sore loser in 2020.
I voted against him in 2020 because I just didn’t like how the last four years
went, the amount of polarization, the way he handled the pandemic. So I voted
against him. And then this time I voted against Biden by voting for Trump.

It’s ridiculous the way the Left has portrayed Trump as this threat to
democracy when they’ve done a lot of things that are just as bad. Like, it was
obvious they couped against Biden, and it’s not like they had an open primary
where other Democrats could run. They just put Kamala in there. Then Biden
pardoned his son after he said he wouldn’t. I also think the Justice
Department is politicized. Sure, maybe Trump has some legit cases against him,
but why are they trying to fish for everything they can? I definitely admire
his resilience. He’s got all these court cases on him, all these convictions,
and yet he’s still out there campaigning like crazy. Trump’s also got, what,
two assassination attempts on him? Not to mention the entire media machine
being against him, the entire political machine being against him, even
Republicans. And yet he’s out there winning.

* * *

## CARTER PLANTINGA

## Prelaw student at Boston University, age 22

## Nashville, Tennessee

![person wearing a white tshirt with printed text referencing edward hoppers
artwork](https://hips.hearstapps.com/hmg-
prod/images/8carter-67aa4502ce4af.jpg?resize=980:*)

Self-Portrait by contributor

There’s a lot of talking points in the world right now about a male loneliness
epidemic. And for the most part, I would venture to say the people who focus
on it tend to be right-wing grifters trying to make a buck off of male rage.
That being said, many of the young men in my life—certainly not all, I
wouldn’t even say most, but way, way more than I’d think is normal—have no
close friends. Like, they have guys they go out and drink with. But if
something is weighing on you, if your mom is sick, I could probably name three
or four men in my everyday life who would have no one in their lives to speak
to about that.

That extends to their relationships with women. A disproportionate amount of
the men in my life are single. I’m not a single guy, so I can’t speak to this
personally, but I know there’s a lot of incel-­adjacent bitterness around that
fact. These guys have spent their entire adult lives single and have grown to
resent women for that.

> > Many of the young men in my life—certainly not all, I wouldn’t even say
> most, but way, way more than I’d think is normal—have no close friends.

And it’s exacerbated when you go online, you go on YouTube and TikTok, and
there are men reinforcing this idea that actually you’ve been right all along,
you are right to be waiting for the “highest-value woman”—that’s what they
call it—and every other woman who won’t date you, those women are bad. They’re
sexually promiscuous, they’re ignorant, and you’re right to be angry at them.
So many men are hearing this messaging and develop a sense of bitterness that
drives them away from the women in their life—not just potential partners, but
their mothers, their sisters.

I try not to associate with people who harbor real bitterness for women, but I
mean, I think about the way that some of them talk in my classes—men who take
a gender-studies class just to dunk on the feminist talking points they hear.
They view themselves as on some kind of crusade to be the logical voice of
reason in the room. Like, in a moment of social reckoning, a moment of
reorganization where there are more women in college than men, they view
themselves as a last bastion, a final crusader in the quest to defend
masculinity from an emasculating society.

It’s a really sad thing. It’s embarrassing to watch. And if you asked those
men in those lectures what they’re so angry about, they’d say they’re mad that
their side of the story is not being told, when in fact their side of the
story is the most well-­reported, well-documented, well-studied thing in the
history of the world.

* * *

## MARKO BATKOVIC

## Construction-management student at Cal State, Chico, age 22

## Chico, California

![a male sitting at a bar with arms crossed surrounded by a vibrant social
atmosphere](https://hips.hearstapps.com/hmg-
prod/images/7marko-67aa454ee8394.jpg?resize=980:*)

Self-Portrait by contributor

In this election, it seemed like the Democrats were focusing on just women’s
issues and women’s rights, we need a woman in office, everything just centered
around women—and I am in no way degrading women, that’s fine—but they left out
the entire other gender. There wasn’t anything for young men or pretty much
men in general. It was just women’s this, women’s that. And for men, we’re
like, “What about us?”

The problem with today’s society, and especially with my generation, is
everyone just focuses on, “Oh, men have had this and men have had that over
the course of history.” They’ve had better benefits or they’ve gotten paid
more. And what about women? What about women’s equality? Which I’m not opposed
to—I do feel like women should be paid equally. Although if that’s what we
want, then women need to start integrating themselves in the jobs that men
naturally do. You’re not going to see a woman doing tile work. There’s not a
single woman on the job sites that I work in. There’s not a single woman
working in the coal mines or the oil rigs. If we want to have an equal
society, then women need to start doing these jobs.

> > At the end of the day, who Trump is as a person is not my concern. What he
> does in his daily life, his whole demeanor, is not reflective of my
> opinions.

At the end of the day, who Trump is as a person is not my concern. What he
does in his daily life, the way that he acts, his whole demeanor, is not
reflective of my opinions. It all goes back to what he will do to better the
country. That’s what I’m concerned with—the things that affect my life. So his
rants on Twitter and all that stuff, yeah, it’s stupid and I don’t agree with
it. He should stop doing it. I mean, it’s kind of funny, but it’s also pretty
stupid for a political leader to be ranting on Twitter like that. At the end
of the day, though, it doesn’t affect me. What affects me is what he’s going
to do for the country.

All these Democrats keep saying he’s going to be the fall of America, which is
just an idiotic remark to make, because if he was the fall of America, it
would’ve fallen already. We still have our democracy, we still have our
freedoms, we still have our right to believe in our own values and religion
and anything that you want to believe in. I feel like Democrats just have this
hatred for Trump himself. They don’t have a problem with what we as
Republicans believe in. They just hate Trump. During the four years he was
president, all they did was try to indict him, impeach him, get him out of
office. And the last few years, they’ve been trying to put him in jail. It’s
been really shocking to see what they were doing to him. The Democrats are
always preaching about, “Oh, he’s going to be the fall of democracy and the
end of America.” Yet they’re the ones inciting a world where you can decide
someone’s unfit to be president just because you don’t like them.

History will speak for itself, though. Because at the end of the day, in 2030,
in a hundred years, whatever, our kids are going to be reading about Trump in
their history books. You don’t need to like him as a person, but it’s
undeniable the impact he’s had on the country. Whether it’s George Washington
or Barack Obama or Donald Trump, our kids in future generations are going to
know their names.
