title: Bill James, True-Crime Obsessive, on the Genre’s Enduring Importance | The New Yorker
source: http://www.newyorker.com/books/page-turner/bill-james-true-crime-obsessive-on-the-genres-enduring-importance
date: 2025-08-13T18:03:10.827114
tags: []
---
The Netflix true-crime series “Making a Murderer” has performed a public
service by highlighting conflicts in the criminal-justice system, the writer
Bill James says.PHOTOGRAPH BY NETFLIX / EVERETT

Five years ago this month, Bill James revealed a new twist in his unlikely
career. James first achieved notice, beginning in the nineteen-seventies, by
self-publishing math-heavy tracts about baseball while working security at a
pork-and-beans factory in Lawrence, Kansas. He became the godfather of the
advanced statistical analysis of sports, and his techniques soon spread into
other areas of knowledge. (He was [profiled for _The New Yorker_ by Ben
McGrath](http://web.archive.org/web/20250126131019/https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2003/07/14/the-
professor-of-baseball), in 2003, after he took a job with the Boston Red Sox.)
His writing was a critical influence for Nate Silver, among many others—it’s
possible that data-journalism outlets such as Silver’s
[FiveThirtyEight](http://web.archive.org/web/20250126131019/http://fivethirtyeight.com/)
and the _Times_ ’ [The
Upshot](http://web.archive.org/web/20250126131019/http://www.nytimes.com/section/upshot)
would not exist without the groundwork laid by an amateur on the prairie with
an addiction to watching the Red Sox on TV (which James pronounces “TEE-vee”).

But with “Popular Crime,” published in 2011, James announced himself as an
authority in a second, totally unrelated field. It is the kind of book that
only an already famous person gets to publish, and one could reasonably expect
it to be awful. Instead, the book has become something of a cult favorite
among the crime-obsessed. James leads a winding tour through nearly every
famous American criminal case, cramming in a truckload of barroom speculation,
oddball original thinking, and merciless logic. He shows a winning aversion to
pretense, formality, and bullshit. James writes more casually than anyone who
writes better, and he writes better than anyone who writes more casually.

“Popular Crime” is both a survey of true crimes and a survey of true crime as
a genre; James did not conduct original reporting about, say, the Rosenberg
case or Natalee Holloway’s disappearance, but he immersed himself deeply in
the available material. He writes with brisk self-assurance about each crime,
opining on the best and worst of the coverage, offering theories about the
case, and teasing out the lasting significance.

Since the book was published, true crime has come to occupy a more central
role in American popular culture, with the runaway success of several works in
relatively quick succession: the podcast “Serial,” the HBO series “The Jinx,”
the Netflix series “Making a Murderer,” and, most recently, two separate
miniseries about the O.J. Simpson case.

I spoke to James about the current infatuation with “true crime,” the enduring
importance of the genre, and his next book, about a series of murders
committed more than a century ago. We spoke on his wife’s cell phone, because
he couldn’t get his working, and continued exchanging e-mails while he
travelled to Boston to watch the Red Sox, as he often does in his role as a
senior advisor to the team. Our conversation has been edited and condensed.

_Are you surprised by the reception of these recent crime works? In your book,
you write, “If you go to a party populated by the NPR crowd and you start
talking about JonBenet Ramsey, people will look at you as if you had forgotten
your pants.” But these recent shows have been taken seriously._

I wouldn’t say surprised. I’m glad to see it. I’ve always thought that these
events are significant and serious events and people _should_ pay attention to
them. I’ve always thought interest in what I call popular-crime cases is a
harbinger or a forerunner of some sort of effort to fix the justice system.
Let’s hope that that is true. I was really pleased to see the popularity of
“Making a Murderer.” Because it’s my experience that people are reluctant to
believe in the concept of false confessions. And here’s a case where it’s
really obvious where confessions are dragged from a person under great duress
and he’s not actually guilty. It’s useful to see those things and say, “Oh, I
see how that happened.”

 _You’re referring to the younger defendant, Brendan Dassey?_

Yes.

_Even with material in a more highbrow register, though, such as “Serial” and
“Making a Murderer,” people argue that the genre is exploitative, that the
victims get short shrift, that there is something distasteful about turning
real tragedies into entertainments._

Well, certainly there is something distasteful about it. But _of course_ we
ask what happened to cause this tragedy; I don’t see how anyone can argue the
point. When there is a car wreck, we ask what happened to cause the car wreck.
We should _not_ look away when someone dies in any preventable fashion.

_But aren’t there true-crime books that you found morally repellent?_

I think I have run across one or two. But then, NPR sometimes seems to me to
do stories which are morally repugnant. What I find most offensive, honestly,
is self-righteousness, the assumption of moral superiority. If people refuse
to look at what really happens because “well, you know, we are not the kind of
people who take an interest in that kind of thing”… I find that more offensive
than anything I have ever run across in a crime book.

_Your tastes run the gamut in this genre. You said you were planning to watch
a program about the_ [_Chillicothe
murders_](http://web.archive.org/web/20250126131019/http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2015/05/27/chillicothe-
missing-women_n_7449672.html) _on the cable network IDTV. I have not watched
that channel but I am guessing it is not pitched to what you call the NPR
crowd._

It isn’t. I check what’s on IDTV whenever I sit down with the Red Sox on. Most
of it is terrible, and a lot of it is unmentionably terrible. However, that’s
generally true. I mean, most analytical writing about baseball is unreadable.
Most artwork that’s done in any genre is dreadful.

The thing is, you still have to go to sort of disreputable media to follow
certain kinds of stories. In the case of, say, artwork or music or films,
there is a mechanism to elevate that work which is worthwhile. I feel like the
prim and proper news supervisors do not do that in this field. The work that
is good gets no more attention than the work that is terrible.

_I would think it takes an intense fascination to get through all the dreck
that you have consumed. Why are you so invested?_

Well it’s a clichéd answer, but it’s the honest answer anyway: the interest is
that crime stories are about those parts of ourselves that we hide, those
parts of ourselves that we deny and don’t want to admit are there: lust,
greed, anger. As to being singularly fascinated, well, turn on your TV. There
are, at this moment, forty channels on your TV doing crime stories, whether
true or fictional. If you look at the Bible, there’s a crime story on every
page. Almost literally. I don’t think it’s an unusual fascination.

_Your book demonstrates quite a lot of confidence about a number of cases. You
utterly convinced me, as someone who had only casually followed the case, that
JonBenet Ramsey’s parents are innocent in her death. But people have been
debating this case for twenty years. How can you be so sure?_

In that case I was certain in my own mind and adopted the position that the
truth was clear and I was going to argue for it. I don’t think there are many
cases like that in the book.

_With JonBenet Ramsey, it seemed like you cared a lot about transmitting your
belief in the innocence of—_

I did. I did. And I did because I felt strongly that innocent people had been
wronged by the media in a way that was just _appalling_. The word “appalling”
hardly gets there. These people lost their child in a dreadful manner. And two
weeks later Jay Leno was making jokes about them. It’s  _unfathomable_ to me
that you can allow that to happen.

_You watched some of the FX series “The People v. O.J. Simpson.” Did it change
your views at all? Some people came away with a greater empathy for Marcia
Clark._

I had more empathy for the jurors. The show presented very effectively that
this was sheer hell for them. They were given five dollars a day or something,
and they were asked to do something beyond ordinary tolerance. I’d say that my
dislike of Marcia Clark was so strong that I didn’t subject it to review.
