title: Mitt Romney, liberal? On taxes, health care, trade, and bailouts, he shows some lefty thinking.
source: http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/frame_game/2011/10/mitt_romney_liberal_on_taxes_health_care_trade_and_bailouts_he_s.html
date: 2025-08-13T20:30:32.212117
tags: []
---
Is Mitt Romney really a conservative? For several years, he has tried to
assure Republican primary voters that he is. But in last night’s _Washington
Post_ /Bloomberg debate, he sent multiple signals that beneath his orthodox
positions on many issues—unions, stimulus-bashing, corporate tax relief—lurks
some liberal thinking. Here are his [key moments from the
debate](http://thepage.time.com/2011/10/11/complete-transcript-of-hanover-
economic-debate/).

**1\. Bailouts.** Twenty-five minutes in, Romney was asked whether he would
prop up the economy in a future financial crisis the way President Bush did in
2008. Unlike some other Republicans at the table, Romney agreed with Bush that
“action had to be taken.” But he stipulated:

I’m not interested in bailing out individual institutions that have wealthy
people that want to make sure that their shares are worth something. I am
interested in making sure that we preserve our financial system, our currency,
the banks … The idea of trying to bail out an institution to protect the
shareholders or to protect a certain interest group, that’s a terrible idea.

_Wealthy people_. _Shareholders_. Opposing bailouts is natural if you believe
in free markets. But why does it matter how rich the beneficiaries are? It
matters only if you think the government should distribute money according to
wealth. A reasonable position, but a liberal one.

**2\. Trade.** Forty-five minutes in, moderator Charlie Rose showed a clip of
Romney pledging to “go after” China for currency manipulation and intellectual
property theft. After watching the clip, Romney added:

People who have looked at this in the past have been played like a fiddle by
the Chinese. And the Chinese are smiling all the way to the bank, taking our
currency and taking our jobs and taking a lot of our future. And I am not
willing to let that happen. … When people have pursued unfair trade practices,
you have to have a president that will take action. And on Day One … I will
issue an executive order identifying China as a currency manipulator. We’ll
bring an action against them in front of the WTO for manipulating their
currency, and we will go after them. If you are not willing to stand up to
China, you will get run over by China.

_Played like a fiddle. Smiling all the way to the bank. Taking our jobs. Stand
up to China. Go after them._ That’s as hard-edged as anything Dick Gephardt
said about Japan. If we can’t have a shooting war in Iraq or Afghanistan,
let’s have a trade war, or at least a legal war, with China. “Executive order”
gives this issue a nice military flavor. But then Romney segues from populism
to liberalism. Where does he intend to do battle? Before the World Trade
Organization. What could be more liberal than filing a legal complaint with a
global governance body?

**3\. Health insurance.** After the other candidates took shots at Obamacare,
Romney weighed in:

I’m proud of the fact that I’ve put together a plan that says what I’m going
to replace it with. And I think it’s incumbent on everybody around this table
to put together a plan that says this is what I’ll replace it with, because
the American people are not satisfied with the status quo. They want us to
solve the problem of health care, to get it to work like a market, and that’s
what has to happen.

Later, when Rick Perry accused Romney of driving up insurance premiums, Romney
replied:

I’m proud of the fact that we took on a major problem in my state. And the
problem was that we had a lot of kids without insurance, a lot of adults
without insurance, but it added up to about 8 percent of our population. And
we said, you know what, we want to find a way to get those folks insured, but
we don’t want to change anything for the 92 percent of the people that already
have insurance. … We have the lowest number of kids as a percentage uninsured
of any state in America. You (Perry) have the highest. … We have less than 1
percent of our kids that are uninsured. You have a million kids uninsured in
Texas. A million kids. Under President Bush, the percentage uninsured went
down. Under your leadership, it’s gone up. I care about people.

_I care about people?_ That sounds like what Perry said about immigration:
that anyone who opposed his policy of in-state tuition for children of illegal
immigrants working toward citizenship didn’t “have a heart.” Equating
subsidies with compassion is a common Democratic habit. Free-market
conservatives find it galling. But Romney, like Perry, seems to have acquired
it. And unlike Perry, he thinks the government must “replace” Obamacare with
something that will “solve the problem of health care.”

**4\. Middle-class tax cuts.** An hour into the debate, Newt Gingrich asked
Romney:

One of the characteristics of Obama in his class-warfare approach has been to
talk about going after people who made over $250,000 a year and divide us. And
I was a little surprised—I think it’s about page 47 of your plan—that you have
a capital-gains tax cut for people under $200,000, which is actually lower
than the Obama model. Now, as a businessman, you know that you actually lose
economic effectiveness if you limit capital gains tax cuts only to people who
don’t get capital gains. So I’m curious: What was the rationale for setting an
even lower base marker than Obama had?

Romney answered:

The reason for giving a tax break to middle-income Americans is that middle-
income Americans have been the people who have been most hurt by the Obama
economy. … Median income in America has declined by 10 percent during the
Obama years. People are having a hard time making ends meet. And so if I’m
going to use precious dollars to reduce taxes, I want to focus on where the
people are hurting the most, and that’s the middle class. I’m not worried
about rich people. They are doing just fine. The very poor have a safety net,
they’re taken care of. But the people in the middle, the hard-working
Americans, are the people who need a break, and that is why I focused my tax
cut right there.

_If I’m going to use precious dollars to reduce taxes, I want to focus on
where the people are hurting the most._ That’s Romney’s most revealing
statement of the night. A property-oriented conservative would say that
dollars belong to the people who earned them and that tax cuts should let them
keep more of their money. But Romney’s formulation—“ use precious dollars to
reduce taxes”—assumes that the dollars are his to “focus,” i.e. distribute,
according to need. Again, it’s a defensible worldview. But it’s fundamentally
liberal.

Don’t get me wrong. Romney’s positions on taxes, regulation, and military
spending put him clearly in the right half of the political spectrum. But his
comments last night show a leakage of liberal sentiments well before the
general election. Maybe he thinks the nomination is sewn up. Maybe, if he
keeps talking this way, it won’t be.

_Like**Slate** on_ [_Facebook_](http://www.facebook.com/slate) _. Follow us
on_ [_Twitter_](http://http//www.twitter.com/slate) _. William Saletan’s
latest short takes on the news, via_ [_Twitter_](http://twitter.com/saletan)
_:_
