title: Why the First Amendment won't necessarily protect WikiLeaks.
source: http://www.slate.com/id/2276592/pagenum/all/#p2
date: 2025-08-13T21:45:57.518109
tags: []
---
Besides providing the public with unprecedented access to classified
government documents, Julian Assange and his WikiLeaks enterprise may provide
an answer to a question left open since the Supreme Court decided [the
Pentagon Papers case](http://www.oyez.org/cases/1970-1979/1970/1970_1873/)
almost 40 years ago: Can a publisher be prosecuted for disseminating truthful
information illegally obtained by a source without offending the First
Amendment?

Like many complex questions of constitutional law pitting competing interests
of the highest order against one another, the answer is: It depends. But based
on precedent—and, almost as relevant, on the current composition of the
Supreme Court—it seems likely that the court would allow a case against
Assange. The problem would be getting him to court.

The Supreme Court has never addressed this issue head on in the years since
the Pentagon Papers case. But in related cases it has found that holding the
publishers of illegally obtained information legally accountable violated the
First Amendment, most recently in 2001 in _[Bartnicki v.
Vopper](http://www.law.cornell.edu/supct/html/99-1687.ZS.html)_. In that case,
the stakes were relatively low and any potential damage from publication of
the information illegally obtained by the source was localized. The case
concerned a conversation between the president of a Pennsylvania teachers’
union and the union’s chief negotiator illegally intercepted by a union
opponent and turned over to the host of a local radio show. When the radio
host broadcast the conversation, the union president and negotiator sued him
for civil damages under a federal law that made it unlawful for any person to
“willfully disclose … to any other person the contents of any wire or oral
communication, knowing or having reason to know that the information was
obtained” illegally.

The Supreme Court assumed for the purposes of the case that the actions of the
radio host (and other media) violated the law. Still, it found that the First
Amendment prohibited the lawsuit. So what does _Bartnicki_ tell us about the
government’s chances against Assange?

The first question is whether Assange violated any federal law. Justice and
Defense Department officials have focused on a section of the 1917 Espionage
Act that makes it a crime punishable by up to 10 years in prison for anyone
“having unauthorized possession of … any document … or information relating to
the national defense which information the possessor has reason to believe
could be used to the injury of the United States or to the advantage of any
foreign nation,” either to “willfully communicate … the same to any person not
entitled to receive it,” or to “willfully retain the same and fail to deliver
it to the officer or employee of the United States entitled to receive it.”

Recognizing that good defense lawyers would put up a fight on each of them,
let’s assume Assange meets the elements of the crime: 1) he had unauthorized
possession of classified documents; 2) they related to the national defense;
3) he had reason to believe the documents could be used to injure the United
States or advantage a foreign nation, and 4) he willfully communicated the
cables to people not entitled to receive them. Let’s also assume the
government can get Assange into a U.S. court.

Any First Amendment analysis concerning publication of classified documents
must start with the Pentagon Papers case. In that 1971 case, the Supreme Court
rejected the government’s plea for an order prohibiting the _New York Times_
and the _Washington Post_ from publishing a leaked top secret study on
America’s policy in Vietnam. While it was a landmark victory for the press,
the six justices in the majority agreed on very little except the result.
(Each of them issued his own written opinion in addition to the half page per
curium opinion they all joined.) The result was that, in the absence of a law
passed by Congress, the courts could not take the drastic step of imposing a
_pre_ -publication restraint on the press. They disagreed, for example, on
whether publication of the documents qualified as “communicat[ing],”
“deliver[ing],” or “transmit[ting]” as those terms were used in the Espionage
Act. Thus, the court expressed no opinion on whether the First Amendment
prevented _post_ -publication prosecution of the publishers.

As we know, with their Supreme Court victory in hand, the _Times_ and _Post_
went ahead publishing portions—but not all, and arguably not the most
controversial parts—of the 7,000-page Defense Department report. The
government never tried to prosecute the publishers. And the courts were never
called on to answer the questions left open by the Pentagon Papers case.

Thirty years later, in _Bartnicki_ , the court inched closer to resolving
“whether, in cases where information has been acquired unlawfully by a
newspaper or by a source, government may ever punish not only the unlawful
acquisition, but the ensuing publication as well.” While the six-member
majority once again sided with the media, a close examination of the court’s
rationale indicates the First Amendment shield might not be available to
Assange.

The court began its analysis by accepting as true the following three
assertions:

1) The disseminators (publishers and broadcasters) played no part in illegally
obtaining the information.
2) No law prohibited the disseminators’ receipt of the illegally obtained
information.
3) The subject matter of the conversation was of public concern.

Then the court balanced the interest in promoting public discourse and the
free flow of information about matters of public concern, on the one hand,
against the interests in promoting private speech and in discouraging illegal
interception of private conversations, on the other. The great public interest
in the information tipped the scales, the court said.

A potential Assange prosecution would differ in several important respects.
First, it would be a criminal case, and instead of monetary damages a prison
sentence would hang in the balance. Next, the second _Bartnicki_ court
assumption—that there is no law against the receipt of illegally obtained
information—doesn’t hold for Assange: The Espionage Act prohibits that very
thing. In addition, the first _Bartnicki_ assumption—that Assange played no
part in obtaining the information—is less clear: Did the leaker receive
assistance or encouragement from Assange? Finally, the balance of interests is
different—while the matters covered by the WikiLeaks disclosures might be of
more monumental public concern, the potential damage to national security and
foreign policy prerogatives is far more grave than the personal reputational
injury alleged by a union president and negotiator.

But let’s not get too bogged down with legal analysis. Supreme Court
prognostication is about counting votes. _Bartnicki_ was a 6-3 decision. In
the majority were Justices John Paul Stevens (its author), Sandra Day
O’Connor, Anthony Kennedy, David Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, and Stephen
Breyer. Dissenting were Chief Justice William Rehnquist, and Justices Antonin
Scalia and Clarence Thomas. Since _Bartnicki_ , the chief justice has been
replaced by his former law clerk, John Roberts, and we’ll assume he will vote
the same way as his old boss, and that Scalia and Thomas will stay put.
O’Connor has been replaced by Samuel Alito, and we can assume he’ll join the
dissenters in siding with the government. That makes four votes to allow
prosecution. Let’s assume that Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan vote
as their predecessors (Souter and Stevens, respectively) did and that Ginsburg
again sides with the media, though on these close calls involving
nonideological issues such speculation is particularly dangerous.

That leaves the enigmatic Kennedy and the pragmatic Breyer. We’ll leave
Kennedy and his quirky First Amendment jurisprudence in a familiar place—in
the middle—and focus on Breyer, who tipped his hand in the _Bartnicki_ case.

Breyer (joined by O’Connor) wrote a separate concurring opinion in _Bartnicki_
to emphasize that his vote, as it often is, was strictly limited to the facts
of the case, especially the three assumptions the court made. He stressed that
“[f]or one thing, the broadcasters here engaged in no unlawful activity other
than the ultimate publication of the information another had previously
obtained. They ‘neither encouraged nor participated directly or indirectly in
the interception.’” He continued: “No one claims that they ordered, counseled,
encouraged, or otherwise aided or abetted the interception, the later delivery
of the tape by the interceptor to an intermediary, or the tape’s still later
delivery by the intermediary to the media.”

This might be a more difficult conclusion to reach when it comes to Assange
and WikiLeaks, whose Website boasts “military-grade encryption protection” for
its “anonymous electronic drop box” and other protections for potential
contributors of “restricted or censored material.”

Most important, Breyer reiterated that the statutes at play in _Bartnicki_ “do
not forbid the receipt of the tape itself,” and the court’s ruling “does not
apply to punishing parties for obtaining the relevant information unlawfully.”
This would be extremely difficult for Assange to claim because the Espionage
Act makes it a crime to receive and retain documents “connected with the
national defense” if the receiver has “reason to believe” they were obtained
illegally.

Finally, Breyer concluded that the privacy expectations of the union president
and negotiator were “unusually low” because their discussion involved
suggestions of committing violent acts to get their way in the negotiation,
while the “public interest in defeating those expectations is unusually high.”
In a case against Assange, both interests would be much higher—the national
security and diplomatic secrecy interests would be far more serious than they
were in _Bartnicki_ , while the subject matter of the leaked documents are of
paramount public concern _._ The balance would be much closer.

And in close cases like this one, where the smallest of factual distinctions
can significantly alter constitutional outcomes, differences between WikiLeaks
and more traditional media might matter to Breyer, the court’s most media-
friendly and technologically savvy member, and other justices. Courts have not
had an easy time drawing a clear line between new and old media for First
Amendment purposes. This case has new media concerned it might get second-
class treatment and old media fearing the extreme circumstances of an Assange
case could make bad law for them.

Reading the concurrences, a task not so different from reading tea leaves, it
looks like a majority of the justices in both _Bartnicki_ and the Pentagon
Papers case indicated a willingness to permit prosecution over a First
Amendment challenge in circumstances likely to be presented in an Espionage
Act case against Assange or other WikiLeakers. That just leaves the government
the challenge of finding Assange, getting him to the United States, and
proving all the complicated elements of the crime in the face of the legal,
territorial, technological smoke screens Assange has created.

If it can do that, this case—let’s call it the Foggy Bottom Papers case—may
answer that grand constitutional question left unanswered 40 years ago.

_Like_** _Slate_** _on_ [_Facebook_](http://www.facebook.com/slate) _. Follow
us on_
[_Twitter_](https://editor.slate.com//editor/http/www.twitter.com/slate) _._
