title: Sears's History Predicts Almost Everything Amazon's Doing - The Atlantic
source: https://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2017/09/sears-predicts-amazon/540888/
date: 2025-08-13T16:58:48.874137
tags: []
---
Amazon comes to conquer brick-and-mortar retail, not to bury it. In the last
two years, the company has opened [11 physical
bookstores](https://www.cnbc.com/2017/09/19/amazon-is-firing-on-all-cylinders-
to-grow-its-retail-presence.html). This summer, it bought Whole Foods and its
400 grocery locations. And last week, the company
[announced](https://www.cnbc.com/2017/09/19/amazon-is-firing-on-all-cylinders-
to-grow-its-retail-presence.html) a partnership with Kohl’s to allow returns
at the physical retailer’s stores.

Why is Amazon looking more and more like an old-fashioned retailer? The
company’s do-it-all corporate strategy adheres to a familiar playbook—that of
Sears, Roebuck & Company. Sears might seem like a
[zombie](https://www.cnbc.com/2017/07/07/sears-ceo-eddie-lampert-announces-
plans-to-close-more-sears-kmart-stores.html) today, but it’s easy to forget
how transformative the company was exactly 100 years ago, when it, too, was
capitalizing on a mail-to-consumer business to establish a physical retail
presence.

To understand Amazon—its evolution, its strategy, and perhaps its future—look
to Sears.

* * *

Mail was an internet before the internet. After the Civil War, several new
communications and transportations systems—the telegraph, rail, and parcel
delivery—made it possible to shop at home and have items delivered to your
door. Americans browsed catalogues on their couches for jewelry, food, and
books. Merchants sent the parcels by rail.

From its founding in the late 19th century to its world-famous catalog, the
history of Sears, Roebuck & Company is well known. Less storied is its
magnificently successful transition from a mailing company to a brick-and-
mortar giant. Like Amazon among its online-shopping rivals, Sears was not the
country’s first mail-order retailer, but it became the largest of its kind.
Like Amazon, it started with a single product category—watches, rather than
books. But, like Amazon, the company grew to include a range of products,
including guns, gramophones, cars, and even groceries.

From the start, Sears’s genius was to market itself to consumers as [an
everything
store](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0ahUKEwics8Wam7nWAhWrHJoKHQw5AJUQFggoMAA&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.amazon.com%2FEverything-
Store-Jeff-Bezos-
Amazon%2Fdp%2F0316219266&usg=AFQjCNFme89A-iI7L-5dqs3LLzYfCcrWBA), with an
unrivaled range of products, often sold for minuscule profits. The company’s
feel for consumer demand was so uncanny, and its operations so efficient, that
it became, for many of its diehard customers, not just the best retail option,
but the only one worth considering.

By building a large base of fiercely loyal consumers, Sears was able to buy
more cheaply from manufacturers and wholesalers. It managed its deluge of
orders with massive warehouses, like its central facility in Chicago, in which
messages to various departments and assembly workers were sent through
pneumatic tubes. In the decade between 1895 and 1905, Sears’s revenue grew by
a factor of 50, from about $750,000 to about $38 million, according to Alfred
D. Chandler Jr.’s 1977 book _The Visible Hand: The Managerial Revolution in
American Business._ (By comparison, in the last decade, Amazon’s revenue has
grown [by a factor of 10](https://www.recode.net/2017/5/15/15610786/amazon-
jeff-bezos-public-company-profit-revenue-explained-five-charts).)

Then, after one of the most successful half-centuries in U.S. corporate
history, Sears did something really crazy. It opened a store.

In the early 1920s, Sears found itself in an economy that was coming off a
harsh post-World War recession, according to Daniel M. G. Graff and Peter
Temin’s essay [“Sears, Roebuck in the Twentieth Century.”
](http://www.nber.org/chapters/c10234)The company was also dealing with a more
lasting challenge: the rise of chain stores. To guide their corporate
makeover, the company tapped a retired World War I general named Robert Wood,
who turned to the U.S. Census and Statistical Abstract of the United States as
a fount of marketing wisdom. In federally tabulated figures, he saw the
country moving from farm to city, and then from city to suburb. His plan:
Follow them with stores.

The first Sears stores opened in the company’s existing mail-order warehouses,
for convenience’s sake. But soon they were popping up in new locations. Not
satisfied with merely competing with urban department stores like Macy’s, Wood
distinguished new Sears locations by plopping them into suburbs where land was
cheap and parking space was plentiful.

Sears’s aesthetic was unadorned, specializing in “hard goods” like plumbing
tools and car parts. Wood initially thought that young shoppers would prefer a
cold, no-frills experience—he likened the first stores to “military
commissaries.” This was a rare misstep; Sears ultimately redesigned their
stores to appear more high-end.

The company’s brick-and-mortar transformation was astonishing. At the start of
1925, there were no Sears stores in the United States. By 1929, there were
300. While Montgomery Ward built 90 percent of its stores in rural areas or
small cities, and Woolworth focused on rich urban areas, Sears bet on
everything—rural and urban, rich and poor, farmers and manufacturers.
Geographically, it disproportionately built where the Statistical Abstract
showed growth: in southern, southwestern, and western cities.

Sears was not content to be a one-stop-shop for durable goods. Like Amazon
today, the company used its position to enter adjacent businesses. To
supplement its huge auto-parts business, Sears started selling car insurance
under the Allstate brand. One might say the shift from selling products to
services is analogous to the creation of Amazon Web Services—or even Amazon’s
television shows. Analysts have wondered, why would Amazon want to sell books,
diapers, and TV? But even the company’s seemingly eccentric decisions are
centered on Sears’s old expertise: becoming an inextricable part of consumers’
lives.

* * *

It’s remarkable how Sears’s rise anticipates Amazon’s. The growth of both
companies was the result of a focus on operations efficiency, low prices, and
a keen eye on the future of American demographics.

So how might Sears’s experience predict Amazon’s future?

First, Sears showed that physical retail doesn’t necessarily cannibalize the
mailing business. So far, Amazon’s online sales have actually grown in regions
where it has a physical store presence, according to
[CNBC](https://www.cnbc.com/2017/09/19/amazon-is-firing-on-all-cylinders-to-
grow-its-retail-presence.html).

Second, it’s important to remember that, although Sears eventually became a
dominant physical retailer, the transition was bumpy. Sears initially assumed
that its blue-collar customers would appreciate a no-frills shopping
experience. But it eventually beautified its stores to lure the whole family.
The spartan design of Amazon’s bookstores already [has its
detractors](https://qz.com/990164/amazons-first-bookstore-in-new-york-city-
sucks-the-joy-out-of-buying-books/), and the company may learn that even a
logistics behemoth needs an interior decorator.

Third, Amazon may find, like Sears, that size can be both an advantage and a
bull’s-eye. Sears evolved to become a microcosm of the American economy, with
its corporate operations spanning retailing, manufacturing, marketing, and
transportation. Warehouses filled 100,000 orders a day, 16 Sears-operated
manufacturing plants built name-brand kitchenware and furniture, and a New
York branch concentrated in apparel marketing. Amazon is already on this very
road; in fact, on Thursday, the company
[announced](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=4&ved=0ahUKEwjiyt6PnbnWAhXB3YMKHUuaAOYQFghGMAM&url=http%3A%2F%2Ffortune.com%2F2017%2F09%2F21%2Famazon-
new-york-city-jobs%2F&usg=AFQjCNHSoyGvNocXrxYcmOsr6SpHLDqrTQ) that it is
adding several thousand marketing jobs in its New York office. But just as
Sears attracted the ire of displaced merchants, particularly in rural areas,
Amazon will find—and has already found—it impossible to expand without
garnering animosity from retailers or regulators.

Growing inequality in the U.S. may offer new challenges to building a truly
national retailer. But once again, Sears offers a lesson. The company thrived
as long as it used U.S. demographics as a guide—following Americans to the
suburbs of the South and West, and selling parts for their favorite new toy,
the automobile. Amazon, too, will thrive as long as it uses American
demographics as a roadmap and takes advantage of new personal technology, like
mobile phones for shopping and AI assistants for the home. In the last six
months, Amazon has spent $13 billion to buy Whole Foods and its upscale urban
locations. At the same time, it has [offered
discounts](https://www.recode.net/2017/6/6/15745432/amazon-prime-discount-ebt-
cards-government-assistance-lower-income) for low-income shoppers to become
Prime subscribers. Perhaps Sears’s descendant can become an everything store
for everyone.
