title: Revealed: The brutal reality for mechanics as F1's calendar expands
source: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/revealed-the-brutal-reality-for-mechanics-as-f1s-calendar-expands/6960259/amp/
date: 2025-08-13T15:31:37.355776
tags: []
---
Grand prix racing’s chiefs have always tried to give the impression that they
are doing their best to manage the difficulties those that working in the
pitlane face.

However, as F1’s calendar looks set to explode even more in the future, and
triple headers are now the norm, many within the paddock have expressed some
private concerns that they don’t appear to be being listened to, as things
look set to get even worse for them in the future.

While some team bosses have cruelly suggested that anyone who doesn’t like the
gruelling work demands can simply go and find another job outside F1, losing a
bunch of staff needlessly through burnout is not a solution that suits the
sport best for the long term.

Motorsport.com has heard the story of what life is really like on the road for
a mechanic right now, and just why things are close to a breaking point.

Speaking anonymously to a team member who travels with the F1 circus, he
reveals how life has changed for mechanics in recent years, what impact the
bigger calendar is having for those in the garages, and just what F1 can do to
help make a better future for all those involved.

Here are his words...

## The mechanic's viewpoint

There is no hiding from the fact that life on the road as a Formula 1 mechanic
is tough. It has always been that way, and none of us do it because we are
after an easy time.

We all love F1, and know that being a part of grand prix racing is something
that requires you to dig deep.

But, as the calendar has expanded and the triple-headers become a norm, things
have hit a breaking point for a lot of people who work in the garages.

The working hours are a lot. From the Wednesday before a race until the Sunday
night afterwards, it's a minimum of 12-hour days every day. You don't realise
what that takes out of you until you go back to work in the factory and a
normal eight-hour day is almost comical because it feels so short!

In fact, you don't realise what an abnormal life it is on the road until you
actually come back home.

What makes it especially tough is the fact that it is so relentless, with no
recovery time. You work from the moment you get off the plane, and that can be
after a really crappy flight where you have been crammed in economy class and
got little to no sleep.

After the end-of-season triple-header in Mexico, Brazil, and Qatar, the
combination of punishing economy flights, late timetables and timezone changes
meant everyone was absolutely shattered, and that is when I think I saw people
struggling the most.

The peak tiredness when it hits is a horrible, horrible thing. When you are
away from your loved ones and on the road, you can feel so alone.

Then, when you are coming home on a Monday morning or Monday evening, and you
haven't slept properly in days, that then affects how you feel in your
personal time. It means your relationships can suffer – either because you are
agitated with your partners or you've got other things on your mind. And
that's not fair on you nor them.

You are not just mentally fatigued, you are physically drained as well. As the
season wears on, there are a hell of lot of injuries happening. The teams do
have doctors and physios to help look after you, but the easiest solution is
to pump you with painkillers to just keep you going. There is no way in a
million years that a regular doctor would give you what we are given to keep
us going.

For those that don't want to go down the painkiller route, they turn to
alcohol, and that's not especially good either.

![Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB16B, arrives on the busy pre race
grid](//cdn-2.motorsport.com/images/mgl/6D1nZG70/s8/max-verstappen-red-bull-
racing-1.jpg)

Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB16B, arrives on the busy pre race grid

Photo by: Simon Galloway / [Motorsport
Images](https://www.motorsportimages.com)

On top of all this, the COVID rules have added another stress point,
especially as teams like to manage the timing of the tests in terms of what is
best for them rather than what is best for the individual.

Some teams don't want you to test too early in case that puts you out for
qualifying or the race. Instead they prefer for you to wait until as late as
you can for your pre-return PCR.

But if there is a problem and the test result doesn't come back for any
reason, then it's the mechanic who suffers as he has to stay away from home
for yet another day to go and get retested.

One day extra doesn't seem a lot, but it all adds up when everyone is so tired
and just wants to be home with their loved ones. It is typical of a lack of
empathy from the teams about what they are putting people through.

Between the stress of test results being processed in time so we can all go
home, the requirement to self-isolate in the UK, and the calendar changes on
short notice, we have had to give up so much of our lives to F1 so that people
at the top can make more money while we get nothing in return.

On top of the sheer tiredness and being away from home so much, it is
difficult to balance the relentlessness of it with the really high
expectations that are placed upon everyone in the garage to work at their
highest level. Nobody wants to make a car in which a driver retires or
crashes, so everyone is absolutely wired into it.

And that just adds to the stress. The drivers, and all the factory personnel,
are relying on you to perform at 100% and not to make any errors. But anyone
can make mistakes. We're only human, and I've made plenty in my time.

When you do, there is just this silent disappointment from others. You get
asked about why you let it happen, why you weren't more aware of things, and
it's difficult to take that in on top of everything else.

Then you start doubting yourself. It throws you, and you risk making even more
mistakes because you start getting more stressed about it. It's mentally
fatiguing.

The pressures of all that, plus the tiredness triggered by the number of races
and the triple-headers, has got to a point where the atmosphere in the garages
can be very toxic at times.

And that toxicity comes from being in a competitive arena. It's almost like a
corporate environment where you're trying to climb the ladder but people
aren't getting anywhere so they end up being horrible to others.

There is a lot of banter but it can get nasty very quickly. I've seen it a lot
of times where it's been funny but has then crossed the line a bit too much,
and the humour has become too dark.

It can have a negative impact on some members within the team who have
insecurities regarding their appearance, sexuality, or work status.
Exacerbating those insecurities can lead to depression and everything that
comes with it like social isolation and an unhealthy lifestyle.

It's a toxicity caused because everyone is on top of each other all the time:
there is no getting away to have a little bit of a breather.

The guys are having to build the car, then straight after they might have to
go and build the gearbox and then they might have to go and do the suspension.
There isn't even half an hour for some lunch sometimes, as you feel you need
to wolf your food down to get back to work.

![The standard night-time curfew sign outside the paddock entrance swipe
gates](//cdn-4.motorsport.com/images/mgl/6l97dX40/s8/the-standard-night-time-
curfew-1.jpg)

The standard night-time curfew sign outside the paddock entrance swipe gates

Photo by: Sam Bloxham / [Motorsport Images](https://www.motorsportimages.com)

Teams have tried to do their bit to improve things, and there are things that
are better now than a few years ago.

The curfew has helped a bit, and of course we don't have to do a whole bunch
of testing between races like there was a few decades ago.

On hotel rooms, we did used to have to share rooms, but now a lot of teams
have realised that giving everyone single rooms doesn't really affect their
budget too much. And the positive reaction they're getting from the people due
to that is is very beneficial for the teams.

However, the mental health awareness on teams’ social media is often about the
drivers, but not the rest of their workforce.

You get the impression that the top management don’t want to assess their
mechanics and technicians as they’ll be scared of the results. If they know
the results, they know that they have to act upon them, and ultimately a
mechanic isn’t important enough to worry about nor spend extra money on.

That just then leaves some of us feeling that if you do mentally break down –
and I know some colleagues who have – there is no extra support for us. No one
is going to come and catch us.

Often when people talk about the stresses and strains of the mammoth F1
calendar, they say that if you don't like it then you can leave. Some team
bosses have even said as much.

But that attitude just shows how out of touch some are with the reality of
what is needed in F1, and this belief that you can simply slot in replacement
staff like fresh light bulbs.

All that will be left, if you push everyone over the edge, is having kids
doing the job. You won't find great mechanics, you won't find great
technicians, and the sport as a whole will fail because it is no longer about
the best staff working for the best teams who attract the best drivers.

If any teams think they can promote someone fresh and young from a junior
category with no experience, and expect them to win championships in the
future, then they’re not understanding the reality of the sport.

Just like any master craftsman, you need the experienced person to pass on
their knowledge to create the best product. F1 isn’t too far from that, and
you need the previous generation to teach the new generation. Without that, a
team won’t succeed in being the best.

I feel that F1 is close to a tipping point, with the calendar getting longer
and the sport's bosses thinking they can keep rolling out the triple-headers.

So many people have talked about quitting this year and that hasn't happened
any other years that I've been involved in the sport.

Normally at the end of the season there are two or three team members who
decide they don't want to keep going to the races. But this year there have
been so many more people talking about the need to get out. I think with
COVID, people are realising that there is a life outside of F1.

I worry about the long-term future too because on top of all the stress and
strain caused by the schedule, the mechanics are also paying a big price for
the cost cap.

The wages of a mechanic have pretty much flatlined over the past 20 years –
and what motivation does that give you for the amount of time, mental and
physical effort that you are putting in over your years in the sport?

In addition, because teams are trying to keep a lid on spending due to the
cost cap, they simply cannot afford to hand out pay rises that keep up with
inflation. So it's going to stall wages, and kill the job market in F1 as it
will fall behind other series.

There is a weird scenario where we are almost better off going to work in
Formula 2, Formula E or WEC for slightly less money, but do almost half the
number of races and not have to put up with all the hassles of a 23-race
schedule. It should not be like that.

It also means for those who love F1, and who can put up with the stresses,
that there just isn't the scope to plot a normal career path. In the past you
could aspire to move up to be number one mechanic, to chief mechanic and then
even higher. And each time getting a decent pay hike.

That path doesn't exist anymore because the pay grades just aren't there – and
if the staff inside the sport can't see a future, then how on earth can F1
expect to attract the most promising individuals from outside?

And does it make sense for the cost cap to exempt the highest paid staff in
the team who already enjoy many more luxuries than those working on the garage
floor?

I think team management and those who run F1 are aware of what's going on, but
I don't think they fully understand it, which is why there isn't an urgency to
make changes that would help everyone.

If F1 does nothing and doesn't react to what a lot of mechanics feel, then you
are just going to end up with a high turnover of people, and that is going to
hurt the teams the most.

I'm not sure if it's just the working staff who think that 23 races is too
much: I sense even the fans think that a run of triple-headers is not great.
It feels like the sport is being cheapened in a way, where each race is no
longer as valuable and important because there are now so many.

And why isn't there more consideration for a calendar that works better for
staff? Why, for example, are we going from Azerbaijan straight to Canada next
year? It doesn't make any sense at all, especially when a Turkey/Baku run
would be much more sensible.

![Mechanics clear the grid as the drivers prepare to begin the formation
lap](//cdn-5.motorsport.com/images/mgl/6O1g1XG2/s8/mechanics-clear-the-grid-
as-th-1.jpg)

Mechanics clear the grid as the drivers prepare to begin the formation lap

Photo by: Glenn Dunbar / [Motorsport Images](https://www.motorsportimages.com)

There are some solutions though that would help us a lot.

Of course, wages are always important. There needs to be a rethink about the
pay structure in the sport to ensure that those on the front line aren't being
hurt the most by the cost cap.

For what would seem like a small pay rise for the bosses would make a massive
difference to a lot of us on the ground.

Also, why not get us out of our cramped economy plane seats for some of the
more gruelling races, just so when we land we are in much improved shape to do
a better job for the teams?

And what about pushing more for a staff rotation system, so we keep the best
team members refreshed and motivated for the entire season? I know one team
has tried resting mechanics for a few races this year and it has made a big
difference.

But perhaps the biggest thing that would help is a bit of empathy from the top
of F1.

We all do this job because we love grand prix racing, but there comes a point
where our mental and physical well-being needs to take priority over the needs
of the sport to keep pumping out the races.

More downtime for exercise and for recovery, some proper health checks to
ensure we can perform at our very best, and just a better understanding of
what our life is really like when you hit those brutal low points in the
middle of yet another triple-header, would mean the world.

In this article

Be the first to know and subscribe for real-time news email updates on these
topics

Subscribe to news alerts
