title: How To Kick Ass During Your Jesus Year
source: http://adequateman.deadspin.com/how-to-kick-ass-during-your-jesus-year-1774311093
date: 2025-08-13T18:08:54.982438
tags: []
---
Certain ages have established talking points. At 25, there’s the quarter-life
crisis, which is false, but gets you thinking about the banal inexorability of
aging. At 27, you talk about rock stars who died before they could get old and
embarrassing, because you desperately don’t want to, either. (“Get old and
embarrassing,” I mean. You’re definitely going to die.) At 33, my current age,
there’s an even stranger hook. I don’t remember when I first heard the phrase,
but now, whenever anyone asks me how old I am, I follow up my answer with,
“It’s my Jesus Year.”

I started saying this basically because the gory death of the most celebrated
person in the history of the Western world—which is thought to have happened
in his 34th year—is a more enjoyable topic of conversation than the
incremental, horrific, and unavoidable effects of time on my mind and body. At
first, most of my conversations about the last days of Our Lord and Savior
(well, not mine, but some people’s) didn’t go very far beyond some stupid
riffing. But after awhile, I started to legitimately wonder if there was any
worth in comparing myself to this particular religious figure who was at the
height of his powers at my age. I was barely raised Catholic, and then only
until shortly after my First Communion; now, I’m not even a casually spiritual
person. But at this point in my life, I’m open to any help trying to deal with
not being particularly young anymore, so long as it’s cheaper than out-of-
network therapy (and with my insurance, that’s _all_ therapy).

Online, the Jesus Year is usually interpreted as an _Eat, Pray, Love-_ style
self-help paradigm involving “rebirth,” “doing good,” “getting in touch with
what matters,” and related platitudes. For those stuck between the quixotic
idiocy of their 20s and the terrifying, baby-seasoned stasis of their 30s and
beyond, 33-year-old Jesus is reimagined as a model for how to live life. There
are
[blogs](http://web.archive.org/web/20191112184014/http://jesusyearproject.com/)
written during Jesus Years, [high-concept
memoirs](http://web.archive.org/web/20191112184014/http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001JI3R8O/ref=dp-
kindle-
redirect?ascsubtag=6717fc58d85002d4b7e7e62286ce7b46f9dfeadd&btkr=1&ie=UTF8&tag=deadspinamzn-20)
on the subject, and lots of [Christ-themed social-media birthday
wishes](http://web.archive.org/web/20191112184014/https://twitter.com/search?q=%22happy%20jesus%20year%22&src=typd\).).
Despite the reductive virtues tied up in the idea—or because of them—there
seems to be an ironic distance involved in embracing it; in a way, the Jesus
Year is an opportunity to secularize Jesus, to sublimate his lurid end so that
you can make bad crucifixion jokes at boring birthday parties for 33-year-
olds. As I see it, in your Jesus Year, you’re not meant to literally come to
Jesus. Instead, you’re meant to allow Jesus to inform your sharable, vaguely
spiritual, not-quite-midlife crisis. You’re #blessed, not Blessed.

So although I was open to the personal-growth premise because I am desperate
to mitigate oldness, I quickly realized that this wasn’t for me. It struck me
as facile, overly ironic, and meme-ified. But the thing is, before the concept
lodged itself in my brain, I hadn’t earnestly thought this hard about J.C.
since back when I was trembling with fright during First Communion, maybe.
This year, once I bothered to actually think about Jesus of Nazareth as much
as a historical man as a Guy Who Glowed With God’s Glory On A Damn Mountain, I
started to conceive of my own version of the Jesus Year. Because why not. I
needed to codify a plan to deal with the process of painful life-decay, and I
had to hang it on something.

Here are some tenets of my (admittedly cursory) program for making it through
your 34th year—more or less inspired by a beloved ancient Jewish preacher and
craftsman who died in a way that can aptly be called “gnarly.” They’re mostly
about basic everyday things, rather than Big Things like Career, Family, and
Death. I prefer to avoid thinking about those matters entirely.

### Use Metaphor Of Rebirth To Deal With Hair Loss

Basically, there’s one version of me that has to die, so that another version
can live. These versions are defined by the hair on my head and face. The
first guy has most of the hair on the top of his head and a full, dark beard.
The second guy’s head hair is on its way out, and his beard has developed an
asymmetrical grayness—leaving him in a continual flux between denial and vain
revulsion. This first guy has to be deaded so that the second guy can stop
being an asshole to himself. Just as Man was reconciled with God in the wake
of Jesus’ death, the balding grayface comes to terms with himself and the
world as his younger counterpart fades into martyrdom.

### Facial Grooming Bad, Flowing Attire Good

Now, let’s move on to beard length rather than color (apparently, my Jesus
Year is mostly about facial hair) and general style approach. Obviously Jesus’
appearance is well-trod territory, but if it can be utilized to justify a
33-year-old’s waning vanity, who cares.

What we’ve imagined J.C.’s look to be is a function of the ancient world in
which he lived, but that doesn’t mean we can’t celebrate its virtues. As I’ve
gotten older, shaving and wearing uncomfortable but good-looking clothes don’t
seem as necessary to me. I never shave cleanly anymore. Though my scruffiness
is partially because I have the cheeks of a toddler and the brows of Peter
Gallagher—if I’m clean-shaven, I look like a balding baby with Groucho Marx
eyebrows—it’s also because I have little interest in scraping my face with
sharp metal every day. Unless you have a square jaw to display at business
meetings (or a spouse who doesn’t like to be facially abraded), a beard-trim
every once and awhile is all you need to keep yourself looking relatively
proper face-wise.

As for Jesus’ garb, he probably just wore clothes that were popping in Pax
Romana. Still, they seem incredibly comfortable but also kinda distinguished,
as opposed to, say, sweatpants and a flannel. Anyway, just the image of a
beatific, self-possessed ancient guy with a healthy beard and robes billowing
serenely in the desert wind—even if it’s a pop-cultural picture of Jesu-
Christo—is enough to make me buy some fragrant beard oils and wearable sheets.

### Do Or Make Physical Things

It’s debatable whether or not Jesus was actually a carpenter, but he is
believed to have probably learned some kind of building-related trade from
Joseph, his father (technically). J.C.’s supposed craftsmanship reminded me
that it’s never too late to learn how to build some crap or regularly do some
crap. With woodworking or something, you’re like, “Hey, I made this thing.”
You have the thing, and you can show it to people, even if it’s a sucky stool.
It’ll make you feel good.

Or, if you’re like me, and things like building/cooking/crafting seem
insurmountably difficult, even just to start doing anything at all that
involves the physical world every day is a great Jesus Year resolution. If I
didn’t run around outside and do a prison-cell workout in my bedroom most
days, I would not be able to sleep or be a functional human. My need for daily
exercise is especially important now that my neuroses feel like they will only
get worse; strenuous physical activity is the only reliable thing that always
loosens their grip.

### Have Very Few Widely Accepted Historical Facts About You

The only widely agreed-upon facts about Jesus—which of course presuppose the
mostly accepted fact of historical Jesus’ existence—are that he was baptized
by a guy named John and that he died. This aspect of him is another simple
consequence of living a long-ass time ago: in the ancient world, even if you
were thought of as a literal messiah, most people wouldn’t know anything about
you except that another dude once dipped you in some water.

Nevertheless, like Socrates before him—and unlike Plato and the apostles—J.C.
wasn’t concerned with writing down things about himself for everyone to read.
Even if he did write about himself and we just don’t know it, he obviously
wasn’t too concerned with preserving that work for posterity. It’s been said
before, but it’s worth saying again: stay off Facebook, never tweet, and don’t
write a memoir. (Unless you’re Thomas Pynchon; I’d read that.) Don’t leave
anything behind besides the fact that you died and one other weird thing, like
that time you won an obscure eating contest or something. This way, when
someone in the future is constructing a dumb self-help trope based on one of
us—Saint West probably—in order to help deal with the lousy-ass march of time,
it requires some imagination.

### Don’t Get Crucified

As aforementioned, this is the main Jesus Year joke, and it’s true. Don’t.
Seems awful.

* * *

_Jake Tuck contributes to_ The New Yorker _online,_ The Awl _, and_
McSweeney’s _. He tweets at @jaketuckbeast and lives in Brooklyn._
