title: The Hoarding of the American Dream - The Atlantic
source: https://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2017/06/the-hoarding-of-the-american-dream/530481/
date: 2025-08-13T17:13:35.240977
tags: []
---
There’s a certain type of financial confessional that has had a way of going
viral in the post-recession era. The University of Chicago law professor
complaining his family was barely keeping their heads above water on [$250,000
a year](http://delong.typepad.com/sdj/2010/09/todd-henderson-we-are-the-super-
rich.html). This hypothetical family of three in San Francisco making
$200,000, [enjoying vacations](http://www.financialsamurai.com/how-to-make-
six-figures-a-year-and-not-feel-rich-200000-income-edition/) to Maui, and
living hand-to-mouth. This real New York couple making six figures and merely
“[scraping by](http://www.financialsamurai.com/scraping-by-on-500000-a-year-
high-income-earners-struggling/).”

In all of these viral posts, denizens of the upper-middle class were
attempting to make the case for their middle class-ness. Taxes are expensive.
Cities are expensive. Tuition is expensive. Children are expensive. Travel is
expensive. Tens of thousands of dollars a month evaporate like cold champagne
spilled on a hot lanai, they argue. And the 20 percent are not the one
percent.

A great, short book by Richard V. Reeves of the Brookings Institution helps to
flesh out why these stories provoke such rage. In _[Dream
Hoarders](https://www.brookings.edu/book/dream-hoarders/)_ , released this
week, Reeves agrees that the 20 percent are not the one percent: The higher
you go up the income or wealth distribution, the bigger the gains made in the
past three or four decades. Still, the top quintile of earners—those making
more than roughly $112,000 a year—have been big beneficiaries of the country’s
growth. To make matters worse, this group of Americans engages in a variety of
practices that don’t just help their families, but harm the other 80 percent
of Americans.

“I am not suggesting that the top one percent should be left alone. They need
to pay more tax, perhaps much more,” Reeves writes. “But if we are serious
about narrowing the gap between ‘the rich’ and everybody else, we need a
broader conception of what it means to be rich.”

The book traces the way that the upper-middle class has pulled away from the
middle class and the poor on five dimensions: income and wealth, educational
attainment, family structure, geography, and health and longevity. The top 20
percent of earners might not have seen the kinds of income gains made by the
top one percent and America’s billionaires. Still, their wage and investment
increases have proven sizable. They dominate the country’s top colleges,
sequester themselves in wealthy neighborhoods with excellent public schools
and public services, and enjoy healthy bodies and long lives. “It would be an
exaggeration to say that the upper-middle class is full of gluten-avoiding,
normal-BMI joggers who are only marginally more likely to smoke a cigarette
than to hit their children,” Reeves writes. “But it would be just that—an
exaggeration, not a fiction.”

They then pass those advantages onto their children, with parents placing a
“glass floor” under their kids. They ensure they grow up in nice zip codes,
provide social connections that make a difference when entering the labor
force, help with internships, aid with tuition and home-buying, and schmooze
with college admissions officers. All the while, they support policies and
practices that protect their economic position and prevent poorer kids from
climbing the income ladder: legacy admissions, the preferential tax treatment
of investment income, 529 college savings plans, exclusionary zoning,
occupational licensing, and restrictions on the immigration of white-collar
professionals.

As a result, America is becoming a class-based society, more like fin-de-
siècle England than most would care to admit, Reeves argues. Higher income
kids stay up at the sticky top of the income distribution. Lower income kids
stay down at the bottom. The one percent have well and truly trounced the 99
percent, but the 20 percent have done their part to immiserate the 80 percent,
as well—an arguably more relevant but less recognized class distinction.

Why more relevant? In part because the 20 percent are so much bigger than the
one percent. If you are going to raise a considerable amount of new income-tax
revenue to finance social programs, as many Democrats want to do, dinging the
top one percent won’t cut it: They are a lot richer, but a lot fewer in
number. And if you are going to provide more opportunities in good
neighborhoods, public schools, colleges, internship programs, and labor
markets to lower-income families, it is the 20 percent that are going to have
to give something up.

Reeves offers a host of policy changes that might make a considerable
difference: better access to contraception, increasing building in cities and
suburbs, barring legacy admissions to colleges, curbing tax expenditures that
benefit families with big homes and capital gains. Still, given the scale of
the problem, I wondered whether other, bigger solutions might be necessary as
well: a universal child allowance to reduce the poverty rate among kids, as
the Century Foundation [has proposed](https://tcf.org/content/report/doing-
more-for-our-children/), say, or baby bonds to help eliminate the black-white
[wealth gap](https://www.ineteconomics.org/perspectives/blog/baby-bonds-a-
plan-for-black-white-wealth-equality-conservatives-could-love-1) fostered by
decades of racist and exclusionary government policy, as Darrick Hamilton has
suggested. (So often, the upper-middle class insulating and enriching itself
at the expense of the working class has meant white families doing so at the
expense of black families—a point I thought underplayed in Reeves’ telling.)

Yet, as Reeves notes, “sensible policy is not always easy politics.” Expanding
opportunity and improving fairness would require the upper-middle class to
vote for higher taxes, to let others move in, and to share in the wealth.
Prying Harvard admission letters and the mortgage interest deductions out of
the hands of bureaucrats in Bethesda, sales executives in Minnetonka, and
lawyers in Louisville is not going to be easy.

Members of the upper-middle class, as those viral stories show and Reeves
writes, love to think of themselves as members of the middle class, not as the
rich. They love to think of themselves as hard workers who played fair and won
what they deserved, rather than as people who were born on third and think
they hit a triple. They hate to hear that the government policies they support
as sensible might be torching social mobility and entrenching an elite. That
elite is them.
