title: ESPN.com - NBA playoffs are 'Wired': Part 2
source: http://sports.espn.go.com/espn/print?id=6469283&type=story
date: 2025-08-13T20:52:19.049284
tags: []
---
**Tuesday, May 3, 2011
** NBA playoffs are 'Wired': Part 2

* * *

By Bill Simmons
ESPN.com


If you missed Part One, [CLICK
HERE](http://sports.espn.go.com/espn/page2/story?page=simmons/part1/110503&sportCat=nba).
Here's Part Two.

**30\. "I treated you like a son."
31\. "I wasn't made to play the son."**

To Rajon Rondo, if only because this sounds like something he'd say to Doc
Rivers. I have spent as much time trying to figure out Rondo these last few
years as either of my kids. He's like a cat: Sometimes he jumps on your lap,
sometimes you don't see him for days, sometimes he goes down in the basement
and kills mice for you, sometimes he's kicking over his own kitty litter box,
sometimes he's inexplicably beating up a poodle, sometimes he's hissing at
your children … you just never know. The good thing about him: You always know
in the first quarter. _Did we get Good Rondo today? YES! We got Good Rondo!_
And lemme tell you something: Boston isn't beating Miami unless Good Rondo
shows up four times. At least.

**32\. "Mr. Little, how does a man rob drug dealers for 8 or 9 years and live
to tell about it?"
33\. "Day at a time, I suppose."**

To Carlos Boozer, Chicago's big free-agent catch who seems to be gaining
"Carlos Boozer's 2015 Expiring Contract" potential as the postseason drags
along. I don't want to overreact except to say that we're going to need more
rebounding, more 15-footers and more chest hair … and soon. Besides, this
isn't the Summer of 2010 mistake that's haunting the Bulls.

**34\. ''I admire a man with confidence."
35\. "I don't see no sweat in your brow either, bro."**

To Ray Allen, who nailed so many big shots for Boston in four years that it's
reached "even if you know we're running this double-screen for him, we're
doing it anyway," status and he's still as reliable as anyone. If Chicago
doesn't win the 2011 title, it will be because they didn't overwhelm Allen
with a three-year, $40 million offer last summer. In their defense, I think
_they_ thought they were a year away -- they never expected Rose to make The
Leap that soon. But why pursue a J.J. Redick/Kyle Korver tandem for the same
money that it would have taken to get Ray?

Clearly, they read the tea leaves: Barring injury, Ray should remain at this
level until he's 38 or 39. One of my favorite parts of this year's "The
Association" was learning more about Ray's preparation -- how early he gets to
the arena, where he shoots on the floor, how much thought he puts into
everything -- and coming away thinking, "Wait, this guy is kind of a lunatic!"
And I mean that in the nicest way possible -- he wouldn't waver from his
routine for anything, not even if it meant shooting 3s at 4:00 while they were
still putting down the floor, or trying to get his drills done as a
cheerleading squad practiced 20 feet away. He did everything short of shooting
jumpers while muttering "15 minutes until Wapner, 15 minutes until Wapner" or
counting 250 toothpicks that just dropped on the floor. As recently as last
year, arguing "Reggie Miller versus Ray Allen" was as fun as arguing "The
Sopranos" versus "The Wire" -- you could make compelling cases for each side,
even if the Reggie/Sopranos backers were arguing with their hearts and not
their heads (and romanticizing certain things about the player/show that
became distorted narratives over time). After Allen's 2010-11 season? There is
no more debate.

**36\. "All Perk can do is foul me. … He's too slow. I don't think nobody in
the league can stop me. Not only Perk. I tell Perk to his face. I already told
him before.''**

Whoops, that wasn't from "The Wire" -- that's what Z-Bo said after Game 1
against Oklahoma City. As if we didn't have enough of a reason to be excited
about that series -- now here's Z-Bo trying to make Kendrick Perkins' scowl
actually explode like a grenade.

**36\. "You are a parasite who leeches off the culture of drugs."
37\. "Just like you, man."
38\. "Excuse me, what?"
39\. "I got the shotgun. You got the briefcase. It's all in the game though,
right?"**

One of the best chess moves of the series (Omar turning the tables on a lawyer
in court) goes to the best chess move of Round 1: Atlanta's Larry Drew
adopting Boston's defensive tactic of "Knock yourself out, Dwight, score as
many points as you want, we're singling you and making sure nobody else gets
an open jump shot" and daring Howard to put up 50-20s to beat them. It threw
Orlando off its game and exposed how pedestrian their 2-through-12 guys are …
and by the way, had anyone tried this with Shaq from 2000 to 2002, he would
have averaged 50 a game, so Howard's legacy took a small hit even as he was
throwing up 35-15s. If the other team's game plan is "Get yours, knock
yourself out," that has to mean something. Right?

**40\. "I'm Proposition Joe. You f**k with me, I'll kill your whole family."**

To David Stern, who might have to work all his magic to prevent the following
ABC commercial: "Randolph! Horford!!!!!! It's the Grizzlies and the Hawks,
Game 1 of the 2011 Finals, June 2 on ABC!"

(And you know what? Even though it's totally far-fetched, it's not that far-
fetched: The Grizzlies are playing better than anyone in the West; the Hawks
are threatening to become the first team that ever quit on its coach in the
regular season, then forgot they quit once the playoffs started; and if the
Bulls continue to look like a regular-season mirage, and Miami and Boston wear
each other out, who the heck knows what will happen? For the record, I'm not
willing to give up on the Bulls -- they remind me of the 2008 Celtics in that
they played the regular season in fifth gear, now they're trying to find that
Fast and Furious NOS button for an extra burst. If you remember, it took the
2008 Celts two and a half rounds to find the NOS. I bet the Bulls find it. You
wait. And yes, I'm making that prediction while being fully aware that their
only crunch-time play right now is "Get out of Derrick's way.")

**41\. "My name was on the street? When we bounce from this sh*t here, y'all
going to go down on them corners and let the people know: Word did not get
back to me. Let them know Marlo step to any motherf**ker. Omar, Barksdale,
whoever. My name is my name!!!"**

To Dwyane Wade, who obviously got tired of hearing how well Boston played him
and submitted a pantheon performance in Game 1: scoring at will and ending up
with 38 points, chasing Ray Allen around dozens of screens, finding time to
goad Paul Pierce into getting thrown out, even carrying himself with the same
defiance that Marlo had after finding out that his name was on the street.
_Command of the room._ That was Wade in Game 1. I continue to be most
frightened of Miami when Wade is Michael Eisner and LeBron is Frank Wells.

**42\. "We gonna see who got the bigger war chest."**

To our first Dirk/Kobe playoff series ever. I have no idea how this never
happened before -- it's like Rick Fox never having sex with one of the
Kardashian sisters, it's practically a statistical impossibility.

**43\. "You think I'm going down dontcha? You-you-you think I'm done. All you
ungrateful bitches think you can throw me out of the boat."**

To the great Chris Paul, who left his knee brace behind, shifted from third to
fifth gear and played two of the best games in the history of the point guard
position (Game 1 and Game 4) against a superior Lakers team. I tweeted this
before, I'll say it again: We should be burning DVDs of those games and making
them mandatory viewing for every aspiring point guard at every basketball
camp. _This is how you play the position: create good shots for other guys,
keep them involved, keep them playing hard, keep motivating them, take care of
the ball, make the right decision on every fast break, and when things break
down, you need to take over and score yourself._ He's the evolutionary Isiah
Thomas, the best pure point guard who ever played, and if you had to pick ONE
special subplot of Round 1, it has to be this: Because of his knee issues, we
didn't know if Paul could get to this level anymore. Wrong.

**44\. "That's my money."
45\. "Man, money ain't got no owners. Only spenders."**

Another classic Omar quote (from when he robbed Marlo during a poker game)
goes to Orlando GM Otis Smith. Hey Otis, do you realize you have $57 million
committed to seven guys for the 2012-13 season, and none of those guys are
Dwight Howard??? Do you want to work for TNT, NBA TV or ESPN that year? I'd
start thinking about it now.

**46\. "That's good. That's like a 40-degree day. Ain't nobody got nuttin to
say about a 40-degree day. Fifty? Bring a smile to your face. Sixty? Sh*t,
n****s are damn near barbecuing that motherf**ka. Go down to 20? N****s get
they bitch on. Get they blood complainin' ... but 40? Nobody give a f**k about
40. Nobody remember 40, and y'all n****s is giving me way too many 40-degree
days."**

One of the most colorful monologues in the show's history (Stringer Bell
yelling at his drug soldiers to step it up) goes to Phil Jackson, whose Lakers
team is definitely giving him too many 40-degree days. It's OK for a former
champ to trust your on/off switch and wait until you feel that familiar wall
against your back (the '88 Lakers, '95 Rockets and '02 Lakers are three good
examples), but once you start wearing that switch out, you never know when the
wrong team can catch you … like how the '07 Cavaliers caught the Pistons, or
how the '11 Grizzlies caught the Spurs last week. That switch has a shelf
life. These Lakers can beat the Mavs in 40-degree mode, but not the Grizzlies
or Zombie Sonics (much less the best Eastern team).

Speaking of Stringer, here are three more reasons why "The Wire" was the
greatest show ever: Not only did it shove the show's lead (McNulty) into the
background for an entire season, but it killed off the show's single most
compelling character (Stringer) with two seasons to go AND killed off
everyone's favorite character (Omar) halfway through its final season. It went
against everything that's ever worked in television history, but it also fit
into the premise of the show: There were no winners in Baltimore, only
survivors, and you never knew when your time was going to be up.

**47\. "Well it seem like I can't say nuttin' to change y'all minds."**

To the NBA, who made the same mistake it makes every year: using local
announcing feeds in Round 1 over two professional, impartial announcers who
may have called the game without cheering wildly for one of the two teams. For
Game 2, the poor Grizzlies fans had to listen to Sean Elliott and his yahoo
play-by-play partner cheer for the Spurs like Little League parents,
repeatedly use the word "we," and compare Ginobili's return from an elbow
injury to Willis Reed's comeback in Game 7 of the 1970 Finals. All so the NBA
could save a couple of grand in traveling expenses. Here's an idea: Charge an
extra quarter next year for the NBA Season pass, then spend that extra
windfall on real play-by-play guys like Ian Eagle and Sean Grande so this
never happens again. We'll all chip in. I promise you.

**48\. "I see you favor a .45."
49\. "Tonight I do. And I keeps one in the chamber in case you ponderin'."**

To Dirk Nowitzki, who reinvented himself over the years as a fiery competitor
with the single most unstoppable move in basketball: his foul line post-up
game that always seems to result in (A) him whirling around his defender and
getting a layup, (B) him spinning around, sticking his elbows right in the
defender's mug and launching a jumper that starts over Dirk's head, or (C),
him fading away with an awkward-looking fade-away that has to rank alongside
Hakeem's Dream Shake and McHale's mega-fallaway in the Shots That Seem
Technically Impossible But Go In Anyway pantheon. Do you have any idea how
that shot goes in? Me neither. I also have no idea how to stop that post-up
game. Double him and he kicks to an open shooter. Single him and he scores.
You can't win. Two more years at this level and Judge Simmons will
begrudgingly have to start taking "Would you rather have nine transcendent
years from Bird or 13 killer Nowitzki years plus the five after that when he
reinvents himself as the greatest version of mid-1990s Sam Perkins ever?"
arguments. Crap.

**50\. "What's up playboy, how come you're wearing that suit? For real, it's
85 f**kin' degrees out here, you tryin' to be like Pat Riley."
51\. "Man, look the part, be the part mothaf**ka."**

As badly as I wanted to give this one to Erik Spoelstra, we're giving it to
Scottie Brooks, who _looks the part_ , and that's about it right now. Why
can't Brooks get Westbrook under control? Why does Oklahoma City look so
confused offensively in the last four minutes of close games? Why do they have
such a nasty habit of falling behind by double digits in games? Why do they
always make me say, "Wait, is Flip Saunders coaching this team and nobody told
me?"

**52\. "Mr. Mayor, about Ervin -- if you don't mind me asking -- why keep him
as a puppet commissioner when you can just fire the guy?"
53\. "We mind you asking."**

To the Knicks ... why are they keeping Mike D'Antoni again? I say trade him to
the Warriors for a second-round pick and let him find his Part 1 of his three-
part manifest destiny: coaching a team that scores 110 points a game, can't
get a defensive stop, has two guards scoring 30-plus a game and occasionally
plays home games that make you say, "158-153 -- is that a bowling score or the
score of last night's Warriors game?"

(In case you're wondering, Part 2 is "coaching a WAC team that averages 100
points per game" and Part 3 is "returning to Phoenix to coach the Mercury."
And … scene!)

**54\. "You're not even worth the skin off my knuckles, junior."**

To Joakim Noah -- it just seems like something he'd say, or even better,
something a veteran power forward would say after debating for 5 to 6 seconds
whether to punch him in the face or not. Not since Bill Laimbeer have we seen
someone deliberately agitate playoff opponents like this -- that's why I
parlayed the Bulls beating Atlanta with over 2.5 head butts by Zaza Pachulia
on Noah.

**55\. "As rough as that neighborhood could be, we had us a community. Nobody,
no victim, who didn't matter. And now all we got is bodies, and predatory
motherf**kers like you. And out where that girl fell, I saw kids acting like
Omar, calling you by name, glorifying your ass. Makes me sick, motherf**ker,
how far we done fell."**

One of the show's most poignant moments (Bunk laying into Omar and everything
he stands for) goes to the most poignant moment of Round 1: Brandon Roy's
unfathomable Game 4 performance, when he dragged Portland back from 20 down
for an astonishing comeback victory that doubled as "The Round 1 Game You
Would Have Most Wanted To Be In The Building For" and guaranteed him a free
trip to the 2011 ESPYS. I wrote once that true sports fans feel obligated to
watch _everything_ hoping they might catch one of those rarer than rare sports
moments -- something that might happen once every 2,500 times -- and that we
put up with the other 2,499 times for that 2,500th time when something magical
might happen. The Brandon Roy game was definitely a 2,500th Time Game. There's
no question. I will always remember watching it. That specific player, in
front of those specific fans, at this specific point of his career? I still
can't believe it happened.

Quick tangent: During the tail end of Larry Bird's career, after his body had
betrayed him, my father and I went to a playoff game against Detroit when Bird
couldn't hit anything. Then a bird flew from the rafters, parked himself near
midcourt and wouldn't leave. The crowd started chanting, "Lar-ree! Lar-ree!
Lar-ree!" They got rid of the bird. Larry came out and started making jumpers.
A bunch of them. The fans were beside themselves. We won the game. And as we
were leaving, my dad looked at me and said, "Did that just happen?" Anyway,
it's one thing to watch a game like that on television -- but being in the
building for a "Did that just happen?" game. You never forget. You just don't.
The Blazers may have lost in Round 1, but their fans will always have that
game.

**56\. "Sheeeeeeeeeeeeeee-eeeeeeeet."**

Clay Davis' signature line goes to me and my friend Sal, who made one of the
great wagers in sports history if gambling were legal (we took Memphis in 5 at
20-to-1 odds), opted against hedging with the Spurs in Game 5 … and you know
the rest. Put it this way: If Sal and I had bet on the U.S. killing Osama bin
Laden in 2011, the Navy Seals would have missed him. Sheeeeeeeeee-eeeeeeet.

**57\. "You know what the difference is between me and you? I bleed red and
you bleed green. I look at you these days, you know what I see? I see a man
without a country. You're not hard enough for this right here and maybe, just
maybe, not smart enough for them out there."**

Avon's famous quote to Stringer (the scene when their friendship undeniably
started to fall apart) goes to Russell Westbrook, who unleashed some serious
Stringer potential with his Marburyish performance in Game 4 in Denver: 30
shots and two egregious "don't you know that you have Kevin Durant on your
team???" bricks in the final two minutes.

I joked all season on Twitter about the Avon/Stringer potential with Durant
and Westbrook, never seriously thinking it might manifest itself, that a
balcony scene was looming, that they'd end up wrestling on the floor, or even
that Durant might give him up to Omar and Brother Mouzone someday. And it may
have just been a one-game aberration, obviously. But this goes back to the
"stay in your lane" concept. Westbrook is "hard enough for this right here"
(you could never question his competitive fury, which ranks up there with
anybody), but he's not always "smart enough for them out there" (getting
teammates involved, taking care of the ball, controlling the pace of the game,
etc.). At least not yet.

**58\. "You know Avon, you gotta think about what we got in this game for,
man. Was it for the rep? Was it so our names could ring out of some f**king
ghetto street corners? No man, there's games beyond the f**king game."**

Sorry, I'm not done with Westbrook yet. Oklahoma City has enough talent to win
the 2011 title -- it's sitting right there for them -- but it's going to hinge
on how Westbrook runs the show. There's a game beyond the f**king game and I
don't think he can totally see it yet. He's learning on the fly. A crash
course, if you will. I don't trust him yet. Stephon Marbury never found that
balance between scoring and creating; Allen Iverson only found it when they
moved him off the ball. Can Westbrook find it on the fly? Either way, Durant's
unreal fourth quarter in Game 5 was the best reality check possible: He
basically hired Brother Mouzone and Omar to shoot Stringer Westbrook. We'll
see if he comes back from the dead.

That reminds me, I thought Chuck and Kenny did a spectacular job of breaking
down Westbrook's struggles in Game 5 -- he took some heat for the first time
(for Game 4) and it clearly affected him, but as Kenny pointed out (I'm
paraphrasing), if you want to be great, you need to learn how to handle being
the hero and being the goat. That's the final stage for a basketball player.
Durant struggled earlier in the season, took some heat, questioned himself a
little, and ultimately, it made him stronger. Now it's Westbrook's turn. To be
continued.

**59\. "Be subtle with it, man. You know what subtle means?"
60\. "Laid back and sh*t."**

To Mark Cuban and Phil Jackson, who spent the last decade [sniping at one
another](http://lakersblog.latimes.com/lakersblog/2011/01/highlighting-the-
memorable-phil-jacksonmark-cuban-exchanges.html) and finally get to whip it
out for a playoff series with rulers and everything.

If you're scoring at home, I have "Cuban versus Jackson" ranked as the seventh
most compelling Mavs-Lakers subplot behind "Dirk versus Kobe"; "Who are the
Lakers' best five guys?" (somehow we're at Game 89 and they still haven't
figured it out, which is NOT a good sign if you're a Lakers fan); "Are the
Mavs deliberately defending Kobe with Kidd so Kobe's eyes will light up and
he'll shoot 30 times a game?" (I say yes); "If Marc Gasol becomes more
relevant than Pau, is that the biggest brotherly upset since the time when
Charlie Murphy briefly became cooler than Eddie?"; "Did you ever think J.J.
Barea would be an X factor of any professional basketball playoff series that
wasn't being played in Eastern Europe?"; and "Will Lamar learn to clean up
after himself on this week's 'Khloe and Lamar'?"

**61\. "Now you make sure you tell old Marlo I burned the money. 'Cause it
ain't about that paper. It's about me hurtin' his people and messin' with his
world. Tell that boy he ain't man enough to come down to the street with Omar.
You tell him that!"**

To the Celtics, who carried themselves with this kind of swagger for much of
the Garnett Era … then Tony Allen left, the Perkins trade happened, Big Baby
went into his bizarre swoon, Nenad Krstic turtled into his shell, Jeff Green
developed the "overwhelmed college kid who just wants to transfer" face and
Garnett slowly turned into "The Guy Who's Suddenly Not As Much of a Bully
Because He's Not Totally Sure That Anyone Has His Back." Chicago noticed and
exploited it during their April 7 game; Miami did the same in Game 1,
intentionally turning things chippy and knocking Boston out of sorts. The
Celtics aren't protecting their corners like they once did. That's the bottom
line. We're heading to the point that Doc Rivers might need to charge the
court [like Al Attles in the 1974
Finals](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LdRAy7_g5Y0&t=3m2s) to flip this
around, because I'm not sure anyone else on the team wants to do it.

**62\. "It doesn't matter if he said it or not. People think he said it. Can't
let that sh*t go."**

To Kobe Bryant, who spent the last few years fueling himself with petty
slights just like Jordan did once upon a time, only now he's looking at the
possibility of being the second-best player in two straight series (Round 1
against New Orleans, Round 2 against Dallas). We've seen Kobe get outplayed in
a series before -- like Detroit in 2004, or Boston in 2008 -- but not since he
was playing with 2002 Shaq could we definitely say, "Kobe Bryant is absolutely
NOT the best player in this series." Chris Paul played better than him;
Nowitzki might be next. How will Kobe handle that? Will he overcompensate?
Does he know, deep down, that he's entering a different phase of his career?
Does he have something left in his apex predator tank and we just haven't seen
it yet?

I was talking to Someone Who Knows Kobe recently and this person was telling
me, adamantly, that Kobe only cares about passing Jordan's six titles. The
all-time scoring record? Blah. Being the best Laker ever? Blah. He measures
himself by rings. Or so this person claimed. Well, if that's true, and Kobe
can sense the changing of the guard that's happening right now, with the
Dirk/Kobe/Garnett/Duncan/Pierce/Kidd generation doing everything it can to
fend off the Rose/Durant/LeBron/Rondo/Paul/Howard generation -- no different
than Avon figuring out how to handle Marlo, if you think about it -- then
Kobe's history suggests that he will start overcompensating soon (more shots,
more hero complex stuff along the lines of Game 1 against Dallas) and Phil
Jackson will start planting those thinly veiled digs to bring him back into
the fold, and they'll be doing their old dance one last time. It couldn't end
any other way.

**63\. "A life, Jimmy. You know what that is? It's the sh*t that happens while
you're waiting for moments that never come."**

To LeBron James. We're waiting.

**64\. "Marlo ain't worth it, man. Nobody is."
65\. "Marlo's an assh*le. He doesn't get to win. WE get to win!"**

I was going to give this defining Wire moment (a frustrated McNulty just being
unable to accept that Marlo's kind always ends up winning in the end) to every
Celtics fan for how we feel about the Heat. Then it struck me: You could give
this exchange to five or six fan bases. You know what came back for these
playoffs more than anything else? Good old-fashioned sports hate. Everyone
hates Miami. Miami fans hate Boston and Chicago. Chicago fans hate Boston,
Miami and the Lakers. Lakers fans and Dallas fans will learn to hate each
other -- quickly -- and don't forget, nobody despises a team more than Dallas
fans hate Miami. And then there are Lakers fans and Celtics fans, who hate
each other's teams almost religiously at this point. _They don't get to win.
WE get to win!_ It's the recurring theme of the 2011 playoffs. God bless 'em.

Bill Simmons is a columnist for ESPN.com and the author of the recent New York
Times No. 1 best-seller "The Book of Basketball," now out in paperback with
new material and a revised Hall of Fame Pyramid. For every Simmons column and
podcast, check out [Sports Guy's
World](http://sports.espn.go.com/espn/page2/simmons/index) or the [BS Report
page](http://espn.go.com/espnradio/show?showId=bsreport). Follow him on
Twitter at http://twitter.com/sportsguy33.

[Back to Page 2](http://espn.go.com/espn/page2/)






* * *
