title: Dave Grohl: The perfect rock star.
source: http://www.slate.com/id/2290837/pagenum/all/#p2
date: 2025-08-13T20:59:39.100649
tags: []
---
Dave Grohl

A group of record company executives, sitting down to sketch the perfect rock
star, may well come up with someone a little like Dave Grohl. He has the
look—long, thick black hair; he has the talent—he plays the drums, guitar and
piano, he sings and he writes his own songs; and, above all, he has both
pedigree and credibility.

In the early 1990s, as drummer with seminal grunge band Nirvana, Grohl helped
change the face of popular music. Today, as lead singer with stadium-filling
rock giants [Foo
Fighters](http://www.ft.com/cms/s/2/50d9c558-434c-11e0-aef2-00144feabdc0.html#axzz1IVOWRpT6),
he is a multi-millionaire who has sold more than 15 million albums worldwide,
won six Grammy awards and is president of his own record label. Alongside Foo
Fighters he has a number of side projects (including supergroup [Them Crooked
Vultures](http://www.ft.com/cms/s/2/9ccf5878-ebf6-11de-8070-00144feab49a.html#axzz1IVOWRpT6),
with Led Zeppelin’s John Paul Jones); a documentary about his band shot by
Oscar-winning director James Moll was released last month and his seventh
album, [_Wasting Light_](http://www.amazon.com/Wasting-Light-Foo-
Fighters/dp/B004LUHQ1G/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1302297200&sr=8-1), is out on
Monday. Now 42, Grohl—and his brand of rock ’n’ roll—has grown up, had kids
and settled down.

How did a man who was just a drummer and who never intended to make money from
music end up as one of the biggest and wealthiest rock stars of the decade,
succeeding in the face of a record industry in crisis?

We meet at Studio 606, the 8,000 sq ft recording space he built in 2005 in the
Northridge area of Los Angeles. Outside, the Californian spring sunshine
throws stark shadows across a neighbourhood that estate agents would describe
euphemistically as “mixed”; from inside this large utilitarian building, with
its tinted windows, the blue sky looks almost overcast.

Grohl, who is tall, lean and has grown into his slightly goofy looks, sets
down the keys to his decidedly un-rock ’n’ roll grey BMW estate, tucks his
shoulder-length hair behind his ear and flips the lid on his laptop. “Sorry,”
he beams. “I’ve just got to check my e-mail. I want to see if my daughter got
into private school.” Grohl married Jordyn Blum in 2003, and they have two
daughters, Violet Maye, aged four, and Harper Willow, one.

The upstairs lounge looks like a bachelor pad: there’s a fridge, jukebox and
widescreen TV with an eclectic selection of boxsets: The Office, ACDC and Bon
Jovi gigs, and a tape of the Make-up and Effects trade show 1997. Scattered
across the purple sofa are cushions covered with old band T-shirts (Slayer,
The Police, Black Sabbath, Motorhead, Led Zeppelin) made by Grohl’s mother.
“She called up and said ‘David, what do you want me to do with those T-shirts
in the attic?’,” says Grohl in a falsetto.

Downstairs, a vast recording studio complete with Persian rugs and a grand
piano in the corner leads on to a warehouse filled with carefully labelled
guitar cases, drums and assorted equipment. Among the platinum records, framed
posters and photographs hanging in the corridor outside the soundproofed
control room where we adjourn to talk is the iconic cover of Nirvana’s 1991
album _[Nevermind](https://editor.slate.com//editor/%E2%80%93)_, which
celebrates its 20th anniversary in September.

_Nevermind_ (and Nirvana) is both a gift and a curse to Grohl now. “For 16
years I’ve had to balance these two things: my love and respect of Nirvana and
my love and respect of the Foo Fighters.” He lifts first his right hand then
his left and balances the two, the large feathers tattooed on both forearms
gently rising and falling. “I wouldn’t be here if it wasn’t for Nirvana,
there’s no question. But I don’t know if I’d be alive if it wasn’t for the Foo
Fighters. I try to keep them at a balance that is very respectful of each
other.”

Despite Grohl’s desire to move on, the legacy of Nirvana’s groundbreaking
album still haunts him, and for good reason. _Nevermind_ changed popular
culture. Until the release of that album in 1991, music was dominated by pop
giants such as Madonna, Michael Jackson and Whitney Houston. The alternative
music scene was just that: lo-fi, raw-sounding and based on a punk DIY ethos
that came to be known as grunge.

“Grunge emerged from the Pacific north-west,” explains the writer Mark Yarm,
whose book _[ Everybody Loves Our Town: An Oral History of
Grunge](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0307464431/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=slatmaga-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0307464431)_
will be published in September to coincide with _Nevermind_ ’s anniversary.
“It’s unclear who coined the term, but it came to mean guitar bands who had a
certain unkempt style and usually came from Seattle. It was a movement that
was always supposed to transcend the cash. Success was viewed very warily.
People like Nirvana’s lead singer Kurt Cobain were resistant to success, yet
very much sought it at the same time.”

Grohl, who never imagined himself becoming a doctor, lawyer or writer,
recorded his first album at 15 in a studio near his parents’ house in
Springfield, Virginia—a suburb of Washington, DC. “The intention wasn’t to
become U2, it was to satisfy that need to accomplish something outside of the
mainstream system,” he says.

That early anti-commercial intent symbolised the ethos of the alternative
music scene. In 1990, Grohl became the drummer for Seattle-based band Nirvana,
which had been formed by singer Kurt Cobain and bass player Krist Novoselic in
1987. Nirvana had already released a debut album, _[
Bleach](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0000035E7/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=slatmaga-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=B0000035E7)_
(1989), and the three-piece—Cobain, Novoselic and Grohl—toured small venues in
a tiny van. It was a love of music that fuelled them, not the desire to become
rich, famous rock stars.

All that changed when they teamed up with producer Butch Vig on their second
album _Nevermind_. Where _Bleach_ was a bona fide indie album released on the
tiny Seattle-based Sub Pop label to which the band signed for an initial $600
advance, _Nevermind_ was released by Geffen, a label owned by the Universal
Music Group that was also home to the band’s idols Sonic Youth.

“Sonic Youth’s major label debut came out in 1990 and sold about 200,000
copies, which was considered a huge number in indie-rock circles back then,”
explains Yarm. “It was just inconceivable that another ‘weird’, underground
band like Nirvana, who really looked up to Sonic Youth, could sell millions
and millions of albums.” Yet _Nevermind_ , which was expected to sell around
200,000 copies, exploded.

“Many people point to the week in January 1992 when Nirvana knocked Michael
Jackson—the King of Pop—off the top of the American charts as the moment
alternative music truly went mainstream,” says Yarm. To date, _Nevermind_ has
sold more than 26 million copies worldwide.

The album marked a sea-change in popular culture: it was the birth of a sound,
a fashion and a lifestyle that was as big as punk or the swinging 60s before
it. In the same year as _Nevermind_ was released, Douglas Coupland published
his famous novel _[ Generation
X](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0349103313/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=slatmaga-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0349103313)_
and the theme tune for this new generation was Nirvana’s breakthrough single
“Smells Like Teen Spirit”—a raw, angry rallying cry that touched a nerve
around the world.

Yet, for Grohl—at least initially—little changed. “It was just as much a shock
to us as it was to everybody else. I think we were the last ones to believe
it. Our world wasn’t changing within all of that. We had a gold record and we
were still touring in a van. And then it went platinum—we sold a million
records—and we were still touring in a van; I was still sharing a room with
Kurt when we had a platinum record. Even after we sold 10 million albums I was
still living in a back room at my friend’s house with a futon and a lamp.” He
does remember being sent his first credit card though. Never a big spender, he
immediately rushed to his local Benihana, the chain of Japanese restaurants.

Thanks to Nirvana’s success, record companies descended on Seattle, snapping
up any band they could find. “It was a feeding frenzy,” says Yarm. “One
executive told me that all the flights from LA to Seattle were constantly
booked. If one of those planes had gone down, it would have destroyed the
music industry.”

After the stratospheric success of _Nevermind_ , Nirvana released just one
further studio album, 1993’s _[ In
Utero](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0349103313/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=slatmaga-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0349103313)_,
and toured to breaking point. In 1994, lead singer Kurt Cobain, struggling
with the pressure, was flown home to the US from Rome after taking an overdose
during the European leg of the band’s tour. On April 8 1994, Cobain was found
dead at the house in Seattle he shared with his wife Courtney Love and their
daughter Frances Bean. He had taken a heroin overdose and shot himself. His
suicide shook the music world to its core, made global headlines and, in the
eyes of many devastated fans, established Cobain as a tragic-romantic figure
in the mould of Janis Joplin, Jim Morrison or Jimi Hendrix. He was 27 years
old.

In the months after Cobain’s death, Grohl couldn’t bring himself to play
music. “After Nirvana ended in April 1994, I didn’t really do much that year,”
explains Grohl. It wasn’t until October 1994 that he felt ready to go back
into the studio. “I didn’t have a plan or any major career aspiration,” he
says. “I just felt like I needed to do something.”

Over the course of five days, he recorded 13-14 of his songs in a small studio
near his house, playing all the instruments and singing every song. Grohl
distributed 100 copies of the recording to friends and music industry insiders
and, reticent to step into the limelight so soon after Nirvana, he called the
project Foo Fighters, the second world war term for an unidentified flying
object, as it “sounded more like a band”. Those recordings, which cost Grohl
around $5,000, became Foo Fighters’ self-titled debut album. Released in 1995,
it established Grohl as one of the biggest rock musicians in the world.

It’s practically unheard of for a drummer to make it as a lead singer—perhaps
the only other famous example is Phil Collins, who forged a solo career after
his time in Genesis. Yet Collins is not playing stadium gigs 20 years on. When
almost every other band of his generation has fallen by the wayside, what is
it about Grohl and Foo Fighters that still resonates?

“Their music is no nonsense, blue-collar everyman music,” explains Butch Vig,
who has produced the band’s new album _[ Wasting
Light](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004LUHQ1G/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=slatmaga-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=B004LUHQ1G)_.
“I think that people feel like they know the band. They can relate to their
songs, but they can also relate to them as individuals.” Today, after some
personnel changes over the years, Foo Fighters consist of drummer Taylor
Hawkins, guitarists Chris Shiflett and Pat Smear, bass player Nate Mendel and
Grohl. They are a friendly, close-knit five-piece, who share jokes nonstop and
banter about moments on tour. Over the course of 16 years and seven studio
albums, the band has honed a particular brand of emotionally charged rock that
has transcended their early grunge influences. Grohl writes melodies with the
energy of punk rock that form an enviable greatest hits package guaranteed to
fill any stadium in the world (in June 2008 the band played two consecutive
shows at the 90,000-capacity Wembley Stadium).

The band’s new album is in some ways a return to the sound and approach of
their early records. “There’s no question that history is a big part of this
record,” admits Grohl. Despite his shiny, well-equipped studio, he decided to
record _Wasting Light_ in his garage at home, and in a nod to his lo-fi, DIY
roots, recorded to tape rather than digitally on a computer. Like _Nevermind_
, _Wasting Light_ is something of an antidote to the overproduced mainstream
pop that currently fills the charts. It’s not the only thing that sets the
band apart.

The music industry has changed since Foo Fighters released their first album
in 1995. “Historically record sales accounted for the majority of band
revenues,” explains Chris Carey, senior economist at PRS for Music, a not-for-
profit organisation which collects and distributes public performance
royalties for composers, songwriters and music publishers. “As record sales
have suffered in recent years the industry has looked to other areas for
revenue. Synchronisations [music used in computer games and TV programmes] and
merchandise sales have become increasingly important, and the boom in live
music is well reported. It used to be that bands would tour at a loss to sell
CDs. Nowadays music is often given away in order to generate buzz and promote
live events.”

How does this seismic shift in the record industry affect a band such as the
Foo Fighters? “They’ve got an established fan base and a good track record,
they’re an act coming to the top of the market,” says Carey. “Their revenues
won’t be representative of what a band coming into the market now would
experience. That existing fan base, I’d imagine, will still buy physical
albums and, I would expect, have a good amount of money to spend on concert
tickets so what you can charge for a Foo Fighters gig is more than you could
for a newer band. As a result their earning profile will be quite healthy: a
good mix of live and recorded.”

Today, thanks to industry pressures, many popstars often have to take the
money wherever they can get it, whether it’s corporate gigs, sponsorship deals
or product placement in music videos. In the week I met Foo Fighters, the
Libyan revolution was erupting and Beyoncé, Nelly Furtado and Usher had
donated to charity their million-dollar fees earned playing for the Gaddafi
family. “We’ve done corporate gigs to pay for touring,” says Foo Fighters
drummer Taylor Hawkins, “but we’ve never played for the Gaddafis! There’s
nothing wrong with getting paid to play music as long as it’s in the realms of
whatever moral standards you have … “

Despite the shift in the music industry, Foo Fighters, with a secure fan base
and stable income have been able to pick and choose what they do. “I think at
this point we’ve exceeded any of the expectations we had for this
band—musically or financially,” explains Grohl. “The most important thing is
that we do what we do with the same integrity we had when we started 16 years
ago. We’re not a financially ambitious band—we’re doing just fine. It comes
down to how much do you really need?”

Nate Mendel, the band’s bassist and longest-serving member after Grohl
himself, agrees: “All these ways you can exploit your band commercially, we’ve
done a lot of it, but compared to a band similar to us, we’ve held back. We
wanted to be in a band that didn’t have to do that. It’s only our generation
that’s ever had a problem with it. Prior to and after 80s punk rock and the
alternative music of the 90s nobody cared. It’s only our generation that was
cautious about exploiting their music.”

“Punk-rock guilt,” laughs Hawkins. “I’m flying in this private jet and eating
lobster thermidor—but I’m not giving a song to Honda!”

As internet piracy has taken its toll on the record industry, revenue from
live gigs and merchandise has become ever more important. “If you’re not
making money from records you have to make it somewhere else,” says Carey.
“Merchandise was up more than 20 per cent in 2009 growing at a good rate and
in 2008 live music was up about 13-14 per cent which is boom growth.”

Piracy and the decline in record sales won’t have hit the Foo Fighters as hard
as many other newer bands—which may explain why Grohl, who is president of his
own label, Roswell Records, is unconcerned about file sharing. When he was
growing up Grohl and his friends would swap tapes of their favourite bands
despite campaigns warning that “home taping is killing the record industry”.
Today, the internet has really put a dent in the music business, Grohl
acknowledges, but for him file sharing is simply an extension of those home-
made mix-tapes. “To me, the most important thing is that people come and sing
along when we pull into town on tour,” he says. “Sharing music is not a crime.
It shouldn’t be. There should be a deeper meaning to making music than just
selling downloads.”

Grohl’s experience with Nirvana has coloured the way he now runs Foo Fighters.
“I learnt a lot of lessons from being in Nirvana. A lot of beautiful things
and a lot of …” he pauses, “lessons of what not to do. I’m not a businessman,
but when it comes to making music I’ve kind of figured out a way of doing it
without anyone getting hurt.” He drums his fingers, performing a short
paradiddle against the arm of the leather sofa.

After his death, Cobain’s estate passed to his wife, the singer Courtney Love,
who in 1997, with Cobain’s bandmates, formed Nirvana LLC, a limited liability
company to oversee their interests. The three have at times fought over
Nirvana’s legacy, almost going to court in 2002 (a settlement was reached the
day before proceedings were due to begin) and in 2009 scrapping over the use
of Cobain’s likeness in computer game _Guitar Hero 5_. In April 2006, Love
sold 25 per cent of her share in Nirvana’s catalogue to Primary Wave Music for
a reported $50m.

When he formed Foo Fighters, Grohl set up Roswell Records as a holding company
for the band’s entire music catalogue, which is then licensed to a record
company for a six- to seven-year period at a time. “Unfortunately, a lot of
musicians sign away their freedoms when they enter into these big business
contracts. It’s an age-old story. It’s still happening. I don’t think there’s
a place for that kind of outside control when it comes to being creative.”

Are you a control freak? I ask. “Absolutely. No question. I am a controlling
freak. I’m not a control freak, I’m a controlling freak. This is our baby.
When it comes to making music, we have our own process, we have our own
crooked democracy …”

Democracy? Or is it a benign dictatorship? “Well, yeah. Show me a band of five
people where there’s no leader … I just don’t think it could happen. At the
end of the day, it’s my name at the bottom of the cheque.”

Foo Fighters are now embarking on another stadium-filling world tour. As
Grohl, the perfect rock star, headed off, I couldn’t help thinking of the two
fortune cookies I’d spotted earlier pinned to his fridge. “An interesting
musical opportunity is in your near future,” read one. The other said simply:
“Study and prepare yourself and one day, your day will come.”

**_This article originally appeared in_ Financial Times _. Click_**
[_**here**_](http://www.ft.com/) _**to read more coverage from the Weekend
FT.**_
