title: The impeachment trial didn’t change any minds. Here’s why. | Vox
source: https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2020/1/16/20991816/impeachment-trial-trump-bannon-misinformation
date: 2025-08-13T16:02:17.634519
tags: []
---
On Wednesday, the Senate voted to [acquit President
Trump](/2020/2/5/21124038/senate-acquits-trump-impeachment-articles) of
charges of abuse of power and obstruction of justice.

Despite all the incontrovertible facts at the center of this story, it was
always inevitable that this process would change very few minds. No matter how
clear a case the Democrats made, it was always highly likely that no single
version of the truth was ever going to be accepted.

This fact underscores a serious problem for our democratic culture. No amount
of evidence, on virtually any topic, is likely to move public opinion one way
or the other. We can attribute some of this to rank partisanship — some people
simply refuse to acknowledge inconvenient facts about their own side.

But there’s another, equally vexing problem. We live in a media ecosystem that
overwhelms people with information. Some of that information is accurate, some
of it is bogus, and much of it is intentionally misleading. The result is a
polity that has increasingly given up on finding out the truth. As [Sabrina
Tavernise and Aidan Gardiner](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/18/us/polls-
media-fake-news.html) put it in a New York Times piece, “people are numb and
disoriented, struggling to discern what is real in a sea of slant, fake, and
fact.” This is partly why an earth-shattering historical event like a
president’s impeachment did very little to move public opinion.

The core challenge we’re facing today is information saturation and a hackable
media system. If you follow politics at all, you know how exhausting the
environment is. The sheer volume of content, the dizzying number of narratives
and counternarratives, and the pace of the news cycle are too much for anyone
to process.

One response to this situation is to walk away and tune everything out. After
all, it takes real effort to comb through the bullshit, and most people have
busy lives and limited bandwidth. Another reaction is to retreat into tribal
allegiances. There’s Team Liberal and Team Conservative, and pretty much
everyone knows which side they’re on. So you stick to the places that feed you
the information you most want to hear.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi reading totals of a vote approving articles of
impeachment. Robert Alexander/Getty Images

My [Vox colleague Dave Roberts](/policy-and-
politics/2019/11/16/20964281/impeachment-hearings-trump-america-epistemic-
crisis) calls this an “epistemic crisis.” The foundation for shared truth, he
argues, has collapsed. I don’t disagree with that, but I’d frame the problem a
little differently.

We’re in an age of manufactured nihilism.

The issue for many people isn’t exactly a denial of truth as such. It’s more a
growing weariness over the process of finding the truth at all. And that
weariness leads more and more people to abandon the idea that the truth is
knowable.

I call this “manufactured” because it’s the consequence of a deliberate
strategy. It was distilled almost perfectly by [Steve
Bannon](https://www.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/trump-vs-the-times-inside-an-
off-the-record-meeting), the former head of [Breitbart
News](/2016/8/24/12552602/breitbart-trump-explained) and chief strategist for
Donald Trump. “The Democrats don’t matter,” Bannon reportedly said in 2018.
“The real opposition is the media. And the way to deal with them is to flood
the zone with shit.”

This idea isn’t new, but Bannon articulated it about as well as anyone can.
The press ideally should sift fact from fiction and give the public the
information it needs to make enlightened political choices. If you short-
circuit that process by saturating the ecosystem with misinformation and
overwhelm the media’s ability to mediate, then you can disrupt the democratic
process.

What we’re facing is a new form of propaganda that wasn’t really possible
until the digital age. And it works not by creating a consensus around any
particular narrative but by muddying the waters so that consensus isn’t
achievable.

Bannon’s political objective is clear. As he explained in a [2017 Conservative
Political Action Conference
talk](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/24/us/politics/stephen-bannon-cpac-
speech.html), he sees Trump as a stick of dynamite with which to blow up the
status quo. So “flooding the zone” is a means to that end. But more generally,
creating widespread cynicism about the truth and the institutions charged with
unearthing it erodes the very foundation of liberal democracy. And the
strategy is working.

## What flooding the zone actually means

For most of recent history, the goal of propaganda was to reinforce a
consistent narrative. But zone-flooding takes a different approach: It seeks
to disorient audiences with an avalanche of competing stories.

And it produces a certain nihilism in which people are so skeptical about the
possibility of finding the truth that they give up the search. The fact that
[60 percent of
Americans](http://apnorc.org/PDFs/USA%20Facts%202019/Topline%20Results%20-%20Early.pdf)
say they encounter conflicting reports about the same event is an example of
what I mean. In the face of such confusion, it’s not surprising that [less
than half the country trusts](https://news.gallup.com/poll/267047/americans-
trust-mass-media-edges-down.aspx) what they read in the press.

Bannon articulated the zone-flooding philosophy well, but he did not invent
it. In our time, it was [pioneered by Vladimir
Putin](/world/2019/10/24/20908223/trump-russia-fake-news-propaganda-peter-
pomerantsev) in post-Soviet Russia. Putin uses the media to engineer a fog of
disinformation, producing just enough distrust to ensure that the public can
never mobilize around a coherent narrative.

Russian President Vladimir Putin appears onscreen during a press conference in
Moscow on December 19, 2019. Mikhail Svetlov/Getty Images

In October, I spoke to [Peter Pomerantsev,](/world/2019/10/24/20908223/trump-
russia-fake-news-propaganda-peter-pomerantsev) a Soviet-born reality TV
producer turned academic who [wrote a book](https://www.amazon.com/This-Not-
Propaganda-Adventures-Against/dp/1541762118) about Putin’s propaganda
strategy. The goal, he told me, wasn’t to sell an ideology or a vision of the
future; instead, it was to convince people that “the truth is unknowable” and
that the only sensible choice is “to follow a strong leader.”

One major reason for the strategy’s success, both in the US and Russia, is
that it coincided with a moment when the technological and political
conditions were in place for it to thrive. Media fragmentation, the explosion
of the internet, political polarization, curated timelines, and echo chambers
— all of this allows a “flood the zone with shit” strategy to work.

The role of “gatekeeping” institutions has also changed significantly. Before
the internet and social media, most people got their news from a handful of
newspapers and TV networks. These institutions functioned like referees,
calling out lies, fact-checking claims, and so on. And they had the ability to
control the flow of information and set the terms of the conversation.

Today, gatekeepers still matter in terms of setting a baseline for political
knowledge, but there’s much more competition for clicks and audiences, and
that alters the incentives for what’s declared newsworthy in the first place.
At the same time, traditional media outlets remain committed to a set of norms
that are ill adapted to the modern environment. The preference for objectivity
in political coverage, in particular, is a problem.

As Joshua Green, who wrote a biography of Bannon,
[explained](https://www.npr.org/2019/10/09/768556474/how-a-political-hit-job-
backfired-and-led-to-trumps-impeachment-peril), Bannon’s lesson from the
Clinton impeachment in the 1990s was that to shape the narrative, a story had
to move beyond the right-wing echo chamber and into the mainstream media.
That’s exactly [what happened with the now-debunked Uranium One
story](/2017/11/17/16658080/uranium-one-clinton-russia-chart) that dogged
Clinton from the beginning of her campaign — a story Bannon fed to the Times,
knowing that the supposedly liberal paper would run with it because that’s
what mainstream media news organizations do.

In this case, Bannon flooded the zone with a ridiculous story not necessarily
to persuade the public that it was true (although surely plenty of people
bought into it) but to create a cloud of corruption around Clinton. And the
mainstream press, merely by reporting a story the way it always has, helped
create that cloud.

You see this dynamic at work daily on cable news. [Trump White House adviser
Kellyanne Conway lies](/videos/2017/2/13/14597968/kellyanne-conway-tricks).
She lies a lot. Yet [CNN](https://www.cnn.com/videos/politics/2019/11/03/sotu-
conway-full.cnn) and [MSNBC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VSrEEDQgFc8) have
shown zero hesitation in giving her a platform to lie because they see their
job as giving government officials — even ones who lie — a platform.

Even if CNN or MSNBC debunk Conway’s lies, the damage will be done. Fox and
right-wing media will amplify her and other falsehoods; armies on social
media, bot and real, will, too (@realDonaldTrump will no doubt chime in). The
mainstream press will be a step behind in debunking — and even the act of
debunking will serve to amplify the lies.

UC Berkeley linguist [George Lakoff](https://www.amazon.com/ALL-NEW-Dont-
Think-
Elephant/dp/160358594X/ref=asc_df_160358594X/?tag=hyprod-20&linkCode=df0&hvadid=312736202848&hvpos=2o2&hvnetw=g&hvrand=9216410298400141507&hvpone=&hvptwo=&hvqmt=&hvdev=c&hvdvcmdl=&hvlocint=&hvlocphy=1018698&hvtargid=pla-436612564981&psc=1&tag=&ref=&adgrpid=62017409437&hvpone=&hvptwo=&hvadid=312736202848&hvpos=2o2&hvnetw=g&hvrand=9216410298400141507&hvqmt=&hvdev=c&hvdvcmdl=&hvlocint=&hvlocphy=1018698&hvtargid=pla-436612564981)
calls this the “framing effect.” As Lakoff puts it, if you say “don’t think of
an elephant,” you can’t help but think of an elephant. In other words, even if
you reject an argument, merely repeating it cements the frame in people’s
minds. Debunking it is still useful, of course, but there’s a cost to
dignifying it in the first place.

There is some research that points to the utility of fact-checking. Political
scientists [Brendan Nyhan and Jason
Reifler](https://www.dartmouth.edu/~nyhan/fact-checking-effects.pdf) have
shown that repeated exposure to fact-checking does tend to increase the
accuracy of beliefs. But the issue with zone-flooding is an overabundance of
news, which diminishes the importance of any individual story, no matter how
big or damning.

In this environment, there are often too many things happening at once; it’s a
constant game of whack-a-mole for journalists. And we know that false claims,
if they’re repeated enough, become more plausible the more often they’re
shared, something psychologists have called the [“illusory truth”
effect](/science-and-health/2017/10/5/16410912/illusory-truth-fake-news-las-
vegas-google-facebook). Our brains, it turns out, tend to associate repetition
with truthfulness. Some [interesting new
research](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/0956797619887896),
moreover, found that the more people encounter information the more likely
they are to feel justified in spreading it, whether it’s true or not.

## Flooding the zone, polarization, and why many people still don’t know what
Trump did

This all intersects with [political
polarization](http://simonandschusterpublishing.com/why-were-polarized/) in
troubling ways. One consequence of pervasive confusion about what’s happening
is that people feel more comfortable siding with their political tribe. If
everything’s up for grabs, and it’s hard to sift through the competing
narratives to find the truth, then there’s nothing left but culture war
politics. There’s “us” and “them,” and the possibility of persuasion is off
the table.

It’s worth noting that this polarization is asymmetric. [The left
overwhelmingly](https://www.journalism.org/2014/10/21/section-1-media-sources-
distinct-favorites-emerge-on-the-left-and-right/) receives its news from
organizations like the New York Times, the Washington Post, or cable news
networks like MSNBC or CNN. Some of the reporting is surely biased, and
probably biased in favor of liberals, but it’s still (mostly) anchored to
basic journalistic ethics.

[As a recent book](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07GK7J8XS/ref=dp-kindle-
redirect?_encoding=UTF8&btkr=1) by three Harvard researchers explains, this
just isn’t true of the right. American conservative media functions like a
closed system, [with Fox News at the
center](https://www.journalism.org/2014/10/21/section-1-media-sources-
distinct-favorites-emerge-on-the-left-and-right/). Right-wing outlets are less
tethered to conventional journalistic ethics and exist mostly to propagate the
bullshit they produce.

All this has created an atmosphere that has helped Trump. The Trump
administration was remarkably successful at muddying the waters on Ukraine and
impeachment, and [Republicans in
Congress](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/gop-embraces-a-debunked-
ukraine-conspiracy-to-defend-trump-from-
impeachment/2019/12/03/af3aa372-15ea-11ea-8406-df3c54b3253e_story.html) helped
by parroting the administration’s talking points.

Reps. Guy Reschenthaler (R-PA), Jim Jordan (R-OH), and Louie Gohmert (R-TX)
look on as fellow Republicans speak to the press after the House Judiciary
Committee approved articles of impeachment against President Trump on December
13, 2019. Drew Angerer/Getty Images

The fact is, Trump did what Democrats have accused him of doing. We know, with
absolute certainty, that the president tried to get a foreign government to
investigate a family member of one of his political rivals. And we know this
because of [the witnesses who testified](/policy-and-
politics/2019/11/19/20973246/impeachment-hearing-republicans-trump-vindman-
volker) before the House Intelligence Committee and because Trump’s own White
House [released a record](/policy-and-politics/2019/9/25/20883420/full-
transcript-trump-ukraine-zelensky-white-house) of the call proving it.

Yet all [the polling data](https://projects.fivethirtyeight.com/impeachment-
polls/) we have suggests that public opinion on Trump and Ukraine basically
held steady. Again, some of this is pure partisan recalcitrance. But there’s
good reason to believe that the right’s muddying of the waters — making the
story about Ukraine and Hunter Biden, pushing out [conspiracy
theories](/2019/11/25/20981661/john-kennedy-roger-wicker-ukrainian-
interference-russia), repeatedly trumpeting Trump’s own version of events,
etc. — played a role.

The issue is that the coverage of the trials, in both the mainstream press and
right-wing outlets, ensured that these counternarratives are part of the
public conversation. It added to the general atmosphere of doubt and
confusion. And that’s why zone flooding presents a near-insoluble problem for
the press.

The way impeachment played out underscores just how the new media ecosystem is
a problem for our democracy.

It helps to think of zone-flooding less as a strategy deployed by a person or
group and more as a natural consequence of the way media works.

We don’t need a master puppeteer pulling the media’s strings. The race for
content, the need for clicks, is more than enough. Bannon or Conway can shake
things up by feeding nonsense into the system.

_Fox & Friends_ hosts Steve Doocy, Ainsley Earhardt, and Pete Hegseth
interview former US Army Lt. Clint Lorance on November 18, 2019. John
Lamparski/Getty Images

Trump can dictate an entire news cycle with a few unhinged tweets or an absurd
press conference. The media cycle is easily commandeered by misinformation,
innuendo, and outrageous content. These are problems because of the norms that
govern journalism and because the political economy of media makes it very
hard to ignore or dispel bullshit stories. This is at the root of our nihilism
problem, and a solution is nowhere in sight.

The instinct of the mainstream press has always been to conquer lies by
exposing them. But it’s just not that simple anymore (if it ever was). There
are too many claims to debunk and too many conflicting narratives. And the
decision to cover something is a decision to amplify it and, in some cases,
normalize it.

We probably need a paradigm shift in how the press covers politics. Nearly all
of the incentives driving media militate against this kind of rethinking,
however. And so we’re likely stuck with this problem for a very long time.

As is often the case, the diagnosis is much easier than the cure. But liberal
democracy cannot function without a shared understanding of reality. As long
as the zone is flooded with shit, that shared understanding is impossible.
