title: ESPN.com - Trading places: New names crack top 50
source: http://sports.espn.go.com/espn/print?id=6130963&type=Story&imagesPrint=off
date: 2025-08-13T21:11:23.507653
tags: []
---
Patient X, I don't know your name … I just know you as the person who got
everyone sick at the Super Bowl in Dallas. Thanks to you, I've been sick for
10 solid days and counting. It started out as bronchitis, morphed into a sinus
infection, and now I just sit around coughing up oysters and mixing
medications like Walter White. Am I the first person who ever made a cup of
daytime Theraflu, sprinkled Sudafed in it, then chugged it down with two
Mucinex? I sure hope so.

Normally, I don't care about being sick when it's an excuse to skip work, stay
in bed and watch bad TV. But this month? I cared. I hadn't written my annual
"Who has the highest NBA trade value?" column yet. Time was running out with
the trade deadline looming next week. Sources say that sources tell me that
sources say that according to sources, sources say Carmelo Anthony may or may
not get traded soon. I had to get this sucker up before it happened. Patient
X, I wouldn't let you defeat me. I fought through the pain. I fought through
the hacking, the orange pee, the pounding headache, the wheezing, the drug-
fueled haze … it couldn't stop me.

You know what the key moment was? On Tuesday, I was watching [John Tesh's
"Roundball Rock" performance](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V_h7Lm7C9Nk) at
Catalina Island (the official video of the Trade Value column) to get fired up
when it struck me that Tesh might be the only person who has a bigger head
than me. I have a huge noggin, but Tesh's head is like Sputnik. And as I was
staring at it, I started imagining my head on Tesh's body. That led me to
e-mail a YouTube guru called [The Sports
Gifter](http://www.youtube.com/user/TheSportsGifter), who made enjoyable
Scarface/LeBron and Griffin/Mozgov videos last year, to ask if he'd remake the
"Roundball Rock" video with my head on Tesh's body. The Gifter graciously
agreed. A few hours later, [I had my own
video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jwHKV7tczBE) and enough energy to finish
this monstrosity of a column. I always wanted to know what it would be like to
wear a pirate's blouse while playing "Roundball Rock." Thank you, Gifter.

For a quick refresher of the "Trade Value" rules, check the sidebar. Here's
the list of 2009-10 incumbents who couldn't crack this year's list or even
earn an honorable mention: **Ricky Rubio** (No. 40 last year) could end up
being our most overrated international import since "Skins" … **Al Jefferson**
(37) is basically a DH … **David Lee** (36) could have been bitten by a zombie
and fared better than he did with Wilson Chandler … the aging **Chauncey
Billups** (35) can still crank those 3s (44 percent this season), and if the
Lakers steal him for the stretch run somehow, I am killing everybody … **O.J.
Mayo** (29) lost his starting job, got beaten up by a teammate during an
airplane card game, got arrested for running a cockfighting ring and tested
positive for a steroid masker (I made only one of those up) … **Gerald
Wallace** (25) is available if you're interested in trading for him (if so,
call the Charlotte Country Club between the hours of 8 a.m. and 2 p.m. and ask
for "MJ") … **Joe Johnson** (24) can always say he made more money than anyone
else during the Summer of LeBron … and I can't believe that **Brandon Roy**
(9) made this paragraph.

Our toughest 2011 omissions going from "not so tough" to "very tough":

**Andrea Bargnani:** The center for the Empty Calorie All-Stars: averages 21.5
points but gives you little else (5.5 rebounds, 5.0 free throw attempts, 1.7
assists, 0.8 blocks). Semi-related: If you had to do over the [2006
draft](http://www.basketball-reference.com/draft/NBA_2006.html), LaMarcus
Aldridge (picked fourth) and Rajon Rondo (21st) would be 1-2 in some order,
then Rudy Gay (eighth), Paul Millsap (47th) and Bargnani (first). The sixth
pick? Let's see … Randy Foye? J.J. Redick? Kyle Lowry? Brandon Roy playing
bone-on-bone? Yikes. That could have been the immortal bad NBA draft if not
for a [2000 Draftastrophe](http://www.basketball-
reference.com/draft/NBA_2000.html) that yielded three _total_ All-Star
appearances.

**Michael Beasley:** Tailed off pretty dramatically in 2011: 16 games, 15.3
PPG, 43 percent shooting. I'd say the league figured him out, but how can you
figure out someone who has conversations on the court with himself as other
players walk by him, glance around and say, "Wait … is he talking to me? He's
talking to himself, right?"

**Kendrick Perkins, Big Baby Davis, Marc Gasol, Roy Hibbert (tie):** Cheap
(and competent) frontcourt labor. Special kudos to Hibbert for keeping me on
my toes: Since Thanksgiving, I had him off the top 50, on the top 50, out of
the column completely and now he's honorable mention after my boy Frank Vogel
revived his career. Even Christina Aguilera's past 10 weeks were more stable
-- and she mangled a Super Bowl national anthem, nearly face-planted at the
Grammys and turned into bleached-blonde Snooki.

**Aaron Brooks:** You just get the feeling he drives around in a 2005 Range
Rover with bad shocks and a dent in the back muttering to himself, "Memphis
gives Mike Conley $45 million and I can't even get an extension? Really?"

**DeAndre Jordan:** You will laugh. I don't care. I go to Clippers games. On
the right contender, Jordan would thrive as a rebounder/shot-blocker. Mark my
words. By the way, he's a great example of a lousy pre-draft reputation being
completely undeserved: One of the league's best teammates, he somehow knows
every player on every other team and would win "Mr. Popularity" if they made
an NBA yearbook. (Which really, they should -- if only so we could see
everyone's yearbook quotes.) If you attend a Clippers game, watch Jordan in
the pregame warm-ups -- he will dole out 20-plus different handshakes, hugs
and handshake/hug combos and always seems like he's telling someone on the
other team "All right, I'll see you next week!" He's also smartly positioned
himself as Blake Griffin's best friend and go-to chest-bumper. There's just a
lot to like. Danny Ainge owes the entire Celtics fan base an apology for
taking J.R. Giddens over him.

**Arron Afflalo:** I wake up every morning paralyzed by fear that Chicago
pried him away from Denver for a future No. 1 pick and $3 million.

**Nicolas Batum:** Dirt-cheap contract, elite defender, efficient offensively,
brazenly called out Derrick Rose's shoddy defense recently, only 22 years old
… for once, the Portland Soccer Moms overrated a Blazer and then had the
rating inadvertently turn out to be the right rating. (Just kidding, Portland.
Jokes! Come on! Loosen up! No, don't start the 150-post thread killing me on
Blazers Edge! Just stop it … jokes! NOOOOOOOOOOOO!)

**Tyson Chandler:** Where can I place my "Mark Cuban will reward Chandler's
career year by overpaying him with a $72 million extension, then Chandler will
miss 200 games over the next five years" wager?

**Darren Collison, D.J. Augustin, Jrue Holiday:** Love the price for all
three, but really, it's not life-altering to get 14-15 points, 5-6 assists and
35-36 percent shooting from a point guard. There's never been a deeper crew of
point guards -- we go something like 20 strong, and that's not even counting
the Ridnour/Blake/Udrih types. Remember the days when there were so few decent
point guards that Eric Snow and Howard Eisley signed $40 million deals? No
more. Long gone.

**Paul George:** I'm playing my annual "I Just Like Him" immunity idol. Don't
ask why he's here. Don't question it. Just move on.

**DeMar DeRozan:** Can't tell if he's a potential All-Star or a future member
of the Shareef Abdur-Rahim All-Stars (for guys best equipped to put up good
stats for bad teams). It's also unclear whether he knows he can pass to his
teammates -- that rule may not have been explained to him yet. One thing's for
sure: The dude has a fantastic name that sounds like it came right off the
"Blue Chips" IMDb page. Couldn't you see DeMar DeRozan rooming with Neon
Boudreau?

**Ryan Anderson:** Submitted a rock-solid impersonation of 2009 Rashard Lewis
(sans any steroid masking agents) after Orlando's big December shakeup. He's
made at least one 3 in his past 29 games (42 percent shooting), 13 ppg and 6
rpg playing just 25 minutes a night. He's the darling of the statistical
community right now -- if we bring him to
[Dorkapalooza](http://www.sloansportsconference.com/) next month, there might
be a per-minute riot.

**Ty Lawson:** I always get the definition of "irony" wrong, like most people,
which makes me think that we should just change the meaning of the word to
account for all the people who misuse it. So forgive me in advance. But
doesn't it seem _ironic_ in the traditionally wrong application of the
definition that Ty Lawson -- the third point guard Minnesota drafted in 2009
(and immediately traded away) -- is better than the guys the Wolves drafted
No. 5 and No. 6? That's totally what I think ironic means, even though it
doesn't.

**Evan Turner:** Instead of mentioning Mount Bustmore (Kwame Brown, Darko
Milicic, Hasheem Thabeet and Adam Morrison) every time we wonder if a high
lottery pick might be a draft bust, I thought it would be easier to rename
those four guys Kwarko Beetison, who absolutely sounds like someone Chris
Wallace would have drafted. Anyway, Turner's Kwarko potential has dwindled to
zero: He's contributing to an overachieving playoff team, he's had a few "I AM
NOT UNAFRAID OF THIS MOMENT!" games, and he's the only draft pick since 2007
capable of submitting one of those wacky, Rondo-esque 12-17-15 box-score lines
someday. Go on eBay, steal some of his rookie cards and thank me later.

**Brandon Jennings:** Our toughest omission. In person, he'll have two or
three moments that make you think "Love child of Allen Iverson and Tiny
Archibald!!!" But his numbers (particularly his 38 percent shooting and paltry
50 percent accuracy on shots at the rim) don't back up what we _think_ we're
seeing. He might just be a lightning-fast streak shooter who can't guard
anyone and can't quite get to the rim. Stay tuned.

And now, the top 50 …

### GROUP L: "Cost-Effective Building Blocks"

**50\. DeJuan Blair**
The league's best undersized power forward for the price: less than $3 million
total through 2012-13, which seems insane for someone who routinely throws up
double-doubles on a title contender. I couldn't leave him off even though his
knees are apparently made of Sepp Blatter's backbone.

**49\. Derrick Favors, Brook Lopez (tie)**
It's all about Favors having an "NBA body" right now; we're not allowed to
rush to a final judgment even though a 19-year-old lottery pick is forgettable
night after night after night in a Kwame-ish way. I caught him twice in
person: He bombed the "If I'm Seeing You Live, No Matter How Young You Are, I
Shouldn't Be Able to Zone Out And Forget That You're Allegedly Doing Your
Specialty In Front Of Me" test. (Important note: Same goes for Broadway
actors, musicians, belly dancers, comedians, politicians and chefs at those
Japanese restaurants at which they cook for 10-12 people at a time.) It's not
like he's any younger than DeMarcus Cousins. Shouldn't Favors be showing
something by now?

As for Lopez, he stopped rebounding (8.1 as a rookie, 8.7 in Year 2, 5.7 this
season), stopped attacking the rim (6.6 shots at the rim last season, 4.3 this
season) and plays with the enthusiasm of someone who just got dumped by his
girlfriend and wants the game to end as soon as possible so he can go home and
fill a pink iPod with sappy love songs for her. I would have bounced him off
the list entirely, but there's a small chance Avery Johnson's voice is
affecting him the same way Mary Hart's voice affected Kramer.

**47\. Greg Monroe**
Remember when I said in October, "You wait, in four months, Greg Monroe and
Tracy McGrady will be CARRYING the Pistons!" Oh wait, nobody said that.

**46\. DeMarcus Cousins**
So rarely in sports does someone live up to the hype. We thought Notorious
D.M.C. could be a dominant scorer/rebounder AND a once-in-a-generation head
case who immediately polarized fans and media members … yes and yes! In the
past three weeks alone, he dropped a 27-10 on the Lakers, a 25-14 on Utah, a
19-15 on Dallas and a few punches on teammate Donte Greene's head, then
subsequently got banned from a team plane and suspended. I want the opposite
of a full refund for the DMC Experience. I'd like to pay twice. Let's run it
back. And by the way? If I were a GM, I'd be calling Sacramento every day
trying to get him. Repeat: _Every_ day. You just never know when you might
catch Geoff Petrie in a moment of weakness. It's coming.

### GROUP K: "We'll Discuss Him, But You Can't Tell ANYONE"

**45\. Paul Millsap
44\. Danny Granger
43\. Kevin Martin
42\. Nene
41\. Luis Scola
40\. Andrew Bogut**

These guys are like quality character actors: You want them in your movie or
TV show as long as they're not the ones you're putting on the poster. Millsap,
Scola and Martin: hard-working, efficient scorers who wound their teams
defensively. Granger: a streak shooter who doesn't seem interested in being
much more than that; it wasn't a coincidence that Coach K buried him on Team
USA. Nene: a totally solid center who holds his own but can't carry his team
for stretches at a time. Bogut: an expensive lottery center who gets you a
double-double with three blocks but can't crack 50 percent from the field OR
the charity stripe. Ask these guys to be anything more than your No. 3 or No.
4 guy and you won't be playing in June.

The best comparison: Have you seen "Shameless" on Showtime? It totally has
"Six Feet Under" potential, but there's a problem -- they built too much of
the show around Bill Macy, who's in a perpetual overacting frenzy as the lead
character, an abusive alcoholic father who can't stop screwing up the lives of
his kids. With the right actor, it's a 60-win show and a possible 1-seed. With
Macy, it's an 8-seed. He's awful in it. I don't blame Macy as much as Showtime
for building the show around him -- they were hoping he had a Bryan Cranston
gear in him, but he doesn't. And that goes for the last six guys, too. You
want them in your indie movie, you want them as the No. 3 or No. 4 lead in
your blockbuster … you don't want them on your poster.

(Last thought: The Rockets had Yao and T-Mac for their poster, couldn't
replace them after they broke down, then had no choice but to build around
character actors -- a move that worked for the 2004 Pistons during the Great
Talent Abyss of the mid-2000s but can't work in 2011 because the league is too
loaded. Maybe the Rockets can't win a playoff series, but they could do some
serious damage at Sundance.)

### GROUP J: "The Young Guns"

**39\. Tyreke Evans**
This year's winner of the Sidney Wicks Memorial "I Know He's Putting Up Stats,
And I Know He's Talented, But Man, It Seems Like His Teammates _Hate_ Playing
With Him" Award. I continue to believe "24/7: The 2010-11 Sacramento Kings"
could have been the greatest HBO show of all time. Even better than "The
Sopranos" and "G-String Divas." _Coming up next time on "24/7": A friendly
Monopoly game between DeMarcus and Tyreke's high school buddies goes horribly
wrong …_

**38\. Andrew Bynum**
A list of the most memorable centers and power forwards of the past 35 years
organized by their first six regular seasons for "games played," "games
missed" and "number of seasons in which they played 90 percent of the games."

Dwight Howard: 489 --- 3 --- 6
Karl Malone: 489 --- 3 --- 6
Tim Duncan: 451 --- 9 --- 5
David Robinson: 475 --- 17 --- 5
Kevin McHale: 475 --- 17 --- 5
Charles Barkley: 472 --- 20 --- 6
Dikembe Mutombo: 471 --21 -- 5
Robert Parish: 469 --- 23 --- 5
Hakeem Olajuwon: 468 --- 24 --- 5
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar: 467 --- 25 --- 5
Dirk Nowitzki: 444 --- 48 --- 5
Kevin Garnett: 442 --- 50 --- 5
Patrick Ewing: 438 --- 54 --- 4
Moses Malone: 428 --- 66 --- 4
Alonzo Mourning: 409 --- 83 --- 2
Shaquille O'Neal: 408 --- 84 --- 2
Yao Ming: 404 -- 88 --- 3
Ralph Sampson: 395 --- 97 --- 3
Chris Webber: 329 --- 131 --- 1
Andrew Bynum: 309 --- 169 --- 1
Bill Walton: 223 --- 269 --- 0
Sam Bowie: 207 --- 285 --- 1
Greg Oden: 82 --- 266 --- 0

What jumps out? First, the durable guys remained durable throughout their
careers, with just one exception: McHale, who ruined the second half of his
career by bravely (and some would say foolishly) playing on a broken foot in
the 1987 playoffs. Second, anyone who missed more than 80 games _and_ couldn't
play in 90 percent of the games in at least four of their first six seasons
went on to have injury-plagued careers. (That includes Shaq, who played more
than 68 games in a season just six times and missed an average of 18 games per
season.) And third, if you can't stay on the court at your
youngest/healthiest/freshest/most energetic, it's a pretty safe bet that
things won't change as you get older. It's straight DNA: Some dudes are
structurally built for 82-game NBA seasons, others aren't. So if you make the
argument "If Bynum can stay healthy, he's a franchise center," just make sure
you also mention that we have 35 years of evidence that there's a tipping
point when "If he can stay healthy …" becomes "… he's not going to stay
healthy." We're there with Andrew Bynum. He's not going to stay healthy. If I
were the Lakers, I would trade him right now.

(Actually, what am I saying? They should definitely keep him! The guy is built
like solid oak!)

**37\. Serge Ibaka**
Think how much better he's gotten just in the past 12 months … then think
about the fact that he's only 21 … then remember that, by the time he turned
20, he had already survived a violent civil war in the Congo, been separated
from his 18 siblings, survived on his own in Spain and Oklahoma City, learned
his third and fourth languages and morphed into a playoff contender's key
shot-blocker/rebounder despite the fact that he started playing organized
basketball only five years ago. I'm not betting against Sergeballu LaMu
Sayonga Loom Walahas Jonas Hugo Ibaka.

### GROUP I: "We Need To Trade Him, But Unfortunately, You Know This"

**36\. Zach Randolph**
After he destroyed Oklahoma City two weeks ago, I briefly had him cracking the
top 30 until my buddy House and I had this exchange.

\--Me: I'm promoting Z-Bo to the top-30. F*** it. He's unstoppable. He would
swing the 2011 title if the right team got him.

\--House: I agree. Plus, he'd the first top-30 guy falsely accused of funding
a drug ring during that same year.

**35\. Hasheem Thabeet**
Just kidding.

**35\. Steve Nash**
Possible conversation between Robert Sarver and a buddy last June …

\--Sarver: I'll bet you that I can push Steve Kerr out, let Amare Stoudemire
go, pay $80 million to Channing Frye, Josh Childress and Hakim Warrick … and
Nash still won't ask for a trade.

\--Buddy: Pass.

\--Sarver: OK, same bet … except I'll also give up the two best players in a
four-player deal that lands me Vince Carter.

\--Buddy: You're on.

(Note: I could only see Nash pushing for a trade if Sacramento, Charlotte or
New Orleans relocates to his hometown of Vancouver, a city that David Stern
gleefully mentioned, unsolicited, as a possible NBA home on my podcast this
week, followed by a [Globe and Mail story two days
later](http://www.theglobeandmail.com/sports/basketball/canucks-owner-sets-
sights-on-moving-hornets-to-vancouver/article1908929/) confirming Vancouver's
interest in the Hornets. If Vancouver landed an NBA team AND Nash, I say Obama
should make Canada the following "Godfather" offer: Maine, Buffalo, North
Dakota, the top half of Minnesota, two future No. 1 picks and $3 million for
Vancouver so we could own the entire Pacific Northwest. It even works on the
Continental Trade Machine; I checked. Speaking of trades …)

**34\. Carmelo Anthony**
From Marshall in Portland: "Is Carmelo Anthony's six-month-long impression of
a vacillating, manipulative 13-year-old girl starting to make The Decision
look like a good idea? I know that's impossible, but still … at least The
Decision had direction and backbone, right?" Yup. Pretty much.

(My prediction for an outcome to this excruciating Melo saga, which should be
repackaged as "MELO: DAY 189" the same way "Nightline" rebranded the Iran
hostage crisis: [a three-
teamer](http://games.espn.com/nba/tradeMachine?tradeId=4sk3zlq) in which the
Knicks get Melo but take back Billups and the Al Harrington Trade Tax; Denver
gets Ray Felton, Wilson Chandler, Corey Brewer and expirings, sheds $11
million in 2011 payroll, gets a future No. 1 and an extra $3 million in cash
from New York and reinvents itself cap-wise going forward; and Minnesota gets
a chance to break the "Most Crazy Facial Expressions Ever" record with Anthony
Randolph and Beasley.)

### GROUP H: "Cost-Effective Winners"

**33\. David West**
Welcome to the rich man's version of Group K: elite character actors who can
carry a chunk of a quality movie if need be. West completed the "Everyone
spends so much time saying he's underrated that now he's overrated for being
underrated" cycle two years ago. Now he's totally underrated again. Love when
that happens. This year's overrated-for-being-underrated guy? Ryan Anderson.
Lock it down. Hasn't totally manifested itself yet, but it's coming.

**32\. Tony Parker**
Am I the only one who stares at Tony's picture on his ESPN.com [profile
page](http://www.espn.com/nba/player/stats/_/id/1015/tony-parker) and makes up
fake quotes for it in a French accent?

_No, no, you should stay here, I'll give your wife a ride home, I insist.
Your daughter is very beautiful. How old is she?
Have another glass of wine, what's the worst thing that can happen?
Tomorrow, while your husband is skiing, why don't I show you around town?_

**31\. Lamar Odom**
We always hear about athletes screwing up career decisions; we never hear
about someone like Odom, who passed up a much more lucrative 2009 offer from
Portland knowing he loved playing for Phil Jackson, being a Laker and living
on the beach. The extra money wasn't worth it to him. So he stayed. Now he's
playing the best basketball of his career, he has a second ring, he's getting
his own reality show and he's related to Bruce Jenner and Scott Disick. What
could be better? Oh, wait, I know! [Phil Jackson gave him a copy of my
book](http://www.latimes.com/sports/basketball/nba/lakers/la-sp-lakers-
fyi-20110211,0,4112752.story) for Christmas!!! How many people can say they
wrote a book that potentially sat on a nightstand right next to a bed in which
a Kardashian was hooking up? I couldn't be prouder.

### GROUP G: "Paying By The Pound"

**30\. Chris Bosh
29\. Carlos Boozer
28\. Kevin Garnett**

Garnett gets the edge because he's the best defender (by far); because he has
the most palatable contract ($40 million total this year and next, compared to
$70 million through 2014 for Boozer and $109 million for Bosh); because he
never once had an affair with someone who eventually won the unofficial
"lunatic of the year award" on "The Bachelor" (like Boozer did with Michelle
Money, this season's villain and someone my wife described as "someone who may
have killed before, and definitely may kill again"); because he's played in
more than 13 career NBA playoff games and a couple of NIT games (unlike Bosh);
because he's the only one with a ring; and because he's the heart and soul of
the Celtics (neither Bosh or Boozer can say the same about their respective
teams).

Of course, you can't mention Kevin Garnett in a sports column anymore without
mentioning how much everyone hates Kevin Garnett. Since joining the Celtics,
he's slowly morphed into the least-liked superstar in the league, this
generation's version of Rick Barry or Isiah Thomas. That's been devastating
for me for two reasons: He plays for my favorite team, and more importantly,
_that Barry/Isiah spot was supposed to go to Kobe._ How did this thing flip so
fast? Every day, I get at least one e-mail from a reader wondering, "How can
you root for Kevin Garnett?"

Actually, hold that thought. [**Let's carry this baby over to Part
2**](http://www.espn.com/espn/page2/story?page=simmons/two/110217).

Bill Simmons is a columnist for ESPN.com and the author of the recent New York
Times No. 1 best-seller " The Book of Basketball," now out in paperback with
new material and a revised Hall of Fame Pyramid. For every Simmons column and
podcast, check out [Sports Guy's
World](http://www.espn.com/espn/page2/simmons/index) or the [BS Report
page](http://www.espn.com/espnradio/show?showId=bsreport). Follow him on
Twitter at http://twitter.com/sportsguy33.

[Back to Page 2](http://www.espn.com/espn/page2/)






* * *
