title: S&P 500 Sector Weightings - The Big Picture
source: http://ritholtz.com/2016/08/sp-500-sector-weightings/
date: 2025-08-13T17:57:10.130429
tags: []
---
This content, which contains security-related opinions and/or information, is
provided for informational purposes only and should not be relied upon in any
manner as professional advice, or an endorsement of any practices, products or
services. There can be no guarantees or assurances that the views expressed
here will be applicable for any particular facts or circumstances, and should
not be relied upon in any manner. You should consult your own advisers as to
legal, business, tax, and other related matters concerning any investment. The
commentary in this “post” (including any related blog, podcasts, videos, and
social media) reflects the personal opinions, viewpoints, and analyses of the
Ritholtz Wealth Management employees providing such comments, and should not
be regarded the views of Ritholtz Wealth Management LLC. or its respective
affiliates or as a description of advisory services provided by Ritholtz
Wealth Management or performance returns of any Ritholtz Wealth Management
Investments client. References to any securities or digital assets, or
performance data, are for illustrative purposes only and do not constitute an
investment recommendation or offer to provide investment advisory services.
Charts and graphs provided within are for informational purposes solely and
should not be relied upon when making any investment decision. Past
performance is not indicative of future results. The content speaks only as of
the date indicated. Any projections, estimates, forecasts, targets, prospects,
and/or opinions expressed in these materials are subject to change without
notice and may differ or be contrary to opinions expressed by others. The
Compound Media, Inc., an affiliate of Ritholtz Wealth Management, receives
payment from various entities for advertisements in affiliated podcasts, blogs
and emails. Inclusion of such advertisements does not constitute or imply
endorsement, sponsorship or recommendation thereof, or any affiliation
therewith, by the Content Creator or by Ritholtz Wealth Management or any of
its employees. Investments in securities involve the risk of loss. For
additional advertisement disclaimers see here:
https://www.ritholtzwealth.com/advertising-disclaimers Please see disclosures
here: https://ritholtzwealth.com/blog-disclosures/
