title: I do not know how to convey how appalling the GOP’s health care process or policy is | Vox
source: https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2017/7/27/16054140/gop-health-bill-policy-process-appalling
date: 2025-08-13T17:07:22.216890
tags: []
---
I honestly don’t know how to convey how appalling this process or legislation
is. There is no analogue in modern politics.

At about 9:30 pm, Senate Republicans released [text](/health-
care/2017/7/27/16054080/skinny-repeal-obamacare-bill-read) of the health care
bill they intend to pass tomorrow morning. The bill would detonate individual
insurance markets, sending premiums skyrocketing, and push 16 million people
into the ranks of the uninsured.

Senate Republicans know all this, and their answer is that _they don’t want
the bill they pass to actually become law_. For many of them, the price of
passage is a guarantee from House Republicans that they will not pass the
Senate’s bill into law but will instead negotiate a new bill with the Senate
that both chambers will then pass.

This raises an obvious question: If Senate Republicans want to ensure the bill
they released tonight never becomes law and is replaced by a better bill
instead, _why don’t they kill the bill they released tonight and write and
pass a better one instead?_

There is no sensible answer to this question. Nothing that is happening
tonight makes the slightest bit of sense. All of it violates every procedural
principle and policy promise Republicans put forth in the aftermath of
Obamacare’s passage.

It was Mitch McConnell who said, in 2009, that “if the people who wrote this
bill were proud of it, they wouldn’t be forcing this vote in the dead of
night.” Obamacare didn’t pass in the dead of night, and the people who wrote
it were proud of it — they held hearings, released bill text in advance of
votes, waited for Congressional Budget Office scores, and defended it on the
merits. But for all their complaints and exaggerations, McConnell and his
colleagues never even accused Democrats of doing what they plan to do tomorrow
morning — passing a bill so irresponsible that they required assurances it
would never become law.

There is no justification for this process or this policy, and so it has
created a rare moment of consensus among outside observers of all political
stripes. “I have never seen such unanimity in the horror everyone on all sides
is expressing toward the Senate process on this health care bill,”
[wrote](https://twitter.com/jpodhoretz/status/890758037669072897) John
Podhoretz, editor of the conservative journal _Commentary_.

It is worth dwelling for a moment on the environment in which this legislation
lands. The Senate GOP’s bill was released mere hours after the White House’s
new communications director told [a New Yorker
reporter](http://www.newyorker.com/news/ryan-lizza/anthony-scaramucci-called-
me-to-unload-about-white-house-leakers-reince-priebus-and-steve-bannon) that
Steve Bannon, President Trump’s chief strategist, is “trying to suck [his] own
cock” and Reince Priebus, President Trump chief of staff, is a “fucking
paranoid schizophrenic.” And all that came amid Trump trying to push his
attorney general into resigning by insulting him in public.

If this were a season of _Veep_ , it would be panned for its absurdity and its
crude caricature of Washington. But this is real life, and millions of
people’s health care is on the line.

We are watching indefensible policy being pushed forward in an indefensible
process in the hopes that it will eventually be signed into law and
implemented by an indefensible administration. And what’s stranger is everyone
involved knows it. All this comes mere days after Sen. John McCain received a
standing ovation on the floor of the Senate for excoriating the way this
effort, and the way his institution, was being run.

”We’ve tried to do this by coming up with a proposal behind closed doors in
consultation with the administration, then springing it on skeptical members,
trying to convince them it’s better than nothing, asking us to swallow our
doubts and force it past a unified opposition,” he said, before basking in
thunderous applause. “I don’t think that is going to work in the end. And it
probably shouldn’t.”

But he has backed the process anyway, as have virtually all of his colleagues.

When Donald Trump was elected president, there was much talk about the ways in
which he represented something abnormal and unnerving in American politics.
But the congressional GOP’s health care process has been stark evidence that
the rot goes far deeper than the White House. McConnell may present more
conventionally than Trump does, but he is breaking norms, corroding
institutions, and ignoring the consequences of his policies and actions with
the same reckless abandon, and almost every Senate Republican is going along
with it. Something is deeply wrong with the Republican Party right now, and
the country is going to pay the price.
