title: E-Readers Collective - The New York Times
source: http://www.nytimes.com/2010/10/17/magazine/17FOB-medium-t.html?ref=magazine&pagewanted=print
date: 2025-08-13T21:55:09.330133
tags: []
---
Amazon’s proprietary Whispernet, the Kindle’s muted Internet connection that
allows for e-book downloads, has until now been gloriously recessive. You
could get your Web-based e-mail on the Kindle if you really had to, but in
general the Whispernet left you feeling alone enough to read. Popular
highlights remind you that you’re still connected. Masters of the obvious
might, at any moment, mug you with the news that the high point of “Jane Eyre”
is “Reader, I married him” or the high point of “Moby-Dick” is “Call me
Ishmael.”

Amazon is quick to point out that you can always disable the feature. But
there’s a genie-in-the-bottle problem here. As with many things on the Web,
once you’ve glimpsed popular highlights, it’s hard to unglimpse them. You get
curious about what other readers think, especially with a book like “Freedom,”
which bookstore windows and airplane waiting lounges would have you believe
everyone is thinking about. Reading, after all, is only superficially
solitary; in fact, it’s a form of intensive participation in language and the
building of common culture.

As a reminder of this, popular highlights are useful, if initially jarring.
They also put some torque on the reading experience. And that torque — finding
yourself one of many — can be uncomfortable. But if you can’t handle that
discomfort, you shouldn’t be reading popular books like “Freedom” and “Eat,
Pray, Love” anyway — and certainly not in e-book form. Try the hardcover of
“Diary of Samuel Pepys,” written from 1660 to 1669, published in 1825. It’s
great.

** _Points of Entry: This Week’s Recommendations_**

**TOP OF THE POPS**
If you don’t want to read a book that’s been “popularly highlighted,” but you
want to get a sense of what Kindle underliners believe is poetry, check out
Amazon’s list of most-highlighted passages at
kindle.amazon.com/popular_highlights.

**STACKING DECKS**
Kindle devotees: don’t just complain about popular highlights, do something.
Highlight your own passage, and get your friends to do the same. As of
October, it seems to take only a few dozen highlights to win a popular-
highlight underscore.

**UR-TEXT**
In “Is There a Text in This Class?” (1980), Stanley Fish of The Times — not
that anyone owns Stanley Fish — wrote the book on reader-response criticism.
Not available for Kindle yet. Hey, readers: respond and request.
