title: The Accidental Get Away Driver | GQ
source: http://www.gq.com/story/the-accidental-get-away-driver
date: 2025-08-13T17:20:47.621678
tags: []
---
Using pipes, they shinnied skyward. After sawing off the bars that sealed the
shaft, they shouldered their way into the cramped ductwork. They moved upward
on hands and knees toward a trap door. With a hard push, they got the thing
open and felt on their faces the rush of cold, fresh air.

They were on the roof now and made a quick dash to the building's northeast
corner. There, they cut through concertina wire and unfurled a makeshift rope
that they'd fashioned from bedsheets. Fastening one end of the line to the
building, they tested its strength and peered over the edge of the roof, four
stories to the ground.

When the last of their feet touched the dewy grass outside the jail, the men
still had more than a half hour before the sun rose. No alarms sounded; no
lights swept the exterior. They'd done it. They were out.

The fugitives allegedly first visited a friend of Duong's, hoping he would
give them enough cash to leave the country. Nayeri had thought he could
somehow spirit the group to Tehran. But Duong's pal could give them only $900.
So, Tieu contacted what police later surmised were members of his Little
Saigon gang. A security camera outside a deli recorded what appeared to be a
hasty midmorning rendezvous. But whatever money Tieu may have received wasn't
enough to get them far. At 9 P.M. the escapees were still in Santa Ana, eating
at a Vietnamese restaurant a few miles from the jail.

They needed to put distance between themselves and their predicament, which
meant they needed a car. Stealing one would be risky and probably require
expertise they didn't have. But what if they took a driver hostage? The only
trick would be quietly luring someone close. Duong dialed a cab service that
advertised in the local Vietnamese newspaper. Long Ma answered the call.

* * *

**As the men in the motel** studied the television, Ma was introduced to his
captors by their rap sheets. Tieu had allegedly taken part in a drive-by
shooting that left one college-age kid dead; Duong had allegedly shot a man in
the chest after an argument. And Nayeri, well, Nayeri was plenty notorious.
Four years earlier, acting on a hunch that the owner of a marijuana dispensary
had buried $1 million in the Mojave Desert, Nayeri had allegedly snatched the
guy and his girlfriend and driven them to the spot where the loot was thought
to be hidden. There, he and his crew shocked the man with a Taser, burned him
with a butane torch, poured bleach on his wounds, and severed his penis in a
failed attempt to locate the cash. After the man assured Nayeri there was no
buried money, he was left out there to die. (His girlfriend found help and
saved his life.)

In the motel room, the escapees seemed to realize that the media attention was
problematic. Spooked, perhaps, by the prospect that Ma's disappearance had
been noticed, they decided they needed a second vehicle—and now, with their
photos everywhere, they also needed to mask their appearance. They hauled Ma
out into the parking lot. He was again ordered into the backseat, where Tieu
steadied the gun on him. He was afraid anew and unsure what would happen
next—it was a mix of dread and confusion he hadn't felt in 40 years.

Ma had been a lieutenant colonel in the South Vietnamese Army during the war.
At night, he would venture with the Americans in search of Vietcong
guerrillas—the ones who, by day, shelled his base, hard against the Cambodian
mountains. After the war, after the Americans fled, Ma had endured a second
horror as a captive, held for seven long years in a Communist forced-labor
camp. “You are an especially stubborn case!” one Communist official would
shout before clubbing him with the butt of a rifle. All these decades later,
Ma could still trace with his finger the scar just beneath his hairline. He
had survived, while others had not.

But time can weaken resolve, and as an old man with a gun to his belly, too
frail to fight, too tired to resist, Ma thought he would surely die. As they
drove toward Los Angeles, his captors said nothing, which frightened him all
the more.

Earlier that morning, the escapees had found a van for sale on Craigslist.
Duong figured he could take the vehicle for a test spin and then simply drive
away. And so, on a quiet backstreet in L.A., Nayeri slowed the Civic to a
stop, and Duong got out and disappeared around the block. Before long, he
reappeared with a white van.

After the theft, the day took on a surreal veneer of suburban normalcy: The
fugitives went shopping for clothes at Ross Dress for Less; they visited a
hair salon. The three escapees each altered his appearance—none more than
Duong, who had his goatee shaved and his hair dyed black and cut into an army-
issue high-and-tight.

When they left the salon, Nayeri and Tieu took the van. Duong and Ma got into
the Civic, and here, alone in the car—away from Nayeri and Tieu—Duong's
personality changed, just as completely as he'd changed his appearance. He
became relaxed and even chatty with Ma, driving back toward Rosemead, asking
about the cabbie's life in their native Vietnamese. At one point, he even
called Ma “Uncle,” a term of endearment that implied respect for the old man.
Ma, unable to shake his suspicions, didn't know what to make of this.

Duong steered the Civic toward the Flamingo Inn, a motel where rooms are
rented by the week. Nayeri and Tieu were waiting in the parking lot. They sent
Ma to the front desk, where he registered room 116 in his own name. From the
liquor store across the street, the escapees bought a case of Bud Light and a
bottle of Jack Daniel's. Deep into the night, they laughed and drank and
smoked cigarettes, while on television the anchors said that the reward for
information leading to their arrest had increased from $20,000 to $50,000.

* * *

**Sunday dawned and** something wasn't right. Nayeri seemed more distant than
usual. They drank and talked in urgent tones that Ma, with his limited
English, couldn't always understand. They seemed eager to go someplace, but no
one headed for the door.

At one point, Ma watched a discussion grow heated. The gist of the debate
eluded him, but the truth was the men were already low on cash. Worse, they'd
only made it to Rosemead. They realized that the media sensation of the
jailbreak, while gratifying—they were famous now!—also served to confine them
with each passing hour. Outside it grew darker. Another day was slipping away.
