title: Darker Than a Dark Pool? Welcome to Wall Street’s ‘Private Rooms’
source: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/darker-dark-pool-welcome-wall-210011026.html
date: 2025-08-13T15:06:06.970499
tags: []
---
(Bloomberg) -- Wall Street’s infamous dark pools are getting even darker.

Most Read from Bloomberg

A decade after being engulfed by a controversy that culminated in multiple
enforcement actions and a regulator clampdown, these off-exchange trading
platforms are touting a way to buy and sell stocks that’s even more opaque.

They’re offering what are dubbed private rooms, gated venues that take the
core benefit of a dark pool — the ability to hide big equity deals so they
won't impact prices — and add exclusivity, specifying exactly who can partake
in any trade.

Created within the dark pools themselves, the rooms are independent from one
another and each is invisible to anyone not invited, raising questions about
both market transparency and fragmentation. But with more than half of all US
stock trading now happening away from public exchanges, they’re in high demand
from firms eager to choose whom they do business with, often to help them
carry out individual orders more efficiently.

“It’s like shopping when you know exactly the item you want, and who and where
you are buying or selling it from, instead of going to Walmart on Black
Friday,” says David Cannizzo, the head of electronic trading at Raymond James
and Associates. “You’re controlling the terms of engagement.”

Right now, it’s impossible to say how many private rooms exist, or how much
activity is moving through them. Companies operating alternative trading
systems, or ATS — the formal term for dark pools — say it’s a minority of
their volumes at present, since the growth in demand is a relatively new
phenomenon.

But they’re seeing rapid adoption by everyone from broker-dealers and market
makers to hedge funds and asset managers, so much so that private-room volumes
at one major ATS — Stamford, Connecticut-based IntelligentCross — now eclipse
the total trading activity at nine rival dark-pool operators.

Dark pools are so-called because the trades they handle happen away from the
“lit” public exchange. That helps prevent order details leaking to the broader
market and triggering adverse price moves before they can be executed. But
there’s still a downside: a pool is open to anyone, and firms inside never
know who their counterparty is in any trade. Private rooms can be even more
discreet.

“It’s about exercising control, what liquidity a broker wants to interact with
to achieve better execution quality,” says Roman Ginis, CEO of Imperative
Execution, the parent company of IntelligentCross.

There are myriad reasons why users may opt for private rooms. Take the case of
CastleOak Securities, a New York-based minority-run brokerage. The firm wants
to trade with similarly minded businesses, so it uses a private room provided
by the ATS operator OneChronos.

Carlos Cabana, head of equity sales and trading at CastleOak, dubs the room a
“diversity pool,” because the participants are all minority-operated brokerage
firms. While in this instance CastleOak doesn’t know specifically who is on
the other side of every trade, it knows it will be one of about 10
counterparties who meet certain eligibility criteria related to ownership and
investment goals.

“Think of it as an apartment that’s hosting a party, and there’s one purpose
for the party with only invited guests,” says Cabana.

Thanks to CastleOak’s increasing use of the diversity pool, OneChronos is now
its third most-used trading venue, behind only the New York Stock Exchange and
Nasdaq, Cabana says.

Execution Excellence

Private rooms are known by a slew of other names including hosted pools,
restricted-access rooms, ATS pools, and custom counterparty groups. They’re
gaining popularity in the huge, ultra-fast modern market as a way to help
firms avoid losing out against players who may be able to move quicker or who
have access to superior information.

For instance, many brokers and market makers are keen to take the other side
of retail investor orders. Those small, less volatile trades are generally
unlikely to impact prices — so a market maker won’t see an adverse move occur
the instant it agrees to fill an order, as might happen with another type of
counterparty.

High-Frequency Traders Love Business With Robinhood

Brokers who take orders to private rooms typically expect to fill the order at
the midpoint of the national-best-bid and offer, or NBBO (assuming the rule of
the room is set up that way, which is usually the case). If for some reason
the order is not filled in the room at the midpoint, it can move to the
broader ATS where multiple other parties can compete to fill it. And if a
broker has bad experiences with a private room, they can change to another in
the future, avoiding those counterparties.

“The problem we have is, how do we identify good versus bad liquidity?” says
Jatin Suryawanshi, global head of quant strategy at Jefferies, who estimates
that 15 in every 100 shares executed by the firm’s algorithms currently move
via a room. “In using private rooms, you can prioritize who you want to
interact with.”

The growth of private rooms has accelerated as their use has become more
common and as stock trading has migrated away from public exchanges. Off-
exchange activity has been rising for years in the US, and now frequently
accounts for more than half of all recorded volume.

Private rooms emerged at the ATS firm LeveL as far back as 18 years ago. LeveL
started by allowing firms to match their own orders, in what's known as
internalization. That expanded to other forms of segmentation, including bi-
lateral and multi-lateral agreements, where one party agrees to trade with
another, or multiple parties agree to only interact with each other, within
the same ATS.

Following requests from its own clients, IntelligentCross started offering its
version of private rooms about a year-and-a-half ago, and OneChronos joined
the party last year.

Private rooms are not generally needed by big banks or brokers who have the
resources to create their own ATS or what are called single-dealer platforms.
That’s another breed of off-exchange trading venue where the operator is
always the counterparty to any trade.

But for smaller players, it's too expensive and cumbersome to build and manage
an ATS or SDP, meet the associated regulatory reporting requirements and set
up the necessary connections. Arranging a private room at an established ATS
is a solution.

“There are various factors of why a firm would want to outsource this activity
than keep it in house,” says Steve Miele, CEO of Kezar Markets, the parent of
LeveL. “It could be a cost, an overhead they don’t necessarily have to take on
if we can build it, then scale it” using the existing network, he says. “We
lower the barrier to entry.”

At IntelligentCross, the majority of rooms currently offered serve
institutional brokers that don’t have capacity to conduct similar activities
internally. Jefferies trades in a private room provided by the firm where it
interacts with seven other brokers who don’t have their own ATS, but have
institutional orders, according to Suryawanshi.

“These are always created at the request of a subscriber, who is the host that
invites others to be guests in their book,” says Ginis at Imperative
Execution.

Dark Disclosure

Not every ATS is rushing to embrace private rooms. New York-based PureStream
offers “pools” that operate like rooms, but they are disclosed to all
subscribers if they are created, and anyone can join. In essence, the room is
open to all.

So far no one has asked to set up a pool at PureStream, so there is zero
volume in so-called sub-pools, according to CEO Armando Diaz. He says offering
a private room that isn’t open to all subscribers raises questions about the
regulation. “The more the host controls the room, the more they are operating
an ATS, and that opens up regulatory risk,” he says.

Perhaps the biggest criticism of private rooms is that they create phantom
liquidity, because transactions taking place inside a room are simply lumped
in with the total activity reported by its dark pool parent. That creates a
misleading picture for anyone trying to gauge market depth, since reported
trading volumes include activity not available to those outside the room.

ATS are regulated trading venues, overseen by the Securities and Exchange
Commission, which in 2018 enhanced its supervision of such venues by imposing
new disclosure requirements. Each dark pool must now file a form, ATS-N, which
gives an overview about the specific trading mechanisms on its platform.

These publicly available forms go into various details, including whether
private rooms are available. But they don’t say how many exist or who is in
them, and the varying language and levels of disclosure used mean it can
sometimes be difficult to determine if an ATS is even hosting any rooms.Wall
Street Dark Pools to Come Out of Shadows Thanks to SEC

“There are no rules to force ATS to break out the identity of single-dealer
rooms or their volume,” Larry Tabb, head of market structure at Bloomberg
Intelligence, wrote in a May note. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
“does a good job of ATS volume reporting on a post-execution basis. Yet there
are no rules to aid analysts or users looking to break down the percentage of
ATS volume executed in the open pool vs. the private room, or the volume
executed using segmentation strategies,” he wrote.

Dark pools are no strangers to transparency worries. Their opacity provoked
extensive media coverage and regulatory scrutiny about a decade ago amid
speculation they gave high-frequency firms advantages against other investors
— attention partly prompted by the bestselling book Flash Boys.

Representatives for both Finra and the SEC declined to comment.

‘Growth Mode’

For their users, private rooms are a handy tool, but still one of a set.
Hosted pools represent a single-digit percentage of IntelligentCross’s overall
volumes for now — an average of about 5.4% last year — because they’re so new,
according to Ginis. “It will take brokers some time to optimize for this,” he
says.

CEO of OneChronos Capital Markets Vlad Khandros says its rooms represent less
than 5% of volume at present as “it’s newer for us, so it’s still in growth
mode.” But demand is strong. “We’ve seen increased interest from both retail
and institutional brokers,” Khandros says. “The focus on execution quality
will continue to grow.”

LeveL declined to disclose the number of rooms it operates or how much
activity takes place in them, with Miele saying the absence of industry-wide
criteria for categorizing rooms means it could be “misleading to quantify.”

Mark Gurliacci, senior vice president and senior quantitative trader at
AllianceBernstein, reckons up to 75% of the firm’s activity is now happening
off-exchange, including in private rooms. While the latter is a small slice of
their trading at present, he thinks it’s set to grow.

“Many firms are setting up private rooms these days,” says Gurliacci, who used
to work for the NYSE. “They are innovative, and here to stay. There is more
going on there than most people know.”

\--With assistance from Lydia Beyoud.

(Updates with extra detail on the growth in off-exchange trading activity.)

Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek

©2025 Bloomberg L.P.
