title: Behind the World's 50 Best Restaurants, the Only List That Matters | GQ
source: http://www.gq.com/story/50-best-restaurants-list-backstory
date: 2025-08-13T18:10:12.806683
tags: []
---
Maybe the first thing you should know about the World's 50 Best Restaurants
list is that it contains 100 restaurants. If you would like a better metaphor
for the contradictions and puzzlements of what has become the restaurant
world's most influential ranking, I'm not sure I can find one. Nevertheless,
if you pay any attention to chefs and restaurants, you will have heard of the
List, which, in 14 years of existence, has gone from an obscure curiosity to
dominating the dining conversation, even eclipsing the Michelin Guide, that
_grand-père_ of restaurant judgment. For better and for worse, there can be no
doubt that the World's 50 Best has become the ranking of The Way We Eat Now—or
at least The Way We Talk About Eating Now.

Like many lists, the 50 Best was born in the offices of a magazine—Britain's
_Restaurant,_ in 2002—though it has since become its own enterprise. Until
this year, it was technically The World's 50 Best Restaurants sponsored by
S.Pellegrino and Acqua Panna, voted on by the Diners Club World's 50 Best
Restaurants Academy, presented alongside the Veuve Clicquot World's Best
Female Chef Award, the World's Best Pastry Chef Award sponsored by Cacao
Barry, and so on. Perhaps tired of it being shorthanded as “the San Pellegrino
list,” the organization dropped the water company's title rights this year,
though it remains a sponsor.

Of course, it's only fair to note that the Michelin Guide was and is named for
a tire company. The organizers of the 50 Best insist that they are not in
competition with Michelin, but it's nearly impossible not to consider one
without the context of the other. Philosophically, practically, even
geographically, the 50 Best is, among other things, a rebuke to Michelin and
its old-world—which is to say, classically French—values. In broad terms, if
Michelin is the list of white tablecloths, the 50 Best is the list of no
tablecloths; if Michelin rewards stolid excellence, the 50 Best rewards
novelty; if Michelin's heart lies in France, the 50 Best's theoretically
encompasses the entire world.

The List's first No. 1, in 2002, was Ferran Adrià's El Bulli, helping to spur
both the global influence of Spanish avant-garde cooking and the kind of
deeply theatrical, multicourse tasting menus that the 50 Best continues to
most prominently reward. Lately, the top three spots have rotated among
Copenhagen's Noma; Osteria Francescana in Modena, Italy; and the current No.
1, El Celler de Can Roca in Girona, Spain. A French restaurant has never held
the top spot—an honor awarded at a lavish ceremony that has always been held
in London. This year it will take place on June 13 in New York City, a move
designed to emphasize the List's global reach.

Arriving and evolving in the era of social media and a nonstop circuit of
culinary conferences and festivals, the 50 Best has become a kind of house
list for the cult of chef as artist and personality. (Although its makers
insist that they publish a ranking of restaurants, not chefs, one glance at
the gallery of winners on its website—a checkerboard of predominantly white-
male head shots—tells a different story.) Michelin's famous definition of a
three-star restaurant is “worth a special journey,” but it's the World's 50
Best that has been embraced by a generation of eaters for whom dining
experiences have become the primary reason to travel. Or just a chance to
chatter: It is the list of the Instagrammed, the Snapchatted, and the Status
Updated. I have a friend who religiously follows the World's 50 Best. He keeps
up with menu changes, openings, and changes in reputation the way others once
followed the movie or book business. It does not strike him as the least bit
odd that he has never actually eaten at any of the restaurants.

* * *

Illustration by Wren McDonald

Why a restaurateur might want to get on the List is obvious: Its effects can
be transformative. Winners find their profiles instantly raised. It was its
climb up the ladder of the 50 Best that turned Noma, like El Bulli before it,
into the most influential restaurant in the world—and, not coincidentally,
filled its reservation book in perpetuity. Nor are the effects limited to the
top. “We felt an immediate impact: the amount of e-mails, the amount of phone
calls,” says Esben Holmboe Bang of Oslo's Maaemo, which climbed last year from
No. 79 to No. 64. “And we're not even in the top 50.”

“People who are into the list are very perseverant,” says David McMillan of
Montreal's Joe Beef, which debuted at No. 81 last year. “You get some pretty
OCD foodies: five e-mails, eight calls, begging for an eleven-fifteen
reservation. There are people who just want to notch restaurants on their
belts.”

And once a restaurant is on the List, that restaurant tends to stay on the
List. In a self-perpetuating cycle, the ranking begets articles begets
visitors begets social media begets votes.

The World's 50 Best's methodology is a hybrid of two very different ways of
thinking about rankings: On the one hand, there's the American love of a
survey—the belief in consensus that undergirds guides like Zagat and Yelp. On
the other is the European ideal of the expert, reflected in the fantasy of
all-knowing, all-seeing Michelin ninjas roaming the countryside in their
cloaks of invisibility. In other words, while the List is generated by voting,
it's only among a smallish group of culinary elites—just shy of 1,000.

The elites, in this case, belong to three groups: chefs, journalists, and so-
called _gastronauts._ (The best thing that can be said about that term is that
it is not _foodies,_ though it still brings to mind a band of miniaturized
scientists sailing their way through somebody's colon in a tiny spaceship.)
Some gastronauts are from sectors of the food business—wine importers,
restaurant consultants—whose jobs allow them to eat widely. Most, however, are
simply civilian members of the very rich. They are both the List's authors and
its customers, the people for whom each year's edition serves as a map for
future travel, future dining, and future list-making. For the rest of us,
their verdicts are something to parse, debate, and salivate over.
