title: Read: the full transcript of President Trump’s wild press conference | Vox
source: http://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2017/2/16/14641010/full-transcript-trump-wild-press-conference
date: 2025-08-13T17:32:39.006254
tags: []
---
On Thursday afternoon, President Trump held a press conference in the wake of
several events that have rocked his young administration, including the
resignation of National Security Adviser Michael Flynn, the revelation that
Russia secretly deployed a missile that is said to be in violation of an arms
treaty, and the withdrawal of Trump’s first nominee for labor secretary,
Andrew Puzder.

By all accounts, those events were a test for an administration hobbled by
delays staffing the government and a stream of leaks from inside it.

All accounts, that is, except for Trump’s. In his hour-plus press conference,
the president said his administration has “zero chaos. We are running — this
is a fine-tuned machine.”

It wasn’t even one of the 10 most provocative things he said.

Here’s a video of the conference; read a rush transcript of his full remarks
below.

* * *

I just wanted to begin by mentioning that the nominee for Secretary of the
Department of Labor will be Mr. Alex Acosta. He has a law degree from Harvard
Law School — was a great student. Former clerk for Justice Samuel Alito. And
he has had a tremendous career. He’s a member and has been a member of the
National Labor Relations Board, and has been through Senate confirmation three
times. Confirmed, did very, very well. And so Alex— I’ve wished him the best.
We just spoke. And I think he’ll be a tremendous Secretary of Labor.

And also, as you probably heard just a little while ago, Mick Mulvaney has
just been approved weeks late — I have to say that, weeks, weeks late — Office
of Management and Budget. And he will be, I think, a fantastic addition.

Paul Singer just left. As you know, Paul was very much involved with the anti-
Trump, or as they say, “never Trump.” And Paul just left and he’s given us his
total support. And it’s all about unification. We’re unifying the party and
hopefully we’re going to be able to unify the country. It’s very important to
me. I’ve been talking about that for a long time. It’s very very important to
me. So I want to thank Paul Singer for being here and for coming up to the
office. He was a very strong opponent and now he’s a very strong ally, and I
appreciate that.

I think I’ll say a few words and then we’ll take some questions. I had this
time — we’ve been negotiating a lot of different transactions to save money on
contracts that were terrible. Including airplane contracts that were out of
control and late and terrible. Just absolutely catastrophic in terms of what
was happening. And we’ve done some very good work, we’re very proud of that.

And then right after that you prepare yourselves, we’ll do some questions.
Unless you have no questions — that’s always a possibility.

I’m here today to update the American people on the incredible progress that
has been made in the last four weeks since my inauguration. We have made
incredible progress. I don’t think there’s ever been a president elected who
in this short period of time has done what we’ve done.

A new Rasmussen poll in fact — because the people get it, much of the media
doesn’t get it. They actually get it but they don’t write it. Let’s put it
that way. A new Rasmussen poll just came out a very short time ago and it has
our approval rating at 55% and going up.

The stock market as hit record numbers, as you know. And there has been
tremendous surge of optimism in the business world, which to me means
something much different than what it used to. It used to mean “oh that’s
good.” Now it means “that’s good for jobs.” Very different.

Plants and factories are already starting to move back into the United States,
and big league — Ford, General Motors, so many of them.

I’m making this presentation directly to the American people, with the media
present which is an honor to have you.

This morning because many of our nation’s reporters and folks will not tell
you the truth and will not treat the wonderful people of our country with the
respect that they deserve. I hope going forward, we can be a little bit -- a
little bit different and maybe get along a little bit better, if that’s
possible.

Maybe it is not, and that’s okay, too.

Unfortunately, much of the, D.C., along with New York and Los Angeles, in
particular, speaks not for the people but for the special interests and for
those profiting off a very, very obviously obviously broken system.

The press has become so dishonest that if we don’t talk about it, we are doing
a tremendous disservice to the American people, tremendous disservice. We have
to talk about it, to find out what’s going on because the president honestly
is out of control, the level of dishonesty is out of control.

I ran for president to represent the citizens of our country.

I am here to change the broken system so it serves their families and their
communities well. I am talking and really talking on this very entrenched
power structure and what we’re doing is we’re talking about the power
structure, we’re talking about Its entrenchment.

As a result the media’s going through what they have to go through to often
times distort, not all of the times and some of the media’s fantastic, I have
to say, they’re honest and fantastic.

The distortion and we’ll talk about it and you’ll be able to ask me questions
about it. But we’re not going to let it happen because I’m here again to take
my message straight to the people.

As you know our administration Inherited many problems across Government and
across the Economy. To be honest, I inherited a mess, it’s a mess. At home and
abroad a mess. Jobs are pouring out of the country. You see what’s going on
with all of the companies leaving our country, going to Mexico and other
places. Low pay, low wages. Mass instability overseas no matter where you
look.

The middle east a disaster. North Korea, we’ll take care of it folks. We’ll
take care of it all. I just want to let you know. Beginning on day one our
administration went to work to tackle these challenges.

On foreign affairs we’ve already begun enormously productive talks with
foreign leaders, to move forward toward stability, security and peace in the
most troubled regions of the world Which there are many. We’ve had great
conversations with the United Kingdom and meetings, Israel, Mexico, Japan,
China, and Canada. Really, really productive conversations. I would say far
more productive than you would understand.

We’ve even developed a new council with Canada to promote women business
leaders and entrepreneurs, very important to me, very important to my daughter
Ivanka.

I’ve directed our defense community headed by our great general, now Secretary
Mattis. He’s over there now working very hard to submit a plan for the defeat
of ISIS, a group that celebrates the murder and torture of innocent people in
large sections of the world. It used to be a small group now It’s in large
sections of the world. They’ve spread like cancer. ISIS has spread like
cancer.

Another mess I inherited and we’ve imposed new sanctions on the nation of Iran
who’s totally taken advantage of our previous administration and they’re the
world’s top sponsor of terrorism. We’re not going to stop until that problem
is properly solved and it’s not properly solved now. It’s one of the worst
agreements I’ve ever seen drawn by anybody.

I’ve ordered plans to begin for the massive rebuilding of the United States
military. Had great support from the Senate. I’ve had great support from
Congress, generally.

We pursued this rebuilding in the hopes that we will never have to use this
military, and I will tell you that is my — I would be so happy if we never had
to use it, but our country will never have had a military like the military
we’re about to build and rebuild.

We have the greatest people on Earth in our military, but they don’t have the
right equipment and their equipment is old. I used it, I talked about it at
every stop. Depleted. It won’t be depleted for long and I think one of the
reasons I’m standing here instead of other people is that, frankly, I talked
about we have to have a strong military.

We have to have strong law enforcement also.

So we do not go aboard in the search of war, we really are searching for
peace, but it’s peace through strength.

At home, we have begun the monumental task of returning the government back to
the people on a scale not seen in many, many years. In each of these actions
I’m keeping my promises to the American people. These are campaign promises.

Some people are so surprised that we’re having strong borders. Well, that’s
what I’ve been talking about for a year and a half, strong borders. They’re so
surprised. That’s what I’ve been talking about to the press and to everybody
else.

One promise after another after years of politicians lying to you to get
elected. They lied to the American people in order to get elected. Some of the
things i’m doing probably aren’t popular but they’re necessary for security
and other reasons and then coming to Washington and pursuing their own
interests, which is more important to many politicians.

I’m here following through on what I pledge to do. That’s all I’m doing. I put
it out before the American people, got 306 Electoral College votes. I wasn’t
supposed to get 222. They said there’s no way to get 222, 230’s impossible.
270 which you need that was laughable.

We got 306, because people came out and voted like they’ve never seen before,
so that’s the way It goes. I guess it was the biggest Electoral College win
since Ronald Reagan.

In other words, the media’s trying to attack our administration because they
know we are following through on pledges that we made and they’re not happy
about it, for whatever reason, but a lot of people are happy about it. In
fact, I’ll be many Melbourne, Florida, on Saturday and I just heard that the
crowds are massive that want to be there.

I turn on the TV, open the newspapers and I see stories of chaos. Chaos. Yet
it is the exact opposite. This administration is running like a fine tuned
machine, despite the fact that I can’t get my cabinet approved and they’re
outstanding people, like Senator Dan Coates who’s one of the most respected
men of the Senate. He can’t get approved. How do you not approve him? He’s
been a colleague, highly respected, brilliant guy, everybody knows it. We’re
waiting for approval.

So we have a wonderful group of people that’s working very hard that’s being
very much misrepresented about and we can’t let that happen, so if the
Democrats who have — all you have to do is look at where they are right now,
the only thing they can do is delay because they’ve screwed things up royally,
believe me.

Let me list you some of the things that we’ve done in just a short period of
time. I just got here. I got here with no cabinet. Again, each of these
actions is a promise I made to the American people, so we’ll go over just some
of them and we have a lot happening next week and in the weeks coming.

We’ve withdrawn from the job killing disaster known as Trans-Pacific
Partnership.

We’re going to make trade deals But we’re going to have one-on-one deals —
bilateral, one-on one-deals.

We’ve directed the elimination of regulations that undermine manufacturing and
called for expedite indicted approval for permits needed for America and
America infrastructure and that means plants, bridges, roads,factories. They
go in for a permit, it’s many, many years and then at the end of the process
they spend tens of millions of dollars on nonsense and at the end of the
process they get rejected. Now they may be rejected with me, but it’s going to
be a quick rejection. Not going to take years, but mostly it’s going to be an
acceptance.

We want plants built and factories built and we want the jobs. We don’t want
the jobs going to other countries.

We’ve imposed a hiring freeze on non-essential federal workers.We’ve imposed a
temporary moratorium on new federal regulations.

We’ve issued a game changing new Rule that says for each one new regulation,
two old regulations must be eliminated. Makes sense. Nobody’s ever seen
regulations like we have. You go to other countries and you look at industries
and they say, let me see your regulations and they’re a fraction, just a tiny
fraction of what we have.

And I want regulations because I want safety, I want environmental — all
environmental situations to be taken properly care of. It’s very important to
me, but you don’t need four or five or six regulations to take care of the
same thing.

We’ve stood up for the men and Women in law enforcement, directing federal
agencies to ensure they are protected from crimes of violence. We’ve directed
the creation of a task force for reducing violent crime in America including
the horrendous situation — take a look at Chicago and others — taking place
right now in our inner cities. Horrible.

We’ve ordered the Department of Homeland Security and Justice to coordinate on
a plan to destroy criminal cartels coming into the United States with drugs.
We’re becoming a drug-infested nation. Drugs are becoming cheaper than candy
bars and we’re not going to let it happen any longer.

We’ve undertaken the most border security measures in a generation to keep our
nation and our tax dollars safe and are now in the process of beginning to
build a promised wall on the southern border.

I met with General, now Secretary, Kelly yesterday and we’re starting that
process and the wall is going to be a great wall and it’s going to be a wall
negotiated by me, the price is going to come down just like it has on
everything else i’ve negotiated for the government. And we’re going to have a
wall that works. We’re not going to have a wall like we have now which is
either nonexistent or a joke.

We’ve ordered a crackdown on sanctuary cities that refuse to comply with
federal law and that harbor criminal aliens and we’ve ordered an end to the
policy of catch and release on the border. No more release. No matter who you
are. Release.

We’ve begun a nationwide effort to remove criminal aliens, gang members and
others who pose a threat to public safety.

We are saving american lives every single day.

The court system has not made it easy for us.

And we’re even creating a new office in Homeland Security dedicated to the
forgotten american victims of illegal immigrant violence of which there are
many.

We’ve taken decisive action to keep radical Islamic terrorists out of our
country, though parts of our necessary and constitutional actions were blocked
by judges in my opinion, incorrect, an unsafe ruling.

Our administration is working Night and day to keep you safe, including
reporters safe, and is vigorously defending this lawful order.

I got elected on defense of our country. I will not back down and I keep my
campaign promises and our citizens will be very happy when they see the result
they already are. I can tell you that.

Extreme vetting will be put in place and it already is in place in many
places. We had to go quicker than we thought because of the bad decision we
received from a Circuit that has been overturned at a record number. I’ve
heard 80%. I find that hard to believe. That’s just a number I heard that
they’re overturned 80% of the time.

I think that circuit is — that circuit is in chaos and that circuit is frankly
in turmoil, but we are appealing that and we are going further.

We’re issuing a new Executive Action next week that will comprehensively
protect our country. So we’ll be going along the one path and hopefully
winning that at the same time, we will be issuing a new and very comprehensive
order to protect our people and that will be done sometime next week toward
the beginning, or middle at the latest.

We’ve also taken steps to begin construction of the Keystone Pipeline and
Dakota Access Pipelines, thousands and thousands of jobs, and put new buy
american measures in place to require american steel for american pipeline. In
other words, you build a pipeline in this country and we use the powers of
government to make that pipeline happen, we want them to use american steel,
and they’re willing to do that but nobody ever asked before I came along.

Even this order was drawn and they didn’t say that and I’m reading the order,
why aren’t we using american steel, and they said that’s a good idea, we put
It in.

To drain the swamp of corruption in Washington, C.C., I’ve started by imposing
a five year lobbying ban on White House officials and a lifetime ban on
lobbying for a foreign government.

We’ve begun preparing to repeal and replace Obamacare. Obamacare is a
disaster, folks. It’s a disaster. You can say, oh, Obamacare. They fill up our
rallies with people that you wonder how they get there, but they’re not the
Republican people that our representatives are representing.

So we’ve begun preparing to repeal and replace Obamacare and are deep in the
midst of negotiations on a very historic tax reform to bring our jobs back.
Bring our jobs back to this country, big league. It’s already happening, but
big league.

I’ve also worked to install a Cabinet over the delays and obstruction of
Senate Democrats. You’ve seen what they’ve done over the last long number of
years. That will be one of the great Cabinets ever assembled in american
history.

You look at Rex Tillerson, he’s out there negotiating right now. General
Mattis, I mentioned before, General kelly. We have great, great people with us
now.

Among their responsibilities will be ending the bleeding of jobs from our
country and negotiating fair trade deals for our citizens. Now, look, fair
trade. Not free, fair. If a country is taking advantage of us, we’re not going
to let that happen any more. Every country takes advantage of us, almost. I
may be able to find a couple that don’t, but for the most part, that would be
a very tough job for me to do.

Jobs have already started to surge since my election. Ford announced it will
abandon its plans to build a new factory in Mexico and will instead invest
$700 million in Michigan creating many, many jobs.

Chrysler announced it will invest $1 billion. They were with me a week ago.

General Motors likewise committed to invest millions of dollars in its
american manufacturing operation. Keeping many jobs here that we’re going to
leave and if I didn’t get elected, believe me, they would’ve left and these
jobs and these things that i’m announcing would never have come here.

Intel just announced that will move ahead with a new plant in Arizona that
probably was never going to move ahead with and that will result in at least
10,000 american jobs.

Walmart announced it will create 10,000 jobs in the United States just this
year because of our various plans and initiatives. There will be many more,
many more. These are few that we’re naming.

Other countries have been taken advantage of us for decades and decades and
decades, folks and we’re not going to let that happen any more. Not going to
let it happen.

And one more thing, I have kept my promise to the American people by
nominating a justice of the United States Supreme Court, Judge Neil Gorsuch
who is from my list of 20 and who will be a true defender of our laws and our
Constitution. Highly respected, should get the votes from the Democrats. You
may not see that, but he’ll get there one way or the other. But he should get
there the old fashioned way and he should get those votes.

This last month has represented an unprecedented degree of action on behalf of
the great citizens of our country. Again, I say it there’s never been a
presidency that’s done so much in such a short period of time and we haven’t
even started the big work yet that starts early next week.

Some very big things are going to be announced next week. So we’re just
getting started. We will be giving a speech, as I said, in Melbourne, Florida,
at I hope to see you there. And with that, I just say, God bless America, and
let’s take some questions.

I asked for his resignation. He respectfully gave it. He is a man who — there
was a certain amount of information given to Vice President Pence who’s with
us today and I was not happy with the way that Information was given.

He didn’t have to do that because what he did wasn’t wrong, what he did in
terms of the information. He saw what was wrong was the way that other people,
including yourselves in this room, were given that information because that
was classified information.

It was given illegally that’s the real problem.

You can talk all you want about Russia, which is all fake news fabricated to
try and make up for the loss of the Democrats and plus press plays right into
It.

I saw a couple of the people that were supposedly involved with all of this,
they know nothing anything about it. They never received a phone call from
Russia. It’s all fake news. It’s all fake news.

The nice thing is I see it starting to turn where people are now looking at
the illegal and I think it’s very important. The illegal given-out classified
information. And let me just tell you, it was given out like so much.

I’ll give you an example.

I called, as you know, Mexico. It was a very confidential classified call but
I called Mexico and in calling mexico, I figured, I spoke to the President of
Mexico. Had a good call. All of a sudden it’s out there for the world to see.
It’s supposed to be secret. It’s supposed to be either confidential or
classified. Same thing with Australia.

All of a sudden people are finding out exactly what took place. The same thing
happened with respect to General Flynn. Everybody saw this and I’m saying, the
first thing I thought of when I heard about, How does the press get this
information that’s classified? How do they do it?

You know why because it’s an illegal process and the press should be ashamed
of themselves but more importantly the people who gave out the information
should be ashamed of themselves, really ashamed.

When I looked at the Information, I said I don’t think he did anything wrong.
If anything he did something right. He was coming into the office, he looked
at the information. He said, huh, that’s fine, that’s what they’re supposed to
do. He didn’t just call Russia and spoke to both ways -- I think there were 30
some odd countries. He’s doing his job. He was just doing his job.

The thing is he didn’t tell our vice president properly and then he said he
didn’t remember, so either way it wasn’t very satisfactory to me and I have
somebody that I think will be outstanding for the position and that also
helps, I think, in the making of my decision. But he didn’t tell the vice
president of the United States the facts and then he didn’t remember and that
just wasn’t acceptable to me.

During your campaign, did anyone from your team communicate with members of
the Russian government or Russian intelligence and if so what were the nature
of those conversations?

The New York Times wrote a big front page story yesterday and it was very much
discredited as you know. It was a joke. I noticed they were on television
today saying they never even focus Russia. It was such a minor part. I hadn’t
spoken to them. I think the one person I don’t think I’ve ever spoken to.

He says he was a very low member of a committee. It’s possible that I walked
into a room and he was sitting there but I don’t think I ever met him. I
didn’t [sic] I didn’t talk to him ever. And he thought it was a joke.

The other person said he never talked to Russia, looked at his phone calls and
the other person people knew that he represented various countries but I don’t
think he represented Russia, but knew that he represented various countries.
That’s what he does. People know that.

That’s Mr. Manfort, who’s, by the way, by the way, respected man. He’s a
respected man. But I think he represented the Ukraine or Ukraine’s government
or somebody but everybody -- people knew that. Everybody knew that.

So these -- and he said that he has absolutely nothing to do and never has
with Russia and he said that very forcefully. I saw his statement. Most of the
papers don’t print it because that’s not good for their stories.

So the three people that they talked about all totally deny it and speaking
for myself, I own nothing in Russia. I have no loans in Russia. I don’t have
any deals in Russia.

President Putin called me up very nicely to congratulations me on the win of
the election. He then called me up extremely nicely to congratulations me on
the inauguration, which was terrific but so did many other leaders, almost all
other leaders from almost all other countries. So that’s the extent.

Russia is fake news. This is fake news put out by the media. The real news is
the fact that people probably from the Obama administration because they’re
there, because we have our new people going in place right now as you know.
Mike Pompeo is now taking control of the CIA. James Comey at FBI, Dan Coates
is waiting to be approved. He is a senator and a highly respected one and
still waiting to be approved.

Our new people are going in and just while you’re at it because you mentioned
this, the Wall Street Journal did a story today that was almost as disgraceful
as the failing New York Times story yesterday and it talked about so director
of national intelligence just put out acting, a statement, any suggestion that
the United States intelligence community, this was just given to us, is
withholding information and not providing the best possible intelligence to
the President and his national security team, is not true.

So they took this front page story out of the Wall Street Journal and they
just wrote the story that it’s not true. I’ll tell you something, I’ll be
honest, because I sort of enjoy this back and forth and I guess I have all my
life but i’ve never seen more dishonest media than the political media, but I
will say that I never get phone calls from the media.

How do they write a story like that in the Wall Street Journal without asking
me or how do they write a story in The New York Times put it on front page.
That was like that story they wrote about the women and me, front page, big
massive story and it was nasty and then they called and said, we never said
that. We like Mr. Trump. They called up my office. We like Mr. Trump. We never
said that. And it was totally -- they totally misrepresented those very
wonderful women.

I have to tell you. I said give a retraction. They never gave us a retraction
and frankly I went on to other things.

Mr. President, you said today that you have the biggest electoral margin since
Ronald Reagan, 306 electoral votes. President Obama got [ inaudible ] So why
should Americans trust -- why should Americans trust you when you the
information they receive -- you’re providing the information.

Actually I’ve seen that information around but -- [ inaudible ]

Can you tell us in determining that General Flynn did any wrongdoing in your
mind? What evidence would you weigh [ inaudible ]

First of all, about that, we now have Dan Coates hopefully soon, Mike Pompeo
and James Comey and they’re in position to straighten that out without using
anybody else.

The gentleman you mentioned is a very talented man and he’s offered his
services and, you know, it’s something we may take advantage of but I don’t
think we’ll need that at all because of the fact that I think that we’re going
to be able to straighten it out very easily on its own.

As far as the General’s concerned, when I first heard about it, I said, huh,
that doesn’t sound wrong. My counsel came, White House counsel, and he told me
and I asked him and he can speak very well for himself. He said he doesn’t
think anything is wrong.

Really didn’t think — it’s what happened after that but he didn’t think
anything was done wrong. I didn’t either because I waited a period of time and
I started to think about it, to me he was doing the job.

The information was provided by who — I don’t know, Sally Yates — and I was a
little surprised because I said, doesn’t sound like he did anything wrong
there, but he did something wrong with respect to the Vice President and I
thought that was not acceptable.

As far as — as far as the actual making the call, in fact, I’ve watched
various programs and I’ve read various articles where he was just doing his
job. That was very normal.

First everybody got excited because they thought he did something wrong. After
they thought about it, it turned out he was just doing his job. So and I do —
by the way, with all of that being said, I do think he’s a fineman man.

i’ve gone through all of the folks in charge of the various agencies and where
I’ve actually called the Justice Department to look into the leaks. Those are
criminal leaks. They’re put out by people either in agencies, I think you’ll
see It stopping because now we have our people in.

Again we don’t have our people in because we can’t get them approved by the
Senate. We just had Jeff Sessions approved.

We are looking into that very seriously. It’s a criminal act.

When I was called out on Mexico, I was shocked because all this equipment, all
this incredible phone equipment — when I was called out on Mexico, I was
honestly, I was really, really surprised. But I said, it doesn’t make sense.

That won’t happen. But it wasn’t that important a call. He could show it to
the world and I could show it to the world.

Same thing with Australia. I said, that’s terrible that it was leaked but it
wasn’t that important.

But then I said, what happens when i’m dealing with the problem of North
Korea? What happens when I’m dealing with the problems in the Middle East?

Are you folks going to be reporting all of that very, very confidential
information, very important? I mean at the highest level. You going to be
reporting about that too?

So I don’t want classified information getting out to the public. And in away
that was almost a test, so i’m dealing with Mexico, I’m dealing with
Argentina.

We were dealing on this case with Mike Flynn. All this information gets put
into the _The Washington Post_ , and gets put in the _The New York Times_ and
i’m saying, what’s going to happen when i’m dealing on the Middle East? What’s
going to happen when i’m dealing with really, really important subjects like
North Korea?

We got to stop it. That’s why it takes criminal penalty.

I just want to get you to clarify avery important point can you state
definitively that nobody on your campaign had any contacts with the Russian
concerning the campaign. And on the leaks, is it fake news or are these real
news?

The leaks are real. You’re the one that wrote about them and reported them.
The leaks are real. You know what they said, you saw it.

The news is fake because so much of the news is fake.

The one thing that I felt was very important to do — I hope we can correct it
because there’s nobody I have more respect for, or maybe a little bit, than
reporters, than good reporters.

It’s very important to me and especially in this position, it’s very
important. I don’t mind bad stories. I can handle a bad story better than
anybody. As long as it’s true. Over a course of time I’ll make mistakes and
you’ll write badly and I’m okay with that.

I’m not okay when it is fake. I watch CNN it’s so much anger and hatred. I
watch others. You’re not the only ones. I think it should be straight. I think
— I think it would be frankly more interesting. I know how good everybody’s
ratings are right now but I think — I think it would actually be better.

People — you have a lower approval rate than Congress, I think that’s right. I
don’t know Peter, is that one right? I think they have — I heard lower than
Congress, but honestly, the public would appreciate it, I’d appreciate it.

Again I don’t mind bad stories when it’s true. But we have an administration
where the Democrats are making it very difficult.

I think we’re setting a record or close to a record in the time of approval of
a cabinet. The numbers are crazy. Some of them are approved immediately and
I’m going forever and I still have a lot of people that we’re waiting for.

That’s all they’re doing is delaying. And you look at Schumer and the mess
he’s got over there and they’ve got nothing going. I think they’d be better
served by approving and making sure that they’re happy and everybody’s good
and sometimes — I know President Obama lost three or four and you lose them on
the way and that’s okay. That’s fine.

But I think they would be much better served, John, if they just went through
the process quickly. This is pure delay tactics, and they say it and everybody
understands it.

The first part of my question — can you definitively say —

I had nothing to do with it. I had nothing to do with Russia. I have no deals
there.

Now, when WikiLeaks which I had nothing to do with comes out and happens to
give, they’re not giving classified information. They’re giving stuff what was
said in an office about Hillary Cheating on the debates, which, by the way,
nobody mentions. Nobody mentions that Hillary received the questions to the
debates. Can you imagine, seriously, can you imagine if I received the
questions? It would be the electric chair, okay? He should be put in the
electric. You would even call for the reconstitution of the death penalty.

Did you direct Mike Flynn to discuss sanctions with the Russian ambassador
prior to your inauguration?

No, I didn’t. No, I didn’t.

Would you have fired him if his information hadn’t leaked out?

No, I fired him because of what he said to Mike Pence. He was doing his job
and his counterparts so it certainly would have been okay with me if he did
it. I would’ve directed him to do it If I thought he wasn’t doing it. I didn’t
direct him, but I would’ve directed him because that’s his job.

And it came out that way and in all fairness, I watched Dr. Charles
Krauthammer the other night saying he was doing his job and I agreed with him
and since then I’ve watched many other people say that. I didn’t direct him,
but I would’ve directed him if he didn’t do it. Okay?

Just for the record we don’t hate you.

Okay. Ask Jeff Zucker how he got his job.

If I may have follow-up on the questions, I don’t know which microphone to
hold here.

Your ratings aren’t as good as some of the people.

They’re pretty good right now, Mr. President.

If I may ask, sir, you said earlier that WikiLeaks was revealing information
about the Hillary Clinton campaign during the election cycle. You welcomed
that at one campaign rally, you said you loved WikiLeaks.

At another campaign press Conference you called on the Russians to find the
missing 30,000 e-mails. I’m wondering sir.

She was actually missing 33 and that got extended.

Maybe my numbers are off.

I did say 30 but it was higher.

If I may ask you, sir, it sounds as though you do not have much credibility
when it comes to leaking if that is something that you encouraged during the
campaign.

In one case you’re talking about highly classified Information.

In the other case you’re talking about John Podesta saying bad things about
the boss. If john Podesta said that about me, he said terrible things about
her, I would’ve fired him so fast his head would have spun.

If you look at the RNC, we had a very strong — at my suggestion and I give
Reince great credit for this, at my suggestion, because I know something about
this world, I said, I want a very strong defensive mechanism. I don’t want to
be hacked and we did that and you have seen that they tried to hack us and
they failed.

The DNC did not do that. And if they did it, they could not have been hacked.

But they were hacked and terrible things came in.

And the only thing that I do think is unfair, some of the things — when I
heard some of those things, I picked up the papers the next morning, this is
going to be front page. It wasn’t even in the papers.

Again, if I had that happen to me, it would be the biggest story in the
history of publishing or the head of newspapers. I would have been the
headliner in every newspaper. Think of it.

They gave her the questions to a debate and she should’ve reported herself.
Why didn’t Hillary Clinton announce that, “I’m sorry, but I have been given
the questions to a debate or a town hall and I feel that it’s inappropriate
and I want to turn in CNN for not doing a good job?”

If I may follow-up on that, just something that Jonathan Karl was asking you
about, the leaks are real but the news is fake. I guess I don’t understand. It
seems that there’s a disconnect there, if the information coming from the
leaks is real then how can the stories be fake.

The reporting is fake. The public — they read newspapers, they see television
they watch. They don’t know if it’s true or false, because they’re not
involved.

I’m involved. I’ve been involved with this stuff all my life. But i’m
involved, so I know when you’re telling the truth or when you’re not.

I just see many, many untruthful things. I see tone. The tone is such hatred.
I’m really not a bad person, by the way. The tone is such — I do get good
ratings you have to admit that. The tone is such hatred.

I watched this morning a couple of the networks and I have to say, Fox and
Friends in the morning, they’re very honorable people because they hit me also
when I do something wrong, but they have the most honest morning show. That’s
all I can say.

But the tone, Jim, if you look the hatred. I mean sometimes somebody gets --
you look at your show that goes on 10:00 in the evening. You just take a look
at that show. That is a constant hit. The panel is almost always exclusive
anti-Trump. The panel is almost anti-Trump and the hatred and venom coming
from his mouth, the hatred coming from other people on your network.

Now, I will say this, I watch it, I see it. I’m amazed by it. And I just think
you’d be a lot better off. I honestly do. The public gets it, you know. When I
go to rallies, they start screaming at CNN. I think you would do much better
by being different, but you just take a look. Take a look at some of your
shows in the morning and evening.

If a guest comes out and says something positive about me, it’s brutal.

Now they’ll take this news conference, I’m actually having a very good time
but they’ll take this news conference -- remember I used to give you a news
conference every time I made a speech which was like every day.

That’s how I won. I won with news conference and probably speeches. I
certainly didn’t win by people listening to you people, that’s for sure.

I’m having a good time. Tomorrow they will say, Donald Trump rants and raves
at the press. I’m not ranting and raving. I’m having a good time doing it but
tomorrow the headlines are going to be, Donald Trump rants and raves.

Peter should I let them have a little bit more.

Just because of the attack of fake news and attacking our network, I just want
to ask you --

I’m changing it from fake news though, very fake news.

Real news, Mr. President.

And you’re not related to our new --

I am not related, no, sir. I do like the sound of secretary Acosta.

I looked at that name, is there any relationship there. Go back and check the
family tree.

Aren’t you concerned, sir, that you are undermining the people’s faith in the
first amendment, freedom of the press, the press in this country when you call
stories you don’t like fake news. Why not just say that’s story I don’t like?

When you call it fake news you’re undermining confidence in our news media.
Isn’t that important?

You’re right about that -- I know when I should get good and when I should get
bad. And sometimes I say wow that’s going to be a great story. And I get
killed.

I know what’s good and bad. And when they change it and make it really bad,
something that should be positive. Something sometimes something that should
be positive they make it negative.

Because I’m there. I know what was said, I know who is saying it. I’m there.

So it’s very important to me -- look, I want to see an honest press. I started
off today by saying that it’s so important to the public to get an honest
press. The public doesn’t believe you people any more. Now maybe I had
something to do with that, I don’t know. But they don’t believe you.

If you were straight and really told it like it is as Howard Cocel used to
say. If you were straight, I would be your biggest fan in the world, including
bad stories about me. But if you go as an example, you’re cnn, it’s story
after story after story is bad.

And the other thing chaos. There’s zero chaos. We are running -- this is a
fine tuned machine and Reince happens to be doing a good job, but half of his
job is putting out lies by the press.

I said to him yesterday, this whole Russia scam that you guys are building so
you don’t talk about the real subject which is illegal leaks, I watched him
yesterday working so hard to try and get that story proper and I’m saying,
here’s my chief of staff, a really good guy, did a phenomenal job at RNC, he
won the election, we won the presidency, we got some senators, we got -- all
over the country you take a look.

I said to myself and to somebody else, you take a look at Reince. He’s working
so hard just putting out fires that are fake fires. They’re fake. They’re not
true.

And isn’t that a shame, because he’d rather be working on health care. He’d
rather be working on tax reform, Jim. I mean that.

I would be your biggest fan in the world if you treated me right.

I sort of understand there’s a certain bias maybe by Jeff or somebody for
whatever reason. But and I understand that but you’ve got to be at least a
little bit fair and that’s why the public sees it.

They see it’s not fair. You take a look at some of your shows and you see the
bias and the hatred and the public is smart. They understand it.

That’s why the Rasmussen poll has me through the roof.

I guess one of the reasons I’m here today is to tell you the whole Russian
thing that’s a ruse. It would be great if we could get along with Russia, just
so you understand that.

Now tomorrow you’ll see Donald Trump wants to get along with Russia, this is
terrible. It’s not terrible. It’s good.

We had Hillary Clinton try and do a reset. We had Hillary Clinton give Russia
20% of the uranium in our country. You know what uranium is, it’s this thing
called nuclear weapons and other things like things are done with uranium
including some bad things. Nobody talks about that.

I didn’t do anything for Russia. I’ve done nothing for Russia. Hillary Clinton
gave them 20 percent of our uranium.

Hillary Clinton did a reset — remember with the stupid plastic button that
made us all look like a bunch of jerks here.

He looked at her like, what the hell is she doing with that cheap plastic
button? Hillary Clinton, that was a reset, remember it said reset?

Now if I do that, I’m a bad guy. If with can get along with Russia that’s a
positive thing. We have a very talented man Rex Tillerson, who’s going to be
meeting with them and I told him, the greatest thing I can do us shoot that
ship that’s 30 miles off shore right out of the water.

Everyone in this country will say, it’s so great. That’s not great. I would
love to be able to get Along with Russia. Now, you’ve had a lot of Presidents
that haven’t taken that back. Look where we are now. So, if I can. Now, I love
to negotiate things. I do it really well. And all that stuff.

But it’s possible I won’t be able to get along with Putin. Maybe it is. But I
want to just tell you. The false reporting by the media — by you people — the
false, horrible, fake reporting makes it much harder to make a deal with
Russia. And probably Putin said, “you know” — he’s sitting behind his desk and
he says — “you know, I see what’s going on in the United States, I follow it
closely, it’s going to be impossible for President Trump to ever get along
with Russia because of all the pressure he’s got with this fake story, okay.”
And that’s a shame, because if we could get along with Russia — and by the
way, China and Japan. Everyone. If we could get along it would be a positive
thing, not a negative thing.

Tax reform is going to happen fairly quickly. We’re doing Obamacare. We’re in
final stages. We should be submitting the initial plan in March, early March I
would say. And we have to as you know statutorily and for reasons of budget,
we have to go first — it’s not like, frankly, the tax would be easier in my
opinion. But for statutory reasons and for budgetary reasons we have to submit
the health care sooner. So we’ll be submitting health care sometime in early
March, mid-March. And after that we’re going to come up with — we’re doing
very well on tax reform.

Mr. President, you mentioned Russia. Let’s talk about some serious issues that
have come up in the last week that you have had to deal with as President of
the United States. You mentioned the vessel, the spy vessel of the coast of
the United States.

There was a ballistic missile test that many interpreted as a violation of an
agreement—

And a Russian plane buzzed a U.S. destroyer.

Excuse me. Excuse me. When did it happen? It happened when— if you were Putin
right now, you would say “hey, we’re back to the old games with the United
States. There’s no way Trump can ever do a deal with us.” Because the — you
have to understand, if I was just brutal on Russia right now, just brutal,
people would say — you would say — “oh, isn’t that wonderful.” But then you
would say — I know you well enough — then you would say “oh, we was too tough.
He shouldn’t have done that.

All of those things that you mentioned are very recent. Because probably Putin
assumes that he’s not going to be able to make a deal with me because it’s
politically not popular to make a deal. So Hillary Clinton tries a reset, it
failed. They all tried. But I’m different that those people.

How are you interpreting those moves, and what do you intend to do about them?
Have you given Rex Tillerson any advice on—

I have, I have. I’m so beautifully represented. I’m so honored that the Senate
approved him. He’s going to be fantastic.

Is Putin testing you, do you believe, sir?

No, I don’t think so. I think Putin probably assumes that he can’t make a deal
with me anymore because politically it would be unpopular for a politician to
make a deal — I can’t believe I’m saying I’m a politician but I guess that’s
what I am now. Because, look, it’d be much easier for me to be tough on
Russia, but then we’re not going to make a deal

Now, I don’t know that we’re going to make a deal. I don’t know. We might, we
might not. But it would be much easier for me to be — the tougher I am on
Russia the better — but you know what? I want to do the right thing for the
American people. And to be honest, I want to do the right thing for the world.
If Russia and the United States actually got together and got along. And don’t
forget, we’re a very powerful nuclear country and so are they. There’s no
upside. We’re a very powerful nuclear country and so are they. I’ve been
briefed, and I can tell you, one thing about a briefing that I’m allowed to
say because anybody that ever read the most basic book can say it, nuclear
holocaust would be like no other. They’re a very powerful nuclear country and
so are we.

If we have a good relationship with Russia, believe me that’s a good thing.
Not a bad thing.

So when you say they’re “not good,” do you mean —

Who did I say is not good?

I read off the three things that have recently happened

But do they damage the relationship —

They all happened recently, and I understand what they’re doing. Because
they’re doing the same thing. Now, again, maybe I’m not going to be able to do
a deal but at least I will have tried. And if I don’t, does anybody really
think that Hillary Clinton would be tougher on Russia than Donald Trump? Does
anybody in this room really believe that? Okay.

But I’ll tell you one thing. She tried to make a deal. She had the reset. She
gave all that valuable uranium away, she did other things. They say I’m close
to Russia. Hillary Clinton gave away 20% of the uranium in the United States.
She’s close to Russia.

You know what I gave to Russia? You know what I gave? Nothing.

Can we conclude there will be no response to these particular provocations?

I’m not going to tell you anything about what response I do. I don’t talk
about military response. I don’t say “I’m going into Mosul in four months. We
are going to attack Mosul in four months.” Then three months later: “We are
going to attack Mosul in one month. Next week, we are going to attack Mosul.”
Meanwhile Mosul’s very, very difficult. You know why? Because I don’t talk
about military, and I don’t talk about certain other things. You’re going to
be surprised to hear that.

And by the way, my whole campaign I’d say that. So I don’t have to tell you. I
don’t want to be one of these guys that says “Here’s what we’re going to do.”
I don’t have to do that. I don’t have to tell you what I’m going to do in
North Korea. I don’t have to tell you what I’m going to do in North Korea. And
I don’t have to tell you what I’m going to do in Iran. You know why? Because
they shouldn’t know. And eventually, you guys are going to get tired of asking
that question. So when you ask “What am I going to do with that ship? The
Russian ship,” as an example, I’m not going to tell you.

But hopefully I won’t have to do anything. But I’m not going to tell you.

Can I just ask you — thank you very much Mr. President.

It’s a good line. Impartial, free and fair.

Yeah, sure. Just like CNN right?

Mr. President, on the travel ban — we could banter back and forth — on the
travel ban, would you accept that that was a good example of the good running
of government?

Yeah, I do, I do. Let me tell you about the travel ban.

Were there any mistakes in that.

Wait. Wait. Wait. I know who you are, just wait.

Let me tell you about the travel ban. We had a very smooth rollout of the
travel ban, but we had a bad court. We had a bad decision. We had a court
that’s been overturned again, I may be wrong, but I think it’s 80% of the
time. A lot. We had a bad decision. We’re going to keep going with that
decision. We’re going to put in a new executive order next week. But we had a
bad decision. That’s the only thing that was wrong with the travel ban.

You had Delta, with a massive problem with their computer system at the
airports. You had some people that were brought out by very nice busses and
they were put out at various locations. Despite that, the only problem that we
had was we had a bad court. We had a court that gave us what I consider to be
with great respect a very bad decision. Very bad for the safety and security
of our country. The rollout was perfect.

Now, what I wanted to do was do the exact same executive order. But I said one
thing, and I said this to my people: “Give them a one month period of time.”
But General Kelly, now Secretary Kelly, said, “If you do that, now all these
people will come in in a month. The bad ones.” You do agree there are bad
people out there right? That not everybody is like you. You have some bad
people out there. So Kelly said, “you can’t do that.” And he was right. I
never thought of it. I said “how about one week?” He said, “no good. You have
to do it immediately, because if you do it immediately they don’t have time to
come in.” Now nobody ever reports that. So that’s why we did it quickly

Now if I would have done it with a month everything would have been perfect.
The problem is we would have wasted a lot of time, and maybe a lot of lives
because a lot of bad people would have come into our country. Now in the
meantime, we’re vetting very, very strongly. Very, very strongly. But we need
help, and we need help by getting that executive order passed.

I was hoping that we could get a yes or no answer on one of these questions
involving Russia. Can you say whether or not you are aware that anyone who
advised your campaign had contact with Russia during the course of the
election.

Well I told you, General Flynn obviously was dealing. But he was dealing — as
he should have been.

No, nobody that I know of.

So you’re not aware of any contacts during the election?

Look, how many times do I have to answer this question? Russia is a ruse. I
know you have to get up and ask a question — so important. Russia is a ruse. I
have nothing to do with Russia. Haven’t made a phone call to Russia in years.
Don’t speak to people from Russia. Not that I wouldn’t — I just have nobody to
speak to.

I spoke to Putin twice. He called me on the election, I told you this, and he
called me on the inauguration, a few days ago. We had a very good talk.
Especially the second one, lasted for a pretty long period of time. I’m sure
you probably get it because it was classified. So I’m sure everybody in this
room perhaps has it. But we had a very, very good talk.

I have nothing to do with Russia. To the best of my knowledge, no person that
I deal with does. Now Manafort has totally denied it, he denied it. Now,
people knew that he was a consultant over in that part of the world for a
while. But not for Russia. I think he represented Ukraine, or people
representing Ukraine, or people having to do with whoever. But everybody knew
that.

But in his capacity as your campaign manager, was he in touch with Russian
officials during the election?

You know what? He said no. I can only tell you what — now, he was replaced
long before the election. You know that. Right? He was replaced long before
the election, when all of this stuff started coming out. But Paul Manafort,
he’s a good a man also by the way, Paul Manafort was replaced long before the
election took place. He was only there for a short period of time.

How much longer should we stay here folks? Five more minutes, is that okay?

Wait, let’s see, I want to find a friendly reporter. Are you a friendly
reporter? Watch how friendly he is. Go ahead.

So, first of all, my name is Jake Turx. I haven’t seen anybody in my community
accuse either yourself or anyone on your staff of being anti-Semitic. We have
an understand that you have Jewish grandchildren — you are their _zayde_.
However, what we are concerned about and what we haven’t being heard addressed
is how the government is planning to take care of it. There are reports that
48 bomb threats have been made against Jewish centers across the country in
the last couple of weeks. There are people committing anti-Semitic acts or
threatening to—

He said he was going to ask a easy question — okay sit down I understand the
rest of your question. Folks, number one, I am the least anti-semitic person
that you have seen in your entire life. Number two, racism. The least racist.

We did relatively well — quiet, quiet, quiet — see he lied about what was
going to be a very straight simple question. I hate the charge. I find it
repulsive, I hate even the question because people that know me and you heard
the prime minister, you heard Netanyahu yesterday, did you hear him Bibi, he
said I’ve known Donald Trump for a long time and said forget it so you should
take that instead of getting up and asking a very insulting question like
that. Just shows you about the press but that’s the way the press is.

From the PBS Newshour. [phrases missing on new immigration ban] On the DACA
program for immigration, do you plan to continue the program or end it?

[We’re] doing what the law says exactly to do — and you know the law is rough.
I’m not talking about new laws I’m talking the existing law is very, very
rough, it’s very, very rough. The new order is going to be very much tailored
to what I consider a very bad decision, but we can tailor it to get in some
ways more. But tailoring it now to the decision. We have some of the best
lawyers in the country working on it the and the new executive order is being
tailored from the decision we got down from the court, okay? [ Inaudible
question ]

Can you talk a little bit and what First Lady Melania Trump does for the
country, by opening the White House visitor’s office what does that mean to
you?

Now that’s what I call a nice question.

Thank you very much. We had dinner with Senator Rubio who by the way his wife
is very lovely and we had a very good discussion on Cuba, and they were very
good to me, and I think Melania is going to be outstanding opening up the
visitors tours of the White House. She feels very strongly about women’s
issues — she’s a very, very strong advocate. I think she’s a great
representative for this country and a funny thing happens because she gets so
unfairly — the things they say, I’ve known her a very long time, she was a
very successful person, very successful model, she did very well. She would go
home at night and didn’t even want to go out with people. She was a very
private person, always the highest quality, and the things they say, I’ve
known her a long time, and things that were said were so unfair, but i’ll just
tell you this, she’s going to be a fantastic First Lady, and representative of
the people and working with her will be Ivanka, who is a fabulous person and
fabulous woman. They’re not doing this for money or pay, they’re doing it
because they feel it personally, and after baron finishes school because it’s
hard to take a child out of school with a few months left, she and Baron will
be moving over to the white house. Thank you, that’s a very nice question.

Go ahead. This is going to be a bad question, but that’s okay.

Mr. President, I need to find out from you — you said something as it relates
to inner cities one of your platforms.

What will be that fix and your urban agenda as well as your HBCU executive
order that’s coming out this afternoon? See that wasn’t bad.

That was very professional.

I will let the order speak for itself, but we’ll talk to you about that after
the announcement, as far as the inner cities, I think it’s what got me much
higher the African-American vote, we did much higher, I was honored by that
and including the hispanic vote, which might I add the women vote which was
much higher than people thought I was going to get.

So we are going to be working very hard, having to do with education, having
to do with crime, we’re going to try and fix as quickly as possible. It take
as long time — 100 years or more for some of these places to evolve and many
of them very badly but working very hard on health and health care, very, very
hard on education and also we’re going to be working in a stringent way on
crime, you go to some of these inner city places and it’s so sad — we have
people and I have sort of witnessed it in fact two occasions actually
witnessed it. They lock themselves into apartments petrified to even leave in
the middle of the day. They’re living in hell.

We can’t let that happen. It’s a great question and it’s a very difficult
situation because it’s been many, many years, it’s been festering for many,
many years, but we have places in this country that we have to fix. We have to
help African-American people that for the most part are stuck there, hispanic
American people that are in the inner cities and are living in hell. You look
at the numbers in Chicago. There are two Chicagos as you know, there’s one
that’s incredible, luxurious and safe, there’s another Chicago that’s worse
than almost any of the places in the Middle East that we talk about and that
you talk about every night on the newscasts so we’re going to do a lot of work
on the inner cities, I have a lot of great people lined up --

When you say the inner cities are you go you think to include the CBC in
conversations with urban agenda, inner city?

The Congressional Black Caucus.

Well I tell you what — do you want to set up the meeting? Are they friends of
yours? Set up a meeting. Set up the meeting I would love to meet with the
Congressional Black Caucus. I think it’s great. I actually thought I had a
meeting with Congressman Cummings and he was all excited then he said oh, I
can’t move, it might be bad for me politically I can’t have that meeting, you
know, we called him and called him, all set, I spoke to him.

I hear he wanted that meeting with you as well.

He wanted it but we called called called, they can’t make a meeting with him.
Every day I walk in and I would like the meeting but he was probably told by
Schumer or somebody like that some other lightweight he was probably told
don’t meet with Trump, it’s bad politics and that’s part of the problem in
this country. One more. Go ahead.

One question, two — this room can’t handle two. Give me the better of your
two.

It’s not about your personality or your beliefs, we’re talking about a rise in
anti-Semitism around the country some of it by supporters in your name —

Can I be honest with you, this has to do with racism and horrible things put
up, some of it written by our opponents, we do know that, do you understand
that? You don’t think anybody would do anything like that. Some of the signs
are not put up by people that love Donald Trump they’re put up by the other
side and you think it’s playing it straight, no, some of the signs and anger
is caused by the other side. They’ll do signs and drawings that are
inappropriate. It won’t be my people. It will be the people on the other side
to anger people like you. Okay. Go ahead.

What are you going do about it —

What are you going to do about the tensions —

I’m working on it. I’m working on it — look, hey, just so you understand, we
had a totally divided country for eight years. In all fairness to President
Obama long before President Obama we have had a very divided — I didn’t come
along and divide this country, this country was seriously divided before I got
here.

One of the questions asked was about the inner cities, that’s part of is, but
we’re going to work on education, stop try and stop crime, we have great law
enforcement, we’re not going to try and stop, we’re going to stop crime. It’s
very important to me but this isn’t Donald Trump that divided a nation. We
went eight years with President Obama and many years before president Obama,
we lived in a divided nation, and I am going to try, I will do everything
within my power to fix that. I want to thank everybody very much. It’s a great
honor to be with you.
