title: 'Billionaires' Book Review: Money Can't Buy Happiness | The New Republic
source: http://www.newrepublic.com/article/120092/billionaires-book-review-money-cant-buy-happiness
date: 2025-08-13T19:23:36.585567
tags: []
---
What _is_ clear about rich people and their money—and becoming ever clearer—is
how it changes them. A body of quirky but persuasive research has sought to
understand the effects of wealth and privilege on human behavior—and any
future book about the nature of billionaires would do well to consult it. One
especially fertile source is the University of California, Berkeley,
psychology department lab overseen by a professor named Dacher Keltner. In one
study, Keltner and his colleague Paul Piff installed note-takers and cameras
at city street intersections with four-way stop signs. The people driving
expensive cars were four times more likely to cut in front of other drivers
than drivers of cheap cars. The researchers then followed the drivers to the
city’s cross walks and positioned themselves as pedestrians, waiting to cross
the street. The drivers in the cheap cars all respected the pedestrians’ right
of way. The drivers in the expensive cars ignored the pedestrians 46.2 percent
of the time—a finding that was replicated in spirit by another team of
researchers in Manhattan, who found drivers of expensive cars were far more
likely to double park. In yet another study, the Berkeley researchers invited
a cross section of the population into their lab and marched them through a
series of tasks. Upon leaving the laboratory testing room the subjects passed
a big jar of candy. The richer the person, the more likely he was to reach in
and take candy from the jar—and ignore the big sign on the jar that said the
candy was for the children who passed through the department.

Maybe my favorite study done by the Berkeley team rigged a game with cash
prizes in favor of one of the players, and then showed how that person, as he
grows richer, becomes more likely to cheat. In his forthcoming book on power,
Keltner contemplates his findings:

> If I have $100,000 in my bank account, winning $50 alters my personal wealth
> in trivial fashion. It just isn’t that big of a deal. If I have $84 in my
> bank account, winning $50 not only changes my personal wealth significantly,
> it matters in terms of the quality of my life—the extra $50 changes what
> bill I might be able to pay, what I might put in my refrigerator at the end
> of the month, the kind of date I would go out on, or whether or not I could
> buy a beer for a friend. The value of winning $50 is greater for the poor,
> and, by implication, the incentive for lying in our study greater. Yet it
> was our wealthy participants who were far more likely to lie for the chance
> of winning fifty bucks.

There is plenty more like this to be found, if you look for it. A team of
researchers at the New York State Psychiatric Institute surveyed 43,000
Americans and found that, by some wide margin, the rich were more likely to
shoplift than the poor. Another study, by a coalition of nonprofits called the
Independent Sector, revealed that people with incomes below twenty-five grand
give away, on average, 4.2 percent of their income, while those earning more
than 150 grand a year give away only 2.7 percent. A UCLA neuroscientist named
Keely Muscatell has published an interesting paper showing that wealth quiets
the nerves in the brain associated with empathy: if you show rich people and
poor people pictures of kids with cancer, the poor people’s brains exhibit a
great deal more activity than the rich people’s. (An inability to empathize
with others has just got to be a disadvantage for any rich person seeking
political office, at least outside of New York City.) “As you move up the
class ladder,” says Keltner, “you are more likely to violate the rules of the
road, to lie, to cheat, to take candy from kids, to shoplift, and to be
tightfisted in giving to others. Straightforward economic analyses have
trouble making sense of this pattern of results.”
