title: Is Scott Galloway the Howard Stern of the Business World? - The New York Times
source: https://www.nytimes.com/2022/08/02/style/scott-galloway.html
date: 2025-08-13T15:26:32.346842
tags: []
---
His hobbyhorses include the worship of tech founders (we should stop),
antitrust regulation (we need more), higher education (costs too much),
“failing young men” (they need role models), physical fitness (he does
CrossFit) and the importance of building personal relationships. He is also
apt to take off his shirt, as he did in a promo for a doomed Bloomberg TV
show, or put on a wig, as he did at a tech conference while lip-syncing to
Adele.

“He’s one of those rare people who cut through,” said Jeff Zucker, the former
president of CNN, who hired Mr. Galloway to host a show on CNN+ before the
streaming network shut down in April. “I don’t know if everything he says is
right, but he says it in a damn interesting way.”

Mr. Galloway aspires to be “the most influential thought leader in the history
of business,” he said. Sometimes it seems as if by “most influential” he means
“most frequent”: In addition to the main podcast, his company, Prof G Media,
produces a weekly newsletter, four podcast episodes a week, YouTube videos, a
column for New York magazine and a book every 18 months or so. (The latest,
Adrift: America in 100 Charts, will be published in September.)

Plus, he makes regular prime-time TV appearances and teaches brand strategy
one semester a year at N.Y.U., along with online courses for his education
start-up, Section4. Mr. Galloway, who was already wealthy from selling two
companies and taking a third public, also makes more than $5 million a year
from speaking gigs, he said, largely from corporations and industry groups
that pay him $50,000 (for virtual events) to $250,000 (for international
events). “I should be broken up,” he joked.

## ‘A Huge White Space for Heterosexual Men to Talk About Their Emotions’

Mr. Galloway got his most meaningful break as a pundit in 2017 when, during an
appearance on Kara Swisher’s podcast, he predicted that Amazon would acquire
Whole Foods. Four days after the episode aired, Amazon announced plans to do
just that, and Ms. Swisher, a tech journalist who is a former columnist for
The New York Times, soon invited him to host a new podcast with her, “Pivot.”
