title: A slow learning curve | The Economist
source: http://www.economist.com/node/16564142/print
date: 2025-08-13T22:02:51.459358
tags: []
---
![
](http://web.archive.org/web/20141013171325im_/http://media.economist.com/images/images-
magazine/2010/29/sr/201029srp004.jpg)Just being at school is a start

FIFTY years ago Egypt looked oddly similar to another country. It had nearly
the same population which was growing similarly fast, the same low income per
person, the same proportion of relatively few city dwellers to lots of
peasants working tiny plots, and similar life expectancy. With dangerous
enemies on their borders, both countries were weighed down by heavy military
spending. Both were run by quasi-dictators, complete with strict censorship
and a pervasive secret police.

Egypt has made a lot of progress since then, particularly in recent years. But
the other country, South Korea, has developed far faster. It has become a
leading industrial power, a technological innovator and a vibrant democracy.
Its people are now five times richer than Egypt's (at purchasing-power parity
against the dollar; at prevailing exchange rates the gap is far bigger), and
on average live nearly ten years longer. The only measure on which South Korea
lags behind is population growth. Whereas it had around 25m people in 1960 and
now has double that number, Egypt's population has nearly tripled.

Such comparisons are doubtless unfair. The East Asian context is very
different from the Middle Eastern one, and seen from the Pacific perspective
South Korea's achievement looks less unique. Besides, although in retrospect
that country's model of development has been extraordinarily successful, back
in the 1960s Egypt's ultimately wasteful experiments with nationalised
industries and state planning were widely applauded. Plenty of Egyptians
remain nostalgic for the years under President Gamal Abdel Nasser, when toilet
paper and soap were scarce but the shiny new state-run factories providing
jobs for life had not yet rusted and Egypt held its head high in regional
affairs.

Yet those statistics from half a century ago do reveal a few differences that
may be instructive. In South Korea the number of children born per woman was
falling fast. Population growth was slowing, propelling the country into a
happy phase known as the demographic transition, when the population pyramid
begins to shrink at the base and widen in the middle, causing a bulge in the
working-age population and a relative decline in the number of dependants.

Egypt caught up with this trend only in the 1990s as its people started having
smaller families after decades of high fertility. Its population pyramid has
become dome-shaped and is slowly turning into a pear. Between 2000 and 2007
the number of dependants per 100 working-age Egyptians fell from 69 to 55,
according to government statistics. That augurs well for the future and may
help to explain why Egypt remained relatively unscathed by the global
financial crisis of 2007-08. The biggest groups now are not children but
youths aged 15-25. They are ambitious and hungry for consumer goods, often of
the expensive and one-off kind needed to establish a new household.

South Korea and Egypt differ in another important respect. Fifty years ago,
when South Korea's adult literacy rate was already 71%, Egypt's trailed at a
dismal 25%. With 72% now, Egypt has only just passed South Korea's level of
1960. That has had serious repercussions. According to a government-
commissioned study, one reason why poverty has endured, despite Egypt's rapid
growth, is that too few people have the skills to exploit the opportunities
available to them. Egyptian businessmen complain that a shortage of talented
workers is one of the biggest obstacles to growth, second only to obstructive
bureaucracy. Lawyers fume that it is not just too many laws and too few courts
that tangle justice, but clueless judges and incompetent clerks.

**What do you know?**

It is not merely a question of literacy. Anecdotal evidence suggests that
Egypt's high rate of traffic accidents, for instance, may be largely due to
ignorance of basic rules. High fatality rates in hospitals reflect poor
standards of training, accountability and hygiene. A 2008 study of public
awareness of AIDS revealed that only 1.8% of women among the poorest fifth of
Egyptians, and less than 16% among the richest, knew the basic facts of the
disease. Men were better informed, but even so less than 30% of the wealthiest
class were aware, for example, that someone might be HIV-positive yet look
healthy.

Recent surveys also show that two-thirds of Egyptian girls aged 10-14 have
been subjected to the traditional practice of female circumcision. This is
down from 90% among women in their 20s, which suggests a rapid decline. But
the persistence of the brutal and dangerous custom, despite an official ban
and public-awareness campaigns, is disturbing.

A government survey this year found that, apart from school textbooks, 88% of
Egyptian households read no books, and three-quarters of families do not read
any newspapers or magazines either. Of those who do read, 79% concentrate on
religious subjects. Perhaps more encouragingly, the study found that nearly
three-quarters of youths aged 15-29 have used the internet, and almost half of
them have read books on the web. But again, religious fare was the favourite
subject, followed by sport, and only distantly by scientific subjects. Other
surveys have found far lower levels of internet use.

Egypt's failure to educate its people is not due to lack of effort. The
country's first modern schools opened in the early 19th century, far earlier
than in most of the region. Free public primary education was introduced in
the 1940s, but not widely available until after the 1952 revolution. In the
following quarter-century university enrolment increased by more than ten
times. The number of primary schools doubled, the number of students
quadrupled and public spending on education swelled from 3% to 4% of GDP, a
respectable figure by world standards.

Yet something went wrong. Before the revolution Egypt's schools and
universities were few but their standard was excellent. The push to boost
numbers came at the cost of a drastic fall in quality. Instead of following
tested Western models, school textbooks were rewritten to emphasise
“nationalist values”, scientific formulas and lists of facts rather than
critical thinking. By the 1980s class sizes in government schools averaged
more than 60. With student numbers in several big state universities up to
six-digit figures, hundreds, even thousands of students were packed into
lecture halls. Some of the better staff emigrated to Gulf countries, where
salaries were many times higher.

Those left behind began to exploit an obvious market opportunity, offering
private lessons on the side. This practice became so pervasive that by 2005
some 64% of urban students and 54% of rural ones resorted to private crammers
in addition to regular schooling, according to Egypt's Human Development
Report. A 2002 World Bank study found that private tuition accounted for fully
1.6% of GDP, and other studies suggest it devours a whopping 20% of household
spending in families with school-age children. A big reason why families are
willing to spend so much is that the education system relies heavily on
national exams, not only for rating students but also for placing them in the
various faculties of the state universities that still account for 95% of
college enrolment.

Since the 1960s these have been ranked by prestige, with medicine and
engineering accepting only the highest-scoring students. The humanities,
including law and education, are left with the dross. In effect, this creates
a tyranny of exams largely based on rote learning. It forces unhappy students
into disciplines they would not have chosen for themselves and produces a
chronic imbalance between the skills of graduates and the needs of the
marketplace. Egypt has a surplus of would-be lawyers, slapdash engineers and
scarcely numerate accountants but few trained librarians, architects or
actuaries.

Rather slowly, the education system is improving. Whereas in the early 1990s
nearly half of all children either did not even start basic education or
failed to complete it, that proportion has now fallen below 15%, which
suggests that Egypt could be reaching 90% literacy within a generation. In
2007 the government launched a five-year overhaul of basic education,
including a sharp rise in teachers' salaries, better school facilities and a
reworked curriculum. Another initiative seeks to give all high schools
broadband internet connections by 2012. Many state universities now have
specialised and sometimes fee-paying faculties, often in collaboration with
foreign institutions; but even so the number of private colleges has risen
rapidly. Private businesses, long absent from education, now sponsor
scholarships and university chairs.

Egypt has, in effect, accepted that it runs a two-tier education system. It is
skewed towards those who can afford to pay for the best private tutors or,
better still, private schools, which are flourishing. Even in public
universities, a startling 48% of students come from the richest fifth of
society. Yet although the promise of a decent free education for all has
clearly not been met, at least Egypt's better university faculties are again
producing top-notch graduates, and publishers and bookshops have seen a surge
in sales in recent years.

Historic comparison offers some cause for optimism. Egyptians' educational
level now equals not only South Korea's in 1960 but also Turkey's in 1980 and
much of western Europe's at the end of the 19th century. In all those places
the threshold of 75% literacy proved a starting point not just for faster
economic growth and human development but for political transition too.
