title: Trump’s GOP challengers must step forward now to win in 2020.
source: http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/politics/2017/06/trump_s_gop_challengers_must_step_forward_now_to_win_in_2020.html
date: 2025-08-13T17:13:48.240559
tags: []
---
If you’re an ambitious Republican, it’s time to start thinking about
challenging Donald Trump for the GOP presidential nomination in 2020. If you
don’t get going now, you’re doomed to be too late. Unless you’re a celebrity
with hundreds of millions of dollars at your disposal, you’ll need to lay the
groundwork for your campaign very, very early. Raising the necessary funds
will mean assembling the right team, and that will take a lot of wheedling. I
say start wheedling now. If you fear embarrassment, by all means be discreet
about your intentions. While one can imagine there being a 2020 primary
challenger who’s been vociferously opposed to Trump from the get-go, there
could also be a candidate who runs against Trump more in sorrow than in
anger—say a former Trump loyalist who wants to do right by the president’s
base or an earnest conservative who gave Trump the benefit of the doubt for as
long as she could before reaching the breaking point.

Why is now the right time? It wasn’t so long ago that Donald Trump would
routinely crow about how well he was doing in the polls. As recently as
February, the president declared that “[any negative polls are fake
news](http://money.cnn.com/2017/02/06/media/donald-trump-poll-
denialism/index.html).” But the crowing has mostly stopped, presumably because
even Trump realizes that he is profoundly unpopular. As Jonathan Swan of
_Axios_[reports](https://www.axios.com/axios-sneak-peek-2439756361.html),
“Sources both inside and close to the White House are worrying about a loss of
energy among the president’s base.” The most recent Gallup survey finds
Trump’s approval rating at [36
percent](http://www.gallup.com/poll/201617/gallup-daily-trump-job-
approval.aspx), and there are signs that even the president’s most devoted
supporters [are losing faith](https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/donald-
trumps-base-is-shrinking/). Meanwhile, Trump’s opponents are growing more
energized by the day, and Democrats are salivating at the prospect of making
major gains in next year’s midterms. If Democrats do manage to win the House
(a big if, admittedly), there could be a mad scramble to challenge Trump. If
you’re a Republican who has always wanted to run for president, you’d be
foolish not to give yourself a head start.

Granted, it’s possible Trump will make a major comeback over the coming
months. I’ve certainly underestimated him in the past. But how will Trump grow
his base, exactly? As of now, the plan for getting the Trump presidency on
track seems to be passing something that can be characterized as an Obamacare
repeal and a massive temporary tax cut, both of which can be done through the
budget reconciliation process. The trouble is that the GOP’s Obamacare
overhaul is even more unpopular than Trump himself (indeed, it seems to be
[dragging down](https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/the-gop-health-care-bill-
is-unpopular-even-in-republican-districts/) his approval ratings), and a
massive temporary tax cut aimed at high-income households and corporations
would powerfully reinforce the notion that Donald Trump is a fake populist.
That is, even if we assume Trump achieves his chief domestic policy
objectives, there’s a good chance he’d lose more support than he’d gain.

The underlying reason for Trump’s swoon is that he’s rendered the Republican
Party dependent on a group of voters who hate Republicans. Shortly after the
election, Stanley Greenberg and Nancy Zdunkewicz of the Democratic polling
firm Democracy Corps released [a
survey](http://www.democracycorps.com/Republican-Party-Project/) of the GOP’s
potential coalition, which analyzed three groups: GOP base voters who refused
to back Trump (14 percent of the overall coalition), GOP base voters who did
vote for him (72 percent), and non-GOP voters who voted for Trump (14
percent). The GOP defectors were mostly college-educated suburbanites who were
turned off by Trump’s authoritarian rhetoric, his opposition to free trade,
and a general sense that he was in politics to line his own pockets. The non-
GOP Trump voters, meanwhile, were by and large less affluent, less educated,
and deeply suspicious of conventional Republicans and their priorities. To
them, Trump’s departures from GOP orthodoxy on taxes and trade were a plus.
Nevertheless, non-GOP Trump voters were suspicious of Trump’s motivations, and
they were prepared to abandon him if he, say, reversed his pledge to protect
entitlements and passed tax cuts that disproportionately benefit corporations
and the rich. Assuming Greenberg and Zdunkewicz were right, Trump’s domestic
policy agenda is almost perfectly designed to alienate non-GOP Trump voters.
Yet his erratic behavior ensures he’s not about to win back the better-off GOP
defectors either.

There’s obviously no way to know what the world will look like in 2020. But we
do know that Trump’s base is already shrinking and that every setback he’s
faced so far is of his own design. We also know that he’s proved unable to
counter Democratic opponents when they’re not named Hillary Clinton and that
his domestic policy priorities are deeply unpopular. Is it really so
unthinkable, then, that a well-funded primary challenger could at least make
some noise, or maybe even win?

Honestly, I’m not sure it’d matter if this hypothetical challenger were to run
against Trump as a centrist, a nationalist, or a Reaganite true believer.
Ideology [matters less to
voters](http://press.princeton.edu/titles/10671.html) than we ideologues like
to think. What does seem to matter is that when people aren’t happy with the
state of the world, they want to punish the people in charge and replace them
with fresh faces. That’s where populism plays a role. In a 2016 essay in the
_Brown Journal of World Affairs_ , Harvard sociologist Bart Bonikowski offered
a [simple
definition](https://scholar.harvard.edu/files/bonikowski/files/bonikowski_-
_three_lessons_of_contemporary_populism_in_the_united_states_and_europe.pdf)
of populism: It is a style of politics that juxtaposes a corrupt elite against
a morally virtuous citizenry. Populist rhetoric can be married to almost any
political program. Bernie Sanders combined it with a call for democratic
socialism, as did Jeremy Corbyn in Britain’s recent general election. For
years, Republicans from Goldwater to Gingrich combined populist rhetoric with
calls for shrinking the power of centralized government. In France, Emmanuel
Macron combined populist rhetoric with a program of technocrat-endorsed
centrist neoliberalism. In short, populism is less an ideology than the vessel
for an ideology.

As Bonikowski explains, less experienced candidates use populist rhetoric far
more often than more experienced ones do, for the simple reason that calling
yourself an outsider isn’t all that plausible once you’re actually holding
office. So while Trump was able to win as a populist once, it’s going to be
awfully difficult for him to do it a second time. Beating him as a populist,
on the other hand, might be well within reach. That’s clearly what Democrats
will try to do in 2020. A Republican would be wise to give it a try, too.

The question then is _which_ Republican should give it a try. A few weeks ago,
there was a lot of talk about Ohio Gov. John Kasich [running against
Trump](http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2017/04/john-kasich-donald-trump-
gop-2020) in 2020, but I wouldn’t put too much stock in it, not least because
Kasich is probably too old and too familiar to make an insurgent candidacy
work. One intriguing possibility is Ben Sasse, the 45-year-old Nebraska
senator and former college president who recently published [_The Vanishing
American Adult_](http://www.amazon.com/dp/1250114403/?tag=slatmaga-20), a
breezy paean to old-fashioned American values. With his self-effacing style
and his Gen X appreciation of irony, Sasse would make for a stark contrast
with Trump. Though he’s solidly conservative, he tends to emphasize centrist,
post-partisan, good-government themes. He’s the kind of Republican serious
left wingers loathe but suburban moderates love. My guess is that Sasse is not
nearly ambitious enough to take something like this on. But Sasse would do
well to think back to 1976, when a former California governor decided to
challenge a sitting Republican president. Though Ronald Reagan’s campaign to
wrest the GOP nomination from Gerald Ford didn’t succeed, it’s rightly
remembered as the start of something big.
