title: The Richest Black Girl in America | by Lauren N. Henley | Truly*Adventurous | Medium
source: https://medium.com/truly-adventurous/the-richest-black-girl-in-america-ca8aebe054dc
date: 2025-08-13T15:42:46.572300
tags: []
---
Sarah Rector, 11, stood up and wiped her hands on her sweat-soaked shift, a
simple loose dress. She had to squint to block out the radiating sun. It was
another hot August in rural Oklahoma — hot enough for her barefoot soles to
grow numb from the scorching dirt. She wasn’t much taller than the cotton
plants surrounding her.

Sarah, her siblings, dad Joe, and mom Rose would repeat this cycle day in and
day out in the summer of 1913 until a sea of bulbous whiteness would stretch
out before them. This was the Rector family’s life, and there was little
exceptional about it for this time and place. They were Black farmers in the
heart of Jim Crow America. They were relegated to the poorest parts of town,
to the most menial lifestyle, and to degrading reminders of the long shadow of
slavery. There were two mortgages on their property, putting it at risk of
foreclosure. For a young girl like Sarah, her realistic prospects in life
might be limited to backbreaking domestic work or agricultural labor. If she
were lucky, she could become a teacher in a segregated and underfunded local
school. Beyond these, most other professions were simply off-limits to poor
and working-class Black women.

Like many other Black families from Oklahoma, the Rectors’ ancestors had been
enslaved by the Creek tribe. That meant Sarah and her eldest siblings were
eligible to be added to the Creek Nation’s Freedmen Roll, which under federal
law entitled them to receive free land allotments.

[](http://trulyadventure.us/signup)

For the most part, the program was a misplaced band-aid on centuries of
mistreatment. Sarah’s allotment was almost 100 miles northwest of their town,
too far away from the family’s farm to be practical. And that “free” land was
hardly free. The properties given to Black residents tended to have
uncultivable soil and a hefty annual tax bill. Sarah’s plot was called “a
rocky piece of wasteland” by one observer. Joe Rector, a hard worker who
protected the best interests of his family, wanted nothing to do with his
children’s allotments. He petitioned the Muskogee County Court to authorize a
sale of a few hundred dollars, but no buyer could be found. However hard Joe
tried, it seemed that he was stuck with them.

Joe decided to lease Sarah’s land to an oil company. The lease offset some of
the tax payments, and came with a royalty if a splash or two of oil happened
to be found. The allotment might change from a dreadful burden to a tolerable
inconvenience.

On this particular day, August 29, 1913, Sarah continued the demanding manual
labor that helped support her family. She was too far away from her plot to
see one of the countless sets of drilling equipment on the horizon twisting
into the ground. She could not witness the oil start to bubble up. And then
more. And more. If Sarah had found Aladdin’s lamp, as one newspaper later
noted, she could hardly have commanded the genie to conjure a wilder scenario
than this.

It was a gusher.

Without knowing it yet, Sarah Rector in that instant had gone from poor
farmers’ daughter to a budding tycoon. Some 2,500 barrels of oil per day
spewed out of Sarah’s property, making it what was then the biggest producing
well in one of the biggest oil fields in the country. From that first gusher
alone Sarah stood to make more than $114,000 per year — nearly $3 million in
today’s dollars.

Everyone wanted to know more about Sarah Rector, about her unbelievable luck
and especially about her money — and many would stop at nothing to get it for
themselves.

Sarah held in her hands her first direct payment from her royalties: $5.25,
roughly $138 today. Though it was a tiny sliver of the overall money flooding
into the bank, it was still a jackpot to the young girl, and a token of a
different life. The world she was used to was small though beloved. Her all-
Black town of Taft had a population of fewer than 400 who supported vibrant
stores up and down Main Street — family-owned restaurants, a bakery, a
barbershop, a shoe repair store, a few grocery stores, all well-advertised in
the modest town newspaper. As one local put it, for Black Americans subjected
to the brutality of Jim Crow, Taft was “second to none most anywhere” because
it was a place for Black folks to feel like they belonged. For Sarah, visiting
Black-owned businesses and running errands with her family would have been a
stark contrast to the big city of Muskogee just 10 miles east.

Now Sarah bought a brand new outfit. She had trouble getting used to her new
everyday shoes. But she could not deny they had their practical use. After
all, Sarah had two miles to walk to the local school, which she did every day
from their family’s sawn-lumber cabin. That cabin had two rooms with one bed.
Sarah slept on the floor on a natural-fiber mat. None of this was unusual, and
by no means constituted a source of shame in Taft.

Then up to the cabin rolled a brand new buggy, an open conveyance with big,
sturdy wheels. The buggy had a lap blanket to keep the rider warm.

It was like a personal chariot for the 11-year-old girl, bringing added
attention her way. Sarah harnessed a horse to the buggy and trotted into the
center of Taft to school, where the recently installed street lights
illuminated her newfound fortune for friends, classmates, and teachers to see.

Newly arrived funds also allowed upgrades to the farm. Chicken houses and a
new barn gave animals more space, a smoke house expanded the kitchen’s
capacity, and a well for water eliminated the arduous task of hauling pails.
An oil stove improved summertime cooking.

The kids could watch an even more remarkable project taking shape not too far
away on the family’s farm. A brand new two-story frame house was now under
construction, coming together right before their eyes. When it was done, they
filled it with store-bought furniture, another luxury-turned-reality to
celebrate.

Rose, Sarah’s mother, would pick out a dazzling new wardrobe for herself.
Perhaps most exciting for Sarah were two luxuries inside the house that would
have been unimaginable previously: a phonograph and a piano. Sarah, who was
said to have demonstrated “musical talents,” was sitting with her fingers on
the keys of a piano that was worth as much as many Black families made in an
entire year.

Drills buzzed to life across Sarah’s property. The gusher had been no fluke. A
staggering 3,800 barrels of liquid gold now filled up every day. Observers
predicted that Sarah would break records as one of the richest Black females
in United States history, and that she would be paying the single biggest tax
bill in the entire state of Oklahoma. Awestruck estimates indicated her annual
income would end up double that of the President of the United States. She was
compared to “the small heroine of a fairy tale.” A decade before Little Orphan
Annie captivated the country in a comic strip about a poor white girl who
became rich overnight, “Little Sarah Rector,” as she was referred to by some
reporters, transformed into a nationwide sensation. (No surprise, amid much
mythologizing, that at one point Sarah actually was described by a newspaper
as an orphan, which was not the case.)

Mail poured in from strangers vying for Sarah’s attention. The letters ranged
from conniving to unapologetically demanding. From Boston to Seattle,
correspondents begged for a chunk — often a large chunk — of Sarah’s money. A
woman from New York bluntly requested a million dollars, promising it was to
help improve “the poorer classes.”

Almost immediately, a flurry of men — including some white men who would not
have given a second thought to supporting racist Jim Crow laws — sent letters
proposing marriage. This despite the fact that Sarah was just turning 12. Some
suitors included photographs. Others placed their letters in envelopes marked
with stamps from international destinations. The secretary of a men’s
matrimony club, geared to make matches in the Black community, called dibs on
Sarah for himself.

Sarah reportedly just wanted to go about what had been her normal, “happy-go-
lucky” life. She showed no interest in entertaining suitors. But as public
commentary piled up, two recurring notions emerged. One was that Sarah now
represented her whole race, however unfair an idea that was. She had received
this incredible good fortune — the logic ran — and with it came
responsibility. A conflicting notion questioned whether she belonged in the
elite stratum in which her wealth placed her. Sarah may have been young and
shy and inexperienced in the wider world, but a new mission became clear: to
prove herself ready, and to silence the doubters.

Sarah may as well have been disembarking in another country when she stepped
foot onto the campus of the prestigious Tuskegee Normal and Industrial
Institute, a premier school for Black students from children to young adults.
Booker T. Washington was said to have personally arranged for Sarah’s
enrollment shortly before his death. Margaret Murray Washington, his widow,
was the principal overseeing young women, and she took an interest in the
already famous new pupil. Sarah had her mother close at hand while she stayed
in Alabama to help Sarah get settled. Joe would also come visit. Rose and Joe
knew that their parental responsibilities only grew with the size of Sarah’s
bank accounts.

Sarah certainly looked the part of Tuskegee student, with her funds providing
classy store-bought clothes and a top-of-the-line Singer sewing machine that
would cost more than $1,000 today. She was accompanied by her 13-year-old
sister Rebecca, whose tuition was paid out of Sarah’s rapidly growing wealth.
Schooling and attendant expenses for the year for one student would run upward
of $10,000 in today’s currency. In addition to an amazing opportunity for
Rebecca’s educational horizons, she could provide a moral support system for
her sister.

Culture shock was not far behind. Tuskegee’s total student body was roughly
five times larger than the entire population of Taft. The campus, a
magnificent “oasis in the desert” as one visitor commented, was situated in
the broad rolling ridges of eastern Alabama. Driving up to the institute’s
main entrance, manicured shade trees and white rocks outlined pristine roads,
broad sidewalks, and professionally designed landscapes. More than 40
buildings — more than half of which had been painstakingly built by Tuskegee
students from bricks produced at the institute’s brickyard — jutted up in an
orderly fashion, adorned with iron fencing, Grecian columns, stately turrets
and artful steeples.

The massive Children’s House, where Sarah’s classes were held, would have been
the biggest schoolhouse she had ever seen. In contrast with the modest
schoolroom she had known back home, this structure had its own kitchen and
cloakroom. Tuskegee drew students from nearly every state and over a dozen
countries, yet another dramatic change from the tight-knit community of Taft.

Attending class with a combination of local students and those from far away,
Sarah learned to garden and farm on the two acres of fertile land surrounding
the Children’s House. That the schoolhouse was located near the Washingtons’
campus residence, The Oaks, was no accident — they could keep an eye out for
the youngest and most impressionable members of Tuskegee’s community. Sarah
began to get acclimated, aided by the careful attention of the formidable
Margaret Murray Washington and a supportive campus of students. Like her
fellow pupils, Sarah attended her classes and followed the rules. For a while,
life began to seem almost normal.

Sarah had to look over her shoulder more than once since fame and fortune had
been foisted upon her. Now, rumors circulated that she was in grave danger at
school. “Schemers,” it was said, had arrived in Alabama in a plot to kidnap
Sarah. A group of Tuskegee students formed a regiment of guards to keep her
safe. Tecumseh Bush, an athletic fellow student who had come from Waco, Texas,
took responsibility to lead the group of young bodyguards.

However exhilarating it had been to become rich overnight, it was also
terrifying, especially for a Black child who was often left vulnerable by laws
and policies. Sarah did not have to look far to find nightmare-inducing
examples of what could be in store.

There had been another windfall in Taft that had belonged to Stella and
Herbert Sells. The two Black children’s allotments — in the same region as
Sarah’s — also had produced geysers. In the spring of 1911, as the family
slept, a package bomb exploded under their house and, as it was engulfed in
flames, horrified neighbors watched helplessly as the children were
incinerated. The bombing had been a conspiracy led by a real estate developer
who had plotted to fabricate a deed to the children’s allotment. The children
had been seen as easy targets. Stella Sells had been around Sarah’s age and
it’s likely that the two girls knew each other.

Now it could be Sarah Rector’s turn. To the shock of everyone around the world
following all the phases of her story, the leading Black newspaper, _The
Chicago Defender_ , ran a disturbing headline. For those rooting for Sarah,
the inevitable seemed to have happened:

_Millionaire Colored Girl Kidnapped?… Richest Child of the Race Mysteriously
Disappears._

Press enter or click to view image in full size

Some candy and a handful of pennies purportedly had been used to lure Sarah
away from Tuskegee. The news would make hearts drop. One concerned member of
the public offered to go undercover looking for her.

But no evidence exists that suggests she was actually kidnapped, or even that
she went missing, and the timing of _The_ _Defender_ ’s news does not line up
with records of Sarah’s whereabouts. The news story, in addition to selling
papers, reflected the larger anxiety about where a young millionaire Black
girl fit into society. It is also possible there were times during which Sarah
ran away or hid from the incessant attention. Whatever the narrative’s
origins, the idea of luring her with pennies had been a particularly ironic
and unlikely touch, considering her income.

There had been a very real dark side, however, from the very beginning. At one
point when the news first exploded and reporters stampeded to the Rector home,
Sarah supposedly hid under the bed instead of sitting for an interview. She
had refused a request from one newspaper to be in a photograph. In addition to
getting used to the attention, she had to steel herself to face racist
expectations and assumptions about her. Nicknames very intentionally tied her
wealth to her race, demeaning her as a kind of sideshow act. Many small town
papers dubbed her the “darky heiress” __ and the _Arkansas City Daily News_
labeled her “the negro oil queen.” According to those who didn’t even know
Sarah — who had never met her — she was illiterate, ignorant, unworthy of
wealth. Rumors were spread that Sarah was a foreigner who had lived in a hut
at the time the oil was struck. The idea was mocked that a “kinky haired” girl
with “curly pigtails and pigeon toes” would have the audacity to think an
education at top schools could make her a lady.

Leaving Taft was in itself risky. Segregation was more than a way of life — it
was the law, making it deadly for Black people to move about freely. Taft was
a refuge for residents who could not feel welcome or safe elsewhere.

Public envy burned toward Sarah, in large part because of her race. “Lease
that land and see what’s under it,” a newspaper encouraged its white readers
while reporting about Sarah. As white citizens, they were assured they
deserved fortunes more than Sarah did. “Are you ‘as good’ as a negro? Think it
over.”

The white establishment had to square two irreconcilable facts. Here was a
girl who now had the spending power and associated privileges of some of the
country’s wealthiest tycoons; and yet that girl was Black. The only thing they
could think to do was have the court declare her white, which ironed out the
logical conundrum. At least, that turn of events was part of the popular
telling. The existence of the tale suggests that, in fact, is the way many
people at the time thought, but the court declaration of Sarah as white
actually appears to be apocryphal. In reality, the system never forgot Sarah
was Black, not for a moment.

Press enter or click to view image in full size

Right after the exultation surrounding the first oil gusher, a white financial
guardian was appointed to oversee Sarah’s money. The insidious rules
instituting this requirement for minors followed a blatantly racist logic that
Black parents were inherently incapable of managing their family’s affairs.
The greatest dangers to Sarah’s wealth did not come from pushy correspondents
or shadowy kidnappers that may have been lurking, but rather from the smiling
white men in suits — bankers, lawyers, bureaucrats in their 40s and 50s —
shaking her family members’ hands, promising they’d take care of everything.

There opened, in effect, the Bank of Sarah Rector.

The white guardian and lawyer for the case declared that Sarah’s accounts were
“far in excess of the needs.” They decided to loan her money out to people and
businesses, far and wide, at an 8% interest rate — not the money-hungry rate
of unscrupulous lenders (which could reach nearly 40%), but enough to make a
handsome profit nonetheless. Before the year was up, funds from Sarah’s
accounts had been loaned in amounts adding up to at least $255,000 in today’s
terms to five local citizens of the Muskogee area. By the end of the following
spring, Sarah’s money had been loaned to 18 more people.

The guardian received at least 2% of total funds and the lawyer would skim off
a percentage, too. They would also receive kickbacks for directing money into
certain investments. Sarah, on the other hand, could not access her own money
without permission. If she requested funds, it was at the guardian’s
discretion whether to approve, and at that point the guardian would present
expenses to a court for yet another level of approval. An investigator for the
NAACP at the time opened a file on whether “this little colored girl is being
neglected… while white men have control of her estate and control it _not_ in
her best interests.” The investigator warned the Secretary of theInterior that
the girl’s guardian “would deny her and her kind the treatment accorded to a
good yard dog.”

The constraints of Jim Crow laws meant that Sarah’s Cinderella story leaned
heavily toward Cinderella’s _captivity_ , in Sarah’s case with a financial
overseer taking the role of the controlling stepmother.

In a strange twist, Sarah’s guardian contracted with Joe Rector to transport
lumber and build a structure in the summer of 1915 on farmland bought with
Sarah’s funds, meaning, in essence, that Sarah had hired her father. More
troubling, the guardians paid Joe only $30 — roughly $775 today — for three
months of backbreaking work. Even using Sarah’s money to pay a member of her
family turned out to exploit the Rectors. In contrast, Sarah’s guardian
petitioned the court to receive extra funds in his own pocket as compensation
for travel expenses involved in filing petitions on her behalf — circular
logic to increase his piece of the pie. At one point, with Sarah away at
school, a group of men in a courtroom hundreds of miles away spent more than
40% of her available cash to purchase even more investment property she’d
likely never seen.

Sarah had been keeping her head down continuing her studies at the well-
respected Fisk University’s preparatory school in the rolling hills of
Nashville, Tennessee, and then attending high school in Kansas City, Missouri,
where she took a particular interest in algebra and home economics. She
blended in. But she also had quietly become a strong young lady who found her
voice to call for what she needed and what she wanted. Sarah, once the little
girl who felt constrained in new store-bought shoes, had closets and cabinets
with items such as dresses, perfume, talc powder, corsets, shoes, coats,
ribbons, suits, hosiery, linen, silk and lace. She acquired a Victrola record
player with records and a cutting-edge Kodak camera to capture the incredible
sights she was seeing around the country. At a time when less than 4% of
Americans owned an automobile, 16-year-old Sarah rolled up to her destinations
in a Premier, a sought-after touring car that was as much a status symbol as
it was a comfortable conveyance. The car was valued at an amount equivalent to
nearly $43,000 today.

As signs of mismanagement by her financial guardian became clearer, Sarah
would no longer sit still, not to be ignored and exploited, nor to be coddled
and insulated. The NAACP had tried to run interference but their hands were
tied by a legal system set up to favor the white bureaucrats greedy to keep
control. Sarah put together a petition demanding her father be appointed one
of her financial guardians, a hurdle any white minor would never have had to
encounter in the first place.

The court sat on Sarah’s petition without acting, ultimately strong-arming her
into retracting it and relying on yet another team of white men in suits to be
in charge of her wealth. This, even though one of her guardians had now been
publicly accused of lining his pockets with Sarah’s money. He was still
allowed to stick around, with yet another white man appointed to assist him.

Sarah’s Premier automobile could take her wherever she needed to go to keep
fighting. Determined, she would set out again to make things right. Then,
driving in her sleek Premier during the Midwest’s notoriously windy season,
Sarah crashed.
