title: Big business wants you to think a tax cut for big business will stop outsourcing | Vox
source: https://www.vox.com/2017/8/10/16122636/american-action-tax-reform-ad
date: 2025-08-13T17:06:06.041347
tags: []
---
The business community is snagging a trick from President Donald Trump’s
campaign, in hopes of selling big tax cuts for business and the rich to a very
skeptical public.

Many wealthy business executives, including Trump, would like to see Congress
enact a large tax cut on high-income individuals and on large corporations.
One big advantage they have in pursuit of that quest is that Republicans
currently control both houses of Congress, and most congressional Republicans
are strongly predisposed to favor tax cuts for high-income individuals and
corporations. One disadvantage they have is that [these priorities are
hideously unpopular with the public](/2017/4/14/15297488/tax-poll-rich-pay-
more), which strongly believes that corporate taxes and taxes on the rich
should be higher.

The unpopularity of this agenda is why Trump, when running for president,
emphasized an entirely different agenda — bringing back good-paying
manufacturing jobs by getting tough on corporate outsourcing.

Two new ads, one from the Business Roundtable group of CEOs and one from the
right-wing ad shop American Action Network, attempt to square this circle by
simply pretending that the GOP tax concepts floating around Congress are about
combatting outsourcing. This is not in any way true, but in the era of the
[Bullshitter in chief](/policy-and-politics/2017/5/30/15631710/trump-bullshit)
in the White House it’s natural that the flim-flam style of argumentation
would come to increasingly dominate the entire conservative firmament.

## Two ads, one dishonest argument

The less egregious ad, from Business Roundtable, does mostly stay focused on
the general idea that low tax rates are good and will in some unspecified way
generate more economic growth. But they throw in there the notion that
“American companies are disappearing along with good-paying jobs,” linking the
tax issue to outsourcing worries.

Text accompanying the ad further draws this notion out, by arguing that “we
need a plan to make America competitive again” as if high tax rates are
somehow causing US-based production to lose ground to foreign-based
production.

The much more dishonest ad from the American Action Network is more
emotionally effective since it entirely throws caution to the wind — focusing
on a steelworker who lost his job due to competition from foreign steel and
then just hand-waving about corporate taxes.

Obviously many Americans have lost jobs over the years and often subsequently
struggle to get new jobs that pay as well as their old ones. But corporate
income tax is a tax companies pay on their profits. If your employer is paying
any corporate income tax at all, they are making money. If your employer is
being driven out of business by the Chinese, they are not making profits or
paying taxes on them.

Indeed, precisely because American metal companies haven’t been doing well,
[Aswath Damodaran of NYU’s Stern School of
Business](http://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/New_Home_Page/datafile/taxrate.htm)
calculates that the metals and mining sector paid an effective corporate tax
rate of just 1 percent last year.

## Corporate tax rates have nothing to do with outsourcing

Consider a company like Apple which, unlike a bankrupt steel mill, actually
does pay a lot of corporate income tax. The reason that Apple, despite its
[well-known taste for corporate tax shenanigans](/2016/8/30/12709506/apple-
ireland-taxes), pays a lot of money to the Treasury each year is that Apple is
a staggering profit machine.

But note that Apple rather famously doesn’t manufacture much of anything in
the United States. All those iPhones and iPads and the vast majority of the
Macs and accessories that fuel those profits are made in China. And Apple
makes them in China because Apple’s corporate leadership has decided that all
things considered they will make more money that way. Apple is an American
company that pays taxes to the American government on its profits and it would
no doubt enjoy a tax cut — but a tax cut isn’t going to change the calculus
that the most profitable place to build an iPhone is China.

What a tax cut for Apple would _really_ do is something quite different.

One thing that Apple and several other highly profitable multinational
companies, especially in the high-tech sector, have managed to do over the
years is stash a huge amount of cash “overseas.” This means that accrued
profits are formally on the books of subsidiaries that are legally domiciled
in low-tax foreign countries. That money is still Apple’s (or Google’s or
Facebook’s or Microsoft’s) but in order to pay it out to shareholders as
dividends, it would need to be passed up to the parent company at which point
Uncle Sam would demand his cut.

A reduction in tax rates would make it easier to do those payouts — creating
big gains for people who happen to own a lot of stock, but no impact on
outsourcing or domestic steel production unless rich shareholders happen to
decide to spend their windfall gains on American steel. (Perhaps sales of the
expensive but well regarded [Baking Steel Griddle will
surge](https://www.amazon.com/Baking-Steel-
Griddle-18-14/dp/B016WOTNZU/ref=sr_1_1?s=home-
garden&ie=UTF8&qid=1502329335&sr=1-1&keywords=baking+steel+griddle)).

## What the tax debate is about

A more honest accounting of the case for a corporate tax cut would go like
this.

The corporate income tax is, in the grand scheme of things, a kind of tax on
capital and business investment. Many people believe — with some support from
economic theory and well-known models — that taxes of this sort are harmful to
long-term economic growth. With lower taxes on investment income, there will
be more investment. And more investment will, in the long run, create a large
stock of capital goods and thus more jobs and higher wages for everyone.

The best empirical research on recent tax changes [tends to contradict this
line of reasoning](/2015/1/21/7863239/taxes-investment-yagan) but it’s
certainly a subject about which well-qualified economists disagree.

That said, one subject on which there is very broad agreement is that
corporate profits are currently quite high.

One could take this as a sign of economic strength or as a sign of plutocracy
run amok, but either way it’s difficult to take it as a sign that corporations
being insufficiently profitable is what’s currently holding back economic
growth. Either way, the loss of jobs due to foreign competition has nothing
whatsoever to do with it.
