title: What Is ‘Middle-Class Economics’? - The New York Times
source: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/26/upshot/what-is-middle-class-economics.html
date: 2025-08-13T19:08:38.311148
tags: []
---
An awkward truth for politicians looking to help the middle class is that
there’s much less the government can do for them than for the poor. So, the
president has picked an opportune time to set his mantra to “middle-class
economics”: a time when middle-class economic fortunes are already improving
for reasons not much related to policy.

The last year has been the first really good year for the middle class since
the crisis. Job growth has risen to a pace of more than three million jobs a
year, and gasoline prices are through the floor. Consumer confidence is at
levels not seen since 2007. Wage growth is still not strong but is better than
it has been in years, and moves by a few large employers — including Walmart,
which [announced a $9 wage
floor](http://web.archive.org/web/20250403071205/http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/20/business/walmart-
raising-wage-to-at-least-9-dollars.html) that would rise to $10 next year —
may be signs that broad-based wage increases will come soon.

The big challenge for President Obama — and for Republicans seeking their own
agenda to woo the middle class — is that middle-income economic fortunes are
driven mostly by private employers. The government can raise the minimum wage,
but it can’t make employers raise wages for workers already making well above
that. It can give out targeted tax cuts, but these can’t have large effects on
the average family’s income without getting really expensive. It can impose
labor regulations, but it cannot overcome the fact that employers are powerful
when many workers chase a small number of jobs.

This is a real contrast to the economic situation of the poor, which the Obama
administration has affected greatly through policy. Between 2007 and 2012, the
share of Americans who would have been poor based on their income before taxes
and transfers rose by five percentage points. But after adjusting for taxes
and transfers, poverty rose by just a point. Programs like Medicaid and
unemployment insurance were highly effective in stopping the sharp rise in
unemployment from turning into a sharp rise in poverty. Most of that policy
effect was automatic, but a considerable portion was due to specific policy
initiatives of the president, such as extending unemployment insurance
benefits.

Having moved past the acute economic crisis, Mr. Obama has laid out three
pillars of a plan to uplift the middle class, in his [State of the Union
address](http://web.archive.org/web/20250403071205/http://time.com/3675705/full-
text-state-union-2015/) last month and the [Economic Report of the
President](http://web.archive.org/web/20250403071205/http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/docs/cea_2015_erp.pdf)
last week.

The first consists of tax and regulatory provisions aimed at supporting
middle-income workers. He would offer tax credits for child care and college
tuition, and a tax credit for the second earner in households where both
parents work. He’d also require employers to provide paid sick leave, and he’d
raise the minimum wage. The second pillar is policies aimed at making workers
more productive, so they can command higher pay. This includes proposals to
expand access to community college. The third pillar is policies aimed at
increasing overall economic growth, like infrastructure spending and trade
deals.

But these proposals are mostly small in scope, with limited near-term effects
on middle-class economic fortunes. The White House had a telling spat last
month with the Tax Policy Center, a center-left joint venture of the Urban
Institute and Brookings Institution that produces estimates of the
distributional impacts of tax proposals. Len Burman, the center’s co-director,
who was a Treasury official in the Clinton administration, ran the numbers and
[found](http://web.archive.org/web/20250403071205/http://taxpolicycenter.org/publications/url.cfm?ID=2000089)
the president’s plan produced an average tax cut of just $12 for families in
the middle quintile — a surprising result for a plan aimed at the middle
class, and one that produced inconvenient headlines.

The Treasury Department says the Tax Policy Center has this wrong: that it is
greatly overestimating the number of middle-income people who would get hit by
a capital-gains tax increase the president is aiming at high earners. But it
doesn’t even matter very much who is right: Treasury’s own numbers show the
average middle-income family would get a tax cut of about $150 under the
president’s plan. Whether $12 or $150, the average effects are small — much
smaller than the several hundred dollars a typical family is saving this year
because of falling gas prices, and much smaller than the raises Americans
would get from a tight labor market that induces employers to offer higher
wages.

The last part should be the crucial issue for policy makers. In recent months,
the labor market has been tightening. Employers aren’t just announcing wage
increases; changes in labor practices suggest they finally feel the need to
sweeten the deal to attract workers. Walmart and Starbucks, under public
pressure over scheduling practices that can make it hard to juggle a job and a
family, have announced rules that will give workers more advance notice of
when they will have to work. So, what can the government do to keep the labor
market tight, so workers have more power to insist on rules that work for
them, and so good news like this keeps coming?

A lot of that responsibility lies with the Federal Reserve. If the Fed reacts
to the first sign of wage growth by raising interest rates, it may dampen the
labor market recovery that is empowering workers, while continued Fed patience
could aid the middle-class wage recovery. The president and officials in his
administration do not talk about this very much, in part because Fed decisions
are out of their hands. When members of Congress talk about it, it’s usually
because they’d like the Fed to tighten sooner, which would make the middle
class worse off.

Another way Washington can push up wages is by making it easier to work less.
The Affordable Care Act is already doing this by decoupling health insurance
from full-time work, making it affordable for more parents to work part-time
and more workers to retire before they reach Medicare eligibility at 65. If
people no longer feel the need to work just for the health benefits, employers
will have to induce them into the labor market with higher wages or other
improvements.

But right now, the best middle-class economic agenda might be to do no harm:
Let the positive trends on job growth and gas prices continue, watch them flow
through to wages, and hope the Federal Reserve doesn’t get in the way and that
Congress and the president can keep policy at an approximate status quo
without government shutdowns or other manufactured crises. It’s not a very
ambitious agenda, but it’s one that could produce materially higher living
standards for Americans over the next two years.
