title: H&M; Tries on Multiple Personalities to Keep Growing - Bloomberg
source: https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-04-07/h-m-tries-on-multiple-personalities-to-keep-growing
date: 2025-08-13T17:24:28.822841
tags: []
---
![A COS store, more minimalist than H&M and targeting a different niche.

](http://web.archive.org/web/20201112034300im_/https://assets.bwbx.io/images/users/iqjWHBFdfxIU/iK0JFpKROG9I/v0/100x-1.jpg)

A COS store, more minimalist than H&M and targeting a different niche.

Source: COS

At the H&M store on Boulevard Haussmann in Paris, teens comb racks packed with
velour tank tops as tourists load up on cheap jeans to a soundtrack of bouncy
pop music. While the bustle and bargains once appealed to Pierrick Beringer,
at age 35 he prefers quality to quantity, so these days he’s more likely to
turn the corner to a store called COS, where the pace is far calmer. “I like
the shape,” the hairstylist says, pulling a thick-cotton T-shirt from a
display. “And it’s less well-known, so you don’t see it everywhere.”

For H&M, that’s not a problem, because both establishments are creations of
Hennes & Mauritz AB. Faced with falling profit amid competition from rivals
such as[
Zara](http://web.archive.org/web/20201112034300/https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-11-23/zara-
s-recipe-for-success-more-data-fewer-bosses) and Primark Stores Ltd., as well
as online players like Amazon.com Inc., the Swedish retailing juggernaut is
beefing up its portfolio of niche brands. H&M is betting outlets such as COS
can help expand its appeal beyond budget-conscious young shoppers. The plan is
to add 80 stores from the company’s half-dozen smaller brands this year, vs.
350 more H&M outlets. That includes a [new
concept](http://web.archive.org/web/20201112034300/https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-03-30/h-m-
profit-beats-estimates-as-retailer-unveils-new-store-brand) called Arket, a
higher-end shop with clothing, home goods, and a cafe serving Scandinavian-
inspired dishes. The first Arket store—the name means “sheet of paper” in
Swedish, a reference to starting with a blank slate—is scheduled to open this
fall on London’s Regent Street, followed by branches in Brussels, Copenhagen,
and Munich. “This isn’t like anything else we have,” says H&M Chief Executive
Officer Karl-Johan Persson. “It’s a completely different expression.”

The push beyond the flagship brand comes as H&M’s margins have been narrowing.
Goods from Asian suppliers, priced in the strengthening U.S. dollar, have
become more expensive, pushing net profit down to 9.5 percent of sales today,
vs. almost 26 percent in 2007. And with [increasing
competition](http://web.archive.org/web/20201112034300/https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-03-15/fast-
fashion-fading-as-h-m-zara-shine-light-on-industry-strains), H&M has had to
resort to deeper discounts to clear its shelves. The company’s shares in March
fell to their lowest level in four years after H&M reported inventory levels
were up 30 percent year-on-year. “When you’ve got a very mature brand, you
reach a point where it becomes challenging to keep up growth,” says Maureen
Hinton, an analyst at GlobalData Plc in London. “You’ve got to find new
markets and new customers.”

That has spurred the multibrand effort, which largely emulates a strategy the
world’s No. 1 fashion retailer, Inditex SA, has pursued since 1991. The
Spanish company owns Zara and seven other brands including the Italian-themed
Massimo Dutti, teen-focused Bershka, and Oysho lingerie stores. While Zara
continues to account for two-thirds of Inditex revenue, it comprises just one-
third of the company’s 7,300 stores. H&M, by contrast, only started
diversifying in 2007, when it created COS—or Collection of Style. It added
three more youth-oriented concepts in 2008 with the purchase of a Scandinavian
retail group, then introduced the premium women’s wear line & Other Stories in
2013. Those brands today make up less than 10 percent of the company’s almost
4,400 stores. While H&M doesn’t break out its revenue, Bryan, Garnier & Co.
analyst Cédric Rossi says sales from the smaller brands account for about 5
percent of the total.

The new concepts aren’t a bad idea, Rossi says, but it’s more important to fix
the flagship brand. He says Zara is more fashion-focused, and with factories
in or near Europe, Inditex can respond faster to runway trends than H&M, which
ships most of its goods from Asia. “What’s absolutely necessary is to return
to growth in existing locations at H&M,” Rossi says. “Without this, the
business isn’t sustainable.”

H&M says it’s working to reduce lead times so fresh products get to stores
more quickly. And it says it’s automating warehouses and improving data
collection so shortages and overruns can be addressed more quickly—reducing
the need for margin-busting markdowns. “We haven’t been as precise, exact, and
flexible as we could have been” in logistics, says CEO Persson. “We see big
improvement potential.”

Longer-term, though, it’s smart to also find a broader customer base, says
Anne Critchlow, an analyst at Société Générale SA in London. With COS, & Other
Stories, and now Arket, the company can target different niches at the top
end—where customers have more resources and prices are higher, she says.
Dresses at COS start at €55 ($59), compared with €10 at H&M, while the
cheapest jeans at COS are €69, vs. €20 at H&M. “Young value fashion has become
extremely crowded,” Critchlow says. “Lifestyle retailers have less
competition.”

 _**The bottom line:** As competition heats up and margins narrow, H&M is
emulating the multibrand store strategy of its rival Inditex._
