title: The True Cost of a Bad Hire - Cool Infographics
source: http://www.coolinfographics.com/blog/2015/4/2/the-true-cost-of-a-bad-hire.html
date: 2025-08-13T19:03:15.107771
tags: []
---
The True Cost of a Bad Hire infographic from Executives Online in the UK puts
into perspective the £4.13 billion a year that UK businesses are losing from a
bad hire. With one £50 note being less than 1 mm thick, the stack would reach
about 933 meters tall. London’s Big Ben is 96 meters tall.

> _People are a businesses most valuable resource. Actively finding and
> attracting top talent is a never-ending task for any company that aspires to
> be the best._
>
> _The amount of new hires that don’t work out is frightening – in fact a
> study by leadership IQ across a range of industries and job roles found that
> up to 48% of new hires fail within 18 months. It’s a problem that’s
> estimated to cost UK businesses_[ _over £4 billion a
> year_](http://web.archive.org/web/20190910040604/http://www.hrgrapevine.com/markets/hr/article/2014-02-24-high-
> staff-turnover-costing-business-4billion) _._
>
> _So What’s The True Cost When One Of These New Hires Doesn’t Work Out?_
>
> _Outside of the obvious salary cost, there are a significant number of
> tangible and intangible factors that can drive the cost of a failed hire
> much higher than initially estimated._
>
> _We used an example of a_** _£100k per annum executive_** _to answer one
> question: “What’s the true cost of a bad executive hire?” We factored in
> salary, benefits, the cost of the recruitment and sourcing process, and the
> knock on effects of having a poor performing individual in a role for up to
> a year._
>
> _Using data from a range of external sources and our own databases we
> arrived at a final figure showing this cost to be around three and a half
> times more than a year’s salary. To demonstrate the scale of this cost we
> laid it all out in a infographic as well as breaking down how that cost was
> arrived at._
>
> **_So Why Do Bad Hires Happen?_**
>
> _Part of this failure to make successful hires is down to company policies
> focussing on hiring cost rather than ROI._
>
> _As Steve Jobs put it: “A small team of A+ players can run circles around a
> giant team of B and C payers… I’ve noticed that the dynamic range between
> what an average person could accomplish and what the best person could
> accomplish was 50 or 100 to 1”._
>
> _Next time you’re making an executive hire, remember what it will cost if it
> doesn’t work out!_

It’s a long/tall infographic design, but I think that the length is actually
part of the visual story in this case.

Visually, the grids would be easier for readers to understand if the rows were
10 icons across instead of 20. We live in a Base-10 society. Rows of only 10
would make the infographic twice as long, but an alternative would be to add
some spacing to visually separate the left 10 from the right 10. Same thought
for vertical spacing. It would help to have a gap in the icon grids every 10
rows.

The confusing part is that every icon is a £50 note, so with 20 icons, each
row represents an even £1,000. That’s why I think they designed the rows to be
20 icons across.

Odd that they published the infographic as a transparent PNG file.

Thanks to Alex for sending in the link!
