title: Schemes of My Father
source: http://www.gq.com/news-politics/mens-lives/201103/schemes-of-my-father-california-eric-puchner?printable=true
date: 2025-08-13T21:05:48.947720
tags: []
---
I was 12 the first time I visited California, which as far as I was concerned
was twelve years too late. I could barely sit still during the plane ride,
thinking of all the girls I was going to have sex with once I became a
Californian, the coolness that would drip from my every freckled pore. My
father had recently moved to L.A. for the job of his dreams, and now my mom
and I were flying out to visit him before returning to Baltimore to pack up
the house and bid farewell to our lame eastern selves. I knew from my dad's
tickled voice on the phone that something marvelous had happened to him and
that it had to do with the money he was making or perhaps the warm ocean
breeze ruffling his hair in the pictures he'd sent.

When he picked us up at the airport, I barely recognized him. He was wearing
prescription sunglasses, some snazzy titanium numbers that said CARRERA on one
lens, and his normally pink face was tanned from all the tennis he'd been
playing. He had his shirt undone to the third button. Even his hair looked
different: lighter and rakishly askew. He'd always been irresistible to me,
but now I found him outright glamorous.

He drove us to the house he'd rented in Rolling Hills, a tony gated community
perched above the cliffs of the Palos Verdes Peninsula. It was a beautiful
summer day, and you could smell the salt air from the Pacific coming through
the window. There was none of that Maryland mugginess that made you drip
downstairs in the middle of the night and stick your head in the freezer. My
siblings were all older than I was, getting ready to return to their boring
eastern colleges, and I felt badly for them that they wouldn't be living out
here with me in the land of endless summer.

I don't think I realized how rich we'd become until the moment we pulled up to
the entrance of Rolling Hills and the man in the little guardhouse actually
tipped his cap. The gate lifted, ushering us into someone's vision of
paradise. By "someone's" I guess I mean my father's. There were horse trails
and faux hacienda signs and old wagon wheels sitting in people's yards in
islands of unmown grass, like the Hollywood back lot for some Waspy New
England burg. And yet it was Californian through and through, the ranch-style
homes as flat and gargantuan as UFOs. We slowed down to pass a group of
horseback riders in skintight pants, and even the manure plopping from their
horses seemed expensive to me, better smelling than the dogshit smearing our
sidewalk in Baltimore.

Eventually we pulled into the driveway of our house. I got out of the car and
was greeted by an enormous bird with a sapphire neck and a tail as long as a
surfboard. It peered at me nonchalantly for a minute and then dragged itself
into the bushes.

"Was that a peacock?" I asked.

"A wild one," my father said. "They're everywhere around here."

There was pride in his face, a touch of giddiness. He grinned, and I don't
remember having seen my father look so happy before. My mom and I couldn't
help grinning back. It was like he'd cooked this all up especially for us—the
peacocks, the ocean breeze, the rolling-in-it hills. We were Californians now,
a part of his dream.

···

People like my father will always think of California as a manifestation of
their dreams, and in this respect he wasn't too different from the California
dreamers of the past. Even the name itself—which first appeared in _Las Sergas
de Esplandián_ , a Spanish romance novel from the sixteenth century—was meant
to make the mouth water with the promise of untold treasure. "California," as
portrayed in the novel, was an island paradise populated only by women with
"hardy bodies." Everything they owned was precious, because "in the whole
island, there was no metal but gold." In other words, there were two girls for
every boy, and the living was easy. From the gold rush to the dot-com boom,
the myth of an earthly paradise welling over with riches and beautiful natives
has proved remarkably durable.

These days, explorers to California will encounter a very different island.
Twenty-five billion dollars of estimated debt and an unemployment rate topping
12 percent. An elementary-school system ranked forty-eighth in the nation.
Subdivisions turned into ghost towns, and tens of thousands of families who've
lost their homes. All this, if you believe the press, is proof of California's
"implosion," as if we were victims of an overnight disaster. But the truth is,
there've always been two Golden States: the one we yearn for and the one that
most Californians wake up to every morning. As Woody Guthrie put it seventy
years ago:_California is a Garden of Eden, a paradise to live in or see. / But
be­lieve it or not, you won't find it so hot / If you ain't got the do re mi._

My father, who risked all our do re mi in pursuit of his own California dream,
is a case in point. He'd been doing very well in Baltimore, earning six
figures as the vice president of a bank, but he tossed his job out the window
when some Reaganomics-drunk investor ("an admirer," my father called him)
phoned him out of the blue to see if he wanted to direct a savings and loan
out west. And for a while after we moved, he seemed to live up to the opulent
vision he'd dazzled me with on my first visit. Unsatisfied with our first
house in Rolling Hills, he leased us a big Mediterranean nearby for $5,000 a
month, roughly $11,000 today. There was a swimming pool and a tennis court and
a barn where my father put up a pen for his two hunting dogs. I didn't know
what he was doing to make so much money, but I wholeheartedly endorsed it. In
particular, I endorsed his expanding fleet of European sports cars, which he
liked to bring to professional sporting events and rev over and over again in
the parking lot to impress people, so loudly and relentlessly that he once ran
out of gas.

One of these cars was a Lotus Esprit, the same kind that turns into a
submarine in _The Spy Who Loved Me_. In 1983, I was susceptible to anything
with four wheels and my father's esteem. One look at the Lotus and I was head
over heels. Just the name itself—French and alliterative and sexy as a
girl's—could send me into a swoon. When no one was home, I'd steal the spare
set of keys from my parents' room and head out to the driveway in my Ray-Bans,
revving the engine in neutral as I'd seen my father do, working the mahogany
gearshift and pretending to screech around hairpin turns. The creamy smell of
leather grew with the heat, and to this day I associate it with my father's
California, the smell of sun and power and superfluous luxury.

Then there was my dad himself, who seemed as glamorous in many ways as his
car. He wore driving gloves and those Porsche Carrera sunglasses and dressed
impeccably in Brooks Brothers suits, a picture of blue-blooded dapperness. On
the weekends, he traded in his tie for an ascot, which he tucked into his
shirt like a scarf. He was the fastest driver I've ever seen, slaloming
through freeway traffic or tailgating anyone in the left lane who wasn't doing
a hundred. Once he terrified one of my friends so badly that she grabbed the
parking brake and almost caused an accident. My dad blew up at her and made
her cry. At the time, I thought his anger was entirely justified.

One morning—I must have been 14 by then—I woke up and went outside for a spin,
to captain the Lotus through my dreams, and discovered the car was gone.
Vanished. My father never took it to work, never moved it from its allotted
space behind the house except to impress people on the weekends. I glanced
around, but nothing else seemed strange: The marine layer I'd grown accustomed
to had begun to burn off, leaving a pondlike shimmer on the tennis court. My
father's shorthaired pointers whimpered in their cage. From the canyon below
our house, where the older kids in the neighborhood went to drink beer, came
the lonely meows of a peacock. I peeked in the garage, but the Lotus wasn't
there either. At lunch I asked my mom about it, and she said that my father
had decided to sell the car. She fidgeted as she told me this, as if she could
barely look me in the eye. My mom's face that day—her strange, antsy
embarrassment—feels to me now like the beginning of the end.

···

My father didn't let on that anything was amiss. I knew nothing about the real
estate crash, of course, or that savings and loans like my father's were going
bankrupt all over the country, the calamitous tide of fraud and reckless
lending that would become the S&L crisis. I didn't know that it would
culminate in the failure of 1,043 S&L's or cost taxpayers over $120 billion to
repair the damage. In Baltimore, at least, my dad had taken me to his office
occasionally, a breathtakingly messy place that smelled like fast food and
B.O. and Xerox ink, the floor carpeted with documents I wasn't allowed to step
on. Strangely, though, after we moved, he never once brought me to his work.
To this day, my own mother can't tell me a thing about what he was doing those
years in California. As far as I was concerned, the secrecy added to his
glamour. But even before more things began to disappear—the pool table and
tennis lessons and Ferrari sedan he kept in the garage—the truth of my
father's failure came out in subtler ways.

Not long after the Lotus vanished from the driveway, he took me to a barbecue
at a colleague's beach club in Newport Beach. I was flattered. He rarely spent
time with me one-on-one, too busy living out his fantasy to take much notice
of me. What I wanted more than anything was for this dashing figure to tell me
I was part of that fantasy—that he cared about me, in some precious way, as
much as his cars. I knew he was capable of such adoration, because he mooned
over my older brother, whose dark handsomeness and hard-drinking exploits were
far more interesting to him than my good grades and admiration. He'd talk
about how, _twice_ in two years, my brother had crashed the Alfa Romeo he'd
bought him, and my father couldn't help beaming with pride. I would have done
just about anything to make his face look like that.

At the beach club, my father circled the parking lot a couple of times in the
car he drove most often, a Porsche 928. I don't know why he wanted to impress
the guests so badly, but I suspect it had something to do with the vision of
Californian life arrayed so platonically before us: the mothers in bikinis,
the _thwock_ of Smashballs, the smell of sun lotion mixed with the briny
breeze from the ocean, whose gentle waves seemed to frost the sand like a
cake. Boys in Jams and rope bracelets slurped Cokes or played volleyball or
skimboarded across the wash with sunglasses on. These of course were the
effortlessly tan Californian kids I so admired and feared, the ones who knew
how to surf and skateboard and had managed to lose their virginities at
preposterously young ages, generally to their older sisters' friends. They
said "gnarly" with a straight face and spoke in a diabetic drawl that made
each word seem like a message washed up on the beach. No matter how hard I
tried, I couldn't get tan, and though I burned my face and arms every summer
to a freckled variant of brown, my legs were hopelessly immune to the sun's
rays. Somehow my father's legs were even whiter. In shorts he looked like a
half-finished page in a coloring book. I'm guessing they were his secret
shame, proof of the midwestern German heritage he longed to escape.

That afternoon he was wearing tennis shorts. As we were waiting for hamburgers
from the grill, I overheard the host tell him he needed to get some color on
his legs.

"No thanks," my dad said, grinning. "I try to keep them as far from colored as
possible."

The man smiled but took a step backward, busying himself with the spatula. I
had never heard my father say the word _colored_ before; for some reason, the
racism shocked me less than the antiquated weirdness of the term. But what
really startled me was my dad's face, which, as we stood there waiting for our
host to look up from the grill, turned pink as a grapefruit. The more the man
ignored us, the pinker it became. When he finally served us our burgers, my
dad mumbled out a thank you, avoiding his eyes.

Later, we sat in the sand as the other kids my age played a game of beach
volleyball. My father must have seen an opening of some kind, because to my
great embarrassment he stood up between matches and asked if I could join in.
I tried to refuse, but there was no way to do so with­out seeming like even
more of a loser. I was a decent athlete—I'd played lacrosse and hockey in
Baltimore—but did not understand the most basic mechanics involved in keeping
a ball up in the air with my forearms. While the other kids set and dug and
belly flopped for shots, I stood in the corner of the court, praying that the
ball would miraculously avoid my jurisdiction. Finally someone spiked the ball
right at me, and I did something tragic. I caught it. I glanced at my father,
still clutching the thing to my stomach. His eyes were squinched up, fixed
somewhere near my feet, as if he couldn't stand to look me in the face. It
took me a second to realize he was staring at my legs.

At the time, my father's shame was overshadowed by the disgrace I felt in
front of my teammates. Now, though, when I'm watering the plants or jogging
around the reservoir near my house, I'll think of my father's face that day
and feel the punch of that ball in my stomach. I'll fantasize about all the
things I might have done, like clock him in the teeth. Perhaps—at least I tell
myself this, I insist on it, because the memory still hurts me deeply—he was
really making the face at himself.

···

Before that, I'd often questioned whether I belonged in California, but that
day at the beach was the first time I questioned whether my father belonged
there as well. I began to question other things about him, too. Growing up,
I'd more or less sub­scribed to his Gatsbyesque invention of himself as an
aristocrat. There were the ascots, of course, usually paired with tweed. He
liked to go bird hunting on the weekends, despite being a terrible shot. For a
brief period he insisted we dress up for dinner every night, which for my
brother and me meant coats and ties. He boarded horses in the country and
prodded my oldest sister to take up polo. He refused to let us wear baseball
caps indoors and liked to keep a Manwich-thick wad of cash in his billfold,
flaunting it in front of cashiers. Even before the ascots and the polo, he'd
saddled his children with increasingly absurd names meant to conjure riding
breeches and hunt clubs: Alexander, Laurel, Pendleton, and his pièce de
résistance, my own: Roderic. I didn't know that my dad had been one of the
poorest kids at his wealthy private school in Milwaukee, and so I'd always
accepted these affectations as part of my father's identity, as essential to
who he was as his love of bratwurst.

Now, though, his blue-blooded habits began to seem absurd. For the first time
I saw them in the same light as my own desperate attempts to fit in, which had
begun to seem absurd to me as well. Despite an aggressive marketing campaign,
I'd failed to become Californian in a way that would convince anyone but the
drunkest tourist. I wore jungle-print Vans and shirts with wooden buttons and
Wayfarers that were also made, inexplicably, of wood. I had a white Op poncho
that I liked to wear with nothing underneath, thinking I looked like Jim
Morrison on the cover of _Morrison Hotel_. My moment of reckoning came when I
was at the mall with my best friend, Will, another East Coast transplant, and
some surfers called me a "dingleberry." I had to ask Will what a dingleberry
was, and his graphic description made such an impression on me that I went
home and took off all my clothes and hid my jungle-print Vans at the back of
the closet.

Soon after that, I bought my first punk record— _Los Angeles_ , by X—and began
to discover another California, one far removed from the beach bunnies and
slack-eyed surfers who'd seemed to me like the epitome of West Coast cool.
Minutemen, Black Flag, the Dream Syndicate: The songs coming out of my
turntable were about as unsunny as could be, noisy and weird and full of anger
at the well-tanned rich. And the singers, Californians themselves, weren't
afraid to be smart. I started dressing like my old self again, slipping off to
Hollywood clubs whenever I could, amazed at all the pale, black-booted kids
pogoing in flannel. It was a culture as distant from my dad's beach-club
ambitions as you can possibly imagine.

···

It's this real California—and not the one my father invented for us—that I
still call home, one that's closer to my heart than any place on earth.
There's something about my father's love for the state, no matter how
misdirected it was, that seems to have seeped into my blood. Or perhaps it's
the love itself that I love. Which is to say: Even if the dream isn't real,
the dreamers are. There's something about the struggling actors and
screenwriters and immigrants who live here, the pioneer spirit that despite
everything still brings people to the edge of America in search of success,
that makes me feel at home.

Sometimes, when I'm feeling stressed-out about my life in L.A. or my
children's futures, I drive up to Griffith Observatory on a clear day and
stand in the cool shadow of its dome, staring out at the enormous city below,
from the snowcapped San Gabriels hovering like a mirage over the skyscrapers
downtown to the Pacific in the distance. I used to get stoned here with my
high school friends and watch the sun go down over the ocean, turning the city
into a valley of lights, and the shiver of amazement I used to feel still
slinks across my scalp, the wonder that one city could hold so much life in
its pocket.

My father would never have driven to Griffith Park to check out the view; he
didn't have any interest in peeling back the layers of myth and visiting the
actual city. At the time, I had no idea how badly things were going for him—no
idea that he was being sued by former partners or that his own board of
directors had fired him. For a year or so, my dad was tied up in legal
battles, sinking deeper and deeper into debt. As the California he adored
began to betray him, he responded like a jilted lover, making himself as
noticeable as possible. He invested in personalized license plates based on
our last name, which he shortened to POOK. Between my mom and older siblings,
we still had several cars, and for a brief period there were POOKs 1 through
5. Sometimes he'd show up at my soccer games or cross-country meets in POOK 1,
his Porsche, which he would park on the grass for everyone to admire. He'd
root for me as I played, yelling _Thataboy, Puchner!_ until he was hoarse. I
didn't want anything to do with him or his cars, as embarrassing to me now as
jungle-print Vans. After the game, I'd run off the field without saying hello.

···

Our last Christmas in Rolling Hills, before we moved to a duplex near the
shopping mall, my father decided that he wanted to buy me a road bike. By then
he must have been close to broke, siphoning off the money my grandparents had
left to me and my siblings. I don't know how he got the idea of cycling into
his head, but I can imagine how iconically Californian the sport must have
seemed to him. You couldn't drive down a street of Palos Verdes without seeing
packs of men in Lycra outfits, hunched over their bikes in those itty-bitty
caps. To me, whose California now consisted of _Repo Man_ and John Fante and
albums about working-class strife, the whole sport seemed as stupid as playing
golf. Still, my father seemed to think this was the perfect gift, and I was
loathe to break his heart. In truth, all I'd ever wanted from him was his
pride and attention. Even when he was rooting for me on the soccer field or
introducing me by citing my academic "accomplishments," it always seemed like
another way of revving his engine.

We went to a fancy bike shop in Orange County, with rows of bicycles hanging
from the ceiling. I couldn't tell a crank from a chainwheel, but my dad
insisted on describing me as "extremely athletic." The salesman steered us to
a bike on the floor at the front of the shop.

"This is our entry-level model. A real nice bit of engineering for the price."

My dad looked at the price tag dangling from its seat. The bike seemed
extravagant, more than I would ever need, but my dad was unimpressed. "Do you
have anything else?" he asked.

The salesman looked at my father. For the first time, he seemed to take in my
father's clothes, his eyes snagging on the ascot stuffed into his shirt. "I
could sell you something you don't need, but I think for the novice rider,
this is an ideal bike."

My father frowned. "Let's see what else you have."

The salesman glanced at me and raised his eyebrows. He did not understand that
he'd thrown down the gauntlet. He showed us bike after bike, each one more
beautiful than the last; my dad would listen intently to the salesman's spiel,
to jargon he couldn't possibly have understood, and then insist on seeing
something more expensive, "just to know what our options are." Eventually we
arrived at a baby blue frame hanging by itself at the rear of the store. It
looked like a chandelier, something you shouldn't touch. There was no price
tag on it—only the name, Colnago, paired with a perfect white shamrock. I
admit to feeling a twirl of longing. It was the same frame, the salesman
explained, that somebody had ridden in the Tour de France. My dad inspected
the bike with an expression that can only be described as proprietary.

He asked how much it was, but I could tell he'd already made up his mind. The
salesman took him aside. My dad's face changed. He looked frightened, even a
little sick.

"Dad, I don't need a bike like that," I told him when the salesman went to
ring him up.

"No use getting a bike you'll outgrow."

"But this is for someone who, like, _races_."

He looked at me angrily. "It's for anybody who wants it."

In the parking lot, trying to fit the bike into the back of his Porsche, my
father seemed withdrawn. The sky was big and cloudless, the same heartbreaking
blue as the bike he'd just bought. It was January; in Baltimore we would have
been shoveling snow from the driveway. When I glanced back at the shop, the
salesmen were smiling to themselves, watching my dad try to wedge the frame
over the backseat.

···

Before leaving L.A., my father told my mom three things: "I'm divorcing you,
we're $2 million in debt, and I'm marrying a woman who's pregnant with my
child." He'd already tapped into my cousins' inheritance and was rapidly
burning through all their money. One of the last times I saw him, he was
living in the middle of the Utah desert, squeezed into a condo with a young
son and a family of stepchildren, all his belongings auctioned off because he
couldn't pay his storage bill. It was the first time I'd visited him in a
couple of years. He wore ascots now only on special occasions, content to
spend the day in sweats and Mephisto sneakers. By this time I'd worked up a
powerful fury at him—for deserting me, for stealing my cousins' money, for
failing to live up to the glamorous image I'd had of him—and could barely look
him in the eye.

"How's San Francisco?" he asked. I'd moved there after grad school.

"Beautiful," I said.

"You're teaching at the state university?" he said, with genuine
disappointment. "Aren't they all idiots?"

I ignored him.

"But you're on the coast, at least. The ocean. We'll be moving back as soon as
I can get on my feet again."

I looked out the window at the empty scrubland stretching to the horizon. Even
then, I knew he'd never be going back, that he'd most likely die in a place he
felt little affection for. At the time, it seemed to me like just deserts.
What I didn't know was how bad things would get—that my stepmother would end
up moving to Beverly Hills to work as the personal assistant of an 85-year-old
tycoon, a man she would later marry, and sending money home to Utah to support
the family. That was an irony I couldn't have imagined: that some nouveau
aristocrat in California, living on the estate of my father's dreams, would
end up supporting him.

That evening, my father decided he wanted to take me out to dinner. I expected
him to change out of his sweatpants, but he sat on the stairs and slipped on
his tennis shoes.

"Are you, um, ready?" I asked.

"I just need to find my wallet."

He had some grease stains on his T-shirt. For a moment something caught in my
throat. I went into the bathroom to keep him from seeing my face. My dad's
wallet was sitting next to the sink. After a minute, I left the bathroom and
tried to hand him his wallet, but he dropped it on the stairs. Several
driver's licenses spilled out, each with my father's picture on it. He
scrambled to put them back, and I pretended not to look. I did not want to
think about what sort of con he might be perpetrating, did not want to see how
far he had fallen.

···

I have my own California dream now, much humbler in comparison. It's not a
dream of gold-lined shores but a hope—foolhardy, perhaps—that the state will
be able to look after my children's basic needs. Not long ago, my daughter's
elementary school, one of the best in the city, was forced to squeeze its
fourth and fifth graders into a single classroom. This is the new reality,
they told us. Reality never really interested my father, or the California
fortune hunters of the past, and I can't help blaming them— _him_ —for the
mess we're in. Read about the S&L crisis that spelled my father's ruin and
you'll feel an uncomfortable prickle of déjà vu: unregulated bankers, reckless
loans insured by the government, a federal bailout that cost taxpayers
billions and spawned a nationwide recession. If one goes to Southern
California to see the future, as Alison Lurie once said, then it's a future
that's been showing the same movie for some time.

For this reason, perhaps, I have a hard time thinking of my father, once such
a golden boy, without immediately thinking of the once golden state where he
met his ruin. After all, they have so much in common: Both disliked taxes,
both had big dreams for themselves, both insisted on spending money they
didn't have. They deserved each other in so many ways. If only they'd been
less mercenary, more willing to invest in their futures, then things might be
different.

When my father was dying from cancer, I flew out to help and found someone I
barely recognized, about as far from the raffish figure in tweed as can be
imagined. Those weeks before he died, there weren't any deathbed redemptions,
no Hollywood hugs or teary confessions. He still ranted about idiots and tried
to get me to sign on to a loan because his credit was shot. One night I drove
him to dinner—in his Ford Taurus, indistinguishable from a zillion
rentals—while he rested his head against the window. I'd seen him ride in the
passenger seat only once in my life, when he'd taught me to drive. At the
restaurant, he kept glancing up at me while he picked at his fish. I asked him
what was wrong, and he took off the baseball cap he'd been wearing, as if
remembering the rule he'd had when we were kids. The inside of his cap was
lined with white hairs, like dandelion fluff. He told me, haltingly, that he
wished he'd done something different with his life. His eyes were rheumy and
tired, and he seemed real to me then—perhaps for the first time. I watched him
return to his food. For a man who'd spent his entire life showing off to
people, it was a brave thing to say.

This is not about forgiveness. I still think about that day at the beach, or
the fact that my father abandoned me for so long—years with hardly a phone
call—and my heart clenches with rage. We live in the age of forgiveness, of
bailouts, of _doing our best to move on_. Too often these gestures have only
to do with creating a nice tidy narrative, one we can wrap up and hide away
somewhere and promise ourselves will never happen again. We choose the myth
over reality every time. It's the Californian—which is to say, the
American—way.

But it's just as tempting, I think, to see men like my father as two-
dimensional villains. Strangely, when I think about who my dad longed to be
all those years, I don't think about him out west, but rather as he was before
we moved, when he seemed to me in some ways _more_ Californian—at least in his
goofy charisma and ability to dazzle. I remember one Halloween when I was 6 or
7: I'd gone trick-or-treating with a friend of mine, and we were coming home
after a major haul when some teenagers sprinted by and stole our bags of
candy. I ran home, bawling. My father listened to my tale of woe and then went
out with me in the dark, hoisting me on his shoulders so that I had to duck
under the oaks and chestnut trees lining the sidewalk. I was dressed, I think,
as Dracula. From house to house we went, man and vampire, ringing people's
doorbells until they came to the door in slippers or pajamas. Flushed with
annoyance, their faces softened as my father recounted my story. They sighed
and shook their heads and dumped the remains of their Halloween stash into the
grocery bag I'd brought from home, a showering of goodies, piles of Smarties
and Tootsie Pops and candy corn. In five minutes, we had more candy than I'd
lost, but my father pressed on, stopping at every door in the neighborhood. It
had to be embarrassing for him, to knock on these darkened houses, but he did
it anyway. For once he was not trying to impress anyone, and yet I think the
people—seeing how my father was spending his evening—believed me to be a lucky
boy. Certainly I felt like one that night. By the end I had more loot than I
could carry, and yet my father persisted, giving me for once what I wanted,
collecting a bounty he didn't have to buy.

_Eric Puchner is the author of_ Model Home _and_ Music Through the Floor.
