title: The identity crisis of 21st century Muslims | CNN
source: http://www.cnn.com/2015/08/24/opinions/islam-identity-crisis-cawo-abdi/index.html
date: 2025-08-13T18:47:33.846104
tags: []
---
**Editor’s Note:** Cawo Abdi is author of “[Elusive Jannah: The Somali
Diaspora and a Borderless Muslim Identity](http://www.upress.umn.edu/book-
division/books/elusive-jannah).” Abdi is associate professor of sociology at
the University of Minnesota and a research associate in sociology at the
University of Pretoria, South Africa. The views expressed in this commentary
are solely those of the author.

### Story highlights

Islam in most Muslim countries is increasingly defined in rigid term, writes
Cawo Abdi

Confusion, shame and victimhood might define the future memories of Muslim
children

CNN —

My most treasured childhood memories are colored by beauty associated with
what Islam was in the society that I was born in and raised.

One vivid memory of this childhood involves regularly sitting on the edge of
my father’s prayer mat, made from goat-skin that became supple over years of
usage in nomadic hamlets in central Somalia.

I can still feel the texture and smell of the hide, though my father passed on
over 30 years ago. My father and his three brothers were Koranic teachers in
central Somalia, traveling from hamlet to hamlet, teaching children, mostly
boys, to memorize the Koran, and often returning with goats that were given
them as payment for their labor. In addition to teaching, which carried great
prestige for both teachers and disciples, these men of religion performed
marriages, tended to the sick and performed burial rituals.

The Islam that shaped my childhood also included my mother who could neither
read nor write Arabic, who memorized few verses of the Koran, and whose daily
life was consumed with the financial and emotional needs of her family. My
mother’s work in a meat market in central Somalia required extremely long
hours, with prayer rituals a luxury that she and many of her female co-workers
could never afford. But this lack of “practice” was devoid of shame, nor was
there any articulated distinction between a Muslim and a practicing Muslim.

Life in Somalia, until my teens in the 1980s, defied this dichotomy, with
Muslim identity being part and parcel of being a Somali, regardless of
adherence to any particular ritual.

Over two decades later, I feel fortunate to be able to hang on to those
memories, but saddened that my American-born children will come of age with an
Islam that is tangled with terrorism.

Until very recently, I jolted every time I heard the word “Islamic” and
“terrorism” lumped so intimately. While new extremist discourses gained
prominence following the 9/11 attacks against the United States and the
disastrous American interventions in Iraq and Afghanistan, this discourse now
overshadows the Islam of my childhood.

An evolving nightmare for the world in general and Muslims in particular, from
Al Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan, to Al Shabaab in Somalia, Boko Haram in
Nigeria, and the newest extremist group of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria
(ISIS) now dictate our lens towards Muslims and Islam.

Muslims are the primary victims of these groups’ wrath, all of us numb
spectators of the daily slaughtering of innocent civilians. Just over the last
three weeks, we saw Boko Haram’s massacre of over 50 people in Nigeria, [ISIS’
beheading of Khaled al-Asaad](https://www.cnn.com/2015/08/18/middleeast/isis-
executes-antiquities-expert/), an 82-year-old Syrian scholar, the bombing of
hotels by [Al Shabaab in
Mogadishu](https://www.cnn.com/2015/07/26/africa/somalia-jazeera-hotel-
attack/) with dozens of victims, as well as bombing of busses, an airport and
other public sites by the Taliban in Afghanistan.

Though the groups executing these atrocities represent an extreme in their
readings of Islam, a less brutal but still potent literal interpretation of
Islam is also spreading around the world. This trend translates to the demise
of varying contextualized flavors of a dynamic Islam that accommodated
differences in culture and history.

Islam as an organic text that adapted to the socio-economic and environmental
needs of particular peoples (Somali nomadic women’s earlier dress choices
adapted for the need to work, build huts, load camels with newborn goats,
children, the elderly, for example) is now replaced by prescriptive Islamic
interpretation that is policed by individuals and at times militant groups.

The non-dogmatic reading of Islam that I grew up with, religion as an
identifier of who people are and not what they do _per se_ , is now under
assault (i.e. the destruction of Sufi and Shia shrines with the intention to
erase centuries of social, cultural and historical worldviews).

Islam in the majority of the Muslim world, through new technologies and
charity with petrodollars, is increasingly defined in rigid terms. The
yardstick used by Al Qaeda, ISIS, Al Shabaab and Boko Haram, not only towards
women but also towards religious minorities, politics and history is informed
by an uncompromising dogma that is alien to most of us who were born in
Muslim-majority societies.

My sense of whirling like a dervish in making sense of the schizophrenic
identity crisis of Muslims everywhere at this beginning of the 21st century is
due to the current condition of the Muslim world.

Saying that a dismal number of Muslims engage in terrorism does little to
change the enduring damage inflicted on Islam and Muslims everywhere. This
brutal minority has become the de facto defining feature of the Islamic world,
not only driving European and American political and military interventions in
the Muslim world, but also anchoring the rhetoric of dictatorial leaders in
all Muslim-majority countries. The fight against “Islamic” movements is not
only on the agenda on America’s War on Terror, but that of Egypt, Libya,
Nigeria, Somalia, Tunisia, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Afghanistan and Pakistan.

My fear and the fear of many Muslims around the world is that Islam’s standing
is severely damaged and the Islam of our childhood might as well belong to
another era. Confusion, shame and victimhood might define the future memories
of Muslim children, with the binary of “Islamist militants” and “moderate
Muslims” permanently tainting both groups for generations to come.

It will require a revolutionary Muslim introspection to reclaim Islam for
future generations. Such introspection would not only reject and mobilize
against extremists’ fossilized and doomed version of Islam but also against
Western-backed brutal dictatorial regimes in the Islamic world that use the
war on terror to terrorize their own citizens as well as Western neo-imperial
policies and projects.

[More from African Voices](http://edition.cnn.com/specials/africa/african-
voices)
