title: An Algorithm for the Names at the 9/11 Memorial : The New Yorker
source: http://www.newyorker.com/talk/2011/05/16/110516ta_talk_paumgarten?printable=true
date: 2025-08-13T20:35:49.926968
tags: []
---
As long as it took to find and kill Osama bin Laden after the terrorist
attacks on New York and Washington, it has taken even longer to commemorate
the thousands he killed. The National September 11 Memorial & Museum, down at
Ground Zero, remains unfinished. Whether this reflects some discrepancy in
degree of difficulty depends on how you measure the relative impracticability
of Central Asian manhunts and New York City building projects. Each requires
the coöperation of quarrelsome agencies and constituents; the Port Authority
alone, with its shadowy tribal customs, is a kind of bureaucratic Peshawar.

Nonetheless, last week, a few hours before President Obama paid a visit to
Ground Zero, Joe Daniels, the president of the foundation in charge of the
memorial, speaking at an Association for a Better New York breakfast downtown,
pronounced that the memorial will be open to the public on the day after the
attacks’ tenth anniversary, four months hence. Like Administration officials
recounting the milestones in the bin Laden search, Daniels enumerated some of
the now surmounted obstacles. The big break in the case, it turns out, was the
invention of an algorithm for sorting the dead.

In 2004, Afghanistan had a new constitution, bin Laden had a new videotape,
and the 9/11 memorial had a new architect, Michael Arad, whose winning design,
“Reflecting Absence,” consisted of two cascading pools in the footprints of
the Twin Towers, and, ringing these pools, a parapet of bronze panels
inscribed with the names of the dead. Arad began to consider ways to arrange
them. He ruled out an alphabetical distribution. “Having one pool be A-L and
the other M-Z—that didn’t feel right,” Arad said last week. Also, there were,
for example, two men named Michael Francis Lynch, and it seemed off, both
graphically and emotionally, to have their names appear side by side. A
chronological order made no sense, either, considering the manner in which
people died. Whichever system he thought of—by workplace, by floor or seat
number—seemed to favor some people over others.

In 2006, Mayor Bloomberg, who had become chairman of the foundation, suggested
that people be loosely grouped according to their location that day. And so
Arad created nine categories. Around the south pool, he’d list everyone who
died in the South Tower and at the Pentagon, along with the first responders
and the passengers on Flights 175, 77, and 93. Around the north pool would be
those who died in the North Tower and on the plane that crashed into it, along
with the six who died in the first World Trade Center attack, in 1993.

But how to group these? Arad and Daniels settled on the idea of a distribution
that would seem random, reflecting the chaotic and arbitrary nature of the
event itself, but that would have some kind of underlying logic, reflecting
the bonds that preceded or came of it. “One of the biggest messages of the
memorial and the museum is that the people who got up and did whatever they
did that morning, and then died doing it, were no different from the rest of
us,” Daniels said. “They were us, we are them.” In 2009, the foundation sent
out letters to the victims’ families, soliciting “meaningful adjacencies”—that
is, the names of others with whom each victim should be listed.

“It was a big risk,” Arad said. “We didn’t know we’d actually be able to do
this.”

By the end of that year, the foundation had received twelve hundred requests
for adjacencies (and these didn’t include the self-contained adjacencies, such
as, say, Ladder Company 7 or Cantor Fitzgerald, which, with six hundred and
fifty-eight names, represented the biggest, and most challenging, adjacency
block of them all). The reasons for these requests were varied. Sometimes the
victims were cohorts, or best friends. In other cases, the families knew, from
last phone calls, whom their loved ones had been with in the end—in an
elevator, on a ledge—and wanted those people listed together. A same-sex
couple and their three-year-old son all perished on Flight 175; their names,
certainly, belonged together. One woman, Angela Houtz, died in the Pentagon,
in a conference room with seven others coördinating a response to the attacks
in New York. Her mother requested that Angela be listed with these seven.
Another woman, Abigail Ross Goodman, lost her best friend, who’d been on the
ninety-sixth floor of the North Tower, when Flight 11, with her father aboard,
crashed into it—a meaningful adjacency, to be sure.

Arad arranged the requests using index cards. Each pairing set off a chain
reaction, the strings of connection growing ever more tangled and frayed.
There were two thousand nine hundred and eighty-two names. The deeper he and
his staff got into this puzzle, the more complex it became, especially in
light of the aesthetic requirements: for example, he didn’t want names lining
up evenly atop each other, lest there be gutters between them. He had to
factor in the number of letters in each name. He had to consider the leading.

At a certain point, the foundation recognized that this job could use the
assistance of a computer. Even so, the first few computer scientists and
statisticians the foundation got in touch with said that it couldn’t be done.
“It really did seem insurmountable,” Daniels recalled. But then his chief of
staff called Jake Barton, the principal at the media-design firm Local
Projects, who took on the assignment, and, with a data artist named Jer Thorp,
designed an algorithm that could sort the names in keeping with all the
overlapping requests. Before long, they had a distribution designed to please
everyone, including Arad.

“It was a computer-science problem, but it was also a big, crazy typography
problem,” Barton said last week. As a spatial puzzle, it also owed a little
bit to the so-called “knapsack problem” in mathematics, which involves trying
to optimize the fit of irregularly shaped or weighted objects in a backpack.
Their solution was really a combination of algorithms, which they called the
Names Arrangement. A graphic representation of the computational armature,
color-coded on a laptop screen, brings to mind Tetris, but the sight of the
names themselves, inscribed in bronze, linked together by happenstance and
blood, calculus and font size, is a little like the faint silhouette of a
cosmic plan, or else of the total absence of one. ♦
