title: Opinion | The Elusive Big Idea - The New York Times
source: http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/14/opinion/sunday/the-elusive-big-idea.html?_r=1&pagewanted=all
date: 2025-08-13T20:39:38.204961
tags: []
---
We prefer knowing to thinking because knowing has more immediate value. It
keeps us in the loop, keeps us connected to our friends and our cohort. Ideas
are too airy, too impractical, too much work for too little reward. Few talk
ideas. Everyone talks information, usually personal information. Where are you
going? What are you doing? Whom are you seeing? These are today’s big
questions.

It is certainly no accident that the post-idea world has sprung up alongside
the social networking world. Even though there are sites and blogs dedicated
to ideas, Twitter, Facebook, Myspace, Flickr, etc., the most popular sites on
the Web, are basically information exchanges, designed to feed the insatiable
information hunger, though this is hardly the kind of information that
generates ideas. It is largely useless except insofar as it makes the
possessor of the information feel, well, informed. Of course, one could argue
that these sites are no different than conversation was for previous
generations, and that conversation seldom generated big ideas either, and one
would be right.

BUT the analogy isn’t perfect. For one thing, social networking sites are the
primary form of communication among young people, and they are supplanting
print, which is where ideas have typically gestated. For another, social
networking sites engender habits of mind that are inimical to the kind of
deliberate discourse that gives rise to ideas. Instead of theories, hypotheses
and grand arguments, we get instant 140-character tweets about eating a
sandwich or watching a TV show. While social networking may enlarge one’s
circle and even introduce one to strangers, this is not the same thing as
enlarging one’s intellectual universe. Indeed, the gab of social networking
tends to shrink one’s universe to oneself and one’s friends, while thoughts
organized in words, whether online or on the page, enlarge one’s focus.

To paraphrase the famous dictum, often attributed to Yogi Berra, that you
can’t think and hit at the same time, you can’t think and tweet at the same
time either, not because it is impossible to multitask but because tweeting,
which is largely a burst of either brief, unsupported opinions or brief
descriptions of your own prosaic activities, is a form of distraction or anti-
thinking.

The implications of a society that no longer thinks big are enormous. Ideas
aren’t just intellectual playthings. They have practical effects.

An artist friend of mine recently lamented that he felt the art world was
adrift because there were no longer great critics like Harold Rosenberg and
Clement Greenberg to provide theories of art that could fructify the art and
energize it. Another friend made a similar argument about politics. While the
parties debate how much to cut the budget, he wondered where were the John
Rawlses and Robert Nozicks who could elevate our politics.

One could certainly make the same argument about economics, where John Maynard
Keynes remains the center of debate nearly 80 years after propounding his
theory of government pump priming. This isn’t to say that the successors of
Rosenberg, Rawls and Keynes don’t exist, only that if they do, they are not
likely to get traction in a culture that has so little use for ideas,
especially big, exciting, dangerous ones, and that’s true whether the ideas
come from academics or others who are not part of elite organizations and who
challenge the conventional wisdom. All thinkers are victims of information
glut, and the ideas of today’s thinkers are also victims of that glut.
