title: J. Kenji López-Alt Is Cooking Up a New Kind of Perfection | GQ
source: https://www.gq.com/story/gq-hype-kenji-lopez-alt
date: 2025-08-13T15:28:36.367832
tags: []
---
_GQ Hype: It's the big story of right now._

* * *

**I know this kitchen** : the range with its broken starters. The worn gray
kitchen mat in its vaguely Arabic lattice print. The hideaway pantry shelves
that slide out on smooth casters, like the archive stacks in a library. The
brick wall of knives of every size, shape, and provenance. Aside from the key
light and miniature camera hanging above the stove, those knives are the only
obvious sign that this is anything more than your average, nicely appointed
kitchen on a hilly, tree-lined Seattle street—that it is, in fact, the
domestic and professional headquarters of J. Kenji López-Alt.

It is quite possible that you know the kitchen too, or at least its output.
It’s where López-Alt shoots _Kenji’s Cooking Show,_ the YouTube series he
launched in April 2020, which quickly amassed 1.1 million subscribers. It’s
the place where, for the past year and a half, he has tested and developed
recipes for his _New York Times_ column and the articles he writes for Serious
Eats, the food site where he got his start and for which he remains a culinary
consultant. More recently, this is where he perfected the ideas and the dishes
featured in his new cookbook, _The Wok: Recipes and Techniques_ , the follow-
up to his massively successful debut, _The Food Lab,_ of which there are now a
million copies in print. He takes most of his own food photos here too. In the
dining room next door, there’s a stack of digitally printed fake tabletops,
for the purposes of shooting finished dishes, usually by the diffuse Pacific
Northwest sunlight coming in the window. When López-Alt’s hands are required
for a shot, his five-year-old daughter is on shutter duty.

If you’re conversant with the behavior of protein strands in eggs; if you have
strong opinions about the varying heat-transfer properties of cast iron and
carbon steel; if you have reverse-seared your prime rib or blasted pretty much
anything besides crème brûlée with a culinary torch, chances are you owe a
debt to López-Alt’s kitchen. (Not incidental to his popularity has been his
suggestion that the virtues of learning about food and feeding your loved ones
are best achieved by buying a home flamethrower.) In this home kitchen, and
previous iterations in New York and Northern California, López-Alt has spent a
decade and a half influencing and changing how America cooks and thinks about
food.

On this morning, López-Alt pads around the kitchen in socks, hair in a small
topknot, preparing to shoot an episode of _Kenji’s Cooking Show_. Despite his
YouTube success—he has six times as many subscribers as, say, Alison Roman,
and more than twice as many as the entire _New York Times_ Cooking
channel—López-Alt takes an assiduously casual approach to the show, shooting
episodes only when the spirit moves. “The rule is that it has to be something
I was already cooking for my family, and I have to be alone in the house,” he
says of the videos, for which he accepts no sponsorships, relying on YouTube
ad sales for revenue. “To me, it has to remain a fun side project.”

Otherwise, López-Alt (whose wife, Adriana, is a digital cryptographer and
principal security engineer at Square) enforces a strict two-day work week:
Thursdays he takes his daughter out of school; this winter they’ve usually
gone skiing. Mondays and Wednesdays he spends with his newborn son. He builds
wooden shelves. He practices piano. All the while, his YouTube “side project”
has brought in around $200,000 in the past year.
