title: Barack Obama has a plan for the Trump era | Vox
source: http://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2017/3/13/14750528/barack-obama-trump-post-presidency
date: 2025-08-13T17:28:32.966854
tags: []
---
In the cafes of New York City and the offices of Chicago, blue America seeks
his wisdom like he’s a prophet or a sage. What should we do? they ask. Show us
the path.

He likes to respond with a joke — a dad joke.

“Well, you could move to Wyoming or North Dakota,” Barack Obama has taken to
telling city liberals, according to one of his senior aides.

Since leaving the White House, Obama has publicly embraced the traditionally
apolitical role of most former American presidents. “He’s been looking forward
to a life without the title of president that automatically draws resistance
and the Pavlovian response of opposition,” says one adviser close to Obama.
“As a former president, you are liberated from that baggage and can reach
people in a way that’s not so political.”

But even as Obama tries to transcend partisanship, his jokes suggest political
aims. This is the tension that already dominates his post-presidency, as
revealed by interviews with six current and former aides to the former
president: Obama wants to rise above the partisan muck, but he’s also eager to
accomplish goals that are inescapably political in nature.

His team has a workaround. Obama’s aides say he believes that if he can take
politically neutral steps to improve democracy — by bringing people together
through “civic engagement,” or by giving grassroots activists the tools for
community organizing — then _that_ will change the political landscape that
culminated in Donald Trump’s election, while also keeping Obama himself above
the fray.

Critics to his left and right say this theory is riddled with contradictions.
They note that it has left Obama largely silent as Trump hacks away at his
signature achievements, while simultaneously working behind the scenes to
thwart a branch of activists in his own party.

What may be even more perplexing, critics say, is that Obama is still chasing
the mirage of a nonpartisan solution to America’s political crisis, after
eight years of failing to find it in the White House.

But Obama thinks he has a model for success. And it begins with his wife.

## The FLOTUS model: or, why Barack Obama will not be leading the resistance

Photo by Jack Gruber-Pool/Getty Images

Michelle Obama came into the White House beset by criticism, reviled by the
far right for a speech in which she appeared to criticize the country’s
history.

She left the White House not just one of the most popular Democrats but among
the [most popular political figures in the
country](http://www.gallup.com/poll/202349/president-obama-leaves-white-house-
favorable-rating.aspx). Somewhere along the way, the first lady executed a
series of relatively low-profile initiatives — on things like nutrition and
girls’ education — that the president views as high-impact. She succeeded, he
believes, in part because those issues didn’t become as polarized as they
would have if the president had embraced them, according to one senior
adviser.

Michelle Obama didn’t rely on political support on Capitol Hill, billions of
dollars in the federal budget, or the vast apparatus of the White House to
achieve her goals. Instead, aides say, the former president thinks she had
roughly the same assets as first lady as he has in his post-presidency — the
bully pulpit, an ability to convene experts and CEOs and top minds from around
the world, and the freedom to not have to drag along a Senate majority every
step of the way.

That model, as Obama envisions it, appears to require him avoiding the public
resistance movement against Trump. Obama views it as a priority to not get
dragged down into a personal back and forth with the current president, or to
openly criticize the Republican Party, six aides to the president said in
separate interviews. Even when Trump asserted without proof that his
predecessor had “wiretapped” Trump Tower, Obama relied on an aide to knock
down the charge in a statement rather than speak out publicly himself.

“It’s a return to the president’s core principle of grassroots activism. That
principle is going to be what drives a lot of his activity in the post-
presidency,” says Eric Schultz, an Obama adviser.

This plan partly springs from tradition. One aide argued that Obama takes
seriously the norm of presidents not criticizing their successors, and pointed
to the president’s pride at turning over control of the White House smoothly.
In part, it stems from Obama’s desire to allow other Democratic Party leaders
to fill the void being left by his departure from the scene.

But this is also Obama getting back to his brand. In 2004, he rose to national
stardom due to a speech in which he talked about the essential similarity of
red and blue America. In his first term as president, he [made a point of
going to meetings with conservative pundits to dispel the
“myth”](http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2012/01/30/the-obama-memos) that
“the two political parties were impossibly divided on the big issues
confronting America,” as the New Yorker’s Ryan Lizza wrote at the time.

Toward the end of his second term, with political polarization still very much
intact, Obama grew [increasingly
comfortable](http://www.vox.com/2014/8/6/5974807/the-deep-irony-of-barack-
obamas-presidency-in-one-sentence) abandoning those ideals to push his
governing agenda (by unilaterally issuing an executive order on immigration
widely loathed by Republicans, for instance). His time outside of the White
House now offers him a second chance at those aspirations, even if analysts
don’t give him much shot at faring any better this time.

But there’s a big difference between Obama’s aims and his wife’s: she
carefully chose noncontroversial issues, like nutrition, while many of his
aims and concerns, particularly post-Trump, are naturally polarizing. Obama’s
post-presidency will involve leading an an attack with [former Attorney
General Eric Holder on Republican
gerrymandering](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/11/us/eric-holder-to-lead-
democrats-attack-on-republican-gerrymandering.html), encouraging young
progressive political talent, and shaping the Democratic Party — all of which
threaten his simultaneous desire to rise above messy partisan politics.

“In their post-presidencies, we often see presidents trying to compensate for
weaknesses or failings in their record,” says Emory University political
scientist Alan Abramowitz. “It looks like he’s going back to that original
idea of hoping to rise above the fray. I just don’t think it has much of a
chance of working.”

## Can the Obama Foundation fix politics without “being political”?

Barack and Michelle Obama are still in “the embryonic stages” of deciding
exactly what to do with their new post-presidential futures, one aide said.
There’s some discussion of having them lead a big push against climate change,
for instance.

Their biggest push will be the Obama Foundation, which is also in charge of
creating Obama’s presidential library. It fits the president’s FLOTUS model of
being scrupulously apolitical — but would likely also have repercussions that
quite clearly are political, and may quickly be politicized.

That internal contradiction is already bubbling to the surface. Among the
foundation’s goals, for instance, are figuring out to how give grassroots
organizers and young people the tools to convene meetings or rally around a
cause. (For now, the foundation’s website, Obama.org, is
[soliciting](https://www.obama.org/your-voice/) stories from Americans about
“what it means to be a good citizen.” It will announce exactly what these
programs are at a later date.)

“It will be a living, working center for citizenship,” says Amy Brundage,
former White House deputy communications director and now an Obama Foundation
official.

Adds Mitch Stewart, the battleground states director for President Obama’s
2012 reelection campaign and the first director of Organizing for America: “He
wants to try to provide an environment similar to the one he had when he did
community organizing, because it provided him the tools to be a success in
public life.”

Praising “citizenship” has been Obama’s go-to move since Trump’s election. His
farewell address called “participation ... each of us accepting the
responsibility of citizenship” the foundation of the American republic,
without which the Constitution would be meaningless. After [protests erupted
against Trump’s “Muslim ban” in
January](http://www.politico.com/story/2017/01/obama-supports-protests-
american-values-are-at-stake-234375), Obama released a statement that he was
“heartened by the level of engagement taking place in communities around the
country” and by “citizens exercising their Constitutional right to assemble.”

Obama’s conception of citizenship is pluralistic — he
[says](http://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2017/1/10/14229878/full-
transcript-president-barack-obama-farewell-speech) it must “start with the
premise that each of our fellow citizens loves this country just as much as we
do,” and that it hinges on “presuming a reservoir of goodness in others.”

That doesn’t amount to defining the job of a citizen as voting for the
Democratic Party. But Trump supporters have been quick to note that Obama’s
encouragement of civic engagement and grassroots activism may have political
consequences nonetheless. To them, doing so is already a violation of the
hands-off tradition of former presidents. (President Bush didn’t openly
encourage the Tea Party town halls held to protest Obamacare in 2010, for
instance.)

“Obama’s trying to have it both ways — to appear presidential and nonpartisan,
and at the same time agitating the grassroots level,” says Roger Stone, a
former adviser to Trump, in an interview. “What I think Obama is doing is
publicly trying to appear above the fray while quietly working behind the
scenes.”

And on the other side, Obama invites the exact opposite criticism —
progressives to the president’s left wonder if his silence wrongly validates
Trump while his fundraising will also siphon critical resources away from
those who are willing to engage in open combat against the current president.
(The cost of Obama’s [library alone is expected to balloon to more than $1
billion](http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/opinion/commentary/ct-obama-
presidential-library-chicago-perspec-0510-jm-20160509-story.html).)

“The president should be doing exactly what everyone else in the Democratic
Party should be doing: following the resistance, fighting back against Trump,
or getting out of the way,” says Charles Chamberlain, executive director of
the left-leaning advocacy group Democracy for America.

“Planned Parenthood, the ACLU, millions of American across the country —
they’re all out there desperately trying to protect the institutions of
American democracy,” he says. “I hope Obama can look at that and say, ‘It’s
time I followed along.’”

The president encouraged DNC members to vote for Michael Blake. Blake was
elected DNC vice chair in Atlanta last weekend. Photo by Leigh Vogel/Getty
Images for Concordia Summit

On at least one political front, Obama has stayed deeply engaged: He worked
the phones to help tip the race for chair of the Democratic National
Committee.

Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN) had sewn up the endorsements of dozens of state
Democratic Party chairs in his campaign against Obama Labor Secretary Tom
Perez. Ellison had won most of the congressional endorsements, including those
of the party’s senior leadership. He had the strong support of Bernie Sanders
and his progressive fans.

Obama helped Perez overcome all that. Perez’s staff produced a list of every
voting member of the Democratic National Committee and the issue they thought
was most important to him or her. They sent it to Obama’s team.

The White House veterans quickly drew up a plan, going through the list and
deciding who in the former president’s orbit was best suited to winning over
each DNC voting member, sources close to the president said. In the weeks
before February’s election in Atlanta, Valerie Jarrett, David Simas, and
Paulette Aniskoff — three longtime Obama political aides — lobbied individual
DNC members. For others, former Vice President Joe Biden filled in.

“If Obama was the only one who could make a difference,” says one aide to the
former president, “then he’d be the one to call.”

Before he entered the DNC race, Perez spoke with Obama several times about why
he should run. Obama personally argued that Perez was particularly qualified
to win back onetime Obama voters who then supported Trump in November,
according to one aide.

Ellison requested a meeting with the president, but never got it, according to
two sources.

Observers have been mystified by the Obama White House’s decision to spark a
Democratic Party civil war over the DNC chair race so soon after its
clobbering in November. After all, most agree that Ellison and Perez are
similarly progressive — and [that there didn’t seem to be any real substantial
gaps in their strategies](http://www.vox.com/2017/1/3/14084382/keith-ellison-
dnc-chair) for fixing the Democratic Party.

Obama aides say the intervention was related to the former president’s
reluctance to openly criticize Trump. By helping ensure a close ally like
Perez is running the DNC, they said, Obama felt like he was liberating himself
from having to personally respond to Trump over the next several years.

Obama, in other words, was trying to extricate himself from the partisan fray
— but by taking action in the DNC race that risked antagonizing his own
party’s base.

It’s not clear it worked.

“Going out of his way to find a challenger to Keith Ellison, who was the
consensus candidate and a hero of the progressive grassroots, was selfish and
counterproductive,” says Adam Green, co-founder of the left-wing organization
the Progressive Change Campaign Committee.

Some liberals, though, are lining up for Obama’s advice. Often, he’s giving
it.

## Obama’s team is structuring the personnel and policy of the Democratic
Party

Photo by Jonathan Ernst-Pool/Getty Images

A few days after Trump’s inauguration, about 15 Obama aides began moving their
supplies into a one-floor office less than 2 miles from the White House.

The Obamas themselves first visited the space in the first week of February.
One staffer keeps a sketch of the White House South Lawn near his desk, next
to a football adorned with the presidential seal. The former president’s
personal office is located right down the hall from the first lady’s. Visitors
are greeted with a sign painted in black lettering, “Welcome to the Office of
President Obama,” ringed with handprints in green, red, and blue. The kitchen
is stocked with Girl Scout cookies.

“It feels a bit like campaign office meets startup,” one staffer says.

The analogy speaks to the uncertainty about what exactly Obama’s team has been
assembled to do.

The Obama office is stocked with key Democratic talent, such as Cody Keenan,
the president’s speechwriter; Anita Decker Breckenridge, his former deputy
chief of staff; and Caroline Adler Morales, the first lady’s communications
director.

His team has been in talks with the offices of House Minority Leader Nancy
Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer about once a week, one source
said. They are also “in regular touch” with officials at the DNC, the Center
for American Progress, the Democratic Governors Association, and several other
progressive groups.

When Trump [announced a new regulatory
freeze](http://thehill.com/regulation/administration/316585-trumps-regulatory-
freeze-goes-further-than-obamas) on January 29, for instance, Obama aides
provided congressional Democrats with information about a similar order he had
issued in 2009. They monitor, and sometimes challenge, Trump’s accusations in
the news.

On Tuesday night, the Huffington Post
[reported](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/obama-trump-
engagement_us_58bde6fde4b0d8c45f45f782?t6dr807qn43kawcdi) about this crew of
Obama aides assembled in DC’s West End, with a headline declaring that Obama
has a “bite your tongue policy on Trump.” A few hours later, a different
headline based on the same reporting [materialized on
Breitbart](http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2017/03/07/obama-deploying-
dozen-strong-team-to-keep-tabs-on-trump-administration/), this time laden with
ominous undertones: “Obama deploying dozen-strong team to ‘keep tabs’ on Trump
administration.”

Just a couple of days earlier, Obama aides were stressing to me that the exact
same office the Huffington Post and Breitbart were arguing over would itself
be searching for ways to solve the partisan media echo chamber that so worries
the president.

“Getting back to people talking to each other even if they fundamentally
disagree is something he’s very interested in, particularly in this on-demand
media environment where people gravitate toward their corners,” one aide said.
“He’s very curious: How do we change that?”

Added another, when discussing their goals for the Obama Foundation: “You’ll
find spaces where independents and Republicans can engage on this issue.”

It’s the essential question for Obama. Should the president worry about
appearing too partisan to his opponents? Or is it more important for him to be
forthcoming to his supporters about what he believes?

Ben Wikler, head of MoveOn.org, says Obama’s current approach is smart: Try to
allow new voices to come to the fore, while subtly trying to look for ways to
fuel the forces of the opposition.

“The real action now — the most powerful force in politics today — is the
millions of people marching and demonstrating and demanding the protection of
their health care,” Wikler says. “Recognizing that power comes from below — as
opposed to oracular pronouncements from former officials — is a shrewd
recognition. One reason Obamacare has become so popular is that it’s being
seen as ‘care’ rather than ‘Obama.’ But that requires him getting out of the
picture.”

But to others, Obama’s approach merely underscores the core failing not just
of his post-presidency but of his entire political career.

“We got into the weakest position in decades through Obama’s attempt to live
in a post-partisan world that doesn’t exist,” says Chamberlain, of DFA.

Even some neutral observers think this may be the wrong moment for Obama’s
diligent avoidance of the partisan fray. “We can’t get to the point where we
have these bipartisan or transpartisan discussions until Democrats win some
elections — because nothing else is going to stop this juggernaut on the
right,” says Theda Skocpol, a Harvard political scientist.

Democrats will get their first chance to cut into the Republican congressional
majority next month, when a special election is held in Georgia’s Sixth
Congressional District, to replace current Health and Human Services Secretary
Tom Price.

The leading Democratic candidate is Jon Ossoff, a former congressional aide.
His campaign has not yet heard from Obama.
