title: Layoff Brain - by Anne Helen Petersen - Culture Study
source: https://annehelen.substack.com/p/layoff-brain
date: 2025-08-13T15:24:07.588993
tags: []
---
_**Have you been meaning to subscribe and keep telling yourself you’ll do it
the next time you’re at your computer or near your wallet or or or….** I get
it, I absolutely get it. But if you have the means,[ consider paying for the
things that have become important to
you](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://annehelen.substack.com/subscribe?utm_medium=web&utm_source=subscribe-
widgethttps://annehelen.substack.com/subscribe?utm_medium=web&utm_source=subscribe-
widget).****(If you don’t have the means, as always, you can just email me and
I’ll comp you, no questions asked). Subscriptions make work like this
possible._

**Back in the summer of 2020** , I quit what was ostensibly a very good job in
media to write this newsletter full-time. I didn’t do it for money. I didn’t
do it because I didn’t like editors (I had excellent ones, whom I appreciated
deeply). I did it because I had Layoff Brain.

At that point, I’d been at BuzzFeed for six years. I was hired at the
beginning of what would become a massive hiring spree, as BuzzFeed expanded
mightily into news, lifestyle, and video content. It felt like being on a
garishly painted rocket ship. Yes, I had to spend a fair amount of time
explaining to people that BuzzFeed was more than listicles. But I also had a
decent reporting budget, a lot of leeway in what to write about, and — at
least after the first rumblings of unionization — a salary that had been
“leveled” to meet industry standards.

The problem was: BuzzFeed kept changing its strategy, its focus, its _pivot_.
Facebook Video, long-form video, quizzes, longform journalism, no-wait-no-
more-longform-journalism, no wait Investigative Journalism, no wait less of
that and more Tasty. The company was and is a digital media company, which is
another way of saying that it uses its placement within the journalism
industry to mask or at least distract from some of its most egregious,
obnoxious, or otherwise nonsensical start-up behaviors. I watched entire
departments unceremoniously let go because they weren’t making enough money,
even though the company had openly refused attempts to monetize their content.
I saw re-org after re-org, double-downs and retractions, the cutting of
essential components of the publishing process (copyediting! design!) down to
the barest essentials, and horribly handled nightmares of layoff
notifications. And again, that was just in six years. Every time, I wondered
if my department was next.

When I started at BuzzFeed, I had been in academia for nine years. I knew what
it felt like to wake up every morning with an anxious pit of despair about
your future employment. None of the precarity of digital media was new to me;
in fact, it meshed seamlessly with the lessons I’d internalized graduating
into the aftermath of the Dot-Com burst and watching the Great Recession
decimate the academic landscape. None of this was unique to me, either. “My
relationship with my work is one of mistrust,” one millennial worker
[told](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://gen.medium.com/the-
generation-shaped-by-layoffs-e735ef79aa1f) Clio Chang in 2020. “I have very
little trust for the system and for people running systems.”

We knew to expect nothing, to trust no company, to rely on no promised path.
It was exhausting, but what other choice did we have? At least I had a job, if
an utterly insecure one.

When the pandemic hit, BuzzFeed quickly addressed anticipated revenue declines
with stark cuts, including significant layoffs in News. The BuzzFeed News
Union (which, at that point, was still unrecognized by leadership) worked
tirelessly to come up with a plan that would preserve as many jobs as
possible. We traded layoffs for across-the-board decreases in salary — a trade
I’d make again. Some managers fell on their swords and resigned to save
members of their teams.

Layoffs are the worst for the people who lose their job, but there’s a ripple
effect on those who keep them — particularly if they keep them over the course
of multiple layoffs. It’s a curious mix of guilt, relief, trepidation, and
anger. Are you supposed to be grateful to the company whose primary leadership
strategy seems to be keeping its workers trapped in fear? How do you trust
your manager’s assurances of security further than the end of the next pay
period? If the company actually “wishes the best” for the employees it let go,
why wouldn’t they fucking recognize the union whose animating goal was to
create a modicum of security for when the next layoff arrived, as we all knew
it would?

Leaving to write your own Substack might not seem like more security than a
features writing gig at a multi-million dollar company, but if I was going to
have a fickle overlord in control of my destiny, I decided I’d rather play
that role myself. I feel more secure writing Culture Study than I did at
BuzzFeed, but I live, save, and cultivate side gigs as if the bottom can and
will drop out at any moment. You could call this good business sense, or you
could call it the strategy of a brain irrevocably shaped by the Great
Recession, academia, and digital media layoff culture. A millennial brain, but
also, I’d argue, a boomer brain, a Gen-X brain, and now — a Gen-Z brain. And
just because hundreds of thousands of other people share that posture doesn’t
mean it has to be this way.

* * *

**In case you haven’t heard** , we’re in a recession. Actually we’re not, but
we’ve spent the last year talking about how we will be, which has the effect
of altering behavior as if we were. Even if you’ve come to terms with the
fundamental irrationality of the stock market, it’s still difficult to fight
the feeling that CEOs are _willing this recession into existence_ to create a
justifying narrative for layoffs. Not because they necessarily want to save
money, or even redirect the company, but to press reset on what they view as
out-of-control compensation packages and worker demands.

After more than a decade of hiring sprees and bidding wars for talent, these
actions have been labeled a sort of natural, totally expected “course
correction.” And some of that argument makes sense. But it’s also a very
convenient way of (re)instilling fear in the workforce.

To be clear, I’m not contesting the existence of decreased earnings reports. I
am, however, contesting the near-universally accepted belief that layoffs are
the natural response to decreased earnings reports —  _particularly_ for
companies with significant cash resources. Dr. Jeffrey Pfeffer, a professor at
the Stanford Graduate School of Business, has studied the psychology of
layoffs for the last forty years, and argues convincingly that layoffs do not
actually cut costs, or increase stock prices, or increase productivity.

“Layoffs do not solve what is often the underlying problem, which is often an
ineffective strategy, a loss of market share, or too little revenue,” he
[explained](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://news.stanford.edu/2022/12/05/explains-
recent-tech-layoffs-worried/?utm_source=pocket_reader). “Layoffs are basically
a bad decision.” (Click on the link for more of the explanation, with lots of
citations, if you don’t buy it)

What _do_ layoffs do? First off, they cost money: in severance packages and
unemployment insurance, but also reduced productivity and innovation. They
also destroy trust, as Harvard Business School professor Sandra J. Sucher and
research associate Marilyn Morgan Westner [point
out](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://hbr.org/2022/12/what-
companies-still-get-wrong-about-
layoffs#:~:text=Employees%20who%20survive%20the%20layoff,and%20overwork%20can%20reduce%20innovation.),
and increase anxiety and disengagement. “[Post-layoff
underperformance](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://hbr.org/2022/12/what-
companies-still-get-wrong-about-
layoffs#:~:text=Employees%20who%20survive%20the%20layoff,and%20overwork%20can%20reduce%20innovation.)”
is very real.

All of that makes sense. And yet, some companies really do seem to believe
that layoffs goad remaining workers to grind harder or whatever ridiculous
phrase we’re using for working all the damn time — and yes, for employees with
the potential to lose everything (like, say, their employment visa) if they
lost a job, that can happen. But those desperately grinding employees will
eventually burn out, and you’ll either lose them to another company…or their
skills (precision, creativity, ability to collaborate) will diminish.

As for the rest of the workforce, maybe they wish they could churn themselves
into a sliver of imagined stability, but they’re too busy fighting intrusive
thoughts regarding their own instability. It’s hard to be productive when you
spend days at a time backchanneling, hodgepodging your department back
together, accustoming yourself to new org charts and workflows and desk
locations, and just generally internalizing the demonstrated logic of your
organization: that layoffs can happen without warning, in seemingly irrational
and surprising and untargeted ways, and there is no way to protect yourself
from the next wave. Might as well start quietly building your life raft.

Recent articles in the _[New York
Times](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/20/technology/tech-
layoffs-millennials-gen-x.html)_ , [the
BBC](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://www.bbc.com/worklife/article/20230113-the-
workers-laid-off-for-the-first-time), and the _[Seattle
Times](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://www.seattletimes.com/opinion/as-
layoffs-mount-nervous-gen-z-grads-rethink-big-tech-jobs/)_[
](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://www.seattletimes.com/opinion/as-
layoffs-mount-nervous-gen-z-grads-rethink-big-tech-jobs/)have suggested that
Gen-Z and younger millennials are simply getting their first (adult) taste of
what older millennials and Gen-Xers have come to understand as the norm: of
_course_ you’re going to get laid off from your job. One 48-year-old engineer,
recently laid off from Coinbase, told the _New York Times_ that since his
first tech layoff, back in 2003, he’s always asked himself: “If I were laid
off, what would I do?” By contrast, a recruiter for Meta continually “assured
colleagues that their jobs were safe, pointing to the more than $40 billion in
cash the company had in the bank.” She was laid off in November.

My first impulse is to congratulate the Gen-X engineer on his lifeboat
strategy and tell the Meta recruiter that _obviously_ _everyone knows_ that
the amount of _profits_ your company is _banking_ means _absolutely nothing_
when it comes to job security. But even just typing that feels ridiculous.
Workers have been socialized to [absorb the risk previously shouldered by
corporations](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://politicalscience.yale.edu/publications/great-
risk-shift-new-economic-insecurity-and-decline-american-dream), including and
especially the c-suite, and the fact that Gen-Z employees have managed to make
it nearly a decade into their work careers without major waves of layoffs
doesn’t make them naive. It just means their expectations of the sort of
security a job can provide haven’t been lowered to the ground.

Denigrating younger generations’ higher expectations is just another way of
saying you’ve internalized the understanding that you should have none — which
permits companies to behave accordingly. Layoff Brain is terrified of Layoffs,
but it also readily excuses them: this is just the way things are, even if the
way things are makes no sense.

See, for example, a [recent speculative
post](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://www.linkedin.com/posts/mikeknell_have-
been-trying-to-figure-out-exactly-how-activity-7022893569837285377-ucMu/) from
an engineer in the tech industry about the seemingly haphazard layoffs at
Google:

> Have been trying to figure out exactly how Google decided who it was going
> to fire. The pattern doesn't seem particularly clear - people got let go
> right up to VP level, including some very long-standing employees who were
> well known as admired thought leaders. Some people who got promoted in the
> last cycle got fired. At least one SRE got fired while they were oncall for
> production stuff.
>
> I believe this was an attempt at some kind of "double-blind" exercise where
> nobody inside the company saw the list before the exits happened. This is
> beneficial to the company as individuals can't be accused of (for instance)
> discrimination or retaliation against individuals if they didn't know who
> would be going. It sidesteps a whole lot of potential legal problems if you
> can just say "It was the algorithm!".
>
> Even more importantly this protects the feelings of those senior executives
> as they don't have to make the painful decisions on who to cut themselves,
> especially if some of those being cut are former colleagues, or ex-managers,
> someone they slept with under slightly inappropriate circumstances or one of
> the various people who they stabbed in the back with a well-aimed peer
> review at perf time on their way up the greasy pole.
>
> And it can't have been about preserving the element of surprise. What the
> press has not been clear about is that the axe has yet to fall in EMEA and
> APAC - in other words, tens of thousands of workers there get to spend the
> next weeks in suspense waiting to hear if they'll still have a job at
> Easter. (As an aside - this is a *terrible* thing to do - people who are
> prone to depression or have other health issues will be hit particularly
> hard by this wait and they should expect the number of people off sick to
> skyrocket as a result.)
>
> Best theory I have is that an outside company was hired and given a "clean
> room" export from the HR systems to work with, stripped of identifying
> information and any demographic data that could incur a *direct*
> disciminatory bias in the results. They were then told to write code to
> determine which rows to cut from the dataset based on the output of some
> weighted formula designed to determine the "fireability" of that employee
> while maximising the savings achieved by the exercise. They then took the
> output of that algorithm, stack ranked the results (because Google just
> LOVES to stack rank things, especially people) and returned the top 12,000
> employee IDs.
>
> This also meant the smallest possible number of people at Alphabet knew
> about the exercise, and meant they only needed to find a couple of people
> who knew the HR systems well enough to be able to act as "executioner" as
> Google's internal hiring-and-firing systems are very well integrated and can
> take care of everything to do with offboarding an employee by magic without
> needing assistance from those troublesome argumentative engineers. Just feed
> it the employee IDs and off we go.

Think about how these layoffs would’ve felt if you were _inside_ Google
watching them unfurl, with so little understanding of the why or who, and no
legible rules to master to prevent it from happening to you. Granted, there is
a difference between getting fired from Google with a hefty severance package
and, almost certainly, a sizable savings account. But what happens at Google —
or at any of the other major tech organizations — does not stay there.
Google’s layoff strategy will become some sort of business school case study
(“Minimizing Risk Through Algorithmic Cost-Cutting,” actually this probably
already exists) and trickle down to other companies, which will employ the
same (alleged) company to complete the “clean room” cuts.

Outside of tech and finance, workers will almost certainly _not_ have the same
level of severance — nor will they have the same skills as many of those let
go at Google, who might weather a short-term stormy job hunt before landing on
their feet with another company. Ex-Google employees, like those laid off at
Microsoft and Meta, have something no amount of hustle can buy: in-demand
skills. The demand might be less than, say, the summer of 2021, and they might
take a pay cut, but the jobs, even full-time jobs, are there. And that
understanding further lessens the psychic weight of layoffs for CEOs and other
members of the leadership team: they’re able to tell themselves a tidy story,
likely born out from their own experiences, of layoffs being _no big deal_.
Or, even better, _an opportunity_.

This is the second iteration of Layoff Brain. The first is the Layoff Brain I
have, the one I share with millions of other millennials and Gen-Xers. It’s a
defensive crouch masquerading as “smart saving habits.” It’s a thrum of fear
and student debt default and medical bankruptcy rebranded as “hustle culture.”
This form of Layoff Brain copes by planning obsessively or ignoring
aggressively, both with their own form of everyday or eventual suffering. It
normalizes precarity and understands the responsibility for protecting against
it as a personal responsibility. Let’s call it **Worker Layoff Brain.**

Then there’s Corporate Layoff Brain. This Layoff Brain mistakes their own
experience of layoffs (good! generative!) as everyone else’s, regardless of
their field or position. It casualizes layoffs, categorizes it as a
“management tool,” and underlines employees’ status as disposable,
disempowered widgets — instead of humans with rights and responsibilities to
others outside of the work environment. There’s a reason so many CEOs are so
bad at communicating layoffs: when you don’t think something’s a big deal, you
do very little to get it right.

In his 2018 book
_[Temp](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://bookshop.org/a/56144/9780735224087)_
, historian Louis Hyman describes how consultants developed that second form
of Layoff Brain, which we’re just going to go ahead and call **Consultant
Layoff Brain**. Consulting companies purposefully overhire junior associates,
then cull them mercilessly based on performance metrics in the first five
years on the job. If they survive, it’s a sign of true excellence; if they
don’t, they’re still understood as excellent, and with the help of the
consultancies’ job placement services, quickly folded into companies that
value their alumni status and perceived expertise.

“Leaving McKinsey was not the way it is when most of us leave jobs – it was
more like graduating from college,” Hyman writes. “Unlike temps, consultants
exited towards a great future. Jobs might pay more for an ex-McKinsey
consultant because of the ‘prestige of the firm’ – the so-called McKinsey
multiplier. Clients even asked to be told if any consultants would be leaving.
In fact, this hiring away was part of the consulting firms’ business model.”

For consultants, layoffs have little material consequence — they’ve either
experienced them and found a great new job, or watched their colleagues
experience them and _also_ find great new jobs. And that understanding
inflects current and ex-consultants’ recommendations for layoffs in the
companies that later employ them. Investment bankers — who _also_ regularly
get “downsized” and find fast placement with another bank or are absorbed at a
high-level by other companies — have a similar understanding. And so do many
(certainly not all!) tech workers, particularly developers and engineers. They
might not find a _perfect_ job after a layoff, but a job was there for the
taking.

In hindsight, this was how the CEO of BuzzFeed, Jonah Peretti, understood
layoffs across the company: what he and the company were doing in terms of
layoffs was no different than any other startup, refining its direction. But
that attitude extended to the journalism arm of the company — and the jobs
_weren’t_ there for the taking. Depending on your beat, sure, you could
probably find something at another digital media publication — and then steel
yourself for _its_ next round of layoffs. Some laid-off journalists spent
months searching for a job. A handful got much better jobs. Many left digital
media altogether.

You can reconcile yourself to Worker Layoff Brain, absorbing the blows each
time they come, sitting with the cognitive dissonance of millions and profit
and hundreds if not thousands of jobs cut, repeating the mantra “this is an
opportunity,” “this is an opportunity,” “this is an opportunity.” But again:
that’s shouldering risk that shouldn’t be yours to bear. If we understand
layoffs as irrational — and generally the result of [imitative
behavior](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://news.stanford.edu/2022/12/05/explains-
recent-tech-layoffs-worried/?utm_source=pocket_reader), in which companies
compete to signal most strongly that they’re tightening their belts and/or
pushing back against employee power — then there is no strategy to avoid them.
But you can mitigate their effects and their power over you, and not just by
amassing a personal emergency fund.

* * *

**In June 2022** , following six months of bargaining and the threat of a
strike, the Vox Media Union finalized its three-year contract. [Amongst its
significant
wins](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/business/business-
news/vox-media-union-contract-new-deal-ratified-1235167046/): a higher base
salary for new workers, five months of paid parental leave, a three percent
401(K) match, an expanded bereavement leave policy, and a three-month minimum
severance package. Some might argue that the union’s demands were part of what
led to last week’s
[announcement](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/20/business/media/vox-
media-layoffs.html) that the company would lay off seven percent of its
workforce.

But that’s anti-labor hogwash that indemnifies management. As a member of the
Culture Discord smartly put it earlier this week, “unions aren’t the fix, they
give you the power to _write_ the fixes.” In this case: severance where there
previously was none. In the case of tech companies where severance is already
the norm: better severance packages on par with the worker-centric policies
already in place in Europe and/or extending the period a worker may stay on
the job after the announcement of a layoff, or employee representation on
boards to increase layoff logic transparency. It also means legislation that
makes it a lot harder for companies to replace laid-off workers with
contractors, but that’s another newsletter. In the meantime, it could also
mean: guarantees that laid-off workers are the first to be hired back.

The goal isn’t that a company shouldn’t ever fire anyone — it’s that companies
shouldn’t use layoffs as a panic button. Unions and better contracts don’t
just add friction to the system (those laid off already experience plenty) but
distribute that friction equally: it _should_ be hard to lay people off. But
difficult layoffs undercut the logic of Consultant Layoff Brain — and any time
a guiding logic is undercut, people get pissed. The anti-union activity across
industries comes into sharp focus: it’s not just a fight about wages or
benefits, although it is that. It’s a fight about what employment _means_ , of
what layoffs _do_.

When asked for advice for workers who’ve been laid off, Jeffrey Pfeffer, the
Stanford Business professor,
[said](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://news.stanford.edu/2022/12/05/explains-
recent-tech-layoffs-worried/?utm_source=pocket_reader) that “when they find a
job in a company where they say people are their most important asset, they
actually check to be sure that the company behaves consistently with that
espoused value when times are tough.” It’s decent advice — and there are a
handful of companies that might pass the test. But it’s also, to my mind, far
too dependent on a company’s steadfastness, the whims of its CEO, and the
consensus of a board you have no means to sway. The better strategy? Find a
company where workers have codified their present and future treatment.

Companies are not our friends; our workplaces are not our families. But
contracts enforce responsibility to one another. There is nothing that says
that our current understanding of who those contracts ultimately favor (always
the employer!) is the way they _have_ to be. To willfully ignoring as much is
capitulate fully to Layoff Brain and its ongoing rationalization of precarity.
Just because you can’t remember a time when you haven’t felt this way doesn’t
mean you have to resign yourself to feeling it forever. ●

 _**Further Reading:** _

  * [Louis Hyman, ](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://bookshop.org/a/56144/9780735224087)_[Temp: The Real Story of What Happened to Your Salary, Benefits, and Job Security](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://bookshop.org/a/56144/9780735224087)_

  * [Jeffrey Pfeffer, ](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://bookshop.org/a/56144/9780062800923)_[Dying for a Paycheck](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://bookshop.org/a/56144/9780062800923)_

  * [Karen Ho, ](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://bookshop.org/a/56144/9780822345992)_[Liquidated: An Ethnography of Wall Street](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://bookshop.org/a/56144/9780822345992)_

  * [Jacob Hacker, ](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://bookshop.org/a/56144/9780190844141)_[The Great Risk Shift: The New Economic Insecurity and the Decline of the American Dream](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://bookshop.org/a/56144/9780190844141)_

  * Sandra J. Sucher and Marilyn Morgan Westner, “[What Companies Still Get Wrong About Layoffs](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://hbr.org/2022/12/what-companies-still-get-wrong-about-layoffs#:~:text=Employees%20who%20survive%20the%20layoff,and%20overwork%20can%20reduce%20innovation.)”

  * Clio Chang, “[The Generation Shaped by Layoffs](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://gen.medium.com/the-generation-shaped-by-layoffs-e735ef79aa1f)”

  * Dylan Matthews, “[Europe Could Have the Secret to Saving America’s Unions](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2017/4/17/15290674/union-labor-movement-europe-bargaining-fight-15-ghent)”

  * Andrew Van Dam, “[The Unluckiest Generation in U.S. History](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2020/05/27/millennial-recession-covid/)”

  * Annie Lowrey, “[Millennials Don’t Stand a Chance](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2020/04/millennials-are-new-lost-generation/609832/)”

  * Amy Adkins, “[Millennials: The Job-Hopping Generation](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://www.gallup.com/workplace/231587/millennials-job-hopping-generation.aspx)”

* * *

**[Subscribing](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://annehelen.substack.com/subscribe)
**is how you’ll access the heart of Culture Study. There’s discussions like
this, but also the weirdly fun/interesting/generative **weekly discussion
threads** and the rest of the **Culture Study Discord** , which is what one
reader once described to me as “it’s own little town.” There’s a dedicated
place to talk about the mindfuck of this current round of layoffs, but also
your DIY projects (with experts who will tell you how to do things!!!), and
all your various movement pursuits. There’s a place to ask for advice, and
talk about how to navigate a sticky friendship, and find help in your job
hunt, and get support as we all deal with our weird and wondrous bodies. Plus
there is _so much more_ — if there’s something you want to talk about, there’s
a space for it, and if not, you create it, and people will come.

**If you’ve never been part of a Discord: I promise it’s much easier and less
intimidating than you imagine**.

**As always, if you are a contingent worker or un- or under-employed, just
email and I’ll give you a free subscription, no questions asked**. If you’d
like to underwrite one of those subscriptions, you can donate one
[here](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://annehelen.substack.com/subscribe?donate=true).

* * *

If you’re reading this in your inbox, you can find a shareable version online
[here](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://annehelen.substack.com/).
You can follow me on Twitter
[here](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://twitter.com/annehelen),
and Instagram
[here](http://web.archive.org/web/20250523141245/https://www.instagram.com/annehelenpetersen/)
— and you can always reach me at annehelenpetersen@gmail.com.
