title: Mode aims high for the perfect puff of weed | The Verge
source: https://www.theverge.com/2021/1/11/22225548/mode-smart-cannabis-device-dosing-algorithm-ces
date: 2025-08-13T15:43:29.476889
tags: []
---
For people who use cannabis for medicinal purposes, such as pain management,
anxiety, and sleep, vaping the drug can be a bit of a trial-and-error process
since you can’t be totally sure of the exact dose you’re getting like you can
with a standard edible or pill. The makers of the Mode smart cannabis device
say it solves the dosing problem, using a high-res pressure sensor to
determine how much a user is inhaling and a prediction algorithm that
determines how many micromilligrams a user is getting per puff based on the
cartridge.

The company says it’s run hundreds of cannabis cartridges through its testing
machines to identify each one’s unique characteristics, and the device has an
accuracy rate of over 75 percent even without letting the app know which
cartridge you’re using. (It’s in the high 80 percent range for known
cartridges, the company claims.) Mode is compatible with thousands of standard
510 threaded cannabis cartridges, and it can be locked manually or remotely
with the companion app. The company says the algorithm is still improving, and
you’ll be able to download a new version to the device over Bluetooth.

People treat many different medical conditions with cannabis, some using
different varieties to treat more than one condition. For example, a user may
need a different dose — and likely a different blend — of cannabis to treat
anxiety during the day than they would use as a sleep aid at night. That’s why
being able to fine-tune the number of milligrams would come in handy.

“This is not just another vape device you’re hitting and blowing out clouds
all day,” Mode co-founder Izzy Kirsch said in a demonstration over Zoom during
the Consumer Electronics Show. “You can get a milligram pill, so to speak, and
go on with your day.”

So let’s say you’re using cannabis for sleep and you know what dosage you
want. Put your cartridge into the Mode device, set it to a dosage between 1
and 5 milligrams, and inhale. The device turns off its heater and vibrates,
giving haptic feedback, when you’ve reached your desired dosage.

Mode co-founder Mark Wagner said during the CES demo that the company is
software-oriented, so rather than building a special sensor to measure dosage,
it’s working on fine-tuning the algorithm, which was developed in part by a
former data science lead at Jawbone. In addition to a pressure sensor, Mode
has temperature, motion, and orientation sensors that help create the ideal
dose.

The device also has a mobile app that lets users track their dosage over time,
which is helpful information if you’re testing out a new strain or if you
decide your dosage is too strong or too weak. The device bases its
measurements on the cartridge manufacturer’s information. For people buying
cartridges at a dispensary where the product is a known quantity, the Mode
device relying on manufacturer info seems reasonable. However, it’s worth
noting that black market and counterfeit cartridges may not provide the same
level of accurate info ([and can potentially lead to serious
illness](https://www.washingtonpost.com/health/potential-culprits-in-mystery-
lung-illnesses-black-market-vaping-
products/2019/09/24/cb5b708e-d98d-11e9-ac63-3016711543fe_story.html)).

In the relatively new medical cannabis marketplace, patients can end up going
through a lot of trial and error finding a strain and a cartridge that gives
them the amount they need — even the batteries used with standard cannabis
cartridges can vary wildly in how they deliver your dosage. So a device that
gives more user control over how much you’re consuming is a welcome addition.

Mode says its device is made with medical-grade materials, including a tear-
resistant silicone air passageway that goes all the way from the bottom of the
device through to the cartridge, separate from all its electronics except for
the pressure sensor. It uses high-grade stainless steel on the heat shield in
the tube, and the outer case is raw ABS plastic; the company says it’s staying
away from paint, which can lead to emissions.

Mode uses USB-C charging, with a 385mAh custom battery. It can provide between
a week and two weeks of battery life for a user taking 5 to 20mg per day, “not
someone who’s continually crushing through cartridges,” Kirsch notes.

[Mode is available for preorder](https://mode.co/) and will retail for $100
when it’s available later this year. The company’s targeting early summer.

[](/2021/1/11/22225548/mode-smart-cannabis-device-dosing-algorithm-
ces#comments)

**Follow topics and authors** from this story to see more like this in your
personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates.

  * Kim Lyons
  * CES

  * Gadgets

  * News

  * Tech
