title: Behind PornhubГўВҖВҷs decade-old moderation problems
source: https://www.theverge.com/c/22925906/csk-pornhub-feature
date: 2025-08-13T15:28:37.643735
tags: []
---
# Inside Pornhub

In the early days of the company, I was tasked with content moderation. I was
not very good at it.

In summer of 2010, I was broke and needed a job. Walking the sunbaked streets
of MontrealГўВҖВҷs downtown, I called up old friends hoping for a lead. I was in
luck: a buddy told me a ГўВҖВңporn companyГўВҖВқ was hiring customer service reps.
ГўВҖВңThey pay 15 bucks an hour, and itГўВҖВҷs super chill,ГўВҖВқ he said.ГӮ

Long before it was called MindGeek, the company was Manwin Canada, a name
that, at the time, didnГўВҖВҷt ring a bell. From an internet cafe, I sent in my
CV. I had only ever held low-level service jobs. But I had edited a friendГўВҖВҷs
indie zine and put that at the top of my work experience.ГӮ

A couple days later, I got a call from an enthusiastic woman at Manwin who
told me they were impressed by my rГғВ©sumГғВ© and asked if I would be interested
in a more senior position as a media buyer for the company. I had no clue what
a media buyer was, but I was damn sure interested. I went to buy a collared
shirt for the interview.ГӮ

In sweltering heat, I walked next to a highway dotted with car dealerships,
fast food joints, and strip clubs at the edge of MontrealГўВҖВҷs Cote-des-Neiges
neighborhood, up to a six-story cube of blue glass. I sat in a posh waiting
room with gleaming surfaces and flourishing plants, feeling out of place with
my DIY haircut. I was met by an upbeat guy in his 30s named Mark. We walked
through the buzzing Manwin offices, passing dozens of mostly young people ГўВҖВ”
guys in anime T-shirts, women with colored hair ГўВҖВ” seated at expensive-
looking monitors and huge desks. The vibe was relaxed, with an undercurrent of
excitement. Mark told me my job would be to buy comedy videos for a non-porn
website the company was building. We hit it off, and after a brief second
interview, I was hired at a starting salary of $35,000, more money than IГўВҖВҷd
ever made in my life.ГӮ

I was given a $10,000 monthly budget to buy videos ГўВҖВ” I bought _Jackass_
-type skits from skate punks and clips from [Gavin
McInnes](https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2021/06/the-secret-history-of-gavin-
mcinnes) in his pre-Proud Boys days ГўВҖВ” and joined a team of five easygoing
guys, all in their 20s. A few weeks later, the site launched, and Mark pulled
me aside to say my job would be ending. But I was offered a social media role
on the adult side of the company, in the ГўВҖВңtube sitesГўВҖВқ division, home of
Pornhub.com.ГӮ

I was interviewed by Corey ГўВҖВ” short, dark-eyed, emanating a fierce
intelligence ГўВҖВ” who ran the tube sites. Soon, I was running the Twitter
accounts for Tube8, Keezmovies, and Spankwire, three sites that allowed people
to upload and watch porn for free. It was my introduction to tech company
life: cool and laissez-faire, where people were left to their own devices and
expected to self-manage. I couldnГўВҖВҷt believe my good fortune; I banged out a
few dirty jokes on Twitter and got a ton of engagement. Things were off to a
good start.

![A tweet from Tube8 on April 26, 2012 that says, ГўВҖВң1. Cum on the floor of an
elevator 2. Someone asks what you are doing 3. Reply ГўВҖВңIГўВҖВҷm raising my
childrenГўВҖВқГўВҖВқ](https://cdn.vox-
cdn.com/thumbor/2yeNV5SyHyvhjahtPWSR3pLJVvY=/0x0:1800x572/fit-
in/1800x572/cdn.vox-cdn.com/uploads/chorus_asset/file/23256267/Tweet_01.jpg)

Besides tweeting, the other part of my job involved answering emails from site
users and handling video takedown requests, which were treated by management
as a minor annoyance. IГўВҖВҷd been told that when a request to remove a video
came in, I had to watch part of the clip to make sure it actually violated the
terms of service (which I never actually read but were summarized to me as: no
underage performers, serious violence, visible alcohol, nor animals) before
taking it down. I grasped immediately the implications of the task ГўВҖВ” that I
would be seeing disturbing or illegal content ГўВҖВ” and decided I would quietly
remove whatever video people asked me to without bothering to watch.ГӮ

After a couple months, my bosses caught on that I was takedown-happy: I got
scolded for pulling down a celebrity sex tape that had gotten millions of
views. At that point, I was told to pay closer attention to the content and
consult with management before pulling down popular videos. I started watching
them more closely. In one case, users flagged a video of a couple engaging in
some intense sexual activity with a bottle ГўВҖВ” I got dozens of emails
screaming at me to take it down ГўВҖВ” but my bosses said I couldnГўВҖВҷt remove it
since it didnГўВҖВҷt violate the terms.ГӮ

That was the first time I felt queasy about my job. I wondered if videos being
uploaded to the tube sites were being screened by anyone before going live. It
seemed unlikely. But I reminded myself how lucky I was to be making a good
living telling dirty jokes and soothed my conscience by telling myself I could
still help people remove videos of themselves. I kept my head down and kept
tweeting:

![A tweet from Tube8 on September 30, 2010 that says, ГўВҖВңWhen the Bible says
ГўВҖВңTurn the other cheekГўВҖВқ, does that mean ГўВҖВҳflip over for doggy
styleГўВҖВҷ?ГўВҖВқ](https://cdn.vox-
cdn.com/thumbor/kUlqC3BNj7r-_AXvdGrlt1GUw58=/0x0:1800x572/fit-
in/1800x572/cdn.vox-cdn.com/uploads/chorus_asset/file/23265274/Tweet_02_2.jpg)

In the mornings, I would sit down at my desk with a cup of tea, open the three
inboxes I handled for Tube8, Keezmovies, and Spankwire, and start removing
videos. Reading the dozens of emails I received every day provided a window
into the real-world impact of the tube sites; I was already beginning to see
the long shadows cast by their glittering facades.ГӮ

IГўВҖВҷd hear from regretful couples who, in the haze of a Friday night, uploaded
a video of themselves going at it, only to be horrified at their decision in
the cold light of morning. _Please,_ they would beg, _take down the video!
WeГўВҖВҷre so sorry!_ IГўВҖВҷd happily comply, write them back, and be thanked
profusely.ГӮ

I got pissed-off emails from guys who uploaded clips of themselves jacking
off, only to realize that these videos ГўВҖВ” of which there were hundreds ГўВҖВ”
were eventually placed in the Gay section. _IГўВҖВҷm not gay!_ they would fume,
demanding the video be removed.

Sometimes a video would be flagged just because someone didnГўВҖВҷt like the
content (like the bottle video, which everyone hated). But if it didnГўВҖВҷt
violate the terms, it stayed up. I felt a small satisfaction in shutting down
busybodies who spuriously flagged videos; I wasnГўВҖВҷt an arbiter of taste. One
gentleman uploaded videos of his attempts to have sex with every appliance in
his house: washer, dryer, fridge, stove. The complaints from users rolled in,
but I left them up. ThereГўВҖВҷs nothing illegal about copulating with
machinery.ГӮ

Tougher to deal with were videos uploaded by verified Manwin partners and
flagged for review by users showing young women who looked to be of
questionable age. ГўВҖВңVerifiedГўВҖВқ meant that the producers of the videos had
attested to the performersГўВҖВҷ legal ages, absolving Manwin of responsibility
for scrutinizing the content. As far as I remember, I wasnГўВҖВҷt allowed to
remove videos from partners. (While itГўВҖВҷs fair in retrospect to ask how
closely porn producers scrutinize their performersГўВҖВҷ IDs, itГўВҖВҷs equally fair
to note that many porn performers of legal age do their best to look younger
than their years.)

One clip that really bothered me was described as a prostitute having sex with
her pimp. The woman in the video was middle-aged, the supposed pimp a younger
man. The act itself wasnГўВҖВҷt particularly obscene, but it disturbed me because
of the way the man talked to the woman: commanding and disrespectful. This
wasnГўВҖВҷt grounds for removal: a ton of pornography ГўВҖВ” fully legal and enjoyed
by many ГўВҖВ” shows performers saying hair-raising things to each other and
engaging in consensual sadomasochistic violence. By comparison, this video was
tame. But it raised so many questions: Can a sex worker consent to sex with
her exploiting pimp? Were they really even pimp-and-hoe, like the description
said they were? Maybe they were a couple, role-playing? There was no way to
know.

I hated what I saw and heard in that video, though. I took it down and felt
good when I did. I realized that, even as I tried to keep my distance from the
porn, I was, in fact, exercising my personal judgment every day ГўВҖВ” and that
there was no way to do the job without making decisions based on what I
thought was appropriate.ГӮ

I often encountered videos that were uploaded again and again, no matter how
many times I removed them. One day, a woman emailed me, calmly explained that
her ex-boyfriend had uploaded a video of them having sex, and asked me to
remove it. I deleted the clip. Later that week, it was re-uploaded. The woman
wrote again, I removed it, and this continued for months; I must have pulled
the same video down a dozen times. This was before I had ever heard the term
ГўВҖВңrevenge porn.ГўВҖВқ

Requests like this were not uncommon. Once, a woman wrote to say there was a
video of her on Tube8 that showed her being sexually assaulted after someone
spiked her drink at a party. The video had tens of thousands of views, so I
had to review it before making the call to remove it. In the clip, the woman
is clearly high, laughing and head lolling, having sex on a bed surrounded by
fully dressed people holding drinks and watching as colored lights flashed and
music blared in the background. I took it down, but it was uploaded again
repeatedly in the following months. Each time, the mortified woman flagged it,
and each time, I removed it; both of us were aware that there was nothing we
could do to stop the clip from resurfacing.

I only learned about the adult industry through informal chats and secondhand
conversation around the office. Competition in the porn world was cutthroat. A
Manwin developer told me how, when they caught a competitor ripping off
content from Pornhub to create a knockoff website, engineers placed a link to
the offending website in a few pixels of the Pornhub homepage, where millions
of people clicked daily. The resulting tsunami of web traffic swamped the
pirate site and knocked it offline in minutes ГўВҖВ” the kiss of death.ГӮ

Manwin had a whole team of employees paid exclusively to comment on and upvote
videos across the tube sites. This ГўВҖВңcommunityГўВҖВқ created a never-ending
mirage of engagement, attracting authentic users to the comment-thread
astroturf. In real life, Manwin was fairly diverse: women occupied senior
management roles, and there were people of color at every level of the
company. The upper management team, though, was nearly all dudes, an insular,
sharp-eyed group that projected an air of power, wealth, and a smirking pride.

![A tweet from Tube8 on April 11, 2012 that says, ГўВҖВңBefriend the pussy, and
ye shall be satisfied - Jesus ChristГўВҖВқ](https://cdn.vox-
cdn.com/thumbor/vrHFXuA2bEa_PVukfN0GKJcnuB8=/0x0:1800x572/fit-
in/1800x572/cdn.vox-cdn.com/uploads/chorus_asset/file/23256270/Tweet_03.jpg)

Besides my reservations about content moderation (a term that was unheard of
at the time ГўВҖВ” we just called it customer service), work was going well.
Channeling my foul mouth and compulsive nature, I was cranking out 60 or 70
tweets a day, impressing my bosses. I rented a huge apartment with wood floors
the color of honey and wainscotting in the dining room.ГӮ

But the reality was that, beneath my collared shirt, I felt like a simmering
misfit. I had no experience of how organizations behaved; my work was
passable, but my sense of professionalism was nonexistent. It wasnГўВҖВҷt long
before I started to make mistakes.ГӮ

One day, I received inquiries from journalists looking to find out more about
Manwin. Believing it was a major threat, I sent off a panicked email to the
owner of the company and some vice presidents. My bosses were stunned, and not
in a good way. Corey, the guy who had originally hired me, marched me into an
office, and I nearly got canned. They had mercy on me. I think they could tell
that I was trying to protect the company in my own overzealous, entirely
inappropriate way. It was true ГўВҖВ” I felt like part of a team and wanted to do
my best for them. But I had blown it.

After that, with my reputation tarnished, my fortunes at the company started
to dwindle. But the good times were just starting to roll at Manwin.

![A tweet from Tube8 on April 21, 2011 that says, ГўВҖВңInstead of a ГўВҖВңRising
StarГўВҖВқ, I think IГўВҖВҷll aim to be a ГўВҖВңFloatin
DriftwoodГўВҖВқГўВҖВқ](https://cdn.vox-cdn.com/thumbor/lKJv5Ugbs_sEnrrsGlx-
Vkcjpg0=/0x0:1800x572/fit-in/1800x572/cdn.vox-
cdn.com/uploads/chorus_asset/file/23256277/Tweet_04.jpg)

I remember the day the investors arrived. WeГўВҖВҷd been given instructions not
to look at them, not to talk to them, and, most of all, to make sure we had
our screens switched off when they passed through. I found that odd; the
investors obviously knew what they were buying into, but they clearly didnГўВҖВҷt
want to get their hands dirty with the details. When they arrived ГўВҖВ” a
phalanx of white men in dark suits, assessing the offices coolly, like
specters being led around by Manwin managers ГўВҖВ” it was deathly quiet, like
the moment before the drop in an EDM track.

At work, interacting with everyone from developers to executives, I absorbed
everything I could learn about the company. I dug into articles about
ManwinГўВҖВҷs owner, Fabian Thylmann. We never spoke, but from a distance, he
seemed nerdy and confident, cut from a different cloth than the people he
employed. I learned that Thylmann saw the porn world as [ripe for
disruption](https://nymag.com/news/features/70985/) by tech. After making a
small fortune designing ad revenue tracking software for porn sites, he
acquired the companies that would become Manwin, including Pornhub and
Brazzers (an over-the-top porn production company named after the slurring of
the word ГўВҖВңbrothersГўВҖВқ).

"Flush with cash and brimming with confidence, Manwin pulled absurd marketing
stunts"

Thylmann cranked up profits at Manwin using the same approach Google and
Facebook took to dominate their respective markets: rigorous testing and
optimization of the online experience. ThylmannГўВҖВҷs technical prowess and
understanding of how the industry could be exploited virtually guaranteed his
mission to take over the industry would succeed. (Thylmann declined to be
interviewed for this story.)

But for all the improvements Thylmann made to his websites, it would take
major capital to propel the company to new heights. Manwin needed cash ГўВҖВ”
lots of it ГўВҖВ” to take over vast swaths of the adult industry.

Shortly after the investorsГўВҖВҷ visit, the company secured more than $360
million in loans. (It was revealed later that investors included JPMorgan and
[Cornell University](https://news.yahoo.com/cornell-university-early-investor-
massive-183901542.html), which has since reportedly divested.) They went on a
buying spree, snapping up gargantuan tube site YouPorn, dozens of smaller
sites, and whole networks of seedy smut smorgasbords youГўВҖВҷve never heard of.
Prized for their traffic and revenue, these assets were analyzed, polished,
and plugged into the Manwin Borg, growing the companyГўВҖВҷs footprint in the
industry exponentially. Manwin took over the digital side of Playboy, trying
to establish a more mainstream presence, even as it bought Fuck.com and
Men.com. It was a relentless land grab.

Around that time, our team was given T-shirts with puzzle pieces, each marked
with a different Manwin-owned website logo, assembling over a black
background. The tagline: ГўВҖВңEverything is coming together.ГўВҖВқ

* * *

The mission given to the Pornhub network social media team was to infiltrate
the pop culture conversation with our brands, and we went for the jugular. We
trolled celebrities and musicians for retweets and attention, with some
success.

![A tweet from Tyler, The Creator on November 24, 2011 that says, ГўВҖВңI AM
THANKFUL FOR @PORNHUB, REDTUBE, SPANKWIRE, YOUJIZZ AND OTHERS RANDOM SITES FOR
MY FAP LIFE SESSIONSГўВҖВқ](https://cdn.vox-
cdn.com/thumbor/hukkHUVrgTsiZVZUJrYa5Q0apT4=/0x0:1800x652/fit-
in/1800x652/cdn.vox-cdn.com/uploads/chorus_asset/file/23256283/Tweet_05.jpg)

At the time, I thought this was strictly for visibility, but looking back,
there were likely deeper motivations. Thylmann had a [grand strategy to take
Manwin public](https://www.cnbc.com/2012/03/28/takeover-battle-looms-for-
publicly-traded-porn-company.html); to do so, he would need a strong
mainstream presence to balance the hardcore nature of Manwin to make the
company attractive to the financial markets.ГӮ

Flush with cash and brimming with confidence, Manwin pulled absurd marketing
stunts. They [tried to buy Charlie SheenГўВҖВҷs
house](https://www.tmz.com/2011/05/26/charlie-sheen-sold-house-porn-stars-
company-offer-to-buy/) to turn the mansion into a porn studio. The company
also raised its profile through activism that conveniently served its business
model: when Reddit and other prominent sites [blacked out to protest the Stop
Online Privacy Act (SOPA)](https://www.theverge.com/2012/1/18/2715300/sopa-
blackout-wikipedia-reddit-mozilla-google-protest), Manwin tube sites [did the
same](https://www.webpronews.com/porn-sites-black-out-for-sopa/). (Our team
kicked off the top trending topic on Twitter for a few days with the #SavePorn
campaign.)ГӮ

Around that time, someone at Manwin tweeted, ГўВҖВңFast Times at Manwin High,ГўВҖВқ
and thatГўВҖВҷs what it felt like at the company: a big high school with all its
cliques, youthful energy, and politics that just happened to have a money-
printing machine in the basement. But a fissure was growing within the
company, and the content moderation and consent issues that would plague the
company in the future were already taking root.

* * *

From the beginning, Manwin was riven by two internal competing factions: the
paysites, old-school companies that actually produce pornography, and tube
sites, which flood the internet with free, often pirated, porn uploaded by
users. By possessing valuable properties on both sides, Manwin conjured an
unprecedented business model ГўВҖВ” like owning Coke and Pepsi but giving away
one product for free. (In 2013, Thylmann would sell the company to his [top
managers and a shadowy investor](https://www.businessinsider.com/bernard-
bergemar-owns-mindgeek-pornhub-redtube-youporn-ft-2020-12), who renamed the
company MindGeek.)

While I was writing this story, I reached out to a number of former colleagues
at the company, most of whom didnГўВҖВҷt reply or declined to talk. The insular
culture of Manwin had left its mark on employees. Or maybe, as I was, they
were feeling some degree of shame about what we were a part of back then. But
after a while, I did find someone who wanted to chat about the old days. He
just wanted to be anonymous.

Leon, IГўВҖВҷll call him, was a longtime manager of Manwin paysites who was
around during the companyГўВҖВҷs transition to MindGeek. The scale of the sites
he managed was enormous: ГўВҖВңBy 2013, I was managing more traffic than Facebook
Mobile,ГўВҖВқ he told me over the phone. Leon described his overall experience at
the company as positive but said that, over time, the paysites he managed lost
importance within MindGeek as Pornhub grew into the ГўВҖВңcash cowГўВҖВқ that
defined management priorities. As tube sites attracted more traffic, the paid-
porn industry suffered, even within MindGeek.

ГўВҖВңMindGeek pitted the two [sides of the company] against each other, I guess
in the hopes of making us more efficient or profitable. It became a straight-
up, us-versus-them competition,ГўВҖВқ Leon said.

"Despite the celebratory atmosphere at work as Manwin took over the industry
ГўВҖВ” catered breakfasts, daylong party events, Nerf gun fights ГўВҖВ” I was
enjoying my job less and less"

As Manwin cannibalized itself, investing more resources into tube sites as
paysites faded, content moderation on the Pornhub network became a growing
challenge. Leon told me users would find ways around the few security measures
to upload whatever they wanted. He believes MindGeek management was so busy
keeping up with the growth of Pornhub they lost sight of how easy it was for
users to circumvent security measures.

Eventually, Leon left due to differences in opinion about the direction of the
company. Pornhub was later transformed from a tube site solely focused on
attracting user-uploaded content and generating ad revenue to a content
producer in its own right by partnering with studios to launch Pornhub
Premium.

ГўВҖВңWhen I was there, paysites still handled production, but [today] Pornhub
controls the content,ГўВҖВқ he told me. After the change, Leon said, ГўВҖВңthatГўВҖВҷs
when the content partner scandal happened.ГўВҖВқ

In 2019, the operators of Pornhub content partner Girls Do Porn would be
charged with sex trafficking in the US. Following the charges, 50 women filed
a [class-action lawsuit against
MindGeek](https://www.vice.com/en/article/3anvw8/40-girls-do-porn-victims-
suing-pornhub-mindgeek) in 2020, alleging that MindGeek knew Girls Do Porn
employees were coercing and lying to performers about how their videos would
be used. Still, MindGeek continued to partner with the studio, allowing their
videos to be distributed on Pornhub and other tube sites. Pornhub ostensibly
removed the Girls Do Porn videos after the operators were arrested, but [clips
remained available on the site](https://www.vice.com/en/article/9393zp/how-
pornhub-moderation-works-girls-do-porn).ГӮ

In October 2021, MindGeek [settled the
lawsuit](https://montrealgazette.com/news/local-news/montreal-based-pornhub-
settles-with-50-plaintiffs-in-california). But as IГўВҖВҷd learned years earlier,
once videos appear on a tube site, they are impossible to get rid of.

![A tweet from Tube8 on July 22, 2011 that reads, ГўВҖВңPussy = Peach. Dick =
Banana. Fruit SaladГўВҖВқ](https://cdn.vox-cdn.com/thumbor/WJuucaO3so7SA-
plUFU_CYGVwCg=/0x0:1800x494/fit-in/1800x494/cdn.vox-
cdn.com/uploads/chorus_asset/file/23256286/Tweet_06.jpg)

As the company grew, so did its notoriety. Adult performers
[railed](https://nationalpost.com/news/how-a-canadian-founded-company-youve-
never-heard-of-took-control-of-the-porn-industry) against the company for
widespread piracy on the Pornhub network. Inside the company, as far as I
could tell, these were minor concerns. Management seemed to be focused on
exponential growth and little else.ГӮ

Despite the celebratory atmosphere at work as Manwin took over the industry
ГўВҖВ” catered breakfasts, daylong party events, Nerf gun fights ГўВҖВ” I was
enjoying my job less and less. I took sick days, needing a break from the
endless exposure to disturbing content, and got reprimanded for coming in
late. I shaped up just enough to keep my job and lost myself in the Twitter
accounts of Tube8 and Spankwire as the company flourished around me.

In spring 2012, near the end of my time at the company, I was utterly
disenchanted, my behavior erratic. IГўВҖВҷd send off rambling emails to my bosses
with laughable ideas (a _Street Fighter_ -style video game but with porn
stars! A union with healthcare coverage for adult performers!). Silence would
follow, and their smiles became thinner when I saw them in the halls; soon,
the smiles disappeared completely. IГўВҖВҷd come to work and tweet all day
without talking to anyone and spend my lunch walking around an abandoned
horse-racing track. I had been applying for other jobs for a year without luck
but couldnГўВҖВҷt quit ГўВҖВ” the only way I could get unemployment benefits would
be dismissal without fault.

Finally, in June 2012, I was fired. I was ecstatic. Ironically, the last wild-
eyed idea I was preparing to pitch to my bosses before I was fired ГўВҖВ” one
that surely would have gotten me labeled an irredeemable fuck-up ГўВҖВ” was that
Manwin create a well-staffed, round-the-clock team to screen all user uploads
to tube sites in real time, assuming such a team didnГўВҖВҷt already exist. But I
never sent the email; even as I prayed to be let go, I still was reluctant to
totally self-immolate in the eyes of my bosses.

After I left, Manwin continued to grow in the way it always had, acquiring
RedTube and other major porn sites. As the years passed ГўВҖВ” me in a new job,
reading stories about the company in the news ГўВҖВ” I learned how Thylmann had
sold the company after being [charged with tax fraud in
Germany](https://avn.com/business/articles/legal/fabian-thylmann-sentenced-
for-tax-evasion-in-germany-705507.html). I watched from a distance as Pornhub
penetrated further into pop culture, fulfilling the lofty goal of taking porn
mainstream.ГӮ

I read with interest how MindGeek used data generated by their millions of
users to [create reports](https://techcrunch.com/2018/12/13/the-annual-
pornhub-year-in-review-tells-us-what-were-really-looking-at-online/) picked up
by major media outlets, all about what porn people watched. Pornhub was
regularly mentioned on late-night talk shows; I learned that by 2018, MindGeek
was more effective at [mining their usersГўВҖВҷ data than Netflix or
Spotify](https://qz.com/1407235/porn-sites-collect-more-user-data-than-
netflix-or-hulu-this-is-what-they-do-with-it/) and using more bandwidth than
Amazon. I was stunned to read glowing profiles of Manwin social media
personalities in [mainstream tech
publications](https://mashable.com/article/pornhub-aria-social-media/). I
wondered if these new employees still had to moderate content, as I had done.ГӮ

But even as Pornhub was reaching the zenith of its pop-culture influence, I
was intrigued when a strange new problem that spoke directly to the
companyГўВҖВҷs weaknesses ГўВҖВ” content moderation, piracy, and consent ГўВҖВ” emerged
in the form of [deepfakes](https://www.vice.com/en/article/gydydm/gal-gadot-
fake-ai-porn). The company moved to ban [the AI-generated fake celebrity
porn](https://www.theverge.com/2018/2/6/16980920/pornhub-bans-deepfakes-fake-
ai-celebrity-porn-video) in 2018. But deepfakes ended up being just the first
of a series of blows to the company.

* * *

In November 2020, 20 Members of Parliament, including Arnold Viersen, a
conservative politician from Alberta, wrote to Justice Minister David Lametti
demanding MindGeek be investigated for hosting illegal content. (Perhaps not
coincidentally, Pornhub began voluntarily reporting child abuse videos to
child protection groups and federal police [around the same
time](https://www.kamloopsthisweek.com/survivors-ngos-call-for-criminal-
investigation-into-porn-giant-mindgeek-1.24290004).)ГӮ

The following month, _The New York Times_ published ГўВҖВң[The Children of
Pornhub](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/12/04/opinion/sunday/pornhub-rape-
trafficking.html),ГўВҖВқ a harrowing expose in which multiple young women
describe the devastating personal consequences they suffered ГўВҖВ” drug
addiction, self-harm, suicide attempts ГўВҖВ” after pornographic videos of them
as minors were posted on the site. Journalists began [asking Prime Minister
Justin Trudeau about MindGeek](https://globalnews.ca/news/7502662/trudeau-
pornhub-nyt-article-montreal/) during press conferences.

It was fascinating to see the problems I had noticed with tube sites a decade
previous suddenly become headline news. I wondered how MindGeek executives
would handle the pressure, then chuckled to myself when I thought back to
their brazen disregard for critics during my time there. I doubted they gave
it much thought, insulated as they were in their shimmering blue cube in
Montreal, their luxury cars, their suburban mansions.ГӮ

But then real consequences arrived: following publication of the _Times_
piece, Visa and Mastercard suspended all payment processing for the MindGeek
network. Their cash cow torpedoed, MindGeek immediately removed some 10
million user-uploaded videos from Pornhub and instituted new policies to stop
unverified users from uploading content. But these measures amounted to too
little, too late for the people whoГўВҖВҷve had their lives shattered by becoming
unwitting porn performers.

"ГўВҖВңThe world is looking at Canada, like, _What are you guys going to do?_
ГўВҖВқ"

I could just imagine the panicked management meetings that led up to the purge
of the unverified videos ГўВҖВ” the fear they must have felt before they pulled
the plug on the defining feature of Pornhub: the ability to upload and
download any video you want.ГӮ

In February 2021, the MindGeek executives Feras Antoon, David Tassillo, and
Corey Urman ГўВҖВ” my old boss ГўВҖВ” were called to Parliament to testify about the
companyГўВҖВҷs operations and respond to the allegations in the _Times_ story.
Elected officials were [less than
impressed](https://montreal.ctvnews.ca/mindgeek-executives-testify-before-
ethics-committee-over-allegations-of-illegal-content-on-
pornhub-1.5296887?cache=kmdeuabt&src=sdkpreparse) with executivesГўВҖВҷ answers,
especially after hearing painful testimony from survivors whoГўВҖВҷve had illegal
videos posted on Pornhub.ГӮ

A few weeks later, Viersen and more than 70 colleagues [wrote to the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police
(RCMP)](https://www.thestar.com/politics/2021/03/15/more-than-70-lawmakers-
call-for-criminal-investigation-of-mindgeek.html), CanadaГўВҖВҷs federal police
force, demanding a full criminal investigation into MindGeek. Since then,
pressure on the company has mounted in other ways, too: legislation supported
by Viersen that would [force porn sites to verify the
age](https://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/senator-violent-porn-mandatory-age-
pornhub-1.5810603) of all site users is currently winding its way through
Parliament. At least one protest was held [outside of the MindGeek
offices](https://montreal.ctvnews.ca/protesters-demonstrate-in-front-of-
pornhub-hq-in-montreal-on-international-women-s-day-1.4844107).

I reached out to Viersen to ask about his efforts to rein in MindGeek. He told
me he feels a responsibility to hold the company to account. ГўВҖВңTheyГўВҖВҷre in
our backyard,ГўВҖВқ he said. ГўВҖВңThe world is looking at Canada, like, _What are
you guys going to do?_ ГўВҖВқ

* * *

To their credit, during my time at Manwin, my bosses at the tube sites
unquestionably wanted any obviously illegal content removed. But as anonymous
tube site content moderators explained in a [recent
investigation](https://www.theglobeandmail.com/business/article-mindgeeks-
business-practices-under-srutiny-as-political-pressure/) into MindGeek, to
monitor user-uploaded sex videos is to live in a constant gray area: itГўВҖВҷs
practically impossible to tell if a performer onscreen is of legal age or a
few months shy of their 18th birthday, has had a few drinks, or was pressured
before cameras started rolling.ГӮ

I contacted MindGeek hoping to answer the nagging questions I had about how
content moderation was handled when I worked there. Specifically, I asked:
were user uploads screened by Manwin employees before being published live?

ГўВҖВңAll content was reviewed by human moderators at that time,ГўВҖВқ a
spokesperson named Ian responded, adding that this applied to all tube sites.

Somehow, that didnГўВҖВҷt seem right to me. Hundreds, if not thousands, of videos
were uploaded to tubes every day back then, and I wasnГўВҖВҷt aware of anyone
screening the uploads. Was it feasible that every single video was reviewed
and approved by someone before going live? And if that was the case, how could
illegal or pirated content still end up on the sites? I followed up with more
questions, trying to clarify how the process worked: Had there been a team
reviewing videos before they went live working around the clock, including
weekends, while I was there? Or were we after-the-fact moderators the only
ones accountable for the content?

The company didnГўВҖВҷt respond to my follow-ups, but my questions were answered
by [Pornhub moderators who spoke out in December
2020](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-9065059/Ex-PornHub-moderators-
reveal-life-inside-explicit-video-site-sued-80m.html). They recounted how they
were handed lists of thousands of videos on the site to review and, if
warranted, remove. This suggests that only once videos were on-site,
ballooning PornhubГўВҖВҷs content offering, were they gradually reviewed, leaving
wide-open windows for any type of video to exist on the site, at least for a
while.

"ГўВҖВңHorrifying labor conditions make free porn possible, but legislators
arenГўВҖВҷt willing to die on that hillГўВҖВқ"

Because Pornhub previously allowed users to download videos, anyone could re-
upload a clip an endless number of times to any number of tube sites, no
matter how many times it was taken down.ГӮ

This functionality allowed any video, regardless of its content, to
essentially live forever online ГўВҖВ” precisely the nightmare described by
survivors of revenge porn and exactly what I witnessed firsthand in my role at
Manwin.

This policy may have been the companyГўВҖВҷs biggest tactical error. If they had
screened videos _before_ publishing, the company could theoretically have kept
all content in violation of the terms off the sites or at least minimized the
number of violating videos that slipped through the cracks. Instead, for
years, the Pornhub network was a lawless zone where sexual abuse videos,
scenes of bestiality, and an endless river of pirated material could safely
exist until the companyГўВҖВҷs slow-moving moderation team got around to clicking
delete.ГӮ

Maggie MacDonald, a PhD student and researcher at the University of Toronto,
studies porn platforms. She told me __ that, in her opinion, the decision by
MindGeek to remove the 10 million unverified videos from Pornhub and improve
controls around uploads was essentially a show for the payment processors.

ГўВҖВңMindGeek could have built content moderation into the onboarding process by
having a real person review every video uploaded before allowing it to be
published,ГўВҖВқ she said, adding that she isnГўВҖВҷt surprised the company chose
profits over the user safety for so long.

ГўВҖВңFrom a research perspective, theyГўВҖВҷre just capitalists,ГўВҖВқ MacDonald said.
ГўВҖВңWithout legislation, theyГўВҖВҷll continue to do what they do best: maximize
profits and power.ГўВҖВқ

In the world of computer hacking, the word _exploitation_ carries a different
meaning than it does in the real world, where we hear about ГўВҖВңexploitative
working conditionsГўВҖВқ or ГўВҖВңchild exploitation.ГўВҖВқ In tech, the word has been
stripped of negative connotation: hackers and tech-minded entrepreneurs
exploit vulnerabilities in systems to gain unintended results and create
value. To discover an exploit in the tech world is to strike gold.ГӮ

Manwin set out to exploit the weaknesses it saw in the sex industry. By taking
advantage of those weaknesses ГўВҖВ” fragmentation, lack of technical
understanding, marginalization ГўВҖВ” Manwin handily dominated much of the
industry and generated hundreds of millions in profits. Users of tube sites,
in turn, identified the weaknesses in the tube site model ГўВҖВ” lax oversight,
the prioritizing of growth over restrictive content policies ГўВҖВ” and ruined
lives in the process.ГӮ

Looking back, I can see the small part I played in ushering porn into
mainstream culture. My dumb tweets helped make the tube sites seem irreverent
and fun ГўВҖВ” even as I worried out loud about the creeping pornification of pop
culture ГўВҖВ” and glossed over the harm tube sites could cause.

![A tweet from Tube8 on December 1, 2011 that reads, ГўВҖВңSo thereГўВҖВҷs a show
called The Joy Of Teen Sex? Our Society = Completely Fucked.. and this is
coming fror a porn siteГўВҖВқ](https://cdn.vox-
cdn.com/thumbor/tWpgSwfY0HhE6kf5jBa5E0BOztk=/0x0:1800x652/fit-
in/1800x652/cdn.vox-cdn.com/uploads/chorus_asset/file/23256290/Tweet_07.jpg)

When you work at a company that is doing well, that showers employees with
generous pay and a sense of belonging, you become saturated with the sense
that what youГўВҖВҷre doing is _right_. Even as performers shouted from rooftops
that we were destroying their livelihoods and people begged us to remove
videos that showed them in their most intimate moments without consent, those
negatively impacted by Manwin were shrugged off as an afterthought,
unfortunate collateral damage to a great undertaking. This legacy worries
Erika Lust, a producer of feminist porn.

ГўВҖВңThe mass availability of free porn can serve to guide the consumer to view
the performers as less than human, which can, in turn, shape their
conceptualization of sexual norms and sexuality more generally,ГўВҖВқ Lust said.ГӮ

MacDonald, the researcher, concurs but sees the problem of free porn from a
labor perspective: ГўВҖВңThe problem is the supply chain of porn: how is it
getting to the user? Are the performers being treated fairly?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңHorrifying labor conditions make free porn possible, but legislators
arenГўВҖВҷt willing to die on that hill,ГўВҖВқ said MacDonald.

I asked Viersen, the politician, why it had taken lawmakers so long to
scrutinize MindGeek. He thought for a moment. ГўВҖВңI donГўВҖВҷt know,ГўВҖВқ he said
finally. Some have speculated that the [taboo
nature](https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2020/12/mindgeek-the-secretive-
owner-of-pornhub-and-redtube/?comments=1) of pornography kept regulators at
bay. But considering the hundreds of people employed by MindGeek in Canada ГўВҖВ”
and the tax revenue those workers generate for federal and provincial
governments ГўВҖВ” maybe the answer is that, for everyone involved, it was all
about the money.

* * *

In an industry that no one wanted to touch, tech-savvy Fabian Thylmann and his
crew were able to roll in and take over without any serious competition or
pushback. There was no Google or Facebook of porn to challenge them; the
billion-dollar buffet of porn profits, one of the last wild markets of the
internet, was theirs for the taking.

The irony of PornhubГўВҖВҷs relentless pursuit of mainstream culture is that the
desire for recognition from middle-of-the-road institutions worked too well.
By becoming the most successful and visible face of online porn, MindGeek
attracted scrutiny from the lawmakers and activists who are now working
overtime to bury the company. More ominous are the anti-porn [right-wing
extremists](https://www.vice.com/en/article/n7bj9w/anti-porn-extremism-
pornhub-traffickinghub-exodus-cry-ncose) who have [set their
sights](https://www.vice.com/en/article/v7eg4m/the-online-hordes-of-the-far-
right-versus-pornhub) on Pornhub and threatened violence against MindGeek
executives. In April, MindGeek CEO Feras AntoonГўВҖВҷs multi-million dollar
mansion [went up in flames](https://www.vanityfair.com/style/2022/01/xxx-
files-who-torched-the-pornhub-palace#intcid=_vanity-fair-verso-hp-
trending_f422b5d5-bb35-480e-b4e6-0935a1de94f0_popular4-1); police are
investigating the blaze as [a possible
arson](https://montrealgazette.com/news/local-news/luxury-home-in-montreal-
owned-by-pornhub-exec-burned-down-in-apparent-arson).

But if Pornhub survives its current woes, it can thank those who tried to take
the company down with forcing the site to become a better version of itself: a
place where content creators can earn a living, where only verified users can
upload videos, and where [content moderation is taken
seriously](https://www.vice.com/en/article/qjpgxx/pornhub-just-released-its-
first-transparency-report).ГӮ

It was clear to me from the day I started that my tweets were more important
to the company than the quality of my content moderation; if I tweeted
something off-brand, IГўВҖВҷd quickly hear about it. But that level of scrutiny
just didnГўВҖВҷt apply to video removals, which only became a priority if I
pulled down something popular.ГӮ

When I was at Pornhub, content moderation was treated like taking out the
trash: an unpleasant but necessary part of running the business. It was pushed
down to those of us low on the corporate ladder because no one wanted to get
their hands dirty. Looking back, it felt like my role in content moderation
was primarily to protect the company, not the victims of illegal porn.
Removing those videos was just something I did between jokes.

* * *

On a whim recently, I sat down at my computer and opened up Tube8 dot com. The
site had changed somewhat ГўВҖВ” it was more modern, slicker, and mobile-friendly
ГўВҖВ” but the eight-ball-with-devil-horns logo still loomed in the corner. I
flashed with anxiety, momentarily back at Manwin again.

In an odd way, there are parallels between the role I played and the role sex
workers played in the grand venture of Pornhub: we were all essential to the
company, yet ultimately disposable. Porn performers are sometimes misled about
what kinds of sex theyГўВҖВҷll be participating in and quickly find themselves in
situations they arenГўВҖВҷt prepared for. In a similarly sneaky way, I wasnГўВҖВҷt
fully informed or equipped to handle my role as a content moderator. Honestly,
who could be?

IГўВҖВҷd like to think that if I hadnГўВҖВҷt been ГўВҖВңNate-Tube8ГўВҖВқ for those two
years, the women I tried to help perhaps wouldnГўВҖВҷt have had an ally on the
other side of the screen to help them regain their dignity. But maybe IГўВҖВҷm
just trying to convince myself I was the good guy, despite the fact I was
tweeting to promote the company in between video takedowns.ГӮ

I thought of the woman whose boyfriend had repeatedly uploaded a video of them
having sex. How many times had I removed that clip? And would it still be
there today, a permanent source of shame for her?

I tapped the keys, searching for it, trying keywords that should have pulled
it up: _red_ _lingerie_ , _POV_ , _brunette_.

After six or seven tries, I couldnГўВҖВҷt find it ГўВҖВ” just new clips of different
women, in different places, doing different things. But in many ways, they all
looked the same, and there was just so much of it. An endless number of videos
to sift through ГўВҖВ” too many for one person.

I gave up trying to find the video and closed my laptop.
