title: How it’s possible for a person to be sucked from an airplane mid-flight | The Verge
source: https://www.theverge.com/2018/4/17/17249990/southwest-airlines-engine-explosion-passenger-partially-ejected-depressurization
date: 2025-08-13T16:39:30.225723
tags: []
---
When [the left engine](https://www.nbcphiladelphia.com/news/local/Airplane-
Makes-Emergency-Landing-at-Philadelphia-International-Airport-480008613.html)
on Southwest 1380 exploded today, a woman was nearly sucked out of the plane
through the broken window next to her, [other passengers on the flight told
NBC](https://www.nbcphiladelphia.com/news/local/Airplane-Makes-Emergency-
Landing-at-Philadelphia-International-Airport-480008613.html). It sounds
impossible, and officials haven’t yet confirmed the reports — but people have
been sucked out of damaged airplanes before.

The Boeing 737’s engine exploded on Tuesday morning while the plane was flying
from [New York’s LaGuardia Airport to Dallas](/2018/4/17/17248518/southwest-
airlines-emergency-landing-passenger-dead), forcing the pilot to make an
emergency landing in Philadelphia. One passenger died, the National
Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) [said in a press
briefing](http://video.foxnews.com/v/5772056744001/), and the Philadelphia
Fire Department [reported several
injuries](https://twitter.com/PhillyFireDept/status/986319935491145728). But
NTSB spokesman Keith Holloway told _The Verge_ in an email that he had no
information about reports of a passenger being nearly pulled from the jet mid-
flight.

While fatal aircraft accidents are extremely rare, there _have_ been cases of
passengers being sucked from punctured aircraft before, says [Thomas
Anthony](https://pressroom.usc.edu/thomas-anthony/), director of the
[University of Southern California’s aviation safety and security
program](https://aviationsafety.usc.edu/). In 1989, for example, a cargo door
blew off of [United Airlines flight
811](https://www.ntsb.gov/investigations/AccidentReports/Pages/AAR9202.aspx)
and took part of the fuselage with it: nine passengers were sucked from the
plane.

That can happen because the inside of the airplane is pressurized, so people
[can breathe even as the plane
climbs](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1114067/) to lower air
pressures at higher altitudes. The pressure differences between the inside and
the outside of the plane cause suction, Anthony says, which could pull a
passenger from a plane if it’s punctured. The higher the plane, the bigger the
pressure difference, Anthony says. “Then the more hazardous the condition is.
And, certainly, the greater the hole.”

 _The Verge_ spoke with Anthony about cabin pressures, rare but fatal plane
accidents, and oxygen masks.

_This interview has been edited for clarity and brevity._

**What exactly does it mean when a plane depressurizes?**

The term that’s used in the industry is “rapid depressurization.” The point of
pressurization of an aircraft is to keep the air inside of the airplane at a
level where people can breathe it comfortably. And so, in general, as you
increase in altitude, the air pressure [outside] diminishes. So commercial
aircraft are kept at a pressure altitude of about 8,000 feet so that people
can comfortably breathe the air. When a hole is punctured, then there’s less
pressure, there’s less oxygen, and that’s when the oxygen masks come down.

**How does a rapid depressurization occur? Are there specific conditions when
a plane is more or less likely to rapidly depressurize?**

Well, yes. If there is a puncture to the aluminum skin — or in the case of
modern aircraft, composite skin. In the case of intentional acts of unlawful
interference against aviation — namely, in the cases where bombs were placed
on board aircraft — then the hole in the side of the airplane would be much
greater, and, in a few cases, a person has been sucked out of the airplane.

**Is it different when depressurization occurs due to a small piercing like a
bullet versus a large hole?**

Yes, it’s different. Let’s say a bullet is shot. That will cause
depressurization, but it would not be the same as, let’s say, a structural
failure resulting in a large hole. Think about the [Aloha
Airlines](http://lessonslearned.faa.gov/ll_main.cfm?TabID=4&LLID=20&LLTypeID=2)
case, where the whole top of the airplane came off. Aloha operated a fleet of
aircraft — in this case, 737s — that would go from island to island. You take
one tight takeoff, and one landing — so you pressurize the fuselage, and then
you depressurize it.

And because there were so many takeoffs and landings from one island to
another and because it was in a warm and moist environment, there was
corrosion in the top skin that formed the fuselage, and actually the top
portions of the fuselage peeled back so that it looked like the top of the
airplane was completely gone when it landed. There was one fatality of a
flight attendant, who was sucked out of the airplane, but an amazing number of
people survived that.

**What’s the safest seat to be sitting in if a plane rapidly depressurizes?**

I haven’t given much thought to that, but I think that it all depends on the
location of the depressurization. But in general, I would say it would be that
seat that is closer to the middle of the airplane, like an aisle seat
[because] you’re farther from the side.

**How do you breathe when the plane depressurizes before you put the mask on?
Should you try to hold your breath?**

No, you don’t have to hold your breath. There’s still oxygen there. You’re
just absorbing less of it. What you have is a usable time of consciousness to
pull the [mask] down and put it on. So no, don’t hold your breath. Just act
normal, and pull it down and breathe the oxygen.

**Is it possible for depressurization to rip the plane apart?**

That question can be answered by the fact that that phenomenon is unknown to
us. So if it’s not a “no,” it’s an “approaching no” because, in my profession
of studying accidents since the introduction of jet airplanes, this is not
something that we have seen. So it’s extremely, extremely unlikely. [With] the
Aloha flight, you’ll see that aircraft continued to a safe landing even though
the top of the fuselage was gone. That speaks to the structural integrity of
the aircraft.

[](/2018/4/17/17249990/southwest-airlines-engine-explosion-passenger-
partially-ejected-depressurization#comments)

**Follow topics and authors** from this story to see more like this in your
personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates.

  * Rachel Becker
  * Health

  * Science

  * Transportation
