title: Why Republicans hate the Republican health care plan.
source: http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/politics/2017/03/why_republicans_hate_the_republican_health_care_plan.html
date: 2025-08-13T17:28:46.363426
tags: []
---
As expected, Paul Ryan has released a sweeping proposal—the American Health
Care Act—to remake the U.S. health care system. Also as expected, [lots of
people hate
it](https://www.slate.com/blogs/the_slatest/2017/03/07/the_reviews_are_in_paul_ryan_s_obamacare_plan_makes_everyone_want_to_barf.html).
What’s somewhat more surprising is that so many _Republicans_ seem to hate it.

Why won’t the GOP line up behind the party’s Obamacare replacement? The basic
story is that ideological purists don’t like the fact that the House proposal
creates a new system of refundable tax credits, which they see as tantamount
to socialism. Meanwhile, Republican pragmatists from states that expanded
Medicaid under Obamacare are afraid that Ryan’s overhaul will leave many of
their low-income constituents high and dry. The disagreement between these two
positions is ultimately a matter of political calculation. The purists, most
of whom are from solidly Republican constituencies, see getting rid of
Obamacare root and branch as the mission their voters sent them to Congress to
accomplish, and they want to do it even if it means millions of insurance
policies get canceled and swing voters go nuts. The pragmatists, who tend to
be drawn from more competitive districts and states, don’t want to push things
quite so far.

Normally you’d expect members of the same party to hammer out an agreement.
The purists would recognize that the pragmatists need to win their races if
the GOP is going to retain control of the House and Senate, and so they’d find
a way to work together. That’s exactly the kind of deal Ryan is trying to
forge. The problem is that the intra-Republican compromise he’s devised
doesn’t make anyone happy. That’s because, to put it bluntly, Republicans have
policy goals that simply can’t be achieved.

David A. Hopkins, a political scientist at Boston College, offers an[ elegant
explanation](http://www.honestgraft.com/2017/03/how-new-health-care-bill-
confirms.html). While the Democratic Party functions as a coalition of
discrete social groups, each of which wants government to help address various
problems, the GOP functions more as the agent of the conservative ideological
movement. This is not to say that Democrats are never ideological. Far from
it. It’s just that ideological liberals who, say, would have greatly preferred
Medicare-for-all over the kludgy, compromised mess that is the Affordable Care
Act weren’t willing to sink Obamacare because it was an affront to their
deeply held beliefs. Instead, they sucked it up and backed the president’s
health care plan, thinking it would deliver real-world benefits to their
constituents. There were plenty of ideological liberals who hated having to
cut deals with insurers and pharmaceutical companies and the hospital lobby
yet were willing to do just that to achieve their goal of expanding coverage.
Republicans, in contrast, have devoted almost no effort to placating industry
stakeholders in the health sector—a sector that accounts for roughly 18
percent of GDP, by the way—nor are they delivering much in the way of tangible
benefits to rank-and-file Republican voters.

It’s not that GOP lawmakers simply do the bidding of the rich, as many on the
left maintain. As Hopkins notes, that explanation doesn’t explain the
particulars of the Ryan bill: “The rich do benefit by receiving a large tax
cut, but if Republicans only cared about that issue they would have chosen to
pursue a politically easier path of merely cutting taxes on the wealthy while
leaving health care alone.” There is something deeper at work, and Hopkins
puts his finger on it.

Unlike ideological liberals, ideological conservatives aren’t interested in
empowering the federal government to solve the problems of this or that
constituency. Rather, their ultimate goal is to get the federal government out
of the problem-solving business, on the grounds that problems are best solved
by individuals; families; communities; and, in a pinch, state and local
governments, with at most an occasional assist from the federal leviathan.
This is, of course, a far cry from the status quo. The federal government is
vast, and its tentacles extend into [every nook and cranny of American
life](http://www.nationalaffairs.com/publications/detail/facing-up-to-big-
government), whether through direct expenditures or regulations and targeted
tax breaks. For ideological conservatives, the challenge is to reconcile a
government-shrinking agenda with the inescapable fact that most voters are
profoundly risk-averse and thus reluctant to shrink government programs that
might benefit them or, for that matter, anyone who could be seen in a
sympathetic light.

Ideological conservatives have spent decades trying to roll back the expansion
of government, with almost no success. Most often, they’ve acquiesced to more
modest expansions of government in the hopes of heading off the much bigger
ones sought by their ideological rivals. Welfare reform, for instance, is
occasionally cited as a government-shrinking success. The truth, however, is
that welfare reform substituted one set of government social programs (cash
transfers to poor households) with a different set of government social
programs (refundable tax credits designed to make work pay and expanded access
to subsidized medical care, among other things). For the next 20 years or so,
the prospects for shrinking government will be even less auspicious, as an
aging population all but guarantees that federal expenditures on Medicare,
Medicaid, and Social Security—three of the most popular programs in America,
all of which have long enjoyed bipartisan support—will soar. Tyler Cowen has
provocatively argued that [slowing down](http://www.bcaplan.com/Cowentech.pdf)
the expansion of government is the best those of a libertarian bent can do. In
the medium term, at least, it’s hard to disagree with that assessment.

Where does this leave the ideological right? I see two possibilities. Ross
Douthat of the _New York Times_ has outlined the ways in which Trump’s vision
of the GOP as a “[workers
party](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/08/opinion/why-republicans-cant-do-
health-care.html?_r=0)” could offer a way forward that is not so wedded to the
cause of shrinking government. Essentially, the idea would be for Republicans
to be a bit less zealously ideological and a bit more attuned to their
constituents’ real-world interests. I believe this is a perfectly sound
approach, and it’s one Republicans take from time to time, like when they
pledge to use the power of government to combat the scourge of opioid abuse
(which has devastated many heavily Republican communities) or when they
decried Obamacare for trimming the future growth of Medicare to help finance
coverage expansion.

But it’s rare to see much follow-through on such commitments. Republicans have
shown no interest in reversing Obama-era cuts in Medicare’s future growth, a
point Josh Barro of _Business Insider_ cites as a [telling
example](http://www.businessinsider.com/obamacare-repeal-bill-effects-working-
class-rich-2017-3) of GOP hypocrisy. Indeed, one of the more remarkable things
about Ryan’s American Health Care Act is that its insurance-market reforms
might particularly disadvantage older adults in rural areas earning working-
to lower-middle-class incomes. This is a pretty decent description of the
swing voters who won Donald Trump the White House and who’ve made the American
Health Care Act something more than a glimmer in Paul Ryan’s eye.

That leads me to a second possibility, one that would be compatible with a
“workers party” future for the GOP while offering a more tempered small-
government Republicanism. A few years ago, Paul Ryan united congressional
Republicans around a clever, widely misunderstood plan for
[revamping](https://budget.house.gov/uploadedfiles/wydenryan.pdf) the Medicare
program. The basic idea was pretty anodyne. Right now, Medicare beneficiaries
may choose between traditional fee-for-service Medicare (Medicare FFS) and
Medicare Advantage plans, in which private insurers offer the Medicare
benefit. Ryan proposed a competitive bidding system, one in which the second
least-expensive Medicare Advantage or Medicare FFS plan would establish a
benchmark. If a senior chose a more expensive plan, she would have to pay the
difference; if she chose a less expensive one, she’d get a cash rebate. Ryan
didn’t promise huge savings relative to Obamacare. Rather, the plan
anticipated that this reformed version of Medicare would cost just as much as
Obamacare’s version, at least at first. But the hope was that the magic of
competition would eventually yield substantial savings.

Here is how Ryan should have pitched this plan: One way or another, we are
going to make sure that seniors get the Medicare benefit they’ve been
promised. We believe we have a better way to deliver this benefit that will
prove cheaper over time. If we’re wrong, that’s on us. If it comes to that,
we’d sooner raise taxes than prevent seniors from getting their Medicare.

This is the right way for Republicans to talk about the cost of the safety
net: If there’s a conflict between rich people’s money and the lives of
ordinary Americans, we’re going to choose the latter every time. But Ryan
couldn’t pitch his plan in these terms, because he needed to demonstrate that
he could shrink the size of government. If he wasn’t going to cut Medicare and
was going to cut taxes, he had to slash safety-net spending somewhere else.
That’s why he proposed wildly unrealistic reductions in the growth of federal
Medicaid spending. His message wound up being completely muddled. We need to
cut spending because we’re facing a debt crisis … but we’re also going to cut
taxes. It is vitally important that we protect the safety net for old people …
but we’re going to slash it for poor people. If Ryan had taken a different
tack—if he had said his goal was to ensure that poor people get off Medicaid
by becoming middle-class people, and that if he was proven wrong, he’d do
everything in his power to see to it that the safety net was still there for
them—he might be serving as Mitt Romney’s vice president right now.

How can Paul Ryan and his allies send a more coherent message around the
American Health Care Act? A good starting point would be to forget about
cutting Obamacare’s taxes on households earning more than $200,000. It’s not
that Republicans are opposed to cutting those taxes. It’s just that their
priorities should lie elsewhere, namely in ensuring that vulnerable people
don’t get screwed. If Ryan can’t get behind that message, his health care bill
deserves to fail.
