title: The Sick, Refreshing Honesty of Web3 - The Atlantic
source: https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2022/02/future-internet-blockchain-investment-banking/621480/
date: 2025-08-13T15:29:12.852870
tags: []
---
Twitter [has begun](https://help.twitter.com/en/using-twitter/twitter-blue-
fragments-folder/nft) allowing its users to showcase NFTs, or non-fungible
tokens, as profile pictures on their accounts. It’s the latest public victory
for this form of … and, you know, there’s the problem. What the hell is an NFT
anyway?

There are answers. Twitter calls NFTs “unique digital items, such as artwork,
with proof of ownership that’s stored on a blockchain.” In marketing for the
new feature, the company offered an even briefer take: “digital items that you
own.” That promise, mated to a flood of interest and wealth in the
cryptocurrency markets used to exchange them, has created an NFT gold rush
over the past year. Last March, the artist known as Beeple
[sold](https://www.christies.com/features/Beeple-gets-real-with-human-
one-11940-7.aspx) an NFT at auction for $69.5 million. The digital sculptor
Refik Anadol, one of the artists _The Atlantic_ commissioned to [imagine a
COVID-19
memorial](https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2020/11/what-should-
a-covid-19-memorial-be/617137/) in 2020, has brought in millions [selling
editions](https://nft.refikanadol.com/) of his studio’s work in NFT form.
Jonathan Mann, who started writing a song every day when he couldn’t find a
job after the 2008 financial collapse, began selling those songs as NFTs,
[converting](https://songaday.world/) a fun internet hobby into a viable
living.

NFTs have become both memes and marketing, too. Taco Bell
[sold](https://rarible.com/tacobell?tab=created) “iconic and original artwork
inspired by our tacos.” Gap [made](http://nft.gap.com/) NFT pictures of Gap-
branded hoodies. The first edit to Wikipedia [got the NFT
treatment](https://www.gizmodo.com.au/2021/12/the-first-edit-to-wikipedia-is-
being-auctioned-as-an-nft/). NFT-native collections, such as the Bored Ape
Yacht Club’s [generated images of ugly
primates](https://boredapeyachtclub.com/#/), have become so popular that an
individual ape [might sell for](https://www.finder.com/boredapeyachtclub)
millions of dollars.

But it’s not terribly helpful to conceive of NFTs as a new form of digital art
or ownership or even technology. Owning an NFT [doesn’t confer any rights in
the intellectual
property](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2021/04/nfts-werent-
supposed-end-like/618488/) underlying the thing owned, which [anybody can
download](https://mashable.com/article/twitter-profile-picture-hexagonal-fake-
nft) for themselves. Those who purchase NFTs end up with nothing but a digital
record—the deed for a thing that can be copied at zero cost, with zero
repercussions.

Forget the hype around all things crypto. Set aside, for a moment, whether it
makes sense to spend a fortune on an ape picture. Those matters are
distractions. Let’s call things what they are: NFTs represent a first step in
the securitization of digital assets. They turn digital data into speculative
financial instruments. That shift has enormous implications because computers
are in everything, and that makes anything a digital asset—your bank records,
your Fitbit data, rings of your smart doorbell, a sentiment analysis of your
work email, you name it. First the internet made it easy for people to conduct
their lives online. Then it made it possible to monetize the attention
generated by that online life. Now the digital exhaust of all that life online
is poised to become an asset class for speculative investment, like stocks and
commodities and mortgages.

NFTs might burn out, the crypto-collectible equivalent of Beanie Babies. But
the more likely scenario is weirder and scarier: a securities market for
digital data. Financiers, who previously turned everything, whether loans or
hurricanes or payroll data, into bets, will likely go to town on all this
fodder. But ordinary people may also become fledgling financiers of their—or
others’—computer records. It is, in a way, the most honest turn of the
internet epoch. From the start, online businesses have presented themselves as
making culture, even as they really aimed to build financial value.

Now, at last, the wealth seeking is printed on the tin.

* * *

Imagine if you had a collection of artwork or jewelry, and you wanted to get
it insured. To do so, you could make a list of the items—a signed edition of a
limited-run print, maybe, or your grandmother’s jeweled brooch. The entry
_grandmother’s jeweled brooch_ is not the same as the brooch itself. But the
record refers to the brooch—you could even attach a picture to clarify matters
in case you had to make a claim against it later. As a proxy for value, an NFT
isn’t much different from the words _grandmother’s jeweled brooch_ on a list
in your safe-deposit box or your insurer’s filing cabinet. It’s just stored on
a blockchain where anyone can, in theory, look it up.

[Read: What happens when you’re the
investment?](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2021/11/financialization-
everything-investment-system-token/620804/)

Consider Beeple’s $69 million NFT. The art—or the thing an everyperson would
construe as art, the picture you can look at with your eyeballs—isn’t in the
NFT at all. Instead, the NFT points to the place where the art can be seen.
That creates some problems. The art—the picture file—could
[vanish](https://www.theverge.com/2021/3/25/22349242/nft-metadata-explained-
art-crypto-urls-links-ipfs) if its URL is moved or the server that hosts it
goes offline. Also, anybody who can load a URL can view or download the
picture file. Someone with access to the server that houses it can alter or
even delete the image.

Some have compared NFTs to receipts. If you’ve ever watched _Antiques
Roadshow_ , you know that a vintage Rolex presented with its packaging and
original sales receipt helps validate it as authentic and establish its value.
When your house burns down in a fire, you present a certificate of
authenticity for your limited-edition print or an appraisal of your
grandmother’s brooch to claim reimbursement. But it’s just as easy to sneer
that NFTs are _merely_ receipts, and that buying one is akin to buying the
packing slip for a Rolex without ever getting the wristwatch itself.

Both positions have merit: Paying thousands of dollars for a receipt is
stupid, and yet receipts have always exerted substantial value in cultural
affairs. In art, horse breeding, real estate, and countless other human
affairs, provenance and ownership have always been bureaucratic matters: You
own your house because a deed says that you do, and a traceable record of
title affirms it. It’s somewhat disconcerting to apply this principle to, say,
computer pictures of ugly apes, but perhaps only because those pictures seem
so new. One can, after all, own shares of a company, a practice once recorded
on physical stock certificates but long since delegated to electronic bank
records. Such ownership is entirely symbolic; the owner of stock cannot claim
a portion of a company’s inventory or a measure of office space in its
headquarters.

[Read: What critics don’t understand about
NFTs](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2021/04/nfts-show-value-
owning-unownable/618525/)

So NFTs aren’t strange or novel because they make appeals to value,
provenance, and ownership via collective fantasies of paperwork. That’s old
news. They feel strange and novel because normal people don’t usually construe
monetary value in mere references to everyday things, like a cash-register
receipt, or computer data.

Belief in such value is, however, completely normal in the financial sector.
In that context, an instrument that confers ownership, which can be bought or
sold and which holds monetary value, is called a “security.” Stocks are a type
of security called equities, which represent an ownership interest in a
company. When a firm goes public in an initial public offering, it takes a
portion of the ownership of the company and divides it up into shares of
stock, which it sells as equity securities to the public. Once bought, the new
owners can exercise some limited rights in the operation of the company, for
example via shareholder votes. But mostly, people buy stock to speculate in
the future value of the company, with the hopes of later selling the security
for a profit. The same thing can be done with bonds, which are securities made
from debt rather than ownership, or commodities securities, which are
financial instruments derived from the market value of raw materials.

In each case, ownership refers to an underlying asset, such as a company or a
commodity, rather than the literal possession of that asset. That arm’s-length
relationship allows financiers to manipulate value without having to store
agricultural products or manage companies. A commodities trader, for example,
can bet on the declining demand for corn or pork or oil by trading a futures
contract.

The asset that underlies a security typically has some obvious, intrinsic
value. A company has value in its physical plant, its cash holdings, its
inventory, and its future sales. Corn and pork and oil have use-value as food
and fuel. But in the 1970s, finance started to invent securities with less
obvious intrinsic value. The most infamous of these were pooled home
mortgages, which backed investments that banks sold as “mortgage-backed
securities.” The collapse of this type of financial instrument, which hid the
exposure of high-risk loans, is widely credited for bringing about the
financial crisis of 2008.

But even mortgages have some obvious use in the world. Since home loans became
popular targets for securitization, all manner of assets have become
collateral for securities. There are [weather
derivatives](https://www.cmegroup.com/trading/weather/) that allow shippers to
hedge against delays or damage caused by storms. Goldman Sachs [issued a
bond](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2012/aug/31/bob-dylan-bond-goldman-
sachs) backed by future royalties from the Bob Dylan song catalog. [Movie box-
office futures](https://www.theringer.com/movies/2018/11/15/18091620/box-
office-futures-dodd-frank-mpaa-recession) were briefly authorized for
commodity-market trading but then prohibited due to fears of insider trading.
Regulation notwithstanding, _anything_ that can be construed as an asset can
become the basis for a security. And if anything can become the basis for a
security, then why not JPEGs? Before [software ate the
world](https://future.a16z.com/software-is-eating-the-world/), finance already
had.

* * *

Today, some technologists have included NFTs in their vision for a third age
of the internet: Web3. It’s a hopeful moniker, a name-it-and-claim-it theology
for the brave new world of crypto-driven applications—the securitized
internet.

Let’s revisit Web1 and Web2 from a similar financial perspective. The first
online age was that of _marketization_. The web got its start as a
noncommercial, distributed publishing system that researchers, nerds, and
hobbyists could use to communicate with one another. Then, in the mid-1990s,
companies learned to move their businesses, and the brick-and-mortar world of
retail, online. They built a marketplace that would sell the same products and
services in a new way, or else they speculated on the potential to do so. We
got Amazon and eBay and Craigslist—and also Pets.com and HomeGrocer and the
dot-com crash.

By the mid-aughts, online life was an end in itself. Blogger and WordPress
made it easy to publish text; Flickr and YouTube did the same for photos and
videos. MySpace and Facebook and Twitter provided social diversion. The
smartphone pulled the internet away from the desk and into the pocket and
purse, where everyone could partake of it at any time, and then all the time.
But these Web 2.0 companies, as they became known, generally gave away their
services for free. So how could they make money?

By amassing data on the real and inferred behaviors of millions, then
billions, of users, Web2 companies developed a foundation for selling ads, or
charging modest fees, against people’s attention and engagement. Now the web
was “monetized.” And the act of monetizing, once an esoteric aim of straight-
laced bankers, became an everyday activity—and a natural goal for regular
“creators” like, well, you and me.

The huge success of Web2’s giants shifted the center of American business
aspiration from Wall Street to Silicon Valley. At the height of Web1,
Microsoft was the lone software firm among the 10 largest global businesses,
and big investment banks were the kingmakers who took fledgling tech firms
public. Two decades later, the top five were all technology companies. Though
some lamented the decline of manufacturing, nobody felt too badly about
financial institutions losing status. Bankers and financiers always had a
somewhat dark reputation as swindlers, but technologists reframed them as
indolent parasites who made nothing and preyed upon the inventions of others.
Web entrepreneurs, on the other hand, were _builders_ , making tools for work
and leisure and entirely new ways of living online.

[Read: Cryptocurrency might be a path to
authoritarianism](https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2017/05/blockchain-
of-command/528543/)

But even if the social-media and search tycoons could use the popularity and
apparent utility of their products as a cover story, they [optimized their
work](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2021/10/facebook-papers-
democracy-election-zuckerberg/620478/) for wealth and power, just like the
bankers and the hedge funders did. The only difference was, they also claimed
that they were changing the world for the better.

That facade is finally crumbling. Web3, the nascent third age of the internet,
represents a turn away from Web2’s goody-goody idealism and back toward Wall
Street’s brazen greed. Sure, some hints of the old content-expression-oriented
web have stuck around; some NFT creators have found a way to make some good
money from their art, even if the gold rush might not last. But overall, the
tech founders who are building crypto platforms and tools, like the users who
are buying and trading blockchain assets, are trying to produce wealth via
rapidly appreciating speculative value.

When Twitter’s founder and former CEO, Jack Dorsey, sold the first tweet as an
NFT for almost $3 million, that digital content’s distinctiveness helped
underwrite its value. But like any security, an NFT’s worth has less to do
with _what it is_ than _what it might be worth_. Just as the pork-futures
commodity trader is not principally interested in taking delivery of pig meat,
so the NFT trader is not necessarily concerned with the usefulness or even the
[symbolic
value](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1747-1346.2006.00028.x)
of an ape. NFT traders are betting on the underlying digital assets, but they
are _also_ betting on the whole asset class—the idea that people, and maybe
lots of them, will find ongoing and growing value in securities collateralized
by digital data rather than material goods, corporate equity, or government
debt. They’re also counting on the prospect that cryptocurrencies and
blockchain technologies will have huge value potential on their own.

As a part of that gamble, blockchain purveyors are re-creating some of the
esoteric names and structures that made finance require specialized expertise.
Technically speaking, if you just want a record of a digital asset, you can
accomplish that feat with an ordinary database. Web3 proponents insist that
the blockchain is necessary to produce a public account of the records, which
no one agent controls. Or, in the case of smart contracts and decentralized
autonomous organizations, computer code that automatically enforces rules. But
that decentralized aspiration [is already
](https://moxie.org/2022/01/07/web3-first-impressions.html)_devolving to
centralized control_ , as NFT marketplaces such as OpenSea (which serves
Twitter’s profile-pic feature) and crypto wallets such as ​​MetaMask achieve
Web2-style scale. Whether Web3 really ends up being decentralized might not
really matter, so long as enough people believe in the speculative value it
purports to create.

As that value continues to accrue, and Web3 grows in scope and influence, it
would be prudent to reflect on the history of securitization in the financial
markets. In short, things got only weirder: first corporate ownership, then
debt, then mortgages, then weather, then Bob Dylan. Today, digital art makes
up the collateral of most NFTs—pictures, music, sometimes even little software
programs that run on the blockchain itself. Others are even more bizarre:
[NFTs of colors](https://color.museum), of [national
parks](https://nationalparksnft.io), of
[stars](https://www.newstrail.com/destars-org-launches-nfts-to-the-stars-by-
naming-stars-on-blockchain/) (like, in the sky), of [references to recorded
songs](https://www.engadget.com/music-nft-site-hit-piece-temporarily-shuts-
down-following-artist-outrage-110929645.html), of derivatives of [evidence of
consumed chicken wings](https://bonecoin.com).

What if that’s just the beginning? There’s almost nothing that exists today
that doesn’t also have a digital shadow side—each tweet and text message you
send, and every photograph and email. But also: all of the banking
transactions you carry out, each phrase you dictate to Alexa, each scan of a
UPS package en route to your door, every record of a COVID-19 PCR test in your
Labcorp account, every bucket of wings you DoorDashed. Everything we possess
or do is digital or can be represented digitally. Even things that aren’t
yours, or anyone’s, can be captured as conceptual collateral thanks to
digitization. A group of Olive Garden fanatics [started
selling](https://hypebeast.com/2021/12/olive-garden-franchise-restaurants-nft)
NFTs of references to individual Olive Garden restaurant locations _,_ for
Pete’s sake.

You might find these new digital assets exciting or terrifying. Either way,
the absurdity is only going to grow. The natural endpoint of blockchains and
NFTs—the golden promise of Web3—is that every aspect of human life, as
recorded by computers, will be collateralized. Just think how excited or
terrified you’ll feel then.
