title: Exercising in virtual reality with the VirZoom motion controller | The Verge
source: http://www.theverge.com/2015/12/16/10234898/sony-playstation-vr-virzoom-motion-controller-excercise
date: 2025-08-13T18:34:37.527519
tags: []
---
I admit to having felt disoriented during the demos. It was difficult, for
example, to reconcile falling through the air with the physical motion of
pedaling the bike. Before I would touch the ground while riding the flying
Pegasus, I couldn’t stop myself from bracing for an impact I would never feel.
I would not recommend the VirZoom to those who feel motion sickness easily,
but if you can read while riding in a moving vehicle, you’re probably okay.

"We’re trying to solve the problem of locomotion in VR," says Spencer
Honeyman, VirZoom’s director of business development. And it’s a hard problem
— perhaps the problem keeping VR from being more immersive than it is today
beyond graphical improvements.

"virzoom is more about physical responses than it is about feeling teleported"

Most VR motion controllers are trying to translate real-life hand movements
directly to in-game characters, like the rotation of a wrist or the raising of
an arm. That typically requires controllers in your hand, but there’s little
by way of full body controllers without being strapped into what looks like a
low-key exoskeleton. Even worse, without a large carpeted space free of sharp
objects, it’s not advisable to free roam with a VR headset on. The VirZoom
manages to get us moving in VR in a way that feels more useful than bumbling
around your living room.

VirZoom is selling its bike starting in the first half of next year for $250,
but the first 300 customers who preorder it starting today will pay $200, the
company tells _The Verge_. The package includes five VirZoom games and a free
month of the company’s $10 per month annual subscription service, which offers
fitness tracking software and updates to current and new games down the line.
