title: How Behavioral Science is Remaking Politics - The New York Times
source: http://www.nytimes.com/2010/10/31/magazine/31politics-t.html?ref=magazine&pagewanted=print
date: 2025-08-13T21:54:08.524082
tags: []
---
Hal Malchow — who had previously approached the Democratic National Committee
to propose using experimental controls to measure mail to voters but was
repeatedly rebuffed — thought the Gerber-Green study was “the most important
event in politics for a long time,” he says. “Eighty percent of what we’ve
done in the past doesn’t work.” As the mail vendor for the A.F.L.-C.I.O.,
Malchow found a natural partner for his ideas in Mike Podhorzer, the
organization’s deputy political director. Podhorzer saw Gerber and Green, who
see themselves as researchers and not partisan advocates, as kindred spirits
in a worldwide battle for knowledge between two camps he thought of as “gurus”
versus “data.” As he says, “Until you get into a more rigorous approach, you
are essentially left with what we had, which is that everything you did in a
winning campaign was a good idea and everything that you did in a losing
campaign was a bad idea.”

Podhorzer and Malchow began trying to adapt the Gerber-Green methods to the
particular challenges faced by the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which regularly runs one of
the largest independent campaign operations, almost always on behalf of
Democrats. “Finding out the day after the election that Treatment A was the
best is of limited value to an organization like ours,” Podhorzer says. “We’re
actually trying to win the election.”

During the 2004 campaign, Podhorzer wanted to gauge voter reactions to his
organization’s election messages in near-real time. A good poll shows how the
electorate has moved over time, but it cannot isolate the effect of any
individual appeal — and certainly not that of a single mailed leaflet, one of
labor’s favorite tools for reaching member households. Focus groups offer a
rich impression of how certain voters respond to that leaflet, but only the
instant reaction of someone being paid $100 to have one. A focus group cannot
say anything about whether a typical voter will even notice the brochure if it
shows up in the mail wedged between a birthday card and a water bill.

Experiments provided a solution. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. planned to mail members
monthly in 2004, and Podhorzer set out to design a “continuous feedback loop”
testing different messages with small samples and then sending the most
influential ones to a much larger target audience. As he examined the results,
Podhorzer became even more frustrated with conventional polling. Asked if they
would be more or less likely to vote for a candidate who favored shipping jobs
overseas — a typical way of auditioning a promising line — voters across the
board would tell pollsters that it made them “less likely.” But a draft
leaflet about Bush’s policies had little impact on autoworkers who received
it; they already knew what the union wanted them to think about the subject.
Construction workers, however, didn’t know as much, and their minds changed.
Experiments allowed Podhorzer to see which voters actually moved, not just
count those who said they might.

Democrats have not been alone in experimenting with data**-** driven politics.
As Dave Carney, once George H. W. Bush’s White House political director,
prepared to guide the 2006 re-election campaign of Gov. Rick Perry of Texas,
he invited Gerber and Green to conduct their experiments from within the
campaign’s war room. Perry had spent more than $25 million to win a full term
in 2002, much of it on broadcast advertising, and Carney thought a rigorous
experimental regime could help “assure donors that we’re using their money as
best as possible — spend it different, spend less of it.” Gerber and Green
asked two political scientists who had informally advised George W. Bush’s
2004 re-election, James Gimpel and Daron Shaw, to collaborate on the project.
Carney invited the quartet he called “our four eggheads” to impose
experimental controls on nearly every aspect of campaign operations.
