title: Retailers can solve their returns problem - and the answer lies in existing data
source: https://www.thetimes.co.uk/static/return-items-fashion-retail-profits-online-shopping-alixpartners/
date: 2025-08-13T15:17:18.878076
tags: []
---
Removing the option to return items would make retailers uncompetitive. So,
the challenge is to reduce and recondition return behaviours without annoying
customers or depriving them of choice.

“Some have responded by tightening the returns window, or even charging for
returns,” says Kalms. “But those options feel like they are punishing the
customer and should be a last resort. Others have tried partial solutions,
such as technologies that identify worn or washed items, accelerate
refurbishment, speed the returns process, or identify high-returning or
fraudulent customers.”

Some have also built solutions that give them post-season information, such as
return rates by size, style or region.

“Post-season analysis is useful but better results come from those who take a
more disruptive approach and undertake cross-functional initiatives to better
understand what’s happening and act while the product is live,” says Kalms.
“Few retailers have built systems with this in mind. Most have focused
technology investment on forward logistics – moving goods from manufacturer to
customer.

“But identifying the correlations between returns and product, geography,
pricing, and customer and supplier behaviour – these are complex data problems
retailers are yet to solve.”

Such analysis can reveal many subtleties, such as:

  * The difference between a stager posting to a few friends and one who is a popular influencer promoting the product.
  * A certain size returned often in one region can be redirected automatically, via the return label, to another area, where it is selling quickly.
  * One fabric returned often can be removed from sale automatically while you investigate the quality.
  * A customer who regularly orders three sizes but always sends back smaller ones can be discouraged or make smaller ones unavailable to them.

Another approach is giving premier customers free returns, while non-premier
customers pay for them. But not many companies scientifically test and compare
effectiveness for those two options, or other variants.
