title: Opinion | How Covid Remade Our America, Five Years Later - The New York Times
source: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2025/03/04/opinion/covid-impact-five-years-later.html
date: 2025-08-13T15:06:43.754894
tags: []
---
We’d taken for granted that health emergencies like this one were a thing of
the past. It was deeply unsettling to realize that our modern, wealthy world
was no fortress against contagion, mass death and pandemic hysteria of various
kinds. The end of the end of history has been declared countless times since
2001, but no event punctuated the point as clearly as Covid-19.

The emergency began at a time of geopolitical uncertainty, but it ended in an
unmistakable polycrisis: beyond Covid, its supply shocks and inflation surge,
there was a debt crisis and an ongoing climate emergency, wars in Europe and
soon the Middle East and renewed great-power conflict with China.

At home the horizon flickered with the digital shimmer of an A.I. future, and
accelerationists set about bringing it into being rather than succumb to
pandemic privation or postpandemic stagnation.

It looks like we finally got those Roaring Twenties we were promised. In 2020,
the phrase was used to suggest an age of parties and sex and social
recklessness was on the way, as 330 million cooped-up Americans let off some
steam. In 2025 the analogy looks more expansive. A century ago, the United
States retreated from global institutions and alliances, when Woodrow Wilson
left the stage. There came, after a generation of governance known as the
Progressive era, a right-wing electoral surge that lasted until the most
spectacular bust in American history. In the meantime, there was a legendarily
American decade, defined by a hands-off approach to regulation and a hands-on
embrace of conspicuous consumption and material excess and a blurring line
between criminality and legitimate power, temperance and promiscuity.

Yet, the world does not seem now more buoyant or full of hope, but abrasive
and rapacious and shaped nearly everywhere by a barely suppressed rage. We
have still not reckoned with all we have lost.
