title: The best place for women in action movies is next to Tom Cruise.
source: http://www.slate.com/blogs/browbeat/2016/10/24/the_best_place_for_women_in_action_movies_is_next_to_tom_cruise.html
date: 2025-08-13T17:48:52.582920
tags: []
---
_This[article](http://www.vulture.com/2016/10/tom-cruises-female-costar-cobie-
smulders-emily-blunt.html?wpsrc=nymag) originally appeared in
_[Vulture](http://www.vulture.com/?wpsrc=nymag) _._

On Friday, Tom Cruise returned to theaters with the second installment in the
Jack Reacher film franchise, [_Jack Reacher: Never Go
Back_](http://www.vulture.com/2016/06/watch-tom-cruise-in-the-jack-
reacher-2-trailer.html?wpsrc=nymag). Much like last time, Cruise’s Reacher is
called upon to clear the name of an innocent person saddled with a heinous
crime, in this case, his former commanding officer Susan Turner (Cobie
Smulders). It’s the latest installment in the Cruise Action Canon, a set that
started in earnest with the first _Mission Impossible_ back in 1996 and has
carried through six installments in that franchise, two _Reacher_ movies, and
a handful of one-offs like _Oblivion_ , _Minority Report_ , and _Edge of
Tomorrow_. And while these films are all marked by incredible stunt sequences
and formidable fight choreography, they’re also notable for something else:
providing the best safe spaces for women in all of action cinema.

Short of playing a Mockingjay, being Tom Cruise’s female co-star is the
highest-profile showcase for women in the whiz-bang genre to kick ass, be
sexy, and outwit their opposition, without having to worry about being grossly
objectified or used as a prop to demonstrate the virility of a male lead. In
his own strange way, you could make the case that Tom Cruise—on screen, at
least—is the feminist action hero 2016 needs.

Before Jason Bourne arrived on the scene, Cruise’s Ethan Hunt was pitched as
the American answer to James Bond. But where the two spy franchises differ
most is in the treatment of those women. The women in Bond’s life exist to be
killed, rescued, or in their highest form, to save him from himself. Even
Monica Bellucci, the rare actress who was Bond’s equal in age, experience, and
star power, only had a few minutes of screen time in _Spectre_ , and her big
scene still culminated [in a
seduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HT6LQEWzY3A). _Spectre_ ’s other
female lead, Léa Seydoux’s Madeleine Swann, was equally shortchanged, serving
as little more than a mannequin to be kissed. The overt womanizing of the Sean
Connery and Roger Moore eras may have been trimmed down to the occasional
cheeky one-liner, but the Bond films—and most action movies that don’t have
_Fast_ or _Furious_ in their titles—have still struggled to transform their
female characters from objects to subjects.

All of this makes the female co-stars in Cruise movies so noteworthy. No
matter how big or small their roles, they are fully fledged characters;
active, not reactive. Take Seydoux, who along with Olga Kurylenko has had the
distinction of playing opposite both Bond and Cruise. The difference is
remarkable; in her few scenes in _Mission Impossible:_  _Ghost Protocol_ ,
Seydoux had more compelling moments than in the entire movie she spent as a
Bond girl. As the stoic assassin Sabine Moreau, she was a killer with purpose,
a villain who did not fear the best because she’d “killed the best.” Her fight
scene with Paula Patton was a highlight—when she got kicked out that window of
the Burj Khalifa, you were sad to see her go.

Even as love interests, actresses like Andrea Riseborough and Kurylenko in
_Oblivion_ and Michelle Monaghan in _Mission Impossible III_ have dynamics
with Cruise that are clearly rooted in mutual care and affection. Their
sexuality is not a prize that Cruise alone possesses, and it’s never exploited
by his antagonists, either—a refreshing change from films where rape is used
as motivation for male leads. In _Knight and Day_ , Cruise even [literally
apologizes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RyqRF8bfWB8) to Cameron Diaz’s
character for touching her without her explicit consent and invites her to
punch him in the face. All these women benefit from the innate sexlessness of
Cruise’s star image: With the exception of his turn as an over-the-top
musician in _Rock of Ages_ , you have to go back to _Vanilla Sky_ in 2001 to
find a woman taking her clothes off for Cruise.

And over the past few years, Cruise’s action films have leveled up his female
counterparts until their abilities have matched or exceeded his own. Emily
Blunt’s Angel of Verdun was the primary ass-kicker in 2014’s _Edge of
Tomorrow_ , and Cruise spent most of that movie learning how not to be a dead
weight around her neck. And while Cruise was as capable as ever in last year’s
_Rogue Nation_ , franchise newcomer Rebecca Ferguson stole the show as a
disavowed secret agent—so much so that she’ll be making a rare return in _MI:
6_ next year.**** And in _Never Go Back_ , it’s Smuldurs who pops off the
screen when Cruise slips into a kind of auto-pilot hero mode, finally getting
the chance to be the action star we’ve only seen tiny teases of in the Marvel
films. As the movie takes pains to make clear, Reacher and Turner are peers.

In none of these movies do Cruise’s characters suffer from having a female
equal. And the films themselves are often better as a result, as the strength
of his female leads move them further away from the genre’s reliable formulas.
You get the sense that, as he approaches 60, Cruise is more than happy to
share the responsibility of anchoring a blockbuster action movie. It’s almost
as if he’s creating a kind of hero apprentice program. When Cruise finally
does retire from the Impossible Missions Force, maybe one of those successors
he’s been grooming can take the lead, with a rotating cast of male support
figures. You know, to give the underdogs a shot.

**See also:**[It’s Time to Start Liking Tom Cruise
Again](http://www.vulture.com/2015/08/its-time-to-start-liking-tom-cruise-
again.html?wpsrc=nymag)
