title: Someday, We Might Really Be Able to Talk to Whales - The Atlantic
source: https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2021/10/someday-we-might-really-be-able-talk-whales/620552/
date: 2025-08-13T15:33:19.121054
tags: []
---
“I don’t know much about whales. I have never seen a whale in my life,”
Michael Bronstein says. The Israeli computer scientist, who teaches at
Imperial College London, in England, might not seem the ideal candidate for a
project involving the communication of sperm whales. But his skills as an
expert in machine learning could be key to an ambitious endeavor that
officially started in March 2020: An interdisciplinary group of scientists
wants to use artificial intelligence to decode the language of these marine
mammals. If Project CETI (Cetacean Translation Initiative) succeeds, it would
be the first time that we actually understand what animals are chatting
about—and maybe we could even have a conversation with them.

The project was born in 2017 when an international group of scientists spent a
year together at Harvard University, in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at the
Radcliffe Fellowship, a program that promises “an opportunity to step away
from usual routines.” One day, Shafi Goldwasser, an Israeli-American computer
scientist and cryptography expert, came by the office of David Gruber, a
marine biologist at City University of New York. Goldwasser, who had just been
named the new director of the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing at
UC Berkeley, had heard a series of clicking sounds that reminded her of the
noise a faulty electronic circuit makes—or of Morse code. That’s how sperm
whales talk with one another, Gruber told her. “I said, ‘Maybe we should do a
project where we are translating the whale sounds into something that we as
humans can understand,’” Goldwasser recounts. “I really said it as an
afterthought. I never thought he was going to take me seriously.”

But the fellowship was an opportunity to take far-out ideas seriously. At a
dinner party, they presented the idea to Bronstein, who was following recent
advancements in natural language processing (NLP), a branch of AI that deals
with the automated analysis of written and spoken speech—so far, just human
language. Bronstein was convinced that the “codas,” as the brief sperm-whale
utterances are called, have a structure that lends them to this kind of
analysis. Fortunately, Gruber knew a biologist named Shane Gero who had been
recording a lot of sperm-whale codas in the waters around the Caribbean island
of Dominica since 2005. Bronstein applied some machine-learning algorithms to
the data. “They seemed to be working very well, at least with some relatively
simple tasks,” he says. But this was no more than a proof of concept. For a
deeper analysis, the algorithms needed more context and more data—millions of
whale codas.

But do animals have language at all? The question has been controversial among
scientists for a long time. For many, language is one of the last bastions of
human exclusivity. Animals communicate, but they do not speak, said the
Austrian biologist Konrad Lorenz, one of the pioneers of the science of animal
behavior, who wrote about his own communications with animals in his 1949
book, _King Solomon’s Ring_. “Animals do not possess a language in the true
sense of the word,” Lorenz wrote.

“I rather think that we haven’t looked closely enough yet,” counters Karsten
Brensing, a German marine biologist who has written multiple books on animal
communication. Brensing is convinced that the utterances of many animals can
certainly be called language. This isn’t simply about the barking of dogs;
several conditions have to be met. “First of all, language has semantics,”
Brensing says. “That means that certain vocalizations have a fixed meaning
that does not change.” Siberian jays, a type of bird, for example, are known
to have a vocabulary of about 25 calls, some of which have a fixed meaning.

The second condition is grammar: rules for how to build sentences. For a long
time, scientists were convinced that animal communication lacked any sentence
structure. But in 2016, researchers published a study in _Nature
Communications_ on the vocalizations of great tits. In certain situations, the
birds combine two different calls to warn one another when a predator
approaches. They also reacted when the researchers played this sequence to
them. However, when the call order was reversed, the birds reacted far less.
“That’s grammar,” Brensing says.

The third criterion: You wouldn’t call the vocalizations of an animal species
a language if they are completely innate. Lorenz believed that animals were
born with a repertoire of expressions and did not learn much in the course of
their lives. “All expressions of animal emotions, for instance, the ‘Kia’ and
‘Kiaw’ note of the jackdaw, are therefore not comparable to our spoken
language, but only to those expressions such as yawning, wrinkling the brow
and smiling, which are expressed unconsciously as innate actions,” Lorenz
wrote.

Several animal species have proved to be vocal learners—acquiring new
vocabulary, developing dialects, identifying one another by name. Some birds
even learn to imitate cellphone ringtones. Dolphins acquire individual
whistles that they use as an identifier for themselves, almost like a name.

The clicks of sperm whales are ideal candidates for attempting to decode
meaning—not just because, unlike continuous sounds that other whale species
produce, they are easy to translate into ones and zeros. The animals dive down
into the deepest ocean depths and communicate over great distances, so they
cannot use body language and facial expressions, which are important means of
communication for other animals. “It is realistic to assume that whale
communication is primarily acoustic,” Bronstein says. Sperm whales have the
largest brains in the animal kingdom, six times the size of ours. When two of
these animals chatter with each other for an extended period of time,
shouldn’t we wonder whether they have something to say to each other? Do they
give each other tips on the best fishing grounds? Do whale moms exchange
stories about raising their offspring, like their human counterparts? It’s
worth trying to find out, say the CETI researchers.

Learning an unknown language is easier with something like the famous Rosetta
Stone. This stele, discovered in 1799, contains the same text in three
languages and was the key to deciphering Egyptian hieroglyphics. Of course,
there is no such thing for the animal kingdom. We have neither a human-whale
dictionary nor a book with grammatical rules of the sperm-whale language.

But there are ways around that. Obviously, children learn their native
language without these tools, just by observing the language spoken around
them. Researchers have concluded that this kind of learning is basically
statistical: The child remembers that the word _dog_ is being uttered a lot
when that furry animal enters the room, that certain words are often used in
connection with certain others, that a specific sequence of words is more
likely than another. In the past 10 years, machine-learning methods have
mimicked this type of learning. Researchers fed big neural networks with huge
amounts of language data. And those networks could find structures in
languages from statistical observations without being told anything about the
content.

One example is the so-called language models, of which the best-known is
GPT-3, developed by the company OpenAI. Language models are completion
machines—GPT-3, for example, is given the beginning of a sentence and
completes it word by word, in a similar way to the suggestions that
smartphones make when we type text messages, just a lot more sophisticated. By
statistically processing huge amounts of text pulled from the internet,
language models not only know which words appear together frequently; they
also learn the rules of composing sentences. They create correct-sounding
sentences, and often ones of strikingly good quality. They are capable of
writing fake news articles on a given topic, summarizing complex legal texts
in simple terms, and even translating between two languages.

These feats come at a price: Huge amounts of data are required. Programmers
trained GPT-3’s neural network with about 175 billion words. By comparison,
Gero’s Dominica Sperm Whale Project has collected fewer than 100,000 sperm-
whale codas. The first job of the new research project will be to greatly
expand that collection, with the goal of collecting 4 billion words—although
nobody knows yet what a “word” is in sperm-whale language.

If Bronstein’s idea works, it is quite realistic to develop a system analogous
to human-language models that generates grammatically correct whale
utterances. The next step would be an interactive chatbot that tries to engage
in a dialogue with free-living whales. Of course, no one can say today whether
the animals would accept it as a conversational partner. “Maybe they would
just reply, ‘Stop talking such garbage!’” Bronstein says.

But even if the idea works, the downside of all language models is that they
don’t know anything about the content of the language in which they are
chatting. It would be unfortunate if the researchers created a bot that could
converse fluently with a whale but the researchers couldn’t understand a word.
That’s why they want to annotate the voice recordings with data on the whales’
behavior right from the start—where were the animals, which spoke with which,
what was the reaction? The challenge is to find an automated way to do at
least some of these millions of annotations.

A lot of technology still has to be developed, including sensors to record the
individual whales and monitor their locations. Those are necessary to clearly
assign individual sounds to a specific animal. Project CETI successfully
applied for five years of funding from the Audacious Project run by TED, the
conference organization. A number of organizations are part of the project,
including the National Geographic Society and the Computer Science and
Artificial Intelligence Laboratory at MIT.

The CETI researchers were not the first to come up with the idea of applying
machine-learning techniques to animal languages. Aza Raskin, a former
physicist, designer, and entrepreneur turned critic of technology, had a
similar idea back in 2013 when he heard about the complicated language of
African gelada monkeys. Could we apply NLP technology that was developed to
process human languages to animal vocalizations? He helped found the Earth
Species Project with the aim of doing just that. At that time, the technology
was in its infancy; it took another four years before it was developed into a
working self-learning method for automated translation between languages. The
word-embedding technique puts all the words of a language into a
multidimensional galaxy where words often used together are close to one
another, and those connections are represented by lines. For example, _king_
relates to _man_ as _queen_ relates to _woman_.

It turned out that the maps of two human languages can be made to coincide,
even though not every word from one language has an exact counterpart in the
other. Today, this technique allows for translation between two human
languages in written text, and soon it could be used on audio recordings
without text.

But is it conceivable that we could overlay the maps of a human and an animal
language? Raskin is convinced that this is possible, at least in principle.
“There is almost certainly some kind of shared set of experiences, especially
with other mammals. They need to breathe, they need to eat; they grieve their
young after they die,” he says. At the same time, Raskin believes, there will
be a lot of areas where the maps don’t fit. “I don’t know what is going to be
more fascinating—the parts where we can do direct translation, or the parts
where there is nothing which is directly translatable to the human
experience.” Once animals speak for themselves and we can listen, Raskin says,
we could have “really transformational cultural moments.”

Certainly these hopes are getting a little ahead of the research. Some
scientists are very skeptical about whether the collection of CETI data will
contain anything interesting. Steven Pinker, the renowned linguist and the
author of the book _The Language Instinct,_ sees the project with a fair
amount of skepticism. “I’ll be curious to see what they find,” he says.
However, he has little hope that we can find rich content and structure in the
sperm-whale codas. “I suspect it won’t be much beyond what we already know,
namely that they are signature calls whose semantics [are] pretty much
restricted to who they are, perhaps together with emotional calls. If whales
could communicate complex messages, why don’t we see them using it to do
complex things together, as we see in humans?”

Diana Reiss, a researcher from Hunter College at CUNY, disagrees. “If people
looked at you and me right now,” she says, “I’m not doing much, nor are you,
yet we’re communicating a great deal of meaningful things.” In the same
manner, she thinks we don’t know much about what the whales might say to one
another. “I think we can safely say we’re in a state of ignorance at this
point,” she says.

Reiss has been working with dolphins for years and uses a simple underwater
keyboard to communicate with them. She co-founded a group, Interspecies
Internet, that explores ways to effectively communicate with animals. Among
her co-founders are the musician Peter Gabriel; Vinton Cerf, one of the
developers of the internet; and Neil Gershenfeld, the director of MIT’s Center
for Bits and Atoms. Reiss welcomes CETI’s ambitions, especially its
interdisciplinary approach.

The CETI researchers admit that their search for meaning in whale codas might
not turn up anything interesting. “We understand that one of our greatest
risks is that the whales could be incredibly boring,” says Gruber, the program
lead. “But we don’t think this is the case. In my experience as a biologist,
whenever I really looked at something closely, there has never been a time
when I’ve been underwhelmed by animals.”

The name of the CETI project evokes SETI, the search for extraterrestrial
intelligence, which has scanned the sky for radio signals of alien
civilizations since the 1960s, so far without finding a single message.
Because no sign of extraterrestrials has been found, Bronstein is convinced
that we should try out our decoding skills on signals that we can detect here
on Earth. Instead of pointing our antennas toward space, we can eavesdrop on a
culture in the ocean that is at least as alien to us. “I think it is very
arrogant to think that _Homo sapiens_ is the only intelligent and sentient
creature on Earth,” Bronstein says. “If we discover that there is an entire
civilization basically under our nose—maybe it will result in some shift in
the way that we treat our environment. And maybe it will result in more
respect for the living world.”

* * *

 _This post appears courtesy of_[Hakai
Magazine](https://www.hakaimagazine.com/) _._
