title: The real reason there was a beer, sanitizer, yeast, and pasta shortage in the pandemic.
source: https://slate.com/business/2020/09/covid-beer-sanitizer-shortage-supply-chains-six-months-in.html
date: 2025-08-13T15:51:28.320537
tags: []
---
_This is part of_[ _Six Months In_](https://slate.com/tag/six-months-in) _, a
Slate series reflecting on half a year of coronavirus lockdown in America._

For half a year, the grocery aisle has doubled as a barometer of how well
we’re handling life in a pandemic. Empty shelves revealed which commodities
consumers really prized for safety, comfort, and entertainment. They also
illustrated how well our gargantuan and complex supply chains had met a moment
of crisis.

I’ve been covering retail shortages since the economic shutdowns began this
spring, examining supply chains of the most-sought-after pandemic purchases.
And I’ve noticed one recurring culprit when a coveted product disappears from
stores: packaging.

Supply chain managers have struggled throughout this crisis to find the things
they need to store the products they sell. There aren’t enough cardboard boxes
for [pasta](https://slate.com/business/2020/05/pasta-shortage-coronavirus-
why.html). There aren’t enough paper satchels for [dried
yeast](https://slate.com/business/2020/04/yeast-shortage-supermarkets-
coronavirus.html). And there aren’t enough plastic canisters for [disinfectant
wipes](https://slate.com/business/2020/07/why-its-still-so-tough-to-find-
disinfectant-wipes.html). This isn’t the only reason you can’t find what
you’re looking for at the store, but it’s often a major factor. So why can’t
the packaging industry, worth $900 billion worldwide, manage to keep up?

To be fair, it’s difficult to sharply ramp up the manufacturing of any product
to meet a surge in demand. But it turns out that packaging presents some
unique challenges. This isn’t primarily because of the materials, like
aluminum or paper. Instead, it’s about factories’ limited capacity to turn
those materials into the specific kinds of containers consumers require. As [a
report](https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/paper-forest-products-and-
packaging/our-insights/how-the-packaging-industry-can-navigate-the-
coronavirus-pandemic) from McKinsey spells out, closures of public venues like
restaurants and stadiums severely depressed demand for the bulk packaging of
food, toilet paper, and other products. But consumers were simultaneously
seeking out the same products for use at home, and in larger quantities than
usual. That meant there was greater need for smaller packaging formats.
Manufacturers had to either switch over production lines meant for bulk-size
packaging or run preexisting ones devoted to smaller packaging at much higher
speeds.

“That’s not easy to do in a short period of time,” said Matthew Daum, director
of Michigan State University’s School of Packaging. “All that machinery is
finely tuned and takes up a certain amount of space and is built around a
certain package format.” For example, to convert a factory that typically
turns out 5-gallon bags for instant rice into one that makes 12-ounce pouches,
you’d either have to buy brand-new equipment or retrofit older units at a high
cost. Hence: Maybe instant rice is a hot commodity for a few weeks.

Beer is another good example. Since Americans have been forced to do more of
their drinking at home rather than at bars, demand for kegs has plummeted
while demand for retail containers has skyrocketed. In the spring, that
translated into a shortage of aluminum cans, which saw a nearly [30
percent](https://www.inside.beer/news/detail/usa-brewers-face-severe-shortage-
of-12-ounce-cans.html) rise in demand from March to early May. (Just a 5
percent swing can be significant enough to disrupt the beer industry’s supply
chains.) Even now, some aluminum suppliers are reporting the lowest inventory
levels they’ve ever had, with increased consumer demand for soft drinks, hard
seltzers, and canned foods [also
exacerbating](https://www.wsj.com/articles/coronavirus-is-causing-a-can-
shortage-11598356980) the shortage. Molson Coors, which owns Miller Lite, has
actually lost market share because it’s had to cease production of some canned
beers. In the soda sector, Coca-Cola Co. is also reporting shortages of Cherry
Coke and Pibb Xtra, which it attributes to can scarcity.

**Manufacturers had to either switch over production lines meant for bulk-size
packaging or run preexisting ones devoted to smaller packaging at much higher
speeds.**

“It was a perfect storm,” said John Rost, vice president of global
sustainability and regulatory affairs for Pennsylvania-based packaging
supplier Crown Holdings. While the industry had already seen a trend in
consumer preference for cans over the past five to six years because of their
recyclability, it wasn’t ready for this shock. “We’re doing everything we can,
but the market is basically sold out. Every manufacturing facility in the
country is running 24/7.”

Even after adding more shifts and retrofitting machines, can factories still
aren’t meeting the demand. Opening more facilities seems to be the only
plausible next step, Rost said. Crown is constructing a new plant in Kentucky
and adding more lines to its facilities in New York and Washington, but it’s a
slow process: Building a whole plant from the ground up takes around a year,
while installing a new line takes six to eight months. Based on Crown’s
projections, it’ll take around six months to a year for manufacturers to start
catching up to can demand. The Can Manufacturers Institute, a trade group,
expects the industry to add the capacity to produce [12
billion](https://www.wsj.com/articles/coronavirus-is-causing-a-can-
shortage-11598356980) more cans by the end of 2021.

Another sector that’s experiencing issues with packaging is the cleaning
products industry. When millions of Americans decided all at once to keep all
their hands and surfaces cleaner, disinfectants became a prized purchase. That
led to wild spikes in demand for plastic canisters, sprayers, bottles, and
pumps. Though certain sanitizing chemicals had been harder to source, partly
due to COVID-related production shutdowns in China and India, maintaining
ramped-up packaging volumes is _still_ a tricky puzzle to solve.
“Manufacturers are scrambling to acquire some of those key packaging
materials, so you’re seeing more encouragement for using refills,” Brian
Sansoni, senior vice president of communication for the American Cleaning
Institute, told me [this summer](https://slate.com/business/2020/07/why-its-
still-so-tough-to-find-disinfectant-wipes.html). Some suppliers are seeing
five to six times the demand for certain packaging units this year compared
with previous years. Lead times for fulfilling orders for disc top caps—you
know, those soap tops you press open with your thumb—have extended as far out
as early 2023.

There aren’t a lot of quick adjustments cleaning product manufacturers can
make to significantly increase volume. Suppliers and distributors have been
trying to push different packaging formats, like using bags instead of
cannisters for disinfectant wipes, and are focusing less on dyeing plastics a
certain color in the interest of efficiency. (Who cares if the bottle is blue
during a pandemic?) Factories are also restarting some decommissioned lines
and supplementing automated processes with more manual labor for products like
sprayers.

As with so many aspects of life, the packaging industry will likely be
permanently altered by the pandemic—but it’s still too early to say how,
exactly, it should prepare. Katherine Storer, senior supply chain director for
the Illinois-based company Berlin Packaging, said that manufacturers are
having to make tough decisions around adding lines and factories given how
variable demand projections can be. Storer said, “Depending on the equipment,
it has such long lead times that by the time you get it commissioned, if you
haven’t projected right about where the market’s going to go, then obviously
you’ll end up mothballing it.” Adding infrastructure requires not only buying
equipment but also finding enough staff to operate it. What if a can maker
doubles capacity, but demand for kegs suddenly goes up again?

Another issue is that packaging is only useful if you have every component.
For example, a plant that makes the plastic containers for hand sanitizer
often doesn’t produce the pump that goes with it because they’re made of
different substrates. The supply chain can only rev up if both the container
maker and the pump maker do so in tandem. Court Carruthers, CEO of the
Missouri-based packaging distributor TricorBraun, said: “There’s pressure
across the entire packaging supply chain. Everyone is investing to get those
things balanced.” But getting it right can take time—and leave consumers
resigned to making home-brew hand sanitizer for a few weeks.

All this amounts to a landscape in which even a shortage of bottle caps or
equipment like cuppers—the things that form sheets of aluminum into
cylinders—can greatly distort what’s available on grocery shelves. No one
could have predicted how consumers would behave during a once-in-a-century
pandemic, certainly one that may be with us for a while yet. It turned out we
wanted a lot of beer, and cans from which to sip it.
