title: A one-word Turing Test suggests ‘poop’ is what sets us apart from the machines | The Verge
source: https://www.theverge.com/2018/10/7/17940352/turing-test-one-word-minimal-human-ai-machine-poop
date: 2025-08-13T16:29:26.291572
tags: []
---
Imagine that you’re living in some dystopian future, and you have been accused
of being an advanced AI, which is outlawed in this society. The penalty is
death, and in order to convince the judge who will decide your fate, you can
utter just one word, any word you like from the dictionary, to prove that
you’re flesh and blood. What word do you choose?

It sounds like the setup for a cheesy sci-fi short, but this is actually part
of a [curious
paper](https://github.com/tomeru/minimalTuring/blob/master/preprint.pdf) from
a pair of researchers at MIT on something they call the “Minimal Turing Test.”

Instead of a machine trying to convince someone they’re human through
conversation — which was the premise of the original Turing Test, outlined by
British scientist Alan Turing in his seminal 1950 paper “[Computing Machinery
and Intelligence](https://www.csee.umbc.edu/courses/471/papers/turing.pdf)” —
the Minimal Turing Test asks for just one word, either chosen completely
freely or picked from a pair of words.

The researchers responsible, John McCoy and Tomer Ullman, clarify that the
Minimal Turing Test isn’t a benchmark for AI progress, but a way of probing
how humans see themselves in relation to machines. This question is going to
become increasingly relevant in a world filled with AI assistants, deepfaked
humans, and Google auto reply handling your email. In a world of human-like
AI, what do we think sets us apart? What makes us different?

In the first of McCoy and Ullman’s two tests, 936 participants were asked to
select any word they liked that they thought could be proof of their humanity.
Despite the free range of choices, results clustered around a small number of
themes. The four most frequently picked words were “love” (134 answers),
“compassion” (33 answers), “human” (30 answers), and “please” (25 answers),
which made up a quarter of all responses. Other clusters were empathy (words
like “emotion,” “feelings,” and “sympathy”), and faith and forgiveness (words
like “mercy,” “hope,” and “god”).

All in all, the 936 answers covered 428 individual words, which is a striking
amount of cohesion.

_Answers from the one-word test show the most popular single answer was
“love.”_ Image by McCoy and Ullman / MIT

In the second test, 2,405 participants had to choose between pairs of words,
deciding which of the two they thought was given by a human and a machine.
Again, words like “love,” “human,” and “please” scored strongly, but the
winning word was simpler and distinctly biological: “poop.” Yes, out of all of
the word pairings, “poop” was selected most frequently to denote the very
essence and soul of humanity. Poop.

Speaking to _The Verge_ , McCoy of MIT’s Sloan Neuroeconomics Laboratory,
stressed that the test was more about social psychology than computer science.

“We don’t see it being used as the next CAPTCHA,” McCoy says. “The practical
applications it has in the AI computer space is more when you’re thinking
about user interface design and things like that. In those contexts, it’s
perhaps useful to know how people think about computers and what they think
sets them apart.”

The Turing Test isn’t a good benchmark of AI intelligence by itself

This makes sense, as even the original Turing Test has long fallen out of
favor with computer scientists as a test of machine intelligence. Critics say
that it tests the ability of programmers to find conversational hacks that can
trick humans more than intelligence.

For example, in 2014, news coverage pronounced that the Turing Test had been
[passed](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-27762088) by a chatbot. The
programmers tricked judges by having their bot identify itself as a 13-year-
old Ukrainian boy named Eugene Goostman. This provided the perfect cover for
the bot’s many mistakes and its inability to answer certain questions. As
critics like computer scientist Gary Marcus
[noted](https://www.newyorker.com/tech/annals-of-technology/what-comes-after-
the-turing-test), “What Goostman’s victory really reveals ... is not the
advent of SkyNet or cyborg culture but rather the ease with which we can fool
others.”

But this isn’t to say that the Turing Test is useless. Creating computer
programs that can chat convincingly is a [fruitful challenge for AI
researchers](/2018/6/13/17453994/amazon-alexa-prize-2018-competition-
conversational-ai-chatbots) that may benefit humanity. The test is also still
a fantastic thought experiment that can help us explore [complex
questions](https://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/the-trouble-with-the-
turing-test) surrounding our understanding of intelligence. We can also modify
it to sharpen its focus by asking computers not to simply chat, but to answer
queries that require a nuanced and rich understanding of the world. (One
example is asking a computer, “What are the plurals of ‘platch’ and ‘snorp’?”
A human would probably answer “platches” and “snorps,” despite the fact that
these words are nonsense and can’t be found in a dictionary.)

It’s in this framework that the Minimal Turing Test is best appreciated as a
thought experiment, not a benchmark for AI progress. McCoy says what surprised
him most about the research was just how much creativity there was in the
answers. “People came up with all sorts of interesting shibboleths and puns,”
he says, with words like “bootylicious” “supercalifragilisticexpialidocious.”
(Try spelling _that_ without Google.)

“It tells you something about the gap between humans and smart robots,” says
McCoy, “that people who have never had to think about this situation before
came up with a lot smart and funny results.” It’s something, in other words,
that a computer would struggle with.

[](/2018/10/7/17940352/turing-test-one-word-minimal-human-ai-machine-
poop#comments)

**Follow topics and authors** from this story to see more like this in your
personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates.

  * James Vincent
  * AI

  * Robot

  * Tech
