title: MacKenzie Scott is donating her billions much faster than her ex Jeff Bezos | Vox
source: https://www.vox.com/future-perfect/21348052/mackenzie-bezos-scott-donating-billions-ex-jeff-bezos-amazon
date: 2025-08-13T15:53:56.142740
tags: []
---
A year ago, Jeff and MacKenzie Bezos set records with the [world’s biggest
divorce settlement](/the-goods/2019/4/5/18296734/jeff-bezos-divorce-mackenzie-
settlement-amazon). On July 28, MacKenzie Bezos (now MacKenzie Scott)
announced that she’s spent the time since aiming to set a much more inspiring
record — for how fast she can give the money away.

When the couple [divorced in 2019](/identities/2019/1/10/18176048/jeff-bezos-
ami-extortion-medium-photos-divorce), they were splitting the largest personal
fortune in history, estimated at the time at about $145 billion. The couple
announced a settlement in April 2019 that left Jeff Bezos 75 percent of his
Amazon fortune, while Scott departed the marriage with [$35
billion](https://www.recode.net/2019/4/4/18295576/mackenzie-bezos-jeff-bezos-
divorce-wealth-billionaire-women), making her at the time of the announcement
the [third-richest woman in the world](/the-goods/2019/4/5/18296734/jeff-
bezos-divorce-mackenzie-settlement-amazon) (a recent
[Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/kristinstoller/2020/04/07/the-
top-10-richest-women-in-the-world-2020/#5f9246f94776) ranking now has her at
fourth).

Right away, Scott indicated that her approach to philanthropy would be
profoundly different from the approach she and Bezos had used as a couple.
Jeff Bezos’s forays into philanthropy have been limited. While the wealthiest
man in the world, he has not signed the [Giving Pledge](/future-
perfect/2019/7/10/18693578/gates-buffett-giving-pledge-billionaire-
philanthropy) to eventually donate a significant share of his wealth, and he’s
donated a far smaller percentage of it than other ultra-wealthy figures like
Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg, Warren Buffett, or Mike Bloomberg. When he has
given, I’ve criticized his approach for a [lack of rigor and
clarity](/2018/9/21/17880000/jeff-bezos-amazon-philanthropy-gift-2-billion).

One month after the divorce, Scott [signed the Giving
Pledge](/recode/2019/5/28/18641623/mackenzie-bezos-giving-pledge-philanthropy-
jeff-bezos-divorce) that Bezos never did. “I have a disproportionate amount of
money to share,” she [wrote in her pledge
letter](https://givingpledge.org/Pledger.aspx?id=393). “I won’t wait. And I
will keep at it until the safe is empty.” And it seems like she’s been acting
on that declaration.

## MacKenzie Scott’s deeply unusual approach to philanthropy

A year later, she has published an update, and it’s an astonishing one. In the
past year, she has donated $1.7 billion to 116 organizations working in areas
of interest to her, from racial justice and LGBTQ equality to climate change
and global health.

All the organizations listed are established nonprofits, selected, Scott says,
for their leadership’s “track record of effective management and significant
impact in their fields.” The largest area of grants — $586.7 million — went to
organizations working on racial equity, an issue where awareness has grown
quickly over the past few months amid protests sparked by George Floyd’s
killing by Minneapolis police. Other top priorities included economic mobility
($399.5 million), gender equity, public health, and global development (more
on these below).

The total amount — $1.7 billion — is obviously just a fraction of her fortune,
but it is deeply unusual for billionaires to give away that much money this
quickly, especially without a preexisting organization to do grant research
and vetting.

Her methods, too, are unusual. “It was a gift that just fell from the sky,”
Jorge Valencia, executive director and CEO of one of those 116 organizations,
the Point Foundation, [told the Chronicle of
Philanthropy](https://www.philanthropy.com/article/MacKenzie-Scott-
Showers-17/249233). The organization, which offers scholarships to LGBTQ+
students, did not apply for a grant and had no connection to Scott.

And while it’s common for philanthropists to give grants that are restricted
for a specific purpose, paid out over the course of several years or
conditional on various benchmarks for grant success, Scott says she did none
of that. “I gave each a contribution and encouraged them to spend it on
whatever they believe best serves their efforts. Unless organization
leadership requested otherwise, all commitments were paid up front and left
unrestricted to provide them with maximum flexibility,” she wrote in her
announcement.

“It’s an interesting contrast to the more technocratic giving of the tech
billionaires,” Rob Reich, a Stanford philosopher who writes about the role of
philanthropy in society, told me.

Another interesting contrast is the way Scott approached publicizing her
giving. The announcement two years ago that Jeff Bezos planned to give $2
billion to education and homelessness charities attracted, Reich says,
“fanfare with zero follow-up.” Almost two years later, the website for Bezos’s
Day One Fund [lists just under $200 million in
grants](https://www.bezosdayonefund.org/), about 10 percent of the amount
initially pledged. Half of the initial pledge was for education, and no
[progress in this area has been officially
announced](https://www.bezosdayonefund.org/day1academiesfund) yet (though
Bezos has posted [updates on
Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/p/B1uD9NNnW1l/?hl=en)).

In 2020, Bezos [announced on Instagram a planned $10 billion in grants to
fight climate change](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/17/technology/jeff-
bezos-climate-change-earth-fund.html) through what he called the Bezos Earth
Fund. The Bezos Earth Fund has no website. Bezos’s original Instagram post
says that grants will start this summer, though they appear to have not yet
started.

All this is not unusual (and it doesn’t suggest that Bezos won’t eventually
meet his commitments; he has paid out other grants he’s made, [including $100
million to Feeding America for coronavirus relief earlier this
year](https://www.philanthropy.com/article/Jeff-Bezos-
Gives-100-Million/248416)). Typically, philanthropic announcements get
widespread coverage even if they are substantially in advance of the actual
disbursement of money. And in some cases, money is disbursed to [donor-advised
funds](/recode/2019/7/25/8891899/john-arnold-billionaire-criticism-donor-
advised-funds-silicon-valley-philanthropic-loophole) or other instruments,
which means they may take even longer to reach recipients. There is nothing
wrong with taking your time to make grants if that means the grants [do more
good](/future-perfect/2018/12/11/18129580/gates-donations-charity-billionaire-
philanthropy) — but it’s easy for delays to mean that givers enjoy all the
positive publicity of a major grant long before anyone’s life is improved by
it.

Scott, by announcing her gifts only after she’d already disbursed all the
money, avoids that pitfall — and could offer a glimpse of a new model of how
to give, one that is focused on moving money quickly, not attaching any
requirements or conditions, and shifting the power dynamics of the
philanthropy world.

## Does this model of giving work?

Scott’s fast, massive disbursements and other recent experiments in quickly
moving large sums of money to where they are needed, with much less review and
fewer application steps than in traditional grantmaking, “weakens the case
that giving away $1.7 billion is difficult,” Reich said. “There remains a
question about whether it’s difficult to do well.”

Giving away money very quickly with a minimal process does have some
disadvantages.

[Many charitable interventions don’t work](/future-
perfect/2018/12/11/18129580/gates-donations-charity-billionaire-philanthropy),
and the differences between the best organizations and the average
organizations can be quite large. It’s reasonable that many funders don’t want
to take that chance.

But there’s a good argument that at least some funders should be happy to make
lots of grants, many of which may disappoint them anyway. Vetting often adds
lots of overhead, delays, and communication problems for charities; a faster
process that gets money where it’s needed sooner can make a big difference. In
some specific fields (say, scientific research), studies have shown that all
the effort-intensive work to find the “best” grants is fairly arbitrary;
researchers [don’t agree with each other’s rankings at all](/future-
perfect/2020/4/21/21228156/coronavirus-fast-grants-tyler-cowen-patrick-
collison). In a case like that, you might as well just get money out the door,
with minimal vetting — as Scott has done.

And in some areas, like coronavirus relief, getting money to people quickly is
really important. If it takes months to make a grant and more months for the
money to arrive, it may be too late to help. Scott donated to GiveDirectly, a
nonprofit that gives people cash, no strings attached, and which has
dramatically expanded its operations this year in order to [help people around
the world deal with the coronavirus crisis](/future-
perfect/2020/3/20/21186007/coronavirus-pandemic-donate-help-cash-benefits).

Scott’s team reached out to GiveDirectly after having already done their
research, GiveDirectly’s managing director Joe Huston told me. Very little
staff time was tied up in making the donation happen. (The nonprofit tracks
how many resources are expended per dollar raised and said that Scott’s gift
was one of the lowest-scoring, on that metric, they could remember.) The money
arrived in early June, and 95 percent of it was sent out to recipients within
10 days.

“The pandemic is giving donors experience in handing over the reins in
philanthropy,” Huston told me, so that help can reach people as fast as it’s
needed. “My hope is that when people are just looking to help, they’ll start
with that in general.”

There are other pitfalls to trying to give away money quickly, though Scott
avoided many of the biggest ones. Lots of donors making large gifts gravitate
toward targets like Stanford, Harvard, or MIT — big research universities with
well-staffed donor relations departments that can absorb enormous gifts. (“For
the love of God, rich people, [stop giving Ivy League colleges
money](/2015/5/12/8590639/stephen-schwarzman-yale-donation),” my colleague
Dylan Matthews wrote after one such mega-gift, and I agree.) Scott donated to
several historically Black colleges and universities; in each case, her
donation of $20 million to $40 million was the largest single donation in the
school’s history.

The money will help ”lift the financial burden off of deserving students and
help make ends meet so they can focus on graduating on time,” Howard
University [said in a
statement](https://newsroom.howard.edu/newsroom/article/12951/howard-
university-receives-transformative-gift-philanthropist-mackenzie-scott). “This
pure act of benevolence is clearly a game-changer and it could not have come
at a better time,” Hampton president William R. Harvey [told the HBCU
Digest](https://hbcudigest.substack.com/p/billionaire-philanthropist-
mackenzie?r=nilr).

In general, picking organizations run by people affected firsthand by the
injustices Scott targeted was a priority. “On this list, 91 percent of the
racial-equity organizations are run by leaders of color, 100 percent of the
LGBTQ+ equity organizations are run by LGBTQ+ leaders, and 83 percent of the
gender-equity organizations are run by women, bringing lived experience to
solutions for imbalanced social systems,” she wrote in her note announcing the
gifts.

That fact might provide a useful lens for evaluating her donations. MacKenzie
Scott does not know how to solve racial justice, women’s rights, or LGBTQ+
equality. She just happens to, unlike most of us, be in possession of $35
billion, and so she decided that if she gave much of that money to Black
activists and LGBTQ+ activists and women’s activists, probably they would be
better suited than she is to figure out how the money could be spent to solve
those problems.

The same theme recurs in Scott’s letter and in nonprofits’ descriptions of her
process. There wasn’t very much vetting because Scott does not particularly
expect that she’s better at vetting than these organizations are. There
weren’t restrictions on the grants because Scott does not particularly believe
she’s more suited than the recipients to guess what restrictions would be
useful. She is “trusting the leaders of the organizations chosen,” Reich told
me, “with a very deliberate eye toward leaders with the lived experience of
the work they’re doing.”

There’s something deeply inspiring about that. I am in favor of
philanthropists putting in the work to identify the most effective approaches
to social problems and direct their money with precision where it will do the
most good, when they have the resources to do that. I think that work is often
well worth the effort.

“There’s room for the bigger foundations, the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation, that kind of heavyweight model,” Huston told me when I asked
whether more philanthropists should be imitating Scott. “But I’m glad there’s
more examples, like [MacKenzie] Bezos, like Twitter’s [Jack
Dorsey](/recode/2020/6/11/21287395/jack-dorsey-start-small-billionaire-
philanthropy-coronavirus-twitter-square-kaepernick-rihanna),” where
philanthropists make donation decisions quickly and trust the decision-making
to others.

If you have $35 billion, that fact does not in itself make you qualified to
figure out how to fix the world — and if you think that other people are more
qualified, you might decide the best plan is to just shovel the money out the
door so they can run with it. That seems to be MacKenzie Scott’s approach to
philanthropy so far — and a society [grappling with the role of billionaires
in our world and in our giving](/future-
perfect/2018/12/17/18141181/foundation-charity-deduction-democracy-rob-reich)
should be watching.

[_**Sign up for the Future Perfect newsletter**_](/future-perfect-newsletter)
_and we’ll send you a roundup of ideas and solutions for tackling the world’s
biggest challenges — and how to get better at doing good._
