title: Crimetown USA | The New Republic
source: https://newrepublic.com/article/68973/crimetown-usa
date: 2025-08-13T15:42:50.790705
tags: []
---
There was a certain tidiness to the killings in Youngstown. Usually they
happened late at night when there were no witnesses or police and only the
lights from the steel furnaces still burned. Sometimes neighbors would hear
the short, sharp sound of gunfire and then nothing, a silence you can’t
describe unless you’ve heard it, which if you’re lucky you haven’t.

Everyone suspected who the killers were—they lived in the neighborhood,
sometimes just down the street—but no one could ever prove anything. Sometimes
their methods were simple: a bullet to the back of the head or a bomb strapped
under the hood of a car. Or sometimes, like when they got Mr. Magda, they
allowed for the more dramatic, tranquilizing their victim with a stun gun and
wrapping his head in tape until he could no longer breathe.

Yet the most frightening method, the one that captured the city’s imagination,
was the most immaculate: the disappearance of people in broad daylight. They
were the city’s ghosts. Police found their cars empty on the side of the
street, the engines still warm, or their dinner tables still piled with food.
They had, in the most classic sense, been “rubbed out.” The only sign of the
killers was an artistic flourish: the dozen long-stemmed white roses victims
often received just before they vanished.

So, when Lenny Strollo ordered the hit that summer night in 1996, there was no
reason to believe it would go down any differently. As the top Mafia don in
Ohio’s Mahoning Valley, he presided over the killings and disappearances in
and around Youngstown from his farm in nearby Canfield, where he tended his
gardens and ate vitamins to quiet his heart. His reach extended over nearly an
entire corner of the state, a stretch of land that was home to more than
200,000 people and that had become, by all accounts, the most crooked county
in America—a place, in the modern era, where the Mafia still held sway over
every element of society, from the police to the judges to the politicians.
Only months earlier, Strollo had ordered his main mob rival mowed down as he
drove to work. But this time his choice of target was more brazen: the newly
elected county prosecutor, Paul Gains.

The Mafia didn’t ordinarily “take out” public officials, but the 45-year-old
prosecutor had so far resisted all the customary overtures, bribes, and
campaign contributions, and it was now widely rumored that he planned to hire
as his chief investigator the man the Mafia hated most: Bob Kroner, the local
FBI agent who had spent 20 years pursuing the mob. In Mafia fashion, Strollo
employed endless layers of authority so that nothing could be traced back to
him. First he gave the order to Bernie the Jew, the man he relied on for all
his muscle. Bernie, in turn, hired Jeffrey Riddle, a black drug dealer turned
assassin who was obsessed with the Mafia and, according to friends, boasted
that he’d one day be the first nigger ever inducted into the family. Riddle
then brought in his own two-man team: Mark Batcho, a fastidious criminal who
ran one of the most sophisticated burglary crews in the country, and Antwan
“Mo Man” Harris, a crack dealer who, though he still lived with his mother,
had already committed at least two other murders.

That Christmas Eve, as Batcho and Harris later recounted, the three men loaded
up on everything they needed: walkie-talkies, ski masks, gloves, a bag of
cocaine, a police scanner, and a .38 revolver. Around eight o’clock in the
evening, they drove out to the prosecutor’s home, in a Youngstown suburb
dotted with strip malls. The houses glowed with Christmas lights. But, when
they arrived, no one was home. Batcho got out of the car and waited behind a
lamppost near the garage. He attached a speed loader to the revolver to enable
him to shoot faster and tested the voice-activated walkie-talkie. No one
responded. He tried again. Nothing. He couldn’t believe it. Here they were
asking him to carry out the premier Mafia hit in years and the equipment was
busted. He ran back to the car and said he couldn’t kill anyone without
“communication.”

Batcho, Harris, and Riddle regrouped at the Giant Eagle Supermarket on Route
224 and programmed two of their cell phones so they could dial each other at
the touch of a button. As they eased up in front of the house again, they
noticed that a car was in the driveway and the kitchen lights were on. “OK,”
Riddle said, shoving the gun back in Batcho’s hand, “get out and go do this.”

Batcho jumped out of the car, carrying the bag of cocaine Riddle had
instructed him to plant on the body to make it look like a drug-related
killing. He crept up to the house, his heart pounding. The garage door was
open, and he said, “Hey, mister, hey, mister,” but no one answered, and he
kept walking. The side door to the house was open, too, and he could hear
someone speaking. He decided to go in. Creeping down the corridor, he heard
Gains talking on the phone in the kitchen. Batcho rushed in, pointed the gun
at the prosecutor’s midsection, and fired. As Gains fell to the ground, Batcho
fired again. Blood spilled from two wounds—one in his forearm, the other in
his side. Batcho took another step closer as Gains put up his hands to ward
him off.

Batcho aimed near Gains’s heart and pulled the trigger. But the gun kicked
back in his hand, jamming. Jesus fuckin’ Christ! Batcho turned and ran out of
the house, stumbling into the woods in back. He tripped and fell and, getting
back up, hit the button on the cell phone, screaming, It’s done! It’s done!
Come pick me up! As he came out of the woods, he saw the car approaching down
the street and lurched toward it, jumping into the backseat. He crouched down,
shivering. “Did you kill him?” Harris and Riddle asked.

“I think so,” Batcho said uncertainly.

“You don’t know?” Riddle said.

“The gun jammed,” Batcho said, “the gun jammed.”

Harris looked at him coolly. “Why didn’t you go in the drawer and get a steak
knife and stab him to death?” he asked.

Riddle said they had to go back and finish the job, but just then the police
scanner crackled with news of the shooting. Riddle hit the gas and started
swerving along the back roads. Fearing they’d get pulled over, Harris took the
gun and threw it out the window. But the speed loader was missing. Where the
fuck is the speed loader? they started screaming at each other. Then from the
scanner came even worse news: Gains was still alive.

It was one of the least skillful murder attempts in the valley’s history: the
speed loader was found outside the house, along with a clean footprint; a
sketch of the shooter appeared in the paper within days. But, ironically, the
crime scene was so messy that investigators couldn’t believe Strollo’s people
were behind it—not even Gains, who told friends, If the mob had done it, I’d
be dead. Batcho, who had begun to wear disguises around town, slowly emerged
from hiding. Amazingly, it looked as if these murderers would get away as
well, until one spring night the prosecutor got a phone call at home. “Are you
Paul Gains?” a woman asked.

“Yes,” he said, “who’s this?”

“I know who shot you,” she said.

When the woman rattled off details about the crime that few could have known,
Gains called the police, who brought in the FBI. “I know everything,” she told
the agents who rushed to her apartment the next day. “I know other people they
shot. I know everything.”

And so it happened. The call, from the ex-girlfriend of an associate of the
hit men, helped solve a mob hit for the first time in the valley’s history.
But, coupled with a three-year covert operation by the FBI, it would
ultimately help uncover something far broader. It would slowly untangle what
authorities describe as one of the last truly mob-run counties in the country:
a place where the Mafia still controlled a chief of police, the outgoing
prosecutor, the sheriff, the county engineer, members of the local police
force, a city law director, several defense attorneys, politicians, judges,
and a former assistant U.S. attorney; a place whose residents had grown so
used to a culture of corruption that they viewed it casually, even proudly; a
place, in a sliver of America, where a malignant way of life was left largely
untouched for almost 100 years. Now, after more than 70 convictions, the
investigation has wound its way to the most powerful politician in the region,
a man whom the FBI caught on tape with the mob nearly 20 years ago but who has
eluded them ever since: United States Congressman James Traficant.

Today, the Mahoning Valley is one of the most depressed corners of America.
But it wasn’t economic bust that first brought the mob to the valley; it was
economic boom. In the early years of the twentieth century, the valley—a thin
corridor of land that twists and turns its way through northern Ohio—was the
heart of an industrial empire. Steel mills stretched as far as the eye could
see, their furnaces streaking the sky with 15-foot flames. For more than 50
years, their lights drew immigrants—Poles and Greeks and Italians and Slovaks
who thought they had found the Ruhr Valley of America—as well as a burgeoning
class of racketeers who thought they had found their own “Little Chicago.”
Youngstown’s streets were lined with after-hours joints, where the
steelworkers drank and played Barbut, a Turkish dice game, and where capos,
dressed in white-brimmed hats and armed with stilettos, ran the numbers, or
“bug,” as the locals called it. Youngstown in the 1940s wasn’t particularly
unusual. Like Chicago, Buffalo, or Detroit, it had a teeming immigrant
population accustomed to arbitrary and violent authority, a booming economy,
and pliable local politicians and police—all the ingredients the mob needed to
flourish.

But, unlike those larger cities, Youngstown was too small to have a mob family
of its own. And, as a result, it turned into a battlefield. By 1950, as the
rackets mushroomed into a multimillion-dollar industry, the Pittsburgh and
Cleveland Mafia families began fighting for control of the region. Bombings
began to ricochet through the valley—warnings to those who allied themselves
with the wrong side. It got so bad over the next two decades that the local
radio station ran public-service ads featuring an earsplitting bang and the
slogan “Stop the bomb!” In 1963, The Saturday Evening Post dubbed the area
“Crimetown U.S.A.,” noting: “Officials hobnob openly with criminals. Arrests
of racketeers are rare, convictions rarer still and tough sentences almost
unheard of.”

Shortly after Bob Kroner arrived in the valley in 1976 as a 29-year-old FBI
agent, a full-scale war broke out. On one side was Joey Naples’s and Lenny
Strollo’s faction, which was controlled by the Pittsburgh Mafia; on the other
were the Carabbia brothers—known in town as simply “Charlie the Crab” and
“Orlie the Crab”—who were aligned with Cleveland. “It seemed like you’d get up
every morning and get in your car and hear someone else had been murdered,”
says Kroner.

First there were “Spider” and “Peeps”—two petty cons hit within a few weeks of
each other. Then came one of Naples’s drivers, shot as he changed a tire in
his driveway, and a crony of Peeps’s, who was gunned down outside his
apartment. Then, poor John Magda, who was discovered, his head wrapped in
tape, at the dump in Struthers, and, next, a small-time bookie who refused to
go easily—he was first bombed and later shot through his living-room window
while he watched television with his wife. Then, Joey DeRose Sr., killed by
accident when he was mistaken for his son, a Carabbia assassin; and finally, a
few months later, the son, too. “Oh my God, they got Joey,” his girlfriend
screamed when police told her they had found her car burning on a country road
between Cleveland and Akron.

A former high school math teacher who turned in his books for a badge in 1971,
Kroner quickly plunged into this underworld. He could be seen in town, in his
neatly pressed suit and tie, trailing reputed hit men and banging on the doors
of the All-American Club. Though he came from a family of cops, Kroner didn’t
look like one: he was too tall and slender, almost delicate, and he lacked the
easy manner of the police who played craps in the shadow of the courthouse. He
wore penny loafers in a city where most people wore boots, and he had a
certain stiffness, as if he were a substitute teacher who feared he might lose
control of his class.

Unlike his FBI predecessor, who, according to the agency’s own affidavit and
informants, had allegedly consorted with gangsters and was later appointed
Youngstown’s chief of police at the Mafia’s behest, Kroner was hostile to the
local dons. Prickly and shy, he spent hours alone in his small office, smoking
cigarettes and listening to intercepted conversations between the different
gangs. He made little diagrams of each family, to which he added further
details whenever he received a tip from an informant. He did everything he
could to bring down their enterprise: tapping their phones, tailing their
cars, subpoenaing their friends. In other words, he was, as Strollo and his
cronies put it, a “motherfucker.”

One day in the spring of 1981, not long after Charlie the Crab, the head of
the Cleveland faction, disappeared without a trace, Kroner searched the
apartment of one of the city’s most notorious assassins. The apartment was
cluttered with knickknacks, and Kroner and his partner went through each room
carefully. In a cabinet, Kroner noticed a bread box and opened it. Inside,
tucked amid the stale bread, was an audiotape. When he played it, he heard
vaguely familiar voices: “He’s a scared motherfucker.” And: “You either play
our fucking game or you[’re] going to be put in a fucking box.” Two of the
voices, he was sure, belonged to Charlie and his brother, Orlie the Crab. But
there was also another voice, one Kroner thought he recognized from television
and radio. Then it dawned on him: It was Youngstown’s newly elected sheriff, a
former college football star named James Traficant.

Later, acting on a tip, Kroner and his partner drilled open the Carabbias’
sister’s safe-deposit box, where they found a similar tape with a handwritten
note that said: “If I die these tapes go to the FBI in Washington. I feel I
have more people after me because of these tapes and ... I pray and ask God to
guide and protect my family.” At headquarters, Kroner and his colleagues
listened to a jumble of voices arguing about which public officials were
allegedly being paid off by the rival Pittsburgh mob.

“You believe they got all them fuckin’ people?” Orlie said.

“I know they got [Mayor] Vukovich,” Traficant said.

“Oh, they definitely got Vukovich,” said Charlie.

“I know they got Leskovansky,” Traficant continued. “I know they got Haynes. I
know they got Morley. I know they got Gilmartin.”

“They don’t have Gilmartin,” said Charlie.

Traficant paused, as if running through the names in his mind. “I don’t know
all of them,” he finally said. “But I know it’s a fuckin’ fistful.”

With its Pittsburgh rival controlling many of the valley’s politicians, the
Cleveland faction knew it needed some pols of its own. And the tapes,
apparently made by Charlie the Crab at two meetings during the 1980 sheriff’s
campaign, appeared to show them buying Traficant, a rising star. “I am a loyal
fucker,” Traficant informs the Carabbia brothers at one point, “and my loyalty
is here, and now we’ve gotta set up the business that they’ve run for all
these fuckin’ years and swing that business over to you, and that’s what your
concern is. That’s why you financed me, and I understand that.”

The arrangement, according to the tapes, was an oldfashioned one: Traficant
acknowledged receiving more than $100,000 from the Cleveland faction for his
campaign. In exchange, he’d use the sheriff’s office to protect the Carabbias’
rackets while shutting down their rivals. “Your uncle Tony was my goombah...,”
said Charlie, “and we feel that you’re like a brother to us.... We don’t want
you to make any fuckin’ mistakes.” Traficant assured his benefactors that he
was solid and that, if any of his deputies betrayed them, “they’ll fuckin’
come up swimming in [the] Mahoning River.”

But, according to the tapes, Traficant wasn’t primarily worried about his
deputies; he was worried about the Pittsburgh mob. As Charlie knew, Traficant
had accepted money from Pittsburgh, too—some $60,000, the first installment of
which came with the message, “I want you to be my friend.” The young candidate
for sheriff was double-crossing the Pittsburgh family (he had just given over
at least some of their money to Charlie the Crab to prove his loyalty), and he
knew that, when they found out, they would retaliate. “Look, I don’t wanna
fuckin’ die in six months, Charlie,” Traficant said.

On the tapes, Kroner and his colleagues could hear Traficant hatching a plan
to protect himself from the Pittsburgh Mafia—and the officials they
controlled. “Let’s look at it this way, OK?” he said. “They do have the
judges.... They can get to the judges and get what they need done.... What
they don’t have is the sheriff, and ... I’m one step ahead.” On the day he was
sworn into office, Traficant said, he’d take some of the money the Pittsburgh
family had given him and use it as evidence to arrest them for bribery. What’s
more, he described what he and the Crabs would say if their secret dealings
were ever exposed: “I was so fucking pissed off at this crooked government, I
came to you and asked you guys if you would assist me to break it up, and you
said, `Fuck it ... we’ll do it.’ OK? That’s gonna be what you’re gonna say in
court.”

“Orlie too?” asked Charlie. “He’s got a bad heart—”

“Look...,” said Traficant. “I’m not talking fucking daydreams.... If they’re
gonna fuck with me, I’m gonna nail them.” Traficant was taken with the
audacity of his plan. “If you think about it,” he mused at a later point, “if
I fuckin’ did that—”

“You can run for governor,” said Charlie.

They all broke into laughter.

After kroner and his superiors reviewed the tapes, they called Traficant down
to headquarters. Kroner had never met the sheriff before, and he watched as he
settled into the chair across from him. Traficant was an imposing figure, with
wide shoulders and thick brown hair that stuck up on top so that, at first
glance, it looked like a wig. You could tell from his muscles that he had once
worked in the mills, and he walked as if his joints had been worn down to the
bone. As they exchanged pleasantries, Kroner told Traficant he had grown up in
Pittsburgh and watched him play football at the university there—where
Traficant had starred as a daring quarterback who, as one NFL scout put it,
“at the most critical point in a game ... will keep the ball himself and run
with it,” bowling over anyone in his path.

What happened next is in dispute. According to sworn court testimony from
Kroner and other agents present, Kroner asked the sheriff if he was conducting
an investigation into organized crime in the valley. Traficant said he wasn’t.
Kroner then asked him if he knew Charlie the Crab or Orlie the Crab. Traficant
said he’d only heard of them.

You never met them? Kroner asked.

No, Traficant said.

You never received money from them?

No, he said again.

Then Kroner popped in the tape:

Traficant: “They have given sixty thousand dollars.”

Orlie the Crab: “They gave sixty. What’d we give?”

Traficant: “OK, a hundred and three.”

After only a few seconds, Traficant slumped in his seat. “I don’t want to hear
any more,” he said, according to Kroner. “I’ve heard enough.”

In the FBI’s version of events, Traficant acknowledged he’d taken the money,
and he agreed to cooperate in exchange for immunity. In front of two
witnesses, he then signed a confession that read, in tiny, cursive letters:
“During the period of time that I campaigned for sheriff of Mahoning County,
Ohio, I accepted money ... with the understanding that certain illegal
activities would be allowed to take place in Mahoning County after my election
and that as sheriff I would not interfere with those activities.”

According to the FBI, it wasn’t until several weeks later that Traficant
recanted his confession, after learning that he would likely have to resign as
sheriff and that the reason for his resignation would become public. “Do what
you have to do,” he told Kroner, “and I’ll do what I have to do.” Or, as
Traficant later told the local TV station, “All those people trying to put me
in jail should go fuck themselves.”

The FBI did what it had to first, arresting the 41-year-old sheriff for
allegedly taking $163,000 in bribes from the mob and for willfully and
knowingly “combin[ing], conspir[ing], confederat[ing], and agree[ing]” with
racketeers to commit crimes against the United States. Incredibly, facing up
to 23 years in jail, Traficant decided to represent himself in court, even
though he wasn’t a lawyer and even after the judge warned him that “almost no
one in his right mind” would attempt such a thing.

On the day of the trial, pacing the courtroom in a short-sleeved shirt,
Traficant told the jury just what he had vowed he would say on the Carabbia
tapes: that he was conducting “the most unorthodox sting in the history of
Ohio politics.” In a role that he said deserved “an Academy Award,” Traficant
told the rapt gallery that he had been acting all along as an undercover
agent, trying to convince the Carabbia brothers he was on their side so he
could use them to shut down the more powerful Pittsburgh faction. “What I did,
and what I set out to do very carefully,” he said, “was to design a plan
whereby I would destroy and disrupt the political influence and the mob
control over in Mahoning County.”

Though he admitted taking money from the mob, Traficant said he did so only so
that his opponent in the campaign wouldn’t get it. And, though he acknowledged
that his voice was on the tapes, he claimed they were doctored to incriminate
him. And, though he agreed he had signed “a statement,” he said it was
different from the fraudulent “confession” the FBI introduced into evidence.
And, though he confessed he had initially lied to the FBI about the sting, he
said it was only because he couldn’t trust its agents—one of whom, back in the
‘60s, was allegedly tied to the mob. Indeed, he insisted that, if the FBI
hadn’t intervened, he would have cleansed the most corrupt county in the
country. “The point of the matter I want to make is this,” he said. “I got
inside of the mob.” Then: “I fucked the mob.”

It was a stunning performance. When Kroner finally took the stand and
testified that he had seen Traficant sign the confession, the sheriff jumped
out of his chair and yelled, “That’s a goddamn lie!” During cross-examination
he taunted his FBI adversary, saying, “Oh, I see” and “No, Bob.” Half crazy,
half charming, he referred to himself as “my client” and asked reporters, “How
am I doin’?” In a region instinctively wary of outsiders, he became, by the
end of his defense, an emblem of the valley. In Youngstown, people held
parties on his behalf. His supporters sold t-shirts touting his heroic
struggle. It didn’t matter that the IRS would later find Traficant liable for
taking bribes and evading taxes, in a civil trial in which he took the Fifth.
Or that the money he had allegedly taken as evidence for the sting was never
turned over. Or that one of his deputies claimed on the stand that Traficant
had repeatedly asked the deputy to shoot him to make it look like an attempted
mob hit. Traficant understood his community better than anyone else. It took a
jury four days to decide to acquit. Charlie the Crab was wrong about only one
thing: Traficant wouldn’t become governor. He would become a United States
congressman.

By the time Traficant went to Washington, D.C., in 1985, the valley was
already disintegrating. The worldwide demand for steel had plummeted, plunging
the area into near-permanent recession. Mills barricaded their doors.
Department stores closed. At least one airline discontinued its service to the
region. By the end of the decade, the population in Youngstown alone had
fallen by more than 28,000, while the sky, leaden for half a century, turned
almost blue.

Traficant, reelected to term after term in Congress, railed against the
closings, sometimes even sounding a little like Charlie the Crab. When one of
the last steel mills in the region filed for bankruptcy in the late ‘80s,
Traficant warned: “I think this is beyond all this talking phase. If [the
owner] rips off the last industrial facility ... then someone should grab him
by the throat and stretch him a couple of inches.” But there was nothing he or
anyone else could do.

And if prosperity had brought the mob to the valley a half-century earlier,
depression cemented its rule. The professional classes that did so much to
break the culture of the Mafia in Chicago and Buffalo and New York in the
1970s and ‘80s practically ceased to exist in Youngstown. Much of the valley’s
middle class either left or stopped being middle-class. And so Youngstown
experienced a version of what sociologists have described in the inner city.
The city lost its civic backbone—its doctors and lawyers and accountants. The
few upstanding civic leaders who remained were marginalized or cowed.
Hierarchies of status and success and moral value became inverted. The result
was a generation of Batchos, kids who worshiped the dons the way other
children worshiped Mickey Mantle or Joe DiMaggio. (Batcho even tattooed a
picture of a legendary mob boss on his left upper arm, telling people proudly,
“[I’d] take a bullet for him.”) Meanwhile, Lenny Strollo and his partners, in
need of players for their cash-strapped casinos, began catering to the local
drug dealers and criminals, who were the only people left with money to spend.

The mob, which had once competed with the valley’s civil society, largely
became its civil society. As late as 1997, in the small city of Campbell,
Strollo controlled at least 90 percent of the appointments to the police
department. He fixed the civil-service exam so he could pick the chief of
police and nearly all the patrolmen. The city law director literally brought
the list of candidates for promotion to Strollo’s house so the don could
select the ones he wanted. “Strollo,” says an attorney familiar with the city,
could “determine which murderers went to jail and which ones went free.”

In 1996, while three mob hit men, including Mo Man Harris, were on their way
to kill their latest target, they were pulled over by the Campbell police for
speeding, according to people in the car. In the vehicle the cops found an
AK-47 rifle, a .357 Magnum revolver, and a 9 mm pistol. One of the killers
used his cell phone to call Jeff Riddle, who rushed to the scene and told the
police the men were running an errand for Bernie the Jew. The cops let them
go.

In the rare instances when the police arrested a reputed mobster, Strollo and
his associates simply paid off the judges. There was such a sense of impunity
that once in the spring of 1996, when an incorruptible judge prevented Strollo
from fixing a particular assault case, he dispatched Batcho with a walkie-
talkie and a silencer to wound the defense attorney so they could get a
mistrial. “I said, `Are you attorney Gary Van Brocklin?’” Batcho later
recalled. “And he said, `Yes, I am.’ ... And I shot him right in the knee.” “I
don’t know how an honest defense attorney could make a living in this town,”
says Kroner’s boss, Andy Arena.

And, of course, Strollo’s tentacles reached the valley’s representative in
Congress as well. Until he was exposed in 1998, Traficant’s top aide in the
district, Charles O’Nesti, served as the “bagman” between Strollo and the
city’s corrupt public officials. (Traficant had hired O’Nesti in 1984, despite
his claims on the infamous tapes that O’Nesti was a mob crony whom he would
arrest as part his so-called sting to clean up the valley.) While working for
Traficant, O’Nesti would meet Strollo at the don’s farm or talk with him on
the phone. The two even conspired to steal a stretch of city pavement as it
was being laid down. “The hold that the mob has had here to this day,” says
Arena, “I don’t think you’ll see anywhere else in the United States.”

The FBI sting that would start unraveling this web of corruption began in
1994. Kroner, now middle-aged, had given up smoking through hypnotism and put
several pounds on his slender frame. One morning, as he met with other agents
in their cramped office in nearby Boardman Township, he could barely contain
his frustration. He had just witnessed the disintegration of one of his few
triumphs: 14 months after he’d nailed Strollo for gambling, his nemesis had
reemerged from prison and reasserted his power. Even when we bust them, Kroner
thought, they just come back.

So, after years of disappointment, Kroner and his colleagues opted for a new
approach: rather than attack the mob from the top, as they had in the past,
they’d start at the bottom, with the number runners and the stick handlers at
the Barbut games. The investigation was based on the theory of carpenter
ants—if you didn’t eliminate all of them, even the smallest ones, they would
simply multiply again. “We set forth right in the beginning that we were not
going to stop until we got to the nest,” says Kroner, “and if it meant having
to work deals with people we had lots of evidence against, that’s what we were
going to do if it would lead us up the chain.”

One of the first people they persuaded to cooperate was a local bookie named
Michael Sabella, who worked in the markets and always smelled of fish. After
being questioned by the feds on another matter, he agreed to wear a wire
around the county’s gambling dens. Eventually, he gave them enough evidence to
get wiretaps on several low-level members of Strollo’s sprawling enterprise,
who, in turn, gave them enough evidence to tap more phones, and so on. As the
number of intercepted conversations mushroomed into the thousands, Kroner and
his partners, John Stoll and Gordon Klau, spent days sifting through
transcripts.

But, after more than a year of sleepless nights, they still hadn’t penetrated
the Mafia’s innermost circle. Hoping to “shake the tree,” as Kroner put it,
they started raiding gambling joints, which finally gave them enough evidence
to install bugs in Strollo’s kitchen and telephones. They began picking up
snippets of incriminating conversations. They heard what sounded like a plot
to shake down a priest and what some “asshole did before ... he got whacked.”

At one point early in their investigation, Kroner got a tip from an informant
that Strollo was going to kill one of his rivals, Ernie Biondillo. Feeling a
moral obligation to warn Biondillo, he picked up the phone and called him.
“This is Bob Kroner,” he said. “You know who I am?”

“Yeah, I know who you are.”

“Well, I need to sit down and talk to you alone.”

They met that night in a parking lot. Kroner hoped the warning would encourage
Biondillo to cooperate with the investigation. But Biondillo just kept saying,
Who the fuck wants to kill me?

Kroner studied him hard. “I can’t tell you that. I’m not out here to start a
war.”

Unable to get an answer, Biondillo drove off in his Cadillac. Several months
later, as Biondillo turned down a deserted street, two cars boxed him in, and
two men wearing rubber masks opened fire. By the time Kroner got to the
hospital, Biondillo was already dead.

Though Kroner was sure the hit was ordered by Strollo, the FBI still didn’t
have enough evidence to arrest him. But, by the summer of 1996, the
authorities were finally starting to close in, and Strollo, sensing it, became
more and more paranoid. On the phone, he began speaking almost exclusively in
code and, suspecting Kroner was listening in, would say, “Bob, can you hear
me? Can you hear me?” Once, upon meeting one of his oldest and most trusted
confidants, Strollo had a sudden premonition that the friend was wearing a
wire. Another time he decided a plane was following one of his bookies. When
someone tried to calm him down, he snapped: “This is my life you’re talking
about ... I got to fight for survival.”

Strollo grew obsessed with Kroner. He sent one of his men to find out if the
FBI agent’s father, an old-fashioned city cop, could be paid off to control
his renegade son. But word came back that the father was honest, like his kid.
Knowing the FBI was tapping him, Strollo began to plant evidence against his
nemesis to suggest Kroner was on the take. He told associates, almost
nonchalantly, that Kroner had received bribes from “Little Joey” and was
running drugs through the valley.

Then one day Kroner’s partner heard Strollo grow more and more menacing. “I
don’t know what I’m going to have to do about these guys,” he said, referring
to the FBI agents. Not long afterward, unbeknownst to the FBI, Strollo ordered
the hit on Gains, the county prosecutor who, the Mafia believed, was about to
hire Kroner as his chief investigator.

But the bungled hit, of course, only created a bigger problem: In spring 1997,
Gains received the phone call fingering the hapless assassins. On the basis of
information from the caller—”the scorned woman,” as Kroner gratefully called
her—Bernie the Jew, Riddle, and Harris were all charged with attempted murder.
One day, as Batcho was leaving his house with a friend to go to Jay’s Hot
Dogs, an unmarked car pulled up behind him. “Are you Mark Batcho?” two men
said, jumping out of their car. “No, I’m not Mark Batcho. I don’t know him,”
Batcho replied. But, in spite of his protestations, they took him into
custody, where he eventually became, as he put it, “the lowest form of life
there [is]—a mob rat.”

On a cold morning just before Christmas 1997, dozens of FBI agents fanned out
through the valley, arresting more than 28 other mob associates. When Kroner
showed up at Strollo’s door with an arrest warrant, Strollo said, “Are you
happy now, Bob?”

In the end, nearly all of Strollo’s underlings pleaded guilty and turned
evidence against one another, except for Bernie the Jew and Riddle, the two
men who had adopted the old Sicilian code even though they could never be
officially inducted. “The only ones who had any balls were a shvartsa and a
shine,” said one of the lawyers familiar with the case.

Bernie insisted there was nothing to worry about: Strollo would never turn on
them and break his oath of silence. But just before the trial, even as Bernie
was speaking, Strollo’s lawyer was leading his client upstairs, where he cut
his final deal with the prosecution and told Kroner, “You win.”

The announcement is surely one of the strangest moments in c-span’s history:
“I will probably be under indictment” in the next few months, Traficant says,
staring into the camera. It is March 2000, almost 20 years since his last
arrest. The congressman has put on a somber black coat and tie for the
occasion, but his hair is slightly tousled and his trademark long sideburns
make him look like an aging biker. In his 16 years in Congress, Traficant has
earned a reputation as a fiery, eccentric populist who often appears on the
House floor, in polyester suits, to champion the working class and rail
against the IRS. In a city without memory he has become known simply as “the
honorable gentleman from Ohio,” an almost cultish figure who sleeps in his
office to save money and closes his speeches with the line “Beam me up, Mr.
Speaker.”

But today he looks as if he hasn’t slept in weeks, and he says he’s scared to
death. “Hawks are circling, buzzards [are] circling, sharks [are] circling ...
trying to kill the Traficant election,” he stammers. He pauses, his cheeks
flushed. “Let me tell you what: Twenty years ago—not quite—I was the only
American in the history of the United States to defeat the Justice
Department.... They have targeted me ever since.” Suddenly he points his
finger into the camera: “I’m targeting them. They better not make a damn
mistake ... I am mad and ... I’m going to fight like a junkyard dog in the
face of a hurricane, and ... if I beat them you’re now watching one of the
richest men in America, because I’m going to sue their assets all apart.”

Even stranger than his warnings to the Justice Department and the FBI—and his
admonition that he’ll shoot any unexpected late-night visitors to his
house—are Traficant’s threats to his own party. He warns that if Democratic
leaders don’t stand by him, he’ll switch parties—a critical defection that
could undermine the Democrats’ chances of regaining a House majority this
fall. And, as further compensation for his loyalty, Traficant demands a list
of favors for his district: “I want an empowerment zone from the president of
the United States—and I expect it this year—and I want additional
appropriations....” On national television, he seems to be extorting his own
party.

Traficant doesn’t say what the indictment will be for; nor will the FBI. But
his c-span announcement comes on the heels of a six-year investigation into
organized crime in the Mahoning Valley that has already led to convictions
against Traficant’s former aide O’Nesti, a disbarred attorney who had advised
him for several years, and a former deputy in his sheriff’s office. According
to news accounts first detailed in the Youngstown Vindicator and the Cleveland
Plain Dealer, investigators are looking into, among other things, whether the
congressman received illegal contributions—including the use of a
Corvette—from associates in the valley. They have recently homed in on two
brothers, Robert T. and Anthony R. Bucci, who own a paving company in
Traficant’s district and allegedly delivered materials and did construction
work on the congressman’s 76-acre farm. Both brothers appear deeply enmeshed
in the city’s network of corruption. On one of the FBI’s wiretaps, O’Nesti
conspires with Strollo to steer a million-dollar contract to the Buccis’
company. Robert Bucci has since apparently fled the country after allegedly
transferring millions of dollars to an offshore account on the Cayman Islands.

Through it all, Traficant has steadfastly maintained his innocence, and the
valley is bracing for a second showdown. “Here’s what I’m saying now,” he
insists grimly on c-span, “and I’m saying this to the Justice Department in
Cleveland, Ohio.... If you are to indict me, indict me in June so I can be
tried over the August recess, [because] I don’t want to miss any votes.”

When I arrive in Youngstown on a recent, cold spring morning, there is an odd
sense of deja vu, as if the old tapes have been rewound and played again. As
Traficant campaigns for a ninth term in Congress, he once again faces the old
accusations: bagmen, illicit favors, payoffs. I head downtown, trying to find
someone to ask about the allegations, but the city is bizarrely empty, as if
people had been called away on a last-minute errand and never came back.
Finally, after rows and rows of boarded-up stores and deserted sidewalks, I
see a light in one of the shops. In the window, Italian suits hang with
handkerchiefs in the pockets. An old man is folding clothes by the cash
register. When I ask him about Traficant, he stiffens. “Ain’t no one gonna get
rid of Traficant,” he says. “Traficant’s too sharp.” Far from being angry
about the city’s history of corruption, he seems almost proud of it. He
recalls fondly the “henchmen,” including Strollo, who bought their suits from
him. “They didn’t wear red or pink [ones] like they’re coming out with now,”
he says. When I press him about the local corruption, he shrugs. “Who cares?
If you’re working and making a living and nobody is bothering you, why are you
going to butt in?”

Later, at my hotel, several elderly men are sitting around a table arguing
about Traficant. “Traficant produces,” says one. “That’s what counts.” “Damn
right!” says another. They are all in their seventies and eighties and have
lived in the valley for decades.

“When I was eight years old,” one of them says suddenly to me, as if to make a
special point, “I delivered newspapers downtown, and I would always go by this
speakeasy on Sunday afternoon. Well, one day the owner says, `I want you to
meet someone.’ So I went over and it was Al Capone.” He pauses, shaking his
head in awe. “Al Capone.”

“You see this,” another man says, referring to the last speaker. “This is
typical Youngstown. Here’s an educated man, an attorney, and Traficant is a
god of his, and he’s still raving about meeting Al Capone.”

When I stop at Youngstown State University to talk to Mark Shutes, an
anthropologist and one of the only academics who studies the region, the first
thing he says is, “You’re not gonna write some crap about how we’re all
victims of gangsters, are you?” Shutes contends that, after so many years of
eroded civic institutions, the community has come to rely increasingly on
mobsters, who play the same role in civic life that the police and the
political establishment do in other cities. “We have socialized ourselves and
our offspring that this is the way the world is,” he says. “This is our little
safe part, with our community and church, but in order for it to be safe, you
need these people to be brokers.” Indeed, in a world where corruption is
normal, he says, values prized in other cities are, in the valley, deemed
counterproductive. “We don’t see high ideals as being a benefit,” he explains.
“We see [them] as being a weakness. There is no sense in this community in
which gangsters are people who have imposed their will on our community. Their
values are our values.”

So much so that, despite two opponents railing against his alleged mob ties
and an FBI investigation reportedly closing in on him, Traficant won the March
7 Democratic primary with more votes than his two main competitors combined.
Traficant seems so unbeatable in November that some congressional Republicans
have decided to defend him, apparently hoping he’ll follow through on his
threat to switch parties and cement their fragile majority. “Jimmy Traficant
is not being done right by,” Republican Representative Steve LaTourette of
Ohio told the Cleveland Plain Dealer. “There isn’t a finer man, there isn’t a
finer member of Congress, there isn’t a finer human being ... than Jim
Traficant. God bless you, Jimmy Traficant, and I hope to serve with you for
many years.”

Emboldened by his popular support, Traficant is doing what he’s long done so
well: rallying the valley against the outsiders trying to besmirch its name.
Over the last year, he has defiantly called his convicted former top aide,
O’Nesti, a “good friend” and championed a local sheriff convicted of
racketeering, arguing that he should be moved to a prison closer to Youngstown
to be near his ill mother. “[T]hese sons of bachelors will not intimidate me,”
he likes to say of the FBI, “and they won’t jack me around.”

Though he has retreated from reporters—”I’ll only make an official statement
when I’m actually killed,” he says— the press releases have begun to pour out
of his Washington office: “traficant bill would create new agency to
investigate justice department”; “traficant wants president to investigate
federal agents in youngstown.” On the House floor, where his speech is
protected against suits for libel, he is bolder still: “Mr. Speaker, I have
evidence that certain FBI agents in Youngstown, Ohio, have violated the rico
statute and ... stole large sums of cash.... What is even worse, they
`suggested’ to one of their field operative informants that he should commit
murder. Mr. Speaker, murder.”

At FBI headquarters in Boardman, Kroner and his boss, Andy Arena, are trying
to fend off Traficant’s allegations. They are careful not to say anything
about the press releases, the pending investigation of the congressman, or
even the 1983 trial. But it is clear they are under siege. On talk radio,
Traficant supporters denounce Kroner as a thief, a con man, a crook, a creep,
a liar, and a dope dealer. “The thing that most depressed me,” says Kroner,
“was when I became the subject on talk radio one day and they were discussing
my integrity.” He folds his arms. “I just have to block out [those] things.”
Rather than a hero, he has become almost a pariah. “Everything is turned
upside down here,” says Arena.

As Kroner sits in his neatly pressed jacket and loafers, his 20-year-
anniversary FBI medallion mounted prominently on a thick gold ring, he seems
slightly defensive. “Every time we charge another public official, the [media]
presents it as another black eye for the community,” he says. “I’d prefer if
they’d portray it to the community as another step in cleansing ourselves.
We’ve got to take a look at what’s being done here as a positive thing.”

It is dusk by the time he shows me around the valley, and we rush past the old
steel mills, past the Greek Coffee House and the Doll House and all the other
gambling dens, past the place where Bernie the Jew met with his team of hit
men and where Strollo had Ernie Biondillo whacked in broad daylight. “We’re a
part of this community like everyone else,” Kroner says at one point. “We
suffer the same problems if we live in a corrupt town.” He pauses for a
moment, perhaps because he can’t think of anything to say or perhaps because
he’s not able to talk about the expected Traficant indictment or perhaps
because he realizes that, after 25 years in the Mahoning Valley, he’s done all
he can do. “As long as they choose to put people in office who are corrupt,”
he says, “nothing will ever change.”
