title: City Limits: A Conversation With Edward Glaeser - The Atlantic
source: http://www.theatlantic.com/national/print/2011/02/city-limits-a-conversation-with-edward-glaeser/70351/
date: 2025-08-13T21:08:29.221984
tags: []
---
><

Edward Glaeser is high on cities. Very high, in fact. In [“How Skyscrapers Can
Save The City”](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2011/03/how-
skyscrapers-can-save-the-city/8387/) (_The Atlantic_ , February 2011) the
Harvard economist puts the high-rise at the heart of a newly accessible,
affordable, vital and sustainable metropolis. The city that doesn’t build _up_
must build _out_ , Glaeser points out, sucking up resources, lengthening
commutes and putting pressure on undeveloped land. He sees densely populated,
vertical cities not only as environmentally responsible, but as engines of
innovation and prosperity — and the best hope for developing nations. Yet in
cities around the world, Glaser’s lofty vision has bumped up against height
limits and restrictive permitting. He spoke with _The Atlantic_ from his home
outside Boston about how measures aimed at saving cities may actually threaten
their survival.

Edward Glaeser is the Fred and Eleanor Glimp Professor of Economics at Harvard
and Director of Taubman Center for State and Local Government at the John F.
Kennedy School of Government. His new book [_Triumph of the
City_](http://www.amazon.com/Triumph-City-Greatest-Invention-
Healthier/dp/159420277X) (Penguin), will be released in February.

**It’s pretty well understood that suburban/exurban sprawl sucks up natural
resources. But how much more environmentally friendly are the high-rise
residences you advocate?**

* * *

**MORE ON Cities and Urbanism:******[**How the Crash Will Reshape
America**](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2009/03/how-the-crash-
will-reshape-america/7293/)

Which cities and regions can come back strong? And which will never come back
at all?

[**Towards a New
Urbanism**](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2000/04/towards-a-
new-urbanism/6686/)

Growth may be inexorable, but sprawl need not be.

[**The Godfather of
Sprawl**](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2007/12/the-godfather-
of-sprawl/6542/)

Robert Moses in

_The Atlantic_

.

* * *

Living in an urban apartment is the least Malthusian thing we can do in the
sense that it’s imposing the least cost on the overall environment. When you
count the carbon emissions associated with high-density living, it’s
substantially lower than living in exurban areas in the U.S. because people
aren’t driving as much, and they’re living in substantially smaller units. One
of the problems is that if you don’t build up, you build out. And that doesn’t
help anyone, to have longer and longer commutes and to have more energy used
in vast car trips. There’s a real sense in which if you love nature, it’s not
a bad idea to stay away from it. We’re a fairly destructive species. Living in
high densities is a very environmentally sensitive thing to do.

**But does hyper-dense, vertical urban housing offer enough appeal over life
in the suburbs to make a difference?**

I believe that high-rise living should be available — more available than it
is now — and that we should work against the things that make high-rise living
difficult. But plenty of people aren’t going to want that. And there’s nothing
wrong with that. There’s no reason why any human being should ever be forced
to live in a high-rise who actually wants to live in some other dwelling. My
perspective on this is a very natural one for an economist, though it’s
slightly different from the way urban planners and architects tend to look at
things.

I’m not envisioning the whole world living in a _Blade Runner_ -like density,
or advocating that every human being should adopt a particular type of living
space.

**In your view, why do so few middle-income Americans aspire to high-rise,
city living?**

I think we’re used to thinking that skyscrapers are for a very specific
demographic. Apart from the public-housing skyscrapers, which have not been
particularly successful, we typically think of the people who live in them as
fairly wealthy and short on family members. But it’s certainly possible to
envision a high-rise world that’s more inclusive than that, both in terms of
income and family structures. In cities like Chicago, which are more friendly
towards building up, you do find a much more inclusive world of high-rise
living.

> Fear is not a good basis for urban policy. Care is, but fear is not.

One deterrent against middle-class high-rise living is that U.S. federal
policy is strongly biased towards home-ownership. (I’m thinking here both of
the home-ownership interest deduction and of the implicit subsidies through
entities like Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae.) Given that more than 85% percent of
detached houses are owner-occupied, and more than 85% of multi-family
dwellings are rentals, the government is essentially bribing Americans to live
in suburban, detached homes as opposed to multi-family dwellings or high-rise
homes. That’s one reason why I think the United States should rethink its
fascination with owner-occupied housing.

Another factor is that, despite heroic reform efforts, our urban schools
continue to have significant problems. Until we figure out a way to handle
urban schooling better—and there are lots of different ways to imagine doing
that—it’s hard not to imagine that there will always be a push towards
suburban living for families with kids.

**You mention the poor track record of high-rise public housing for low-income
residents in the U.S. I’m thinking of the Cabrini Green projects in
Chicago—when I lived in Chicago we floored it when we drove by because of the
occasional sniper fire. Wouldn’t that seem to suggest a limitation to the
high-rise model?**

The combination of height and social disorder can be very, very bad. New York
and Chicago built many of those projects, and they proved very unsuccessful.
They concentrated large amounts of poor people on very small amounts of land,
which made it difficult to create law and order. It’s a warning against
thinking that it’s easy to do public housing—that it’s easy to enforce safety.
It’s true that high-rise housing certainly didn’t make things better for that
group. The old working-class neighbourhoods unquestionably functioned better.

But it’s a mistake to infer, from the experience of Chicago, something about
the attractiveness of high-rise dwellings for upper-middle class, middle-
class, or comfortable, solid working-class people.

**Does America’s high-rise demographic differ from that of other countries,
and if so, why?**

As I mentioned earlier, U.S. policies towards home ownership and schooling are
one major reason why we see relatively few middle-income families living in
high-rises. By contrast, you don’t have to leave Paris to get a great
education in France. Many of the world’s finest high schools are actually in
Paris. They’re state-supported. There’s nothing intrinsically bad about cities
for schooling.

Another reason why you see more middle-income people in high-rises around the
world is that government policies in some of those cities specifically help
make it happen. Singapore, for example, has high-rise housing that’s far-flung
throughout the city-state and connected through a very well functioning mass-
transit system. The Singapore model also challenges our view that the high-
rise model can’t work for public housing. You need to put in place a set of
tools —whether it’s more police, or doormen, or other factors—that keep the
streets safe, and Singapore is remarkably good at creating order and making
sure that rules are followed.

In Brazil, my understanding is that middle and upper income people live in the
high-rise areas of large cites such as São Paolo. The classic areas for poor
people in São Paolo are low-rise _favelas_ , which we think of as being
relatively crime-ridden. You could certainly make an argument that it’s easier
to secure an apartment than a f _avela_. The Brazilian example shows that low-
rise living is no guarantee of safety.

**What cities could most benefit from a high-rise residential model?**

The key here is the level of demand for the city. If the city is experiencing
high and rising prices, there might be barriers to building that you need to
rethink. High and rising prices suggest that there are a lot of people who
want to live there, and that they’re willing to pay a lot to live there. So
you have to ask, Are we doing all we can to actually accommodate those people?

There are a lot of places in the U.S. where there’s high demand – especially
in coastal cities, like Boston and San Francisco. Our focus shouldn’t just be
on the U.S., though. London has imposed a huge cost on itself by keeping its
height so low — far too low relative to what an incredibly exciting, great
city it is. That city could be much more affordable than it is now, and much
more inclusive. It has rigidly held to its Victorian building style,
particularly for residential. They _have_ allowed some commercial high-rises
to go up, which is fairly typical — usually there’s more comfort with building
up in commercial zones than there is in residential sectors.

One area where I think it’s really critical to imagine these high densities is
in the developing cities of the world. Cities like Mumbai and Shanghai are the
great, growing areas of the developing world, and they’re where the most
important things are happening in urban development today. It’s places like
these where I think it’s so important not to be afraid of heights. The land
use policies that many developing cities use — particularly those in India, as
opposed to China — have been draconian on heights. And the impact of that has
been very, very negative. It’s created areas that are very expensive, hard to
get around, and ultimately not fully taking advantage of the potential that
cities have to turn India from a poor country into a rich country.

**In your article, you point to La Défense, the high-rise district in outer
Paris, as “an inspired solution” to “the need to balance preservation and
growth.” And then you write: “Except for the distant view of the Arc [de
Triomphe], administrative assistants drinking lattes in a Starbucks there
could easily be in a bigger version of Crystal City, Virginia.” Do progress
and population movements trump the expression of a city’s character — or a
nation’s culture?**

That’s a valid concern. The reason why I’m willing to make a strong argument
for easing restrictions is because I think we’ve gone very, very far in the
opposite direction. Certainly, urban planning involves a mix of preserving the
old and allowing the new. If you go too far in one direction you lose the
character, you lose the beauty, you lose the sense of history of a place. I
don’t want that any more than any architect does. But on the other hand if you
move too far in the direction of keeping things as they are, you create a
museum rather than a living city. My favorite physical moments in cities are
when old and new architecture have a dialogue with each other, where they’re
connected with each other. I particularly love those places in Boston, for
example, where you see something like the shimmering Hancock Building
juxtaposed against the H. H. Richardson Church, which is right next it.

I’m wary of suggesting, though, that I know exactly what a place like Paris
should do. The French have their own tastes, and I would feel uncomfortable
suggesting that Paris should look like New York. I would just hope that
somewhere within Parisian sensibilities they would find ways to provide more
housing so that Paris doesn’t end up in effect as a gated community,
affordable only for people with a lot of money.

**“In the most desirable cities,” you write, “whether they’re on the Hudson
River or the Arabian Sea, height is the best way to keep prices affordable and
living standards high.” I’m paying a ridiculous amount to live in the boutique
city of San Francisco — but to play devil’s advocate,_why_****make these
places accessible and inclusive? They’re desirable and expensive because
they're exactly the way they are. Not everyone _has_****to live there.**

Great question. The way I would reframe it is: How do we know that the
benefits of creating more buildings will offset the costs? Isn’t it possible
that delivering a lot of housing to people who value the city would impose
such a severe cost on its character that it will ruin it?

> If you love nature, it’s not a bad idea to stay away from it... Living in
> high densities is a very environmentally sensitive thing to do.

The first time I tackled this was in a paper on land use regulation in New
York City. We tried to go through what we thought were all the potential
negative effects of allowing more buildings – looking at things like how the
sight lines would change. And it was awfully hard to come up with a number in
terms of the negative effects on New York that was significant, or even
clearly negative. Remember, many of these buildings will actually generate
more than enough tax revenue to pay for the additional city services that
would be required. And it’s hard to think that New York’s character will be
fundamentally changed by a couple more million people; remember, that’s what
New York is all about — a lot of the excitement comes from having that
abundance of people.

It’s appropriate to have some form of controls to make sure that we aren’t
tearing up the architectural treasures of the city. It’s certainly true that
many areas of Boston, or San Francisco, are beautiful and are worth
protecting. But not every area in the city. There are lots of cases where the
city could well be made better off by the addition of new structures that
might be of a higher architectural level than the existing structures.

We have to be more careful in places like Paris. I do think that there would
be benefits to allowing a bit more housing within city limits. As long as it’s
not exactly on the Ile de La Cité, I think the benefits probably outweigh the
costs. But I’m less confident about Paris than I am about New York, because
the city does have such a special character that has brought so much joy to so
many people over many decades. And that’s to a lesser degree true of London
and many other European cities.

But I think it’s very hard to make that case about Mumbai. I just can’t see an
argument where you’re looking at the giant slum of Dharavi and you’re saying,
“My goodness, we need to preserve the low densities of this area in order to
preserve its essential character.”

The larger point here is that we don’t have to change everything at once. If
we change the rules and allow more permitting, we’ll see what happens. And
that would give us information as we go forward. The lesson is not to be
afraid of change. Urban change is a good thing. Living cities must change.
They must adapt to new circumstances. They must allow new structures that
allow brilliant young entrepreneurs to come to the city. They must be
constantly evolving. That’s what gives them more architectural excitement and
gives them more economic vitality. It’s what makes them more inclusive. It’s a
terrible mistake to sit there and say, “Oh my goodness, something could be
lost if we allow this utterly nondescript, five-story, glazed-brick building
to be replaced by a thirty story, glistening tower.

Fear is not a good basis for urban policy. Care is, but fear is not. I think
we can certainly be careful and still be wise towards our cities without being
terrified of allowing more change than we currently do.
