title: Could Donald Trump Win the General Election? | The New Yorker
source: http://www.newyorker.com/news/john-cassidy/could-donald-trump-win-the-general-election
date: 2025-08-13T18:21:10.269114
tags: []
---
There is a slim chance that Donald Trump could emerge from the general
election as the new President.Photograph by Luke Sharrett / Bloomberg via
Getty

Last night in Palm Beach, Donald Trump’s new sidekick, Chris Christie,
introduced the G.O.P. front-runner, who won seven of the twelve state races on
Super Tuesday, as the next President. With Trump seemingly marching toward the
Republican nomination, it’s a natural prospect to raise. But is it a realistic
possibility? In five of the past six elections, Democrats have won the popular
vote.* Surely a divisive figure like Trump couldn’t reverse that trend. Or
could he?

On Wednesday afternoon, I spoke with Ruy Teixeira, a political scientist who
is an expert on changing demographics and elections. Back in 2004, Teixeira
and the journalist John Judis published “[The Emerging Democratic
Majority](http://web.archive.org/web/20250525080708/http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2012/11/the-
emerging-democratic-majority-turns-10/265005/),” an influential book that
highlighted the growing number of minority voters across the country,
particularly Hispanics. More recently, toward the end of last year, Teixeira,
who is a senior fellow at the Century Foundation and the Center for American
Progress, co-authored a
[paper](http://web.archive.org/web/20250525080708/https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/progressive-
movement/report/2015/12/17/127403/the-path-to-270-in-2016/) titled “The Path
to 270 in 2016,” which argued that demographics continue to favor the
Democrats in assembling a majority in the Electoral College.

In conversation, Teixeira began by reviewing some figures that he and his
colleagues have put together. Between 1976 and 2012, the percentage of white
voters in the U.S. electorate declined from eighty-nine per cent to seventy-
four per cent. In 2016, that number is likely to fall another two per cent,
Teixeira said. That means the minority vote will rise from twenty-six per cent
to twenty-eight per cent. About half of that increase reflects the growing
Hispanic population; the other half is accounted for by rising numbers of
Asians and peoples of other ethnicities.

Despite his occasional protestations to the contrary, Trump would be relying
heavily on white voters in a general election. Since they still represent
close to three-quarters of the electorate, it appears to be mathematically
possible for him to win a majority. Potentially, he could win by increasing
turnout in predominantly white areas, winning over Reagan Democrats, and
bringing in enough new voters to overcome the unfavorable demographic trends
facing the G.O.P. Arguing along these lines, some analysts have raised the
possibility that Trump could sweep the Rust Belt states of Michigan, Ohio, and
Pennsylvania, and also flip a Democratic state in the Upper Midwest, either
Wisconsin or Minnesota or both. A Trump rampage across the Rust Belt would
transform the electoral map—it could even allow him to reach two hundred and
seventy votes in the Electoral College without carrying Florida, which is
usually a pivotal state. “Don’t laugh,” Zach Carter and Ryan Grim, of the
Huffington Post, [wrote last
month](http://web.archive.org/web/20250525080708/http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/how-
donald-trump-becomes-president_us_56cb5429e4b0928f5a6c9ead). “Donald Trump
could actually win this thing.”

When I put this scenario to Teixeira, he sounded dubious. “It is not crazy,”
he said, citing the possibility that Trump could flip some blue states, such
as Colorado, New Hampshire, Ohio, and Pennsylvania. “But I think it would be
very hard to pull off.”

Teixeira went on to explain that he was skeptical in part because, on a
national basis, Trump’s support among white voters isn’t quite as strong as it
sometimes appears to be. While he is attracting a lot of people to his rallies
and to the Republican voting booths, it is a mistake to believe that these
people are wholly representative of that segment of the electorate. “We are
talking about the most alienated white non-college voters, and some college-
educated voters,” Teixeira said. “The most totally pissed-off ones.” Among
white Americans as a whole, including those who vote Republican, Teixeira
reminded me, there are many people with moderate or liberal views. And in
order to win the election, Texeira went on, Trump would need to rack up huge
majorities of the white vote in some parts of the country where that vote has
traditionally been relatively liberal, compared to the white vote in the
South.

To illustrate his arguments, Teixeira cited some more figures for individual
states, distinguishing between white working-class voters who didn’t go to
college—Trump’s base—and white college-educated voters. In Ohio in 2012, Mitt
Romney won the white working-class vote by a sixteen-per-cent margin: fifty-
seven per cent to forty-one per cent. According to Teixeira’s projections,
Trump, to carry Ohio in November, would need to increase this margin to
twenty-two or twenty-three points. “That’s a big ask,” Teixeira said. And
Trump would also need to retain, or even increase, Romney’s ten-point margin
among college-educated white Republicans, even though at least some members of
this group may be sufficiently put off by Trump’s extremism to stay at home,
or even to switch to the Democrats.

In the Upper Midwest, where there is a strong progressive tradition and the
labor movement is still relatively feisty, the electoral arithmetic facing
Trump is even more challenging. To win Wisconsin, he would need to win the
white working-class vote by a margin of somewhere between twelve points and
sixteen points, Teixeira said. In 2012, however, these working-class voters
split almost equally between Romney, who got fifty per cent of their votes,
and President Obama, who got forty-eight per cent.

In Minnesota, the challenge facing Trump would be even greater. In 2012, Obama
actually won the white working-class vote there, albeit narrowly; according to
figures Teixeira cited, the President got forty-nine per cent in this
demographic, while Romney got forty-eight. To carry the state this fall, Trump
would have to turn these numbers around and win a sizable majority of white
working-class voters—and this despite the fact that in yesterday’s G.O.P.
caucus he only managed to come in third.

The existence of a potential upper limit on Trump’s support among white voters
isn’t the only reason Teixeira reckons that he would be a long shot for the
White House. The biggest weakness in the argument that Trump can win, Teixeira
said, is that it rests on the notion that he can raise turnout among such
voters, particularly working-class ones, without provoking a similarly high
turnout among anti-Trump voters, particularly people of color. He pointed out
that while there _are_ large numbers of conservative, working-class white
voters in key battleground states like Florida and Virginia, who could provide
a fertile support base for Trump, there are also a lot of African-American,
Hispanic, and college-educated white voters, who will have noticed the kinds
of things he has been saying over the past eight months. “I find it just so
implausible that we could have this massive white nativist mobilization
without also provoking a big mobilization among minority voters,” Teixeira
said. “It is kind of magical thinking that you could do one thing and not have
the other.”

After speaking with Teixeira, I felt somewhat reassured. The electoral numbers
and demographic trends that his argument rests on are known facts. In the
aftermath of the 2012 election, the Republican National Committee commissioned
a
[report](http://web.archive.org/web/20250525080708/http://goproject.gop.com/rnc_growth_opportunity_book_2013.pdf)
that acknowledged many of these facts, and that made the case that the G.O.P.
couldn’t expect to win back the White House without doing a better job of
appealing to minorities and moderates. Trump’s candidacy represents an angry
repudiation of this argument, and an apparent denial of political reality.

On the other side of the ledger, Trump has been trampling on established
political wisdom since he launched his campaign. So far, it has worked for
him. Later this week, he will visit Macomb County, in suburban Detroit, an
area rich in Reagan Democrats that used to be regarded as a bellwether, and
where Trump is reportedly doing very well. When I pressed Teixeira, he
conceded that the Rust Belt strategy does represent at least a potential path
to the White House for Trump. But he described it as “a narrow path” that
depends on a number of unlikely events, such as minority voters failing to
show up at the polls despite the type of campaign that Trump has conducted.
“We could have a high-turnout election, but that doesn’t mean that Trump would
win,” Teixeira said. Let’s hope he’s right.

_* This post was updated to clarify a reference to the popular vote._
