title: Who Earned a Higher Salary Than You - FlowingData
source: http://flowingdata.com/2015/09/15/who-earned-a-higher-salary-than-you/
date: 2025-08-13T18:44:58.327523
tags: []
---
Work changed over the years. Salaries changed over the years. I was curious.
If you compared your personal income from present day, how would it compare to
the distribution of salaries in previous decades?

Luckily, the Census Bureau collects [the
data](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/technical-
documentation/pums.html) to find out, and
[IPUMS](https://usa.ipums.org/usa/cite.shtml), maintained by the University of
Minnesota, makes the anonymized records more straightforward to use.

So I figured out the percentage thresholds — salaries that put you in the top
1%, etc. of people who earned employee income — for the decades from 1950 to
2010 and 2013, adjusted for inflation, and plotted over time.

Naturally, the higher your income, the closer you move towards the top.

Slide the salary back and forth for an idea of distribution. Most of the
percentage shifts happen in the lower values, because most people’s salaries
lie within that range. You get to the single-digit percentages fairly quickly,
and then it takes a bit more to reach the top.

It took less to be in that upper tier of wages in 1950 and 1960. A salary just
under $30,000 puts you around the middle in 2013, and in 1950, that put you in
the top quarter. However, continue shifting the salaries back and forth, and
you might also notice the minimal change over the past few decades for the
lower and middle class. As income rises for the middle class, it takes more to
reach the single-digit percentages.

The next step is to see how salary interacts with cost of living, since income
is only part of the story. If a dollar buys way more in an era when people
made less, it might not matter.
