title: These Asos Warehouse Workers Are Paying The True Price Of Your Order
source: https://www.buzzfeed.com/saraspary/these-asos-workers-are-paying-the-true-price-of-your-order
date: 2025-08-13T17:51:30.309957
tags: []
---
Later that week she asked to be moved to a packing role, where "you just stay
in the same place all day", and which she felt would be less overwhelming.
Alternatively, she asked if she could avoid working on the top two floors
where she feared her panic attack might again be triggered.

Her request was supported by a note from her GP, seen by BuzzFeed News, which
described her as a patient with a “genuine case of anxiety” who the doctor had
seen on multiple occasions. He urged the company to make “reasonable
adjustments” to her day to assist her, suggesting that she might be more
suited to packing rather than picking.

But instead, Goddard's Transline manager not only refused to move her to a
different role or area, he also told her she could no longer do her original
picking job as she was “not safe to do the role”.

XPO, responding on behalf of Asos and Transline, denied that an assignment
would be ended on the basis of a panic attack. It said that if a colleague
were unable to complete a certain role due to health issues, “a reassignment
would be offered”.

However, in recordings obtained by BuzzFeed News, the Transline manager can be
heard saying they are unable to make adjustments for Goddard and have instead
decided to end her assignment following the panic attack.

“Your sick note says you need amended duties and we haven’t got amended
duties,” he says. “You don’t feel safe in picking and that’s the role that
you’ve got. So what I’ll have to look at doing, Joanne, is ending your
assignment on this site.”

The manager offers to contact another Transline office to see whether there
are any other jobs in the area. He also says he will call her in future if
another Asos job becomes available – a phone call that, Goddard said, has
never come.

But Goddard, who cannot drive, explains she needs to be in reach of her two
young children and that Asos is suitable because it is a 10-minute journey
away.

She then asks if she can go back on to picking to “see how I go”, but the
manager repeats that he has nothing to offer her.

“If you do that you’re just going to have another panic attack, aren’t you?”
he says.

“Well I could have them any time," Goddard is heard replying. "I’ve had two in
the last four days panicking about this because you’re meant to have been
ringing me and I don’t know if I’ve lost my job or what. I don’t know what to
do.

“I don’t want to be out of my job, definitely not. Shall we just leave it that
I’ll go back on pick?”

But the manager informs her she is no longer needed, which Goddard says is
unfair.

“What do you mean it’s not fair?” the manager replies. “It’s not fair us
continuously keeping you employed if you’re not able to do the role and you’re
not safe to do the role.

"It's not fair continuously turning up every day and picking because you're
not going to be able to hit your performance [targets] – you're going to be
unsure and you're going to cause yourself more harm by having more panic
attacks."

The manager adds: "It's not the news you wanted to hear and if I'm being
honest it's not the news I wanted to say to you. I wanted to say, 'Yes, I've
got this available, let's get you back in tonight,' but I can't, I can't do
that.

He concludes: “Unfortunately I can’t continue your employment here because
you’re not fit for the role we can offer. I do apologise for that, Joanne.”
