title: New York gets serious about congestion pricing in Manhattan
source: https://slate.com/business/2018/01/new-york-gets-serious-about-congestion-pricing-in-manhattan.html
date: 2025-08-13T16:45:29.071114
tags: []
---
Manhattan is home to the most valuable land in the United States. Retail rents
on Fifth Avenue can top $4,000 per square foot; the price per square foot for
a TriBeCa apartment is over $2,000; Midtown office rents hover in the $80 per
square foot range. But to drive your 2-ton, 50-square-foot private vehicle
around all day? Miraculously and inexplicably free.

Perhaps not for long. The island—which can be driven to only by 20
metaphorically taxed but largely toll-free bridges and tunnels—has finally
reached a state of traffic congestion so bad it prompted Gov. Andrew Cuomo
last summer to endorse some form of a fee to drive into the central business
district. This month, his committee released its report on the subject: a
full-throated call to price access to Manhattan south of Central Park. If this
becomes law, it would be the first “congestion charge” to take effect in the
United States, though similar policies are in place in London, Stockholm, and
Milan. Singapore has had a congestion charge for more than four decades.

Supporters argue this will do two things: raise money for the troubled transit
system and reduce traffic on Manhattan streets. This in turn would bring about
a quieter city, cleaner air, faster trips for buses and emergency vehicles,
and encourage carpooling, biking, walking, and transit. Cuomo has said he will
carefully review the committee’s recommendations, and all sides—outer-borough
politicians, Uber and taxis, straphangers, Manhattan business interests, and
AAA—are prepared for a battle over the details.

Opponents say it’s a classist policy that will cement Manhattan’s status as a
gated city where even a drive downtown comes with a price. Mayor Bill de
Blasio, lukewarm to the idea, has framed congestion pricing as a burden on the
outer-borough poor, despite evidence showing that only 4 percent of outer-
borough workers commute by car to Manhattan, and fewer than 5,000 of those
workers fall below the poverty line. That 5,000 is out of the 1.5 million
people entering the borough for work each morning.

The [report](http://www.hntb.com/HNTB/media/HNTBMediaLibrary/Home/Fix-NYC-
Panel-Report.pdf) takes pains to emphasize that the situation on the borough’s
streets has deteriorated considerably since former Mayor Michael Bloomberg
proposed a similar program a decade ago that died in Albany. In just six
years, vehicle speed in the central business district (CBD) has fallen from
9.35 mph to 6.8 mph. In the Midtown core, vehicle speed is down from 6.52 mph
to 4.7 mph. You might as well walk.

The flow of traffic has congealed despite the fact that in 2015, there were
45,000 fewer vehicles entering the Manhattan CBD than in 2010—the equivalent
of removing an entire bridge’s worth of traffic. So what happened? Probably
Uber: Taxi trips in the CBD are up by nearly one-quarter since 2013, thanks to
ride-hail services. And that underplays the effect on traffic. The number of
hours that taxis were on the road with no customers doubled between 2013 and
2017 thanks entirely to ride hail companies. In the long run, shared vehicles
are an evident improvement over personal cars, but all that circling has
slowed things down considerably.

The city has dropped the ball too. While parking violations are rigorously
policed, most moving violations go unpunished. Manhattan drivers are largely
free to double-park, drive in bus lanes, and block the box, causing cascading
traffic effects. The city hands out 160,000 parking placards as pork for city
employees and their friends, which drivers use to park illegally and for free.
Bus service has been
[allowed](https://www.slate.com/blogs/moneybox/2016/07/21/buses_in_new_york_and_other_u_s_cities_are_in_crisis.html)
to deteriorate. Meanwhile, the state-run subway has
[struggled](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/18/nyregion/new-york-subway-
system-failure-delays.html) mightily to provide reliable service.

All of it adds up to a sense that congestion pricing must, in some form, be
implemented for the Manhattan core. Even de Blasio appeared to soften his
faux-populist opposition last week. Cuomo’s committee laid out a preliminary
scheme for the tolls designed to raise more than $1 billion a year:

—$25 for truckers
—$11.50 for drivers
—$2–$5 for taxis

It is a strong first bid, and one that leaves room for the governor to
negotiate with pols from Staten Island, Long Island, the Bronx, and
Westchester, many of whom want perks like dedicated transit and toll
discounts, as well as with the many businesses that operate in or drive
through the Manhattan CBD. Lower Manhattan residents will reap quality of life
benefits but may pay for it through more expensive goods and services. Then
again, with peak-hour pricing, a congestion charge might also encourage off-
hour freight deliveries, which (in a recent experiment) cut delivery times
from 108 minutes around noon to 25 minutes after 7 p.m.

Two big questions remain unaddressed. First, if this money is going into a
transit lockbox—which everyone considers the primary benefit of the fees,
though the others are just as important—why should we think the MTA will spend
it wisely, given the agency’s predilection for prioritizing suburban commuters
and wasting billions on capital improvements? Second, how serious is Cuomo
about getting the plan past the Republicans who control the New York
statehouse, and what might be sacrificed to make that happen? Many of them
continue to consider driving into the nation’s densest city a God-given right,
because it’s been that way for decades. But there’s nothing liberating about
the city’s permanent traffic jam.

In reality, driving in Manhattan has always been a lousy emblem of the
borough’s everyman character, since New Yorkers have never been likely to own
cars, and trains (and before them, ferries) have always carried far more
people to and from the island. After the recent disappearance of so many old-
time shops and rent-regulated apartments, driving down Broadway appears fated
to bear some misplaced egalitarian nostalgia. The roads into the city could be
free when a million fewer people lived here. No longer. Even Billy Joel took
the Greyhound on the Hudson River Line.
