title: Michael Moore's Master Plan to Bring Down Donald Trump | GQ
source: http://www.gq.com/story/michael-moore-donald-trump-broadway-show
date: 2025-08-13T17:20:19.196392
tags: []
---
When Donald Trump was elected to the presidency in November, few people had
greater cause to gloat—and less reason to be happy about it—than liberal
author, documentarian, and commentator Michael Moore, who famously predicted
that Trump would win nearly a year ago, when the vast majority of liberals
were still laughing at the very _concept_ of a Trump presidency.

As it turns out, Moore’s prescience also gave him an edge—a months-long head
start on thinking about how best to oppose the Trump presidency. "His
Achilles’ heel is his very, very, very thin skin," said Moore at a press
conference on Monday. "So we need to have a sort of non-violent comedy shiv."

That "non-violent comedy shiv" is finally taking shape in Moore’s latest
project: A semi-improvised Broadway show called _The Terms of My Surrender_ ,
which will debut at the Belasco Theatre on July 28. "It’s a 12-week limited
run," Moore said. "I guess I would like Trump to have the same thing."

_The Terms of My Surrender_ is built around a single, provocative question:
Can a Broadway show bring down a sitting president? To answer it, Moore’s show
will offer a daily venue for his trademark topical humor and political
commentary, with the promise of special guests and surprises throughout the
run. "Michael will be responding to the news of the day—so every evening, the
show is going to be different in certain ways," said director Michael Mayer.
He also implied that the show might include the occasional field trip: "There
_might_ be some impromptu excursions after the show. To places that might be
nearby." (For what it’s worth, the Belasco Theatre is a mere 12 blocks away
from Trump Tower.)

And should Trump ever decide to come to the Belasco Theatre to see the show
for himself, Moore has insisted on a standing reservation for the theater’s
presidential box, in case any members of the Trump or Pence families turn up
to see him perform. "I hope he comes to see it. Or his family. Or the vice
president. We won’t boo them," Moore promises.

Moore sat down with _GQ_ for a discussion about The _Terms of My Surrender_ ,
the Trump presidency, and his thoughts on where American politics might be
heading next.

* * *

**Let’s begin with the obvious question:_Can_ a Broadway show bring down a
sitting president?**
Well, I’d like to think so. We’re going to find out. A boy can dream, right?

**It’s ambitious.**
Yeah, more liberals _need_ to be a little more ambitious. Come on, let’s go!
All hands on deck! This is me doing my part. But it’s not _just_ a political
thing. If, at the very least, we can give people 90 exhilarating minutes after
they’ve worked hard all week, and they leave energized and excited—that, in
and of itself, is worthy of what we’re doing. What if more filmmakers, and
more people who write plays or produce TV shows, had that thought in mind? If
they cared enough about the audience, and believe that what we’re doing is
valuable to them? The majority of what used to be called "the middle class"
now lives from paycheck to paycheck. Those who make movies—and do plays,
television, whatever—those who keep that in mind _will_ produce better work.
