title: The Pension Problem - The Atlantic
source: http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/print/2011/03/the-pension-problem/72084/
date: 2025-08-13T21:08:30.496823
tags: []
---
_As public-sector benefits draw headlines, private-sector 401(k) plans have
tanked in the crash_

credit: AP Photo/Robert F. Bukaty

One big reason public employees are under siege in Wisconsin and other states
is because they now enjoy more secure retirement benefits than most private-
sector workers. The question is whether the right way to close that gap is by
reducing security for government employees or increasing it for everyone else.

For private-sector workers, retirement security is unmistakably eroding. The
change is rooted in the shift from "defined benefit" pensions, under which
employers guarantee their workers a fixed payment after retirement, to
"defined contribution" pensions, such as 401(k) plans, under which employers
commit only to contributing a fixed amount that employees must invest on their
own.

In 1985, about four in five workers at medium- and large-sized private firms
received a defined-benefit pension, according to federal statistics. Today,
less than one-third are covered under such plans. Instead, most workers at
large and medium private companies who receive pension benefits at all obtain
them in the form of defined contributions. In small companies, defined-benefit
plans are virtually extinct--and only about one-third of those workers receive
even a defined-contribution retirement benefit.

This replacement of traditional pensions with 401(k)-type plans amounts to a
massive shift of risk from employers to individuals. Under defined-benefit
programs, employers bear the primary financial risk: They are obligated to
provide the benefits regardless of how their investments perform. Under
defined-contribution programs, workers invest their own money and suffer if
the markets tank, as anyone with a 401(k) discovered in the 2008 meltdown.



But one group of workers has largely avoided this shifting of risk: public
employees. Defined-benefit plans still cover fully 87 percent of public
employees (compared with the one-third of private-sector workers at larger
companies). In fact, the share of public-sector workers with traditional
pensions now substantially exceeds the two-thirds of private-sector workers at
bigger companies with access to either a defined-benefit or defined-
contribution plan.

That advantage creates understandable resentment among workers who have lost
such certainty. "The taxpayer who is hurting does not have a defined-benefit
pension and is saying, 'Why should my taxes go up so this other group can have
this very generous retirement?' " says John Rother, executive vice president
of policy at AARP, the giant seniors' lobby.

Some of the pension benefits that public employees have negotiated are
indefensible (particularly those allowing excessively early retirement). And
over time, it's unsustainable for public employees to enjoy so much more
retirement security than most of the taxpayers who fund their benefits. But
the escalating conflict over whether public employees have won too much
retirement security is obscuring the larger issue of whether everyone else has
lost too much. "The question is, should we bring everyone down to what we've
done in the private sector where the level of insecurity is [rising]?" says
Alicia Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston
College.

Using conservative assumptions, and including all potential sources of income
(including Social Security, traditional pensions, home equity, and 401(k)
plans), the Center for Retirement Research calculates that fully half of
Americans will fail to generate enough postretirement income to approach their
preretirement standard of living. The vulnerability is greater for younger
than older baby boomers and greater still for Generation X. Those who rely on
defined-contribution plans are substantially more exposed than the dwindling
number with access to traditional pensions. The overall level of risk, Munnell
warns, "is shockingly high."

The 401(k) has several virtues: flexibility, portability, autonomy. For the
vast majority of workers, however, it is not producing enough assets for a
secure retirement--either because they didn't invest enough, made bad
investment choices, or simply suffered from market volatility. In all, workers
who retire during the next 20 years can expect to replace only about two-
thirds of their preretirement income, compared with about four-fifths for
their parents' generation, the liberal-leaning think-tank Demos calculated in
a recent study. "It's a tougher future than we're expecting; it's a tougher
future than our parents had; and I think it's going to be demoralizing,"
Munnell says.

Public employees need to accept reasonable concessions as states confront big
budget deficits. But the impulse to take government workers down a peg might
be better channeled toward increasing retirement security for everyone else in
fiscally responsible ways.

Most Americans will need to contribute by working somewhat longer. Beyond
that, one option is to provide bigger Social Security benefits for lower-
income retirees by restraining them for the affluent. Another, as President
Obama has proposed, is to establish automatic retirement-savings accounts for
workers without pension plans, with matching federal contributions for lower-
income savers. These contributions could be funded by limiting the tax break
for 401(k) plans, because those deductions most benefit the wealthy (and are
projected to cost $360 billion in lost federal revenue through 2015).

Public pensions may be attracting the headlines, but the unraveling of
private-sector pension security poses a much greater long-term challenge, even
if it lacks a pyrotechnic confrontation to galvanize the media.

_This article appeared in the Saturday, March 5, 2011 edition of National
Journal._
