title: The 15 Design Articles You Loved the Most in 2016
source: https://food52.com/blog/18836-the-15-design-articles-you-loved-the-most-in-2016
date: 2025-08-13T17:38:19.493259
tags: []
---
Unfussy and super elegant in appearance. Full of good tips and ideas, but
never condescending (or uppity!). High-reward for not _too_ much work
involved, but occasionally ambitious. These are the things we would have
guessed you'd want from our articles about home and design, and we were right.

**Below are our fifteen most popular home posts of 2016** —featuring bedrooms,
bathrooms, living rooms, and of course kitchens and their accessories—and some
thoughts on what we learned from seeing you love them.

Instead of using a duvet cover (which can be ornery to take off and put on
every time you go to wash it, not to mention expensive) try layering two flat
sheets on either side of your comforter. Then, the trick: a smart way to fold
the top section so it's nice and tidy (there's a little gif in the post to
show you how). Same look, less hassle.

**What we learned:** All those things that annoy us about keeping up a pretty
home? They bug you, too—so it's worth finding a better way.

_The cuddly sheets we used to shoot it, and some more hotel-inspired design
tricks:_

**What we learned:** Expert coverage on common (but confusing) kitchen upkeep
tasks are welcome.

You weren't deterred by my horrifying photography skills, or the fact that I
wrote about cleaning out my kitchen [four times that
week](http://web.archive.org/web/20230531165340/https://food52.com/blog/search_tag/konmari),
or my failure to abide by Marie Kondo's rules. (Thank you!)

**What we learned:** You like it when we try something out—be that a trend, a
tip, or a popular method—and tell you what _actually_ happens. The good and
the bad.

_A few more posts from that series:_

Try swapping some of your artwork around tonight and see if it doesn't make
you feel refreshed.

**What we learned:** Little things that make a big difference? More of that,
please.

"Tricks," because once upon a time not too long ago the idea of hanging your
curtains closer to the ceiling was _not_ a thing—someone gave it a whirl, the
move caught fire as a trend, and suddenly it's Interior Design 101.

**What we learned:** Interior Design 101—minus the textbook—is right up your
alley.

When our wonderful contributor [Liz
Johnson](http://web.archive.org/web/20230531165340/https://food52.com/users/920519-liz-
johnson/articles) told me she'd like to write about the bathroom makeover she
masterminded herself, I knew it'd be a stunner (proof of her good taste,
[here](http://web.archive.org/web/20230531165340/https://www.instagram.com/lizactly/)).
It was also ingenious and budget-friendly. What could be better?

**What we learned:** Again, real experiences (and real homes! and makeovers!
and budget-friendly fixes!) are often the most compelling way to learn.

_A few bathroom fixtures from our Shop that are a little like instant
makeovers:_

**What we learned:** The key here was _budget-friendly_ —and since we tend
towards natural, no-frills solutions anyway we can easily bring you more of
that.

_Two of my favorite decorative flourishes from the Shop that don't require the
big bucks:_

The alternative headline for this article was All the Nancy Meyers Movie Set
Kitchens Ever. (You probably still would have liked it!)

**What we learned:** Movie sets! We'll bring you more of these.

**What we learned:** Let no kitchen organizing project go undiscussed.

+

**What we learned:** More cast iron innovation, on the double! (Spoiler: We're
bringing a lightweight, super smooth, very thoughtfully designed cast iron
skillet to our Shop very soon.)

From our resident organizing queen herself, tips on everything from the best
containers (and markers!) to buy to what, exactly, to put on each shelf.
You'll be tackling yours in no time.

**What we learned:** Again, that organizing tips know no limit in your
estimation—and that you like hearing from our trusty co-founders!

_Some pantry organizers, from our Shop:_

I just hung curtains myself and put this into effect—100% warming, cozying,
and welcoming.

**What we learned** : Easy, high-impact fixes are always welcome (and you even
like hearing about
[curtains](http://web.archive.org/web/20230531165340/https://food52.com/shop/products/2974-linen-
curtain-panel) and bed skirts—woo hoo!).

You already know you don't _need_ everything you own, but leave it to [Alice
Medrich](http://web.archive.org/web/20230531165340/https://food52.com/users/64637-alice-
medrich) to tell you precisely what needs to go (you'll thank her!).

**What we learned:** Knowing what to get rid of is just as important as
knowing the best things to _get_.

Maybe it was the perfect balance of food, and DIY, and home design—maybe it
was the empowering tone. Either way, you went nuts for these indoor fruit tree
suggestions, which (with a lot of TLC and direct sunlight) can flourish by a
window in your living room.

**What we learned:** Indoor gardening that might also serve your cooking
needs? Got it.

_What were your favorite home design posts that didn't make our top 15? Tell
us in the comments._
