title: " The GM of the Future
source: http://www.grantland.com/story/_/id/9531195/bill-barnwell-phil-emery-general-manager-philosophy
date: 2025-08-13T20:03:46.898289
tags: []
---
If I asked you to describe what a prototypical general manager of the future
might look like, you would probably come up with some pretty distinct
archetypes. You might envision a young gun like Theo Epstein or Sam Presti,
organizational heads who have ridden analytics and outside-the-box thinking to
success. Alternatively, you might go for somebody like Ozzie Newsome, the
grizzled ex-pro who seems to have a [sixth sense for drafting and developing
superstars](https://grantland.com/bill-barnwell-baltimore-consistent-winning).
You might even go so far as to point to somebody who totally doesn’t fit the
profile, like Jay Z.

The résumé that wouldn’t come up in your mind is the one from the 54-year-old
that starts with “Strength and conditioning coach, Western New Mexico” and
traverses its way through a seven-year stint with the Naval Academy before a
14-year run as a scout and scouting director in the pros. You’d write him off
as an old-school scout, an anachronism who would scoff at quantitative
analysis and rely exclusively on his gut. You’d underestimate Phil Emery, and
you would be sorely mistaken to do so, because there might not be a single
personnel director in sports who better embodies the values of the 21st-
century general manager than the kid from Detroit running things in Chicago.

In saying that, I’m suggesting that the role of general manager is one that is
materially different than it was even 15 years ago. The sports world is not
just post-_Moneyball_ , it’s post-post-_Moneyball_. Just as traditionalists
and gut-deciders have fallen on their swords, the likes of J.P. Ricciardi in
Toronto have proven that big data isn’t always a viable solution, either. The
media and the nature of the media have changed. The language that comes into
play is different. The financial landscape is, in some cases, radically
opposed to where it was at the turn of the century. The sports world seems to
move faster; ideas get stolen more quickly and trade secrets seem like
something out of _Pleasantville_. By virtue of his background, his work ethic,
his brainpower, and his open-mindedness, Emery gets himself ahead of the curve
in four key ways that stand out as tenets of what a great modern GM should
embody:

### 1\. Treating fans like they might actually have an idea of what they’re
talking about.

With the rise of Bill Belichick during the first few years of this century,
saying as little as possible in press conferences became a bit of a sport
among NFL leadership types. It was “[Both teams played
hard](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BrOH-KHxXg0)” for old white guys. You
can understand Belichick’s reticence in discussing an injured player (which
itself has been taken to a new level in hockey), but it got to the point where
even relevant questions were brushed aside with coachspeak. A lonely nation
instead turned its ears, for better or worse, to Herm Edwards. At least his
coachspeak [was compelling](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTLtBGgSAM).

Consumers of sports are getting to the point where that doesn’t fly anymore.
That traditional model — athlete or coach gives quote, reporter files away
quote, includes it in 800-word article in the newspaper the following day,
where reader sees it for the first time — is comically outdated. In a 24-hour
news cycle, those quotes are on Twitter in real time, analyzed for any
relevance immediately, and thrown away shortly thereafter. We as a culture
have developed a voracious appetite for interesting content related to the
sports things that we love, and that’s why 24-hour team channels like YES and
team message boards and endless hours of sports talk radio and, of course,
Grantland all exist. In the process, that has made sports fans a smarter bunch
of information consumers, with a stronger knowledge of our history and a much
deeper awareness of our present. Sports and some sports coverage haven’t
necessarily caught up. Ask any Knicks fan who has had to spend a decade
dealing with the argument “the Knicks aren’t allowed to bottom out and rebuild
because their fans won’t let them” despite the fact every Knicks fan I’ve ever
met wanted them to bottom out and rebuild from 2002 to 2010.

Now take Emery, who had to face a fan base that was likely to be (at least in
part) hostile toward his two biggest moves this offseason. First, he fired
longtime Bears head coach Lovie Smith after a 10-6 campaign, making Smith just
the fourth head coach since 1990 to be fired after winning 10 or more games in
a season. Then, three months later, Emery announced the Bears would break off
negotiations and move on from iconic linebacker Brian Urlacher, who would
later fail to find a suitable market for his services and retire. Getting rid
of a statue player for your franchise is usually a tough enough sell for one
playoff-less offseason, but firing one of the most successful head coaches in
team history after a 10-win season, too? The vultures would immediately have
begun to circle around a general manager who handled those situations poorly.

Emery beat those worries to the punch with his weapon of choice: [the
thoughtful press conference](https://soundcloud.com/mgilmer/phil-emery-press-
conference). With fans still reeling after an end-of-season collapse and the
news that their coach had been fired, Emery struck the perfect balance between
classy and progressive. Emery thanked Smith for his service in a genuine
manner, but gave a concise, tangible explanation for his firing that any Bears
fan could understand: The offense hadn’t developed under Smith’s watch. He
even noted an appropriate statistic in pointing out that the Bears had a
top-15 offense under Smith just once.

No general manager in sports gives press conferences like Emery, who is
delightfully prone to giving long, detailed explanations of what went into his
decisions. Words I wouldn’t use with any other public speaker in football come
to mind. Transparency. Openness. Uncertainty, which nominally sounds like
something you don’t want your general manager to convey, but is something that
inherently comes with the territory of football and is otherwise disingenuous
to ignore. Some general managers make vague references to analytics; Emery
actually [goes into detail about the different
sources](http://voices.suntimes.com/sports/inside-the-bears/phil-emery-
provides-tremendous/) he has sought out to try to judge performance. Emery
describes his verboseness bluntly enough: “If you ask me a question, I’m going
to give you an answer. And I think you deserve the content and the process
behind that answer. It’s really not enough for our fans to get a black-and-
white answer that’s just a sound bite.” It’s more a fireside chat or a smart
conversation at the bar than a press conference.

There’s also a subtle-but-meaningful impact produced by Emery’s openness. By
explaining the process to fans, Emery simultaneously _engages_ them in the
process, as opposed to letting the regular season’s 16 outcomes define his
season and his standing in the fans’ eyes. He phrases it in terms that link
the fans and the organization as one: “I want our fans — and everybody I work
with — to understand all the thinking behind [our processes], so that they’re
more inclined to buy in and work toward that goal.” There will always be a
subset of fans who care only about wins and losses, and there will be another
subset of fans who actively disagree with your process, but relying on a
season’s worth of wins and losses can be a very tricky enterprise, especially
for a sport with such high variance. Sharing the process with inclined fans
gives Emery a far longer leash to work with and creates a topic for discussion
during those long stretches when there isn’t steady football action to define
the story lines around a team.

That word “process” keeps coming up a lot. It’s another one of those important
tenets of the modern GM …

### 2\. A hyper-focus on process.

If you listen to Emery in press conferences or talk to him, you’ll hear the
word “process” come up so many times that you’ll lose count. That’s a good
thing. You can phrase it however you want — “process” often means the same
thing as “the plan” in this context — but it’s essential for an NFL general
manager to have a clear idea of his long-term process and stick with it
regardless of short-term outcomes. That thought came up again and again [when
I looked at Ted Thompson’s history earlier this
week](https://grantland.com/bill-barnwell-ted-thompson-influence-nfl).

To Emery, focusing on the process not only provides a better chance of
building a winner, it performs the perhaps more-meaningful role of preventing
you from overreacting to fleeting streaks of success or failure. “Some of
those bumps along the way are like hitting a tree; losses are very tough,
particularly ones that have more impact than others [at the end of the
season]. They’re tough to work through, but you have to believe in the process
and the talents of the people you work with. If you let outcome drive you,
you’ll be all over the place and never develop the process to get to the final
goal.” And to Emery, the final goal isn’t simply winning a Super Bowl, which
itself usually requires some [incredible
luck](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=br2QVozDaA0) along the way. It’s “to be
a consistent winner, to consistently be in the championship mix, and win
championships.”

In terms of these Bears, it’s pretty clear that process involves focusing on
drafting and developing young talent. Emery’s NFL background is as a scout
with the Bears and as the director of college scouting for the Falcons and,
more recently, the Chiefs, so it seems natural that he would have a passion
for identifying emerging college talent and using that to build the
organization. The [changes to rookie contracts in the new
CBA](https://grantland.com/bill-barnwell-vanishing-value-veteran-quarterback)
and the [stagnant post-CBA growth of the salary
cap](https://grantland.com/bill-barnwell-changes-nfl-free-agent-landscape)
make building through the draft more essential than ever before. Emery hasn’t
put a Thompson-esque focus on stockpiling draft picks, having made minor moves
to trade up in each of his first two drafts, but his one notable draft pick
trade appears to be a huge success: The Bears would happily trade two third-
round picks for Brandon Marshall again.

Marshall was the first step in the clearest plan Emery has for the team:
placing the appropriate parts around Jay Cutler to see if he’s a Super
Bowl–caliber quarterback. The cosmetic fixes surrounding Cutler that failed to
change things are gone. The new regime doesn’t pretend that Devin Hester is a
good wide receiver, that Kellen Davis can catch passes, or that Mike Martz is
a suitable offensive coordinator for a guy who gets hit all the time. In two
years, Emery has rebuilt the offensive line by using a first-round pick on
guard Kyle Long and signing two new starters, left tackle Jermon Bushrod and
left guard Matt Slauson. Martellus Bennett is a real tight end. Alshon Jeffery
could be a breakout player after being taken in the second round last year.
Marshall seems to have a telepathic connection with Cutler. There’s genuine
talent here.

And then, on top of that, Emery replaced Smith with an offensive-minded head
coach, Marc Trestman, who has placed a significant focus on [keeping his
quarterback well-protected](http://voices.suntimes.com/sports/inside-the-
bears/former-allouettes-offensive-li/). If this helps Cutler take a step
forward, it gives the Bears a reason to commit to him over the long term. If
not, they can move on accordingly. It’s a decision they have to make by the
end of this year, when Cutler’s contract will run out. By making these moves,
Emery’s process allows them to make the best possible decision on Cutler’s
future.

That the Bears and Emery are comfortable letting Cutler play out the final
year of his deal speaks to another 21st-century quality:

### 3\. Having no fear of the unknown.

The sabermetric movement in baseball brought the concept of replacement level
to sports, and it permanently changed the ways that we value players, both as
fans and (amateur or professional) analysts. Teams who found a first baseman
with a little bit of power or a sound reliever from Triple-A had a tangible
reason to realize that they could move on from those players and find a new
one without having to pay a premium, because supply was so plentiful and
replacement level was so high. It’s what led the Red Sox under Epstein to move
on from the useful-if-replaceable Brian Daubach and go reaching into the free-
agent market for a non-tendered first basemen who had failed to impress in his
last stop, David Ortiz.

Bad organizations are terrified of the unknown and make moves to ensure that
they’ll never have to end up shopping in those circles, even if they found
that talent there in the first place. They give that running back they plucked
off the waiver wire and put behind their great offensive line a big new
contract, even though there are dozens of running backs just waiting for a
similar opportunity available for the minimum. They re-sign players to deals
above market value because they’re afraid of some near-zero possibility that
they’re the only team left with money to spend and there’s nobody left to
spend it on. (Hi, kicker contracts!) In doing so and ensuring that they won’t
end up with a total mess at a position, they’re forced to pay a premium for an
often-inferior talent. They also forgo the opportunity of finding a bargain, a
player who will outperform his salary and allow the organization to spend more
on a player who they truly can’t replace.

There are certain general managers who would not physically or emotionally be
able to handle the situation that Emery is in with veteran contracts right
now. The Bears have 13 [“key
players”](http://www.espn.com/chicago/nfl/story/_/id/9506182/chicago-bears-gm-
says-jay-cutler-contract-extension-wait-2014) in the final year of their
respective deals, including Cutler, Robbie Gould, Hester, Tim Jennings, and
Charles Tillman. It’s a risk, since the veterans could become disgruntled
without any long-term stability, but this is the NFL, where long-term
stability isn’t a thing, regardless of how long your (unguaranteed) contract
runs. Cutler also could end up having a tremendous season that dramatically
raises his asking price, à la Joe Flacco last season, but Emery rightly
doesn’t feel too stressed about that, [noting to ESPN
Chicago](http://www.espn.com/chicago/nfl/story/_/id/9506182/chicago-bears-gm-
says-jay-cutler-contract-extension-wait-2014), “I guess if you’re saying an
enormous amount of leverage [for Cutler], that means we’ve had a great season
… that’s a problem I look forward to.”

The most promising feature of Emery’s tenure so far, though, is the one that
every organization aims to pull off but often struggles to maneuver.

### 4\. An inclusive, occasionally nontraditional decision-making process.

In June, Emery hired [Mitch Tanney from STATS
LLC](http://www.sbnation.com/nfl/2013/6/19/4446792/mitchell-tanney-hired-
bears-director-of-analytics-stats) to serve as director of analytics. For
somebody with such a strong traditional scouting background to hire a director
of analytics says a lot about Emery’s open-mindedness and willingness to
consider alternative viewpoints, but there’s more to it than that.

Hiring an analytics guy or even a couple of analytics guys doesn’t mean very
much. For one, NFL analytics aren’t really very useful; they offer more in
terms of broad, team-based concepts than they do in individual player analysis
or in defining player value. Then, consider that the analytics director or
researcher often doesn’t have very much clout; in the often-political front
offices of the NFL, an analytics employee hired by an owner might threaten a
general manager or a personnel director enough for them to be squeezed out of
the picture and ignored.

What’s promising about Tanney’s position with the Bears, then, is how Emery
suggests he’ll link Tanney in with the rest of his scouting and personnel
department. “In putting together our staff,” Emery told me, “you’re always
looking for people who have unique skill sets. We have a number of people who
have the title of scout, but they have other unique skill sets which help make
our scouting staff better as a whole. With somebody like Mitch, we’re adding
to the mix of good people who are thoughtful and have a unique skill set who
can make the group better.” Emery brought up senior national scout Mark
Sadowski, who the Bears also rely upon for his skills as a computer engineer,
as a possible path that Tanney might follow. That’s exciting news: The best
thing a team can do with an analytics person is stick them with a scout (or on
a team of scouts). That interdisciplinary approach makes both sides better and
makes for a smarter organization in the long run. Getting there takes some
subjugated egos and patience, but the Bears appear prepared to offer that to
Tanney in exchange for what his skills can bring to the table.

That same open-mindedness unquestionably led Emery to Trestman, a risky pick
who spent the last five years as the head coach of the Montreal Alouettes of
the Canadian Football League. It’s one thing to bring in a guy like Trestman
for an interview; that’s the sort of thinking that gets “outside-the-box” and
“progressive” attached to your name in features just like this one. Actually
hiring Trestman speaks to just how devoted Emery was to his plan of finding
out about Cutler as soon as possible, and how willing he was to offer the job
to the candidate who impressed him the most. It remains to be seen whether
Trestman succeeds as head coach of the Bears, but the process that led to him
being hired seems pretty healthy.

That phrase — “seems pretty healthy” — is the scariest part about football. In
baseball, if you get just about everything right on an organizational and
personnel level, you’re going to succeed in the long run, because you get 162
games a year to prove your quality. The return of the Rays and A’s to
contenders in the American League is a good measure of that. You need a big
star and some luck in basketball, but as Daryl Morey’s last 12 months have
shown in Houston, you can create your own opportunities to get lucky when the
time is right. There you get 82 games to prove your point. Football is fickle
and maddening, thanks primarily to the 16-game season and how it can affect
your decision-making. Emery might land upon a championship process and fail to
get the outcomes right quickly enough to prove it. An injury to Cutler could
throw the whole plan out of whack. All a good process can do is give you a
better shot at winning what occasionally resembles a lottery. Then again, if
you were the strength and conditioning coach at Western New Mexico and dreamed
about running the Chicago Bears, you might consider that winning the lottery,
too. Nobody knows if Emery will succeed, but he didn’t get here through
failing, either.
