title: My evil dad: Life as a serial killer’s daughter - BBC News
source: http://www.bbc.com/news/magazine-29835159
date: 2025-08-13T19:24:59.108512
tags: []
---
My father will never get the death penalty for his crimes. But he should.

I don't say that for myself, but for his victims. Justice will never be served
to them. I'm not going to go into the details of the horrific torture he
inflicted on those poor women, who were mothers and daughters and sisters. Not
all his victims have even been identified. There are some parents who still
don't know where their daughter or sister disappeared to.

I've spoken with family members of his first victim, Taunja Bennett. They had
a lot of details about her life, and who she was as a person, which I really
wanted to know.

I've also spoken to his only survivor, who he brutally raped in front of her
infant and tried to strangle. She reached out to me, and we arranged to speak
on the phone. I was very nervous before the call, and I won't deny it was hard
to hear graphic details about her assault. But I believe it was a powerful
gift that she gave me. If I wanted to delude myself about what he had done I
couldn't any more. I couldn't live in la-la land.

I haven't seen him for almost a decade. After my book came out in 2008, I got
a letter from him in which he said, "I don't want the world to judge me as a
dad. I was a great dad. My only mistake was my eight errors in judgement."

But he's talking about murders! He's calling them "errors in judgement"!
That's the way he sees things. How can anyone - even someone as close as a
daughter - continue to have a relationship with a person who so completely
lacks honesty and compassion?

For years I kidded myself. I knew he had done terrible things, but I still
believed that he loved me and my siblings, that he was capable of love and
empathy. Then one day, while I was working on my book, I had a conversation
with my grandfather. He told me: "You know, I went to visit your dad in
prison, and he said something that surprised me. He said that he had had
thoughts of killing you children."

Maybe people won't understand this, but hearing that gave me freedom. It
allowed me to see that in truth there had been no double life - there had only
ever been one Keith Jesperson and he had been able to manipulate everyone
around him and present different facades to the world.

And finally I knew the answer to the question that had been bothering me every
time I thought about our last breakfast together in the diner. Would he have
killed me if I had told the police about his crimes? Yes, he would.

Understanding that allowed me to say goodbye to him.

_Melissa Moore appeared on Outlook on the BBC World Service._[Listen to the
interview again on iPlayer](/programmes/p023c99f) _or_[get the Outlook
podcast](/podcasts/series/outlook) _._

_Subscribe to the_[BBC News Magazine's email
newsletter](/news/magazine-26567792) _to get articles sent to your inbox._
