title: When Michael Lewis and his family
source: http://upstart.bizjournals.com/culture-lifestyle/goods/real-estate/2008/09/18/Michael-Lewis-Mansion.html?page=all
date: 2025-08-13T19:43:16.133702
tags: []
---
I was looking to return to New Orleans, where I’d grown up, to write a book.
The move would uproot my wife and three children from California, and I felt a
little bad about that. They needed a place to live, but places to live in New
Orleans are hard to find. Ever since Hurricane Katrina, the real estate market
there has been in turmoil. ­Owners want to sell, buyers want to rent, and the
result is a forest of for sale signs and an army of workers commuting from
great distances.

At the bottom of every real estate ad I saw was the name of the same agent.
One woman ruled the market, it seemed, and her name was Eleanor Farnsworth. I
called her and threw myself on her mercy. She thought my problem over and then
said, “I only know of one place that would work for you.” She’d suggested it
to Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie, she said, before selling them their more
modest place in the French Quarter.

That shouldn’t have been a selling point; it should have been a warning. I
should have asked the price. Instead, I asked the address.

As soon as I saw it, I knew it—the mansion. The most conspicuously grand house
in New Orleans. As a child, I’d ridden my bike past it 2,000 times and always
felt a tiny bit unnerved. It wasn’t just a mansion; it seemed like the biggest
mansion on the street with all the mansions, St. Charles Avenue, an object of
fascination for the tourists on the clanging streetcars. But it was hard to
imagine a human being standing beside it, much less living inside it, and as
far as I could tell, none ever did. There was never any sign of life around
it; it was just this awesome, silent pile of pale stone. The Frick Museum, but
closed.

Inside, it was even more awesome than outside. It was as if the architect had
set out to show just how much space he could persuade a rich man to waste. The
entryway was a kind of ballroom, which gave way to a curved staircase, a
replica of one in the Palace of Versailles. The living room wasn’t a kind of
ballroom; it was a ballroom, with $80,000 worth of gold on the ceiling. The
bedrooms were the size of giant living rooms. The changing rooms and closets
and bathrooms were the size of bedrooms. There were two of everything that the
rest of the world has one of: two dining rooms, two full kitchens, two half
kitchens. Ten bathrooms and seven bedrooms.

I didn’t ask the price—I was renting—so I didn’t know that the last time it
changed hands it had sold for close to $7 million, and was now valued at $10
million. I imagined how it would feel to live in such a place. What it
wouldn’t feel like, clearly, was anything close to being in the other houses
in which I’d lived.

Upper middle class: That’s how I’ve always thought of myself. Upper middle
class is the class into which I was born, the class to which I was always told
I belonged, and the class with which, until this moment, I’d never had a
problem. Upper middle class is a sneaky designation, however. It’s a way of
saying “I’m well-off” without having to say “I’m rich,” even if, by most
standards, you are. Upper-middle-classness has allowed me to feel like I’m not
only competing in the same financial league as most Americans—I’m winning!
Playing in the middle class, I have enjoyed huge success.

In this house, I now glimpsed the problem with upper-middle-classness: It
isn’t really a class. It’s a space between classes. The space may once have
been bridgeable, but lately it’s become a chasm. Middle-class people fantasize
about travel upgrades; upper-class people can’t imagine life without a jet.
Middle-class people help their children with their homework so they’ll have a
chance of getting into Princeton; upper-class people buy Princeton a new
building. Middle-class people have homes; upper-class people have monuments. A
man struggling to hold on to the illusion that he is upper middle class has
become like a character in a cartoon earthquake: He looks down and sees his
feet being dragged ever farther apart by a quickly widening fissure. His legs
stretch, then splay, and finally he plunges into the abyss.

This house, and everything it represents, stands on the more appealing side of
the chasm. “It’s perfect,” I said.

Every few days, I googled the house and stared at it. Then a funny thing
happened: It began to shrink. Sure it’s big, I told myself, but houses come
bigger. The White House, for instance. I told my wife and children only that
I’d found a house with a swimming pool and enough bathrooms for everyone to
have his or her own. Which is to say, they really had no idea what they were
getting into. How could they? It didn’t occur to them that not only would they
have their own bathrooms, they’d need to decide before dinner which of the two
dining rooms to eat in—and afterward, which of the three dishwashers to not
put their dishes in. To believe it, and to grasp its full upper-class
implications, they’d need to see it.

On the day we move in, we’re all stuffed together, Beverly Hillbillies- style,
in a rented, dirty, gold Hyundai Sonata. For fun, as I drive up and down St.
Charles Avenue, I ask them to guess which of these improbably large houses is
ours.

“That one?”

“No.”

“That one!”

The exercise turns giddy. Each house is bigger than the last. The girls squeal
in the backseat and press their noses against the windows, while their mother,
in the front, does her best to remain calm. We pass in front of the mansion
and they look right past it. The thing takes up an entire city block, and
somehow they can’t see it. It’s too implausible. It’s not a home. It’s a mint.

We circle around the block and approach from the rear, the Sonata rolling up
the long driveway and coming to a stop beneath the grand stone porte cochere.
“This is our new house?” asks Quinn, age eight.

“This is our new house,” I say.

She begins to hyperventilate.

“Omigodomigodomigod!”

My small children plunge from the rental car into the driveway. They leap up
and down as if they’ve just won an N.B.A. championship. By the time we get
inside, they’re gasping. They sprint off to inspect their new home.

“There’s another floor!”

“Daddy! There’s an elevator!”

My children love me. They have a house with an elevator.

In all the public finger-pointing about the American real estate bust,
surprisingly little attention has been paid to its origin. There’s obviously a
long list of people and ideas that can share in the blame: ratings agencies,
mortgage brokers, big Wall Street firms, small Wall Street firms, Angelo
Mozilo, Alan Greenspan. Every few weeks, the New York Times runs a piece
exposing some new way in which a big Wall Street firm has exploited some poor
or middle-class family. The rich people on Wall Street blame their bosses. The
brokers at [Merrill
Lynch](http://web.archive.org/web/20160506040433/http://www.portfolio.com/resources/company-
profiles/190) blame Stan O’Neal; the traders at [Bear
Stearns](http://web.archive.org/web/20160506040433/http://www.portfolio.com/resources/company-
profiles/432366) blame Jimmy Cayne. Everyone blames Countrywide. But all of
this misses the point: However terrible the sins of the financial markets,
they’re merely a reflection of a cultural predisposition. To blame the people
who lent the money for the real estate boom is like blaming the crack dealers
for creating addicts.

Americans feel a deep urge to live in houses that are bigger than they can
afford. This desire cuts so cleanly through the population that it touches
just about everyone. It’s the acceptable lust.

Consider, for example, the Garcias. On May 30, the _New York Times_ ran a
story about a couple, Lilia and Jesus Garcia, who were behind on their
mortgage payments and in danger of losing their homes. The Garcias had a
perfectly nice house near Stockton, California, that they bought in 2003 for
160 grand. Given their joint income of $65,000, they could afford to borrow
about $160,000 against a home. But then, in 2006, they stumbled upon their
dream house. The new property was in Linden, California, and, judging from its
picture, had distinctly mansionlike qualities. Its price, $535,000, was a
stretch.

Then, of course, the market turned. The Garcias failed to make their mortgage
payments and couldn’t sell their original house. They owed the bank about
$700,000 and were facing eviction. The mistake supposedly illustrated by the
Garcias’ predicament was that they held on to their former home in Stockton as
an investment. The moral: Americans are in their current bind because too many
of them saw houses as moneymaking opportunities.

But the real moral is that when a middle-class couple buys a house they can’t
afford, defaults on their mortgage, and then sits down to explain it to a
reporter from the _New York Times,_ they can be confident that he will
overlook the reason for their financial distress: the peculiar willingness of
Americans to risk it all for a house above their station. People who buy
something they cannot afford usually hear a little voice warning them away or
prodding them to feel guilty. But when the item in question is a house, all
the signals in American life conspire to drown out the little voice. The tax
code tells people like the Garcias that while their interest payments are now
gargantuan relative to their income, they’re deductible. Their friends tell
them how impressed they are—and they mean it. Their family tells them that
while theirs is indeed a big house, they have worked hard, and Americans who
work hard deserve to own a dream house. Their kids love them for it.

Across America, some version of this drama has become a social norm. As of
this spring, one in 11 mortgages was either past due—like Ed McMahon’s $4.8
million jumbo loan on his property—or in foreclosure, like Evander Holyfield’s
$10 million Georgia estate. It’s no good pretending that Americans didn’t know
they couldn’t afford such properties, or that they were seduced into believing
they could afford them by mendacious mortgage brokers or Wall Street traders.
If they hadn’t lusted after the bigger house, they never would have met the
mortgage brokers in the first place. The money-lending business didn’t create
the American desire for unaffordable housing. It simply facilitated it.

It’s this desire we must understand. More than any other possession, houses
are what people use to say, “Look how well I’m doing!” Given the financial
anxieties and indignities suffered by the American middle class, it’s hardly
surprising that a lower-middle-class child who grows up in a small house feels
a burning need to acquire a bigger one. The wonder is how an upper-middle-
class child who grew up in a big and perfectly enviable house is inexorably
drawn to a mansion.

When you move into a house you cannot afford, the first thing you notice is
everything that you suddenly need—things that, before you arrived, you didn’t
even want. The dressing room was a microcosm of our mansion’s ability to
instruct. It wasn’t a closet, but a room as big as the master bedroom we’d
left behind in California. Even after my wife had stored her countless pairs
of shoes, there was more than enough space for all of my stuff. Three weeks
later, I noticed a door near the master-bedroom suite that I hadn’t seen
before; it was like a magical door that someone had carved into the wall while
I slept. What could it be? I opened it to find…another huge dressing room!
Inside, I could have fit every stitch of clothing I owned, three times over.
It seemed weird to just leave it empty, but I didn’t have anything left to put
in it, so I closed the door and pretended the room wasn’t there. But the
thought occurred: Maybe I need more clothes.

The pool was another example. Because we moved in during the winter, we didn’t
pay that much attention to it at first. Had we bothered to dip our fingers in,
we’d have discovered that it was not merely heated but was saltwater. It was a
full six weeks before we really even ­noticed the pool house. Full bathroom,
full kitchen, shiny new Viking range, and a fridge stuffed with 24 bottles of
champagne. For a few weeks I felt that all of this was excessive. Then one day
I became aware of the inconvenience of having to walk, dripping wet, from the
pool back into the main house. This is what you need a pool house for—so you
can make the transition from water to dry land without the trouble of walking
the whole 15 yards back into the house and climbing a long flight of stairs to
the giant dressing room. From that moment on, it seemed to me terribly
inconvenient to not have a pool house. How on earth did people with pools, but
no special house adjacent to them, cope?

The problems posed by the mansion were different from the problems posed by
most other houses. How to locate loved ones, for instance. There’s been no
room inside any home I’d ever lived in from which, if I yelled at the top of
my lungs, I couldn’t be heard in every other room. The mansion required a new
approach to human communications. Standing inside the mansion and screaming at
the top of your lungs, you knew for certain that your voice wasn’t reaching at
least half the house. If you wanted to find someone, you could run around the
house, but that took ages and presupposed that the other person was not
similarly wandering in the void. A trek up the Himalayan staircases quickly
became the subject of an elaborate cost-benefit analysis. How badly do I
really want to find my six-year-old daughter? How much does my one-year-old
son’s diaper really need to be changed? After a while, it seemed only natural
to my wife to begin with the assumption that her husband could not be found.
Even when she knew for a fact that I was somewhere in the house, she’d begin
her search with a phone call. She’d call my cell when I was two flights up and
she’d call my cell when I was a room away. One afternoon she called my cell 20
minutes after I had come home with our three children and had gone looking for
her to take them off my hands.

“Where are you?” she asked.

“I’m in the house taking care of the kids,” I said, a little indignantly.

“Well, you can’t be watching them very closely,” she said, “because I’m in the
house taking care of the kids.”

Even though you couldn’t find anybody, all sorts of people could find you.
People stumbled into other people’s spaces and terrified them. The house was
so vast that the sound waves that normally precede the arrival of a living
creature got lost. And so while there was, in theory, a great deal of privacy,
there was, in practice, none. The mansion came with a gardener, a pool man, a
caretaker, and a housekeeper. Any one of these people might turn up anyplace,
anytime. The housekeeper, a sweet woman, came twice a week. She developed a
habit of turning up over my right shoulder without warning and, as I stared
helplessly at my computer screen, booming, “How’s that book of yours coming
along??!!!”

“Ah!” I’d yell, and leap out of my chair.

“Always writing, writing, writing!” she’d say with a laugh. (Writing in the
mansion never ceased to be inherently comical.)

Money was another problem. It was suddenly going out faster than it was coming
in. When I’d finally gotten around to asking the real estate agent what the
mansion cost to rent, she’d said—in the most offhand tone, as if it were the
least important thing about the house—“I’ll have to see, but I think it’s
around 13.” Thirteen. The extra digits are just assumed. One reason is that no
one can bring themselves to actually utter the sentence: “Your rent will be
$13,000 a month.”

Thirteen thousand dollars a month is not the rent I was raised to pay. When I
let it slip to my mother what I’d be paying, she just said, “Oh, Michael,” in
exactly the same tone she’d have used if I’d informed her that I’d just run
over the neighbor with a truck or been diagnosed with pancreatic cancer.
Thirteen thousand dollars a month might be a record rent in New Orleans, but
it was really just the ante.

We’d been there only three weeks when the first bills arrived. Utilities were
$2,700. That turned out not to include water, which was another $1,000. Think
of it: $1,000 a month for water you don’t drink. (The drinking water came in
truckloads from a spring-water company.) How did we use so much water? you
might reasonably ask. The answer is, we didn’t. The mansion did. The pool, the
fountains, the sprinklers that came on in the wee hours to keep the great lawn
lush and green—all were suddenly necessary. So, it turned out, was cable, at
$800 a month. Who was I to argue? I wasn’t even entirely sure how many
televisions we had. Nine, at least. I thought I’d found the last of them when,
two months after we’d arrived, I opened a cabinet and found another.

Walking into the mansion after school one day, my younger daughter, Dixie,
asked, “Daddy, what’s a Daddy Warbucks?” She’d caught a ride with a new
friend’s babysitter, who didn’t know where we lived. Instead of giving the
babysitter directions, the friend’s mother had just said, “They live in the
Daddy Warbucks house.”

The first request for money came exactly 11 days after we arrived. A former
schoolmate was calling on behalf of our high school; its fundraising
department had somehow learned that I’d not only moved back to town but had
moved into the mansion. My old school friend had a number in mind, somewhere
between $25,000 and $100,000. Two days later, we had another old friend to
dinner and—in hopes that she’d spread the word—I spoke of my amazement that
anyone thought we could fork over 100 grand on a whim. “It’s funny you should
say that,” she said. She’d just spoken with the director of a New Orleans
museum, who had also heard we’d moved into the mansion. “He’s trying to figure
out the best way to approach you,” she said.

We’d become an engineering problem.

Late one night the doorbell rings. There on our great stone porch is a man,
obviously down on his luck, doing his best to appear subservient.

“I was just wondering if you have anything,” he asks.

“Have anything?” I ask back.

“Some work that might be done, you know.”

It’s a feudal exchange right out of the 11th century. Vassal calling on lord
with the mutual understanding that lord owes vassal employment. The only thing
missing is the offer of a freshly slaughtered rabbit.

A couple of months into our stay, we all sit in the formal dining room, under
the gilded ceiling and the crystal chandelier, eating packaged tortellini off
paper plates. We are Cuban peasants in late 1959 who have just moved into a
Havana mansion on the heels of the rich owner, who has fled in terror from the
revolution. Dixie, then five, blurts out, “I hate it when people say, ‘Oh, I
love your house,’ because then I have to say, ‘It’s not my house.’ ” To which
Quinn adds, “Yeah, I hate it when people say, ‘You must be rich.’ ”

This was new. My children had taken to their new splendor like ducks to water.
They’d see the St. Charles streetcar rolling past, and the tourists gawking
and pointing at their new house, and their first reaction was not to cringe
but to perform. They’d throw on their most princesslike dresses and run out
front and dance around the malfunctioning marble fountain, pissing water in
all the wrong directions, and wave to the commoners. One morning, as Quinn
descended the staircases, overdressed for school, she announced, “I need to
look good. I’m the girl who lives in the mansion.”

But after a few months, the charm of pretending to be something they know they
are not is wearing off.

There’s a moment in the life of every American child when it dawns on him or
her that the divvying up of material spoils is neither arbitrary nor a matter
of personal choice, that money is a tool used by grownups to order and rank
themselves, and that the easiest way to establish those rankings is through
their houses. At first, everyone’s house appears more or less the same; at any
rate, you don’t spend much time dwelling on the differences. But then, one
day, someone’s house is either so much humbler or so much grander than
anything you’ve ever seen that you realize: A house is not just a house. It’s
one of the tools people use to rank me.

Children are basically communists. Seeing other children’s material
prosperity, they follow their first instinct, which isn’t to understand it or
stew about it. It’s to ask for some of it—to get invited to the mansion. As
far as I knew, my children had never given much thought to what their house
said about them and their place in the world. They’d been friends with rich
kids and poor kids, without dwelling on the differences. That had just
changed.

I resist the urge to explain how their misery might be good training for
grown-up American life; how we are, quite obviously, a nation of financial
imposters, poised to seize the first opportunity to live in houses we cannot
afford; and how, if they want to fit in, they’ll need to learn to handle the
stress. They will have to learn these important lessons for themselves.

Instead, I turn my attention to survival. The mansion was not satisfied with
making us uneasy. It wanted us out. It preferred us to leave quietly, without
a fuss. But if we didn’t, it was prepared to get violent.

The first inkling of this came one lazy Sunday afternoon. I was fathering my
one-year-old son by teaching him how best to watch an N.B.A. game—which is to
say, in high-def with surround sound. Our bliss was disrupted by the cry of a
small child. It was muted, as if someone were calling out from inside the
walls. It was from inside the walls. Our girls, with their 10-year-old cousin,
were trapped inside the elevator, which had mysteriously jolted to a stop. I
tried to yank the metal gate off its hinges to get into the shaft, but failed.
It wouldn’t have mattered anyway, as they were between floors. For a good 20
minutes, I grunted and groaned and sweated and pretended that this wasn’t
anything I couldn’t handle. Then I called the caretaker, who gave me the
number of the man who had made the elevator work in the first place. By some
miracle, he was around and willing to drive the 20 miles from his home to ours
on a Sunday. Two hours later, the girls, sobbing melodramatically, were
sprung. The elevator man turned to me and said, “I’m surprised you let them in
there.”

“Why?”

“She didn’t tell you about the cat?”

No one told me about the cat that had been riding up in the elevator with its
billionaire owner. As they ascended, the cat had jumped out of the owner’s
arms and stuck its head out of the metal gate. Its head had been chopped off.

I shut down the elevator.

A few days later, the phone rang. “We want to let you know that we received a
message from the equipment-supervision device on your control panel,” said the
voice on the other end of the line. The what on the what? The mansion, I
learned, was equipped with tiny cameras that enabled it, in effect, to watch
its inhabitants. One of these, apparently, had malfunctioned. I went into the
basement, found the video-control panel, and yanked out as many plugs as I
could find.

The next afternoon, the house felt chilly. I hunted down the many thermostats
and turned them back up, from the 68 degrees to which they’d somehow
plummeted, to 72. The house ignored the request; no matter what I did, it
remained at exactly 68 degrees. My skin became the world’s most sensitive
thermometer, an expert on the state of being 69 degrees, because the moment
the house would reach that temperature, all hell would break loose—one, then
another, and then a third of the massive air-conditioning units that sat
outside would begin to purr. Every now and again, I’d feel a brief tingle of
warmth, a premonition of climate change, but that moment was always followed
by the roar of engines and a correction.

The day after I tried to change the mansion’s temperature, early in the
morning, the alarm went off. Then the phone rang: It was the alarm company,
wanting to know our password. I gave it to them.

“I’m sorry, we don’t have that as a password,” said the lady on the other end
of the phone, and then, as I begged and pleaded (“No, please, no! Let me try
again!”), she quickly hung up.

Moments later, two squad cars with lights flashing sped into our driveway.
Four police officers leapt out and banged on the front door. The mansion had
phoned the cops at exactly the ­moment I appeared most shockingly arrestable:
wearing only underpants and a T-shirt, hair sticking up in six different
directions, and without a trace of evidence that I belonged there. I grabbed
Dixie (“Daddy, I don’t want to go! What if they arrest me too?”) and pulled
her close to me, as a kind of human shield.

“Sir, we’re responding to an alarm signal.”

“It was obviously a mistake. Sorry to trouble you.”

Silence.

“We’re just renting the place.”

The police drove away, more slowly than they’d arrived. But obviously they
weren’t the problem. The house had a mind of its own, like one of those old
horses you find at dude ranches. You begin with the assumption that you are in
control of the beast. Then you try to guide it as much as two feet off the
assigned path, and it resists and takes control of the steering. You are left
feeling ashamed of whatever cowboy pretense you had to begin with.

I investigated the history of our property. It was built in 1912 by an
entrepreneur named E.V. Benjamin, whose son, raised in the mansion, became
eccentric enough for a small group of interested residents of New Orleans to
create a gathering called the Benjamin Club, whose sole purpose was to swap
stories about him. The house then moved into the hands of another very rich
man, J. Edgar Monroe, who had made the bulk of his fortune from taking over
the Canal Bank. When the bank was closed by the federal government during the
Great Depression, he had himself appointed the bank’s liquidator, repaid its
shareholders, and then bought up a huge chunk of the leftover shares for
pennies.

Monroe went on to buy not only this house but also Rosecliffe, the Newport
mansion used in the filming of _The Great Gatsby_. He was famous for telling
anyone who would listen how much money he had given away to charity. After he
donated a music building to Loyola University New Orleans, he insisted that
the school mount a plaque on one of its walls with an inscription he wrote:

J. Edgar Monroe has donated to ­construction of this building $1,000,000.00
(one million) in cash. my secretary has strongly urged me to make a plaque of
this donation so that the students of the music school and the public will
know of this gift. father carter, president of loyola university, acknowledged
receipt of four $250,000.00 checks, or $1,000,000.00. mr. monroe has given
over one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000.00) to organized charity of
which the largest share was given to loyola university.

When Monroe’s wife, Louise, died in 1989, the old man wrote her obituary. It
opened with a paragraph or two about the deceased, but then quickly moved on
to detail her husband’s incredible generosity. “Mr. Monroe is still living and
is 92 years of age,” he wrote. “He has been very generous and has given over
one hundred million dollars to organized charity...” and so on. He too died in
the house a few years later.

Until the mid-1990s, the house had been owned by men who could comfortably
afford it. They didn’t need the house to prove how rich they were; everyone
knew how rich they were. The moment the house became troubled was the moment
someone who couldn’t afford it moved in—a man who was using it to slake his
own thirst for status. He was a lawyer.

Lawyers are upper middle class. But this lawyer grabbed the saddle horn of
magnificence and hung on for dear life—until the day in 2004 when he was
bucked off. There in the dust he lay, exposed—in the New Orleans Times-
Picayune—for defrauding his law partners. His firm defended big companies from
class-action suits. To make the kind of money he needed to live in this house,
the poor guy had resorted to allegedly cutting secret deals with plaintiffs’
lawyers. He reportedly gave up his law license to avoid being formally
charged.

The mansion made him do it: That’s what I thought when I heard the story. As
sordid as his behavior was, I’m incapable of feeling toward him anything but
sympathy. He wanted this mansion, he bought this mansion, and then he
discovered that the mansion owned him.

The next owner was a woman. She’d grown up middle class in New Orleans, and in
her youth had driven past the mansion and fantasized about owning it. Then
she’d married an oil-and-gas billionaire who gave her the house as a surprise
for her birthday.

The billionaire’s wife proceeded to spare no expense in redoing it exactly as
she wanted. She spent $250,000 on gold to touch up the gilt fringe of the
moldings and the ceiling medallions. I spoke with the interior decorator she
hired. It was this man who grasped the inappropriateness of a mere lawyer
owning this house. “They tried to shrink it,” he said to me one day. “They
painted the walls taupe; they had canopies over the beds to make a room within
the room. They tried to make it homey.” The billionaire’s wife succeeded in
undoing that. The taupe returned to white, the canopies fell, and the gilding
on the ceiling soon gleamed like new. Several million dollars later, she had
the mansion looking as she wanted it to look, which was more or less like
Versailles. Luckily for her, birthday presents are not community property,
because by the time she was finished touching up the house, her husband was
divesting himself of her. No matter what the settlement came to, the property
belonged to her outright. But she was not happy.

And neither was her mansion. When we moved in, she’d been trying to sell it
for the $10 million or so she had put into it. Characteristically, the house
was refusing to give her the money back. It resented people trying to sell it,
just as it was beginning to resent people who can’t afford it.

Now it was expressing that resentment. It committed an act which, for a New
Orleans house in summer, is tantamount to eviction. All by itself, with the
temperature outside rising into the low 90s, it shut down its air-
conditioning. I do not mean that any of its 11 air-conditioning units broke. A
broken unit can be repaired. The repairmen came and went, shaking their heads.
There was nothing they could see that was wrong with even one of the mansion’s
massive air compressors. The problem was deep inside the walls, perhaps in the
wiring. The ballroom, interestingly, was still 68 degrees, but the bedrooms
were now 83. The house not only had microclimates, but also a unifying theme.
The grand public spaces continued to be pleasant and comfortable, as if the
mansion, in chasing us out, had no interest in sullying its public reputation.
Only its putatively private spaces—bedrooms, bathrooms—were uninhabitable.
Amazingly, it could be 83 degrees and humid in one room and 68 and dry in
another—on the same floor. For the first time inside a house, it occurred to
me that it might rain.

And so we fled, back to where we’d come from: the upper middle class.
Obviously this presents new problems. Even as my children grew weary of
pretending they were richer than they are, they became accustomed to living as
the rich do. On the way back to California, my wife drove Quinn, who’d just
turned nine, across the Southwest and then up the coast. They came to Hearst
Castle and stopped to take the guided tour. A few minutes into it, as they
stood in one of William Randolph Hearst’s many bedrooms, the guide asked if
anyone had a question. My child raised her hand. The guide smiled indulgently
and called on her.

“Why,” Quinn asked, “is it so small?”
