title: Veteran critic Alan Sepinwall on how peak TV has changed television criticism | Vox
source: https://www.vox.com/2017/6/21/15845598/alan-sepinwall-interview-podcast
date: 2025-08-13T17:13:08.066263
tags: []
---
Over the course of a 20-plus-year career covering television — a career that
began with _NYPD Blue_ write-ups in his University of Pennsylvania dorm room
and is still going strong — one of the most crucial things [Alan
Sepinwall](http://uproxx.com/sepinwall/) has learned is how ephemeral both
great TV and television criticism can be. The rise of prestige TV especially
has led to a change in how he sees his role as a writer.

“Now because of peak TV, there are just so many shows that the thing I hear
most from people is just, ‘Help me, I don’t know what to watch.’ One of the
reasons I’ve taken a step back from recapping more things is because I want
more time to watch more things so I can function as some kind of a gatekeeper
for the people who say they need that,” Sepinwall tells Vox critic at large
Todd VanDerWerff on the [latest
episode](https://cms.megaphone.fm/channel/ithinkyoureinteresting) of
VanDerWerff’s podcast, [_I Think You’re
Interesting_](https://cms.megaphone.fm/channel/ithinkyoureinteresting).

In addition to working as the TV critic at Uproxx, Sepinwall has been adding
to his print bibliography. He wrote [_TV (The Book): Two Experts Pick the
Greatest American Shows of All Time_](https://www.amazon.com/TV-Book-Experts-
Greatest-American-ebook/dp/B01A5VQUJS/) with Matt Zoller Seitz, which was
published in September 2016, and he has [_Breaking Bad 101: The Complete
Critical Companion_](https://www.amazon.com/Breaking-Bad-101-Complete-
Companion-ebook/dp/B06XQ2PYTP/) coming later this year. The latter is a
compilation of his episode recaps written for the New Jersey Star-Ledger and
HitFix, along with interview snippets from conversations with series creator
Vince Gilligan and star Bryan Cranston.

Sepinwall says he felt the need to majorly overhaul many of the recaps for
_Breaking Bad 101_ , including those for the first season and the show’s
finale; he estimates the recaps were just about 50-50 in terms of needing to
be changed versus going into the book intact.

“Some of them I didn’t want to touch; I looked at them and it was like, ‘This
is perfect, I don’t need to do anything with that.’ And then there are a lot
of others where it was like, this is my reaction from Sunday night or whenever
I had just watched the screener and turned around and wrote the recap, and
that’s how I was feeling then. I didn’t know what was coming in the next
episode; it was a lot of breathless speculation,” Sepinwall explains. “The
book is still designed to be read as you watch [the episodes]; someone who has
never seen the show before could buy the book and read each recap as they
watch the series and be okay with it.”

 _TV: The Book_ , which Sepinwall co-wrote, came out in January. Grand Central

Though he’s been through peaks and valleys since he began covering the
industry full time for the Star-Ledger back in 1996, Sepinwall says this
current era of “peak TV” has had a profound effect on both his work and the
way the medium is perceived by the public.

“I never run out of things to write about. There were definitely times when I
had a newspaper column in the late ’90s and early 2000s where I was like, ‘I
don’t know what I’m covering today. I don’t know what I’m covering this week,
this month.’ Now there’s never a lack of things to do,” Sepinwall says. “When
I started doing this and I would tell people what I did for a living they
would say, ‘Oh, really, do you write about movies too?’ And I would say no,
and they would seem disappointed and like they felt sorry for me. Now I say I
write about TV and they instantly list off six or seven shows that they love
that they want to talk about, or they want to know the next big thing they
should be seeing.”

One of the major changes Sepinwall has noticed over his career is the rise of
the season-long narrative arc as opposed to the more traditional, episodic
manner of storytelling. He cites many Netflix originals as well as shows like
_Game of Thrones_ as being influential in pushing this shift, and says he
prefers episodes that focus on a single location as opposed to taking the tour
guide approach and boomeranging the audience around Westeros.

Sepinwall is also tepid on the current trend of TV revivals, saying that
_Terriers_ is maybe the only one he would wholeheartedly support, even though
it would follow in the lukewarm footsteps of the _Full House_ and _Gilmore
Girls_ returns.

“TV is alchemy. Shows are made at a certain moment in the lives of the people
making them, of the characters on the show, and of the audience watching it.
If you change any of those things, let alone all three of them, something is
going to be off,” he says.

Still, Sepinwall is highly enthused about the state of television, and has
plenty to share on the evolution of his career, what kinds of shows he’d like
to see make a return, and whom he’d want to see siting on the Iron Throne. You
can hear about all that and more in the [full
episode](https://art19.com/shows/i-think-youre-
interesting/episodes/2613595a-bf83-44e9-9397-223c14ebfa2a), so download today!
(And don’t forget to rate, review, and subscribe on the podcast app of your
choice.)

_To hear more interviews with fascinating people from the world of arts and
culture — from powerful showrunners to web series creators to documentary
filmmakers —_[ _check out the_ I Think You’re Interesting
_archives_](http://www.vox.com/i-think-youre-interesting) _._
