title: Cranking | 43 Folders
source: http://www.43folders.com/2011/04/22/cranking
date: 2025-08-13T20:53:42.443175
tags: []
---
## 1.

Nothing wrecks your living room decor quite like a giant, rented hospital bed.

The one my Dad laid in for a couple months in the fall of 1974 was an
alarmingly stiff and sturdy affair, the frame of which was forged of
impossibly heavy iron, with half a dozen jaggy coats of putty-flesh latex
paint doing a shit job of concealing the dings and dents kissed by dozens of
clutches of burly rental guys trying to navigate unaccommodating residential
doors.

Jammed cattywampus between a teddy-bear brown sectional, an antiqued rococo
credenza, and what had until recently been my Father's favorite armchair, the
hospital bed left little room for easy socializing, let alone aesthetic
speculation. This was a living room where a very ill person would mostly die
soon.

The hospital bed's defining feature was the theoretical ease with which the
human trunk slumped in its top half could be raised or lowered by turning a
shitty little crank at the foot of its lower half. Like the bed itself, the
shitty little crank was ugly and obtrusive and hard to live with. Mom and I
tripped over the crank a lot.

The theoretically useful but ultimately shitty little crank made the hospital
bed look like those old-timey cars we'd see in the bad silent movies they
showed down at Shakey's Pizza.

Mom and Dad _despised_ the saltines-and-ketchup style of pizza served at
Shakey's. To them, LaRosa's over on Cheviot had way better pizza plus a pretty
good jukebox. But, I _really_ liked Shakey's. They gave away cool styrofoam
boater hats with a red paper band that said, "Shakey's Pizza Parlor." Which I
thought looked smashing. So, they used to take me to Shakey's.

In practice, the hospital bed's shitty little crank functioned mostly as a
recalcitrant and pinch-inducing mechanism for eroding my father's dignity.

Dad would lay in the hospital bed that filled our living room while my Mom
slowly cranked. He'd try to make jokes. (Dad had always been the funniest
person any of his friends knew.) The hospital bed creaked. Mom cranked. Dad's
tired upper half would haltingly rise and bob with reluctant help from the
bed's upper half. Mom sweated at the crank. Dad laid there and watched. Dad
couldn't help. He watched. He was in the hospital bed. Mom did all the
cranking. Dad watched. He watched while his wife turned a shitty little iron
crank, trying impotently to make her best friend just a tiny bit more
comfortable as his body worked to finally finish eating itself. But, he
couldn't help out. I think he wanted to help out. But, he couldn't help out.

She couldn't really help my Dad. My Dad couldn't really help her. But they
sure tried.

She cranked and cranked.

I was seven. I didn't know how to help anyone.

## 2.

The last time I saw my Dad, he was in a different hospital bed. That one was a
much more functional and aesthetically appropriate unit neatly fitted into an
overlit semi-private room in the highly-regarded Jewish Hospital located on E.
Galbraith Road. We weren't Jewish. We were just sick.

Frankly, I forget what the crank on the second hospital bed looked like, but I
seem to recall that it worked just fine.

This was maybe a week before my Dad died.

From what I can gather, he and my Mom had wanted to time things so that I
could be with him as long and as late as possible--but not so late that I'd
have to see him in the kind of condition I have to assume he was in during the
full week he was too ill for his boy to visit him. Pretty bad condition, I'm
guessing.

In the almost forty years since Dad's last week in any hospital bed, my Mom
and I haven't talked much about it. If there are things to say about that
week, I'm not sure even forty years is long enough to prep for them. I know
I'm still not ready. I should ask my Mom if she's ready. She was forty then.
Just under half her life ago.

What I do know is my Mom lived by that second hospital bed most every minute
of Dad's last week. Just like she'd been by the first hospital bed in her
living room for the months before. Only now _she_ was the one sleeping on the
wrong bed. There are limits to the physical comforts you can offer a woman
who's determined to stay by her husband's second hospital bed until it's time.

But she _was_ there that whole time. Up to the last time my sweet Dad ever
said anything to anyone.

As he laid in that second hospital bed, I'm told that the last thing my Dad
said to anyone was something he said to my Mom. He told my Mom:

> Take care of The Big Guy.

That was me. I was "The Big Guy." My Dad always called me "Big Guy," and I
always loved when he said that. It made me feel strong. It made me feel tall.
It made me know that my Dad and I were best pals.

I still love knowing I was my Dad's best pal.

## 3.

I don't specifically remember the day our particular clutch of burly rental
guys came out to remove the first hospital bed from our living room. I do
remember thinking it was weird how quickly the space filled with huge floral
arrangements, covered dishes and casseroles, and a pack of outdoorsy men with
giant red hands who were new to sobbing inconsolably in front of each other.

But, that hospital bed had been heavy. Really heavy. And even though the bed's
wheels had been thoughtfully nested in plastic casters, the raw tonnage of the
iron motherfucker left permanent dents in our ugly, broccoli-green carpeting.
Six breadplate-sized dents that were still there a year and a half later on
the day my Mom and I moved out.

We didn't need a house that big for just the two of us. Plus, the living room
wasn't much fun to hang out in any more.

Way too big. Way too big.

## 4.

I don't currently have a hospital bed. I have a modest but very comfortable
regular bed in a regular bedroom where I sleep with my regular wife. She's my
favorite part of the bed.

To my knowledge, our modest but very comfortable bed is not fitted with a
shitty little crank. Which is nice for everyone.

And, every single morning at almost exactly 6:00 AM Pacific Time, my three-
year-old daughter wakes up, jumps out of her crank-free, regular, big-girl
bed, tears out of her regular bedroom, and--even before she gets her hot milk
or takes off her pull-up or tells us to turn on _Toy Story 2_ \--she dashes
into our regular bedroom, runs up to our regular non-hospital bed, and
screams, "**DAD-dy! DAD-dy! DAD-dy!** " until I wake up and say, "G'mornin',
Sweet Bug! Did you have nice sleeps?"

Sometimes she tells me whether or not she had nice sleeps. Often as not
lately, she tells me to make her hot milk and turn on _Toy Story 2_. Both of
which I'm totally fine with.

Thing is, she screams "**DAD-dy!** " like the most impossibly great thing in
the world has just happened. Every single morning. Right by my bed. Without a
crank in sight.

And, you know what? Something impossibly great _has_ happened.

Because an annoying, rambling, disagreeable little man like me gets to have
this alarm clock in piggy-patterned footie jammies run up to a regular, crank-
less, healthy-Dad, non-hospital bed and make him feel like he's _The Greatest
Thing in the Universe_.

Just like I think she's The Greatest Thing in the Universe.

Just like I thought _my_ Dad was The Greatest Thing in the Universe.

And, although I'm confident that I will _always_ think my daughter is The
Greatest Thing in the Universe, I'm also all too aware that this feeling will
not always be reciprocated in quite that same way or with quite that same
enthusiasm that we both enjoy right now.

She won't always run to my bed in footie jammies.

I'll only get that particularly noisy and personalized wake-up call for a
little while. And, I only get a shot at it once a day. At almost exactly 6:00
AM Pacific Time.

Then one day? I won't get it any more. It will be gone.

## 5.

Many mornings over the past six months or so, at almost exactly 6:00 AM
Pacific Time, I was not in my regular bed. I was not even at home. I was
sitting in another building, typing bullshit that I hoped would please my book
editor. Who, by the way, is _awesome_.

And, if I noticed what time it was, I'd always wonder whether my daughter had
run into our bedroom yet.

I'd wonder whether she had seen my side of the bed empty again. And, when I
thought about my empty spot on the bed and how disappointed she'd be to scream
"**DAD-dy! DAD-dy! DAD-dy!** " then see I'm not even there, I'd die a little.

I'd die a little, because as I thought about her, I'd think about _my_ Dad.
And as I thought about my Dad, I'd start thinking about hospital beds with
cranks--then on to dents, and covered dishes, and rooms full of sobbing
outdoorsy guys, and so on.

But, by then it might be 6:10 am Pacific Time. And I didn't have time to think
about my family. Not now, right? No, I had to keep working. I had to stay in
that other building and keep typing bullshit that I hoped would please my
editor. Who is awesome.

So, I'd type and type. I'd crank and crank. I'd try and try. I'd want _very
much_ to go home, make hot milk, and watch _Toy Story 2_. So much, I'd want
this.

## 6.

Anyhow, this has been my on-and-off job for the past two years. I type. And, I
try to type things that will help and comfort people, but mostly I try to type
things that will please my editor. Who is awesome.

Sometimes I do my job at 6:00 AM Pacific Time. Sometimes I do my job at 5:30
PM or 11:30 AM or really any time in between. Sometimes I do my job while my
family goes to birthday parties and holiday dinners and a couple vacations and
I don't even know how many (non-Shakey's) pizza nights--all without me.
_Without Dad._

In fact, a depressing amount of the time--really up until this week--I would
do my job until I hadn't the slightest idea what time it was or what bullshit
I was typing or what my crank was ever meant to be attached to in the first
place.

But, even when my shitty little crank was not attached to anything, I did keep
cranking. Because, Dads do their job. It's what they _do_.

They crank. They crank and crank and crank and crank.

Sometimes the cranking made something special that will be really useful to
people who badly need the comfort and help. But, a staggering amount of the
time, my cranking has produced joyless and unemotional bullshit that couldn't
comfort, help, or _please_ anyone. Especially my editor. Who is awesome.
There's no point in doing anything if it doesn't eventually please my editor.
Who is awesome.

This has _constantly_ hung over my head. For two fucking years.

But, this has been my job. It's a job I often did late. It's a job I often did
poorly. And, it's a job where I often didn't pull my load or live up to even
my own expectations and standards. Which is far from my editor's fault.

She's been awesome.

## 7.

Anyhow, I've tried to do my job. But, I've often failed.

I've sometimes failed to make things that will help and comfort people. And,
God knows I've failed to please my editor.

And, worst of all, more often than my heart can bear at 2:34 pm Pacific Time
on Friday April 22nd, I know I've failed to be home for several of my daily
shot at "**DAD-dy! DAD-dy! DAD-dy!** "

It's now become unavoidably clear to me that I've been doing each of these
things poorly. The job, the making, the pleasing, and, yeah, the being at
home. And I can't live with that for another day. So, I've chosen which one
has to go. At least in the way it's worked to date. Which is to say _not_
working.

I'll let you guess which.

Because, _that_? That choosing? That's what my book needs to be about. Not
about pleasing people. Not about cranking on bullshit. Not about abandoning
your priorities to write about priorities.

My book needs to be about choosing a hard thing and then living with it.
Because it's _your thing_.

But, that part's gone missing for just a little too long now. Certainly not
missing from my handsome and very practical rhetoric--it's been missing from
my actual life and _living_. In a quest to make something that has
increasingly not felt like my own, I've unintentionally ignored my own counsel
to never let your hard work fuck up the good things. Including those regular
people. Including, ironically, the real work. Including any good thing the
crank is supposed to be attached to.

So, I'm done fucking that up. I'm done cranking. And, I'm ready to make a
change.

I'm not sure precisely what that change will look like, but, at the risk of
invoking Godwin's Law, I have a pretty good idea that this particular
performance of "Edelweiss" you're enjoying right now may immediately be
followed by a dramatic chase, a hopeful escape attempt, and only if I'm
extremely lucky, maybe an eventual stride over the Alps.

As I'll explain in a minute, it most likely means I don't have My Book
Contract any more.

Who knows? We'll have to see.

## 8.

All I know is tonight's Friday. And, that's Daddy-Daughter Night.

And, my book agent says my editor (who is awesome) will probably cancel My
Book Contract if I don't send her _something_ that pleases her…today. Now. By
tonight. Theoretically, I guess...uh..._this_.

See: my agent very helpfully suggested I send my editor a chapter full of
"email stuff." My editor _really_ likes "email stuff." And, it was theorized
by my agent that sending this "email stuff" might please my book editor just
enough that she might not cancel My Book Contract. For now.

Well. If you've made it this far, you, like my editor (who is awesome), will
have realized that this is not a chapter of "email stuff."

It's a very long, wooly, histrionic, _messy_ and uncomfortable story about
hospital beds, piggy jammies, and styrofoam hats. I seriously doubt it will
please my editor. Who is awesome.

So, no, I really hope she doesn't cancel My Book Contract. But, it does occur
to me that said contract is the last and only thing my publisher has to
intimidate me into doing things I don't want to do. Things I think will harm
my book, my integrity, and my life.

Once that threat is made good, the game ends. They can sue me and yell and
stuff. Which would suck, but at least no one would be demanding my book have
fucking [pussy willows on the
cover](http://www.kungfugrippe.com/post/4767165831/where-the-fuck-do-i-begin).
Which, as I sit here, feels more and more unbearable to me.

In any case, I don't control anything that anyone does. It took a long time
for me to really get that.

It's such a funny thing. Threats--like hurricanes and rectal exams--are only
scary until they arrive. Once they're over, they're just the basis for funny
stories. But, you do nearly always survive them. And, if you didn't survive?
It wasn't because of a lack of fear. Like I say, [the universe doesn't
particularly care](http://www.43folders.com/2011/03/28/scared-shitless)
whether you're scared.

Oh, well. I like my editor. She's awesome. I hope she doesn't cancel My Book
Contract. I hope we keep working together.

But if it goes away today, tomorrow or further on? Well. As a favorite
novelist of mine used to say: "_So it goes._ "

I'll figure this out tomorrow. Or Monday. Or later. Tonight is Daddy-Daughter
Night. And, no fucking way am I missing two in a row.

## 9.

Now, as far as My Goddamned Book? Truthfully? Wanna hear the _really_
complicated part?

This is not me quitting the book. No fucking way. This is me doubling down on
the book--on _my_ book.

I will finish _my_ book very soon. Not because of (or in spite of) any
contract, and not because of (or in spite of) any editor, and certainly not
because of (or in spite of) any tacit demand for empty cranking.

I will finish _my_ book because _I_ want to finish it. Because it is very,
very important to _me_ to finish it.

But, again, let's be clear-- what I finish will be _my book_. And, it will be
done _my way_. And, yes--you [Back to Work](http://5by5.tv/b2w/12) fans knew
[this one was coming](http://5by5.tv/afterdark/16)\--my book will have [_my_
cover that _I_ choose](http://www.kungfugrippe.com/post/4767165831/where-the-
fuck-do-i-begin). It will not have fucking pussy willows or desert islands or
third-rate kerning. It will be, to quote my editor (who is awesome),
"[_messy_](http://cl.ly/3i2d0a122E3F1c1o3J1w)."

My book will help and comfort the people that _I_ want to reach. And, yes,
much like my editor, my book will be _awesome_.

I truly hope _my_ book pleases her.

## 10.

So, there you have it. An article that's clearly not a chapter of "email
stuff."

Me? I'm off to prep for "Daddy-Daughter Night."

And, tomorrow morning, unlike last Saturday morning and countless other days
before it, at the crack of 6:00 am Pacific Time, I will be available in my
regular crankless bed to ask my daughter whether she had nice sleeps. And I
will tell her and my regular wife that I think they're the Greatest Things in
the Universe.

And, maybe after I make hot milk and watch Woody worry about cowboy camp, I
may even think to myself about how proud my funny Dad would be of his pal, The
Big Guy. For doing what needed to be done. To be someone special's Dad for as
often and as long as he can. Just like he did. Even when it gets hard.

Even when it gets really hard.

\-- 30 --

* * *

_Thanks for listening, nerds. You'll hear more when I hear more._
