title: America, the diminished | Vox
source: https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2017/7/3/15910508/america-the-diminished
date: 2025-08-13T17:12:25.546739
tags: []
---
At the Washington Examiner, Byron York
[argues](http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/byron-york-the-price-of-fighting-
with-trump/article/2627643) that those who fight Donald Trump on Donald
Trump’s terms end up diminished. Trump sprays insults with abandon, mocking
everything from his critics’ intelligence to their popularity to their ethics
to their plastic surgery, but those who engage with the president of the
United States on his own level make themselves look smaller and meaner, and
they are never able to go as low for as long as Trump.

“Of course one could say that Trump is at fault,” York writes. Yes, one could.
York doesn’t so much reject that possibility as rule it out as a category
error. Unlike most people, whose behavior is bounded by shame and thus
amenable to criticism, Trump is truly shameless, and thus criticizing his
behavior is useless. “Trump is Trump,” York writes. “He does what he does.”

York has a point. Trump takes such glee in conflict, and cares so little for
standards of decency or compassion, that his assailants often diminish
themselves by betraying their own values out of desperation. But this isn’t
just true of Trump’s assailants. It is true of all of us. To consistently
engage with Trump is to be diminished by him. And we have all been diminished
by his presidency.

We are diminished when our president lies, and even more so when we begin
taking his habitual lying for granted. The New York Times published [a
comprehensive
list](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/06/23/opinion/trumps-lies.html)
of falsehoods Trump told since taking office and found it wasn’t until March
that Trump went a full day without saying something flatly untrue. The absence
of public dishonesty, for Trump, is usually driven by an absence of
opportunity to be publicly dishonest. “On days without an untrue statement, he
is often absent from Twitter, vacationing at Mar-a-Lago in Florida, or busy
golfing,” the Times found.

We are diminished when our president uses cyberbullying as a communications
strategy, spending his mornings picking childish fights on Twitter and coming
up with insulting nicknames for his enemies. It is impossible to imagine the
firestorm that would have followed Barack Obama or Bill Clinton mocking a
television anchor’s plastic surgery. But in this White House, press officers
[justify](/policy-and-politics/2017/6/29/15893510/trump-morning-joe-tweets-
trump-wont-be-bullied) the president’s insults by saying he “fights fire with
fire.” The president is teaching our children that bullies win so long as they
never, ever back down.

We are diminished when our president spends his time and energy — and thus the
nation’s time and energy — on the wrong issues. At Axios, Mike Allen
[notes](https://www.axios.com/what-trump-is-tweeting-2452522661.html) Trump
has tweeted the words “opioid” or “opioids” just once — but “loser” 234 times,
and “dumb” or “dummy” 222 times. Political capital is finite, and our future
is harmed when it is squandered.

We are diminished when the president knows nothing about the issues he faces,
and does not try to learn more. It is embarrassing that the president’s
staffers have taken to [writing his name as often as
possible](http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-trip-idUSKCN18D0C7) in
briefing documents for fear that he will lose interest otherwise, that they
[fill his press clips](http://www.politico.com/story/2017/02/trump-twitter-
staffer-235263) with sycophantic praise in an effort to distract him from
Twitter, that they fight to appear on _Fox & Friends _because they know he
takes advice from the television better than from his own advisers. We have a
president who was not humble enough to realize [health
care](http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/27/politics/trump-health-care-
complicated/index.html) and [North Korea](/2017/4/12/15279654/trump-north-
korea-xi-10-minutes) are complex problems, and who has not responded to that
realization by seriously studying the issues.

We are diminished when our political leaders excuse or ignore behavior they
know is wrong. On [_Face the Nation_](http://www.cbsnews.com/news/face-the-
nation-july-2-2017-transcript-mike-lee-holly-williams-notebook-summer-reads-
panel/) Sunday, Sen. Mike Lee of Utah, a conservative Republican who just
wrote a book about the Founding Fathers, was asked to evaluate Trump’s
behavior “based on your view of the standards the founders set for virtue.”
Lee took a hard pass. “It’s not going to do any good for me or anyone else to
come in and just comment on things we might not like about his Twitter
behavior,” he said.

Lee’s position has become standard fare for Republican politicians who are
appalled by their president but wary of criticizing him daily. Thus, the party
that tried to impeach Bill Clinton to protect family values has embraced the
position that it does no good to publicly discuss the president’s routine
violations of basic decency. Unable to defend the president’s behavior,
Republicans have decided the only viable path forward is to declare him exempt
from moral judgment.

We are diminished when the people who need America’s mercy and protection most
are harmed in service of lies and bigotry. The refugees the president has
sought to bar from our shores have never attacked this country, and are in
desperate need of its help. The immigrants the president has called rapists
and murders commit crimes at a lower rate than native-born citizens — they are
overwhelmingly here to feed their families, not terrorize anyone else’s. The
men, women, and children who will lose health insurance under the legislation
the president has endorsed are the same people he promised to help.

We are diminished when the rest of the world comes to doubt our leadership and
reliability. A [Pew poll](http://www.pewglobal.org/2017/06/26/u-s-image-
suffers-as-publics-around-world-question-trumps-leadership/) of 37 countries
ranging from Sweden to India to Brazil to Ghana shows attitudes toward the
United States have collapsed since Trump took office. At the end of Obama’s
presidency, 64 percent of people in these countries said they were confident
in the US president. Today, that has fallen to 22 percent. Opinions of America
overall have fallen by 15 points. The chancellor of Germany
[warned](/world/2017/6/1/15713074/trump-merkel-europe-nato) that Europe could
no longer depend on the US.

We are diminished when our president has little respect for the institutions
and norms that have protected our country. Trump has done his best to sow
doubt about the legitimacy of America’s electoral system, of its civil
servants, of its courts, and of its media. He has created an enemies list to
explain away his failures and misdeeds — in his telling, he is beset by “so-
called judges,” the deep state, illegal voters, and fake news.

He routinely praises authoritarian rulers abroad while dismissing and
undermining democratic results at home. He fired the director of the FBI to
squash a troublesome investigation and then bragged about it on television.
His demands for loyalty pledges, and his resistance to the idea that political
appointees serve the country rather than him, have rendered the US government
[untrustworthy](/policy-and-politics/2017/6/8/15762642/comey-testimony-trump-
hearing).

A list like this can go on. It is a measure of our diminishment how much is
left off it — how many outrages and disappointments have already faded from
memory. Six months into his term, Trump’s policy achievements are few and
thin, but he has coarsened our politics, shown the power of shamelessness,
undermined our faith in each other and ourselves, modeled behavior we would
punish children for exhibiting, and implicated all of us in the running fiasco
of his presidency. He has diminished the country he promised to make great.
