title: How to make the most of Spotify playlists | The Verge
source: http://www.theverge.com/2016/10/18/13306136/spotify-playlists-tips-tricks-discover-weekly-new-releases
date: 2025-08-13T17:49:19.904176
tags: []
---
A playlist is one of the best gifts you can give yourself.

Playlists — where emotions lurk in every shadow and the mysterious alchemy of
memory is constantly bubbling and brewing! Playlists — where you can cut the
filler tracks and go all killer, all the time. Playlists — not only [remind
you of your past selves](http://jezebel.com/how-i-changed-my-mind-about-bob-
dylan-1785914944) but existential roadmaps to your future self.

The secret to best consuming music, I believe, is the playlist, formerly known
as the mixtape, and before that known as “all the songs dad knows how to play
on the harpsichord.” But if you’re like me, playlists are a bit messy,
clogging up your Spotify like a mysterious clump of dog hair in your shower
drain. How did they get here? And how can I clean this up?

Here are some tips for assembling, organizing, and better enjoying playlists
on Spotify.

Playlists are helpful for organizing songs, but what happens when you have so
many playlists, you need to organize them? Folders, of course.

You can start the folder process by right-clicking any pre-existing playlist
and selecting “Create Folder.” From there, fill the folder up by dragging and
dropping playlists onto the folder.

I find sorting my playlists by seasons to be very helpful, mainly because,
like many people, seasons are the way I organize musical memories in my brain.

Seasonal folders are useful for when you’re living in one season, but feeling
another. For example, right now it is October, but I’m in a winter mood due to
the utter heinousness of this fall. Thanks to my winter playlist folder, it’s
been easy to find and listen to a lot of Cat Power and moody covers of “Have
Yourself a Merry Little Christmas,” while really chilling the heck out. Don’t
let anybody tell you when you can and can’t listen to Christmas music.

If you’re someone for whom memory is less of a constant, persistent pain that
you need to revisit with your listening habits, you might want to sort your
playlists by genre or tone.

## **Recover playlists that you deleted by accident, in a fit of rage, or as
an act of self-disgust**

On your Account page, there’s a handy little option to Recover playlists that
you’ve deleted. It’s unclear how far back the recovery option goes, but I can
still see playlists that I deleted in May.

I restored a playlist today just for kicks. I’m very happy to have 37 Jack’s
Mannequin bonus tracks back in my library.

Why would you do this? Sometimes we delete playlists because they remind us of
people or moments we’d rather forget. But like banishing every photo of an ex
from Facebook and Instagram, there may come a time down the line when you
regret throwing out the memory baby with the bad boyfriend bathwater.

(I really had far too many slightly different Rilo Kiley playlists!)

## **Think of Discover Weekly as Re-discover Weekly**

I’m not sure where the whole “Discover Weekly is incredible” myth got started.
Maybe by the sponsored tweets that are now cropping up in subway ads, maybe by
my co-workers who won’t stop talking about it and who have praised it [on this
website](http://www.theverge.com/2015/9/30/9416579/spotify-discover-weekly-
online-music-curation-interview) and into my ear day after day.

Discover Weekly isn’t bad. It’s just a little boring, because its algorithms
serve you music that sounds like the stuff you already like. In fact, that may
be its most useful application. Discover Weekly, by virtue of knowing what
you’ve already enjoyed on Spotify, often recommends music you’ve enjoyed
elsewhere, like on the radio, or at some impossibly trendy boutique, or off
your parents vinyl collection which they unloaded on you when they
consolidated to a smaller home when you left for college.

Discover Weekly: the place where you hear Fleetwood Mac’s _Tusk_ for the first
time in a decade, and think, “Hey, this is still the best.”

Release Radar and New Music Friday are the only Spotify-curated playlists that
bring me a deep and pure joy. They’re _thrilling_. You can find them in the
New Releases section of Spotify’s Browse tab, and between the two, you’ll get
a nice mix of new music from artists you care about and from artists you
don’t, but may or may not feel socially obligated to. It’s the best way to
stay on top of things, and it’s how I accidentally became addicted to a Nick
Jonas song called “Bacon,” which [is or isn’t a sex thing and I still don’t
know!](http://www.theverge.com/2016/6/3/11850586/nick-jonas-bacon-song-ban-
men)

The genre-specific “Early Bets” playlists that Spotify curates, located in the
same area, that can also be useful if you’re looking for the “new thing” in
indie pop or R&B.

## **Import all of your long-forgotten Shazam finds**

All those songs that briefly piqued your interest at the club or in a Forever
21 still live in your Shazam account, and you can [bring them home to
Spotify.](http://www.theverge.com/2015/3/19/8252763/shazam-playlist-spotify-
iphone-death-to-my-apps) The resulting playlist is like a brief, fragmented
history of moments in your life that were boring enough to warrant pulling out
your smartphone and opening Shazam.

In the settings of your Shazam app, just select “Connect to Spotify.” Shazam
should automatically make you a Shazam-only playlist, which will help you take
a trip down memory lane and hang out in the overcrowded high school carpools
of yesteryear for an afternoon.

## **20 remixes of a song you love is a fine workout playlist**

An underrated feature of most streaming services is the absolute glut of
remixes of popular songs. [Spotify has become known as a
haven](http://www.theverge.com/2015/9/8/9260675/spotify-cover-songs-taylor-
swift-adele) for these largely because it doesn’t host album exclusives and
therefore often lags on getting the rights to big releases. To fill the gap:
bizarre remixes and covers. They’re great for jogging until your stomach falls
out your butt! All you have to do to get started is hit the search bar with
“Can’t Help Falling in Love cover.” (That playlist will be for crying, not
jogging.)

## **Make playlists for your dad if you can’t afford to buy him a birthday
present**

Use Song Radio, not Spotify’s designated Genre playlists. That way, if you
know your dad loves Bruce Springsteen, and you _want_ him to love Frank Ocean,
you can play a fun game of six degrees of separation (or 12, and you might
have to fudge it a little bit. It’s still a fun exercise!) and thereby
manipulate him into getting there. Just go to a track you know your dad
already likes, click the three white dots all the way to the right, and select
“Go to Song Radio” to see a bunch of related tracks.

Here’s an example playlist I just made for my dad, Jim:

Don’t forget to add a mission statement for your playlist in the description
box, and design some custom artwork!

## **Last but not least: import all of your old iTunes playlists**

Now might not feel like the time to step back into your 19-year-old headspace,
but that’s fine. It might be the time later, and you’re going to want to be
ready. (File -> Import Playlists -> iTunes.)

[](/2016/10/18/13306136/spotify-playlists-tips-tricks-discover-weekly-new-
releases#comments)

**Follow topics and authors** from this story to see more like this in your
personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates.

  * Kaitlyn Tiffany
  * Entertainment

  * How to

  * Music

  * Reviews

  * Spotify

  * Tech

  * TL;DR
