title: At the University of Chicago, Football and Higher Education Mix - The New York Times
source: http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/17/sports/ncaafootball/at-the-university-of-chicago-football-and-higher-education-mix.html?ref=sports&pagewanted=print
date: 2025-08-13T20:34:11.242353
tags: []
---
Last year, when the squad won the University Athletic Association
championship, the clinching victory merited only 187 words in the hometown
Chicago Sun-Times and none in The Chicago Tribune.

Of course, the Maroons of the University of Chicago no longer play Illinois,
Wisconsin and Minnesota, as they did when they won seven conference titles in
what later became the Big Ten. Nor do they play Michigan, the team they beat
to win the national championship in 1905.

These days, Chicago’s main rivals are other large urban universities that
exist at the forefront of scholarly research and in the backwaters of
football: Carnegie Mellon in Pittsburgh, Case Western in Cleveland and
Washington University in St. Louis.

On a recent hot and drizzly Saturday night, the Maroons won their home opener
against Beloit College, 44-25. School was not yet in session but a crowd of
about 1,400 was enthusiastically, if moistly, observing. No band played, no
cheerleaders cheered, no mascot turned somersaults.

John W. Boyer, the dean of the college, was not at the game, but in a
subsequent interview he praised the football program, not necessarily for the
team’s play but for its appropriate niche within the university. He called it
an important student activity, likening football to debating.

He said proudly, “We have a nice and proper team.”

**A Sport Dismissed**

The University of Chicago was founded in 1890. John D. Rockefeller, in his
wisdom and with his money, was its great patron, endowing an elite university
in the centerpiece city of the American prairie. To get things going, 10 major
buildings were hastily erected and renowned scholars were promptly assembled.

Prominence in the public eye, of course, was not something so speedily to be
achieved, and for that the university’s first president, William Rainey
Harper, looked to a solution that would one day be the temptation of lots of
up-and-coming colleges: big-time football.
