title: " The 50 Greatest College Basketball Players of All Time
source: http://www.grantland.com/story/_/id/7185970/the-50-greatest-college-basketball-players-all-time?view=print
date: 2025-08-13T20:26:52.600644
tags: []
---
I‘m not going to argue that the difference between college basketball and pro
basketball is exactly like the difference between enrolling in college and
working a real job. That would be an exaggeration. I’m tempted to try, because
it would make the introduction to this column much easier. But I don’t believe
those things are exactly the same, and I’m not going to pretend otherwise.
However, I do believe they have (at least) two things in common, and these two
things are imperative. I think that — in both scenarios — the collegiate
experience amplifies how important life feels, which means the emotional
memory matters more than the technical details. I also think a big part of
fondly remembering college — and, by extension, the sensation of loving
college basketball — is related to the notion of selective nostalgia: In both
instances, you spend a lot of time half-remembering noteworthy people you only
knew in passing, and the hazy impermanence of those relationships somehow
makes them more retrospectively satisfying.

[This is a complicated way of justifying my composition of a list.]

What follows is a ranking of the 50 greatest college basketball players of all
time. This is not a list of the 50 most talented college basketball players of
all time, or the 50 who had the biggest impact on the sport. These are the 50
players who inhabit our collective memory as “awesome college guys.” They’re
the transient people who make college basketball a little more pleasurable
than its professional counterpart, a phenomenon that’s often due to their
disjointed combination of temporary excellence with timeless imperfection.
They are, for lack of a better term, the reason college basketball is
_different._

My ranking criteria is as follows:

  * **Talent.** This is the most important quality. However — and I cannot stress this enough — it’s not the _only_ quality. It’s 50 percent of the equation, and sometimes less.
  * **The individual’s college career must be more meaningful than his pro career.** This doesn’t mean the player had to be a professional bust, or even a professional disappointment — the candidate could be still be the league MVP, win multiple Larry O’Brien trophies, and spend his summers playing Clue in Billy Hunter’s boathouse with Hubie Brown. It does not require anyone to be a terrible NBA product. However, the peak of the player’s career needs to happen when they’re working for free (or at least _pretending_ to work for free). If an objective, informed fan hears this person’s name, they should reflexively associate that individual’s greatness with the idiom of college basketball. That’s the key — any theoretical pro career is just something semi-irrelevant that happened later in life.
  * **Ideally, the player should possess an unorthodox game.** Are you an undersized two-guard with no conscience? Do your unnaturally long arms compensate for your lack of a natural position? Do your physical limitations give you a paradoxical advantage? Were you the “one man” on a “one-man team”? Are there no other players comparable to your rarified version of weirdness? If so, congratulations. These are the qualities that make you memorable.
  * **There needs to be something vaguely “collegiate” about the individual’s persona.** This, obviously, is an abstraction; ranking college players on how “collegiate” they seem is a little like ranking filmmakers on how “cinematic” they act. But there’s still something to this, even if it’s impossible to quantify: I like unfinished people. I like players who are still figuring out who they are. I like guys who wear sweaters instead of suits. You can disagree with the logic of my argument, but it’s not really based on logic, so your argument will fail.
  * **As with any historical list, my age is a bias.** I am 39. I’m aware that human nature causes us to (a) romanticize players we remember from childhood, (b) lionize people we’ve only read about, and (c) undervalue modern players who seem like lesser versions of people we’ve seen before.
  * **The dead are valued more than the living.** I’m simply being honest here: It helps to be dead. If I have to choose between a dead legend and a living legend, it’s never a difficult choice.

_The ball is tipped, and there you are …_

**50\. Alfredrick Hughes (Loyola University, 1981-1985):** There will never be
another Alfredrick Hughes, which is kind of like saying there will never be
another GG Allin. As a freshman, he once missed 20 consecutive shots vs.
Bradley. As a junior, he took 655 shots and finished the year with only 17
assists. He’s perhaps best remembered for a bootleg T-shirt that was popular
around campus that screamed, “SAVE LOYOLA BASKETBALL, SHOOT ALFREDRICK HUGHES.
” But the freak could always fill it up: 17.0 as a frosh, 25.7 as a sophomore,
27.6 as a junior, and 26.3 as a senior. Somewhere in Chicago, Alfredrick is
taking an ill-advised shot _right now._

**49\. David Rivers (Notre Dame, 1984-1988):** Ultra-quick and totally
unpredictable, Rivers was a point guard from a video game (and I mean a video
game from the ’80s, when nobody cared how realistic they were). When Al
McGuire used to announce Irish games on NBC, you could almost hear the saliva
dripping off his lips whenever Rivers broke somebody’s tibia. Of course, David
was never designed for the pro game, and he knew it. He knew it before anyone
else. Here’s what he said after getting cut by Minnesota Timberwolves coach
Bill Musselman: “I didn’t fit in. He wanted a guard who would run the offense,
pass the ball, and play defense. That’s not me at all.”

**48\. Gerry McNamara (Syracuse, 2002-2006):** There have been many players
better than Gerry McNamara. But how many humans ever _played_ better than
McNamara during the best week of his life? His four-game performance in the
~~2008~~ 2006 Big East tournament was more extraordinary than Billy Owens’
entire career.

**47\. Stacey Augmon (UNLV, 1987-1991):** Nobody ever terrorized the passing
lanes like the Plastic Man. Is it possible to be “laid-back” and “aggressive”
simultaneously? Somehow, that was Augmon’s natural state of existence.

**46\. Daren Queenan (Lehigh, 1984-1988):** “My body is my briefcase,” Queenan
once said cryptically, apparently meaning that his body is what he took to
work. A 6-foot-4 small forward, he ended his time at Lehigh with 2,703 points
and 1,013 rebounds. He eventually won the CBA slam dunk contest and became a
naturalized citizen of Belgium. If there’s ever a dunk contest in Bruges, I
would still put my bones on this dude.

**45\. Danny Ferry (Duke, 1985-1989):** He was at least as good at basketball
as Jay Bilas is at Twitter.

**44\. Reggie Williams (Virginia Military Institute, 2004-2007):** Here we
have the third-most famous athlete ever named “Reggie Williams” who played for
a team that never went .500 on the year. But he scored a metric ton (a 22.8
average over the course of 112 games), leading the nation as both a junior and
a senior.

**43\. Scott Skiles (Michigan State, 1982-1986):** “You know, there is no way
I would have Scott Skiles on this team,” Bob Knight told his Hoosier roster in
1986. “But Scott Skiles is tougher than every single one of you.” Scotty was
arrested three times during college (once for weed, once for cocaine
possession, and once for a DUI). He was a problem, but mostly for people who
tried to guard him and inevitably failed. It almost seemed like he
_vandalized_ opponents. His pro career was statistically relevant (he had 30
assists in one night for the Magic, which is still a record), but it’s his
hard-partying college days that matter more.

**42\. Michael Graham (Georgetown, 1983-1984):** The human incarnation of Hoya
intimidation.

**41\. Fennis Dembo (Wyoming, 1984-1988):** Undoubtedly the only Wyoming cager
who’ll ever be on the [cover of _Sports
Illustrated_](http://sportsillustrated.cnn.com/vault/cover/featured/9091/index.htm),
he probably would have been recruited by Kentucky had his name been Dennis
Fembo.

**40\. Eric “Sleepy” Floyd (Georgetown, 1978-1982):** When recalling the 1982
NCAA title game, people tend to mention two things — Michael Jordan’s clutch
jump shot from the left wing, and James Worthy intercepting a miscalculated
pass from Hoya point guard Fred Brown. Yet if Brown doesn’t turn it over,
Jordan’s jumper might be a footnote; everyone watching that game expected Mr.
Narcolepsy to score on that final possession. Never sleep on the Sleepy.

**39 and 38 (tie). Phil Ford (North Carolina, 1974-1978) and Walt Hazzard
(UCLA, 1962-1964):** Both represented the class of their respective programs
without drawing undue attention to themselves.

**37\. Chris Jackson (LSU, 1988-1990):** Before changing his name and being
unjustly persecuted for his political ideals, Jackson was a two-season Cajun
superstar (he averaged over 30 a night as a frosh). As a sophomore, he played
on an LSU team that had Shaquille O’Neal at center and 7-foot, 285-pound
Stanley Roberts at power forward. They went 12-6 in the SEC, somehow.

**36\. Adam Morrison (Gonzaga, 2003-2006):** He had the best Maui Invitational
ever, and a mustache that failed. What’s more collegiate than that?

**35\. Scott May (Indiana, 1973-1976):** The textbook example of a man
designed only for the college game. His kid might be similar. Both deserve
recognition.

**34\. Rex Chapman (Kentucky, 1986-1988):** I have a (possibly racist?) book
in my library that described King Rex like this: “Jumps like a brother, shoots
like your mother.” I suppose Chapman did have a lot of 7-for-18 games in his
life, but the seven he made were always worth it. He was clutch. I still have
a Rex Chapman T-shirt somewhere in my parents’ house. It never fit right.

**33\. Juan Dixon (Maryland, 1998-2002):** No matter what happens, I’ll always
consider Dixon a greater talent than Steve Blake. And I really like Steve
Blake; I just can’t understand how the things Dixon did at Maryland couldn’t
translate to the next level. And that makes me like him more.

**32\. Rick Mount (Purdue, 1966-1970):** The fact that people still refer to
Rick Mount as the [ultimate paragon of jump shot
purity](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GZ1IWogY2lo) is one of life’s most
wonderful mysteries.

**31\. Tom Gola (La Salle, 1952-1955):** Fellows from La Salle put up bongo
numbers. Gola had 2,201 career rebounds. Granted, they came during an era when
boards were easier to come by — but still — how does a guy end up with more
rebounds in three seasons than the number of points Patrick Ewing scored in
four?

**30\. Butch Lee (Marquette, 1974-1978):** The on-court star of Marquette’s
’77 championship was (until the ascent of Carmelo Anthony) generally viewed as
the best Puerto Rican hoopster of all time, although I don’t know how
important that designation is (or should be). He certainly had an excellent
name, particularly since his career ambition was to become a professional ball
player. I can’t imagine meeting someone named “Butch Lee” and thinking to
myself, “I bet this guy is a terrible athlete.”

**29 and 28. Phillip Hutcheson and John Pierce (Lipscomb, 1986-1990 and
1990-1994):** This is just bizarre: Hutcheson scored 4,106 points in his
career for the Bison, which — at the time of his graduation — was the most by
any player at any level (back then, Lipscomb was still an NAIA program). He
was then replaced by Pierce, who somehow finished his career with 4,230. So
the two greatest scorers in college history just happened to play at the same
tiny school, in immediate succession, for no justifiable reason.

**27\. Glenn Robinson (Purdue, 1991-1994):** Robinson hailed from Gary,
Indiana, a town so tough I’ll probably get murdered by Freddie Gibbs just for
making a joke about it. During the offseason, he (literally) worked as a
welder; during the real season, he (figuratively) swallowed chumps alive. The
best Big 10 player of the ’90s.

**26\. Dereck Whittenburg (North Carolina State, 1980-1983):** Our historical
record suggests that Whittenburg was the third or fourth-best player on
State’s ’83 championship roster; Thurl Bailey, Sidney Lowe, and Lorenzo
Charles all had better post-college playing careers. Yet this contradicts the
experience of everyone who watched the Wolfpack’s run that March and can only
remember the cherubic cat who kept ripping twine from 33 feet away.

[CONTINUE TO PART TWO](https://grantland.com/page/2/the-50-greatest-college-
basketball-players-all-time)

**25\. Jimmer Fredette (BYU, 2007-2011):** As a senior, Jimmer took 765 shots.
That’s about 235 fewer than he should have.

**24\. Mookie Blaylock (Oklahoma, 1987-1989):** The vortex of those stellar
late ’80s Oklahoma squads, Mookie was a defensive chupacabra, a better-than-
average shooter, Jeff Ament’s idol, and a gratuitous opportunity for me to
write about his coach and mentor, Billy Tubbs. People don’t remember how
hilarious Billy Tubbs was, often without even trying. Once, his wife accused
Tubbs of loving basketball more than he loved her. “But honey,” he replied, “I
love you more than track.”

**23\. Glen Rice (Michigan, 1985-1989):** You know, I have no idea if Rice
hooked up with Sarah Palin in 1987. But if he did, I’m happy for both of them.
Let’s assume the rumor is true: Why is this information remotely
controversial? They were both adults. They probably had a lot in common. They
were in Alaska. They were not in the town where _Footloose_ happened. What,
exactly, was the espoused atrocity here? At least she was interested in a
great player. It was probably the best decision she ever made.

**22\. Khalid El-Amin (UConn, 1997-2000):** Did you ever play intramural
basketball against a short, fat, confident kid who kept driving the paint and
effortlessly scoring over every clown who tried to stop him? And no matter how
hard you played him, he never seemed excited or intimidated or even
particularly interested? And then — when the game was finished, and everyone
else was exhausted — he casually decided to jump into some other random
intramural game and scored another 28 points in the exact same way? El-Amin
was the NCAA version of that unstoppable fat kid.

**21\. Wayman Tisdale (Oklahoma, 1982-1985):** The only smooth jazz bassist
who was ever a three-time All-American. Unstoppable on the block, and
seemingly always in a good mood. He died from cancer in 2009. Tragic.

**20\. Xavier McDaniel (Wichita State, 1981-1985):** Certainly a solid pro and
an okay grunge-era actor, but his ’85 season for Wichita State — 27.2 points,
14.8 rebounds — established him as the first-ever college player to lead the
nation in both categories.

**19\. Jerome Lane (Pittsburgh, 1985-1988):** [Send it in,
Jerome](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zk8EiJiWW9o).

**18\. Steve Alford (Indiana, 1983-1987):** He could have been no. 1 on this
list, if free throws were worth five points apiece and getting screamed at was
worth 25.

**17 and 16 (tie). Johnny Neumann (Ole Miss, 1972-1973) and Frank Selvy
(Furman, 1951-1954):** Only three guys have averaged 40 points a game for a
season. These are “the other two guys.” Neumann only played for his sophomore
season; he had bad acne, a worse attitude, and a Maravich-like style. He
jumped straight to the ABA and evaporated. Selvy scored 100 points in one game
against Newberry College, but it was kind of sketchy (his coach demanded that
everyone on the team made sure Selvy scored as much as possible). That said,
41-of-66 (and 18-of-22 from the line) is quite an evening, sketchy or no.

**15\. Austin Carr (Notre Dame, 1968-1971):** Sure, he had a fine pro career
with the Cavaliers, but he was the first big-time college scorer of the 1970s.
In the original draft of this story, I also argued that Carr was “the main
reason UCLA’s 88-game win streak ended.” This is not true, since Carr had
already graduated. But perhaps his memory provided motivation?

**14\. Danny Manning (Kansas, 1984-1988):** As a freshman, he seemed
overhyped. As it turns out, he was “accurately hyped.” The Jayhawks won the
national title when Manning was a senior, despite a mediocre 21-11 record
during the regular season; had he turned pro as a junior, they might have
missed the NIT.

**13\. Freeman Williams (Portland State, 1974-1978):** Akin to a more stable
World B. Free, the 6-foot-4 Williams averaged 30.9 as a sophomore, 38.8 as a
junior, and 35.9 as a senior. If implementing the 3-point goal had been Jimmy
Carter’s first directive as president, Freeman breaks the 40-point barrier
once (and maybe twice). In 1981, he dropped around 20 a night for the San
Diego Clippers, although few remember and fewer care.

**12\. J.J. Redick (Duke, 2002-2006):** Thousands of Americans despise Redick.
His crime? Playing for Duke and not missing enough jump shots. If you drain
22-footers so successfully _that it makes total strangers hate you,_ you’ve
done something right.

**11\. Hank Gathers (Loyola Marymount, 1987-1990):** The second man to lead
the nation in both scoring and boards, Gathers was a 6-foot-7 center who
outran everybody and adored offensive rebounding. He’s absolutely the greatest
player who ever died during an official game. Here again: Fucking tragic.

**10\. Tyler Hansbrough (North Carolina, 2005-2009):** Hansbrough was the
basketball equivalent to Tim Tebow, but he arrived a year earlier. He prepared
us for Tebow. He was the pre-Tebow. He was the Prebow.

**9\. Lionel Simmons (La Salle, 1986-1990):** The list of players who’ve
scored 2,000 points and snagged 1,000 rebounds is surprisingly long. The list
of players who scored _3,000_ points while snagging 1,000 rebounds is not. The
L-Train finished with 3,217 and 1,429. He’s the best player from the cable-TV
era who almost no one outside his hometown ever saw more than once.

**8\. Christian Laettner (Duke, 1988-1992):** Oddly, I’ve always felt Laettner
was slightly overrated as a collegiate and slightly underrated (and vastly
underutilized) as a pro. But the guy made [the most memorable shot of all
time](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gCb9FcHBIYE) and played in 23 NCAA
tournament games over a span of four years. At the time, the maximum number of
tournament games anyone could play in a given season was six. The math is not
complicated.

**7\. Len Bias (Maryland, 1982-1986):** Though the NBA potential of Bias
became a little overstated in the wake of his overdose (there were a lot of
busts in the ’86 draft and he might have been one of them), there’s no
disagreement over his dominance in the ACC. Everyone who played against him
seems to insist he was the best college athlete they ever faced, which is one
of the complimentary upsides to dying young.

**6\. Walter Berry (San Jacinto Junior College and St. John’s University,
1983-1986):** This 6-foot-8 southpaw was one of the only people to be the best
player on two separate collegiate levels — he had one of the greatest JUCO
seasons ever at Jacinto and was a Wooden Award winner for St. John’s. He also
had the craziest scoring attacks of the ’80s — he ignored his right hand
completely, whirled incessantly, and showed supreme disinterest in developing
anything as dull as a jump shot. He electrified every college game he played,
but — of course — was not designed for the orthodoxy of the NBA. Larry Brown
tried to unlock his insanity for the Spurs in 1988, and it did not take. “He’s
a fundamentally sound coach,” Berry told a reporter at the time, “and my game
does not consist of fundamentals.”

**5\. Ralph Sampson (Virginia, 1979-1983):** Absolutely the most skilled
7-foot-4 player of his (or any) generation, particularly if you like your 7-4
center to occasionally play shooting guard. A three-time Naismith player of
the year, Ralph was the best college basketball player I ever saw with my own
eyes, thus beginning my lifelong relationship with being wrong about things
I’m totally confident about.

**4\. David Thompson (North Carolina State, 1973-1975):** David Thompson
created Michael Jordan.

**3\. Bill Walton (UCLA, 1971-1974):** Deadheads in downtown Portland might
quibble with Walton’s inclusion on this list, but the man defined both the
hippie collegiate experience and the NCAA style of play. Judging from his own
statements, I’m relatively certain he’d sacrifice half his injury-plagued pro
career just to spend five more minutes in a bomb shelter with John Wooden.
Moreover, Walton had the greatest offensive performance anyone’s ever going to
see in a meaningful contest, hitting 21 of 22 against Memphis in the ’73 title
game.

**2\. Pete Maravich (LSU, 1967-1970):** The free thinker/lunatic who invented
my haircut averaged 44.2 a game during his three-season career; everyone who
follows basketball knows this, because there’s simply no corollary for that
kind of offensive production. It’s doubtful anyone will average 40 points
again, and there’s zero chance someone will do it three times in a row. But
here’s something even crazier: Maravich averaged 44.2 points per game while
shooting 43.8 percent from the field. _His career scoring average was higher
than his career shooting percentage._ Obviously, this is mathematically
possible, because it happened. But try to imagine a modern scenario where that
numeric contradiction occurs again. You will spend a long, long time staring
into the abyss. Sometimes it pays to play for your dad.

**1\. Lew Alcindor (UCLA, 1966-1969):** This, I cannot deny, is a form of
cheating that even Sam Gilbert would find egregious. Obviously, Alcindor
changed his name in 1971 and had a decent pro career; one could make the
argument that perceiving “Lew Alcindor” as a separate entity from “Kareem
Abdul-Jabbar” is essentially a question about the definition of _personhood._
But here’s the rub — I suspect Jabbar himself would argue that he is not the
same Catholic stickman who showed up at Westwood in 1965, and it was that pre-
Kareem who remains the most jaw-dropping college player to ever walk the
planet. The fact that UCLA won the national title during all three seasons
Alcindor played is merely the third-most interesting detail of his college
career; the fact that the NCAA outlawed dunking due to his dominance is
probably second. But to me, the thing that will always be most unfathomable
about Alcindor was his very first game, played when he was an ineligible
freshman: UCLA was coming off back-to-back national championships. As an
exhibition, the Bruin varsity — ranked no. 1 in the nation — opened the season
by scrimmaging the freshmen team. Alcindor had 31 points, 21 boards, and eight
blocks. The freshmen hammered the varsity by 15 points; the no. 1 team in the
country could not beat a player who could not yet play. As an ineligible
18-year-old, Alcindor was (at worst) the fourth or fifth-best basketball
player _in the world._ So I guess talent does matter, sometimes.
