title: How to Track a Human | The Art of Manliness
source: http://www.artofmanliness.com/2016/10/13/how-to-track-a-human/
date: 2025-08-13T17:50:18.717287
tags: []
---
![Man tracking human footprints on river bed
illustration.](https://content.artofmanliness.com/uploads/2016/10/Human-
Tracking-Header-1-e1476394591925.jpg)

ItГўВҖВҷs a common trope in classic Westerns. A posse is rounded up to find some
bad guys whoГўВҖВҷve headed out into the desert to hide. To help track them down,
they bring on an Indian scout. To the astonishment of the cowboys, the native
guide can determine how many people are in the bad guyГўВҖВҷs gang, how long ago
they camped at a particular spot, and that one of the ruffians is injured. It
almost seems like magic.

But itГўВҖВҷs not.

The scout was simply using a set of keen, field-developed senses, and
practicing good forensics.

A few years ago when I did the [ITS Tactical
Muster](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/its-tactical-muster-review/),
one of my favorite classes at the event was on human tracking, taught by
[professional combat tracker John Hurth](https://tyrgroupllc.com/). In just a
few short hours, John was able to show us how to know whatГўВҖВҷs going on with
someone on the lam and where he or she is headed simply by looking at their
footsteps or noticing a broken branch.

Why would you need to know how to track a human? YouГўВҖВҷll probably never have
to go on a manhunt for a fugitive, but itГўВҖВҷs a handy skill to have
nonetheless. Maybe your kid wanders away from your house, or you lose a buddy
in a remote wilderness area. Instead of wandering frantically and aimlessly,
calling their name, you can know how to search for them effectively and
efficiently.

Plus, once you know how to track a human, you can reverse engineer the process
as well; that is, youГўВҖВҷll better be able to make your own escape without
leaving a trail. You know, just in case you find yourself on an island, being
chased by a stalker playing [ГўВҖВңthe most dangerous
game.ГўВҖВқ](https://archive.org/stream/TheMostDangerousGame_129/danger.txt)

Below, we provide a primer on tracking humans. Keep in mind, to really learn
how to do this stuff, you need to practice it and practice it for years. But
with some dedication, you may eventually reach the level of tracking evinced
by the crack trackers in _Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid_ , of whom the
protagonists repeatedly said with exasperation, ГўВҖВң _Who are those guys_?ГўВҖВқ

###  _Develop Your Situational Awareness_

The most important attribute a tracker must develop is his situational
awareness. Without it, clues and signs that would lead him to his target go
unnoticed.

Situational awareness comes down to two things: 1) observing, and 2) correctly
interpreting your observations.

Learning how to become more observant takes time and dedication. It requires
changing your mindset, training your memory and senses, and daily practice in
truly noticing what you see. Fortunately, we have some fantastic guides on how
to do all of those things:

Once you sharpen your powers of observation, you next need to know how to
correctly interpret what you see, in order to reach correct conclusions about
whatГўВҖВҷs going on. To do that, you must broaden and deepen your mental models.

### _Broaden and Deepen Your Mental Models_

[Mental models](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/ooda-loop/) are simply
ways of looking at and understanding the world. These paradigms create our
expectations for how the world works вҖ” helping us grasp whatГўВҖВҷs happened
before, whatГўВҖВҷs happening now, and whatГўВҖВҷs likely to happen next.

For a tracker, the mental models he needs to broaden and deepen the most are
the ones that will better help him find his target. These fall into two main
categories: environment and psychology/habits.

### Environment

The most obvious subject a tracker needs to know inside and out is the
environment in which he is tracking. He needs to understand things like how
snow keeps a track changes depending on whether itГўВҖВҷs more wet or dry. He
needs to know that spiders usually spin their webs late in the evening (if
footprints are beneath an unbroken spider web, the tracker can assume that the
target passed the point earlier in the day). He needs to know about the fauna
and rocks in the area. He needs to know how the wind blows. He needs to know
the usual temperature of embers a certain number of hours after a campfire has
burned out.

He also needs to know how stuff ages in an environment. A skilled tracker can
look at objects or signs in his surroundings and roughly gauge how long ago
they were left there by his target. He knows how long it takes for paper to
start to brown or a plastic bottle to become discolored after being discarded
in a desert or forest. He should be able to look at a broken branch and, based
on the color of the exposed wood, roughly guess when it was broken. He even
knows what human feces look like 1, 2, 3 days after it was excreted by his
target. Developing these mental models will come with practice and time, but
one way to build them up before you need them is to make ГўВҖВңaging stands.ГўВҖВқ

**Aging Stands: The TrackerвҖҷs Experiment**

![Aging stand for learning human tracking techniques
illustration.](https://content.artofmanliness.com/uploads//2016/10/Aging-
Stand-1.jpg)

Aging stands are described by expert combat tracker John Hurth as ГўВҖВңscience
experimentsГўВҖВқ for trackers. You make a one-row grid on the ground out of
branches and place different objects into its squares. Ideally, each square
will be exposed partly to direct sunlight and partly to areas shaded and
protected by trees. In week one, you put items that you want to test in the
first square: footprints, paper, broken twigs, water bottles, and yes, even
poop. You want to make sure you have duplicate samples in the shaded and
unshaded part of the square.

Each day, visit your aging stand and take notes on how things have changed.
How have the exposed branches changed color? Has the paper started fading?
WhatГўВҖВҷs happened to the poop? Have the impressions of the footprints changed
over time?

The next week, move to the next square in the grid and put fresh samples of
the same items in it. Compare them to the samples in the first weekГўВҖВҷs
square. Take notes on differences. The next week put new samples in the third
square. Compare them to the first and second weekГўВҖВҷs squares. Over time,
youГўВҖВҷll get a rough idea of the aging progression undergone by both natural
and manufactured items.

YouГўВҖВҷll want to conduct aging stand experiments at different times of the
year вҖ” spring, summer, fall, and winter вҖ” to learn how seasonal variations in
humidity, temperature, and precipitation affect the aging process. ItГўВҖВҷs a
laborious exercise, but itГўВҖВҷs essential for creating the mental models you
need to successfully track someone.

### Human Psychology & Behavior**
**

A tracker needs to not only know whatГўВҖВҷs going on in the environment in which
heГўВҖВҷs following a target, but whatГўВҖВҷs going on in the targetГўВҖВҷs head as
well. He needs to develop mental models that deal with human behavior, and
this means having a robust knowledge of human psychology and sociology.
Knowing the mindset and cultural background of your target can help you know
how heГўВҖВҷll act and lead you to where he is. The famous scout [Frederick
Russell Burnham](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/podcast-203-the-real-
life-most-interesting-man-in-the-world/) had this to say about developing
these kinds of mental models:

> вҖңIt is imperative that a scout should know the history, tradition, religion,
> social customs, and superstitions of whatever country or people he is called
> on to work in or among. This is almost as necessary as to know the physical
> character of the country, its climate and products. Certain people will do
> certain things almost without fail. Certain other things, perfectly
> feasible, they will not do. There is no danger of knowing too much of the
> mental habits of an enemy. One should neither underestimate the enemy nor
> credit him with superhuman powers. Fear and courage are latent in every
> human being, though roused into activity by very diverse means.вҖқ

Besides general cultural and psychological mental models, you need to develop
mental models for your particular target. Does he like to eat certain foods?
Does he have any medical conditions? Does he smoke or bite his nails? Is he
familiar with the outdoors or is he a city dweller? Does he have any
particular fears or insecurities? Does he know anyone in the area?

Knowing this sort of information about your target will inform the way you
conduct your search and interpret the evidence you find in the field. For
example, if you know your target smokes, youГўВҖВҷll be on the lookout for
cigarette butts. If he has diabetes, and you come across a puddle of urine
that smells fruity, youГўВҖВҷll know youГўВҖВҷre on the right track.

### _Scan and Search: Taking in Your Environment_

Now that youГўВҖВҷre working on increasing your situational awareness by becoming
more observant and developing appropriate mental models (this is in fact an
exercise that should never end), itГўВҖВҷs time to start actually tracking.

When youГўВҖВҷre out tracking, youГўВҖВҷll be engaging in two visual modes: scan and
search.

### Scan

When you scan the landscape, the goal is to get a general, big-picture
overview of your surroundings. Keep an open focus. DonГўВҖВҷt have any particular
thing youГўВҖВҷre looking for, as that will cause ГўВҖВңtarget blindnessГўВҖВқ and
result in your missing other pieces of evidence. Visually sweep the area for
possible anomalies in your environment like tracks, litter, blood stains, etc.

Rather than scanning an area haphazardly, tracking experts [David Diaz and V.
L.
McCann](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00MJD6ZDC/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=B00MJD6ZDC&linkCode=as2&tag=stucosuccess&linkId=FSXA3GZUT5SFDAZ4)
recommend dividing it horizontally into thirds:

> ГўВҖВңImagine the territory in front of you is a two-dimensional canvas of a
> painted nature scene. The top boundary is the horizon; the bottom boundary
> is the ground in front of you. Now divide that canvas into three equal
> parts: the foreground, the mid-distance, and the far groundГўВҖВҰ
>
> In order to ГўВҖВҳseeГўВҖВҷ everything in such a vast area, it must be scanned
> systematically. With a horizontal movement of your eyes, sweep the
> foreground from left to right, right to left, and left to right, moving your
> line of vision up just enough to slightly overlap the area above the last
> sweep.ГўВҖВқ

In this way, you methodically work your way up to the far ground and ensure
that you donГўВҖВҷt miss anything вҖ” distant or near вҖ” lying before you.

### Search

Diaz and McCann describe searching as ГўВҖВңin-depth analysis of an area or
object.ГўВҖВқ You can begin searching at any point in the scanning process once
youГўВҖВҷve noticed an anomaly. Searching involves looking at the anomaly more
closely and recording it in your mind or notebook for later analysis.

Just because youГўВҖВҷve searched one anomaly, doesnГўВҖВҷt mean you should stop
your scan of the area. Keep scanning and looking for more anomalies that you
can more closely examine. As you continue your scan and search, take extra
caution to avoid contaminating signs that youГўВҖВҷve uncovered. Leave litter
where you found it, and donГўВҖВҷt walk on footprints. You want to leave things
in their original locations so you can put the pieces together and construct a
story based on the evidence found.

### Using Light for Scanning and Searching

![Man tracking humans using angle of sunlight to help
illustration.](https://content.artofmanliness.com/uploads//2016/10/Sun-1.jpg)

As you scan and search, use the light available to you to better locate
possible anomalies. For example, in the morning and evening, the sun casts
long shadows over impressions in the ground, bringing them into sharper
relief. To better see these shadows, position yourself so that the tracks
youГўВҖВҷre following are between you and the light source. This will require you
to change your position in relation to the tracks. Be mindful of not
contaminating them with your own prints as you do so.

Tracking at night is possible with the assistance of a light source [like a
flashlight](https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/flashlights-guide/).
YouГўВҖВҷll want to use a colored light like green or red to avoid disrupting
your night vision. (Side note: red used to be the preferred nighttime light
color, but many operators are switching to green because it allows them to see
objects more clearly without reducing night vision that much.)

![Using night vision to track someone in the
dark.](https://content.artofmanliness.com/uploads/2016/10/Signs-in-
Dark-1-e1476394673658.jpg)

When youГўВҖВҷre searching at night, if you look directly at the object youГўВҖВҷve
identified, youГўВҖВҷll likely stop seeing it. Looking directly at objects
requires you to use the cone area of the retina, and thatГўВҖВҷs not very active
during low-light settings. To make up for this deficiency, youГўВҖВҷll want to
use what Diaz and McCann call ГўВҖВңoff-center vision.ГўВҖВқ Instead of looking
directly at the object youГўВҖВҷve identified, youГўВҖВҷll want to look left, right,
above, and below it, pausing at times to verify the properties of the object.

### Know What To Look For

As you scan and search your environment, you want to be on the lookout for a
few indicators that will help you track your target. Hurth suggests being on
the lookout for the following visual indicators (I havenГўВҖВҷt included all of
them вҖ” [check out JohnГўВҖВҷs book for the complete, exhaustive
list](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00BJ8LQ64/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=B00BJ8LQ64&linkCode=as2&tag=stucosuccess&linkId=FSXA3GZUT5SFDAZ4)):

**Ground Indicators (on the ground)**

![How to track a person grass disturbed in straight line
illustration.](https://content.artofmanliness.com/uploads//2016/10/Grass-1.jpg)

  * Footprints
  * Vehicle tracks
  * Trampled grass
  * Boot and shoe scuffs
  * Turned over dead leaves
  * Disturbed grass or soil
  * Mud, soil, sand, and water transferred from footwear onto another medium

> **Track Traps: The Honey Pot of Ground Indicators**
>
> Hurth suggests being on the lookout for ГўВҖВңtrack traps.ГўВҖВқ These are areas
> on the ground that do an excellent job of capturing your targetГўВҖВҷs tracks.
> He calls them ГўВҖВңhoney potsГўВҖВқ because they leave so much information
> behind. Mud, sand, soft dirt, and snow are great examples of track traps.
> Bodies of water or oil spills can be track traps too. A target who steps in
> water or oil will likely leave footprints on the ground after stepping in
> the fluid.

**Aerial Indicators (above your ankle)**

![Broken spider web between two trees how to track a person
illustration.](https://content.artofmanliness.com/uploads//2016/10/Spider-
Web-1.jpg)

  * Broken cobwebs
  * Detached or missing leaves
  * Broken branches that point in the direction of the target
  * Scratches or scuffs on trees
  * Cut or broken vegetation
  * Tall grass or vegetation pushed down into an unnatural position
  * Clothing fabric in branches
  * Hair in branches

**Litter Indicators (objects discarded intentionally or unintentionally)**

  * Cigarette butts
  * Candy and food wrappers
  * Spent ammo casings
  * Used medical supplies
  * Gum/tobacco
  * Clothing

**Blood Indicators**

![Blood indicators what type of wound identification
illustration.](https://content.artofmanliness.com/uploads//2016/10/Blood-1.jpg)

Your target might be injured and consequently leaving blood stains. The color
of the blood stain can tell you a lot about the injury he or she has and how
long itГўВҖВҷs been since they left the blood stain there.

  * _Dark red drops of blood_. Indicates a venous wound. Non-life-threatening.
  * _Bright red streaks of blood_. Indicates a possible arterial wound. Life-threatening.
  * _Pink, frothy blood_. Indicates a possible wound to the lungs.
  * _Light red, foul-smelling blood_. Indicates a possible wound to the stomach.

Blood changes color over time as itГўВҖВҷs exposed to the elements. Initially,
blood spots will be brighter but will eventually fade to a brown or rust
color.

**Bodily Discharge Indicators**

Vomit, poop, pee, snot вҖ” these bodily discharges may not be pleasant to
contemplate, but they can not only help lead you in the direction of your
target, but also paint a picture of his current condition.

Vomit and poop can tell you what sort of food your targetГўВҖВҷs been eating. If
thereГўВҖВҷs a lot of liquid, clear vomit or you see diarrhea, thereГўВҖВҷs a chance
he could be dehydrated.

If you find a urine spot that has a very fragrant ammonia smell, the target is
likely dehydrated. If it has a fruity smell, thereГўВҖВҷs a chance heГўВҖВҷs
diabetic.

![How to track a person man's urine on the ground
illustration.](https://content.artofmanliness.com/uploads/2016/10/Likely-
Man-1.jpg)

Man peeing

![How to track a person woman's urine on the ground
illustration.](https://content.artofmanliness.com/uploads/2016/10/Likely-
Woman-1.jpg)

Woman peeing

The relation of a urine stainГўВҖВҷs position to a set of footprints can tell you
if it came from a man or a woman. If the urine stain is in front of the
footprints, probably a dude. If the stain is in the middle of the footprints
or near the heels, likely a lady who popped a squat to do her business.

**Audio and Olfactory Indicators**

As a tracker, you canГўВҖВҷt just rely on your sight to track down your target.
Sounds вҖ” heavy breathing, talking, crying, movement in brush, coughing, etc. вҖ”
can provide insights as to where your target is.

Smells can also provide useful clues. The smell of smoke can lead you to a
campfire where the target is currently or has been recently. If the targetГўВҖВҷs
been without a shower for a couple of days, he might also be giving off some
pungent body odor.

Bottom line: as you scan and search with your eyes, donГўВҖВҷt take your nose and
ears offline. They can provide useful information youГўВҖВҷd be missing using
sight alone.

### _Identifying and Interpreting Footprints_

While you should be scanning and searching for signs and indicators like
blood, trampled grass, and broken cobwebs, footprints will be one of your
primary ways of following and tracking your target.

A professional tracker is so adept at tracking footprints that he can identify
individuals simply with a glance at the impressions in the ground. They can
also immediately tell if the person is running, carrying a load, carrying
another person, or even walking backwards.

The ability to create this dossier on a target simply by looking at their
footprints requires some careful observation. HereГўВҖВҷs what to look for when
identifying and interpreting footprints.

### Collect Information on a Footprint Data Card

A footprint data card is your police sketch of your targetГўВҖВҷs footprint.
(John has a template in his book.) YouГўВҖВҷll draw the pattern of the sole of
his footwear on the card, determine if itГўВҖВҷs a boot, shoe, or sandal, and
make measurements that include the length of the print overall, the width of
its heel (and its length if itГўВҖВҷs a boot), and the width of the ball of the
foot. YouГўВҖВҷll also note if the impression reveals any manufacturer or sizing
labels and if the toe is rounded, square, or pointed. YouГўВҖВҷll want to record
the time and location you located the print and the direction of travel as
well.

Hurth recommends putting a nickname on top of the footprint data card based on
its salient characteristics. So if you see a ГўВҖВңVibramГўВҖВқ logo in a print, you
can call that print ГўВҖВңVibram.ГўВҖВқ

If the target is barefoot, youГўВҖВҷll want to note whether he has a high arch,
regular arch, or is flat-footed. YouГўВҖВҷll want to measure the width of the
ball of the foot and the heel. Make notes about their toes too вҖ” missing
digits? Hammer toe?

### Interpreting Footprints

![Determining meaning in footprints when tracking humans
illustration.](https://content.artofmanliness.com/uploads/2016/10/Footprints-1.jpg)

If you look closely enough at footprints, they can tell you a lot about what
your target was doing when he left them.

For example, the spacing and depth of the impressions can tell you about the
targetГўВҖВҷs gait вҖ” whether he was running or walking. Impressions that are far
apart from each other and deeper in the toe or the heel indicate that the
target was running; impressions that are shallower and closer together
indicate walking.

If the gait is shorter and the impressions are deeper, the target was likely
carrying a load like a backpack. If you see a short gait and deep impressions,
along with intermittent additions of another set of prints next to the
targetГўВҖВҷs, you can deduce that he was carrying a person (and occasionally
putting them down for breaks).

A set of impressions that have a circular indention to the side indicates that
the target is using a walking cane or stick.

If one foot leaves a deeper impression than the other, it likely means the
target is favoring that leg and that the other leg is injured.

So as you look at footprints, donГўВҖВҷt just stop with the observation phase.
Try to put together a story of what your target was doing, as this can help
you develop a theory as to what heГўВҖВҷs likely to do next.

### Determining the Number of People in a Group by Footprints

![Determining number of people in a group with footprints
illustration.](https://content.artofmanliness.com/uploads/2016/10/Number-in-
Group-1.jpg)

Sometimes counting the number of people in a target group is easy because
there are distinct sets of footprints that you can count. But often the
footprints overlap and mix together. How do you get a count then?

One way is to use the Box Method to get an estimate. Draw a line behind one
print and then measure 48-60 inches forward and draw another line. Count all
full and partial prints between those two lines (round up if you end on an odd
number). Divide the total print count by two, and youГўВҖВҷll have a rough
estimate of the number of people in your target group.

### Practice Reading Footprints

Reading and interpreting footprints is a skill that can be acquired through
practice. A great way to do that is to create an artificial track trap out of
sand and then have your friends walk through it in different ways while
youГўВҖВҷre not looking. They can run, limp on one leg, carry each other, walk
and then kneel, drag a body, pretend to fight each other, etc.

After theyГўВҖВҷve left their tracks, go to the track trap and interpret what
they did by looking at the tracks. After youГўВҖВҷve recreated the scenario your
friends acted out, use a rake to clear the track trapГўВҖВҷs slate and have your
buds walk through it again.

I did this exercise with Hurth at the ITS Tactical Muster and had a blast.
ItГўВҖВҷs pretty cool to be able to determine whether a fight went on or if
someone was carrying a rifle simply by looking at footprints.

### Putting It All Together: Creating a Story of Your Target

Tracking requires you to be hyper observant of your environment while
simultaneously orienting your observations to the mental models in your head.
This back and forth observing and orienting allows you to create a story of
whatГўВҖВҷs going on with your target even though you werenГўВҖВҷt there to observe
them firsthand. By creating this story about your target as you collect
evidence, youГўВҖВҷll be in a better position to figure out where theyГўВҖВҷre
headed so you can find them.

_____

**Sources**

 _[Combat Tracking
Guide](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00BJ8LQ64/ref=as_li_ss_tl?_encoding=UTF8&btkr=1&linkCode=sl1&tag=artofmanliness03-20&linkId=88c2acba529d479a2ccbff4eb173224e)
_by John Hurth (If you get the chance, [take a course from
John](https://tyrgroupllc.com/upcoming-courses). HeвҖҷs extremely knowledgeable
and a great teacher.)

_[Tracking
Humans](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00MJD6ZDC/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=B00MJD6ZDC&linkCode=as2&tag=stucosuccess&linkId=FSXA3GZUT5SFDAZ4)
_by David Diaz and V.L. McCann
