title: The Rosewood Ranking: An Obsessive Rundown of Every ‘My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy’ and G.O.O.D. Friday Kanye Song, Plus a Few Extras - The Ringer
source: https://www.theringer.com/music/2020/11/23/21590642/kanye-west-my-beautiful-dark-twisted-fantasy-good-fridays-songs-ranked
date: 2025-08-13T15:47:49.479925
tags: []
---
[](/\[...wordpressNode\])

#

To mark the 10th anniversary of Mr. West’s magnum opus, we’re headed back to
Obama’s first term to figure out what was the best of Ye’s best

[](/\[...wordpressNode\])

#

To mark the 10th anniversary of Mr. West’s magnum opus, we’re headed back to
Obama’s first term to figure out what was the best of Ye’s best

**Justin Sayles:** Charles, we have a big album anniversary that we have to
face today. It’s for _My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy_ , Kanye West’s magnum
opus/mea culpa that came out on November 22, 2010. (Do not ask me how old I
was on that date, or I will forward this Google doc straight to HR.) This
anniversary is difficult to deal with—at the time of its release, so many
people declared it a nearly perfect album. (In fact, _Pitchfork_ stamped it as
fully perfect, awarding it a 10.0, [something it wouldn’t do for another album
for a decade](https://www.theringer.com/music/2020/5/11/21251822/pitchfork-
perfect-review-history-10-fiona-apple-kanye-west-trail-of-dead).) The
hyperbole made sense back in those heady days of the first Obama
administration. Kanye was at the peak of his craft and returning from a
yearlong shame walk following his infamous 2009 VMAs incident. The music was
ambitious, the Hawaiian recording sessions took on mythic status, and the
features were pure critic bait (he introduced Bon Iver’s Justin Vernon to a
hip-hop audience, even if their definitive collaboration wouldn’t come until
“Hold My Liquor” three years later).

But all of these ideas seem quaint now, with a dramatically changed hip-hop
landscape, a Kanye-Trump friendship and comical presidential bid, a borderline
disastrous Wyoming detour and gospel album, and [“Poopy-di
scoop”](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9Ch9kiPf3_4) all sitting between
_MBDTF_ and the present. But they’re still worth exploring. In fact, you’ve
done so: In the first episode of your new podcast, _The Ringer Music Show_ ,
you spoke to Kanye collaborators about the who, what, where, and why of that
album. And let me say, I learned a lot, and I think even the biggest Kanye
stans will.

So let’s not rehash that all here. Instead, I want to do something you
suggested we do for this anniversary. I want to rank every Kanye song and
feature from the _MBDTF_ era, or as it’s known to diehards, the Rosewood era.
Charles, do you want to begin by explaining what Rosewood is and why this
matters in the Kanye story?

**Charles Holmes:** The Rosewood Movement was part fashion movement, part
respectability politics masked as rehabilitation. In short, Kanye forced all
of his G.O.O.D. Music artists, entourage, and weed carriers to wear Dior
Homme’s Black Classic Skinny Suit that [retailed for
$2,200](https://www.fakeshoredrive.com/2010/08/kanye-implements-g-o-o-d-music-
dress-code.html/) in 2010 at all times. “That’s the Rosewood mentality, like
affluence, like not cursing loud in public, pulling out chairs for your lady,
opening up doors,” West [explained to DJ Clue](https://www.rap-
up.com/2010/08/14/kanye-west-explains-rosewood-movement/). On a macro level,
it’s also a nice distinction for this time period for _MBDTF_ , G.O.O.D.
Fridays, and the features he dropped before and after.

**JS:** OK, so taking the songs from the album, the G.O.O.D. Friday free
releases (which sadly aren’t available outside of shitty YouTube uploads and
illegal Soundcloud links), and guest spots, we’ve got 30 or so tracks to work
with. That means we’ve got a lot of words to write. So let’s begin, starting
with the absolute worst Kanye-related track of that era …

Kanye West performs at the 2010 BET AwardsKevin Mazur/WireImage

### Level 6: O.K. Music

#### 30\. “Deuces (Remix)” (Chris Brown single)

**CH:** In retrospect, it’s wild that “Deuces” was such a hit a decade ago
that Chris Brown could unite Rick Ross, Drake, T.I., Kanye West, Fabolous, and
André 3000 for a remix. The song has aged about as well as any 2010s song that
was in heavy rotation on Hot 97 can, meaning it’s quite honestly terrible.
Kanye’s verse is especially egregious, considering lines like “You should have
a travel agent, ’cause you a trip / You should make your own toilet tissue
since you the shit,” weren’t left on the cutting room floor.

**JS:** It’s a little sad listening to André, who was in the middle of an
iconic five-year run of features, relegated to mop-up duties, which he
sleepwalks through here. His verse is also a tough listen after sitting
through Ye, Fabolous, and Ross, in particular; when Dre says, “Get your minds
out the gutter,” he may as well have been talking to them. This song proves
only that Chris Brown brings the worst out of everyone around him.

#### 29\. “The Joy” (G.O.O.D. Fridays)

**JS:** Charles, I suspect ranking this song so low will get us yelled at on
Twitter, but I’m not a huge fan of “The Joy,” and I’ve never been as proud to
work with you as when I discovered you felt similarly. It’s somewhat of a
waste of Curtis Mayfield _and_ Pete Rock, my all-time favorite producer and
one of the key people in elevating sampling into high art. But high art is not
what happens here. The beat is fine—a relaxed, minimalist excursion that
would’ve likely been an interlude on any of Pete’s LPs. But to me, the song is
destroyed by some of the cringiest Kanye lyrics of the era. Like, look at this
shit:

> _She in her birthday suit ‘cause of the damn cake_
>  _Now there’s crumbs all over the damn place (Uh-huh)_
> _And she want me to cum all over her damn face_

And:

> _So next time you see me on your fallopian_
>  _Though the jewelry’s Egyptian, know the hunger’s Ethiopian_

Maybe I’m a prude, but I never want to hear Ye say _cum_ or _fallopian_.
People love this song, though—so much so that it was tacked onto 2011’s _Watch
the Throne_. What’s up, Charles? Are we right, or is it the kids who are
wrong?

**CH:** This is the perfect example of a song where everyone involved is so
enamored of the sample that they collectively decide not to show up in any
other regard. If someone had a gun to my head and told me to recite one lyric
from this song, I’d just have to tell someone to feed my cat, Sushi, ’cause
I’m not making it.

#### 28\. “Chain Heavy” (G.O.O.D. Fridays)

**CH:** I’m almost positive Kanye premiered this song standing on a table and
rapping it a cappella to the Facebook office. Also, totally forgot this was
the same year David Fincher’s _The Social Network_ was released, which might
explain our relationship to Mark Zuckerberg at the time of _MBDTF_. Zuck had
yet to upend all of American democracy in 2010, so he was still in the midst
of his myth-making years, which is similar to Rosewood-era Kanye.
Nevertheless, “Chain Heavy” always sounded better as a snippet.

**JS:** I have this song slightly higher in my personal rankings, mainly
because I’m a sucker for Q-Tip production and Consequence features. But I
think “Chain Heavy” got buried a little by virtue of being the last song in
the G.O.O.D. Friday series before the release of _MBDTF_. By that point, Ye
had to know he was dropping outtakes.

#### 27\. “Runaway Love (Remix)” (G.O.O.D. Fridays)

**CH:** Back in 2010, Kanye placing Raekwon on a baby-faced Justin Bieber
single was an expert troll job disguised as some genius idea. Besides the
novelty of putting Raekwon’s razor-like voice over the bubblegum hit, this
G.O.O.D. Friday track was seen as filler even back then.

**JS:** Charles, does the “Wu-Tang Clan Ain’t Nuthing ta F’ Wit” sample mean
anything to you?

**CH:** I have a long and complicated relationship with the Wu-Tang Clan. It
mostly stems from the fact that I come from a small town in New Jersey where
my seventh grade teacher was white, in his mid-20s, and didn’t see a problem
with gloating to one of his only Black students that he didn’t know as much
Shaolin as he did. White bros love them some Wu-Tang, but after some soul
searching I realized I wouldn’t allow the Wu to be gentrified in my life. So
that’s a long way of saying “Wu-Tang Clan Ain’t Nuthing ta F’ Wit” means a lot
to me and Kanye should’ve just stayed away from it.

**JS:** I wonder what other rappers “cool teachers” have ruined for kids.
Like, there’s definitely some English teacher in Missouri that never misses
the opportunity to talk to his students about MF Doom.

My next question: This is one of Bieber’s first “hip-hop” tracks. That means
it may be indirectly responsible for “Maria I’m Drunk,” on which he arguably
outrapped Travis Scott and Young Thug. (The latter sounds borderline
blasphemous, but it’s true.) Does that make this remix a net positive?

**CH:** Kanye put the battery in Biebervelli’s back, so yes. Honestly, I’d
like to see the Chef and JB on a track together in 2020. I’m positive my
Canadian brother would lyrically hold his own.

#### 26\. “Don’t Look Down” (G.O.O.D. Fridays)

**CH:** This is an honest question—why does Kanye let Mos Def sing badly on so
many of his songs? I’m probably in the minority of people who think the only
salvageable part of 2007’s “Drunk and Hot Girls” is the Mos Def part, but
that’s not exactly some high compliment. “Don’t Look Down” aspires to be more
than it is. Lupe Fiasco has an esoteric verse about a phoenix. Kanye bathes
his voice in some distortion that sounds like a cheap imitation of what he’d
use on “Runaway.” Surprisingly, Big Sean has the best verse by miles, which is
a theme throughout most of these G.O.O.D. Friday tracks. At a time when Sean
was relegated to the periphery of G.O.O.D. Music, he generally proved his
worth by putting in more effort than the bulk of his compatriots.

**JS:** I mean, Mos isn’t a _technically_ great singer, but “Umi Says” is a
classic, to say nothing of “Definition.” (I suspect you feel differently,
Charles.) There are far greater problems with the song, including the
overwrought production, which drags for nearly six minutes. But mostly, I’m
confused about why you’re highlighting a verse that includes the lines “Trying
to get high enough to cut the clouds / Of the Phoenix Sun and Nash it out / I
mean ash it out so I could see you smile.” That’s a tough sell, even by the
standards of Big Sean’s wordplay.

#### 25\. “Take One for the Team” (G.O.O.D. Fridays)

**CH:** An utterly forgettable song with a Kanye verse that is way too aggro,
but I’d like to point out one thing. Toward the middle of Kanye’s verse, he
raps, “Why every ghetto bitch gotta smell like Love Spell / Or that Goddamn
cucumber Bath and Body Works?” First of all, my question to you, Justin, is
simple. Do you like cucumber scents and/or Bath and Body Works?

**JS:** I have to confess, Charles. I’m one of those guys who uses two-in-one
shampoo/conditioners and buys whatever body wash is closest to me in the store
when I remember I need it. If one of those things happens to be cucumber-
scented, cool. But I don’t have strong opinions.

**CH:** We need to boss your life up, JS. I’m talking about strolling over to
the local mall and getting some Lush bath bombs. In this _Ringer_ household,
we only bathing in the finest scents. In 2021, we’re leaving cucumber- and
sweet-pea-based soaps behind. It’s all about them subtle citrus and wood
smells.

**JS:** Subtle citrus and wood smells, the new Rosewood Movement. Got it.

#### 24\. “Devil in a New Dress” (_My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy_)

**JS:** I once heard you declare this one of Kanye’s worst songs. This is not
a widely held position, to put it mildly. Would you care to explain why you
feel that way?

**CH:** The flip of Smokey Robinson’s “Will You Love Me Tomorrow” always
bugged me. Every human operates on a certain frequency and that high-pitched,
recurring sample grates on my very existence. Kanye is the pied piper of
nostalgia. People continuously rate his first three albums as unimpeachable
projects he can never surmount, and a lot of that has to do with the soul
samples mixed with the faux-conscious raps. Kanye’s two verses on this song
are merely fine. Like, y’all are going to sit on Jeff Bezos’s internet and
tell me that Kanye rapping, “The Lyor Cohen of Dior Homme? / That’s ‘Dior
Homme,’ not ‘Dior, homie,’” really belongs on the Mount Olympus of hip-hop?

The only saving grace of this song is Rick Ross’s verse, which is immaculate,
and even I’m not enough of an asshole to say otherwise.

**JS:** It’s a good song, Charles. But not sure I’d feel so strongly if it
existed only in its G.O.O.D. Friday version, which didn’t include Rozay—or
more importantly, that breakdown. For all of the bloated track lengths and
proggy ambitions on _MBDTF_ , the middle third of “Devil in a New Dress”
remains one of its highlights. The sample and drums drop out, and we’re left
with piano, bass, strings, and a heavily-vocoded Kanye. It’s a stunning
moment, and I get lost in it every time.

#### 23\. “Blame Game” (_My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy_)

**JS:** I occasionally visit the r/BrandNewSentence subreddit, where people
post “sentences never before written, found in the wild.” Recent examples
include “Man accused of Ponzi scheme attempts to escape FBI with underwater
scooter” and [“Victorian baby yeet
machine.”](https://www.reddit.com/r/BrandNewSentence/comments/jwklzt/victorian_baby_yeet_machine/)
I submit that, had this subreddit existed back in 2010, “You call me
motherfucker for long” would’ve been a worthy post because nobody before or
since then has ever uttered those words in that order.

But to the track: Which song off _MBDTF_ has aged the worst, and why is it
“Blame Game?”

**CH:** It’s the misogyny. On a technical level, I don’t mind the John Legend
chorus, the somber production, or how it narratively closes out _MBDTF_ , but
Kanye’s lyrics and the Chris Rock coda are truly a misstep on an otherwise
exceptional album. Kanye often dips into extreme incel territory, and it’s
only gotten worse with age. “Blame Game” was a harbinger of what was to come
years later on songs like “I Thought About Killing You” or the unreleased “New
Body.” Is there any line that sums up late-stage Kanye and his terrible
politics as well as, “You should be grateful a nigga like me ever noticed
you?”

The saving grace of “Blame Game” arrives when Kanye finally sheds the
toxicity. His voice launches into a falsetto and sounds amateurish next to
Legend, but it’s the raw quality that sells the heartbreak at the center of
_MBDTF_. As Kanye repeats the refrain “I can’t love you this much,” it feels
like a rare moment when a megastar realizes how brutally celebrity has warped
their perception of reality.

**JS:** I loved this song at the time, and I still love the Aphex Twin sample,
but I don’t need this song in my life anymore. Plus, as toxic Kanye breakup
songs go, this is no “30 Hours.” “The only thing open is Waffle House / Girl,
don’t start with me” >>>> “Now you noticeable and can’t nobody get control of
you.”

Kanye West and Gwen Stefani at a September 2010 fashion show in New York
CityAndy Kropa/Getty Images

### Level 5: F.I.N.E. Music

#### 22\. “Don’t Stop” (G.O.O.D. Fridays)

**CH:** I was never enamored of Child Rebel Soldier—the kind-of supergroup of
Kanye, Pharrell, and Lupe Fiasco. Relistening to “Don’t Stop” 10 years later
makes me realize that my teenage taste wasn’t that far off the mark. There was
a moment in the 2000s when you could tell Pusha T was penning all of
Pharrell’s raps, because out of nowhere the legendary producer would talk
about his prowess at cooking and selling drugs. “Don’t Stop” is no different,
especially considering it also includes the type of homophobic bars that were
all too common in 2010.

**JS:** Do you think Push wrote Pharrell’s “Move That Dope” verse? And if so,
how long do you think it took to convince Skateboard P that “the Gandalf hat
and the weird-ass clothes” was a fire bar?

**CH:** Push most definitely wrote that verse. There’s no way Pharrell is
waking up one day and thinking he should rap, “I know guerrillas with the
triggers that’s on a banana clip / And packin’ with the biggest missiles.”

**JS:** Just another reason Pusha T is one of our finest Americans. If
[Hillary had picked him over Tim
Kaine](https://www.rollingstone.com/music/music-news/see-pusha-t-tim-kaine-
talk-police-reform-education-in-clinton-video-113276/), we wouldn’t be in this
mess.

#### 21\. “In for the Kill (Remix)” (_La Roux [Gold Edition]_)

**CH:** La Roux really needs her flowers. The run she went on in 2009 and 2010
was unmatched. “In for the Kill’ is the type of rarified pop excellence you
just don’t see anymore. Kanye is way too horny for his own good on the remix,
which makes sense considering this was during a time when he’d subject
everyone to his porn-watching habits in the studio. But the fact that even a
horny Kanye couldn’t ruin “In for the Kill” speaks to its excellence so many
years later.

**JS:** I’m a fan of Kanye’s random appearances on dance songs during this
era. (See also: “American Boy”; Stromae’s “Alors on Danse.”) He doesn’t add a
ton to these tracks, but it’s a nice time capsule—of where he was in his
career and what popular music sounded like before the trap explosion. Sad we
never got him on “Danza Kuduro.”

#### 20\. “Looking for Trouble” (G.O.O.D. Fridays)

**CH:** J. Cole and I have a contentious relationship, meaning I tend to
dismiss most of his music, and he has no idea I exist. But this is the rare
time when I give J. Cole his respect. There’s an old quote washed-up
basketball players tell their delusional charges, “Luck is what happens when
preparation meets opportunity,” but damn if Cole didn’t take full advantage of
this star-making turn on “Looking for Trouble.” As the story goes, J. Cole
received the beat for the song the night before Kanye was due to release it,
while he was in Kalamazoo, Michigan.

“I got a call from Kanye and he was like, ‘What’s up? It’s Kanye. Can you get
that verse today? I’m tryna put the song out tonight.’ I honestly didn’t think
I could do it in time so I told him that,” Cole[ told _Complex_ in
2010](https://hiphopdx.com/news/id.13033/title.j-cole-talks-about-g-o-o-d-
friday-verse). “He said, ‘I’ll wait. We got engineers up all night so you got
a while to do it. But if you can, have it done by today.’ I said, ‘I’ll make
it happen somehow.’ I wrote my verse on the hour-and-a-half ride to Detroit,
did the radio promos, left that, went directly to the studio, laid the verse,
and sent it to him by 5 o’clock.”

Up to this point, Cole had spent the majority of his career modeling himself
after West and you can hear that extreme competitive urge to impress on his
closing verse. Cole has always been at his best when he has a clearly defined
antagonist and his verse sounds as if he’s asking Ye, “Why in the hell did you
sign Big Sean and Cudi over me?” Throughout his verse, Cole compares himself
to Biblical figures and Hov, but it’s when the beat cuts out that he
underlines how long he’s waited for this moment. “Ironic, you been sleeping on
the one that you been dreaming ‘bout,” he brazenly says to the world. Cole had
finally arrived.

**JS:** My only problem with this: The sample flip immediately reminds me of
Cam’ron’s “Bubble Music,” even if the production on “Looking for Trouble” is
superior. (Equally distracting: CyHi’s verse, which includes the line “I’m
Jake Gyllenhaal, I’m in the hood with the bubble.”) But J. Cole is phenomenal
here, delivering bars so powerful that Kanye cleared out the beat for him. It
can be easy to write Cole off—he can be tedious and condescending, and I will
never forgive him for what he did to Jeremih’s “Planez”—but when he raps like
this, it makes you wonder why he’s never been able to cement himself as an
all-time great.

#### 19\. “Erase Me” (_Man on the Moon II_)

**CH:** The heathens really wasn’t rocking with “Erase Me” back in the day. In
fairness, this was the era of the Knux and Chiddy Bang, meaning a bunch of
kids reared on _Pitchfork_ ’s indie snobbery were making rock-inspired rap
groups. Sonically, “Erase Me,” fit squarely into this era while aging better
than any of its contemporaries. Kid Cudi’s singing is far more vibrant and
lively than anything else on the dour _Man on the Moon II_. The main guitar
melody and the explosive drums on the chorus never do too much. Even Kanye
tries his best to deliver a rare charming verse about a potential lover before
he ruins it with that sweet, sweet Rosewood-era misogyny.

**JS:** I never fully got the Kid Cudi thing—being born in the early ’80s will
do that to you—but I respect that kids from your generation ride so hard for
him. Also, the first _Man on the Moon_ basically plays like a circa-2008 Hype
Machine chart, what with the MGMT and Ratatat features and Menahan Street Band
samples and Crookers remix. That’s a lot of fun for me, a certified Old.
(Though if you want to talk Rosewood-era misogyny, let’s [not forget about
“Make Her
Say.”](https://open.spotify.com/track/5bkhrGvabAPrugPUm7DvsD?si=WECnWD5qSeKRAnm6jrxPdA))

#### 18\. “Lord Lord Lord” (G.O.O.D. Fridays)

**JS:** A perfect freebie track. It’s a solid, low-stakes affair with good-
not-great verses from Mos Def and Raekwon, and every Charlie Wilson hook
should be treasured. (I’m confused about why we had to stretch this out to
seven minutes to fit that Swizz verse, though that’s another discussion.) But
what I’m most interested in here is the sample: It’s [a straight loop of
“Solstice,”](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jTknk-34lL8) an obscure 1978
jazz-funk song from Brian Bennett, a British composer best known for his work
as a library musician. (That’s a big deal to [record-collector
nerds](https://pitchfork.com/features/starter/9410-library-music/).)
“Solstice” has improbably become something of a hip-hop staple. It’s been
sampled hundreds of times—most notably by
[Nas](https://open.spotify.com/track/3uYCk5aHq3VGlcdDHW5IZk?si=OdeKMCelR6K1e2TdAnptUg),
[Rick
Ross](https://open.spotify.com/track/3MGP1RU4ShmERaWeoWDKBx?si=4165q19gRPO08ETEeLEhYA),
and [the High & the
Mighty](https://open.spotify.com/track/2prUF7qNvxBTkNOpuqn276?si=18Zg5KVfQy6GEdzD9Cx-7Q)—and
even made its way into songs from Kaytranada and the [Mike Patton–Dan the
Automator team-up,
Lovage](https://open.spotify.com/track/0RFYiWamDdFmRmjsQlsrY6?si=bCHCcmmuRDepVYABRFgU8A).
“Lord Lord Lord” is one of the better songs to use it. Kanye let “Solstice”
breathe, not adding any drums or altering the pitch. Somewhat paradoxically,
by doing the least with the sample, “Lord Lord Lord” gets the most out of
“Solstice.”

**CH:** You just spilled a lot of ink on an extremely mid G.O.O.D. Friday
song. All of the elements of “Lord Lord Lord” are fine. Charlie Wilson needs a
field’s worth of flowers, so he’ll forever be safe from my ire. The beat isn’t
offensive. The various artists arrive with a pulse, but between Kanye saying
“I only hang with white boys that like black sluts” and Swizz Beatz dissing
bloggers I’m good on this one.

#### 17\. “Power (Remix)” (G.O.O.D. Fridays)

**JS:** When I was a child, one of my favorite songs was Snap’s “The Power”
(which, if you’re unfamiliar, has its own [complicated
backstory](https://medium.com/cuepoint/gettin-kinda-hectic-snap-and-chill-rob-
g-s-epic-power-struggle-cc545a1b2fce)). So when I heard that Kanye was
flipping a sample of it into a remix of his “Power” with the help of Swizz
Beatz—who was on a [streak of
turning](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FVwlK2aXlvc) dance songs [into club
anthems](https://vimeo.com/8773769)—I was pretty amped. But the end result is
a mixed bag. The Jay-Z verse is fine, as is the opening Kanye verse. (Ye got
an [assist from Kobe](http://hoopeduponline.com/2010/08/17/kobe-bryant-helps-
kanye-west-finish-power-remix/)? OK, sure.) Musically, however, there’s a lot
going on here. (It’s gettin’ kinda hectic, if you will.) The added synths are
another distraction in an already busy beat. And eliminating the King Crimson
sample in favor of some 30 Seconds to Mars–core singing isn’t doing it for me.
The song comes alive in the second half when the Snap beat drops and Kanye
lets loose, but I can’t see anyone picking this over the original.

**CH:** I have a soft spot in my heart for “Power (Remix).” The song is fine,
but I distinctly remember Funk Flex premiering the record on Hot 97 back in
the waning years of rappers still bringing their records to the DJ. So for a
solid day, I only heard “Power (Remix)” with a bunch of Flex bombs as he
marketed the record like it was the most important thing in the world. It was
not, young readers, but Flex truly did have that *_cough cough_ * power back
in the day. If you don’t believe me go listen to [his premiere of
“Otis.”](https://soundcloud.com/user6607115/funkmaster-flex-premieres-otis)

#### 16\. “Hell of a Life” (_My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy_)

**JS:** Dirtbag Kanye has always been one of my favorite Kanyes. The song is a
little icky given the _Jesus Is King_ rapper’s admitted [porn
addiction](https://www.mercurynews.com/2019/10/25/kanye-west-speaks-out-on-
porn-addiction-its-not-okay/) and [his love for his future wife’s, um,
filmography](https://www.tmz.com/2012/09/10/kanye-west-kim-kardashian-sex-
tape/), but I’ll take Ye rapping about drugs and weirdo sex over whatever is
happening on his past few albums. It’s also a spiritual predecessor to “No
Church in the Wild” or the more interesting parts of _Yeezus_ , like “I Am a
God” or “Hold My Liquor.” “Hell of a Life” sounds a little dated in 2020, but
I still mess with it.

**CH:** This song sounds like a sentient XVideos search bar. The propulsive
crunch and dark chaos of “Hell of a Life” is so immaculately produced that
even horny Kanye can’t ruin this track. In 2016, famous adult actress [Lisa
Ann claimed](https://www.nydailynews.com/entertainment/gossip/porn-star-lisa-
ann-kanye-west-nude-photos-article-1.2511940) that Kanye sent her unsolicited
photos of the explicit variety. Combined with the aforementioned porn
addiction, “Hell of a Life” is a bizarre time capsule. So much of Kanye’s
Rosewood era is about an excess of ego, celebrity, and sex that in the
following years seemed to spin wildly out of control.

Kanye West appears on NBC’s _Today_ show in November 2010Peter Kramer/NBCU
Photo Bank/NBCUniversal

### Level 4: G.O.O.D. Music

#### 15\. “Start It Up” (_The Hunger for More 2_)

**CH:** For a brief but blindingly transcendent moment in 2010, Lloyd Banks
was the best rapper alive. It was as if the entire music industry descended
upon G-Unit’s second-in-command, determined to turn him into a household name.
The DJs at Hot 97 and Power 105 should be arrested for how much they played
“Beamer, Benz, or Bentley.” At the dawn of a new decade, every rapper either
wanted to be on a song with Lloyd Banks or remix one of his hits. “Start It
Up” alone had Swizz Beatz, Kanye West, Ryan Leslie, and Fabolous on it.

The beautiful thing about “Start It Up” is how obvious it is that Kanye didn’t
want to get outrapped by Banks. It’s as if Kanye told all of his ghostwriters
to form like Voltron in pursuit of delivering a decent verse. To this day, the
line, “The first album I vomited, the second I colonic’d it / Ain’t nobody
fucking with me, I platonic’d it” is as dumb as it is great. JS, how do you
feel about Lloyd Banks?

**JS:** As someone who came of age during the G-Unit mixtape era, I’ve always
loved him. He obviously wasn’t a star on the level of 50 Cent, but as rap
henchmen go, there have been few better than Banks. (I’m shocked [this line
didn’t cause Fat Joe](https://youtu.be/FGWPQg63fig?t=202) to drop dead right
on the spot, because it nearly killed me when I heard it.) Also, don’t tell
anyone, but I prefer his version of [“Victory” to the
original](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7QxYmgCXxIw).

Banks is one of the best punch-line rappers of his generation, whereas Kanye
is just one of the punch-line-iest. Charles, do you have a least favorite
Kanye punch line? I have a tough time deciding between “They be ballin’ in the
D-League / I be speakin’ Swaghili” and “I’m a rap-lic priest / Gettin’ head by
the nuns.”

**CH:** 2013’s “I’m In It” is one of my favorite Kanye West songs of all time,
but paradoxically contains the two worst Kanye lyrics of all time:

>  _Chasin’ love, lots of bittersweet hours lost / Eatin’ Asian pussy, all I
> need was sweet and sour sauce_
>
>  _Uh, Black girl sippin’ white wine / Put my fist in her like a civil rights
> sign_

Kanye rapping about race is bad. Kanye rapping about sex is worse. When you
put those two together, you get the above.

**JS:** We just cited four terrible lines from “I’m in It,” yet we both love
the song. Fucking Kanye.

#### 14\. “Christmas in Harlem” (G.O.O.D. Fridays)

**JS:** I thought the perfect Harlem Holiday song already existed before this
in [“Ballin’ on Xmas](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p-ay65X7NPY),” which
appeared on Jim Jones’s Dipset Christmas album. But the final version of this
song—on which Pusha T turns Santa’s weight into a coke punch line—beats it by
a mile. (Predictably, it also features Jim Jones.)

**CH:** We absolutely needed “Christmas In Harlem” for Cam’ron’s verse alone.
There will never be a funnier moment in a Christmas song than Cam closing his
verse out with “shouts to the coldest on my barometer / Berkman, Shapiro,
Kalina, Hanukkah,” and then ad-libbing “my lawyers” immediately after. You
can’t buy that type of publicity.

#### 13\. “See Me Now” (G.O.O.D. Fridays)

**CH:** The people don’t deserve “See Me Now.” When Angie Martinez premiered
the record on Hot 97 it was supposed to be such a moment. Kanye assembled
Beyoncé and Charlie Wilson to collaborate over a cheery Lex Luger and No I.D.
beat. Was it obvious that “See Me Now” was an easy, feel-good track meant to
get him back in the peoples’ good graces? Yes. Does that mean it deserved to
be yawned at? Hell no. The Charlie hook alone should’ve at least given this
song a week at no. 1 on the Hot 100.

**JS:** You ever think about how Lex Luger defined the sound of rap for two
years at the beginning of the last decade and then basically disappeared?
Yeah, there was
[“B.M.F.”](https://open.spotify.com/track/35QGdv6aFbIaLM0Ozr3rHt?si=ef-
KdwfeSki0eOE1D9f6Sw) and [“MC
Hammer,”](https://open.spotify.com/track/1nnEDoSsNqbUMolxXmxopa?si=sfmjxC6uSoqRtMKg3lUpRA)
but also [“Who Da Neighbors”
](https://open.spotify.com/track/0o5JeKTwlctAU6gjHlhA7o?si=eEfYgSCBR1KsHbbyhtpm2w)and
all the Waka Flocka table-flippers. Starting around 2013—probably thanks
largely to Drake and 40—rap got a little moodier, chillier, and less
fantastical. “See Me Now” isn’t one of those ultra-maximal Lex Luger
productions (sounds like No I.D. was in the driver’s seat here), but I wanted
to give credit to the man who made [“9000 Watts”
possible](https://open.spotify.com/track/76dxacUGoHrsHEcYS0PMba?si=jo2tKSSDQ5enAIioG6U_eQ).

#### 12\. “So Appalled” (_My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy_)

**CH:** Why the fuck is “So Appalled” even this high? Get this shit out of
here, JS.

**JS:** I’m legit wondering whether you like this album, or Kanye, or music in
general. “So Appalled” is great for so many reasons: the beat, the Pusha
verse, CyHi’s “Trojan in the pocket / Matt Leinart” double entendre, the Swizz
chorus, RZA’s pronunciation of “fuckin’ ridiculous.” What’s the matter, Otter?
You got Bobby Brown jaw?

**CH:** I don’t hate “So Appalled,” but it always felt like it should have
stayed a G.O.O.D. Friday loosie. It’s not a terrible song, but it’s also a
song that’s extremely fat around the edges. For those who have forgotten, “So
Appalled” clocks in at almost seven minutes. It’s not even the best posse cut
on the album, despite being longer than “All of the Lights,” “Monster,” and
“Gorgeous.”

#### 11\. Monster (_My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy_)

**JS:** Charles, I want to discuss something you broke down on _The Ringer
Music Show_ : the fact that Kanye almost left “Monster” off _My Beautiful Dark
Twisted Fantasy_ because Nicki outshined him. First, how incredibly on-brand.
Second, do you think that decision was a _Sliding Doors_ moment? What would we
have missed out on had “Monster” been trapped in YouTube videos and MediaFire
links?

**CH:** For Nicki Minaj,**** “Monster” always felt like a [Kobayashi
Maru](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kobayashi_Maru). The once-in-a-generation
verse was the final spark that Minaj needed to go from a talented member of
Lil Wayne’s nascent Young Money crew to the subject of full-fledged debates
about whether she was a top-five rapper in the world (spoiler alert: she was).
Unfortunately, “Monster” was an artistic peak for Nicki, one that she’s still
chasing. She became a better lyricist and artist in later years, but “Monster”
was the last time it felt like Minaj had to serve only one genre. When “Super
Bass” hit, the trajectory of her career changed. Being a household name that
appears on _Ellen_ is wildly different from being the subject of debates
raging in the 2Dopeboyz comment section. If “Monster” hadn’t made _My
Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy_ , it’d still be worshipped, but it also might
have ensured Minaj’s career trajectory was a tad more gradual.

**JS:** I think she reached her full potential in 2014, around the time of
_Pinkprint_ , when she was at her pop apex all while dropping truly great
verses on “No Flex Zone,” “Lookin’ Ass,” and her version of “Danny Glover.”
It’s been a steady decline for her since, partly because of self-sabotage and
partly because rap treats its female stars like garbage once it finds someone
to replace them.

My next question: Jay-Z’s overall résumé is unimpeachable, but he’s certainly
lost some luster in the past 15 years. His verse on this song in particular
[gets
clowned](https://twitter.com/pixelatedboat/status/1047727504654360580?s=20)
frequently. Charles, do you think his _eh_ turn on “Monster” changed how we
think about Hov? In other words: Love—does late-period Jay get enough of it,
too much of it, or just the right amount of it?

**CH:** It’s critical reevaluation time. Jay-Z’s “Monster” verse is comically
bad, but also it’s charming that the Marcy rapper who bragged about losing 92
bricks would spend the beginning of the 2010s rapping about Sasquatch,
Godzilla, King Kong, Loch Ness, Goblin, ghouls, and zombies who are devoid of
a conscience. Later-stage Jay-Z albums (e.g., _Magna Carta Holy Grail_ ,
_4:44_) could have used more spooky bars.

Al Jardine Kanye West at the “We Are the World 25 Years for Haiti” recording
session held on February 1, 2010, in HollywoodKevin Mazur/WireImage

### Level 3: G.R.E.A.T. Music

#### 10\. “Live Fast, Die Young” (_Teflon Don_)

**CH:** This song wasn’t originally intended for Rick Ross’s 2010 classic,
_Teflon Don_ , but was made during the _MBDTF_ sessions. The James Brown
“Funky President” and Rick James “Mary Jane (Live)” samples that punctuate the
beat are the same one’s Kanye would play with across his fifth studio album.
The horns lifted from the Bar-Kays’ “If This World Were Mine” sound so
grandiose you can tell Island Def Jam paid a hefty check to get everything
cleared.

But “Live Fast, Die Young” always felt like it was of the Rosewood era without
neatly fitting into the _MBDTF_ narrative. Ross’s verses are too celebratory.
Kanye is having the time of his life, despite trying to put on a repentant
facade. Even the Chicago rapper’s verse spit directly in the face of his
detractors. When Kanye raps, “I’m back by unpopular demand / Least he still
poppin’ in Japan, shoppin’ in Milan / Hoppin’ out the van, screams from the
fans / ‘Yeezy, always knew you’d be on top again,’” it’s not only hilarious,
but a rare moment that reaffirmed Kanye’s one-of-a-kind ego was healing
nicely.

**JS:** There’s allegedly an [unreleased Hype Williams–directed video for this
song](https://genius.com/a/rick-ross-kanye-west-s-live-fast-die-young-wasn-t-
originally-recorded-for-teflon-don). It’s a damn-near crime that we never got
Hype to shoot a video for Rozay while the big man was at the peak of his
powers. If I ever get my hands on a time machine, I’m dropping 2010 Rick Ross
in 1998 and telling Hype to turn on the fish-eyed lens and give us the $10
million video the Teflon Don deserved.

#### 9\. “Power” (_My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy_)

**JS:** On _The Ringer Music Show_ , you spoke to S1, a then-unknown producer
who had given a beat CD to longtime Kanye confidant Rhymefest. On it was the
skeleton for “Power”—it had [the chanted
sample](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e-dtwySzcQc&feature=emb_title) and
[the Cold Grits
drums](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JICoZqM0rKs&feature=emb_title), but not
much else, right? Kanye hears it, gets S1 on the first plane to Hawaii, and
they begin to figure out how to make this beat worthy of Ye’s comeback album.
First comes the King Crimson sample, next comes the bass and guitars courtesy
of Mike Dean, then the keyboards by Dean and Jeff Bhasker. Eventually, they’d
add a goddamn cello. The end result is so full, so booming, and so triumphant
that it lives on as an arena anthem and soundtrack to terrible movie trailers
a decade later.

That is the genius of Kanye beginning with this era: In the early Roc-a-Fella
and _College Dropout_ days, he mainly crafted beats in isolation. During the
_Late Registration_ and _Graduation_ days, he began adding orchestral
flourishes and collaborating with outside producers, but it was still mostly
whatever came out of his MPC. But by _My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy_ , he
had an army of producers and musicians at his disposal. The individual pieces
were great on their own—I’m sure I would’ve enjoyed the original S1 beat had
it ended up on a Rhymefest album—but under Kanye’s direction, all the parts
came together into something indelible. And that’s power.

**CH:** “Power” is such an awkward song. There’s so much going on, from the
chants to the King Crimson sample. The beat is so staccato at times that Kanye
clearly struggles to fit all of his thoughts within its parameter. For a clear
example, look no further than the couplet, “You short-minded niggas’ thoughts
is Napoleon / My furs is Mongolian, my ice brought the goalies in.” But none
of that ends up mattering. “Power” is more about setting a tone for an era
than the pursuit of perfection. There’s a reason the song became movie trailer
fodder over the next decade—2010’s _The Social Network_ , 2011’s _Limitless_ ,
2017’s _Power Rangers_ , 2017’s _All the Money in the World_. The power of
“Power” is how well it denotes a sense of triumph before Kanye ever utters a
word. It’s a feat of Kanye West as a producer more than a showcase for his
talents as a rapper. Anyone can tell you they’re powerful. It’s another thing
to make you feel it.

#### 8\. “G.O.O.D. Friday” (G.O.O.D. Fridays)

**JS:** This song, more than any other, makes me sad that we never got a
G.O.O.D. Music compilation aside from _Cruel Summer_ , which I remember now
only for “New God Flow” and stray shots fired at Kris Humphries and George
Tenet. (2012, baby!) But “G.O.O.D. Friday,” the eponymous track from the
legendary free-release series that dominated the second half of 2010, is a
perfect showcase for what Kanye and his cohorts do best. There’s the beat,
with pounding drums and [a familiar
sample](https://www.whosampled.com/Freddie-Scott/\(You\)-Got-What-I-Need/)
flipped in a way you’d never heard it before. Uncle Charlie breathes life into
the hook. Cudi’s crooning is a wonderful accent. Pusha and Big Sean deliver;
latter-day Common even acquits himself nicely. A good time all around and,
sadly, a track that could never be made today.

**CH:** So much of the music that was made during the “Rosewood” era seemed
engineered as peak critical bait. The samples were either obscure or
ridiculously expensive. Every song needed an extended outro. Legendary
producers were called in as vibe connoisseurs. It made for a near perfect
album, but often that meant there was little room for something that was
simply fun. “G.O.O.D. Friday” never seeks to do too much. Kid Cudi is on hook
duty and offers a couple well-placed hums. Pusha T raps about his one true
love, selling cocaine. Big Sean drops some goofy punch lines. G.O.O.D. Music
may not have been the most lucrative rapper imprint of the 2010s (that’s Young
Money), but it was easily the most cohesive.

Jay-Z and Kanye West perform at Yankee Stadium on September 13, 2010 in New
York CityKevin Mazur/WireImage

### Level 2: C.L.A.S.S.I.C. Music

#### 7\. “Run This Town” (_Blueprint 3_)

**JS:**_Blueprint 3_ produced two of Jay-Z’s biggest commercial hits,
including “Run This Town,” which is great. (The other, “Empire State of Mind”
was his first no. 1 single; it’s terrible.) But by the time _BP3_ was released
in September 2009, it had become clear that Ye, who had just dropped four
straight classic albums, had surpassed Big Brother, who was in the middle of
an uneven
[post-“retirement”](https://www.theringer.com/2020/7/27/21339518/rapper-
retirements-logic-no-pressure-jay-z-nicki-minaj-joe-budden) stretch. The gap
between the two only widened over the next few years, as Jay receded while the
fire within Kanye grew—we hear it in Jay’s two _MBDTF_ verses, while 2011’s
_Watch the Throne_ is mostly a Kanye showcase. “Run This Town” marked the
second time Jay had ever put a Kanye verse on one of his albums, following
_The Blueprint 2_ ’s “The Bounce.” But in 2002, Ye was an upstart still two
years away from _The College Dropout_ ; he was a young producer trying to rap,
not the megawatt multi-hyphenate we’ve come to alternately love and detest.
Seven years after “The Bounce,” “Run This Town” presented Jay and Kanye as
equals, which makes it something of an unofficial passing of the torch.

Kanye has had many understudies. Two have been successful—Cudi, who has [a
complicated history](https://www.vibe.com/2016/09/kanye-west-responds-to-kid-
cudi-i-birthed-you) with his mentor, and Travis Scott, who let Drake threaten
to hunt Ye down on “Sicko Mode.” Charles, why do you think Kanye never
inspired a true successor like Jay inspired him?

**CH:** Kanye’s ego has always stopped him from truly minting an heir
apparent. There’s a reason Drake’s verse didn’t make “All of the Lights,”
J.Cole was relegated to a G.O.O.D. Friday track, and Nicki Minaj’s scene-
stealing moment on “Monster” almost caused Ye to take the song off _MBDTF_.
Kanye is a supreme opportunist. He’ll collaborate with anyone that can help
him sell more records or gain some type of cultural cachet, but the minute
that artist shows a sign of surpassing him, tension arises. We’ve seen that
Lil Wayne had no problem with his protégés (Drake, Nicki, and kind of Tyga)
becoming more popular than him. In a similar way, Gucci Mane is responsible
for putting on rappers like Migos and Young Thug. On the other hand, when
Kanye sees rappers like Drake, Cole, Chance the Rapper, and Travis Scott
updating his playbook, there’s something within him that won’t let him recede.

#### 6\. “All of the Lights” / “All of the Lights (Interlude)”

**JS:** You spend a lot of time breaking this song down on the podcast. I
would recommend people go there to listen to the story of the making of “All
of the Lights” and how Ye got the most left-field guest of the entire album
and why Drake doesn’t appear on the final version. So instead of rehashing
that, I want to ask an important question: Which of [_My Beautiful Dark
Twisted Fantasy_ ’s five covers](https://consequenceofsound.net/wp-
content/uploads/2010/11/kanye-west-my-beautiful-dark-twisted-fantasy-
covers.jpg) was your favorite?

**CH:** The George Condo painting of Kanye wearing a crown with his head
impaled by a sword was a very on-the-nose metaphor, but it always seemed the
most apt. There’s a reason it was Kanye’s Twitter avatar for the longest time.
Kanye’s identity is molded by this idea of being the one. Over the years,
Kanye’s transitioned from rapping about Jesus (2004’s “Jesus Walks”) to
proclaiming he’s a God throughout 2013’s _Yeezus_. Back in 2010, Condo’s
illustrated sword seemed like a symbol of public perception killing West. In
retrospect, the deadly sword was always wielded by Kanye and he’d forever be
doomed to fall upon it.

**JS:** Ten years ago, I would have also picked that one. (That’s the version
of the CD I bought back when we still bought CDs.) Today, however, I’m a fan
of the naked sphinx straddling a beer-clutching Kanye. It was banned by
Walmart and the iTunes Store at the time. Shockingly, it’s the version Spotify
uses, even though it’s pixelated on our parent company’s platform. Condo was
disgusted by the censorship: “The superimposition of people’s perceptions on a
cartoon is shocking,” he [said in
2010](https://www.vulture.com/2010/11/kanye_george_condo.html#photo=2x70150).
“What’s happening in their minds should be banned. Not the painting.” Amen.

#### 5\. “Lost in the World” / “Who Will Survive in America” (_My Beautiful
Dark Twisted Fantasy_)

**JS:** Why do you think Kanye brought Justin Vernon into his orbit over the
hundred other popular indie musicians circa 2010? Why Bon Iver and not, say,
Grizzly Bear?

**CH:** Because Justin Vernon is interesting and sounds like an angel, while
Grizzly Bear is boring outside of that one time Jay-Z and Beyoncé went to go
see them live and _Pitchfork_ had a field day blogging about it.

**JS:** Do you have a favorite Bon Iver song? Personally, I break out “Blood
Bank” whenever the weather dips below 40 degrees.

**CH:** 2016’s “715 - CRΣΣKS,” is the peak of Justin Vernon’s powers. On the
surface the _22, A Million_ song is so ugly. There’s no beat for Vernon to
hide behind. All the audience can listen to is this android-like voice that’s
so mangled and tortured you can’t help but want to save it.

Vernon is a once-in-a-lifetime talent who came of age as the internet and
technology was beginning to reshape the way we connected with the sound of the
human voice. Vernon, along with T-Pain and Future, was able to summon this
paradoxical feeling of technology’s creeping coldness and endless ambition
through the way he contorted his voice with Auto-Tune, reverb, and a flurry of
other engineering techniques. Kanye was able to introduce Vernon to the wider
world on songs like “Lost in the World,” but it was on “715 - CRΣΣKS” that
years of experimentation was finally perfected.

**JS:** Sadly, we’ll probably never get another JV-Kanye collab, because he,
like most of us, [can no longer kick it with
Kanye](https://www.nme.com/news/music/bon-iver-justin-vernon-cant-kick-kanye-
west-anymore-politics-2538159).

Kanye West performs at the 2010 MTV Video Music AwardsKevin Winter/Getty
Images

### Level 1: P.E.R.F.E.C.T. Music

#### 4\. “Christian Dior Denim Flow” (G.O.O.D. Fridays)

**CH:** The greatest tragedy of modern pop music is that “Christian Dior Denim
Flow” didn’t make _My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy_. Several tracks could
have been sacrificed to give it a spot—“So Appalled,” “Devil in a New Dress,”
“Blame Game.” Kanye’s hormones get the best of him as he wastes a truly
transcendent beat trying to slide into the DMs of every model that was working
in 2010. Kid Cudi’s amateurish voice expertly melds with John Legend’s
classically trained vocals as they lament being at the peak of their powers
and still calling that same ex back. JS, why is “Christian Dior Denim Flow”
the greatest song of all time?

**JS:** It’s the most inspirational song I can think of named after luxury
clothing. But it’s the melody, and the drums programming, and that chorus, and
that switch-up in the back half. But I go a different direction than you—this
song is better than three-fourths of _MBDTF_ , but it just doesn’t fit the
album’s vibe to me. It doesn’t fully capture the tortured-genius energy he
wanted to project in this era. And it’s clear Kanye was in part trying to make
a cohesive statement rather than just a collection of the best songs to come
of the sessions. The tragedy here is that we never got to hear a fully mixed
and mastered version of “Christian Dior Denim Flow.” (Again, this is why we
needed another, better G.O.O.D. Music compilation. Can we at least get these
G.O.O.D Friday tracks on streaming in 2021? How is “Lift Yourself” on Spotify
but this song isn’t?!?!)

Also: Predictably, I love the Pusha verse. But there’s someone on the track
who clearly outspits him.

**CH:** “Christian Dior Denim Flow” is home to two of the best verses spit by
best-rapper-alive candidates in 2010. When Kanye tweeted, “Yo man Lloyd Banks
prolly the most underrated MC in the game...Man he deserve to be top 5 at
least,” it wasn’t hyperbole. At the height of the rap-blog boom, Lloyd Banks
had returned with a vengeance. G-Unit’s second-in-command was an unstoppable
force with the entire music industry seemingly backing his ascent. _The Hunger
for More 2_ would drop the same day as _My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy_ and
provide a gritty foil to Kanye’s baroque sonic banquet. Nevertheless, hearing
Banks deliver a truly perfect verse opener like “Ugh, handcraft material,
champagne for cereal / Shorty stole my heart, criminal, my lucky charm” is
still jaw dropping a decade later. The little puking ad-lib he delivers after
he raps, “Ball like a SuperSonic, make the haters vomit (Ugh!)” belongs in the
MoMA. Throughout Banks’s all-too-short verse, his voice sounds like it was run
through that woodchipper in _Fargo_ and that is the ultimate compliment.

**JS:** I want nothing more than to listen to a Jadakiss–Lloyd Banks podcast.
(Spotify, make it happen.) But who was the other best-rapper-alive candidate
in 2010? You can make an argument for Kanye, but I suspect you’re thinking
someone else …

**CH:** Scott Mescudi was the only rapper coming close to matching Banks on
“Christian Dior Denim Flow.” By late 2010, Cudi was months removed from
everyone in hip-hop thinking he was ingesting [liquid cocaine (not a real
thing)](https://www.vulture.com/2010/09/kid_cudi_liquid_cocaine_doesnt.html).
So how does he approach the haters? Well, he summons the spirit of one of the
greatest rappers of all time. “Hey ya, I’m on my André 3000,” he raps toward
the conclusion of the song. “I’m all good now, a nigga don’t need no
counseling.” Kid Cudi would eventually need counseling, but for a fleeting
moment he made us all believe one could be healed through the power of
immaculate rapping on Kanye West loosies.

#### 3\. “Dark Fantasy” (_My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy_)

**CH:** The best Kanye albums generally begin with a thesis statement.

“We weren’t supposed to make it past 25 / Joke’s on you we still alive” — _The
College Dropout_

“Oh, he’ll give us what we need / It may not be what we want” — _Yeezus_

“Can we get much higher?” — _My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy_

After Nicki Minaj’s cute but unnecessary nursery rhyme, Teyana Taylor and
Justin Vernon arrive like oracles to set the stage. It’s a rhetorical
question, but it’s also a sign of West picking his shot. One could argue from
a craft standpoint that Kanye never reached the heights of _My Beautiful Dark
Twisted Fantasy_ again, and it all begins with “Dark Fantasy.”

**JS:** Back when I used to DJ (I’ve lived many lives, Charles), I’d often
break this song out about 10 minutes before close, when everyone was good and
drunk and ready to fuck, fight, or cry. I’d loop the instrumental break that
comes between the intro and the verse and immediately start blending in one of
my true closing songs (the “Killing Me Softly” drums sound pretty good under
it). For a beautiful 20 seconds before I’d kick to the next track, the entire
club would scream along to “Can we get much higher?” For a fleeting moment,
the answer, for me, just like Kanye, was a resounding no.

#### 2\. “Gorgeous” (_My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy_)

**CH:** In 2010, only Kid Cudi could make singing about celebrity anxiety
sound like a Greek tragedy. Over an epic guitar riff, Cudi’s slightly
distorted voice wails:

>  _Not for nothing, I’ve foreseen it, I dreamed it_
>  _I can feel it slowly drifting away from me_
>  _No more chances, if you blow this, you bogus_
>  _I will never ever let you live this down, down, down_

In those four bars, Kanye and his G.O.O.D. Music associates sum up _My
Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy’s_ entire reason for being. Not only was
Kanye’s fame slipping away in 2010, but there was an acute sense that
perfecting his next album was the only way he could surmount the very people
who would “never ever” let him live his interruption of Swift down. So when
Kanye launches into the first verse it’s a clear sink-or-swim moment.

**JS:** There’s so much to love about “Gorgeous,” from the hook to the beat to
Raekwon. But what stands out 10 years later is the elegance of Kanye’s verses,
which says a lot considering he fires a bar at Matt Stone and Trey Parker.
It’s some of the best pure rapping he’s ever committed to wax, with intricate
rhyme patterns and thought-provoking couplets masking his seething fury.
Topically, it’s high-minded stuff. We make a lot of how _My Beautiful Dark
Twisted Fantasy_ was an attempt to get himself back in the public’s good
graces following the Taylor Swift incident. But when you consider the racial
component of the backlash he faced, using the second track on the album to
explore race, class, and policing is fairly brave. A lot of credit is likely
owed to Malik Yusef, Rhymefest, and the other writers that helped him through
“Gorgeous,” but the verses are ultimately unmistakably Kanye. And they’re
among the best of his career.

#### 1\. “Runaway” (_My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy_)

**CH:** Without “Runaway,” there’s no _My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy_. The
song exists on multiple poles of existence—sparse and maximalist, tortured and
pompous, noxious and rehabilitative. “Runaway” begins with now-iconic piano
stabs that echo hauntingly in the ether before they’re confronted by the
shamanic voices of Rick James and James Brown. The genesis of “Runaway” was a
seemingly thrown-away idea by Emile Haynie. “I had a beat, and I played it,
and it was the foundation of ‘Runaway,’” Haynie [told
_Complex_](https://www.complex.com/music/2011/10/emile-tells-all-the-stories-
behind-his-classic-records/kanye-west-pusha-t-runaway) in 2011. “It was pretty
different from the production now, but something about it, the chord
progression or the way I put together the chords must’ve rung out to him.”
Kanye was likely drawn to the chance to have an emotional canvas to purge
himself of the VMA and Taylor Swift incident that had utterly destroyed his
pop career.

**JS:** Kanye was the asshole, the douchebag, the scumbag. But I remember
watching the VMA performance live and rooting for him. It was so
pretentious—with the ballerinas, a salmon-suited Pusha T, and Ye’s MPC at the
center of it, like a pulpit—but you had to admire the ambition. Watching it
today, I still get chills when the beat drops and the Rick James sample
echoes. It’s also important that the lyrics—the chorus, in
particular—acknowledged his standing at the time. Here he was, one year after
the Taylor Swift incident, on the same stage, essentially saying, “Yeah, I
know you hate me, but what I’m offering you is so great, I’m going to make you
love me again.” You could feel public sentiment bending back toward him in
real time.

We are, of course, at a similar place with Kanye as we were heading into those
VMAs. The past four years have been fraught. The quality of his music has
declined. He’s palled around with Trump. He publicly wrestled with his mental
health. He’s made bone-headed comments about race. He launched a failed
presidential bid. These days, the Kanye experience is exhausting. I don’t
think there’s a “Runaway” moment that could change that, though I don’t think
he’d be capable of providing one even if one could. Still, it’s hard not to
put on this song today and recall the time when we were cheering for him to
change how we felt about him. That he pulled it off may have been his most
impressive feat in a career littered with many.

**CH:** I totally agree. It’s something Kanye’s frequent collaborator Malik
Yusef told us during _The Ringer Music Show_. “They love what he presents to
the world. And I think he was very self-deprecating in saying, ‘I’m an
asshole. I’m bad. I’m terrible.’ But people took it tongue-in-cheek because
they don’t believe it, because the art says that you’re great,” Yusef said. “I
think that when he did ‘Runaway from me baby. I’m trouble.’ And we know what
that does. That makes people say, ‘Well let me solve you.’”

The vocoder outro of “Runaway” is one of the most heart-wrenching moments of
the past decade in popular music. It sonically communicates this primal sense
of fear—fear of oneself, fear of what your actions have wrought, fear that
you’ll never be able to reclaim what you once had. In essence, that’s always
been and will always be Kanye’s singular gift and the root of his continuous
downfall.

Justin Sayles is an editor, writer, and producer who covers primarily pop
culture. He’s also the host of ‘The Wedding Scammer’ and the world’s foremost
expert on Jose Altuve’s bad tattoo.
