title: Nootrobox Wants to Hack Your Brain
source: http://nymag.com/selectall/2016/10/nootrobox-wants-to-hack-your-brain.html
date: 2025-08-13T17:49:01.082887
tags: []
---
“Are you ready to watch us stab ourselves with technology?” asks Michael
Brandt on a recent Tuesday evening at the WeWork office of
[Nootrobox](https://nootrobox.com/), a San Francisco start-up that specializes
in “cognitive enhancement.” Soon Brandt, the company’s COO, and its CEO,
Geoffrey Woo, both 27, are settled at a conference table with two small boxes
and some alcohol swabs. Inside each box is a FreeStyle Libre continuous
glucose monitor, which consists of a little plastic patch connected to a
little metal needle, with a chip inside that transmits information to a remote
reader. Once the needle is inserted under the skin, it can stay in place for
two weeks, meaning there’s no need to prick your finger every time you want
data about the amount of sugar frolicking in your blood. “The user experience
is getting better all the time with a lot of this stuff,” says Brandt, who
should know, since he specializes in “human-­interaction design.” Still, the
monitor is not yet approved for use in the U.S.; Woo and Brandt had ordered
theirs on eBay for about $100 apiece. They plan to wear them for the next 90
days, at least.

This self-mutilation in the name of science is, curiously, part of their
business plan. Nootrobox sells nootropics, an umbrella term for a set of
chemicals — some naturally occurring, some cooked up in labs — that supposedly
do what has heretofore eluded all but evolution: help you chemically grow a
better brain. Think Adderall without the lack of creativity, coffee without
the jitteriness, LSD without the spiders, nicotine without the cancer, and
cocaine without the sniffles. It’s a grandiose proposition strangely well
suited to entice Silicon Valley’s particular mix of the scientifically minded,
the idealistic, and the ambitious. And while it might not seem likely that two
computer-science majors would have figured out a way to leapfrog eons of
neural development to unlock hidden brain potential, wouldn’t it be beautiful
if they had?

For a mere $135 a month, the Nootrobox “full stack,” as a regimen is called,
offers a cornucopia of self-actualization — improved cognitive function,
better sleep, and protection against cellular wear and tear — all through
swallowing a few pills a day of an herb like _Bacopa monnieri,_ say, maybe cut
with a bit of neural precursor a-GPC. (You’re paying that $135 to not have to
know what those words mean.) [There’s
Rise](https://nymag.com/thecut/2015/11/gift-guide-
offbeat/slideshow/2015/11/20/gift_guide_2015_offbeat/nootrobox/) (two taken in
the morning “enhance memory, stamina, and resilience,” according to the
Nootrobox website), Sprint (to be taken as needed for “clarity, energy, and
flow”), Yawn (“optimized for each of the three phases of sleep”), and Kado-3
(a “supercharged” omega-3). [There are also Go
Cubes](https://nymag.com/thecut/swellness/2016/08/womenbiohackers-take-root-
in-silicon-valley.html), sugarcoated gummies that “combine the kick of coffee
with the relaxation of green tea” through a mixture of caffeine, L-­theanine,
vitamins B6 and B12, glucuronolactone, and inositol; they taste like congealed
mocha latte.

Since first hearing about the tantalizing prospect of nootropics a few years
back, Brandt and Woo have used themselves as guinea pigs — “bro science,” as
they’ve referred to it — to determine the effects various substances and
practices have on their own brains and systems. That’s where the glucose
monitors come in. Woo stares down the mechanism that will implant the needle
in his arm. “That’s pretty gnarly,” he says.

The potential for user error is small, though, since detailed instructions on
how to prick yourself are, as Brandt points out, “in the YouTubes.”

“You just gotta just do it,” Woo says as Brandt stands, the needle poised.
“Want me to help?” He presses down on the mechanism until there’s a loud
click.

“Oh, that was harmless,” Brandt says, fingering the plastic patch gingerly.

“Is it weird?”

“A little bit.”

Woo takes off his shirt, braces himself on the table, and then — _click_ — his
needle is inserted as well.

“You kinda feel it after,” Brandt says, grinning. “I didn’t want to say
anything.”

“I feel like a tagged elephant,” Woo observes.

Brandt swipes the reader over the patch to get a reading. “Five point two,” he
announces when numbers appear on the screen. He looks down at his new implant.
“I’m more machine than man!”

**“Humans are the** next platform,” Woo says casually, sitting upright in a
leather armchair not far from the WeWork Ping-Pong table where dudes in
hoodies goof around. Woo ignores them. He wears a paisley shirt and a neutral
expression. Brandt sits beside him, blinking irregularly behind his glasses
and chiming in mainly to make a point more pointed. “One thing that I like to
say is that we’re arming humans against the robot overlords. It’s kind of
tongue in cheek.” Woo smiles. “But kind of true.”

Brandt and Woo met at Stanford. “Instead of having kegs of Natty Light at our
parties, we would have Two Buck Chuck and EDM,” Woo says of the French House,
where they both lived. “I was president of the entrepreneurship club,” he
continues. “So, it’s like, ‘I better start a start-up.’ A lot of my
predecessors would use it as a cool extracurricular and then take consulting
jobs. I thought that was bullshit.”

Using his thesis work on how “modern distributed-systems techniques” could
track submarines, he created Glassmap, a location app that could not only tell
you where someone was but also predict where they were going. “We were
building operating systems and routers in class, and it was like, ‘Dude,
people are making all this money making stupid-ass iPhone games! We could
totally make some iPhone app and just kill it. That was literally the mind-
set, because you saw, like, Instagram — those people were at Stanford at the
same time as us. Snapchat? Those guys were younger than us.”

Before he’d even graduated, Glassmap got funded by Y Combinator, the most
powerful tech incubator in the world. “In retrospect, it seems like we were
just frickin’ kids, just messing around, and they gave us $170K or something.
It was an interesting level up in terms of ­professionalism.” Woo — who had
applied for his first patent in high school (“My mom has it framed in the
living room”) — eventually sold the app to Groupon, having turned down
Facebook before its IPO. “It was in stock,” Woo says of Zuckerberg’s offer. “I
can sort of back-­calculate it now, but, I mean, it’s meaningless, right? It
would have been nice. It would have been nice for anyone having Facebook
stock.” He shrugs. “Whatever.”

Meanwhile, Brandt, having been hired by Marissa Mayer for Google’s prestigious
Associate Product Manager Program, was tiring of his work product-managing
YouTube, which involved “getting people who come around for one video to watch
two, three,” he says. He and Woo found themselves simultaneously “between
projects,” wandering around the Mission District waiting for the next great
idea to strike.

Which is exactly when a brain boost can come in handy. A decent chunk of
Silicon Valley’s hustlers were already trying to chemically hack their way to
billion-­dollar valuations with work aids that included everything from
Adderall and Modafinil (developed to treat narcolepsy but especially popular
in tech) to tiny doses of LSD. “Some people see that now as a badge of honor,”
says David Weiseth, a Nootrobox customer who does software customization.
“It’s like, ‘Oh, he’s taking drugs, he’s trying to get an edge, he’s gonna
work through the night — that makes sense because it’s so important.’ ”

Woo wasn’t much interested in pharmaceuticals or scheduled drugs, but he was
drawn to a third option friends hadn’t mentioned: nootropics, a set of fairly
unregulated chemicals that had an underground customer base of people
enthusiastically engaging in DIY neurochemical experimentation. Before long,
Woo was going down a Reddit K-hole of chatter about various brain hacks. “Any
friends out there interested in nootropics?” he posted on Facebook in May
2014. Brandt was the second person to respond: “Yes please.” In fact, he’d
already started dabbling — among other experiments, he’d tried productivity
guru Tim Ferriss’s BrainQuicken, a mix of 21 ingredients like cogamine and
folic acid that promised to end “brain fog.”

The pair quickly realized nootropics’ potential: not just for brain gain but
for financial gain. If _they_ were interested in trying them, they figured,
the rest of the Valley would be too; and, naturally, whatever the Valley did,
the rest of the world would eventually follow. Soon, they moved in together
and went into “start-up mode,” ordering random powders off the internet and
hoping they didn’t get punked or worse. “We kind of tried everything. I was
half-terrified half the time,” Woo says. “If you’re ordering a compound that’s
not really meant for human consumption, and you’re ordering it from Alibaba
and it’s from China, you’re rolling the dice,” adds Brandt. Woo agrees: “We
were kind of stupid … It’s a complete Wild West.” He goes to a shelf in a
corner of the glassed-in space that serves as Nootrobox’s office and pulls out
a plastic bag full of a powdered white substance that could easily pass for
cocaine but turns out to be magnesium beta-hydroxybutyrate, touted online as a
superfood for the brain. “I mean, there’s all forms of people trying and
mixing all sorts of things. It’s shady.”

Brandt and Woo may not have had ­backgrounds in biology, but they had an
understanding of something even more lucrative: metrics. “We were like, ‘Okay,
where is the puck really heading, where’s the next billion dollars of value
created, where’s the next massive change in user behavior?’ ” Woo explains.
“What I saw was that the sensors on pure tech are stagnating. Like, people
have been complaining about this for the last two or three years — the
hardware, the number of sensors on your phone have plateaued. But sensors on
the human body were growing really quickly. We’re tracking heart rate, we’re
tracking footsteps, your microbiome is being surfaced up … all these things.
Pulling data from the human body was now in this explosion phase.” What was
the point of all this “data porn” if you couldn’t optimize performance, Woo
and Brandt wondered.

In June 2014, after just one month of “research,” they threw up a landing page
for Nootrobox after a “weekend hackathon boom launch” and got 32 orders the
first day. By December, they say, they were making “in the five digits” a
month.

Then again, it’s harder to hack human cognition than it is to build an app.
_“Ha-ha-ha-ha,”_ laughs Gary Lynch, when I ask him about the science of
nootropics. A professor of neurobiology at the University of California,
Irvine, Lynch specializes in the biochemistry of memory. “You use the word
_science_ rather broadly,” he tells me. “I’m not sure it really applies in the
case of nootropics.” Amy Arnsten, a Yale neuroscientist who studies higher
cognition, agrees. “I think many of these companies use a neutroceutical
approach just as a way of trying to get around FDA regulation, so they can
basically claim anything and there’s no one policing them,” she says. “I would
say that they’re going for things that look like they should improve [the
brain], and yet there’s very little real evidence. It’s snake oil.” Hank
Greely, director of the Stanford Program in Neuroscience and Society, thinks
that even that comparison might be giving them too much credence. “I mean,
there are at least a couple of studies on oil,” he says. “There’s probably
more evidence for fish oil than there is for most of these things.” He adds,
“We should all be a little more skeptical about whether the Silicon Valley
approach works for everything.”

Brandt and Woo flipped the equation: They say the evidence isn’t there because
the medical community focuses on fixing problems rather than enhancing health;
and while there’s not an overwhelming amount of research, the studies that
they’ve compiled on their website do include a handful from reputable journals
with small but statistically significant results. “You can increase reaction
time around 10 percent. With working memory capacity, you can see percentage
diffs of around 5 to 10 percent,” says Woo, who argues that such numbers are
“not necessarily negligible” if compounded over years and across populations —
or to get an edge in a competitive field. When I send Greely a link to the
__[_Bacopa monnieri_ studies ](https://nootrobox.com/biohacker-
guide/nootropics/bacopa-monnieri)they cite, he writes back that Brandt and Woo
are “not hucksters. There’s evidence here that could lead some people who
either weren’t risk averse or were desperate to try it. I would note, though,
that even the positive studies say you need to take it for a long time to get
any event — 12 weeks to remember seven words instead of six on a memory test.”

**At the very least,** Nootrobox is certainly a safer bet than the DIY
approach, and the company’s value is in its vetting. Since their early days of
bro-science (when a nootropic called noopept made Woo see colors more brightly
and was scratched from the list), the pair have outsourced their research to
M.D.–Ph.D. candidates, switched from hand-filled capsules to ones made by the
same manufacturers as Pfizer, and limited ingredients to compounds tested in
double-blind, randomized trials on humans.

Woo and Brandt have also played by the FDA’s rules, forgoing compounds like
piracetam, the nootropic that spawned the term in 1972 but is now sold only as
a research chemical. Until recently, you could buy the powder on Amazon. In
fact, you can still buy it from Nootroo, a Nootrobox competitor that sells its
products with a disclaimer: “Intended for neuroscience research only.”
“Regulators aren’t stupid,” says Woo of his competitors’ risk-­taking. “I
mean, you’re selling as a pill, so you’re telling people to eat it, and now
they’re eating it. But they can worry about that when they go to court.” For
its part, Nootrobox sticks to compounds that are classified as GRAS —
“generally regarded as safe” — and works with lawyers who represented Red Bull
when energy drinks were going before Congress. “I think hallucinogens have an
interesting data stream as antidepressants. There’s interesting clinical data
on ketamine, MDMA,” says Woo. “But you can’t take institutional money by
selling drugs.” And taking institutional money was clearly the next step.
Mayer and Mark Pincus chipped in for a first round of investment, before
Andreessen Horowitz, Silicon Valley’s top venture-capital firm — which has
backed Facebook, Airbnb, and Lyft — got involved and raised $2 million in
start-up capital for the company. “The way Nike owns physical performance,”
says Brandt, “we want to own mental performance.”

Part of achieving that goal means becoming a truly all-encompassing lifestyle
brand. At nine on a September morning, members of the [WeFast
](https://wefa.st/)group were gathering at a café called Elmira (“Slow Food
Flavor for a Fast World”) just a few blocks from the Nootrobox offices. They
were mostly young, mostly male, mostly involved in tech, and mostly wrapping
up a 36-hour fast — though one Nootrobox employee, a handsome Stanford grad
named Paul, had been going for 60. “I ate a muffin, and now I’m at 9.1,”
Brandt announced, motioning to his glucose monitor, as I came in. He chuckled.
“I was just trying to get robust data. But doesn’t it make you think twice
about getting a muffin?”

At a large, L-shaped table by the front window, Woo and Brandt held court.[
](https://wefa.st/)WeFast is a group started by Nootrobox, and it works as a
marketing device, rounding up a community of [so-called
biohackers](http://www.businessinsider.com/silicon-valley-biohacking-
wefast-2016-8/) to whom their products might appeal. But it’s also part of the
recommended Nootrobox regimen, since even Brandt and Woo had quickly come to
realize that truly optimal brain function wouldn’t happen with their products
alone. In addition to fasting (“If you’re basically starving, your body is
like, _Hey, go find prey. Be smart_ ”), the pair are drawn to the [ketogenic
diet](https://www.thecut.com/2018/01/what-is-keto-diet-foods-carbs-
safety.html), in which you get the majority of your calories from fat,
eliminating carbohydrates, which supposedly provides the brain with better
fuel. And they are in the process of kicking off a 90-day “biohacker
challenge”: After a monthlong “washout” period in which they stopped taking
nootropics to flush out their systems, they’ll spend the next three monitoring
certain markers in their saliva, urine, spit, breath, stool, and blood (hence
the glucose monitors) and taking online cognition tests as the nootropics
build back up in their system. As a community-building experience, others have
been invited to take the challenge with them, which has the added bonus of
allowing Nootrobox to crowdsource data about their products — though from an
admittedly self-selecting group. (Mostly: “My boss was like, ‘If you don’t
fast, I’ll fire you,’ ” announced one guy.)

The core WeFast crew are all textbook [early
adopters](https://nymag.com/selectall/2015/12/early-adopters-who-are-living-
like-its-tomorrow.html). “Ayumi is one of our more adventurous biohackers,”
Woo said, introducing me to a tall woman with peroxide hair.

“Wow,” Ayumi replied, pleased in a Zen sort of way. “Thank you. I love
adventures.” She goes on to explain how she wouldn’t consider implanting a
magnet into her finger, as some in the group have done (“I don’t think that’s
really useful”), but she would theoretically like to extend her capabilities
through implants as opposed to genetic manipulation. “I think becoming a
cyborg is better,” she said, inserting the end of a knife into a jar of
coconut oil and cleanly licking it off. Until that goal is achieved, she takes
about 30 supplements a day, though not from Nootrobox (“I can buy the
components on my own for less”). She believes that in a few decades’ time,
this will be the norm.

In anticipation of such a moment, Brandt and Woo are developing tools to help
people adapt more readily to the biohacker way of life — a next step in their
business plan that also happens to draw more directly on their computer-
science background. They’ve built Coach, a cyberbot app that engages in
conversations with users to encourage them through their fasts (“get a good
night’s rest. I bet you’ll feel great tomorrow ”), soon to be available in the
app store. And there’s Introspect, a mood-tracking matrix that Brandt and Woo
hope will allow people to connect certain “mood states” to inputs like food
and supplements. They see themselves as the Steve Jobses of nootropics,
visionaries doing the work needed to streamline the user experience and help
Nootrobox, as they say, scale. “Thirty years ago, when people were carting
around Ataris and piecing together motherboards, I think you would have had
the same kind of skepticism,” says Woo. “Reasonably so. But we’re literally
addicted to our computers now. All of this experience is going to be made so
seamless that it becomes mainstream. You don’t stop progress, right?”

Back at the office later that afternoon, Woo pulls a slender envelope from his
stack of mail. “This is funny,” he murmurs. Inside, on lined notebook paper,
someone has handwritten: “Dear Sir or Madam, Please respond to this EXPRESS
REQUEST for information about Nootrobox, for my personal use. A FREE brochure
or catalogue about obtaining chewable coffee by post, would be especially
helpful. A prompt response by snail mail would be appreciated.”

Orders for Nootrobox products were arriving every two to three minutes, but
there’s something about this letter that draws the team in. It isn’t a relic
so much as a beacon, and the message is clear: The future is coming, even to
those who are stuck in the past. “I’m going to write him back,” Woo announces.
Then he sits down at his computer and picks up a pen.

_*This article appears in the October 17, 2016, issue of_ New York _Magazine._
