title: Why bribing your child doesn't work.
source: http://www.slate.com/id/2248766/pagenum/all/#p2
date: 2025-08-13T22:09:49.740337
tags: []
---
The very idea of rewarding children for good behavior rubs a lot of adults the
wrong way. Even when they accept that positive reinforcement changes behavior
a lot more effectively than punishment does, they still object to using
rewards in general and specifically for behaviors one ought to expect as a
matter of course from a child. They just can’t bring themselves to praise a
7-year-old and give her points on a point chart or a little prize because she
didn’t throw a tantrum in the supermarket.

Rewarding the desired behavior is just one element of positive reinforcement,
which a deep body of reputable research over several decades has established
as the most effective way to change behavior. But many parents (and teachers
and babysitters) reasonably object that giving a child a reward amounts to
bribing him. He’s just doing it for the reward, they say. They want him to
behave for other, better reasons: because he should, because it’s his
responsibility, because they say so.

The families who come to Alan’s [Yale Parenting
Center](http://www.yale.edu/childconductclinic) often resist using rewards,
which leads to some typical exchanges with the trainers there.

**Objection: I don’t want to reward behavior the child should do anyway
because it’s part of his normal responsibilities.

** That’s a reasonable position. However, if the child is not doing the
behavior now, or not often enough, or not without a struggle, it seems
practical to ask: “What’s the best way to jump-start it?” Reprimands and
threats don’t work very well, and they often have side effects that increase
noncompliance and decrease the likelihood that the child will do what’s
requested. Typically, reprimands and threats function just like bribes. They
might get the desired behavior for the moment, but the child won’t continue
the behavior beyond just responding to the threat. That is, the behavior will
not be locked in as a habit or as an expression of a general characteristic we
wish to develop, such as honesty, kindness, or generosity.

**Objection: If we use rewards to get the behavior, the behavior will stop
once we stop giving the rewards, which means we’d have to give the rewards
forever to keep the behavior going.

** That’s a nightmarish scenario—the kind of perpetual bind that people taking
certain medications, like those that lower blood cholesterol, can find
themselves in. Will you have to give your child two stickers on her point
chart for using the potty before she steps into the limo on the way to the
senior prom? Fortunately, that’s not how it works when you use rewards in an
effective way to improve behavior.

You praise your child at the toddler stage for using the potty and for saying
“thank you” and for not using the tablecloth to wipe her nose, but by the
prom-going stage (and, ideally, by about 14 years before it), she has these
habits down cold and no longer needs to be reinforced in them. The relatively
brief period during which you praised these behaviors has been over for a very
long time. Whether a behavior is maintained and becomes a habit has a lot to
do with _how_ the rewards are given. The key is not in the rewards themselves
but in a consistent way of getting the child to carry out the behavior and
praising or otherwise rewarding it when it occurs. (Don’t forget: Attention
and praise are rewards and are, in fact, your most reliable rewards.)
Unsystematic one-shot incentives will lead to dependence on the reward, and
the behavior is indeed likely to stop once you stop rewarding it.

From the perspective of changing behavior, that’s the crucial difference
between a bribe and a reward. A bribe, even in those cases when it’s ongoing
over a long period of time, is not part of a systematic effort to develop
behavior so that it persists when the bribe is no longer offered. Even if
you’ve paid the same guy in City Hall to fix tickets for you for years, if you
stop paying him, he’ll stop fixing your tickets. A reward, by contrast, when
used properly in combination with antecedents (what you say and do to prompt
the desired behavior) and shaping (rewarding partial success in order to build
up the behavior) and other elements of a systematic effort to lastingly change
behavior, is a temporary measure that can be phased out once the behavior is
established. The behavior continues without the reward, just as a finished
building continues to stand after the scaffolding comes down.

**Objection: Rewards will ruin my child’s inner motivation to do things for
their own sake.

** No, they won’t, not if used properly. While an improvised, one-shot “do
this for that” will not develop the behavior you want and may undermine
intrinsic motivation, rewards used to systematically develop behavior can lock
in habits that become independent of any rewards. An example many adults can
relate to in their own behavior is exercise. At first, it may be a struggle to
exercise regularly. When it’s time to work out, you feel a strong urge to
sleep in or quietly watch reruns of _Cheers_ until the moment passes, and you
may not get to the gym at all unless your significant other intervenes to
offer a timely reward (you’re an adult; use your imagination). But repetition
of the behavior locks in the habit, and the behavior then becomes its own
reward. You might even become a fanatic who gets mildly disturbed or seriously
irked if illness, work, or some other annoying obstruction prevents you from
getting to the gym on a given day. There’s no magic in the rewards themselves.
They are merely aids to get the behavior to occur repeatedly, so that the
habit can develop.

**Objection: Rewards are unnatural consequences. When my child grows up,
she’ll see that the world is not waiting around to hand out praise or video
games for doing what she’s supposed to do.

** A fair point, but one might quibble with the idea that the home should be
exactly like other situations the child will experience when she grows up. The
home is a unique place where a child develops resilience, competences,
attachments, and support in ways that have little to do with later experiences
except that they prepare the child to weather and learn from life. Also, the
proper way to give rewards has some other redeeming features, of which more in
a moment.

**Objection: Rewards don’t work. I tried one of those point charts, and it
didn’t change a thing.

** A point chart—if you even need one at all—can work very well. And yet,
almost all families that come to the Yale Parenting Center have tried point
charts and the rewards that go with them. Those schemes haven’t worked,
obviously, or they wouldn’t be coming to the center to address their conduct
problems. But that doesn’t justify concluding that reward programs don’t work,
period. The equivalent would be driving in neutral with the emergency brake on
and saying that cars don’t work. There is research about how to make such
programs work, and that same research explains why so many of them fail:

**1.****Winging it**. Some parents improvise makeshift rewards on the spot and
fire them from the hip at the moving target of the child’s conduct. “Billy, go
get my purse from upstairs and you can have 5 minutes more of TV”… “Billy,
we’re going to the store; if you get your shoes and coat right away, you can
have a snack when we get back”… “Billy, if you go keep your sister company for
a few minutes, we can make your bedtime a few minutes later.” These parents
are winging it, throwing together rewards on the fly to encourage a shifting
range of behaviors. This approach confirms the wisdom of every objection we’ve
just considered above. It will not develop intrinsic motivation or habits, or
at least habits parents want. The child may do each desired behavior, but only
for the specific reward at that moment—that is, for the bribe. Once the reward
stops, each of the behaviors is likely to stop as well.

**2\. The Hail Mary reward system**. Some parents give rewards for a big
outcome that occurs at the end of a long period. Promising a mega-prize for
good grades at the end of a year is perhaps the most common example. Parents
who want their child to study, do homework, and get good grades—and who have
learned that pleas, reprimands, and threats don’t often work—often turn to the
Hail Mary. Typically, they promise their child a big reward—a trip to Disney
World, use of the car—if she gets all A’s at the end of the term. This is a
misuse of rewards that’s nearly guaranteed to fail.

The goal of a reward program should be to build specific behaviors, actions,
and habits: bringing home your homework assignments regularly, doing them
regularly, studying with a parent and then by yourself, and talking a little
bit at the dinner table about one or two things you have studied. All of these
are specific behaviors we want to develop and lock in and that can in fact
contribute to good grades, not to mention learning. The focus on long-term
outcomes alone—A’s at the end of the year—puts the emphasis on the wrong thing
and creates a crucial lag between the proper day-to-day behavior and the
reward intended to reinforce it. Even if the child gets the grades, that
outcome can occur for all sorts of reasons (including cheating) and does not
always necessarily help develop the good habits we want to develop.

**3\. Complex reward systems**. Some parents who come to the Yale Parenting
Center have created complex point systems featuring multiple prizes that can
be earned with different point totals, and bonus gimmicks galore. They also
make physically beautiful point charts on which earned points are tracked as,
for instance, spots on a leopard or ladybug, or as planets or stars in space.
There’s no reason to object to charts that are more creative and fun—just as
long as you bear in mind that it’s not necessary or more effective. But if you
get too fancy with the reward system itself, you can undermine your own
results.

The more complex the system, the harder it is to stick to and administer
properly. Yes, if done correctly, it may well work. Yes, variations of systems
like this have a technical name—a token economy—and have been used in basic
training in the military, in educational settings from preschool through
college, in assisted-living facilities to increase activities and social
interaction among the elderly, and in workplaces to promote safe shop-floor
habits. In all these settings, even fairly complex rewards systems have been
proven to work. They can work in the home, too, but you probably don’t need to
use them. Parents can shape most of the behaviors they want by offering as
rewards no more than attention, praise, and a few minor privileges.

A parent’s attention is very rewarding to a child, and praise is even better.
Parents are giving attention all the time, and they are giving mild forms of
praise, verbal and nonverbal (a smile, a touch, an affectionate or impressed
look). Attention and praise are our main rewards, and often they’re sufficient
to change behavior on their own, without resorting to tokens, privileges, or
prizes.

But attention and praise can be used more precisely than they usually are.
It’s natural to make the mistake of devoting most of our attention to
misbehavior, rather than to good behavior, and praise is often sporadic, not
very specific (the generic “good job” doesn’t convey precisely what the child
did right), not particularly enthusiastic, and not systematically connected to
some behavior that the parents would like to develop.

When you’re consciously using praise to change behavior, the key is noticing
and praising the behavior promptly, specifically, and precisely so that it
occurs again and can be praised again. We want repeated practice to lock in
the habit, and praise helps that to happen.

To make praise effective:

**1\. Be specific about the behaviors you want**. Explain to yourself, first,
and then to your child what the specific behavior is you want to develop.
Vague commands like “be nice” or “show respect” are too general. Rather, say,
“When you’re playing with your sister, keep your voice down and don’t take her
toys” or “When you talk to Grandma, keep your body calm and don’t make that
obscene gesture Grandpa taught you.” When you see the desired behavior, praise
it specifically and enthusiastically (the younger the child, the more
enthusiastic you should be): “You stayed in your seat all through dinner and
you used your inside voice. That’s great!”

**2\. Identify a small number of behaviors**. Start with no more than two or
three behaviors you want to develop in the child. You will be able to replace
them later with new behaviors once these first few are developed. Remember,
the reward does not produce the results—rather, you want to encourage repeated
practice of the behaviors, or of samples or approximations of these behaviors.
You want to focus on getting a couple of behaviors locked in as a habit, then
move on to the next ones.

**3\. Model the behaviors you want**. Show the child exactly what the behavior
would look like. Even if she “knows,” it will help if you demonstrate. Then
have the child do it and praise her for whatever parts she copied correctly
from you. If you see other people in everyday life—while you are at the store
with your child or out to dinner or hanging out—point out the desirable
behavior you just saw. Other people can be used as models if you punctuate
what you see with your comments and approval.

**4\. The key is repetition, so practice**. We reward behavior in order to
encourage repetition, which is called reinforced practice. If your child is
already occasionally doing the behavior you want, systematic praise can lock
it in as a habit. If the child does not do the behavior yet in the course of
normal life, practice it in pretend, gamelike circumstances. You do it, have
her do it, and praise.

A young child who may not go to bed right away at bedtime can get better at
this if you practice a bit. This can be pretend practice during the middle of
the day. Set it up as a game. He goes to his room and gets into bed,
pretending it’s bedtime. You praise all of that. Practicing this a few times
in a given week will increase the likelihood that he goes to bed better at
bedtime—and be sure to praise that, too.

Practicing the behavior in pretend situations is still practice and still
builds the behavior. Remember, commercial airline pilots practice all of the
time in “pretend” situations (called simulators), and that practice carries
over to real situations. Boxers practice and train in the gym to develop
habits they will call upon on fight night. It’s the same with behaviors you
want to develop in the home.

**5\. Shape the desired behavior by rewarding gradual approximations of it**.
If the behavior does not yet occur the way you want it—not a full hour of
bassoon practice, not a full hour of homework each day—praise lesser durations
and partial successes and build them up over time.

The use of praise to develop behavior in the way we’ve been describing it is
systematic, temporary, and a purposeful addition to—but not a substitute
for—the ordinary warm attention you normally give to your children just
because you love them. Why not test it out for a brief period? Let’s say three
days. For three days, try to use praise as a reward in the ways outlined
above. You should see a difference in your child’s behavior and in the
emotional climate of your household.

Praise is one in the larger set of positive experiences that builds the
relationship between a parent and child. Many parents and others in authority
rely instead on threats, hitting, and punishment more generally, especially
when trying to teach respect. More punishment leads to children escaping and
avoiding the punisher; more effective praise makes for closeness and better
relationships. Because praise for positive behaviors decreases the need for
punishment, it helps to make a family closer and warmer. In seeking to strike
the balance between them, the rule of thumb when trying to change behavior is
that praise for good behavior should be much more frequent than punishment for
the behavior you want to eliminate.

None of this looks anything like bribery. Rewards tend to become bribery when
they’re unsystematic, unconnected to clear parental expectations, and used to
try to get your kids to do things at odds with the model you provide with your
own behavior.
