title: Simple rules for healthy eating
source: http://kottke.org/15/04/simple-rules-for-healthy-eating
date: 2025-08-13T19:00:44.415149
tags: []
---
## Simple rules for healthy eating

From pediatrics professor Aaron Carroll, [a list of guidelines for sensible &
healthy eating](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/21/upshot/simple-rules-for-
healthy-eating.html).

> 1\. Get as much of your nutrition as possible from a variety of completely
> unprocessed foods. These include fruits and vegetables. But they also
> include meat, fish, poultry and eggs that haven’t been processed. In other
> words, try to buy food that hasn’t been cooked, prepared or altered in any
> way. Brown rice over white rice. Whole grains over refined grains. You’re
> far better off eating two apples than drinking the same 27 grams of sugar in
> an eight-ounce glass of apple juice.

What’s more interesting than the guidelines is the admission up front that
they’re not supported by rigorous science…and neither is nutrition in general.
In the absence of science, “everything in moderation” seems to be the
recommended course. (via [@jimray](https://twitter.com/jimray))

**Update:** Julia Belluz recently interviewed Surgeon General1 Vivek Murthy
for Vox and within, Murthy shares his four basic rules for health:

> One is to eat healthy. I tend to avoid salt, added sugar, and processed
> foods whenever possible, and try to eat fresh fruits and vegetables as part
> of all my meals whenever possible.
>
> Second is to stay physically active. That means not just going to gym but
> incorporating activity into whatever I do, whether that’s taking the stairs
> or converting sitting meetings to walking meetings whenever possible.
>
> Third is making sure I’m focusing on my emotional and mental well-being. For
> me, an important part of that is the meditation practice that I do every
> morning. It’s a chance for me to center myself, a chance for me to remember
> who I want to be every day.
>
> The fourth thing is I remind myself to stay away from toxic substances like
> tobacco and drugs.
