title: Alison Roman Just Can’t Help Herself | The New Yorker
source: https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2021/12/20/alison-roman-just-cant-help-herself
date: 2025-08-13T15:32:28.809877
tags: []
---
In 2018, she joined the _Times_ as a food columnist. (“Alison Roman! Alison
Roman!” read the headline on a piece announcing her appointment.) At the
_Times_ , she specialized in visually enticing recipes that brought a sense of
youthful glamour to the staid domain of weeknight cooking. If you wanted to
bake some salmon, you went to Mark Bittman; if you went to Alison Roman, you
wanted to bake some salmon. She developed a robust following on social media.
“Alison has a very strong visual sense and is a quick wit—a combination that
made her a trailblazer on Instagram,” Lam told me. Home cooks made her recipes
and posted pictures; Roman laboriously reposted their handiwork to her
account, showing her fans love while making the agnostics wonder if they were
missing out on something.

Roman’s interview with Dan Frommer of the New Consumer was intended as a
business move. She and David Cho had been tossing around the idea of adding
some merchandise to her Web site. “He was, like, ‘Hey, I’m gonna introduce you
to my friend Dan. He does this newsletter that’s for people in the tech world
and business, and not really your demographic, and I think it’d be really good
for you,’ ” Roman told me. “Normally I would have passed and just been, like,
‘What the fuck is the New Consumer?’ ”

The interview began with the usual pandemic chitchat. As the conversation
picked up, it centered on Roman’s desire to build a bigger business without
sacrificing her principles or the messiness that had made her successful. “Is
there anything you really want to do or really don’t want to do?” Frommer
asked. Roman had sold a TV show to Hulu, though she said production had been
stalled by _COVID_. She was collaborating with a cookware company on a
limited-edition line of vintage-inspired spoons. She dreamed of buying a house
upstate.

She also knew what she didn’t want her future to resemble. “The idea that when
Marie Kondo decided to capitalize on her fame and make stuff that you can buy,
that is completely antithetical to everything she’s ever taught you,” Roman
said. “I’m like, damn, bitch, you fucking just sold out immediately! Someone’s
like, ‘You should make stuff,’ and she’s like, ‘Okay, slap my name on it, I
don’t give a shit!’ ”

She continued, “Like, what Chrissy Teigen has done is so crazy to me. She had
a successful cookbook. And then it was like: Boom, line at Target. Boom, now
she has an Instagram page that has over a million followers where it’s just,
like, people running a content farm for her. That horrifies me and it’s not
something that I ever want to do. I don’t aspire to that. But like, who’s
laughing now? Because she’s making a ton of fucking money.”

At first, Roman thought that the interview had gone well. She was getting
positive feedback for having spoken frankly about money. Still, there were
rumblings of doubt on Twitter: Wasn’t all the high-minded talk about creative
integrity a bit rich coming from someone with a limited-edition vintage-spoon
line? Roman accused one critic of bullying a successful woman, then tweeted,
“Just wishing I had someone to hold my hand during baby’s first internet
backlash.”

Roman decided to get off social media for a while. She had just baked a
chocolate cake for a friend’s bachelorette party when her manager called,
saying that Chrissy Teigen’s manager had told her that Teigen’s feelings were
hurt by Roman’s comments. (Kondo has not said much about any of this, but
recently told the Daily Beast that “it’s completely natural for everyone to
have different opinions.”) “This is a huge bummer and hit me hard,” Teigen
soon tweeted, adding that she “genuinely loved everything about Alison.” Roman
dashed off an apology tweet to Teigen and went to bed. “I put my phone away,
and then woke up the next morning to a bajillion texts, more texts than I had
ever seen in my life,” she recalled. “And I picked up my phone and was just,
like, ‘Holy Moses, oh, my God, now we’re talking about race.’ ”

On May 11th, Roman issued a lengthy formal apology, saying that she had been
“stupid, careless and insensitive,” and that “the fact that it didn’t occur to
me that I had singled out two Asian women is one hundred percent a function of
my privilege.” (She had also made a comment—“For the low, low price of $19.99,
please to buy my cutting board”—that she said was based on an inside joke
about an Eastern European cookbook.) Roman told me that it hadn’t occurred to
her that Teigen would take offense. “It was, like, ‘You’re a hot billionaire
supermodel married to [John
Legend](http://web.archive.org/web/20250617132438/https://www.newyorker.com/podcast/the-
new-yorker-radio-hour/music-will-not-be-quarantined-reprise), and I’m here
covered in cat hair and a total mess,’ ” she said.

The _Times_ suspended Roman’s column, a move to which Teigen objected, setting
off another cycle of headlines. (This spring, Teigen stepped away from Twitter
amid allegations of bullying, acknowledging that earlier in her career she had
been “a troll, full stop.”) In one of the more incisive analyses of the
affair, Navneet Alang, at Eater,
[wrote](http://web.archive.org/web/20250617132438/https://www.eater.com/2020/5/20/21262304/global-
pantry-alison-roman-bon-appetit), “The backlash to Roman’s comments, like most
backlashes, was a combination of legitimate grievance and the way that Twitter
refracts and concentrates reaction.” Alang concluded, “If it felt as though
people had been sitting around waiting for her to mess up, it was probably
because many of them had.”

“I never thought I would be at the center of this,” Roman told me, in the
immediate aftermath. “I thought I could hide behind chicken thighs my whole
life and be, like, ‘Oh, whatever, I’m just over here making food,’ and now I’m
in a very important conversation that I feel very ill-equipped to handle. But
I’m going to handle it.” She continued, “Sometimes I wake up and I’m, like,
‘Oh, my God, is this navigable, and will I ever recover? Did I throw my entire
life away?’ And then there’s also, like, ‘That’s a pretty big cop-out, and, if
you’re gonna fucking step into it, step into it.’ ”

[![Advisor asks Aaron Burr whether it's worth going to New Jersey just for the
duel.](http://web.archive.org/web/20250617132438im_/https://media.newyorker.com/cartoons/61b3abe3a2a715012941471c/master/w_1600%2Cc_limit/211220_a24019.jpg)](http://web.archive.org/web/20250617132438/https://www.newyorker.com/cartoon/a24019)

“But, Burr, do you demand satisfaction so much as to go to New Jersey for it?”

Cartoon by Brendan Loper

I decided to write about Roman in March of 2020, a few months before the New
Consumer debacle. I didn’t own either of her books, and I don’t watch many
cooking videos, but I had made and enjoyed a number of her recipes. (The Swiss
Chard and Mushroom Galette ought to be up there with the Caramelized Shallot
Pasta.) Usually, it takes some time to locate the pressure points of a story,
and to find sources willing to speak about them, but, in this case, almost as
soon as I started reporting, my phone and e-mail lit up. I heard from a number
of women working in the food world; some were white, others were Black and
brown. Several spoke on the record; others preferred not to, knowing that
their comments would inevitably be construed as personal grievance when, in
fact, they were less interested in singling Roman out than in making a wider
critique of the food world. Two themes emerged: the sense that Roman was both
a product and a perpetuator of structural racism in food media, and a wish
that her sense of social responsibility was commensurate with the size of her
platform. Osayi Endolyn, who writes about food and identity, told me, “You
can’t really explain the phenomenon of Alison Roman as a figurehead without
understanding how whiteness functions in America, and how whiteness functions
in food and food media.”

In contrast to the geek-out approach favored by writers like J. Kenji López-
Alt, Roman often presents herself as less informed than she is, or maybe ought
to be. “I am not a vegetable scientist (lol) so I am not saying this is a
FACT,” she writes, “but it *feels* like green beans have an especially tough,
highly impenetrable exterior, but when they are warm, they seem to really
accept flavor much better than when cold.” For all her outspokenness, she is
reticent on certain issues. She’ll recommend a brand of pepper mill (Unicorn),
or tell you what lipstick she’s currently wearing (Lasting Passion, a “really
awesome orangey-red” from _MAC_), but she has little to say about the
sustainability of tuna. “I speak to what I know,” Roman told me, adding that
accessibility and affordability are also important aspects of the
conversation. “I’m not a scientist, I’m not a food reporter, I’m not spending
my time doing that research. How far does my responsibility extend?”

As the writer Andrea Nguyen has observed, the brash, prescriptive “bro tone”
that has served many a male food-world personality so well is increasingly
becoming gender-neutral. Roman has been one of its premier female purveyors,
rarely shying away from—and occasionally picking—a fight. “Rice has always
seemed like filler to me,” she wrote in 2016’s “Dining In,” dismissing the
world’s second most important cereal crop as though she were swiping left.

At the end of 2018, Roman débuted what became known as #TheStew (né Spiced
Chickpea Stew with Coconut and Turmeric). To make it, you soften garlic,
ginger, and onions in olive oil. You add chickpeas, frying them with red-
pepper flakes and turmeric, then simmer them in coconut milk. After wilting in
greens, you serve the dish with mint leaves, a dollop of yogurt, and toasted
flatbread. The recipe was healthful. It was warming. It was, to some readers,
obviously an Indian chana masala or _chole_ or, alternatively, a Jamaican
chickpea curry. “This is neither a soup nor a stew, it’s called chana masala,
and Indians have been eating it for centuries. Seriously, 🙄,” an Instagram
user named Priya Ahuja Donatelli wrote, in the comments of a post in which
Roman had announced a giveaway with an equity-focussed spice company, inviting
readers to respond with their “favorite ideas for dismantling the patriarchy
OR cooking with turmeric.”

Roman was speaking the language of social justice, but she wasn’t crediting
the cultures from which she drew certain techniques and ingredients. She was
shine theory in her head, but Sun Tzu in her heart. “I don’t read other
cookbooks, I don’t follow anybody on Instagram,” she told me one day. “That
clouds shit for me.” Nor did she acknowledge that her branding implied
personal ownership over deep-rooted dishes. (“I wasn’t very thoughtful about
it,” she said recently.)

“There’s a sense in editorial, publishing, and TV spaces that, if you are from
a nonwhite background, what you talk about has to be generated from your
identity in some way,” Endolyn told me. “But if you’re a white person you can
go anywhere you want. You can talk about Asian cuisines, you can talk about
African or African American cuisines, you can talk about South American
cuisines. No one’s saying you can’t cook with turmeric—cook with turmeric,
turn orange if you want to! The point is to recognize that people from
nonwhite, non-Eurocentric cultures tend to be pigeonholed by their identity
(which isn’t necessarily a measure of expertise) _and_ not offered the same
leeway to experiment, play, and ‘discover’ things.”

When Jezebel
[asked](http://web.archive.org/web/20250617132438/https://jezebel.com/alison-
roman-is-more-than-thestew-1838861751) Roman about the issue of cultural
appropriation, she dug in her heels. “Y’all, this is not a curry,” she said.
“I’ve never made a curry.” She added, “I come from no culture. I have no
culture. I’m like, vaguely European.” Through years of being told online that
she was fat, that her pants were ugly, that her voice was annoying, Roman had
learned to tune out negative feedback, positioning herself in opposition to
whomever she perceived as a hater. She sometimes lent her support to
progressive causes, but she was also hesitant to stray from her area of
expertise, [once
telling](http://web.archive.org/web/20250617132438/https://cherrybombe.com/new-
page) _Cherry Bombe_ , “Compared to a lot of women in our field and industry,
I am definitely on the quieter side of politics, but that’s mostly because of
my educational level.”
