title: Hackers Are Emptying ATMs With a Single Drilled Hole and $15 Worth of Gear | WIRED
source: https://www.wired.com/2017/04/hackers-emptying-atms-drill-15-worth-gear/
date: 2025-08-13T17:25:29.813889
tags: []
---
Not so long ago, enterprising thieves who wanted to steal the entire contents
of an ATM had to [blow it
up](http://web.archive.org/web/20250714155213/https://www.liveleak.com/view?i=b14_1360324246&comments=1).
Today, a more discreet sort of cash-machine burglar can walk away with an
ATM's stash and leave behind only a tell-tale three-inch hole in its front
panel.

Researchers from the Russian security firm Kaspersky on Monday detailed a new
ATM-emptying attack, one that mixes digital savvy with a very precise form of
physical penetration. Kaspersky's team has even reverse engineered and
demonstrated the attack, using only a portable power drill and a $15 homemade
gadget that injects malicious commands to trigger the machine's cash
dispenser. And though they won't name the ATM manufacturer or the banks
affected, they warn that thieves have already used the drill attack across
Russia and Europe, and that the technique could still leave ATMs around the
world vulnerable to having their cash safes disemboweled in a matter of
minutes.

"We wanted to know: To what extent can you control the internals of the ATM
with one drilled hole and one connected wire? It turns out we can do anything
with it," says Kaspersky researcher Igor Soumenkov, who presented the research
at the company's annual Kaspersky Analyst Summit. "The dispenser will obey and
dispense money, and it can all be done with a very simple microcomputer."

Drill, Baby, Drill

For Kaspersky, the mystery of the drilled ATMs began last fall, when a bank
client showed them an emptied cash machine whose only evidence of tampering
was a golf-ball sized hole next to its PIN pad. To hide their tidy surgery,
the thieves had even covered the entry point with a sticker. Eventually, the
researchers learned of close to a dozen similar ATM heists. And when police
arrested a suspect in one of the cases, they found a laptop, along with a
cable he'd apparently snaked into the PIN pad hole. "Just a laptop, some
wiring, and a hole in the ATM, that’s it," says Soumenkov.

Kaspersky's researchers already had the same model of ATM in their test lab,
one that's been in wide use since the 1990s. They removed its front panel to
find a serial port that would have been accessible from the thieves' hole. It
connected to a wire that ran through the ATM's entire internal bus of
components, from the computer that controlled its user interface to the cash
dispenser. Then the researchers spent five solid weeks with an oscilloscope
and logic analyzer, decoding the protocol of the ATM's internal communications
from raw electric signals. They found that the machine's only encryption was a
weak XOR cipher they were able to easily break, and that there was no real
authentication between the machine's modules.

In practical terms, that means any part of the ATM could essentially send
commands to any other part, allowing an attacker to spoof commands to the
dispenser, giving them the appearance of coming from the ATM's own trusted
computer.

Eventually, the researchers were able to build their own device capable of
sending cash-ejecting commands through just that exposed port. Their compact
gadget, far smaller than even the arrested suspect's laptop, consisted of only
a breadboard, an Atmega microcontroller of the kind commonly found in Arduino
microcomputers, some capacitors, an adapter, and a 9 volt battery. All told,
it took less than $15 worth of equipment.
