title: Freedom from cable isn’t free: Flood of streaming services will make cutting the cord more complicated - The Washington Post
source: https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/freedom-from-cable-isnt-free-flood-of-streaming-services-will-make-cutting-the-cord-more-complicated/2017/08/11/01f9ade0-7d1f-11e7-a669-b400c5c7e1cc_story.html
date: 2025-08-13T17:04:20.432373
tags: []
---
In the old days of video streaming — that is, not so long ago — consumers
could cut the cable cord and subscribe to one or two services, enjoying a vast
array of movies and television programming at a rate far less than the monster
cable bill.

It’s not so simple anymore.

Disney, the juggernaut behind ESPN, Pixar, Marvel and the recent additions to
the Star Wars franchise, shook the entertainment world this week with an
announcement that it would remove many of its offerings from Netflix. The
company said it would create a service — or multiple services — for its films
and shows, and another for ESPN.

As a result, a Netflix user who enjoyed access to Disney content — plus all of
Netflix’s other content — on one site may have to turn to three or more sites
to get it all. “It’s all in discussion,” said Disney chief executive Bob Iger.

It is the most recent example of how the move toward streaming — though
consumers have been demanding it for years — is proving to be a more
fragmented experience than many have anticipated. Entertainment companies are
now running services with increasingly narrow offerings, looking to hit
consumers up for more subscription revenue wherever possible.

“I worry that we’ll be going down yet another rabbit hole where exclusivity
will take over and I’ll ultimately end up paying more for less,” said Brett
Hatten, a father of two toddlers from Chicago who already pays for six
streaming services. “I don’t want to end up in a place where you have to
subscribe to a bunch of different fiefdoms.”

The shift is breaking down popular expectations in the entertainment world.
For a half-century, for instance, viewers have expected to see shows on CBS
broadcast free over the air on their TV. But this year, the network is
launching highly anticipated shows such as the sequel to "[The Good
Wife](http://web.archive.org/web/20250715075925/https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0066NA8CU?ie=UTF8&tag=thewaspos09-20&camp=1789&linkCode=xm2&creativeASIN=B0066NA8CU
"www.amazon.com")" and a new "Star Trek" series only on its online service,
marking yet another service people may need to subscribe to. CBS announced a
separate sports streaming service this week.

CBS sees this as a way to court specific audiences. “To succeed, you need a
great core and content that only you have,” Marc DeBevoise, the president of
CBS Interactive, said of the network’s streaming service, CBS All Access.

The original programs, for example, specifically court an audience interested
in prestige dramas. “These are not for a big, broad audience,” he said.

And the plethora of television options is changing consumer behaviors in still
other ways, leading many viewers to hopscotch between services, subscribing to
HBO for a few months to watch "[Game of
Thrones](http://web.archive.org/web/20250715075925/https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B007HJ84ZK?ie=UTF8&tag=thewaspos09-20&camp=1789&linkCode=xm2&creativeASIN=B007HJ84ZK
"www.amazon.com")," then moving to Showtime to take in "[The
Affair](http://web.archive.org/web/20250715075925/https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00TYB9Y30?ie=UTF8&tag=thewaspos09-20&camp=1789&linkCode=xm2&creativeASIN=B00TYB9Y30
"www.amazon.com")," before joining yet another service for an eight-episode
binge.

"I happily subscribe to Netflix, Hulu and Amazon Prime, which all have a wide
selection of shows and movies. But when I consider other streaming services,
the costs add up," said Diana Urban, a 30-year-old marketing manager and
fiction author in Boston. She signs up for HBO Now during "Game of Thrones"
season, when she also catches up on
"[Veep](http://web.archive.org/web/20250715075925/https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00C0OMXKE?ie=UTF8&tag=thewaspos09-20&camp=1789&linkCode=xm2&creativeASIN=B00C0OMXKE
"www.amazon.com")" and a few other shows. "Paying $15 a month indefinitely for
only four shows isn't worth it," she said.

Streaming services such as Netflix, Hulu and Amazon Prime, which offers a
video library along with its other features, such as free two-day shipping,
took off in part because they promised a convenient, cheaper alternative to
cable. (Amazon chief executive Jeffrey P. Bezos owns The Washington Post.)

Cable companies are bound to distribution deals from network conglomerates,
including Disney, which require cable firms to pair their most popular
channels with less popular ones. As cable-bill prices continued to climb every
year, however, consumers balked at paying more for content that they didn’t
want and some decided to turn to streaming sites.

The shift has prompted cable companies to explore smaller cable packages that
cut the bloat. But for many customers, making their own bundles of streaming
services has proved appealing. Those not interested in live sports — which
contributes a lot to the cost of a cable package — can easily get news, movies
or sitcoms from Netflix or Hulu without having to buy a preset bundle. (Or
they can get just the opposite, in the case of ESPN’s upcoming stand-alone
service.)

That’s provided consumers with a lot of choice, said John Bergmayer, senior
counsel at the consumer advocacy group Public Knowledge.

“The stranglehold of cable isn’t broken yet — for most people it’s hard to cut
the cord — but these are all really good signs,” he said.

But it’s clear from viewers that the cost per service is a growing concern.
“The current influx of these subscription-based plans is saturating the
market,” said Jamie O’Dell, 35, a food safety program manager from Albany,
N.Y. “We do not need more options for streaming services,” she said. “We need
less.”

About 21 percent of American video viewers pay for multiple streaming-video
on-demand services, according to the market research company GfK. That number
has grown by roughly one-third for the past three years.

Big streaming services such as Netflix provide subscribers content from many
sources. But many others are now getting into the game. At least six networks
have launched services, with subscription fees ranging from $6 to $15 per
month. Many of those already offer their shows in some way through existing
services.

Now, consumers may find that shows and films they used to be able to access on
broader services such as Netflix are pulled out for a separate service. The
cost and mental effort of managing multiple services may be starting to prove
nettlesome.

“I just don’t want another subscription bill I have to pay,” said Erin
Thompson, a mother of four from North Tonawanda, N.Y.

Justifying the hassle of managing another service also puts pressure on Disney
and rivals, creating a different kind of relationship with its fans, analysts
say.

The company will have a more direct line to consumers but will also have to
deal with complaints, for example, about the quality and reliability of their
streams.

The appeal of streaming will prompt many more companies to launch their own
video streaming services, said Brian Wieser, senior research analyst at
Pivotal Research Group. “It’s inevitable [there will be] more direct-to-
consumer offerings as time progresses.”
