title: The Head Scarf, Modern Turkey, and Me | The New Yorker
source: http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2016/02/08/cover-story-personal-history-elif-batuman
date: 2025-08-13T18:21:27.231945
tags: []
---
I replied, in my simplistic Turkish, that to me this sounded like a threat:
either cover your head or rape can happen. The driver protested in ornate
phrases that nobody was threatening anyone, that to speak of threats in this
situation was unfitting, that he could tell from my smiling face that I was a
good and trusting person, but that the world was an imperfect place, that some
men were less like humans than like animals, and that it was best to send
clear signals about what one was or wasn’t looking for. Then he left me at the
fish restaurant where I was going to meet some literature professors.

If it had been just the two of us in the taxi in a political vacuum, I
wouldn’t have begrudged the driver his opinions. It was his car and his
country, and he was driving me where I wanted to go. I knew that my limited
Turkish, which felt like such a handicap, was in his eyes a marker of
privilege—a sign that I could afford to travel and live abroad. Often, the
second question drivers asked, after the invariable “Where are you from?,” was
“How much did the plane ticket cost?”

But the cab wasn’t in a vacuum; it was in a country where the head of state,
whose wife wore a head scarf, repeatedly urged all women to have at least
three children, preferably four or five. Erdoğan opposed abortion, birth
control, and Cesarean section. He said that Islam had set out a clear position
for women, but that you couldn’t explain it to feminists, because they “don’t
accept the concept of motherhood.” The longer he stayed in office, the more
outspoken he became. In 2014, he went so far as to describe birth control as
“treason” designed “to dry up our bloodline.” No matter how hard I tried to be
tolerant—no matter how sympathetic I felt toward Muslim feminists who didn’t
want to be “liberated” from the veil, and who felt just as judged by the
secularist establishment as secular women felt by the Muslim patriarchy—I
could never forgive Erdoğan for saying those things about women. And, because
he said them in the name of Islam, I couldn’t forgive Islam, either.

In the fall of 2011, I travelled to southeastern Anatolia to report on a newly
discovered Neolithic site that archeologists thought might have been the
world’s first temple. The site, [Göbekli
Tepe](http://web.archive.org/web/20250715145348/https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2011/12/19/the-
sanctuary), was near the city of Urfa, a Muslim holy destination, believed to
be the birthplace of Abraham. (The town, near the Syrian border, is now one of
the points through which foreign fighters pass in order to join _ISIS_.) I
seemed to be the only unaccompanied woman at my hotel. When I told the clerk I
was staying for six days, he almost had a heart attack. “Six days?” he
repeated. “All by yourself?” When I asked about the hours of the steam bath,
he said it was for men only—not just at that time of day but all the time. I
took the elevator up to my room, filled with the depressing knowledge that
there would be no alcohol in the minibar. All the time I was in Urfa, whenever
I saw any member of the hotel staff in the halls or the lobby, I always
received the same greeting: “Oh, you’re still here?”

[![“Your appointments been cancelled. You took too long filling out those
forms.”](http://web.archive.org/web/20250715145348im_/https://media.newyorker.com/cartoons/593b65148eb5ba7066584223/master/w_1600%2Cc_limit/160208_a19751.jpg)](http://web.archive.org/web/20250715145348/https://www.newyorker.com/cartoon/a19751)

“Your appointment’s been cancelled. You took too long filling out those
forms.”

I had a hard time finding a taxi to take me to the archeological site. In the
end, the hotel receptionist called a driver he knew: a surly guy with no
meter, who charged an exorbitant fifty-five dollars round trip, and sighed and
muttered under his breath the whole way. He didn’t answer his phone when I
called him to pick me up, and I ended up having to hitchhike. Thinking that
life might be easier if I had my own car, I made an appointment for six the
next evening at a Europcar location supposedly on Urfa’s 749 Street. I got so
lost that, by seven, I was still wandering up and down a mysterious stretch of
road that seemed to start out as 771 Street and then to become, without any
visible change, 764 Street. I had walked several times past the same
convenience store, catching the attention of a bread-delivery man.

“Are you looking for something?” the deliveryman asked. I showed him the
address. He showed it to another guy. They debated for a long time whether
there was or was not a 749 Street. A third guy came out of the store and
joined in the conversation. I waited for a few minutes, but it was clear that
they were never going to agree, and, anyway, the Europcar was already closed.
I thanked them for their help and walked back to the city center to get
something to eat.

Most of the restaurants in Urfa had a sign that said “family restaurant,”
meaning there was one room that was for men only and one “family room,” where
women were allowed. The one I chose had its family room on the roof. There
were two or three families sitting up there, with children. The remaining
tables were empty. I sat at a table for four people, in a corner. The families
had a lot of requests, and I was unable to get the waiter’s attention. I had
been sitting there for several minutes when I got a phone call from a friend
in Istanbul. When I started talking, in English, two of the women at a nearby
table turned and stared at me, openmouthed. I thought that maybe they thought
I was being rude for talking on a cell phone.

“I’ll call you back,” I told my friend.

Even after I hung up, the women didn’t stop staring. I tried smiling and
waving, but they neither waved back nor looked away. The waiter, who still
hadn’t taken my order, was standing in a corner gazing up at a ceiling-mounted
TV. I gave up and went back to my hotel room, where I ate tahini rolls while
reading about the Neolithic Revolution.

The main tourist and religious sites in Urfa—an ancient castle, numerous
mosques, a cave where Abraham may have been born and suckled by a deer for ten
years, and a lake of sacred carp believed to mark the spot where Nimrod tried
to burn Abraham alive (God turned the cinders into fish) are all in or around
a shady green park, with fountains and rosebushes. I went there every day to
escape the heat. Women had to wear head scarves at the holy sites, so I bought
one at the market and always kept it in my bag. It was soft, gauzy, spring
green, with a pattern of tiny intricate vines and leaves.

One day, when I had been visiting Abraham’s cave, I forgot to take the scarf
off. Walking back through the park, I almost immediately felt that something
was different. I passed two beautiful young women in scarves, walking arm-in-
arm and laughing about something. When I looked at them, they looked right
back into my face and met my eyes, still smiling, as if we were all in the
presence of a great joke. I realized that no young women had met my eyes or
smiled at me in Urfa till then. As I walked on, I felt a rising sense of
freedom, as if for the first time I could look wherever I wanted and not risk
receiving a hostile glance. So I kept the scarf on. And then I went back into
the city.

This isn’t a scientific study; I didn’t try it multiple times, or measure
anything. All I have is my subjective impression, which is this: walking
through the city with a head scarf was a completely different experience.
People were _so much nicer_. Nobody looked away when I approached. I felt less
jostled; men seemed to step aside, to give me more room. When I went into a
store, a man held the door for me, and I realized that it was the first time
anyone had reached a door before me without going in first and letting it shut
in my face. Most incredibly, when I got to a bus stop shortly after the bus
had pulled away, the departing vehicle stopped in the middle of the street,
the door opened, and a man reached out his hand to help me in, calling me
“sister.” It felt amazing. To feel so welcomed and accepted and safe, to be
able to look into someone’s face and smile, and have the smile returned—it was
a wonderful gift.

How long can I keep wearing it? I found myself thinking, as the bus lurched
into motion and cars honked around us. The rest of the day? Forever?

I wondered why it hadn’t occurred to me sooner to try wearing a head scarf—why
nobody ever told me it was something I could do. It wasn’t difficult, or
expensive. Why should I not cover my head here, if it made the people who
lived here feel so much better? Why should I cause needless discomfort to them
and to myself? Out of principle? What principle? The principle that women were
equal to men? To whom was I communicating that principle? With what degree of
success? What if I thought I was communicating one thing but what people
understood was something else—what if what they understood was that I
disapproved of them and thought their way of life was backward? Did that still
count as “communicating”?

I found myself thinking about high heels. High heels were painful, and, for me
at least, expensive, because they made walking more difficult and I ended up
taking more taxis. Yet there were many times when I wore heels to work-related
events in New York, specifically because I felt it made people treat me with
more consideration. Why, then, would I refuse to wear a head scarf, which
brought a similar benefit of social acceptance, without the disadvantage of
impeding my ability to stand or walk?

And yet, when I thought about leaving the scarf on for the rest of my stay,
something about it felt dishonest, almost shameful, as if I were duping people
into being kind to me. Those girls who smiled into my eyes—they thought I was
like them. The guy who helped me on the bus—he thought I was his sister.

At that point, another thought came to me, a kind of fantasy, so foreign that
I could barely articulate it even to myself: _What if I really did it_? What
if I wore a scarf not as a disguise but somehow for real? I was thirty-four,
and I’d been having a lot of doubts about the direction my life was taking. I
had had an abortion the previous year, with some reluctance, and
everything—every minor defeat, every sign of unfriendliness—still hurt a
little extra. I had never felt so alone, and in a way that seemed suddenly to
have been of my design, as if I had chosen this life without realizing it,
years earlier, when I set out to become a writer. And now a glimmer appeared
before me of a totally different way of being than any I had imagined, a life
with clear rules and duties that you followed, in exchange for which you were
respected and honored and safe. You had children—not maybe but definitely. You
didn’t have to worry that your social value was irrevocably tied to your
sexual value. You had less freedom, true. But what was so great about freedom?
What was so great about being a journalist and going around being a pain in
everyone’s ass, having people either be suspicious and mean to you or try to
use you for their P.R. strategy? Travelling alone, especially as a woman,
especially in a patriarchal culture, can be really stressful. It can make you
question the most basic priorities around which your life is arranged. Like:
Why do I have a job that makes me travel alone? For literature? What’s
literature?

These thoughts recently came back to me when I read “Submission,” the latest
novel by Michel Houellebecq, a satire set in a 2022 France ruled by
democratically elected Islamic moderates. The Islam in “Submission” is largely
a fantasy designed, by Houellebecq, to appeal to someone just like
Houellebecq, with lavishly funded universities, fantastic meze, freely flowing
French and Lebanese wines, and multiple teen wives for every intellectual who
converts to Islam. But the political rhetoric of the movement’s leader,
Mohammed Ben Abbes, is well reasoned and coherent, bearing a certain
resemblance to Erdoğan’s actual platform, and presented with a frankness and
lucidity that made me understand the logic of the A.K.P. in a way I never had
before.

Internationally, Ben Abbes seeks to transform Europe into a Mediterranean and
North African union of Muslim states: a program similar to the “neo-Islamism”
of Ahmet Davutoğlu, the A.K.P. prime minister. Domestically, Ben Abbes
supports entrepreneurialism, family businesses, and the free market; socially,
he seeks to bolster Muslim education and to encourage women to be stay-at-home
mothers, while continuing to tout the supreme value of democratic rule. I had
never understood how all these goals were related, or even compatible. How
could someone who opposed feminism—who was O.K. with half the population being
less educated than the other half—be in favor of democracy? How could a
democratic constitution not be secular? How could it be compatible with any of
the Abrahamic faiths, with anything that came out of that cave in Urfa? I had
always assumed that Erdoğan was being insincere about something: either he was
just pretending to care about democracy or he was just pretending to care
about Muslim family values—or, as my relatives said, he was pretending both
about democracy and Islam, and the only thing he really cared about was
building more shopping malls with Gulf money.
