title: Hedge funds: Macrobatics | The Economist
source: http://www.economist.com/node/17909807/print
date: 2025-08-13T21:34:35.845389
tags: []
---
A WILDERNESS of mirrors is how Hugh Hendry of Eclectica Asset Management, a
macro hedge fund, has described the uncertain investment landscape, quoting a
poem by T.S. Eliot. For macro hedge funds, which bet on global economic trends
by trading instruments of almost any description, the terrain is especially
perplexing. They are confronted by sovereign defaults in Europe, China's boom,
the risk of a double dip and state intervention in markets, not least
quantitative easing in America.

![
](http://web.archive.org/web/20150503012721im_/http://media.economist.com/images/images-
magazine/2011/01/15/fn/20110115_fnc001.gif)

Managers grumble that there was a lack of clear trends to follow in 2010.
Those that did emerge often quickly went into reverse, leaving macro funds,
which usually invest in longer-term themes, flummoxed. Average returns were
modest—about 8% last year, less than the typical hedge fund (see chart). Some
celebrated names lagged behind. Brevan Howard returned only about 1%. In
August Stanley Druckenmiller, a protégé of George Soros, king of the macro
world, said he would close his fund, Duquesne Capital Management, because he
was not pleased with his performance.

Some managers were able to stand out. Those that took long positions in
equities and commodities did particularly well. Passport Capital, a $4.2
billion macro hedge fund based in San Francisco, rose 18% last year, partly
because it piled more than half its assets into commodity-related equities,
such as Riversdale, an Australian mining company. Bridgewater, a large macro
fund, gained nearly 45%, aided by its bets on gold and American and European
bonds. Autonomy Capital was up 26%, partly because it shorted the euro and
European credit and went long on various Asian currencies. Owning commodity
currencies, such as the Canadian dollar, also proved lucrative for some funds.

Managers have started 2011 with a few new-year resolutions. Many plan to
stomach more risk. Last year also showed the importance of being quick at
entering and exiting trades. Typically macro funds build their positions
slowly. However, “In last year's choppy market, trades had a shorter
lifespan,” says Tomas Jelf of Prologue Capital, a London-based macro fund.
“You had to go in closer to the full size early on and then be willing to take
it off quicker. You had to be tactically more aggressive.”

Despite tepid performance in 2010 investors have remained enthusiastic about
macro funds. They are liquid and diverse, since they trade in many asset
classes, and received around $9.5 billion in investor allocations in the first
11 months of last year, according to BarclayHedge, a data firm. That made
macro funds one of the most popular types of hedge fund. Investors are fans
“because there's still a nervousness about the future”, says Michael
Novogratz, a principal of Fortress, an investment firm. “Investors see macro
as a hedge to the world shifting,” reckons Mr Novogratz, who oversees his
firm's macro funds.

That enthusiasm means other kinds of hedge fund are busy buffing up their
expertise in macro. Steven Drobny of Drobny Global Advisors, a research and
strategy firm for macro funds, says he is seeing a surge in firms venturing
into the area for the first time—or what he calls “macro-tourists”.
