title: CIA Director Documentary: вҖҳThe Attacks Will Be SpectacularвҖҷ - POLITICO Magazine
source: http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2015/11/cia-directors-documentary-911-bush-213353
date: 2025-08-13T18:37:31.719671
tags: []
---
_Chris Whipple is executive producer and writer of The Spymasters: CIA in the
Crosshairs, airing on Showtime Nov. 28, 9pm to 11pm EST. He is writing a book
on the White House chiefs of staff. His work can be found
at[www.chriswhipple.net](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723072450/http://www.chriswhipple.net/)_
_._

ГўВҖВңB _in Laden Determined to Strike in U.__S.ГўВҖВқ_ The CIAГўВҖВҷs famous
Presidential Daily Brief, presented to George W. Bush on August 6, 2001, has
always been Exhibit A in the case that his administration shrugged off
warnings of an Al Qaeda attack. But months earlier, starting in the spring of
2001, the CIA repeatedly and urgently began to warn the White House that an
attack was coming.

By May of 2001, says Cofer Black, then chief of the CIAГўВҖВҷs counterterrorism
center, ГўВҖВңit was very evident that we were going to be struck, we were gonna
be struck hard and lots of Americans were going to die.ГўВҖВқ ГўВҖВңThere were real
plots being manifested,ГўВҖВқ CoferГўВҖВҷs former boss, George Tenet, told me in his
first interview in eight years. ГўВҖВңThe world felt like it was on the edge of
eruption. In this time period of June and July, the threat continues to rise.
Terrorists were disappearing [as if in hiding, in preparation for an attack].
Camps were closing. Threat reportings on the rise.ГўВҖВқ The crisis came to a
head on July 10. The critical meeting that took place that day was first
reported by Bob Woodward in 2006. Tenet also wrote about it in general terms
in his 2007 memoir _At the Center of the Storm_.

But neither he nor Black has spoken about it publicly in such detail until
nowГўВҖВ”or been so emphatic about how specific and pressing their warnings
really were. Over the past eight months, in more than a hundred hours of
interviews, my partners Jules and Gedeon Naudet and I talked with Tenet and
the 11 other living former CIA directors for [_The
Spymasters_](http://web.archive.org/web/20250723072450/https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mH7xPXigM04)
_,_ a documentary set to air this month on Showtime.

The drama of failed warnings began when Tenet and Black pitched a plan, in the
spring of 2001, called ГўВҖВңthe Blue Sky paperГўВҖВқ to BushГўВҖВҷs new national
security team. It called for a covert CIA and military campaign to end the Al
Qaeda threatГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңgetting into the Afghan sanctuary, launching a paramilitary
operation, creating a bridge with Uzbekistan.ГўВҖВқ __ ГўВҖВңAnd the word back,ГўВҖВқ
says Tenet, ГўВҖВңГўВҖВҳwas ГўВҖВҳweГўВҖВҷre not quite ready to consider this. We donГўВҖВҷt
want the clock to start ticking.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ (Translation: they did not want a paper
trail to show that theyГўВҖВҷd been warned.) Black, a charismatic ex-operative
who had helped the French arrest the terrorist known as Carlos the Jackal,
says the Bush team just didnГўВҖВҷt get the new threat: ГўВҖВңI think they were
mentally stuck back eight years [before]. They were used to terrorists being
Euro-leftiesГўВҖВ”they drink champagne by night, blow things up during the day,
how bad can this be? And it was a very difficult sell to communicate the
urgency to this.ГўВҖВқ

That morning of July 10, the head of the agencyГўВҖВҷs Al Qaeda unit, Richard
Blee, burst into BlackГўВҖВҷs office. ГўВҖВңAnd he says, ГўВҖВҳChief, this is it.
Roof's fallen in,ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ recounts Black. ГўВҖВңThe information that we had
compiled was absolutely compelling. It was multiple-sourced. And it was sort
of the last straw.ГўВҖВқ Black and his deputy rushed to the directorГўВҖВҷs office
to brief Tenet. All agreed an urgent meeting at the White House was needed.
Tenet picked up the white phone to BushГўВҖВҷs National Security Adviser
Condoleezza Rice. ГўВҖВңI said, ГўВҖВҳCondi, I have to come see you,ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ Tenet
remembers. ГўВҖВңIt was one of the rare times in my seven years as director where
I said, ГўВҖВҳI have to come see you. We're comin' right now. We have to get
there.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

Tenet vividly recalls the White House meeting with Rice and her team. (George
W. Bush was on a trip to Boston.) ГўВҖВңRich [Blee] started by saying, ГўВҖВҳThere
will be significant terrorist attacks against the United States in the coming
weeks or months. The attacks will be spectacular. They may be multiple. Al
Qaeda's intention is the destruction of the United States.ГўВҖВҷ" [Condi said:]
ГўВҖВҳWhat do you think we need to do?ГўВҖВҷ Black responded by slamming his fist on
the table, and saying, ГўВҖВҳWe need to go on a wartime footing now!ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңWhat happened?ГўВҖВқ I ask Cofer Black. ГўВҖВңYeah. What _did_ happen?ГўВҖВқ he
replies. ГўВҖВңTo me it remains incomprehensible still. I mean, how is it that
you could warn senior people so many times and nothing actually happened?
ItГўВҖВҷs kind of like _The Twilight Zone_.ГўВҖВқ Remarkably, in her memoir, Condi
Rice writes of the July 10 warnings: ГўВҖВңMy recollection of the meeting is not
very crisp because we were discussing the threat every day.ГўВҖВқ Having raised
threat levels for U.S. personnel overseas, she adds: ГўВҖВңI thought we were
doing what needed to be done.ГўВҖВқ (When I asked whether she had any further
response to the comments that Tenet, Black and others made to me, her chief of
staff said she stands by the account in her memoir.) Inexplicably, although
Tenet brought up this meeting in his closed-door testimony before the 9/11
Commission, it was never mentioned in the committeeГўВҖВҷs final report.

And there was one more chilling warning to come. At the end of July, Tenet and
his deputies gathered in the directorГўВҖВҷs conference room at CIA headquarters.
ГўВҖВңWe were just thinking about all of this and trying to figure out how this
attack might occur,ГўВҖВқ he recalls. ГўВҖВңAnd I'll never forget this until the day
I die. Rich Blee looked at everybody and said, ГўВҖВҳThey're coming here.ГўВҖВҷ And
the silence that followed was deafening. You could feel the oxygen come out of
the room. ГўВҖВҳThey're coming here.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

Tenet, who is perhaps the agencyГўВҖВҷs most embattled director ever, can barely
contain himself when talking about the unheeded warnings he says he gave the
White House. Twirling an unlit cigar and fidgeting in his chair at our studio
in downtown Washington, D.C.**,** he says with resignation: ГўВҖВңI can only tell
you what we did and what we said.ГўВҖВқ And when asked about his own
responsibility for the attacks on 9/11, he is visibly distraught. ГўВҖВңThere was
never a moment in all this time when you blamed yourself?ГўВҖВқ I ask him. He
shifts uncomfortably in his chair. ГўВҖВңWell, look, there ГўВҖВҰ I still look at
the ceiling at night about a lot of things. And I'll keep them to myself
forever. But we're all human beings."

***

**Only****12****men are alive today** who have made the life-and-death
decisions that come with running the CIA.

Once a year, the present and former CIA directorsГўВҖВ”ranging from George H.W.
Bush, 91, to the current boss, John Brennan, 60ГўВҖВ”meet in a conference room at
CIA headquarters in Langley, Virginia. The ostensible reason: to receive a
confidential briefing on the state of the world. (Robert Gates, who hates
setting foot inside the Beltway, is a perennial no-show.) ГўВҖВңThey mostly tell
us stuff we already know, and we pretend weГўВҖВҷre learning something,ГўВҖВқ says
Tenet, the longest-serving director (lasting seven years, under Presidents
Clinton and Bush II). But the real point of their annual pilgrimage is to
renew bonds forged in the trenches of the war on terrorГўВҖВ”and to debate the
agencyГўВҖВҷs purpose in the world.

> And I'll never forget this until the day I die. Rich Blee looked at
> everybody and said, ГўВҖВҳThey're coming here.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

On the burning questions of the day, the directors are profoundly torn: over
the CIAГўВҖВҷs mission,__ its brutal interrogation methods after 9/11, and the
shifting ГўВҖВңrules of engagementГўВҖВқ in the battle against Al Qaeda and the
Islamic State. What is fair game in the fight against terrorism: Torture?
Indefinite detention? Setting up ГўВҖВңblack sitesГўВҖВқ in foreign countries for
interrogation? Should the CIA be in the business of killing people with
remotely piloted drones? Was the agency really to blame for 9/11? Or did the
White House ignore its repeated warnings?

On these and other questions, the directors were surprisingly candid in the
interviews they did with meГўВҖВ”even straying into classified territory. (They
often disagree about what is actually classified; itГўВҖВҷs complicated, as
Hillary Clinton is learning.) A controversial case in point: drone strikes.
ГўВҖВңHe canГўВҖВҷt talk publicly about _that_ ,ГўВҖВқ protests Gen. David Petraeus
when I tell him that one of his counterparts has opened up to me about
ГўВҖВңsignature strikes.ГўВҖВқ (These are lethal attacks on unidentified targetsГўВҖВ”a
kind of profiling by droneГўВҖВ”that several directors find deeply troubling.)
Gen. Petraeus might have had good reason to be reticent; only a week before he
had accepted a plea bargain to avoid prison timeГўВҖВ”for sharing classified
information with his mistress, Paula Broadwell.

Here are some of the other secrets we learned from the surprisingly outspoken
men who have run the worldГўВҖВҷs most powerful intelligence agency.

OPTICS: The Faces of the Spymasters: Kennerly photographs the CIA directors through the Obama administration. (Click to view gallery.) | David Hume Kennerly/CBS/Showtime

**Even CIA chiefs canГўВҖВҷt agree about ГўВҖВңtortureГўВҖВқ**

ГўВҖВңIn the period right after 9/11, we did some things wrong,ГўВҖВқ said Barack
Obama. ГўВҖВңWe tortured some folks. We did things that were contrary to our
values.ГўВҖВқ Jose Rodriguez, who oversaw the CIAГўВҖВҷs so-called enhanced
interrogation program (EIT), has a two-word reply: ГўВҖВңThatГўВҖВҷs bullshit.ГўВҖВқ
Tenet concurs. ГўВҖВңPeople are throwing the word ГўВҖВҳtortureГўВҖВҷ aroundГўВҖВ”as if
we're _torturers_ ,ГўВҖВқ he complains. ГўВҖВңWell, I'm not ever gonna accept the
use of the word ГўВҖВҳtortureГўВҖВҷ for what happened here.ГўВҖВқ From sleep
deprivation to waterboarding, Tenet and his lieutenant Rodriguez insist the
techniques were all approvedГўВҖВ”by _everybody._

ГўВҖВңThe attorney general of the United States told us that these techniques are
legal under U.S. law,ГўВҖВқ says Tenet, ГўВҖВңand do not in any way compromise our
adherence to international torture statutes.ГўВҖВқ Contrary to the claim by the
SSCI (Senate Select Committee on Intelligence) Majority Report, Tenet insists:
ГўВҖВңWe briefed members of Congress fully on what we were doing at all times.
There was never a hint of disapproval.ГўВҖВқ And Tenet says that George W. Bush
was so hands-on, ГўВҖВңhe read the memo, looked at the techniques, and decided he
was gonna take two techniques off the table himself.ГўВҖВқ Tenet says he does not
recall which EITs the president rejected (Rodriguez believes one of them was
ГўВҖВңmock executions.ГўВҖВқ)

Tenet and his post-9/11 successorsГўВҖВ”Porter Goss, Michael Hayden and acting
director Michael Morell (sometimes called the ГўВҖВңwartime directorsГўВҖВқ)ГўВҖВ”say
the techniques were a necessary evil, justified by the context of the times.
It was an article of faith at the CIA that the United States was about to be
struck again in a ГўВҖВңsecond waveГўВҖВқ attack. And that ГўВҖВңhigh-value
detainees,ГўВҖВқ beginning with Al Qaeda leader Abu Zubaydah, knew more than they
were telling. ГўВҖВңEvery day,ГўВҖВқ says Rodriguez, ГўВҖВңthe president was asking
George Tenet, ГўВҖВҳWhat is Abu Zubaydah saying about the second wave of attacks
and about all these other plots?ГўВҖВҷ Well, he was not saying anything. We had
to do something different.ГўВҖВқ Tenet says they had persuasive intelligence that
indicated Osama bin Laden had met with Pakistani nuclear scientistsГўВҖВ”and was
seeking the blueprint for a bomb. There was a credible report, he adds, that a
nuke had already been planted in New York City. ГўВҖВңPeople say, ГўВҖВҳdidnГўВҖВҷt you
think about the moral and ethical consequences of your decision?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ says
Tenet. ГўВҖВңYeah, we did. We thought that stopping the further loss of American
life and protecting a just society was equally important.ГўВҖВқ

Did the techniques produce intelligence that disrupted plots or saved lives?
The SSCI study looked at 20 cases and said no useful evidence was obtained.
Tenet insists, ГўВҖВңThey are wrong in all 20 of the cases. The report is dead
wrong on every account, period, end of paragraph.ГўВҖВқ But TenetГўВҖВҷs fellow spy
chiefs are sharplyГўВҖВ”even passionatelyГўВҖВ”divided about such procedures. ГўВҖВңOur
Constitution does prohibit ГўВҖВҳcruel and unusualГўВҖВҷ treatment and if itГўВҖВҷs
cruel, we shouldnГўВҖВҷt be doing it,ГўВҖВқ says William Webster, 91, regarded by
his fellow spymasters as a voice of reason (and the only DCI who also served
as FBI director). ГўВҖВңYou cross a line at some point in your effort to get the
information when you go that route. There have to be limitations and
monitoring and they must be observed. Our country stands for something and it
loses something when we donГўВҖВҷt.ГўВҖВқ Stansfield Turner, now 91ГўВҖВ”who as Jimmy
CarterГўВҖВҷs director authorized the ill-fated attempt to rescue American
hostages in TehranГўВҖВ”agrees: ГўВҖВңI just donГўВҖВҷt think a country like ours
should be culpable of conducting torture. I just think itГўВҖВҷs beneath our
dignity.ГўВҖВқ

The directors who oppose torture are not just bleeding hearts. ГўВҖВңNobody was
responsible for more detainees than I was,ГўВҖВқ says Gen. Petraeus, who was
commander of the multinational forces in Iraq. ГўВҖВңWe visit violence on our
enemies, but we should not mistreat them, even though they have done
unspeakable things to our soldiers and to civilians. That does not justify us
doing it to them. You will pay a price for what you do, and it will be vastly
greater than whatever it is you got out of taking this action.ГўВҖВқ And Director
Brennan sees no circumstance in which the CIA would torture again: ГўВҖВңIf a
president tomorrow asked me to waterboard a terrorist, I would say, ГўВҖВҳMr.
President, sorryГўВҖВ”I do not believe that is in our best interest as a
country.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ Hayden is even more emphatic. ГўВҖВңIf some future president is
going to decide to waterboard,ГўВҖВқ he says, ГўВҖВңheГўВҖВҷd better bring his own
bucketГўВҖВ”because heГўВҖВҷs going to have to do it himself.ГўВҖВқ


**The CIA really _does_****pull the trigger on lethal drone attacks.**

Officially, it is a taboo subject. The CIA has never acknowledged publicly
that it operates lethal drones. But former Director Leon Panetta gives a
riveting account of the ethical dilemma he confronted when the CIA had a top
Al Qaeda terrorist in the cross hairs of a drone over Pakistan. (CIA censors
forced him to truncate the story in his 2014 memoir.) The target was the Al
Qaeda mastermind behind a suicide bombing that killed seven officers at the
CIA station in Khost, Afghanistan, in December 2009. ГўВҖВңWe knew who the
individual was,ГўВҖВқ Panetta says. ГўВҖВңThis was a bad guy. And he was clearly a
leader who had been involved not only in going after our officers, but in
killing members of our own forces in Afghanistan.ГўВҖВқ

PanettaГўВҖВҷs dilemma: ГўВҖВңUnfortunately, this individual had family and wife and
children around him, so one of the tough questions was, What should we do? If
there were women and children in the shot, we normally would not take the
shot.ГўВҖВқ Panetta called the White House and spoke with Brennan, then ObamaГўВҖВҷs
counterterrorism adviser. ГўВҖВңWhat does Leon say I said?ГўВҖВқ Brennan asks me,
arching an eyebrow, when I tell him about PanettaГўВҖВҷs out-of-school account
(which essentially had Brennan bouncing the ball back to him). Brennan wears a
tight smile that seems to say, _There goes Leon again_.

The judgment call fell to the devoutly Catholic Panetta, once an altar boy.
ГўВҖВңThe White House said, ГўВҖВҳLook, youГўВҖВҷre going to have to make a judgment
here,ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ he recalls. ГўВҖВңSo, I knew at that point it was a decision that I
was going to have to make. _IГўВҖВҷm_ the one whoГўВҖВҷs going to have to say Hail
Marys here. Suddenly, I found that I was making decisions on life and death as
director. And those are never easy, and frankly they shouldnГўВҖВҷt be easy. But
I felt it was really important in that job to do what I could to protect this
country. So I passed on the word. I said, ГўВҖВҳIf you can isolate the individual
and take the shot without impacting on women or children, then do it. But if
you have no alternative and it looks like he might get away, then take the
shot.ГўВҖВҷ And it did involve collateral damage, but we got him.ГўВҖВқ In the end,
says Panetta, ГўВҖВңWhat you do has to be based on what your gut tells you is
right. You have to be true to yourselfГўВҖВ”and hope that ultimately God agrees
with you.ГўВҖВқ

Brennan, the current director, concedes that he is often called upon to make
judgments with high stakes. ГўВҖВңIГўВҖВҷm forced to make decisions every day that
have significant risks, that sometimes can result in deaths,ГўВҖВқ he says.
ГўВҖВңYou try to make sure that you consider all angles. You take into account
whatever information, intelligence data that you have available. You weigh the
pros and cons. And you then make the best decision you can.ГўВҖВқ How high is the
bar when deciding to pull the trigger on a lethal drone strike? ГўВҖВңThere needs
to be near certainty of what's called ГўВҖВҳno collateral,ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ Brennan says.
ГўВҖВңNo noncombatants who will be affected by it.ГўВҖВқ

But ГўВҖВңnear certaintyГўВҖВқ does not always apply. Last January, a drone attack
on an Al Qaeda compound inadvertently killed an American and an Italian
hostage, who happened to have been held there. Gen. Hayden, BushГўВҖВҷs third
director, cautions: ГўВҖВңNear certainty: What does that exactly mean? Because
look, the president [Obama] was very candid after those recent strikes in
which he talked about the ГўВҖВҳfog of war.ГўВҖВҷ There is fog even when you think
youГўВҖВҷve got ГўВҖВҳnear certaintyГўВҖВҷ and near certainty is never certainty.ГўВҖВқ

And what if the strike is deliberately aimed at an American citizen overseas?
Should the CIA directorГўВҖВ”or the president, for that matterГўВҖВ”have a license
to kill? ItГўВҖВҷs been a controversial question ever since Anwar al-Awlaki, the
militant American jihadist and voice of Al Qaeda, was killed by a U.S. drone
in Yemen in 2011. Watchdog groups have vilified the practice. It turns out
they have an unlikely allyГўВҖВ”in ex-Director Gates. ГўВҖВңI donГўВҖВҷt have a moral
problem with it,ГўВҖВқ says Gates, ГўВҖВңbut I believe the precedent of an American
president being able to kill an American citizen under any circumstances, on
just his signature, is dangerous.ГўВҖВқ

Webster is equally critical. ГўВҖВңThis was an American citizen and he was
ultimately taken out, but itГўВҖВҷs not something that should be left to one
person, no matter who that person is,ГўВҖВқ says Webster. ГўВҖВңWe do harm to the
country, damage to the president and others who are exercising legitimate
authority by just leaving it up to unprocessed whim to use these instruments
for destruction.ГўВҖВқ Gates argues that strikes on Americans should require
approval by outside expertsГўВҖВ”perhaps a panel of judges: ГўВҖВңI just think the
idea of no external review beyond people appointed by the president, and who
basically are his minions, being able to assess whether the president should
kill an American citizen without a judicial process, needs to be looked at.ГўВҖВқ

Though drone strikes came well after his time as director (1976-1977), George
H.W. Bush, says he can live with the practice: ГўВҖВңIf theyГўВҖВҷre bad guys and
theyГўВҖВҷre doing us harm, I have no problem with that.ГўВҖВқ But some of his peers
wonder if the otherworldly weapons have made the White House trigger happy.
ГўВҖВңWhen you can stare at a target unblinkingly for hours, if not days,ГўВҖВқ says
Gen. Hayden, ГўВҖВңand then use a weapon against that target that has a 14-pound
warhead in it, with an accuracy measured in inches, this actually makes
warfare more precise.

"ThatГўВҖВҷs all to the good. Now the dark side: It does make it easier for a
policymaker to make a judgment to engage.ГўВҖВқ Indeed, the relative simplicity
of drone warfare has proved irresistible to the current White House. Under
Barack Obama, drone strikes have grown dramatically.

**ГўВҖВңNo, Mr. Deutch, assassination is _not_****prohibited.ГўВҖВқ**

In a war against Al Qaeda and the Islamic State, what methods are acceptable?
Is assassination fair game? Porter Goss, who resigned in frustration as George
W. BushГўВҖВҷs second director, is still waiting for an answer: ГўВҖВңWe do not know
what the rules of engagement are. Are we dealing with enemy combatants? Are we
dealing with criminals? Are the rules shoot first? Do we only shoot when we
get shot at? Can we ask questions? Do we have to Mirandize people?ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңI remember sitting in the Situation Room in the first Clinton term,ГўВҖВқ
former CIA Director John Deutch reflects, ГўВҖВңand discussing a particularly
sensitive matter and saying, ГўВҖВҳBut of course we canГўВҖВҷt consider
assassination because that is forbidden by executive order.ГўВҖВҷ And one of the
Justice Department lawyers said, ГўВҖВҳNo, Mr. Deutch, only _political_
assassination is forbidden. Assassination for other purposes is not
prohibited.ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

So whatГўВҖВҷs the answer? Is assassination, which was distinctly prohibited by
President Gerald FordГўВҖВҷs Executive Order 12333, still off limits? Well, yes
and no. In 2008, after a nearly three-decade manhunt, a legendary Hezbollah
leader who had orchestrated countless assaults on the U.S. and Israel was
killed in a daring covert operation in Damascus, Syria. A lethal ГўВҖВңshape
charge,ГўВҖВқ fired by remote control from a parked SUV, blew him to smithereens.
The operation, reportedly a joint CIA-Mossad mission, is so sensitive that, to
this day, none of the directors has said anything publicly about it. Except,
when pressed, the current boss, John Brennan. ГўВҖВңIs there anything _at all_
that you can tell us about what happened to Imad Mughniyah?ГўВҖВқ I ask him.
Brennan, who has the lugubrious air of an undertakerГўВҖВ”even in his lighter
momentsГўВҖВ”pauses. Then he replies, ГўВҖВңHe died quickly.ГўВҖВқ

WhatГўВҖВҷs the CIAГўВҖВҷs mission? Is it a spy agency? Or a secret army?
ГўВҖВңSometimes I think we get ourselves into a frenzyГўВҖВ”into believing that
killing is the only answer to a problem,ГўВҖВқ says Tenet. ГўВҖВңAnd the truth is,
it's not. That's not what our reason for existence is.ГўВҖВқ When Petraeus became
CIA director, his predecessor, Hayden took him aside. Never before, Hayden
warned him, had the agency become so focused on covert military operations at
the expense of intelligence gathering. ГўВҖВңAn awful lot of what we now call
analysis in the American intelligence community is really targeting,ГўВҖВқ Hayden
says. ГўВҖВңFrankly, that has been at the expense of the broader, more global
view. WeГўВҖВҷre safer because of it, but it has not been cost-free. Some of the
things we do to keep us safe for the close fightГўВҖВ”for instance, targeted
killingsГўВҖВ”can make it more difficult to resolve the deep fight, the
ideological fight. We feed the jihadi recruitment video that these Americans
are heartless killers.ГўВҖВқ

WhoГўВҖВҷs winning? The CIAГўВҖВ”or radical Islam? ГўВҖВңThe big picture,ГўВҖВқ says
Morell, the two-time acting director, ГўВҖВңis a great victory for us and a great
victory for them. Our great victory has been the degradation, decimation,
near-defeat of the Al Qaeda core that brought tragedy to our shores on 9/11.
But _their_ great victory has been the spread of their ideology across a huge
geographic area. What we havenГўВҖВҷt done a good job of is stopping new
terrorists from being created. And until we get our arms around that, this war
is not going away.ГўВҖВқ

ГўВҖВңYou can't kill your way out of this,ГўВҖВқ says Tenet. ГўВҖВңIt's not
sustainable. The message to Islam itself is they have to create vibrant civil
societies that work, that create educational opportunities. But this is
something they have to do for themselves.ГўВҖВқ Panetta agrees that the roots of
terrorism must be dealt with: ГўВҖВңYou've got to address what it is that
produces this frustration and this anger. It is almost _Mission Impossible_
because, for GodГўВҖВҷs sake, we're still trying to figure out how the hell the
Baltimores of the world happen; how the hell the Detroits of the world happen;
why there are people that are attracted to gangs in this country.ГўВҖВқ Until we
do, Panetta concludes, ГўВҖВңwe may have to use these kinds of weapons, but in
the end, let me tell you something: if we fail to do this and, God forbid,
this country faces another 9/11, you know what the first question will be:
ГўВҖВҳWhy the hell did you let this happen? Why the hell did you let this
happen?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ

###### This article tagged under:
