title: Chicago White Sox Top 15 Prospects (2012-13) | FanGraphs Baseball
source: http://www.fangraphs.com/blogs/index.php/chicago-white-sox-top-15-prospects-2012-13/
date: 2025-08-13T20:09:07.350786
tags: []
---
The Chicago White Sox organization ranked 30th on the Top 30 minor league
systems list entering 2012 but this is a much improved system after a couple
of solid drafts and a number of prospects took big steps forward in their
development. It’s an organization on the rise.

#1 [Courtney
Hawkins](http://www.fangraphs.com/statss.aspx?playerid=sa657904&position=OF)
(OF)

* * *

Age | PA | H | 2B | HR | BB | SO | SB | AVG | OBP | SLG | wOBA
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
18 | 249 | 66 | 15 | 8 | 11 | 56 | 11 | .288 | .328 | .485 | .362

“He came out guns a blazing,” a talent evaluator said about Hawkins’ pro debut
after being selected 13th overall in the 2012 amateur draft. The Texas
teenager played at three levels and topped out in high-A ball, which is almost
unprecedented for such an inexperienced player. I’m told even the White Sox
underestimated how advanced he was and he should open 2013 back in the
Carolina League (high-A). It wouldn’t be a shock if he ended up in double-A by
the end of the season.

Despite all the excitement, Hawkins still has work to do at the plate. He
needs to strengthen his pitch recognition, tighten his plate discipline and
learn how to work counts. Standing 6’3” and weighing 220 lbs with good bat
speed, Hawkins has plus power potential and is very athletic for his size,
which should allow him to steal some bases.

The outfield prospect should be average or better in right field with a strong
arm but, again, he’s still polishing his game and learning to take better
routes to the ball. He played center field in high school and could fill in
there at the big league level, if needed.

Hawkins is well known for doing a back flip on TV after being drafted by the
White Sox but now it’s the organization that’s doing back flips over the young
outfielder’s future in Chicago. As my contact stated, “Talent-wise, ability-
wise, the sky is the limit for him.”

#2 [Carlos
Sanchez](http://www.fangraphs.com/statss.aspx?playerid=sa507106&position=2B/SS)
(2B/SS)

* * *

Age | PA | H | 2B | HR | BB | SO | SB | AVG | OBP | SLG | wOBA
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
20 | 687 | 195 | 29 | 1 | 50 | 110 | 37 | .320 | .376 | .398 | .357

Just 20 years old, Sanchez seemingly came out of nowhere to zoom through the
minor league system and reach triple-A despite his youth. In reality, though,
the second baseman was in his fourth pro season and spent two years in the
Dominican Summer League before making his North American debut in 2011.

A contact I spoke with about Sanchez said added experience helped the hitter
become a better all-around player. “He had all the tools.” At the plate, he’s
a switch-hitter who is more advanced from the left side. He has some speed and
stole 26 bases in 2012 but he needs to become a smarter base runner.

Defensively, he showed good range to his right but made a few poor decisions
that I chalked up to lack of experience and perhaps the game going a little
faster than he was used to in A-ball. At the plate he showed a quick bat but
was quite aggressive and certainly doesn’t like to leave the bat on his
shoulder for too long. He laid down a solid sac bunt, which is encouraging
since he profiles as a top-of-the-order — possibly No.2 — hitter.

Defensively, Sanchez is an instinctive player whom the contact said “has a
knack of finding the baseball.” He’s athletic and does a nice job of putting
himself into good positions to field the baseball. The Venezuela native could
play some shortstop but looks much better at the keystone. “He has a chance to
be a really good second baseman,” the talent evaluator said.

Although it’s perhaps an unfair comparison to make, watching Sanchez on the
field reminded me of Yankee great Derek Jeter — not necessarily on defense or
at the plate, but by the way the infield prospect carried himself on the
field. Sanchez should open 2013 in triple-A and is a huge threat to incumbent
big league second baseman Gord Beckham, who needs to show some life if he’s
going to hold off the quick-charging prospect.

#3 [Erik
Johnson](http://www.fangraphs.com/statss.aspx?playerid=sa577734&position=P)
(P)

* * *

Age | G | GS | IP | H | HR | K/9 | BB/9 | ERA | FIP
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
22 | 17 | 17 | 92.1 | 82 | 3 | 8.48 | 2.83 | 2.53 | 2.78

The White Sox system continues to be rejuvenated with a string of solid drafts
over the past two seasons and Johnson, a 2011 second rounder, is another
example of that. The organization loves large, strong pitchers and the right-
hander stands 6’3” and weighs in at 240 lbs. He missed the start of the 2012
with an injury but made up for lost time, pitching well at both A-ball levels.

A talent evaluator I spoke with was not surprised with the success that
Johnson has had to this point in pro ball. “We knew what he was capable of… He
really, really throws the ball well,” he said. “He gets on the mound and he’s
a bulldog, very focused and competitive.” That same contact stated that the
key for Johnson’s success is improved fastball command and to tighten up his
slider. “He has a live fastball, good slider, good curveball and is working on
a changeup.”

Johnson, 23, split the 2012 season between two A-ball levels and probably
showed enough in high-A ball to earn an assignment to double-A to begin the
coming season. He has the ceiling of a No. 2 or 3 starter, depending on how
well his repertoire rounds out. Johnson, a former second rounder, has a shot
at reaching the majors in late 2013.

#4 [Trayce
Thompson](http://www.fangraphs.com/statss.aspx?playerid=sa500820&position=OF)
(OF)

* * *

Age | PA | H | 2B | HR | BB | SO | SB | AVG | OBP | SLG | wOBA
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
21 | 655 | 141 | 31 | 27 | 72 | 183 | 23 | .250 | .337 | .469 | .361

The first in a long line of athletic — but raw — outfielders in the White Sox
system, Thompson was pushed aggressively through the system in 2012 and
reached triple-A after beginning the season in high-A ball. A former second
round pick out of a California high school, he’s still just 21 years old and
has a lot of polishing to do on his overall game.

Thompson strikes out a lot (28% in high-A in 2012) and needs to shorten his
stroke and improve his pitch recognition. A talent evaluator I spoke with
feels the outfielder can be an impact player even if he has high strikeout
totals because of his power to all fields. “His power numbers offset it a bit…
There’s a chance he cuts down on the strikeouts if he gets more aggressive
early in the counts,” he said. “He just needs to learn himself and slow things
down.”

Defensively, Thompson shows outstanding range in center field thanks to his
speed, jumps and strong routes. He also has a strong, accurate arm. “He has
all the tools to be a really, really good outfielder,” the contact said.

I had the opportunity to watch Thompson play a few times during the season and
I felt he was too bent over at the plate and was therefore susceptible to
pitches on the inner half. He was also swinging around the ball rather than
through it, which would shorten his swing. He displayed good range with smooth
actions in centerfield.

Thompson ended the 2012 season by hitting .208 in 16 Arizona Fall League games
and might best be served with an assignment to double-A to begin 2013 with an
eye on challenging for a starting big league role in 2014. If everything
clicks, he could be a fun player to watch. As my contact said, “He has a
chance to be a special player both defensively and offensively.”

#5 [Keenyn
Walker](http://www.fangraphs.com/statss.aspx?playerid=sa501943&position=OF)
(OF)

* * *

Age | PA | H | 2B | HR | BB | SO | SB | AVG | OBP | SLG | wOBA
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
21 | 488 | 109 | 22 | 4 | 74 | 143 | 55 | .267 | .378 | .379 | .355

In some ways, Walker is similar to fellow former first rounder Jared Mitchell
(found lower on this list). Selected in the supplemental first round of the
2011 amateur draft out of an Arizona community college, the outfielder is very
athletic but he’s learning how to properly utilize his impressive tools on the
baseball diamond. A talent evaluator stated, “He needs a ton of at-bats. He
was a multi-sport athlete and he hasn’t played much baseball.”

Walker strikes out a lot but talks a lot of walks, has plus speed (56 steals
in 71 tries in 2012) and plays very good defense. The center-fielder, though,
has less power than Mitchell and needs to shorten his stroke and use the whole
field. He also needs to learn to identify breaking balls and the switch-hitter
needs to significantly improve from the right side of the plate. “I think he’s
going to learn to trim the strikeouts and put the ball in play more,” my
contact stated.

Walker spent most of the 2012 in the Southern League but also appeared in 37
games in the Carolina League (high-A). He should return to that level in 2013
but could see double-A by the end of the season. He has the makings of a
impact base runner and defender with an average hit tool.

#6 [Scott
Snodgress](http://www.fangraphs.com/statss.aspx?playerid=sa577934&position=P)
(P)

* * *

Age | G | GS | IP | H | HR | K/9 | BB/9 | ERA | FIP
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
22 | 27 | 27 | 141.0 | 112 | 6 | 8.17 | 4.09 | 3.00 | 3.47

It seems like we’re seeing more and more interesting prospects come out of
Stanford University and Snodgress is yet another example. Standing 6’5”, the
left-hander is an imposing sight on the mound and he’s shown flashes of
dominance. He started off 2012 a little slowly but improved as the year went
on. “He came on strong this year,” a contact stated. “Coming into spring
training he was a little out of whack… He made some adjustments in his arm
action, got some more length, and really took off.”

Snodgress needs to learn to use his height to his advantage on a more
consistent basis. His fastball wanders up in the zone too much at times and he
needs to keep a good downward plane on his pitches to increase his ground-ball
rate. The lefty didn’t log a ton of innings in college so he’s still learning
to command the fastball and I’m told he needs to use his curveball earlier in
the count. “He just needs to become more of a pitcher than a thrower,” my
contact stated. “He’s a horse, though.”

Snodgress, 23, spent most of 2012 in the Southern League but also made seven
starts in the Carolina League posting a 1.50 ERA. As a result, he may be
ticketed for double-A in 2013 and will be challenged by the more advanced
hitters. He has the makings of a No. 2 or 3 starter if he continues to make
adjustments.

#7 [Andre
Rienzo](http://www.fangraphs.com/statss.aspx?playerid=sa504232&position=P) (P)

* * *

Age | G | GS | IP | H | HR | K/9 | BB/9 | ERA | FIP
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
24 | 24 | 24 | 128.0 | 99 | 2 | 9.63 | 4.01 | 2.95 | 2.62

When I asked about the ceiling on Rienzo I was told that the organization is
still trying to figure out exactly what it has with the right-hander from
Brazil but as a contact stated, “We all know he has the capabilities of being
a good pitcher.” The organization also feels he’ll be a successful big league
starter, although there has been outside talk that he’s better suited to
relieving.

Now 24, Rienzo spent five years in the low levels of the minors which is not a
surprise considering how raw he was when he signed out of a country not known
for developing baseball players. He really took off in 2012 and played in
high-A, double-A and triple-A. He missed 50 games early in the season due to a
suspension but made up for the lost innings by appearing in both the Arizona
Fall League and the Venezuela Winter League.

Rienzo has a thin frame so there is some concern over his durability but the
right-hander gets his heater up to 95 mph at times. He also features a good
curveball and a developing cutter but he lacks a changeup. The contact I spoke
with said the Brazilian has the mentality of a strikeout pitcher but he needs
to limit his pitch count. “He’s learning to get more early contact.” He also
needs to improve his fastball command. Rienzo will almost certainly open 2013
in triple-A but he could be in the majors by the end of the year.

When I saw Rienzo pitch I noticed he had a bit of a long arm action. His arm
slot when throwing his curveball was higher than the arm slot for his
fastball. His curveball had an inconsistent break to it and it got loopy at
times. His slider was better in this game but he struggled to throw it for
strikes.

#8 [Christopher
Beck](http://www.fangraphs.com/statss.aspx?playerid=sa503060&position=P) (P)

* * *

Age | G | GS | IP | H | HR | K/9 | BB/9 | ERA | FIP
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
21 | 15 | 6 | 40.1 | 51 | 3 | 8.03 | 2.68 | 4.69 | 3.27

Beck entered 2012 with the potential to be a first round selection but an
inconsistent junior year at Georgia Southern caused him to slip to the second
round (76th overall). Prior to 2012, the right-hander showed the ability to
work in the mid-90s but he was mostly 87-91 (touching 93) mph this past
season. A contact I spoke with said that Beck worked out in the weight room
too much and he got too thick and heavy. His high-three-quarter arm slot fell
to low-three-quarter.

I’m told Beck had an excellent fall instructional league with the White Sox
and had his fastball back up to 95 mph. “He’s loosened up and his arm strength
is back,” a talent evaluator stated. His slider is also becoming more
consistent again. Beck also has a cutter and changeup. He could open 2013 in
high-A ball if he has a strong spring training. His ceiling is that of an
innings-eating middle-of-the-rotation arm.

#9 [Keon
Barnum](http://www.fangraphs.com/statss.aspx?playerid=sa657864&position=1B)
(1B)

* * *

Age | PA | H | 2B | HR | BB | SO | SB | AVG | OBP | SLG | wOBA
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
19 | 49 | 12 | 1 | 3 | 5 | 13 | 0 | .279 | .347 | .512 | .380

Barnum was a surprise pick with the 48th overall selection of the 2012 draft
and was considered by many to be a third-to-fifth-round option, especially
given his commitment to the University of Miami. A talent evaluator I spoke
with said the big first baseman is definitely talented but he was a difficult
player to scout at times because of sporadic views of him since he did not
appear in any of the major amateur showcases.

The prospect’s strongest tool is his power, which is a 65-70 grade. My contact
stated that the ball has a different sound coming off of Barnum’s bat. “His
raw power is something special. It’s a lot of fun to watch.” The rest of his
game, though, is raw and I was told that it would take quite some time for him
to develop. In the field, he could become a solid fielder at first base and
even has the potential to play some left field thanks to a strong arm and
45-50 speed. “He is some kind of athlete,” the talent evaluator said. “He
doesn’t get the credit he deserves.”

After signing, the left-handed hitter slugged three home runs in 13 games but
also struck out 13 times. Two comps I received for Barnum were Cliff Floyd and
Fred McGriff. I was also told that he had a very impressive fall instructional
league for the White Sox. Barnum will probably open 2013 in extended spring
training before being assigned to a short-season club in June.

#10 [Joey
Demichele](http://www.fangraphs.com/statss.aspx?playerid=sa621612&position=2B)
(2B)

* * *

Age | PA | H | 2B | HR | BB | SO | SB | AVG | OBP | SLG | wOBA
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
21 | 308 | 77 | 16 | 7 | 22 | 62 | 8 | .275 | .334 | .479 | .365

From an offensive standpoint, DeMichele is very close to being ready for the
Major Leagues. As one contact stated, “He’s probably the most advanced hitter
[the White Sox] drafted… He can really swing the bat and has an uncanny
ability to put the barrel on the ball.” He added that his defensive
development will dictate just how quickly he reaches the big leagues.

While at Arizona State University, DeMichele spent most of his time at DH as a
freshman before playing a lot of first base as a sophomore and then moving to
second base as a junior. The 21-year-old infielder has a lot of polishing to
do with his defense but he should develop into an average fielder at the
position. If he’s unable to stick at the keystone, first base is not an option
due to his lack of height (5’11”) and offensive profile. Left field would be
an option but, again, he lacks the prototypical power that clubs seek from
that position.

After signing in 2012 as a third round draft pick, the left-handed hitter
spent most of his time in A-ball. He was a little worn down after a long year
but still managed to hold his own and show good pop for his size. I was told
that DeMichele will likely skip over high-A ball and open 2013 in double-A. If
he doesn’t stick as a regular at second base he could end up as a Scott
Spiezio type part-time contributor.

#11 [Jared
Mitchell](http://www.fangraphs.com/statss.aspx?playerid=sa327116&position=OF)
(OF)

* * *

Age | PA | H | 2B | HR | BB | SO | SB | AVG | OBP | SLG | wOBA
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
23 | 549 | 108 | 24 | 11 | 78 | 179 | 21 | .237 | .358 | .420 | .358

The 23rd overall selection of the 2009 amateur draft out of Louisiana State
University, Mitchell hasn’t developed as hoped. A lost year due to an ankle
injury in 2010 did not help and he hasn’t hit more than .240 since returning.
Despite his inability to hit for average — tied mostly to his massive
strikeout rates of more than 30% — Mitchell offers some power, speed and takes
a large number of walks. He also plays good defense in center field.

I watched Mitchell this summer and he showed a more aggressive approach than I
was expecting. He hit with a well-balanced, open stance but his swing was not
exactly the smoothest. He pulled his hands back, stopped, and then started
forward again after a pause rather than in one full sweeping motion. I was
impressed with the pop off his bat, thanks to solid bat speed, and he showed
opposite-field power with a double.

Still just 24, Mitchell should spend the entire year in triple-A working to
improve his approach at the plate. He could stand to shorten his swing and he
needs to become more aggressive early in the count. At this point Mitchell
looks like a future fourth outfielder or possibly a platoon outfielder who’s
shielded from tough left-handed pitching.

#12 [Jacob
Petricka](http://www.fangraphs.com/statss.aspx?playerid=sa503042&position=P)
(P)

* * *

Age | G | GS | IP | H | HR | K/9 | BB/9 | ERA | FIP
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
24 | 29 | 29 | 140.1 | 156 | 9 | 7.12 | 5.19 | 5.39 | 4.25

It wasn’t a pretty year for Petricka, whose ERA was more than 5.00 at two
levels in 2012. His command completely deserted him at double-A and he posted
a walk rate of 5.46 BB/9 and a strikeout rate of just 4.21 K/9 in 57.2
innings. Petricka, 24, has a mid-90s fastball, as well as a below-average
slider and a changeup. He gets by with so-so secondary stuff because he
induces a lot of ground balls.

When I watched Petricka pitch — who is tall and lanky with room to fill out —
he showed the need for better balance on the mound through his delivery. He
was falling forward too early during his delivery at times and dragged his arm
behind him, which would help to explain the control issues he had in 2012. He
definitely struggled with his fastball command and was getting behind in
counts, which kept him from utilizing his secondary pitches. He became the
victim of a big inning and completely fell apart, perhaps suggesting he needs
to show a little more mental toughness on the mound.

With improved pitching depth in the system, Chicago doesn’t have to pin its
hopes on Petricka developing into starting pitcher. His future is likely in
the bullpen due to his lack of secondary pitches. He could return to double-A
to open 2013 but should see triple-A at some point. Petricka has the ceiling
of an eighth inning reliever.

#13 [Sammy
Ayala](http://www.fangraphs.com/statss.aspx?playerid=sa658324&position=C/DH)
(C/DH)

* * *

Age | PA | H | 2B | HR | BB | SO | SB | AVG | OBP | SLG | wOBA
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
17 | 92 | 17 | 3 | 1 | 5 | 23 | 0 | .202 | .261 | .274 | .253

Ayala was considered a third-to-fifth-round talent but slid to the White Sox
in the 17th round and looked like he would follow through on his commitment to
UC Santa Barbara but the club got him signed for just under $260,000. Some
clubs questioned both his defense and his power potential but White Sox
officials got a lot of looks at the California native and felt comfortable in
his projection.

A left-handed hitting catcher and high school football player, the
organization hopes his game will really take off as he focuses on baseball
24/7. Like a lot of young hitters, Ayala struggles against soft stuff and
needs a game plan at the plate but a contact I spoke with saw a lot of
potential. “He’s a big, strong guy… The bat will not be a question and there
is some power in it.”

Ayala split time playing both the outfield and catcher in high school so his
game behind the dish still needs a lot of polish but he could also play left
field — or first base — in pro ball, if he cannot stick as a backstop. The
contact I spoke with thinks the young player will stick as a catcher and just
needs experience. I was told that Ayala has at least an average arm and needs
to improve his foot work, which will help him throwing out runners. With a
football physique, he’ll also have to make sure he doesn’t get too thick in
the lower half and lose his mobility.

Still just 18, Ayala will open 2013 in extended spring training before being
assigned to a short-season club in June. He’s a long-term project but could
develop into a solid starting catcher or Ryan Doumit type contributor.

#14 [Andy
Wilkins](http://www.fangraphs.com/statss.aspx?playerid=sa392173&position=1B)
(1B)

* * *

Age | PA | H | 2B | HR | BB | SO | SB | AVG | OBP | SLG | wOBA
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
23 | 600 | 128 | 32 | 20 | 71 | 116 | 8 | .244 | .333 | .424 | .348

A former fifth round draft pick out of the University of Arkansas, Wilkins has
swiftly risen through the system and reached double-A in his third pro season.
He struggled a bit in 2012 in terms of hitting for average but he continued to
show some impressive left-handed power while also taking his fair share of
free passes.

Primarily a first baseman, Wilkins can also play a little third base. He’s not
overly gifted defensively at either position but he has a strong arm, which
helps him compensate for his shortcomings at the hot corner. Because he
doesn’t hit southpaws well, Wilkins may end up as a platoon player or
dangerous bat off the bench. He should move up to triple-A for 2013 and won’t
unseat incumbent veteran first baseman Paul Konerko but could reach the majors
in the coming season as an injury replacement.

#15 [Brandon
Brennan](http://www.fangraphs.com/statss.aspx?playerid=sa550121&position=P)
(P)

* * *

Age | G | GS | IP | H | HR | K/9 | BB/9 | ERA | FIP
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
20 | 14 | 7 | 37.1 | 44 | 2 | 7.47 | 3.86 | 4.34 | 3.68

Brennan was selected in the fourth round of the 2012 amateur draft and
currently projects as an innings eater thanks to his big, strong frame — or
possibly a high-leverage reliever. The right-hander generally works in the
low-90s but he can touch the mid-90s and he may reach it on a more consistent
basis with a permanent move to the ‘pen. He get a good downward plane on his
fastball and induced a high number of ground-ball outs. Brennan, 21, needs to
improve his slider and also work to develop a changeup.

The California native will work out of the starting rotation for now and will
be assigned to A-ball to open 2013. He’s not quite as developed as fellow 2012
draft pick Chris Beck and could spend the entire year in A-ball. He’s probably
two to three years from reaching the majors.
