title: Increasing Adiposity: Consequence or Cause of Overeating? | Jun 04, 2014 | JAMA | JAMA Network
source: http://jama.jamanetwork.com/article.aspx?articleid=1871695
date: 2025-08-13T19:43:28.084744
tags: []
---
Also Meets CME requirements for:

[Browse CME for all U.S.
States](/web/20160907070128/http://jama.jamanetwork.com/cme.aspx?browseState=true)

The American Medical Association is accredited by the Accreditation Council
for Continuing Medical Education to provide continuing medical education for
physicians. The AMA designates this journal-based CME activity for a maximum
of 1 _AMA PRA Category 1 Credit_ TM per course. Physicians should claim only
the credit commensurate with the extent of their participation in the
activity. Physicians who complete the CME course and score at least 80%
correct on the quiz are eligible for _AMA PRA Category 1 Credit_ TM.

Note: You must get at least of the answers correct to pass this quiz.

I have read the full article associated with this CME.

Please click the checkbox indicating that you have read the full article in
order to submit your answers.

Your answers have been saved for later.

You have not filled in all the answers to complete this quiz

Sorry, you have unsuccessfully completed this CME quiz with a score of

Indicate what change(s) you will implement in your practice, if any, based on
this CME course.

For CME Course: A Proposed Model for Initial Assessment and Management of
Acute Heart Failure Syndromes

Indicate what changes(s) you will implement in your practice, if any, based on
this CME course.
