title: The Mistrust of Science | The New Yorker
source: http://www.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/the-mistrust-of-science
date: 2025-08-13T18:05:46.047915
tags: []
---
_The following was delivered as the commencement address at the California
Institute of Technology, on Friday, June 10th._

If this place has done its job—and I suspect it has—you’re all scientists now.
Sorry, English and history graduates, even you are, too. Science is not a
major or a career. It is a commitment to a systematic way of thinking, an
allegiance to a way of building knowledge and explaining the universe through
testing and factual observation. The thing is, that isn’t a normal way of
thinking. It is unnatural and counterintuitive. It has to be learned.
Scientific explanation stands in contrast to the wisdom of divinity and
experience and common sense. Common sense once told us that the sun moves
across the sky and that being out in the cold produced colds. But a scientific
mind recognized that these intuitions were only hypotheses. They had to be
tested.

When I came to college from my Ohio home town, the most intellectually
unnerving thing I discovered was how wrong many of my assumptions were about
how the world works—whether the natural or the human-made world. I looked to
my professors and fellow-students to supply my replacement ideas. Then I
returned home with some of those ideas and told my parents everything they’d
got wrong (which they just loved). But, even then, I was just replacing one
set of received beliefs for another. It took me a long time to recognize the
particular mind-set that scientists have. The great physicist Edwin Hubble,
speaking at Caltech’s commencement in 1938, said a scientist has “a healthy
skepticism, suspended judgement, and disciplined imagination”—not only about
other people’s ideas but also about his or her own. The scientist has an
experimental mind, not a litigious one.

As a student, this seemed to me more than a way of thinking. It was a way of
being—a weird way of being. You are supposed to have skepticism and
imagination, but not too much. You are supposed to suspend judgment, yet
exercise it. Ultimately, you hope to observe the world with an open mind,
gathering facts and testing your predictions and expectations against them.
Then you make up your mind and either affirm or reject the ideas at hand. But
you also hope to accept that nothing is ever completely settled, that all
knowledge is just probable knowledge. A contradictory piece of evidence can
always emerge. Hubble said it best when he said, “The scientist explains the
world by successive approximations.”

The scientific orientation has proved immensely powerful. It has allowed us to
nearly double our lifespan during the past century, to increase our global
abundance, and to deepen our understanding of the nature of the universe. Yet
scientific knowledge is not necessarily trusted. Partly, that’s because it is
incomplete. But even where the knowledge provided by science is overwhelming,
people often resist it—sometimes outright deny it. Many people continue to
believe, for instance, despite massive evidence to the contrary, that
childhood vaccines cause autism (they do not); that people are safer owning a
gun (they are not); that genetically modified crops are harmful (on balance,
they have been beneficial); that climate change is not happening (it is).

Vaccine fears, for example, have persisted despite decades of research showing
them to be unfounded. Some twenty-five years ago, a statistical analysis
suggested a possible association between autism and thimerosal, a preservative
used in vaccines to prevent bacterial contamination. The analysis turned out
to be flawed, but fears took hold. Scientists then carried out hundreds of
studies, and [_found no
link_](http://web.archive.org/web/20250721153117/http://www.nap.edu/read/10997/chapter/1).
[_Still, fears
persisted_](http://web.archive.org/web/20250721153117/http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/health/1808956.stm)
_._ Countries removed the preservative but experienced no reduction in
autism—yet fears grew. A British study claimed a connection between the onset
of autism in eight children and the timing of their vaccinations for measles,
mumps, and rubella. That paper was retracted due to findings of fraud: the
lead author had falsified and misrepresented the data on the children.
Repeated efforts to confirm the findings were unsuccessful. Nonetheless,
vaccine rates plunged, leading to [_outbreaks of measles and
mumps_](http://web.archive.org/web/20250721153117/http://www.annualreviews.org/doi/abs/10.1146/annurev.me.43.020192.002315?journalCode=med&)
that, last year, sickened tens of thousands of children across the U.S.,
Canada, and Europe, and resulted in deaths.

People are prone to resist scientific claims when they clash with intuitive
beliefs. They don’t see measles or mumps around anymore. They do see children
with autism. And they see a mom who says, “My child was perfectly fine until
he got a vaccine and became autistic.”

Now, you can tell them that correlation is not causation. You can say that
children get a vaccine every two to three months for the first couple years of
their life, so the onset of any illness is bound to follow vaccination for
many kids. You can say that the science shows no connection. But once an idea
has got embedded and become widespread, it becomes very difficult to dig it
out of people’s brains—especially when they do not trust scientific
authorities. And we are experiencing a significant decline in trust in
scientific authorities.

The sociologist Gordon Gauchat studied U.S. survey data from 1974 to 2010 and
found some [_deeply alarming
trends_](http://web.archive.org/web/20250721153117/http://www.asanet.org/images/journals/docs/pdf/asr/Apr12ASRFeature.pdf).
Despite increasing education levels, the public’s trust in the scientific
community has been decreasing. This is particularly true among conservatives,
even educated conservatives. In 1974, conservatives with college degrees had
the highest level of trust in science and the scientific community. Today,
they have the lowest.

Today, we have multiple factions putting themselves forward as what Gauchat
describes as their own cultural domains, “generating their own knowledge base
that is often in conflict with the cultural authority of the scientific
community.” Some are religious groups (challenging evolution, for instance).
Some are industry groups (as with climate skepticism). Others tilt more to the
left (such as those that reject the medical establishment). As varied as these
groups are, they are all alike in one way. They all harbor sacred beliefs that
they do not consider open to question.

To defend those beliefs, few dismiss the authority of science. They dismiss
the authority of the scientific community. People don’t argue back by claiming
divine authority anymore. They argue back by claiming to have the truer
scientific authority. It can make matters incredibly confusing. You have to be
able to recognize the difference between claims of science and those of
[pseudoscience](http://web.archive.org/web/20250721153117/http://scienceblogs.com/denialism/about/).

Science’s defenders have identified five hallmark moves of pseudoscientists.
They argue that the scientific consensus emerges from a conspiracy to suppress
dissenting views. They produce fake experts, who have views contrary to
established knowledge but do not actually have a credible scientific track
record. They cherry-pick the data and papers that challenge the dominant view
as a means of discrediting an entire field. They deploy false analogies and
other logical fallacies. And they set impossible expectations of research:
when scientists produce one level of certainty, the pseudoscientists insist
they achieve another.

It’s not that some of these approaches never provide valid arguments.
Sometimes an analogy _is_ useful, or higher levels of certainty _are_
required. But when you see several or all of these tactics deployed, you know
that you’re not dealing with a scientific claim anymore. Pseudoscience is the
form of science without the substance.

The challenge of what to do about this—how to defend science as a more valid
approach to explaining the world—has actually been addressed by science
itself. Scientists have done experiments. In 2011, two Australian researchers
compiled many of the findings in “[ _The Debunking
Handbook_](http://web.archive.org/web/20250721153117/http://www.skepticalscience.com/Debunking-
Handbook-now-freely-available-download.html).” The results are sobering. The
evidence is that rebutting bad science doesn’t work; in fact, it commonly
backfires. Describing facts that contradict an unscientific belief actually
spreads familiarity with the belief and strengthens the conviction of
believers. That’s just the way the brain operates; misinformation sticks, in
part because it gets incorporated into a person’s mental model of how the
world works. Stripping out the misinformation therefore fails, because it
threatens to leave a painful gap in that mental model—or no model at all.
