title: American workers are overburdened with deadlines but like their colleagues and bosses
source: https://qz.com/1050525/the-latest-rand-survey-paints-a-disturbing-portrait-of-the-american-workplace/
date: 2025-08-13T17:05:15.394222
tags: []
---
American jobs are grueling, according to a newly published RAND survey.

For the first time in 2015, the nonprofit think tank asked its nationally
representative survey panel about their attitudes toward the workplace. “The
portrait that emerges is of a workplace that is taxing on a lot of
dimensions,” says Nicole Maestas, an associate professor at Harvard Medical
School and the lead author of the study, which was published Aug. 14. “It’s
hectic, fast-paced, and jobs can be emotionally and physically taxing.”

Among the survey’s results:

  * Nearly three-fourths of Americans report either intense or repetitive physical exertion on the job at least one-quarter of the time.
  * More than one-half of Americans report exposure to unpleasant and potentially hazardous working conditions.
  * Nearly one in five Americans are exposed to a hostile or threatening social environment at work, such as unwanted sexual attention and verbal abuse.
  * Most Americans (two-thirds) frequently work at high speeds or under tight deadlines, and one in four perceives that they have too little time to do their job.
  * About one-half of American workers do some work in their free time to meet work demands.
  * Only 38% of workers state that their job offers good prospects for advancement.

Not all of these burdens are equally distributed. Non-graduate workers, for
instance, were more likely to report intense or repetitive physical exertion
as well as unpleasant and potentially hazardous working conditions. They were
less likely to control their own schedules, and more than one in five non-
college-graduate, prime-age workers (age 35–49) were subject to frequent
changes to their work schedules.

Other burdens, like working under time pressure, were more evenly distributed
among those who did and did not graduate from college, though in different
forms: Non-graduates were more likely to work at high speeds, while graduates
were more likely to face deadline pressure.

“The incidence of these poor working conditions falls harder on workers
without a college degree, “Maestas says. “But even there I was surprised in
how taxing work can be even for college educated workers.”

People did report some upsides. For instance, workers tend to turn to each
other for support. More than half of workers described their bosses as
supportive, and 56% said that they had very good friends at work.

RAND also asked survey respondents about three sources of meaning in their
work. Did they feel : “satisfaction of work well done,” “feeling of doing
useful work,” “sense of personal accomplishment,” “make positive impact on
community/society,” “opportunities to fully use talents,” and “goals to aspire
to?”

About 80% said their job provides at least one of those things always or most
of the time.
