title: A Law Professor Explains Why You Should Never Talk to Police
source: https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/mvkgnp/law-professor-police-interrogation-law-constitution-survival
date: 2025-08-13T16:29:08.224338
tags: []
---
James Duane doesn’t think you should ever talk to the police. Not just, “Don’t
talk to the police if you’re accused of a crime,” or, “Don’t talk to the
police in an interrogation setting”—never talk to the cops, period. If you are
found doing something suspicious by an officer (say, breaking into your own
house because you locked yourself outside), you are legally obligated to tell
the cop your name and what you’re doing at that very moment.

Other than that, Duane says, you should fall back on four short words: “I want
a lawyer.”

In 2008, Duane, a professor at Virginia’s Regent Law School, gave a lecture
about the risks of talking to police that was filmed and [posted to
YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i8z7NC5sgik). It’s since been viewed
millions of times, [enjoying a new viral
boost](http://www.theblaze.com/stories/2016/01/19/dont-talk-to-the-police-law-
professors-2008-lecture-about-the-5th-amendment-is-going-viral-in-the-wake-of-
making-a-murderer-heres-why/) after the Netflix documentary _Making a
Murderer_ spurred interest in false confessions. His argument, which he’s
since expanded into a new book called _You Have the Right to Remain Innocent_
, is that even if you haven’t committed a crime, it’s dangerous to tell the
police _any_ information. You might make mistakes when explaining where you
were at the time of a crime that the police interpret as lies; the officer
talking to you could misremember what you say much later; you may be tricked
into saying the wrong things by cops under no obligation to tell you the
truth; and your statements to police could, in combination with faulty
eyewitness accounts, shoddy “expert” testimony, and sheer bad luck, lead to
you being convicted of a serious crime.

Duane’s book details several outrageous incidents just like that around the
country, clearly showing the many ways the system is stacked against suspects.
These include a proliferation of poorly written laws that make nearly anything
a potential crime, rules that allow prosecutors to cherry-pick only the most
damning parts of police interrogations at trials, and a little-known 2013
Supreme Court ruling allowing prosecutors to tell juries that defendants had
invoked the Fifth Amendment—in other words, telling an officer you are making
use of your right to remain silent could wind up being used as evidence
against you. For that reason, Duane thinks that you shouldn’t even tell the
police that you are refusing to talk. Your safest course, he says, is to ask
in no uncertain terms for a lawyer, and keep on asking until the police stop
talking to you.

Though Duane said in his lecture he would never speak to the police, he has no
problem speaking to anyone else, and in advance of his book coming out
Tuesday, VICE talked to him about that lousy Supreme Court ruling, ways to
reduce false confessions, and why he’s cool with his book helping guilty
people go free.

**VICE: How did you get into the business of telling people not to talk to the
cops?**
**James Duane:** I never planned or anticipated that this was going to become
a specialty of mine. I taught a class at my law school in 2008 and decided to
talk about the Fifth Amendment. The particular precipitating catalyst that
prompted me to talk about that subject was I had seen some things in the paper
quoting various individuals—knowledgeable folks, folks who ought to know
better—who were basically suggesting, “Well, if somebody takes the Fifth
Amendment, I guess that kind of proves that they’re guilty.” Which is
monstrously false. I thought, _Why don’t I say something about that?_ That’s
what prompted me to do that original recording. When it went viral like that,
I started getting phone calls and letters and emails from different people
with lots more questions and feedback and many, many invitations to come and
speak to different groups of lawyers, judges, law students, and college
students—and I said yes to almost every one of them.

I had a lot to learn, too. The thing I didn’t fully understand, because I had
been in the business for so long, is how surprising and counterintuitive all
of this is to the average guy on the street. I spoke to so many sophisticated
audiences, college students, law students, and they said, “This was
astonishing, we had no idea, we never heard any of this, we never knew any of
this.” And that was what reminded me, it’s important to get this message out
to as many people as possible.

**In your book, you advise people not to even take the Fifth thanks to a
Supreme Court ruling. Could you talk a little about why?
** Up until about five years ago, lawyers would give out business cards to
their client and say, “Read this to the police,” and it’d say, “At the advice
of my attorney I decline to answer on the grounds that it may incriminate me,
I’m invoking the Fifth Amendment.” And there wasn’t a lot of soul-searching
and agonizing that went into all of this, because as long as the jury never
finds out that you took the Fifth, it’s a perfectly sensible solution. But the
tide turned three years ago in 2013 with this wretched, abominable decision by
the Supreme Court in _Salinas v. Texas_ that changed everything.

In the _Salinas_ case, a young man was interrogated by the police, and when
they asked him a bunch of questions that didn’t seem to be very threatening,
he took the bait and answered them all. Then all of the sudden, they [asked a
question that made it] obvious they wanted information that might expose him
to criminal prosecution, and he just got silent. He didn’t say a word. And
there’s no doubt that he was exercising his Fifth Amendment privilege, but he
didn’t [formally] assert his Fifth Amendment privilege. So the five Republican
[appointees] on the Supreme Court said, _Because you didn’t tell the police
that you were using your Fifth Amendment privilege, your exercise of the
privilege, or your decision to remain silent can be used against you as
evidence of guilt._ Which probably had a dozen Supreme Court justices rolling
over in their grave.

“If you’re kind of clumsy about the way you assert the Fifth Amendment, you’re
running a lot of different risks.”

The game has changed now that your choice to use the Fifth Amendment privilege
can be used against you at trial depending exactly how and where you do it. As
I explain in the book, now the problem is, if you’re kind of clumsy about the
way you assert the Fifth Amendment, you’re running a lot of different risks.

**What are some reforms to the interrogation process that could reduce the
number of innocent people who wind up in prison?**
I don’t think there’s any objective observer who would deny we really ought to
be recording, with high-quality audio equipment, every step of every phase of
all interaction between the police and the accused. In this day and age, where
video and audio surveillance is practically ubiquitous wherever you go, it
ought to be a national scandal that police officers and government agents are
not generally required to record the entire interview.

“The reality is that over time police officers inevitably come to see
themselves as part of the prosecutor’s team.”

Another thing is that I think police officers should be precluded from sharing
information that they acquire in their investigations with witnesses. The
Supreme Court has handed down this huge body of case law saying if police
obtained evidence in violation of the Fourth, Fifth, or Sixth amendments, it’s
inadmissible in trial. It’s a naïve solution, because right now our law poses
no restriction of any kind on the ability of the police to take information
that they’ve acquired illegally and tell their witnesses about it. You’ve got
a victim who says she saw the defendant’s picture—”Oh, I think that’s the guy,
but I’m not sure.” You tell her one month later that he confessed that he says
he did it, but the judge says we can’t use it because of a technicality. As
soon as this woman hears that the guy confessed, trust me, she’s gonna show up
at trial, and she’s going to say to the judge or the jury, “There’s no doubt
about it in my mind, I’m absolutely certain.”

Perhaps the most basic or the most radical suggestion of all is the whole
business of conducting criminal investigation should not be placed in the
hands of partisans who are assigned the job of putting together the
prosecutor’s case. Any police officer will tell you, “We’re here to get to the
truth.” But the reality is that over time police officers inevitably come to
see themselves as part of the prosecutor’s team. They work with the
prosecutors, they testify for the prosecutors, they meet with the prosecutors.
There are other Western democracies that have legal systems mostly like ours
but place significant parts of the criminal investigation in the hands and
under the direct supervision of judges and magistrates who really are neutral.

**What has the response of law enforcement been to your speeches and your
work?**
Believe it or not, the numerous responses that I have received from police
officers and even more often from former police officers has been
overwhelmingly positive. I’ve received a great number of emails, and I’ve
spoken privately and publicly to many police officers about the whole subject,
and almost without exception, they all say, “It’s true. What you say is true.”

**If everyone buys your book and follows your advice, would that make it
harder for cops to investigate crimes?**
Oh yes, and that’s inevitable. It would be at least a little bit more
difficult for the police officers to put together successful criminal
prosecutions against some people who are now being convicted. Some of them are
guilty, some of them are innocent. But that’s my objective. I’m trying to make
it more difficult for the police to obtain convictions of innocent people.

**That would likely mean that some guilty people would go free. Would you be
OK with that?
** I would definitely take that tradeoff—no doubt about it at all. The Supreme
Court has said it’s much better for guilty people to go free from time to time
if that’s the price we’re going to pay for innocent people not being
convicted, because one innocent man unjustly convicted is much worse than one
guilty man going free.

But I must add, it’s far from clear that if everybody read my book that the
number of guilty people getting off would necessarily increase to any
significant extent. This book is going to have the most powerful effect on
shaping the conduct of people who right now are talking to the police. And
who’s talking to the police right now? Generally the least sophisticated
people: People who have never been arrested before, people who are innocent.
Those are the ones who are most likely to say, “Of course I’ll talk, how could
this go wrong, I’ve got nothing to lose, nothing to hide _.”_ Many of them
regret it and many of them regret it as the biggest mistake they’ve ever made
in their life.

The guiltiest people, the worst criminals in our society—by and large, most of
them have been arrested and prosecuted a couple of times already, and they’ve
been through the system, and they’ve talked to a lawyer and already learned
what the book says. So I’m not worried too much that this book is gonna put
some helpful information in the hands of criminals that they don’t already
have, because the truth is most of them understand very well how the system
works.

_This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity._

_Buy_ You Have the Right to Remain Innocent
_[here](https://www.amazon.com/You-Have-Right-Remain-Innocent/dp/1503933393)._

_Follow Harry Cheadle on[Twitter](https://twitter.com/hcheadle)._
