title: How ‘The Grey Album’ Re-Invented the Remix | by Gino Sorcinelli | Micro-Chop | Medium
source: https://medium.com/cuepoint/how-the-grey-album-re-invented-the-remix-740e7c9f2631#.dwqguyfu8
date: 2025-08-13T17:53:07.773367
tags: []
---
T**wo months after the release** of Danger Mouse and Gemini’s debut, Jay Z
dropped _The Black Album_ , which he had dubbed as his final LP, creating a
fervor around the project. Always a marketing genius, Jay figured out another
way to increase the hype surrounding his “retirement” effort by taking note of
what his peers were doing. In previous years, Nas had experimented with
putting out the full album acapellas — the isolated vocals only, with no beats
or music behind them — for his albums _Stillmatic_ and _God’s Son._ This gave
aspiring producers**** a chance to remix his work and, by extension, further
spread his lyrics to new fans.

Press enter or click to view image in full size

Jay followed suit and released a full-length acapella version of _The Black
Album_ to radio DJs on a promotional-only basis. Producers clamored to get a
copy so that they could have a chance to rework Jay’s vocals, with folks like
[9th Wonder](http://www.1994hiphop.com/2013/03/9th-wonder-black-is-back-2004/)
and [Kev Brown](https://kevbrown.bandcamp.com/album/the-brown-album) doing
remixes of the entire album. “Danger Mouse called us and was like, ‘Please
save me two copies of the _Black Album_ acapella vinyl,’” says _Cuepoint’s_
Mike Pizzo, who ran online record retailer HipHopSite.Com at the time.

Once his copies arrived, Danger Mouse wasted no time in sharing his idea for
_The Grey Album_ with Acosta, who continued to be a trusted confidante after
playing a critical role in helping _Ghetto Pop Life_ find its audience.

“That morning when I went to work, he was like, ‘Sit down, we need to talk, I
have this brilliant idea!’” Acosta recalls. “I’d never seen him get that
excited.”

According to Acosta, the moment that _The Black Album_ acapellas arrived, he
said, “I’m going to be in my room, don’t expect to see me.” Burton affirmed
this apparent level of hyper-focus in [MTV
interview](http://www.mtv.com/news/1485693/grey-album-producer-danger-mouse-
explains-how-he-did-it/) after _The Grey Album_ ’s release. “I was obsessed
with the whole project, that’s all I was trying to do,” he said. “Once I got
into it, I didn’t think about anything but finishing it.”

Press enter or click to view image in full size

The obsessive, repetitive listening that Danger Mouse utilized when composing
_Ghetto Pop Life_ would serve him well in his endless replaying of _The White
Album_. MTV’s [Corey Moss](http://www.mtv.com/news/1485693/grey-album-
producer-danger-mouse-explains-how-he-did-it/) reported, “he scoured all 30
songs on _The White Album,_ listening for every strike of a drum or cymbal
when other instruments or voices were not in the mix.” He then used all of the
isolated sounds he collected to produce original instrumentals to pair with
Jay Z’s vocals. Danger Mouse’s tireless dedication to only using one album for
his sample sources is impressive. Even the drums were composed of “[every
possible Ringo Starr part from _The White
Album_](http://www.mtv.com/news/1485693/grey-album-producer-danger-mouse-
explains-how-he-did-it/) _.”_ While the art of sampling was already a few
decades old in 2004, only using one album for your sample sources to compose
an entirely new album was generally unheard of.

A project this intense may have taken some months to complete, true to his
earlier conversation with Acosta, but Danger Mouse completed _The Grey Album_
in just a few days after working nonstop. “He came out of his room and he
looked horrible,” laughs Acosta. “He was like, ‘Check it out and tell me what
you think.’” Acosta, Burton, and his roommate sat down to listen to the album
and in an instant they knew they had something special on their hands.

Press enter or click to view image in full size

A photo of an original copy of ‘The Grey Album’ on CD, proudly ripped and
uploaded to the internet by “GCP.”

Pizzo’s camp, who hadn’t spoken to Danger Mouse since they sent the _Black
Album_ acapellas, was contacted as soon as _The Grey Album_ was completed. The
album went on sale on CD a short time later. “The night that we actually
posted it on HipHopSite.com for sale, it sold out immediately,” says Pizzo.
“The next day we got the cease and desist letter. We were like, ‘well, there’s
no more anyway, soooo...’ Once MTV reported that EMI had sent a cease and
desist letter out, it made the project so much bigger.”

The cease and desist letter didn’t come as a complete surprise to Danger
Mouse. “I never once thought for a second it would get cleared,” he said in
[an interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3rPoAQw91BI) with UCLA’s Hammer
Museum. At the same time, he didn’t realize it would end up having the reach
that it did. “All I thought when I did it was that it would be a cult
underground thing that maybe some people would talk about later on,” he said.
Furthermore, he was more concerned with making a quality project than worrying
about copyright law. “I didn’t do it because of copyright laws,” he said. “I
just wanted to see what would happen.”

Although Danger Mouse has said that he was more focused on the music than the
legal aspects of the album, while [talking to
MTV](http://www.mtv.com/news/1485693/grey-album-producer-danger-mouse-
explains-how-he-did-it/) a short time after _The Grey Album’_ s release in
2004, he seemed to have a sense the project would open many people’s eyes to
the power of a mashup or remix album. “It is an art form. It is music,” he
said. “It doesn’t have to be just what some people call ‘stealing.’ It can be
a lot more than that.”
