title: A Home Owner's Guide to Refinancing Your Mortgage
source: http://www.getrichslowly.org/blog/2017/06/13/home-owners-guide-refinancing-mortgage/
date: 2025-08-13T17:13:38.922527
tags: []
---
#  A Home Owner’s Guide to Refinancing Your Mortgage

Published on June 13th, 2017

![mortgage loan
refinancing](http://web.archive.org/web/20171019213658im_/http://www.getrichslowly.org/uploadedfiles/2017/05/GRS_Home_owners_guide_refinancing_mortgage_650x434.jpg)

Low mortgage rates unleashed a massive wave of refinancing that was a windfall
for millions of consumers, but what will happen once those unusually low
mortgage rates are gone? Will refinancing mortgage loans effectively be
sidelined as a financial resource for home owners?

While the opportunity to lower your interest rate may be the most compelling
reason to refinance, it is just one of several. Refinancing can accomplish
different things for different people, and the more you are aware of what
refinancing can do, the more likely you are to be able to use it to your
advantage.

## 5 compelling reasons to refinance your mortgage

Here are five good reasons to refinance:

### **1\. Reduce interest rates**

A drop in market rates can create a compelling opportunity to refinance.
However, even if interest rates generally are not lower than those on your
current mortgage, you still may be able to lower your rate by refinancing.
Rates on shorter mortgages and on adjustable rate mortgages are generally much
lower than those on 30-year mortgages.

So, if you can afford the higher payments that come with a shorter mortgage,
you might be able to lower your interest rate by refinancing from a 30-year to
a 15-year loan. As for adjustable rate mortgages, the drawback with them is
that the rate is subject to vary, so you won’t necessarily be lowering your
interest rate for the life of the loan.

However, if you only anticipate being in your current home for a few years
more, you might be able to benefit from an adjustable rate mortgage without
the long-term risk of rate fluctuations.

### **2\. Lower long-term interest expenses**

Shorter mortgages don’t just carry lower rates. They also mean paying interest
for fewer years. Even if conditions are such that you can’t lower your
mortgage rate, you might find you could achieve significant long-term savings
by switching to a shorter mortgage.

### **3\. Eliminate mortgage insurance premiums**

Mortgages like loans from the U.S. Federal Housing Administration that allow
low down payments also typically require that you pay for mortgage insurance.
Once you have built more equity in your home though, you might qualify for a
type of loan that does not require mortgage insurance, so that could represent
a potential savings if you refinance.

### **4\. Make monthly payments more affordable**

Stretching your remaining payments out over a longer period can result in
reducing those payments. Lengthening your loan is also likely to result in
paying more total interest in the long run. But if it is the only way to make
your mortgage affordable, this can be a good reason to refinance.

### **5\. Switch from an adjustable rate to a fixed-rate loan**

You may have chosen an adjustable rate mortgage for a variety of reasons, but
if you plan on being in your home for the long-term it would reduce your
financial risk to stabilize your monthly mortgage payments. You could do this
by switching from an adjustable rate to a fixed-rate loan.

## **What you need to refinance**

To take advantage of your refinancing opportunities, it helps to have the
following:

### **1\. Equity – and the more the better**

While government programs temporarily made refinancing available to some home
owners with little or no equity in their homes (due to the collapse in home
prices following the housing crisis), generally you are going to need a solid
amount of equity in your home in order to qualify for refinancing. If you have
20 percent or more, you may be able to qualify for a loan that does not
require you to pay mortgage insurance.

### **2\. A good credit score**

Keeping your credit healthy means keeping your refinancing options open – and
you never know when the right conditions might arise.

### **3\. Steady employment**

If you are thinking of refinancing, you might want to do it before you make a
change in jobs. Lenders like applicants who have held their jobs for a long
time.

### **4\. Closing costs**

Closing costs will probably total at least a couple thousand dollars, and very
often much more than that. You can finance this, such as by adding the closing
costs to the amount you are borrowing in the new mortgage. But this will be
more expensive in the long run and could eat into your equity balance. As
noted previously, less equity (or what’s known as a higher loan-to-value
ratio) can negatively impact your ability to qualify for refinancing. Or it
could result in you paying more in mortgage insurance premiums.

Consider a low interest rate environment as the low-hanging fruit among
refinancing scenarios. However, it is not the only worthwhile reason to
refinance. Getting the most out of the potential benefits that refinancing
presents requires knowing the different things it can accomplish, and being
prepared to act on your refinancing opportunities.

This article is about [House &
Home](http://web.archive.org/web/20171019213658/http://www.getrichslowly.org/blog/category/house-
and-home/)
[Savings](http://web.archive.org/web/20171019213658/http://www.getrichslowly.org/blog/category/savings/)
