title: How to Jump From a Speeding Car | The Art of Manliness
source: http://www.artofmanliness.com/2017/03/10/jump-speeding-car/
date: 2025-08-13T17:28:47.919199
tags: []
---
Sometimes when I’m driving, I’ll imagine scenarios that would require me to
jump out of my speeding car. I know I can’t be the only one who does this. I
do it mainly to pass time while in traffic, but I think there’s also a part of
me who wants to be prepared if (in the unlikely instance) I actually have bail
out of a moving vehicle to save my life. The scenarios that I usually come up
with are 1) my brakes go out and my car is about to fly off a cliff _Thelma
and Louise_ style and 2) a criminal organization has put me in the backseat of
a car and is transporting me to an abandoned warehouse to beat me with a
baseball bat. In both cases, jumping from a speeding car is probably the best
option for survival.

Okay, so my scenarios seem unlikely, but when I lived in Tijuana, two of my
friends actually did have to jump from a speeding vehicle. True story.

After leaving my apartment one night, these two guys got on a
[_calafia_](https://2.bp.blogspot.com/_UttSwJMzyNI/SOvLROyMmZI/AAAAAAAAAfY/0EzueFsAIfc/s320/calafia+asesina.jpg),
or bus. Now calafias are pieces of crap. They’re essentially school buses from
the 1970s painted different colors to correspond with their route. None of
them would pass a vehicle inspection in the U.S. and a lot of the drivers are
crackheads.

The area we lived in was super hilly. As the bus was descending one of these
steep, long hills, my friends noticed that while the bus driver was repeatedly
stepping on the brake pedal, the bus kept going faster and faster. The brakes
had gone out on the bus.

My friends had two choices. Stay on the bus and see if they’d survive the
impending crash or jump and take their chances with the pavement. They decided
to jump. One my buds was a retired Mexican soldier and all around badass.
While my American friend was screaming out the window for somebody to help, my
Mexican friend took action. He went to the driver to see if there was an
emergency brake. There was, but it didn’t work. So he went to the back of the
bus and opened up the emergency door.

_“Vamos a saltar.”_ We’re going to jump.

He told my American friend to hold his
[backpack](https://www.artofmanliness.com/lifestyle/gear/the-best-backpack/)
in front of him to help soften the landing a bit and then to jump at an angle
towards the shoulder of the road where there was dirt instead of pavement. His
final instruction was to try to land on the shoulder and roll when they hit
the ground. They tried to get the bus driver and the other passenger to join
them, but they wouldn’t leave their seats. The two men looked down at the
black pavement moving underneath them at 50 MPH, took a big breath, and
jumped.

They hit the ground hard and rolled for several feet. Despite landing on soft
earth, their clothing was ripped to shreds. They laid there on the side of the
Tijuana road, tattered, but alive. A few seconds later they heard a horrendous
crash. The bus couldn’t make the sharp turn and ended up running into the side
of a canyon wall. The driver and all the other passengers died.

I went to visit them the next day at their place. They were in surprisingly
good condition. They had some wicked road rash and one of them had to get
their head stapled shut. But that was pretty much it. No broken bones and no
internal bleeding. They rested for several days and were back to work the
following week.

Now, these guys were lucky. Really lucky. Not too many people can walk away
after jumping out of a speeding car without a broken bone. In fact, many
people have died from jumping from a moving car. But my friends did some
things right that increased their chances of surviving.

### How to Jump From a Speeding Car

 _Note: Jumping from a moving car is a**last ditch effort**. Serious injury
and death can occur from jumping from a moving vehicle. Exhaust all other
possibilities before you decide to make the leap. Also, before relying on the
information in this article, please read our
[disclaimer](https://www.artofmanliness.com/privacy-policy/). _

**Open the door completely.** You don’t want the door to shut on you while
you’re jumping out.

**Jump at an angle away from the vehicle.** Your body will be moving at the
same velocity as the car, so when you jump, your body will continue in the
direction of the car. To avoid getting run over by the car you’re jumping
from, jump at an angle in the opposite direction the car is moving.

**Try to land in a soft area.** If possible, try to jump towards a soft place
on the side of the road like grass and dirt. Anything is better than pavement.

**Avoid obstructions.** Time your jump so you don’t run run into a light pole
or sign post.

**Tuck.** Before you hit the ground, tuck your body into a ball. Bring your
chin to your chest and bring your arms and legs close to your body. This will
prevent your brain canister from hitting the ground and spilling its contents
on the pavement. Also, it prepares your body to roll.

**Roll.** Hit the ground with your shoulder and roll away from traffic.
Rolling lessens the impact when hitting the ground.

**Put on your shades and walk away from the exploding car like a badass.**
Just kidding. That’s what usually happens in the movies. In real life, you
need to seek immediate medical attention for the bruises, scrapes, and broken
bones you’ll likely have from jumping from a speeding vehicle.

![How to jump from a speeding car illustration.
](https://content.artofmanliness.com/uploads/2017/03/Jump-from-Speeding-
Car-1.jpg)
