title: TYWKIWDBI ("Tai-Wiki-Widbee"): America's "drunkest" cities
source: http://tywkiwdbi.blogspot.com/2016/05/americas-drunkest-cities.html
date: 2025-08-13T18:08:29.186671
tags: []
---
> "The findings were compiled by online financial news outlet 24/7 Wall St.

> The group analyzed self-reported data from County Health Rankings &
> Roadmaps, a joint program with the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and the
> University of Wisconsin Population Health Institute. **Excessive drinking,
> concentration of bars and alcohol-related driving deaths all were
> contributing factors** in determining America’s drunkest cities..."
>
>
>
> 1\. Appleton, Wis.
>
> 2\. Oshkosh, Wis.
>
> 3\. Green Bay, Wis.
>
> 4\. Madison, Wis.
>
> 5\. Fargo, N.D.
>
> 6\. La Crosse, Wis.
>
> 7\. Fond du Lac, Wis.
>
> 8\. Ames, Iowa
>
> 9\. Eau Claire, Wis.
>
> 10\. Mankato, Minn.
>
> 11\. Wausau, Wis.
>
> 12\. Sheboygan, Wis.
>
> 13\. Missoula, Mont.
>
> 14\. Grand Forks, N.D.
>
> 15\. Racine, Wis.
>
> 16\. Janesville, Wis.
>
> 17\. Milwaukee, Wis.
>
> 18\. Lincoln, Neb.
>
> 19\. Iowa City, Ia.
>
> 20\. Corvallis, Ore
>
>  ["Wisconsinites consistently imbibe on a grander scale, with more than one-
> quarter of adults reporting that they binge or drink heavily throughout the
> week](http://www.startribune.com/twelve-of-20-drunkest-american-cities-are-
> in-wisconsin/380038901/).
>
>
>
>
>
> Appleton, Wis., topped the national list just six months after winning the
> statewide honors. Data showed that 26.8 percent of Appleton residents drank
> excessively and nearly one-third of driving deaths involved alcohol. The
> city has 4.4 drinking establishments per 10,000 residents, compared to an
> average of 1.6 bars per 10,000 population across the 381 cities covered by
> the survey."

The study also reported that the driest cities were in the Bible Belt.
