title: 5k | no coast offense
source: http://www.1984produkts.com/civilwarroundtable/2014/10/25/5k/
date: 2025-08-13T19:25:52.195234
tags: []
---
![stock-photo-18121156-group-of-runners-in-a-cross-country-
race](http://web.archive.org/web/20141028002513im_/http://www.1984produkts.com/civilwarroundtable/wordpress/wp-
content/uploads/2014/10/stock-photo-18121156-group-of-runners-in-a-cross-
country-race.jpg)

Even at the peak of rush hour on a weekday, downtown didn’t have enough people
to look healthy. It wasn’t healthy. Half the city was empty parking lots. At
noon on a Saturday, the streets were comatose. Walking across the heart of the
city I saw just a few maintenance workers and a disheveled old man in a wobbly
wheelchair lurching diagonally across an broad intersection, his artificial
left leg jabbing proudly before him like a bowsprit.

When I reached the four-lobed square at the heart of the heart of town, I
found a few more souls. I joined the loiterers in the square, sitting in loose
rows. Some of us looked forward to becoming bus passengers; others had even
less to anticipate. Clouds of smoke circulated between us, menthols and blunts
and synthetic-fruit-flavor vapor. The thin sour smell of boiling hot dogs
joined in from the nearby cart, the only open business within sight.

I watched seagulls and pigeons and shitty little brown-gray birds scour the
pavement for a late breakfast. A breeze rushed past from the lake to the
north, as indifferent as highway traffic. Buses limped in and out and a few
people came and went.

The wind pushed a curious cloud across the sky, and I lost myself in it. When
I returned to life I saw that a strange invasion was underway. Men and women,
all lithe and sexy, were streaming into the square from the east and the west.
The new arrivals wore bright tank tops in a riot of colors, and flimsy running
shorts that revealed plenty of their powerful thighs. The runners all clutched
a garbage bag in one hand. I imagined their street clothes were in the bag.

The running men and women gathered into disorderly clouds around us. Before
long they outnumbered us, then doubled us, then tripled us. They limbered and
stretched and talked quietly among themselves. As they idled I noticed that
the crowd seemed to have an officer class. Among the sexy masses, there were
lieutenants, taller and sexier and lither, both men and women. They wore gold
tank tops, and carried leaf blowers on shoulder straps.
At the first glance of one of the appliances, I felt a surge of panic—was that
some kind of gun? Was an atrocity imminent? But soon I saw the brandmark of a
well-known manufacturer of harmless lawn equipment. My brief, sprinting fear
vanished.

Through this strange gathering, the traffic signals had continued their cycle,
rotely conducting a vanished orchestra. There was never any traffic downtown.
But as the runners began to overflow the square itself and spill into the
broad roadways that carved the square into four quarters, the traffic signals
blinked out. At nearly the same time, the steady breeze died.

In the new silence, I noticed a man at the center of the crowd, near the
statue of the city’s founder. His leaf blower was slung behind his back like a
broadsword. I might be imagining this, but I swear that his shoulder strap was
studded with military ribbons and honors, the confetti that dots the breast of
a hero.

Before I could worry too much about this, he thrust a long, well-toned arm
skyward. In his hand he clutched a sheaf of papers, with something like
tassels dangling down his forearm. The crowd buzzed, a silent anticipation
answered.

I watched all these from the slight elevation of the war monument in the
southeast corner of the square. My perch afforded me a view of what came next.
The man at the center broke up his sheaf, handing them to the people around
him. I watched the papers pulse out into the crowd like the ripples on a pond.
As the ripple reached me I saw that the papers were runner’s bibs. I watched
the nearest men and women tie on their placards, their buzz turned to intent
focus. The bibs bore tall black numbers and the logo of a local bank.

_This must be a 5K or something_ , I thought to myself. I sighed with
comprehension. The crowd made sense now. I watched as the gathering donned
their numbers. I could feel the quiet deepen rapidly. It occurred to me that a
5K didn’t require leaf blowers. In the same moment, the long arm of the
leader, a thick gold band around his ring finger, punched the sky again. The
air around me erupted.

For obvious reasons this was the first and last time that I ever heard a
hundred leaf blowers turn on at once. It sounded like a knife being sharpened
inside my throat. The sound ricocheted through my insides and froze me.

As the choral whine of the blowers boomed through the square, each and every
runner dumped their garbage bag onto the pavements and grass berms that made
up the center of town. The bags had not contained street clothes, or
windbreakeres, or energy drinks. What came out confused my eyes. The bags held
cash. The bills were visibly new, almost stiff in their crispness. They were
loose, unbound. The fresh green notes tumbled on their edges or slid flush
against the flat surfaces of the square. My brain took more than a few seconds
to understand that this strange and sudden crowd of attractive runners had
dumped hundreds of thousands—maybe millions—of dollars on the ground in the
center of the city. There were so many runners that I had to work to find
another regular bystander, one of the loiterers from before, to share our
incredulity. I saw on a frumpy woman’s face the same struggle I felt, the same
incomprehension that was spinning my mind over its head. The breeze was dead
but the money danced, thanks to the leaf blowers.

I couldn’t speak for the other regular people, but nearly all of me wanted to
dive after the mounds of cash. Of course I had no idea what the consequences
of such aggressive greed would be. I thought through the dynamics of the
situation. There were a lot of runners, at least three tank tops for every
non-runner. If any one of us civilians went after any one pile of cash, the
runners could easily intervene, prevent any misapprehension of their loot. But
if they did stop one thief, at least a few heaps of cash would be unguarded.

My manners quickly caught up to my racing desire. Taking money, even money off
the leash like these senseless bills, would be wrong. Starting a scuffle to
steal money would be wrong. Taking things that don’t belong to you is wrong, I
reminded myself under the hoarse shouts of the leaf blowers.

As the blowers exhaled furiously, the dance of the money intensified. The
piles were starting to mingle. My sense of order, my sense of what you do and
don’t use a garbage bag full of money for, my sense of _anything_ teetered.
Maybe the money was fake. Maybe this was a prank of some kind, although it
seemed awfully complex considering the victim was a few dozen sad loiterers.
All of this was either entirely or not at all wrong.

As I stared and sought understanding, the fist shot up again, and disorder
exploded the day.

The runners broke in a thousand directions, and the leaf blowers drove head-on
into the piles of cash, blasting currency into every corner of the square. I
tried to watch it all but only flashes of specific action could be seen. When
the drifts of money hit you, they hurt. The bank-fresh bills, pushed by hot
stale wind from the blowers, bit into exposed skin. As a heap of cash crashed
into me I felt slashes on my face and arms. Out of self-defense as much as
desire I swatted at the money, catching a few notes. Seven dollars. I worried
that I had a papercut on or near one of my eyeballs. My face stung.

As I looked up from a frenzied recount of my seven prizes, another swarm of
bills hit me. I covered my face this time, knowing better than to grab for
money. A few of my earlier haul slipped away, and a few bills wedged
themselves into my defensive posture. I was up to $12.

I stuffed the money deep into my pockets and looked around for the next wave.
All across the broad square, different troupes were interpreting the same
scene. Those runners with leaf blowers gathered themselves into fire teams and
corraled as much money as they could. They stampeded their herds into the
small clusters of bystanders. The victims contorted themselves, at once
clutching wildly and shielding themselves from the cartwheeling dollars. As
the mayhem extended from a moment to some minutes, garbage was swept up into
the clouds. Cups, cans, hot dog wrappers, cigarette husks, lotto tickets
joined in.

Convinced my chance for profit lurked into this chaos, I stepped away from the
heights of the war monument and broke into a jog. I made to head off the
biggest of the money clouds, gathering in the crook of the buildings at the
southwest corner of the square. Both leaf blower teams and loping interceptor-
joggers were converging there, cornering a large group of the innocent
bystanders.

Confused cries rose out of the trapped civilians as they winced against wave
after wave of swirling moneygarbage. They still clutched wildly through their
tears at the passing greenbacks. I could see them all, cowering together in a
lump, between the scissoring legs of the circling joggers. Their eyes were
wild with a mix of fright and greed.

As I edged toward the core of the madness, I found myself crashing to the
pavement. I rolled over to find what had tripped me up. One of the joggers had
checked me with a forearm. He stood over me, his skin glowing with sweat, his
wiry frame heaving with effort. He couldn’t stand still. None of them could.
Even when they stood, they jogged in place, intermittently glancing at their
chunky watches.

More joggers joined my assailant, men and women, all fit and exceptional. A
few were maybe more handsome than beautiful, but overall I felt like each of
them was too good looking for me. In a different setting I would have been
attracted to them all, and they would not have given me the time of day. But
these creeping and futile desires were forgotten when the new arrivals
produced clubs seemingly from nowhere. The shining black wands seemed too
flimsy to deliver much pain, but my eyes quickly admitted their error as the
first blows landed.

The runners pummeled me cruelly. The only respite was that they were so many,
so compressed that they could not swing freely. No one runner could strike me
at full force without hitting his or her comrades. But what force they did
manage was plenty bad. Through mercy or wildness, they missed my face. But my
arms, legs, and torso were touched all over by the hot red hurt of the
nightsticks. The assault lasted only seconds, but its effects immobilized me
for a good long time.

I heard the stealthy sneakered footfalls of my assailants move away. I
uncrumpled myself and looked out on to the plaza. I wondered if they had
avoided my face so I could better bear witness to the furthest extent of their
cruelty. The leaf blowers hounded a few stray civilians into the frightened
clump in the corner. The outriders—outjoggers, I suppose—circled with purpose.
A detachment of leaf blower men kept the cash pile percolating.
The greed in the eyes of the trapped had vanished, replaced with woozy fear.
Runners broke from the circle to sweep through and bash wildly at the prey
animals. Trauma seemed to be blossoming in a timelapse before my eyes. But
their grotesque suffering was no longer the strangest thing happening in the
square.

With the cash and quarry trapped in the southwest corner, the majority of the
runners turned to a new task. Their bright tank tops and ropy, conventionally
attractive thighs swept from around the square toward a single vacant
storefront, a former dry-goods store. With vicious strength, the runners burst
through doors and boarded-up windows. The beautiful animal horde splintered
glass and wood and drywall. They scoured over ever inch of the store, like
roaches or scent hounds, running their manicured and elegant hands over
moulding, dusty counters, dust-fogged display cases. I watched as the fiends
smelled and probed and stroked every inch of the commercial tombs. Some of the
runners began to gnaw on the interior walls, and others took up pieces of
rubbish as instruments of demolition. Those without tools struck out with
their fists and feet. Joining the dull whine of the leaf blowers and the
fearful yelps of the captives was a manythroated snarl from the deranged
joggers.

The attackers swept from the dry-goods store to the next storefront, a hair
salon. A few of the runners remained in the five-and-dime. To my amazement,
these rear guards took up a sober pantomime of commerce. One runner pretended
to measure another for a suit of clothes with an invisible tape measure. A
beautiful brunette jogger tied on a dirty white apron dotted with mold and
pretended to take food orders from others sitting at the store’s soda
fountain. A male runner, his electric green tank top torn and his enviable
physique smeared with the dust of wanton destruction, pretended to wipe down
the shattered glass of a picture window.

With building speed, the locust-like runners progressed around the square. I
listened to the sounds of their destructive circuit. Glass squealed as it
fell, splintering wood barked, and the savage mob bayed in satisfaction; all
these sounds completed an orbit of my senses.

As the winter sun slipped back down from its feeble apex, the leaf blowers
died out one by one. The cloud of cash spun itself out in a corner. A
detachment of the biggest and strongest joggers produced and unfurled a single
enormous trash bag. They spread the black-brown shimmering hide of the bag and
set about baling the cash inside by hand. The bills, so clean and cutting at
the beginning, were filthy and all over creased. From time to time a captive
in the corner would break for one of the streets that led away from the
square. These fugitives were run down and hastily beaten by roving squads.

As the looters blasted through the last untouched storefront, all but a trace
of the money was in the giant bag. I watched the baton detachments descend on
the cluster of civilians, frisking them savagely. Anyone holding cash was
compelled to swap their catch for a crack over the head. Before long the
captives voluntarily surrendered their cash without a search.

The sun began to slip behind the gap-toothed skyline of the dead city. Cold
shadows fell across the square. The runners crowded around their great sack of
cash, and lifted it like ants. They paraded silently south, in the direction
of the next lost town.
