title: How Greylock Partners Finds the Next Facebook - Newsweek
source: http://www.newsweek.com/2014/06/13/how-greylock-partners-finds-next-facebook-253329.html
date: 2025-08-13T19:42:29.674652
tags: []
---
One sunny day in March, Gagan Biyani, the young and hugely ambitious CEO of
Sprig—a company so new you probably have never heard of it—stepped into the
main conference room at 2550 Sand Hill Road in Menlo Park, California. Here,
inside this nondescript Silicon Valley office, everything was about to change
for Biyani, and his small company. He was here to pitch his business plan to
Greylock Partners.

The room is ordinary—a white board, table, some chairs—but through the eyes of
a fledgling CEO, it becomes transformed. "Coming in, the first person I see is
Reid, right?... And then David is over here; Aneel is there," Biyani says
breathlessly. "It was the biggest moment of my life." Gathered here on that
day were some of the most powerful venture capitalists in the valley: David
Sze, Aneel Bhusri, Reid Hoffman and every other partner at Greylock. These are
the guys who backed Facebook, LinkedIn, Instagram, Pandora, Dropbox, Airbnb—at
a time when they were not much bigger than Sprig. For a striving founder of a
startup, pitching your business plan here is a bit like being a rookie pitcher
stepping onto the mound at Yankee Stadium—with Babe Ruth walking up to the
plate.

Out of thousands of business plans Greylock sees each year, only 20 or so make
it to a full partnership meeting. Of those, only half get funded. Biyani was
determined to show that Sprig was worthy. But more than just his shot at the
big leagues, what Biyani got that day was an up-close look at how Greylock
picks its bets.

Here's one surprising lesson Biyani learned: If the partners start arguing
about your pitch, you're probably doing pretty well. That means they are
intrigued enough to be grinding the details. Of course, Biyani didn't know
this at the time, which made it particularly unnerving when Bhusri began
drilling down into the fundamentals of his business plan. Biyani has wildly
ambitious plans for Sprig: He wants it to be the Uber of food—delivering meals
anywhere, anytime with the swipe of a phone. But this is an unproven concept
in an unproven market. The risks are huge: Sprig will cost millions to build;
it won't make a penny for years; its logistics are a nightmare.

Bhusri had questions. He is the co-founder and CEO of Workday (another big win
for Greylock), and few people in the world know more about starting a tech
company. He probed into the viability of Sprig's concept, its market. Biyani
had answers—he'd been preparing for months. But Bhusri didn't let up, and
going back and forth with one of the world's top venture capitalists was
intense. Then something unexpected happened. Sze—who once fought hard to get
Greylock into Facebook—jumped in and started arguing the case for Sprig. For
Biyani, this was a surreal moment. He watched as two of the biggest operators
in Silicon Valley went toe-to-toe over his fledgling company.

When his pitch was over, the young CEO walked out feeling strangely elated. "I
have never seen so much intellectual horsepower in one room in my life," he
says. Shortly after, he got an offer: Greylock was in for $10 million.

For a startup, getting Greylock's backing means more than just an infusion of
cash. "It's like your company's been blessed by the pope," says Nirav Tolia,
founder of Nextdoor, a social media site that got funded by Greylock two years
ago. When that news got out, he was flooded with offers from other VCs wanting
to get into the deal. "Firms will say, 'I don't even know what Nextdoor is,
but I know David Sze is on the board, so I am going to write a check.'" When
Glenn Kelman, CEO of real estate startup Redfin, got funding from Greylock,
one partner asked him to write down his wish list of people for his board.
Shortly after, his top pick—Austin Ligon, founder of Carmax—was in. "I felt
like we could have gotten Barack Obama if I had listed him," recalls Kelman.
Peter Chernin, ex-chief operating officer of Fox, joined the board of Pandora
because of Greylock's backing. "They are good at choosing companies and good
at building companies," he explains.

Hard to imagine now, but there was a time when Facebook, LinkedIn, Instagram,
Pandora and Tumblr were ideas that, to many, seemed crazy. But where others
might see lunacy, Greylock has seen opportunity. Take Airbnb. At the time
Greylock invested in 2009, the idea seemed totally bizarre: Who would rent out
his home to strangers online? Last year, 6 million people used the service to
bunk up on the cheap, from Las Vegas to Kathmandu. The company, still private,
was valued in January at close to $10 billion.

"When the idea is big enough and edgy enough—it's either madness or genius,"
says Hoffman. "What you are trying to figure out is which one it is."

Reid Hoffman, center, the founder of LinkedIn when his stock was listed Reid
Hoffman, center, the founder of LinkedIn when his stock was listed Mark
Lennihan/AP

**Heighten the Conflict**

"There is a lot of mythology about how firms decide," says Sze one recent
afternoon at his Sand Hill Road offices. The space is, for the most part,
nondescript—tidy rooms and cubicles above a New Republic bank branch. There is
something unusual installed on one wall: the shape of a slender tree painted
black, branches blossoming outward. At the end of each branch is a small wall
mount holding every cellphone and mobile device Sze has owned—from a brick-
sized US West to the Apple Newton to the iPhone. It is a physical reminder of
how quickly technology has transformed just about every part of our world over
these past 20 years. For much of that time, Sze has been deep inside this
revolution, finding the companies that are driving it.

"A lot of these voting systems are consensus oriented, where you need to have
100 percent unification of the group," observes Sze. Greylock's system is
different. A few years ago, the partners analyzed their pitch meetings,
looking at ones that had led to their best deals and their worst. The deals
fell into three categories: ones everyone hated, ones everyone loved and ones
they fought over. It was this last group that yielded Greylock's biggest wins.
Facebook, Pandora, Airbnb were all hotly contested pitches. On Airbnb, Sze
clashed with Hoffman, certain the idea would never work. Luckily for Greylock,
Hoffman doesn't back down easily. "We are looking for outliers and extremes,"
explains Sze. "So we try to heighten this conflict."

There are few groups that know more about how tech startups fail or fly. Each
of Greylock's 11 investing partners has either founded a major startup or was
early into one. Sze was one of the first employees at Excite, a pre-Google
search engine. Other partners come out of eBay, Yahoo, Mozilla, Twitter,
Facebook and LinkedIn. "Our bet is that people who have been in these
operating roles, that have lived it day in and day out, they are going to go,
'Oh, I can see why this could be great,'" explains Sze.

When Sze came to Greylock in 2000, the world was very different. There was no
iPhone, no Twitter, no Facebook, and laptops felt as heavy as a block of
cement. The firm was different too. It was well known on the East Coast,
having made a name for itself investing in Teradyne, Neutrogena, Prime
Computers—many of the big venture deals of the 1980s and 1990s. But on the
West Coast, it wasn't a real player.

The welcome party of the Web start-up Airbnb, in San Francisco, Aug. 16, 2011
The welcome party of the Web start-up Airbnb, in San Francisco, Aug. 16, 2011
Jim Wilson/The New York Times/Redux

Greylock hired Sze to change that. A graduate of Yale University and Stanford
Business School, he had recently left Excite and was just building his
reputation in the VC world. Back then, no one in Silicon Valley took Greylock
that seriously, and if you are not in the inner ring, you don't get first
crack at the best companies. "It wouldn't have occurred to me to go pitch
Greylock," recalls Hoffman, who was looking for investors for LinkedIn in
2004. Coming out of PayPal, Hoffman had his pick of investors, but a
conversation with Sze sold him. The young VC talked about LinkedIn in a way
that was completely different from what the other investors were seeing. He
was deeply interested in the mechanics of the company—whom it should hire, how
it could attract users, even what the site should look like. It was more like
talking to a fellow entrepreneur than to an investor, Hoffman says. "You want
to pick people you want to be in the foxhole with," he explains. Hoffman
decided to become a partner at Greylock after LinkedIn went public.

And then along came Facebook. The first time its pitch book came Sze's way—in
2005—he blew it off. "I had a chance to look at it"—when it was valued at $100
million—"and turned it down because I was working on closing another deal," he
recalls. A year later, Facebook's valuation jumped to $550 million. When Mark
Zuckerberg came around for his next round of funding, Sze was determined to
get in the door.

In the history of the firm, few deals have been as contentious as this
Facebook meeting. What made the partners so tense was the huge price tag for a
business that was still unproven and had plenty of competition—MySpace,
Friendster, Tickle. It wasn't at all clear Facebook would emerge the winner.
But Sze seized the moment and eloquently articulated something many of his
partners were having trouble seeing. He described in detail how social media
would build on itself, how it would spread beyond colleges, how people craved
ways to connect.

The partners agreed to the deal and wrote one of the biggest checks in the
partnership's history—$10 million. Jim Breyer, the partner at Accel who funded
Facebook's earlier venture round, remembers one of the partners calling him
later: "He said, I just want to do a double-check: Are we getting a fair
deal?"

As of the end of May, Facebook was worth around $160 billion.

Noah Berger/Bloomberg/Getty

**In Stealth Mode**

"Last night I got about three and a half hours of sleep," says Hoffman over
breakfast at the Rosewood Hotel in Menlo Park. In front of him, a huge wall of
windows is serving up a wide view of Silicon Valley—a brown, shrubby stretch
clear out to the Santa Cruz Mountains. In these parts, Hoffman is a legend.
Entrepreneurs see him as a champion of striving start-ups. In pitch meetings
he is known for putting jittery founders at ease. One recalls Hoffman joking
with him about their shared passion for Settlers of Catan—a board game wildly
popular with the geek set. Once, on his personal website devoted to boosting
entrepreneurs, he posted his original [LinkedIn pitch
deck](https://www.reidhoffman.org/linkedin-pitch-to-greylock/), annotated with
notes on what he got wrong in 2004 and how he would change his pitch now.

On this particular morning, Hoffman has a lot on his calendar. In addition to
his role at Greylock, he has remained chairman at LinkedIn, and he's about to
fly to Korea to meet with Samsung to discuss the LinkedIn app for its phones.
But before he leaves, Hoffman needs to lock down unfinished Greylock business.
For the past three days, he has been chasing a startup that has been operating
"in stealth mode"—that's Silicon Valley–speak for not telling anyone what you
are up to. But he got all the details over breakfast with one of the co-
founders, and he is certain it's something to jump on. Hoffman quickly
convened a pitch meeting. That went well, but now he is pushing Greylock to
move fast to figure out whether it should make an offer. In this world, the
best startups don't stay available for long. Two of Greylock's rival venture
firms had already lobbed in offers.

The competition among top VCs is fiercer than ever. Greylock's top
rivals—Sequoia, Accel, Benchmark, Andreesen Horowitz—vie with it on just about
every big deal. Thanks in part to the colossal valuations of companies like
Twitter and Facebook, investors are flooding the Valley with capital, and top
venture firms have raised huge new funds. Andreesen Horowitz recently launched
a $1.5 billion fund. Last fall, Greylock raised $1 billion; it now has $2.6
billion under management. There is so much capital available that top startups
often get multiple offers—Sprig, for example, had three besides Greylock's. So
perhaps the question here is not how do VCs choose startups but, rather, how
do entrepreneurs choose investors.

"I don't know if you know my history with VCs, but it's not entirely
friendly," says Ev Williams, co-founder of Twitter, whose backers famously
ousted him. This winter, Williams went looking for investors for his new
company, Medium. He had his pick of investors. Who wouldn't fund the next
Twitter? He didn't really need the money, though—thanks to the Twitter IPO, he
is worth more than $2 billion. This time, he was looking for something less
tangible. "To me, character was one of the very most important things," he
says. Before deciding on his investors, he called around to other
entrepreneurs to get reference checks on VCs. One call had particular impact.
Williams spoke to Kevin Rose, a co-founder of Digg. Greylock had been one of
its venture firms. Williams wanted to know one thing: How had David Sze—the
partner who got Greylock in on the deal—treated the foundering CEO as his
company was unraveling? That is, of course, when you see a VC's real
mettle—when he's about to lose all his money. "The thing I heard, time after
time, was David was always trying to do the right thing for the entrepreneur,"
says Williams. "People don't universally say that about all investors."

In January, Williams announced that Greylock would be Medium's lead investor.
In the strange calculus and karma of Silicon Valley, if Medium comes anywhere
close to Twitter's success, Greylock's investment in Digg still might pay off.

**We All Need Good Poaching**

"Hey Josh, when you were at Twitter is this how you guys used to do it?"

It is a bright spring morning in San Francisco, and Josh Elman, a young
partner at Greylock, is sitting in a room full of product engineers, designers
and managers at Nextdoor—a startup that aims to do for neighbors what LinkedIn
did for job seekers. The wide-open loft space has huge windows. Covering one
wall is an essay titled "Our Manifesto." Coders click away at their
computers—the dress code, flannel shirts or ironic T-shirts, Buddy Holly
glasses. One guy has a Mohawk.

"Wait, I think it's more helpful if we look at Facebook," Elman clicks at his
laptop. Dressed in an orange T-shirt with kittens printed across the front,
jeans and sneakers Elman, 38, looks as if he could be one of the engineers or
managers listening to him. And not so long ago he was. Elman used to be
Twitter's growth hacker—Silicon Valley-speak for the guy who gets people to
use your site. Before that he launched Facebook Connect, and before that he
was one of the first product managers at LinkedIn. There are few people in the
world who know as much about building a social media platform. And today he's
here to show Nextdoor how he did it, so they can do it again.

Greylock has big hopes for Nextdoor. Greylock made a $15 million investment a
little over a year ago, and since then the company has been moving fast.
Nextdoor is part of a wave of second-generation social media platforms
building on the foundations that Facebook and LinkedIn laid down. It aims to
capture local markets—one of the hot sectors in consumer technology right now.
Say your dog is lost, or you are having a tag sale; instead of posting fliers
all over the neighborhood, you can post on Nextdoor. It has no revenues, nor
any plan for how to generate them, but Nextdoor has enough cash to survive for
years. Six months after its Greylock round, Nextdoor raised another $60
million from Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and other investors.

Yet for all its promise and funding, it's important to remember that nothing
is ever certain in the startup world. There are always unexpected twists: In
May, for instance, Nextdoor's Tolia was charged with a felony hit-and-run. He
allegedly made a lane change on the highway that caused another car to hit the
median; the two vehicles did not collide. He is pleading not guilty.

For Nextdoor to succeed it must keep to its mission: growing fast. Right now,
it has a huge team focusing on getting as many people to use the site as
quickly as possible. At the moment, the company is in 35,000 neighborhoods
across the country (it does not disclose total users). That's a start, but to
be a big player in social media, it will need a lot more. Facebook now has
over a billion users a month.

"OK, so when I was doing this at Facebook, we put a lot of buttons here,"
Elman points to his screen. "I'm looking now, and I see they've made it
cleaner. I like it."

Few VCs will go deep into the trenches the way Greylock does. Once the pomp of
the pitch is over and the money is in the bank, the real hard work of building
a company begins. And this is where Greylock gives its companies a huge edge.
Because they used to be entrepreneurs too, the partners know what it takes to
go from scrappy idea to real business. "What would you pay to have someone in
the room who has had to deal with all the situations you are dealing with and
has done that at two of the most successful Internet companies of all time?"
asks Tolia. At one point, Nextdoor had a disastrous episode when it tried out
a new feature on its site and its users hated it. Sze walked the team through
a similar problem Facebook experienced when some of its new features riled
users. Recently, when one of Nextdoor's managers announced he was leaving, Sze
helped persuade him to stay.

"When things aren't going your way, you really appreciate their clout," says
Kelman. When he was looking for a chief financial officer, he was too small to
get much attention from his recruiting firm. One of the Greylock partners
called on his behalf, and a short time later, Redfin hired Chris Nielsen, the
former CFO of Zappos.

Recruiting is a particular point of emphasis for Greylock. The competition for
talent in Silicon Valley right now is brutal. There are not enough coders and
engineers in the U.S. to meet the huge demand at tech companies. For startups,
this is particularly tough because bigger tech companies can pay enormous
salaries. One entrepreneur trying to poach an engineer from one big tech
company was stunned to find out the guy was making over $1 million a year.
Right now, there are 40 openings for top executives across Greylock's
portfolio and dozens more for engineers and coders.

To help its companies find top talent, Greylock has built an in-house
recruiting team. In 2011 it hired Jeff Markowitz and Dan Portillo—two top tech
recruiters with huge networks in the valley. They have been able to draw big
names to Greylock's startups. Some recent coups: Tom Reilly, who sold his
company to Hewlett-Packard as CEO of Cloudera; Dan Clancy, a top Google
engineer, as Nextdoor's engineering chief; Brent Ayrey, vice president of
product innovation at Netflix, to run innovation at Creative Live. To get
midlevel engineers and designers, Greylock trains its entrepreneurs to recruit
for themselves. One guide provides tips such as "the 100 rule"—the number of
people you need to talk to in order to get 15 viable candidates.

Brendan McDermid/Reuters

**Fly Against the Swarm**

It's late in the afternoon at Hatch Today, an incubator in San Francisco. Here
are the front-line trenches of the startup world. Scattered across a cramped,
crowded space are rows and rows of small tables. Clusters of people, young and
old, squeeze around them, busily clicking away at their laptops. Some have
planted banners— _HashGo, WeblishPal, Swapdom_ —names of companies we might
never know. No one seems to notice the quiet guy seated under a banner that
reads _Sprig_ —even though he is probably the most powerful person in the
room. Simon Rothman, one of Greylock's partners, has been here all day,
helping Sprig figure out how to put the firm's $10 million to work.

"This is a business that has pace, it's moving fast. This is one of the rare
cases like Uber or Lyft that resonates," explains Rothman, who used to run
eBay Motors. If all goes well, it won't be long before Sprig leaves its
incubator and sets up shop in its own digs. Here Greylock can help too. It has
a real estate agent who helps its companies find space. But whether it will be
Greylock's next big win is the billion-dollar question.

"Everyone can tell you why something is going to fail," says Sze. "The real
trick is, can you create the conviction on why something might succeed?"

_**Correction: An earlier version of this article inaccurately labeled Digg as
a Twitter competitor, and misnamed Glenn Kelman as the founder of Redfin.**_
