title: How Podcasts Became a Seductive-and Sometimes Slippery-Mode of Storytelling | The New Yorker
source: https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2018/11/19/how-podcasts-became-a-seductive-and-sometimes-slippery-mode-of-storytelling
date: 2025-08-13T16:27:34.206763
tags: []
---
In 1936, Walter Benjamin, the German philosopher and cultural critic,
published an essay titled “The Storyteller.” The piece, ostensibly about the
Russian writer Nikolai Leskov, offered its author an opportunity to analyze
the meaning and function of storytelling. Long ago, Benjamin suggested,
stories offered listeners practical or moral counsel, much as fairy tales now
did for children. They transmitted common wisdom, framed by the personal
experience of the storyteller, which was delivered in such a way that
listeners could incorporate it into their lives. This kind of storytelling was
falling victim to the forces of modernity, Benjamin argued. Soldiers returning
from the battlefields of the Great War, for example, were less likely than
earlier combatants to speak of what they’d gone through, finding ordinary
language incommensurate with the horrors of mechanical warfare. But the
principal cause of storytelling’s decline was a new form of communication:
“information,” or verifiable and topical news.

The rise of electronic communication meant that news could be instantly
transmitted around the globe. Although Benjamin noted that this mode of
communication was not always more accurate than the forms it had overtaken,
its authority depended on the appearance, at least, of accuracy. “No event any
longer comes to us without already being shot through with explanation,”
Benjamin wrote. “By now almost nothing that happens benefits storytelling.”

Eighty-odd years after Benjamin wrote about the decline of storytelling, we
are living in a new golden age of it, in the form of the podcast: on-demand
audio that a listener can download and play while commuting or exercising or,
given the right equipment, showering. A recent study conducted by Edison
Research found that nearly a quarter of Americans listen to podcasts at least
once a month. The most popular shows, such as “The Daily,” produced by the
_Times_ and featuring Michael Barbaro, a former reporter, as a winning,
accessible interlocutor of his news-gathering colleagues, or “The Joe Rogan
Experience,” in which the bluff comedian interviews public figures about
things like masculinity and technology, are downloaded tens of millions of
times each month. Some of the most acclaimed podcasts, such as Slate’s “Slow
Burn,” which in its second season plumbed the painful history of President
Bill Clinton’s impeachment, offer a provocative lens not just on the past but
also on current events. When the show’s host, Leon Neyfakh, interviews Juanita
Broaddrick about her claim that, in the nineteen-seventies, she was sexually
assaulted by Clinton, it makes for sobering listening in the era of #MeToo.

Beyond the top of the charts, there are half a million other podcasts
available, fashioned for every conceivable interest or taste. If a person
wants to know more about Walter Benjamin, she can listen to an episode of
“Thinking Allowed,” a BBC Radio 4 show in which Laurie Taylor, a British
sociologist, renders Benjamin’s work in plainspoken language; or download the
National Gallery of Art’s podcast, in which the Princeton art historian Hal
Foster delivers a Mellon lecture about him; or find the Clocktower podcast,
dedicated to preserving archival audio, which offers recordings of several
radio scripts, for children, that Benjamin wrote in the nineteen-thirties; or
search out an episode of “Giving the Mic to the Wrong Person,” a left-leaning
podcast, hosted by Jeremy Salmon, that features an off-the-cuff roundtable
about Benjamin—“he’s one of the Frankfurt School guys, from what I
understand”—in the context of contemporary politics and culture.

In the first years of podcasts, a decade or so ago, technological limitations
militated against their widespread adoption: they had to be laboriously
transferred from a computer to an MP3 player or an iPod. Podcasts were made by
geeks, for geeks. That changed in 2014, when Apple added a Podcast app to the
iPhone, making subscribing almost effortless. Even better, it was usually
free.

Still, the real explosion in the medium was creative rather than
technological: the release, in 2014, of “Serial,” an investigation into the
1999 murder of Hae Min Lee, a high-school student in Maryland, hosted by Sarah
Koenig, an alumna of “This American Life,” the public-radio show, which also
produced the podcast. “Serial” incorporated interviews conducted over a prison
phone line with Lee’s onetime boyfriend, Adnan Syed—he had been convicted of
her murder, despite his protestation of innocence—and also interviews with
friends, police officials, and a forensic expert, along with archival
recordings. It became the first podcast that listeners and cultural commenters
dissected with the kind of avidity formerly reserved for TV dramas such as
“Breaking Bad” or “Mad Men.”

“Serial” took the form of a quest, but it hardly provided a tidy ending to the
questions raised about Lee’s murder and Syed’s conviction. The show had a
distinctive tone: conversational, uncertain, informal, and, occasionally,
faux-naïve. In the first episode, Koenig describes visiting the office of
Rabia Chaudry, an immigration lawyer and a friend of Syed’s, who had tipped
off Koenig about the story. “Her office takes up the corner of a much larger
open space that I think is a Pakistani travel agency, though it’s hard to
tell,” Koenig says. Koenig, a former Baltimore _Sun_ reporter, surely knew how
to determine whether the office was a Pakistani travel agency: by asking.
(Indeed, it’s hard to believe that she _didn’t_ ask.) But Koenig knew from
“This American Life,” whose multiple segments are unified by the presence of a
musing narrator, that she could conjure a cluttered office environment more
vividly by sharing her initial confusion, rather than by resolving the
question.

Early in the podcast, Koenig informs her audience that “we are telling this
story in order,” planting the conceit that listeners were accompanying her on
all her reportorial wanderings. But the show’s construction was more artful
than that. The first episode was concerned principally with the observations
of a classmate of Syed’s, Asia McLain, who claimed to have seen him in the
library exactly when the prosecution said that he’d murdered Lee. But, as
Koenig briefly mentions in her narration, she didn’t attempt to track down
McLain until almost four months after she’d spoken to Rabia Chaudry—a third of
the way into her yearlong investigation.

The point of “Serial,” which was free but bookended with ads, was not so much
to solve the mystery as to reveal the process of attempting to solve the
mystery. This meant sharing granular details of Koenig’s investigation, such
as an analysis of data from cell towers. (Koenig acknowledged that she handed
off this research to a producer, Dana Chivvis, “because I am, technologically
speaking, a moron.”) But the show’s real innovation lay in capturing Koenig’s
psychological process—her inward struggle about what to believe. “I’ve got
this thing in my head that I’ll catch him in a lie,” she says in Episode 6,
midway through the season. Yet, she continues, “I talk to him and talk to him
and talk to him, and I start to doubt my doubts.” The episode ends with a
wrenchingly intimate phone call between Koenig and Syed, in which he tells her
that he wants her to judge him innocent not because he seems too nice to have
murdered Lee but because she’s found exculpatory evidence.

This highlighting of a reporter’s tormented indecision is why “Serial” made
for compulsive listening. The tell-as-you-go formula, interspersed with
banalities—like Chivvis excitedly telling Koenig, during a drive retracing
Syed’s alleged route after the murder, that a local crab shack was having a
sale on shrimp—was either charming or annoying, depending on your taste. (A
YouTuber deftly parodied Koenig’s hand-holding ratiocination: “Adnan made
phone calls. He also received them. Why? What makes a person _receive_ a phone
call?”) There was a sense of urgency to “Serial,” heightened by foreboding
theme music, that belied the fact that it was concerned with events from a
dozen years earlier, about which there had been no pressing public concern.
Koenig’s account was so galvanizing that listeners began sending her tips, and
public officials were obliged to take action: Syed was granted a new trial,
which has yet to take place.

“Serial,” borrowing equally from the conventions of investigative journalism,
the memoir, and the potboiler, was a leap in narrative innovation on the scale
of “In Cold Blood,” Truman Capote’s 1966 “nonfiction novel.” Within a month of
its launch, “Serial” had reached a million listeners, and since its début the
season has been downloaded two hundred and forty million times. Season 3 of
“Serial,” which centers on the criminal-justice system in Cleveland, is
sponsored exclusively by Zip Recruiter—an arrangement that is reportedly the
biggest up-front podcast deal to date.

“Serial” was the first show to induce advertisers to take podcasting
seriously. “It was like money trucks started opening up and pouring out
money,” Benjamen Walker, the host of “Benjamen Walker’s Theory of Everything,”
an ideas podcast, told me. The creative and economic accomplishment of
“Serial” has spawned countless imitators, and many have shamelessly echoed its
tropes: the wary, exploratory, methodical host; the true-crime incident, or
other sensational event, which has been plucked from newspaper archives and
transformed into a twisty narrative. To use the language of Walter Benjamin,
these podcasts offer the sometimes lurid satisfactions of story bolstered by
the apparent rectitude of information.

There are now dozens of podcasting companies vying to create a sensation on
the order of “Serial.” Among them is Pineapple Street Media, based in a
loftlike space in downtown Brooklyn, which was co-founded, in 2016, by Max
Linsky, the co-creator of the “Longform Podcast,” which features interviews
with narrative journalists, and by Jenna Weiss-Berman, formerly an audio
producer at BuzzFeed. One recent afternoon, a group gathered in Pineapple’s
conference room to discuss a project that was seen as a potential breakthrough
hit: a podcast about solitary confinement in American prisons.

The series had been conceived by Adam Sternbergh, a novelist and journalist;
although he had contributed segments to “This American Life,” it was his first
attempt at podcasting. The idea was to combine his fictional and reportorial
skills in a way that traditional journalism didn’t permit. Sternbergh intended
to create a fictional prisoner in solitary confinement whose experiences and
recollections would provide the series’s narrative spine. To provide factual
ballast, the story would be interwoven with interviews of incarceration
experts, former prisoners, and corrections officials. Sternbergh and Pineapple
understood that their experiment would work only if the fiction and the
reportage could be seductively and plausibly integrated.

“You must make it clear to the listener that the story they are following is
fictional—that it’s not a dramatic reënactment of a real person’s case,”
Sternbergh explained. He proposed doing wide-ranging reporting on solitary
confinement, and then “funnelling” the richest findings “into one character.”
With a flicker of concern, he asked the Pineapple team, “Are you worried that
that’s going to get too esoteric?”

“No, I _like_ esoteric,” Weiss-Berman said. Podcasts often find an audience by
exploring an exotic subculture. Weiss-Berman urged Sternbergh to reconsider
using the dramatic-reënactment form, noting that it could provide a useful
sense of whiplash: “What if you had an actor playing a real person, and then
the real person comes in and says, ‘Well, that’s not exactly how it went’?”
