title: George Saunders Goes to Trump Rallies | The New Yorker
source: http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2016/07/11/george-saunders-goes-to-trump-rallies
date: 2025-08-13T17:56:52.288823
tags: []
---
As for Trump’s uncivil speech—the insults, the petty meanness, the crudeness,
the talk about hand size, the assurance, on national TV, that his would-be
Presidential dick is up to the job, his mastery of the jaw-droppingly untrue
personal smear (Obama is Kenyan, Ted Cruz’s dad was in cahoots with Lee Harvey
Oswald, U.S. Muslims knew what was “going on” pre-Orlando), which he often
dishonorably eases into the world by attaching some form of the phrase “many
people have said this” (_The world is flat; many people have said this. People
are saying that birds can play the cello:_ _we need to look into that_)—his
supporters seem constitutionally reluctant to object, as if the act of
objecting would mark them as fatally delicate. Objecting to this sort of thing
is for the coddled, the liberal, the élite. “Yeah, he can really improve, in
the way he says things,” one woman in Fountain Hills tells me. “But who gives
a shit? Because if he’s going to get the job done? I’m just saying. You can’t
let your feelings get hurt. It’s kind of like, get over it, you know what I
mean? What’s the big picture here? The big picture is we’ve got to get America
back on track.”

The ability to shrug off the mean crack, the sexist joke, the gratuitous jab
at the weak is, in some quarters, seen as a form of strength, of “being
flexible,” of “not taking shit serious.” A woman who wilts at a sexist joke
won’t last long in certain workplaces. A guy who prioritizes the sensitive
side of his nature will, trust me, not thrive in the slaughterhouse. This
willingness to gloss over crudeness becomes, then, an encoded sign of
competence, strength, and reliability.

Above all, Trump supporters are “not politically correct,” which, as far as I
can tell, means that they have a particular aversion to that psychological
moment when, having thought something, you decide that it is not a good
thought, and might pointlessly hurt someone’s feelings, and therefore decline
to say it.

## Who are They? (Part II)

I observed, in Trump supporters’ storytelling, a tendency to conflate things
that, to a non-Trump supporter, might seem unrelated. For example, in 2014,
Mary Ann Mendoza’s son, Brandon, an openly gay policeman in Mesa, who
volunteered at the local Boys and Girls Club, was killed in a car accident
caused by an intoxicated, undocumented Mexican man who had spent at least
twenty years drifting in and out of the U.S. and had been charged with a
number of crimes, including assaulting a police officer, and was convicted of
criminal conspiracy, but was free at the time of the crash, having been shown
leniency by a Colorado court. At the rally in Fountain Hills, Ms. Mendoza gave
a moving speech about her son, which she concluded this way: “This was the
kind of man my son was. . . . _Was_. Not is. _Was_. Because of the lack of
concern that this Administration has for American citizens. . . . Brandon’s.
Life. Matters.” The crowd roared. Something key lay in that juxtaposition and
that roar. What was the connection between her son’s death and the Black Lives
Matter movement? Couldn’t a person be against the killing of innocent black
men _and_ against illegal immigration (or drunk driving, or the lax
enforcement of existing laws, etc.)?

A man comes to Arizona from Vermont and finds that “the illegals” are getting
all the kitchen jobs for which he’s qualified. “So once Trump started talking
about the Wall,” he says, “I was like, all right, now I think I’ve got to
start paying attention to this.” How does he know those workers were
undocumented? He doesn’t; there’s no way, situationally, that he could.
Stephanie, an executive administrator for a finance group in Minnesota, gets
laid off, and the only benefit she qualifies for is “a measly little
unemployment check.” Standing next to her at the government office are “these
people, that are from other countries, non-speaking—I’m not biased, I have no
reason to be—but . . . I’m seeing them getting cash, getting their bills paid,
and, as a taxpaying citizen, I don’t get anything. And so the border thing
really resonated with me.” Does she know for a fact that these were illegal
immigrants? “That’s a good question, and I don’t know the answer,” she says.
“I’m not a hundred per cent on it.”

Bill Davis, a funny, genial sales rep in the packaging industry, has nothing
against legal immigration but feels that illegal immigration is “killing” the
area in Southern California where he lives. How, specifically, is it doing
this? He mentions a neighbor of his who speaks no English, has two hundred
chickens running around his yard, goats everywhere, doesn’t “play by the
rules”—and hence Bill’s property values are going down. Is his neighbor
undocumented? It doesn’t matter, he says. He’s “not assimilated.” Growing up,
Davis says, he had a lot of first-generation Hispanic friends. These people
took pride in assimilating. “Those days are over,” he explains. “So Trump is
onto something about that. We don’t want you guys throwing your fast-food
wrappers out your windows when you’re driving down the freeway. Take some
pride in what you do. And learn to work in this country by the rules and
regulations that we’ve developed over two hundred and fifty years. I’m not
opposed to immigration, by any means. Come here, but when you leave
Mexico—when you leave Germany, when you leave Russia, wherever—you’ve left
that culture for a reason. It’s America now. So you can have your parties and
your stuff at your house, but don’t expect us to cater to your culture.”

[![“Well if your allies said that about you then theyre not your
allies.”](http://web.archive.org/web/20250728161919im_/https://media.newyorker.com/cartoons/593b66e2edb25442b234e76f/master/w_1600%2Cc_limit/160711_a19885.jpg)](http://web.archive.org/web/20250728161919/https://www.newyorker.com/cartoon/a19885)

“Well, if your allies said that about you then they’re not your allies.”

Cartoon by Paul Noth

“Thousands of Cubans coming in,” Kathryn Kobor, a Trump supporter and animal-
rights activist in her seventies, tells me in Phoenix, as she sits in protest
of the Hillary Clinton rally across the street, beneath an umbrella provided
by a Clinton supporter. “Three hundred sixty thousand Guatemalan kids and
mothers standing at the border, they have to be taken in. We’re going to be
taking in thousands of Syrians, whom we cannot vet.” I tell her that the
thought of deporting and dividing families breaks my heart. “Of course it
does—you’re a human, you care about people. That’s not the question. The
question is, Do you want to live like India? Sewage running in the streets? .
. . The infrastructure is crumbling. . . . I’m not speaking for tomorrow. I’m
not speaking for a year, two years from now. I’ll be gone. I’m speaking for my
descendants. I have a granddaughter. I have a son. I want them to live a
decent, clean life. . . . Trump just wants the laws enforced. . . . He’s not a
mean-spirited person.”

A former marine in line for a Trump rally in Rothschild, Wisconsin, tells me
that, returning to the U.S. from a deployment overseas, he found himself
wondering, “Where did my country go?” To clarify, he tells me that he was in
Qatar on the day that Obama was first elected. “I was actually sitting in the
chow hall when they announced the results and he gave his speech,” he says. “I
saw such a division at that time. Every black member of the military was
cheering. Everybody else was sitting there mute. Like stunned.”

What unites these stories is what I came to think of as usurpation anxiety
syndrome—the feeling that one is, or is about to be, scooped, overrun, or
taken advantage of by some Other with questionable intentions. In some cases,
this has a racial basis, and usurpation anxiety grades into racial nostalgia,
which can grade into outright racism, albeit cloaked in disclaimer.

In the broadest sense, the Trump supporter might be best understood as a guy
who wakes up one day in a lively, crowded house full of people, from a dream
in which he was the only one living there, and then mistakes the dream for the
past: a better time, manageable and orderly, during which privilege and
respect came to him naturally, and he had the whole place to himself.

## How Do You Solve a Problem Like Noemi?

Talking to a Trump supporter about Trump’s deportation policy, I’d sometimes
bring up Noemi Romero, a sweet, soft-spoken young woman I met in Phoenix.
Noemi was brought to the U.S. when she was three, by undocumented parents. A
few years ago, she had the idea of applying for legal status through the
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (_DACA_) program. But the application
costs four hundred and sixty-five dollars, money her family didn’t have.
Hearing that a local Vietnamese grocery was hiring, she borrowed her mother’s
Social Security card and got the job. A few months later, the store was
raided. Noemi was arrested, charged with aggravated identity theft and
forgery, and taken to jail and held there, within the general prison
population, for two months. She was given spoiled milk, and food that, she
said, had tiny worms in it. Her lawyer arranged a plea bargain; the charges
were reduced to criminal impersonation. This was a good deal, he told her, the
best she could hope for. She accepted, not realizing that, as a convicted
felon, she would be permanently ineligible for _DACA_. Puente, a local
grassroots organization, intervened and saved her from deportation, but she is
essentially doomed to a kind of frozen life: can’t work and can’t go to
college, although she has lived virtually her whole life in the U.S. and has
no reason to go back to Mexico and nowhere to live if she’s sent there.

I’d ask the Trump supporter, “What do we do about Noemi?” I always found the
next moment in our exchange hopeful.

Is she a good person? the Trump supporter might ask. I couldn’t feel more
sorry for her, he might say. That kid is no better or worse than I am and
deserves the best God can give her. Or he might say that deportation would
have to be done on a case-by-case basis. Or propose some sort of
registry—Noemi, having registered, would go back to Mexico and, if all checked
out, come right back in. There had to be some kind of rule of law, didn’t
there? Tellingly, the Trump supporter might confess that she didn’t think
Trump really intended to do this mass-deportation thing anyway—it was all just
campaign talk. The most extreme supporter might say that, yes, Noemi had to
go—he didn’t like it, but ultimately the fault lay with her parents.

Sometimes I’d mention a Central American family I met in Texas, while
reporting another story. In that case, the father and son were documented but
the mother and daughters weren’t. Would you, I’d ask, split that family up?
Send those girls to a country in which they’d never spent a single day? Well,
my Trump-supporting friend might answer, it was complicated, wasn’t it? Were
they good people? Yes, I’d say. The father, in spare moments between his three
jobs, built a four-bedroom house out of cinder blocks he acquired two or three
at a time from Home Depot, working sometimes late into the night. The Trump
supporter might, at this point, fall silent, and so might I.

In the face of specificity, my interviewees began trying, really trying, to
think of what would be fairest and most humane for this real person we had
imaginatively conjured up. It wasn’t that we suddenly agreed, but the tone
changed. We popped briefly out of zinger mode and began to have some faith in
one another, a shared confidence that if we talked long enough, respectfully
enough, a solution could be found that might satisfy our respective best
notions of who we were.

Well, let’s not get too dreamy about it. We’d stay in that mode for a minute
or two, then be off again to some new topic, rewrapped in our respective Left
and Right national flags. Once, after what felt like a transcendent and wide-
ranging conversation with a Trump supporter named Danny (a former railroad
worker, now on disability), I said a fond goodbye and went to interview some
Hillary supporters across the street. A few minutes later, I looked over to
find Danny shouting at us that Hillary was going to prison, not the White
House. I waved to him, but he didn’t seem to see me, hidden there in the crowd
of his adversaries.

## The Elephant in the Room

The average Trump supporter is not the rally pugilist, the white supremacist,
the bitter conspiracy theorist, though these exist and are drawn to Trump
(see: _the Internet_)—and, at times, the first flowerings of these tendencies
were present among some of the rank-and-file supporters I met. A certain
barely suppressed rage, for example, is evident in the guy in Phoenix who
wears his gun to a protest against Hillary (“I’m out here with two friends,
Smith and Wesson”). One of his fellow-protesters tells me that Hillary has had
oral sex with many female world leaders (“She’s munched with a lot of our
enemies, man”).

After a rally in Eau Claire, a handful of Trump protesters stand silently in
the Wisconsin cold as the Trump supporters file out—a spontaneous little lab
experiment investigating the Trumpies’ response to silent rebuke. “I guess you
guys don’t read too much,” someone shouts at the protesters. “Or watch the
news. _Fox News!_ Watch that once in a while!” Other Trump supporters yell
over incredulously, “Fifteen bucks an hour?” And “Go to socialist Europe! Save
your checks and move to a socialist country!”

But the line I won’t forget comes from a guy leaving the rally, alone, who
shout-mutters, if such a thing is possible, “Hey, I’m not paying for your
shit, I’m not paying for your college, so you go to Hell, go to work, go to
Hell, suck a dick.”

Not far away, a group of enterprising Girl Scouts is out late, selling cookies
under a winter-leafless tree. “Cookies for sale, last time this season,” they
seem to sing. “Girl Scout cookies, last weekend to get them.”

So, yes, there are bigots in the Trump movement, and wackos, and dummies, and
sometimes I had to remind myself that the important constituency is the
persuadable middle segment of his supporters, who are not finding in Trump a
suitable vessel for their hate but are misunderstanding him or overestimating
him, and moving in his direction out of a misplaced form of hope.

## Who Are They? (Part III)

Sometimes it seemed that they were, like me, just slightly spoiled Americans,
imbued with unreasonable boomer expectations for autonomy, glory, and
ascension, and that their grievances were more theoretical than actual, more
media-induced than experience-related.

Before the rally in San Jose on June 2nd, I talk to a group of construction
workers, each of whom is in some state of layoff: current, recent, chronic.
One, who’s hoping to get a job working construction on the Wall, rails against
millennials, the unions, a minimum-wage hike for fast-food workers, and “these
people” who get fired, then turn around and sue. I ask for examples. He says
he isn’t going to give me any names. I say forget the names, just tell me a
particular story. A guy got fired from his workplace just last week, he says.
“Is he suing?” I ask. “Well, probably,” he says.

I ask one of his friends, a thoughtful Chinese-American guy, how his life has
been made worse over the past eight years. He comes up with this: he pays more
for his insurance because of Obamacare. Anything else? Not really. How has he
personally been affected by illegal immigration? He hasn’t, he tells me, but
he’s been fortunate enough to have the resources to keep his family away from
the danger.

At one point, in line at the Fountain Hills rally, frustrated by a litany of
anti-Obama grievances being delivered by the woman in front of me, I say that
I think life is good, pretty good, you know?

“You think this is _good_?” she says.

“I do, yeah,” I say. “We’re out here on a nice day, having a beautiful talk—”

She groans, meaning, You know that’s not what I mean.
