title: Rand Paul preemptively attacks PATRIOT Act extension - Washington Examiner
source: http://washingtonexaminer.com/blogs/beltway-confidential/2011/02/rand-paul-preemptively-attacks-patriot-act-extension
date: 2025-08-13T21:09:06.818518
tags: []
---
Paul starts off his letter by bringing up James Otis who had argued against
blank search writs issued by the British government before the American
Revolution:

He condemned these general warrants as “the worst instrument[s] of arbitrary
power, the most destructive of English liberty and the fundamental principles
of law, that ever w[ere] found in an English law book.” Otis objected to these
writs of assistance because they “placed the liberty of every man in the hands
of every petty officer.” The Fourth Amendment was intended to guarantee that
only judges-not soldiers or policemen-would issue warrants. Otis’ battle
against warrantless searches led to our Fourth Amendment guarantee against
unreasonable government intrusion.

In the same spirit as Otis attacking these unfair searches, Paul then attacks
the PATRIOT Act:

My main objection to the PATRIOT Act is that searches that should require a
judge’s warrant are performed with a letter from an FBI agent-a National
Security Letter (“NSL”).I object to these warrantless searches being performed
on United States citizens. I object to the 200,000 NSL searches that have been
performed without a judge’s warrant.I object to over 2 million searches of
bank records, called Suspicious Activity Reports, performed on U.S. citizens
without a judge’s warrant.

Paul ended his message by applauding the effort of former Senator Russ
Feingold (D-Wis.), who had been the only Senate vote against original PATRIOT
Act.

While it is presumed that a PATRIOT Act extension will pass the Senate with a
minimal problems, Paul is intent on trying to stop it. Paul’s reference to
Feingold also shows he is more concerned with the issue itself than with
scoring partisan points.

The PATRIOT extension [passed the House yesterday 275-144](blogs/beltway-
confidential/2011/02/patriot-act-provisions-extended-second-pass-through-
house).
