title: "Can Josh Take A Leap of Faith?" · Crazy Ex-Girlfriend · TV Review Crazy Ex-Girlfriend proves that it has no underlying issues to address with a perfect finale · TV Club · The A.V. Club
source: http://www.avclub.com/tvclub/crazy-ex-girlfriend-has-no-underlying-issues-addre-249710
date: 2025-08-13T17:33:48.238105
tags: []
---
The next time you feel life has cheated you, in your next moment of sadness or
frustration with the world or your own lot in life, take a breath and recite
these words:

“At least that [wasn’t the last
episode](/web/20170817165540/http://www.avclub.com/article/cw-renews-crazy-ex-
girlfriend-jane-virgin-and-all--248094) of _Crazy Ex-Girlfriend_.”

Many a great television show has ended without the chance to wrap things up,
and many others have created covert finales, designed to double as satisfying
series-enders if a renewal order never arrived (ex: _[Gilmore
Girls](/web/20170817165540/http://www.avclub.com/tv/gilmore-girls/)_ , or more
recently,
_[Sherlock](/web/20170817165540/http://www.avclub.com/tv/sherlock/)_). It’s an
understandable impulse. To create something that’s forever incomplete must
surely be frustrating, so you can forgive writers for wanting to play it safe.

Aline Brosh McKenna has no interest in that safety net and no time for
nonsense. The co-creator of _Crazy Ex-Girlfriend_ and writer-director of “Can
Josh Take a Leap of Faith?” knocks the season home with a perfect finale that
pulls no punches. Whether McKenna and company were confident in the renewal of
the series or simply didn’t care to play it safe matters little. All that
matters is the result, a daring, sometimes shocking, deeply uncomfortable, and
altogether moving hour that somehow makes time for a White Josh and Darryl
subplot, a Slipknot-inspired take on [“How Lovely To Be A
Woman,”](http://web.archive.org/web/20170817165540/https://youtu.be/O1ilu-
ARtiY?t=1m9s) eight minutes with Dr. Akopian, and Hector’s mom, that lovely
snowflake. It’s made all the sweeter because we don’t have to stand on a cliff
of uncertainty, but can live with our rage until next fall rolls around,
confident in a third season filled with the hellish fury of a woman scorned.

In other words: good god, what a great finale.

In a season with few lows, this has to be the highest of highs. “Can Josh Take
a Leap of Faith?” gets so much done in its brief runtime that it’s easy to
overlook exactly how much time it takes with the characters. Nothing here is
rushed, as the episode explores the ways in which both Rebecca and Josh have
grown, as well as the serious issues with which they’re still battling. Josh
may not sprint into the arms of a pretty girl, but he still goes running for
an ideal that’s sure to disappoint (what I wouldn’t give for a version of
[“Duh”
](http://web.archive.org/web/20170817165540/https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pQ-
GABQ61oo)that’s about Jesus). Rebecca may turn that self-loathing outward, but
telling her Dad to get lost is one thing, vowing to destroy the life of
another person is quite another (even if that person _isn’t_ currently in a
seminary, which is maybe not the best place in which to enact one’s revenge).

Each takes a hell of a journey over the course of the episode’s runtime,
ending up about as far from the place they started as its possible to imagine,
and yet it totally works. Contrived? Not at all. Crazy? Lil’ bit.

It’s also, it goes without saying, pretty damn funny—and given the dark places
to which this installment goes, that’s really saying something. Much of the
hour focuses on Rebecca’s relationship with her garbage father, the
“Westchester Sperm Machine” (John Allen Nelson), as well as a mysterious
figure from her past named Robert. They’re both, to put it plainly, the worst,
and yet the episode remains surprisingly zippy. McKenna and her stellar
ensemble balance all the darkness, up to and including every uncomfortably
long hug and those terrible moments with poor Dr. Akopian, with plenty of
biting humor.

The Chans nonchalantly watch Rebecca race past them sans veil. Hector can’t
wait to watch his mother dance to “Brick House.” Valencia loves walkie-
talkies. Best of all, a long scream cuts to the bridal party, where the
screamer is revealed to be Heather, not Rebecca. It hits that perfect _Crazy
Ex-Girlfriend_ sweet-spot, where sometimes you’re squirming, sometimes you’re
shouting, and sometimes you’re crying, but you’re nearly always laughing.

There’s much more to say about this episode—again, expertly written, directed,
acted, costumed, shot, edited, and so on—but as with all season finales, this
is an hour designed to make viewers look both backward and ahead. Rebecca
Bunch and Joshua Chan (RIP, #BunchofChans) spent most of the first season
denying some basic truths, and much of this season lying to themselves and
others about what, exactly, would finally make them happy. Beyond that, the
show has explored tropes about love, obsession, romantic narratives, female
friendship, sexuality, coping mechanisms, and what happy endings look like.
Take a look at this still from the episode’s climax and guess which trope
we’ll be exploring next season:

That is one lightning bolt shy of _[The
Craft](/web/20170817165540/http://www.avclub.com/article/its-20th-anniversary-
invoke-spirit-these-tributes--236172), _and that’s pretty damn exciting.

It’s no mistake that this episode begins and ends with Paula and Rebecca
together, first raging, musically speaking, about something joyful, and then
standing together on the edge of a new joint venture. The pilot ended with a
vow between the two to bring Josh Chan into Rebecca’s life:

...and season two ends with a vow to bring him down:

Since the final moments of the pilot, it’s been evident that the Paula-Rebecca
relationship was the show’s most important, and “Can Josh Take a Leap of
Faith?” confirms this. In a season where Paula’s marriage nearly collapsed,
it’s unsurprising that in Rebecca’s moment of grief and rage, Paula would be
the one to clasp her hands and say, “What did you have in mind?” It may not be
healthy, and it may not be sane, but these two clearly need each other, and
whatever comes next, you can bet that’ll be in the mix.

Just as there’s no shortage of finales that play it safe, there’s no great
lack of woman-scorned narratives, but somehow, when sisterhood and friendship
are involved, they go from terrifying (_Fatal Attraction_ , et. al.) to fun,
lively romps (_The Witches of Eastwick_ , _9 to 5_ , and so on). Which _Crazy
Ex-Girlfriend_ will choose to explore remains to be seen—the solid money is on
both, as well as on plenty of things we aren’t expecting—but one thing’s for
sure: it won’t be reductive.

The _Crazy Ex-Girlfriend_ finale brought Rebecca Bunch to the edge of a cliff,
twice. Once she looked out over the sea and saw a bright future ahead, where
everyone loved her and she’d never have problems again. Once she looked down
and saw waves crashing on rocks. Now she’s looking out, and there’s surely a
storm on that horizon. “

#### Stray observations

  * I cannot _wait_ to hear the theme song for season three.
  * Rachel Bloom should make this one her Emmy episode. Donna Lynne Champlin could consider it, too.
  * Making Trent and his envelope a red herring seems like the perfect fate for that creepy dude.
  * **Glen-Gary-George Award:** “Welp, that was a good eight minutes, we’re really getting there!” Michael Hyatt, god bless.

  * “I can’t actually talk to you while your chest is twerking.”

  * “Have fun flying coach, dick.”

  * That medley was beautiful, surprising, sad, funny. Sums up the whole season, really.
  * Lots of throwbacks to season one here, especially the pilot. That text to her dad is nearly identical to the text she sent Josh after moving, and even “This is what happy feels like” returned.
  * Thanks for reading this season! See you in the fall. (I’ll also be doing another song list for this year, which I’ll share on [Twitter](http://web.archive.org/web/20170817165540/http://twitter.com/allisonshoe) next week.)
  * Notice that Rebecca and Josh each made a healthy choice (telling off Dad, throwing the envelope in the trash) followed by a desperately troubling one (vowing to destroy Josh, joining a seminary).
  * I’ll leave you with this:
