title: Say This 3 Times Fast: Parenting, Promotion, Pandemic - Postlight - Digital Strategy, Design and Engineering
source: https://postlight.com/insights/say-this-three-times-fast-parenting-promotion-pandemic
date: 2025-08-13T15:50:27.608613
tags: []
---
At 5:30 a.m., a small cry peeps out from the corner of my bedroom. The baby’s
up. Ever since quarantine began, she wakes up 30 minutes before our “normal”
wake-up time. I had expected that juggling parenthood and a career was going
to be a challenge, but a pandemic was most definitely not part of the plan.
Already exhausted by our new reality, there’s only one thing to do: Make a cup
of coffee and start the day.

Before my baby’s arrival, I’d been working toward leveling up from Senior to
Lead Product Designer. The position was within reach; I just needed to
demonstrate leadership on one more project. When I came back to work after
five months of parental leave, I was eager to reach the goal, even as I
navigated new-mom challenges like pumping at work and fitting in daycare
pickups and drop-offs.

### The best laid plans…

By March 2020, I was hitting my stride. I was working on a big, complex
[project for
Mailchimp](http://web.archive.org/web/20230610002342/https://postlight.com/insights/introducing-
mailchimp-developer), in which we were tasked with reimagining the developer
experience from the ground up. We had just wrapped up the research phase and
were busy crafting the strategy. It was exactly the type of project I enjoyed:
new subject matter, incredibly smart and tactical clients, a clear mandate,
and lots of room for creativity and problem-solving. Plus, this was the
leadership opportunity I needed to earn the promotion.

Then the pandemic happened.

The scaffolding that allowed my child and my family to thrive had collapsed
overnight. Daycare was no longer an option, and our offices shifted to
[working
remotely](http://web.archive.org/web/20230610002342/https://postlight.com/insights/distanced-
not-apart). Not only were my partner and I overwhelmed by the pandemic, we
were also now working from our Brooklyn apartment, with a 10-month-old. Child
care is a full-time job; don’t let anyone tell you otherwise. I was still
breastfeeding and pumping, and my project was just starting to kick into high
gear. And during the rare quiet moment, there was a pandemic to consider,
along with its surrounding unknowns.

### Working and parenting

Having enough time to focus on work was one of my biggest challenges. Luckily,
my partner and I both have jobs that are flexible and accommodating with our
child-care schedule. We split our days into half-day shifts where one parent
works and the other takes care of the baby. I generally got the afternoon baby
shift.

I worked when the baby napped and after she went to bed at night. And I broke
one of my long-held rules: I started working on weekends when it was
absolutely necessary. If a meeting was scheduled during my shift, the baby
attended with me, much to my team’s delight.

### **Cursor-by-cursor collaboration**

Another challenge was working remotely — the first few weeks were extremely
hard. While Postlight has many engineers who work remotely, the design team
has traditionally been an on-site team. On this new project, I’d be
collaborating with a designer who was new to the company. I knew we needed a
new way of working and to adapt to these new circumstances — so we made
technology work for us.

We moved from working in Sketch to Figma, which allowed us to collaborate
seamlessly, work cursor by cursor, and get a view into one another’s workflow.
With Figma, Slack, and Meet, it was almost like we were still sitting next to
one another. We checked in often: a stand-up in the morning (with the video
turned off to keep burnout at bay) and asynchronously via Slack the rest of
the day. When in doubt, we overcommunicated.

### **Zoom anxiety**

Presenting work via Zoom was the final frontier for me. Presenting work in-
person is anxiety-inducing enough — but at least I can read the energy in the
room. A 20-plus-person Zoom meeting with every mic muted is a tough room to
read. One presentation in particular really helped push me past the nerves.
During one child-care afternoon while my baby napped, I presented work to our
team. Halfway through, the baby woke up from her nap. Instinctively, I picked
her up and continued with the presentation while trying to soothe her in my
arms. After the meeting, my teammates expressed how impressed they were that I
wasn’t rattled by the incident.

### Work life is home life

In June, my baby became a toddler and transitioned away from breast milk, we
delivered final designs to the client for approval, and I became a Lead
Product Designer. I’m indescribably grateful to have been there for my
daughter’s first steps and to watch her blossom from a blob to a little person
all while driving the design track of my project.

I credit my success to the extraordinary circumstances that limited my coping
choices to just one: placing one foot in front of the other. What else is
there to do but embrace the vulnerability, allow it into my work, make a cup
of coffee, and start the day.

Even pre-pandemic, home life and work life have never been separate — we just
pretended they were. Now we’re in a state of transparency we never could have
imagined. Our home lives cross paths with our work lives many times a day and
it is a vulnerable feeling. But there is something about giving into that
vulnerability that can [change the way we
work](http://web.archive.org/web/20230610002342/https://postlight.com/insights/leading-
teams-with-empathy).

Although there were times when I didn’t feel like I was parenting well nor
doing my work well, I showed up and did my best. I’d dwell on the trade-offs I
made, but I’m too tired. Have I mentioned I wake up at 5:30 in the morning?

_[Liz
Tan](http://web.archive.org/web/20230610002342/https://postlight.com/trackchanges/author/liz-
tan) is a Lead Product Designer at Postlight. Say hello at
[liz.tan@postlight.com](http://web.archive.org/web/20230610002342/mailto:liz.tan@postlight.com)
or follow her on Twitter
[@liztan](http://web.archive.org/web/20230610002342/https://twitter.com/liztan)._
