title: Goldman Sachs vs. David Solomon
source: https://nymag.com/intelligencer/article/david-solomon-goldman-sachs-profile.html
date: 2025-08-13T15:20:14.976612
tags: []
---
David Solomon at Goldman Sachs headquarters in 2018. Photo: Landon Nordeman

This article was featured in [One Great
Story](http://web.archive.org/web/20250722200926/https://nymag.com/tags/one-
great-story/),  _New York_ ’s reading recommendation newsletter. [Sign up
here](http://web.archive.org/web/20250722200926/https://nymag.com/promo/sign-
up-for-one-great-
story.html?itm_source=vsitepromo&itm_medium=articlelink&itm_campaign=ogs_tertiary_zone)
to get it nightly.

**Even people fond** of [David
Solomon](http://web.archive.org/web/20250722200926/https://nymag.com/tags/david-
solomon/) acknowledge that his equilibrium state is what most of us would
consider tense. The voice of the [Goldman
Sachs](http://web.archive.org/web/20250722200926/https://nymag.com/tags/goldman-
sachs/) CEO is perpetually hoarse, as if he has permanently worn it out from
screaming. “He sort of talks in a yelling voice,” says one colleague. “He’s
not really yelling, but he sort of talks _at_ you.” “When he talks, he
shouts,” another banker agrees. “He always sounds like he’s shouting —
always.” It’s a tendency he can’t even suppress in text: Solomon likes to MAKE
NOTES ON DOCUMENTS IN ALL CAPS. The word a lot of people use about him is
_bully_.

Solomon, 61, is bald and broad-shouldered, like a thicker and more wizened
version of Mr. Clean, with eyes so squinted behind doughy features it’s hard
to tell what color they are. He walks heavily, a venti iced coffee almost
always in hand, as though the sport of being a banker were a physically taxing
one. Several years ago, when Goldman’s board was auditioning him for promotion
to CEO, the bank’s image specialists gave Solomon tips on becoming more
approachable. They suggested he walk the floors more often and create
opportunities for small talk — perhaps by stopping at an assistant’s desk to
take a piece of candy.

“When I told him, ‘You got to stick your hand in the candy bowl,’ he just gave
me this look like, _Why would I do that? How is that productive?_ ” recalls
someone involved in the effort. The exercise did not succeed in endearing
Solomon to the Goldman rank and file. “He would stomp around the floors in a
really purposeful way, and he’d find the two or three people he knew,” the
banker says. “He’d knock on their door and they would get scared. The whole
thing didn’t work.”

You don’t need to be popular to be the CEO of Goldman Sachs, of course. You
can even be an asshole. The only real nonnegotiable is that you be skilled at
making money, so when the board tapped Solomon to lead the bank in 2018, it
was widely understood that as long as earnings got fat, it didn’t matter if
his bankers liked him personally.

In a way that was a little hard to detect at first — and has lately become the
most-talked-about story on Wall Street — that dynamic is being put to the
test. It started during COVID, when Goldman booked spectacular profits trading
the pandemic markets at the same time that reports of misery among [junior and
senior
bankers](http://web.archive.org/web/20250722200926/https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2021/11/goldman-
sachs-analysts-money-pandemic.html) alike began to leak to the press.
Executives quit Solomon’s inner circle for rival shops, younger workers
complained about the 100-plus-hour weeks he expected, and everyone rolled
their eyes at his newish hobby: DJ-ing huge parties under the stage name [DJ
D-Sol](http://web.archive.org/web/20250722200926/https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2022/03/goldman-
sachs-ceo-david-solomon-will-dj-at-lollapalooza.html).

By the fall of 2022, Wall Street was awakening to something extraordinary: The
negativity heaping on Solomon was reaching a point at which it could threaten
his job, no matter the state of the business. Solomon had directed Goldman to
buy a pair of [private
jets](http://web.archive.org/web/20250722200926/https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2023/07/what-
its-really-like-to-fly-on-a-private-jet.html), and [Bloomberg
News](http://web.archive.org/web/20250722200926/https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2021-03-14/goldman-
ceo-s-year-of-empty-offices-island-getaways-and-strife) reported (with a
reference to Marie Antoinette) that he flew them seven times in seven weeks to
places like Barbuda and the Bahamas, even as he was reprimanding workers for
not logging more hours in the office. Pictures of Solomon in the DJ booth at
venues from Napa Valley to
[Lollapalooza](http://web.archive.org/web/20250722200926/https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2022/03/goldman-
sachs-ceo-david-solomon-will-dj-at-lollapalooza.html) — looking like the “How
do you do, fellow kids?_”_ meme brought to life — embarrassed the most image-
sensitive institution in finance. As the media attention began to take its
toll on Solomon, he called a former colleague to ask if he would say positive
things about Goldman to reporters. “Can you believe what my life has become?”
Solomon said. “It’s getting exhausting.”

The single most harmful report came in November when it leaked that Solomon,
who is divorced, had once boasted to a group of colleagues, “I bet I was the
only one who got a blowjob last night.” Behind his back, snickering executives
gave him a mortifying new nickname: BJ D-Sol. More damage came in April, when
[Insider](http://web.archive.org/web/20250722200926/https://www.businessinsider.com/david-
solomon-goldman-sachs-corporate-jet-shareholders-meeting-2023-4) reported that
Solomon had flown Goldman’s planes at least 21 times to his retreat in the
Bahamas. (He reimbursed the company, per policy.) Solomon was incensed. The
next day, FAA records show, he registered a new Embraer Phenom jet for his
personal use, disguising it under an LLC named for one of the wealthiest
streets in the Hamptons, where he owns a home: Middle Lane.

Solomon dismissed his adverse coverage as “noise,” but by this June, it was
deafening. [_The Wall Street
Journal_](http://web.archive.org/web/20250722200926/https://www.wsj.com/articles/goldman-
sachs-ceo-david-solomon-dj-bonuses-1a47dbf5) _,_ under the headline “Goldman
Sachs Is at War With Itself,” reported that Solomon’s predecessor, [Lloyd
Blankfein](http://web.archive.org/web/20250722200926/https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2022/03/lloyd-
blankfein-on-russia-ukraine-and-sanctions.html), had openly slagged him at the
bank’s annual strategy conference. “God, I wish he’d spend less time on the
plane and more time making money,” Blankfein said to a group of about 15
partners at a hotel bar. Soon, the [New York
_Post_](http://web.archive.org/web/20250722200926/https://nypost.com/2023/06/15/goldman-
sachs-board-starting-to-reevaluate-ceo-david-solomon/) claimed Goldman’s board
was “starting to reevaluate” its CEO. The gargantuan profits that had
protected him were slipping away. The most recent quarter saw a year-over-year
decline of more than 60 percent. Senior and arguably irreplaceable talent have
kept heading for the exits. In August, John Rogers, the bank’s powerful chief
of staff to generations of CEOs, stepped down from his role — a sign he may be
transitioning out of the firm.

Goldman veterans say that in some ways, the situation is more toxic than what
the bank faced in the post-financial-crisis vampire-squid days. “This is
considerably uglier for Solomon,” says a former insider. “It’s worse because
it’s much more personal, and it’s all directed at him.”

In other words, at Goldman Sachs, Solomon’s sins are considered more
unforgivable than contributing to (and profiting from) the near collapse of
the global economy. Strategic mistakes that might have been tolerated under a
more respected regime are being read as disastrous, a direct result of his
personality. Solomon is blamed for mismanaging a push into new territory —
banking for relatively ordinary customers — that has lost $3 billion and
counting since 2020. But at Goldman, that’s frankly not a whole lot of money.
(Note that in 2020 the bank agreed to pay Malaysia $3.9 billion, and the U.S.
government a further $2.9 billion, to resolve a sprawling scandal in which it
pleaded guilty to violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.) “I’ve called
for CEOs to be fired before,” says Mike Mayo, a bank analyst well known for
his often antagonistic views. “If it’s warranted, I’ll speak up, but I’m not
seeing it from the outside metrics.” Instead, the mutiny is best understood as
backlash to Solomon’s attempt to change Goldman’s business and culture.

For most of its 154-year history, the bank was a private partnership, and even
after going public in 1999, it still operated like one. It was flatter than
other big banks with more decentralized power — a secretive and exclusive club
of elites who were admired as the most talented operatives in the game,
guaranteed to earn more money than their peers at less exalted institutions.
What those partners failed to appreciate, though, was that at some point after
the IPO, they didn’t own the place anymore. Shareholders controlled the voting
rights, and when Goldman’s board promoted Solomon — making him the first CEO
to enter the bank mid-career — he had a mandate to run the firm more
transparently and more like a modern corporation. What’s baffling is that the
board would give such a delicate task to a person almost universally regarded
as a jerk.

“David’s not likable,” says a longtime colleague — one of the more diplomatic
comments I heard in talking to more than 30 of the CEO’s current and former
executives, most of them partners. “He’s a prick,” says another. “Everybody
thinks and says he’s a dick,” adds a third. “He’s a tough guy with a very
short fuse”; “He dehumanizes you when he talks to you.”

Morale has sunk to the lowest level in recent memory, in tandem with a sense
that the bank inspires less envy among its rivals and less esteem among its
fee-paying clients and governments around the world. “I don’t feel like the
place is really Goldman Sachs,” says one of the former partners, whose ex-
colleagues now call him daily to complain. “Goldman had that sort of magical
cachet of being the smartest guys in the room, and it doesn’t feel that way
anymore.”

In finance, words like _cachet_ can be euphemisms for compensation. “If you
are a Master of the Universe,” one former executive told me, “the only proof
that you are a Master of the Universe is how much money you get paid.” And
last year, pay sagged around the firm. The bank dispensed $2.5 billion less in
compensation and benefits than it had the year before, even though the head
count had gone up 10 percent. “They’re still the highest-paid people on Wall
Street — that stuff’s true — but it doesn’t feel good to have a down year,”
says Tony Fratto, the bank’s spokesperson. “These are people who are used to
their comp going up every year. This is a place where people get upset about
this.”

The rancor leaves Solomon in a precarious state. Both outcomes seem
impossible: that he could continue to lead a team that so thoroughly despises
him, or that what is supposedly the most ruthless outfit in capitalism would
really oust its boss over hurt feelings.

“If you try and change the company too fast and too bluntly, it’s gonna break
or you’re gonna break,” says an executive who left the bank recently. “Organ
rejection.”

Speaking to employees at Goldman Sachs headquarters in September 2018. Photo:
Landon Nordeman

**Goldman Sachs has** already gotten rid of David Solomon twice. A try-hard
public-school kid from Scarsdale, he applied to the bank soon after graduating
from college and was turned down. The second time he sought a job there, he
made it all the way to a final interview with a senior partner. As Solomon
recounted dryly in a recent speech, “He looked at me. He looked at my résumé.
And he looked back up at me and he said, ‘David, let’s face it. You’re really
not Goldman Sachs material.’ Which, if true, is really bad for Goldman Sachs
today.”

Solomon went to work for firms like Bear Stearns and Drexel Burnham Lambert
instead and distinguished himself in Las Vegas dealmaking, impressing
billionaires like Sheldon Adelson and, eventually, Goldman Sachs. In 1999, the
bank hired him as a partner — a side-door entry that Solomon’s longer-tenured
colleagues never let him forget. After he had been at Goldman for a decade,
Solomon turned to Gregg Lemkau, who had spent his whole career on the inside,
and asked what he had to do to stop being called a “lateral.”

“If you wanted, you could start over as an analyst,” Lemkau told him. “And
then people wouldn’t call you that.”

Although Solomon didn’t experience Goldman in its pre-IPO partnership days, he
rose to lead the investment-banking division, where his rigorous and demanding
style kept his team at the top of the industry. By some accounts, it had never
been better run. “I can’t think of
a more horrible thing to say about a person, but he’s just kind of an
executioner,” says a former executive.

Success created cover for Solomon’s rougher qualities. He had a reputation for
being “very punitive, very sharp-tongued, very hotheaded,” says Jamie Fiore
Higgins, a former managing director and the author of a 2022 memoir, _Bully
Market: My Story of Money and Misogyny at Goldman Sachs_. Solomon could also
be sensitive about his image. After a reporter described him as “paunchy” in a
2011 article, Solomon confronted her. Grabbing the fleshy inches covering his
midsection, he demanded, “Do you think this is a paunch?”

Solomon was known to call the partners he disagreed with “idiots” and even
curse them out. His colleagues didn’t mind the language so much as how he made
them feel: stupid, as if the only way they could possibly stand behind their
opinion was if they were dunces who didn’t deserve to be at Goldman Sachs. “He
would say something to the effect of, ‘Well, you’re just absolutely wrong
about that,’ and he would just shut the debate,” says a former partner. A
classic withering Solomon conversation-stopper was “How could you _possibly_
think that?”

At the same time Solomon was brawling with senior staff, he was cultivating a
reputation as a relatively enlightened leader, giving junior bankers Saturdays
off and promoting women into more lucrative positions. When the bank’s
president, [Gary
Cohn](http://web.archive.org/web/20250722200926/https://nymag.com/tags/gary-
cohn/), left in 2016 to join the Trump administration, Solomon was promoted
into his role. He was also named co-chief operating officer alongside Harvey
Schwartz, creating a two-man race to one day succeed Blankfein as CEO.
Schwartz was also a lateral hire, but he had joined the firm earlier than
Solomon, come up through the same trading division as Blankfein, and was
considered the front-runner.

Solomon worked to tone himself down a bit. “I think I’ve benefited at the firm
in my leadership style for being direct and candid but fair,” he said on a
podcast recently. “I think about that a lot. And people have said that to me:
‘You know, sometimes you’re very direct, you’re very candid, but you’re fair.’
And so as long as they say, ‘But you’re fair,’ I feel like I have the balance
right.”

While Solomon was competing for the CEO job, his marriage was falling apart.
At 27, he had married an Ogilvy & Mather PR executive named Mary Coffey, and
the couple raised two daughters. Solomon’s cuff links bore photos of the
three. Accompanying David to a Rangers game with clients once, Mary turned to
one of his colleagues and said, “I’m doing four of these this week.” “I think
she might have gotten bored of life as the wife of the guy trying to run
Goldman Sachs,” the colleague says. “It was as much of a job for her, and I’m
not sure she liked that job.” Before their divorce was finalized, they went
through a public ordeal. In January 2018, the couple’s assistant, Nicolas
DeMeyer, was arrested for stealing $1.2 million worth of wine from the
Solomons’ collection. DeMeyer’s mother offered to pay Solomon restitution, but
he turned her down. Meaning to sound reassuring but coming off as
condescending, he told her, “Don’t worry about it — I’m not going to give up
eating.” Nicolas DeMeyer died by suicide, jumping out a window of the Carlyle
Hotel, on the same afternoon he was expected in court.

Inside Goldman, Solomon’s balancing act was working. With profits down from
subprime-era highs, the board was under pressure to modernize the place. The
next CEO would need to pare back some of its theatrical secretiveness and
expand beyond trading and investment banking into less glamorous areas like
asset management and credit cards. Solomon prevailed over Schwartz, pitching a
more efficient and accountable vision of Goldman that included checks on
spending accounts and business travel as well as quotas to recruit more women
to each analyst class. In the summer of 2018, the bank announced that Solomon
would replace Blankfein as CEO.

Solomon, who had been quietly developing his DJ skills under the tutelage of
the New York producer Liquid Todd, decided to perform in Montauk a month
before taking office, spinning at Gurney’s for an audience of millennials
paying thousands of dollars to sip rosé in cabanas. The _Times_ had outed
Solomon’s sideline a year earlier, and Blankfein was still deciding whether it
was grounds for amusement or concern. “DJ-ing is not a social hobby,”
Blankfein told a number of confidants.

DJ-ing at Lollapalooza in the summer of 2022. Photo: Shea Flynn

**The Solomon era** at Goldman Sachs began with outward signs that he might
rule as a kinder and maybe even “woker” boss. He relaxed the dress code,
allowing Goldmanites to sometimes wear jeans; scheduled the bank’s first
“Investor Day,” at which shareholders and analysts could interview senior
executives, unimaginable in the partnership era; and decreed that the bank
would no longer arrange IPOs for companies with boards that were all male or
all white. The people who actually worked for Solomon, though, were skeptical
that any amount of DJ-ing could help him evolve. “Everyone in banking laughs
about the D-Sol thing because they were all terrified of him for the last
many, many, many years,” says a former senior trader.

At the same time, Solomon was stacking his C-suite with close allies,
including John Waldron as chief operating officer and Stephanie Cohen as chief
strategy officer, which insulated him from a degree of criticism. Solomon has
acknowledged feeling a shift. “As a banker, I always would talk to CEOs and
they’d talk about sometimes the loneliness, the isolation,” he said recently
on another podcast. “But I was really surprised, when I actually got into the
seat, how real it is.” He got little more than a year on the job before COVID,
and during lockdown, he seemed conspicuously lonely. His kids were on the West
Coast, border restrictions kept him from visiting his girlfriend in Canada,
and his vacation home in Baker’s Bay in the Bahamas had just been destroyed in
a hurricane. Solomon was mostly by himself in his penthouse apartment on
Wooster Street. While the majority of his colleagues locked down or fled the
city, he continued to take a car the mile or so to Goldman’s headquarters on
West Street. “I just think he didn’t have anything to do,” says an ex-partner
who worked closely with him.

Solomon was among the CEOs most forcefully advocating a quick return to the
office. He relished telling a story about lunching in the Hamptons one summer
Friday when one of his junior bankers, sitting at a table with other young
Goldmanites, walked up to make an introduction. To Solomon, the breach of
protocol embodied everything that was wrong with remote work: If the analysts
were comfortable breathing one another’s air in East Hampton, they could do so
at Goldman headquarters. In July 2020, Solomon directed his team to draft
memos ordering workers back to their desks before the end of the summer. Some
of his top advisers pushed back, including his PR chief, Jake Siewert, who
reminded Solomon of the reputational hit the bank would take if it insisted on
employees’ attendance while their kids were stuck at home and vaccines weren’t
yet available. Solomon yielded, though the dispute dragged on. According to
The Messenger, it got so tense that at one point he snapped to staff, “I can’t
wait for the markets to turn so I can start firing you.”

Many Goldman bankers point to this juncture as when Solomon started to lose
them. The bank was realizing staggering profits thanks in part to relatively
junior employees whose workweeks had jumped from 80 to an unsustainable 120
hours. Solomon didn’t seem to empathize. In the middle of June 2020, he made a
cameo on an episode of Showtime’s _Billions_ , and the next month he DJ-ed a
set as the opening act for the Chain-smokers at an outdoor concert in Water
Mill, where maskless crowds formed in violation of social-distancing rules.
Governor Andrew Cuomo tweeted that he was “appalled,” and Solomon apologized
to the Goldman board.

“I really do think he believes he’s cool. But he’s not cool,” says a former
employee. “The most fascinating thing about it is that what would make him
cool is if he was liked internally. And if he actually leaned into his
uncoolness, he’d be more likable.”

Solomon also started to lose Goldman’s female employees. He had become CEO in
part by pledging to promote more of them from the back office and into
divisions that make money and bestow power. He also tied bonuses to diversity
metrics. But during the pandemic and after, those women leaders began leaving
at a clip that was hard to ignore (though the total number of female partners
has gone up). Several hired lawyers and alleged various degrees of sexism and
discrimination. One such complaint included Solomon’s blowjob comment, which
an insider later leaked to Bloomberg. Goldman’s lawyers paid off the departing
employees enough times that Solomon tried to turn off the money spigot, asking
to personally approve each payment. His legal and PR teams understood that the
cases were losers regardless of merit. “If they went to a jury, the women
definitely would have won,” says the ex-partner. “Because they would say,
‘Well, you’re the guy forcing everyone back to the office.’”

Some 200 partners have left the firm since Solomon took over. There’s always a
level of churn at Goldman, but what’s striking is the seniority of the
departing bankers, including division heads, members of the C-suite, and
rising stars considered contenders to serve as future CEOs. They have gone on
to positions at hedge funds, private companies, and start-ups — all preferable
to working for Solomon. “It’s an important part of Goldman tradition for
partners to leave for a wide range of new pursuits, and we wish them well,”
Siewert said in March 2021, spinning an early wave of departures to the
_Times_. Two months later, he quit too.

**If Solomon were** always right, no one in finance would care whether he blew
up at underlings or rejected every opinion but his own. When you run the most
powerful investment bank in the world, you’re supposed to be decisive. Yours
is the only ego that matters, and it helps if everyone recognizes that. The
problem for Solomon is that lately he has been wrong in consequential ways,
opening the floodgates for criticism of his style of management by
intimidation.

Post-crisis reforms had capped Goldman’s potential trading profits, and part
of Solomon’s strategy to reinvent the bank and get it growing again was an
aggressive push into Main Street banking, a.k.a. retail or consumer banking.
Blankfein had started a consumer bank called Marcus — after the firm’s
founder, Marcus Goldman — that would offer personal loans and high-yield
savings accounts. Solomon accelerated the effort, devoting more resources and
pushing the executives in charge to expand their ambitions. “David kept on
telling them, ‘Go bigger, go bigger, go bigger,’ and made them spend more
money than they should have,” says a person involved in the process.

Goldman also had a flagship venture with Apple to administer its first payment
card, and Solomon saw it as a tantalizing new business, a chance to innovate
in a market dominated by Chase’s surging Sapphire brand and American Express.
For all of Goldman’s consumer products to be viable, he was adamant that
Marcus offer a checking account. That would be expensive: Goldman was a
latecomer to retail banking and would essentially need to pay customers to
bring their money in the door. The executives in charge of Marcus — Harit
Talwar and his deputy, Omer Ismail — tried to convince Solomon that checking
was a bad idea, but he told them they lacked vision, according to people who
witnessed the discussion.

To appeal to this new class of customers, Goldman had to recruit some very un-
Goldman-like figures: people with experience in credit-card loans and branch
banking. The new hires could feel the old guard’s condescension, and the two
tribes were conspicuously separate. Solomon wanted his bankers in the office
five days a week, but Marcus employees, many of whom came from the tech
industry, were permitted to sometimes work from home.

Marcus strategy became the subject of frequent clashes. “I think David’s
management style was leading the place by fear,” says a former partner. “If he
didn’t like what you were saying, it was very classic ‘Let’s shoot the
messenger,’ as opposed to ‘Let’s listen to the message.’ There would be a lot
of yelling, and there would be a lot of public displays of anger.” Talwar
resigned in late 2020; a few months later, so did Ismail, who took another
partner with him to a new job.

“How could you do this to me?” Solomon exploded at Ismail, worried about how
the string of departures would reflect on his leadership. He clawed back a
significant chunk of the vested stock Ismail had accumulated — a virtually
unprecedented move that shocked Goldman veterans. Solomon also blacklisted
Ismail from attending the bank’s social events and alumni gatherings, putting
him in the same ignominious company as Tim Leissner, a former partner who had
pleaded guilty to federal charges in the Malaysia scandal. (Goldman disputes
Ismail was shunned. As for the clawback, Fratto says, “Equity awards are
governed by the agreement signed by the recipient. In this case, explicit
terms were clearly violated, and Goldman Sachs upheld the terms.” Ismail and
Talwar declined to comment.) Solomon’s treatment of Ismail, who had spent his
entire career at Goldman, underlined to fellow lifers that even after more
than 20 years, the CEO was still a lateral, someone who simply didn’t get the
bank’s unwritten codes of loyalty.

In the summer of 2021, Solomon moved his office from the 41st floor — an
enclave of mahogany and portraiture with sweeping views of the Statue of
Liberty — to the 12th, adjacent to Goldman’s Sky Lobby, the most trafficked
area of the firm. Despite the new proximity, many workers found Solomon as
remote as ever. This was another way the CEO still seemed like an interloper.
Generations of Goldmanites have learned that problems should be brought to
bosses immediately; the easiest way to get fired is not to put up your hand
and ask for help. The firm takes enormous risks on a daily basis, and the only
responsible way to operate is to make sure you know about as many of them as
possible. Solomon, though, had conditioned the people around him to avoid
coming forward. “It’s the David and John show,” Solomon told partners who
challenged him, referring to Waldron, the COO. Senior leaders felt
disenfranchised and irrelevant — unacceptable emotions for people used to
being Masters of the Universe.

Solomon’s insistence on ambitious goals and his intolerance for disappointment
were a dangerous combination. A managing director who left recently told me
about hearing a division head’s troubling confession: They had realized that
targets for the checking-account product were “never going to fly with senior
leadership, so I just doubled everything.” Some observers were reminded of
Dick Fuld, the legendary misanthrope CEO of Lehman Brothers, whose deafness to
dissent helped doom that bank in 2008.

Solomon kept pushing, completing a $1.7 billion acquisition of a start-up,
GreenSky, that would allow the bank to make home-improvement loans. But the
Marcus checking account was running far behind schedule, and the division was
starting to look like a mishmash. Rising interest rates caused defaults on
Apple cards to spike; more than a quarter of its credit-card borrowers had
FICO scores under 660; most of its personal-loan customers were using the
money to pay down other debt. Goldman Sachs suddenly had millions of customers
who not only weren’t as rich as the bank’s longtime clients, but were
struggling to make ends meet.

“At that point, the boat was on fire. We were hemorrhaging cash, we were
operationally insolvent, and we’d made some bizarre deals,” says the former
managing director. “A lot of people said Marcus had proved Goldman can be
something different, and that is very much what I was sold. And then people
were like, ‘No, this is still totally the vampire squid.’ We all just sort of
got fooled.”

Some critics have suggested that perhaps Solomon was too distracted between
DJ-ing and taking private planes to the Bahamas to kitesurf to see that Marcus
had veered off course. But I think that narrative misses the point. Solomon is
a workaholic, a CEO who never takes longer than three hours to respond to
emails. It’s not that he wasn’t paying attention; it’s more likely that no one
told him.

By the summer of 2022, regulators were investigating the credit-card business,
and rumors were spreading that Goldman would ditch the consumer division
entirely. In Dallas for an off-site strategy meeting, put up at an airport
hotel, senior executives connected the dots. “We all suddenly realized we were
in Texas for a completely fake exercise — planning to run a business that no
one had any intention of running for another couple of months,” the former
managing director says. Layoffs came two weeks later, and Solomon has since
announced that much of the consumer business is for sale.

Goldman’s partners are likely rankled less by the loss of several billion
dollars and more by the embarrassment. The bank can always make more money.
It’s a lot harder to earn back prestige.

**One read of** Solomon’s intransigence is that he simply can’t help being
prickly. He once got mad at me for writing that he had left a Miami nightclub
at “almost 3 a.m.,” which I’d rounded up from 2:40 (with time-stamped photos
to prove it). “That woman,” he told his staff in ire, “is an _embellisher._ ”
Solomon is notoriously literal. On a Goldman Sachs podcast, Siewert tossed him
an easy question about how Wall Street had changed in his decades of
experience there, and Solomon went for a geographically pedantic dunk. “I
actually haven’t physically worked on Wall Street since 1984,” he said.

For much of Solomon’s remarkable career, he has had the financial performance
to ignore suggestions that he change his personality. His execution during the
pandemic made 2021 Goldman’s best fiscal year ever with profits of nearly $22
billion. Not long afterward, a member of the bank’s board learned Solomon was
scheduled to [play a set at
Lollapalooza](http://web.archive.org/web/20250722200926/https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2022/03/goldman-
sachs-ceo-david-solomon-will-dj-at-lollapalooza.html) and confronted him about
the cringey optics. “Listen, this is my hobby. Your hobby is playing golf,”
Solomon said. The board member tried to sway the CEO: “No one has ever OD’d at
Pine Valley or Shinnecock. There’s a reputational thing.” Solomon played the
event anyway. Last year was Goldman’s second best by revenue, but it was down
significantly from 2021, and the firm’s hiring spree during that time meant
there were many more mouths to feed. When the annual review process began,
employees learned the bonus pool was looking weak. They also heard rumblings
that thousands of layoffs were likely, and for the first time, headlines about
the bank’s bad morale began to include the possibility of Solomon’s ouster.
“Grumbling Grows for Banking Giant Goldman to ‘Sach’ CEO Solomon,” the _Post_
wrote just before Christmas.

The bank eliminated 3,200 jobs in January. The next month, many of the firm’s
more than 400 partners flew to Miami for Goldman’s annual strategy meeting.
They grilled the CEO about why the firm had to cull so many people, whether
they would have to make further reductions, and most important, when they
could all expect to make more money again. Solomon responded that he wished
only that he had followed his instincts to fire people sooner. “As the
environment was growing more complicated in Q2 of last year, every bone in my
body believed we should be much more aggressive in slowing hiring and reducing
head count,” he said, according to the _Financial Times._

Later in February, reporters and analysts took notice when Solomon lost his
cool onstage at Goldman’s Investor Day gathering: stammering, sighing audibly,
and turning his back on analysts who pressed him for details on Marcus and the
consumer-banking disaster. This was the testy and combative side he showed
frequently behind closed doors but less often in public.

An even more revealing — and all but unnoticed — exchange happened a few days
later. As chair of the board of trustees at his alma mater, Hamilton College,
Solomon attended a networking event on campus in early March. Toward the end
of the reception, a cluster of seniors approached Solomon with questions about
the university’s energy investments. Three of them wrote a letter to the
student newspaper, the _Spectator,_ about what happened next. “Solomon’s
attitude and behavior toward us and our questions carried extremely racist and
sexist undertones,” they wrote. “His blatant ignorance and disrespect is one
we feel obligated to share with the campus community.”

According to the students, they spoke with Solomon for 30 minutes, mostly
about fossil-fuel divestment. The CEO offended them several times, claiming at
one point that he “does more in a week to help climate change than we will
ever do in our entire lives” and pointing to a home he bought in Vail that
runs on geothermal energy.

“​​Solomon then said probably the most clearly racially charged sentiment,”
the students wrote. “He pointed at each one of us, claiming that all of us
must be on financial aid; he implied that we should show immense gratitude
because we are in debt to the college’s endowment and that we should not
complain about its investment portfolio. Once we all looked shocked at the
claim, he quickly backtracked, citing the statistic that something like 80
percent of Hamilton students are on some kind of financial aid. It is
important to note that the group of six or so people talking to him were all
non-male and at least half were people of color. We believe that he never
would have assumed we were all on financial aid if we were the group of white
male students in suits talking to him 20 minutes prior.”

A Goldman spokesperson disputes the students’ claims as false. But they took
notes on the encounter, writing down everything Solomon said, and shared them
with me.

At least one of the students left the encounter in tears. “It was just so
upsetting and appalling that someone would talk to us with that much blatant
disrespect and disregard for us,” she told me. “In my life, I had never really
been talked to like that, which was kind of stunning.”

Solomon appeared to think the interaction was a success. Later that evening,
he approached one of the students at a campus pub and said that he “really
enjoyed our conversation earlier.”

Solomon declined to be interviewed for this article, but Goldman’s official
view is that his temperament is irrelevant as long as the bank is performing
well. The firm’s press team thinks the partners need to grow a thicker skin
when going head-to-head with their CEO. “We’ve spent time in politics, and
this is just normal,” says Fratto, who used to work in the George W. Bush
administration. “I can’t believe Goldman Sachs people get irritated about
having to debate an issue when it’s literally what we did all day long back in
our lives in politics.”

One difference between students at Hamilton and the Goldman executives leaking
against Solomon to reporters is that the former group has nothing personally
to gain. If Solomon loses his job, someone will likely move up from the
inside, and the names that have been floated in the financial press include
Waldron; Richard Gnodde, the CEO of Goldman Sachs International; Steve Scherr,
a former chief financial officer; and Marc Nachmann and Jim Esposito, division
leaders who might rule as co-CEOs. Waldron’s role may make him the leading
prospect, but his closeness with Solomon — who was in Waldron’s wedding —
might rule him out if the board were to seek a change. “That’s probably
David’s greatest protection: lack of anybody that could plausibly take over,”
says a banker who has been following the horse race.

Solomon serves at the pleasure of the board, not the partners, and voting him
out might happen only if Goldman’s stock — which is down slightly this year,
while the overall market is up — takes a major dip. “Investors understand the
strategy, and it’s mostly been successful. There’s a reason the stock price is
up 50 percent over the past five years,” says Fratto. But several current and
former executives who have served on the management committee told me that
what Solomon has done to lose the goodwill of the staff was serious enough to
materially affect the future of the bank. “It always matters,” says a former
partner. “The question is whether he still has the following as a leader
inside the firm. Capturing the hearts and minds of the organization matters.
Otherwise, it doesn’t work.”

Solomon has lately tried to win back the partners, hosting “cultural
stewardship” events all over the world as well as cocktail parties at his
homes for the firm’s elite and their spouses. But it doesn’t seem to have been
enough to disabuse many partners of the suspicion, which they find deeply
offensive, that he has put his own interests above those even of the famously
self-interested Goldman Sachs. “I think he thought the platform was for his
benefit, instead of he was serving this platform,” says an executive with
decades of experience at the bank stretching back to the days when its
position atop Wall Street was unquestioned. “People didn’t think it was cute.
They thought it was a breach of contract.”

Thank you for subscribing and supporting our journalism. If you prefer to read
in print, you can also find this article in the August 14, 2023, issue of New
York Magazine.

Want more stories like this one? [Subscribe
now](http://web.archive.org/web/20250722200926/https://subs.nymag.com/magazine/subscribe/official-
subscription.html?itm_source=disitepromo&itm_medium=siteacquisition&itm_campaign=end-
of-magazine-article) to support our journalism and get unlimited access to our
coverage. If you prefer to read in print, you can also find this article in
the August 14, 2023, issue of New York Magazine.

### One Great Story: A Nightly Newsletter for the Best of _New York_

The one story you shouldn’t miss today, selected by  _New York_ ’s editors.

Vox Media, LLC Terms and Privacy Notice

By submitting your email, you agree to our
[Terms](http://web.archive.org/web/20250722200926/https://nymag.com/newyork/terms/)
and [Privacy
Notice](http://web.archive.org/web/20250722200926/https://nymag.com/newyork/privacy/)
and to receive email correspondence from us.
