title: The World Is Choking on Digital Pollution | Washington Monthly
source: https://washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january-february-march-2019/the-world-is-choking-on-digital-pollution/
date: 2025-08-13T16:20:53.734006
tags: []
---
Tens of thousands of Londoners died of cholera from the 1830s to the 1860s.
The causes were simple: mass quantities of human waste and industrial
contaminants were pouring into the Thames, the central waterway of a city at
the center of a rapidly industrializing world. The river gave off an odor so
rank that Queen Victoria once had to cancel a leisurely boat ride. By the
summer of 1858, Parliament couldn’t hold hearings due to the overwhelming
stench coming through the windows.

The problem was finally solved by a talented engineer and surveyor named
Joseph Bazalgette, who designed and oversaw the construction of an industrial-
scale, fully integrated sewer system. Once it was complete, London never
suffered a major cholera outbreak again.

London’s problem was not a new one for humanity. Natural and industrial waste
is a fact of life. We start excreting in the womb and, despite all the
inconveniences, keep at it for the rest of our lives. And, since at least the
Promethean moment when we began to control fire, we’ve been contributing to
human-generated emissions through advances intended to make our lives easier
and more productive, often with little regard for the costs.

As industrialization led to increased urbanization, the by-products of
combined human activity grew to such levels that their effects could not be
ignored. The metaphorical heart of the world’s industrial capital, the Thames
was also the confluence of the effects of a changing society. “Near the
bridges the feculence rolled up in clouds so dense that they were visible at
the surface, even in water of this kind,”
[noted](http://web.archive.org/web/20220107234213/https://books.google.com/books?id=VleMcb7_qdMC&pg=PA358&hl=en#v=onepage&q&f=false
"noted") Michael Faraday, a British scientist now famous for his contributions
to electromagnetism.

Relief came from bringing together the threads needed to tackle this type of
problem—studying the phenomenon, assigning responsibility, and committing to
solutions big enough to match the scope of what was being faced. It started
with the recognition that direct and indirect human waste was itself an
industrial-scale problem. By the 1870s, governmental authorities were starting
to give a more specific meaning to an older word: they started calling the
various types of waste “pollution.”

A problem without a name cannot command attention, understanding, or
resources—three essential ingredients of change. Recognizing that at some
threshold industrial waste ceases to be an individual problem and becomes a
social problem—a problem we can name—has been crucial to our ability to manage
it. From the Clean Air Act to the Paris Accords, we have debated the
environmental costs of progress with participants from all corners of society:
the companies that produce energy or industrial products; the scientists who
study our environment and our behaviors; the officials we elect to represent
us; and groups of concerned citizens who want to take a stand. The outcome of
this debate is not predetermined. Sometimes, we take steps to restrain
industrial externalities. Other times, we unleash them in the name of some
other good.

By the 1870s, governmental authorities were giving a more specific meaning to
an old word: they called industrial waste “pollution.” Now, we are confronting
new and alarming by-products of progress, and the stakes may be just as high.

Now, we are confronting new and alarming by-products of progress, and the
stakes for our planet may be just as high as they were during the Industrial
Revolution. If the steam engine and blast furnace heralded our movement into
the industrial age, computers and smartphones now signal our entry into the
next age, one defined not by physical production but by the ease of services
provided through the commercial internet. In this new age, names like
Zuckerberg, Bezos, Brin, and Page are our new Carnegies, Rockefellers, and
Fords.

As always, progress has not been without a price. Like the factories of 200
years ago, digital advances have given rise to a pollution that is reducing
the quality of our lives and the strength of our democracy. We manage what we
choose to measure. It is time to name and measure not only the progress the
information revolution has brought, but also the harm that has come with it.
Until we do, we will never know which costs are worth bearing.

We seem to be caught in an almost daily reckoning with the role of the
internet in our society. This past March, Facebook lost [$134
billion](http://web.archive.org/web/20220107234213/https://www.cbsnews.com/news/facebook-
stock-price-recovers-all-134-billion-lost-in-after-cambridge-analytica-
datascandal/ "$134 billion") in market value over a matter of weeks after a
scandal involving the misuse of user data by the political consulting firm
Cambridge Analytica. In August, several social media companies banned
InfoWars, the conspiracy-mongering platform of right-wing commentator Alex
Jones. Many applauded this decision, while others cried of a left-wing
conspiracy afoot in the C-suites of largely California-based technology
companies.

Perhaps the most enduring political news story over the past two years has
been whether Donald Trump and his campaign colluded with Russian efforts to
influence the 2016 U.S. presidential election—efforts that almost exclusively
targeted vulnerabilities in digital information services. Twitter, a website
that started as a way to let friends know what you were up to, might now be
used to help determine intent in a presidential obstruction of justice
investigation.

And that’s just in the realm of American politics. Facebook banned senior
Myanmar military officials from the social network after a United Nations
report accusing the regime of genocide against the Muslim Rohingya minority
cited the platform’s role in fanning the flames of violence. The spread of
hoaxes and false kidnapping allegations on Facebook and messaging application
WhatsApp (which is owned by Facebook) was
[linked](http://web.archive.org/web/20220107234213/https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2018/may/06/sri-
lanka-facebook-lives-tech-giant-poor-countries "linked") to ethnic violence,
including lynchings, in India and Sri Lanka.

Concerns about the potential addictiveness of on-demand, mobile technology
have grown acute. A group of institutional investors pressured Apple to do
something about the problem, pointing to studies showing technology’s negative
impact on students’ ability to focus, as well as links between technology use
and mental health issues. The Chinese government announced plans to control
use of video games by children due to a rise in levels of nearsightedness.
Former Facebook executive Chamath Palihapitiya
[described](http://web.archive.org/web/20220107234213/https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-
switch/wp/2017/12/12/former-facebook-vp-says-social-media-is-destroying-
society-with-dopamine-driven-feedback-loops/?utm_term=.cf272225d349
"described") the mechanisms the company used to hold users’ attention as
“short-term, dopamine-driven feedback loops we’ve created [that] are
destroying how society works,” telling an audience at the Stanford Graduate
School of Business that his own children “aren’t allowed to use that shit.”

The feculence has become so dense that it is visible—and this is only what has
floated to the top.

For all the good the internet has produced, we are now grappling with effects
of _digital pollution_ that have become so potentially large that they
implicate our collective well-being. We have moved beyond the point at which
our anxieties about online services stem from individuals seeking to do
harm—committing crimes, stashing child pornography, recruiting terrorists. We
are now face-to-face with a system that is embedded in every structure of our
lives and institutions, and that is itself shaping our society in ways that
deeply impact our basic values.

We are right to be concerned. Increased anxiety and fear, polarization,
fragmentation of a shared context, and loss of trust are some of the most
apparent impacts of digital pollution. Potential degradation of intellectual
and emotional capacities, such as critical thinking, personal authority, and
emotional well-being, are harder to detect. We don’t fully understand the
cause and effect of digital toxins. The amplification of the most odious
beliefs in social media posts, the dissemination of inaccurate information in
an instant, the anonymization of our public discourse, and the vulnerabilities
that enable foreign governments to interfere in our elections are just some of
the many phenomena that have accumulated to the point that we now have real
angst about the future of democratic society.

In one sense, the new technology giants largely shaping our online world
aren’t doing anything new. Amazon sells goods directly to consumers and uses
consumer data to drive value and sales; Sears Roebuck delivered goods to
homes, and Target was once vilified for using data on customer behavior to
sell maternity products to women who had yet to announce their pregnancies.
Google and Facebook grab your attention with information you want or need, and
in exchange put advertisements in front of you; newspapers started the same
practice in the nineteenth century and have continued to do it into the
twenty-first—even if, thanks, in part, to Google and Facebook, it’s not longer
as lucrative.

But there are fundamental and far-reaching differences. The instantaneity and
connectivity of the internet allow new digital pollution to flow in
unprecedented ways. This can be understood through three ideas: scope, scale,
and complexity.

The _scope_ of our digital world is wider and deeper than we tend to
recognize.

It is _wider_ because it touches every aspect of human experience, reducing
them all to a single small screen that anticipates what we want or “should”
want. After the widespread adoption of social media and smartphones, the
internet evolved from a tool that helped us do certain things to the primary
surface for our very existence. Data flows into our smart TV, our smart
fridge, and the location and voice assistants in our phones, cars, and
gadgets, and comes back out in the form of services, reminders, and
notifications that shape what we do and how we behave.

It is _deeper_ because the influence of these digital services goes all the
way down, penetrating our mind and body, our core chemical and biological
selves. Evidence is mounting that the 150 times a day we check our phones
could be profoundly influencing our behaviors and trading on our psychological
reward systems in ways more pervasive than any past medium. James Williams, a
ten-year Google employee who worked on advertising and then left to pursue a
career in academia, has been [sounding the
alarm](http://web.archive.org/web/20220107234213/https://www.oii.ox.ac.uk/blog/staying-
free-in-a-world-of-persuasive-technologies/ "sounding the alarm") for years.
“When, exactly, does a ‘nudge’ become a ‘push’?” he asked five years ago.
“When we call these types of technology ‘persuasive,’ we’re implying that they
shouldn’t cross the line into being coercive or manipulative. But it’s hard to
say where that line is.”

Madison Avenue had polls and focus groups. But they could not have imagined
what artificial intelligence systems now do. Predictive systems curate and
filter. They interpret our innermost selves and micro-target content we will
like in order to advance the agendas of marketers, politicians, and bad
actors. And with every click (or just time spent looking at something), these
tools get immediate feedback and more insights, including the Holy Grail in
advertising: determining cause and effect between ads and human behavior. The
ability to gather data, target, test, and endlessly loop is every marketer’s
dream—brought to life in Silicon Valley office parks. And the more we depend
on technology, the more it changes us.

The scope of the internet’s influence on us comes with a problem of _scale_.
The instantaneity with which the internet connects most of the globe, combined
with the kind of open and participatory structure that the “founders” of the
internet sought and valorized, has created a flow of information and
interaction that we may not be able to manage or control in a safe way.

After the widespread adoption of social media and smartphones, the internet
evolved from a tool that helped us do certain things to the primary surface
for our very existence. And the more we depend on technology, the more it
changes us.

A key driver of this scale is how easy and cheap it is to create and upload
content, or to market services or ideas. Internet-enabled services strive to
drain all friction out of every transaction. Anyone can now rent their
apartment, sell their junk, post an article or idea—or just amplify a
sentiment by hitting “like.” The lowering of barriers has, in turn,
incentivized how we behave on the internet—in both good and bad ways. The low
cost of production has allowed more free expression than ever before, sparked
new means of providing valued services, and made it easier to forge virtuous
connections across the globe. It also makes it easier to troll or pass along
false information to thousands of others. It has made us vulnerable to
manipulation by people or governments with malevolent intent.

The sheer volume of connections and content is overwhelming. Facebook has more
than two billion [active
users](http://web.archive.org/web/20220107234213/https://www.statista.com/statistics/264810/number-
of-monthly-active-facebook-users-worldwide/ "active users") each month. Google
executes three and a half billion
[searches](http://web.archive.org/web/20220107234213/http://www.internetlivestats.com/google-
search-statistics/#ref-1 "searches") per day. YouTube
[streams](http://web.archive.org/web/20220107234213/https://www.forbes.com/sites/paulpotratz/2018/06/06/video-
is-king-but-youtube-wears-the-crown-how-to-become-a-youtuber/#1aa62c353338
"streams") over one billion hours of video per day. These numbers challenge
basic human comprehension. As one Facebook official said in prepared testimony
to Congress this year, “People share billions of pictures, stories, and videos
on Facebook daily. Being at the forefront of such a high volume of content
means that we are also at the forefront of new and challenging legal and
policy questions.”

Translation: _We_ ’ _re not sure what to do either_. And, instead of
confronting the ethical questions at stake, the corporate response is often to
define incremental policies based on what technology can do. Rather than
considering actual human needs, people and society evolve toward what digital
technology will support.

The third challenge is that the scope and scale of these effects relies on
increasingly _complex_ algorithmic and artificial intelligence systems,
limiting our ability to exercise any human management. When Henry Ford’s
assembly line didn’t work, a floor manager could investigate the problem and
identify the source of human or mechanical error. Once these systems became
automated, the machines could be subjected to testing and diagnostics and
taken apart if something went wrong. After digitization, we still had a good
sense of what computer code would produce and could analyze the code line by
line to find errors or other vulnerabilities.

Large-scale machine-learning systems cannot be audited in this way. They use
information to learn how to do things. Like a human brain, they change as they
learn. When they go wrong, artificial intelligence systems cannot be seen from
a God’s-eye view that tells us what happened. Nor can we predict exactly what
they will do under unknown circumstances. Because they evolve based on the
data they take in, they have the potential to behave in unexpected ways.

Commercial forces are taking basic questions out of our hands. It is treated
as inevitable that there must be billons of posts, billions of pictures,
billions of videos. The focus is on business: more users, more engagement, and
greater activity.

Taken together, these three kinds of change—the scope of intertwining digital
and non-digital experience, the scale and frequency leading to unprecedented
global reach, and the complexity of the machines—have resulted in impacts at
least as profound as the transition from agricultural to industrial society,
over a much shorter period of time. And the very elements that have made the
internet an incredible force for good also come together to create new
problems. The shift is so fundamental that we do not really understand the
impacts with any clarity or consensus. What do we call hate speech when it is
multiplied by tens of thousands of human and nonhuman users for concentrated
effect? What do we call redlining when it is being employed implicitly by a
machine assigning thousands of credit ratings per second in ways the machine’s
creator can’t quite track? What do we call the deterioration of our
intellectual or emotional capacities that results from checking our phones too
often?

We need a common understanding, not just of the benefits of technology, but
also of its costs—to our society and ourselves.

Human society now faces a critical choice: Will we treat the effects of
digital technology and digital experience as something to be managed
collectively? Right now, the answer being provided by those with the greatest
concentration of power is no.

The major internet companies treat many of these decisions as theirs, even as
CEOs insist that they make no meaningful decisions at all. Jack Dorsey
[warned](http://web.archive.org/web/20220107234213/https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/jack-
dorsey-twitter-alex-jones_us_5b6a3a3fe4b0fd5c73deab3f "warned") against
allowing Twitter to become a forum “constructed by our [Twitter employees’]
personal views.” Mark Zuckerberg, in reference to various conspiracy theories,
including Holocaust denialism,
[stated](http://web.archive.org/web/20220107234213/https://thehill.com/policy/technology/397662-zuckerberg-
on-banning-holocaust-deniers-from-facebook-theyre-not "stated"), “I don’t
believe that our platform should take that down because I think there are
things that different people get wrong. I don’t think that they’re
intentionally getting it wrong.”

These are just the explicit controversies, and the common refrain of “We are
just a platform for our users” is a decision by default. There can be no
illusions here: corporate executives are making critical societal choices.
Every major internet company has some form of “community standards” about
acceptable practices and content; these standards are expressions of their own
values. The problem is that, given their pervasive role, these companies’
values come to govern all of our lives without our input or consent.

Commercial forces are taking basic questions out of our hands. We go along
through our acceptance of a kind of technological determinism: the technology
simply marches forward toward less friction, greater ubiquity, more
convenience. This is evident, for example, when leaders in tech talk about the
volume of content. It is treated as inevitable that there must be billons of
posts, billions of pictures, billions of videos. It is evident, too, when
these same leaders talk to institutional investors in quarterly earnings
calls. The focus is on business: more users, more engagement, and greater
activity. Stagnant growth is punished in the stock price.

Commercial pressures have impacted how the companies providing services on the
internet have evolved. Nicole Wong, a former lawyer for Google (and later a
White House official) [recently
reflected](http://web.archive.org/web/20220107234213/https://www.recode.net/2018/9/12/17848384/nicole-
wong-cto-lawyer-google-twitter-kara-swisher-decode-podcast-full-transcript
"recently reflected") during a podcast interview on how Google’s search
priorities changed over time. In the early days, she said, it was about
getting people all the right information quickly. “And then in the mid-2000s,
when social networks and behavioral advertising came into play, there was this
change in the principles,” she continued. After the rise of social media,
Google became more focused on “personalization, engagement . . . what keeps
you here, which today we now know very clearly: It’s the most outrageous thing
you can find.”

Digital pollution is more complicated than industrial pollution. Industrial
pollution is the by-product of a value-producing process, not the product
itself. On the internet, value and harm are often one and the same.

The drive for profits and market dominance is instilled in artificial
intelligence systems that aren’t wired to ask why. But we aren’t machines; we
can ask why. We must confront how these technologies work, and evaluate the
consequences and costs for us and other parts of our society. We can question
whether the companies’ “solutions”—like increased staffing and technology for
content moderation—are good enough, or if they are the digital equivalent of
“clean coal.” As the services become less and less separable from the rest of
our lives, their effects become ever more pressing social problems. Once
London’s industrial effluvia began making tens of thousands fall ill, it
became a problem that society shared in common and in which all had a stake.
How much digital pollution will we endure before we take action?

We tend to think of pollution as something that needs to be eradicated. It’s
not. By almost every measure, our ability to tolerate some pollution has
improved society. Population, wealth, infant mortality, life span, and
morbidity have all dramatically trended in the right direction since the
industrial revolution. Pollution is a by-product of systems that are intended
to produce a collective benefit. That is why the study of industrial pollution
itself is not a judgment on what actions are overall good or bad. Rather, it
is a mechanism for understanding effects that are large enough to influence us
at a level that dictates we respond collectively.

We must now stake a collective claim in controlling digital pollution. What we
face is not the good or bad decision of any one individual or even one
company. It is not just about making economic decisions. It is about
dispassionately analyzing the economic, cultural, and health impacts on
society and then passionately debating the values that should guide our
choices—as companies, as individual employees, as consumers, as citizens, and
through our leaders and elected representatives.

Hate speech and trolling, the proliferation of misinformation, digital
addiction—these are not the unstoppable consequences of technology. A society
can decide at what level it will tolerate such problems in exchange for the
benefits, and what it is willing to give up in corporate profits or
convenience to prevent social harm.

We have a model for this urgent discussion. Industrial pollution is studied
and understood through descriptive sciences that name and measure the harm.
Atmospheric and environmental scientists research how industrial by-products
change the air and water. Ecologists measure the impact of industrial
processes on plant and animal species. Environmental economists create models
that help us understand the trade-offs between a rule limiting vehicle
emissions and economic growth.

We require a similar understanding of digital phenomena—their breadth, their
impact, and the mechanisms that influence them. What are the various digital
pollutants, and at what level are they dangerous? As with environmental
sciences, we must take an interdisciplinary approach, drawing not just from
engineering and design, law, economics, and political science but also from
fields with a deep understanding of our humanity, including sociology,
anthropology, psychology, and philosophy.

To be fair, digital pollution is more complicated than industrial pollution.
Industrial pollution is the by-product of a value-producing process, not the
product itself. On the internet, value and harm are often one and the same. It
is the convenience of instantaneous communication that forces us to constantly
check our phones out of worry that we might miss a message or notification. It
is the way the internet allows more expression that amplifies hate speech,
harassment, and misinformation than at any point in human history. And it is
the helpful personalization of services that demands the constant collecting
and digesting of personal information. The complex task of identifying where
we might sacrifice some individual value to prevent collective harm will be
crucial to curbing digital pollution. Science and data inform our decisions,
but our collective priorities should ultimately determine what we do and how
we do it.

The question we face in the digital age is not how to have it all, but how to
maintain valuable activity at a societal price on which we can agree. Just as
we have made laws about tolerable levels of waste and pollution, we can make
rules, establish norms, and set expectations for technology.

Perhaps the online world will be less instantaneous, convenient, and
entertaining. There could be fewer cheap services. We might begin to add
friction to some transactions rather than relentlessly subtracting it. But
these constraints would not destroy innovation. They would channel it, driving
creativity in more socially desirable directions. Properly managing the waste
of millions of Londoners took a lot more work than dumping it in the Thames.
It was worth it.
