title: 68% of white evangelicals think America shouldn’t house refugees | Vox
source: https://www.vox.com/identities/2018/5/29/17405704/white-evangelicals-attitudes-refugees
date: 2025-08-13T16:35:00.680966
tags: []
---
White evangelical Protestants are the most likely religious group to say that
the United States has no responsibility to open its borders to refugees,
according to a recent poll.

[The study,](http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2018/05/24/republicans-turn-
more-negative-toward-refugees-as-number-admitted-to-u-s-plummets/) which was
conducted by Pew, found that 68 percent of white evangelicals believed that
the United States “does not have a responsibility” to house refugees, while
just 25 percent believes that it does. This is higher than the American
national average: 51 percent of Americans overall believe the United States
does have a responsibility to allow in refugees, while just 43 percent believe
it does not.

The perspective of white evangelical Protestants on the refugee crisis is
particularly striking because it’s relatively unusual among Christian
religious groups. For example, 43 percent of white mainline Protestants
believe that America has a responsibility to house refugees, as do 50 percent
of Catholics and 63 percent of black Protestants. The highest level of support
from any group cited in the study was from those who identified as religiously
unaffiliated, of whom a full 65 percent support American housing of refugees.

The numbers are also remarkable because they reflect a more general trend on
the part of white evangelical Christians to depart from the national average
when it comes to social issues. White evangelicals are increasingly echoing
the GOP party platform even as other groups, including Christian groups,
diverge from it.

Such a conflation means that white evangelical Christians, already
historically a major part of President Trump’s base (let’s not forget that 81
percent of them voted for him in 2016), are now becoming all but synonymous
with it. As Trump’s policies become increasingly designed to appeal to that
base (as, for example, with his [recent move](/2018/5/14/17352676/robert-
jeffress-jerusalem-embassy-israel-prayer) of the American Embassy to
Jerusalem), it’s likewise increasingly clear that the relationship between the
two is symbiotic.

And the line between white evangelical theology and GOP party platform is all
but disappearing.
