title: Supreme Court Justice Alito’s Crusade Against a Secular America Isn’t Over | The New Yorker
source: https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2022/09/05/justice-alitos-crusade-against-a-secular-america-isnt-over
date: 2025-08-13T15:25:58.858863
tags: []
---
Another classmate of Alito’s, the future Fox News analyst Andrew Napolitano,
later offered the _Princeton Alumni Weekly_ what might have been a more
persuasive explanation: “There were two types of conservatives at
Princeton—those who were conservatives before Ronald Reagan and those who were
conservatives after. If you told Ed Meese”—Reagan’s hard-line Attorney
General—“you were a member of _cap_ , that told him you weren’t a new arrival.
It was a way of saying, ‘I’m the real thing.’ ”

For Alito, Yale Law School, too, was mined with countercultural bombs. In
2005, a member of Alito’s class, Diane Kaplan, told the _Yale Daily News_ that
“a lot of us were hippies, love children, political dissenters, draft
dodgers.” She noted that Alito and his Princeton friends “came to class with
buttoned-down collars and looking very serious.” Alito has described his
classmates as “overwhelmingly liberal,” but noted that there “were a few of us
conservatives kind of hiding,” among them Clarence Thomas and John Bolton, who
served briefly as President Donald Trump’s national-security adviser.

[![Two adults in bathing suits and standing next to
pool](http://web.archive.org/web/20250725055102im_/https://media.newyorker.com/cartoons/63095b88af7e54702ce8c42e/master/w_1600%2Cc_limit/220905_a26806.jpg)](http://web.archive.org/web/20250725055102/https://www.newyorker.com/cartoon/a26806)

“I’ve always wanted to learn to swim, but it’s never been more than thirty
minutes since my last meal.”

Cartoon by Kaamran Hafeez and Vincent Coca

Alito had come to Yale eager to study with one of his intellectual heroes,
Alexander Bickel, a charismatic and prolific scholar who believed that the
Warren Court had indulged in egregious activism. But Alito wasn’t placed in
Bickel’s constitutional-law class. Alito’s friend Mark Dwyer, meanwhile, was
assigned to the staunchly conservative scholar Robert Bork’s course, and he
later told the _Times_ that Alito had seemed jealous. In one of the worst
pairings of student and professor in course-scheduling history, Alito ended up
with Charles Reich, the eccentric counterculture guru who had written the
best-selling manifesto “The Greening of America.” (An excerpt appeared in this
magazine.) Alito, having read the book, formally requested to switch out of
the class, but he was told no.

Reich loved flower-child sensibilities as much as Alito hated them—he saw even
bell-bottoms as a form of rebellion worth validating. Before joining the Yale
faculty, he had been a clerk for Justice Hugo Black and a lawyer at élite
firms, but by the time Alito arrived in his class Reich had embarked on a
long, strange trip as a public intellectual and a freewheeling seeker. Reich
interviewed Jerry Garcia for _Rolling Stone_ and, in a law-review article,
criticized police harassment of citizens, folding in his own unpleasant
encounters with cops. Many students were charmed and inspired by Reich: Bill
and Hillary Clinton both studied with him. (When Bill Clinton became
President, one of his environmental initiatives was called the Greening of the
White House.) Alito was not one of those students. In appearances and
interviews, he has spoken disparagingly of Reich’s “most bizarre course.”
Reich, Alito said, told his students that he “had a ticket to San Francisco in
his desk and at some point during the term it was possible that there would be
a note on the bulletin board that he had gone to San Francisco, and the course
would then be over.” Alito recalled that, sure enough, he returned from
Thanksgiving break to find just such a note. He joked to Kristol that he was
“self-taught” in constitutional law.

At Yale, Alito’s occasional high jinks seem to have been as old-school as they
were at Princeton. Grais told me that Mark Dwyer “used to smoke a pipe, and
Sam took a rubber band and cut it up in little pieces and mixed it in with his
tobacco.” Alito sometimes had a glass of Scotch, Grais recalled, and Dwyer
once put “salt in Sam’s ice cubes.”

In December, 2008, when Alito had been on the Court for nearly three years, he
spoke at a fund-raising gala in Washington for the right-wing magazine _The
American Spectator_. Now that his position was secure for life, he could
afford to be a little caustic about that whole sixties thing. He poked fun at
the left’s idealism by drawing a parallel between Barack Obama and Eugene
McCarthy—the liberal icon who unsuccessfully ran for the Presidency in 1968
while, in Alito’s words, “promising to restore hope and bring about change.”
No doubt to the bafflement of many younger people in the audience, he mocked
the psychedelic band Country Joe and the Fish as well as its Vietnam War
protest song “I-Feel-Like-I’m-Fixin’-to-Die Rag.” Alito complained that “for
the past forty years there have been places in this country, sort of like the
island in ‘Jurassic Park,’ where it’s always been 1967.” But if sixties-
inflected views still reigned in outposts like academia, there was cause for
conservative triumphalism. During the Warren Court era, Alito said, “the legal
vanguard” had imagined that “the law would move dramatically” leftward—“but
they turned out to be wrong.” To laughter, he added, “To coin another phrase,
‘Sweet dreams and flying machines in pieces on the ground.’ ” Alito was
quoting the James Taylor song “Fire and Rain.” Those lyrics, of course, aren’t
about the crushing of progressive dreams—they’re about Taylor’s addiction
struggles and a friend’s suicide. But you wouldn’t expect a Guy Lombardo fan
to know that.

No matter how much individual states, cities, clinics, and activists push back
against Dobbs, it will impose a fundamental—and, for a majority of Americans,
undesired—reordering of women’s reproductive lives and expectations of
equality. In 1992, when the Court upheld Roe, in the Casey opinion, it
acknowledged what is known as a “reliance interest.” Two decades had passed
since the Court had first recognized a constitutional right to abortion, and
since then, as the opinion put it, “people have organized intimate
relationships and made choices that define their views of themselves and their
places in society, in reliance on the availability of abortion in the event
that contraception should fail.” Moreover, “the ability of women to
participate equally in the economic and social life of the Nation has been
facilitated by their ability to control their reproductive lives.” Alito’s
Dobbs opinion dismissed this appraisal as an “intangible form of reliance”
based on “an empirical question that is hard for anyone—and in particular, for
a court—to assess.” Yet millions of Americans have constructed their lives
with the expectation that abortion (and birth control) would be available. And
surely part of the Court’s job is to ponder the likely consequences of
upending such an expectation. Rachel Rebouché, a law professor at Temple
University who specializes in health and family law, told me that “courts
decide all the time whether or not there are consequences to laws.” Alito
seemed willing to accept the notion of reliance in only one realm: property
and contracts. “That’s a really formalistic way to think about reliance—a
really crabbed notion of what we can know about a law’s effects,” Rebouché
said.

As the liberal Justices pointed out in their dissent, the Dobbs decision
endangers other Supreme Court precedents. In particular, it leaves vulnerable
the cases that established “unenumerated rights” to privacy, intimacy, and
bodily autonomy—rights that the Constitution did not explicitly name but that
previous Court majorities had seen as reasonable extensions of the liberties
protected by the Fourteenth Amendment. Many Americans have also built their
lives on precedents such as Griswold v. Connecticut, the 1965 case confirming
the constitutional right of married couples to buy and use contraception;
Loving v. Virginia, the 1967 case declaring bans on interracial marriage
unconstitutional; Lawrence v. Texas, the 2003 case recognizing a right to
same-sex intimacy; and Obergefell v. Hodges, the 2015 case recognizing a right
to same-sex marriage. Would Alito grant that _these_ decisions have created
reliance interests?

In Dobbs, Alito promised that those other precedents are safe, and that
abortion is different from other personal decisions because it “destroys” what
the Mississippi law “describes as an ‘unborn human being.’ ” He insisted,
“Nothing in this opinion should be understood to cast doubt on precedents that
do not concern abortion.” But Alito’s assertion about the singular
preciousness of a fetus does not alone create a legal standard. Neil Siegel, a
Duke University law professor, told me, “ ‘Because I said so’ is not a
reason—not in parenting and not in law.” The anchoring logic of Alito’s
opinion is that rights not stipulated in the Constitution pass muster only if
they have long been part of the nation’s traditions. By this standard, what is
to preclude the undoing of the right to same-sex marriage guaranteed by
Obergefell? Tellingly, Alito furiously dissented in that case, saying that a
right to same-sex marriage was “contrary to long-established tradition.”
Indeed, Clarence Thomas, in his Dobbs concurrence, argued that the particular
cases protecting same-sex marriage and intimacy, along with contraception,
_were_ very much up for reconsideration. (Thomas left out Loving, the
interracial-marriage case.)

The Dobbs dissent, issued by Stephen Breyer, Elena Kagan, and Sonia Sotomayor,
sharply challenged Alito’s assurances. “Assume the majority is sincere in
saying, for whatever reason, that it will go so far and no further,” they
wrote. “Scout’s honor. Still, the future significance of today’s opinion will
be decided in the future. And law often has a way of evolving without regard
to original intentions—a way of actually following where logic leads.”

In overturning Roe, the Court bolstered not only the anti-abortion movement
but also the conservative legal movement—an effort associated with the
Federalist Society, which, since its founding, in 1982, has promoted an
“originalist” jurisprudence based on narrow readings of the Constitution. Such
readings often dovetail with many conservative policy goals, from the
dismantling of the regulatory state to the defense of gun rights. If Roe had
been upheld—even after Trump had loaded the Court with self-described
originalists who, he promised, would overturn the decision—the movement might
have reached its breaking point. Last winter, J. Joel Alicea, a former Alito
clerk who now teaches law at the Catholic University of America, wrote in
_City Journal_ that there was growing tension in the movement between “those
who saw originalism as a means to achieving some other substantive end and
those for whom it was the only legitimate constitutional methodology.”

Some conservative skeptics of originalism were particularly frustrated with a
2020 majority opinion by Justice Gorsuch concluding—ostensibly through
originalist logic—that Title VII prohibitions on employment discrimination
applied to gay and transgender people. (Alito dissented, declaring that the
inclusion of L.G.B.T.Q. people in Title VII protections “will threaten freedom
of religion, freedom of speech, and personal privacy and safety.”)

If the Court’s originalists couldn’t even successfully deploy their approach
to overturn Roe, then what good was it? Alicea wrote that, for the
conservative legal movement, the stakes in Dobbs could not be higher: it was
either “complete victory or crisis-inducing defeat.” Alito’s opinion was a
complete victory. An analysis in _National Review_ hailed the decision as the
movement’s “crowning achievement.”

For Alito, Dobbs was also the culmination of a sixteen-year effort to make his
mark on the Court. When he first became a Justice, he was often portrayed as a
Mini-Me of another Italian American Catholic from Trenton: Antonin Scalia.
Some commentators even referred to him as Scalito. But, although the two
Justices frequently voted together, they were different in ways both
temperamental and jurisprudential. Alito could be as acerbic in his writing as
the irrepressible Scalia, but he rarely seemed to be having as good a time.
Scalia’s bold commitment to originalist readings of the Constitution sometimes
led him to outcomes that he, as a law-and-order type, didn’t much like, such
as supporting the First Amendment claims of a flag-burning protester or
upholding the Fourth Amendment rights of criminal defendants. Alito adopted a
more elastic form of originalism which has allowed him, with plodding
consistency, to arrive at results that a loyal Republican would prefer.

Whereas Scalia’s admirers praised his intellectual commitment to originalism,
Alito’s admirers in the conservative legal movement often highlight his
practical approach. At a recent American Enterprise Institute conference
honoring the Justice’s jurisprudence, Keith Whittington, a professor of
politics at Princeton, said that Alito’s opinions “can be a little frustrating
if what you’re looking for and thinking about is how to draw much broader
themes out of his work, as far as theoretical approaches . . . that might
apply to a wide array of cases.” But it was “refreshing,” Whittington said, to
see a Justice “really try to tie the arguments and the logic and the
application to the details of the facts of the situation.”

From 2006 to 2020, four liberal Justices sat on the Court. According to Adam
Feldman, of the blog Empirical _SCOTUS_ , Alito is the conservative Justice
who has joined with the liberals on the Court the least often. He never once
provided them with the swing vote in a 5–4 decision. Since the 2010 term, he
has joined with three liberal Justices (and Roberts) only once—in an
uncontroversial case that defined the phrase “tangible object” in a criminal
statute.

This past term, Alito got the most attention for Dobbs, but he also signed on
to several other 6–3 decisions that achieved right-wing goals. He joined a
far-reaching decision curtailing the Environmental Protection Agency’s ability
to limit carbon emissions without congressional authorization. He also joined
an opinion compelling Maine to subsidize the tuition of students attending
religious schools, and a decision that expanded the right to carry firearms in
public.

The reversal of Warren Court norms may be accelerating under today’s lopsided
majority, but Alito has been pushing the Court rightward since his arrival.
Richard L. Hasen, the election-law expert, told me that Alito is “uniformly
hostile to voting rights,” and has been a “major force” in the Court’s support
for corporate spending in campaigns. Alito encouraged the filing of suits that
have allowed the Court to curb the power of public-sector unions. He authored
the 5–4 opinion in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Stores (2014), which exempted some
companies from providing contraception coverage to their employees, and he has
helped advance a new regime of jurisprudence strengthening the rights of
religious people—especially conservative Christians, and especially when their
beliefs conflict with anti-discrimination law. In environmental cases,
according to a forthcoming law-review article by Lazarus, the Harvard Law
professor, Alito has joined with “the side supported by environmentalists”
only four out of thirty-eight times, making him the Justice least likely to do
so. (And those votes came only in cases decided unanimously.)

Nevertheless, Alito’s biting tone in Dobbs represented a significant change.
Stephen Vladeck, a constitutional-law professor at the University of Texas,
told me, “This was not a decision that is intended to convince anybody other
than the folks who support its result. And I don’t mean convince them that
Alito and the other conservative Justices are right—I mean convince them that
they’re _principled_.” Dobbs revealed “a bloc of Justices who are increasingly
untroubled by the declining public perception of the Court, because they think
it’s just pissed-off progressives.” It’s not just pissed-off progressives.
Since 2000, as a recent study in the _Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences_ found, the Court is estimated to have moved “to the ideological
right of roughly three-quarters of all Americans.”

[![Three pigeons sitting on living room
couch](http://web.archive.org/web/20250725055102im_/https://media.newyorker.com/cartoons/63095b8980212a2c5be0c4a8/master/w_1600%2Cc_limit/220905_a26527.jpg)](http://web.archive.org/web/20250725055102/https://www.newyorker.com/cartoon/a26527)

Cartoon by Roz Chast

In 2005, not long after Justice Sandra Day O’Connor decided to retire,
President George W. Bush nominated Harriet Miers, the White House counsel and
his longtime friend, to fill the vacancy. Congressional Republicans and
Christian conservatives quickly turned against Miers, igniting what Bush
describes, in his memoir, as “a firestorm.” Miers was insufficiently “fancy,”
as Bush puts it; she lacked an Ivy League degree, and she hadn’t been an
appellate judge or a legal academic. Although she was an evangelical
Christian, Miers was further damaged by fears that she was not anti-choice
enough. (She had once argued that “self-determination” mattered when it came
to abortion.) Bush’s nomination of his confidante also smacked of cronyism.
But, according to Ann Southworth, a law professor at U.C. Irvine who has
studied the Federalist Society, a major part of “what tanked her is that she
was not seen as having come up through the conservative legal movement.”
Robert Bork told NPR that Miers’s selection was “a blow” to a “movement that’s
been building up for twenty years and now has a great many people who are
qualified for the Court but all of whom have been passed over.” Bush soon
withdrew Miers’s nomination.

Bush turned next to Alito, partly because Miers had recommended him. Still,
when the men met at the White House, Bush found him “as reserved as they come”
and “ill at ease.” For the previous fifteen years, Alito had been a federal
Court of Appeals judge, on the Third Circuit. As he later recollected in an
onstage interview at Duke, his professional life in that role had been almost
monastic: “My days consisted of driving to the office, walking up to my
chambers, reading and writing, talking to no human beings except my assistants
and my law clerks, getting back in my car, driving home, and doing the same
thing the next day. Every once in a while, there’d be an oral argument, maybe
once every six and a half weeks.” Bush finally broke the ice with Alito by
discussing baseball. Alito was such a Philadelphia Phillies fan that he had
once spent a week at the team’s Phantasy Camp—a Christmas gift from his wife,
Martha-Ann Alito, a former law librarian. (They have two children, Philip, a
lawyer, and Laura, a marketing executive.)

Unlike Miers, Alito had an extensive judicial record that included abortion
cases: as an appellate-court judge, he was the sole dissenter in a 1991 case
that struck down a portion of a Pennsylvania law requiring women, with few
exceptions, to notify their husbands before obtaining an abortion. (A year
later, when that case made it to the Supreme Court, as Casey, the Justices
decided that the spousal-notification rule posed an “undue burden.”) Equally
reassuring to conservatives was Alito’s service in the Reagan Administration’s
Justice Department. Under Edwin Meese, it had attracted young lawyers itching
to roll back abortion rights, certain protections for criminal defendants, and
affirmative action (which the Administration portrayed as reverse
discrimination against whites).

Alito had joined the Justice Department in 1981, working in the office of the
Solicitor General. Many of his colleagues were civil servants who didn’t share
his political views. Alito has said that he was initially a “secret
conservative.” In 1985, he began slipping out of the office to attend monthly
lunch meetings hosted by the Federalist Society, at a Chinese restaurant
called the Empress. At one such gathering, he ran into Charles Fried, then the
acting Solicitor General. “Oh, what a surprise to see you here,” Fried said.
“This is like meeting a friend at a bordello.”
