title: “Kerry has finally decided to take no for an answer”: why he gave his big Israel speech | Vox
source: http://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2016/12/29/14105458/john-kerry-israel-speech-matthew-duss
date: 2025-08-13T17:40:00.031069
tags: []
---
The last week of 2016 has been unexpectedly momentous for US-Israeli — and US-
Palestinian — relations. First, the Obama administration decided to [abstain
on a United Nations Security Council
vote](http://www.vox.com/world/2016/12/28/14090228/9-questions-un-vote-israel-
settlements-explained) on a resolution condemning Israeli settlements in
Palestinian territory. The international community has long considered the
building of Israeli settlements on Palestinian land both illegal under
international law and an impediment to the eventual creation of a Palestinian
state. The US’s refusal to veto allowed the resolution to pass, rebuking
right-wing Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s pro-settlement policies and
infuriating him and his office.

Then on Wednesday, outgoing Secretary of State John Kerry delivered a [lengthy
speech](http://www.vox.com/2016/12/28/14103542/john-kerry-israel-speech)
further castigating [the Netanyahu
government](http://www.vox.com/world/2016/12/28/14101332/john-kerry-speech-
israeli-settlements-netanyahu-obama) and warning that its policies threaten
the future viability of a two-state solution.

I spoke that afternoon with Matthew Duss, the president of the Foundation for
Middle East Peace and a leading observer on issues relating to the Israel-
Palestine conflict and US policy toward both actors. We talked about the
strategic thinking behind the administration’s renewed push against Israeli
settlements, what it means for the incoming Trump administration and for
Israeli domestic politics, and more. The transcript has been lightly edited
for length and clarity.

Why is this happening now, with Obama headed out the door and a new
administration that appears significantly more sympathetic to Netanyahu coming
in? Why does the Obama administration think this is a good time to make this
move?

I think there are couple reasons. One is a sincere sense of urgency about the
possibility of a two-state solution being lost. In [December 2015, at the
Saban Forum](https://www.state.gov/secretary/remarks/2015/12/250388.htm),
Kerry premiered a really detailed set of critiques of Israeli policies in the
West Bank — home demolitions, expropriation of land, refusal of construction
permits for Palestinians — a whole menu of things the Israelis were doing that
showed they were actually consolidating and entrenching the occupation, rather
than preparing to end it.

Kerry noted this raised serious questions about Israel’s commitment to a two-
state solution. Over the following year, he and a whole number of other
administration officials — UN Ambassador Samantha Power, Ambassador to Israel
Daniel Shapiro — have made very similar critiques, making all of the same
points, saying that the Israelis are doing things in the West Bank that are
completely contradictory to what they say their goal is. There is no way to
reconcile the goal of a two-state solution with these policies.

It was always framed as a question: “Explain to us how this is consistent with
your stated goal.” I think it was clear they didn’t want to just come out and
say, “You are no longer committed to a two-state solution.”

But I think what we saw today is that Kerry, after a year of raising these
questions, has finally decided to take no for an answer, at least from this
Israeli government, noting that this Israeli government is a very right-wing
government; it’s a government that is completely committed to the settlement
project. Prime Minister Netanyahu has bragged that his government is more
committed to the settlements than any Israeli government in history.

That partly explains why the US felt it had to take these steps now. The other
part of it is that you have this incoming administration that’s signaled in
various ways — up to and including the choice of [ambassador to Israel, David
Friedman](http://www.vox.com/world/2016/12/16/13980806/david-friedman-trump-
israel-ambassador-pick), who’s a very right-wing, pro-settlement, anti-two-
state person, who has [called the two-state solution an
“illusion”](http://peacenow.org/entry.php?id=21940#headline5) — that they’re
not going to be committed to this goal, and will just allow the Israelis to
keep doing what they’re doing, undermining the possibility of a two-state
solution. Kerry and the administration saw some real value in reaffirming the
international consensus around what a final resolution of this conflict would
look like, or should look like.

Obama’s 2013 speech in Jerusalem. Moshe Milner/GPO via Getty Images

Who was the main audience for this speech? Was it a last-minute pitch to
Netanyahu? Other Israeli policymakers? Palestinian leadership?

As in most cases, there were multiple audiences. First and foremost, there’s
the American people. This is the secretary of state explaining to the American
people why their government is devoting energy and attention to this issue in
this way. I think they did a good job of that, reiterating that this is a
consistent policy going back several administrations. Opposition to
settlements has been the position of every single US government since the
occupation began. The two-state solution has been a consensus solution in
American politics for many years.

There’s the Israeli audience. President Obama has reached out to the Israeli
people a number of times, including when he [traveled to Israel and gave that
famous speech](https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2013/03/21/remarks-
president-barack-obama-people-israel) where he envisioned a better future for
Israelis and Palestinians, saying, “It’s up to you to work together and create
this better future.”

What we saw from Kerry today was slightly different, saying, “Your government
is doing this. We, the United States, will continue to support you, and we
remain committed to your security and your legitimacy. These things are not in
question. But we do not and cannot and will not support the continued building
of the settlements and undermining of the two-state solution.”

That distinction is one of the most important things to come out of the events
of the past week, including the UN Security Council resolution, this making of
a distinction between support for Israel’s security and legitimacy on the one
hand, and opposition to Israel’s settlements and occupation on the other, and
a refusal to conflate those two things.

One of the more striking things about Kerry’s speech was his choice of
language — referring to the expulsion of Palestinians following the 1948 war
as the “Nakba,” the Arabic term for “catastrophe” or “disaster” that
Palestinians use to describe the event — and characterizing the status of
Palestinians under occupation as “separate but unequal.” How significant was
that?

I think the reference to “separate but unequal” was very significant. This is
something that resonates with American history. It was a clear reference to
American segregation. When we’re talking about the various audiences, that is
something Americans understand, and hearing a high American official describe
the reality of the occupation that way I think is new, and entirely accurate.

I don’t know that I’ve ever heard a high US official talk about the Nakba like
that. [Obama’s [2009] Cairo
speech](http://www.nytimes.com/2009/06/04/us/politics/04obama.text.html) was
important because he spoke about the Palestinian narrative and Israeli
narrative together, as two peoples with claims to this land, but I don’t think
we saw anything close to as explicit and forthright a recognition of the
Palestinian narrative and the reality of Palestinian suffering that we saw
from Secretary Kerry.

Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas (center) attends Shimon Peres’s funeral.
Abir Sultan- Pool/Getty Images

One critique of both the UN non-veto and the Kerry speech that I’ve seen from
people sympathetic to the two-state solution and normally critical of
Netanyahu is that while it is undoubtedly true that the settlement enterprise
is unjust and the Netanyahu government is not at all committed to peace, it
doesn’t accomplish a whole lot for the US to make that point in this way, and
that it could backfire and strengthen Netanyahu and other hard-liners in
Israel. What do you make of that argument?

I think it’s totally fair to ask what actual effect this has on the ground.
The answer is probably very little. The Israelis were building settlements
before, and they’ll most likely go ahead and continue building settlements
now. What’s significant here — in both [Kerry’s speech] but also the
resolution last week — is that we’ve seen an effort, a very aggressive effort
over the past few years by Netanyahu, of normalizing the settlements, of just
saying, “It’s not a big deal, we’re going to keep doing this, and eventually
the world will give up, they’ll just accept it.”

What we saw last week and we saw again [in Kerry’s speech] was that’s just not
true. This is part of what has created such an outraged reaction from
Netanyahu, in addition to the fact that he may be in some [severe legal
trouble](http://www.reuters.com/article/us-israel-netanyahu-idUSKBN14H1MM)
very soon and wants to distract from it. Netanyahu had led this effort to
normalize the settlements. If you listen to [Netanyahu and his allies], they
seem to believe they had successfully chipped away at the international
consensus that settlements are illegal. Last Friday was a wake-up call, and
they’re not happy about it.

There is value in reaffirming that international consensus, and the message
that that sends not only to Israelis but also to Palestinians. This is an
important achievement for Palestinian diplomacy and Palestinian nonviolence.
One of the things undermining the Palestinian Authority, the Palestine
Liberation Organization [PLO], [President] Mahmoud Abbas, and the rest of the
Palestinian leadership that has embraced nonviolence, is that they have very
little to show for years of these efforts. To be able to go back to the
Palestinian people and say, “Listen, we have a UN Security Council resolution
that says what we have been saying and endorsed our position,” I think that’s
very significant.

On that point — I was struck that [Mustafa
Barghouti](http://www.jpost.com/Arab-Israeli-Conflict/PLO-official-Overall-
message-of-Kerry-speech-welcome-but-parameters-unacceptable-476792), one of
the Palestinian politicians most firmly committed to nonviolence and the peace
process, responded to the speech by praising the overall message but arguing
that Kerry’s comments on the right of return (implying that Palestinians
dislocated in 1948 wouldn’t be allowed to return to their ancestral homes in
Israel), Jerusalem, and the status of Israel as a Jewish state were
“unacceptable.” Obviously the reception from Netanyahu was going to be chilly,
but does it worry you that moderate Palestinian leaders were critical?

I think the fact that both sides don’t like parts of it is a good sign. Both
sides are going to have to make some tough concessions and tough choices.
Neither side is going to get all of what they want.

This is often forgotten, and it should not be, but when the PLO recognized
Israel in 1993 in an exchange of letters between [Israeli Prime Minister]
Yitzhak Rabin and [PLO Chair] Yasser Arafat, and relinquished its claim on 78
percent of Palestine and accepted the idea of a Palestinian state on the
remaining 22 percent, that was the biggest concession that either side has
made, or will make, in this conflict. That’s kind of lost to history at this
point, but it’s very important to remember that. That was an enormous
concession that was made at the outset of the Oslo process.

In return for that concession, Israel didn’t recognize a Palestinian state; it
only recognized the PLO’s right to negotiate on behalf of Palestinians. There
was clear disparity there.

What we saw today was Kerry was offering an American position that basically
said the Palestinians will need to relinquish the full right of return. He
didn’t offer specifics, he said it does need to be negotiated, but he did put
the American government behind the idea that the vast majority of Palestinian
refugees would have to return to the state of Palestine rather than the state
of Israel. That is another enormous concession for the Palestinians. That
would be the second biggest concession that either side has, or will have, to
make in this conflict.

So yeah, that’s a tough one for the Palestinians to take. In my own
conversations with Palestinian leaders, none of them downplays the importance
of the right of return. That is a very central component of Palestinian
identity and the Palestinian narrative, and it happens to be an
internationally recognized right.

But I do think a big part of this is acknowledgment of the expulsion,
acknowledgment of the Nakba, that this thing happened, that Palestinians were
driven out of their homes; they did not simply decide to run away one day for
no reason. This was a policy that was undertaken. I don’t claim to speak for
Palestinians in any sense, but just from my own conversations, it’s clear that
recognition of the creation of the refugee problem and the processes that went
into that are nearly as important as the idea that these rights would be
implemented.

Trump’s secretary of state nominee and Kerry’s likely successor, Rex
Tillerson. Brendan Smialowski/Getty Images

How easy will the initiative, both in the UN and in Kerry’s speech, be to
undo? You do have a wholly new administration coming in with very different
views on Israel. How quickly can they do a 180?

In the case of the UN Security Council resolution, unless Trump is going to
produce a new resolution rescinding it and gets all of the members of the
Security Council to vote for it, that is binding. That’s something he can’t
change.

Trump is going to create his own policy toward Israel, toward Palestine. One
of the reasons for giving this speech now is to lay out this vision but also
put it in the context of a rather overwhelming international consensus, and
say, “This is the international consensus vision for how this conflict gets
resolved,” to plant a flag here and make it clear that if and when Trump
departs from this consensus, it is a departure. The speech today illustrated
how the Israeli policy deviated from that consensus, and how that has
exacerbated this challenge. I think the speech made it clear that efforts to
move beyond that or outside that consensus are problematic.

What do you think the effect will be on centrist and left parties in Israel,
ones that could conceivably lead a pro-peace government capable of a last-
ditch push for a final deal in the future, after Netanyahu’s gone?

You saw a [tweet from Isaac
Herzog](https://twitter.com/HerzogMK/status/814166568087195652?lang=en), the
leader of opposition, the leader of the Labor Party, praising Secretary Kerry
as a friend of Israel. It was clearly meant as a rebuttal to Netanyahu and his
gang’s attacks on the US and Kerry specifically over the past few days, which
have been very ugly.

As for how they exploit this, I think we’ve seen in the past few days since
the UN Security Council vote, they’ve gone after Netanyahu. He’s promoted
himself as a master diplomat, saying, “Look at all the friends we’re making,
we’re working on other stuff, the Palestinians aren’t a problem anymore, no
one cares” — and you have this 14-0 UN Security Council vote last week that
says, “No, that’s completely wrong.”

So they’ve been saying, “Netanyahu as the master diplomatic tactician, that
was all incorrect.” But we haven’t seen a great deal of skill from the Israeli
opposition over the past few years in terms of capitalizing on situations like
this, so I’m not really optimistic.
