title: ‘The Interview’: Robert Putnam Knows Why You’re Lonely - The New York Times
source: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/13/magazine/robert-putnam-interview.html
date: 2025-08-13T15:12:57.448240
tags: []
---
**And yet, I hear you, and your passion is so great, and I’m moved by it,
frankly. But here we are.** Yeah. So, I don’t know. You shouldn’t think I’ve
never asked myself that question. One way to put it is this: Twenty-five years
ago, I essentially predicted everything that was going to happen. That’s a
little exaggerated, but not much. And yet they happened. I’ve been a little
bit of an Isaiah, preaching how awful things are. One person once said I was
like an Old Testament prophet with charts. I’ve been working for most of my
adult life to try to build a better, more productive, more equal, more
connected community in America, and now I’m 83 and looking back, and it’s been
a total failure. Should I be optimistic or pessimistic about the future? I
don’t know that I’m optimistic or pessimistic. Honestly, looking at the polls
today, I could be pretty pessimistic. But I am hopeful, because I can see how
we could change it, and I’m doing my damnedest, including right this moment,
to try to change the course of history. I’m sorry, that’s very self-important
and I apologize for that, but I’m telling you honestly how I feel. I don’t
mean to sound cynical, it’s just, What can I do? I tried my damnedest to
sketch a way forward, but I’ve not been persuasive enough.

**Well, maybe it’s just that one man can’t do it alone. We need
community.**[Laughs] You’re right!

**What is your question?** You started your journalism career at the end of
the 20th century, just about the time that “Bowling Alone” was released.
Suppose you didn’t know me at all and didn’t know the book, but you were
trying to describe how you think American society has changed. What’s changed?

**I came here in 2017 from having lived overseas, and the things that I had
seen in other places that I had not seen**** _here_****before, I started to
see here. Families turning against each other, friendships broken, politics
invading every part of people’s lives. And I think, as you say, to turn that
around is a hard and herculean task.** It’s interesting that we have very
different careers and origins and so on, but — I have actually seen an America
that was better. So I know it doesn’t have to be this way. It doesn’t mean I
know how to get out of here. But America as a whole has been in good times. We
have trusted one another. That’s what my books show. We’ve trusted one
another, we’ve loved one another, we’ve been equal to one another. We even
began to reach across racial lines — I mean, it’s not an accident that the
civil rights movement comes at the peak of this upswing. So I know that we can
do better, and I know that we’ve turned corners in the past.

**We’ve come back from worse. There’s no question that you can turn a corner.
But you asked me in my lifetime what I had seen, and I’m afraid the trajectory
hasn’t been on an upswing. And I think that’s what your data shows too.** Sure
does.
