title: The Heroism of Incremental Care | The New Yorker
source: http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2017/01/23/the-heroism-of-incremental-care
date: 2025-08-13T17:37:03.921908
tags: []
---
For a long time, this would have seemed as foolish as giving your money to a
palmist. What will happen to a bridge—or to your body—fifty years from now? We
had no more than a vague idea. But the investigation of the 1967 Silver Bridge
collapse marked an advance in our ability to shift from reacting to bridge
catastrophes to anticipating and averting them.

Around the same time, something similar was happening in medicine. Scientists
were discovering the long-term health significance of high blood pressure,
diabetes, and other conditions. We’d begun collecting the data, developing the
computational capacity to decode the patterns, and discovering the treatments
that could change them. Seemingly random events were becoming open to
prediction and alteration. Our frame of medical consideration could widen to
encompass our entire life spans.

There is a lot about the future that remains unpredictable. Nonetheless, the
patterns are becoming more susceptible to empiricism—to a science of
surveillance, analysis, and iterative correction. The incrementalists are
overtaking the rescuers. But the transformation has itself been incremental.
So we’re only just starting to notice.

Our ability to use information to understand and reshape the future is
accelerating in multiple ways. We have at least four kinds of information that
matter to your health and well-being over time: information about the state of
your internal systems (from your imaging and lab-test results, your genome
sequencing); the state of your living conditions (your housing, community,
economic, and environmental circumstances); the state of the care you receive
(what your practitioners have done and how well they did it, what medications
and other treatments they have provided); and the state of your behaviors
(your patterns of sleep, exercise, stress, eating, sexual activity, adherence
to treatments). The potential of this information is so enormous it is almost
scary.

Instead of once-a-year checkups, in which people are like bridges undergoing
annual inspection, we will increasingly be able to use smartphones and
wearables to continuously monitor our heart rhythm, breathing, sleep, and
activity, registering signs of illness as well as the effectiveness and the
side effects of treatments. Engineers have proposed bathtub scanners that
could track your internal organs for minute changes over time. We can decode
our entire genome for less than the cost of an iPad and, increasingly, tune
our care to the exact makeup we were born with.

Our health-care system is not designed for this future—or, indeed, for this
present. We built it at a time when such capabilities were virtually
nonexistent. When illness was experienced as a random catastrophe, and medical
discoveries focussed on rescue, insurance for unanticipated, episodic needs
was what we needed. Hospitals and heroic interventions got the large
investments; incrementalists were scanted. After all, in the nineteen-fifties
and sixties, they had little to offer that made a major difference in people’s
lives. But the more capacity we develop to monitor the body and the brain for
signs of future breakdown and to correct course along the way—to deliver
“precision medicine,” as the lingo goes—the greater the difference health care
can make in people’s lives, as well as in reducing future costs.

This potential for incremental medicine to improve and save lives, however, is
dramatically at odds with our system’s allocation of rewards. According to a
2016 compensation survey, the five highest-paid specialties in American
medicine are orthopedics, cardiology, dermatology, gastroenterology, and
radiology. Practitioners in these fields have an average income of four
hundred thousand dollars a year. All are interventionists: they make most of
their income on defined, minutes- to hours-long procedures—replacing hips,
excising basal-cell carcinomas, doing endoscopies, conducting and reading
MRIs—and then move on. (One clear indicator: the starting income for
cardiologists who perform invasive procedures is twice that of cardiologists
who mainly provide preventive, longitudinal care.)

Here are the lowest-paid specialties: pediatrics, endocrinology, family
medicine, H.I.V./infectious disease, allergy/immunology, internal medicine,
psychiatry, and rheumatology. The average income for these practitioners is
about two hundred thousand dollars a year. Almost certainly at the bottom,
too, but not evaluated in the compensation survey: geriatricians, palliative-
care physicians, and headache specialists. All are incrementalists—they
produce value by improving people’s lives over extended periods of time,
typically months to years.

This hundred-per-cent difference in incomes actually understates the degree to
which our policies and payment systems have given short shrift to incremental
care. As an American surgeon, I have a battalion of people and millions of
dollars of equipment on hand when I arrive in my operating room.
Incrementalists are lucky if they can hire a nurse.

Already, we can see the cost of this misalignment. As rates of smoking fall,
for instance, the biggest emerging killer is uncontrolled hypertension, which
can result in stroke, heart attack, and dementia, among other conditions.
Thirty per cent of Americans have high blood pressure. Although most get
medical attention, only half are adequately treated. Globally, it’s even
worse—a billion people have hypertension, and only fourteen per cent receive
adequate treatment. Good treatment for hypertension is like bridge
maintenance: it requires active monitoring and incremental fixes and
adjustments over time but averts costly disasters. All the same, we routinely
skimp on the follow-through. We’ll deploy an army of experts and a mountain of
resources to separate conjoined twins—but give Asaf Bitton enough to hire a
medical aide or a computerized system to connect electronically with high-
blood-pressure patients and help them live longer? Forget about it.

[![“If hes so smart why does he have to sell his
sperm”](http://web.archive.org/web/20250721153117im_/https://media.newyorker.com/cartoons/593b68b757b86d47b169cb5b/master/w_1600%2Cc_limit/170123_smaller-2009-08-24.jpg)](http://web.archive.org/web/20250721153117/https://www.newyorker.com/cartoon/smaller-2009-08-24)

“If he’s so smart, why does he have to sell his sperm?”

Recently, I called Bill Haynes’s internist, Dr. Mita Gupta, the one who
recognized that the John Graham Headache Center might be able help him. She
had never intended to pursue a career in primary care, she said. She’d planned
to go into gastroenterology—one of the highly paid specialties. But, before
embarking on specialty training, she took a temporary position at a general
medical clinic in order to start a family. “What it turned into really
surprised me,” she said. As she got to know and work with people over time,
she saw the depth of the impact she could have on their lives. “Now it’s been
ten years, and I see the kids of patients of mine, I see people through
crises, and I see some of them through to the end of their lives.” Her main
frustration: how little recognized her abilities are, whether by the insurers,
who expect her to manage a patient with ten different health problems in a
fifteen-minute visit, or by hospitals, which rarely call to notify her, let
alone consult her, when a patient of hers is admitted. She could do so much
more for her patients with a bit more time and better resources for tracking,
planning, and communicating. Instead, she is constantly playing catch-up. “I
don’t know a primary-care physician who eats lunch,” she said.

The difference between what’s made available to me as a surgeon and what’s
made available to our internists or pediatricians or H.I.V. specialists is not
just shortsighted—it’s immoral. More than a quarter of Americans and Europeans
who die before the age of seventy-five would not have died so soon if they’d
received appropriate medical care for their conditions, most of which were
chronic. We routinely countenance inadequate care among the most vulnerable
people in our communities—including children, the elderly, and the chronically
ill.

I see the stakes in my own family. My son, Walker, was born with a heart
condition, and in his first days rescue medicine was what he needed. A
cardiology team deployed the arsenal that saved him: the drips that kept his
circulation going, the surgery that closed the holes in his heart and gave him
a new aortic arch. But incremental medicine is what he has needed ever since.

For twenty-one years, he has had the same cardiologist and nurse practitioner.
They saw him through his first months, when weight gain, stimulation, and
control of his blood pressure were essential. They saw him through his first
decade, when all he turned out to need was someone to keep a cautious eye on
how his heart did as he developed and took on sports. They saw him through his
growth spurt, when the size of his aorta failed to keep up with his height,
and guided us through the difficult choices about what operation he needed,
when, and who should do it. Then they saw him through his thankfully smooth
recovery.

When he began to struggle in middle school, a psychologist’s evaluation
identified deficits that, he warned us, meant that Walker would probably not
have the cognitive capacity for college. But the cardiologist recognized that
Walker’s difficulties fit with new data showing that kids with his heart
condition tend to have a particular pattern of neurological deficits in
processing speed and other functions which could potentially be managed. In
the ensuing years, she and his pediatrician helped bring in experts to work
with him on his learning and coping skills, and school planning. He’s now a
junior in college, majoring in philosophy, and emerging as a writer and an
artist. Rescue saved my son’s life. But without incremental medicine he would
never have the long and full life that he could.
