title: What Part of “No, Totally” Don’t You Understand? | The New Yorker
source: http://www.newyorker.com/books/page-turner/what-part-of-no-totally-dont-you-understand
date: 2025-08-13T19:02:57.272350
tags: []
---
ILLUSTRATION BY ELLEN SURREY

Not long ago, I walked into a friend’s kitchen and found her opening one of
those evil, impossible-to-breach plastic blister packages with a can opener.
This worked, and struck me as brilliant, but I mention it only to illustrate a
characteristic that I admire in our species: given almost any entity, we will
find a way to use it for something other than its intended purpose. We
commandeer cafeteria trays to go sledding, “The Power Broker” to prop open the
door, the Internet to look at kittens. We do this with words as well—time was,
spam was just Spam—but, lately, we have gone in for a particularly dramatic
appropriation. In certain situations, it seems, we have started using “no” to
mean “yes.”

Here’s Lena Dunham demonstrating this development, during a conversation with
the comedian Marc Maron on his podcast “WTF.” The two are talking about people
who reflexively disparage modern art:

> M _ARON_ : They can look at any painting and go, “Eh.” They can look at a
> Rothko and go, “Hey, three colors.” And then you want to hit them.
> D _UNHAM_ : No, totally.

Dunham is twenty-eight years old, but the “No, totally!” phenomenon is not
limited to her generation. It’s not even limited to “No, totally.” I first
started noticing it when a fiftysomething acquaintance responded to a question
I asked by saying, “Yup! No, very definitely.” That sent me looking for other
examples, which turn out to be almost nonexistent in written English but
increasingly abundant in speech. In 2001, the journalist Bernard Kalb told the
White House correspondent Dana Milbank that it was the job of reporters to
thoroughly investigate political candidates, to which Milbank responded, “Oh,
no, yes, I agree with you there.” In 2012, Anderson Cooper, talking with the
CNN senior political analyst Gloria Borger, referred to Newt Gingrich as “the
guy who has come back from the dead multiple times.” Borger’s reply veered
toward Molly Bloom terrain: “Yes, no, exactly, exactly, exactly.”

“No, totally.” “No, definitely.” “No, exactly.” “No, yes.” These curious uses
turn “no” into a kind of contranym: a word that can function as its own
opposite. Out of the million-odd words in the English language, perhaps a
hundred have this property. You can seed a field, in which case you are adding
seeds, or seed a grape, in which case you are subtracting them. You can be in
a fix but find a fix for it. You can alight from a horse to observe a
butterfly alighting on a flower.

Such words—also called auto-antonyms, antagonyms, Janus words, and
antiologies—can arise for different reasons. Some are just a special kind of
homonym; what appears to be one word with two opposite meanings is really two
different words with identical spellings and pronunciations. Thus “clip,”
meaning “to attach together,” comes from the Anglo-Saxon _clyppan_ , while
“clip,” meaning “to cut off,” comes from the Old Norse _klippa_. Other
contranyms arise when nouns becomes verbs. Sometime around 1200 A.D., _dust_
turned into a verb and, as dust will do, went every which way: “to dust” can
mean to remove dust, as from a bookshelf, or to add something dusty, as flour
to a cake pan or snow to the streets of Brooklyn. Alternatively, a contranym
can reverse meanings when it is used as a different part of speech. As a noun,
“custom” refers to a behavior that is common to many people. As an adjective,
it refers to something designed for just one person.

Occasionally, however, a contranym arises through a process called
amelioration, whereby a normally negative word develops a secondary, positive
meaning. This phenomenon is particularly common in slang: “bad” becomes good,
“wicked” becomes awesome, and “sick” and “ill” become wonderful. (They have
been ameliorated: made better.) The use of “no” to mean “yes” appears to be an
example of amelioration, but with one important distinction: “no” can’t mean
“yes” on its own. Consider a slightly abridged version of Lena Dunham’s
conversation about art appreciation:

> M _ARON_ : And then you want to hit them.
> D _UNHAM_ : No.

Take away the “totally” and Dunham appears to be rejecting anti-philistine
violence. By contrast, you can take away the “no” without doing any evident
semantic damage at all. A perfectly fine response to “Then you want to hit
them” is “Totally”—or, for that matter, “Yes, totally,” or just “Yes.” In
fact, every instance of “No, totally” and its kindred phrases can be replaced
with “Yes,” without any disruption of grammar or meaning. So why do we
sometimes use “no” instead?

At first blush, “no” does not appear to be the kind of word whose meaning you
can monkey with. For one thing, there is its length. At just two letters and
one syllable, it lacks the pliable properties of longer words. You can’t stuff
stuff inside it. (You can say “unfreakingbelievable,” but you cannot say
“nfreakingo.”) You can’t mangle it, à la “misunderestimate” or (the finest
example I’ve heard lately) “haphazardous.” On the contrary, it is so simple
and self-contained that it is a holophrasm, a word that can serve as a
complete sentence. (Holophrasms aren’t common in English, but any verb in
command form can be holophrastic—“Go,” “Help,” “Run”—and babies just learning
to talk use single words to express complex ideas all the time, albeit without
regard to grammar: “Ball,” “Up,” “Want.”) Moreover, the word has the apparent
fixity and clarity of a logical operator: like “if,” “then,” “and,” “or,” and
“not,” “no” seems designed to be unambiguous. When we ask, in the face of
excessive pestering, “What part of ‘no’ don’t you understand?,” what we mean
is: “Unless you are a complete cretin, there is no part of ‘no’ that you could
possibly misunderstand.”

Well, perhaps you would care to join me for a while in the land of complete
cretinhood. For instance, answer me this, if you can: What part of speech is
“no”? I thought it over for a while and concluded that it must be an
interjection, even though it fails the Mad Libs test. (“The burglar bumped
into the dresser and exclaimed, ‘_**_** _, my toe!’ ” The last time someone
filled in a blank like that with “no” was never.) At a generous estimate, I
was only one-sixth correct—but, in my defense, “no” resists all ready
grammatical categorization. It is not an interjection, except when it is.
(“Oh, no, I missed the train.”) It is not a noun, except when it is. (“The nos
have it.”) It is not an adjective, except when it is. (“I have no idea what
you’re talking about.”) It is not an adverb, except when it is. (“I’m no
clearer on this than I was when I began.”) Some linguists grant it the
separate part-of-speech status of “sentence word,” because, as I noted, it can
serve as a stand-alone sentence. Others consider it a particle—even though, as
a rule, the point of particles is precisely that they _can’t_ stand alone;
they exist to affect the meaning of other words.

In addition to this grammatical ambiguity, “no” also sometimes suffers from
semantic ambiguity—which is odd, considering that we regard it as absolute.
But consider the question “You aren’t a fan of cilantro?” The answer “No” is
confusing, since it can mean either “No, it tastes like dish soap” or “No, I
adore it.” Some languages avoid this type of indeterminacy. In Japanese, for
instance, _hai_ and _iie_ , although generally translated as “yes” and “no,”
actually mean something closer to “That’s correct” and “That’s incorrect.”
This eliminates the grey area. “You’re not a fan of cilantro?” “That’s
incorrect,” you _are_ a fan. In English, by contrast, we must resort to
elaboration: “No, I like it fine, I just don’t want any on my pancakes.”

Until the end of the sixteenth century or thereabouts, English had a tidier
solution to this problem: we had two words for “no,” which we used in distinct
ways. Those two words formed half of what’s called a four-form system of
negation and affirmation. If you speak French (or, in a statistical
unlikelihood, Norwegian, Swedish, Danish, or Icelandic), you are familiar with
a three-form system: in French, _n__on_ can negate anything, _oui_ is used
only in response to positively phrased questions or statements, while _si_ is
used to contradict questions or statements phrased in the negative. In
Franglish:

> Would you like to have dinner with me on Friday?
> _Oui_ , I’d like that very much.

> You don’t like the cilantro pesto I made?
> _Si,_ it’s delicious!

Back when English was a four-form system, it, too, had a _si_ —a word used
specifically to contradict negative statements. That word was “yes.” To affirm
positive statements, you used “yea”:

> Shoot, there aren’t any open pubs in Canterbury at this hour.
> Yes, there are.

> Is Chaucer drunk?
> Yea, and passed out on the table.

Similarly, “nay” was used to respond to positive statements or questions,
while “no” was reserved for contradicting anything phrased in the negative:

> Is the Tabard open?
> Nay, it closed at midnight.

> Isn’t Chaucer meeting us here?
> No, he went home to bed.

Over time, the distinction withered, “yea” and “nay” became obsolete, and
“yes” and “no”—the words that started out as special cases, for responding
exclusively to negatives—came to hold their current status. Or, as the case
may be, statuses.

What does all this have to do with the strange case of “No, totally”? The
linguists I spoke with thought that this use of “no” might be a response to an
implicit or explicit negative in the preceding statement: the type of “no” we
used back when we also had “nay.” In modern English, you need to use something
to clear up the cilantro-style confusion—so why not “totally” or its ilk?
Here’s ABC News’s Joy Behar talking to the comedian Ricky Gervais about how
girls, unlike boys, are not encouraged to make fools of themselves in public:

> B _EHAR_ : Well, they don’t get rewarded for acting stupid.
> G _ERVAIS_ : No, exactly, yes.

Because Behar’s statement is negative, either “yes” or “no” on its own would
be a confusing response. Gervais chooses “no,” then has to add “exactly, yes”
to indicate that he doesn’t mean “No, Joy, you’re wrong.” You could argue that
there’s also a negative, this one implicit, in the exchange between Mark Maron
and Lena Dunham. By that logic, Maron is really saying, “You want to hit them
[because these guys don’t know anything about art],” and Dunham’s reply means,
“No, they don’t, I totally agree.”

In suggesting this negation theory of “No, totally,” linguists are borrowing
from their far more developed explanation of a seemingly similar expression:
“Yeah, no.” The “no” in that phrase is generally thought to retain its
customary negative function. I’m a little dubious about whether that’s the
whole story, but it doesn’t matter, because I’m going to ignore “Yeah, no”
here. For one thing, those who are interested can refer to what the Oxford
English Dictionary lexicographer Jesse Sheidlower called “the extensive ‘Yeah,
no’ literature.” (An excellent place to start is this [three-part
analysis](http://web.archive.org/web/20250715150510/http://itre.cis.upenn.edu/~myl/languagelog/archives/005523.html)
by the University of Pennsylvania linguistics professor Mark Liberman.) For
another, the comparison only gets us just so far—because in many examples of
“No, totally!” there doesn’t seem to be any negation whatsoever. Consider:

> L _YDIA_ : That book is constructed so brilliantly. It’s like a locked-room
> mystery.
> I _VAN_ : No, totally.

In this case and many others like it, “No, totally” appears to be all
affirmation—a surprised and happy seconding. A rough translation might be,
“Wow, that’s just how I feel!”

We’ve been using “no” to express surprise, including happy surprise, for a
very long time. You hear that use in “No way!” You hear it (or heard it) in
the early-aughts slang “Oh no you di’int!”And you hear it in “The Adventures
of Tom Sawyer,” after Tom asks Huck Finn what you can do with a dead cat. Why,
you can use it to cure warts, Huck replies. “No! Is that so?” Tom exclaims.
Here, “no” is again serving as an interjection, akin to the “damn” in the
phrase, “Damn, that’s smart”—“damn” being another normally negative word that
can sometimes swap polarity and become positive. With both “damn” and “no,”
the slimmest hint of the negative might linger, in the form of envious
admiration. But, for the most part, this enthusiastic “no” has very little
negative meaning, or really much semantic content at all. It is more like
verbal punctuation—like the initial, upside-down exclamation mark in Spanish
that alerts you to impending excitement: _¡Totally!_
