title: Hospital checklist questions: Patients should ask on admission, discharge, and during stay.
source: http://www.slate.com/articles/health_and_science/medical_examiner/2015/07/hospital_checklist_questions_patients_should_ask_on_admission_discharge.html
date: 2025-08-13T18:53:23.354960
tags: []
---
Hospitalization can be a harrowing experience. Patients arrive seriously ill
or injured, and in addition to whatever ailments they’re suffering, they must
simultaneously find ways to cope with unfamiliar medical professionals and
uncomfortable procedures. We doctors and hospital support staff are often
asking these people—some of whom might be quite sick or in a great deal of
pain—not only to quickly understand their complex conditions and treatments,
but also to arrange for the assistance and care they’ll need after discharge.
Many will find themselves facing new medications, follow-up treatments, a rash
of specialists, unfamiliar equipment, and physical limitations—and this barely
takes the emotional strain into account. It’s not difficult to see why such a
large number of patients and their families report being overwhelmed by a
hospital stay.

As a hospital physician, I see patients and families every day who struggle to
understand the information they are (or sometimes aren’t) given. Patient
advocacy—for yourself or for someone whose care you’re responsible
for—significantly affects health and recovery. I want to help make you better
at it.

Hospitals around the country have embraced Atul Gawande’s [checklist
approach](http://www.npr.org/player/v2/mediaPlayer.html?action=1&t=1&islist=false&id=122226184&m=122243697)
to managing medical care, described in his 2010 book [_The Checklist
Manifesto: How to Get Things
Right_](http://www.amazon.com/dp/0312430000/?tag=slatmaga-20), and have seen
dramatic improvement. According to the World Health Organization, a study in
eight hospitals showed that the implementation of checklists during surgical
procedures reduced the rate of deaths and surgical complications by more than
a third.

It seems likely, then, that patients would benefit from a checklist of their
own. The following list is a resource meant to aid patients and their loved
ones in better preparing for and understanding what information they’ll need
before, during, and after a hospital stay. The 12 steps cover how to obtain
vital information for recovery as well as which member of your hospital care
team can provide it.

1\.  _After admission_ , ask the names of your primary hospital doctor and the
other specialists who make up your physician team. Your primary hospital
physician will coordinate with the team, and your nurses will assist you
during your stay.

2\. Ask your physician: What is my main diagnosis, and are there any other
newly diagnosed issues? Feel free to express your fears and anxieties about
your diagnosis to the physicians and nursing staff. Don’t let the anxiety
build until it becomes uncontrollable.

3\. Ask your nurse or physician: How are my illnesses responding to treatment?
Ask the nursing staff in particular about how your condition is progressing
and how you can facilitate your recovery. It’s your fundamental right to
obtain information regarding your medical condition. Understanding both your
diagnosis and your treatment plan is a central tenet of the [Patient’s Bill of
Rights](http://www.aapsonline.org/patients/billrts.htm), which was adopted by
the Association of American Physicians and Surgeons in 1995. According to this
document, all patients are entitled “to be informed about their medical
condition, the risks and benefits of treatment, and appropriate alternatives.”

4\. Ask your family, friends, or other trusted individuals to be involved and
help support you in your recovery. Yes, it’s hard to put ourselves in a
situation where we feel like we’re burdening someone or losing our
independence, even for a little while. Understand that these people are an
integral part of your treatment team and contribute to the success of your
recovery.

5\. Ask to speak with a hospital social worker if you have questions about
insurance and billing related to your stay. The social worker is there to help
clarify what your insurance covers and how much you may be required to pay. If
you need assistance with payment, discuss the options available to you with
the social worker before you leave as well.

6\. Ask to see the nurse manager or charge nurse if you’re experiencing
ongoing issues with care or communication about your condition. The person in
this role is responsible for helping patients and easing any misunderstanding
or tensions that may arise during your stay.

7\.  _As you approach discharge_ , ask if you should continue taking any of
the medications (including vitamins and supplements) you took before you were
admitted. This information should be included in your discharge instructions,
but take the time to fully understand this aspect of your care to avoid
potentially disastrous or even fatal complications later.

8\. Ask the staff to show you and your caregivers how to perform any tasks
prescribed for after you’ve left the hospital, especially any treatments that
may require a special skill, such as changing a bandage or giving an
injection. Ask the nurse or physician to remain in your room while you
practice to ensure you’re doing it correctly.

9\. Ask your nurse or physician if it’s safe to perform ordinary tasks alone,
like bathing, dressing, driving, or exercising. Make sure you’ve arranged for
help with any of these activities before you leave the hospital.

10\. Ask your nurse or physician if you can or should use any medical
equipment, such as a walker, brace, or health monitor, to help with your
recovery and comfort. If the answer is yes, ask for assistance in obtaining
these items before you leave or shortly after your return home.

11\.  _At the time of your discharge_ , ask the discharge nurse any questions
you have about your discharge information. You should have been provided with
printed discharge instructions. Don’t leave the hospital without obtaining
these, reading them (or having them read to you), and making sure you
understanding _all_ of the information they cover.

12\. Ask about any follow-up appointments or additional testing. Take a moment
now to record anything that’s already been scheduled or to schedule necessary
appointments in the coming weeks.

My hope is that regular use of this checklist will aid physicians in providing
more streamlined and accessible care; will further educate patients in how to
advocate for themselves; will help facilitate the best possible hospital
experience for patients; and will reduce or eliminate some of the strain on
the emotions, wallets, time, and energy of everyone involved. If we can ease
the many demands of a hospital stay, we’re working in service a medical team’s
goal: a successful patient recovery.
