title: Facebook and Amazon Have Huge Islands of Data. How Can They Come Together? | The New Republic
source: https://newrepublic.com/article/124425/dreamed-perfect-database
date: 2025-08-13T18:35:45.176195
tags: []
---
There is as yet no absolute challenger to the relational model. When people
think _database_ , they still think _SQL_. But if there is a true challenger,
it is in the graph model. Because graph data structures power social networks,
and social networks are the dominant technological organism of the era.

It is a good era for graph databases. In 2010, Google bought a company called
FreeBase, which was trying to create a huge open map of reality and then it
was, well, part of Google. Twitter released one later that year, called
FlockDB. Neo4j is another popular open-sourced database, letting you store all
of those knowledge-style relationships. A friend of mine from the Semantic Web
days hung in there, and his company built a [commercial graph database called
StarDog](http://stardog.com/); it has customers like JPMorgan Chase and NASA.
There are knowledge graphs everywhere. And of course there’s Facebook, with
its billion users and their countless likes, their lists of friends, and its
enormous graph of information on just about everything. Facebook is a
tremendous user of the graph model, the irony being that their store of facts
is so huge, so world-spanning, that they need a flexible way to store all the
data that it contains across thousands and thousands of machines. This
service, the root source of truth, is provided by many, many copies of MySQL.

Sometimes I get a little wistful. The vision of a world of connected facts,
one big, living library, remains beautiful, and unfulfilled. What we have
instead are large pools of data—Amazon’s product catalog and reviews,
Facebook’s set of likes and social connections, Twitter’s friends and
followers, countless magazine and newspaper web sites. Each has its own
pressing, commercial needs. They are not averse to sharing information, to
seeing their signal spread far and wide. It’s just that everything needs to
align with their business goals. That was the mistake I made in my twenties,
thinking that somehow just sharing information would be enough, that
information would seek out other information and a world library of open graph
data would build itself. I don’t think that it is impossible that we’ll get
there, someday; it’s just that without the motive power of capital, things
move slowly. There are great islands of knowledge on the internet, but not one
big pool of knowledge. I used to feel that such a thing was right around the
corner. But the web was much smaller then, and now, well, it’s nice to
imagine.
