title: Numbers Game
source: https://fiftytwo.in/story/numbers-game/
date: 2025-08-13T15:27:13.146985
tags: []
---
One of its everyday applications is in retail sales. Let’s assume a mobile
phone store in Delhi decides to implement a discount policy. Call it an
“intervention.” One way to estimate how this would affect sales would be to
investigate a counterfactual: what was the likely outcome if the store had
gone on conducting business as usual?

In this instance, the data set might comprise historic sales numbers from 50
other mobile phone stores in Delhi, ones that have not offered a discount.
These numbers, fed into the model, comprise the “learning,” which is then used
to predict the “usual” sales trajectory of the store.

These were the scenarios Amjad was playing around with. He was also playing
cricket. It’s how he was coping with working on an advanced degree at one of
the world’s most competitive universities, and a tragic personal loss. He
revitalised the MIT Cricket Club and played all over the American Northeast.
“If it wasn’t for the club and the team,” he told me, “I might not even have
stayed on to finish the PhD.” (He bowled pace like his hero Wasim Akram.)

Devavrat Shah, Amjad’s graduate advisor, was naturally supportive of his
inclination towards cricket. As the two South Asians bonded over finding a
reliable stream to watch live cricket in America, their conversations took an
academic turn. They concluded that predicting the path of a cricket innings
could be somewhat similar to predicting sales.

That’s how Amjad’s research went in a new direction. He began applying his
techniques to answer a question that cricket watchers are habitually obsessed
with: where does the innings go from here?

The extent of number-crunching in cricket was once limited to calculating
averages and strike rates, and predicting innings scores based on the current
run rate. These are pen-and-paper calculations that can be sped up by
computers. But over the past 15 years or so, advanced mathematical models like
Amjad’s haven’t just accelerated what was already on the cards; they’ve
transformed the way cricket is watched and analysed. They form the algorithmic
basis for “machines” which then automatically “learn” patterns which are too
complex to express using equations.

Take the projections of the final innings score on TV broadcasts, which rely
on simple calculations using the current rate of scoring in an innings. They
don’t consider factors like changing weather conditions, the quality of
opposition players or historic innings totals at a particular ground. Machine
learning models can account for all these and more, having been trained with
mountains of data from past matches. You don’t have to spell out the
relationship between a swinging pitch and a low-scoring innings. The machine
learns that for itself.

The coming of 20-over cricket took these high-level models beyond score
prediction. With its narrower margins of error and big money riding on player
auctions, the short-format game added an inquiry that went beyond “Who’s
winning?” Now, there was also the question of “How to win?”

Players, coaches and corporate houses were interested in the answer. Machine
learning may still be a hot phrase for many ordinary fans. But in the world of
cricket, it’s already serious business—and it is challenging the game’s long-
established traditions.

Conventional cricket wisdom, for example, dictates that batters play it safe
in the middle overs of a T20 innings, preserving their wicket for a late surge
in the slog overs. But advanced machine learning models can now tell you
exactly how much this can reduce a team’s winning chances. The data approach
has even begun to influence Test cricket, historically the format most
resistant to change. Teams use machine learning models to identify chinks in
their own batter’s armour. The same analyses, when applied to opposition
batters, informs bowlers where to pitch the ball to have the best chance of
taking a wicket.
