title: A farewell to the particle accelerator that was my father’s baby | Science | AAAS
source: https://www.science.org/content/article/farewell-x-ray-generating-particle-accelerator-was-my-father-s-baby
date: 2025-08-13T15:22:30.113444
tags: []
---
Last week technicians at Argonne National Laboratory began to disassemble a
particle accelerator known as the Advanced Photon Source (APS), a ring 1.1
kilometers around that since 1995 has shone as one of the world’s brightest
sources of x-rays. It’s hardly the end for the facility, which annually serves
nearly 6000 scientists from myriad fields. Within a year, workers will
[replace the electron
accelerator](/web/20240115033828/https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/science.343.6166.12)
with a new one that will boost the intensity of the APS’s output x-ray beams
by a factor of 500. A major scientific facility will be rejuvenated. That’s
not unusual.

For me personally, however, the dismantling of the original APS evokes strong
emotions. My father, [Yanglai
Cho](http://web.archive.org/web/20240115033828/https://www.aps.anl.gov/APS-
News/2017/yanglai-cho-a-founder-of-the-aps-dies-at-82), was an accelerator
physicist who spent his entire career at Argonne, a Department of Energy (DOE)
laboratory outside of Chicago. Forty years ago, he led the small team that
hammered out the conceptual design for the machine. In my mind, it was his
baby. When dad died in 2015 at age 82—4 years after a devastating stroke—I
took comfort in the thought that he lived on in that accelerator. Now, it,
too, will be gone.

I was a teenager when, in the early 1980s, my dad started musing about the
accelerator. I loved him dearly, but, as many people do, I had a complicated
relationship with my father. He could be tyrannical and demanding, self-
centered and remote. “I don’t care what you do just as long as you’re the best
at it,” he would pronounce to me or one of my two brothers and then leave us
to flounder on our own. Back then, the APS was this mysterious thing that
occupied his time and his mind.

I did follow my father into physics, eventually grinding out a Ph.D. However,
my path led me into science journalism. Over the past 20 years, I have written
about many big scientific facilities, ranging from atom smashers and
gravitational-wave detectors to x-ray lasers and neutron sources. I have never
built anything, but I have learned a few things about what it takes to create
these often-astounding machines. And that has helped me better understand my
father.

“He was a superb and visionary accelerator physicist, and he transformed many
large machines at Argonne and elsewhere,” says one former DOE official who
still consults for the agency and therefore asked not to be named. “He was
also a wonderful colleague and teacher.” Having locked horns with my father so
many times, I marvel at that last assessment. Yet, thinking about his work,
I’ve come to appreciate how a South Korean immigrant with a thick accent and a
fiery temper could flourish in an unusual and demanding field.

## A revolutionary tool

Like the other 70 x-ray synchrotrons around the world, the APS turns what was
a nuisance into a powerful resource for studying materials. It accelerates
electrons within a long vacuum tube to high energy and near–light-speed, while
magnets steer them around the ring. The circulating electron beam radiates
x-rays, just as a wet washcloth twirled overhead flings droplets of water.
That synchrotron radiation saps the electrons’ energy, so when accelerators
were built just for experiments in particle physics, it was an unavoidable
waste.

In the 1960s, scientists began to siphon the x-ray radiation from electron
accelerators to study materials by, say, measuring their absorption spectra.
The first major dedicated sources emerged in the following decade. The APS led
a wave of larger, higher energy third-generation sources, along with the
European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF) in Grenoble, France, and the
SPring-8 facility in Hyogo, Japan. Compared with previous sources, the Argonne
machine produced more-compact electron beams that generated far more intense
x-rays. It also pushed into the regime of hard x-rays, those with wavelengths
shorter than 0.1 nanometers, which are ideal for probing a material’s atomic-
scale structure. It replenished its electrons not every 12 hours, but every 30
seconds, keeping the intensity of the x-ray beams rock steady.

Most practically, the APS helped revolutionize the reliability of x-ray
sources, says David Moncton, a physicist at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology who was Argonne’s associate lab director for the APS from 1987 to
2001. Earlier, more persnickety machines would operate between 50% and 75% of
the available time, vexing officials trying to schedule a facility’s users.
The APS pushed that reliability factor to 99%, Moncton says. “If you just buy
equipment, put it together, and cross your fingers, you will not wind up with
a machine that performs 99% of the time.”

Such attributes have made the APS a font of discovery. Perhaps most
strikingly, it and other third-generation x-ray synchrotrons have
revolutionized the study of the structure and function of proteins and other
biomolecules, says Helen Berman, a structural biologist at Rutgers University
and a co-founder of the global Protein Data Bank (PDB). Before probing
molecules with x-rays, structural biologists must crystallize them, an arduous
task. Berman says the APS and other third-generation sources provided “the
ability to take data with a very intense x-ray source and use much smaller
crystals.”

Of the 201,000 protein structures in the PDB, 72% come from x-ray
synchrotrons. Of those, 30,466 come from the APS—51% of the yield from U.S.
synchrotrons. Data from the APS helped win two Nobel Prizes in Chemistry—in
2009, for studies of the [function and structure of the
ribosome](/web/20240115033828/https://www.science.org/content/article/2009-chemistry-
nobel-honors-work-ribosomes), the cell’s proteinmaking machinery; and in 2012,
for studies of [cell membrane proteins called G protein-coupled
receptors](/web/20240115033828/https://www.science.org/content/article/receptor-
scientists-nab-chemistry-nobel). The APS helped determine [the structure of
the SARS-CoV-2
virus](http://web.archive.org/web/20240115033828/https://www.anl.gov/article/using-
the-advanced-photon-source-researchers-advance-battle-against-covid19), which
causes COVID-19, and [develop
Paxlovid](http://web.archive.org/web/20240115033828/https://www.anl.gov/article/advanced-
photon-source-helps-pfizer-create-covid19-antiviral-treatment), a drug used to
treat it.

The APS supports many other types of work, as I saw last month when I walked
around its expansive, tunnel-like experimental hall. Within the facility’s 68
experimental end stations, scientists are analyzing the quantum properties of
magnetic materials, developing biologically inspired adhesives, and even
studying how the atomic-scale structure of lead-acid batteries changes as they
run, a study made possible by the intensity of the APS’s x-rays.

## A vision and a quest

All of this was a gleam in scientists’ eyes when my dad started to think about
the accelerator—which he wanted to name Phoebus, for the Greek god of the Sun.
In 1983, he was helping fix a troubled smaller x-ray synchrotron called
Aladdin at the University of Wisconsin-Madison when a review panel released a
report arguing for a larger hard x-ray source. Sitting in the Aladdin control
room, my dad read the report and then dashed back to Argonne to urge lab
officials to fund R&D on the machine and to push for Argonne to host it,
Moncton says.

The lab badly needed such a project. It had once had a thriving particle
physics program, which is what had attracted my father. But in 1979, Argonne
shut down its proton accelerator, which had been superseded by a much bigger,
new one at Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory 50 kilometers away. “The lab
was struggling for a mission,” Moncton says. “Yang immediately thought that
this made a good potential project and was of a size to carry the lab into its
future.”

Yanglai Cho (right) helps break ground for construction of the Advanced Photon
Source in June 1990.Argonne National Laboratory

The project also gave my father something he needed personally. Like most of
us, he was a jumble of mismatched puzzle pieces. He could be tetchy one
moment, and ridiculously overindulgent the next. My parents had divorced when
I was young, yet he was a constant presence, letting himself into our mother’s
house as he pleased. He had contracted polio as a child and had a withered
leg. Nevertheless, he liked to take us bowling, even if he would sometimes
fall. He loved to go out for lunch and, oddly, liked John Wayne movies. But,
overall, after the divorce he seemed unhappy.

The clubby, intense effort of designing the new machine revitalized him. The
team consisted of my father; Gopal Shenoy, a material scientist at Argonne who
died in 2017; and a dozen others. On a choice table in the Argonne cafeteria,
my father posted a sign, “Reserved for APS staff”—and replaced it as cafeteria
workers repeatedly removed it. In 1985, the Chicago Bears football team
stormed to a championship. Dad brought in a TV so researchers could keep tabs
on the games while working on Sundays.

It took the team 3 years to complete the conceptual design. Exactly what my
father did remains a bit of a mystery to me. As an accelerator physicist, he
understood how electrons surf radio waves to gain energy, magnetic fields
focus those particles, resonances can obliterate a beam, and synchrotron
radiation itself kicks the electrons around. But he had to turn that knowledge
into a workable design. His team specified the myriad parameters that defined
the APS: the beam energy, the radius of the ring, the number of bunches of
electrons in the beam, the arrangements of the magnets, the frequency of the
radio waves, etc.

The first goal was to make the most compact electron beam possible, which
would then radiate the brightest x-ray beams, says John Galayda, an
accelerator physicist who worked on the APS. The beam also could not move, he
says. A tiny electron beam radiates a tiny x-ray beam, which can probe
minuscule samples—provided it consistently hits the target. Finally, the
machine had to run as reliably as possible.

Machine designers must strike a delicate balance. The design cannot be so
ambitious that the machine can’t be built. But it can’t be so cautious that it
merely replicates what already exists. So, a design invariably contains
elements that builders do not yet know how to make. “Every facility that I’ve
been involved with—that’s been lots—was one of a kind, first of a kind,” the
former DOE official says. “And that means there are enormous technical
problems that haven’t yet been resolved.”

Apparently, my father was good at identifying what, with effort, could be
achieved. “He would look at what other projects did and use it and make it
better,” says Marion White, an accelerator physicist at Argonne and my
father’s widow. “He was incredibly good at that.”

Of course, a project leader must also manage people. And that’s where my
father struggled. His autocratic style worked early on, when the project staff
consisted of a self-selected few. It became less effective as the effort
became more formal and ballooned to hundreds of people. “He’d hold a meeting
and afterwards I’d have people coming into my office and saying, ‘I can’t take
it anymore,’” Moncton recalls. So in 1991, as construction ramped up, a
physicist named Ed Temple replaced my father as project director.

My father remained deeply involved in the project, however. He chaired the
committee that had to approve any modification to the final design. “He’d be
pretty rough about that,” Galayda says. “I think he viewed it as an
adversarial process.” As with any machine, some changes, more or less painful,
had to be made. Nevertheless, the APS came in on budget at $467 million and
ahead of schedule.

To me, it seemed that my father had his fingers in nearly every aspect of the
facility. For example, the APS’s 90,000-square-meter concrete floor has no
expansion seams. Contractors had urged including them to keep the floor from
cracking, Moncton says, but the design team insisted that the stability of the
floor was more important than superficial cracks. I remember my father talking
the finer points of concrete floors over lunch.

The original accelerator in the Advanced Photon Source (above) ran from 1995
until last month.Argonne National Laboratory

## The optimist

Now, workers are dismantling dad’s machine to replace it with a “fourth-
generation” design. The new machine will double the current in the ring to 200
milliamps. More important, its electron beam will be even more compact, says
Jim Kerby, a mechanical engineer at Argonne and director of the $815 million
project. The original APS’s beam measured 10 micrometers high and 275
micrometers wide. The new APS’s beam will measure 3 micrometers high and 15
micrometers wide—less than the width of a human hair.

That subtle shrinking depends on a key difference between the two machines,
Kerby says. In the old APS, the beam always bent inward, to the right. In the
new design, it will occasionally bend outward, to the left. These kinks give
rise to new dynamics that shrink the beam—an approach pioneered at the MAX IV
facility in Sweden and deployed in [a rebuild of the
ESRF](/web/20240115033828/https://www.science.org/content/article/rebirth-
leading-european-facility-promises-revolutionary-advances-x-ray-science)
completed in 2020.

The scheme requires an almost entirely new accelerator. Workers will replace
the original APS magnets with 1321 new ones, and change the entire vacuum
system. “We are swapping out essentially the whole ring,” Kerby says. The
transformation will take just 1 year. “It’s always been a deliverable of the
project that the downtime would be as short as humanly possible,” Kerby says.
By then my father’s machine will be a memory.

But my father himself was thinking of new machines even before the APS turned
on. In the late 1990s, Oak Ridge National Laboratory began building the
Spallation Neutron Source (SNS), which slams a proton beam into a mercury
target to generate neutrons for studying materials. The project struggled and
DOE nearly canceled it, says Thom Mason, director of Los Alamos National
Laboratory, who was SNS project director from 2001 to 2008. Moncton, White, my
father, and others [went to Oak Ridge to
help](/web/20240115033828/https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/science.283.5407.1425a).

Technicians prepare a section of the new accelerator, which builders plan to
complete within 1 year.Argonne National Laboratory

My father led the team that made a key design change, Mason says. The original
plan for the SNS called for a conventional linear accelerator made of copper
accelerating cavities. The team switched to a novel design with cavities made
of a superconducting metal, which promised to be more energy efficient,
reliable, and flexible. “As a result, we wound up building the first
superconducting proton accelerator instead of the last normal one,” Mason
says.

My father consulted on accelerator projects in South Korea, Germany, Japan,
and elsewhere, finding his niche in the odd community of scientific machine
builders. He had grown up dirt poor in what is now South Korea, then occupied
by Japan. He came to the United States when he was 24 and didn’t return home
for 17 years. Whether because of cultural differences, his disability, or his
temperament, often he was an outsider.

Not when he was among his colleagues, however. The happiest I ever saw my
father was when he was playing with his grandchildren. A close second was when
he was hobnobbing with his colleagues. At least some of them enjoyed his
company, too. “To me, working with your father was a wonderful experience,”
says Giorgio Margaritondo, a physicist at EPFL, formerly the Swiss Federal
Institute of Technology Lausanne, who teamed up with him on Aladdin.

In fact, my father managed to find a community in which he could succeed not
in spite of his prickly personality, but, to some degree, because of it. “To
build an accelerator is a very complex task with many subtasks and a lot of
coordination and so on, so you need to run the thing almost the military way,”
Margaritondo says. “There is one element that is absolutely necessary for
somebody to be a leader which is to be respected. Your father really commanded
the respect of the collaborators.”

Thinking about my father’s work, I also realize how he and I differed in an
important respect. I couldn’t cut it as a physicist in part because of my
reflexive pessimism. Confronted with some complex scheme, I tend to respond,
“That will never work.” In contrast, my father had the confidence to break a
barely conceivable technical proposal into parts, identify the obstacles, and
devise ways to overcome them. “He was the most optimistic person I ever met,”
White says.

By virtue of that optimism, my father helped create facilities that have
enabled thousands of scientists to explore the natural world, to the benefit
of us all. That legacy is far less concrete, but far more important than any
particular accelerator. So, that’s what I’ll hold on to now.
