title: Learning to Love the (Shallow, Divisive, Unreliable) New Media - The Atlantic
source: http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/print/1969/12/learning-to-love-the-shallow-divisive-unreliable-new-media/8415/
date: 2025-08-13T21:05:47.035710
tags: []
---
No one knows exactly what forms the next Ailes, Luce, or Koppel will invent.
But here, again, are some of the risks of whatever those forms are, along with
some possibilities of heading them off in advance:

**Lies and truthiness.** The regular journalistic reflex is to correct error
by applying fact and logic. In moot-court competition, this pays off. In much
of the rest of life, it does not. On being told “You’re wrong,” some people
will say “Thanks for the correction!” Most will say “Go to hell.”

“There is actually a lot of energy released by opposing ‘settled facts,’” I
was told by Jay Rosen, of the journalism school at NYU. “The more ‘settled’ it
is, the more furious the energy. When someone points out an error in what
Sarah Palin has said, that becomes another example of the liberal media, and
it becomes another tool for organizing.”

“Liberals love to talk about the erosion of logic and the scientific method,”
Nick Denton said. One example he discussed: Al Gore’s book about irrationality
in public life, called The Assault on Reason, with passages like this: “The
German philosopher Jürgen Habermas describes what has happened as the
‘refeudalization of the public sphere.’”

“But what if the answer to a false narrative isn’t fact?,” Denton says. “Or
Habermas? Maybe the answer to a flawed narrative is a different narrative. You
change the story.” Which is what, he said, Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert
have done. They don’t “fact-check” Fox News, or try to rebut it directly, or
fight on its own terms. They change the story not by distorting reality—their
strength is their reliance on fact—or creating a fictitious narrative, but by
presenting the facts in a way that makes them register in a way they hadn’t
before.

Jaron Lanier, author of _Digital Maoism_ , was blunt when I asked him about
Fox’s ability to assert a “truth” and have it echo through digital media. “We
have created a technology that has wonderful potential, but that enormously
increases our ability to lie to ourselves and forget it is a lie,” he told me.
“We are going to need to develop new conventions and formalities to cut
through the lies.” Stewart and Colbert have developed one such set of new
conventions; others will emerge.

**Undercovered stories.** This will be a problem, as it has always been. “In a
lot of different ways, the new journalism will be better than the old,” Steven
Waldman, a co-founder of Beliefnet who is now doing a report on the
information needs of communities for the Federal Communications Commission,
told me. “But there are a few important areas where that is not the case.
Especially local, labor-intensive, full-time ‘accountability’ journalism”—what
used to be called “covering City Hall.”

Or, as the writer Steven Berlin Johnson, among others, has contended, local
coverage could in some ways become much better, as systems arise to match
“hyper-local” news—the burglary down the street, the test scores at the
neighborhood school—with the audience directly affected by it. “I think in the
long run, we’re going to look back at many facets of old media and realize
that we were living in a desert disguised as a rain forest,” Johnson said in
2009 in a speech at the South by Southwest (SXSW) festival in Austin. “There
is going to be more content, not less; more information, more analysis, more
precision, a wider range of niches covered.” Rather than worry about a general
collapse of the press, perhaps we should watch carefully for specific failures
of local, statehouse, or investigative coverage, and start experimenting now
with ways to correct them—through nonprofit coverage or other means that new
technologies make possible.
