title: Luck Is a Bigger Contributor to Success Than People Give It Credit For - The Atlantic
source: http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2016/05/why-luck-matters-more-than-you-might-think/476394/
date: 2025-08-13T18:12:29.652565
tags: []
---
I’m a lucky man. Perhaps the most extreme example of my considerable good
fortune occurred one chilly Ithaca morning in November 2007, while I was
playing tennis with my longtime friend and collaborator, the Cornell
psychologist Tom Gilovich. He later told me that early in the second set, I
complained of feeling nauseated. The next thing he knew, I was lying
motionless on the court.

He yelled for someone to call 911, and then started pounding on my
chest—something he’d seen many times in movies but had never been trained to
do. He got a cough out of me, but seconds later I was again motionless with no
pulse. Very shortly, an ambulance showed up.

Ithaca’s ambulances are dispatched from the other side of town, more than five
miles away. How did this one arrive so quickly? By happenstance, just before I
collapsed, ambulances had been dispatched to two separate auto accidents close
to the tennis center. Since one of them involved no serious injuries, an
ambulance was able to peel off and travel just a few hundred yards to me. EMTs
put electric paddles on my chest and rushed me to our local hospital. There, I
was loaded onto a helicopter and flown to a larger hospital in Pennsylvania,
where I was placed on ice overnight.

Doctors later told me that I’d suffered an episode of sudden cardiac arrest.
Almost 90 percent of people who experience such episodes don’t survive, and
the few who do are typically left with significant impairments. And for three
days after the event, my family tells me, I spoke gibberish. But on day four,
I was discharged from the hospital with a clear head. Two weeks later, I was
playing tennis with Tom again.

If that ambulance hadn’t happened to have been nearby, I would be dead.

Not all random events lead to favorable outcomes, of course. Mike Edwards is
no longer alive because chance frowned on him. Edwards, formerly a cellist in
the British pop band the Electric Light Orchestra, was driving on a rural road
in England in 2010 when a 1,300-pound bale of hay rolled down a steep hillside
and landed on his van, crushing him. By all accounts, he was a decent,
peaceful man. That a bale of hay snuffed out his life was bad luck, pure and
simple.

Most people will concede that I’m fortunate to have survived and that Edwards
was unfortunate to have perished. But in other arenas, randomness can play out
in subtler ways, causing us to resist explanations that involve luck. In
particular, many of us seem uncomfortable with the possibility that personal
success might depend to any significant extent on chance. As E. B. White once
wrote, “Luck is not something you can mention in the presence of self-made
men.”

Seeing ourselves as self-made leads us to be less generous and public-
spirited.

My having cheated death does not make me an authority on luck. But it has
motivated me to learn much more about the subject than I otherwise would have.
In the process, I have discovered that chance plays a far larger role in life
outcomes than most people realize. And yet, the luckiest among us appear
especially unlikely to appreciate our good fortune. According to the Pew
Research Center, people in higher income brackets are much more likely than
those with lower incomes to say that individuals get rich primarily because
they work hard. Other surveys bear this out: Wealthy people overwhelmingly
attribute their own success to hard work rather than to factors like luck or
being in the right place at the right time.

That’s troubling, because a growing body of evidence suggests that seeing
ourselves as self-made—rather than as talented, hardworking, _and_ lucky—leads
us to be less generous and public-spirited. It may even make the lucky less
likely to support the conditions (such as high-quality public infrastructure
and education) that made their own success possible.

Happily, though, when people are prompted to reflect on their good fortune,
they become much more willing to contribute to the common good.

Psychologists use the term _hindsight bias_ to describe our tendency to think,
after the fact, that an event was predictable even when it wasn’t. This bias
operates with particular force for unusually successful outcomes.

In his commencement address to Princeton University’s 2012 graduating class,
Michael Lewis described the series of chance events that helped make
him—already privileged by virtue of his birth into a well-heeled family and
his education at Princeton—a celebrated author:

> One night I was invited to a dinner where I sat next to the wife of a big
> shot of a big Wall Street investment bank, Salomon Brothers. She more or
> less forced her husband to give me a job. I knew next to nothing about
> Salomon Brothers. But Salomon Brothers happened to be where Wall Street was
> being reinvented—into the Wall Street we’ve come to know and love today.
> When I got there I was assigned, almost arbitrarily, to the very best job in
> the place to observe the growing madness: They turned me into the house
> derivatives expert.

On the basis of his experiences at Salomon, Lewis wrote his 1989 best seller,
_Liar’s Poker_ , which described how Wall Street financial maneuvering was
transforming the world.

> All of a sudden people were telling me I was a born writer. This was absurd.
> Even I could see that there was another, more true narrative, with luck as
> its theme. What were the odds of being seated at that dinner next to that
> Salomon Brothers lady? Of landing inside the best Wall Street firm to write
> the story of the age? Of landing in the seat with the best view of the
> business? … This isn’t just false humility. It’s false humility with a
> point. My case illustrates how success is always rationalized. People really
> don’t like to hear success explained away as luck—especially successful
> people. As they age, and succeed, people feel their success was somehow
> inevitable.

Our understanding of human cognition provides one important clue as to why we
may see success as inevitable: the availability heuristic. Using this
cognitive shortcut, we tend to estimate the likelihood of an event or outcome
based on how readily we can recall similar instances. Successful careers, of
course, result from many factors, including hard work, talent, and chance.
Some of those factors recur often, making them easy to recall. But others
happen sporadically and therefore get short shrift when we construct our life
stories.

Little wonder that when talented, hardworking people in developed countries
strike it rich, they tend to ascribe their success to talent and hard work
above all else. Most of them are vividly aware of how hard they’ve worked and
how talented they are. They’ve been working hard and solving difficult
problems every day for many years! In some abstract sense, they probably do
know that they might not have performed as well in some other environment. Yet
their day-to-day experience provides few reminders of how fortunate they were
not to have been born in, say, war-torn Zimbabwe.

Our personal narratives are biased in a second way: Events that work to our
disadvantage are easier to recall than those that affect us positively. My
friend Tom Gilovich invokes a metaphor involving headwinds and tailwinds to
describe this asymmetry.

> When you’re running or bicycling into the wind, you’re very aware of it. You
> just can’t wait till the course turns around and you’ve got the wind at your
> back. When that happens, you feel _great_. But then you forget about it very
> quickly—you’re just not aware of the wind at your back. And that’s just a
> fundamental feature of how our minds, and how the world, works. We’re just
> going to be more aware of those barriers than of the things that boost us
> along.

That we tend to overestimate our own responsibility for our successes is not
to say that we shouldn’t take pride in them. Pride is a powerful motivator;
moreover, a tendency to overlook luck’s importance may be perversely adaptive,
as it encourages us to persevere in the face of obstacles.

And yet failing to consider the role of chance has a dark side, too, making
fortunate people less likely to pass on their good fortune.

The one dimension of personal luck that transcends all others is to have been
born in a highly developed country. I often think of Birkhaman Rai, the
Bhutanese man who was my cook when I was a Peace Corps volunteer in Nepal. He
was perhaps the most resourceful person I’ve ever met. Though he was never
taught to read, he could perform virtually any task in his environment to a
high standard, from thatching a roof to repairing a clock to driving a tough
bargain without alienating people. Even so, the meager salary I was able to
pay him was almost certainly the high point of his life’s earnings trajectory.
If he’d grown up in a rich country, he would have been far more prosperous,
perhaps even spectacularly successful.

Being born in a favorable environment is an enormous stroke of luck. But
maintaining such an environment requires high levels of public investment in
everything from infrastructure to education—something Americans have lately
been unwilling to support. Many factors have contributed to this reticence,
but one in particular stands out: budget deficits resulting from a long-term
decline in the United States’ top marginal tax rate.

A recent study by the political scientists Benjamin Page, Larry Bartels, and
Jason Seawright found that the top 1 percent of U.S. wealth-holders are
“extremely active politically” and are much more likely than the rest of the
American public to resist taxation, regulation, and government spending. Given
that the wealthiest Americans believe their prosperity is due, above all else,
to their own talent and hard work, is this any wonder? Surely it’s a short hop
from overlooking luck’s role in success to feeling entitled to keep the lion’s
share of your income—and to being reluctant to sustain the public investments
that let you succeed in the first place.

And yet this state of affairs does not appear to be inevitable: Recent
research suggests that being prompted to recognize luck can encourage
generosity. For example, Yuezhou Huo, a former research assistant of mine,
designed an experiment in which she promised subjects a cash prize in exchange
for completing a survey about a positive thing that had recently happened to
them. She asked one group of participants to list factors beyond their control
that contributed to the event, a second group to list personal qualities and
actions that contributed to it, and a control group to simply explain why the
good thing had happened. After completing the survey, subjects were given an
opportunity to donate some or all of their reward to charity. Those who had
been prompted to credit external causes—many mentioned luck, as well as
factors such as supportive spouses, thoughtful teachers, and financial
aid—donated 25 percent more than those who’d been asked to credit personal
qualities or choices. Donations from the control group fell roughly midway
between those from the other two groups.

Experiments by David DeSteno, a psychologist at Northeastern University, offer
additional evidence that gratitude might lead to greater willingness to
support the common good. In one widely cited study, he and his co-authors
devised a clever manipulation to make a group of laboratory subjects feel
grateful, and then gave them an opportunity to take actions that would benefit
others at their own expense. Subjects in whom gratitude had been stoked were
subsequently about 25 percent more generous toward strangers than were members
of a control group. These findings are consistent with those of other academic
psychologists. Taken together, the research suggests that when we are reminded
of luck’s importance, we are much more likely to plow some of our own good
fortune back into the common good.

In an unexpected twist, we may even find that recognizing our luck _increases_
our good fortune. Social scientists have been studying gratitude intensively
for almost two decades, and have found that it produces a remarkable array of
physical, psychological, and social changes. Robert Emmons of the University
of California at Davis and Michael McCullough of the University of Miami have
been among the most prolific contributors to this effort. In one of their
collaborations, they asked a first group of people to keep diaries in which
they noted things that had made them feel grateful, a second group to note
things that had made them feel irritated, and a third group to simply record
events. After 10 weeks, the researchers reported dramatic changes in those who
had noted their feelings of gratitude. The newly grateful had less frequent
and less severe aches and pains and improved sleep quality. They reported
greater happiness and alertness. They described themselves as more outgoing
and compassionate, and less likely to feel lonely and isolated. No similar
changes were observed in the second or third groups. Other psychologists have
documented additional benefits of gratitude, such as reduced anxiety and
diminished aggressive impulses.

Economists like to talk about scarcity, but its logic doesn’t always hold up
in the realm of human emotion. Gratitude, in particular, is a currency we can
spend freely without fear of bankruptcy. Indeed, if you talk with others about
their experiences with luck, as I have, you may discover that with only a
little prompting, even people who have never given much thought to the subject
are surprisingly willing to rethink their life stories, recalling lucky breaks
they’ve enjoyed along the way. And because these conversations almost always
leave participants feeling happier, it’s not hard to imagine them becoming
contagious

* * *

This essay is adapted from Robert H. Frank’s new book, [_Success and Luck:
Good Fortune and the Myth of Meritocracy_](http://www.amazon.com/Success-Luck-
Good-Fortune-Meritocracy/dp/0691167400/ref=sr_1_1).
