# AI Diffusion Regulations, Closing Loopholes, The Objections (Stratechery Update 1-14-2025)

**From:** Ben Thompson <email@stratechery.com>
**Date:** Tue, 14 Jan 2025 13:06:54 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/AI Diffusion Regulations, Closing Loopholes, The Objections (Stratechery Update 1-14-2025)_Tue,_14_Jan_2025_13-06-54_+0000_19464ecba5445392.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:07.091791

The Biden administration has a raft of new regulations aimed at limiting AI exports; the motivation makes sense, but the precedent and second-order effects are worrisome.

View in browser ( https://stratechery.com/2025/ai-diffusion-regulations-closing-loopholes-the-objections/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI1L2FpLWRpZmZ1c2lvbi1yZWd1bGF0aW9ucy1jbG9zaW5nLWxvb3Bob2xlcy10aGUtb2JqZWN0aW9ucy8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTczOTQ1MjAxNCwiaWF0IjoxNzM2ODYwMDE0LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwaS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.Ymi94nmlo5ehYdNFzM9C6mC4C4pH4B7n-CfstCPy0NIVcobqr-fo70EOGYBU4pPc6frIUS-p3BsnGF04AWX5rv8BZo3zeqqaHYkEYi-h1gHdg14GDJpEeIXMVp2tuUGnEIv0QH-EIZjMeRJYbWFFMyNCEjL7eyr4Emsz35MTKJGi13uYlr3Ce7Rfi3xm44D5tNzMuG453CSsjXg5hF2qCgnIutM9bhkW25c50fZY_1AdYS6ChFFK_cRarvVHZpVmy21B8NTt3FSzyHBtLt2ZzP4cu1NhtQNFMqVPWxdkLN4mlvKMO0R2ObkImPVUMO3NT6mhE_97D8MFLDueN9vhyQ )

( https://stratechery.com )

***********************************************************
AI Diffusion Regulations, Closing Loopholes, The Objections
***********************************************************

( https://stratechery.com/2025/ai-diffusion-regulations-closing-loopholes-the-objections/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI1L2FpLWRpZmZ1c2lvbi1yZWd1bGF0aW9ucy1jbG9zaW5nLWxvb3Bob2xlcy10aGUtb2JqZWN0aW9ucy8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTczOTQ1MjAxNCwiaWF0IjoxNzM2ODYwMDE0LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwaS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.Ymi94nmlo5ehYdNFzM9C6mC4C4pH4B7n-CfstCPy0NIVcobqr-fo70EOGYBU4pPc6frIUS-p3BsnGF04AWX5rv8BZo3zeqqaHYkEYi-h1gHdg14GDJpEeIXMVp2tuUGnEIv0QH-EIZjMeRJYbWFFMyNCEjL7eyr4Emsz35MTKJGi13uYlr3Ce7Rfi3xm44D5tNzMuG453CSsjXg5hF2qCgnIutM9bhkW25c50fZY_1AdYS6ChFFK_cRarvVHZpVmy21B8NTt3FSzyHBtLt2ZzP4cu1NhtQNFMqVPWxdkLN4mlvKMO0R2ObkImPVUMO3NT6mhE_97D8MFLDueN9vhyQ ) Tuesday, January 14, 2025

Listen to this Update in your podcast player ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Good morning,

On the latest episode of Greatest of All Talk ( https://goat.passport.online/member/episode/capture-the-flagg-at-the-halfway-mark-a-taxonomy-of-winning-plays-and-winning-players-an-update-on-jokic-and-westbrook ) , Ben and Andrew continue their fundraising effort to support relief efforts in Los Angeles, and check-in on Cooper Flagg, the likely number one pick in this year’s draft.

On to the Update:

AI Diffusion Regulations
------------------------

From the Wall Street Journal ( https://www.wsj.com/tech/ai/u-s-targets-china-with-new-ai-curbs-overriding-nvidias-objections-d1e06807 ) :

The U.S. is imposing some of its strongest measures yet to limit Chinese advances in artificial intelligence, requiring companies to get government approval to export certain information about their AI models and set up large AI computing facilities overseas. The rules, out Monday, are a final push by the Biden administration in a yearslong effort to use export controls to stem China’s advances in chip-making and AI, and they have sparked a backlash from companies including. The rules impose caps on how many advanced AI chips can be exported to certain countries and require a license to export the data that underpins the most sophisticated AI systems.

Strict sales restrictions on these chips are already in place for China, Iran and other U.S. adversaries, and the new rules carve out exemptions for a group of 18 close U.S. allies and partners. These include countries such as the U.K., France and Germany, a senior administration official said. But a broad category of more than 120 other countries, including U.S. allies in the Middle East and Asia, are set to face new hurdles in setting up huge AI computing facilities.

Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo, whose department oversees export controls, said the new curbs allowed the U.S. to diffuse its technology across the world while preserving national-security interests that could be jeopardized if adversaries were able to harness AI to enhance their militaries.

These rules are very long and complicated ( https://public-inspection.federalregister.gov/2025-00636.pdf ) (more on that in a bit), but at a high level:

* There are three tiers of countries: the limited number of Tier 1 countries get unrestricted access to GPUs, Tier 2 gets limited access and the chance to apply for more, and Tier 3 gets no GPUs.
* Officially blessed cloud providers can exceed the country limits for GPUs in Tier 2 countries, but have to maintain 50% of their total capacity in the United States, and can’t have more than 7% of capacity in any one country. They also need to track the origin of their GPU-using customers.
* There are additional rules for other potential cloud providers, including a number of provisions around security, as well as limitations on model weight sharing (including API-monitoring requirements to ensure weights are not being exfiltrated).

My initial takeaway is that this is potentially a big win for the American hyperscalers, who will basically be the only entities able to build GPU-equipped clouds in most of the world. At the same time, this will also put tremendous pressure on the United States’ rapidly diminishing data center capacity and power grid; the worldwide AI build-out will be gated by the U.S.’s ability to build, which is a dicey proposition.

Closing Loopholes
-----------------

In December, Gregory Allen and I discussed in a Stratechery Interview ( https://stratechery.com/2024/an-interview-with-gregory-allen-about-the-state-of-china-chip-export-controls/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.rvGgGhPS_srczQ4M94kKTonLoiaW8O9sdz4TArOD6Z3U0xSajyANta5fukbECsSVnPGvoczk-k5JCaLiTTo6Tq87QAmPEVe6m9gD8KGO7RyJcxSLuLOTWiRWWlkbpx79UKtp4w6PzxqUdprhLztB0B3jFiuHoVVq3r7oBuHWkLxOjCH3UOVuKcYv1fBKSBU2bnbV9ZnG6YZemO8bzwVzWwtDGvxcf9zTRGYxA4jMZlgUZ2J3tdIqRpMD4c-p_6Z_2eoYvg2bFera9NlXb8-qsLfIr5J4noOKghMkVdFz4nnWaIInacuhkU54nbkKk3IUNYESuuuJRwJQn2XR8qQG2A ) how the Biden chip controls had fallen short in various ways. One big loophole is that Chinese chip orders were routed through other countries like Singapore; another big loophole is that Chinese companies were simply renting capacity on cloud providers to train their models.

This new set of controls is focused on closing those loopholes, and it does so quite aggressively: instead of seeking to stop Chinese orders in the context of an open market, these rules basically close the entire market and effectively require would-be GPU buyers to prove they aren’t passing chips along to China. Cloud providers, meanwhile, are deputized to audit who is using their services, and for what.

What is missing is a closing of the loopholes in terms of providing semiconductor manufacturing equipment. That absence — which may be further addressed in the next few days — is particularly pressing in the light of these regulations, which provide a massive incentive for non Tier-1 countries to find alternative sources of chips, which, in the long run, means China.

Purely-Chinese manufactured chips, however, are not competitive. Huawei’s AI chip appears to have been manufactured by TSMC ( https://focustaiwan.tw/business/202410230007 ) , while SMIC’s 7nm chips ( https://stratechery.com/2023/the-huawei-mate-60-pro-7nm-background-implications-and-reactions/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIzL3RoZS1odWF3ZWktbWF0ZS02MC1wcm8tN25tLWJhY2tncm91bmQtaW1wbGljYXRpb25zLWFuZC1yZWFjdGlvbnMvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3Mzk0NTIwMTQsImlhdCI6MTczNjg2MDAxNCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.Ub-sSxDKTq9BrtwLefaoB6X7hcV3vuEo4S70E8F8dUJMsowGkUicbtD25GkXPKcjVDgGlopZx7LDs1HdV1-mFUS-KGk3FzR8RXxE76K5sZ0FuCBgbT4f9RY62eyO91Ij3-CBf-nYdAH586S8TLi8kH33V4CEHp8t-JXvmQzdem2Mai-MPtFN7MnBR2YJZxV4c2YFHvBKGShjP9Jaq7lWwzgIkrDFK6sbMHvy5VSJbuCNcT6RzQ6KUOCM-Skh6LZ-tCQVh9D58h5fMKmZc4NbjI9gvaY4_WB5E-ADWTOwFfywWsgMMMnMrGRNDYpBnGWSTNnnl2Tsho1c1i0YEZ8C5w ) are still very low volume and almost certainly very low yield, and made almost entirely with western equipment. China’s ability to make its own AI chips with its own equipment is still many years away, and any progress in that regard will likely be devoted entirely to China’s own domestic demand.

Still, this does lay the groundwork for the long-term decline of U.S. chip dominance; countries want chips and they don’t want to be told what do with them. Nvidia isn’t wrong when they write in a strongly-worded statement ( https://blogs.nvidia.com/blog/ai-policy/ ) :

In its last days in office, the Biden Administration seeks to undermine America’s leadership with a 200+ page regulatory morass, drafted in secret and without proper legislative review. This sweeping overreach would impose bureaucratic control over how America’s leading semiconductors, computers, systems and even software are designed and marketed globally. And by attempting to rig market outcomes and stifle competition — the lifeblood of innovation — the Biden Administration’s new rule threatens to squander America’s hard-won technological advantage.

While cloaked in the guise of an “anti-China” measure, these rules would do nothing to enhance U.S. security. The new rules would control technology worldwide, including technology that is already widely available in mainstream gaming PCs and consumer hardware. Rather than mitigate any threat, the new Biden rules would only weaken America’s global competitiveness, undermining the innovation that has kept the U.S. ahead.

The primary defense to this objection is that it is already too late: the initial chip ban ( https://stratechery.com/2022/chips-and-china/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIyL2NoaXBzLWFuZC1jaGluYS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTczOTQ1MjAxNCwiaWF0IjoxNzM2ODYwMDE0LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwaS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.n8owVbcXpNeKlVYVrx1-YFqPAsA8_gvTzBNfJSIaPQp5HrjNoj2OVmMk2acA_3ZL3ZMpSsWe9TMuW1npx1ZUv-seNAJHTsD8w0mnnnYuK3lQNrjM67Av4ybPSFIMYc1pU9iBLYPsChGYPoyQ6D0n1tRg0XrIzDeT5uploKyj8-hEsZG0El7QYpbkIh8Mp3q7SkE-Qnf4BLNYXQMgfGmTCjZrZv6ZD7-u6XHxPfuD1Inp0gxTu_lXCt9zCoNCFEp2n9QbvmSQD5pNwldXCrbwO0pvU3XIZMIwyd4b32vsNTvSIGv91tuiAg7hWBoVYGFEAC9AfZFBTaBHNr-hZrW1Dw ) , or if you want to go further back to the Trump administration, the ZTE chip ban ( https://stratechery.com/2018/the-zte-ban-techs-trade-war-risk-chinas-delayed-approval-and-apples-pain/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.DvWaGLU7TJ3XFPvvzWuxYqhMCSjo1lkjnszd6HFQnaJksLfN57yZez8_TTzoDkfF9k2DEoYoaf0S3Rv4FzK6Wc6XMz0_CX8t3xCboZpKZRrT-Pel9nloixUT6zB_1UvfSPLnhqXt0ap_mrcwBWLuQrF2NSIw8UY6inLJwqk7_BkInnKLe6anoLV9wkYblG5OTNVxLXWyb8Wec2EbedIfxaPoZ_fxWkjnMJ63-966ekhBvz_-DLiKbYAJ9H4rZCqgpb9KbW8l-yIRx-f8Sr5v4o2vrM0dBs1XVTb7rUVO8pxyg-Tp0jkjkRYWpJvVWkET3UrFX_yuPeBTF2MxQYKoaw ) , made it inevitable that China would do whatever it takes to build out their own chip industry, and once that industry was competitive the expectation should be that its offerings will be cheaper and less encumbered. Given that, why not handicap China’s AI progress now to the maximum extent possible?

The Objections
--------------

One lesson that we tend to painfully learn again and again is that there are a lot of regulatory initiatives that are created with good intentions and which make logical sense, but which end up being counterproductive and/or having problematic second and third order consequences. To that end, I see three big issues with these new rules, above-and-beyond the long-term American competitiveness point noted above.

First, as I noted, these rules are long and onerous, and are going to entail a massive amount of compliance costs and a reduction in velocity. This was the core of Oracle’s objections ( https://www.oracle.com/news/announcement/blog/export-control-diffusion-confusion-2025-01-05/ ) :

The Framework introduces so many new acronyms in what we may better call the Confusion Framework that it’s hard to keep them straight: AIA, ACM, LPP, DC VEU, UVEU, NVEU, TPP, ACA. Then the Framework identifies 20 AIA countries (Artificial Intelligence Authorization Countries) for modestly better regulatory treatment than the rest of the world, but at the same time creates a regulatory morass for cloud providers to even service some of our closest allies. In a single confusing action, the BIS retroactively regulates global cloud GPU deployments; shrinks the global market for U.S. cloud and chip suppliers; establishes volume restrictions; tells 20 countries they can be trusted only if they agree to new unilaterally imposed terms—including certification and semi-annual reporting requirements—and likely pushes the rest of the world to Chinese technology, which the CCP will be only too happy to leverage to catch up with the U.S.

Next, the Framework sets up UVEUs (Universal Validated End Users). These are apparently trusted ultimate consignees (i.e. U.S. cloud hyperscalers) that will enjoy faster access to provide GPUs worldwide. The problem with UVEUs is they come with strings attached … actually, the regulation shackles UVEUs to the BIS in perpetuity. The UVEU program is tethered to FedRAMP High (plus a series of NIST standards), a U.S. government-defined collection of information and physical security requirements “to account for the government’s most sensitive, unclassified data in cloud computing environments…”—not commercial industry data.v FedRAMP High requires annual third-party audits, specific staffing and access controls, and it includes data sovereignty requirements, mandating U.S. locations for storage of U.S. government data. The problem is that outside of the U.S. (and even for the overwhelming majority of data centers inside the U.S.), there is no reason for the thousands of existing commercial data centers to meet these requirements, and they currently do not. The UVEU process would fundamentally change the economics of data center deployment around the world. Having been through the FedRAMP High process, it is not for the faint of heart.

Keep in mind, this is Oracle of all companies complaining about paperwork and compliance costs. Sure, in the long run this burden will favor the largest companies, but it will be a huge pain in the rear end, slow down deployments, and catch a lot of legitimate businesses and use cases in its net. In this it reminds me of the net neutrality debate ( https://stratechery.com/2017/pro-neutrality-anti-title-ii/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDE3L3Byby1uZXV0cmFsaXR5LWFudGktdGl0bGUtaWkvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3Mzk0NTIwMTQsImlhdCI6MTczNjg2MDAxNCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.ma1uyP1N5ruNuLCHM2h1O7Os6plYcLb7uYA2om6m98YFNEnudKq5v-zQFeOT-SRXO76gcRc2-mjR6XEhbQzqtNHHgGsuv6bvNiO81AuiV66Rpl3a-9OIFLWV2jn5FadV6rch96WwPnkXc2Slc59Q8jig6eF5gnVsqPephXgTRB8EGmmUGKzjt_aHKYZAZsDI9bv1m1vE6RKJEh4MUK19EaFchllexFxg66dl09n1VJlSB73F-ubfWdWMp-jMmTnsJWlip-LHdD1_isfPFJ51BoSs0rjSTSd52w4y4csc-5q4x2o0g6BVBQvUoPfU_xlfnDyc-7oMGdfKrifBnpEWHw ) : my objection to Title II was not because I was opposed to net neutrality, but rather that I recognized the tremendous costs and ultimate limitations in availability and velocity that accompany bureaucratic processes ill-suited to the task at hand (in this case rules designed to limit China that end up applied to every single AI use case around the world).

Secondly, and along those lines, this introduces a fundamentally new paradigm to U.S. tech regulation. Until now the U.S. has operated with a presumption of openness, with targeted controls on various technologies (which have changed and evolved over time). Yes, this allows stuff to slip through the cracks, but defaulting to openness means defaulting to innovation and worldwide expansion, which undergirds the U.S. tech industry’s worldwide dominance. To put it in legal terms, tech has operated in an “innocent until proven guilty” paradigm.

These regulations, however, change that around: now GPU purchasers are guilty until proven innocent. Exports, and all of the innovation and expansion that follows, need permission by default. This will not only slow things down, but critically, it also sets the stage for similar intrusions into tech markets in the future.

Back in 2021 I wrote an Article called Apple’s Mistake ( https://stratechery.com/2021/apples-mistake/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIxL2FwcGxlcy1taXN0YWtlLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzM5NDUyMDE0LCJpYXQiOjE3MzY4NjAwMTQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.qim1dA3sc4A68fw0YRnp3mIIICWc1oPOnRd-DzLnF6YjT7QDAUOnnbRy5B0jyPVW9wIAyUsHbv1aeYxmQQOE0aDS18whOkCnqgnnJTNWlKcXja-3QEtuSP1uYR8kep0L0hNVUxUuIhbzI_yiQnUZtm_6NrlRf_godotkntNAB18N3uRxewwcTOUAEeJ5-eANX1Y295rOx1jOQfkhQEdIcyt2vz0O4bgZxu0a5lBWd-IhKzVdFu6XfOXpmYJx4YRWEQL4YrmQGedf-pEDctqPMe0fVcUnd9jJSYUUo7YYq455bIbbeudlGQoJmboFwYrSCQVsEBIYzAk3COVq_J2aOg ) about the company’s misguided attempt to scan for CSAM on your phone (a policy that the company later backed down from):

The fundamental issue — and the first reason why I think Apple made a mistake here — is that there is a meaningful difference between capability and policy. One of the most powerful arguments in Apple’s favor in the 2016 San Bernardino case is that the company didn’t even have the means to break into the iPhone in question, and that to build the capability would open the company up to a multitude of requests that were far less pressing in nature, and weaken the company’s ability to stand up to foreign governments. In this case, though, Apple is building the capability, and the only thing holding the company back is policy.

This paragraph isn’t perfectly applicable to this case — the Biden administration believes the U.S. government has the capability to establish a permission structure for tech exports — but the overall idea about the danger of crossing a line is pertinent: you might be able to make a case that these rules are necessary for AI and won’t be that damaging to U.S. industry in the short to medium-term, but I do worry about crossing the line to a world where the government feels comfortable establishing an E.U.-like assumption that you have to ask permission to do something, instead of focusing regulations on telling what you can not.

Third, I continue to maintain my longstanding concern — going back to the Huawei chip ban ( https://stratechery.com/2020/taiwan-and-techs-geopolitical-realities-arm-on-mac-tsmcs-choice/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIwL3RhaXdhbi1hbmQtdGVjaHMtZ2VvcG9saXRpY2FsLXJlYWxpdGllcy1hcm0tb24tbWFjLXRzbWNzLWNob2ljZS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTczOTQ1MjAxNCwiaWF0IjoxNzM2ODYwMDE0LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwaS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.H5DfQaIsH7nVu--hdn3asrKQP-dtSAVF2oz9wNHIsNUxTlCeGRYxzc-fJpfeS1mjwMcgkmX9ZqqtgoaIiHFOvTmydcgKsr0t25k1esfsIlXO4GFrtR4NTqiaMhz7LQK-x-tWyJFqaRAwec3oUIOAgoQV3bykdKri6K5prewpbOmiCuffQkYhFnrdVidiQx1-RAtW_Yxdp8rlIXyzSCTw6u7nlAC-hYR9m66HBHu_-wNjItQcMqD7TdryspXlZp3Xie6zozCi7zCpiQI__IVv4iasBaUeSFZtocN7lkoQCktnEP798zU_RrpZqddidmYxYq9Wm8VfHJG3GscNp7ap3A ) — that we are increasing the risks for Taiwan. I wrote in that Update:

I am, needless to say, not going to get into the finer details of the relationship between China and Taiwan (and the United States, which plays a prominent role); it is less that reasonable people may disagree and more that expecting reasonableness is probably naive. It is sufficient to note that should the United States and China ever actually go to war, it would likely be because of Taiwan.

In this TSMC specifically, and the Taiwan manufacturing base generally, are a significant deterrent: both China and the U.S. need access to the best chip maker in the world, along with a host of other high-precision pieces of the global electronics supply chain. That means that a hot war, which would almost certainly result in some amount of destruction to these capabilities, would be devastating…one of the risks of cutting China off from TSMC is that the deterrent value of TSMC’s operations is diminished.

In this somewhat cataclysmic view of the world there was value in the loopholes we talked about above: they were pressure valves, of a sort. Sure, it was a pain for China to get GPUs on the black market, or to rent cloud GPUs, or to get TSMC to make chips for a Huawei shell company, but all of those “failures” were examples of China benefiting from TSMC’s chip-making prowess, which itself is dependent on Taiwan’s unmarred existence. There is a world where the Commerce Department actually does close all of the loopholes, and the U.S. gets AI on chips made in Taiwan, and China doesn’t get anything: what then is the most rational move for China, particularly if they assume that AI will transform military capabilities?

As I noted, that third concern isn’t a new one for me, and perhaps I’m overly concerned about the point given my geographic location; even then, I think point two is underrated. If we’ve learned anything the past few years it’s that slippery slopes are slippery, and once you set the expectation that American companies have to ask for permission to operate, you’re headed in a very dangerous direction.

This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member ).

The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.

Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!

Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player: Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharptech.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Dithering ( https://dithering.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.dithering.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp China ( https://sharpchina.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharpchina.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Greatest Of All Talk ( https://goat.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgoat.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Subscription Information

Member: Omar Zoheri
Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com
Member since: April 23, 2022
Your subscription renews every year
Renewal date: December 8, 2025

You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery ( https://www.stratechery.com ).

Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/login?email=stratecheryUSC%40khamel.com ) to view your account and manage your subscriptions.
Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/unsubscribe?unsub=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.passport.online%2Fapi%2F1.0.0%2Fusers%2FRseuYE8jgHePpWJf1fAb4C%2FchannelOptOut%3Faccess_token%3DeyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.b-30usCH60L-BBvOZ4LxW8gjTWPFDyJ7PBR1I909MCrq-bCfGOUHbA7msfFZvFb_aqNxvTD2ffX27OUiG2RprZawNcN82G130nc0u_jKEHVOo3NbBUk8g3c0Lht8e4b8jwFwd_26ENxBbkKE9BcKtvUjmk0klXePHrGOm1LaA-DuoHb4875G1AnxSaVcXzv32Cq1Q3xGqEDrC6Tl-eIsp1aCvAhkGJqIX6x-gAt66ZOcHxtBw3v30O_UWHzjINT6aAT96x1_vFmgE4HZljOZBWpjLPU4S_3QLhXOd2fhKEz9oJXxFSurh1XMk_raqn_ZBFCq_xEND0xtXTsFVy57Ag%26channel%3Demail%26redirect_uri%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fstratechery.passport.online%252Fmember%252Funsubscribe ) to unsubscribe.

© 2025 Stratechery LLC ( https://www.stratechery.com ) , 2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703