# An Interview with Ben Thompson at the MoffettNathanson Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference (Stratechery Interview 5-19-2023)

**From:** "Ben Thompson" <email@stratechery.com>
**Date:** Fri, 19 May 2023 09:15:25 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/An Interview with Ben Thompson at the MoffettNathanson Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference (Stratechery Interview 5-19-2023)_Fri,_19_May_2023_09-15-25_+0000_188334b09a937e41.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:10.373429

An interview with me about my background, Aggregation Theory, AI, streaming, and more.

View in browser ( https://stratechery.com/2023/an-interview-with-ben-thompson-at-the-moffettnathanson-technology-media-and-telecom-conference/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvYW4taW50ZXJ2aWV3LXdpdGgtYmVuLXRob21wc29uLWF0LXRoZS1tb2ZmZXR0bmF0aGFuc29uLXRlY2hub2xvZ3ktbWVkaWEtYW5kLXRlbGVjb20tY29uZmVyZW5jZS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY4NzA3OTcyNCwiaWF0IjoxNjg0NDg3NzI0LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.ZOZl_2_CtsZpWoieUjdczLXBJabwO-Y3xFXbl8FcsueztDn_NZF78yrNK1FV064O5PWmbR0ZE5NLu7-ygCYqcJhuhC6F-F7byMGYQyQJ3Dpy0u7gKsE8uPrT7YRV9Vu2AQEMU5wPunkf0O8V-dKMG_plLmGZeNmPym8kC1SOKzzNZhZvBiJLmhsTicInA4RQRMqISdFnpVAmVXV-VCL5gmuBxHkljDO_9r4P5HayC89BLKx9Dq59xywGpD0ei-Tl84mUQhousLE0Rmy82W3F9BIDVsG4JuOxkIwOrLsp0rGsgGaXZoj0fTMWO3IEgPYy0Lg92sf-d0gC46SZnKHPKw )

( https://stratechery.com )

************************************************************************************************
An Interview with Ben Thompson at the MoffettNathanson Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference
************************************************************************************************

( https://stratechery.com/2023/an-interview-with-ben-thompson-at-the-moffettnathanson-technology-media-and-telecom-conference/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvYW4taW50ZXJ2aWV3LXdpdGgtYmVuLXRob21wc29uLWF0LXRoZS1tb2ZmZXR0bmF0aGFuc29uLXRlY2hub2xvZ3ktbWVkaWEtYW5kLXRlbGVjb20tY29uZmVyZW5jZS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY4NzA3OTcyNCwiaWF0IjoxNjg0NDg3NzI0LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.ZOZl_2_CtsZpWoieUjdczLXBJabwO-Y3xFXbl8FcsueztDn_NZF78yrNK1FV064O5PWmbR0ZE5NLu7-ygCYqcJhuhC6F-F7byMGYQyQJ3Dpy0u7gKsE8uPrT7YRV9Vu2AQEMU5wPunkf0O8V-dKMG_plLmGZeNmPym8kC1SOKzzNZhZvBiJLmhsTicInA4RQRMqISdFnpVAmVXV-VCL5gmuBxHkljDO_9r4P5HayC89BLKx9Dq59xywGpD0ei-Tl84mUQhousLE0Rmy82W3F9BIDVsG4JuOxkIwOrLsp0rGsgGaXZoj0fTMWO3IEgPYy0Lg92sf-d0gC46SZnKHPKw ) Friday, May 19, 2023

Listen to this Update in your podcast player ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Hello, from somewhere over the Pacific:

Today’s Stratechery Interview is with me! As I noted on Tuesday ( https://stratechery.com/2023/cord-cutting-and-youtube-tv-disney-earnings-pay-tvs-vision-cycles/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvY29yZC1jdXR0aW5nLWFuZC15b3V0dWJlLXR2LWRpc25leS1lYXJuaW5ncy1wYXktdHZzLXZpc2lvbi1jeWNsZXMvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODcwNzk3MjQsImlhdCI6MTY4NDQ4NzcyNCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.wFeZNBZ7P7VLDVlMxA9c0N4EY_jcjtfyquRppN1ZCP9dIlI_2C_f-wOqwHMdJRFqRC-zPsRepiV2l2oUVnuOyk_Ia52_on8GD1bd6wQfYNIgE37d1q0TK6GREN4T24eHRgoaLah6fMxg0CY4XX90mtSn78jsGnuTNt9glmTh2PS6QA8jcisvYyC9dkyVnyKFVlocZuRAj1DQAWveweP-E_b_F6cI5HslooEhWCULzz6BVr-VPcAItWAIqdSJ-NGagGjDKihki5vCppm7iU_uiAZDdYr3tG2gXwVNerisk-CiiuJ3cnri6Pf5zO9uMsJN5LrQBvcRvM5pbWlY9Cabuw ) , I have been on a short trip to the U.S. that included an appearance at the MoffettNathanson Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference. The conference was only open to MoffettNathanson customers, but they were generous enough to allow me to share my sit-down with you. We covered topics ranging from my background, thoughts on AI, streaming, and more. I don’t think there was anything particularly new to close readers, but we did hit a bunch of topics across both tech and media.

I did plan on posting this on Thursday morning, but travel complexities intervened; I appreciate your understanding as to the delay. In addition the sit-down was during lunch, so please excuse the cutlery in the background.

To listen to this interview as a podcast, click the link at the top of this email to add Stratechery to your podcast player.

On to the interview:

An Interview with Ben Thompson at the MoffettNathanson Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This interview is lightly edited for clarity. My answers are in regular text; questions are in *bold*.

*Topics:*
Ben’s Background ( #background ) | Zero Marginal Costs ( #zero ) | AI Questions ( #ai ) | AI, Aggregation Theory, and Google ( #aggregation ) | Streaming ( #streaming ) | FinTech ( #fintech ) | Adobe, Disney, OpenAI ( #companies )

Ben’s Background

*Michael Nathanson: I’m delighted to welcome Ben Thompson here. Ben’s, for people don’t know, Stratechery blog is read by anyone who’s anyone in technology and media. It makes you smarter, we’re always impressed by his ability to get incredibly thoughtful long pieces out on a daily basis because we can’t do that anymore and never did. All of us here are avid fans of Ben’s work and we all, if you don’t subscribe, as we’re right here, pull out your phones and sign up now, you won’t regret it. So before we start peppering you with questions, Ben, we thought if you took a little time and tell us about your journey that led you to where you are today, because I think it’s a journey also about media and technology, how to leverage the world we’re in today.*

Well, my journey today started about six blocks up the road.

*MN: (laughing) Exactly, and made a left.*

In tech in general, you rarely dress up, so you have to dig out old clothes. Me in particular, I get to work in my pajamas and so I’m walking here, I haven’t worn dress shoes since before the pandemic and they fall apart on the road, so I had to run over by new ones and come here so it’s actually been a very exciting journey today. So I have nice new shoes, if anyone wants to see them!

In all seriousness, though, I certainly took a very non-traditional path. I started out, I went to Taiwan twenty years ago, to travel, teach English, sort of see the world. I grew up in blue collar Wisconsin and I think it’s something that’s hard to articulate, but even though I was the only person that was interested in technology, it never even occurred to me to work in technology or anything along those lines. It just wasn’t even an option. So I went to college during the dot-com era, I was super interested in it, built computers for people in my dorm room, but it never even occurred to me go work in tech.

So a few years on and I’m just figuring out what to do, I was obsessed with tech, reading about it. I’m in Taiwan, I’d been there for several years at that point, and my wife, who deserves all the credit, is like, “All you do is talk about and read about technology. Why don’t you work in tech?” and like, “Why are you an English teacher?” And I’m like, “That’s an excellent question, I never really thought about that.”

I grew up online, and in that world, all the business people and the MBA has a very bad reputation, mostly deserved. But I was like, “What’s the shortest, fastest route to legitimacy in the US job market?” — I guess I got to get an MBA. So I came back, went to Kellogg, and it turned out that it was one of those things where, it was hard for me to get in because they want to get the frequent flyers — go to McKinsey, get to MBA, get a job — yes, all the people on this stage, thank you. But it turned out I was the ideal student, because it turned out I had a sense of this stuff, but I had no language, no understanding of how to talk about it, and so I came out, got a chance to work in tech, worked at Apple, worked at Microsoft, and suddenly I had a couple friends that were really pushing me, “Look, you have all these opinions and takes, why don’t you actually start writing about that?”

So I started Stratechery ( https://stratechery.com/2013/welcome-to-stratechery/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMTMvd2VsY29tZS10by1zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY4NzA3OTcyNCwiaWF0IjoxNjg0NDg3NzI0LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.vxh6P7Erlfr95ismw8SoA_ZuD_a6hTC3KBTbrUC1ZeukFQbQkXHy4LtMwfV0jW5TRXZVCRdBfN-Rjzpagr41C30Abp_KdOxukksPAHEBbxc1TOEwAxckIHLg4O8GNJdVLkb54kjSnw1VNUd9B1AVKWifOwDUJB3CssHQy-Eookjf185H-3QBbxkJZBNOD88tr_FbmhMLvwBkl8wheyCpxzUYHFuWDXwWNhZBMlaKIkWg7pSvpytgacRly2_okRmvgiQNBjlxU0kcfduKhrXZw71naWhqKn1lx1x_vyDL95KrQvyYYPqpVMK-KxgLBMn68DUu4vqEd6LOkgd1rh0Qmw ) when I was at Microsoft, and I kind of wanted go back to Taiwan. My wife was from there, but there were no obvious jobs for me there, so I’m like, “In five years, I’m going to make this into a business.” I was inspired by a guy who writes for Apple, named John Gruber, who writes the site Daring Fireball ( https://daringfireball.net/ ) , some of you may be familiar with him. But it was clear at that time advertising was not going to be a viable solution, and Stripe had just started a year or two at that point, and I had in my head that actually I think that this could be a subscription offering, but at volume. I think it was about the same times you guys [MoffettNathanson] started, but instead of going super high end, high price, I wanted to be high volume, low price, and so I started with that goal.

I thought I’d take four to five years and what I didn’t fully appreciate was just how powerful social media was, and this was in the days when you could still spread and really grow on Twitter. There was a real valence that if someone tweeted a link to something that was interesting, the power of social media for the writer is not them being on Twitter — I don’t tweet at all — but it’s that all your readers now have a microphone and they can talk about you and they work on your behalf. I didn’t make all the right choices. Basically all my growth is word-of-mouth and no one can pronounce the name of my site, which is a bit of a problem. But it worked out and I thought a lot about having a site that’s familiar, people show up and will come back, and actually within a year I decided to go independent and I started the site ten years ago, that was nine years ago, and now I’m sitting on stage with you.

*Craig Moffett: Yeah, we started ten years ago too, by the way.*

Yes, I remember we started about the same time.

Zero Marginal Costs

*CM: It was around the same time. And by the way, it doesn’t shock me that you were an English teacher at one point because if you haven’t read Ben’s work, I say this with all sincerity, it is the most cogently written strategy work I’ve ever seen, it is just extraordinarily clear and I think that’s what people find so compelling about it. Ben has put on the map a lot of things, Aggregation Theory ( https://stratechery.com/2015/aggregation-theory/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMTUvYWdncmVnYXRpb24tdGhlb3J5LyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3MDc5NzI0LCJpYXQiOjE2ODQ0ODc3MjQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.JJL3NQ4UwmLZHQ75tUMyHSq-sGv9CXLMdqj2RCAN4U_PlTjjjzcwclqaHrJQGE97QqujqVsF3kbRoZ9i4QUQy7DniWLnH9f1avV3Dl6WLsKFDNfc7CFqRnXapP8FNmXCa6B7yJsifG0adoA_5ep2I8Zc6XkmuIM6996z9KrrARZbGHmZ_XroF13SqxbkgShIQWGbmW35z-U1OAv01jRRJY8n6i16v6EC2Y93uCCGP8itLq7se8nhXKGk3lIKWQVhMCg3hXS3I83gmudoirkdibmXUsnXyzSvF_sKIPDYzHLMaExNhPfYgLwDDeS4mNZvQFrn2dBPYAh31WH76X-mWQ ) and that sort of thing, but one of the things that you said once that really made me smile…was you talked about the paradox of competition in zero marginal cost businesses as your first motivating insight.*

*I love that because I used to say exactly the same thing when I was at BCG that I wasn’t a telecom specialist, I was a specialist in zero marginal cost businesses. Everybody on this stage in the businesses that we cover, whether it’s software, internet, FinTech, telecom, media, all of them are zero marginal cost businesses with huge upfront costs, but the next incremental unit of production is indistinguishable from zero. What is it about, in some ways that more than Aggregation Theory or anything else, that seems to be what ties together so much of your insight? And I wonder if you could just reflect on what it is that people get wrong about strategy and zero marginal cost businesses?*

This actually goes back to when I was at business school, despite the fact I knew nothing about businesses, coming in as some random English teacher didn’t stop me from having opinions, you’ll be shocked to know! So I show up to the Strategy 101 class, and I’m flipping through the cases and there are no tech companies. Well I wanted to work in tech and I talked to the teacher, I’m like, “Why are all these traditional business cases in here?” and she’s like, “Well, they’re broad principles and if you learn the principles, you can apply them to any business.” And I’m like, “No, you can’t.”

The reason is to this point, imagine these broad principles are some fancy math equation and the whole point of zero marginal cost is it’s zero. You have the fanciest math equation in the world, you put a zero in there, the whole thing kind of blows up and yes, you can think that through from first principles, but most people aren’t going to do that, just the fundamental nature is very different. So the way you think about this goes into all sorts of stuff. From a Silicon Valley perspective, why is it that you throw money at all these companies and expect most of them to fail? It’s actually very rational when you think through the implications of zero marginal costs and infinite upside on the backend. So I think in traditional industries that’s always a challenge and this idea of why would you put so many losses up front?

The other thing I think the Internet layers on, because media was obviously always the OG zero marginal cost industry, but when you get that zero distribution, it’s not just that the production is zero marginal cost, distribution is zero marginal cost, and then there’s zero marginal transaction cost. What this means is that a company like a Google or a Meta can literally scale to billions of people, and that is really fundamentally new because people complain, “Oh, I lost my account on Google got shut off, I can’t reach customer service.” It’s like, that’s the way it works, that’s actually very integral to the amount of investment they can make, because they can scale on a global basis.

So you layer on these three things, not just the marginal production of a good, but also the distribution and then the transaction. That’s three zeros now in these fancy equations and it’s just a very different view of business.

AI Questions

*Sterling Auty: So Ben, you can’t turn on your phone, TV, or computer without seeing stories about AI, and I think a lot of the conversation has gone to the massive need for computational resources and massive data sets. Does that inevitably mean that just the very largest companies are going to be the winners? I was just kind of curious how you view that — who do you think are going to be the big winners and losers in AI?*

The answer to all these is always going to be some degree of, it depends and on what timeframe are we talking about? I think the implication of AI is pretty straightforward in the context we were discussing, which is its zero marginal cost production of content ( https://stratechery.com/2022/dall-e-the-metaverse-and-zero-marginal-content/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvZGFsbC1lLXRoZS1tZXRhdmVyc2UtYW5kLXplcm8tbWFyZ2luYWwtY29udGVudC8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY4NzA3OTcyNCwiaWF0IjoxNjg0NDg3NzI0LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.QHDstIxcGSNbs7ZULNQRJdRfaaLzzPyrk-OPanyq1j31OIbEl4x9G3D7OpTq3U6glpKb96Y6nLqOHZ9d6hHMFo9LmGnISrOK4tbiZntIgauC0u-dWiZOz2m9IMHvKVixD-hvK3hV3D6JtRo2Uh5rQHhMnKx1ddGZ6huHy0i-JJI5fd3HnLhpWiZz3JDYhKFEYTJTV0AhzidGkJv2MlsVOIMtJN7EXBg2nTzeNU3qp94YTHzySVfhGQVIXfG7d83zZbR8IVqHdf3Wcxh4FUZA85V-N_WNkPDJc6DfmrHliQpFZ1hgyz8UXOOTAwdavmnczG2ftp-KhKhMYyOge33Ekg ) or substantiation of content.

Now it’s obviously not zero marginal costs, one of the interesting things right now in thinking about AI is there are discrete costs to doing it and this is not actually a new thing. If you’ve observed Google’s operating margins for the last five years, since they started talking about AI, there’s been a very steady creep up, which is a function of AI. But even then, when it’s manifested at Google, because it’s not calculated on a per-search basis it’s that broad base and that’s probably going to accelerate. So there’s going to be some degree of sort of margin compression, although the number one bet you make in technology is they’ll figure the cost part out for lots of different reasons, so assuming that’s the case, you’re introducing another zero that’s going to sort of have a big deal.

I think the way that I think about it though is I go back to the Internet twenty years ago, and the Internet seemed great for all existing businesses. You think about media, it was like, “Wow, I can now distribute this zero marginal cost good, it used to be that I printed a bunch of newspapers, now I can reach the whole world, that’s really incredible.” It turned out it was not so incredible when everyone else can also reach the whole world ( https://stratechery.com/2014/economic-power-age-abundance/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMTQvZWNvbm9taWMtcG93ZXItYWdlLWFidW5kYW5jZS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY4NzA3OTcyNCwiaWF0IjoxNjg0NDg3NzI0LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.lEEk3Vl6w2Ozet1GyBLwLUQ1No6Zi7ocfUbYjiDcc_y079uG8KAzMB7pxTslfzSeTYRNfz0Z08Y_WpVyS8XvQMv0OOUDEvEMQc18EC_ovzX9s441iXgb7b3ZqRlBZNgq90Jc0XM508idQz9P0kKjcL3dYokViXljaQvOO9ZT1NqeBq7_Yc9fIINdEeuqbl2SNMxfgt6oEHivlYNH5ylYGFR3m2KpH4YnKrkNhShfRDSwnf06U7XJiURMnhqF2-nNwkK7WfrB-xQSbTcSag7hTPyHxSLTRAj63Aije_IVIkRkGPjD3j2c2aQfCLEGpWGZzMGimhxUKOFDHVxK6t5zvg ) , and so you have this competition, and suddenly you could be intermediated by advertising ( https://stratechery.com/2015/popping-the-publishing-bubble/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMTUvcG9wcGluZy10aGUtcHVibGlzaGluZy1idWJibGUvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODcwNzk3MjQsImlhdCI6MTY4NDQ4NzcyNCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.vQ7_17oeiC3WF0Si8SFToRt5-_He-14hKV81vzkHoo4dloOHUc7dCikV5j4kyERdx0W_WsZbdwu70xyoZOgb77qzIwVzMftmapf5EYGQle2eB6ArOYN7X2XMIJVLLK0A7VTQNTzwsK5kan4mxInIqH8B3QshZNKL2x0cRPOznuYdjp30rXcDb_e6yf8nhmx0od1qTsOJji2Ql6Ehewj1-zvRVlMKsJYo1i8abaBMeBBabfjH_G81ERsKlFSvvOdcPbEzABfNXr5e01VPCEHFLiUv9oVhql9mMSdrJcE459BEgGTiLeC8RVmUQl2t8lxaXsINqc9BMNMZeP55wZaDAQ ) , and all the sorts of things that we know happened to newspapers, are happening to the TV and all these sorts of places. That’s why the timing part matters: it’s “What’s it going to be in the short term?” versus “What’s it going to be in the long term?”.

That said, I do think it’s a mistake, and this is maybe a bit counter to what conventional wisdom is, where I think Bill Gates wrote about AI ( https://stratechery.com/2023/google-i-o-and-the-coming-ai-battles/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvZ29vZ2xlLWktby1hbmQtdGhlLWNvbWluZy1haS1iYXR0bGVzLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3MDc5NzI0LCJpYXQiOjE2ODQ0ODc3MjQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.qmcbKok-oypTVJryOYoIUaCI7vtoNR-eVPe2GgDMIC0yw95_UbiNjFjedaQ_J5Wlyc1Wb7Z5J06lNtqDaWuwCgM6Bz0OAzS_lXcgn6ZLy0UMyf2ULHTyP4HIjwBT1cCk_ufJO_hliGfw4plBqCXZa39As496t1d0-AwczRdH8SP_aqWnmKN2bmbhtqih8B2YUDL8CMMqa-JVHw2tVXAOL672XEvFhml1m0I6ZJSoiLtMQao1bJ7aEkAwQGJLPhneGIvHgelBXtAzb460C8LNFDXiNHhQW026O216j_2AlMiPMjsH5LnA7kSghieqk6-BfcPFdci0uWZUTUSX2RuZuQ ) , and he’s like, “We’ve had these big paradigm shifts, we had the PC and then we had the Internet, and then we had mobile and now we have AI” and I’m not sure those are discreet events. I think there has been a continuous shift to computing anytime you want anywhere, and mobile and the public cloud are the ultimate form of this. I wrote an article a few years ago called The End of the Beginning ( https://stratechery.com/2020/the-end-of-the-beginning/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjAvdGhlLWVuZC1vZi10aGUtYmVnaW5uaW5nLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3MDc5NzI0LCJpYXQiOjE2ODQ0ODc3MjQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.QeUVMpEdbmu05Rd0aK96TCrhMS4WUTwVeKHHbABxd3f3ejn6LEg7PcPUedhPL7vnySCvdLWg6pffjKeEny-r714fYMPIJCasf5SWT3atz-HqhcvyMBJs8L8QZ7RHgpvswqm5kmCnatMXXgMacKDwCZ0eurmN4b5DjHxv7O6dGH9ZnUvCfBhjitmso4bhi04hIii1Xyz4T3nWqeJ7j7IQBNdTDnJtw2nb0AqLP6AyPfziURtqsM5XHr4KQL3gnSbIzvfciaR9wsNdTutZjHC2X2ZnbO181N9fqHh8bKEj_F7rVES6t3jI93W-GteT1e2sXHgvS3ebRKRmfbM9lHVyMg ) where basically the infrastructure for the way the world is going to operate is now in place and if that’s correct, then it does follow that AI and these capabilities, which for now are such that the most capable are obviously going to be centralized and have all this power, is going to be a stable state and the large companies are going to benefit ( https://stratechery.com/2023/ai-and-the-big-five/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvYWktYW5kLXRoZS1iaWctZml2ZS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY4NzA3OTcyNCwiaWF0IjoxNjg0NDg3NzI0LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.ce28xESluTlvOuXEtSneFFgmd21AZ-byJQWqbVoIHzgcjb15a_yNFLLDex-E0JRoOQ8gs0MmzXkywsHDBtDnOPofQnGoAXW-thTeQiDGLMVMDUUNa9Pl5czuxeGc6MMyURl8opestD3UNPBx7KRHSut_x774B6xSuoenQsL4Xp9M5jT3LCCEG1-Y-4UHkOPhqVJ_jkC_H7VVGrwbU-enh-h6VSyomeMoNzql34mMd9zGFIF-H5AR3citTog7hWqsdkTid350991Cdtc1U13W1VDD0EFR_hyqiggxSknxS-1rPxdrrVb-NZZZyiuQt33nsvL9nJdhomzZgPdWrg-XTg ).

To the extent there are say open source models or things that run locally, well, what company’s the best place to benefit from that? It’s Apple ( https://stratechery.com/2023/apple-and-ai-lobotomized-lovers-xr-companions/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvYXBwbGUtYW5kLWFpLWxvYm90b21pemVkLWxvdmVycy14ci1jb21wYW5pb25zLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3MDc5NzI0LCJpYXQiOjE2ODQ0ODc3MjQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.dHFocqpsS6V07-82qVgM1VSVtEYZgEwKZiRsseqD2MrBzs_UoGRv-3VT9p79YRLMoe9agrNLlpObapB486YC77NDnjrcJaePsPBoY7aDDSi6YBfImZLc7FGdUfHfEIMRvJKCQxPAJMha3yCX-ahUecYbMyLG896S-Cyc_xYyiN6J2FfpFC7Lc-EDAZRwL4_E-W4vX_fSWTW03rIS4cqr3ASi4gaLJRXkeFE0qB4W1BuifUC45ArX06SCdMw2D5IVJWEFmZXGdq0a2mjycz9Iqm4VbRN-_8uVHLqzKIARfQhkqWe5dQlk_pTnz0MWZH71b0CD6iFiVj-Yo7XVgLlmNw ). They have the processing power, they have the place to manifest it in the apps, and the thing with all these companies is they have such massive consumer touchpoints. Google was on stage last week ( https://stratechery.com/2023/google-i-o-and-the-coming-ai-battles/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvZ29vZ2xlLWktby1hbmQtdGhlLWNvbWluZy1haS1iYXR0bGVzLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3MDc5NzI0LCJpYXQiOjE2ODQ0ODc3MjQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.qmcbKok-oypTVJryOYoIUaCI7vtoNR-eVPe2GgDMIC0yw95_UbiNjFjedaQ_J5Wlyc1Wb7Z5J06lNtqDaWuwCgM6Bz0OAzS_lXcgn6ZLy0UMyf2ULHTyP4HIjwBT1cCk_ufJO_hliGfw4plBqCXZa39As496t1d0-AwczRdH8SP_aqWnmKN2bmbhtqih8B2YUDL8CMMqa-JVHw2tVXAOL672XEvFhml1m0I6ZJSoiLtMQao1bJ7aEkAwQGJLPhneGIvHgelBXtAzb460C8LNFDXiNHhQW026O216j_2AlMiPMjsH5LnA7kSghieqk6-BfcPFdci0uWZUTUSX2RuZuQ ) talking about how they have fifteen products with 500 million plus users, six with two billion plus users, so if they introduce something, it is dispersed across the world immediately, and to come up from zero in that environment is exceptionally challenging.

*Lisa Ellis: Ben, staying on the AI question, I cover IT services companies, labor-based businesses, and a big hot debate there is about the impact of AI and specifically generative AI on the labor force, and so more broadly on society. Do you think ultimately AI creates more jobs than it destroys? What effect do you see it having on the labor force overall? More income inequality, for example? What’s your view?*

These are obviously massive world societal-shaping questions; I just write about tech companies! It’s hard to say. I do think that it will be very interesting. You go back to the seventies, and there were two things that happened to the blue collar workforce. You had globalization shifting work abroad, and you had automation where you reduced the amount of work that’s necessary, particularly in high capital businesses. So in the US, there is a sentiment of, “We have no manufacturing.” Well, on a dollar basis we have a ton of manufacturing, but the number of people involved in it are much lower — you actually saw a similar thing with agriculture previously and things along those lines.

What’s interesting is I think you’re seeing the similar two dynamics for white collar work, which is AI is the equivalent of automation, and then remote work is the equivalent of globalization, and I think a lot of workers that pine for remote work in particular ought to be very careful, because once you’ve figured out how to manage someone remotely, well, you can manage someone remotely in lots of places that might be significantly cheaper. So all that is, I think, going to be very disruptive.

But it’s going to be interesting because in the seventies, just politically speaking, no one cared. I’m from Wisconsin, so it was very tangible to me growing up, but it wasn’t particularly important in the centers of media or on the coast, it was not a big deal, whereas this is something very different. You already see a political response forming much more rapidly than — it literally took 25 years or 30, 40 years for a political response to really bubble up to globalization ( https://stratechery.com/2016/the-brexit-possibility/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMTYvdGhlLWJyZXhpdC1wb3NzaWJpbGl0eS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY4NzA3OTcyNCwiaWF0IjoxNjg0NDg3NzI0LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.EUv62FHpn9LZIZWQfBPPsAeSMX2pCR2Y14uhSb9_VGIXTunksQz4xNQsn44_1TzJtHnceX-rXFIvXLLBr6MgOdiCFE0RXecYMnr_UfzVkmkMVDVUEifp-N5m2rIR_mwfNDGmbO4dPTwDzQwqg3UMKaV_fOonxO9Qm5PMXP-bzWE3dNwGy1kY1q6FvS3osok4BnK31orKkGeC8IIHbyZ-99WBz-ZAgUqUbVOYpjcxNd05KpidKeQoBDnn_swVFkq9mF6Qy4Y22FQy8Pwsq3W10AjTGGWppbLvRTlbMnwiClG00j8o_iD5U-tyCNRgdccIs4aZafuajz6o6Q3r1pxHUw ) , and I think that’s certainly happening much more quickly now, and that’s going to be very interesting to observe.

I think in the long run, humans are very good at making work for themselves. I literally write on a website about media which is no real productive contribution to society and I do very well while doing it — I can walk and buy new shoes on a moment’s notice — now whoever made the shoes, I appreciate the hard work that went into that. Now is there going to be a shift to experiences? I’m sure we’ll talk about Disney at some point, but actually still going somewhere and experiencing something is a meaningful deal, and the implication of all this zero stuff is it’s all value destructive every time. Every introduction of a zero destroys value, and tech is really fundamentally deflationary by-and-large, and so there’s questions about why does some stuff get way more expensive, and ideas like Baumol’s Cost Disease ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baumol_effect ). If you’re taking out the value everywhere, that value is going to look for a place, and in media there’s only one scarce thing left, which is time and attention. But the entire physical world is going to be, relative to digital, a scarce good, and so that’s probably where we’ll find stuff to do.

AI, Aggregation Theory, and Google

*CM: I’m going to get one last question about AI before we move on, and that’s one really fascinating evolutionary question about how this ecosystem is going to evolve is whether AI — digital assistants — end up re-intermediating all the other apps that you work with. Whether it’s travel bookings or shopping or dinner reservations or you name it. Are all those sites that exist today simply going to be re-intermediated so that they become commoditized and anonymized if you will, and your relationship is simply with your AI digital chatbot assistant? Because that would be a complete reordering of where economic value is created in tech.*

That’s what happened with the Internet. Basically Google became the front door for everything ( https://stratechery.com/2019/the-google-squeeze/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMTkvdGhlLWdvb2dsZS1zcXVlZXplLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3MDc5NzI0LCJpYXQiOjE2ODQ0ODc3MjQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.Lziu8-jusC6YPu_OSyvBBuZAwZbaKEKNeKOVPEDmQ_aHumXdUb4ChpNQAO7e8hOvjwVl7_ZFmNj0UAl8_HuO6k2Ky8Xi0qydlnZsdtfLeDRJ5AjRv_nuzv5OSo35qdnffQRuskHKrCR7pEHo6imiUD13qQXpf4vsyBeoIR5whw2lUeGhor58dBfnTwWQ5CxcLngj3zcrjP4xROLzm7AbYW4Slqpc2gbxffF4CZ4-UhsIkoZ6RBvaSGe6KkfweAtt-DAdq1LCUyE6KoAbIxPsKWPOH1fxoyF85tEovPolLWplL8U4szYuMPdsE7f6leBPGNnPIt64HDJAxFYZS5qxrw ) , and everyone else had to subsume themself in the value chain, and Google has harvested all the value from that over time.

That’s sort of the idea of Aggregation Theory ( https://stratechery.com/2015/aggregation-theory/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMTUvYWdncmVnYXRpb24tdGhlb3J5LyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3MDc5NzI0LCJpYXQiOjE2ODQ0ODc3MjQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.JJL3NQ4UwmLZHQ75tUMyHSq-sGv9CXLMdqj2RCAN4U_PlTjjjzcwclqaHrJQGE97QqujqVsF3kbRoZ9i4QUQy7DniWLnH9f1avV3Dl6WLsKFDNfc7CFqRnXapP8FNmXCa6B7yJsifG0adoA_5ep2I8Zc6XkmuIM6996z9KrrARZbGHmZ_XroF13SqxbkgShIQWGbmW35z-U1OAv01jRRJY8n6i16v6EC2Y93uCCGP8itLq7se8nhXKGk3lIKWQVhMCg3hXS3I83gmudoirkdibmXUsnXyzSvF_sKIPDYzHLMaExNhPfYgLwDDeS4mNZvQFrn2dBPYAh31WH76X-mWQ ) , where the entire physical world is a world of scarcity and if you have marginal costs in production, there is a fundamental scarcity attached to that. If you have marginal costs in transaction costs, there’s a limit to how many people you can serve. If it’s digital, though, it’s a world of abundance, it’s the exact opposite and in a world of abundance, you are overwhelmed with stuff because it doesn’t cost anything to produce it, so you’re going to get a bunch of stuff. We’re overwhelmed with information, we’re overwhelmed with video, we’re overwhelmed with music, we’re overwhelmed with everything, and the value changes to who can actually help people discover stuff and sort through that.

It used to be that the old monopolies, they controlled supply and they control distribution — if everyone can distribute, it’s discovery that matters, so Google becomes very, very powerful because it becomes the front door where you start to find stuff, and people have to compete to get up in their results, or they have to pay for the privilege or the same thing with Meta or any of these other frontends. So what you’re talking about is if there is going to be a substitute? It’s still going to be the same dynamic.

*CM: And it might even be the same company.*

It might be the same company. I think the Google question is really interesting, there’s really no more interesting company in the context of this because on one hand, even despite the fact they’ve sort of been caught a little bit with their pants down ( https://stratechery.com/2023/google-and-microsofts-events-monetizable-panic-paradigms-and-hardware/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvZ29vZ2xlLWFuZC1taWNyb3NvZnRzLWV2ZW50cy1tb25ldGl6YWJsZS1wYW5pYy1wYXJhZGlnbXMtYW5kLWhhcmR3YXJlLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3MDc5NzI0LCJpYXQiOjE2ODQ0ODc3MjQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.JGuCrJPpm6N1FRncyqGFSKyTWkIhlo1tbKJpydStx3AsYXLh99kO2bsIfn3kMGZqiCPhaRAkO_PbLm8yQbdjpDENBCI8ZRohD781R9r30jGFzhgroCQoxBEZ2G0UeLl9Qi6mtIHBVeD8xhoQ6Ti6U6ePcIMstVsJBjGs4aXSoI6XRV9wDs7pYikY6wYoFeeCT1zDyiy4-kgx7dQhNZ31rrCu_DP8M6oHmNXFaWCPna04gp2JcOJKhU6VxrzkdtvLPANKF6Qx2FjdxLdB04QlK44KFz17GxLuWKnvZmbPJiz8MkSzFPDjclaIJXWLvlIqdNIc3CJ2FLAGe1xsUujtYQ ) as far as with ChatGPT and stuff like that, it’s still safe to assume they have the most capabilities, they have the best infrastructure, they have the ability, and they already have all these touch points to plug this stuff in.

The problem is, I go back to actually the iPhone in this case. I’ve written a lot about disruption, and what Clayton Christensen very famously said the iPhone was not going to be a big deal, or it was going to be a bit of a flash in the pan because he viewed it as a sustaining innovation, which is, it’s just a better phone, and that the incumbents like Nokia are going to respond and also make better phones and they also have better production capability, they have more distribution, they have all the sort of advantages to go to incumbency and so they will be successful.

I think what he got wrong ( https://stratechery.com/2013/clayton-christensen-got-wrong/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMTMvY2xheXRvbi1jaHJpc3RlbnNlbi1nb3Qtd3JvbmcvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODcwNzk3MjQsImlhdCI6MTY4NDQ4NzcyNCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.b30QD183Vjpl1H29VA0EwWdGFgvh83nWpN3GKoN0FBB06Ch_XlMX067vXuj0GTvSpnJYMLxderK0f68yjsm0dgOeZgsEQQgEL14YCrNYwvPfTCy2hj_Wg4jqol6If95jyf6dXZlwBLMdgH7chDcWX6QIaDz1F6HurahVq1LSWbBShanccgtb1DwT6ABEsOEzEfNYbhK2JCc0hBOO4TnlvCaxEWMR3uh0m2UegzdZANG4KfkEJBnts4fecxJzVvL2WB5bjyBB-wbnKZ_3jpyBCMHoiUnYXfLQ2IUmFVZ4ozAqhl31r2YwJ-Pxwou9-9b6G0K5izR1rdgcMu7OYnHtcA ) is that the iPhone was not disruptive. Disruptive is such a popular way to think about things that everyone just asks is it disruptive or is it not? In fact the iPhone was just better ( https://stratechery.com/2013/obsoletive/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMTMvb2Jzb2xldGl2ZS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY4NzA3OTcyNCwiaWF0IjoxNjg0NDg3NzI0LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.qoaG_cax_rV8bd1pf3iz3U4XoGhTe7SRDipbcuK2Rc3IEOEVmIBGO2wz_369MWfbFkIATuYC_SY7XcHvvFTf_B5ehgE5bwKZZtqWTq_jl-DF-Zlsn5oa36bxqNh5nu6lK77eedWlK0jYe1Q4NxAjtl7d9bUCNWZdSz6Nce_Xis5fUA0Zhf1q2HLyzXVEpx1Nl5ACXjr68tvAHiNVN2222PFtyTk0VfYAi9Vp4TP3_WTfe6Ls2wkIrZEbYTg_xsKldA5l1-mbX7cIi0NgrgEIrVV4vThKTDhusZai4HBNNQSz8wSUMhJK5IOPXdKW7oJ_caX9WFKSL3mV0TzbXzpHGw ) , and it was better by virtue of being a computer and not being a phone, and no one in the end could compete with it unless you were also a computer company. That’s why Google is the only company that built a viable alternative to the iPhone, no phone company had the capability or ability to do it, it was just better.

The real risk for Google going forward is that this AI stuff is just better, it’s better than search. So right now it’s not that good. You look at any tech, it gets better over time and so you go to Google and they’ll say, well we will put up a chat answer, but it’ll also have commercial answers with ads and stuff like that. So you search for life insurance, which they get hundreds of dollars for a click through, and are you going to trust your AI to get you the right life insurance? No, and they’ll show the commercial results and you’ll click through and get it.

The problem is what happens when they actually always picks the best life insurance plan for you? What if it always picks the best travel plan for you? Google may build that, but they would destroy their business model in the process. The reality is that Google delivers so much excess consumer value, and just by holding onto a sliver of commercial results, that’s where they make all their money. What happens if that sliver of commercial results suddenly becomes drastically lower revenue? Yeah, sure there might be affiliate fees or something that they can capture, but at the end of the day, if it’s just giving the right answer, and you’re taking out that human agency of “I’m going to choose the answer and because I’m choosing the answer, I’m actually choosing the winner of an auction for this very valuable thing”, the challenge is it just might be better and then thats a problem for their business model.

*MN: It’s funny cause my last question on this, and the subject was going to be, is the Microsoft/Google debate or the “Winner versus losers”, is that just a false confrontation?*

The benefit for Microsoft, as Satya Nadella is happy to tell you, is that it’s all upside for them, and they are in the subscription business. They were early on the subscription business — one of Steve Ballmer’s, for all the critiques that wanted to levy on him, he basically invented the SaaS modelm but without actually delivering it over the Internet. You got Office but you were paying on an ongoing subscription basis, and because they have that, this AI stuff is very additive, and so they can have these new products for businesses or for customers and you can pay a fee on top of the fee you’re already paying to get access to it. It covers the additional cost of providing it, and they can dink around with search and Bing or whatever and they have their core business that this is additive to.

The challenge for Google is that when you’re at the top, there’s only one way to go. That said, I’ve always had the hardest time, I think with Google. I thought their top arrived previously, then it turns out you can stuff a whole lot more ads into mobile than I really appreciated, and so I try to approach that company in particular with a lot of humility. Still, while you can see a lot of advantages they might have, there is this structural challenge to their business model, and it’s going to be very interesting to see how they navigate that.

Streaming

*MN: Let me take you to a subject that’s near-and-dear to our hearts, streaming. We spent a lot of time ( https://stratechery.com/2022/an-interview-with-michael-nathanson-about-streaming-and-digital-advertising/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvYW4taW50ZXJ2aWV3LXdpdGgtbWljaGFlbC1uYXRoYW5zb24tYWJvdXQtc3RyZWFtaW5nLWFuZC1kaWdpdGFsLWFkdmVydGlzaW5nLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3MDc5NzI0LCJpYXQiOjE2ODQ0ODc3MjQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.YNh197Vp1ITnhePYFD0F8-fBkQSnU3DSIvIL4aCcgwwBebPYrGzafRq1YQtZadSiHOtbVfhQONDQnLaMlD7AY1YItfpDDvWyixORuRz7kTTOgfiju1Gs8zIjFrYgxXlyNOAecXUSkfh_cmYueU96pZi8FAvyZmc1ZxBcdWRa95-ew7bCTZqFTjD6U2NutpZJn2ke5VPVUfFrkOP70h8gtpVMw-FVG7FOXcaKZUhwuUs--fH-v4hCHgaAlfpYXYfJ61XQx2gOJYvRxfTWUDWbwDmTkRFkJEvuBTup50Dv0vhZvL2PTQ69LI5jKddOVbH-wsEb2c5KUTB_ixGFrCUu5Q ) , you and I, talking about the move from linear to streaming video ( https://stratechery.com/2023/an-interview-with-michael-nathanson-about-netflix-and-the-media-industry/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvYW4taW50ZXJ2aWV3LXdpdGgtbWljaGFlbC1uYXRoYW5zb24tYWJvdXQtbmV0ZmxpeC1hbmQtdGhlLW1lZGlhLWluZHVzdHJ5LyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3MDc5NzI0LCJpYXQiOjE2ODQ0ODc3MjQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.Fj0oJIG9WhZ5kuwP7FnRJJWvcjBBcBObejsy4mjhQdjusNf9H-ceNjsOXVkJ1AWmqcYvdPgk3f7SxHTja2ayEbHMfQgi6PCUAOxqVi72-9Bs7432_X07oNEQaeWlCpG_B9vJIqPuG1QjJIl6irN_ELE9Z-qNj0iuEYR5URN1EOkGjKaZFZAhciZeBWKoBKXhjJ85nx4Q-kT-FmY_tz4Lnz2gpgNt5axx1rvNz2OjswU5Wlm4720j1QWdXXX2Bu7BxJj4ki8v4oh_3PTJt4M_5tNpH5j22gVc5dWtFfC0g6U11t36VV7LdKUgeX7X3TtcKLNfoWof30Zg-9kQoQP7fw ) , and the responses of the legacy media companies to these challenges. So streaming subscriber growth is slowing, cord cutting is accelerating — thanks for your shout out this week ( https://stratechery.com/2023/cord-cutting-and-youtube-tv-disney-earnings-pay-tvs-vision-cycles/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvY29yZC1jdXR0aW5nLWFuZC15b3V0dWJlLXR2LWRpc25leS1lYXJuaW5ncy1wYXktdHZzLXZpc2lvbi1jeWNsZXMvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODcwNzk3MjQsImlhdCI6MTY4NDQ4NzcyNCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.wFeZNBZ7P7VLDVlMxA9c0N4EY_jcjtfyquRppN1ZCP9dIlI_2C_f-wOqwHMdJRFqRC-zPsRepiV2l2oUVnuOyk_Ia52_on8GD1bd6wQfYNIgE37d1q0TK6GREN4T24eHRgoaLah6fMxg0CY4XX90mtSn78jsGnuTNt9glmTh2PS6QA8jcisvYyC9dkyVnyKFVlocZuRAj1DQAWveweP-E_b_F6cI5HslooEhWCULzz6BVr-VPcAItWAIqdSJ-NGagGjDKihki5vCppm7iU_uiAZDdYr3tG2gXwVNerisk-CiiuJ3cnri6Pf5zO9uMsJN5LrQBvcRvM5pbWlY9Cabuw ). What would you advise the legacy media companies to do now to stay viable given the hand there they’re currently dealt?*

Well, I would definitely start by building a time machine!

I thought what you wrote, Craig, this week was really interesting about this cycle starting with sports rights driving up the cost, leading subscribers to flee, which, and then you have sort of the disintegration of the rest of the bundle as the media companies move all their good content off of linear and onto streaming — if you’re not a sports fan, why would you stay?

The thing that’s really interesting about this is the cable bundle was the greatest collective model ever, it was just incredible. The customers are there, you don’t need to worry about — you think about if you’re the NBA and you’re a cable league, 50% of your potential customers don’t have cable ( https://stratechery.com/2023/the-phoenix-suns-go-over-the-air-fans-and-franchise-valuation-attention-and-customer-acquisition/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvdGhlLXBob2VuaXgtc3Vucy1nby1vdmVyLXRoZS1haXItZmFucy1hbmQtZnJhbmNoaXNlLXZhbHVhdGlvbi1hdHRlbnRpb24tYW5kLWN1c3RvbWVyLWFjcXVpc2l0aW9uLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3MDc5NzI0LCJpYXQiOjE2ODQ0ODc3MjQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.CvCJBVVlr5NIbLUTvhmPWID1T_e7Yzf3I2WRvOIAJ8TmXpev5RexoGM6HrY-rJieDXV0w6jIcJyx68s8Zn8SR_W37O7jr4Wo9QyeMOo8scBw1ZEIOqYzG1F3jOXJZc8gLQbBZpoqW_7nIUnNjaeG2PjtUrlcttnpvoJaT1PI0WT_zJ3yvqOc8KgfMgrCm9nLcnj5M5hFQQFiNj2LwsutIP2kzyeDHgeIHh8VgDAuLj4J5QHtcvd2KPPIWnpP53bDzchMHFbG7JkJvVyPNlkyDyo_RbODVCwrli0rNRV62G17MYOB-LhZfCNShcc2nlWuXwJwVFHegZUHGzBtuC7m_w ) , it’s a huge problem, how do people actually try out your product? It used to be you could just assume everyone had cable, you didn’t have to worry about that, you could take in all the money. It’s the same thing where obviously everyone is realizing that throwing something on a streaming service, and not actually to the point earlier, if you made a piece of media, you ought to monetize it multiple times instead of just going for a one stop thing — the windowing strategy was actually a great idea.

What’s fascinating about this is the self-destructive nature of all of this. So number one, the sports leagues absolutely got greedy. The idea that you had a steady creep up in the NBA rights values and then and they go, what, $2.7 billion a year or whatever in 2014, just driving this cycle and basically out of greed. You have all these media companies that want to be Netflix, they’re greedy for that multiple, and they’re like, “We have all the content, we could do that.” Meanwhile they look at the sports leagues and they’re like, “Oh, people still love sports so we can have our cake and eat it too. We can hold onto the linear bundle by paying huge rights fees basically for them to anchor the bundle, and we’ll go on the side and we’ll build something that will be compelling and we can be the next Netflix,” without realizing that part of the reason that made the bundle work is you had all these disparate entertainment things, where not only were consumers interested in all of it, so dad had something to watch, mom had something to watch, son, daughter, whatever your family unit is, and everyone had something to watch, and there was always stuff there and you took care of each other as far as churn because different things happened at different times, you were all together. But also, everyone balanced each other out from a negotiating perspective as to who gets value where.

Now obviously you had all this consolidation on the media side because they wanted to have more negotiating leverage relative to the distributors, but I think you had this real tip over to sports in particular where sports took so much of the pie, and everyone was thinking sports will save the bundle, but it was a situation where I think you were paying the arsonist for fire insurance. If sports is the only reason to have the bundle, sports is going to take all the money, and if you don’t have the counterbalance of, “No other people also subscribe because there’s entertainment or whatever”.

In retrospect, you think about how do you build a bundle? Well, with cable you had the advantage of people wanting TV and they lived in remote towns, so they put a big antenna up and they ran cables to houses so people could watch broadcast TV, it’s an accident of history we fell into this amazing model, and when the Internet came along and made alternatives possible, human nature took over and no one could be happy with what they had. I think it’s interesting to see how that happened. So going forward, I was optimistic for a while, that someone could re-bundle a lot of this stuff ( https://stratechery.com/2022/cables-last-laugh/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvY2FibGVzLWxhc3QtbGF1Z2gvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODcwNzk3MjQsImlhdCI6MTY4NDQ4NzcyNCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.QbFHmbDz1PG7VlfmPMJZsaIIsIE0mDpvmINuniwRx-CggQFxyDcJxHWsIRn2eACD5QuByjRrztns861_zPt5HHXnC_pJnKUXjV6BYH7ShLEGnSO2LfjyINUwDsrI6qd38rpIAOZqR9OOVZOVuzyg1bYaam8EXbbql3QG6-gAL1amDLHWEl0VPtvFnwF-SPgbO3JZyFVrfAbNNV8SJUCuECJPjuIRL1wOPkHWI_5vi1fQsZWdyk1WhhELBoiMbrFnTOvkDrQpmKEf3P4hnbzEcZ7fs3ei5XrNUzSFf60OK3gocBmzIq5IyY0NyyRiGyWAvOStXcw9jV_xaJv8dKfNwQ ). Now it seems super clear that it’s going to happen, but it’s going to happen the hard way.

So if I were to give advice to a lot of the media companies, I think a lot of these streaming services are insane, your skill and capability is making content, it’s not doing customer service, it’s not running a tech stack, it’s not acquiring customers. I think Sony has been the smartest player ( https://stratechery.com/2021/netflix-earnings-competition-and-buybacks-sony-signs-netflix-deal/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjEvbmV0ZmxpeC1lYXJuaW5ncy1jb21wZXRpdGlvbi1hbmQtYnV5YmFja3Mtc29ueS1zaWducy1uZXRmbGl4LWRlYWwvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODcwNzk3MjQsImlhdCI6MTY4NDQ4NzcyNCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.LaI_PDReuKwkcvUttiuBoES7xsYB0t3LHipRLMe0ah7HBJl12Jij8nVpTQHfp_gB1v6yqde2FZlM98fYJxCXarEbrnjPZloGjDJdqxI7cod-jPfcLPYA99m7HqRYK4mwgw7ZXNHAtmu3TGiWxU6HW2Mmn9ZBh-czQEzDBVmTHhlvUEeHwmn97Au9r_PtYcAxD7Z9rJulFMXy-5Lzwo5sXzcNsupD0z5FtjSNPHFvlV__l_bFWSXSnCzsYuCSAT0z5GqqBO_vuWhnUvcRcwWUa6l3Tl4d1rXE6T_VplEYjK3OjKlYVa52UMlGdJoV6QC-UxmpiBnODU-UtYlLTAgWqw ) in all of this, where they’re like, “Yeah, we’re out” and suddenly they’re the belle at the ball. Everyone is wanting to pay for all their content, and that’s what they’re good at is making content. I think that a lot of the other services should get into that. Some of them are stuck by being a player — like Disney has to buy Hulu so they’re going to be a general entertainment competitor whether they want to or not.

But you’re going to end up, I think, in a future where Netflix is sitting there, and this is a bit about business where it’s so much easier if you start your business with the assumptions of the economics of the future model. Netflix is based on the assumption of the economics of streaming, they’re not coming from this massive high margin TV business and trying to compress themselves down. That’s really, really difficult, and so I think they’re very well placed to be the bundle in the future. But the bundle is not discrete channels, just just all the shows are in one place. After all, why do we even have different networks? There’s not really a meaningful reason for it. I think the sports bundle, I was on it this week on YouTube TV being an important of the acquisition funnel ( https://stratechery.com/2023/cord-cutting-and-youtube-tv-disney-earnings-pay-tvs-vision-cycles/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvY29yZC1jdXR0aW5nLWFuZC15b3V0dWJlLXR2LWRpc25leS1lYXJuaW5ncy1wYXktdHZzLXZpc2lvbi1jeWNsZXMvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODcwNzk3MjQsImlhdCI6MTY4NDQ4NzcyNCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.wFeZNBZ7P7VLDVlMxA9c0N4EY_jcjtfyquRppN1ZCP9dIlI_2C_f-wOqwHMdJRFqRC-zPsRepiV2l2oUVnuOyk_Ia52_on8GD1bd6wQfYNIgE37d1q0TK6GREN4T24eHRgoaLah6fMxg0CY4XX90mtSn78jsGnuTNt9glmTh2PS6QA8jcisvYyC9dkyVnyKFVlocZuRAj1DQAWveweP-E_b_F6cI5HslooEhWCULzz6BVr-VPcAItWAIqdSJ-NGagGjDKihki5vCppm7iU_uiAZDdYr3tG2gXwVNerisk-CiiuJ3cnri6Pf5zO9uMsJN5LrQBvcRvM5pbWlY9Cabuw ). You don’t have to go to the cable company or do X, Y, Z — I want to watch the game, I can sign up, it’s there and big tech’s going to win again, I think, is actually probably the outcome.**

*CM: Yeah, it is amazing. I mean everybody feels like they want to own the customer, but Comcast with Peacock owning the customer, how are they going to monetize that where instead of, as you say, being an arms dealer and supplier of content? Whereas Google I think has a vision for, “Oh, we have a pretty clear idea of what we would do if we owned the customer” and I don’t think anybody else really does, Amazon does too. It’s hard for the traditional media guys when you think about well, do you really need to own the customer? What are you going to do if you actually got there? And is there anything other than just this ego-driven — but of course it has to be us that owns the customer.*

Right, and you saw this. This is an ongoing theme of the interaction between media in tech, where there is this deep resentment on the side of media that “Look, it’s our stuff that makes you useful and popular”. The problem is that in a world of abundance, it’s not. It doesn’t matter how good your thing is, you can be substituted with anything at any time. The classic example of this is the Facebook timeline where you go through and a picture of your niece is given the exact same prominence and shape as that six month investigative report and that link to an article. It’s complete and utter commoditization, and it is useful to own the customer for the commoditizer.

I mean in text, it’s over to a certain extent. The question for, I think, TV and video was what music managed to figure out was — and this is dynamics of the music business, which is the instance a new song comes out, it’s now catalog content and people listen to music again and again and they get stuck in a certain age (obviously, all the best music was made in the nineties) — so they’ve been able to retain power in the value chain. In this case, despite the fact Spotify is this aggregator and they harness that consumer demand, because there is sufficient control of supply by the music labels, they’re extracting profit from Spotify. Spotify can’t make any money despite the fact they’re in this position, and that’s where that should have been the vision for video, is we need to retain a hold on high-end production. Actually the appropriate response to Netflix would’ve been to give them more content. Don’t even incentivize them to go and have to make their own and try to retain control.

Now it’s a little tougher with video because the back catalog isn’t quite as valuable, although things like Friends and The Office are obviously an exception to that. Instead, it’s tended more towards the text space world where it’s just a total free-for-all and the folks that are benefiting are people like me. I own my customers, but I don’t need to own that many of them. I benefit from Internet cost structures to have a very profitable business. You have YouTube creators who are the equivalent of me in video who have relatively low cost structures and very high reach, that’s all taken care of them for them, and you have these large companies where their entire cost structure was predicated on a world and a model that doesn’t exist anymore.

FinTech

*LE: So Ben, staying on the business model question, you write a lot about business models on Stratechery and do a lot of thinking about which business models ultimately will win or lose. So in my land in FinTech and payments land, there’s a lot of debate about this specifically around neobanks and digital banks and then also some of the payment processors who have inserted themselves in the value chain. This would be players like Stripe or Block or Shopify, PayPal, et cetera. When you look at the overall FinTech space as it’s evolved, exploded over the last few years, which business models do you think are the most attractive and will win over time?*

I’m not a huge coverer of FinTech, so take my answers with a grain of salt. That said, I think my first question would be what impact do interest rates have on this entire world? Is it viable to build up a business that effectively gives away money when money actually starts costing something?

I am interested, from the neobank perspective, if we move to a world where regional banks — the real place to go if you want personal service — start to go away in a meaningful way, and we end up like most countries in the world, with only a few big banks, is that actually good from a neobank perspective, because that’s a way to segment your customers and serve different pieces? I don’t know, I don’t have a strong view on it, I’m shooting from the hip on this one.

The bit that is interesting about the payments and the infrastructure is — while I think it has become more appreciated over the last year — people didn’t appreciate the impact of something like Apple’s ATT ( https://stratechery.com/topic/app-tracking-transparency-att/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tL3RvcGljL2FwcC10cmFja2luZy10cmFuc3BhcmVuY3ktYXR0LyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3MDc5NzI0LCJpYXQiOjE2ODQ0ODc3MjQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.NGsudp-3uyNX5CQk5mnOss6gOuYXRrfmm395JnBEDWQUbWZn6xaaxPT3Ycu2CdemwU4UiHLOzDo6mWnGBFEKkB_I9KNz6LE0_GxLm-dB2bapRDo5J9sZRDx73NcW5I5_eoQpfi2thttYv-eHOQbqFVCwNb7Sn26Vut1tLGuMlsB1djoZXa144127pHlBYsD4G5fsUJterdkrKsKTaEZV4-fkDZAWak0La-6BwMrAl0h-8wDAOCHVaeNMhtgEty7e5I7-nB2taE8YXwZNmhTUetgRjKwOs8usShX0wpdlYzJDSXZsso5VIufyZxBxcqK-Cm976wtAOFatK-AntDTcNQ ) and what that means. You had this vision of a world where you could have lots of different pieces and you could get API from here and API from there, you could plug it all together, and the ultimate manifestation of this was you could see an ad on Facebook and you could buy an item on Shopify and the payment would be handled by Stripe and the fulfillment would be handled by another company. You had all these disparate pieces and Apple severed that, and things like GDPR severed that, and it has basically ensured that big tech wins again, where you need to have all the pieces in one place on one party.

So you have something like Facebook saying that if you run a shop, you actually have to implement our payment method ( https://stratechery.com/2023/shopify-amazon-follow-up-amazon-and-pinterest-meta-shops-to-require-native-checkout/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvc2hvcGlmeS1hbWF6b24tZm9sbG93LXVwLWFtYXpvbi1hbmQtcGludGVyZXN0LW1ldGEtc2hvcHMtdG8tcmVxdWlyZS1uYXRpdmUtY2hlY2tvdXQvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODcwNzk3MjQsImlhdCI6MTY4NDQ4NzcyNCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.in1_NWePrZhC30HX66LgZh01vPrFk8rbUX4y15Lc_3gqbqJ2pwGnAfXUJWkEgW9HlDh_zfhhtiJ4-8glCXveTWPzWTgJuPT9WCoNOlEg0WbuRt6gxwnTN88QR-FU3OnM_cYR47xsdtXTYTzDh4CsBrEoZ2tA8pvOLUTvpIwBoXoiSQ4ugHUTjSP6z7D-1boL9OFTmj52R32KAs2HNTNr9k2IC9e7OJmclLQcaBYL72nnI07rR99QLE3vsyeZnGXQLAdM-efnFGbEXFVJ4mRoFB2tbDG8bt9hEyIZ_ZNyQCXonutYGecs41Vn_hF-kL_qtxK_qdKUYoBo-p-BBbGopg ) , that was inevitable. When Facebook Shops first started out ( https://stratechery.com/2020/platforms-in-an-aggregator-world/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjAvcGxhdGZvcm1zLWluLWFuLWFnZ3JlZ2F0b3Itd29ybGQvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODcwNzk3MjQsImlhdCI6MTY4NDQ4NzcyNCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.D__bnSHcDReKieoZ0B02Bm-jzeLP-cjMoLIU3rj1gMQ1tVpvr1HJiX8ZKKVW4G6cMwbpUbOCKe7dHCpxrXgdodBYglfZdNNMdnocJEGMyCClUIzDNfA5KHKW7oV5ayBTl45ana1KAmf024vaneLz25aBhqbqabj5NlSA6I8g5-Ojm2qxnG2zRGxWGCDAdedbpwQmEqvO_Xi6_K_WF0VKTsuKtdYr_04tDqEjRoS-HYrkyyo5eiTxKOTsfqz_vt21UEmTjLjaVDp81dj5wo4FvVKJzwyQ17UJoSJF_bnERGOEsXWX3wVmgFaW1Dk4CdI6vPjyKNVaMor9WHFoTotjMA ) , I said, “This is very bad for Shopify” and it was like, “No, no, no. We’re going to be partners here.” But nope. Once that link between platforms is severed and everything has to be together, it’s to the benefit of the largest companies that have these benefits of scalability and all these sorts of things, the Amazon’s, the Meta’s of the world, and that’s a problem for everyone in that layer, like say a Stripe.

I think Stripe is an underrated casualty in their long-term growth prospects, and the fact that they’re doing deals is evidence of that. They did that deal with Amazon but the margin on that has to be infinitesimal. They’re obviously underlying Shopify, how much is that margin relative to having these different pieces that plug in together?

There’s real value, I think, generally in being in the physical world. Everything tech is digital, digital with all the scalability, but it’s also the fact that everyone benefits from scalability and the competition is infinite. So you have a company like Amazon spending billions and billions of dollars on logistics, that’s a moat, right? You have these cloud companies spending billions and billions of dollars, that’s a moat. Apple is actually building phones. And these aren’t actually tech companies from the perspective we were discussing earlier, as they’re not the zero marginal cost sort of thing.

The folks that benefit are the ones that facilitate the zero marginal cost world without necessarily participating in it themselves, and I think even in payments you see Adyen, the European payments company which really started at point of sale and now is coming up in Stripe’s world, and it’s a better performing business by everything we can see, in part because they have that lock-in in the real world and they’re not so easily, by Apple just changing a policy, suddenly having their business heavily disrupted.

Adobe, Disney, OpenAI

*SA: Ben, with the time that we have left, why don’t we jump into more of a lightning round, and we’ll throw out a company name, maybe you riff a little bit on it. Winner, loser, and why? So, maybe to get us kicked off, how about a company like Adobe?*

Adobe’s pretty interesting. I mean, they’ve sort of followed Microsoft on taking a traditional software business and shifting it to a subscription business ( https://stratechery.com/2013/adobes-subscription-model-why-platform-owners-should-care/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMTMvYWRvYmVzLXN1YnNjcmlwdGlvbi1tb2RlbC13aHktcGxhdGZvcm0tb3duZXJzLXNob3VsZC1jYXJlLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3MDc5NzI0LCJpYXQiOjE2ODQ0ODc3MjQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.aWx4UsxW7cRaLu-tJBo5gR_uP2hWbnEJd1HkR0l7rXMvQk4lBiicLNPJhYcQ5GDeM4dfHcXxsmkAAcBg2a6fOwc7VhA7Ruv5WmWYxfWi4rx6VlfTJy7Qrxi5rW42hP9siMzfMoG2P7rTAfWVgzfX3B5QJ2lNI94PHU2gRe8z-HivUWB8tkBagtqHGcCIW9lhOnbXV1rxPjI90eS2iLkPA3C9hAJ54ImReMENlI7W5tU9byoAQvXNtoOmUNzDIx1PFl-K84bq2aWaMzF3OurAMDIqC3Y7VZnLqRr9-jG5I1tjCWJXMLPXjSOV3qnWuOU3zGxvir4pn9MJE11tqHEeVA ) , and much to people’s irritation, because I used to buy a copy of Photoshop, I could use it forever. But it speaks to their strength and dominance and that they could do that, basically make all their customers mad, and it was fine, right? There is a part to business in general where you have to make your customers mad, I think this is something that a lot of companies get in trouble with. You know, you’ve got to charge something, and in this case of Adobe, they had to make the shift and they executed it.

I do think the Figma acquisition ( https://stratechery.com/2022/adobe-acquires-figma-figmas-disruption-the-figma-os/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvYWRvYmUtYWNxdWlyZXMtZmlnbWEtZmlnbWFzLWRpc3J1cHRpb24tdGhlLWZpZ21hLW9zLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3MDc5NzI0LCJpYXQiOjE2ODQ0ODc3MjQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.m4Z5tHgx2gnXTCE6VXzewXjmBlNgeDIUXN8RKRcIiamQjsvinE8U-PnXdaUu4RhRboxmJZESUXjm08raNuoaV0sXfC9dlX0sMc7KJyvPtIVVaDapZcBTt_VUZwO8RDj70i37I4lO4bdbcr3ZrWIMTasqWLNgN9IzLIvtPDLoVUoSJ4MEo_QKc8gsS7SOvCcf8jSTBm2MyOMhCgnQKl2e9IU0z_VSPp9nGTSwN25OilZjawVuT1894_tAhw8-D29XMXD7TJ6lbl8zCoNfYrJnORpJBpFwhlQu7PjHvWrwQVnOoHy6YnF813HzAVlceftI0rLcWQZ66uhblrUYnnOvEg ) is really, really interesting because it speaks to this challenge of, when you have all these different pieces trying to get together, what ties it together?

In the PC world, it was the operating system. The operating system gave a common interface for all the hardware to develop and all the software to develop, and obviously Microsoft could benefit by being in the middle. You get to this world of all these SaaS companies, a real challenge for Microsoft was they were holding onto Windows and it wasn’t a meaningful link to anything. What Microsoft has done very astutely is leverage what power they still had in controlling the document, and controlling the format, and Office in particular. They already had people on the subscription and they layer in something like a Teams, where it’s at its best when it’s pulling together all the different pieces ( https://stratechery.com/2020/the-slack-social-network/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjAvdGhlLXNsYWNrLXNvY2lhbC1uZXR3b3JrLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3MDc5NzI0LCJpYXQiOjE2ODQ0ODc3MjQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.agS1VR3P6RnkEbIxPhv1bTEOqlyyZkBHkZR5pFVqObkbB5NmCFvbQAd53Jm6TO26JT41djln0CZ3ybpJt53eZE--N8nytTjsYAtzFNKoQMvxWs1zOXvp4IGLetM5U50bFvlBGsNKASrMjgS-0Msc63Rrum-LutnTEzfRfDYbYc7JQAncBT35wCcJ9tk2MQqge64SKBwiHGjApV5crwwIpnPbmE-xJXUDx4mSI1HvWD-RE6K_xxbN-VeHuD0MxTWxiFE8QwsRSkNgk1V8Auntb5dOBKYP5o6Rmsg8vbZ0IjODknpolqjsl5hEwuh7mJ78QvSccaU-xhdExjTsg0IJyw ) , being a hub around which it sort of operates and it’s like the operating system in the cloud. It’s a different kind of operating system, it’s more of a horizontal as opposed to a vertical sort of thing, but that’s important.

I think the analogy to Adobe and Figma is quite interesting, where Figma expands the people who are contributing to design, from not just designers, and engineers, or product managers and in that world, Photoshop is very important. The issue for Adobe, though, is if Figma is the hub, Photoshop becomes a commodity. Figma is not competing with Photoshop, but Figma doesn’t care if you use a different image editor, or for video it could be Premiere, or it could be Final Cut. When you’re not the hub, you are inevitably on the road to commoditization, and so the concern for Adobe and I think why that acquisition was well worth it — they will certainly fight, I think, to make sure it goes through — is not because it’s competing with Photoshop, but it potentially commoditizes Photoshop, and that’s not where they want to be.

**MN: You mentioned the Walt Disney Company a lot, riff on Disney here.

We could do a whole podcast about that!

*MN: (laughing) I think we have ( https://stratechery.com/2022/an-interview-with-michael-nathanson-about-streaming-and-digital-advertising/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvYW4taW50ZXJ2aWV3LXdpdGgtbWljaGFlbC1uYXRoYW5zb24tYWJvdXQtc3RyZWFtaW5nLWFuZC1kaWdpdGFsLWFkdmVydGlzaW5nLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3MDc5NzI0LCJpYXQiOjE2ODQ0ODc3MjQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.YNh197Vp1ITnhePYFD0F8-fBkQSnU3DSIvIL4aCcgwwBebPYrGzafRq1YQtZadSiHOtbVfhQONDQnLaMlD7AY1YItfpDDvWyixORuRz7kTTOgfiju1Gs8zIjFrYgxXlyNOAecXUSkfh_cmYueU96pZi8FAvyZmc1ZxBcdWRa95-ew7bCTZqFTjD6U2NutpZJn2ke5VPVUfFrkOP70h8gtpVMw-FVG7FOXcaKZUhwuUs--fH-v4hCHgaAlfpYXYfJ61XQx2gOJYvRxfTWUDWbwDmTkRFkJEvuBTup50Dv0vhZvL2PTQ69LI5jKddOVbH-wsEb2c5KUTB_ixGFrCUu5Q ) !*

*CM: You could do it on Chapek and Iger.*

We could try getting them together on here, that’d be fun.

Disney is fascinating because, in retrospect, when you go back to the Iger tenure, and obviously everyone talks about the Pixar, Lucasfilm, Marvel and very astutely, not just because of the price they were bought at, but obviously, in a world of abundance, one manifestation of scarcity is IP and brand. This idea that you can only get Marvel or Star Wars in one place, and the way it filters down into the parks, and the cruise ships, and all those — people think of those as less good businesses than something digital and that’s backwards to the point I made before. It’s actual investment in the real world that has a meaningful moat, that is actually scarce. To actually experience something is going to be the greatest value going forward because digital’s going to be everything. It’s going to be like, you talk about AI — when AI is generating content for everything, you’ll get any experience you want virtually, but it’s going to be valueless because it’s not special.

So, you have this manifestation in the real world where I think things obviously went sideways in retrospect was the 21st Century Fox acquisition, because that was a commoditizing business, it wasn’t the IP value. I mean, yes, they got the X-Men and stuff like that, but I’m not sure that’s worth $75 billion or whatever it was and they got, obviously, the Hulu hangover.

So I think in an ideal world, Disney would stop with general entertainment, and they would actually slim down. They would spin off ESPN, because they’re not getting the bundle dynamics that they got before, the sports leagues are extracting all the value out of that. They can’t bundle ESPN with the Disney Channel to push up the price, and they would just be an IP company, and they could pull that off because they’re Disney, and their streaming service would be a marketing channel for driving their real-world experiences. They would actually become a much more capital-intensive company — which would mean lower multiples, to be fair — because they should probably invest more in the real world.

Unfortunately, they’re stuck with all these studios, and they have to buy Hulu, and so I think it makes sense to go in the opposite direction. I think Iger’s strategy now is playing the best hand they can going forward, which is, “Okay, we’re going the exact opposite direction, which is we will build our own bundle. We’re going to put Hulu into the Disney app, we’re going to have a product for everyone. We will work against churn.”

I think that’s the other thing these media companies weren’t ready for, which is that customer acquisition is not just a function of getting customers, it’s avoiding churn and in a world where people pay on a monthly basis, they can cancel any time, that’s a hard world. It’s a very, very difficult world.

So if you have a ton of content, you always have different shows at different places, that’s a way to keep people looped-in over time, and maybe see — you have these three candidates. You have obviously the Warner Bros. Discovery HBO, you have Disney, you have Netflix. Disney, because they have that cash-generation capability in their parks, it’ll probably be them and Netflix in the end. I like the concept of HBO Discovery, but it’s going to be tough from a cashflow perspective. I have no clue why Paramount and Peacock exist — but, yeah, it’ll be very interesting going forward.**

*CM: So one last question for you that we can squeeze in under the wire, which is, you see so many interesting companies and you have so many interesting takes. I’m not asking you to make a stock recommendation.*

No, I would charge much more for that.

*CM: FINRA’s in the room somewhere. But what’s a company maybe that is slightly off the radar screen for most people that you think is just particularly interesting and has the potential to win in a profound way?*

Well, you changed the question on me, because you were going to ask “What small companies…”

*CM: Yeah, it doesn’t have to be a small-*

No, no. The problem is that my answer was going to be I actually don’t pay that much attention to small companies, because as I noted earlier my view of tech is not this continual disruptive force of companies replacing other companies. It’s actually been the establishment of an infrastructure, and the reason I spend a lot of time writing and talking about the biggest companies is actually because they’re the only ones that matter. You see them just taking out other would-be companies, medium-sized companies.

You saw this happen to Shopify. Shopify, at the end of the day, ATT comes along, and where they started out as a subscription business, and then it would be merchant solutions getting payments, ATT severed that and slowly, they’re kind of retreating back into subscription business. Which is a good thing from a margin perspective, but it’s a drawback from their aspirations. That what I think you’ll see with AI, as it manifests more in these large companies.

So, the off-the-radar company — I mean, obviously, the most interesting one is OpenAI, but it’s not off the radar, so, it’s kind of cheating on your question. But even there, to get where they are, they had to partner with someone like Microsoft and the amount of just the capital investment to sort of make what they do. The reason why they’re so interesting, though, is the most valuable place to be is if you own the consumer touchpoint. This goes to your question before, the consumer touchpoint, the discovery thing, where you manage that world of abundance.

I actually think OpenAI has a huge challenge in front of them because they have this completely — they were not expecting it — consumer opportunity ( https://stratechery.com/2023/the-accidental-consumer-tech-company-chatgpt-meta-and-product-market-fit-aggregation-and-apis/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvdGhlLWFjY2lkZW50YWwtY29uc3VtZXItdGVjaC1jb21wYW55LWNoYXRncHQtbWV0YS1hbmQtcHJvZHVjdC1tYXJrZXQtZml0LWFnZ3JlZ2F0aW9uLWFuZC1hcGlzLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3MDc5NzI0LCJpYXQiOjE2ODQ0ODc3MjQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.I_bE9Ks9pOZLU8ReyXPg8-Igs5pk7opdNyRAPaWJ50SHGe_Dl0WupswJPPTlIADgjxLl6-vyOoYjs1UYJaNJHBBFfRGso99oJ195P-AhzHL9uOV6VLfP-1zLCAdN4MRgTEDxjyn_b33jmQiM5mXWRDG5UY1OvwYXGl-_RI2ip5uVFVIeBW3DkTbYdDdLgku5nV1OsE-NlHSGJmHJpFrLmaRkliBm33AR9l2mCLtAEEKC1OOzTe5bGVXnFLZuuJhE_bBp-DAYyQJxgIbpvOm0_v5a6AYncJh-PFcUdbFVCAly1JmQk0Exj6b2w7KB2YQcOcY5FLXegouaBj6VfF0KKw ) , they had no idea it was going to be so popular. They spent like three months just scrambling, including Microsoft, because it was costing so much to serve this, and going on 200 million users, whatever. They originally said they wanted to research, and we’ll have an API, and people subscribe to that.

No! Your opportunity is so much larger than that. Your API customers are competing with you for the greatest opportunity in tech, which is to be a consumer-facing Aggregator, to be the next Google, to be the place people go and start their journey into the world of totally commoditized content that is to your benefit, because you found all that sort of stuff.

I am watching and very interested to what extent do they embrace this and shift their mindset as a company. If I were them, I would say we’re already partners with Microsoft, Microsoft is a great development company, everyone who’s on our API, you really should go to the Azure API, and we need to shift — but they weren’t created to be a consumer company. They don’t have that aspiration, they don’t have that culture, but they have the opportunity, and that’s going to be I think one of the most interesting things to observe going forward.

*CM: I wish we could spend another two hours up here. There’s a million things that I would just love to hear your insights on, but I’ve got to tell you all of you should be aware that Ben has come over from Taiwan to be with us and is now going to go back. So, I can’t thank you enough for making the trip and for sharing your insights with us, and I hope we get to do this again soon.*

Absolutely. Thank you for having me.

*CM: Thank you.*

This Daily Update Interview is also available as a podcast. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member ).

The Daily Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.

Thanks for being a supporter, and have a great day!

Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player:
Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharptech.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Dithering ( https://dithering.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.dithering.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp China ( https://sharpchina.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharpchina.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | GOAT ( https://goat.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgoat.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Subscription Information

Member: Omar Zoheri
Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com
Member since: December 8, 2022
Auto-renewal is disabled
Expiration date: December 8, 2023

You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery ( https://www.stratechery.com ).

Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/login?email=stratecheryUSC%40khamel.com ) to view your account and manage your subscriptions.

© 2023 Stratechery LLC ( https://www.stratechery.com ) , 2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703