# An Interview with Eric Seufert About Meta at the Top (Stratechery Interview 2-8-2024)

**From:** Ben Thompson <email@stratechery.com>
**Date:** Thu, 8 Feb 2024 11:13:50 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/An Interview with Eric Seufert About Meta at the Top (Stratechery Interview 2-8-2024)_Thu,_8_Feb_2024_11-13-50_+0000_18d886cad5196b49.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:04.831542

An interview with Eric Seufert about Meta's blowout quarter and where the company goes next, anxiety about Google search, and Apple's fight with developers and regulators

View in browser ( https://stratechery.com/2024/an-interview-with-eric-seufert-about-meta-at-the-top/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L2FuLWludGVydmlldy13aXRoLWVyaWMtc2V1ZmVydC1hYm91dC1tZXRhLWF0LXRoZS10b3AvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MDk5ODI4MzAsImlhdCI6MTcwNzM5MDgzMCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.tYca-MJ5Is7suXDM1HwdGi_8oDUjWK1N_-p9Fioa4EKclfVhGOYiXeNMbLyzo4ILCLfSMsVPOVf0W2LAtIwCJF5qL84mdUGOKop6MUURsxqr8fDfvKNTZN_xYxK0Tuo47olSfaTf1mJsavfYaKei1SFRBdcqQ8SiqyN76B3L6WXuwQcdfBVABeQctowB6967xF0YdqJ-CEfvbsInuTLyaaanlQlII4omsoELBppaHclTyPfhorCPl7K3aCfMbcHNxTxP_goV3eB3Chf93y7LOvSmnHhXegrrLpvm4kg2CaE4RFWzu9EREVuYd45io1p7t_r28azJrelgqwdxdWW7LA )

( https://stratechery.com )

****************************************************
An Interview with Eric Seufert About Meta at the Top
****************************************************

( https://stratechery.com/2024/an-interview-with-eric-seufert-about-meta-at-the-top/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L2FuLWludGVydmlldy13aXRoLWVyaWMtc2V1ZmVydC1hYm91dC1tZXRhLWF0LXRoZS10b3AvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MDk5ODI4MzAsImlhdCI6MTcwNzM5MDgzMCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.tYca-MJ5Is7suXDM1HwdGi_8oDUjWK1N_-p9Fioa4EKclfVhGOYiXeNMbLyzo4ILCLfSMsVPOVf0W2LAtIwCJF5qL84mdUGOKop6MUURsxqr8fDfvKNTZN_xYxK0Tuo47olSfaTf1mJsavfYaKei1SFRBdcqQ8SiqyN76B3L6WXuwQcdfBVABeQctowB6967xF0YdqJ-CEfvbsInuTLyaaanlQlII4omsoELBppaHclTyPfhorCPl7K3aCfMbcHNxTxP_goV3eB3Chf93y7LOvSmnHhXegrrLpvm4kg2CaE4RFWzu9EREVuYd45io1p7t_r28azJrelgqwdxdWW7LA ) Thursday, February 8, 2024

Listen to this Update in your podcast player ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Good morning,

I am pleased to welcome Eric Seufert ( https://twitter.com/eric_seufert ) back to Stratechery. Seufert is Stratechery’s most regular interview subject ( https://stratechery.com/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8_cz1lcmljJTIwc2V1ZmVydCJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzA5OTgyODMwLCJpYXQiOjE3MDczOTA4MzAsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.cs2WYYeW0nn0Ty58AJXTjcCeFEqjbHAWuPwHqEZ59KZ6y53oHlhHvg8QkUPkPtNO7usEN_R50t3TnAgliGEW6Gn2XUlM6hz8Ndui_slAZ9Od5vdvWcnl2iV3HURBJijmRGZZIvyVs06cWt81J3vTqwVyGA7ioHAXR08UfyJmowSVeUtcbpoCrQduVGGskWeqCo9wiykarF7KtSKu0DcA3EwVgl08SMqFMqQvPNim3mJ8kkHA3nz0c4HmrlvEH3kpd8HxJ0ykzDEuNhJmDbtBoRzRJgHcM-2Ezw7wmTZeJ4bbfjEQ80CEDbxs0uLLBiZk4BClow-GNROT7BsBHjtA0A&s=eric+seufert ) , and for good reason: I think this is the best coverage of digital advertising there is on the Internet. Well, second best: Seufert is now a full-time writer (and subscription business proprietor) at MobileDevMemo ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/ ) , and his writing is both prolific and essential. If you enjoy this interview — and I’m confident you will — you should consider subscribing.

Seufert, in addition to writing Mobile Dev Memo, also invests in startups in the mobile space through his fund Heracles Capital. Seufert previously worked for several mobile gaming startups, including as the Vice President of User Acquisition for Rovio, and was a consultant for multiple companies exploring the mobile space.

In this interview we do a very deep dive into Meta’s current state: the last set of earnings were incredible, but is that because Meta is at a natural top of the market? We also discuss Meta’s deal with Amazon, the allure and danger of automated advertising, and mourn the impact of ATT on niche Internet businesses. We also discuss Google and search advertising, and Apple’s contentious relationship with developers and regulators.

To listen to this interview as a podcast, click the link at the top of this email to add Stratechery to your podcast player.

On to the interview:

An Interview with Eric Seufert About Meta at the Top
----------------------------------------------------

This interview is lightly edited for clarity.

*Topics:*
Meta Earnings ( #meta ) | Automated Advertising ( #automatedads ) | Meta and Amazon ( #metaamazon ) | ATT and the Mediocre Middle ( #attmediocre ) | Generative Advertising and Privacy ( #genads ) | Google Search Angst ( #google ) | Apple, Developers, and Regulators ( #apple ) | Bundles and Big Tech ( #bundles ) | Pressure and Success ( #success )

Meta Earnings

*Eric Seufert, welcome back to Stratechery.*

*Eric Seufert:* Ben Thompson, it is good to be back. Thank you for having me.

*Of course! So Meta, what a blowout ( https://stratechery.com/2024/meta-earnings-meta-ai-and-att-metas-new-playbook/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L21ldGEtZWFybmluZ3MtbWV0YS1haS1hbmQtYXR0LW1ldGFzLW5ldy1wbGF5Ym9vay8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTcwOTk4MjgzMCwiaWF0IjoxNzA3MzkwODMwLCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwaS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.KtLjdq5UKa4MDjuX_dJM4w22pY6evUTEnFjS7xI-nqGPRdEgwADzSjV4GYjDqC-Nws9pwyQWus6NAVuiTt_LscktPL8OyjBlR0ziSOOuAzQ0GJqTxnnxyNJmShlpKid5FrFHkhzFNR4UOuSL-IhYAaB1Mru4Mxg_DKR_qc83OepNJeAqd79_tJtlt5QFOMt9YGj99jY_uz0APJVavR6jxCoEhsyeomvH93ClXg9GLIVIQrL--2OpJ2K8_lzfAHsyLDUnxqzclCTWJc_fZFceKKSMG6pTngGfmArZfDj2nLXHouZP6_vGdN59_DUVireqmsuyp_4ph5AxhEgqsq-cLw ). What’s your takeaway?*

*ES:* Meta is indeed a blowout. 24% year-over-year, basically mirrored last quarter. I think ATT is in the rear-view mirror, they’ve adapted fully, they’ve built infrastructure that I think has provided them with a competitive advantage relative to a lot of other display ad channels, and they have just executed very intently and done a great job and delivered a tremendous quarter this quarter and last quarter.

*So you wrote on Mobile Dev Memo, I think it was a couple of years ago, about how Meta was now basically impervious to any threat and I think the timing of that was a little early, because it looked like a bit of a rough prediction when their stock really plummeted over 2022, but it’s looking very prescient today. Has basically the thesis turned out as you expected?*

*ES:* I think so. I don’t know that I could’ve predicted how that would’ve taken shape. I think I know what you’re talking about, I think it was a thread that I posted early on ( https://twitter.com/eric_seufert/status/1420767133739405316 ) , in the early innings of the post-ATT decline and my point was, look, this has obviously hurt Meta, but this was an attempt at a death blow, and it won’t kill Meta. They will adapt to it and they will ultimately, in that adaptation, probably emerge stronger because it will hurt them and it will hurt them most acutely, but they are probably the best equipped to deal with it, whereas the sort of lesser severity, in absolute magnitude, that it delivers to other companies in that space will be much more harmful to them on a relative basis. So that was the overall point, and I think that’s actually been the case, especially in the context today of Snap earnings ( https://www.wsj.com/livecoverage/stock-market-today-dow-jones-earnings-02-07-2024/card/snap-stock-falls-after-sales-at-snapchat-parent-miss-wall-street-estimates-v92Qq1RjgCp7JBuUst1a ).

*Yep.*

*ES:* Snap is down 30% as we speak.

*These basic things about percentages that Snap’s earnings help remind you is that you can still always be down 30%, 40%, even if you’ve already been down 30% or 40%. That’s how percentages work, it’s easy to forget about that.*

*ES:* (laughing) Yeah. Snap, revenue was up 5%. Interestingly, brand was down 3%, DR was up 3%, ARPU was down globally, slightly up North America. DAU was up 10% globally but it was flat in North America, it was up 19% rest of world. So the problem I think that they’re facing now is they’re onboarding a lot of users in the rest of world and it’s driving down the ARPU globally. Even though in North America it was slightly up, ARPU was down overall globally and the substantial proportion of the DAU growth came from rest of world, and they even called that out in the investor letter. They said, “We’re going to focus on DAU growth in the high ARPU markets,” because they’re not growing in the high ARPU markets, and where they are growing is dragging ARPU down.

*With their cost structure, too, particularly with their outsourced compute, bringing on users is a bit of a dangerous game for them.*

*ES:* And it always has been. That was one of the key risks when they went public, is they were totally dependent on external cloud providers, they didn’t build this infrastructure and that’s one of the issues with being sub-scale. They even mentioned in the investor letter that their cost of revenue per DAU went up because they’re trying to compete with Facebook or Meta in terms of building out these ML models to do personalization at scale, to do better ad ranking, and those things have an absolute cost. They don’t necessarily scale with DAU, they have an absolute cost in just investing in that stuff, and it’s just a much bigger burden for a Snap than it is for a Meta.

*One of the things that is interesting, another very good article ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/mobile-advertising-spend-cant-just-disappear/ ) you wrote was in the wake of ATT about how, “Look, a lot of this revenue is just going to go away”, because the way that marketing used to work, you could know with very good certainty, “If I spend this much of money, I’m going to get this much back”, and when that went away, the money was not going to be spent.*

*I think the interesting thing about Meta that makes your broader point and makes the case is that their revenue is significantly off ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/facebook-may-take-revenue-hit-from-apple-privacy-changes/ ) what it might have been in an alternate universe. There was very real impairment that happened, but it has reset. I think the key thing obviously is the extent they went to cut their costs to, I hate using this word, but right-size their company relative to that, to be able to do that and keep their resource advantage, I think now they’re in the point where the thesis has come fully true. They have much better margins, they are dominant relative to their competition, and now, as digital advertising continues to grow, as it inevitably will, their share of that growth is going to be larger. And I agree with you, it’s going to be more sustainable because it’s going to be so much more difficult for any alternatives to enter. You can’t just spin up a direct marketing team using pretty straightforward pixels in browsers or SDKs in apps and it’s unclear who’s going to really challenge them.*

*ES:* Yeah, and not just in terms of the advertising revenue, but in terms of the market cap. Everyone focuses on the $90 a share that happened Q4 2022, Q1 2023, but prior to that, they had peaked at nearly $400 a share. Just after ATT hit majority scale the stock climbed for a little bit longer and then it started decreasing precipitously, they only just hit that high watermark like a month ago.

*Yeah. It’s like the percentages thing. It’s all relative, right?*

*ES:* Right. If you look at their stock chart, it’s a giant V, and so we’re slightly above, on the current leg of the V, we’re slightly above the left-hand leg of the V, where it was at that high watermark. But all of that market cap got wiped out and there’s no reason to believe that — it would’ve tapered off a little bit because of the COVID normalization, but I don’t think it would’ve declined like that.

*Yeah.*

*ES:* So everyone’s talking about, “Oh, well Meta’s up,” whatever percentage it is from the low, but it’s not up that much from the most recent high.

*Yeah. Is there any reason for investors to be concerned? You highlighted in your earnings report ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/meta-q4-2023-earnings-average-revenue-per-impression-flips-to-positive/ ) that the price-per-ad actually increased last quarter. It’s been very impressive that the rate of decline has been declining even as impressions increase, but now impressions are decreasing. This is a story we saw previously with Instagram monetization and with Stories monetization. In both cases, you had this explosion in impressions growth that drove down the price-per-ad and my argument has always been ( https://stratechery.com/2023/meta-earnings-reels-reaches-revenue-neutral-the-temu-and-shein-effect/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.Z3Xl-XoiQSM0TdNH8FPYCV-b1GOLxLRhliFpWgGpQ8--63hn-8UejOX80Uc97PJZWd869M4-nsiVnFP5c9-Uv6r_hKZb_OqhJDdOyE3_h4NZBTo6XzrCwNSML9zFO6VO0dmCnMr4CDoTNIyQ2st_ievY239QghqipDkf5R7gw4Q9JFshGEV3gay0Dq8XckEsfVhQ7iPt2iqXYOkqbMc5aK-e7r6cDyuS__K3OXhjWH_ySHFY7sxjwXcYLk881SEWHW7ZeB38-wcXw7eni4Qfb1-UeQgWHqC5tFi6o1jhIs_dm5FphodHjeO1pvcKgXioCpZSzq-8Z2ksDelxCuPwZA ) that is the bullish signal for Meta is because they’re going to get better at optimizing those ads, they’re going to figure out how to serve them, and then the price-per-ad will increase, and that’s where we’re at. The question is, what now? Is there any concern that they’re going to hit a saturation point and growth’s going to slow significantly? Or do they now have, unlike those other times, such a structural advantage in the market that this price-per-ad in particular can grow indefinitely?*

*ES:* There’s a couple of things here. I just today finished a piece ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/metas-tailwinds/ ) that’ll be live when this goes live, talking about Meta’s opportunity going forward, so all the factors, what we’ve talked about historically in these podcasts, that have led to this moment, that have led to this tremendous result in Q4.

I think it was the harmonization of a bunch of factors. It was increased data capture through tools like CAPI [Conversions API] and AEM [Aggregated Event Measurement], these tools that they rolled out, or accelerated post-ATT. It was improved campaign optimization through Advantage+ ( https://about.fb.com/news/2022/08/introducing-new-automation-tools-to-increase-sales-and-drive-growth/ ) , it was increased engagement and essentially increased ad exposures through increased engagement with Reels, it was the harmonization of all those things.

All those things harmonized and, in concert this quarter, delivered this tremendous result but all those things are in the past. So which of those things are going to be tapering off and which of those things have continued headroom? I think Advantage+ has continued headroom, I think there’s more that they can do. One thing about Advantage+ is it’s not a tool, it’s a suite of tools. It’s Advantage+ Audiences, it’s Advantage+ Shopping Campaigns, it’s Advantage+ App Campaigns. There’s a number of these.

Automated Advertising

*Can you step back and just give me the overview of Advantage+? This is actually one of the big things I really wanted to dive into with you, so you’re doing the segue for me. But explain, I’m an advertiser talking to a Facebook rep or I’m walking up to the website, they’re pushing Advantage+ on me, what is it? How is it different than the way advertising used to work before?*

*ES:* Advantage+ is their attempt to take a bunch of these disparate tools, put them into, call it like one interface, and all of these tools are designed to automate whatever task that specific tool is designed to achieve. So the whole idea here is to take any possible way that a human being could interface with the Ads Manager and automate that, and have Facebook’s machinery handle that task on behalf of the advertiser.

There’s a couple of advantages for that in doing that. One is that Facebook’s just got better machinery, there’re going to be better at a lot of this stuff than any advertiser possibly could be because they’ve got more sophisticated machinery and they’ve got the entire dataset of all the advertisers to learn from and borrow those learnings from for any given campaign.

*So basically instead of the advertiser saying, “I want to reach 20-to-34-year-old males on Instagram Stories,” you just say, “I want to achieve a return of 150% ROAS on this sort of product.” Who knows who they’re going to discover, where it’s going to be, what platform, all those sorts of pieces. Is that what you’re driving at?*

*ES:* Exactly. But remember that ATT limited the way that you could do a lot of targeting because it limited the number of campaign IDs that you could use. Now, that’s changed a little bit with the latest version of SKAdNetwork ( https://developer.apple.com/documentation/storekit/skadnetwork/ ) , but Facebook’s not fully onboarded to that yet. So essentially you are limited in the number of campaigns — what you would do prior to ATT is you’d spin up a bunch of campaigns and they’d all have these different combinations of audience segments that were targeted and placements that you were filling your ads in, and different creative variants. So you can imagine that number grows very big very fast if you’ve got all these different vectors where there’s multiple options in each one. You’re basically multiplying all them together, and that’s a total number of campaigns you need to run.

That was not that problematic, but even before ATT, most advertisers didn’t have the wherewithal to test everything, and they were also just constrained. They were capacity-limited in the number of creatives that they could produce or the number of — their analytical capacity to just measure the performance of all those different combinations. So with Advantage+, what Facebook is saying, “Well, we can. Now, we can’t make creatives on your behalf…” but let me come back to that idea.

*Yeah. We will come back to that. That’s on the list for sure.*

*ES:* So, “We can’t make creatives on your behalf, but we can basically test all those different combinations on your behalf and we’ll learn very, very quickly which ones work or not and also we have some historical information about which ones are most likely to work, and so we’ll start there.” So we can just experiment.

If you think about the Facebook ad platform or any ad platform as a surface area, we can experiment across the entirety of that surface area with every different audience segment, every different placement using your creatives, and we’ll find the combinations that work the best and we’ll learn that they work the best faster than you could. By the way, we don’t take the weekends off, we don’t stop work at 5:00 PM, we’re never hung over at our job. We’ll always be perfectly efficient in making those decisions, in ways that a human being probably wouldn’t be.

So first of all, we’re going to explore more and we’re going to exploit faster. We’re going to explore more options than you probably would and we’re going to exploit the most efficient combinations of those options faster than you probably would.

*Right. This matrix of what you’re talking about with all these variables, you’re basically describing how machine learning works in some respects, if you just extrapolate it out to like a gazillion variables.*

*ES:* Right, exactly. That’s basically the core premise of what machine learning does and so there were some advertisers that built systems that kind of sort of did that, and I’ve worked on projects like that, but no one could really match the capabilities of what Facebook can accomplish. So in that way, Advantage+ just brought to bear this sophistication for the benefit of advertisers.

Now, there’s a downside to that, which is that there’s no transparency. The idea being that, “Well, let us take care of all that, you have preconceived notions about some of this stuff and if we gave you the options, it’s going to restrict our ability to experiment. So we’re not going to give you the option to test any of that stuff.”

There’s competing incentives here. The advertising platform’s incentive is to give you just enough ROAS to keep you spending, to make you happy, and to maximize the amount of money that you spend. The advertiser’s incentive is to maximize the ROAS of every dollar deployed and I don’t just say this in the context of Advantage+ because I found a piece ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/mai-vs-aeo-vs-vo-campaigns-building-a-mobile-traffic-strategy-on-facebook/ ) that I wrote in 2019, before Advantage+ ever existed, and I said, “Look, they went from AEO,” which was App Event Optimization, where you’d just optimize against specific events then they went to VO, which was Value Optimization, which is what you said, like, “Hey, just give me a number, give me the ROAS you want to hit and we’ll figure everything else out. Just give me a total amount of money that you’re willing to spend.” I said, “What could possibly come next?” And my hypothesis was, well, it’d be this totally end-to-end automated solution. I said, “And that would probably be really effective, but there’s always going to be the risk that these incentives don’t align.”

I think that’s probably the case now with Advantage+ and PMax on Google ( https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/10724817?hl=en ). Now, the question is, “Hey, I’m the advertiser, I don’t know that there was any waste, there may have been some waste, I don’t know what the counterfactual is to the performance that you’re delivering”. Let’s say I do know that there was some waste, though. If you’re hitting my ROAS targets, can I complain? I’m economically better off with you having spent that money than if I had spent it, so can I complain? Maybe it was a violation of my trust, maybe not, but I can’t really complain because I’m economically better off.

*And this came out, I think it was in the DOJ lawsuit against Google ( https://stratechery.com/2023/doj-sues-google-googles-advertising-aggregation-no-duty-to-deal/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIzL2Rvai1zdWVzLWdvb2dsZS1nb29nbGVzLWFkdmVydGlzaW5nLWFnZ3JlZ2F0aW9uLW5vLWR1dHktdG8tZGVhbC8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTcwOTk4MjgzMCwiaWF0IjoxNzA3MzkwODMwLCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwaS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.inHwaZa8HhEXnk7k5kKj_7H7ytKVFPuE9626FcAvkGj542GGWO0FRygX2axZbQGEQuKiIwPHEF5HF3cHyonacKx7BC54QqPeT5mTQ7iWcDrQVtnsQbdL1l5kJgsg3qU5ssuBWQ8kaKr2QrjNnUGStTYXwSNtUjr3VVhq4IKVs8M-4D64ZDBXmTO-0GTizQyTqzWssMl8tzi4lmGpzgQpCz9-lYyd8VXOraOT8gPna8QYRD8J6F1dZ3FsSF1fKYg01pjaAq4u2kY2SH0HbDd4_zHu4IOGqccGxkFvjOm7l2jILn-WGj1b6VNO0iWrt1GE7G2BXnOd90-cNtyzrb7DCA ) , basically alleging direct manipulation of this dynamic, where Google was delivering the number that they promised to the advertiser, but they were doing so by including some very high value targets and then a whole bunch of garbage.*

*ES:* Right.

*So Google could have delivered a far higher number. Was that a crime? You’re sort of pushing on that question, I think. I wrote an Article a few years ago about razor blades ( https://stratechery.com/2020/email-addresses-and-razor-blades/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIwL2VtYWlsLWFkZHJlc3Nlcy1hbmQtcmF6b3ItYmxhZGVzLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzA5OTgyODMwLCJpYXQiOjE3MDczOTA4MzAsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.ES3J6gufrKpFd1DBcy_f5ZwqVfRj4IAuU5-xHCbqB0OR7qB6G2KUxz-5NIqh8AXHXeu3ZFBsSIAV4WzP5qMVfF_kLRmk1zrJAuGCS6LsPLBzofJFZbXM1IUeAQfR1NRjZDqRxFGcgdjR7AQSzh8UA8k9fBAXWB12v_3axRdpY11PcUQuEiNBYi84X4Qj0pZMQIQ68Br6y6IC6yvm3UPPlI5m6kM-fcN1cp3SEx8EsIug2EaCv1aEIvZQyIfoNb4bQZ6vMKXl6cL8RM2SZvOObd11qcspeBcszYrzGbGyrBd2h1RDD3Ru5Sa177iJW8sNnIvX9NI3O5lcT-DHSSUFxw ) or something along those lines. It creates this very weird dynamic between advertisers and these platforms because the advertisers know the platforms are working for them, they are delivering them customers they would not get, and they also know the platforms are squeezing every bit of margin out of them along the way.*

*ES:* Right.

*But you’re kind of stuck because it works. So what are you going to do?*

*ES:* Yeah, exactly. That’s the question and I think this is kind of like new economic territory that we’re treading on here, and that’s why I think, particularly with the DOJ suit and some of the misadventures of Lina Khan, it’s like we’re trying to use these historical lenses to view these very modern problems with, and I just don’t think they fit very well. You could always come back and make the argument, “Well, first of all, the consumer didn’t…” it’s very difficult to then prove that, okay, well the advertiser maybe could’ve gotten better ROAS but at a lower level of spend.

In the DOJ case, the DOJ admitted that the publisher made more money than it would’ve with any other SSP [Supply-Side Platform]. So then, it’s like everyone’s kind of economically better off but the consumer in some way probably was harmed and it’s very wishy-washy. It’s very difficult to make that connection.

I think the argument you’d have to make is, “Okay, well the lack of transparency didn’t give the advertiser the visibility into where the waste happened and they would’ve preferred that the waste didn’t happen where it happened in those specific instances, but they’re still happy with the overall aggregate result”. Is that problematic? I think you have to answer that question in these kinds of systems in order to allege some sort of wrongdoing and I don’t know that the advertisers would be willing to say, “No, don’t shut this down.” Because they’re still better off.

*Right, because they need it. It’s like the old advertising saying that, “I know only half my advertising works, the problem is I don’t know which half”. This is taking it to another level where half is not working by design, yet I’m also getting much better results than I ever could on my own.*

*When you were saying that, it occurs to me about the old antitrust applications and things along those lines. This is kind of a real uniquely digital problem because of the nature of the zero cost of marginal goods. Take something like you write a newsletter, I write a newsletter, we publish it. That newsletter costs us, what does an email cost to send? .00001 cents or whatever it nets out to, basically zero, right? So there’s an aspect of every dollar that I’m charging, you just can’t make any sort of direct connection between cost of goods sold and the output, it’s what people are willing to pay.*

*In this case, I am not going to deny it doesn’t feel icky, but at the end of the day, if you’re an advertiser and there’s only one or two platforms, basically Google and Facebook that can deliver you 150% ROAS, return on advertising spend, and that they’re making margin while doing it. I mean, yeah, you might be annoyed, but do you actually want it to go away?*

*ES:* Yeah, exactly. I know 50% of my budget is wasted, I just don’t know which 50%. Now it’s like I know 50% of my budget’s being deliberately wasted, I still don’t know which 50%, but I’m better off than not spending any money with them.

*You just wrote about this last week ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/the-faustian-bargain-of-pmax-and-advantage/ ) and I’m glad you did. It was perfect timing because to me the question of these platforms is very interesting. From an advertiser perspective, you framed it as “The Advertiser’s Dilemma” because I think it’s not just the issue of do you use it or not? Is there a return or not? But also it’s like, “Should I just cut my entire marketing team because Facebook basically built that for me, and is there alpha in leaning into and accepting this aspect and say, ‘Yep, well hey, we’re just handing it off to you and we’re just going to go with it.'” Or is that just too much risk for an advertiser to take on?*

*ES:* Well, even with a platform as big as Facebook, you can saturate your core audience, right? For certain types of products, I wrote a piece about this a very long time ago called You Can’t Saturate an Ad Channel ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/its-impossible-to-saturate-a-marketing-channel/ ). If you think about the scale of these ad channels, Amazon, Facebook, YouTube, even like a Snap or something, you’re not saturating the channel. You’re saturating your audience within that channel and if that happens, it’s your fault because your product is too niche. But if you have a very broad based product with universal appeal, you probably could only advertise on Facebook.

*Facebook or Google, because Google’s doing the exact same thing in performance.*

*ES:* Facebook and Google or Amazon. But if your product’s more niche, you’re going to have to diversify. And what you’re seeing a lot of people doing, especially post-ATT, is because the measurement problems still exist right now, the biggest platforms can manage that for you because they do conversion modeling and they’ve gotten very good at that. They have these systems like the CAPI and the AEM and advanced conversions and what have you across the spectrum that will pull signals in from you that need integrations with them.

But for the biggest platforms, you’re willing to do that and that’s where you’re seeing a bifurcation. Now it’s like, well, okay, every single platform has a CAPI, every single platform has some sort of proprietary measurement solution that I need to integrate with. Where am I going to start? Obviously I’m going to start with Facebook and Google, and then do I continue to invest engineering resources going down the prioritized list? That’s what Bill Ready, the Pinterest CEO, has made that point a number of times in earnings calls is like, “We’re just further down on the adoption curve”, and Snap talks about this all the time, but circling, Snap talks about every quarter like, “Hey, we’ve driven CAPI adoption by X percent.”

But I think that does align with the question you asked, which is, “Well, where does Facebook go from here?”. Are some of these things saturated? Now, there was a very interesting exchange in the follow-up call ( https://s21.q4cdn.com/399680738/files/doc_financials/2023/q4/META-Q4-2023-Follow-Up-Call-Transcript.pdf ) in Meta’s earnings call. Someone asked [Meta CFO] Susan Li, “What’s CAPI adoption”? And she said, “Well, we’d never disclose that, we won’t disclose that.” Why wouldn’t they? So if there was a lot of headroom there, “Oh, it’s 30%”, then you’d be screaming that from the rooftops because that’s all upside. Snap loves to talk about it, they love to talk about it, “We’ll continue to expand CAPI adoption, every quarter we get more and more advertisers on board into CAPI”. If Facebook won’t talk about it, that means it’s saturated, there’s no upside there, there’s no additional data capture from that and so I think that’s kind of a risk, some of these measurement solutions being saturated.

Now, AEM is a different thing, AEM is a separate thing. It’s the app-based aggregated event measurement, it’s what they introduced just ahead of ATT. They totally reformed that and they sort of launched that reformed version. It’s kind of like a Ship of Theseus ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ship_of_Theseus ) thing. It existed, but they essentially —

*Right, it’s been completely rebuilt in flight.*

*ES:* They totally rebuilt it in Q4 and they have some specific design choices that I think are really interesting to pull in data even when the users opted out of ATT using intermediaries. But that is new in Q4, so that could potentially be upside, but my sense is CAPI is probably saturated and so okay, that was a tailwind, but there’s probably not of upside left to exploit there.

*Yeah, I think that’s where I’m at, broadly speaking. I think you’re right, Advantage+ still has upside in part because I think there’s just resistance for advertisers for all the reasons we talked about and at some point, every single company’s going to realize, “Look, it works, it works. This is how they get captured.” But yeah, impressions going down, at the end of the day, that still is the most reliable long-term indicator. When impressions are increasing, price spread is decreasing there’s a lot of runway and that’s been the time to buy Meta again and again. When it goes the other way, you can look forward and it’s going to get tougher at some point and this gets to the question of, “What’s the next thing for them? When are they going to get those new surfaces?”. No one saw Stories coming, I think there was a lot of worry about saturation of that. Maybe it’s the click to Messenger Ads maybe and Messenger generally, but that would be my concern after we’ve celebrated crowing about being right ( https://stratechery.com/2022/meta-myths/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIyL21ldGEtbXl0aHMvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MDk5ODI4MzAsImlhdCI6MTcwNzM5MDgzMCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.BNJrj5i2sAam0W_vgRHwAJJ5QFj8v00jlih06J3P_MGNvXj3_5b1YZ5F22YE0fJJBGgIaamhQUeC87ojdy-33_enE880F0jCZbi4_RcBwB1gMcg0PBS8fSSPoRe6KZQq9lCpeGl0Xm2dQeXNfPm85buotUyktaiAvDiNMOcaRw65lRxVHIA9a3hFzQWKpDz4y0pPO1bIhajRC7sHcl5uT-S5nALBIh8Gg7Hrh8vQJ8M9wkU8aktrc8b6AddCg0Zd8xvl2YjKh1Tl5Ujip5E9XK3DTriWYKp_CbbvBq1lwaLDofrGbLoClgfhMeBIDnTrWnN4S9QNjkadoC0_j_XVpQ ) when they were at their bottom. That would be my concern about being at the top.*

*ES:* Yeah, I mean when you’re printing twenty-five percent stock price increase and twenty-five percent revenue increase year-over-year, that’s great, but that’s coming on the back of all the work they did. And so the question is what do you have to look forward to?

*And then you’re going to have to comp to that next year.*

*ES:* Exactly. Also they were comping against easier numbers, but I think there’s a couple of things. So if I think about what are the opportunities for their ads business expanding Advantage+, I still think there’s a lot of runway there, I still think there’s a lot of juice left to squeeze there, I think the walled compound idea, the walled compound partnerships, I think that is very, very interesting. So what I’m talking about here specifically is the Amazon partnerships.

Meta and Amazon

*Yes, let’s talk about that exactly. I think the Amazon story has been undercoved. I’ve written about it a couple times ( https://stratechery.com/2023/meta-and-amazon-meta-shops-and-att-amazon-logistics-and-the-anti-amazon-alliance/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.gms7lSubZ7Ng0psjh0GuJE4sOi55HU6xImvbaDNwwk72JF8TkyRm_zD9jE17lHaIp26gGQHd_UvBoGk1Pzqtn7F8Ks9pDqSNUHO2hygFjbxt72JIRUn8dHDMtlEBMHYzY6DOPr1_lqGODR2pz-9cNS1vMr2kgBfu76pueUse6eKF8RcoJn8xBm-7c7lUlvN_08Y1yzEuvbvJDc6AJ3yIU7sWb5eza_FaLu32zVKw7n5ioJiCYaHnl-9-HJwdi51a4pxzeWoLIDPw5oHqdrvm63ZQ7YL1cMopS-4pNx-AtkevhbPboAAbblFKbEWF2frN2al6aEJq-MFukaE3DlT7zw ) , but the way in which they’re expanding beyond Amazon.com is very, very interesting.*

*ES:* Well, it is fascinating because I see it as being almost a canonical case of mutual benefit against a shared enemy.

So this idea of a walled compound, so you’ve got two walled gardens, they each have an asset, they each have an asset that’s unique to them. Facebook has surface area for display ads, Amazon has customer data, transaction history and so what they’ve managed to negotiate is they’ve sort of form this partnership. User would see this sort of generic ad for some Amazon product, they’d click on it and what’ll happen is Facebook says, “Hey, do you want to link your account? Do you want to link your Facebook account with your Amazon account account? If you do that, we’ll be able to provide you more personalized Ads from Amazon.” So they link the account, now there’s this direct pipeline.

Now when there’s an impression for that user on Facebook, they can ping Amazon, they can say, “Hey, user12345 has an impression available, do you want to participate in the auction”? What Amazon explicitly says that they do not do as a result of this partnership is they do not share that customer’s purchase history with Facebook. What they do is when they receive notification that there’s an impression available, they curate the ad, they figure out what the best ad to show to that particular user is based on the purchase history they have for them, and they send the ad creative over.

That is new, Facebook has never gone there because Facebook is very protective of the feed. If they just allowed anybody to inject ads into the Facebook feed, I mean that could cause retention to churn, increase. They’re very protective of the ads that they allow to be shown, they’ve got a very strict filter about the ads that they allow any advertiser to use, but they’re giving Amazon the power to inject ads there.

So Amazon sends this ad and they send what they call a value signal, which I perceive to be some sort of expected value of showing this ad to the user. Now Facebook says, “Okay, thanks for the ad, thanks for the expected value.” They insert that into the auction stack or the bid stack in the auction. If Amazon wins, the Amazon ad gets shown, user clicks, the pop up happens in the app, they can transact. My understanding is Facebook doesn’t get the exact transaction information, but Amazon could send a CAPI ping on the backend.

*Yeah, Amazon tells them that it worked and then Facebook will know at least what was the amount of the bid for this particular user that worked and so they’re getting data on their side as well.*

*ES:* Exactly. So what Facebook is doing is it’s getting more demand for it’s inventory, it should drive ad prices up. Now this is still in beta, Amazon’s getting more ways to drive purchases for the retailers, it’s win win, and they’re both sort of jointly establishing a bulwark against Tiktok Shop, which is a threat to both of them. It’s a threat to Facebook Shop, it’s a threat to the Facebook core business, it’s a threat to Amazon as a retailer.

ATT and the Mediocre Middle

*So broadly speaking, and I think this Amazon point gets to it, particularly this bit where Facebook is giving this unique capability to Amazon as a large trusted partner and this other bit about, “If you are a broadly appealing product, you are not going to saturate Facebook” — you actually have a cost advantage relative to niche products because niche products have to build up marketing expertise to be able to go into all the other platforms because they will saturate Facebook.*

*What it feels like, and this is kind of a bummer from my perspective, is you go back to the traditional TV advertising, newspaper advertising analog era, we ended up with these monster CPG companies that were really serving minimum common denominator products. I don’t sau lowest because they would diversify: one company would make ten brands of deodorant that would target different demographics, but they would make that demographic group as large as possible to justify a brand manager and the expense and the branding and all those sorts of things and it all culminated at the grocery store. You had to get shelf space and it was a whole entire chain.*

*One of the beautiful things about the Internet was you had this rise of niche products and that’s why I wrote about razor blades back in the day, that was one of the canonical examples of you can, because of the Internet, because you could target a specific niche, you can make a specific product that would at least at first glance not be viable in retail. Now, we’ve talked about a lot of these companies ended up going into retail because it turned out Facebook took all their margins but anyhow, the Internet brought up all these niches.*

*What I’m hearing from you is that one of the effects downstream of ATT and the fact that it just is really hard to be a niche advertiser now, we’re actually returning to a world of you need a minimum common denominator status that gives you a cost advantage because you can just leverage Facebook, that gets you the scale on Amazon to be a meaningful player. You can get into these sort of channels and we’re sort of coming full circle back to the pre-analog world and niches are kind of screwed.*

*ES:* I think so. Gaming tends to be the tip of the spear of these cyclical preference changes, whether they’re demand-driven or supply-driven. and we’ve seen that happen with gaming, that happened last year or earlier. So it’s what I call the move to the middle ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/consumer-behavior-changes-in-ios-14/ ) , because you weren’t able to create some sort of niche game that had super high LTV, but very low general appeal, very low TAM. Everything’s now moved into the casual space, and so you’ve seen a lot of the, what are called the core games that died on the vine. I mean they’re just basically being supported as legacy titles, but there’s no new development of those types of games. Everybody’s moving into the middle and that’s where a lot of the consolidation happened and so you’d expect that trend to sort of surface.

*It’s going to happen to products in general. Yeah, I mean you see this in movies, you see this in gaming. When the cost of acquiring customers gets very high, you end up with everything in the middle, the mediocre middle is sort of another way to frame it, and I think the ATT thing will forever upset me. It is somewhat gratifying that more people are coming around and realizing that this was a bad thing but this is the worst part of it. The destruction was, Facebook survived, the destruction was borne and carried by niche products, niche apps, niche games, the promise of the Internet, these sort of entities and they’re the ones that actually got killed and they’re the missing revenue for Facebook. They’re the missing part of the stock price rise for Facebook, that was Facebook’s bread and butter and no one will ever know and truly mourn them because they weren’t mainstream. We’ll just bemoan the fact that everything is boring in the mediocre middle.*

*ES:* Yeah, it’s Marvel movies writ large, its X-Men 37 writ large.

So actually there was a study that came out last week or so, a paper published by academics ( https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4698374 ) at I think Columbia and Northwestern and they found that, and so there had been a lot of these types of studies, but a lot of times they used Facebook data and so there’s kind this vocal contingent of call-them privacy advocates who always would just dismiss this immediately. “Well, Facebook gave you the data, that means they probably influenced the outcome and so we can’t trust”, well, this study didn’t use Facebook data, they used Shopify retailer data.

So these are Shopify retailers and what they found was post-ATT, they looked at a time series, and they used difference in difference comparison to come up with a robust analytical result. So what they found was ATT drove a 23% increase in conversion price and it acutely impacted small businesses and the sad thing is like, okay, well, so now we’ve got some, I don’t know, call it credible quantification, I think a lot of people were saying this was going to happen, but that’s exactly what Facebook said was going to happen. Facebook said that like, “Look, we’re going to be fine, this is just going to hurt SMBs, this is going to hurt SMBs and we’ll be fine and you’re going to be left with a lot of big companies that operate this way.

*People were out there mocking them, they took out an ad in the paper about how small-medium businesses are going to be the true sufferers of ATT, and I mean whatever, we’re here commiserating, it’s frustrating. You could see this was going to happen and it happened and now we’re just going to deal with the death of these products on the Internet for basically the rest of the ongoing future.*

*ES:* X-Men 257.

Generative Advertising and Privacy

*ES:* So let me just circle back to where I see the opportunities, and I can talk about the risks briefly too, because I do think they face some acute risks, but the third opportunity I would point to is generative AI for ad creative, I think that’s a huge opportunity, I’ve talked a lot about generative AI for ad creative.

*Both Google and Facebook are talking about this. I think Facebook is doing it where they’ll expand the image and they’ll change the text. Obviously that’s just step one, but this is just introducing another variable into that matrix, which no company — they can’t even handle all the variables now, but Facebook can.*

*ES:* Right, exactly. So they have text variation, and then image expansion. But look, that’s the first step on a very long journey. I wrote this piece a while back called The Five Value Milestones of Generative AI ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/five-value-milestones-of-generative-ai-for-advertising-creative/ ) , and the last one is, every ad you see is personalized to you, it’s personalized to your preferences and who can do that? Only Google and Facebook can do that, because they’ve got the data and no third party SaaS platform can do that.

*Well not just the data, but also the infrastructure.*

*ES:* Yeah, of course.

*This is a massive infrastructure lift.*

*ES:* But I think there was a lot of enthusiasm last year around these SaaS products that would be able to do generative AI for ad creative. How are they going to utilize the feedback loop? Because in your Facebook reporting, you’re not getting the data that Facebook uses to target, that’s proprietary to them, and that’s exactly what they’re doing with Advantage+. They’re making that opaque, only they get to utilize that.

So if you have a SaaS product that’s building these variants, that’s great, but you’re not going to be able to tune the variants over time and improve them over time because you don’t know how they’re being targeted. But I think as you see Facebook gradually march towards this eventuality, which I think they’re going to take this very slowly and cautiously, because they don’t want to scare advertisers. Advertisers want to be certain they have total control.

*There’s going to be some story about a generative AI ad gone wrong, and they desperately want to avoid that.*

*ES:* It’ll be the equivalent of the self-driving car hitting somebody. That’ll happen, and they just want to be very cautious that it happens very rarely. But I think we’re headed in that direction, I think that’s a massive value unlock, for Facebook and for maybe a handful of other platforms, but I think that’s another one.

*Yeah, just to articulate how this is going to work, you’re going to broadly put in your brand image, or colors, or sample images, you’re going to put in your message and they will, it’s not just that they’ll generate, I think the V1 is they will A/B test in a way no human could, and they’ll quickly distill — to your point, the computers work all the time, 24/7, they don’t take breaks — and as soon as one starts to pop, they will optimize it and figure it out. There’s one thing you did say though that I wanted to highlight. You were like, “Facebook keeps this proprietary, they keep it to themselves.” And it’s funny because there’ll be a part of the audience like, “Oh, that sounds anticompetitive.” Wait, I thought we care about privacy!*

*ES:* Exactly.

*I thought we cared about having your purchase history to yourself. It’s a perfect distillation of how one man’s anticompetitiveness is another man’s privacy, and as long as both are a priority, neither will actually be accomplished.*

*ES:* Well exactly, and that’s the perpetual tension and that actually surfaced yesterday with the Privacy Sandbox for Chrome. So the UK CMA saying ( https://searchengineland.com/google-cannot-proceed-third-party-cookie-deprecation-437212 ) , “Hey look, in the current state, you couldn’t possibly roll this out in the second half of the year”, there’s still anticompetitive concerns.

So on the one hand you’ve got publishers and advertisers screaming their heads off like, “Hey, Privacy Sandbox is not as effective as cookies, don’t replace cookies.” And then on the other side you’ve got privacy activists who are saying, “No, we can’t give Google this much control. That’s going to distill all of that power within Google, and we don’t trust Google with this kind of power.” So that’s that natural tension.

The difference here is, Google is doing this of its own volition, it’s not being forced to do this, there’s not a law that says you have to deprecate third party cookies in Chrome. My sense is it probably benefits them more than most people realize, but in some ways they probably are being dragged along just by the winds of change.

*I think there’s an aspect of, change is difficult and hard. This gets to the deterministic bit, it was exceptionally painful for Facebook to give up deterministic ad targeting. However, anyone could do deterministic ad targeting, you just needed to get that pixel onto a website and the SDK into apps, then it was relatively simple. And you could do it on CPUs, you didn’t need a big infrastructure build out, you could do it in the cloud like Snap was building. The difference now is it’s really difficult to build, it’s really painful, and even if you and I are sitting on high looking down on the industry saying, “Hey, if you go through this really hard period you can get to there,” I can promise you Mark Zuckerberg and company do not want a repeat of 2021, 2022. That was painful even if they’re coming out of the other side.*

*You see this again and again. I remember when GDPR was coming along, another situation where I’m screaming ( https://stratechery.com/2018/open-closed-and-privacy/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDE4L29wZW4tY2xvc2VkLWFuZC1wcml2YWN5LyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzA5OTgyODMwLCJpYXQiOjE3MDczOTA4MzAsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.Ei9G9GQ6cZBtdBCPxoB6X54g7Q3A7LHf5viOSxFF8n_et7mHhczhcD6Fk1O7h8KQYlrWVHsVYVmEHt6n1c6QpYcxXYphLmcD5n7oOATi2tNQbLoZ-b5AxCxas4z-qBpcz5lqyXeDlSXANoAy72LRO31LgOh8EsyTGh6Vu1NwMV_D1eHyia9ONbpMRXbc5iQBURxRyP0UC84Q2EN67STj0w3QjOEKL033QzwDtufXptPBlzglXhvDzR9xXYhBH2UJ7UGNmxwrEaSTJadPTAM3OOLEpwVl5DKyT97QVokjM-L6Qps06_bwokQ-eNWRrvR8rMarl-L0MDTtNLXFXSsz0Q ) from the rooftops, “This is not going to turn out how you think it’s going to. It’s going to benefit Facebook and Google.” There were people coming at me constantly saying, “Why are Google and Facebook lobbying against it?” Because it sucked, that’s why. And it sucks, and it was painful for them but it can both be true, that your competitive position is better, but along the way there was all kinds of value destroyed for lots of people, and they had to go through a very wrenching sort of change that they didn’t want to. And oh by the way, what actual customer benefit actually ended up happening? Not really any.*

*ES:* Yeah, well with GDPR specifically, yeah. It just feels like it was just painful for the sake of the pain. I was talking to somebody the other day about this. It’s like, especially with SKAdNetwork, it was like they measured the effectiveness by decrease in Meta’s stock price, and not with any sort of objective metric for consumer privacy protection. It was just, “Hey, this hurts Facebook so it must work really, really well at protecting consumer privacy”. And I just don’t think that was the case.

*That’s a really good observation. There was just, because the whole point about Facebook keeping this data private is, my contention is that Facebook ads were a big leap forward in privacy if you cared about your data getting shared willy-nilly between brokers, and passed around all over the place. Actually it was all housed in one place and not shared out at all, but the popular conception was, Tim Cook talking about Facebook selling data. I was like, “Well no, they’re not selling data”. But that spoke to I think just a very blunt understanding of the market that wasn’t particularly accurate, and to your point led to this, it’s private if it hurts Facebook’s stock, not realizing that, number one, Facebook will come back, and number two, that stock was driven by small businesses that were uniquely made possible because of Facebook, and now they’re all dead.*

*ES:* Yeah, exactly. I mean, the DTC sector has been essentially hollowed out. It’s not even that they’ve gone through choppy waters, a lot of these companies have just shuttered, and there’s just no way to operate with these niche products. There’s just no way to achieve scale, and there’s also no way to — because you still need to build a lot of infrastructure for measurement yourself. It’s just beyond the capacity of some small company at some low level of revenue.

Google Search Angst

*So where’s Google right now in your estimation? All the discussion of the algorithmic based sort of purchasing, their version is PMax, Performance Max. It’s the same general idea as Facebook. Where do you view their business probably?*

*ES:* Yeah, Google, the big issue for them, and maybe that’ll materialize this quarter but I think it’s probably a little bit further off, was that search was below consensus. So search was up 13%, YouTube was up 15%.

My interpretation of that actually is probably a little bit more generous to Google, which was that if you look at the relative ramp down and ramp up, YouTube took a bigger hit from ATT, so it’s having a more pronounced resurgence. I think that’s probably what explains this.

But the bigger long-term threat to Google is people don’t need to go to Google to search anymore, they go to TikTok to search or they go to ChatGPT to search, and that’s probably the more existential threat. But I don’t know if that materialized this quarter, I think it’s just on the relative, the acuteness of the ramp down versus the ramp up, immediate aftermath of the ATT degredations, and then the recovery.

*I completely agree. I saw the headlines when the earnings came out, and I went in there ( https://stratechery.com/2024/google-earnings-microsoft-earnings/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L2dvb2dsZS1lYXJuaW5ncy1taWNyb3NvZnQtZWFybmluZ3MvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MDk5ODI4MzAsImlhdCI6MTcwNzM5MDgzMCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.BQUk9it_4JvsBp1MtdPGdmMKSdxeEwt4WQWHVAG9vCSI1HK5EPTVJGbVDhVA2bulCPdV4p5xp3bR_KQlqSYEphyUnLR4RLJryxyeIVSKxS1cUN3uMbrTJ6x7_QwalPOBa63qiumVayjzpkzfTE-J4yV3rIio3QeRJKiiiJ4va9LCNudbqTFi-qMQwc9IITkabM1Qoymuv8diwSMJ6LGSmEzgSiZ8hKsQIuKO4xj6HTkav_0Vf5NMCSQxSiPXIeDNvEqH3LZBtUfSgEZwYhE8E_UmQZRWVaZrikdeMlMcLPUJB6hjc0rm3IKbbzsRDZrQ-qIkw3XGQfdOiitJEdydQA ) ready to look for it, and there’s not really evidence that that effect is happening to search yet. The other thing about search is search actually surged during the ATT implementation, because the money went from performance ads to search. Search was almost artificially inflated in a certain way because of ATT.*

*The one thing that does concern me, I was thinking about this, broadly speaking about Google, I’ve always had in my head that “I’m Feeling Lucky” button, and that was always there as sort of an aspirational button, and the funny thing is for a very long time you couldn’t even click that button, because the moment you would start typing in a search box it would start the search, it would load the SERP [Search Engine Results Page] immediately. But it was always there, because that was the North Star, is Google wants to give you the answer to your question, not just provide ten blue links.*

*I go back to, basically the last six or seven years, and Google kept going from height to height financially, and I was tracking this, their earnings for a while, as basically, “How many ads were loading on mobile?”, and it was one ad for a while, then it was two ads, then it was three ads, then it was four ads. It’s like, “How much of this continued growth is just from stuffing the channel?”, and it does feel like in many respects that period, from 2017 to 2021, ’22, that’s what Google’s fighting right now, is they larded themselves up on the old paradigm to keep chasing growth, and ironically enough that was after the transformer already existed.*

*If, to the extent Google does get disrupted, I think that’s the five-year period that mattered, where their efforts went to juicing their results by doubling down on the current model, making it that much more difficult and wrenching to move away.*

*ES:* Yeah, I agree. They just kept juicing the ad load and the problem with that is, at some point those aren’t really answering your questions. Maybe obliquely they are answering your questions, but there’s always going to be a tension between, if you see every single opportunity to show content as being the choice between the organic content that best meets that user’s needs or the ad that best monetizes that user, you’ve always got to think about the long-term impact of that choice that you made.

In this moment, of course if I show, if the whole page was ads then I’m probably going to make some money. But if the whole page was ads they probably won’t come back the next time if the ad they click doesn’t answer their question, and so there’s always got to be that balance you achieve. I wrote a piece about this a while back called The Best and Highest Use of Customer Attention ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/the-best-and-highest-use-of-customer-attention/ ). Every single opportunity to show something, to slot something into that pixel space, is going to impact your immediate near-term monetization, and it’s going to impact your long-term engagement retention and so how do you optimize against that?

It seems like they just, and if you hear all of the complaints about Google as a workplace now, and I don’t know how true these are, I don’t know that many people that work at Google, but it’s the common chorus is that innovation just doesn’t exist here anymore. Well then that would be the kind of thing, I can neither confirm nor deny that, I can’t corroborate it, but that would be the kind of thing that you would do if that was true. It’s just like, “Well I’m going to mine this asset that I have in this second, which is customer attention, I’m going to mine it for whatever value I can get out of it, because I don’t know how I could possibly increase the value over time”.

*Yup. It’ll be very interesting, because I think they are, my perception from the outside, they just renamed Bard ( https://9to5google.com/2024/02/03/google-bard-gemini-rebrand-android-app-date/ ) , hilariously enough, but I think that their big focus is going to be generative AI in the search results, and defend that fortress. Which I think makes sense, as opposed to building up an alternative. If you choose to go to Bard, actually if you’re already in the process of choosing an alternative search page, they’re probably already screwed, you’re just going to go to ChatGPT. So I think doubling down and making people not even have an incentive to change is the right approach.*

*One theory, and I wanted to ask you if this is correct, is that Google search results had higher value relative to the item being advertised, because advertisers could build a long-term relationship with some number of customers they captured, so the LTV, lifetime value, would be higher than just the sort of margin they get on a specific purchase from an affiliate link. But one concern is as you go to these generative AI, you’re going to get more almost affiliate link type advertising where you just click on a button and you buy, you don’t know who it is, and that’s therefore going to be worth less to advertisers. Is that correct? That’s sort of been my view on the matter, but I’m curious if that makes sense to you.*

*ES:* Well honestly I think it’s hard for me to — I don’t want to anthropomorphize the generative AI ad experience with the current advertising model, because I don’t know what it’ll look like, but it might be. The way I think about this is, I’ve got attention in this second, and if I think about that as a raw commodity, that’s worth something, I could just sell it, I could also cultivate it, I could also refine it.

So if I’ve got this raw commodity, let’s say it’s unrefined crude oil, I could refine it and then hey, it’s worth more. One of the original use cases for oil was as a cold remedy, people just drank it, it just came out of the ground in Pennsylvania and they were like, “Hey, it turns out if we refine it we could put it in a combustion engine, and hey I could power a car by this, and I could haul stuff with that car, and it’s worth much more in that use case.”

So I think there’s a number of different generative AI models that might surface that allow you to refine that raw asset of attention in that moment that aren’t just, “Hey, I’m going to show you something that you might potentially click on and purchase”. But I don’t know if we could envision those now, because this technology is not totally new, but I think that the widespread consumer use case is.

Apple, Developers, and Regulators

*Let’s get to Apple. Do you have a Vision Pro ( https://stratechery.com/2024/the-apple-vision-pro/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L3RoZS1hcHBsZS12aXNpb24tcHJvLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzA5OTgyODMwLCJpYXQiOjE3MDczOTA4MzAsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.gVgi3WsJNuGG-idvRtCfeKHSG9mUlMuAwl173yEWhCuQ6PzJLES8Al-DoijQpVywH9wg63ShV_zlX5PRM65E_jOddfG0EzSIiK7YZjRmaH2d2Q6ylpEkJjyR3d_SLdkkgi9mY5yUAWNSVa4E6umjZC9jmnpXbze8s9wJxtuRV5d-8FwSFDUTYq19adxzb1zGzHOIGNM1Wwz_ccWTMe-MkUQb3vV2RAS3Rddjl2pjTg_YSU-O3npeJvJv22og39REnxBuXOoWt_UX1exNyDOEg_6P60dd1zXGczurmvL5FcDNUuI5zrUX9z7J4ioQ3zDpg6MUcqn3OXbJCz1VxCc5BA ) ?*

*ES:* No, I don’t. I don’t have one.

*What would it take to convince you to buy one?*

*ES:* I don’t know. So I think you posted this or you reposted this, it was the guy on the plane and he was in his office, essentially he was in this virtual environment that looked like his office. He was getting a lot of work done and I was like, “Okay, wow, that’s the killer use case for me. I could absolutely see myself doing that”. I have a Meta Quest and I used it a couple times, it was kind of like a party trick when people would come over, people would want to put it on and they played for 15 minutes and they’d go, “Who else wants to try?” But I could see that being a killer use case for that, but you still need the WiFi, right?

So I feel like ultimately that’s going to be the problem. It’s like the places where I need to replicate the office environment. Well, there’s a reason I need to replicate it, and so it is probably I’m traveling or just in some way untethered. I’m just wondering if that, because I don’t need another way to watch movies, I’ve got my iPad, I’ve got my laptop if I’m traveling, but I would like a more, much more comfortable way of getting things done if I’m stuck in an airplane seat and I still think the lack of WiFi, it is just an exogenous factor that I know you can overcome.

*I like this, basically a complement to the Apple Vision is Starlink ( https://stratechery.com/2023/starlink-solution-starlink-experience-starlink-implications/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIzL3N0YXJsaW5rLXNvbHV0aW9uLXN0YXJsaW5rLWV4cGVyaWVuY2Utc3RhcmxpbmstaW1wbGljYXRpb25zLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzA5OTgyODMwLCJpYXQiOjE3MDczOTA4MzAsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.Uu8eHXCXoPBNoxBE3kbaZ3raeIRH20kE9cQZrWiwTqN_mTJ_SopEqi1O4a2M-YFyEfCzGF0LENDyvb_TTVf5dyoqD03difvW539axw3fDVJ2YlMfIcdZc-_gS1R3bOhFTrQGh5mfDmbhFQR7Ar6_tZmcAo9OaSNQXExjistNnKhaU2UtskzCLyENhkYNYiPM1wOYBgkKUWLACn4045K5XjhxJt2vW2nBUc6mJmBj2PzDC7e2R0BTR-hwg93VPqov-NyBSRcIcgjDzuejJSanStyWtrq2Tjlg5hEh_0u1dUDTQBfZJZLPIgj3OX0IlKAs4efgeAB16nk9EhWKP6yqUw ) , all airplanes need to install Starlink on airplane.*

*ES:* Yeah, there you go.

*Anyhow, the more pertinent aspect of Apple to our conversation is Apple with the Supreme Court decision or the Supreme Court wasn’t a decision, rather they didn’t hear the appeal ( https://stratechery.com/2024/the-supreme-court-declines-to-hear-apple-epic-apples-predictable-response/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.VGBOC_R77S2Hu-Q9QlG6Q6qVt1s-QWU_rfqMKXXZtkw4wr5eqe9yoIrA9mgS5TzN55GW-j4AiQqRLUxenvg6d0pPBR-_coh8aPW7AkA2DSPkfTB-ruEaySFcVh9tq3n1f7jtuVHGvOB9wiAxYcQK1Xl4AL1YdBd1tC9KEQ_SLzNLkjuxgfRc3Cc9ccAoZZrTJSkLg6YqhvJIn64Qfp_xN2WMG3cHRLuTVwTk0oZt9-HIwA1jS5Ptm27grbdf-rpvM5UlR7BOT0yLcZCNSTbJRrKLYrJH2hztI7LZ70togfjuCsT9ovZcVMer30dcODSo9GYzZw9Es7jWZZtNh4QquA ).*

*ES:* They didn’t hear it.

*So we ended up with the case where Apple has to implement or let developers offer a link to their website, Apple implemented it in the most onerous way possible, as we both predicted, and then there was their response to the DMA ( https://stratechery.com/2024/apple-and-the-dmc-apple-and-or-a-reluctant-apple-apologist/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L2FwcGxlLWFuZC10aGUtZG1jLWFwcGxlLWFuZC1vci1hLXJlbHVjdGFudC1hcHBsZS1hcG9sb2dpc3QvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MDk5ODI4MzAsImlhdCI6MTcwNzM5MDgzMCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.u1RV5PABQvi4UkSyW65oyIj9Dal1F8e5qTFQJDeBY7OWdb0T-khWb_JG4l0K9EQF60q2gdbW4bEVTu-B1qjGtepGTiCeToF1D13ApCk4vBwdJhVliDSr5-ibNUiJyDV2gh_36W7-dgZ_lhjaHcFzibyRcNgRsclGX2z6cJsL1r5Nm-tyXwOkgM6rxrc0r1zkZOVkMZazP25wtMNDs0Z4L9-qHRx-9kPx3PYbYjP8o12pPbaRQPo1Yn-wuqLF2ndatpW8IcFM-iPgKybPJ73oICATfvWee1ppYwRXbdN0RiCKVf1_mDZf9Z_y3w_3ODwCcP_rg81l3hcFodehXL321Q ) and having this Core Technology Fee, only stores that they approve, et cetera. You wrote a series of posts that were like Apple to developers, Heads I win, Tales You Lose ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/apple-to-developers-heads-i-win-tails-you-lose-part-3/ ) that covered both these cases. Walk me through the big picture thesis and any new discoveries because we’ve certainly been griping about the situation long enough.*

*ES:* So, the first entry in that series ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/apple-to-developers-heads-i-win-tails-you-lose/ ) was related to the Dutch Competition Authorities decision around dating apps in the Netherlands. They said, “Look, you have to allow these alternative in-app and off platform payments”, and Apple’s compliance to that was deemed to be so insufficient that the court fined them $5 million euros a week until they came into compliance. So they changed the guidance and the court or the Competition Authority deemed that they were in compliance but the guidelines that they came to, the developer guidelines that they came to are exactly what they implemented in the US following the Epic suit and the whole percolation up—

*Which is basically you have to use our link and then we get 27% instead of 30%, and we reserve the right to audit your books.*

*ES:* Right, exactly, and they have templates for the text that you can use and the link and you can only have one link and it’s got to be in only one place in your app.

*Oh, by the way, you have to track your purchases for seven days, which is very bad if Meta does it, but it’s okay if we do it.*

*ES:* And after going through all of that sort of onerous adaptation, we’re only going to reduce the fee by 3%. So, that’s the headline and that’s what makes this a non-starter. No one is going to go to those efforts to get a reduction of the fee of 3% and the one thing that people don’t talk about that seldom gets brought up in these discussions is that you can’t just look at the reduction of the fee, you’ve got to look at the reduction in the conversion. Because anytime you offer an alternative to the default, just almost by definition Apple is a multi-trillion dollar company, everyone’s got their products, there’s just an immense level of consumer trust.

*All the credit cards are on file, they’re already logged in, all these sorts of things. The reality is that even if Apple didn’t do any of this stuff, they could charge a significantly higher fee than any competitors because it is a better experience and people would convert better.*

*ES:* Right, exactly. So you’ve got to factor in that loss of conversion. That conversion degradation is going to be material and so you’re going to have to charge a lower price point just to incentivize people to use the alternative in the first place and so there’s just no way to make that economically viable. I think the US App Store pricing changes or the App Store payments changes, non-starter. The European ones are even more complex, even more onerous and even less appealing. I call them performative.

*Well, they’re actually dangerous because if you’re a viral app, and have something that gets installed, you could go bankrupt.*

*ES:* Yeah, you could go bankrupt and also just in general, the CTF breaks the freemium model. You can’t have a freemium model where there’s a price of distribution, it just doesn’t work, it’s got to be a zero price point at distribution, marginal distribution has to be free. The second you apply basically a fee for distribution, the freemium model breaks in its entirety.

Now, I think with the European rules, there could be a way that certain types of subscription apps could benefit from the new business terms relative to the status quo. If you have very, very high LTV subscription app with sort of a low number of installs, maybe you’d be better off.

But the problem with the CTF is it’s basically a recurring fee, so it recurs on a 12 month usage basis if the user re-installs the app or they update the app. So first of all, you’re dis-incentivizing app developers publishing updates because they’ll get charged and you’re creating a 50 euro cent LTV drag on a recurring yearly basis. So yeah, there’s maybe a handful of apps that would choose the new business terms, but for the vast majority of apps, it is just a non-starter.

*Right. But the problem is those apps can’t go direct-to-consumer. Someone else has to build an App Store for them to even be distributed. So, there’s another disconnect there.*

*ES:* Exactly and the alternative app marketplace don’t even get the one million install threshold.

*It’s 50 cents worth right off the bat.*

*ES:* Before which they pay the CTF, they pay the CTF from the first install.

*And not just on the App Store, but on every single app they have in the store.*

*ES:* Exactly. If you thought that the DMA was going to allow this mass proliferation of niche alternative app marketplaces, you’re going to have an app marketplace for every single possible interest. Well, no. You might get three. You’re going to get one from Epic, you’re going to get one from Microsoft, and maybe you’ll get one from Valve, but you’re not going to get these niche alternative app marketplaces because no one can afford to scale them if you have to pay 50 euro cents per install from the very first install on top of marketing costs.

*Yeah, I’m not even sure if Microsoft’s going to do it to be totally honest.*

*Here’s the question though. We talk about the framing, the obvious framing of all this is Apple, like the way they’re setting this up and it’s so much worse and you’re killing freemium apps and all these sorts of things — the easy answer to reach for is Apple, they’re such jerks. Is it possible the answer is actually the current model, all things considered, wasn’t that bad, and that’s not really the real issue with Apple’s control? That this is sort of a red herring and you’re focused on the wrong thing, and that’s why Apple is exploiting it so easily because they were actually in a decent position to start.*

*ES:* Totally. I mean, look, I’ve consistently defended Apple’s model here. I remember the day that ATT was announced at WWDC, I’d published an article ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/three-arguments-against-apple-anti-trust-accusations/ ) laying out three arguments against monopoly accusations on Apple’s App Store practices. I don’t think that this is monopolistic at all.

First of all, they’re the smaller of the two mobile platforms, so I think you could just dismiss that accusation sort of out of hand. But beyond that, I’ve always defended their practices. The problem is the hostility towards the practices came from the developer community and so it’s like, “Well, you’re not being fair to us”. That’s where that sort of, “Apple’s a jerk”, sentiment is evoked.

But in this case, it’s a law. In this case, it’s the European Union issuing a law in a lot of European Union regulations, I find to be sort of backwards and quixotic and sort of shortsighted. The DMA in a lot of ways, I think is good regulation. There’s some aspects of it that are pretty bad or that I think are shortsighted and maybe destructive. But this is a law and this is Apple basically openly defying The European Commission.

*Well, that’s the whole thing though. When the DMA came out ( https://stratechery.com/2022/the-app-store-and-the-digital-markets-act-third-party-app-stores-messaging-interoperability-madness/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.NAnjrLouNFUM6QTbksUnTA6UtnSRdINqvO5Hc3Os36XxI_7SKsi3wJVXQ0Z3DtKhPot2uq8p92RIyA9ypUvshmGNMrDkMmscBS5Q81I_uQQyBAt40A3WqSfdhKdbd-9v1UV_Qu9OKtRHsZxXYVw3xY0N9CAGxWlFN2T6CxEDIJCpvNXnvfDblwi4i51PxaV1RLACNTBeJ_XLNGoHVZxy33TE87yKCoX3BGmfl-bMs0J3E5FLfNDmSCY-xEZdlrfW451Z4cXkMBHeuwtaOy4a_tlQaePLxrOL76UDkFf2fvtGU5a7-gfLENmPB09F0OLdzIfPDdVHFvimBXb79Ms90g ) , I latched onto that “or” word immediately with regards to side-loading. It’s like this does not enable side loading, for some reason they have “or” instead of “and”.*

*ES:* Right.

*Apple is not going to allow anyone to just put an app on the iPhone, that’s exactly what sort of happened, and I think that’s the challenge with this — this has been my takeaway from this, where I feel this has been something for me that I thought a lot about, which is, “Well, number one, broadly speaking, things can get worse”. This is the lesson I learned from the Bucks coaching switch last summer ( https://www.nba.com/bucks/news/milwaukee-bucks-hire-adrian-griffin-as-head-coach ) , so I’ve been learning that in lots of places, but also the App Store policies.*

*But number two is I personally don’t like the App Store approach, but I need to be super clear about what it would take to change it. At the end of the day, I would like Apple to change, I would like Apple to let companies link out to the web. I would like them to let companies realize actually once you go to the web, conversion falls through the floor and 30% actually isn’t that big of a deal. Or for some companies having all our conversions only in Stripe and not having to finagle with App Store, and all that sort of thing actually makes life much easier. But if Apple’s not going to do that, I have to face the reality of what it would take to change that, and it feels like the DMA’s shortcoming is not being honest about what it would take to actually change Apple’s behavior. It’s basically saying you have to provide the App Store on terms we decide. And yes, that’s a violation of your property, but we think it’s worth it for X, Y, Z, but no one wants this kind of be honest about that. So, you make up all these rules that sound good and make everyone feel good, which implicitly means there’s loopholes a mile wide, and I feel like that’s what happened here.*

*ES:* So a couple things. One thing is, look, I defend Apple’s right to institute whatever policies on the platform that it built and fostered and invested a tremendous amount of money into. What I wish they would do instead of trying to clinging to the 30% is I wish they would offer real alternatives, but make the Apple choice so overwhelmingly beneficial through all sorts of new features and functionality that no app developer in the right mind would ever choose the alternatives, and I even made that argument when they first introduced subscriptions. I said, “This is a perfect example of what Apple could offer that would make me never want to leave the Apple payment system.”

*I was screaming from the rooftops for like five years. Why don’t they support subscriptions? That’s a perfect example. If they had competitive forces, it wouldn’t have taken 2016 or 2017 or to be fully rolled out with no restrictions in 2018, 2019. It would’ve been there five years earlier.*

*ES:* Right and another perfect example would be App Store Analytics ( https://developer.apple.com/app-store-connect/analytics/ ). The App Store Analytics that Apple gives developers are so crude that no one uses them. You’re forced to buy some sort of SaaS product to get app analytics. They could just build that and give it away for free, and then everyone would be so pleased to pay the 30% because they know that they’re skipping out on whatever the SaaS fees are. Then I thought the Small Business Program ( https://developer.apple.com/app-store/small-business-program/ ) was genius. They know that that covers the vast majority, the overwhelming majority of developers are actually only paying 15% and not that many people are paying 30%, the people that you hear of that are paying 30% are successful app developers.

*They’re fighting over excess margin here.*

*ES:* Right, exactly. So I think the other piece of this that people don’t recognize is whenever you see a price in the app store, I mean that was optimized for gross revenue by the app developer. So, you cut that feed, it’s not going to trickle down to the consumer, they’re not going to pay less.

*100%. This is so critical about this entire discussion. It is impossible to draw through a line consumer harm when it comes to this 30%. There is so much competition on the App Store that prices have long since been driven down to their optimal level and taking the fee. All it does is shift money from Apple’s pocket to Epic’s pocket.*

*ES:* Exactly. And beyond that, the consumers don’t even know about this fee. You walk up to any random person with an iPhone in the mall and say, “Hey, did you know that this app developer’s paying a 30% fee on every?” “I have no idea what you’re talking about. Leave me alone.”

*“I thought Apple sold the apps.”*

*ES:* Yeah, Apple made every app. So, that’s why in some ways, a lot of the criticism is totally disingenuous and self-serving, which gets kind of irritating to hear the sanctimony. But at the same time, I mean, look, Apple is very publicly defying the EC, and so my sense is maybe this was just a trial balloon because they haven’t actually officially submitted their compliance guidelines to the EC, and so this could just be a way of floating what they intend, the contours of what they intend to propose, and the EC may back-channel with them. By the time they actually have to come into compliance in March, it’s been whittled down a little bit.

My sense is maybe what they did was they led with this idea of the CTF because they’d be willing to give that away and I think if they did give that away, that would actually change the calculus of that decision of changing to the new business terms or remaining with the old business terms.

*Yeah. Well, TBD. Well, you are the easiest person to have back on to talk about it when it happens. We did not get to Netflix, streaming is going crazy, there was just announced the cable sports bundle ( https://stratechery.com/2024/vision-pro-at-work-the-sports-bundle/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L3Zpc2lvbi1wcm8tYXQtd29yay10aGUtc3BvcnRzLWJ1bmRsZS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTcwOTk4MjgzMCwiaWF0IjoxNzA3MzkwODMwLCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwaS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.HV6143eTrrNt4BAOV4sL6mtoJBtXnK0VV-fLZmi3NniqrbspjRYDQU3BnNwa-Wm2f6cmFGCM7JQIPdz4ADjFTdSQOyP8UDDdqVGrwHsf-fIHSkT0XY7QW_5I82SYD7xH441HUnbP0TPZx945Ptz5dltNZVv80-0K7CQP75ifVXmRPTaLATdM4KWzA3fGEDLocHDsACn2SVgA_Lc1BlzdyeNJAKbaDnkjBYGrWrOay4p1Fgw8S3oTWcORC3KGhlo0gt0-BVhPli9rYWQsykfcplgdCLnCRTr2fU1hQ_Od_RUQiD2Jvwjjr1sbbS6oTY8OBRJkFmioFnzbpSQva759mA ) , which I’m excited to dig into, but I think the answer is not to have a two-hour podcast, but to have you on next quarter. It’s always great to talk, I love these conversations, thanks for coming on again.*

*ES:* Yeah, thank you, Ben. It’s a pleasure.

This Daily Update Interview is also available as a podcast. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member ).

The Daily Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.

Thanks for being a supporter, and have a great day!

Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player: Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharptech.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Dithering ( https://dithering.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.dithering.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp China ( https://sharpchina.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharpchina.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Greatest Of All Talk ( https://goat.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgoat.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Subscription Information

Member: Omar Zoheri
Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com
Member since: April 23, 2022
Your subscription renews every year
Renewal date: December 8, 2024

You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery ( https://www.stratechery.com ).

Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/login?email=stratecheryUSC%40khamel.com ) to view your account and manage your subscriptions.
Click here ( https://api.passport.online/api/1.0.0/users/RseuYE8jgHePpWJf1fAb4C/channelOptOut?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.vGbF3KZgowtz8C-mgEKU3slEjOPdFZXgamTvpjxmHPAtaEEbWCTD0XPl0cXU-Y2Cw_59Sgdz3OUr6k4qqxgEgeIeqXkvA7jd-7dLqA12-UMfsnAJQj08XDrMrGMGRAz0DadhGrHCVeiNmuDxf0KikWl_xsv6Hz4pzo-m7mCJU9Xu3CV_yPDP517GYbzAf789hhuWb0mt-zjg7rVB7LzUNpO51gq302U2kYjUvN1G_z9u40bnvVU0mfSOxAV11FUU_H_08nFnfd3vVsg5Jlnqg9rEilbuzo_LF-5Xc8kk_wq0bBM1jNEA3N9_mGEft2mqFLPo1hAG7yqL7xV8qjBugQ&channel=email&redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fstratechery.passport.online%2Fmember%2Funsubscribe ) to unsubscribe.

© 2024 Stratechery LLC ( https://www.stratechery.com ) , 2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703