# An Interview with Eric Seufert About Streaming Advertising, Generative AI, and Marketing Automation (Stratechery Update 5-25-2023)

**From:** "Ben Thompson" <email@stratechery.com>
**Date:** Thu, 25 May 2023 12:45:31 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/An Interview with Eric Seufert About Streaming Advertising, Generative AI, and Marketing Automation (Stratechery Update 5-25-2023)_Thu,_25_May_2023_12-45-31_+0000_18852f18d5d99a51.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:10.158680

An interview with Eric Seufert about Mobile Dev Memo’s new business model, the prospects for streamers building advertising business model, the potential for generative AI in advertising, along with the dangers of relying too much on marketing automation, and whether or not Meta figured out ATT. We also discuss Facebook Shops and Shopify, and the E.U.’s recent fines on Meta.

View in browser ( https://stratechery.com/2023/an-interview-with-eric-seufert-about-streaming-advertising-generative-ai-and-marketing-automation/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvYW4taW50ZXJ2aWV3LXdpdGgtZXJpYy1zZXVmZXJ0LWFib3V0LXN0cmVhbWluZy1hZHZlcnRpc2luZy1nZW5lcmF0aXZlLWFpLWFuZC1tYXJrZXRpbmctYXV0b21hdGlvbi8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY4NzYxMDcyNywiaWF0IjoxNjg1MDE4NzI3LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.IE6FF_6Q7rUxEH3UF9z3EdaCx5f-k49wZQ3hM_-jmtPHzAWd6X0LM-vjquC0Uo1vRG2Qn3aoAStdkxbE1Pcofmu-XzQoWLbK-NMYCz6AynLCdYvJqQ0H9rN-FUzdIjvwxGjP89TjehIl0vNRULB0ZSVHXfv3_GwB8C6-e16FHQjyAfCq-PJsyaCIdqa1ekmpqjvsZEWlSGvXgyqV4Drls1AMAaweJI9N6wuwp01M45QS7BNyNMEhE4z1kbQtMLPPRSlphZs8irC5jGCuyDydezoJQRjYqWauVYNhbGLaHJmCWK21AsXboa0jBSLnqYcVlHiru5cMug0lXTn6WpWWOg )

( https://stratechery.com )

***************************************************************************************************
An Interview with Eric Seufert About Streaming Advertising, Generative AI, and Marketing Automation
***************************************************************************************************

( https://stratechery.com/2023/an-interview-with-eric-seufert-about-streaming-advertising-generative-ai-and-marketing-automation/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvYW4taW50ZXJ2aWV3LXdpdGgtZXJpYy1zZXVmZXJ0LWFib3V0LXN0cmVhbWluZy1hZHZlcnRpc2luZy1nZW5lcmF0aXZlLWFpLWFuZC1tYXJrZXRpbmctYXV0b21hdGlvbi8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY4NzYxMDcyNywiaWF0IjoxNjg1MDE4NzI3LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.IE6FF_6Q7rUxEH3UF9z3EdaCx5f-k49wZQ3hM_-jmtPHzAWd6X0LM-vjquC0Uo1vRG2Qn3aoAStdkxbE1Pcofmu-XzQoWLbK-NMYCz6AynLCdYvJqQ0H9rN-FUzdIjvwxGjP89TjehIl0vNRULB0ZSVHXfv3_GwB8C6-e16FHQjyAfCq-PJsyaCIdqa1ekmpqjvsZEWlSGvXgyqV4Drls1AMAaweJI9N6wuwp01M45QS7BNyNMEhE4z1kbQtMLPPRSlphZs8irC5jGCuyDydezoJQRjYqWauVYNhbGLaHJmCWK21AsXboa0jBSLnqYcVlHiru5cMug0lXTn6WpWWOg ) Thursday, May 25, 2023

Listen to this Update in your podcast player ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Good morning,

One publishing note: next Monday is Memorial Day in the U.S.; there will be no Update.

I’m pleased to welcome Eric Seufert back for a quarterly check-in on digital advertising.

Seufert is the creator of Mobile Dev Memo ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/ ) , where he writes about digital advertising. Seufert also invests ( https://www.businessinsider.com/pitch-deck-eric-seufert-launches-10-million-fund-heracles-capital-2022-5 ) in startups in the mobile space through his fund Heracles Capital. Seufert previously worked for several mobile gaming startups, including as the Vice President of User Acquisition for Rovio, and was a consultant for multiple companies exploring the mobile space.

In today’s Interview we discuss Mobile Dev Memo’s new business model, the prospects for streamers building advertising business models, the potential for generative AI in advertising, along with the dangers of relying too much on marketing automation, and whether or not Meta figured out ATT. We also discuss Facebook Shops and Shopify, and the E.U.’s recent fines on Meta.

To listen to this interview as a podcast, click the link at the top of this email to add Stratechery to your podcast player.

On to the interview:

An Interview with Eric Seufert About Generative AI and Marketing Automation
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

This interview is lightly edited for clarity.

*Topics:*
Mobile Dev Memo Gets a Paywall ( #mobiledevmemo ) | Streaming Advertising ( #streaming ) | Generative AI and Marketing Automation ( #generativeai ) | Meta Earnings ( #meta ) | Shops, Shopify, and Apple Deference ( #shopify ) | The EU Regulatory Impact ( #eu )

Mobile Dev Memo Gets a Paywall

*Eric Seufert ( https://twitter.com/eric_seufert ) , the last time you were on Stratechery ( https://stratechery.com/2023/an-interview-with-eric-seufert-about-metas-earnings-and-the-google-doj-case/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvYW4taW50ZXJ2aWV3LXdpdGgtZXJpYy1zZXVmZXJ0LWFib3V0LW1ldGFzLWVhcm5pbmdzLWFuZC10aGUtZ29vZ2xlLWRvai1jYXNlLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3NjEwNzI3LCJpYXQiOjE2ODUwMTg3MjcsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.nJX-rljzYvK7rykT5l0X33WIYAmRgMXUOWtCelh9_UQXMohTqvu-KnVCDJBiVuW6Ysdbs2V8Y2uGWwhuI7UtNHiiy6rmma-4mUFBFgAowD-oR3o7DmKP-dvwmTRAzLmBztJ6YrmqCAPGhX7GdFuYUDKp9zw-pV06CpYRb3oMhg1miPuSP40o0XUwMOjv2gG_p-WWEFWWJXgVpioG7c29Qmao6foqg_yt4SVPrQ5crRKeIPlMfa5xMXo4Z4-qF9CQSWaJMXMAROIk8GLGCmvFiApzOUCWS3JGcjpk4yjQJd-WXHozhS4qh8M5Oq-oZZCquvzrnlikuu3d0Hj8CToUKw ) I noted that it had been six months and I felt overwhelmed by the amount of topics we had to cover so I figured let’s just stop pretending: there’s been another set of earnings, a whole bunch of other topics to get to, and let’s just have you back on right away. But before we get to the recent developments in the digital marketing space, your site, Mobile Dev Memo ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/ ) , has undergone a business model change ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/subscribe/ ). Tell me about it.*

*Eric Seufert:* Yes, I caved and threw up a paywall. The site had been running on the original server instance on which I launched it in 2013 and that server — basically, the version of Linux it was running was no longer supported.

*It’s always a good kick in the pants to actually rebuild stuff.*

*ES:* Right. So it was getting to the point where WordPress was breaking because it was using PHP functionality that was not available on this decade-old server instance that I installed, and so at some point I was like, “Okay, I’m going to have to just move this to a new server”, and when I did that I decided, “Okay, well I might as well give it a fresh coat of paint and add in some new functionality” that I’d been thinking about for a while.

I decided to go with the paywall, and I wish I had done it a lot sooner. Having pulled the trigger on it, it’s given me a lot of peace of mind, it feels like I’m preaching to the choir to a degree that I was not before, and it has allowed me to write about things that I truly care about, that I know the core audience truly cares about, and not have to worry about some tourists, let’s say, picking fights with me on Twitter over things that we just fundamentally disagree about. It’s actually been really relieving in a lot of ways, and I’m very glad I did it. Plus, it allows people to vote with their wallets to tell me if they like the stuff that I write about, and it’s actually been very gratifying to learn that people appreciate the content to the extent that they’re willing to pay for it.

*Yeah, you are definitely preaching to the choir, when you said that I had a big grin on my face. It’s funny because you articulated a bunch of the benefits that are independent of making money. There’s an aspect where, particularly as the larger your audience gets, it’s so much easier to write a paid Update, because everyone you’re writing for, they’re already, they’re broadly with you. And it’s not saying they agree with you, but to your point, they’re not out there to pick fights. When you write a public article it’s just a different mindset, you have to assume a lot less knowledge on your readers, and then you feel bad that you’re not doing as good for your regular readers because you’re going over stuff they already know, and things on those lines, so that’s number one.*

*Then number two, I do think that feedback bit, where there’s so many people out there that will never tweet at you, will never email you, but they will pay for your content, and that’s so valuable as an independent feedback mechanism, where it’s not just the loudest people on the Internet. Honestly I can see it manifested with Mobile Dev Memo, because you’ve always been a pretty prolific writer, but it feels like you’ve just got new wind in your sails and it’s been amazing, all the stuff that’s coming out. Needless to say, I highly recommend it, of course I signed up. But yeah, it’s great to hear a pitch for the model generally, and I am more than happy to extend a pitch for Mobile Dev Memo, and it’s been really cool to see. Am I right? Have you felt that new wind in your sails?*

*ES:* Yes, and I would go a step further — it was getting to the point where I was engaging with so much — in some cases bad faith feedback that was kind of rare — but a volume of, I would say, unproductive feedback that was very distracting and disheartening. Feedback from people with whom I obviously have just a total difference of opinion, fundamental difference of opinion, and who aren’t really there to engage with my writing, or with my point of view, but are there to just act as a bulwark against my, I don’t know, my moral standing, to just make it clear that there is resistance to the way I think, and that is distracting and it’s enervating, or demotivating.

I think once you take that out of the equation, just by charging a little bit of money, you get so much more motivation to just write the things that you feel need to be said from your point of view, and to cater to this audience that I don’t want to say feels exactly the same about it as you do, but is willing to view the facts through a similar type of open-minded lens. That has just been really rewarding, and yeah, I think it has instilled in me a newfound motivation for the craft, for the project.

*Well, that’s great. I’ve enjoyed it. Actually in this case, I now feel even more motivated to have you on as a guest because you’ve generated so much stuff that I want to talk to you about. So we’ll get through it, we’ll work through a number of stuff that you’ve written previously.*

Streaming Advertising

*I want to start with the streaming services, it’s something that I’ve been writing a lot about ( https://stratechery.com/topic/streaming/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tL3RvcGljL3N0cmVhbWluZy8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY4NzYxMDcyNywiaWF0IjoxNjg1MDE4NzI3LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.pTK6KlmV1RAvt_KdRwx1Jt1su3Eyi9QspUrC-_dfsSucsaGk5rduyJ8C3QnXtI9e-eo9BmbAl5yl602JSCxRi23Kky7qxg0Bt4cgjjNtXEAqjZ5d2kzHS5EwF3ZzlD4npVmBJo0ZBuFIfWeRj8MbQG3aTVa6JuHcRgBZaBG25nJ5tmnfhbXvPKfGEdEn_47Ry9Kh5HpA_E_ewuhNheH9TEs0fdRkeT5U17XS0gqNx0U3IqWpBCzQzDLx9TH2YWfRPr7ZkcXisEJwdlnWAJUmoGrqEbO797hYCuzqjQNCwVvJ_wEBsqfqeApwfwaKRXlCMRkJ3Dx5mF9l9DMAcOLcEA ). Generally, the spiral in regular TV ( https://stratechery.com/2023/cord-cutting-and-youtube-tv-disney-earnings-pay-tvs-vision-cycles/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvY29yZC1jdXR0aW5nLWFuZC15b3V0dWJlLXR2LWRpc25leS1lYXJuaW5ncy1wYXktdHZzLXZpc2lvbi1jeWNsZXMvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODc2MTA3MjcsImlhdCI6MTY4NTAxODcyNywiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.iiiSQILaxYztTcowjD2XsnmUBpSqsln2yMH0yCldH7ZQq03aMtO9cHqzv2YmxmteVBo9UXcCrXFlcVUVUeHhAXkR10RAxJAU-lbNR-QPdLT1hti8Y6guuAzji4UtMnOESVrRn9PmANkuLJ53HUKi68N-jFcEKvGNO06R4SKny8jDbbphU-gdEsrAIE9juGiqP-yrf84Af2H08yljxH8ust9qw8XyCLoTSU0Nwwy1r21OhT3fJRmiax0sNXxz7PGWy1pBnAe0udtgO_fyIMUmxAnZZEwPWEyrAJGDEWzA7jVEnXmazXFi0kRHTMRVhgm14n5ptfLoQDLfrb8O66D0LA ) , all this stuff is interconnected, so you see these different pieces happening, and all these streaming services who are not making money view advertising as their long-term salvation. Obviously Netflix is the headline here, but this is definitely the case with Disney or HBO, Discovery, or whatever it’s called now, everyone is talking about the importance of advertising to this.*

*Do you think that everyone can make money here, or is it going to be a case which we saw on digital advertising broadly where the largest services are the ones that are going to succeed? Or is it going to be the best tech? And more broadly, do you see streaming ads as being more like TV ads in the way they are bought and sold? Last week we had the Upfronts ( https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/tv/tv-news/2023-tv-upfronts-recap-superlatives-1235495241/ ) , a much more traditional sales motion, or do you see a long-term shift to digital ads where it’s self-serve, it’s an auction-based format. YouTube obviously came from the digital world and is much more in that world. Where do you see the long-term outcome of ads on streaming services?*

*ES:* I think Netflix is a great canary in the coal mine here. They basically did a complete 180 from, for years and years and years, being very vocal about the fact that they would never introduce ads. Not even just being tepid about the idea, but being very opposed to it.

*Actively hostile.*

*ES:* Yeah, actively hostile.

*They were your drive-by readers who don’t even agree with your point of view of the world.*

*ES:* Right, yeah. So transitioning from that point of view, or that position, to embracing it and actually rushing to get it done very quickly. Because you got to remember, this was launched in November of last year, and we just learned at the Upfronts ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/considering-netflixs-5mm-ad-supported-mau/ ) , they have nearly 5 million MAUs, so not ad-supported subscribers, but MAUs. I’m just rattling off the metrics here, roughly 25% of all new subscribers choose the ad-supported tier, 80% of viewing by ad-supported subscribers takes place on television, and engagement levels on the ad supported tier are similar to premium plans.

I remember when they first talked about this, when they first raised the prospect of doing this, I had a couple questions. So the first was, can Netflix’s ad tier be ARPU-neutral? They said it will be ARPU-neutral, we’re going to launch it, it’s going to be Basic with Ads, it’s going to be ARPU-neutral. I asked, “ Can Netflix’s ad tier be ARPU-neutral ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/can-netflixs-ad-tier-be-arpu-neutral/ ) “?

Well, the rumor at the time, and this proved to be true, is that they were going to charge a very premium CPM, $65 CPM was the rumor. Okay, well if they can maintain that CPM, then it certainly can be ARPU-neutral, you don’t have to serve that many impressions a day to be ARPU-neutral even at the lower price point, because they were charging less, $3 less, for the Basic with that ads tier. So to make up $3 a month at $65 CPM, it’s not that many impressions. But then the second question was, can Netflix command premium advertising pricing so can they maintain premium advertising pricing? Obviously there’s going to be a honeymoon period, everyone’s going to want to test this, but can they maintain that?

*Those delicious experimental ad budgets have led many an advertising businesses astray because they don’t always stick around.*

*ES:* Right, and so they could charge that at the outset, certainly everyone’s going to test this, but can they maintain that for a couple years? Especially given the very primitive targeting tools that they were bringing to bear, they had closed the deal with Microsoft to use Xandr for the ad serving, but they were supplying very little by way of measurement and targeting. This was going to be basically the digital equivalent of television advertising and to charge that much — for the Super Bowl, 30 second CPMs last year were like $61, so these were more expensive than the Super Bowl.

I think those two questions are interrelated because maintaining the premium advertising pricing obviously allows it, or better allows it to be ARPU-neutral, or ARPU-accretive, and what we found was it’s been ARPU-accretive for the Basic tier, and they actually renamed the product, they threw in a few more bells and whistles, they brought it to feature parody with the standard tier, probably because the ARPU was actually greater for the ad-supported tier, it was greater than the standard tier. So they’re getting something like $8.50 of ad-supported ARPU on top of just the subscription price.

*Why do you think that is? Why it was even more successful than they expected?*

*ES:* So I think, there’s a couple things. One is, as they mention, that the engagement was similar. So the question that I raised in the “Can it be ARPU-neutral?” article that I wrote was, “Well what’s the engagement going to look like?”.

*Right, because as soon as they see ads, are they’re going to click off? Which was a concern.*

*ES:* Right, and I think, if I remember correctly, they released some stats a couple years ago where it was two hours on average of consumption per day, and so if they would maintain that two hours, well then the number of ad exposures would be whatever it was, and then at $65 CPM it’s very easy for that to be ARPU-neutral. Then the other question was, “Will they layer in more targeting tools and measurement tools over time?” and probably in-house this, to have it be this fully bespoke advertising system, where maybe they had more native ad formats that better fit the content consumption experience. Now they haven’t done that yet, they announced some new targeting functionality at the Upfronts, but they haven’t actually rolled it out yet. But my sense is the engagement stayed the same, so they’re getting a meaningful number of ad exposures per session.

Now we don’t know if the CPM is degraded yet, that’s not really a public number that’s made available to analysts, but my sense is they can probably maintain that for longer than just some introductory honeymoon period, because it’s a very compelling product, and everything is an ad network ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/everything-is-an-ad-network/ ) , there’s an enormous appetite for more advertising. It was like right place, right time, just the exact right moment to launch an ad product in the premium streaming service, and so I think they can probably maintain that. Now, if they layer in more targeting, more measurement, and which they also said that they’re going to introduce some new Nielsen measurement tools to get a sense of exposures, so I think they could probably maintain that for a while.

The question, though, is will it be ARPU-neutral overall? So it’s ARPU-accretive for the Basic tier and for the Standard tier, but it’s not been ARPU-accretive overall. Now there’s a number of different factors here, and it’s hard to isolate them, but actually in the UCAN reporting region, which is US and Canada, which is the only Netflix reporting region for which all constituent geos have the ad-supported tier available (because it’s still only available in 12 markets), ARPUs decreased sequentially Q4 and Q1. It was down almost 1% in Q4 and it was down about a third of a percent in Q1.

Now again, they introduced the password-sharing crackdown in Canada in Q1, so that could have skewed the numbers in Canada, and it was a very slight drop in Q1, so maybe that was the reason for it. But I would say, and people have asked me, “Hey, you wrote this, Can Netflix’s Ad Tier be ARPU-neutral? The implication was you probably thought it wouldn’t be,” even though I didn’t say that. People have asked me, my friend asked me the other day, “Are you willing to admit defeat?” And look, I might be totally wrong about this, and maybe it’s overall ARPU-accretive, I still say the jury’s out, but we’ll see. I’m willing to admit I’m wrong, give me like a year or something, let’s see enough data points.

*No, I think the point is super important, about how you can’t base the validity of an advertising-based model as long as they’re in these experimental ad budgets. We see this again and again and again, where once you actually move to “Are you going to be a meaningful part of a company’s marketing going forward?”, where you’re in the core ad budget, not this bit that we get to throw around and spend a lot of, you have to actually prove your worth going forward. With that said though, is there a possibility here? I mean, I’m biased because obviously I called for the ads ( https://stratechery.com/2022/why-netflix-should-sell-ads/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvd2h5LW5ldGZsaXgtc2hvdWxkLXNlbGwtYWRzLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3NjEwNzI3LCJpYXQiOjE2ODUwMTg3MjcsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.kZjgzAxNZQ9jtC73ppZQ3M2CHR8SHQ0XcJtrPwO3GF9JLoeo-YESNjsaufme27j9Xj7GU5U3iIbJIwuK5pNZ7KOBh7JwSj1A_gOXCN8cyFYhO6A7rduyuJflKBxdKYQqAucLdAkegygOKicTGulP-EG6K2HVCL-q0hbxWCVtnPW7CBG9YGDT_f464lucXn6LW4Abl8mBu5wlxKCHLy7okd8AC-5U-jAK2K5IChBonpPawlyUpw8eESZk8syaT2GPGdP9rrM2veIOi4ySXWI4beXENhTsUCQMgMT-0fAgzdkYLekyj9BcYoaGpXJKQ2ud24W2lkbkcWUpRFC95VbdLA ) and so I have a stake and I want to see it succeed.*

*ES:* Yeah, you nailed it.

*Well, I feel it was just one of those things. But it feels like everyone might end up in a YouTube-type model, where YouTube is basically — remember when they launched YouTube Red back in the day? They were going to differentiate it, “We’re going to have our own shows, it’s going to have unique content, X, Y, Z”. Today basically YouTube Premium is just YouTube without ads — and by the way, it’s awesome, it’s really a great product. In the long run, because I think the point, you’ve made this point, which is even if ARPU decreases, if it’s made up for with that many more subscribers, you’re going to make more money in the long run. Well, what’s the way to get the maximum number of viewers? It would be to go to free. Is that a possible outcome, where it’s almost like broadcast TV back in the day, but there is a free layer, that free layer probably has a ton of ads, like YouTube does, and then you can pay an equivalent per user amount to not have any ads at all, is that a possibility here, or do you think it’s going to stick with a “It’s just going to be cheaper” approach?*

*ES:* Yeah, I wouldn’t be surprised if they’re just using this to anchor the price to drive the Premium tier price point higher. Now the other thing is you can also justify that price point increase just by layering in more functionality. So YouTube, this YouTube subscription also allows you to close the app and play it in the background. That is my favorite feature, because I can listen to it like I listen to Spotify. This is just out of the freemium playbook. It’s like, okay, well you’ve got the freemium tier, you set baseline expectations, and then you keep layering in more and more value for the paid products, for the IAPs or for the subscription, and then you decrease that, what you really want to do, in any freemium project, is just decrease that consumer surplus. So you give that person who’s willing to spend $100 a month enough value that they can justify doing that.

*But do you think they would go all the way to free? That’s part of the word “freemiuem”. It’s cheaper, do you think they might go all the way?*

*ES:* That’s a good question, I don’t think anytime in the near midterm, I just think, first of all, the problem with that, and I’ve written about this too, is this was a concern with the $65 CPM, you might run into some adverse selection issues. Do advertisers want to pay a premium for the people that weren’t willing to spend money on Basic? Are they the most attractive audience? Now again, honeymoon period, the introductory period, everyone wants to experiment, everyone wants to test it out, but when we settle into a steady state, is that the audience that advertisers actually want to reach, the people that weren’t willing to pay?

*It’s an interesting question, but it is now a possibility that is out there, that was unimaginable previously.*

*ES:* Unthinkable.

*Yeah, it’s been very interesting. What about the other streaming services? Is this going to be an example where this is actually going to be another reason why Netflix will just win in the long run? Because they’re in the market, they have the huge audience. Again, it’s not a huge audience for ads. They have the adverse selection issue right now, which is all the best customers already have Netflix and are already paying for it, are they almost maybe disadvantaged to a sense because they layered it on too late? Or do you think that just Netflix being Netflix, having the huge audience, they will be one of the winners here? Or is everyone being going to win? Is this a tide with all boats sort of thing?*

*ES:* Yeah, I feel like it’s a rising tide situation, and I’ve written about this quite a bit, I like to comp this against Disney ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/netflix-disney-and-the-ad-supported-streaming-calculus/ ). So first of all, Hulu was kind of the pioneer here and the learning there was that yeah, ads really do drive ARPU up.

*That was the thing about the Netflix thing. It’s like, look, we have an example right here where they actually make more money on their ad tier and I mean, they probably people should have responded sooner once they saw that.*

*ES:* Right. Yeah, I agree and I think that the path that Disney chose though is they have all this in-house tech, really sophisticated tech. They built a lot for Hulu, I want to say it’s like 180,000 audience segments or something like that, that you can target against totally native formats for video streaming and they’re bringing all that to bear on Disney Plus soon. My sense is Netflix is a laggard in that sense because they scrambled to get this built, I think it was six months, it was March the announcement and then November the launch.

*It was clear on that earnings call ( https://stratechery.com/2022/netflix-earnings-netflixs-struggling-growth-drivers-netflix-to-explore-advertising/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvbmV0ZmxpeC1lYXJuaW5ncy1uZXRmbGl4cy1zdHJ1Z2dsaW5nLWdyb3d0aC1kcml2ZXJzLW5ldGZsaXgtdG8tZXhwbG9yZS1hZHZlcnRpc2luZy8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY4NzYxMDcyNywiaWF0IjoxNjg1MDE4NzI3LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.isf3MjKjfNlg32YeZCsRYtSF4c0Aj-QVpRmvSSrICitMR2lzwXbnI9sqS5cTXmUXfxM2QTiX28PfsiTBAnPaMeCflfTOOxhMhHItz3v-PEzuf_7spDFLg1Ma3h2WjLPpd-eBPjBBQ1c5SSjmGSAR6-9f5A6S2nQ3hzcuIQYLlbcA-mtFfDKBcQ4XW59j3HbCVOfN7ntBZv_YEmXRGbwbddajDEJCdMCcWMgiLqDfmmrILSq6PCzby1BhnDp9h2LYV11mlaKlPLjp9SFL-BRARnXccr04rkvij1KM2uAPJkHVr1TgJUoDvwrJd0b1kWjA8m-VQX2D-CegYV8YOeZz_Q ) that it was a very recently made decision, because what they talked about doing was not at all what they did, which was good because what they talked about doing did not make any sense. They were going to do like, “Oh, we’re going to do all auction format, self-serve”. It’s like, no, that’s down the road, you just need to get high CPM brands on there and work from there.*

*ES:* Exactly. You get an MVP out there and people will line up to pay you a lot of money and in fact, so many people lined up. If you remember, so many advertisers had committed they had to return advertiser money, they didn’t have enough inventory to sell, they had to return budgets. And there was that leaked memo that came out that said, “Oh, they only had a million subscribers.” I think that memo was a couple months old or a couple weeks old when it got leaked. Right now we’ve seen the tremendous success of this tier, it’s like 5 million and in the earnings they said there hasn’t been that much downgrading. We haven’t actually seen that much cannibalization from the higher tier so we’re just adopting a lot of net new customers.

Generative AI and Marketing Automation

*Shifting gears a little bit, I want to talk a little bit about generative AI. Both you and I have made the observation ( https://stratechery.com/2023/facebook-earnings-generative-ai-and-messaging-monetization-open-source-and-ai/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvZmFjZWJvb2stZWFybmluZ3MtZ2VuZXJhdGl2ZS1haS1hbmQtbWVzc2FnaW5nLW1vbmV0aXphdGlvbi1vcGVuLXNvdXJjZS1hbmQtYWkvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODc2MTA3MjcsImlhdCI6MTY4NTAxODcyNywiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.I71FSIt6RmgUzn67KFz0BrRzkokfVfp-LF_jW5e0IoWg-fYIQkGuUW_ZyWEV86hAkGAl0j-HQi5Z9VOJnyTvd8SEOAqHjuqCrSp0miSFliU7H0YooYCtdUJWLjSVYrqUkQF3k57q4gUBrEaHcuTy5vFGT0QOb-nWKTN4Ohc4cqtSMMo2G0ow-aC_MTVrTrqyMh4WEYrJsX3p6MqEMXH-VcUFPTy8QsrU4yldYf5iuH6vXCdLGXl6L6WL-KgfvpwwQNo7NV6ePjLImZRwjb8cLzCjjf5my2heZVnLEbpEzBFUfkcLmKnFEIaKRqM0to0ReNhLVywnCarHOfn8tsaDvA ) that advertising is the most obvious place where generative AI will make a difference in terms of business outcomes. These automated systems, like a Facebook or Google, they already find your audience for you and now they can generate content for you and perform A/B tests on absolute steroids. It’s not just like you put in ten pieces of creative and it figures out which one works and does it, it can actually generate creative, it could generate on a per-niche basis tailored to the most narrow and obscure niches imaginable.*

*This obviously is economically beneficial to advertisers on the first order because the cost of creation of this content goes down. But you wrote a really interesting piece recently about you call it the inflationary advertising machine ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/the-inflationary-advertising-machine/ ) , that this may be bad for advertisers to a certain extent in the long run. Tell me a little bit more about that.*

*ES:* The basic argument has two parts. As generative AI brings the cost of producing content down to basically zero, it’s going to be very deflationary for content production. Then there’s going to be a lot of content and discovery becomes even more important, so as there’s more and more content, more and more noise to cut through, more and more opportunities for people to spend their time, you’ve got to actually work harder to get your product in front of them. So it creates this incredible imperative on using ads to reach an audience, because if we’re just awash in all of this sort of commodity content, if you need to match your content with an audience, you just have to spend money on ads.

We’ve actually seen that, there’s precedent for this, what I think to my mind is a fairly obvious consequence. First of all it’s the App Store, going from 2008 to 2012, there were two totally different economic realities for the App Store, for the mobile ecosystem where there were hundreds of apps available to be downloaded and you could conceivably browse every single one of them in a long App Store session, going to tens of thousands, of hundreds of thousands. Then Apple just published their App Store Transparency Report ( https://www.apple.com/legal/more-resources/docs/2022-App-Store-Transparency-Report.pdf ) , and there’s millions of apps in the App Store. There’s no way anybody could ever browse all of them, and so the idea here is, well then that’s when marketing became an imperative. That’s when app developers had to start doing paid marketing and that’s when the ecosystem started maturing around that idea.

That’s when you see that first cohort of really successful billion dollar, especially mobile gaming franchises, I call it the 2012 Vintage. You had Clash of Clans, you had Candy Crush Saga which was brought to mobile from the desktop web in 2012, and Hay Day, both of those from Supercell, Clash of Clans and Hay Day. Well that is about a year after AppLovin was formed, Unity ads were formed — these are rough timelines — ironSource was formed or came to mobile, AppsFlyer, the mobile measurement company. So the idea here is the billion dollar franchises followed the infrastructure, the infrastructure to scalably and sustainably reach an audience.

Now, there was a second instance of that same phenomenon that happened with the introduction of hyper-casual games. So hyper-casual games were a purely viral phenomenon at the very beginning. You launched a game and if it was good, people would just talk about it and these games would just become explosively popular on the back of that, and very quickly the entire space got flooded with these commodity products and the only way to reach a big audience was to spend money on ads.

I think we’re going to see that to just a much greater magnitude as the web becomes flooded with generative AI produced content, and so it’s just going to be much more of an imperative to spend money to reach an audience given all of the competition for their attention and their engagement and so the generative AI is deflationary from a content production standpoint, but it’s inflationary from just an operational marketing distribution standpoint. That was the point of the article.

*To your point, it’s just a continuation of what the Internet already did. You had this situation again and again. On Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/episode/espn-as-cables-grim-reaper-how-the-cable-bundle-crumbled-what-taylor-swift-can-teach-content-companies ) , I was just talking about how all the media companies are repeating all the mistakes that the newspapers made, where they saw the Internet as this huge opportunity, and the problem is it’s an opportunity for everyone. So it actually meant a huge increase in competition for time and attention which you can intermediate by advertising. Or another analogy is I remember when people were up very upset about Facebook pages, it was like, “Oh, I made a Facebook page. I tried to get all my fans to follow and now they’re not seeing it.” Well, that’s the reality of zero marginal content ( https://stratechery.com/2022/dall-e-the-metaverse-and-zero-marginal-content/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvZGFsbC1lLXRoZS1tZXRhdmVyc2UtYW5kLXplcm8tbWFyZ2luYWwtY29udGVudC8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY4NzYxMDcyNywiaWF0IjoxNjg1MDE4NzI3LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.JcjwdtVWpw8TEz--hCoZQpDL4qxIz7KedCGnZPsm63FoWLjEZdEWH38nzRSH07rC5_G0bfLS_wOhXhGydevWwwTS3uhx5JBir6hJbLEGmNZjvw4H6eCog5OTZ34QhkayMazXKgAJcGBikQYqCru2wmXEdX_YbXvyUD9fPEf9IpPT4HoNbX-w9mESWIuMypzSBEKEAHgo5_BVcfSatMi-dQUyVxLow75joGv4_3kmFNo1k82vnWRu16LBubJOkK7BUxEnqoEZyt1q1I3u3zpgrJ1oBfiMhl84_ctsrOPnwXmcCQ3eW49226UZVQ1mHFID-hKFbeihDLjd7NdEnelVSA ) , and now this taking it to the extreme.*

*One of the bits about this generative AI part though is it goes part and parcel with overall marketing automation, because you think about it, you already have this bit from ATT where a way around it is you got to trust the black box because advertising is no longer deterministic. Measurement companies, it’s hard to see what role they play in a world where you can’t actually measure things, it’s all at scale doing it probabilistically. Now you have a similar idea where if you want to fully leverage the cost savings of generative AI, well, you’re probably just going to have to trust the black box.*

*So on one hand you have this real tension where simply giving into the algorithms in AI is the best possible way to overcome both these challenges, the measurement challenges, targeting challenge, and in the future, the content challenge. On the other hand, it means a loss of control and you’re going to be giving margin to Meta because if it’s a black box, there’s lots of ways they can squeeze out margin. We saw this in the Google lawsuit ( https://stratechery.com/2023/doj-sues-google-googles-advertising-aggregation-no-duty-to-deal/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvZG9qLXN1ZXMtZ29vZ2xlLWdvb2dsZXMtYWR2ZXJ0aXNpbmctYWdncmVnYXRpb24tbm8tZHV0eS10by1kZWFsLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3NjEwNzI3LCJpYXQiOjE2ODUwMTg3MjcsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.v_tjgBD5L6QxGllxCYYzRuovhA33n0fhGOKLk4gxv5RhWNsFIqJYP-_QYP39lzmLbIpfXBG9HBswMY0MZqLG1nvKlC2839ldQ8ib2F-mK-cc3orffT9Aq47LCkOajB-T7agvMeQT2cA1C275r2LIfLyGBWwJyzq4HNaUCmP1pW8ABAVE6zUgwzEzjb5IUIFwR5Btq2EGpIFlh2NuY7d8UGBVc7wE7IHKvt6ytEZiq4Ai7aQuCp2J-i8wij-D52lNoqmGE62hmOX_lrXof9TrCwg5EpZZvhe33HHVNAaOvpEbgAGEuunRFe87cahwySGfMKFp7WkXps_tM3ArFZQN_Q ) , all the different ways they would adjust stuff so they were delivering an average price or an average sort of thing, and then they can actually adjust that in lots of ways and it can also mean mistakes.*

*There was that Facebook issue, Meta issue a few weeks ago ( https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-05-16/meta-starts-refunding-advertisers-after-glitch-but-small-businesses-get-chatbots ) — let’s start there. What happened with that and what can marketers do about it? You’ve been sounding like you have to be careful of automation, but can you really avoid it in the long run? I mean, especially in a probabilistic world, don’t you have to just hope for the best?*

*ES:* To some extent, yeah. I think it’s not about fearing automation, don’t get me wrong, I’m not sitting here talking about AI alignment issues. I don’t subscribe to that, I don’t think that’s a real concern. The whole idea of AI’s evolving to kill us, that’s not what I’m talking about when I talk about be cautious of marketing automation. What I’m talking about is incentives not between us and some nebulous notion of AI. It’s us and the platforms that are employing.

*Tell me what happened with the Meta thing, it’s a great example of what you’re talking about as far as being careful.*

*ES:* Right. So a couple weeks ago, I don’t remember what the date was, it was early this month on a Sunday, which is unfortunate because a lot of media buyers are not paying attention on Sundays, they’re not at work. I started getting a couple pings from portfolio companies, “Hey, our Facebook accounts are way off, they’re spending too much money, they blew past our bid caps and our ROAS [ Return on Advertising Spend ] has cratered. Have you heard anything?” And I got enough of these so I think, “Okay, there’s something going on here”. I went on the Mobile Dev Memo Slack, and people were talking about it as well, and I went on Twitter and people were freaking out about it.

So there hasn’t been really any transparency from Meta about this, which is disappointing, I wish they would’ve been a little bit more transparent about it. I think in totality, there was one tweet from someone fairly senior on Meta’s advertising team, I just wish they had just been more forthright about this, That was kind of disappointing. But anyway, we still don’t know really what happened to my point, and I guess the understanding within the community is that there was some sort of attribution error, some sort of app-to-web attribution error that caused probably some over-attributions where potentially modeled attributions where there were none.

*“This ad is very successful”, and actually it wasn’t successful. And these feedback loops, if it’s successful, then it will spend more, spend more, because you want to maximize that opportunity, but the opportunity didn’t actually exist.*

*ES:* Right, exactly, it was illusory for whatever reason. And again, I just want to be clear, this is total speculation because we haven’t had much transparency from Meta, so this is total speculation, I don’t know what really happened, no one does. Anyway, people’s accounts basically blew out, so they spent their whole budget in 45 minutes for the day, very quickly. They exhausted their budget very quickly, far, far more quickly than they usually do, but the ROAS was very low.

Now, the problem with this is, okay, that’s one day you say, but especially a lot of DTC companies, and from what I could tell, this primarily affected DTC — again, it was app-to-web so these are people that are buying on the web that were affected. So I heard of a couple app advertisers that they saw some negative impact, but it wasn’t substantial. But it was really I think the DTC companies and really a lower budget DTC companies probably where there’s less volume involved with that budget so there’s just more volatility generally that they were severely affected. But if you get one bad day or one day with zero ROAS, that could actually ruin your month, these companies are operating on extremely thin margins.

So just before that, a couple weeks prior, I was talking about the dangers of empowering the platform to make every decision for you because this is your business. This might be the single largest expense line item for your business and not only that, it’s the absolute engine of revenue, this is how these companies drive revenue, it’s all performance advertising, and so your incentives might not be the same as the platforms.

First of all, you don’t know if you can trust them because there are mistakes that happen like this, and it’s just natural, these mistakes happen, and you want to have some safeguards, and apparently some of the normal safeguards that are enabled on the platform weren’t enough, and that was demonstrably true.

Now, the other thing is, okay, well if that can happen, just like basic bid math and basic budget timing, well, what happens if you give them control of your ad creatives, which really is your brand identity? I just think there needs to be some kind of firewall between the platform that is incentivized to spend as much of your money as possible.

Now, to be fair, they want to spend as much of your money as possible profitably, because then they get more the next cycle, this is a business that runs on compounding cycles. They spend my money profitably, I give them even more next time because I had more and then that turns into even more, which I give them. So they’re incentivized to spend your money sensibly and effectively, but sometimes things break and there need to be safeguards possibly that are just achieved through not automating everything with them.

*Do you have a choice in the long run? That’s my question. Because again, obviously they have a motivation for you to do everything with them. Again, they can squeeze out more margin this way, that’s been the case for a long time, it’s been super clear. But with the rise of things like ATT, is there really a viable way to do it otherwise?*

*ES:* There is if you’re big enough. But that’s the thing, especially the social media display ad platforms, what is their bread and butter — it’s SMBs? And those SMBs, I think, will gladly hand the keys over and that was the frustrating part about ATT, especially for the people that were very laudatory of it, and I was critical, but this is obviously going to benefit the biggest companies that can internalize all this functionality and do all the analysis that’s necessary and integrate their own probabilistic measurement methodologies. But if you can’t, you’ve just got to surrender everything to the platform.

So to your point, if you’re too small, you’re always going to have to do that. That’s just always going to be the way this plays out, right? This’ll benefit big, but I think to the extent that you can, it’s important to keep control. I think my worry with handing over the keys to my brand identity is that what works best as an ad may not be the thing that works best for me in the long term. I have a longer term sensibility than just maximally optimizing my ad spent today and that’s actually interesting because that popped up in the DOJ suit with Google. You remember that a lot of the publishers were crushing it with Google and they had no reason to use any other sort of advertising system to serve their ads but nonetheless, they still wanted to diversify because they feared that if they just handed everything to Google, they’re at the complete mercy of Google, and you never really want to be completely dependent on one of these massive technologies.

*Well, it does feel like there is a distinction though, because to your point, you talked about the history of mobile gaming, for example, and a lot of these came post-infrastructure and a lot of DTC is post-infrastructure, and there is a bit where some of these companies, it does feel like they long ago signed a deal with the devil, because the reason they have such thin margins is because their entire business is driven by performance marketing, their company exists because of performance marketing. And if you’re in that boat, it’s like, sorry, you set down this trail many years ago, and it’s the reality.*

*Whereas a brand is different, they have other channels, they have other ways to drive value over time and so maybe there is a bit of a distinction between those two pieces. If you do have a way to capture customers and generate value independent of the platforms, that’s where the marketing solutions warning comes in place. Don’t lose that, that’s actually really important, but if you’re already in the boat, well, whatever, you’re going over the waterfall, hopefully you’ll survive.*

*ES:* Right. It’s like, okay, well I don’t like this, but I’m dead without it. It’s not just like these DTC brands are totally dependent on performance market, they’re totally dependent on Facebook.

*Exactly, to be very clear.*

*ES:* A hundred percent of their ads spends on Facebook and so it’s like, well, that ship is sailed. We’re all in and we need to be all in on automation and I don’t know, maybe this is a good segue, but it’s worked out. The automations worked out, the automation won the day, the AI won the day.

Meta Earnings

*Well, let’s talk about that because I feel like this was underappreciated, we’re talking about Meta’s earnings of course ( https://stratechery.com/2023/facebook-earnings-generative-ai-and-messaging-monetization-open-source-and-ai/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvZmFjZWJvb2stZWFybmluZ3MtZ2VuZXJhdGl2ZS1haS1hbmQtbWVzc2FnaW5nLW1vbmV0aXphdGlvbi1vcGVuLXNvdXJjZS1hbmQtYWkvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODc2MTA3MjcsImlhdCI6MTY4NTAxODcyNywiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.I71FSIt6RmgUzn67KFz0BrRzkokfVfp-LF_jW5e0IoWg-fYIQkGuUW_ZyWEV86hAkGAl0j-HQi5Z9VOJnyTvd8SEOAqHjuqCrSp0miSFliU7H0YooYCtdUJWLjSVYrqUkQF3k57q4gUBrEaHcuTy5vFGT0QOb-nWKTN4Ohc4cqtSMMo2G0ow-aC_MTVrTrqyMh4WEYrJsX3p6MqEMXH-VcUFPTy8QsrU4yldYf5iuH6vXCdLGXl6L6WL-KgfvpwwQNo7NV6ePjLImZRwjb8cLzCjjf5my2heZVnLEbpEzBFUfkcLmKnFEIaKRqM0to0ReNhLVywnCarHOfn8tsaDvA ) , which were up year over year and pretty strongly so, I think, all things considered, especially because Meta’s earnings came out after Google’s ( https://stratechery.com/2023/uk-blocks-microsoft-activision-acquisition-microsoft-and-google-earnings/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvdWstYmxvY2tzLW1pY3Jvc29mdC1hY3RpdmlzaW9uLWFjcXVpc2l0aW9uLW1pY3Jvc29mdC1hbmQtZ29vZ2xlLWVhcm5pbmdzLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjg3NjEwNzI3LCJpYXQiOjE2ODUwMTg3MjcsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.ousJj6TZ66Owd-CvJeB2jTh1wPVFc1jO9uhMmmK5tKkC3uESa3dIdF7bTEYNvh4vcJm6wD3aSqYt6_HRQYpu4_m1vatA1CPaG6SsdTfrzk5pR86MO5-uC50qcknSwRu7RNPE4xIbJgqLPSpKvMglJL3q4UfFHHs7aw5UrmybSORSeotIHHssCoixY5qVNWEO98u1sIppt6XlaV-FqVof7WaHndOt57L8vRESf-mqsubi-FmRWzT4ah_p3HmkvMXrgDGgakTH36wkrQY86smuMaP8tmym3x3XHBaLFMkLJnR8mb7eG0MFPrcDXP5-kcnpELzkCkq_L8znkASiFQkrjA ) where YouTube was still down, and we’ve talked that Google is very hesitant to talk about ATT and the impact of its business, but ever since ATT came in, YouTube’s been declining and Google Search has been going up, and so there’s been this bifurcation. Did Meta figure it out? That was my takeaway. Again, you’re never going to get back to where you were big picture, but it sure seems like their results were in stark contrast to basically everyone else. Did they crack the puzzle?*

*ES:* Yeah. Just one quick point. So with Google, so I wrote this very long piece a while back called The App Tracking Transparency Recession ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/the-att-recession/ ).

*Which by the way, I’m going to link to that again, I’ve linked it multiple times. It’s really important to understand because everyone’s like, “Oh, recession’s coming, look at all these tech companies whose ads are down.” It’s like every other ad business is doing great, what else could have happened? Oh, yeah, that’s right, ATT.*

*ES:* So I just pointed out, Search, the growth had remained positive, but the growth rate was declining. So YouTube flipped negative in Q3 2022, and so that was my point in the ATT recession piece, ATT didn’t affect search, the growth rates were declining. My point was the delta between Search and YouTube I would attribute to ATT, that felt worth pointing out.

So Facebook, what did they report? They reported growth, they reported growth. Revenue’s up year-over-year, revenue growth is positive for the first time since Q1 2022.

*Right. It is positive in an environment when they’re still pushed, when Reels is still detracting from their growth. So on a steady state basis they would arguably be even higher.*

*ES:* Right. Yeah, Reels is still a monetization drag. So revenue growth was positive for the first time — it’s up 4% year over year — first time since Q1 2022. That’s extraordinary. Then ARPU, ARPU grew in every reporting region, which hasn’t happened since Q4 2021. So this was just a narrative shift moment.

*Well, it’s not just that. I’ve been tracking ( https://stratechery.com/2022/meta-earnings-meta-spending-ai-costs-and-moats/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvbWV0YS1lYXJuaW5ncy1tZXRhLXNwZW5kaW5nLWFpLWNvc3RzLWFuZC1tb2F0cy8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY4NzYxMDcyNywiaWF0IjoxNjg1MDE4NzI3LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.Tt9JbE9imPe3Wjo30xrKjOvh8cWcPd-tJyUdMaxBE5KfECEfjIZKdSF6bDpw9avwhVOnJmFnBKurAgiRs59xH7gJO_tMD5ZgoXZBUiON-TcDEB0DKGrO5QuEu_ktHI2hCSe3_SFALdddMo7swL5ERABnMe5AHJdWUMntGL26230OzffsqtX29cpy43cbTRoiL5C7MxbWm0n2aVIxXBnowEtKMEWQ3ox1U84zj6oVfuPSklczEUNO4w8UxPvY6PCWAUlS1wkj8neklEtQAe4C0s30-0Vfa_Mzgir-unAfQTv-CDIwe8_yKxbLGmvRRfciwsPSqVQ6Oc_uBv6rsWJn8g ) the fact that cost per impression and the number of impressions — if you think about it, it’s pretty obvious — they go in opposite directions and it’s always been that case. One of my arguments has long been that actually a decline in cost per impression is counterintuitively a good thing because that means they have more inventory, they’re generating more engagement or whatever it might be, which is bad for their competition. And also in the long run, it all nets out to being a general positive. You go back to the Netflix example, for example. You can have a lower ARPU, but if your overall revenue’s going up, it can be a win.*

*This quarter both went up, they both had an increase in inventory and the rate — sorry, I should say, it still declined, but the rate of growth, the second derivative, was positive, which has never happened or it hasn’t happened at least as long as my spreadsheet went back. So it just feels like there was just a really dramatic turnaround, they really did figure something out.*

*ES:* Yeah, and it’s the AI. So I think it’s really interesting, you’d seen every quarter, it would look like a triangle. The number of impressions was growing, but the value of impression, the decrease was growing too in the value of impressions and the decrease decreased, so you saw that actually go closer to zero. So that triangle stopped looking like a triangle that quarter, the overall shape, and so what happened was you had impression volume increased by 26%, or the average price per ad decreased by 17%, which was a lower decrease than quarter four.

And actually, Mark Zuckerberg said, the Reels monetization efficiency was up 30% on Instagram and 40% on Facebook quarter over quarter. And the daily revenue from Advantage Plus shopping campaigns, that’s their AI that they’ve applied to basically DTC and retail advertising campaigns, was up 7x in the last six months. We talked about this last time, but it seems to have worked. It felt like there was an unlock this quarter where they applied the AI to advertising campaign optimization. You take the human inefficiencies out of that process and you just capture that much more efficiency, and then you apply the AI to the product experience to drive more engagement so that therefore you can show more ads. That combination of approach just worked this quarter and revenue grew.

*You do raise an interesting point, which is it might not just be that their targeting and attribution, that they figured out the probabilistic model and that got better. It might just be they monetize Reels better, that could also account for some aspect of this. But to your point, that also is an AI issue, it’s solving the same problem.*

*ES:* Yeah, solving the same problem. Look, and we’ve talked about this before, but I get this question all the time, it’s like, “When is Facebook targeting going to revert back to where it was pre-ATT?

*Never.*

*ES:* We would say, “Never. It’s gone. It’s gone forever.” But what Meta has done is they’ve taken all these places where they can optimize the margins and they’ve done it to their greatest possible extent and they led this transition with measurement. There was, I want to say eighteen months ago they talked about, “When ATT first launched, we assessed that our accounting of conversions, when we think about the conversions that we believe we’ve delivered for advertisers, not through just observation but through just general forecasting and accounting…” —

*Yeah, they’ve been doing it for years, all these advertisers have been in there for ages. They know broadly speaking, how many they’re probably converting, but they couldn’t measure it.*

*ES:* Exactly.

*And the rates ended up being way lower. Is this a matter of, have they just increased their confidence? I guess they’re just saying, “Hey, we definitely converted this…” or not definitely, “We have much higher confidence that we converted this much and that’s going to go into your ROAS calculation, that is going to dictate how much you’re going to pay and that’s going to result in higher prices”.*

*ES:* And then they could triangulate that from historical benchmarks. They could triangulate that through Android, they could triangulate that through opt-in, and what they had said was like, “Okay, immediately in the aftermath of ATT, we were about able to account for about 85% of the attributions that we believed we were actually delivering for advertisers.” Then they had released this blog post and said, “No, actually it was…” — it was 92% or 93%, I don’t remember the exact number, they’d either increase that by seven or eight percent. My sense is they probably have that pretty close to a 100% now, that’s what they’ve been very dedicated on.

Once they got the actual measurement in place — measurement is, you-got-to-walk-and-then-you-can-run targeting and all the optimization, then they just said, “Okay, here’s this array of places where we could make these marginal improvements that in concert led to a fundamental improvement of the system”. It’s not a fundamental improvement of targeting because that’s gone forever, but it’s just a fundamental improvement in efficiency.

Then also on the content side, just getting more engagement out of people’s sessions. So we get more engagement, we don’t need to increase the ad load in order to deliver more ads and in so doing, they’ve actually been able to reverse the post-ATT trend. Now maybe it’s a blip, who knows? We’ll see, it’s one data point, but that felt like a momentous quarter for them.

*Absolutely. I completely agree.*

Shops, Shopify, and Apple Deference

*Another bit of Meta news ( https://stratechery.com/2023/shopify-amazon-follow-up-amazon-and-pinterest-meta-shops-to-require-native-checkout/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvc2hvcGlmeS1hbWF6b24tZm9sbG93LXVwLWFtYXpvbi1hbmQtcGludGVyZXN0LW1ldGEtc2hvcHMtdG8tcmVxdWlyZS1uYXRpdmUtY2hlY2tvdXQvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODc2MTA3MjcsImlhdCI6MTY4NTAxODcyNywiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.XvhAFb6h3pBi9KBZs9MMOF8mmxQtwfPz4YnB_1TUrC2JYgF6yq1pWfNu2rMrC7GJCL7aTTyCs4Ll5JiQKOQG6orraWRXdE3SpxlHaWuzwu9oneBvDgEjkUOkIEPV1QeVXiIY4CkTc0j97nFv1XIh4ZweRZGqHsxpsU_oSiA7aG4Uh1p0bQkmn1HJfA6mHwMOxTCkCaQabUv70QHU-L2T3MzG0qdqn5UZO5QRerZrMor01t7jHdNDNlgX-cBbDkGegYtJdkQvz1un0icDqi0hLPZis0N6zUUt4cIq_5YizqimFAOoMFrR3TjnZYuITPo9dN05F5w5gQHk4HHE4VXfTw ) is this bit where Facebook Shops, you are going to have to do the in-app conversion. I first wrote about this issue ( https://stratechery.com/2020/platforms-in-an-aggregator-world/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjAvcGxhdGZvcm1zLWluLWFuLWFnZ3JlZ2F0b3Itd29ybGQvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODc2MTA3MjcsImlhdCI6MTY4NTAxODcyNywiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.h3Ga9p3c1UpTy7WXLvr2P_CS_jHTzeGI0DBoQitDjPL2UIDupBhdXp1yrTDcxj_xPK0DN3t270oPysjNbY_o5c7_b73lzxp7vUkTFSWcGRbA2l6lCPyRKe_xROyLpm-cX9MIE9_X6UOTSIbGVFoBygldkXaisg7hPRiTjNGXDl6nE0MOuJCti35llTma9fu3n-bA1C944ZV2hq2lq1O3PTzcvcBXUHBCOwd1h_VNhcpsBpDnj6PUGcjlNzlDHRpypP_9dstkPI4tyGXH1Gk9oMjuI9A4hIeLjdvXuY_Tmo-jTe3cK89LMdmEGpVgXpxAcMp__Ef626zp0PzrPKVOBA ) of Apple’s impact on the web and the way it was a big problem for Shopify in particular, before ATT, when Facebook Shops was announced, because Apple’s been doing stuff like the private click measurement is trying limiting what cookies can do and pixels on the web and at the time, my point was this is an overall trend, and ATT obviously dramatically accelerated it, but I got a lot of pushback, I think, from the Shopify side in particular that, “No, we’re partners, it’s all going to be great.” But the reality is this trend — because you can close the loop, if the conversion happens on Facebook, you can get back to that deterministic measuring and you can know for sure. I think we both think this was inevitable, if anything, it’s a surprise it took this long.*

*ES:* It is, and there was a little bit of a head fake, which you called ( https://stratechery.com/2022/shopify-vs-buy-with-prime-instagram-shopping-cuda-and-china/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvc2hvcGlmeS12cy1idXktd2l0aC1wcmltZS1pbnN0YWdyYW0tc2hvcHBpbmctY3VkYS1hbmQtY2hpbmEvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODc2MTA3MjcsImlhdCI6MTY4NTAxODcyNywiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.B4qvj8CoMHH1kYw0w183HzJAFFTv8dhh1Tplr7Vm57VgWMeijHKIN3J18BqRZKjuMTmwkjEyxrNvG8kemJ1BPvCArd_D9O5JEdXvJWOm-bvQ4cfoepFSlcA8qMCb6gHoJayLW6HK2N_HCb5Dmcd_sqnmoCfY7WwCGPDJD8v5-992T7cFeWNYK_7hG6hkPc1isvsAOyZl6KtHnDBwiUM18xRNhrUpAMYy9C38FpF7GSOdbldGvDMBPa4jMmga8cftrDug7K7NO9F1V7TuMiShBsI8L6OFa5jMwiGOIO8KP30zJnLetsmiPodeexppicfOJyppHPINcID7LkEYfzd7Ug ). Back in September Meta announced that they were going to deprioritize the Instagram Shops page, and a lot of people said, “Oh, they’re giving up on this, they’re giving up on shopping, they’re giving up on that closed loop”. This is my content fortress thesis ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/content-fortresses-and-the-new-privacy-landscape/ ) that I’ve talked about. “They’re giving up on it” — and actually, it was the opposite. They were deprioritizing the Instagram Shops page because the Instagram Shops page was just a curated list of products that were derived from the user’s browsing habits that could be purchased within the Instagram app. But what they really wanted to do is actually drive the conversions there. So not through curating, using their data, not through the benevolence of Facebook saying, “Hey, here’s some stuff you might like. Why don’t you think about buying it through Ads?”.

*No, if you see an ad, you could buy it on the ad, you’re not going anywhere else.*

*ES:* Exactly. You know what products I want to show to people? The products that were advertised.

*That’s right.*

*ES:* And that’s what they’ve done. So it’s a total reversal of this benevolent, “Hey, we’ll bring ML to bear and showing you things you might want to buy.” It’s like, “No, we’re going to show you things that people paid for you to see”, and that’s what they announced here. It’s saying, “Okay, Facebook Shops, you’re all going to have to integrate native checkout.” Now if you want to do that and you want to get your products in front of people, well, guess what? Instagram shops deprioritized, there’s not this free discovery thing anymore.

*It’s kind of the Facebook Pages thing if you kind of squint.*

*Well, with Shopify, another topic we’ve talked about previously is Shopify Audiences ( https://stratechery.com/2023/shopify-earnings-shopify-audiences-the-shop-app/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvc2hvcGlmeS1lYXJuaW5ncy1zaG9waWZ5LWF1ZGllbmNlcy10aGUtc2hvcC1hcHAvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODc2MTA3MjgsImlhdCI6MTY4NTAxODcyOCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.Xm8NDVqu-FyhrGBzPbWqyha7yG7pEQORpvIUH9ZSyj_SQw4ZrBIRRsJ7g3jOFSA1QGE_hKu1fO6sfXzOXBbvgqgCysRqA0YmEImJVIK2RHqOAYe_zOZ7tG222WCoY8aMgNERA1nyCeCKyHkx-XHxtnAhAoJmnxIZIOWT4sAL5Vn5oU0OY5PXJa3EUBUB0Mx0Zm6VoGisKp9kyR7cBttYHvdwTMgENvrfjnRRwH2ffcvIiWIlvPtCqo5SZGvLY_AUpvUmc24K2Awbcn7Q7tyLQrjykIJQTVdn153zuPtjlD_ZkxLi7WOTNRGWUFHBlBCfNH4Uj4N47hvjZsjPH0rFug ) , which at a very high level aggregates all Shopify buyers into a common pool that Shopify merchants can use to advertise more effectively on Facebook, and it seems like a big success from what we can see. But you’ve argued that Shopify should actually make it free to all merchants ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/the-necessity-of-shopify-audiences/ ) — get a much bigger pool, drive that much more revenue in, right now it’s only limited to Shopify Plus merchants. As you probably know, I think I disagree ( https://stratechery.com/2023/shopify-earnings-shopify-audiences-the-shop-app/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvc2hvcGlmeS1lYXJuaW5ncy1zaG9waWZ5LWF1ZGllbmNlcy10aGUtc2hvcC1hcHAvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODc2MTA3MjgsImlhdCI6MTY4NTAxODcyOCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.Xm8NDVqu-FyhrGBzPbWqyha7yG7pEQORpvIUH9ZSyj_SQw4ZrBIRRsJ7g3jOFSA1QGE_hKu1fO6sfXzOXBbvgqgCysRqA0YmEImJVIK2RHqOAYe_zOZ7tG222WCoY8aMgNERA1nyCeCKyHkx-XHxtnAhAoJmnxIZIOWT4sAL5Vn5oU0OY5PXJa3EUBUB0Mx0Zm6VoGisKp9kyR7cBttYHvdwTMgENvrfjnRRwH2ffcvIiWIlvPtCqo5SZGvLY_AUpvUmc24K2Awbcn7Q7tyLQrjykIJQTVdn153zuPtjlD_ZkxLi7WOTNRGWUFHBlBCfNH4Uj4N47hvjZsjPH0rFug ) , but lay out your case.*

*ES:* Yeah, I guess my case is just that, and this was from Q4, so Q1 is a little bit different, they’ve had a lot of success with this and they’re expanding it to more platforms too. They just expanded it to Pinterest ( https://changelog.shopify.com/posts/shopify-audiences-is-now-available-for-pinterest-ads ) , it expanded to Google ( https://www.shopify.com/enterprise/shopify-audiences-with-google ) in October of last year.

There’s a couple of things. Shopify Plus is two grand a month, so these are scaled retailers, this is the long part of the tail, not the fat part of the distribution. And if you want to generate more data, you go to the fat part of the distribution, get this to everybody, get this in everybody’s hands and let them drive that much more data that would be pooled up and available to use.

*Make the product that much better.*

*ES:* Right. Then, I guess, the question to my mind was, is that enough of a value prop? The way you look at monetizing this is like, “Okay, either we’re just driving that much more ad spend for our retailers or unlocking that much more ad spend because it’s much more profitable through the benefit through Shopify audiences, that trickles down into a revenue benefit to us.” Or “We’re just converting that many more retailers into Shopify Plus in order to take part in it.” I guess my point was like, “Well, I don’t know what the conversion bump is,” but my sense is, if you just give people much more efficiency in their ad spend, well then they’re going to drive a lot more transactions on your platform and you’d probably benefit and maybe you benefit more from that. But who knows? We don’t know.

Now I think the bigger question is, maybe they’ve just been very cautious about rolling this out. Maybe they’re just slow rolling it, taking the temperature on it. First of all, seeing how advertisers react to it, because again, this goes back to the data co-op concept where, I always think about like it’s a beautiful life — the bank tells you, “I don’t have your money. Your money’s in his house. Your money is…” or “Your data’s in his campaigns and your data’s in her campaign.”

*That’s right. It goes back to your point about preserving your independence as a marketer. The whole point of this is no, everyone in Shopify is basically pooling their resources here.*

*ES:* Right. And maybe they never got… And I have no idea if this is true or not, who knows? But maybe they never got explicit sign off from Apple and they just want to slow roll and see how it’s interpreted and see what the temperature is.

*And to be clear, it’s not at all clear, this is illegal. I think it’s fine under the rules ( https://stratechery.com/2022/shopify-follow-up-shopify-audiences-unity-earnings/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvc2hvcGlmeS1mb2xsb3ctdXAtc2hvcGlmeS1hdWRpZW5jZXMtdW5pdHktZWFybmluZ3MvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODc2MTA3MjgsImlhdCI6MTY4NTAxODcyOCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.mhZde5gXZM7CY0fJryd5GboNaPWwAkEbEgE105yKXLUJW2Zcl4XCyIGzYdlUn4qTUSqbXbSxj5BS-73m6hVQXmXM8F56eK1BMJM_UCewQh5X1-0uRuoa-r_YFNpJ466s33Lx5upIi40w2M_wzkPW6SWZ1bo5HFwqYG9OvZ070IldgV5H2sezxx3kmYFILwH6TiSv_QhwphlO35xTBCebZu0CMHNZeBo5zURKnN53X-K5EoME-gLk7E4SQq-fAFXdQH0G1Vj_jgiTwJ8TO0R-PjsIe6RR0XbAK8YE8G1nY8M47UsAQbl4MOs3ld7hr9ZtN5DUZSqsELmbnIq_x4j9fw ) , but it is slightly gray.*

*ES:* Yeah. And the thing is, maybe there’s another good segue, I think people are starting to recognize that slightly gray is okay, this isn’t the law, this is platform policy.

*I did skip over that, but you had a good piece about how Facebook is changing their web attribution ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/unpacking-metas-changes-to-its-aem-measurement-framework/ ) where they were very closely aligned with Apples Private Click Measurement (PCM). Now they’re like, “Well, this is in broad strokes kind of the same thing, but we’re not going to follow the letter of the law.”*

*ES:* Conceptually we’re aligned here. So yeah, Facebook’s AEM [ Aggregated Event Measurement ], they announced it. A little bit of history here, I don’t want to go too deep in the weeds, but ATT was first announced, Facebook said, “Fine, we just won’t collect the IDFA, and by the way, we’re probably going to have to shut down Facebook Audience network for apps because it’s just not workable without the IDFA and look, you’re killing small businesses.” Basically the reaction was, “And we just won’t collect the IDFA, no big deal” and then this was right after ATT was announced. Then December, very close to Christmas before ATT was launched they said, “Okay. Through consultation with Apple, we’ve determined that we have to show the ATT prompt. We can’t just not do that.”

*Right. ATT isn’t just the IDFA, it’s a whole bunch of other rules and regulations. But this is an important point, because IDFA is a technical point which Apple can enforce whether you want to or not. All the other stuff in ATT is just what Apple tells you to do, there’s no technical enforcement because that’s impossible because you’re talking a lot about server communications that doesn’t go through the phone at all.*

*ES:* Right, the rest of it is just policy, and Apple as a company has a history of being a little bit ambiguous with how they enforce policy. So people would be forgiven for assuming that it may be enforced more aggressively with some companies than others, and so what they said is through this realization that it’s not just the IDFA phase, it’s overall policy approach. We also have to regulate this flow of data for app-to-web campaigns so when we have a web advertiser, the ATT applies nonetheless, it’s not just for app advertisers and so they introduced AEM, Aggregated Event Measurement ( https://www.facebook.com/business/help/721422165168355?id=1877298665783613 ) , which was based on the Apple’s PCM spec, and we know that because I have a screenshot I took very early on when they launched the documentation that said, “AEM can be thought of as analogous to PCM.” That’s what was in the documentation, but now they don’t mention PCM at all in documentation.

So what Meta announced recently is that, “Look, we’re changing AEM.” AEM used to essentially look the same as PCM, which means it was quite restrictive in the number of events that you could encode for observation. So basically what AEM does is it anonymizes attribution for a very limited amount of time after an ad click. This all happens in the browser, you click an ad, the browser keeps track of what you do on the destination website. There’s some number of events that you can instrument for PCM to pick up on, and if you do one of those things when the timer expires, then there’ll be a random timer and it’ll send the event back to the ad platform and say, “Hey, I won’t tell you who did this, but someone did this after clicking on an ad from this campaign.” That’s very similar to how SKAdNetwork works, which is on the app side. Well, Facebook built AEM to look like that. What Facebook announced — I keep saying Facebook—

*That’s fine.*

*ES:* What Meta announced recently was that, “Well, we’re changing AEM. We’re no longer going to limit these conversion events that you can observe. You don’t need to prioritize them, which has to do with what gets actually captured when the timer expires, and you don’t need to verify domain names for event configuration.” So that means this domain maps to this set of events, and what you’d want to do there is you’d want to have — what was enforced here was that you couldn’t do a bunch of subdomains, you couldn’t skirt the rules by doing a bunch of subdomains, so you could imagine if you just dynamically created subdomains on the fly, well, then every site is a personalized site for one person, and you only have eight events but you know exactly who landed there, and so what they’ve said is that, “We’ve done away with all that.”

So it seems like AEM is untethered now from PCM and again, when you go to the documentation, no mention of PCM. So that raises the question, why do that? And my sense is — and again who knows? — but my sense is Facebook was the only company that launched an advertiser facing privacy measurement framework like AEM. Other companies didn’t do that. Snap, you’ve got advanced conversions, Google’s got something very similar, but this is behind-the-scenes type stuff, you don’t know how that works. I think maybe Facebook just said, “Why do we have to do that? Why do we have to do that if other companies aren’t held to that standard?” and maybe it was a calculated risk.

*It was like Facebook over-accommodated themselves to Apple, which is the opposite of what you would expect, and they woke up a couple of years later, and it’s like, “No one else is doing this. Why are we going along that line?”*

*The other bit, you mentioned it in passing, but the Shopify question is, it does feel like they started out as a subscription business basically, and then they had merchant solutions where a huge amount of the revenue is basically taking a very thin skim on payments. It feels like they’re long run back to being a subscription business — for example I think Buy with Prime just might end up back on Shopify ( https://stratechery.com/2023/shopify-exits-logistics-the-shopify-logistics-side-quest-whither-buy-with-prime/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvc2hvcGlmeS1leGl0cy1sb2dpc3RpY3MtdGhlLXNob3BpZnktbG9naXN0aWNzLXNpZGUtcXVlc3Qtd2hpdGhlci1idXktd2l0aC1wcmltZS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY4NzYxMDcyOCwiaWF0IjoxNjg1MDE4NzI4LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.UqkBTAIuI9WBxlVuJPeTcIx6mAQSGEjJBPhIqJUGkjsWy_hE6cwDH2vPf2D27Y66Bzb4baruHtoXp60z-2BOcmB8Lovd7DppM_jqG2OL571ll1-VlvlnxfOnAPgYoGXQPlePdFRX_nFpxpQqGhLUg8SpFnSYfIs-Q62RONm6X25fbWwP_QR319R1aWRec_J_GJT9u0me9yuIDIb1k7gV4OkIseZ-Z-LxoV0luYil6dqAlVDJ_8iz8rP6Ok-oVzr2h_bH_ZVxsGsBtq7PWRYoo2CyqRSpxNMFNztPtvHpN3Upq9Gupp6vBngLg5Ty0_LywGAnv8G_xnfD_ch8mxP5dg ) ultimately as part of Shopify Plus — and that just may be a reality of a world where payments are going to end up on other platforms and they’ve given up on logistics, it’s going to be somewhere else. If you’re just providing a service, you might have to just charge for it as a service instead of being so fully integrated into the entire flow, that just might not be doable in the web that we ended up with in 2023.*

*ES:* Yeah, and then maybe just competing on the usability and quality of your product.

*You go for high margins instead of maximizing revenue.*

*ES:* Yeah, and comfort and convenience. I think Shop Pay is my favorite way to check out, I think it’s just a great experience. Now obviously, Apple Pay is much more convenient because it’s two clicks, but we’ll see if some of that gets disrupted by the DMA (Digital Markets Act) ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/a-deep-dive-on-the-digital-markets-act-dma-and-digital-services-act-dsa/ ).

The EU Regulatory Impact

*Well, unsurprisingly, we went long, so I’m going to jump ahead. You’ve been writing about a theme ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/privacy-digital-deglobalization-and-the-three-internets/ ) that we’ve both thought a lot about, which is the fracturing of the Internet ( https://stratechery.com/2020/india-jio-and-the-four-internets/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjAvaW5kaWEtamlvLWFuZC10aGUtZm91ci1pbnRlcm5ldHMvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODc2MTA3MjgsImlhdCI6MTY4NTAxODcyOCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.AKETPHsi22wg9oLnu9bSo0dbftWOcJFIUhLeyYm6qf-cDKyRoiaE20Btwd2_dvYY6gxC3Wxzm88-1TDcgSPtoKdz-fhc943IzvC-GF41xTdZm4-52seIjswUleTsNuXzWIOYoC4cvkZ8S-jcclbka449_idq4LIny78iByx4MDappW4caL0ykVtQGEKIm_1jxWQ1aGG153j8r7qO6aawfkARD1CPJPUcaTR8pnsve1-WTLQ_YjBxUg8MtnUW5xsp3QDCErlJs4TCq0Ly05opuUBmMt2Aq9hh3fnbJRBwJ56h-0D2zL6AU715M_AfBetUlHP55Eay2sxPxIMnrYFa0A ). Particularly with the recent EU fine on Facebook ( https://stratechery.com/2023/eu-fines-meta-big-tech-exposure-the-degradation-of-scalability/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvZXUtZmluZXMtbWV0YS1iaWctdGVjaC1leHBvc3VyZS10aGUtZGVncmFkYXRpb24tb2Ytc2NhbGFiaWxpdHkvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODc2MTA3MjgsImlhdCI6MTY4NTAxODcyOCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.AtljRBqxTcIMvxb9Xa7yxVJxqzPVFhTYASjlsm-jGKcd_KyUGXacjY8rdHRpueqEtXRhxiI7R4DQD1RxbuoxAMaSlU11W-4wHgfgMxEkTnHu2gSUUe1-wByMnnt1Zo_no2l3E0T6HbNVHzUXeewIpAv30KZASmCNpYp3rNCgYvxUtLMdBf_-LXFFWatr27KOxYlVJ8XMe6sfFQqG-pykKxaKrj8Z-alXb8h1ZlqYH63OPasCWFnekylV-z_-cZcRBs0D0NEuqxQcdIMFRfhdzdZ_avihCLnXGcM-BaUMaEcoWWz255n1rXay_i66eR6utIZWKTcCaZwqAnAVJWkW8g ) and the big one, I think, was earlier this year ( https://stratechery.com/2023/metas-eu-fine-first-party-versus-third-party-data-redux-the-eus-first-party-imposition/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvbWV0YXMtZXUtZmluZS1maXJzdC1wYXJ0eS12ZXJzdXMtdGhpcmQtcGFydHktZGF0YS1yZWR1eC10aGUtZXVzLWZpcnN0LXBhcnR5LWltcG9zaXRpb24vIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODc2MTA3MjgsImlhdCI6MTY4NTAxODcyOCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.bTkXapS8SJ36BEykkK9nHM3Oyv2OtHqmOHckIuzsKbOeVumHldtagQBrkm1MVzZrEZl_EzyyyWNssxqrMwPi6XpqEzkJoFJTK57h20syjdBfV6hJz3h_l-hf2bPriWFcS13enx7hchwE7WCftiIoqK-_svAGR0bqZUky9kw0VcgLvqZmQxvQYEAlYP0DUklKGVjmja-zifsT134Lr1W4wXCxf28qKyDxVVH1p41l7ZP0sU81YyYo36rGa_G7q0KOU089AZJLaCG-HHtybrkT-jB-syho3OSr7NpbX5F46MVaut7HCZbDbAGeNeAn_24qIxO9rQjTz7schg-jMtc5Ew ) where they’ve basically said, “No targeted advertising, period.”*

*I don’t like that first fine, because you’re getting targeted with every piece of content you get from Facebook, some of it is posted by your friends and family or a news organization or wherever it might be, some of it is paid for by advertisers, but the fundamental mechanics are the same, where Facebook has tried to build an understanding of what you’re interested in and then shown it to you. So this attack, it’s an attack on the business model, it’s not an attack on the fundamental use of data, because they’re still going to use data and in fact, they’re mandated to still continue providing the personalized service, they just can’t have personalized advertising.*

*Now, we could have a moral debate about is this legitimate? My personal view is look, make it clear to users when they sign up, but it’s a package deal, but that’s obviously not going to be allowed. What does this mean going forward? Then you also have this thing this week about data transfer ( https://stratechery.com/2023/eu-fines-meta-big-tech-exposure-the-degradation-of-scalability/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvZXUtZmluZXMtbWV0YS1iaWctdGVjaC1leHBvc3VyZS10aGUtZGVncmFkYXRpb24tb2Ytc2NhbGFiaWxpdHkvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODc2MTA3MjgsImlhdCI6MTY4NTAxODcyOCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.AtljRBqxTcIMvxb9Xa7yxVJxqzPVFhTYASjlsm-jGKcd_KyUGXacjY8rdHRpueqEtXRhxiI7R4DQD1RxbuoxAMaSlU11W-4wHgfgMxEkTnHu2gSUUe1-wByMnnt1Zo_no2l3E0T6HbNVHzUXeewIpAv30KZASmCNpYp3rNCgYvxUtLMdBf_-LXFFWatr27KOxYlVJ8XMe6sfFQqG-pykKxaKrj8Z-alXb8h1ZlqYH63OPasCWFnekylV-z_-cZcRBs0D0NEuqxQcdIMFRfhdzdZ_avihCLnXGcM-BaUMaEcoWWz255n1rXay_i66eR6utIZWKTcCaZwqAnAVJWkW8g ) , which probably will be solved by an agreement, but there’s a potential in the long run where you can’t even move data for processing from the EU. This is an open-ended question, but where’s your head at as far as this goes?*

*ES:* So the thing is, and this is today as we record this, the announcement was obviously a very significant fine, a record setting GDPR fine, eclipsing even the Amazon fine of $800 million or something like that. It’s $1.3 billion and a cessation of data transfer from —

*Right, but that applies to literally every company in the world. Everyone wants to dunk on Facebook here, but all websites are built with the assumption that there are no borders.*

*ES:* Yeah, it does. Although this was a ruling specific to Facebook because it stemmed from a lawsuit by Max Schrems ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Max_Schrems ).

*For sure, that’s why most people will be fine, is it’s a selective enforcement on steroids.*

*ES:* Yeah. The thing about this is there’s a very great thread from Anupam Chander ( https://twitter.com/AnupamChander/status/1660610416337141760 ) , who’s a professor at Georgetown, he wrote this today, so I’d encourage people to go find it. But he writes, “This decision is about the NSA and US law, not about Facebook’s practices.”

*That’s right.*

*ES:* “In the decision, Snowden is mentioned 10 times; the NSA, 10 times; PRISM, 32 times; FISA, 58 times; 702, 75 times.” So this traces back to 2013 and the Snowden disclosures and that’s when Max Schrems said, “Look, when our data goes back to the US, our human rights are being violated by the intelligence agencies in the United States that are just collecting all this stuff with total aplomb.”

*Let me jump in quick because I’m the one that conflated these two things. So there’s two points to talk about, we’re talking right now about this recent decision, which to your point, I have tremendous sympathy for the European point of view on this, because even back when the Snowden revelations happen, the debate in the US was like, “Are they looking at US data? They better not be.” Everyone’s like, “Oh, of course they’re looking at foreign data.” So that’s number one. We will get to number two, the targeted advertising bit in a moment but I did want to make clear, these are two separate points. So sorry to interrupt you, but I didn’t want to confuse anyone.*

*ES:* Right. And there’s a lot of detail here that’s probably not super interesting. People can read up on the background, but there is a specific point here that I think is worth surfacing even in light of the distinction between the personalized advertising use case and then just the concern about intelligence agencies hoovering up this data, which is that a Privacy Shield ( https://www.privacyshield.gov/welcome ) too had been essentially agreed upon in principle, it was expected to go into effect next in September, this was ready to go. The fact that this decision was made now, and by the way, the Irish DPC [Data Protection Commission] pushed back against the EDPB’s [European Data Protection Board] mandate here or their decision. So basically what happened is we actually knew this in January, which was that the Irish DPC had not been able to come to an agreement essentially with the EDPB, which is the oversight board to enforce GDPR.

*Any member country can raise an objection. So any individual country has veto power on anything privacy related, which I think is going to be a big point of contention in the appeals process because it was like where’s the due process here? But anyhow, we’re getting sidetracked.*

*ES:* Right, so the Irish DPC had issued their own decision last summer and they said, “Yeah, okay, this was probably illegal, but we’ve got a new framework coming and this is going to change, this decision will change the way this data is managed. So there’s going to be some consequences that they’ll probably have to halt the data as it’s being done now with the SCCs, but there’s going to be a new framework in place soon and so we don’t really need to find them.” And so the EDPB, they couldn’t come to a consensus within the EDPB and then it went through this basically a tribunal process. The thing is, the average time to resolve that tribunal process was going to be shorter than the EC’s [European Commission] ability to actually codify the new framework into law, and we knew that, we knew that was probably going to happen, and there’s these dual processes running on different timelines. So then when the EDPB decision came out, the Irish DPC came out with basically a press release saying, “Look, we didn’t think this was necessary, we disagree with this.” And that’s the second time this happened because this happened in the previous decision, which we’ll get to in a second, so there’s now a trend.

The Irish DPC is much more sympathetic to these big businesses because they’re all headquartered in Ireland. They pay tax in Ireland, to the extent they pay tax in Ireland, they pay it there, but that’s why they’re based in Ireland is because it’s more business-friendly and the idea with GDPR is it should be a one-stop shop. You should only have to deal with your DPA, Data Protection Authority, in the country in which your EU headquarters is domiciled, and so now we’re seeing now there’s this oversight committee and they have the ability to push back on these decisions made by the domestic DPAs, this is the second time this has happened. That’s one thing, it’s like we’ve seen some lack of alignment there, and there’s not just not broad uniformity in the way that these things are interpreted, and we’ve also seen that with AI stuff. There’s a couple of these DPAs, they’re leading the pack with a more aggressive interpretation of the GDPR.

So to your point about where is this trending to with personalized advertising? My sense is, and if we go back to the decision that was made in January, which is a totally separate fine, totally separate decision, which was related to Meta’s use of the contractual necessity basis for collecting and processing EU data subject data, which is, there’s six legal bases under the GDPR for doing that. There’s three that are relevant to a consumer tech company. There’s the contractual necessity basis, which has said, “Look, if you sign the ToS [Terms of Service], we have to do this in order to provide the product to you.” There’s a second one, legitimate interest, which is that it’s in the legitimate interest of the user that we do this for you.
And then the third relevant one is consent — it’s just like, okay, these are consented so we could do it.

You’d want to use the other two before you get to consent, because consent is a mechanic like ATT and as we’ve seen from ATT, the opt-in rates are very low. So what was determined there, and again, the Irish DPC said, “No, we don’t think they broke the law. We don’t think this is not compliant with GDPR.” EDPB said, “No, it is, and you’ve got to issue this fine.” They issued a binding decision that the Irish DPC had to enforce and at that time, it was a record-breaking fine for this. So what they essentially determined through that whole process was that you can’t use a contractual necessity basis for personalized advertising. You can for various aspects of data collection that are related to the actual core functionality of the product.

*Right. So you could use it to personalize the feed.*

*ES:* Right. Exactly.

*You just can’t use it to personalize the ads in the feed.*

*ES:* But ads are not necessary, ads are not necessary for the functional usage of this product, and so you can’t package those two things together. Now, what Meta did was they said, “Okay, well, we’re going to offer this opt-out mechanism in the EU” and they introduced that as the deadline for compliance was upon them. But they also said, “We’re also going to change our legal basis to legitimate interest.” Now, there’s a big question as to whether that will stand up to scrutiny because TikTok tried to do that, they were going to do that and they were advised by the Italian DPA, they said, “If you do that, this is going to be illegal under under GDPR,” and they abandoned that at the last minute.

So we’ll see if this stands up to scrutiny. Maybe it does and maybe that’s just a new path forward. My sense is in Europe, you will not be able to personalize advertising without explicit user consent. Now, again, wherever you stand on the morality of that or the ethical robustness of that, that’s a personal determination. I just think that’s where we’re headed. I think in Europe you will not be able to personalize ads without collecting explicit consent from the user.

*So what does that mean in the long run then? Is it just all these companies are going to have to accept significantly lower revenue in Europe? You mentioned all these performance marketers, are they just going to not even bother with Europe, not even serving there? Might as well trim down your operations, get rid of international shipping. What’s the long-term play here?*

*ES:* Yeah, I wrote this article talking about this de-globalization effect ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/privacy-digital-deglobalization-and-the-three-internets/ ). So if you think about globalization, that’s deflationary. You bring competitive advantage into play, you develop a bigger market for your products. And so the cost of these can go down. If you de-globalize, well, the cost of things has to go up. Why would the cost of things go up? Well, because advertising doesn’t supplement the cost of operating the service anymore. So now how do we pay for that? We probably have to charge a fee.

*That’s the question, does Facebook end up charging?*

*ES:* They might, we don’t know, but I think that’s where we’re headed. Now, I think it was very instructive: Susan Li said in the earnings ( https://stratechery.com/2023/metas-low-e-u-arpu-the-supreme-court-and-section-230/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvbWV0YXMtbG93LWUtdS1hcnB1LXRoZS1zdXByZW1lLWNvdXJ0LWFuZC1zZWN0aW9uLTIzMC8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY4NzYxMDcyOCwiaWF0IjoxNjg1MDE4NzI4LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.I6nxrGbWHI9SDUom3cBinHafyAah1bwU-Hk7_MOsKG4ZdqClfzSy5cpGX7dcNWuhgMfKiw8o6mTA3WAabZdnJt7Wh6GnNKHb4O7qYqo4kP1Yi4-nDoPl9-Cs-_HlsLPIVaIMp9Sg8Su8N2zcv0thTXoLqqfHjiYLehvrNiT798P5_cFcFlunoeeIoaPKqmzfstszHAx7mHlyRRFbwFPaEWBIL1zSbz6LL7WPNtzA4fPX-Nkx1-B6D5nfx8KLE6OtQwGFYLSo3IAaVQeIPlQAmZ3OYdk8ATnYeI5htgYh-5k0uZIVQ9hYND4f_Ck5q8lYhI6_QW8mciitRQcRHSpJYA ) , she was asked about the data transfer issue and she said, “Look, the E.U. is 10% of revenue, it’s 10% of global revenue.” That’s a fairly significant revelation there, and I think she made it to just calm people down. Well, that’s the scope, why would you give that up? Why would you surrender that number? That’s closely held, right? Because that obviously excludes the U.K., but the IAB had some estimates a couple of years ago that the U.K. was about half of all of European advertising revenue. So now the U.K. is not really Europe, it’s not Europe anymore after Brexit, or it’s not in the E.U. And so she said, “Oh, the EU is 10%”, so that’s the max at risk, and I think there’s a reason she disclosed that because these companies are not prone to disclosing numbers without being forced to.

*It’s a good call because I wrote yesterday about the E.U. number. I missed that she had disclosed that, this is publishing on Thursday, I’m going to stick an update today and say, “Oh, by the way, there was this number out there.”*

*ES:* There you go.

*It’s very interesting because will they charge? Will they just basically say, “We’re going to underinvest?” But the question I think is for future platforms, future competitors because 10%, it’s a relatively small number, but you already have it, to give it up is a big ask. I think the big question for companies going forward is, should you even bother investing in Europe in the first place if this is the reality?*

*ES:* That will be the question, and we’re seeing that. So again, Meta’s a big company, it’s a target, but I think that’s the direction of travel, because we’re seeing that with OpenAI. It’s not just that years and years of privacy abuses have played out from OpenAI and they can’t be trusted. This is a relatively new company with a brand new product and it’s already being foreclosed upon for these, I would call them fairly vague reasons. It’s these potential threats, not demonstrated abuses.

*Well, AI is such a great use case because I’ve made the point that some of this data — we’re on the same page here — this is probably where the haters will come in that would attack your site, but this data thing is a little overstated ( https://stratechery.com/2019/privacy-fundamentalism/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMTkvcHJpdmFjeS1mdW5kYW1lbnRhbGlzbS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY4NzYxMDcyOCwiaWF0IjoxNjg1MDE4NzI4LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.S1SbWlhAGl4y8UZI9YwVgHJnDsq5W49iwcHSk0CMjYDM9Hj42XmzJlkIk3uyo-zRBMC-_kWTjDkf5vx-3y1aW0FctpXWe4iqjNByWILwfSpyFazULSCOs6ua4YAcnvql4GWQ42VF05FC0s_oTOmd5_G0agqGpfV6oIYbmavIJmZrc43ERVN1XRwOftBfHvD3zDK7F2e_V7m61tDTzr9uqG0QignBUFj1iNB92HB7nELBFTTDURY5UKuvv_aS6UQaMw0FFktoGR8USLtxHKfjRmbdQNGR-bWhUoyf8V2-h2a-FGt7zZggMuxY1XNOsUlOZuCbvmmoX8FPkP6nS5tl7Q ). We’re talking about numbers in a vector graph, AI is literally that, it’s when you’re doing linear algebra on all these numbers that are impossible to extract any sort of meaning from on a human-level basis, and that is the grounds that, oh, my user feedback or my answer goes back into this graph and it adjusts a few numbers and now my data is in there. Going to the extremes doesn’t benefit anyone, but that seems to be where we’re headed.*

*ES:* Right, so you foreclose upon the launch of these new technologies. Just to make this clear, I’m incredibly excited about the prospects of generative AI, I think this is a transformative moment in my lifetime, just seeing these come to market. I’m very excited but what’s the future of it in Europe? Is it just not going to be accessible there? And then if you think about that, think about the productivity gains that are lost. This is to my mind, the second Industrial Revolution or maybe a third if you consider the Internet second. So what if that’s just not available in an entire continent because there’s a theoretical risk of harm?

*Yep, well it’s going to be interesting. It’s going to be very interesting to observe certainly going forward. One thing that is worth noting about this AI stuff in general is I’ve long noted that if the powers that be understood the impact of the Internet, the Internet would’ve never been allowed to become a thing, and we’re seeing a manifestation of that right now where there’s like this super fast marshaling against AI without even really knowing what it might be or might become. It’s all motivated by this, “No, we don’t want the Internet all over again” and it’s interesting that for you and I, the Internet is great for us.*

*ES:* Sure.

*We’re going to record this podcast from across the world and publish it over the world and we get paid for it. I get paid for it and I’m going to hopefully push a bunch of subscribers to your site.*

*ES:* Thank you very much.

*Which is great and worth paying for, and all that is to our benefit. If you were a big media company or you controlled all the information flow, the Internet has been a disaster and those battle lines — it’s been striking to see them drawn so much more quickly in this case and yeah, it’s going to be very interesting to see how it plays out.*

*ES:* 100%.

*Well, I was going to save my pitch for the end, but I already put it at the top. Mobile Dev Memo ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/ ) , I’m a huge fan. If any of the acronyms or whatever that are inherent in any advertising discussion got you confused, it’s a great place to start. I put links to basically everything that we talked about, which are things you’ve covered over the last few months, but it’s great to have you on board. This additional productivity from you is great for me because we have a lot to talk about and I definitely look forward to talking to you again soon.*

*ES:* I’m always appreciative of the invitation, Ben. A big fan of your work and I thank you for inviting me on.

This Daily Update Interview is also available as a podcast. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member ).

The Daily Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.

Thanks for being a supporter, and have a great day!

Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player:
Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharptech.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Dithering ( https://dithering.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.dithering.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp China ( https://sharpchina.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharpchina.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | GOAT ( https://goat.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgoat.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Subscription Information

Member: Omar Zoheri
Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com
Member since: December 8, 2022
Auto-renewal is disabled
Expiration date: December 8, 2023

You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery ( https://www.stratechery.com ).

Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/login?email=stratecheryUSC%40khamel.com ) to view your account and manage your subscriptions.

© 2023 Stratechery LLC ( https://www.stratechery.com ) , 2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703