# An Interview with Dylan Patel and Doug O'Laughlin About the Current State of Semiconductors and SemiAnalysis (Stratechery Interview 11-14-2024)

**From:** Ben Thompson <email@stratechery.com>
**Date:** Thu, 14 Nov 2024 11:16:09 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/An Interview with Dylan Patel and Doug O'Laughlin About the Current State of Semiconductors and SemiAnalysis (Stratechery Interview 11-14-2024)_Thu,_14_Nov_2024_11-16-09_+0000_1932a6c9d2e9091a.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:07.372235

An interview with Dylan Patel and Doug O’Laughlin about the current state of the AI supply chain, and big plans for SemiAnalysis.

View in browser ( https://stratechery.com/2024/an-interview-with-dylan-patel-and-doug-olaughlin-about-the-current-state-of-semiconductors-and-semianalysis/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.DrzTyWWk83kMqTgSQXGe2UWpVH0oLMIbLB5V46UvODtxXiKyBmo0HfkZrOddX4_LlhNA-fz8UqIqpbk8X_Ibx93fnGjRI2xku3ndD2zHOs-8hdbmBJ6t9olv-hOQVjch2ErhV0qCIB7VkrUeAw3mOlRVvso04r7AJnOKY1DcHPDydRZVvCJ1d7bJ2XZ1BEs4zzA2w6Wax0oEIaaXvrCpi1uJd2lAo8b85zZwhRvjHCOPsYNeem0U9Z9IRFq9bsOZ2u7lnESMQ9UbWRT4z_7k51ysD0fv-YQMizRuZjoDaPdwjOO550jxJbszJhciy6I9QmBlJeVCHwqUesInXWP5eQ )

( https://stratechery.com )

************************************************************************************************************
An Interview with Dylan Patel and Doug O'Laughlin About the Current State of Semiconductors and SemiAnalysis
************************************************************************************************************

( https://stratechery.com/2024/an-interview-with-dylan-patel-and-doug-olaughlin-about-the-current-state-of-semiconductors-and-semianalysis/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.DrzTyWWk83kMqTgSQXGe2UWpVH0oLMIbLB5V46UvODtxXiKyBmo0HfkZrOddX4_LlhNA-fz8UqIqpbk8X_Ibx93fnGjRI2xku3ndD2zHOs-8hdbmBJ6t9olv-hOQVjch2ErhV0qCIB7VkrUeAw3mOlRVvso04r7AJnOKY1DcHPDydRZVvCJ1d7bJ2XZ1BEs4zzA2w6Wax0oEIaaXvrCpi1uJd2lAo8b85zZwhRvjHCOPsYNeem0U9Z9IRFq9bsOZ2u7lnESMQ9UbWRT4z_7k51ysD0fv-YQMizRuZjoDaPdwjOO550jxJbszJhciy6I9QmBlJeVCHwqUesInXWP5eQ ) Thursday, November 14, 2024

Listen to this Update in your podcast player ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Good morning,

I am happy to welcome back Doug O’Laughlin ( https://twitter.com/_fabknowledge_ ) and Dylan Patel ( https://twitter.com/dylan522p ) for a Stratechery Interview. O’Laughlin is the author of Fabricated Knowledge ( https://www.fabricatedknowledge.com/ ) , a Substack that covers the semiconductor industry, primarily from a financial perspective. Patel is the author and founder of SemiAnalysis ( https://www.semianalysis.com/ ) , a newsletter, consulting, and research firm focused on the semiconductor supply chain.

I previously interviewed O’Laughlin and Patel in September 2023 ( https://stratechery.com/2023/an-interview-with-doug-olaughlin-and-dylan-patel-about-semiconductors-and-ai/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.SdJwAPeMs1aPysTN_o-N7wDlKvY7pvX_uGzR9fh6G290B_6GJ2rE0qi96CYY-kMejQ20hs2m9lnDMZn9sqTAUG0wixVPbxlKKGsibxz4xukrKnHkcUaZ8dadDlQo3d0lv6JsKujGxxm9StsyUevp7y0fpmVBh4iMIUDxE_GTy3PHtUuyCE2qP7R4bFLiC9Pd9X4TfoHqNwTaorvUhnhNmx2DdImWVbkKbfl6W62zxsfDC9NZ76SzCQd-yO_hCYJZBQuNc4vCiv6ueC3BqaS631FAgxg6vDZZwscWUfV8a-1VdrC_NOlYduFNZkpW_lw5HBlRkboEaKShTCXBNoJG1g ) , and since then SemiAnalysis has grown to be the authoritative research firm for the AI supply chain in particular. That growth includes O’Laughlin: while Fabricated Knowledge will continue to be a standalone publication, O’Laughlin has teamed up with Patel to drive the expanding SemiAnalysis team to new heights. One ingredient in that growth, as I noted on Monday ( https://stratechery.com/2024/amazon-earnings-robotics-and-amazons-expanding-1p-business/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L2FtYXpvbi1lYXJuaW5ncy1yb2JvdGljcy1hbmQtYW1hem9ucy1leHBhbmRpbmctMXAtYnVzaW5lc3MvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MzQxNzQ5NjgsImlhdCI6MTczMTU4Mjk2OCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.GMewpJKWLeFdjEIToAzg90xsJAmrsLr2DNZFVkZcB2yJSwKsFjO4XrS_iJiSIJuwr6m-pdvwKD6Nl9d5qN-kbbq3G5NJBo4cAPI_qZXxB9Cc-2wLMIBmWWKbwI0UVBajUJjITFziZLRrbMK1Zh3_hJClC0PZnxLGYnd0tkbFwCwP845zU5DSTe4Xd89CFhXbYSp2OwGs7Ui0UKWsssyT8428_u1ufLLC4gfmAKKkSXeQySZHIPnHDU8xgUKRs20Z47FPQnVWn2geGtGyU5taXf0NmwSdJxn3H14F7HIPATIf3wXMjJhGQQB_FJaDA-FkpcuwB8VKoahe5LxJJ6fleQ ) , is Passport; SemiAnalysis is the first 3rd-party entity to use the software I have developed to power Stratechery.

In this interview we discuss Patel and O’Laughlin’s vision for SemiAnalysis, and whey they think AI represents an opportunity to build a leading research firm. We then move onto all things chips, including the semiconductor supply chain, China, Intel, hyperscalers generally and AWS specifically, and why O’Laughlin, one of the longest and loudest Nvidia bulls, has some long-term concerns.

As a reminder, all Stratechery content, including interviews, is available as a podcast; click the link at the top of this email to add Stratechery to your podcast player.

On to the Interview:

An Interview with Dylan Patel and Doug O’Laughlin About the Current State of Semiconductors and SemiAnalysis
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This interview is lightly edited for clarity.

*Topics:*
The SemiAnalysis Vision ( #semianalysis ) | The Semi Supply Chain ( #semi-supply-chain ) | China ( #china ) | Intel ( #intel ) | AWS and the Hyperscalers ( #aws ) | Nvidia and Passport ( #nvidia-passport )

The SemiAnalysis Vision

*Doug O’Laughlin and Dylan Patel, welcome back to Stratechery.*

*Doug O’Lauhglin:* Nice to be here.

*DP:* Thank you for having us.

*The last time you were here, actually we were in person, you were here in Taipei, we were stuck in an incredibly hot room with a broken air conditioner, it was a nice bonding experience. Today we’re on a video chat, but we have a new bonding experience to talk about. Doug, I think you have an announcement in that regard.*

*DO:* I do. The big announcement, actually, is not a complete secret, but I’m joining SemiAnalysis, Dylan Patel’s SemiAnalysis, to be the best. That’s candidly why we’re doing it.

*So, just to back up, for people that don’t know, I’ll obviously have this in the introduction, but Doug, you write just a fantastic Substack about semiconductors, more on the big picture, what this stuff is, how it works, and then the financial implications of that. Dylan, obviously the preeminent journalist/analyst/shit-raiser amongst what is happening in semis broadly, but particularly the AI supply chain. Just from a content perspective, it’s an amazing match, but I know there’s a broader vision for building this business. Dylan, I’ve told you in person, I find you and your vision pretty intimidating. Last time we talked, we talked about your rise from forum poster to just overseer of the AI world. What has happened since that time and where do you want to take this?*

*DP:* I am the manager of AGI. (Laughing)

*You are! But what’s the SemiAnalysis vision? Where is it at? Where’s it going? It’s super exciting.*

*DP:* Sure. SemiAnalysis, the big goal here is to provide the best research analysis, data, and consulting for the semiconductor and AI industries, primarily AI infrastructure, and this is shown throughout our products. We’re the only company that tracks every data center globally, we’re the only company that tracks every fab globally. We’re the only company that tracks every accelerator shipment, every advanced packaging tool shipment, every front-end wafer equipment shipment, and all sorts of other things throughout the supply chain, whether it be substations and transformers all the way down to chips. And so, that’s the goal.

Then from that, we also do a lot of technical work. We’ve been benchmarking clusters, we’ve been helping cloud companies get set up, we’ve been helping all sorts of folks in the semiconductor and data center and AI supply chains with their needs. That’s the goal and we’re just trying to scale now rapidly. Doug joined six months ago and he’s helped with a lot of getting things fixed, because we were scaling fast, but now with Doug on board, we’re scaling even faster like a rocket ship, and we’re serving so many different markets, whether it be the biggest tech companies in the world are our customers, AI labs are our customers, hedge funds are our customers, private equity companies are our customers and of course, everyone who subscribes to the newsletter is only going to get a better product as well.

*So, you’re much more than a newsletter now. That’s more top-of-the-funnel than an income source at this point. Is that right?*

*DP:* I would say it’s less than 20% of our revenue at current moment. So yeah, definitely a newsletter is not that big on revenue, but we treat it as the most important thing anyways. We want the best content to go out there in many cases — not the data, not the consulting — but in many cases. Our most recent piece was just teaching cloud companies to set up a cloud ( https://semianalysis.com/2024/10/14/datacenter-anatomy-part-1-electrical/ ) , we’ve helped enough people set up their clouds that we’re like, “Yeah, let’s just teach people how to set up a cloud”, and so instead of having forty new cloud companies in this fantastic boom of AI, there could be maybe fifty or sixty. So the newsletter is very much still the top of mind and still top of funnel.

*And then you have these data products, you have this consulting. How big is SemiAnalysis at this point as far as people goes?*

*DP:* The number always changes. Doug’s smiling and laughing because he doesn’t know, the number, it changes. But right now I believe it’s seventeen and we should be at over twenty by the end of the year because we’ve got a few key hires coming in and we’re geographically everywhere. We’re in US, we’re in Japan, Singapore, Taiwan, France, Germany, I think we’re everywhere.

*DO:* India.

*DP:* India, yeah.

*Doug, what’s your view on that? What was the grin for?*

*DO:* Well, just because sometimes the joke is, “How many people are we again?”, I know that there’s always people coming, and then we’re always trying to scale. I definitely have been working a lot on the operations, the scaling, because I talked to Dylan about doing this, and candidly, let’s not forget, people always joked that we should just merge anyways. That’s literally people tweeted at me when it was still Twitter, all the time, “Hey, we got to do this”, and I was like, “Okay, okay”. Now it’s like, “Dylan is a beast and you work with him”, and I’m just like, “The primary source I’m using is just SemiAnalysis all the time”, and I’m like, “I think I could help Dylan, but also if you can’t beat him, you definitely should just join him”.

This is an awesome opportunity and I’m really excited about all the things that we’re doing. So yeah, the laugh and smile is mostly about, “How many people are we again?”, the answer is quite a few. I mean, more than anything else, I think the thing that we have been really lucky about is hiring lots of high quality talent. For sure, we’ve grown a lot, even since I’ve started, but more than anything, I think I’ve been a little bit shocked at the quality of the people that I work with. I really like all my co-workers. I know people say that blah, blah, blah, I really do, I love everyone I work with.

*I mean I can definitely relate to the, if you can’t beat him, join him aspect. I am not, for the record, joining SemiAnalysis, but there’s a bit where SemiAnalysis is now on Passport ( https://x.com/benthompson/status/1854910454390550530 ). I think just the ideas you’re talking about where you want a broad array of products, not just a newsletter. You want to have data models, you want to set up larger scale calls, things on those lines. Some of the stuff that Passport does now, some of it is in the future, because it’s architected to be scalable in that way, and I’ve always talked about it being an enterprise-level product for creators ( https://passport.online/ ). And I remember, Dylan, we were talking about it, I’m like, “Look, I get that this is new and coming along, but I kind of feel like I’ve been building this for you all along to a much greater extent than for Stratechery”, and it’s great to have you on board. I’m employing people basically for SemiAnalysis at this point, I feel like I’m practically a part of the team, so I get what you’re saying, Doug, for sure.*

*DP:* God put Ben Thompson on this Earth to help us in our great fight. (Laughing)

*I’m just curious, Doug, you’ve been a historian in some respects, some of my favorite pieces of yours are when you dive deep into the past things. What would you do if you applied that lens to the analysis bit as a whole? Is this sort of a thing where AI just provided this inflection point? Is it a transformation in the way the semi supply chain has changed? Why is there this opening to build this new and rapidly growing business in a world where there’s sort of been the same set of characters in that space for a long time?*

*DO:* Oh, that’s an easy one, and this is my personal theory of disruption. I think a lot of times things that happen are, candidly, reinventions of the same wheel. Oracle was once upon a time the greatest enterprise software company, then comes along Salesforce. Each platform, each generation has the defining company of that wave, and there’s some big waves that have been ridden already in the past. What we’re doing is not new, we have competitors. I think it’s really nice because when we talk to people who use our competitors, they’re like, “Your competitors suck and we want to work with you instead”, it’s a good feeling. But I think it really comes down to is when there are big, new markets, a lot of the same opportunities that existed in the past markets open up again and so someone has to come in and fill those spots.

I think SemiAnalysis is going to be the company that will, specifically for AI, and I definitely think the new generation of semiconductors as well. AI is definitely the hottest topic du jour today, but I don’t think that that’s like it. Pretty much everything where silicon touches is the ambition and obviously today that’s AI, AI infrastructure, tomorrow maybe that’s robotics, maybe that’s something else. But we are seeing this giant second wave of semiconductors in the United States where we realize, “Hey, this is super-duper important”, and the last big wave was like what, 1990? Truly, that was the last big wave.

*Yeah, basically the shift to logic.*

*DO:* Yep, pretty much. So now we have this whole new generation and the whole new players, all the people who played last round are much older than us and I guess it’s our turn now.

*Dylan, did you have this big picture view or are you just head down, running through every wall in your way and go, “Wow, look where I ended up”?*

*DP:* I mean, I think at some point it was like, “Oh look, I really want to…” and you’ve had MoffettNathanson on the calls ( https://stratechery.com/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8_cz1tb2ZmZXR0bmF0aGFuc29uXHUwMDI2Y2F0ZWdvcnk9aW50ZXJ2aWV3cyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzM0MTc0OTY4LCJpYXQiOjE3MzE1ODI5NjgsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.Xwa3cT1KtA95eIiXcXp7zyeX7IsVdc3JvFDYLZ5adojo3IaJw47nenTPJTc3CJbajRXi7p-twY-SR12Q0V58Jl48tK9WVDGfi1gDkFrMhaYJORD3eIl-wt6-NFAQPwBt97bZ4KU7gILukBy1XI2pvJVKMoYaSS9xkdwRtxmXCygTHMmsKxjn5ng-nQROYadx13oz1luqJt2yfChnGsFgwxAkfQgEND7qNaDJbR9s5oHjq_HOik5R3_lMASudoGTCm1Je3Ky_wfjnHAj8UlOMqzkSIcgN_haJRXdV0P6rP1E4OXAwaGs-hT6hRLlng8u6w30Gnk5xf2d7kHyUlUIVCA&category=interviews&s=moffettnathanson ). For a bit, there’s a group chat where I named myself Craig Moffett’s Disciple, because that was one of the areas where we were going to do stuff, but that’s one of three or four different areas that we’re trying to do stuff, but that was only a year ago.

I think definitely it’s mostly been like, “Oh look, people are missing this, what is actually happening here? What’s the numbers? What’s infrastructure build out? What’s the considerations up and down the supply chain? What are people missing?”, and in many cases, supply chains have just been very horizontalized across all of these industries. The people working on photoresist chemicals ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Photoresist ) don’t even know what’s going on two layers up the stack in many cases. Or, it’s like copper cables, they don’t know anything about what their servers are actually doing with the copper cables. You just go through the entire supply chain and everyone’s missing stuff.

Now with AI and the immense build out, we’re talking about hundreds of billions of dollars spent next year on just data centers and it’s not slowing down, it doesn’t seem to be, at least. There’s so much innovation to be done crossing these barriers, but there’s also so much dislocation in the supply chain from vendors getting new sockets, losing sockets, innovating to make infrastructure better, faster, cheaper. There needs to be someone who goes across the whole supply chain, and looks at this stuff and that’s sort of what the vision is now, but definitely in the beginning it was just like, “I like chips, I like AI”.

*That’s where the best innovators come from, because you do it because you love it, and then suddenly these opportunities, right place, right time. The Craig Moffett comparison is a good one, because his claim to fame was the telecom build out and that entire shift to broadband in general, and he just was being a nerd about doing all the evaluations and the cost structures and the lifetime value of this sort of stuff ( https://stratechery.com/2023/an-interview-with-craig-moffett-about-charter-vs-disney-and-the-path-dependency-of-the-communications-industry/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.I4in-EIA-TKW_ohzL_6pHnJuApRiiGtG8xug1aNAVnOOatIvC76FfLnADnWFy6PDDSqijLsYjTx6CG4YwfNDKsr9iYiyrYBq0ikKkoT3Sy-C8QYPS8dvJiDXZujPx4vd_bicIY-wReFY9gVyrlpWzUIcM2B7WHDz_xfT1u4Wm55Jrw7NnUUtpRQxTTTvP-44NXBCjDu7JjOPijJZWUcFZAU4tA7k3f_qDyVLla42FPFi6VcOcICrVTUoC3JY8ZJ6DG2JEaz2vUJmP19IoY4Nw0I0nbQbqbgP1VN_s9Bcm-_5fNUlNDrzejmUK7zHiZzpzXrX3KVRflTRaXgNbzhCJA ) , and just happened to be there at the moment this massive build out was happening, and it’s worked out very well for him, and I think it will work out very well for you.*

*DO:* Also, I want to put a little asterisk. If you’ve ever actually met and hung out with Dylan, Dylan’s an extremely driven and ambitious person. So, it’s not a surprise. I feel like we’ve talked about stuff like this before, but I don’t know, my favorite moment and truly when I thought, “Hey, Dylan should really keep going”, is everything you wrote about became the zeitgeist almost instantly. Remember that conversation ( https://x.com/dylan522p/status/1696405806286279033?s=20 ) , I want to say it’s almost two years ago or something like that? So when you realize that everything you write about ends up becoming the zeitgeist, almost literally, you’re like, “Okay, something is happening here”, and you’ve got to figure out what to do with it. I think that that’s, to me, where it changed, where it’s like, “Okay, now you write this new thing about GPU cores”. That was the last conversation we joked about GPU cores, now today, it’s multi-data center trading. We pushed that article out because we were like, “Hey, this has to be done, because if we don’t talk about it’s going to become, we know it’s going to happen”, and you can look at this quarter’s results and everyone is talking about, “Hey, ZR, DCI”, all the things that we talked about.

*DP:* Well, the funniest thing is companies are signing deals post that, right? It’s very clear the deal was not even in talks before.

*I completely agree. I’m like a half generation before you, like the cloud and consumer Internet era, and so I know exactly what you’re talking about. And the thing I would add to that, Doug, is I think I first met Dylan in person, it was three or four years ago, and I was just blown away, he’s painting out this expansive vision, and this was pre, I think, ChatGPT. He was just like this Substack that I’m super happy to link to in my newsletter and elevate him a little bit and he paints this massive vision of what he wants to build this out to and now you get there, it’s like, “Oh wait, you’ve actually accomplished basically all of that”, and now I give a lot of credence to the stuff you say you’re going to do, because I’ve witnessed you already do it. I can’t tell if Dylan’s blushing, his camera quality is not very good, but hopefully he is a little bit.*

*DP:* I think I like to pump myself up, I like to be not humble, but when people do it to me, I get all these soft, warm feelings.

*Oh, that’s great, I love it. Well, I will let you recover for a bit.*

The Semi Supply Chain

*Doug, I want to start with you quickly, when it comes to the semiconductor stuff, you made a great call ( https://www.fabricatedknowledge.com/p/earnings-tsmc-asml-aehr-telecom ) that we’re in peak lithography ( https://stratechery.com/2024/tsmc-earnings-margins-and-arizona-asml-and-peak-lithography/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L3RzbWMtZWFybmluZ3MtbWFyZ2lucy1hbmQtYXJpem9uYS1hc21sLWFuZC1wZWFrLWxpdGhvZ3JhcGh5LyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzM0MTc0OTY4LCJpYXQiOjE3MzE1ODI5NjgsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.UFFquBNWp7I4tTGRwW24VxEnaDS3OlQZrw-90aG8IQQrOtglECuuNukabM6csYXyaTFWA-Iv19uDH4VF_igCvdlDJ8JdT3Z3UU7dln2Y93YLLIJLXxq0IeNduStHLJP5j9wvxB1cFShHST0L984JvJ4N6WfPtsgDKKpP_cXYdw9ltryC8TPl57mjV5NUvoaS_KhbT-1QnBM_IwJGi_JTCLs4LqFns9ynmI7cFtmw_SIiiI5P7I5gOm0xCvpKniiPpTbhrJMUbwnqYMWSatdhYtOyP4juBtQVnFwuwQ3Z7_wpoxVrfXSIPspYdQv07Qxwd_rLcLx0AjfdtwZ2GcrJMQ ). What does that mean and what are the implications of that?*

*DO:* Okay. So, first and foremost, I think this is a relatively stale take. If you know, you know, you’ve known for a while, but pretty much they’re shifting-

*Right, you made this call a long time ago, to be clear, it’s sort of coming true now, but I think a lot of people are not as deep into it as you, so I’m going to pretend it’s fresh.*

*DO:* EUV and the EUV revolution ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extreme_ultraviolet_lithography ) was this ginormous, huge platform shift within semiconductors, maybe not a platform shift, but you understand, a huge technological inflection. TSMC, you could say one of the reasons why, that’s like an example, and so now it’s TSMC’s world, it’s an EUV-driven world. ASML grew from being a relatively small part of the total spending to a big part of the total spending, how good you were at EUV was super important.

But the problem with chips is it takes a village. I think there’s maybe tens of steps using EUV layers, but it’s thousands of steps to make a chip, and so what was pretty clear is if you go to the IEEE conferences, that the future of technological innovation for semiconductors is not going to be EUV, the shrinking pitch is not where the future is going, and that means focusing on where the next inflections are.

The shift from planar to FinFET ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fin_field-effect_transistor ) was this first big, big change and then, from FinFET to gate-all-around ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multigate_device ) is the next technological inflection. So that is going to come almost exclusively like isotropic etch, ALD ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atomic_layer_deposition ) , materials specifically. Everyone is telling you at all these conferences, “Oh my God, this is going to be a much more important part of the process, this is the next bottleneck”, and then, I think most people are looking at the last bottleneck and saying, “Oh, this bottleneck happens forever”. That’s just not how it works, right? Bubbles are essentially — and it’s not a bubble obviously, but it’s like a rosy reflection projected infinitely into the future, and the assumption was like EUV was just going to take more and more and more share, but it’s expensive. If they just take more and more and more share, your chip would cost too much to make, it’s all about shifting bottlenecks. If all the customers are focused on lowering EUV layers and doing different technologies like ALD or isotropic etch or different materials, then EUV will shrink as a portion. And I’m not talking back to the pre-EUV like DUV levels—

*It’ll stabilize.*

*DO:* Yeah, it’ll stabilize. I think it will go down from the absolute peak, but we’re talking a few percentage here. Honestly, Dylan can probably tell me why I’m wrong, that’s why it’s fun to have him on this podcast.

*Any holes in his logic, Dylan?*

*DP:* Yeah, I think that’s right. And then the other aspect is that it’s very important to see scaling of things beyond just logic.

*DO:* Yep.

*DP:* Everyone’s focused on logic, and we’ve gone through a period where logic grew very fast and memory did not. Memory consolidated down to three players — they kept cutting and cutting, at least DRAM, so you kind of had the percentage of spend going to logic really skyrocket. Now you kind of see this shifting back to memory, especially with AI. Obviously, logic is still huge and growing and Nvidia and others want to get to 3nm and 2nm as fast as possible, but HBM [ High Bandwidth Memory ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High_Bandwidth_Memory ) ] is really where a lot of this spend shift is going. And with memory in general, memory hit the bottleneck of Moore’s Law a decade before logic did.

*Yeah.*

*DP:* Memory stopped scaling in 2008 to 2012 in terms of cost scaling, of like humongous cost scaling improvements every two years, and it dropped down to like 10 to 15% improvements every year, so that was a humongous slowdown that logic didn’t hit until the latter part of last decade, or really early part of this decade, so that also shifted. People kept scaling on logic, especially EUV lithography, and lithography was huge there, but now when you look at DRAM, lithography is also tapping out. It’s already tapped out a while ago, and people have been working on, “Hey, how do we improve past it?”, and it turns out, everything goes 3D. Logic is going 3D with gate-all-around transistors, memory is headed 3D in the end of the decade, and NAND already went 3D so all of these things also compound to like, “Hey, if we’re building vertically, lithography is only a 2D plane”. Obviously, you’re defining where things are built vertically with lithography, but I think that’s also a big shift here.

*Are we going to get back to an arena where the FinFET transition did really bump up the cost of transistors, and there was a lot of angst at the time that, “Oh, this is the end of Moore’s Law”, but then you had a really steady decline until you hit the wall of DUV, and then EUV obviously bumped the price up again. Price is coming down a bit, but it’s more a harder wall to break through. Is there a possibility with gate-all-around and backside power and these sorts of things that we do get into a more favorable price decline over time on a per-transistor basis that re-unlocks some of the stuff that we thought was dead?*

*DO:* I don’t think so. It just depends. Dylan, you can go, but I guess gate-all-around intensity is going to increase. I think something we also have to think about is, “What are we scaling?”. It’s about transistors in the area and the effective compute. Also in this conversation, it’s even on the 3D DRAM conversation, is it’s about bottlenecks the entire way up. It’s not just logic, and we’re talking about memory, but it’s also packaging, it’s also networking in the rack if we’re talking about AI. So this same, “How many transistors can you get in it in a single amount of area with a certain amount of power?”, is a fractal. It works at the rack scale, it works at the package scale, it works at the transistor scale.

I think the thing about transistors, and the Dwarkesh Podcast ( https://www.dwarkeshpatel.com/p/dylan-jon ) I thought was really funny, you and Jon [Y, Asianometry ( https://www.youtube.com/asianometry ) ] specifically talking about the amalgamation against God of 1nm or something. CFET for example ( https://semianalysis.com/2023/02/21/the-future-of-the-transistor/ ) is so ridiculously complicated, that’s the next generation of data all around. It will probably happen one day, but I think the cost transistor ratio is not going to magically fix itself. Transistors are going to be more expensive if they become more complicated, which gate-all-around is a lot more complicated, so that’s just my two second—

*DP:* The way I’d frame it is transistors are actually still getting cheaper, and gate-all-around, they will still continue to get cheaper if you view it from only a COGS standpoint, cost of goods sold. The problem is that if I am a company designing a chip, to get to that chip design, to get it taped out, to get TSMC to make a bunch of masks, the cost per transistor, it automatically starts out horrible, because I just dumped tens of millions, hundreds of millions-

*It’s dwarfed by all your fixed costs, yeah.*

*DP:* Yeah, and the fixed costs are soaring while the variable costs — of course TSMC is increasing the price of wafers. It’s gone from $10, $11,000 on a 7nm wafer to north of $20,000 on a wafer of 3nm, but at the same time, the density has grown more. So actually if you just look at like, “Hey, I’m Apple, my cost per transistor has fallen at 3nm and it will fall at 2nm”. But if I am a company that doesn’t have that crazy scale, it turns out transistor costs are not falling. So this also points to this whole, everyone’s like, “Yeah, we’re going to have ASICs ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application-specific_integrated_circuit ) , we’re going to have application-specific integrated circuits” — potentially, but if the fixed cost outweigh that, your application needs a lot of volume.

So then the other flip side is, well, when you look at AI chips, what is the actual cost of the logic in an H100? Well, it’s less than 30% of the cost of an H100 is logic, wafers, is that 5nm wafer. Then when you stack on Nvidia’s margin that they sell to the customer, less than 10% of this chip cost, probably less than 5%, I need to do the math, but somewhere, but less than 5% of the chip cost is the wafer. So there’s a lot of room for scaling and improving cost per transistor delivered to an end product that isn’t just, “Hey, shrinks deliver that”. So there is a business model consideration here, there’s a vertical integration model here, and at the end of the day, what do you care about in AI? You care about what performance do you get out, what tokens do you get out, what model do you train, and in that world, Nvidia may charge a high margin on the wafer, but they package it with everything from copper cables to memory to power systems and all these other things, cooling, cold plates, water. All this sort of stuff is packaged together, and in the end, the system got way more efficient, even if the transistor didn’t, and I think that there’s a humongous headroom of growth even if transistors don’t get much better, but of course, transistors are getting better.

*You basically just framed a lot of the topics that I want to get to in this interview, so I’m going to put a peg in that.*

*DP:* It’s because God put you here to, you know. (laughing)

China

*Because you know what you’re talking about! I did want to have one question though, Doug, when you wrote about the ASML a couple of weeks ago, you made the point that just the reality of the semi supply chain is you basically have almost like a chain of monopolies, especially when you get to the supplier layer, but they’re still limited by the overall market size in growth. The change for ASML is not that they’re becoming less important, maybe a little bit, but that there’s one buyer and so they’re going to grow with the market, which is still a very healthy place to be.*

*The question is, is there any concern you have about, broadly speaking, brittleness in this world? Where we have ASML, LAM, Applied Materials, Tokyo Electron, KLA, that’s the Big Five. I go back to a big thing for ASML and TSMC’s relationship was the Puli earthquake in Taiwan 25 years ago ( https://sharptech.fm/member/episode/amazon-and-the-just-walk-out-parable-mythbusting-on-meta-and-tsmc-the-xz-backdoor-and-its-implications ) or something like that, and the Japanese lithography providers had black boxes, didn’t want anyone else to service it. They took forever to get them back up and running, and ASML was way more open and way more aggressive in getting back online, and there’s a bit where they just out-competed Nikon and the other Japanese companies in that space, and if that happened today, who’s going to out-compete any of these players? Yet the scale and the costs are so large, you understand why it’s dwindling to single suppliers, but what concern do you have about brittleness just overall in this regard?*

*DO:* Okay, so two minds here. I remember having a thesis on a share gain for process control, and essentially the answer is no one actually ever takes share in the long run, they all just trade share. There’s a few inflections where it does happen, but more often than not, the share gains — everyone says they’re gaining share from each other. You actually look at the board and we’re talking like bps against each other, EUV was truly a little bit of a very special story.

So I think that the reality is the monopolies are going to continue to be entrenched, but the part where I think the brittleness comes from is maybe the under-appreciated story for the next ten years is China. I think the Fab Whack-A-Mole piece ( https://semianalysis.com/2024/10/28/fab-whack-a-mole-chinese-companies/ ) , and I love that I can pump SemiAnalysis pieces now because I obviously read the hell out of them and I talk to and work with people who write them and help edit and stuff, then do all kinds of stuff.

But the Fab Whack-A-Mole piece really puts it well, because if you look on that spectrum, there’s a graph that shows the spectrum of easy-to-be-replicated by China, hard-to-be-replicated by China. There’s a lot of stuff that’s really easy-to-be-replicated by China, and I think that that’s where the true competition comes from.

If we’re talking about the industrial policy of China and their willingness to go really cheap, or maybe not cheap but cost-compete, and then drive up the curve to excellence, and then obviously they own the market. This is happening right now in EVs, I see no reason why it wouldn’t happen on most of the low-end tools for semiconductors. In fact, there’s no reason it wouldn’t. I think that that’s actually where the threat, the competitive threat, is coming from. It will be from China eventually, but I think that there’s also this other thing is that obviously they’re completely pulling apart. The Western world and the Chinese world are two separate worlds, and I think rightfully so. They’re being pulled apart for geopolitical and national security reasons, and so I think that that’s where the threat will come from when it does.

*What do you think the understanding and appetite in China — I mean, obviously people know that we need to invest in the basic semi equipment and not just try to smuggle in Western equipment to be at the leading edge, but there is a question of priorities, and to what extent is this at the highest levels a focus that, “Look, even if we have to go back to the micron level, that’s what we need to do to in the long run be fully independent”. Do you think that’s a sense that is internalized in China, Dylan, or there’s efforts going on but they maybe don’t have the prioritization yet that they need?*

*DP:* I think China fully understands that you do both. You use the Western thing as much as possible, but you also develop your own industry, and they do it in a really cool, somewhat decentralized way. Basically, all of these tool vendors in China are behind. If you were to build a process technology with only Chinese vendors, it’s quite a bit behind, but much like a jigsaw puzzle, if I take one piece away from you, you’ll know I took one piece away from you and you’ll be able to figure it out.

In that sense, this is exactly what China does, is when they build a fab, they will buy a bunch of the foreign tools, and then they’ll also build a bunch of their own tools, or buy it from their domestic companies like Anora or AMAC or what have you, and then they’ll stick those tools right next to each other and route wafers that are at the same point in manufacturing to different tools. Then they’ll say, “Hey, what’s the data here? What’s the data there, we’re going to replicate it. Oh, okay, here’s how we tune our tool, here’s how we improve the tool. Okay, we’ll send the new generation of it that works better. Oh, it’s still off in these ways. Let’s improve it again”. So they iterate, iterate, iterate, while having just one piece of the jigsaw puzzle. Now you do that across every single tool and every single step, and then it ends up being, for many of these tools, because we have the state-of-the-art sitting literally right next to — we’ve taken apart some of the state of the art — we can catch up in a few years. Then for some of these other tools, it is just really that complicated and it’s going to take five, ten years, probably closer to that five number honestly. Anyways, this is how they’re doing it, and they’ve totally internalized it.

The fourth-largest tool purchaser in the world today is Huawei. Now, obviously the Commerce Department will pretend that Swaysure and a few other firms like that are not Huawei. There’s probably a ban coming in the next few weeks that will recognize them as Huawei, but they’ve ignored them as Huawei for the last year basically, and so Huawei has been the fourth-largest buyer of tools, and if you count CXMT, then they’re actually the third-largest buyer of tools, this is ahead of American companies like Micron and Intel in some cases. They’re doing this, but foreign tools, but they’re also making a lot of their own tools. Both Huawei-affiliated and non-Huawei-affiliated companies are building a bunch of their own tools, and putting them in those same VAPs [value-added partners] and so this is certainly happening and this is certainly internalized, and it seems to them to be utmost priority, I think whether it’s the US starting to ban made them wake up to the fact, and before, this was just one of their five priorities or ten priorities and now it’s like their utmost priority, but it seems to be semiconductors are more of a priority to them than the West, and the West thinks AI is more of a priority than China does maybe necessarily, although they both consider both a priority.

*Right. Well, that’s the thing with priorities, the order matters. To your point, Doug, if you want to have an ASML premium for example, this is maybe more the case where some of the other parts, even if they are through sheer scale monopolies, they are at the end of the day more easily competed with from a Chinese perspective, whereas lithography is the great jewel in the sky that there’s so many parts that go into it, it’s going to be the longest to not have a viable competitor.*

*DO:* Yeah, I have no comment on top of that. Completely agree. EUV was like, it’s been done once, we’ll see if someone does it again. China would love to do it again, but even the lithography tool that’s coming out of China, it’s not even a DUV tool, at least last time I checked. The SMEE tool is really far behind.

*To Dylan’s point, I think the jigsaw puzzle analogy is really good. You can benchmark, you can figure out what works, what doesn’t. EUV will be, or DUV even, is going to be easier, but more in that you know it can be done. Part of the problem with EUV is for ten, twelve years, it wasn’t sure if it would even work or not, and that makes it a lot difficult to pull off. And of course, then there’s whatever comes next, and that is TBD, but in the meantime, it’s a lot easier to find your way down a path when you know there is a path, even if you’re not quite sure what the next step is.*

*DO:* Just one example of this is the source, there are actually multiple EUV light sources, they’re pretty bad to be clear. ASML definitely has the monopoly on the best one, and this is actually part of the Lasertec controversy, is that their source isn’t as good and makes a lot of particles and residue. But people can create a tinning light, meaning the light that is needed for EUV. Now, collecting it, gathering it, making it form, and also the correct energy burst so that you can pattern a wafer, pretty hard to do, but it’s not like this doesn’t exist outside of ASML, so someone else has done it. Maybe means that China goes and co-ops that technology and improves it through brute force, and then boom, that’s your EUV tool and then that plus the DUV and that’s the crossover. But it’s possible.

*DP:* Or they do other things. There’s attempts in China to make particle accelerators to generate EUV light, there’s other really space age leapfrog attempts too.

*DO:* Yeah, like nanoimprint ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nanoimprint_lithography ) or whatever might actually take off there, or e-beam patterning ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electron-beam_lithography ). This is actually this hard part about it, if you have lots of constraints, invention happens because of that, and so could they create some space age workaround in ten years? A hundred percent. That’s probably the point here.

*Well, I guess the question is, number one, how long does the West advantage persist? Number two, at the point that it stops persisting, does the Chinese equipment vendors then go back out to the West? Are they going to be welcomed? And is there a world where fifty years from now, actually all semis are just from China, whether you like it or not?*

*DP:* There’s two worlds here. There’s one which is like, “Hey, in a lot of areas, China just makes everything, and the West/rest of the world is very much screwed”.

*You made the great point in your article about fab export controls, that everyone in the US is freaking about where to put data centers, where to get power. Not a problem in China! The Western advantage is purely resting on these technological IP related capabilities, which by the way, are pretty hard to gate and limit access to in the long run.*

*DP:* And China’s done it before in many other industries. The West could not make solar panels, good luck. We can’t even make wind power. Just good luck, we can’t. EVs are certainly looking like they’re crushing us. I sat in a BYD car recently, I was like, “Holy crap, this is so much better than Tesla”. It was a BYD SUV and I was like, “Jesus Christ”. There’s a lot of areas where China is crushing, and that’s not just copy, that’s innovation. So to say how long will the US and the West generally have semiconductor advantages, AI advantages, is really how fast do we innovate? Because if we don’t innovate fast and we don’t have industrial capacity, China will blow past us. But if we innovate fast and have industrial capacity, then it’s possible to stay ahead, and that’s the real question here.

*So was it a big mistake with the chip ban ( https://stratechery.com/2022/chips-and-china/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIyL2NoaXBzLWFuZC1jaGluYS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTczNDE3NDk2OCwiaWF0IjoxNzMxNTgyOTY4LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwaS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.WETzrbppE8-k0o2pEXPS9cFBghBxM_3oZKQZTldNFkKKyHPUqysLYKMSh_w96mHrp2nh87MKcWdQLhmZZ16sbyT_QieWBOP2i1F6XP_ULtYw5KqY0tEH51oTH8o52M1WQoOCO7taoJhl2WwGm8mgFHUFdhrgcn-d5VEZpYEtqrdh4XgsoT6gyj_5iXNfw3v1E4VscFnyaD3o751mhfr7y72IItbpjJGRrUoPeRTWpyb1D8JCkS9po0Sy2pS-K7bkuMR_0wiJYx16HRXdp3HCo0lYMUgg4dUyb-ZCOzs9MstouSUv6fnwRdM4oN6MjBIRE_sIt66USmlk-8ubYB3KCw ) , just because it would be better to keep China subservient to US technology and not establish these priorities of catching up, because in the long run, we’re actually screwing our own industry?*

*DP:* Without any restrictions, China definitely crushed the West and solar, in EVs, in many manufacturing supply chains and many other places. So the question is if there were no restrictions, would that have happened in semis too? Very likely, right?

*DO:* Yeah.

*DP:* Likewise, you have the flip side which is if it wasn’t a priority for the West, this is the first time we’ve made it such a priority to stay ahead. Then the third point is the people who are in various military and national security council type roles truly believe AI is going to be transformative to society over the next five years, and so therefore, if it is transformative, if you believe [OpenAI CEO] Sam Altman or [Anthropic CEO] Dario [Amodei] on AGI is here soon, then obviously it makes sense to rip the bandaid off now, have as big of a possible lead for the next five years and then get crushed after that, even if it is long-term worse, because AI will keep us ahead. This is some people’s viewpoint.

*DO:* And also, let’s think about history. They’re going to do it anyways, so we might as well slow them down. They kicked all the Internet companies out. It’s an inevitable path, and hey, ideological China versus West, I just think that as long as you think that there is conflict, which I think there is some level of friction between the two spheres, then what can you do? You probably want and care about controlling your own destiny, because the other team really cares about controlling their own destiny, and if you let them, they will do it ASAP.

There’s no rules that you can put on them that they will truly follow. The Fab Whack-A-Mole post was a perfect example. You showed over and over and over and over how they clearly skirted all spirits of the law. They just don’t care. This is not like, “Oh, that’s really cute, your law in a country that’s not ours, that’s really great and all, but we don’t care”. So I just think that yeah, it sucks, maybe we can keep them subservient on semiconductor technology, but it would happen anyways. If we sold them more tools, they would probably figure out how to copy them.

*The big thing was the EUV line was actually a possible one, because it’s hard to control chips, it’s hard to control lots of stuff. You can control the export of the EUV machine. It’s very large, it’s very expensive, it’s very trackable. And boy, it would probably be useful to have one in hand if you’re going to try to build a new one. So I think there’s a bit where the timing sort of made sense there because was a bit of an inflection point with EUV specifically because we saw it knock out US companies, that’s how big of an inflection point it was. So of everything having to do with chips, that specifically is probably, it’s the one point that actually has genuine leverage.*

*DP:* In many ways, components aren’t controlled though, of the EUV tool. So it’s not like it’s perfectly controlled.

Intel

*Yeah, for sure, which you articulated a moment ago. You did mention, you did an article a few months ago ( https://semianalysis.com/2024/10/01/clash-of-the-foundries/ ) , Dylan, about the new technologies coming along. We mentioned gate-all-around, backside power and you sort of put a thing in there saying, “Look, when new technologies come, sometimes there’s sort of a change in who is on top”, and EUV arguably was a big factor in Intel falling behind. You said TSMC won FinFET. Well, Intel kind of won FinFET for the first little bit, but could there be a change here? Were you just being generous? I mean it looks like Samsung has completely and utterly fallen apart. They’ve never gotten EUV yields up and now they’re just closing a bunch of fabs ( https://www.chosun.com/english/industry-en/2024/11/01/UM2QF46ZSZG4PJATKVNRZ5PIOI/ ). There’s this Japanese government-backed startup ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rapidus ) , there’s obviously Intel. Realistically, is there any world in which it’s still not TSMC on top?*

*DP:* I think there is one world which is that like TSMC — I mean the default case, I’ll just be clear, I believe TSMC will remain on top — but TSMC has only brought one technology to market really first, materials wise, like major, major technology in the semiconductor industry, which is EUV. Samsung actually theoretically did ship it first, but it didn’t work as well. But TSMC was really the first to ship it in production in high volume. But literally everything else in the last twenty years has been Intel, FinFET, High-k metal gates ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High-%CE%BA_dielectric ) , strained silicon, and so many other innovations.

*Immersion DUV as well.*

*DP:* Yeah, immersion DUV, so many innovations were them. Let’s say they stumble for seven years, five years, whatever the number is. Is it possible for this team to come back? It’s possible. It is unlikely, but it is possible, especially with the financial dire straits and all these things, and culture is hard to fix. So it is difficult to say that they will just recover, but there is a possibility, I have some amount of hope.

*Well, just on that culture point, I do think this is an underrated thing to your bit about, yes, TSMC got EUV over the line, but they’ve always been a follower as far as the technological bit goes, and part of the worst parts of Intel’s culture ( https://stratechery.com/2024/intel-honesty/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L2ludGVsLWhvbmVzdHkvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MzQxNzQ5NjgsImlhdCI6MTczMTU4Mjk2OCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.WxJ3X6jXnQn9gVVjeviUmXz4LiTZs_zmVbMtthVv0rTIE_-O5m8k9fClo-gwsiVGmKdJyqU_-hoMQZAJluV3CH8U4LxcqAEoQIY44hGGusQxJn-kPW6tQOU1FjuTnb9QhCXFbgxpDgE7sSHUjEXNhl1ANSl-ltXR2Qupzb8sO2luw7nEeAwChQsAHml0135lKORUbSlabNUxKgbe-EmcPl1Dc4BpF3IK_-XSnb6YmRNT2VLjZvbNTgAZfCPL6cn_V5pHQqTtoqWnXFJtPtTwWRXCv59zN7hERubHUsyY1kRL-ALNMF6r1sNUfxqpnuFNO5uupXjJV7r3Yg9gVAw93Q ) is the arrogance and the, “No, you’re going to do it our way” bit. Yet you can understand why that attitude goes hand-in-hand with the reality that almost every other sort of semiconductor innovation has come from Intel. The arrogance, in some respects, you can understand it.*

*DO:* Yeah, I mean that’s what it takes to be bold, and they invented photolithography, let’s not be clear, effectively they invented photolithography. Intel, storied company, very sad, but I think as much as people love anything here, it’s they love a comeback story in America. That’s what we’re deeply, truly rooting for in my heart of hearts, but it’s probably not the default case.

But yeah, so I know we talked about it or you text about it a little bit, but it’s like there is an inflection, there is a narrow way, an extremely narrow way. It’s like 18A, which obviously is being delayed, but they’re trying to do a technology inflection that would put them back on top. Back side power is the inflection and we’re right there, and maybe, just maybe they pull it off to get parity, just parity and maybe it’s worst gross margins, but boom, Intel is sort of back.

*DP:* And the other thing is Intel is adopting High NA EUV lithography ( https://www.asml.com/en/news/stories/2024/5-things-high-na-euv ) , they’ve ordered a bunch from ASML.

*Yep, before TSMC.*

*DP:* TSMC is being very clear, they’re not doing it on the next node and they’re not doing it on the node after that, because they think it’s too expensive, as we sort of highlighted last year ( https://semianalysis.com/2023/12/11/asml-dilemma-high-na-euv-is-worse/ ). It’s like it’s just too expensive to do for — does it make sense? It’s better to spend that money on scaling with other vectors, like we talked about earlier in terms of 3D and etch and all these other things.

*Well, this gets into the big Intel problem. They don’t have any super large announced 18A customers and, Dylan, this is where you mentioned before, the actual cost of logic in a system is just not that high. In that context, the risk of going with a new process and it not working out, you’re not endangering your logic spend, you’re endangering the entire product revenue, and so you have this real mismatch of risk of it going wrong versus potential savings or relatively small gains as part of an overall system. How does Intel get around that? What can they offer? What sort of incentives can be given to any — of course, Intel will have their own chips there because at the end of the day, it’s like they’re trying to not be the IDM, but they need to be an IDM because someone has to make chips on the Intel process. But how do they get a third party on board?*

*DP:* So they have gotten some smaller customers. Microsoft’s building a CPU with them ( https://www.intc.com/news-events/press-releases/detail/1675/intel-launches-worlds-first-systems-foundry-designed-for ) , Amazon had an announcement ( https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/newsroom/news/intel-strategic-collaboration.html#gs.i35mhj ) regarding an AI fabric with them, Nvidia is going to make a PC chip with them, at least two of those are extremely logical. Intel, sure, go make a PC chip because we don’t really care so much about that market.

*If it doesn’t work, it’s fine, yeah.*

*DP:* Yeah, and Intel does that well. So yeah, we can sort of trust you on this new product that we’re not super intensely passionate about, same with Microsoft. It’s like, yeah, sure, we’ll go have you make an Arm CPU for us, it’s not so critical to us, if it works, great, if it doesn’t, oh well. Then over time, if those kinds of efforts work, then with 18A, then with 14A, you can actually put a big design on there and I do think that if Intel executes on 18A and all these test chips and these chips that companies get back are decent and the yields are decent and the volumes are okay and they’re not constantly slipping, companies will trust them with a lot bigger things on 14A.

Also, while the cost of the chip is not that terribly important in terms of total COGS of advanced logic versus the end of product of like an AI system, what is terribly important is the power. We in the United States of America can only build so much power because of all sorts of reasons, industrial policy, industrial capacity, permitting, regulatory, all this sort of stuff and therefore a chip, while maybe it costs the same, maybe it costs twice as much, but if I only have a gigawatt to build the biggest freaking AI cluster I can in this one spot, I better do it, I better get the highest performance chip and build it with that chip.

*It’s our own constraints driving innovation in a particular way.*

*DP:* Right, exactly, and if you think about deploying an AI cluster over five years, power is less than 20% of the cost, but it is the key factor determining how many chips you can deploy, and therefore how large of an AI system you can make or all these sorts of things.

*Doug, you put forward the prospect of Broadcom buying Intel and you said, “Oh, this will never happen” ( https://x.com/_fabknowledge_/status/1830627633249345789 ) , I read that and I’m like, “No, this feels like this is exactly what should happen” ( https://stratechery.com/2024/broadcom-and-intel-nvidia-earnings-doj-investigating-nvidia/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L2Jyb2FkY29tLWFuZC1pbnRlbC1udmlkaWEtZWFybmluZ3MtZG9qLWludmVzdGlnYXRpbmctbnZpZGlhLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzM0MTc0OTY4LCJpYXQiOjE3MzE1ODI5NjgsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.edkPhXvm7zm8LsIM4O9wmgNhrpL7bC8g5oL3sCvYfK-x3Q74JOH7ac9Dvf-A6MvbteelbzcetXn1d7Xis0S_nLnvrHHJGaToRcGZCWYxMnO4suc4_fvRwEVuHLD4thQex5q3zj1qH_WSVF-UELlaVLY48uy-uzYRrXbCQzMMcx34wBflXLP6j-xh0sbcwASKD05lC0YxJHES04HkctfEQ4TrJR2N3TxVwlcn1ljpXGFI-UXEZkX1MaramSwUVzbXnfbJO4D6yLO7U0HmaNFXkWmT-x0dmr0R5X1DTERDTLe29jCwSO-bXzffg5SxYVx4A7V7CTL7cEeD60XXnHP8qg ). I mean, they’re good at acquiring companies, they have a ton of their own chips to make, which sort of provides the necessary volume. Why shouldn’t it be Broadcom?*

*DO:* It should be Broadcom, because like how you were put on this earth to pave the way for SemiAnalysis, [Broadcom CEO] Hock Tan was built to gut companies that need to wake up for their role essentially, that’s what he’s best at. He bought a mainframe software company and was like, “Why does anyone work here anymore? We don’t sell mainframes”, so they cut like 80% down. Candidly, Intel is a 2000-era CPU company that hasn’t really made the shift into the 2020s being GPU accelerated compute, whatever, Arm. They are the winner of the last paradigm and there’s a lot of monopoly costs in there that get really ugly when things go down. I think no one is as good as understanding how to cut costs down and make a company still live, I truly don’t think anyone is capable of doing it like him. And so he’s the perfect person, he has semiconductor experience. The reason why I don’t think it happens, it just feels like too national. I think if they gave him just the fabless side-

*Yeah. I’m not sure this is actually the motivation, but the Trump administration said you’re not an American company, you can’t buy Qualcomm ( https://stratechery.com/2018/qualcomm-national-security-and-patents/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDE4L3F1YWxjb21tLW5hdGlvbmFsLXNlY3VyaXR5LWFuZC1wYXRlbnRzLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzM0MTc0OTY4LCJpYXQiOjE3MzE1ODI5NjgsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.H52Fl-2h1dGJ9GksjEXP-pT4zT-jMEwX5G0B1FPwpcRKDdG7PfCUMInb8uszOrVrPdP52mWxcBdXP_paKraNO36wi6u0lcl5rUJoFjUfq7KkzSX42yiFGmihVKjnUm_KtI_Yd2ocrulIP6R9tqkq1hgFJeZgEEhyExghuIXAG1Q1w5pAVjXEqhRkOeyKwuooiEqewW0sGpKHmlpEa-CiF8SAoIQlAkRTJYqVRNtV3te1xjZORrOxc6Mh5sV6si41g0mJgTOsjc2dOAkCIWVtvapOkEBkRtJMOaEaQ79SgGgLbK0K8Zt1Y9w6ZgAoiPl15sFgjXwUASlqiA9mJh1-eA ) back in the day, and it’s going to be a tough one to unwind rhetorically anyway.*

*DO:* Yeah, and then also apparently Hock has stated that, “Yeah, I’m good, I don’t want to do that one”, because that’s a big — and I think it would’ve been a lot easier a few years ago, you cut expenses before your relevance changes, it’s a little different now. It’s really sad because Intel’s the greatest semiconductor, American semiconductor company that’s ever existed. Well, now Nvidia, okay. But once upon a time.

*“ Real men have fabs ( https://semiwiki.com/john-east/273760-real-men-have-fabs-jerry-sanders-tj-rodgers-and-amd/ ) “.*

*DO:* Yeah, exactly, it was at the beginning. But the best economic feature, I think, is the design needs to be away from the fab, the fab needs to truly stand on its own, and I think that at the end, Intel just still thinks of itself as this, like a CPU maker. They’re making a better fab and maybe they’ll win back share and client and who cares?

*This is my bit. There’s an analyst take of Intel, which is of course they need to stay together because of all these factors, they need the volume, they need XYZ and my view is just like, look, the cultural issues are too severe, they are never going to be a pureplay fab. They need money, they need a way to get to 18A, fully scale it out, and then get to 14A. The price of that money should be getting them into the correct structure now. Like to your point, ideally you do all these cuts a while ago. Today, if Intel needs more money, the price of that should be you’re going to be structured correctly, you’re going to be separate, you have to get out of this integration. The whole implication of, “Oh, they need their own volume to make their fabs work”, inevitably is going to seep into, “They’re not going to be a good foundry because they’re going to be servicing themself first”, it just has to be broken.*

*DO:* They need to burn the ships behind them. They need to burn the ships behind them and say, “We’re not a CPU company, we are a foundry, and that’s all we are, there is no future except for this”. Can’t look backward. This is one of my favorite anecdotes, but SoundCloud rappers will get a face tattoo in order to be like, “Hey, I’m essentially unemployable for anything else, now I’m burning my prospect of my life other than being a rapper okay, it’s done”.

*(laughing) So if Pat Gelsinger shows up at the next—*

*DO:* (laughing) With a face tattoo.

*Here’s the deal, Pat, you get a face tattoo and maybe I’ll reconsider my argument that you must be split up.*

*DO:* Yeah, I mean I think that that’s what it takes.

*DP:* I think if that was a serious thing, if he could save Intel by having a face tattoo, he’d do it.

*DO:* Oh, he’d do it in at heartbeat.

*I actually was just thinking the exact same thing, maybe this is a bad suggestion.*

*DP:* I think Pat will do anything to save Intel.

*DO:* Yeah, I think so too. He’s the right guy for it, I think he’s doing his best. But a bad horse or a good jockey, I think the horse almost always wins. The horse can die on a good jockey, if we’re using the Warren Buffett motto.

*Yeah, franchises versus businesses ( https://www.berkshirehathaway.com/letters/1991.html ).*

*DO:* Yeah. I just don’t think anyone could have played a good hand, it would’ve made the player look bad no matter what.

*I agree too. I mean, Pat made mistakes, I think they’ve been in part, part of it is Pat’s personality. Intel’s just been continuously too optimistic and he’s a very optimistic person. You needed his optimistic rhetoric combined with a drastically more pessimistic outlook. Maybe this is sort of a CFO failing that should have been more sort of the counterweight there, he needs someone that is just feels, that is he needs an arsonist.*

*DO:* Needs Hock Tan. I’m just saying, he’s of his age, he has one last big deal, and Hock could save America. No one else is better suited for the job. It’s literally you put all the resumes, we’re talking about really cut into the bone, but can still survive after the surgery or whatever, it’s Hock Tan, no one’s better-suited.

*And this is the concern about the Qualcomm idea ( https://www.reuters.com/technology/qualcomm-has-explored-acquiring-pieces-intel-chip-design-business-sources-say-2024-09-06/ ) , I don’t see Qualcomm having that in them, they’re too bloated on their own right.*

*DO:* Yeah, but then I guess they don’t have to pay any Arm. I mean, that’s legitimately one of the memes is like, “Hey, now they don’t have to pay any Arm fees in their own IFS”.

*Dylan, you mentioned the cost of designing chips, just astronomical and they’re getting so complicated. That’s Arm’s thesis, which I was I think slow to wake up to, you were very early on it. You totally, I think nailed the IPO ( https://semianalysis.com/2023/09/14/arm-and-a-leg-arms-quest-to-extract/ ). Where does Qualcomm even fit in this? Arm is basically saying, “Yeah, everything Qualcomm, the reason you bought Nuvia, all the stuff you want to do, we’re actually going to do that ourselves and oh, by the way, you need a license from us to do it and you don’t have the right one, so tough luck”.*

*DP:* Yeah, I think as Arm moves up the stack into chiplets, it’s going to be extremely stark, extremely dramatic for many vendors. And I bet when Arm moves into chiplets, you’ll have a lot more Chinese phone chips as well that just use some Arm chiplet from TSMC that Arm sells them alongside a radio that is from Huawei made at SMIC alongside a modem, and then some other IP that’s actually developed domestically, I bet this is what really kills or really hurts Qualcomm in the long term. Obviously this hasn’t come yet, and Qualcomm’s a fantastic company with the best radios in the world in many cases, so it’s possible that they keep doing well. And I mean, I bet they still do well, but this is the big risk for them.

Generally I just think they’d be a horrible acquirer for Intel because they know nothing about data centers, they’ve failed in every attempt they’ve entered into the data center market. Earlier with the CPUs, more recently with the AI chips that they did so much to try and win Meta and Meta was like, “This sucks”, and it doesn’t seem like they can help Intel in the data center space, which is where Intel’s failing. Intel has actually done a good job, their client CPUs for laptops and desktops are still operating at a profit and this is despite them moving all, a lot of the volume to TSMC. So this is a business that’s fine, theoretically still works five, ten years from now and they’ve closed the battery life gap with Apple once they moved over to the same process technology as Apple, and they used some of the similar techniques with regards to on-package memory and such with Lunar Lake. They’ve closed the battery life gap too. So it’s like, “Oh wait, Intel’s actually fine on a client, and that’s what Qualcomm is good at, so there’s no synergies here”.

*Yeah, I think that sounds right.*

AWS and the Hyperscalers

*Well, speaking of the hyperscalers and the data center, Dylan, you wrote an article a couple of years ago about how Amazon was losing in AI ( https://semianalysis.com/2023/03/20/amazons-cloud-crisis-how-aws-will/ ). Can you re-summarize your argument? And has your view changed because Amazon has changed or what’s the sort of current status now?*

*DP:* So Amazon was losing in AI because their entire cloud was hyper-focused on a general purpose workload, and they crush it. They are still much better on a cost basis, cost structure than Google or Microsoft Azure or Oracle with their Nitro NICs, with their custom transport that they’ve built, Elastic Fabric Adapter, with their Graviton CPUs, and the list goes on and on. This is part of the reason why they’re the best hyperscaler at silicon is what they’ve commonly been thought of as. But that only exists out on general purpose workloads.

*That’s right. They’re a bullet train and it’s hard to turn a bullet train.*

*DP:* Yeah, exactly. So now when you look at, with AI workloads, we’ll have a piece coming out on this soon, but we’ve rented 256 GPUs at, this is like a hundred grand by the way, at Google, at Amazon, at NeoClouds who have graciously just let us use them because they have them available, but whatever and we’ve tested 256 GPUs on Nvidia’s version of Ethernet, Nvidia’s InfiniBand, on Google’s version of Ethernet, on Amazon’s version of Ethernet and it turns out it sucks, Elastic Fabric Adapter ( https://aws.amazon.com/hpc/efa/ ) is much worse, even at the same theoretical maximums.

*It’s not made for this job.*

*DP:* Yeah, it’s not made for this job and so they’ve had a real big problem there. Now when you look at like, “Well, what is the flip side?” — you also have an organization, a massive, massive organization who has shown tangible improvements by messing with their suppliers, not messing with them, but modifying it, customizing, adding their own stuff, bringing their philosophy into it. Massive organization, tens of thousands of people, and now you tell them, “Hey, you’re all wrong, just buy what Nvidia sells you and shut up”. It’s like, this is not going to happen. Politically, this just does not work. Microsoft, to their credit, is like, “Yes, I don’t care, I’ll use InfiniBand. I don’t care, I’ll use whatever you tell me, Nvidia”.

*This is the Microsoft story. Basically, once they let go of the Windows mindset, they’re like, “Linux, okay, Linux it is, we’re going to sell box standard Linux servers, here you go”. They were forced into pragmatism in a certain respect, which then served them well once you got to the AI wave.*

*DP:* Amazon sort of has that issue, in that they’re behind on AI, it’s hard to turn the bullet train as you said, and then on top of that, their infrastructure is not really well optimized to it. Now they are turning the ship. I think they’ve made some key hires as well as key movement around in the company to get the AI silicon teams more into gear and in that sense, I’m actually more hopeful for Trainium from Amazon ( https://aws.amazon.com/ai/machine-learning/trainium/ ) than I am from Maia from Microsoft ( https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/azure-maia-for-the-era-of-ai-from-silicon-to-software-to-systems/ ) or from — not quite TPU level, but I’m more hopeful of Trainium long-term than Inferentia ( https://aws.amazon.com/ai/machine-learning/inferentia/ ).

But there is a significant challenge here in that like, “Hey, when is Amazon going to have their first GB200s deployed on the cloud?”. Four to six months after Microsoft. “When are they going to have their first models trained on GB200?”, probably a significant time difference. And then at the same time they have this, “Hey, we’re going to invest hugely in Anthropic ( https://semianalysis.com/2023/10/02/amazon-anthropic-poison-pill-or-empire/ ) and try and make them similar to our champions, similar to how OpenAI and Microsoft work together”, which is great, they need that because before they didn’t have any champion of AI model, so they were so far behind on AI models. The open source models are better than any model that Amazon’s ever trained. So you sort of have this very big challenge that hey, maybe this deal with Anthropic also comes with, “Anthropic, you must use a lot of our own chips”, in which case that could hold Anthropic back. But at the same time, Anthropic is like, “Well, I need to build a $10 billion cluster to compete”.

*And they don’t have hundreds of billions of revenue to begin with.*

*DO:* They’ll do it for $10 billion. You’re like, “Oh, maybe I’ll change my mind at the tune of $25 billion in Trainium credits”, I think pretty much Amazon got here by bullying their suppliers, by creating a bullet train, by pushing costs and especially on the CPU side.

*DP:* And thinking outside the box too.

*DO:* Yeah, especially, I mean they’re really creative on the data center side especially.

*The whole Nitro architecture is brilliant for CPU workloads.*

*DO:* Yeah, and here’s the thing is what got them here was this culture and mindset. Asking them to not be who they are is like it’s not going to work, and so Trainium is going to be the true manifestation of Amazon’s philosophy of data centers, I think that’s the difference. So you have the Amazon philosophy where it’s just, “Make my boxes in bigger volume”, essentially, it’s like a private label. It’s a Amazon Basics version of a data center. Maybe it’s 20% cheaper or maybe it’s like 20% worse, but it’s 40% cheaper and we’ll beat them through scale and boom, all of a sudden eventually you can’t compete against us because we have so much scale. That’s what got them here versus the Nvidia approach of, “We will be the best performing product at all costs”, and so I think that there’s two different philosophies here.

Amazon’s philosophy was really outdated, but I think they’re going to stick with it and Trainium will be interesting with enough resources will they be able to brute force it? Maybe, and I think Anthropic really is the perfect partner for it. CUDA is definitely a moat, but with enough incentives with the right people, you can definitely train a frontier model on Trainium. TPU’s shown that you can do it and Amazon is much more aggressive and I think that we’re about to see, I’m cautiously optimistic for Trainium as well. Definitely more so than Maia and it’s hilarious because Google, we haven’t even talked about them in this entire time, because “Hey, the single best custom silicon training thing and they’re super conservative”, it’s just kind of weird. They’ve been gifted a software and hardware platform from God already because they already made it five years ago and they’re not doubling down on their lead.

*Is there a bit where Amazon and Google go their own way? Maybe it turns out that Amazon, just because of the networking architecture and whatnot, they never are as good at training, but for relatively small scale inference, which may end up being the vast majority of tasks, it’s fine and they have a sort of cost advantage. Google is like the God of training, they have this massively scalable cross-data center, you mentioned that capability before and then Meta and Microsoft are kind of AMD shops maybe for inference to the extent they can. And of course all this lording over it is Nvidia just the pure best performance, the biggest developer ecosystem, all the sorts of advantages that go there. Is that a good rough framework for how you see this playing out?*

*DP:* The only point I would say is Google has a bigger cost advantage and inference than they do in training relative to Nvidia, the challenge being that Google for some reason just sucks at product. Using their API up until a week ago was annoying.

*It’s because Google is an integrated player. They’re the Apple of the cloud and Apple, it’s hard to play with others too, it’s actually, I think it’s a cultural thing.*

*DP:* Yeah, so they’ve just had so many issues here that are confusing to me/decisions that are confusing. One that Doug was alluding to earlier is like, “Hey, Google has the best silicon has the biggest training clusters today, where’s their model that crushes GPT-4?”. Or, “Hey, they have so much better silicon, why are they not building data centers at the same pace that Microsoft is the same pace that Meta is?”. They’re just not being nearly as aggressive as Amazon even at building data centers, what are these decisions that they’re making? Why are they, of all of the companies having the most financial sort of like-

*Restraint?*

*DP:* Let’s say, yeah, restraint.

*DO:* It’s like having pocket aces and you’re like, “I’m folding, guys, I’m folding”. They have this giant opportunity and maybe this is a [Google CEO] Sundar [Pichai] thing. He doesn’t like CEO, he’s a renter, he doesn’t have the political capital or something like that. I mean, I definitely heard that theory kind of pushed around, but I don’t know what it is because it’s really odd. In this competition of the hyperscalers pushing for the big frontier models, Google has an amazing hand and they just don’t play it aggressively. And why? Who knows?

Nvidia and Passport

*Did [Nvidia CEO] Jensen [Huang] push it too far with this whole sell Nvidia chips to NeoClouds to sort of hedge against the hyperscalers strategy, and leading to messes like Super Micro ( https://www.barrons.com/articles/super-micro-delisting-accounting-auditor-b9367860 ) or whatever the heck’s going on there?*

*DO:* I don’t know. You want to throw some crackpot theories? I know we have quite a few.

*DP:* I mean, I think strategically it’s what he has to do, and this is part of why Amazon is kind of like — Amazon won a lot because they had the best database software, it was very easy to use and set up. In a world where the cloud is not providing the software for running AI, a lot of Amazon’s advantages go away. Being easy to use, like, “Oh, okay, great, I’ll just download VLM or Tensor RTL and I’ll download this open source model and it’ll run”, and it’s not that hard. It’s relatively still hard, which is why someone who can do that still gets paid a lot of money, but it’s not that hard relative to setting up database software and managing these databases and making sure things don’t break.

So when you look at NeoClouds, it’s like, “Well, this is great because now Nvidia gets to just drop the margin of everyone”. While there’s a shortage, yes, Amazon’s margin will still be fantastic on AI servers, on GPU servers, but over time margins are going to come down to whatever — maybe not necessarily what the real estate companies are okay with, but these are the folks that are investing in NeoClouds because Nvidia is trying to make it as easy as possible for NeoClouds to set up. So there’s 40 of them out there, this has been a big boon for us, we’ve helped people with this as well. There’s so many things out there that a small team of people can set up a cloud that’s decent and so then the question is, did Jensen go too far? I mean, it’s either he does that or the hyperscalers build their own silicon and eventually wipe them away. So did he go too far or is he the grand visionary? He wouldn’t be in the position he is today if he wasn’t this grand visionary.

*Jensen’s modus operandi is that you don’t find the limit unless you occasionally go over it.*

*DO:* Yeah, I think he’s doing the right thing. And I mean, let’s be clear, one of the largest growing categories of the NeoCloud, it’s no secret ( https://www.theinformation.com/articles/microsoft-is-a-coreweave-rival-its-also-a-big-customer?rc=gtxu6q ) , Coreweave’s largest customer is Microsoft. These large hyperscalers too are like, “You know what? If you give me enough GB200s in a sufficiently networked cluster, good to go”. What’s the difference? The effort on top of that to just do the software for it is so smallest percentage of the effort.

*And the amount of data ingress-egress is so low relatively speaking, it’s fine.*

*DO:* Yeah. So it’s like what’s the point? If someone else is willing to do it for a cheaper margin and you’re like, “Okay, we can own this full stack, or we could have a faster go-to-market and we can bully our supplier down the road and we can force them to do SLAs, we don’t have to hire all this”. It’s like fabless versus fab, as long as they give us a good enough product and if the product is all standardized, we might as well just spam as many fabs as possible and get as much supply as possible. So I think it’s a really, really good move by Jensen. But yeah, the SMCI thing might just be Super Micro.

*Yeah, we’ll see. Doug, you’ve been the biggest Nvidia bull for maybe the longest time, are you still fully on the train or is there any reason to jump off?*

*DP:* (laughing) Doug was in our channel today like, “Guys? Guys?”.

*DO:* So next year will be really interesting because Trainium’s ramp is going to be the first, I guess TPU is there, but it’s hilarious, I always forget Gemini exists, I feel like there was a Twitter thread where it’s like I literally forget that Gemini is also a frontier model, I still forget that TPU exists sometimes, but I think Trainium will be a really interesting threat to them. And then I think the thing that is more concerning is GB200 is going to be a hell of a product, it’s going to sell a lot of revenue. But total stock brain, my stock brain is hard bombs. We know what does ’26 look like and obviously stocks are forward-looking, so GB200 is going to be good. I think it’s like Street’s too low, whatever, I think everyone who invests the stock thinks that too. But let’s say it’s the middle of next year and you’re looking out to 2026 and you’re like, “Okay, how do we buy more GB200s or the next version of the chip?” and it’s like the math becomes — there is an upper limit. I think right now if you include Trainium, and these are fudgy numbers, but it’s like 40 to 50% of cash flow from operations so in order to do another doubling, assuming growth is zero, obviously it’s going to be up a little bit, that’s the last hundred percent, so what’s after that? We cannot do 150% of hyperscaler cash from operations. We might be running out of the gunpowder to do this.

*It’s like at the beginning we were talking about the supply chain before for semis. At some point, you’re gated by just the sheer capacity of the market to absorb any sort of growth.*

*DO:* Yeah. But I mean, to be clear, I think the stock is probably going to do great for a long time. I think Jensen’s really awesome, but I am a superstitious man, and I got some concerns. There’s always something, but yeah, I think Nvidia is an amazing company. I definitely think that they’re consistently ahead of the curve, but I think it’s a lot harder of a stock than it was. Let’s put it that way, especially next year, we’ll see some of the real headwinds, or not.

*You’ll always have the credit for being right, being early, and it’s sort of the actual payoff can’t get any bigger than you being on that. Dylan, same thing with you with this entire space. It’s a real pleasure to talk to both of you guys. We should do this more often, number one. Number two, everyone should go to SemiAnalysis and sign up ( https://semianalysis.com/subscribe-to-semianalysis/ ). At a minimum, just do the free plan, you’re going to want to upgrade. It’s like you two are two of my most cited sort of sources on Stratechery and it’s pleasure to be working for Dylan, we’re all happy to be here.*

*DO:* Well, and to be clear, and I want to do a little bit of — we’re going to get a lot better. We’re cooking. We’re in the lab, we’re cooking. There’s a lot of work being done in SemiAnalysis, and it’s not just me and Dylan. We’re cooking.

*DP:* I think I’m very excited about what we’re going to be able to do with Passport. I guess we didn’t really talk about why, and I don’t know if you want us to talk about why, Ben.

*Well, you can. I also have the reticence of talking about myself.*

*DP:* God put Ben on the earth so that we can release these awesome products and tools on our website because we have so many different products, and currently they’re just managed through DocSend and emails and things like that with so many different levels of clients, like companies in tech, companies in semiconductor space, private equity companies, hedge funds. There’s also a lot of data dashboards and stuff that we’re going to start building — or we have started. We’ve already released one, which is a yield calculator ( https://semianalysis.com/die-yield-calculator/ ) for wafers and advanced packaging and things like that.

But we’re going to start doing a lot of things. We’re going to have a product called Fab Map where we’re going to show every fab on the plant Earth for free then if you want to click in and get more details about it, some of it will be free and some of it will be paid, let’s be clear. But every fab in the world, we’re going to just give that away for free and I think I’m so, so excited that Passport enables us to do this. There’s so many things on the back end that are complicated to do that Ben has built over the years and God told him, “Make this product in a way that maybe I don’t ever need at Passport or on Stratechery, but I do need for SemiAnalysis”.

*I mean, you think about it, you dive into these fab things and you want to get more information, you can have multiple levels of get more information, and you can actually sell at each level. You can sell down to an individual basis or a corporate basis, and people get different access based on their entitlements. It’s just this idea that, “Look, you’re a big company now”, I adore the newsletter revolution, I loved your Twitter thread, Substack is amazing. Everyone just start there, I agree, I think Substack is awesome, I’m glad it exists, but sometimes you are a 17-person company and growing and you need to just build actual products that are more than a newsletter, and yeah, like I said, I’ve paid engineers a lot of money to work for you, and I’m thrilled about it.*

*DO:* Yeah, I think I’m really excited about it. Honestly, it’s going to be a lot more than a newsletter. Obviously, the newsletter is still the soul of the business, and it probably always will be. But this is only possible because we have bigger ambitions than being a newsletter, so you have to lead the newsletter platform, that’s just how it is. Fabricated Knowledge will probably still be on Substack because it’s a newsletter, but SemiAnalysis and where it’s going, it’s to bigger places than just a newsletter platform and so in order to do that, I have to do a different platform.

*Well, it’s good to have you guys on board. It was great talking to you. We should do this again soon.*

*DO:* Yeah, of course. Thanks for having us.

*DP:* Thanks, Ben.

This Daily Update Interview is also available as a podcast. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member ).

The Daily Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.

Thanks for being a supporter, and have a great day!

Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player: Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharptech.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Dithering ( https://dithering.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.dithering.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp China ( https://sharpchina.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharpchina.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Greatest Of All Talk ( https://goat.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgoat.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Subscription Information

Member: Omar Zoheri
Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com
Member since: April 23, 2022
Your subscription renews every year
Renewal date: December 8, 2024

You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery ( https://www.stratechery.com ).

Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/login?email=stratecheryUSC%40khamel.com ) to view your account and manage your subscriptions.
Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/unsubscribe?unsub=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.passport.online%2Fapi%2F1.0.0%2Fusers%2FRseuYE8jgHePpWJf1fAb4C%2FchannelOptOut%3Faccess_token%3DeyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.BTPnA9EasOlFhn6zU-BMbnleiBROzaPlE6cy0FS44V9v86BXBb0GeRE8JiJHZxJhWYlMJdnOJnvXzPYkNsIbuf2BMSGjf9HuK9E1XKgnNAr-X4ZPiH31MqKVUNM5E6P1yFCeJpokLHGSO7UQTgV1WoRFzAj8fiyJ4rrgwETlsYjn7fCpAWqAoxKcRPh7egdxV20mS06P6AM_PUcmgYnM-G7QA-fXSYju-mOoX0rvWRmGs4iBDaa22I9HC0eS5h22n30Aqi4_yTuKYThAYZelbjf4Vn2myJQ9eHbG2IYrm_PudGlsIMqVOdFgbY7HSxGjfkHmmABYH_8tmUA10QPRsw%26channel%3Demail%26redirect_uri%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fstratechery.passport.online%252Fmember%252Funsubscribe ) to unsubscribe.

© 2024 Stratechery LLC ( https://www.stratechery.com ) , 2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703