# Antara Health: Natively Integrated Healthcare 

**From:** Not Boring <notboring@substack.com>
**Date:** Mon, 18 Jan 2021 13:54:58 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/Antara Health Natively Integrated Healthcare _Mon,_18_Jan_2021_13-54-58_+0000_17715c7f4de417fc.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:04.476003

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkMGOhCAMhp9muI0BEcUDh7nsaxiUjpJBMFBn4z79djXZzSalHP60f_9vsghzyofZUkH20wY8NjARPksARMhsL5AH74xoay1V0zNnGie00syX4ZkBVuuDwbwD2_Yx-MmiT_Gc4LxWbDEd7zqhXauE5j3oSYJuW_VsqETfSn752t15iBMYeEM-UgQWzIK4lZt83OoPqphwTNnHuSr7WNBOr2pKKwkbPRvRZntfwAZc7pGOeEM47j5SwEwpHfOm5rXgQmhBOZSuRMV5kh6eXf9l7a3h61z_W82y-fUk-bXYFcIpUNKB_nWPHo8Boh0DuAsCXixPLMMMEU73wSIRFLzviIGuu_4KTZSkkFL1jWLk7BJNxT_Tb6mgjVI

Welcome to the 1,089 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since last Monday! If you aren’t subscribed, join 30,917 smart, curious folks by subscribing here:
🎧 To get this essay straight in your ears: listen here [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkE1uxCAMhU8z7CbiJzSwYNFNrxE5wZOgSSACp1V6-jKJ1KqSMYsn-_l9IxBOKR9uS4XYq_V0bOgifpUFiTCzvWDug3fiTRqlW8u8a70w2rBQ-kdGXCEsjvKObNuHJYxAIcVzgnOp2ew65RUoNDio4QF8hFYZYbUWfpAWBL98YfcB44gOPzEfKSJb3Ey0lZt6v8mPWjHRkHKIU1P2oRCMz2ZMaxW2-iASZLjPCAvN99eyxIKTXAouhBH1cm0a0XCeVMBHZ78Bbi1fJ_lvGcvu16XKzxlWXE6hZuvrv-4x0NFjhGFBf8Wmi94Jop8wYq5UfQ9UmQluO8OtkZ29YlYuSiilbatZdfapTsU_0x-s0ojI] on Spotify [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEFvgzAMhX8NOaKEQCGHHDpt3aZtmtTu0l2iQAxEhYQloZT9-qXtYbJlS356evLXyACddSufrA_oOkRYJ-AGFj9ACODQ7MEJrTjZZBUtcoYUzxWpigppL1oHMEo98OBmQNNcD7qRQVtzc2CcFajngBuSq7xmRVFWpapjsVJRmau6ZW1T3nPlrDSYBjicwa3WABp4H8LkE7pNsl1sO4FJ_WSDbte0sWM8-d4ucW1O5Pj-cP7c7z9W699WeiGX1yGhO68T-ii-y1FB8_N1OBzd0r_AZXl-2iLNM5wRTEhF4l9FlZIUY0s1tCX7lTLJ8dhlqZ9rH2RzugYix40NtXXadFE-9XKE4SbEz0Xc42x0WAUYWQ-g7lDCne0Nk-jAgIvMlZAhEiWYlRVmVVayO4RIjRJKC5YXKCYrG13mP_QPUpSSsw].
This week’s Not Boring is brought to you by… Future [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkdtqxCAURb8mvjV4iZnkwYdCmd8QoycZ26jBS0P69TWT0gFRZCHbvY5WGZYQD7GFlNG5yXxsIDzsaYWcIaKSIEprBOnpwHg3IiM6QwY-IJvkHAGcsqvIsQDayrRarbIN_vkCY8rRQ3TAOJt6PnI2GKLn2zjP_TT34wyT4qS7clUxFrwGAd8Qj-ABreKR89aw94be69r3vZ1LLhFaHep9BRX9mwsRTs7uJTuZQokaGvbxKpAa2p9IK7cpu_gThjyFaP2i1zL9YQfGFlehC96oQ1LyqTypJQXFlGBCBlLb86ElLcaBWag1fpRqOuwW2qYypaz0V_2ZQ1H8B1T89VAO1ieofmQ9XfE2HxK8mlYwl7p8TeApUy7gIdbJGKly9U7weBvwONDbeKmqbhlhjI8dRzXZhPrKv0J_AVoEoSk]
This may surprise you, but writing a newsletter from home and having a new baby are not conducive to peak physical fitness. I started running a little bit, and then stopped, and did some pushups, and stopped, and... I may have put on a couple of pounds. 
So in December, I signed up for Future [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkdtqxCAURb8mvjV4iZnkwYdCmd8QoycZ26jBS0P69TWT0gFRZCHbvY5WGZYQD7GFlNG5yXxsIDzsaYWcIaKSIEprBOnpwHg3IiM6QwY-IJvkHAGcsqvIsQDayrRarbIN_vkCY8rRQ3TAOJt6PnI2GKLn2zjP_TT34wyT4qS7clUxFrwGAd8Qj-ABreKR89aw94be69r3vZ1LLhFaHep9BRX9mwsRTs7uJTuZQokaGvbxKpAa2p9IK7cpu_gThjyFaP2i1zL9YQfGFlehC96oQ1LyqTypJQXFlGBCBlLb86ElLcaBWag1fpRqOuwW2qYypaz0V_2ZQ1H8B1T89VAO1ieofmQ9XfE2HxK8mlYwl7p8TeApUy7gIdbJGKly9U7weBvwONDbeKmqbhlhjI8dRzXZhPrKv0J_AVoEoSk], a 1-on-1 remote personal training app. Through Future, I get to work with a world-class coach, Alex, whose clients include NBA players. Alex designs personalized workouts for me, gives daily feedback, and provides much-needed accountability. Since starting with Future, I’ve worked out 19 out of 20 days, and I’m finally getting back in shape. It feels awesome. 
In the spirit of accountability, I’m going to post my progress here every couple of weeks. The only thing more motivating than Alex making sure I work out is sharing my progress with all 30,917 of you! 
If you, too, could use some direction and accountability, sign up for Future. And if you’d like to try your first month free, reply to this email and I’ll send you a Guest Pass.
Hi friends 👋 ,
Happy Monday! And to those of you in the US, Happy Martin Luther King, Jr. Day.
Typically, I don’t send on holidays. They’re a day to turn off your brain and not think about work or anything tangentially related for a little while. MLK Day, though, is supposed to be observed as “a day on, not a day off.” It’s the only federal holiday designated as a day of service to encourage all Americans to volunteer to improve their communities.
Now today’s essay isn’t about volunteering, it’s about an investment. And it’s about improving the global community, not my local one. But it’s hard to imagine another startup that, if successful, will have a more positive impact on the world’s emerging middle class than Antara Health.
Today’s Not Boring Investment Memo is going to be a hybrid of a typical Monday essay and an investment memo. Investment memo in that the Not Boring Syndicate has a chance to invest in Antara; Monday essay in that we’re going deep into telehealth and emerging market healthcare. 
I’ve avoided writing about anything in healthcare because, frankly, it just seems so messy and confusing, and there are other sectors, so I just kind of moved on. But in the same way that mobile leapfrogged desktop computing in many emerging markets, healthcare solutions in emerging markets have more leeway to build the right thing without legacy baggage. 
So today, we’re going to look at healthcare through Antara’s approach to extending lives in emerging markets. And there’s a little something for everyone: 
Generally Curious People: an understanding of how healthcare works in markets where there’s not so much red tape that it’s incredibly difficult to innovate.
Founders: Understanding of the opportunities represented by a ballooning middle class, and of a business that uses technology where it should be used so humans can focus where they are best.
Accredited Investors: opportunity to invest in a leading emerging markets healthcare company with a great team in a massive and growing market, and actually help save and extend lives.
Let’s get to it.
Antara Health
Healthcare in emerging markets is broken. Billions of human beings don't see a doctor until it's too late, then get overcharged and treated poorly. There is over $100 billion in private healthcare spend in emerging markets, and 100 million people fall into extreme poverty because of a catastrophic healthcare expense. As the global middle class grows, the problem, and the opportunity to solve it, grows with it.  
Antara Health, based out of Nairobi, Kenya, is building the solution: virtual-first primary care for emerging markets. The Antara team is redefining what’s possible in healthcare by combining telemedicine and health navigation into a product that provides better outcomes to patients and better economics to insurance providers.  
I’m thrilled that the Not Boring Syndicate has the opportunity to participate in Antara’s oversubscribed Seed+ round for six reasons: 
Extending and Improving Billions of Lives. Billions of people in emerging markets are uninsured, creating a vicious cycle in which illness leads to poverty.
Radical Changes to a Massive Market. COVID made telehealth more prevalent worldwide, creating an opportunity to radically rethink healthcare.
Antara: Natively Integrated Healthcare. Antara combines Health Navigation, telehealth, and data in a Natively Integrated approach to healthcare.
Strong Early Traction. Antara completed a successful pilot in Kenya that showed strong engagement, scalability, value, and effectiveness.
Antara’s Business Model. Healthcare doesn’t have to be complicated. Antara’s model generates recurring revenue, and it uses technology to lower costs as it scales.
The Antara Team. The Antara team is world-class at exactly the things they need to be to reimagine virtual-first primary care company for emerging markets.
I’ve largely avoided writing about healthcare because the problems are so massive and so complex, but by the same token, the impact that successful innovative healthcare companies can have is equally enormous. In Antara’s case, the problem, and opportunity, is to extend, improve, and save billions of lives. 
Extending and Improving Billions of Lives
Solving healthcare for billions of people is a daunting task. It’s even daunting to write about. So let’s break it down and focus on Kenya, Antara’s first market. 
Only 2.8% of Kenyans have health insurance. Most of the country’s growing middle class, those who can afford healthcare at all, pay out-of-pocket. Because they’re paying out of pocket and don’t know how to navigate the healthcare system, most people stay away and cross their fingers. It creates a perverse lottery: either you get lucky and don’t get sick, in which case you save what you would have spent on insurance or doctor’s visits, or you get very sick, sick enough to go to the doctor, and accept the real risk that healthcare costs may thrust you back into poverty. 
But it’s a reflexive lottery, one in which the odds get worse just by playing. People don’t go to the doctor because they don’t want to pay out-of-pocket, which means they don’t catch things early, which means a higher likelihood of getting very sick, which means a higher likelihood of going broke in a last-ditch attempt to cure an illness when it may be too late. 
And Kenya is actually the sixth most insured [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtuhDAMRb9msgPlxRAWWXTT30AhMRAVEpRHEf36eoZKlSLHjmXfm2NNgSWmSx8xF_IKY7kO0AHOvEEpkEjNkEbvNHtyJTo5EKelY6pTxOdxTgC78ZsuqQI56rR5a4qP4T1BKe_IqinrJ86UdBKeHaUdiNn10hqrhHDDDLeuqc5DsKDhG9IVA5BNr6Uc-SE-HvwTz3mebS64HkNr445Pf6W3GYue95IKTHzINRnc1RwQoKS3o8aHJtepyWY12GzMnNBrM12NjTWUdOEg8ZpTzihjiuFfO9WyltIoPMz98GPMQ9J94S2uQWH79TJBkg6xTDH5sGD7azU7bO8G0hjx3mvw5RohmGkDd4MqN-83unFBj2gR3GgKUmZ06BUdFO-HGwySFEyIbpAdQWUXcSr8i_4CYGSaOw] country of forty-one in Sub-Saharan Africa. Ghana, where my sister lives and runs OZE [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkE1uxCAMhU8z7BLxEyawYNFNrxGR4GTQBIjAmSpz-tJEalXJmMWz_fS-ySIsKR9mSwXJTxvw2MBE-CorIEIme4E8eGfYnSshO02c6RxTUhFfhjkDBOtXg3kHsu3j6ieLPsVzg1IuycMIEOqutWKdUDOTI9VgJ864Zr2erZKXr92dhziBgRfkI0Ugq3kgbuUmPm78s1ZMOKbs49KWfSxop2c7pVCFrb70hqYONNdE4-MLCgaI2AQIiXjDKWeUMcVqCKla1lKahIe5129rbx0NC_93l2Tza1jl58MGWE-hxhzqH_bo8Rgg2nEFdxHAC-TJZFggQq6A3WCx4mNU94pqxXt9Ja6IBBNC6k6S6uxS3Yp_pt9CPIx0], ranks 17th at 1.1%. Guinea, where she spent two years as a Peace Corps Volunteer, ranks last: 0.04% of the population there is insured. We (rightly) complain about the broken insurance system in the United States, but 92% of the population here is insured.  
Low insurance penetration is a bigger issue now than ever before as the incidence of chronic conditions increases. Today, up to 50% of Kenyans now have or are at risk of developing a chronic condition like diabetes or obesity, many of which are preventable if warning signs are caught early. 
The vicious cycle that prevents early detection and pushes individuals into poverty also hurts insurance providers. Without the habit of engaging proactively with healthcare, even insured people seek treatment too late in the game, when care is most expensive to deliver. As a result, almost every health insurance company in Kenya is losing money, and it’s so bad that reinsurers have stopped backing them. Until now, the only things they could do were to charge higher premiums, make more exclusions, and set stricter limits, all of which push people away from getting insurance in the first place, accelerating the downward spiral. 
Kenya is not unique. This same vicious cycle plays out over and over again, across the globe. As a result, according to the WHO [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkc2OrCAQhZ-m2bXhT8UFi9nc1yCI1UoawUB5jfP0g-0kk1T4qeLknHw4izCnfOotFSTXYvDcQEc4SgBEyGQvkI2fNOu4Eq0cyKTlxFSriC_mlQFW64PGvAPZ9jF4Z9Gn-FFQyluyaAVCAuO9HLqqFK3qxCSdY7Yba6n29rX75CE60PAf8pkikKAXxK08xNeD_6t1HEdzLKnxEettARtwMS8fbXQ-zrWFafOu1MNv04bnlhOCuxLV9hvO55ZqxPO5Qil2husxXCPiNaecUcZUTShb1bCG0iQ8vPrh29qHpOvMm7KPBa17Ny6tJOuYcEz5Mpf0vdgVwmdQOZi6r3v0eBqIdgww3YjwJv2BZmaIkOsPTMZi5cvo0Cs6KN4PN5LKUDAh2kG2pDpPqarin-kPqF-YEQ], about 100 million people are pushed into extreme poverty because of healthcare costs worldwide, and insurers struggle to find a business model that works. 
The problem is so large as to seem intractable. 
Then COVID hit, and presented an incredible opportunity to radically change healthcare in emerging markets. 
The Opportunity: Radical Changes to a Massive Market
Telehealth on the front-end combined with intelligent software in the back-end makes previously unfeasible models feasible. COVID has created a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to reimagine how healthcare should work. 
By pushing people to seek services online, COVID increased market readiness for telehealth from 11% pre-COVID to 76%, according to a McKinsey study [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUcuOwyAM_JpyI4I8muTAYS_7G5EDboJKoAtOq-zXr9scVkIgY49nPLZAuKR8mEcqJN7XRMcDTcRXCUiEWewF8-Sd0dd6aLp2FM60Tg_dIHyZbhlxAx8M5R3FY5-Dt0A-xQ9CqboTq0FolO56wGGe9WgbdHN7Ha4Kxu5Wu6Y_eWF3HqNFg0_MR4ooglmJHuXSfF3qbz6v16va7N3Hgkdl08ZfPrq9UPZYOFgRAq0WMspyFMKtSIhOsv6nt5-KtGfJcL-s9A4JA54gCfJnh8zzSu4WAk8gXQoBsnyLkzY9vZN6lJnLPR3Cm1rVWmk9aDalGypdKZUaj7d-_AW4tGpb6qrscyGw97dakU1MNKfs48Lp-wobhk-CbZv43fbInSeMMAd0p6N0Lubj8bRgxMwLcxMQr0OrsR_UONT9eDrIlje6abqx7QQzu8So-E_6B5W6q3M]. 
That represents a dramatic shift in the way that one of the world’s largest industries operates. In its 2020 Global Health Care Outlook [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkdGOrCAMhp9muNMADiNecLE35zUMQkfJIBiox8w-_XZ0k01IC_wtLV-dRZhzeZstV2QfM-J7A5PgqBEQobC9QhmDN-IhdafuA_Pm7oVWmoU6PgvAakM0WHZg2z7F4CyGnM4MzqVii-n9o5N0gEkCaKkE7x9C6F4NEwir1VXX7j5AcmDgP5R3TsCiWRC3euu-bvIfreM4ZOsh5kCNtS6vdDfHPNlIG0hkNjtDJR_DE5rqzvdqY5NvFrARF2cLkGwLBhfPyCv_V24-elPBYS5N3jHm_GoXXCMLRnL6AnUtiIHSrWg5z12AZz98W3u783WWbd2nita9Pr2xYlLGKZeQZpJfi10hngJRGsmvewr4HiHZKYK_AOI1hxPpOEOCQvPxo0WiL_jQaz5o2Q8XMCLcia5Tw10xquwzZaW_oj-ziKJn], Deloitte pegged the size of the global healthcare market at 10.2% of GDP, or over $13 trillion annually, and it anticipates a 5% CAGR for healthcare spend through 2023. The World Health Organization (WHO) pegged the number at $7.8 billion in 2017 in its 2019 Global Spending on Health [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxdUs2O3iAMfJrk9iEg_4ccqrYr7bntOSLgL0GbQETMZtOnr0OqVq2EPPZY1gAerRAmH85-8zvmVxjw3KB3cOwLIELI4w5hsKYXtWyLquxy05dGtFWb2314BoBV2aXHECHf4rhYrdB6lyY4l1U-96IECTStefWs21p3Sqm6Gbu6bBWHzty6KhoLTkMP7xBO7yBf-hlx27PiUyZf6BzHwY7ZM-uQqhnUgvPwtE45bd1ElPE6ruBw_9N-wMcGzliMAR4BNh_wIbno2GaeWfESVVZ8EZksLo3mK0WEDyTulRQqyQ-1J_zx7YIy5Q1rE2Kwy0IvzeTnf9v1f20q7A2kXLNM1r9Fvs-Q6PuqKd1Bow8p1d6hdRHuG6AnHSDOr2cipgBHSgrGL6xSoVI8QQWW254UBReiFbS3qmWCce4LC8-m-6lUVvJ1kmyP445KvzHt1zz0zuPow_WdJX-b1QpLatBmB8I1OovnAE6NC5h76Xh7J9lgmMBBIE-ZQSE5RvCuaXnXyqa7l0yuKERRVF1Z5aRsPE25v6K_AOY60Fg] report. In either case, healthcare spend is massive. 
Increasingly, although it’s still early innings, that spend is going to telehealth and virtual care. Prior to COVID, reports estimated the global telehealth market somewhere between $10-60 billion, still a tiny fraction, of overall spend, and project it to grow at around a 25% CAGR over the next five years. COVID, as it’s wont to do, dramatically accelerated that growth and the financial position of American telehealth and virtual care companies. 
Amwell [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM2OhCAQhJ9mOBp-dIQDh73saxCUVsnwY6Ddifv0i-NhEwLpkKrqr2aLsOZy6j1XJNdl8NxBJ3jXAIhQyFGhGO80e3Iphl4Rp3vH5CCJr2YpANH6oLEcQPZjCn626HP6KCjlA9m0dbD0DLhS4snc1I8jSCsXOjIKMIG7c-3hPKQZNPxAOXMCEvSGuNeH-Hrw73ZsfEMI3ZxjG4JNzqe12zASrznljDImWdtwkB3rKM3CwzKqX2sfPY0r7-oxVbTz6zIgRaeMUy7Non2_Nhvh43wxmPbGI3k8DSQ7BXA3Ht4tfYDNCglKa88Zi60bRtUoqZJ8VDdO4xdMiEH1A2nJLjdV-g_9Aww8gFE], which makes a white-label telehealth solution, went public in September at a $4 billion market cap, and its shares have risen 63% since, to a $6.9 billion market cap. It just priced a secondary offering in which it will raise over $300 million. 
OneMedical [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOhCAQRL9mOBoQUDhw2Mv-BgFpHTIKBto17tcvMx426dBJkaJ4NTmEJZfL7LkieR8Wrx1MgrOugAiFHBWKjcGwoVdcCk2CEYEpqUisdi4Am4urwXIA2Q-_xslhzOnjoLSX5GmUF1IprmBUQUsxeOFnNQOIMI6D9_zOdUeIkCYw8APlygnIap6Ie33wr0f_3eY8z67pG4QWsnZT3ppIoulpzyhjirXvSdWxjtLMI8yj_nXuIei29F09fEU3vd4uUkzK6HOJaWnXr6fb4PPcG8C2vR0p4mUhOb9CuNnwruhDaxdIUFp1wTpsxTCqR0W16kd9szR4zjiXWkjSkkNurvQf-gf4jn6t], which offers primary care virtually or in-person at its network of 90 physical locations, went public in January at a $2 billion market cap, and has nearly tripled to a $5.7 billion market cap despite its physical footprint. 
Hims [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOhCAQ_JrhaADBgQOHvexvmFZaJaNgoF3jfv0y42GTTnfSlUo9RiCcU77cngqx9-rp2tFFPMuKRJjZUTD3wTvRSdNqZZl3ygujDQulnzLiBmF1lA9k-zGsYQQKKX4YnEvNFuehsx16QD3ixK1UvvN20tyA1gqUvHXh8AHjiA5_MF8pIlvdQrSXR_v1kN91zvNsppSXsJVmTFv9sOAkl4ILYUT1pk0jGs5TG3B62l-Ah-LbLJtyDIVgfL1ZLLuYaEg5xLnCrwU2XD9Add_Xux0x0NVjhGFFfweju59P1H7GiLn25nug2org9mm4NfJp7yA1eSvaVlulWVX2qbLiv-gfvq592A], which bills itself as “telehealth for a handsome, healthy you,” is going public via a SPAC. At the time of the announcement, the company was valued at $1.6 billion, and it’s risen 80% since to $2.9 billion. 
Ro [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtuhSAQ_ZrL0vAQhQWLbvobBGFUchUMjG3s15fqoslkZnFy5jy8Q1hyucyRK5K_ZfE6wCT4rhsgQiFnhWJjMGzgSshek2D6wJRUJFY7F4Ddxc1gOYEc57RF7zDmdDMo5ZKshirG1OTFPDovuZaD4yqMrPdM-kHM4dF1Z4iQPBj4gnLlBGQzK-JRX-LjxT_blNz53C6JhlPOaPvKmiOpOtZRmkWEedQ_zr16ui-8q-dU0fl3I-2kmJRxyiWmpcHv1e2w3UDzbNvdzxTxspDctEF44uDTyh3QLpCgtLaCddi6YFSPimrFR_3Yb3kFE0LqXpKmHHJjpX_RX7lveSY], a “patient-driven telehealth company that aims to be a patient’s first call,” launched a COVID telehealth assessment early in the pandemic, and raised $200 million at a $1.5 billion valuation [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcFuwyAMhp-m3KiAhIYcOOyy14gIOIk1AhE4nbqnH20nTUI2smX99vd7R7Dm8rBHrsSeYaLHATbBd41ABIWdFcqEwcqbMp3uRxZsH6TRhmGdlgKwO4yWygnsOOeI3hHm9JoQQmm22XHpeq0GOZubNr2RQUlp1LAsvR5u3a1_67ozICQPFu5QHjkBi3YjOuql-7ioz_YI_ObLmfx29XlvBSWUaEkMz_8zBFyRXOQQwRPegXtXgLsUOLXSDgE9JuBHyXcMUHjJvDisULkSgu8YY1udO-KOFzhyIQhccs3nv87dxfN1XtNiaJu-FO0W2bhoc5VXIXKHsAzjj3OXXuyrutZzruT813NlVmzKNOeCaW3tr83tEF-NRm5qeT8T0mOC5OYI4Q2V3t68ME8rJCjNszA5ao5IMQ5GjA3m-IbYqHey6_TYa9aUQ25T6V_0F8n1pqM] in July. 
In August, Teladoc [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEGOwyAMRU9TdhMBgQYWLLqZa0QE3ASVQAROR5nTD00WI1m2Zcv6_s9ZhDmXw2y5IvmkEY8NTIKfGgERCtkrlDF4w-5c9VJo4o3wTElFQh2fBWC1IRosO5Btn2JwFkNO5wWlXJLFiAme0queCSm541pTzQRQfR-Es0DVpWt3HyA5MPCGcuQEJJoFcau3_nHj3y0QovXZLWAjLp3La5t9Hi35bLcCtbZaIIKt0LoY3jnN-WuFMkNpAxIMp5xRxhRrXqTqWEdp7gM8B_1r7U3QdeZd3aeK1r0-GqSYlHHKJaS5rV-LXSGei-Z2bHXdU8BjhGSnCP4CgRfPE804Q4LSOPvRYqPIqB4U1YoP-jLeSPWs76UWkjRln9tV-hf9A96Djlg] merged with Livongo [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEGOwyAMRU9TdhMBgQYWLLqZa0QE3ASVQAROR5nTD00WI1m2Zcv6_s9ZhDmXw2y5IvmkEY8NTIKfGgERCtkrlDF4w-5c9VJo4o3wTElFQh2fBWC1IRosO5Btn2JwFkNO5wWlXJLFiAme0queCSm541pTzQRQfR-Es0DVpWt3HyA5MPCGcuQEJJoFcau3_nHj3y0QovXZLWAjLp3La5t9Hi35bLcCtbZaIIKt0LoY3jnN-WuFMkNpAxIMp5xRxhRrXqTqWEdp7gM8B_1r7U3QdeZd3aeK1r0-GqSYlHHKJaS5rV-LXSGei-Z2bHXdU8BjhGSnCP4CgRfPE804Q4LSOPvRYqPIqB4U1YoP-jLeSPWs76UWkjRln9tV-hf9A96Djlg] to combine Teladoc’s leading telemedicine platform with Livongo’s chronic disease management platform. Teladoc’s stock is up 140% over the past year, and the combined company has a $33 billion market cap. 
Nikhil Krishnan of the excellent health tech newsletter Out of Pocket wrote a great analysis of the Teladongo merger [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtuhiAQhZ9Gdr_h4gUXLLrpa5hRRiUiGBjb2Kcv_V00ASZhMufM-WYgXGO6zRkzsb9npPtEE_A7eyTCxK6MaXTWiE5q1TYDs6axQreauTwuCfEA5w2lC9l5Td7NQC6G9wTnsmWbgVn0XKFotRp6tSje9B0vWp2YuoZL9fjCZR2GGQ1-YbpjQObNRnTmSn1U8rOceFFczjjvSPWG4Gkrn2e5N9ILQqQN04vQg41hjS-CHZkzkkvBhdCiLN_qWtScR-Vw6YcfgKrhxyrrfE2ZYN7rOR4smSI1xeTCWtr7Bgf6d6PEG0s9ruDoHjHA5NE-yekB-GYxrhgwFbB2BCrYBB96zQct--FJWtAooVQ7NC0rzjaWqfBv-gvn3Iiv], which includes a few points that are particularly relevant to Antara: 
Even though Teladoc engagement is low, the buyers - HR departments at companies - like the predictability of the spend and how Teladoc looks on its benefits page.
Combining telemedicine and chronic disease management gives “Teladongo” the ability to increase engagement and cross-sell (“patient steerage”). 
“Telemedicine 1.0 was about getting the face-to-face visit online and people focused on how it would make it more accessible for people that found it difficult to physically get to in-person care. But the real promise of telemedicine is to create entirely new workflows, triage the kinds of labor used, and actually change the economics of visits.”
Every single company in healthcare wants to own the “front door” of healthcare and be the point of contact for patients when they need anything.
In America, the spend per patient is much higher than in emerging markets, which means the immediate financial opportunity is greater. But the American market also presents more competition, more deep-pocketed incumbents, and more onerous regulation. Emerging markets present an opportunity to serve billions of people with new solutions built from the ground up. 
In many ways, emerging markets present a better opportunity for healthcare startups:
Regulators are welcoming of insurance penetration, given the low levels highlighted above and the fact that insurance is the best way to stabilize a growing middle class.
Emerging markets are often less controlled by incumbents and special interests. 
There is a large pool of customers who were previously unserved or deeply underserved. Globally, over 1 billion people entered the middle class over the past ten years.
Healthcare spend is growing faster in emerging markets than developed ones. 
According to the WHO, in middle income countries, including Antara’s first market, Kenya, health spending rose 6.3% a year between 2000 and 2017, nearly double the global 3.9% rate, and outpacing the broader emerging market economies’ 5.9% growth. 
Reinsurers estimate that there is a $250 billion premium gap for the emerging middle class globally, as insurance penetration rises from current 1-3% levels up to at least 8-10%. The opportunity for HealthTech in emerging markets has double-tailwinds: 1) the economies are growing more quickly than developed countries, and 2) healthcare and insurance spend as a percentage of the total economy is growing. 
Zooming in on Africa, the Afrobility podcast (a go-to for me) did an episode on African HealthTech in October that you should listen to if you’re interested in learning more. 
The hosts, Olumide Ogunsanwo and Bankole Makanju, highlight some incredible statistics. First, while Africa has 25% of the global disease burden, less than 1% of healthcare spend occurs on the continent. Second, the average life expectancy in Sub-Saharan Africa is 61 versus 77 in China and 78 in the United States. Third, Kenya spends $76 per citizen per year on healthcare compared to over $10,000 in the US.
But spend only tells part of the story. According to Olumide and Bankole, Healthcare in Africa faces real challenges: 
Talent and Brain Drain. Africa has a shortage of healthcare workers (less than 10% of what they need for primary care). There are 8,000 Nigerian doctors in the US compared to 35,000 Nigerian doctors in Nigeria. HealthTech companies need to figure out a way to get more out of fewer doctors. 
Logistics and Cold Chain. Drugs and vaccines require cold storage and transportation, which can be difficult when electricity is often unreliable. 
Insurance. As covered above, a tiny percentage of people are insured. 
There is a clear need for new solutions, and new companies are working on them. HealthTech as a percentage of African venture funding grew from 2-3% in 2018 to 8-9% in 2019. The Afrobility hosts cite examples across a few categories: Patients, Payors (I’m going with the spelling that Antara uses), Providers, Manufacturers, Distributors, and others. The most relevant are: 
Babyl: Spun out from Babylon Health in the UK, Bably provides chatbot consultation, ML-based diagnosis, doctor visit booking, and live video and audio sessions. 
mPharma: The Ghana-based company manages prescription drug inventory for pharmacies to make drugs more affordable. mPharma has raised $55 million in the past five years, including $17 million in 2020.
BIMA Health: Founded in Stockholm in 2010, BIMA offers mobile-delivered microinsurance and serves ten countries, including three in Africa. Members can buy insurance on their phone with airtime credits and book appointments with doctors. The company has raised $200 million. 
Zipline: The San Francisco-based company has raised $233 million to develop drones that can deliver medication to remote areas. 
MTN Ayo: Like BIMA, Africa’s leading telco offers microinsurance that people can purchase with airtime credits. They can submit claims directly through WhatsApp. 
These examples show that there is investor appetite for Africa-focused HealthTech companies. Each one though, tackles only a small slice of the problem. The hosts cite China’s Ping An or Brazil’s Doctor Consultor as examples of what HealthTech could be in Africa. Then Bankole said something that made my ears perk up: 
The ones that I’ve seen scale in these emerging markets have been vertically integrated. 
Antara Health [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEFuxCAMRU8zLCMgYQYWLLrpNZAJToKaQAROo_T0ZWYqVbJsydbX9_sjEM65XHbPldizObp2tAnPuiIRFnZULC4GK-5S92owLNghCK00i9VNBXGDuFoqB7L98GscgWJOLwXnUrHF9kaaCQIaYcw4Dug98jtMCqa78YMwb184QsQ0osVvLFdOyFa7EO311n_c5Ger8zw7SAQFFoSVlm7MW1uzaCWXgguhRXtQ6U50nOc-4vQwPwC3gW-z7OrhK8H49VSxYlMmn0tMczt_LbDh-jo0BNfmdqRIl8MEfsXwpqN3SC9eN2PC0sILDqhFI7h5aG60fPzRNPxe9L0yg2LNOeSmSv-mv59DgAU] is building a Natively Integrated company to change how healthcare happens in emerging markets by helping each health professional serve more people and making insurance affordable for a wider swath of the population. 
Antara Health: The Natively Integrated Healthcare Company
Antara feels like what Teladongo would build if they could start fresh. It’s reimagining healthcare by leveraging telemedicine, data science, and emerging markets payors’ and regulators’ willingness to try new models. They’re building virtual-first primary care, a new model of healthcare that integrates life and health protection using data. 
It’s a Natively Integrated Healthcare Company. In The Rise of the Natively Integrated Company [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM2OhSAMhZ_mstPw4w8sWMxmXsOgVCWDYACvcZ5-enUxSdMSmpPT70ymwBLTpfeYC_m0oVw76ABn9lAKJHJkSIOzmnVcirZRxOrGMtlK4vIwJ4DNOK9LOoDsx-jdZIqL4VZQyluyamUlFbSbJVN87iwD2Slqusl2IEzf2cfXHNZBmEDDG9IVAxCv11L2_BJfL_6NdZ5nvZvp59rqKW74Mfq44DBTqURVVqiSy1DF-X4HvOMN_qpcQMaEoLZC2W7CRZzmlDPKmGSI1Mqa1ZRG4WDu1a8xr4ZuC6_zMeaCfh83knSIZYzJhQXXP6vZwN8LhB5wbkdw5RogmNGDffIoT6x3QsMCAe4rBlMwTEZVL6mSvFcPPwYmmBCtalqCzjaiKvyb_gFrbpGF], I wrote that Natively Integrated Companies (NICs): 
Leverage technology to integrate the customer-impacting components of their value chain, build relationships with customers, and are willing to commit capital to build products that resonate with them.
The Natively Integrated model works particularly well for problems that have been historically difficult to solve due to challenges with coordination and incentive alignment among different stakeholders. It’s why I’m so bullish on Apt [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkMFuhSAQRb_msdMAyhMXLLrpbxiUUUkRCI6vsV_fqSZtmgCzuBnOvXeyCEsqp8lpR_bzDHhmMBE-9wCIUNixQxm8M-IpdaPanjnTOqGVZn4f5gKwWR8MlgNYPsbgJ4s-xWuDc6nYap5uVDN3cwOj5JIr4Sbed8L1srNKt-3NtYfzECcw8IJypggsmBUx74_m7SHf6cSEYyo-LvV-jDva6aOe0kZCpmszVrhCFQn_gnBWPlK0Qvlc5ejLkDKUSo9k25ALwYXQgvIoXYua89R4mLv-y9pHy7dF_kOwYn7ZJH-sdoNwCZR4oLkd0eM5QLRjAHeXgXenVz3DAhEuL4NFalJQfs17Lbv-Dk9tNaJpVN8qRmSXaCv-Qb8BA--Qqg]’s approach to real estate development. 
In Antara’s case, the company’s Health Navigation is the missing layer to primary care. Telemedicine, e-triage, care coordination, remote monitoring, digital health counseling, and digital therapeutics all have been proven to improve health, but in piecemeal, struggle or fail to fully address patient needs and realize their potential. Antara’s solution is a strategic slice of all that, integrated.
Antara simplifies all of the complexity to a single trusted source that guides a patient’s healthcare journey, and leverages technology in order to scale the human touch. It even has virtual care doctors on-staff, and can cover 50-70% of primary care cases within Antara’s care. The company specializes in chronic condition management and puts mortality at the forefront as the objective, asking the one question that every health professional should be asking: Are we improving and extending patients’ lives?
To learn more about Antara’s solution, early traction, business model, and risks: 
If you’re an accredited investor and want to learn more, you can check out the Not Boring Syndicate on AngelList. 
Thanks to Greg Castle [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuOwyAMRb-mLCMeIYUFi9nMbyAeToqaQATOVJmvH9osRrJsWdbV9bnBISylnmYvDcm7WTx3MBlebQVEqORoUG2Khk1cCTlqEs0YmZKKpGbnCrC5tBqsB5D98GsKDlPJHwWlXJKHmaTXgtPgg5r95JSnQjs9UwXS-Ynxy9cdMUEOYOAH6lkykNU8EPd2E183_t0LX-n90RDK1rdlD67hCl2fDKecUcYU6x9KNbCB0iISzHf969xtpNvCh3b4hi4833pSTS7oS0156efnw22wfg6dwfa5HTnhaSE7v0K88PBK6QNsF8hQe3rROuzZMKrvimrF7_rC6fyCCSH1KEl3jqWr8r_pH50_f9k] for introducing me to Antara, to Dan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM1uwyAQhJ8m3Gqx2MRw4NBLX8PCsHaQ-bEA13KfviSpVAktEqNhdj6jK64pX2pPpZLnmOq1o4p4Fo-1YiZHwTw5q-DORM8HSawaLAguiCvTkhGDdl7VfCDZj9k7o6tL8eWglHHyUEbCoIWWfBFAGXA2Pv3LCKNYxGDlO1cf1mE0qPAb85UiEq8ete7l1n_e2Fc753l23sUNrYudSaE9udiG1fEjGJNycGb7kHcJMAKFphCnWEukAALa7lx00FGaeofLKH-0vg00rKwrx1yqNtvzU5JVTHVO2cW1ydtDB_QvobWb2h2O6Oo1YdSzR_suXt_8XiimFSPmxtVOujZqQOUoqBRs_CvayPTQ91wOnLRkm5or_of-Agt2hkM] for editing, and to Kebba, Kuang, and the Antara team for working with me on the memo and letting us come on this journey!
Enjoy your MLK Day, and I’ll talk to you on Thursday! 
Thanks for reading, 
Packy

Unsubscribe https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUl2PojAU_TXwaArlqw88uDrOYFR2o-M4vpDSXrRjoQTKIPz6KZrsZpOmvTkn957mnMuohotqhrhWrbanK9NDDXEFfStBa2jsroUmEzx2AjfCvkdsHnvcifzIFm1WNAAlFTLWTQd23eVSMKqFqh4dCLm-fY0JIC8kOWasgCIoMMeBxyDIQ-J7YRHkT13acQEVgxi-oRlUBbaMr1rXrYXnlrsyp1I6V42oLrO2y1tN2W3GVGkIyiZJU3DR0lxC9viThVe14oy22sJLyw20ukFlShjWDnOPw8mVt-RL3Xdfibcd31G67wV7JSNfkfq8SILt-DIa3N8t39uklFc-YYfP-3Z5w-ly7qeLXtDTbjQzBHs7is3hpd8uEycRZg4-igk_v8rx82Pdno9E5h-rOl-syWzxp-n7X_3ht39P0UnWen4azmmxl_XmsNxu5ovyje9TKL8nj2MXuQ5ynMgx5vvRzJkhpLCAIiQjpZaHyov7nx92E_81ytC3Ky1BPggTT2besquEHjKoJqv4Mzn9XICHb9kFKmjMYvCMahO7g0gYIRK5IXkmZaLFDsY-8XzbKHNluqp_oj9DvMtN