# Apple's E.U. Fine, Apple's Next Case? (Stratechery Update 2024-09-11)

**From:** Ben Thompson <email@stratechery.com>
**Date:** Wed, 11 Sep 2024 13:06:30 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/Apple's E.U. Fine, Apple's Next Case (Stratechery Update 2024-09-11)_Wed,_11_Sep_2024_13-06-30_+0000_191e1317650ab636.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:10.985773

Apple's fine to the E.U. is really being paid by the U.S. Treasury; there may be another fine on the way

View in browser ( https://stratechery.com/2024/apples-e-u-fine-apples-next-case/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L2FwcGxlcy1lLXUtZmluZS1hcHBsZXMtbmV4dC1jYXNlLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzI4NjUxOTkwLCJpYXQiOjE3MjYwNTk5OTAsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.qJ-vkF0KD_b0KVLnSugbodhVtQLX8h4J0wO-iVR-1c93jFPPC4FKXN-BW8_qjBHWtUvxTIcDgqI7YEZrOxECIqshyuS3i5KoHQ0scqMe3Mr3PP3JGpTfRHkvVbwVv7m-shc1Gfv0Y4HORnCgKNRKsBh1d7q9BzunpT1SdbuEaiCPQgoNBES-5yIVx-J4USO9CkXJ9W8BkjGl7B9CEYdymYhB7w0uDoxNX5vl2JwIgMti0rucXdpS3NW7KgnNTjdXpNmkH-Dv6nlLk6nUwOHPKNFjL1jsFnjjROecqKNCw6_nfJMWSD22CnsfOW8FtMce9wIiyXTnvafgCwacygDJ8Q )

( https://stratechery.com )

*************************************
Apple's E.U. Fine, Apple's Next Case?
*************************************

( https://stratechery.com/2024/apples-e-u-fine-apples-next-case/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L2FwcGxlcy1lLXUtZmluZS1hcHBsZXMtbmV4dC1jYXNlLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzI4NjUxOTkwLCJpYXQiOjE3MjYwNTk5OTAsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.qJ-vkF0KD_b0KVLnSugbodhVtQLX8h4J0wO-iVR-1c93jFPPC4FKXN-BW8_qjBHWtUvxTIcDgqI7YEZrOxECIqshyuS3i5KoHQ0scqMe3Mr3PP3JGpTfRHkvVbwVv7m-shc1Gfv0Y4HORnCgKNRKsBh1d7q9BzunpT1SdbuEaiCPQgoNBES-5yIVx-J4USO9CkXJ9W8BkjGl7B9CEYdymYhB7w0uDoxNX5vl2JwIgMti0rucXdpS3NW7KgnNTjdXpNmkH-Dv6nlLk6nUwOHPKNFjL1jsFnjjROecqKNCw6_nfJMWSD22CnsfOW8FtMce9wIiyXTnvafgCwacygDJ8Q ) Wednesday, September 11, 2024

Listen to this Update in your podcast player ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Good morning,

It was approximately 5 minutes after I sent Monday’s Update ( https://stratechery.com/2024/iphone-pricing-directv-and-disney-bars-and-sports/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L2lwaG9uZS1wcmljaW5nLWRpcmVjdHYtYW5kLWRpc25leS1iYXJzLWFuZC1zcG9ydHMvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3Mjg2NTE5OTAsImlhdCI6MTcyNjA1OTk5MCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.IXzzMtANxbiCxFObZAdJ5nRUohRrErX-m8EByQUJhMKEr2AsfCSiVCBMmAzztZodyg8AGsT1ITLyCvS_hOVKgmo4StvzXzEh-pW_CYFifTLwDSGNEwpiHZpuBaxU51_Ckf0sy0uveF9mYntWOKUMf0PftlmYuuWt3ptw2tXu_26eJh3rtw9NOLzYZygoDlqwvc71E_ztAP4evCLU5MjrUe9Ze-vgSmM6vISCWSQpWdI64pn8rArao-sCDmpX6-T6Gav0ldJ3lqPHW-fmS6FL-PYzo7Z8SEgtpKH3MFKJE7zmSKQB7AIhh_lxbjS_oH04A_uIMqsjt0E4PaUgfwbWzA ) that I saw a tweet from Mark Gurman ( https://x.com/markgurman/status/1832945268607844448 ) stating that the iPhone Pro would stay at the $999 price point. The bad news is I knew my pricing predictions were wrong before most of you saw it; the good news is I had a head start on thinking about the implications for yesterday’s Article Boomer Apple ( https://stratechery.com/2024/boomer-apple/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L2Jvb21lci1hcHBsZS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTcyODY1MTk5MCwiaWF0IjoxNzI2MDU5OTkwLCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwaS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.Ufj3PO0DCphAnB4OKEuMC9TZBpqWzRZ5oIFJjdhfC63OeSuqqDl8QVCDWsm52de_OiITDGNW83n1jo85y6pUU-Mdpz4qqm6djSka4hU7Jnbv0s8ABxFMofOulZq6SJlm4hZF_lwGeZUXuxxxWMah79LFJEGRa7HkNNCOTuRU7fPr1TFcDrfla8qdS5AmIomnW15r7VPxsgE0ceCremPm-zwE0YURRHgLIJ__PHfHhDY3E5OT8RCz1OfB3maY4nU5LyP8oxPj0mzhpIC4q_jHclU9SDBmcJVceZY6Nt3XVUaYPyPjq2kbKLHn4WXHqtRkVRvgZEm_IjSepIfSQM8eQQ ).

I should also note that I was wrong about DirecTV and Disney: there was no resolution to the stand-off, which meant that Monday Night Football wasn’t shown on DirecTV. We will have to remain tuned (just not to ESPN on DirecTV) to see who blinks first.

On to the Update:

Apple’s E.U. Fine
-----------------

From the Wall Street Journal ( https://www.wsj.com/tech/eus-top-court-upholds-14-35-billion-apple-tax-bill-in-irish-benefits-case-e589b435 ) :

Apple and Alphabet’s Google lost attempts to overturn multibillion-dollar rulings in the European Union on Tuesday, marking a win for competition authorities in the bloc in their efforts to rein in alleged abuses by big tech companies.

The European Court of Justice, the bloc’s highest court, upheld an order for Ireland to recoup up to 13 billion euros, equivalent to $14.35 billion, plus interest in taxes from Apple. The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, said in 2016 that Ireland had granted Apple benefits in contravention of EU state-aid rules, allowing the tech giant to pay substantially less tax than it owed. The commission asked Ireland to retrieve the sum in allegedly unpaid taxes between 2003 and 2014, plus interest, an order that both Apple and the Irish government appealed.

Years later, the General Court of the European Union, the bloc’s second-highest, annulled the commission’s decision because it said officials had failed to meet the legal standards in showing that Apple was given special treatment. The ECJ has now axed that ruling, saying the lower court was wrong in its reasoning. Apple can’t appeal.

I’m not surprised that the Apple and Google decisions are being lumped together; they are multi-billion euro fines from European regulators cracking down on big tech, right? In fact, the cases are quite different, and even though the numbers are bigger for Apple, this case is, in the grand scheme of things, less of a big deal.

I wrote extensively about this case when the European Commission first ruled on it in 2016 ( https://stratechery.com/2016/apples-eu-tax-problem-how-apple-pays-taxeseventually-everyone-is-a-loser/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.ZK1aj51DlTUC3kTjxge3F-1GQvr1vYwTAS-i6ZfL4mH1-_UwwgBVB8KG6bJ3baglVhM4aCYdbwyHH7AXxkC_34oB5quIj70I932LMupTRnftVbTJelixj7PXOJ2FUS1RcFU-3krJFkfsQCc90MIQ3XTpDd-p5HZF9jjO6xSBsHaSrWMUEe51HnJW8B3InOuOMQ_eilxzFfxHBZR7ivQajTqJ2aV4FuwAPEuJAGBUb7ygtcXMndRrBFbbohWF2RiWHXhNB90N2gdQ236fTCwd5OcCgpDe5fGNxCseXgF6TVXNC4V70K01DSoCDSsTCAnq3-OVCzoJnho5Xkru3ACTqA ) ; that Update remains a decent overview of the issue, but to quickly summarize:

* Apple initially set up a factory in Cork, Ireland in 1980.
* In the early 1990s, Apple was looking for an entity through which to funnel its international revenue; it registered Apple Operations International (AOI) in Ireland, but managed and operated it from Cupertino. This, thanks to the differing tax regimes between Ireland (a territorial tax system) and the United States (a global tax system that only collected taxes on profits when they were repatriated) resulted in an entity that didn’t exist anywhere; this was quite convenient for holding what eventually came to be hundreds of billions of dollars of profit without paying taxes.
* This scheme was based in Ireland thanks to a favorable ex ante ruling by the Irish tax authorities that they would only charge taxes on the original Cork operation, given that the management and operations of AOI didn’t happen in Ireland.

This case was about that last bullet point. Specifically, the European Commission did not bring an antitrust case against Apple, but rather an unfair competition case against Ireland, accusing it of effectively subsidizing Apple via its tax interpretation. That is why this isn’t a fine: it’s a tax payment; Apple needs to pay taxes on AOI’s operations up to 2014 to Ireland.

Here’s the thing, though: Apple has already paid those taxes, back in 2018, when it repatriated $245 billion ( https://www.cnbc.com/2018/01/17/it-looks-like-apple-is-bringing-back-home-nearly-all-of-its-250-billion-foreign-cash.html ) in foreign profits, on which they paid a $38 billion tax bill to the U.S. Treasury; this was in response to provisions in the Trump tax bill mandating tax payments on foreign cash that had not been repatriated. To that end, this was what Apple said in its most recent 10-Q ( https://s2.q4cdn.com/470004039/files/doc_earnings/2024/q3/filing/_10-Q-Q3-2024-As-Filed.pdf ) :

On August 30, 2016, the European Commission (the “Commission”) announced its decision that Ireland granted state aid to the Company by providing tax opinions in 1991 and 2007 concerning the tax allocation of profits of the Irish branches of two subsidiaries of the Company (the “State Aid Decision”). The State Aid Decision ordered Ireland to calculate and recover additional taxes from the Company for the period June 2003 through December 2014. Irish legislative changes, effective as of January 2015, eliminated the application of the tax opinions from that date forward. The Company and Ireland appealed the State Aid Decision to the General Court of the Court of Justice of the European Union (the “General Court”). On July 15, 2020, the General Court annulled the State Aid Decision. On September 25, 2020, the Commission appealed the General Court’s decision to the European Court of Justice (the “ECJ”) and a hearing was held on May 23, 2023. A decision from the ECJ is expected in the fourth quarter of 2024. The Company believes it would be eligible to claim a U.S. foreign tax credit for a portion of any incremental Irish corporate income taxes potentially due related to the State Aid Decision.

I am not a tax lawyer, but my assumption is that Apple will be able to claim a foreign tax credit for the taxes it now has to pay Ireland, but will not be able to claim a credit on the interest that has been charged (which amounts to around €7 billion). The company’s SEC filing ( https://d18rn0p25nwr6d.cloudfront.net/CIK-0000320193/33ab9a1c-e116-4117-9323-2355cba0fa2f.pdf ) in response to this decision seems to confirm something along those lines, as it warns of a one-time income charge of “up to approximately $10 billion”, which is “up to” €9 billion; presumably the missing €9-11 billion is covered by that tax credit. In other words, this decision is basically a transfer of money out of the U.S. Treasury to Ireland; one wonders if this will finally motivate Washington to actually defend a U.S. tech company in Europe.

Apple’s Next Case?
------------------

What is worth highlighting is that 2015 change Apple noted in its 10-Q; at the end of 2015 Ireland caved into pressure and closed the “company from nowhere” loophole. Apple did three things in response:

* AOI became an Irish-resident entity which means it owed more taxes than before.
* AOI’s official operations moved to Jersey ( https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/06/world/apple-taxes-jersey.html ) , a small island in the English Channel that does not charge corporate taxes.
* AOI borrowed around €300 billion which it spent acquiring intellectual property from Apple; this is a capital allowance that is depreciated over time, which just so happened to wipe out Apple’s tax liability.

All of this information is derived from this excellent blog post ( https://economic-incentives.blogspot.com/2018/01/what-apple-did-next.html ) ; the author, Seamus Coffey ( https://x.com/seamuscoffey ) , has been tracking Apple’s capital allowance ever since; the last of it was used up in 2022 ( https://economic-incentives.blogspot.com/2023/04/the-last-insight-into-apples-use-of.html ). It’s not clear if Apple will transfer more.

What is notable is this observation from the first post I linked, with regards to yesterday’s decision:

How might the European Commission view Apple’s decision to shift the “contract manufacturing” activity to Ireland in 2015? If viewed through their lens could it be construed as tax avoidance? Absolutely.

The logic of the state-aid decision is that, up to 2014, Apple owes tax on the profits from its “contract manufacturing” activity to Ireland because the only substance the Commission could see that was able to generate those profits was in Ireland. The Commission could not see evidence that the US-based board of directors was responsible for the profits so all the profits were attributed to the activities in Ireland. Of the €13 billion figure suggested by the Commission around €2.5 billion will be due to profits earned in 2014.

As an aside, as I noted in my original Update linked above, while Apple’s tax avoidance strategies are those of a good fiduciary but terrible citizen, this decision is pretty ridiculous; obviously Apple Inc. was controlling AOI. Regardless, continuing on with Coffey’s post:

In 2015, Apple carried out much the same functions in Ireland but now the sales were executed and recorded in Ireland and the license for the IP was onshored to Ireland. From the perspective of the Commission the tax liability on the profits went from €2.5 billion to nil. Is that reducing a tax liability?…

If the Commission’s €13 billion decision is upheld by the courts then Apple will owe €2.5 billion of Corporation Tax for the €20 billion of profit earned by ASI in 2014. In 2015, much the same profit was earned by a related company in Ireland which carried out much the same activity except it has paid a couple of hundred billion to buy the license for the IP underlying the activity.

Again, from an Irish perspective this isn’t a huge issue. The profit linked to the IP wasn’t here in 2014 so wasn’t taxed here. The IP was onshored in 2015, which resulted in the profit being located here as the GDP changes illustrate. The profit was generated by an asset now located here so the profit offset by the depreciation of that asset was included in Ireland’s GNP. The company earning that profit had bought a license giving it the right to use that IP and such a payment would typically be deductible for tax purposes. The appropriate Irish law was followed appropriately.

But if you are the European Commission and your view is that €2.5 billion of tax is due to Ireland for 2014 then what else could you say but that the use of capital allowances in 2015 against the same profit (albeit in a different company) had as one its main purposes the reduction in liability to tax. Through the Commission’s lens such a claim for capital allowances would not be allowed per S291a(7)(c) though as well as showing that there was a reduction in the tax liability they would also have to show that it was not a bona fide commercial transaction so it is far from clear that such a view would hold up under legal scrutiny.

This means that what is at stake when the original state-aid decision is finally decided by the courts may not just be the €13 billion plus interest for the period from 2004 to 2014 but possibly also €2.5 billion to €3 billion for every year since. There would be no basis to challenge the use of capital allowances in the 2015 restructure if the €13 billion ruling isn’t upheld.

Well, the €13 billion ruling was just upheld, so there might be another case on the way. And, once again, the entity actually paying the price will be the U.S. Treasury.

As for the Google case, the court upheld the ruling, which was also upheld by the General Court (the Apple case was originally overturned, and now overturned again). Therefore, I don’t have anything to add beyond what I wrote at the time in Ends, Means, and Antitrust ( https://stratechery.com/2017/ends-means-and-antitrust/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDE3L2VuZHMtbWVhbnMtYW5kLWFudGl0cnVzdC8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTcyODY1MTk5MCwiaWF0IjoxNzI2MDU5OTkwLCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwaS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.uysKuRhR304bhhadPZ1FQja9U4QgubHFlpipRY0B8w-IrMUj4P92Pkq_5bfbKJYdNKaf9_xw5D2f4wQo-CmQaevjU3-2Dzv0ih_l6CwW7dcQvktdxiXf9YorooHmR3EZfsA2QYHz-ENjyAxDASqYwCqCh_RD3tvk_ySSy_D6drmUjHB3y2SY0uIg7ZzMvRvBcZWcPpQejTIgSd3NcU778z4_4fxOpDk_qV49QXHgMPYg5SyAkmeqaS0kGrrG3mgUt3_WW_9C2Il4vXITJYzInUY4LfFP8FHwiL7IakyX7JEmdp7A-hDg_PngPQHvgGKy30YqjheqQ_oE1fjuVE-4bQ ). I think it’s a bad decision that, as I noted this summer ( https://stratechery.com/2024/the-e-u-goes-too-far/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L3RoZS1lLXUtZ29lcy10b28tZmFyLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzI4NjUxOTkwLCJpYXQiOjE3MjYwNTk5OTAsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.YNsEPz0sMYtQjEGx8Ig58mnLK4j-LmFCWVLnR2isGEiv89nQlVfN2WmRfJFrU5H-arje9u0jT4G05YKHOZCO_HuKPeh5FDlDwFd_fERogKHUbLH5BvQr1Z4pqFXZj_Yw86TNXIjcG_nb_od9vooImWY38A7Ugmm0XUpKpOehVHYp4kOde-rGrt93jtGcxImzC7-IFM1eaCyxAc7AAeXCpLAnL_QKsqyG1ozd1zecqaEYr_lhQSmp9gEyqRG19uC9NDu7_IXFClkWRkLp6hHLkWioH8FoZOHiY-rKhTvOPJtNHWPHuAu5nxoKhwE5froXr0WDkG3AtxmxqD3akHChvg ) , penalizes any sort of product changes or innovations for large companies, and attacks business model choices to boot.

This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member ).

The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.

Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!

Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player: Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharptech.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Dithering ( https://dithering.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.dithering.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp China ( https://sharpchina.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharpchina.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Greatest Of All Talk ( https://goat.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgoat.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Subscription Information

Member: Omar Zoheri
Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com
Member since: April 23, 2022
Your subscription renews every year
Renewal date: December 8, 2024

You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery ( https://www.stratechery.com ).

Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/login?email=stratecheryUSC%40khamel.com ) to view your account and manage your subscriptions.
Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/unsubscribe?unsub=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.passport.online%2Fapi%2F1.0.0%2Fusers%2FRseuYE8jgHePpWJf1fAb4C%2FchannelOptOut%3Faccess_token%3DeyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.lcmWwWs-6bQuP1SkH1tcDbUJsFBLbikYXv60h8wZNL-DizY_GPAIKvlrrhfaf5jwS8D3w3evlqHFVWxclncKkhKHEDtISeX7tK6OVqSGxqcIc2hkkFjDjPesR5cYvWllHYOf9GTv0MJyBxUdEPS-D4aPU6_0j63oL88wfoP6AYJMwbu4KDTHQvCOdi83IqtnBKGSqSVyWpRkzIf2rSZR8G3knHd7BeiM38aPCpjPWlpAmFcH_gLWXIpE6Dm-TwLYgUi3GqOQ6MEvUnNd5JYaKD1a8HyqAtEOF0MZsRUF4ob0nIvBV-VkWJcvEGkqx_zB95SqjJL5Sw0pP2gIeGTqZQ%26channel%3Demail%26redirect_uri%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fstratechery.passport.online%252Fmember%252Funsubscribe ) to unsubscribe.

© 2024 Stratechery LLC ( https://www.stratechery.com ) , 2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703