# BABA Black Sheep

**From:** Not Boring <notboring@substack.com>
**Date:** Mon, 11 Jan 2021 13:55:41 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/BABA Black Sheep_Mon,_11_Jan_2021_13-55-41_+0000_176f1bd12f7a517e.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:06.888096

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkEtuxCAQRE8z7MaiwXg8CxbZ5BqIT4-NbIPDJ5FvH2JLiYKgW6LUXapndcEppkPuMRfyU1Q5dpQBv_KKpWAiNWNS3kkY2MhF_yRO9g5GMRKf1SshbtqvsqSKZK9m9VYXH8M5QSkTZJZmsAMIYV_OgAXTG8vYAGjxYakdnbl8dXUeg0WJn5iOGJCsci5lzzf-dmPv7YZYTEw-TF2uJhdtl87GrQl7e0YbfTdr-7znGXEnXjLKgEI7XIgeOug-DoFLfYW03Hq6TezfHpLkr0GTl1lvuJ5Ci6Va32rw5VAYtFnRXYnLBe5koCYMmBpQp3RpuIDyB-c9PAVcCRsSDowKGChpzi62qfBn-g0AJ4ge

Welcome to the 551 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since last Monday! If you aren’t subscribed, join 29,828 smart, curious folks by subscribing here:
🎧 To get this essay straight in your ears: listen on Spotify [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEFvgzAMhX8NOaKEEAqHHDpt3aZtmtTu0l1QSEyJgIQmoS3_fmk5zLL8JD9ZT_6kCHCybuGT9QHdRx2WCbiBqx8gBHBo9uBqrTgpspKyvEKK54qUrETa160DGIUeeHAzoGluBi1F0NY8LjDOGOp4ITAjgNWmbUsGlaw2mSSiBdmWeVMW-ZorZqXBSOBwAbdYA2jgXQiTT-g2yXax7QQm9ZMNul1Sace48p29Ril6cvx8unzv91-L9R8LvZHb-5DQndcJfa5_N6MCef45HI7u2r3B7fr6skWaZzgjmMSijOUkJel5YdDPrXF9kuPxlKV-bnwQsr_HIceNDY112pyi3XdihOFhxL_rqONsdFhqMKIZQK1Iwkr2Aak-gQEXiatahMiTYLqhNCcVIyuCyIySLMIqMIrJysYr8x_6BzvOklM] (in about 30 minutes).
This week’s Not Boring is brought to you by…
ExitUp [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkEtuxCAQRE8zLC0-xp8Fi2xyDYSh7UG2wQNNEt8-jL2IghAtUSpVv7IGYYnpVEfMSN6PxvMAFeA7b4AIiZQMSXunWMcHIduRONU6NsiB-KznBLAbvylMBchRps1bgz6Gy0Epl-SpQMxC9BPtWE8l6yw3HQU3jrwfrKFsvHNNcR6CBQVfkM4YgGzqiXjkh_h48M964cdjOZpcpozGro2Ne_0lXnHKGWX1CClb1rDmdUpYyxzS-mjpvvB_HpJUiDjF5MNS5fVpdtguoe6v69xL8HhqCGbawN1oeDd0weoFAqTanNMGay-Mil6Ilo2S3SiVXTD-ZqWkJrtYXeEv9BdqoX57] is a weekly newsletter that delivers a curated list of fresh job openings across PE, VC, strategy/biz ops, finance, marketing, and product management right to your inbox. You'll also get useful insights to help you navigate your job search so that when the time comes, you'll be ready to nail the interview.
Just this week, ExitUp featured dream jobs at WorkLife Ventures, Twitter, Niantic, Impossible Foods, and more. Go put what you read about in Not Boring to work.
Subscribe for free today, and find your exit opportunity with ExitUp.
BABA Black Sheep
We Don’t Know (Where) Jack (Is)
I can’t stop buying Chinese tech conglomerates. 
After writing about Tencent in August (here [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkEtuxCAQRE8z7MbiYzzOgkU2uQbC0LaRMTjQJPLtw4ylREF8FqXq4pU1CEvKpzpSQfK8NJ4HqAjfJQAiZFILZO2dYgMfhezfiFO9Y6MciS96zgC78UFhrkCOOgVvDfoUXw5KuSSrAtkLPgMfmYHHxKid58GyYbB0MuZh6ZVrqvMQLSj4gnymCCSoFfEoN_F-4x9tx4RTyj4uXalTQWO3zqa9CUc7-PRGvOMK9xrQ743snioW7xqEV5xyRllbQsqedaz7PCVsdY55u_V0X_i_oSSr37Qmb6vZIbyExqjbu9fo8dQQzRTAXfh4tfgqRC8QIbc_OG2wdceoeAjRszfJLtzWj2CcSjZQ0pJdaq74F_oDf-CNWg] and here [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUMtuxCAQ-5rl1ggC7OPAoZf-BoIwyaIkkMLQKn_f2URqVTTAwWNb9uAQplx2s-WK7PVY3DcwCb7rAohQWKtQbAxGXPu71OrBglFB3PWdxWrHArC6uBgsDdjW_BIHhzGng8F5r9nTAO8FiOE68lvQzget4OG9U3IMpEkrh69rIUIawMAXlD0nYIt5Im71It8v_QdNyuhziWnqavMV3TB3Q14J2Ojii5uwvoUCbq0smp5suaAjtVaiE93nrmFuYyrzRfF16v_JsGJ-9Qmen26F5QAolaV_bSnibiE5v0A4A-PZ21GBnSBBoT6DdUhtCS5vUirx0OIMSI1I0XMtrpyRc8jESn-mPz-Fh7M]), I’ve slowly built it into my second largest holding. Every time it drops on news that the US or Chinese government said or did something, I buy. 
Now, its main rival, Alibaba, is embroiled in a situation so wild that if it happened in the US, to Jeff Bezos or Elon Musk, it’s all we’d be talking about. Its stock is down 25% from October highs. My mouth is starting to water.
In case you missed it, here’s what went down:
On October 24th, days away from the IPO of his fintech giant Ant Group, Alibaba founder and ex-CEO and Chairman, Jack Ma told an audience of China’s financitariat: 
Banks today still hold a pawnshop mentality…. It is impossible for the pawnshop mentality to support the financial demand of global development over the next 30 years. We must leverage our technological capabilities today and build a credit system based on big data, to get rid of the pawnshop mentality.
We can’t use yesterday’s methods to regulate the future.
To western ears, those sound like the boastful and ultimately harmless words of a passionate entrepreneur. But in China, where the Chinese Communist Party (“CCP”) has long run the banking system and doesn’t take kindly to challenges, those were fighting words. And in China, the CCP doesn’t lose fights. 
Jack’s remarks set off a chain of events that derailed Ant Group’s planned November 5th $37 billion IPO, which would have valued the Alibaba spin-off, of which the company still owns 33%, north of $300 billion. 
November 2nd: China’s central bank and securities regulators called Jack and two Ant Group executives to a meeting [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcluwyAQhp_G3GyxGMc5cKhU9TUsDBOHhsWFoZbfvjSpVDQChln-0YfRCFvKp9pTQfK7LXjuoCIcxQMiZFIL5MVZxSY-CzleiVWjZbOciSvLLQME7bzCXIHsdfXOaHQpPiso5ZLc1YVPIIBOVN7m1QhrBZ3NlfPVCj1yfnnp6modRAMKviGfKQLx6o64l068dfyj2XEcw1E-B5NC83RGZzyUdjV3F6FAn2GrXmPKpS81hBR7HbH3oC20Jx2cbSkmZdu7PfWMTXQU_CLo1ImPkGwn3v-aLi761pI4xSlnlLUlpBzZwIavU8Kj3mJ-dCMNGx9KXQtq8_gdi2QVE64pu7i18OOuA_hnoKFZ2hlqdHguEPXqwb6o4Qv-k-OyQYTcPsUuGhtyRsVFiJFdJXtRalgF41S22UlTtqlVxX_RH14RnqU]. 
On the same day, regulators announced that they were considering regulating Ant’s lending arm, its main growth engine, more like a bank and less like a tech company.
November 3rd: the Shanghai and Hong Kong Stock Exchanges suspended the offerings [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuOgzAMRb-m2RXFeZUuspjN_AYKiaERkDDBDOLvJy2LsSw_ZFlX93hHOOZy2jVvxN6lo3NFm_DYZiTCwvYNSxeDBSNaqdWTBasCtLplceuGgri4OFsqO7J17-foHcWcPh-cC81eFtB4wXvnVS9VPyjVPhQ8PRfmyQ08zKXr9hAxebT4i-XMCdlsX0TrdpNfN_Fd8ziOZqDG56UuPifCRO8JELkM6j4IgXelQd3doMxdDK0S0plakUUruAAONaTWChpofk6N0z6kMt0UX0bRbHu_kfPTW4EVmzL1ucQ01vP0cgvOn0M12dW-7CnS2WFy_Yzh8k8Xxg-RbsSEpeINnaMKD7h8SFl9a7j8VkASBNdgOKvKIdev9C_6B_Ebh40] at President Xi Jinping’s command.
December 23rd: Chinese regulators opened an antitrust probe [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEluwzAMRU8T7WJosJpkoUU3vYahgbFVy7IrUTV8-zLxogJBEiI-Pvm8RRjXcphtrcheacBjA5NhrwkQobBWoQwxGPEh70r3DxZMH8Rd31msw7MALDYmg6UB25pL0VuMa34rOJeaTYY_wD35zfvQe2G98NB77Z3lulc3LfTpa1uIkD0Y-IVyrBlYMhPiVi_q8yK_KPZ97_KBcYHa-XWhH8klpyLkq1eUXKsxQ63U2hSddfZqM0baruL12_r5uthuwiWxaEgsuKCntO5FJ7qfQ8PcnrnMl54vo-xqcxVJ9HJjxeQV3VpiHmk8T3aB9B7Q1QPVpeWIxwDZugThBIIn1zeiYYQMhXiHwSLRFFzdlOrFQ4sTABFTQnItPjgj57CSKv-b_gFRQZDg] into whether Alibaba had engaged in monopolistic practices. Alibaba’s stock (BABA) tumbled 13%. 
December 27th: Regulators told Ant to return to its payments roots and come up with a plan to pare down its lending, insurance, and wealth management business.
And as of today, 79 days after that explosive speech, no one has seen China’s third-richest man in public. Jack Ma is missing. 
He’s actually in this picture if you want to play. 
Rumors have flown around the internet in recent days as to Jack’s whereabouts. For a minute, people feared he might be in jail or dead. Then sources close to Jack said [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcvO4yAMhZ-m7IiAQC8LFv9mXiPi4jZMuXTAmShvP267GIRsw5F90EdwCI_WD_tqA9k7LHi8wFbYRwZE6Gwb0JcUrTyr62z0jUWro7yaK0tjuXeA4lK22Ddgr83nFBymVj8dQijDVitluABEpfxFB6mEPoubcvomhJylvl6-vm6LCWoAC3-hH60Cy3ZFfI3T_HNSv2jv-z6F6sMUWqGjEkpSEp9gKLicvPOO39tWI3T-24UnL46nwbM7Un3w3HZSO8cVOKYC3MP7ujbkJY1B9bRiySzZ93Ahac3GaDnJ6c9h4Lnda3-etCgPNY3NDySH92tYtzTDt04TSH6urkD-CIRkoVy2mvBYoDqfIX5p4Rf6h9_ygAqdPiMuDgm1FPNlnrW8GfmlQzhnQmfkWTByjo266n_Tf37ZmbY] he was just “laying low.” A video of a Jack doppelganger went viral [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM9uwyAMxp8mHCP-Ns2Bw6Spl132BhEJboqSQAZmVd5-bnMYQhjLsr_Pv8khzCkfdk8F2esZ8NjBRniWFRAhs1ogD8FbcZFXZXTPvNVeXM2VhTLcM8DmwmoxV2B7HdcwOQwpvjs4l4Y9rOYd-AsIN4keuvvIRydMb5Q0II32cOq66gPECSz8Qj5SBLbaB-JeGvXRyBtdfIaXo3ZKG2Xfobj65bJDSgo6rIU-QumOk9FOd2SYd4LrRt1oxqfkLFjJpeCCjjJGi1a0P4eBpd5jXhrNt1m2pY40bFpeKizbmHBMOcSZysvDbbC-C7TpQHGrMeAxQHTjCv6EgCfLN5ZhhgjkEPzgkAgKrjqltOiNOJcmSkpIbsSFM1L2ibriv-gfe6aJ1Q], saying that he’d been found repairing an AC unit.  
Pardon my Mandarin, but this is fucking crazy. The founder and CEO of the world’s largest eCommerce business by Gross Merchandise Volume (GMV) and one of China’s Big Three just… disappeared. 
In China, Alibaba is like Amazon, Google, DoorDash, YouTube, Slack, Square, and Farfetch all rolled into one, plus some. Most people in the west still know Alibaba for its original and eponymous Alibaba.com, the B2B marketplace where wholesalers can find 1,000 ballpoint pens for $0.10 each. Chances are, when you buy something on Amazon, that product started on Alibaba, which has quietly powered the drop-shipping and third-party seller economy by letting anyone buy from foreign manufacturers and ship to the world. 
But the legacy business makes up less than 5% of the company’s total revenue today. Its main sites, domestic B2C marketplaces Taobao and Tmall, are so massive that on 2020’s Singles’ Day, China’s version Black Friday/Cyber Monday, it did 7x the GMV that Amazon did on Prime Day. If a western brand wants to sell to China’s 1 billion+ consumers, it needs to go through Tmall. 
Like Tencent, Alibaba has its hand in everything, often because if foreign businesses want to do business in China, they need to go through one of its two biggest companies. In recent years, Alibaba has expanded beyond eCommerce. It owns, among other things: 
Youku: the Chinese version of YouTube and Hulu rolled into one. 
Alibaba Pictures: a film production studio and investor that financed two Mission: Impossible movies, Fallout and Rogue Nation.
Startup Investments: Alibaba still owns 2.3% of Lyft, and even invested in Quibi 🙈
DingTalk: The Chinese equivalent of Slack [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkU2OhCAQhU_T7DT8iNoLFrOZaxiEUokIDhRjvP3Q3YshFXhFpXiVD6MR1phudcaM5LVNeJ-gAlzZAyIkUjKkyVnFej4K2T2JVZ1loxyJy9OSAA7tvMJUgJxl9s5odDG8OyjlkmyqAzoYy4eF97N4diO18tmDnUe28EXI4eOri3UQDCj4hXTHAMSrDfHMD_H14N81rutqsznO1sSjpnrWpuQqTPFYEryuEjrjX0rQsR-GsSrrwora743ZXNC50SFfkJrstdlrYpuMZVmauCzOQBPcuuGhE2TiFKecUVaXkLJjLWt_bgl7WULaHx09Vt7mMmesD71GIkmFiHNM1bCW900f4N-FymWq51GCw3uCoGcP9oMMP-TfEKcVAqT6I3bSWHkzKgYhOvaU7IOoMhWMU8l6SqqzjbUr_Jv-AVganeA].
Cainiao: a logistics platform with ambitions [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEFuhDAMRU8z2YESIBQWWXTTayAnMWANJDQxrbh9M8OilmVbsr--_BwwLjFd5oiZxatMfB1oAv7mDZkxiTNjmsgb1TdDq7tReNN5NehBUJ7mhLgDbYbTieI47UYOmGJ4K6RstFhN77pejyXnUQ4IOA9-8HZQILW2aP3tC6cnDA4N_mC6YkCxmZX5yI_289F8lWTasXZxL6MeVac-2jI5oEAQqy0ulInJ5Qo2smChcisFqDiBx3IoyDSyUVKVaLXuVK3q70vj85xDej46uS9NnU-bGdzzZSOSCZFtTBSWsn6usOP2XpQ_p9L3MxBfEwawG_obAd8k31CmBQOmQthPwIWfku1H23Zq1Op-uTBqVSO16qUozj4WVfg3_QOZsoxB] to sit at the center of the world’s logistics.
Ant Group: a 33% stake in China’s biggest fintech company. 
Jack Ma and Alibaba have arguably done more than any single company to grow the Chinese middle class and improve the quality of life for the average Chinese person. But since Jack (characteristically) opened his mouth in October, Alibaba is a black sheep. 
Look, I have no idea where Jack is or when he might come back. I have no idea what the government is going to do with Ant Group or whether it is going to break up Alibaba. But it doesn’t seem like anyone else does, either. As a result, this is what BABA’s stock chart looks like since October 24th. 
After trading in line with other Chinese internet stocks throughout the year, BABA tanked in November after the government pulled the Ant IPO. It kept dropping as the government announced an antitrust probe, as the US signaled it might include Alibaba on a list of banned companies, and, of course, as people realized Ma went MiA. 
BABA is down 25.5% from its October 27th high of $317. It’s lost $219 billion, or an entire Pinduoduo, in market cap. In a matter of months, it’s become the tech megacap equivalent of a deep value stock. 
As it stands, the world’s tenth largest company by market cap is either mouthwateringly cheap or wildly risky. I don’t know which it is -- prognosticating on the actions of the CCP is above my pay grade -- and nor does anyone else. But it’s going to create an opportunity either way, and we need to be prepared. So today, we’re going to learn about Alibaba. 
The Story of Magic Jack and Alibaba
The Strategic Tao of Jack
What is Alibaba Today?
Alibaba vs. Amazon
Ant IPO Debacle.
Investing in China
What to Do About BABA
When I wrote about Tencent [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUMtuxCAQ-5rl1ggC7OPAoZf-BoIwyaIkkMLQKn_f2URqVTTAwWNb9uAQplx2s-WK7PVY3DcwCb7rAohQWKtQbAxGXPu71OrBglFB3PWdxWrHArC6uBgsDdjW_BIHhzGng8F5r9nTAO8FiOE68lvQzget4OG9U3IMpEkrh69rIUIawMAXlD0nYIt5Im71It8v_QdNyuhziWnqavMV3TB3Q14J2Ojii5uwvoUCbq0smp5suaAjtVaiE93nrmFuYyrzRfF16v_JsGJ-9Qmen26F5QAolaV_bSnibiE5v0A4A-PZ21GBnSBBoT6DdUhtCS5vUirx0OIMSI1I0XMtrpyRc8jESn-mPz-Fh7M] in August, I wrote that “Tencent is the most important company that many Americans know the least about.” Alibaba’s story is more well-known, partially for the same reason that the company is in trouble right now: unlike Tencent’s Pony Ma, Jack Ma speaks English, and he’s never been shy to wield his words. 
The Story of Magic Jack and Alibaba 
Note: I’ve used Porter Erisman’s documentary Crocodile in the Yangtze [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFULtuxCAQ_BpTWmDAj4IiUXRFikRJkdbCsGcj2-Dg5Sz_fbi7IqvVrrSj2dGM0QhjiKfawo7kPno8N1Aejn0BRIgk7RB7ZxWrq5ZL0RGrhGWtbInb-2sEWLVbFMYEZEvD4oxGF_yDQWklyaQa3rGad7rTpgYrB061bjXvpBG1aK7DU1cn68AbUHCDeAYPZFET4rYX_KWoLrmP4yjPkDANUJqw3i8azVTwy63gb9_zz_vH51fz2gjiVEUrRlkuLqVgJSt_Twlzuvo4F4KuY1XuadhRm_n-ikTlAw4hOj9meJ70CssDyJb6vNfkHZ49eD0sYJ9u8Rnaw38_goeYw7S9xhwVo7zhXLBOsqe7HAdnFZWspiQr25BZ_l_0D-_7hIA], Duncan Clark’s book Alibaba: The House That Jack Ma Built [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMFuhCAQQL9GjoYBsXjgsE2z5z20Z4MwukQFi1hjv76sHkrIEGBmXuYZnXAI8VBLWBN5hTYdCyqP-zphShjJtmJsnVVQM8lF1RCrKgtSSOLWto-Is3aTSnFDsmzd5IxOLvizglImyFPVjbam4U0NYLDH2khpmp7WUhshANnF1Zt16A0q_MF4BI9kUs-UlrXgt4Ld8973vdSz_g2-NGHOD3bJ4Z0Cqx4Pfjuz-L3NTYJ1fij4x9fnXRas7tIY8w2IU4wyoJAXF6KCEsrvQ-C49T6ORUXngZXr1q1Jm_HFIFH5kLoQX-0qOj71jNP5kUdt8zlv3qUjI3U3ob0spEvm6aUd0GPMkm2rU1YIlL9xXkEj4Jo6a-LAqICakky2IVf5f-gfVQ-KwA], and the Acquired podcast on Alibaba [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtqxDAMRb8mXgY_4jwWXrQMM7SUvii0u-DEcmKS2KntzJC_r2dmUSEkIXG56PQywuD8LlYXIrqWNu4rCAuXMEOM4NEWwLdGCVLSmvGiQUoUitS8Ria02gMs0swi-g3QunWz6WU0zt4UGFOORkHqEvOaqRoa3JelbkjFCa3qBhguFMDdV27KgO1BwBn87iygWYwxriFjDxk9pnQr2DysLhq9571b0gpWE5yCNOHHrtRv9IvrD_pcnHQz66dLlbFjMBk7mJf-9fB-_vmMp4eKfxMYFzYNyAiKKcEkBeO8IDnJf3cO06atn7ICLwPNw9aFKPvp6oi8sC52zhs7pPM0ygXm2yG93qa-bNbEvQUruxnUnUq8w71xagew4BN01cqYkBLMKsYK0nByp5CwMUIxJyVGyVm5pLL_pn9IzpCd] to piece together Alibaba’s history. 
Jack Ma and Alibaba created eCommerce in China, the largest market in the world, from nothing, against all odds. He succeeded through surprisingly good luck, a tireless work ethic, and what author Duncan Clark called “a unique Chinese combination of blarney and chutzpah... ‘Jack Magic.’” 
Jack Ma was born Ma Yun in Hangzhou, China in 1964, just two years before Mao Zedong’s Cultural Revolution. The Cultural Revolution was a movement to “preserve Chinese Communism by purging remnants of capitalist and traditional elements from Chinese society.” That seems like bad timing for a future entrepreneur to be born. But two things happened early in Jack’s life that set him down the path towards international business.  
First, when Jack was eight, Richard Nixon visited China in an effort to open the Communist country up to the world. On the trip, Nixon visited Jack’s home city with camera crews in tow, showing off its beauty and attracting western tourists to what was then a Tier 2 city. 
Jack fell in love with English. Every day, for nine years, he biked to the hotel at which Nixon had stayed, the Shangri-La Hotel Hangzhou, to chat up tourists and offer them tours of the city in order to better learn the language. 
It worked. While he was so bad at math that he failed the college entrance exams twice, he finally passed on the third try with scores good enough to get into the mediocre Hangzhou Teachers College. Upon graduating, and after famously being the only person of twenty-four applicants not hired to work at a new KFC in town, he secured a job as an English teacher making $12 per hour. 
Second, in 1978, when Jack was fourteen, President Deng Xiaoping brought about a series of market-based economic reforms in China that not only legalized, but encouraged, entrepreneurship. Recall that Pony Ma also benefited from Xiaoping’s policies: he grew up in Shenzhen, a special economic zone established as part of the new “reform and opening policy.” 
Those two things combined to put Jack in a surprisingly fortuitous position: an entrepreneurially-minded English speaker coming of age at a time when China began encouraging entrepreneurship and opened up to the west. 
Jack took advantage of his good fortune, but it took him a little while to find his footing in business. In 1994, fulfilling a promise to himself to start a company before turning 30, Jack started the Hangzhou Hope Translation Agency. The Agency was only moderately successful, but through it, nearby Tonglu County found Jack and enlisted him to go to the States to resolve a highway deal gone bad. 
There are various accounts of what happened in America, and it’s one of very few subjects about which Jack isn’t willing to talk, but the gist is this: 
The American business partner turned out to be a con man, and he held Jack hostage, either in a mansion in Malibu [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkMFyhCAMhp9muemAyLp74NBLX8NBiMqIwUJox7cvux46ZQIc_iR_8llDsMR06iNmYq9npPMAjfCTAxBBYiVDGr3T4t49pOqfzOneiYd6MJ_HOQHsxgdNqQA7yhS8NeQjvis47xRbNfTTzKWU4O7SDcIM1trBCTdMrh-MtZevKc4DWtDwDemMCCzolejIN_lx6z5r0AoLICQTfKY2lymTsVtr417Fo16D1CwplqMxzezRoPUmNB5nqJmvqZjXHe8EF_VIpXrRivbrVLCVGdN26_m-dP8as6Qx0hSTx6XK22p2CG-h7jrWfy_o6RwBzRTAXRjoovkGM14TE7jRUGUouByk7MVTiWvtykmKjitx56w6u1ir8M_0F4pukKE] or a penthouse in Las Vegas, to keep him quiet. 
Somehow, Jack escaped. 
He made it to Seattle, where he stayed with a friend who worked at an internet company. 
That friend showed Jack the internet for the first time. 
Jack looked up “beer,” and found American beer, and German beer, but no Chinese beer… no Chinese anything for that matter. 
Jack asked his friend to set up a website for the Hope Translation Agency. 
Within two hours, he got five inbound requests: three from the US, one from China, and one from Japan. 
He was hooked on the internet, and went home resolved to start an internet business. 
When Jack got back to Hangzhou, he set up China Pages, which built and listed sites for Chinese businesses. Thanks to the Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkMGOhCAMhp9mOBoK4owHDnvZ1zAIVYkKLuAY337reNgsaUryN1__9Lem4BjTqbeYC7taV84NdcAjL1gKJrZnTJ13GhrxkqpumdO1g5d6MZ-7ISGuxi-6pB3ZtveLt6b4GD4E50KxScMgOB96sMJZixwsb8zwRNpnYLBtc_ua3XkMFjW-MZ0xIFv0VMr2kF8P8U11YF-ZZCf_xiqm8VaoQ9s-uQAqSStJ-E8dR0VMMJsZMVc2riQyr8WFAD2pVA0VVD-nwnkfQpofNV9HUeW9z8XY-WJY0iGWPiYfRhrPk1lx-Qzo5o7-dQ--nB0G0y_o7jjKneonoG7EgInSdp0plCVw-ZSyhlbBfT7lJUFwBQ1n5OwiUeHP9BdAu43Q], the site has been preserved for posterity: 
ChinaPages caught the attention of a state-sponsored communications company, which threatened to “compete” it out of business, and then bought a controlling stake for $140k. Jack lost control, left, and took a job working for the government. 
While the government job was painfully slow and boring for a restless entrepreneur like Jack, two things happened there that played a role in Alibaba’s development and trajectory: 
ChinaMarket. Jack and a team he recruited from ChinaPages built ChinaMarket.com.cn, a government run B2B message board which let users post supply or demand requests and enter into “confidential business negotiations in encrypted Business ChatRooms.” 
Jerry Yang. When Yahoo! founder Jerry Yang came to China in late 1997, the government needed someone who worked for the government, understood the internet, and spoke English to tour him around. Jack Ma was the perfect fit. 
ChinaMarket was dragged down by bureaucracy -- each submission had to go through layers of government approval -- but it gave Jack the seed of an idea. He quit and left Beijing for Hangzhou. In early 1999, just as the internet bubble was picking up steam, Jack and seventeen co-founders (!!) created Alibaba.com. Alibaba, so named because it would “Open Sesame” China to foreign buyers, built a site that allowed small Chinese manufacturers to tell buyers around the world that they were open for business. 
That February, he called a meeting in his Lakeside Gardens apartment with the full team. Ever-confident, he had the meeting filmed, giving us a glimpse into Jack’s prescience and early leadership: 
In May, Jack met Joe Tsai (if you’re an NBA fan, that name should sound familiar: he owns the Brooklyn Nets), and convinced him (and his wife) to leave his $700k per year private equity job in Hong Kong to come join his ragtag crew in Hangzhou. Joe immediately got to work trying to raise money for the business. 
He set Alibaba up as a Variable Interest Entity in the Cayman Islands, which would allow it to take money from foreign investors, and organized a trip for the two to Silicon Valley. The trip was unsuccessful, but right around that time, China.com IPO’d at a $1 billion valuation, and the China rush was on. 
When they got home, Joe called up an old friend, Shirley Lin, who was leading Goldman’s tech investments in Asia. They negotiated a deal for Goldman to acquire a majority stake in Alibaba for $5 million. Jack pushed back at a 50/50 split, and Lin agreed, but the Goldman investment committee decided it didn’t want all that risk 🤦🏻‍♂️. Goldman kept 33% and syndicated out 17% to GGV, Venture TDF, Fidelity Growth Partners, Investor AB (Joe’s old employer), and Transpac. 
(Goldman would sell its stake in 2004, after Lin left the company, for $22 million. The 6x return isn’t bad, until you calculate that 33% of Alibaba is worth $210 billion today! 🤦🏻‍♂️ The lesson: never sell!)
Money in the bank, Alibaba got back to building, signing up more than forty thousand users by the end of the year largely by keeping the site free. At the time, the site was little more than a directory and message board, as captured by the Wayback Machine: 
The fight for talent in a hot China tech market was fierce, but Alibaba had an advantage: Hangzhou. Being in a Tier 2 city gave Alibaba access to cheap talent with few other options and cheap real estate (they signed a 200k sf office lease for $80k per year, or $0.40/sf, in 2000). In a bit of foreshadowing, Jack highlighted another benefit: 
Even though the infrastructure is not as good as in Shanghai, it’s better to be as far away from the central government as possible.
Money became even less of an issue for Alibaba just a couple of months later, when, in January 2000, SoftBank led a $20 million investment [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uxCAMhU8zLCN-k7Bg0Vn0Aj1ABMGToUkgBadRbl9msqhlGYNlnt43WoQp5dNsqSB5lQHPDUyEoyyACJnsBfIQvGEt74WSmngjPetVT0IZHhlgtWExmHcg2-6WMFoMKb43KOWKPI3iTmvaQisUFe7hlXDU9mPvGLRcW3rp2t0HiCMY-IV8pghkMU_ErdzEx41_1jyOoznKdzOmtd5sxjAuUGr7ddey55Rr3fZd10nNOkGCqS-MshpCKcka1vycCub9EfN8k3SdeFN2V9CO8-tLkk1M6FIOcarj-WlXWN6Damuo57rHgOcA0boF_OUYL3BvBsMEEXIF6geLFRejohNCMq3Y5bAiEYxTxVpKqrJPdSv-i_4BdrmD4g] for 30% of Alibaba. As I wrote in Masa Madness [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkEluxCAQRU_T7NpiMB4WLLLJNRCYajeyAQeKRL59SFtKFAmoxVfx9N9iENaUT3WkguTn0XgeoCJ8lR0QIZNaIGvvFBv4JGQ_E6d6xyY5EV_0IwME43eFuQI5qt39YtCn-NqglEvyVOIxWmPoxIG7caSMzZxbOcBgxTwZN19cU52HuICCT8hnikB29UQ8yk283fh7OzGhTdnHtSvVFjTL1i0ptOBoN5hi7sG4CKXcxWKJV5xy1miMCSl71rHu45Sw1UfM262nYeX__iFZ_QJavD1NgP0VtFq6zVCjx1NDNHYHdzXGS9zLgV4hQm5CnTbYdDEqRiF6Nkt2NWxKBONUsoGSRnapbcU_6DfUX4b_], Masayoshi Son led the deal himself after listening to Jack speak for just five minutes. At the time, Jack said, “We didn't talk about revenues; we didn't even talk about a business model. We just talked about a shared vision. Both of us make quick decisions.”
Reflecting back at Alibaba’s 2014 IPO, the notoriously eccentric Son said, “It was the look in his eye, it was an ‘animal smell.’ … I invested based on my sense of smell.” His nose was on point: when Alibaba IPO’d, the investment was worth $60 billion, a 3,000x return. That investment is responsible for SoftBank’s Vision Fund, fwiw. 
The cash came in just as the dot com bubble was about to burst, and allowed Alibaba to keep building. It surpassed 300,000 members in the summer of 2000. In July, Forbes made Jack the first Chinese business person on the cover in fifty years, and in August, The Economist profiled Jack in a piece called The Jack Who Would Be King [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uhDAMhU8z2YHyAymzyKKbXgMFYiAFEpo4Rdy-nmFRy7ItW09P_kaLMMd0mSNmZK_S43WACXDmDRAhsZIh9d4ZoWWn2ubJnGmc6NqO-dxPCWC3fjOYCrCjDJsfLfoY3grOZcsWo7W0chpdJ7nSHTxBW861bpxU04dw-va1xXkIIxj4hXTFAGwzC-KRH-rzIb8oz_OsYYwh7j5jPcaddkPJPkDONErOOTXeveaGCi5Qfdtxrc4lVmcsm6sGqFYfZuaN5FJwQaHathG1qH-uFtYyhbQ-Gr7Pss5lyEjylxNLJkQcYiIxndfF7rC9D_RzT30vwePVQ7DDBu7GgTfVN6B-hgCJaLveIrEUXH0o1YhnK-73iZcSkrdCc0bOLpIq_Jv-AQXDjv0].
Despite member growth and press, though, Alibaba wasn’t making any money. It was becoming bloated, with engineering offices in Silicon Valley. So Jack brought in a former GE exec, Savio Kwan, who killed the US office and figured out how to start making money. 
Since the Chinese market was so nascent, the Alibaba team realized it couldn’t just copy the US business model of charging businesses to list and taking a cut of transactions. Instead, Alibaba gave away the product and transactions for free and charged sellers for better placement. It worked. 
For the first time, in early 2002, Alibaba turned a profit. Just when things were looking up, though, Alibaba would face two of its biggest challenges yet.
To learn about Jack’s strategic chops, Alibaba’s Businesses, how it compares to Amazon, the Ant Group fiasco, investing in China, and what to do about BABA:
Important Note: This is not investment advice. I am not a registered investment adviser. Everything in this essay is for learning and laughs only. I have a small position in BABA that I put on in the course of this research.
Thanks to Dan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEGOhCAQRU_T7NpQIt26YDGbuYZBKG2iFg7CGG8_1e1igBSEn6qf_5zNOMV0mi3uWbxLn88NDeGxL5gzJlF2TH3wBh51q3TTCW8aD61uRdj7MSGuNiwmp4JiK8MSnM0h0qdDylqLl_GAnXUAahxHObbIu_OjU0rKQbetvXxt8QHJocFfTGckFIt55bztN_V1q7_5HMdRLYFm9IEqF1f-CsTFW7qvzsW0Bjffu0cH8AQJrIhgalnzm5fSuoEKqp9T41xGSvOtketUV3sZ9mzd_B4pkqGYh5gCTSzPL7vi8hE4W8_3Wijks0eyw4L-ip0veh8Q_YSEian63mZmBlI9lWqg03DFZC4KaqnhIQU7-8hd9G_6B-hOh4U] for editing, and to Dev helping me type it up.
We’ll be back on Wednesday, a Not Boring first. Keep your eyes peeled!
Thanks for reading,
Packy

Unsubscribe https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUl1v2yAU_TX2Y8SHSeIHP3R13DobzaSlaZoXCwNJqG3wADe1f_1IIm0aQnB1z733oHPgzMuTsWPWG-fj61H5sZeZlhfXSu-ljQcnbaVEBudoiUmSxiJLBFySZaxcdbRSdky1mbeDjPuhbhVnXhl96wAAkficYYhTLgiHbAFgnZB6uQBcwOMyQYSlkNx52SCU1Fxm8lPa0WgZt9nZ-95F-CFCRdja-NpYpU8zN9TOM97MuOkCwPiVMgRCOVa3srq9KcJFbwRnzkc4j9Dcm0bqEMpxDTnajXvUNuWH-Xr5KBM6vYLNr4viT-kkirQ_PJZzOq1Gmr8G_MGVXXsW19z2_YvmFNOJAhrq2f5lCjMUf96pH9vVheYlLFWYg3fqmj88tdP729oddmlbvxV9_bhOZ4nmPw_oOe2rov9-IVqcVmTzjVi2dTT_NElO95sh5fZsmlhlCCAIYFiYkATO4Oz3SGQzHLVtogR0J_SfGrHN_soU4ObMOtnegGBOFe5u0MqPldRXocTdN3-3_6ZadZJa2vAtRMV8MB0CvMA4gSmBd5-CsRgiQOAcxIFZmNCl_5H-AYM-ymE