# Beacons: Not Boring Memo

**From:** Not Boring <notboring@substack.com>
**Date:** Thu, 25 Feb 2021 13:55:04 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/Beacons Not Boring Memo_Thu,_25_Feb_2021_13-55-04_+0000_177d979e3a3002a6.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:07.765856

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEuOwyAQRE8TdrH42mTBIpu5hsWn7aDYYAEey7efnliaQQ0tdalV1PO2wZzLabZcG_l9xnZuYBIcdYHWoJC9QhljMKznWij5IMHIwLTSJNZxKgCrjYtpZQey7W6J3raY02eDUq7Iy0x9kM5N0jvLtKAD9IPSeAYxCEmpunztHiIkDwa-oZw5AVnMq7Wt3sTzxr-wjuPoUm4ul5jmzmccbXgdWJ9TvaN0v7T7Cmsm0XDKGeVcMfy34h3rOFM8sKG3qgcamHgEZhWmElRPftL-Juk6867urjbr3-ixkmL-PFF-v-wKy0fAtCP2dU-xnSMk6xYIF4h28fygGWdIUJBzGG1Dikzyngkq5aCv4EhK8AeOOCXoHDJupX_TH-0Ri5w

Welcome to the 1,176 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since last Thursday! If you aren’t subscribed, join 34,947 smart, curious folks by subscribing here:
🎧 To get this investment memo in your ears: listen on Spotify [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcFKxDAQhp-mOZZM0rTpIQcXEURFWPGgl5Jtpm3cNilJqtu3N-4ehGEGZhj-f77pdcLRh12tPibyl7q0r6gc_sQZU8JAtoihs0ZBzSQXVUuMqgxIIYmN3RAQF21nlcKGZN1Os-11st5dNyhlgkxKswaMaTUdKNRSojRSVi2jrBVN2zC46erNWHQ9KvzGsHuHZFZTSmss-F3BHnL4FV0ZV5_ssJe9X3IrTv4nl_oMH8-H79fj8WX38WnnF7g8zgV_iLbg9y-HY9fsl_VtWo53n-cvOcL700isyhaAMiYg3yVYCSUDwQw0tRY1UgO8NaBFvppTOfSD7IuKLiMr43aKSffnPxMkKOfTyQfrxjw-T3rB-TrINLpcl83ZtHfo9GlGcwOVbryv6LoRHYb8B9PplClDxWrgtKoaeQOTSXLW5hajJCsbn7fcv-gv4VSU7A] or Apple Podcasts [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uxCAMRk8z7BqB-UmyYNFNrxERcGZQE4iAtMrt65lUGgmBsWU9fc-7hvdcTrvn2tjzmtq5o034W1dsDQs7KpYpBisMDFKrkQWrghj0wGKdloK4ubjaVg5k-zGv0bsWc3ptcA6aPSyIWSunRmUM9CZwM_Yzn_3IR4liAbi47ggRk0eLP1jOnJCt9tHaXm_y8wZfdPYcvKutdm7fV-x83qh51PeEqpTbx5xLTHf6xCA09ArEKAWLFjgIDqAFxdDQiQ5oHERvnDbIg5BjEE5TSMmHxS-Dvym-3aGrx1yb899PIiuWEP8Exb8fbsP1NaDwE73bkWI7J0xuXjFcXtql92VqumPCQtrD5BpJFQqMkFypfrg8kDgJI7WAMyKHTFvpDf0DjFqOlA].
Today’s Not Boring is brought to you by… Amplitude [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkdGK5CAQRb8mvnXQSkzSDz4MDPO8fxCMVtIyUYOWO-Tvx-4MOyyIQl2K473XaMItplMdMRN7XjOdB6qAX3lHIkysZEyzs0oMMHWyvzOreismOTGX5zUheu12RakgO8qyO6PJxfDa4Bwke6gVQa89rMaYUZi7XGFBznG0IDo-DePF1cU6DAYV_sV0xoBsVw-iIzfdWwMf9biwxlb7Y3dULLYm-jr8k6Ithm5vQe8nOZNva0y39-K9w7r6UcjPOZZksOneQ6QlJhe2Boan4NG64p_CP78_iqkc7bZQteOHoP8j2IvAnAIOggNIUdOR0IoWhAQrxkHLAbkV3d0KLWt21exq1sk0PfcbtLksmbT5fBphSf3-reefD-1xfwk107m-vgRH54xBLzvaK266WnsVMG8YMNU27aypdiV6GGq6fT9OV7y1jw7udQScVbKNdSv8Qr8B-3azAw]
Amplitude is the leading product analytics software. It uses customer data to help over 40,000 digital teams at companies like Instacart, Microsoft, Adidas, and PayPal build great product experiences for sustainable growth.
Now, I know that all of you are smart, and Amplitude knows that all of you are smart, but you could probably use a bit of a refresher on product analytics, which is why their team wrote Product Analytics for Dummies [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkdGK5CAQRb8mvnXQSkzSDz4MDPO8fxCMVtIyUYOWO-Tvx-4MOyyIQl2K473XaMItplMdMRN7XjOdB6qAX3lHIkysZEyzs0oMMHWyvzOreismOTGX5zUheu12RakgO8qyO6PJxfDa4Bwke6gVQa89rMaYUZi7XGFBznG0IDo-DePF1cU6DAYV_sV0xoBsVw-iIzfdWwMf9biwxlb7Y3dULLYm-jr8k6Ithm5vQe8nOZNva0y39-K9w7r6UcjPOZZksOneQ6QlJhe2Boan4NG64p_CP78_iqkc7bZQteOHoP8j2IvAnAIOggNIUdOR0IoWhAQrxkHLAbkV3d0KLWt21exq1sk0PfcbtLksmbT5fBphSf3-reefD-1xfwk107m-vgRH54xBLzvaK266WnsVMG8YMNU27aypdiV6GGq6fT9OV7y1jw7udQScVbKNdSv8Qr8B-3azAw]. The free PDF covers everything from the basics -- The Five Parts of Product Analytics -- to leveraging a product-led growth strategy. That concept should be familiar; it’s what Slack used to grow so quickly, and what many other top companies have done since. 
If you work in tech or invest in tech companies, you should have a basic understanding of product analytics. Download Amplitude’s Product Analytics for Dummies to get smarter:
Hi friends 👋 ,
Happy Thursday!
Monday’s essay on the Creator Economy and NFTs, Power to the Person [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEuOhDAMRE9Ddo3yITQsspjNXAOFxEDUkKDEDOL2426kGSkfySW7XM9ZhDnly-ypIHs_A147mAhnWQERMjsK5CF4I1rZKd30zJvGi053LJRhygCbDavBfADbj3ENzmJI8dPBudRsMVOnJ-H6bnJ29JN0blKqfzYKOLSkwe1rDx8gOjDwA_lKEdhqFsS9VOqrkt90zvOsY8Ix5RDn2iUq7e-bTsgPTA9c4LFDLimyYCSXgkupBe2sZS1qKbT04tla3QL3QvVeWE2JFKfFps5VDd9mWZdjLGjdi-ZvLJs_P5Jfi91g_QiUdKB_O2LAa4BoxxX8DQFvlh8swwwRMjH2g0UiKBrZCsWb5tndoYmSkj2VJGfk7BN1xX_TXykAi4E], was one of the most popular Not Boring posts yet. One reason, of course, is that everyone is talking about NFTs right now. The other is that there’s something incredibly appealing about the idea that we, as individuals, have the potential to take our professional destiny into our own hands by participating in the Passion Economy.
Today, I’m thrilled to be sharing an investment memo on a company that I believe is going to have a huge impact on Creators’ ability to not just build audiences, or products, but full, Multi-SKU businesses: Beacons [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtuxCAM_JrlGIGBLDlw6KW_gRxwsqgJREBa5e9LN4dKfsi2RuMZj43WXC575NrYX3HtOsgm-qkbtUaFnZWKi8GKEYzUamLBqiCMNixWtxSiHeNmWzmJHee8RY8t5vRGcA6avew4kyJcUODE0UsYzTLxSUrSCqaeNy-eIVLyZOmbypUTsc2-WjvqQ3484LPHTOhzqgPGPrBogYPgAFr0tzQMYgChIYjniHokHoScgkDdn5bcLH4x_qH4vsJQz7k29F-DzzsrNuU25xLT2s9fL9xpex-6GNf7fqbYLkcJ543CrbPddr2Vu5USlW5jcNi6SULBKCRX6mluXd0ICVNfAWedOeSOSv-kv5bQf24].
For those of you who are new here, Not Boring Investment Memos are one of my favorite parts of this whole thing. We meet with a ton of early stage companies, convince a few of the best of them to let us invest, and share the opportunity with accredited investors in the Not Boring Syndicate [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkNFqxCAQRb9mfWvQMWaTBx9Koa-lXxCMM8lKEw1qWvL3nd0tFBwdhbnXe7yrtKR82j2VKu7bWM-dbKSfslKtlMVRKI8Breqg16YdBNoWVW96Eco4Z6LNhdXWfJDYj2kN3tWQ4mNCSjDiZgc0vjNSzpM2Wg9AYGaHHc0elQQ0T193YKDoydI35TNFEqu91bqXi369wDsvFxdaG5-4LVwx1Zcp5RAXvlzfPj9QBAsSWBOM4q8aaFQDygCqa-dMRxKVHlA5w0G07Gc_9_7Sym2BphxTqc5_sfwmsmXtP-lWft3c9vDd7gFHPrcjhnqOFN20Ej6z1yfCB41xoUiZ0eLoKoNTLXRKy7a99s-sDEfDwE8gBTtj4qn4b_oLDj-GJg] on AngelList.
I love helping early stage companies tell their stories, and putting our money where our mouth is by backing the companies building the future I write about.
Let’s get to it.
Beacons: Not Boring Investment Memo
The Beacons Investment Thesis
What do you get when you combine four Stanford machine learning experts and some of the most valuable real estate on the consumer internet? Beacons [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEFuxCAMRU8TlhGYEJgFi0rVXCNywMmgJhABaZXbl04WlRDIfNnf_zmstKZ82SOVyv6uqV4H2Ug_ZaNaKbOzUJ6Ct2IEI9XwYN4OXhhlWCjTkol2DJut-SR2nPMWHNaQ4ruDc1DsZTWCHwiM0LBoPT-UUdobCRqJ80Xi7YunDxQdWfqmfKVIbLOvWo_SyY8Onu3MhC7F0mNoRQlrPI9OPl0nPw90XxcLFjgIDqBEW1RBL3oQCrzQI6qRuBfy4QWqFkNys7jFuG7g-wp9OedS24zepZ1lG1OdUw5xbfLXC3fa3kKLN7V3P2Oo10QR5438nbzeAN8sppUi5QbWT1gbNjHAKCQfBm3upA2NhEf7As6as0-tK_6b_gLtzYWS].
Beacons is the fastest-growing and most innovative company in the incredibly competitive battle [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkE1uxCAMhU8z7CbiN0MWLLrpNSICTgYNgYg4rXL7upNFVQmDbOvp8b7gEZbaTrfVHdnvNeK5gSvwvWdAhMaOHdqYohO9tMrogUWno7DGsrSPcwNYfcoO2wFsO6acgsdUy1vBuTTs6YZolZip8UKRUurHoB_GWDObwYbJX77-iAlKAAdf0M5agGX3RNz2m_q4yU86q28JYrcf044-vLpQV5puVDmV1z2V-5TqffKIGZZWjxJZcpJLwaU0gv5uZCc6KYyM4tF70wOPQg1ReEPJFLdzmG24ab4u8p8La65UnGpLZaH16-lXyO8FJR7pXY-S8Byh-ClDvGDgxfSNZ1ygQCPWcfRIJIWWvVBc64e9whMtJQcaSc7IOVZSlT_TH-1IjOE] for the “link in bio.” If you’ve spent any time on Instagram or TikTok, you’ve seen your favorite influencer tell you about a product and direct you to get it at the link in their bio. It’s become a meme -- “Link in bio!” -- but the bio link is increasingly crucial to the growing number of creators who build their influence on social media platforms and monetize off-platform. 
In order to make a living, creators on Instagram, TikTok, and even Clubhouse, and more need to convert their clout on the platform into either more clout on other platforms and then into dollars, or directly into dollars. But since they can’t put links in their posts, they need to direct people to their bio, where they get only one link. That link determines the next step in their funnel: do they send fans to YouTube or Cameo or OnlyFans or Patreon or their Shopify or Etsy store? 
The problem is, not all of your fans want the same thing, so sending them to a single destination is suboptimal. 
Over the past couple of years, a wave of new startups (alright, a tsunami, 58 on last count [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkU1v2zAMhn-NdTT0YdnyQYegQ4K22C7pDt3FkCXG0WpLjkS3zb-fkhwGiCJAinyph9YgTDFd9Rozkts14HUFHeArz4AIiWwZ0uCdZi1XQjY9cbpxTElFfB5OCWAxftaYNiDrNs7eGvQx3Cso5ZKcNRtbYRpzcr1srFPQghVdx1jbi75TDB66ZnMeggUNn5CuMQCZ9RlxzZXYVXxfjos211OM0wy1jUuJ5DWBcfkMgPn2oBh7__MyhYP9Or5vvn9LKr3ul-P3z3z5e3jq3n7j7vCsLs-_LN_d2oLzWHExeVeJH5R4zSlnlHPJyl8lr1nNmeSOda2RLVDHRO-YkYWEoOpkT8pWDV0mXudtzGjsx20yknSIOMbkw1TSH2ezwHxPFEJD8csWPF4HCGacwT3g4WMHd5zDBAFS2Y0bDBbyrOEtE7RpOvWAVegK3pcQp6Qou1iqwn_Rf30Pm6Q]) have popped up to give creators one link that leads to an easy-to-create website with links to all of the places they create and monetize online. 
With over 10 million users, 4-year-old Australian company Linktree is the leader in the space today. It raised a $10.7 million Series A [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUcuu4yAM_Zqyo-IR0nTB4m7mNyIeToJKIAJnrvr347SLkdCxZGMf-5zgENba3vaoHdkFM74PsAV-ewZEaOzs0OYUrRzVpM3wZNEOUU5mYqnPSwPYXcoW2wnsOH1OwWGq5dMhhDJss_oxePHUUXmvvY_OLwOEMBoTpqDNqL-87owJSgALf6G9awGW7YZ49Jv-uak_9BDCFtpZwnYPdaeEEkpQkBeokSCn8kJaiTeXOnQuBX_sfKmNJ-w8p3XDX7iQXz95gIItBX6dyI9Wl5Sh0xiWLI2WQikj6WSj7vKupFFRPkZnRhBR6meUzpAgWkxLWKZwG8S-qns_fUcXXteGrNlS0deWykrl1-Z2yJ8CCTVT3M-S8D1DcT5D_GqIXys-qs4rFGhkUZwdkgFyUKPUYhge01czElmrJ6WUYMQcK3WV_6T_AP4an4I] in October. But despite its youth and funding, Linktree already feels like a slow-moving, tired incumbent. 
Like Linktree, Beacons is a mobile website builder for content creators that gives them one digital home for everything they create and sell online. 
That’s where the similarities end. Beacons matches the positively chaotic energy of the creators that use it, and funnels it into direct monetization options right from their Beacons page. It’s developing integrations with category-leaders like Shopify, and building its own products and monetization solutions for creators where ideal ones don’t yet exist.
Everybody in the link in bio space has a similar vision. They understand the acute pain points and the massive opportunity. But they’re not all Beacons. Beacons has distinguished itself by being able to get distribution despite being a latecomer in a crowded market. In a short time, it’s ridden its steep trajectory out of all of the noise.
The company is also a brilliant case study in counter-positioning, giving away everything that Linktree charges for, for free, and charging for things that Linktree doesn’t offer. It also takes a small cut whenever creators and their fans complete a transaction on Beacons. 
When Tommy [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM2OhSAMhZ_msjRQwJ8Fi9nMaxiEquQqGMAxvv10rotJmja0aQ_nc7bikvJtjlQq-0tjvQ80Ea-yYa2Y2Vkwj8Eb0UIvtRqYN8qLXvcslHHOiLsNm6n5RHac0xacrSHFzwbnoNlqOu18B7TEUSk3W5AzygGH3k1cWC8eXXv6gNGhwR_Md4rINrPWepSX_HrBN8V1Xc0W4ht9iI1LO7VCpFTXtNuy2H2y9GLBAAfBAbSg_2poRANCgxdda3WL3As5eGE1uZG8n93cu5fi-wJNOadSrXv_HWfZxFSnlENcaPxe7Y7bZ0AuR6r7GUO9R4x22tA_AOrD8YNkXDBiJr5-tJXoCQWtkFyprn8MEyEJA7WAM1L2ZCLEf9Ff2mCJBg] and I spoke with Beacons CEO and fellow Duke alum Neal Jean [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOhCAMhp9mOBqKoHjgsJd9DYO2OuwoGKw78e0Xx8MmpIQ25f__b_RMc8qn29LO4io9nxu5SO99IWbK4tgp9wEdNMrWRncCnUawxoqw91MmWn1YHOeDxHYMSxg9hxQ_G1IqI55O264G3YEBHFC2TYdI0GI7Dda3Xna3rj8wUBzJ0S_lM0USi3syb_uj_nqo73L4HS5H1ZjW8orklx_yEURwSiqQShkoBo2qoFJgFELbeNOQRKg7BG-K_VraaZzs-NBynVW1H8POfnxdX4rsYuIh5RDnMn49_UrLZ1Bi9eVejxj47Cn6YSG8E_MN7sOgnylSLkCx91xwgVYN1FLr1t4JC5JadaWlpCjKmMpW_Bf9A1Ymg5c] for the first time in the fall, we knew he was special, and his team’s raw brain power made our heads hurt, but we didn’t think anyone could emerge from the bloody bio link wars victorious. Then we spoke to him again in January, and he brought the traction numbers to back up his bold vision and an inspiring, data-driven product roadmap. 
Tommy and I are sold. Beacons is going to win the link in bio battle by helping multi-SKU creators build smarter businesses.
Today, I’ll explain what we find so compelling about Beacons, why we think it has what it takes to beat out 58 competitors, and how it’s going to become a crucial tool in the Creator Toolkit: 
Meet Beacons
The Creator Economy Value Chain and the Multi-SKU Creator
Competition, Growth, and Moats
The Beacons Vision and Opportunity
Risks
It all starts with those four Stanford machine learning wizards I mentioned earlier. 
Meet Beacons
Beacons begins to make sense when you realize that “link in bio” isn’t just a thing that Instagram models push to sell flat tummy teas; it’s air traffic control for the Creator Economy. 
Millions of creators send hundreds of millions of people through their bio links billions of times per month. That means that the bio link winner will be one that can scale rapidly and use all of that audience data to help creators build better businesses. Luckily, Beacons is the only link in bio company on the market with four Stanford-educated machine learning founders (3 PhD’s and 1 MS). 
The co-founders, collectively, have four patents (for MRI and RNA sequencing analysis), worked on the Apple Watch, used deep learning on satellite images to map poverty, and developed a computer vision model for food recognition that’s used by Samsung. 
They joined forces in 2019 and got into YCombinator’s S19 batch with a consumer hardware idea. When they realized that idea wouldn’t work, they pivoted, and pivoted once more into what is now Beacons. 
At its simplest, Beacons is building the social commerce layer for the creator economy, a mobile-first and multi-platform website builder targeting creators who just need a place for their links, content, and storefronts to live. 
Beacons makes it easy for multi-SKU creators to build mobile websites to house all of their content across platforms, via links or direct content embeds. For example, on my Beacons profile [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEuOxCAMRE_TLCPsQD4LFrPpayA-Thp1AhGQGeX2w3QWIyGQseyqes5UWlO-1JFKZX-XrtdBKtJP2ahWyuwslHXwCgaceilm5pXwMMmJhaKXTLSbsKmaT2LHabfgTA0pfiY4R8leCmZr3AIwzIuTFvtxsCg4geejl7DArWtOHyg6UvRN-UqR2KZetR7l0X898NmOJeNSLN1hVmrlYdz7YkEhR-CIEpo7iR10CBI9jIORA3EP_ezByOa959Pilsk9BN9X7MppS207Opd2llVM1aYc4tra75fZafs0Wibd3v2MoV6aorEb-Ttuval9AOiVIuVG02tTGysQOEDPhRinO17j0ePcvpCzpuxTm4r_or-9KoJ6], you can subscribe to Not Boring or see my latest tweets. The onboarding process starts with entering your social handles, and then uses ML to recommend backgrounds, themes, color palettes, and which types of content blocks to include. 
The Beacons Onboarding Flow
It even uses GPT-3 to help write a starter bio (like many GPT-3 projects, it’s a little rough right now, but it will get better over time). From there, your page is set up, and you can customize everything from font to colors to images to blocks. It takes two minutes to get a page set up, and then you can spend hours tweaking and optimizing to make your page perfect. 
Linktree lets creators aggregate links for free, and then charges $6/month for everything else. Beacons lets creators add links, customize their site, collect emails and SMS, run analytics, embed content, create two pages, and monetize directly all for free. It charges $10/month for up to five pages and to add a custom domain, and takes a fee (9% for free users and 5% for paid) when they transact on Beacons. 
The Beacons team understands the need for speed in such a competitive space. It needs to get big fast, collect reams of data, and build products and integrations that build moats around the users it’s acquired. 
It’s working. Since coming out of private beta in October, the company is growing at an absurdly high rate week over week. 
Already, based on an analysis of over 1.5 million TikTok creators, Beacons is the fourth most popular bio link for creators with over 1 million followers on TikTok, right ahead of Facebook — in less than four months!
That kind of speed and growth highlights why Beacons is so special relative to the other players in the space, and this is very much just the beginning.
Until now, it’s mainly been focused on TikTok and Instagram, but it’s beginning to expand. Now, it’s turning its attention to Twitter users and newsletter writers, among others, which is why the team is excited to have the Not Boring Syndicate involved. The more platforms and users it onboards, the more data it gets, the better products it can build, and the more likely it is to become the monetization infrastructure for the Creator Economy.
But that’s in the future. For now, Beacons is sprinting to own the most valuable piece of the Creator Economy value chain. 
The Creator Economy Value Chain & the Multi-SKU Creator
The Creator Economy value chain is simple: create content to build an audience and monetize that audience by selling subscriptions, merch, courses, access, and more. 
It’s all about turning content into money. 
The Creator Economy flips the traditional commerce experience on its head. As I wrote on Monday in Power to the Person [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEuOhDAMRE9Ddo3yITQsspjNXAOFxEDUkKDEDOL2426kGSkfySW7XM9ZhDnly-ypIHs_A147mAhnWQERMjsK5CF4I1rZKd30zJvGi053LJRhygCbDavBfADbj3ENzmJI8dPBudRsMVOnJ-H6bnJ29JN0blKqfzYKOLSkwe1rDx8gOjDwA_lKEdhqFsS9VOqrkt90zvOsY8Ix5RDn2iUq7e-bTsgPTA9c4LFDLimyYCSXgkupBe2sZS1qKbT04tla3QL3QvVeWE2JFKfFps5VDd9mWZdjLGjdi-ZvLJs_P5Jfi91g_QiUdKB_O2LAa4BoxxX8DQFvlh8swwwRMjH2g0UiKBrZCsWb5tndoYmSkj2VJGfk7BN1xX_TXykAi4E], people follow people, not companies. Instead of going to a store or website and looking for a thing, increasingly, people go to other people, who they trust to tell them which thing to buy. That might be affiliate products, an online course, a message via Cameo, a hoodie via Shopify, a mug via Etsy, or just a subscription to the Creator him or herself. 
As a result, the Creator Economy is blowing up, both in terms of creators and dollars. According to SignalFire, there are now over 50 million Creators, and BusinessInsider projects [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOhCAQRL9muI2BFhw9cJjL_oZBaB0yCgaaNf79MuNhE9IkVIrqetYQLjGdeo-Z2GeMdO6oAx55RSJMrGRMo3dadNC3Sg7MaelEr3rm8zgnxM34VVMqyPYyrd4a8jF8HZyDYi9t7TA91GCNBYeGc9d1vJ3tpCzOEnp55ZriPAaLGn8xnTEgW_WLaM-39nmDn3qO42imkn3AXEf2DlNj41YVH-a1fMzpvpn0RvJhuSfcYyLmNXAQHECJur6CRjQgFDjx6IzqkDvRDk4YVcu1vJ_t3Nub5NsCTS5TJmPfnxCWdIg0xVR_rvL7ZTZcv0ItPdZ7K8HTOWIw04ru4kEX1i-hccGAqeJ2o6EKU0joRMulfPRX_wqshaE-AWc12cXqCv-hf6vckMI] that the influencer marketing industry will be worth $15 billion in 2022, up from $8 billion in 2019. That’s a huge market, growing very rapidly.
To learn more about the Creator Economy, the Multi-SKU Creator, Bio Link Competition, Beacons Growth and Moats, and its Vision and Opportunity:
If you’re an accredited investor, apply to the Not Boring Syndicate, and if you’re accepted, you’ll receive more information, terms, and a deck. 
And if you’re a Creator of any kind, go get yourself your own Link in Bio: 
Thanks to Tommy [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM2OhSAMhZ_msjRQwJ8Fi9nMaxiEquQqGMAxvv10rotJmja0aQ_nc7bikvJtjlQq-0tjvQ80Ea-yYa2Y2Vkwj8Eb0UIvtRqYN8qLXvcslHHOiLsNm6n5RHac0xacrSHFzwbnoNlqOu18B7TEUSk3W5AzygGH3k1cWC8eXXv6gNGhwR_Md4rINrPWepSX_HrBN8V1Xc0W4ht9iI1LO7VCpFTXtNuy2H2y9GLBAAfBAbSg_2poRANCgxdda3WL3As5eGE1uZG8n93cu5fi-wJNOadSrXv_HWfZxFSnlENcaPxe7Y7bZ0AuR6r7GUO9R4x22tA_AOrD8YNkXDBiJr5-tJXoCQWtkFyprn8MEyEJA7WAM1L2ZCLEf9Ff2mCJBg] for making this happen and the Beacons team for your insights and letting Not Boring get involved!
What did you think of today’s Not Boring? (s/o to UserLeap [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uxCAMhU8zLCMgkCELFt30GogfJ4OGQAROq9y-ZLKohIywZd77nrcIa6mn3ktDchWD5w46w29LgAiVHA2qiUGziatRipkELQJTUpHYzFIBNhuTxnoA2Q-XorcYS_5sUMoleemnsqOXli0w2ck7CnOAIJjgDJyj3t269ggRsgcNP1DPkoEk_ULc22P8evDvfi4nCew--LL1J4maU84o55J1Y5IPbOBM8sCek5UT0MDGOTAru-2RqsUvyj8E3VY-tMM1tP59_USqzgVdqTGvffx-2Q3SZ9BxTL-3I0c8DWTrEoSbFO_APuxmhQy1BxmMxR5TB5vYSIV4qpusRzHyubc4JV05lL6V_0X_AOtngXY] for the survey)
                                    Loved [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuOwyAMRb8mLCPAPJIFi5FG_Y2IgGnRJBAB6Sh_P7RdjOSHdC3r2sfZhvdcLnPk2sirLO060CT8rRu2hoWcFcsSvWGKTyDFTLwRnk1yIrEuoSDuNm6mlRPJca5bdLbFnN4blHJJHiZQFDjrNazBow1edllp67gSQbvZfnzt6SMmhwafWK6ckGzm0dpRB_ga-K1HPcsTrzq-LtrQHmPMXdVKKgk9KUwy6Bk4zBo1qFkJsMAAQIIAOsCtDPAtSTScckY5l6z_I_nIRs4k90wrKxVSz2D2zMr-LdApuDC5QdD9zsd6rrVZ9zO6vJNiUm5rLjHd-_jnYXfc3oNOYel9P1Ns14LJrhv6D6D24fxGttwxYen8_WJbp8sEVwyoEHr6AOkEgc9d4pR0Z5_7Vvo3_QM60o8h] | Great [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uxCAMhU8TlhHYQMiCRaVqrhEx4MygJhABaZXbl84sKvlHsmU9v8-7Ro9cLnvk2thfWdp1kE30UzdqjQo7K5UlBis0GFRyZsHKIIwyLNZlLUS7i5tt5SR2nPctetdiTq8LzkGxpzWKI5GeV1xBeb-C4UrCtM5Ogvce3rruDJGSJ0vfVK6ciG322dpRB_wY4NajnuWbrjr-fbSRO8aY-3TSSivsydGodZoRcJ5oQj1riQ4FIiqUyAe8lQE_JYsWOAgOoET3o2AUIwgFQUzaKU08CJyDcKq7RW5Wvxo_SL4_YKznvTbnv0afd1Zsyu2eS0yPvv56up2216JTWHrfzxTbtVBy943CG1B7c34hWx6UqHT-YXGt0xUStEAu5WTeQDpBhLmPgLOuHHK_Sv-iv_xDji0] | Good [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OwyAMhU8TlhFgILBgMdKo14gIOC2aBCIgHeX2Q9vFSP6RbFnv-fOu4T2Xyx65NvIqc7sOtAl_64atYSFnxTLHYJniGqQwJFgRmJaaxDqvBXF3cbOtnEiOc9midy3m9L6glEvysAZW6s2q6WqkBqPCQt3CF_TSrWLy9KPrzhAxebT4xHLlhGSzj9aOOsDXwG896lmeeNXx5WhDd4wx9-mkpJLQk4KW62SAg5lwAmWUAAcMACQIoAPcygDfQKLllDPKuWT9H8lHNnImeWCTclIhDQxMYK5blUD16lftB0H3Ox_rudTm_M_o806KTbktucR07-ufh9txey86hbn3_UyxXTMmt2wYPoDah_Mb2XzHhKXzD7NrnS4TXDGgQkz6A6QTBG76iFPSlUPuV-lf9A91wo6N] | Meh [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkN2OhCAMhZ9GLg20gHrBxSabeQ2DUh2yCgZwNr79MuPFJv1J2jSn55ttoTWmyxwxF_YuY7kOMoF-80alUGJnpjR6Z4SGHpUcmDPSiV71zOdxSUS79Zsp6SR2nNPmZ1t8DJ8LzkGxpwHHB-BaOT1waydyquPd5HSvrJgXDbeuPZ2nMJOhF6UrBmKbeZZy5Aa_GnjUyGd60ZXb90cb2aP1sU47rbTCmhx7tXQDAg4ddagHLdGiQESFEnmDj9TgNzBvgIPgAEpUPwpa0YJQ4ESnrdLEncDBCauqW-T9Mi_93Ei-r9Dmc8rFzj_tHHeWTIhlismHta5_nnan7bOoFMba9zP4co0U7LSRuwGVm_MH2bhSoFT5u9GWSldI0AK5lF1_A6kEEYY6As6qsov1KvyL_gHpDY4e] | Bad [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkN2OhCAMhZ9GLg20gHrBxSabeQ2DUh2yCgZwNr79MuPFJv1J2jSn55ttoTWmyxwxF_YuY7kOMoF-80alUGJnpjR6Z4SGHpUcmDPSiV71zOdxSUS79Zsp6SR2nNPmZ1t8DJ8LzkGxpxEEetIaUWjNtXOL5NKiG8Rsl8FJuHXt6TyFmQy9KF0xENvMs5QjN_jVwKNGPtOLrty-P9rIHq2PddpppRXW5NirpRsQcOioQz1oiRYFIiqUyBt8pAa_BfMGOAgOoET1o6AVLQgFTnTaKk3cCRycsKq6Rd4v89LPjeT7Cm0-p1zs_NPOcWfJhFimmHxY6_rnaXfaPotKYax9P4Mv10jBThu5G1C5OX-QjSsFSpW_G22pdIUELZBL2fU3kEoQYagj4Kwqu1ivwr_oH6gTjew]
Thanks for reading, and see you Monday,
Packy

Unsubscribe https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUl2PojAU_TXwtqRfIDzw4I6jg1mcNePojC-ktFetQiG0LOKv36rJbtK0N-fm3tOccwS3cGy6MW0bY_37VdixhVTDYCqwFjq_N9AVSqY4IjENWeLLlEkch7GvTHHoAGquqtR2PfhtX1ZKcKsa_ZhAiIT-KaUJQZRDiCSSUURDxMs4YjGPk4SxWPInL--lAi0ghT_QjY0Gv0pP1rbGo1OPzN0ZhiHQjS2bTuljIBoHcXEnc4VUhpcVFI_feHTeNlJwYz0680hkmwtoV8K4xIJsxy9SXbJzc12dM5bfPtH7x6DEIrnJedLuX7Iov2VhvsmH_Dw1WV2d5B3bfF9Xs4w8cDUo_rW6uR1KvG3Vr83rkM8ynDlc0K264_tFdfveLc1-m1Tlbt6WL8skiNe5_H1VsB7yybpgpx8A15qZd9ZP6B5v8Wr68xMZvdsscl-lBBGMCAmxkz0kAQ4IDonEk4iHESCJaSIxD50pFMUHcYiFx1B9JIHpS2O5uDiJar9L_0nm2pcTr6F6NJxZhXvrXis7FqDv8smnj_YZh4eWxRE0dC4msuDWhQAzEmGKGJvET9-c0ZQkDiLId8yycVP6P-lfkrHLYw