# Bill-A-Bear

**From:** Not Boring <notboring@substack.com>
**Date:** Mon, 4 Jan 2021 13:56:58 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/Bill-A-Bear_Mon,_4_Jan_2021_13-56-58_+0000_176cdb008d53e73c.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:06.623764

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkEtuxCAQRE8z7MYCbDOwYJFNroEwtG00GCxoJ_HtQ8ZSokj9WZS6S_WcRVhyOfWeK5KfYfDcQSf4rBEQoZCjQjHBaya47MdBEa8Hz-QoSahmLgCbDVFjOYDsxxSDsxhyel1QykeyaqBillZZOczqMSpPuVRKgAenGHUCLl97-ADJgYYPKGdOQKJeEfd6699u_L1VyjjlEtLS1WOqaN2zc3lrwt56CjHe7X0CW0jQnHJGGR1YP4pRdqw7Z7avX3aF5TbQbeH_XpCif383-bnaDeJLaIlM29uRAp4Gkp0i-CssXsxe8c0CCUpj6Y3FRoqqh5CCNV79Fa7R6KmigtEHac4-t6v0Z_oNWtCFbw

Welcome to the 2,422 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since the last 2020 email! If you aren’t subscribed, join 29,257 smart, curious folks by subscribing here:
🎧 To get this essay straight in your ears: listen on Spotify [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMFugzAQRL8GH5GNwZCDD63atFVbVUp6SS_I2AtYAZvaJoS_rxMOlVY70o5Go31SBOisW_lkfUC3VYd1Am5g8QOEAA7NHlytFScsq2iR75DiuSJVUSHt69YBjEIPPLgZ0DQ3g5YiaGvuCYyzAvVclrItRIFZy4RUBbQMqyqXJQXWkJyKrVfMSoORwOECbrUG0MD7ECaf0Ick28exE5jUTzbodk2lHePJ93aJws7k9PF4-TocPlfr31d6Jde3IaF7rxP6VP-UowL5-308ntzSv8J1eXl-QJpnOCOY4JzQghVVStK1JVN_FT10SY7HLkv93Pgg5PlWhxw3NjTWaXOzz70YYbgb8e866jgbHdYajGgGUBuSsJG9Q6o7MOAicVWLEHniXckqRiJVuiGIzCjeYUZwiWKzsjFl_kv_AF_fkng] (in about 30 minutes).
This week’s Not Boring is brought to you by…
Pipe [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEmKxDAMRU8TL4OHOMPCi4airmE8KImpxDYeuju3b1dl0SAkhPj6_GdUgS2kS8SQC3o3Wa4IwsNPPqAUSKhmSNJZQUY6Mz4syIrBkpnPyGW5JoBTuUOUVAHFqg9nVHHBfxQYU452wYmZVjYOC5-40ZO2ijJiJ2DWGq1mfPuqah14AwK-IV3BAzrEXkrMHfvq6LOVirGPLkJvwtnW7DZfY8eeCdaOPXwoOeiQnN-QExRTggkeCOMjn3vSXyuJ-6_aYesGfG60z1Xnoszr_Q0l0eS3uJ1fuzrh-BxaJNnmWb0rlwSv9AH2TltuaJ_8cgMPqcG0UpWGCi_TOI-kAWN3uoaD4QWPBE-oOdvQVP7f9A8gxIYk] is building an entirely new asset class based on recurring revenue contracts. It’s not equity and it’s not a loan. Pipe lets businesses raise money today by selling their monthly or quarterly subscription cash flows directly through its platform, without needing to raise more dilutive venture capital.
Since I wrote about Pipe [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkEluxCAQRU_T7NoCbDwsWPQm17AYyjZqGxAUSXz70G0pUSSGxad4-s8ohDWkU8aQkbyOGc8I0sNX3gEREikZ0uysZD0fW9FNxMrOslGMxOV5SQCHcrvEVIDEondnFLrg3xOUckE2aSbGRNtauvCBdmwxI9VUddMg9MAX0BdXFevAG5DwCekMHsguN8SYb-3jxj_q8gF1SM6vTS46ozLPxoSjBvG1XYS7Ltl5yPm-FG_rw_vikDjJKWeUVXQrejE2rDkXFrdvtcF66-ix8n8fkiR_STV-buqA_R3UfnO9j-IdnjN4pXewV3W8DL5lzCt4SNWsnRVWb3Qa-rFn1V57Va1uWjrRntGBVLINdcr_QX8ALD2K6Q] in October, the company has been busy. Now, you can sign up and run through a self-serve walkthrough to see what it’s like trading your subscription revenue.
For any recurring revenue business, checking how much your recurring revenues are worth on Pipe [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEmKxDAMRU8TL4OHOMPCi4airmE8KImpxDYeuju3b1dl0SAkhPj6_GdUgS2kS8SQC3o3Wa4IwsNPPqAUSKhmSNJZQUY6Mz4syIrBkpnPyGW5JoBTuUOUVAHFqg9nVHHBfxQYU452wYmZVjYOC5-40ZO2ijJiJ2DWGq1mfPuqah14AwK-IV3BAzrEXkrMHfvq6LOVirGPLkJvwtnW7DZfY8eeCdaOPXwoOeiQnN-QExRTggkeCOMjn3vSXyuJ-6_aYesGfG60z1Xnoszr_Q0l0eS3uJ1fuzrh-BxaJNnmWb0rlwSv9AH2TltuaJ_8cgMPqcG0UpWGCi_TOI-kAWN3uoaD4QWPBE-oOdvQVP7f9A8gxIYk] is a no-brainer. Sign up and find out how much cash Pipe can send you today.
Hi friends 👋 ,
Happy Monday! I hope you all had a great holiday, and that it’s not too rough getting back into the flow of things this morning.
Every year, on New Year’s Day, I take some time to reflect back on the previous year and set some goals for the year ahead. This time last year, I was in the middle of starting an in-person community business and writing this newsletter’s predecessor as a fun side thing. I set a goal to hit 1,000 subscribers by the end of 2020.
Here we are on the first Monday of 2021, and there are more than 29,000 of us here, and all of my professional focus and goals are centered on this thing.
One of the goals I wrote down is to keep improving the content, pushing myself, and trying new things. In that spirit, why not kick off the year with something I didn’t do at all last year: a bear case.
Let’s get to it.
Bill-A-Bear
It was the fifth email in a long back-and-forth with a sponsor that changed me, made me bearish on a company not named “Quibi” for once. 
Here’s how it went down: a company sponsored Not Boring. They wanted to pay me, asked me to invoice them on bill.com. Wham, bam, thank you sir. But they kept trying to pay me and they kept getting notifications that it didn’t work. I kept trying to fix it on my end, even upgraded to a paid plan, kept telling them that it was fixed. 
“Should work now!” 
“Nope. Maybe you should contact customer support.” 
“OK got it, all squared away. Try again!” 
“It didn’t work.” 
Finally, on the fifth try, we got it, but not before a strange and unusual feeling set in: I was officially bearish on bill.com.
It’s not in my nature to be bearish. When I set out to write a takedown of SoftBank, I came away kind of loving Masa [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkMtuwyAQRb8m7GLxMA5ZsMimv4HGMLFRbLBg3NZ_X5pUrSrNY3E1c3WPB8Ipl8NuuRL7Ho6ODW3Cj7ogERa2VywuBisGaZTuryzYPgijDYvV3QviCnGxVHZk2z4u0QPFnJ4XnEvNZssHAT0I45UyAjWC0kFjUPpuBqmUevnCHiImjxbfsRw5IVvsTLTVk7qd5FurlGnMJaapq_tYCfyj83ltwtZ6hQrnFULCWs_KjyxayaXggvdC6UGbTnTHXWzzJ8w4nXq-TvLfH1bsr0GTHzOsuDyFFsu1ve4p0uEwwbhgeCWmF7gnAzdhwtKABgfUcPHrZTCDaNB-EjYkil8bDX5hzTnkdpX-TL8Aje-GzA]. As I wrote last time [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkMtuhiAQhZ9GdhpQQVyw6KavQRBGJb-CgbGtb1-qSZsmc1mczJyczxqEJaZLHTEj-RkarwNUgM-8ASIkcmZI2jvFRCs73o_Eqd4xySXxWc8JYDd-U5hOIMc5bd4a9DHcF5S2nKzKTmC57M0w93yQzEguBEjK3DjPM2fj42tO5yFYUPAB6YoByKZWxCNX3VvVvpcKEaeYfFiafE4ZjX01Nu5FOErjCvUEGWuf6wuwxlgXEYhXLW0ZZbRnHRdcNqy5ZnasX2aFperpvrT_3pGkfn2K_FrNDtstlHS67P0MHi8NwUwbuCc4PvxuFHqBAKlwddpgoUbHQUjBCrvuCVrIdHSkgtGBFGcXy1X4M_0GDM6J9A], I’m a natural born optimist. I have a really hard time seeing the downside. But every time I have to log into bill.com, a little bear growls loudly on my right shoulder, drowning out the typically ever-present angel on my left. 
Finally, the growling got loud enough that I decided to look at the numbers. Surely, if I felt this way, others did too. That must be reflected in the stock price, right? Wrong. 
Bill’s stock price nearly quadrupled last year, and the numbers don’t support the move. Bill is a bottom-quartile BVP Emerging Cloud Index company trading like a top quartile one. Its revenue growth is slowing, its revenue multiple: dizzying, its free cash flow: negative. It faces competition from powerful incumbents, fintech darlings like Stripe and Square, and new startups like Settle [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtuxCAM_JrlGBkS8jhw6GV_A0FwErQEInDa5u_Lbg6VLNvSaDSP2RCuKV_qSIXYe2m6DlQRf0pAIszsLJi1d4r3YmxlNzGnOsdHOTJf9JIRd-ODonwiO04b_GzIp_hhAAjJNmUXCcvkcBiNAIAFBjnzyXaw2GECY25dczqPcUaF35ivFJEFtREd5dF-PcSzTqmGAjZzqj_zSoDgwKHjrezl2PDmWvix_ZoN10cH-yqactpCZn5Vys6yiolsyj6-4ddmdgwfoLrW9e5n9HRpjMYGdHcgunv5RNQrRsy1L6cN1TZgGvqx57WT9g5QE7cwQc9hYFXZpcqK_6J_vVF7MQ]. And did I mention its product? It feels like something a Salesforce Product Manager would dream up if Salesforce enacted Google-like 20% projects. 
(Ed. note: I learned, after writing this sentence, that indeed, bill.com’s first two engineers came from Salesforce and the company bought the domain from Marc Benioff. If it walks like a Salesforce and quacks like a Salesforce, or something.)
Now look, I don’t want to pick on bill.com. The company’s 618 employees are trying their best, and they’ve built a company worth over $11 billion. I, as a reminder, write a free newsletter. It brings me no joy to pop the Bill bubble. 
But having a bad experience with bill.com was lucky. It forced me to sharpen my bear claws heading into a year during which sharp bear claws will come in handy.  
While 2020 was a year for unbridled tech optimism, I think 2021 is going to be a year for discerning tech optimism. There’s going to be a flight to quality within tech. Market leaders with strong growth, big margins, profitability, and best-in-class products will continue to earn strong multiples, but laggards with outdated products and relatively unattractive numbers will underperform, regardless of sub-sector or market cap. 
This whole bear thing is new to me, so we’ll take it one step at a time:
What is bill.com? A just-the-facts look at Bill’s product, business model, and distribution.
The Bill Bear Case. Bill.com touts the highest revenue multiple in the entire BVP Cloud Index, and it has neither the numbers nor the product to back it up. 
The Love-Hate Relationship with Work Software. People hate old, locked-in enterprise software, and love the new breed of product-first, consumerized B2B SaaS. Bill.com’s product fits with the old guard, but it hasn’t had as much time as them to dig moats.
Killing a Baby Dictator. Bill.com is still small enough for competitors to defeat before it’s too late. 
As always, this is not investment advice. I’m definitely not suggesting that you short a tech momentum stock in this market. The Keynes quote that, “The markets can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent” rings truer every day. 
What is bill.com? 
Bill.com is founder René Lacerte’s second bite at the apple. 
In 1999, Lacerte, a fourth generation entrepreneur, left his job at Intuit to build PayCycle and replace manual payroll with software. It looked like this: 
In 2004, five years into the journey and faced with slowing growth, PayCycle’s board removed Lacerte [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkU2OrSAQhVdzmWkA_7gDBj152zCohdAqGCif7e67vA46IXVCVYqPnDMahDmmS-8xI7tLj9cOOsCZV0CExI4MqfeTFq1UVVO_2aTrSahGMZ97mwA241eN6QC2H8PqR4M-hs8G57JhThtpjeCNbFUtO94NylrbVW8lawW8UfXDNcfkIYyg4T-kKwZgq3aIe35VXy_5j855nqWNaYBcjnGjRvYImfQbrF3MYVcf6Ca55CRCUuEdFRfPYvDrSksFOiiGmHyYSeKyAOyQimgL6wPC6IoBRrNBQfy7e7-VCxfJiYxFxjguN5B5TRPBBa9F1bSNKkV5WbG7H-NgftV8m2WZjyGjGZf7syzpEPEB03hxxFg_A_KsJ92O4PHqIZhhhemxE59UPgb3MwRIlNbUG6Qs-LtrVSsokeqxj_yu-Ju3gneMyFOkrfAH_QXuzKVr] from the CEO role. (PayCycle later sold to Lacerte’s old employer, Intuit, for $170 million in 2009.) After being fired from the CEO role, Lacerte served as CFO for a year before leaving the company to work on his next thing.
Lacerte’s next thing, which he founded in 2006, was originally called “CashView.” When Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff heard about it, he called Lacerte and offered him, for the low low price of $200k, a domain that he happened to own: bill.com. 
Bill.com’s mission was and is to “make it simple to connect and do business.” It attempts to do that through cloud-based Accounts Receivable (AR) and Accounts Payable (AP) software for SMBs. 
If it sounds unsexy, that’s because it is, but it’s also important. In any business, particularly SMBs, cash is king. A company can improve its cash position without doing a dollar more in sales or cutting any costs by stretching out payables and pulling in receivables. There’s even a formula for it: the Cash Conversion Cycle formula. 
Bill’s promise is that by giving customers better tools and data, companies will receive money more quickly and pay out more slowly, shortening the CCC and putting more money in the bank at any given time. 
The prize for helping companies simplify AR and AP and improve the cash conversion cycle is large: there are 6 million small or medium businesses (SMBs), those with revenues under $100 million, in the United States, and 75-90% of those businesses still pay for things with checks. Over the next decade, most of that volume will move online. 
The question is: how do you capture it? 
In tech, there’s a never-ending battle between product (the actual software) and distribution (how a company sells to customers). Bill.com is a distribution play. 
Lacerte ran essentially the same playbook at PayCycle and bill.com:
Replace a paper-based finance workflow with software.
Distribute through partnerships with accounting firms and others who own the relationships with SMB clients. 
Try to create network effects and switching costs and hold on for dear life.
Because PayCycle and bill.com competed with physically writing out paychecks and invoices, they had a low product quality bar to jump over. So they built something functional and tried to get it in the hands of as many people as possible as quickly as possible in a race to create network effects. 
The focus on distribution over product shows. Even bullish articles about the company, like a16z’s When Distribution Trumps Product [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOhCAMhp9muI0BVEYPHPayr0EqVCWjYKDOrPv0i-Nhk6ZtaMuf_7NAOMV06C1mYmcydGyoA77zgkSY2J4xGe-0ULKr26ZnTjdOdG3HfDZjQlzBL5rSjmzbh8VbIB_D54Jz2bJZO-AK0fXOKofQWzGMiA_RwYhiBA6XLuzOY7Co8YXpiAHZomeiLd_qr5v8LgFC_VY2rqWVXPJSuDz7pqSA9I7peXfJvzDcpxTfNJd35nXZFVzwRtStartKVMcotvkHZpxuDV8nWeV9yAT2eX7Okg6Rhph8OMfPGVZcPoPizpS67sHTYTDAsKC7jNPF74PCTBgwFa7OABVqvH-oTonCrr6MFjI177kS_MGKsovlKvyL_gEaZYhd], concede that “while the company’s UI leaves much to be desired, its core product—sending payments and getting paid—works efficiently.”
I have some thoughts on the UI, but we’ll get to that in a bit. For now, let’s stick to the facts: the product, distribution, and business model.
Product 
So what does bill.com do? Simply, it lets small businesses pay vendors, and lets vendors invoice small businesses and get paid. According to the company’s November 2020 Investor Presentation [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtuhCAUhp9m2I0BRNEFi16TSWfTvgBBOCoZBQewrW9fHBdN4PwHzuVPPq0SDD5sYvExoT3ItC0gHPzECVKCgNYIQVojSE2bsmItMoIZ0lQNslH2AWBWdhIprICWtZusVsl695jAmFZoFLTsatpxzWnfcG3yrRjvurIGw1lb4sNXrcaC0yDgG8LmHaBJjCkt8VQ-neh7PpGy4s60cYX2c34zzEjJcdPkvLcTxKzGa9lbp5y2ato_KKYky30Pz5fr9Xz5Or--vXycP8mZkmIxPbJib8JkX1fVVVOQYuvJMv6qEYYTw_NAi7h2MSl9261REM6nzgfr9vJtVDNMj0IGILPOq7Npk-BUN4E52KQD8YOWHMBByOiNVCmDxS2vm5pkvOXBIsMrcYtrgjnKzsbnKfdv-gclE4-I], it takes a process that looks like this:
...and transforms it into something clean and easy, like this: 
The graphic shows the Accounts Payable perspective. Instead of the finance team receiving a paper invoice, emailing a business lead for approval, writing and mailing a physical check, and manually recording the transaction in the company’s accounting software, they just get a digital invoice, click approve, click pay, and they’re done. Simple! 
My experience with the product is on the Accounts Receivable side. When a company sponsors Not Boring, I create an invoice on bill.com, write a message, hit send, and then sit back while I wait for the company to pay. Simple! 
Theoretically, it’s all simple and easy. By connecting small businesses with their customers and vendors, bill.com wants to make it easy to pay and get paid, lower cash conversion cycles for its customers, and help SMBs thrive. 
Distribution
Bill.com puts most of its eggs in the distribution basket. It’s the weapon with which it’s chosen to go to war against the status quo and new competitors. That distribution comes through four main channels: 
In When Distribution Trumps Product [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOhCAMhp9muI0BVEYPHPayr0EqVCWjYKDOrPv0i-Nhk6ZtaMuf_7NAOMV06C1mYmcydGyoA77zgkSY2J4xGe-0ULKr26ZnTjdOdG3HfDZjQlzBL5rSjmzbh8VbIB_D54Jz2bJZO-AK0fXOKofQWzGMiA_RwYhiBA6XLuzOY7Co8YXpiAHZomeiLd_qr5v8LgFC_VY2rqWVXPJSuDz7pqSA9I7peXfJvzDcpxTfNJd35nXZFVzwRtStartKVMcotvkHZpxuDV8nWeV9yAT2eX7Okg6Rhph8OMfPGVZcPoPizpS67sHTYTDAsKC7jNPF74PCTBgwFa7OABVqvH-oTonCrr6MFjI177kS_MGKsovlKvyL_gEaZYhd], a16z’s Seema Amble [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OhSAQhE_zWBpA8WfBYjZzDdJgq-QpGGjnjbcf1MUkHTqkUhRfOSCcYzr1HjOx6zB07qgDfvKKRJjYkTEZP2rRyr5WzcBG3YyiVz3z2UwJcQO_akoHsv2wq3dAPobbwblUbNFd09lBqcm5ugGJ1raq7QFg6CbkYOHJhWP0GBxq_MF0xoBs1QvRnl_110t-l6GPv35UubiVW76SDWx2Rea15FJwwRtRq1b1lajOSezLLyw4vxq-zbLKh80E7n3ZWdIhko3Jh0t-L7DhegsFwZS9HcHTaTBAeX586Ogp6eY1MwZMpbzRAJVq-NC1fStKQfVDU_BrPvBW8I6V5DEWV_gP_QNjkoEm] writes about the five ways that bill.com fuels network-driven growth, which map to the four channels:
Minimize Friction (Direct to SMB). Bill.com’s online platform removed a ton of friction from the traditional paper and mail process.
Require Low Commitment, Deliver High Value (Direct to SMB). It’s free to start using bill.com, so it can prove value before charging subscription and transaction fees.
Compel Growth Through Design Choices (Direct to SMB). If a customer sends a vendor an invoice, the vendor needs to set up an account to pay online. Similarly, a vendor can invite a payee to create an account to receive payment. This should create virality. 
Identify Adjacent Growth Channels (Accounting Firms & Accounting Software Providers) Bill.com sells into accounting firms (of which 4,000 use bill.com), who then get their clients to use bill.com. “More than 50 percent of Bill.com’s customers and 45 percent of revenue are derived from its accountant partners.”
Tackle Larger Distribution Nodes (Financial Institution Partners). Bill.com works with six of the ten largest US banks, who use bill.com to power better AR/AP solutions for their business banking clients. Partnerships like these are only possible with the scale of customers that bill.com built up via Direct to SMB and Accounting partnerships. 
Today, 103k customers use bill.com to accept payments from a network of 2.5 million suppliers. This is Bill’s network effect: as more customers and suppliers use bill.com, the experience becomes better for every new company and supplier that joins, because they should be able to easily find and pay each other seamlessly. 
Then there’s the switching costs: I’ve actually tried to stop using bill.com twice, and both times, I was brought back into the fold when a sponsor told me, “Sorry, we have to use bill.com here and it would be easier to pay you if you invoiced us there.” 
Nothing like the threat of not getting paid to keep you from switching. 
Business Model
Bill.com’s business model is straightforward. It makes money in three ways: 
Subscription (53% of revenue). Monthly plans start as low as $39/mo/user.  
Transactions (33% of revenue). Bill collects fees for every transaction completed through the platform. 
Float (13% of revenue). Bill earns interest while payments are clearing. In my experience, that takes about a week each time. 
The business model is strong on paper: it combines the predictability of monthly recurring revenue with the upside of transaction fees. It grows as it adds new customers, as its customers add more users, and as they make or accept more payments through the platform. 
In the 12 months ended September 2020, it brought in $169 million in revenue, 86% of which came from subscription and transaction fees (float tanked as interest rates did). 86% of that core revenue came from existing customers, thanks to a strong 121% dollar-based net retention rate, a good sign that the company is able to lock in customers and grow with them. The network effects and switching costs seem to be working. 
The numbers show a core business that’s solid if not spectacular. Analysts cite potential upside from new products like virtual card issuance, cross-border transactions, and instant transfer. The 121% dollar-based net retention rate is a good signal that the distribution → network effect lock-in strategy is working.
The market seems to like what it sees. Bill.com went public on December 12, 2019 at a $1.6 billion market cap on Q1 2020 revenues of $35.2 million and net losses of $5.7 million. A little over a year later, on Q1 2021 revenues of $46.2 million (31% higher) and net losses of $12.9 million (56% higher), BILL is trading at an $11.1 billion market cap (7x higher)! 
Something’s off. I don’t think anyone on Wall Street has ever actually had to use bill.com… 
To read the Bear Case for bill.com, learn which work software people hate and love the most, and answer the baby dictator question, click here to continue reading online:
Thanks to Dan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OhCAQhU8juzaAgLpgMZu5BkEolciPQRzH2w_dLiapVBFeql7eZ3SBJeVb7uko6N1UuXeQEa7DQymQ0XlAVs5KIujQcTYiK5klAx-QO9ScAYJ2XpZ8AtrPyTuji0vxs4Ex5WiVWgBnfT9SRqjAnbAzwx2fDZ-EBorF46tP6yAakPAD-U4RkJdrKfvRdF8N_a51XVfrXdzAutiaFOqXi7VZHV_BmJSDM9trFCMhPcGkKshJiml9Y0Y6LvjQkvaeyb7-6hWWhuGw0PY4p6Nos71PoixjKlPKLr7lbdUB_Eeo2VSd4Yyu3AqinjzYJ3Z56H1AqAUi5ErVKl0qMzz2YhCkkuuemJVLh0csCO5RdbapbsV_0z-LFYZf] and Puja [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuOgzAMRb-m2RXlASkssuhmfgPlYSDTkKDEDMPfT1oWI1m2ZMu-vsdqhDnlU22pIHmnEc8NVISjBECETPYCefROMcl70bUDcap1rO964ss4ZYBV-6Aw70C23QRvNfoUPxuU8o4sqp-sFZM1j1YM3MqpdUYbMdiWuQ4mCpeu3p2HaEHBD-QzRSBBLYhbuYnnjX_VOI6jCT6-wPnY2LTWlo81bfu3vptFI94HKrnRsqtd4hWnnFFGWyY62fUNa86JbcuvXmC-tXSdeVN2U1Db1_scySomNCn7-B6_Fr1C-Ayqr7HWdY8ezxGiNgHcZRkvch8I4wwRciXqRo2VFx0espesUhOXxcpE0Poiow9SlV2qW_Ff9A9haYbp] for editing.
Important Note: This is not investment advice. I am not a registered investment adviser. Everything in this essay is for learning and laughs only. I do have a position in BILL, but may consider putting one on.
On Thursday, I’ll be back to being unabashedly bullish with a Not Boring Investment Memo and a Not Boring Podcast first…
Thanks for reading,
Packy

Unsubscribe https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkt1u4jAQhZ8muVvknyRNLnLRQukGbaCrUgrcRI49JQbHThNnIXn6GpB2tZJlj2Y0c0bnM2cWDqYd0sZ01r9ehR0aSDWcOwXWQuv3HbSFFCmOSEzDIPFFGggch7Evu-KzBaiZVKlte_CbvlSSMyuNvnUgREK_SkMGWBASUojCoCQ0ihkihJKkxIhjiO-6rBcSNIcU_kA7GA2-Sitrm86jjx6Zu6ONLU0r9WHS9WVnGT9NuKldgfGrpAuE7FipoLjt5NF5YwRnnfXozCORNSfQLoRhgTnZDFuiTtnRXJbHLMjHd7R6O0v-koxinjT7aRbl42OYz3aXfMa7rFaVuObWu_NqzcnK5VfTs2Tb5ehmSP5zI3-tn8_5LMOZdHPoRl7z-xc17j4W3X6TqPJj3pTTRTJ55cttK3-8Mfgaj2wP6-GIts2FL76ewur9tYh25e8nnKtg8-zLlCCCEUYBpmEUxhM8GT5xU11YBQcvQPWB_OeG36Z_bXLlU8VqULeCg1O4t-61tEMB-mqUuHOzd_w314oDaGjdtxAFsw46Sh6iOMIOPb1zcmApSlCE0YPvlIVxXfqf6Dc7o8pY