# European Commission Charges Apple, Apple Delays New Features for E.U. (Stratechery Update 6-25-2024)

**From:** Ben Thompson <email@stratechery.com>
**Date:** Tue, 25 Jun 2024 10:05:06 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/European Commission Charges Apple, Apple Delays New Features for E.U. (Stratechery Update 6-25-2024)_Tue,_25_Jun_2024_10-05-06_+0000_1904edb52d6d44e3.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:03.968672

Apple is being charged by the E.U. for violations of the DMA; it's no surprise, meanwhile, that Apple is citing the DMA for not launching new features in the E.U.

View in browser ( https://stratechery.com/2024/european-commission-charges-apple-apple-delays-new-features-for-e-u/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.gyxp1gF2wkWRzUNCKgsr12j3CPnD6Hi2nJ5k9VnyhZwdDtyNeNnQgiD2JJ0mpmq52iRtpfYfTB-o5HNqNGYk_Lz8JZIs79WV0FV7XfnESNkEcTKewIURf_9oM9R6qs2mL6CM6x3hB6KtiTD0rZCd1YSnQfxKiZJ4a6DY12S0k8AvrDCSeuSGj3o9WCErXerljID4RXea9ZvYrlnumLgOJOSes8_2Av-O81Oe1iSbHVNKsLf4vmRm-rIQQymuCIx_nLOI0NaGXtDIvyCgJGGCWQp6XO_4sevg87U6Sv6zS2GzoWNk_bIqEFmApSNIAWlAENUTKTAohQYiPiWgwuvAUQ )

( https://stratechery.com )

*********************************************************************
European Commission Charges Apple, Apple Delays New Features for E.U.
*********************************************************************

( https://stratechery.com/2024/european-commission-charges-apple-apple-delays-new-features-for-e-u/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.gyxp1gF2wkWRzUNCKgsr12j3CPnD6Hi2nJ5k9VnyhZwdDtyNeNnQgiD2JJ0mpmq52iRtpfYfTB-o5HNqNGYk_Lz8JZIs79WV0FV7XfnESNkEcTKewIURf_9oM9R6qs2mL6CM6x3hB6KtiTD0rZCd1YSnQfxKiZJ4a6DY12S0k8AvrDCSeuSGj3o9WCErXerljID4RXea9ZvYrlnumLgOJOSes8_2Av-O81Oe1iSbHVNKsLf4vmRm-rIQQymuCIx_nLOI0NaGXtDIvyCgJGGCWQp6XO_4sevg87U6Sv6zS2GzoWNk_bIqEFmApSNIAWlAENUTKTAohQYiPiWgwuvAUQ ) Tuesday, June 25, 2024

Listen to this Update in your podcast player ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Good morning,

On last Thursday’s Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/episode/the-ftc-sues-adobe-keynote-season-and-progress-a-few-more-apple-questions ) we discussed the FTC’s lawsuit against Adobe, and discussed the overall progress of AI in the wake of developer conference season.

As I noted yesterday ( https://stratechery.com/2024/perplexity-and-robots-txt-perplexitys-defense-google-and-competition/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.LuwqpkqJvOLwFY9-VyDpJOIubGZH3cKmcB0yb20delH8rO6oG0dF7YFdwMasPzcO2slYexVt0lvU8nVMkYs021BCdLRowD7pmTGNJcMC6b4pz3NBm6PYu_XaqdoBV8Tt7CZXHCx8RhIM7z9O3ot7FDIstwvNVn6SZtqB6CWZqTQ-YAmlQAwusGSdGjLR-q9QNiEtc69N3UHDHbp8J9H_SPm3GPedF00UNEGsju802sjobMBXAAROOZ8pTJ32C7p6_QyPHHO4HLxfL8Y3b3Iero8jauPF0qlFxa5jcY_OCZiiTKaumoSRtdPZS2p0TiXE62pbnbz3zv_79El0rYg_Aw ) , today is the last Update before I go on my usual vacation the first week of July; there will be one more Stratechery Interview posted tomorrow.

On to the Update:

European Commission Charges Apple
---------------------------------

From the Financial Times ( https://www.ft.com/content/898338c2-b9fd-4494-be3f-75b7c669c705 ) :

Brussels has accused Apple of stifling competition on its App Store, marking the first time EU regulators have brought charges against a Big Tech group under new digital rules. The European Commission has been gearing up for years to unleash the full authority of its new Digital Markets Act against Big Tech. The landmark rules were designed to help start-ups by forcing powerful “online gatekeepers” — most of whom are US companies — to open up their businesses to competition. Tech groups had to comply with the law starting from March.

In preliminary findings issued on Monday, regulators in Brussels said they were concerned about restrictions Apple is imposing on developers’ ability to “freely steer their customers” by directing them to promotions outside the App Store…If found guilty, the iPhone maker faces a penalty of up to 10 per cent of its global annual revenue, meaning any fine could run into tens of billions of dollars. The fines can rise to 20 per cent in the event the offence is repeated, the EU said. Apple said it was “confident” in its compliance.

This isn’t a big surprise, but it is a big deal; the European Commission’s press release ( https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_24_3433 ) has a list of the preliminary findings, which I will comment on in turn.

The first set of findings are about Apple’s anti-steering provisions:

Apple currently has three sets of business terms governing its relationship with app developers, including the App Store’s steering rules. The Commission preliminarily finds that:

The three sets of business terms are (1) Apple’s existing terms, (2) a new set of App Store terms that include lower commissions but a “Core Technology Fee” of €0.50 per install per year, and (3) terms for apps that are distributed using 3rd-party marketplaces.

* None of these business terms allow developers to freely steer their customers. For example, developers cannot provide pricing information within the app or communicate in any other way with their customers to promote offers available on alternative distribution channels.

I’m honestly very confused on this point: apps distributed through the App Store are subject to Apple’s anti-steering provision, but that provision has been loosened to allow apps to advertise offers on the web; they are, however, limited to a specific trackable link (and those offers can only go on the page that has said link). What I am even more unclear about, though, is the fact that the third set of terms don’t include any sort of anti-steering provision — the rules governing apps in 3rd-party marketplaces are much more limited and primarily about system security.

I do, as I have noted on multiple occasions, find Apple’s anti-steering provisions very noxious, and think eliminating them is one of the compromises the company should have made to avoid getting itself into this position. To that end, I’m not surprised the European Commission is going in for seconds ( https://stratechery.com/2024/apple-fined-by-european-commission-apples-spotify-press-release-apple-revokes-epics-developer-account-again/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.gNoj_vuL2NjWnzb30rN4SXY9ZmxqVh7GXLNbhbOUdL2CYwA0MAukBx8eIll1clcl3pt4JNWevyaqCVazn5eAtEJDKgwv6gI2De6oubPKim83p3wHeHOIGINeQE1QAECCIzvksmgb763fDsBXlZUr48Nso-xqDpBEEhNYWbkWcl8OqaEWvTe5DVtPPhWIl3GMmYexIjyln9PIPsJfz6u1nfuI4pPLccsEayG2cvlLIZ6uqGxcn5d3ykaWQEYNmZXY09xrxCB1uSdc7Zv2Meu8Ujxc4MCGDRx6aQCrcg2lMqiHug-uLMx9gUm3H_EgP6VRMS7_-AqWNg0Q5w-g5DxIBA ) on this issue, but as far as I can tell, the press release is wrong, in that the third set of business terms do not in fact prohibit apps from steering their customers.

* Under most of the business terms available to app developers, Apple allows steering only through “link-outs”, i.e., app developers can include a link in their app that redirects the customer to a web page where the customer can conclude a contract. The link-out process is subject to several restrictions imposed by Apple that prevent app developers from communicating, promoting offers and concluding contracts through the distribution channel of their choice.

This one is correct: two out of three is “most”.

* Whilst Apple can receive a fee for facilitating via the AppStore [sic] the initial acquisition of a new customer by developers, the fees charged by Apple go beyond what is strictly necessary for such remuneration. For example, Apple charges developers a fee for every purchase of digital goods or services a user makes within seven days after a link-out from the app.

This is the big one…maybe. I think this is about the Core Technology Fee, but the example is about the fee Apple charges for purchases made via those sanctioned links. Regardless, what is fairly chilling is the line “the fees charged by Apple go beyond what is strictly necessary”; that’s a pretty blatant assertion that the European Commission considers pricing its prerogative.

If the Commission’s preliminary views were to be ultimately confirmed, none of Apple’s three sets of business terms would comply with Article 5(4) of the DMA, which requires gatekeepers to allow app developers to steer consumers to offers outside the gatekeepers’ app stores, free of charge. The Commission would then adopt a non-compliance decision within 12 months from the opening of proceedings on 25 March 2024.

The conclusion to this section perhaps squares the circle, specifically the phrase “free of charge”; this must be about the Core Technology Fee. In short, the European Commission appears to believe that Apple charging a Core Technology Fee is ipso facto a violation of anti-steering provisions. This doesn’t make a lot of sense to me — the Core Technology Fee for apps in 3rd-party app stores doesn’t have anything to do with steering provisions — but there is a certain bit of logic here: specifically, Apple claims that the Core Technology Fee is compensation for access to Apple’s IP; my takeaway is that the European Commission doesn’t want to come out and straight up say that Apple can’t charge for access to its IP, so is instead couching its charge under the anti-steering provision.

The European Commission is also opening a new investigation into Apple about its treatment of 3rd-party app stores, including the levying of said Core Technology Fee, the fact it takes multiple steps to install 3rd-party app stores, and the eligibility requirements for developers seeking to offer 3rd-party app stores. The first item in particular gets at the IP-monetization question specifically: can Apple charge for access to its IP, or does the DMA compel it to offer access for free? I wish that Apple offered access for free, at least via 3rd-party app stores (which absolutely should have a multi-step installation process that makes clear to users the risks), but I have a hard time on principle compelling them to do so; the convoluted nature of this press release makes me think the European Commission does as well.

Apple Delays New Features for E.U.
----------------------------------

From Bloomberg ( https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-06-21/apple-won-t-roll-out-ai-tech-in-eu-market-over-regulatory-concerns ) :

Apple Inc. is withholding a raft of new technologies from hundreds of millions of consumers in the European Union, citing concerns posed by the bloc’s regulatory attempts to rein in Big Tech. The company announced Friday that it would block the release of Apple Intelligence, iPhone Mirroring and SharePlay Screen Sharing from users in the EU this year, because the Digital Markets Act allegedly forces it to downgrade the security of its products and services.

“We are concerned that the interoperability requirements of the DMA could force us to compromise the integrity of our products in ways that risk user privacy and data security,” Apple said in a statement.

The EU’s DMA forces dominant technology platforms to abide by a long list of do’s and don’ts. Tech services are prohibited from favoring their own offerings over those of rivals. They’re barred from combining personal data across their different services; blocked from using information they collect from third-party merchants to compete against them; and have to allow users to download apps from rival platforms. As part of the rules, the EU has designated six of the biggest tech companies as “gatekeepers” — powerful platforms that require stricter scrutiny. In addition to Apple, that list includes Microsoft Corp., Google parent Alphabet Inc. and Facebook owner Meta Platforms Inc.

It’s obviously difficult to separate this decision from the European Commission case above, and a lot of angry European Apple users are accusing the company of being spiteful in withholding these features from the European Union, at least for now. However, I think I agree with the theory put forward by my Dithering ( https://dithering.fm/ ) co-host John Gruber in this morning’s episode: these folks don’t really understand just how far-reaching the DMA is.

Specifically, there is a lot of angst about the App Store, and indeed, the case above is about Apple’s App Store policies. The DMA, though, is much more far-reaching than that; the excerpt above rightly identifies the interoperability requirements as the more meaningful factor affecting Apple’s decision. Consider iPhone Mirroring: given that the iPhone is a designated gatekeeper platform, is Apple allowed to enable iPhone screen-sharing with a Mac but not with Windows or Linux? Or SharePlay Screen Sharing: can Apple allow you to jointly view apps via Facetime, but not other VoIP services? Or the big one, Apple Intelligence: can the semantic index be available to Siri, but not other voice assistants?

Another angle on this is data sharing; Article 5 states ( https://www.eu-digital-markets-act.com/Digital_Markets_Act_Article_5.html ) :

The gatekeeper shall not…combine personal data from the relevant core platform service with personal data from any further core platform services or from any other services provided by the gatekeeper or with personal data from third-party services.

This pretty expressly forbids Apple Intelligence’s core differentiation: the entire reason why Apple Intelligence is compelling is that Apple, by virtue of controlling the platform, has access to data that no one else does. The promise of Apple Intelligence is that Apple can leverage that access to provide AI functionality that no one else can. However, Apple Intelligence is a “further core platform service” and the DMA forbids it from accessing personal data from the core platform service!

More broadly, what we see from the E.U. again and again is outright hostility to integration; everything must be modular, immediately. The problem with this insistence, though, is that integration is essential to inventing new experiences. To go back to Professor Clayton Christensen and The Innovator’s Solution ( https://claytonchristensen.com/books/the-innovators-solution/ ) :

When there is a performance gap — when product functionality and reliability are not yet good enough to address the needs of customers in a given tier of the market — companies must compete by making the best possible products. In the race to do this, firms that build their products around proprietary, interdependent architectures enjoy an important competitive advantage against competitors whose product architectures are modular, because the standardization inherent in modularity takes too many degrees of design freedom away from engineers, and they cannot optimize performance.

To close the performance gap with each new product generation, competitive forces compel engineers to fit the pieces of their systems together in ever-more-efficient ways in order to wring the most performance possible out of the technology that is available. When firms must compete by making the best possible products, they cannot simply assemble standardized components, because from an engineering point of view, standardization of interfaces (meaning fewer degrees of design freedom) would force them to hack away from the frontier of what is technologically possible. When the product is not good enough, backing off from the best that can be done means that you’ll fall behind. Companies that compete with proprietary, interdependent architectures must be integrated.

The E.U. has basically made this illegal for the biggest tech companies: you can’t deliver an integrated experience, even if the technology isn’t yet good enough to be modularized. This is obviously bad in general, but it’s particularly bad for Apple, which is entirely predicated on integration ( https://stratechery.com/2013/clayton-christensen-got-wrong/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDEzL2NsYXl0b24tY2hyaXN0ZW5zZW4tZ290LXdyb25nLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzIxOTAxOTA2LCJpYXQiOjE3MTkzMDk5MDYsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.oRJC9QaTbUmX3wVENEb-B9UR3fB1IGo0lOqiCsPI49C17RgDCKx-qh6t0pWSU4ooXm3BlPeaMSLlA_ANcvR05DWFNg27Jh5Itel7oBOEJYEia4aeIaBaQ3sP1p_lWQPWg-1HzaDnT0Cp0ZfCb6zrdA2L7Jkp0CFNjmwNCsT20DMwdrtltC2No2n1cl2l0fYB40UNnAXbsqbN4lLdStLFpZDRCeK4oUgT0R0qmAYJHxXin0m0bD1DfCorGFLc6PZnPobAdIsPb388gNA5KDk4h5vkQ1P-oY3REdy0Ya8-d1CVS5CXXS1Taa8B-2cihMY7mPEDTTvrqnHZmrmnGQ78hw ). And, beyond that, there are more prosaic concerns: Apple invested a ton of engineering resources into new App Store policies for the E.U. that are already being declared illegal; is it worth it to build two versions of all of their products going forward for 8% or so of their user base?

It’s worth noting, once again, that Apple is in part to blame for all of this; I’ve been warning for years ( https://stratechery.com/2021/integrated-apple-and-app-store-risk/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIxL2ludGVncmF0ZWQtYXBwbGUtYW5kLWFwcC1zdG9yZS1yaXNrLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzIxOTAxOTA2LCJpYXQiOjE3MTkzMDk5MDYsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.YdWHqHl2oF4XMxrNkRPNR2zbW-Gm-7ypwez4sdzaMtlarWZXBVjJH4FcDh1xHtaDyGne5kNgqYulXnsa1A4jv_nrJo_d91ZFcwtUzPBITl4kTN0NF6OHDImRsqjM9YPTMfPeYKpCY8ul0qVt0x2B-7qWfmusk8nAoN1EJffGwktSW633jazmgYHGubW9aytUZHJjcCmCXfhWn46ifms_hshqb_31esMjjbloR8UPt6JLN2232ujRz0aOfL-IXE7LIsWlE2jwGa14yZjhiWWoZDDHqB0eT2mD8QIvu2ysTk_jh5L1flLi8zZOG_qGVYVtvLvMrP4WGLyJi2_joEy9mA ) that Apple’s intransigence around the App Store was not just risking its App Store profits but the integration at the core of its business. That is exactly what is happening, and Apple’s European citizens are bearing the brunt of that arrogance. Given the case above, though, they should probably be grateful that Apple hasn’t given up on the continent entirely ( https://stratechery.com/2024/apple-and-antitrust-for-aggregators-dma-investigations-and-apples-risk/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.cXcMzLe5P3k5W0-nmWQPR-G5CJBPZWEbWyPLhowfjUSSH3LvH8DX9uvtMlhL_2WynknEsOX89Kt4eL83kusGMiocuHj6--3udaUSrENmBH25wv3k1s86IRysjiYNFDAlBST_Q5B0A8C9TmN2aYq-O_O2CNucfESieKhbPRI1LNwpxqL5gRB5vFio2ZsB-l0OaJoDxnPwHX9i-KrRyIlGMIDUJdWNs_7J3cgj1nUFaUfSXPVUotDfGTdGBUxOMKdR2uu2W8SpcLDfH9r3L5BotlZVmSUI0n-FwHxYw151HO9g-dpCo8Ku7qT6vlE-fn-V0uZcrdmAAj_qN1dSalOhuQ ).

This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member ).

The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.

Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!

Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player: Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharptech.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Dithering ( https://dithering.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.dithering.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp China ( https://sharpchina.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharpchina.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Greatest Of All Talk ( https://goat.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgoat.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Subscription Information

Member: Omar Zoheri
Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com
Member since: April 23, 2022
Your subscription renews every year
Renewal date: December 8, 2024

You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery ( https://www.stratechery.com ).

Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/login?email=stratecheryUSC%40khamel.com ) to view your account and manage your subscriptions.
Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/unsubscribe?unsub=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.passport.online%2Fapi%2F1.0.0%2Fusers%2FRseuYE8jgHePpWJf1fAb4C%2FchannelOptOut%3Faccess_token%3DeyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL2FwaS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvYXBpLzEuMC4wL3VzZXJzL1JzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMvY2hhbm5lbE9wdE91dD9jaGFubmVsPWVtYWlsXHUwMDI2cmVkaXJlY3RfdXJpPWh0dHBzJTNBJTJGJTJGc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lJTJGbWVtYmVyJTJGdW5zdWJzY3JpYmUiXX0sImV4cCI6MTcyMTkwMTkwNiwiaWF0IjoxNzE5MzA5OTA2LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwaS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6Im1lbWJlcjp3cml0ZSIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.cqff9Ot5o2s2naU23k-2V8wKYvWi6aWXhw4MPGAj43tF796dZrQZhCcruuNaS_jE9lcauekdsHcVZu7jyipVnktSFjQsVlShLho3NcakJIRNgcXnJwREQT1mzRpK_v2E5yno75_807hZSdwW5TrHs4Hen8NjBrX984i8qOIkVf-zWeNX9ccagbSzCx7ZZoLJuX2B9EJEMAqcdqPVdY5l6vNqqPCjc_3l-g0DR19M1lYQ77HUGnPxsOLlTGR4_pv7IHnLehKI3Tu2yQcOT_Tps5Sfpn-dWZUWtzA2wpsWh2GWvJoHDpIPoRCebnACIjA4pIvjrXzqHOvh1yxsQtIE6w%26channel%3Demail%26redirect_uri%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fstratechery.passport.online%252Fmember%252Funsubscribe ) to unsubscribe.

© 2024 Stratechery LLC ( https://www.stratechery.com ) , 2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703