# Meta Earnings, Measuring Meta's Spending, Meta Recommendations (Stratechery Update 11-4-2024)

**From:** Ben Thompson <email@stratechery.com>
**Date:** Mon, 4 Nov 2024 14:22:06 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/Meta Earnings, Measuring Meta's Spending, Meta Recommendations (Stratechery Update 11-4-2024)_Mon,_4_Nov_2024_14-22-06_+0000_192f78e0765ab255.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:03.769983

Meta's earnings were as expected, as long as you accept the reality that the company won't stop spending. Plus, removing constraints on feeds could lead to more efficient recommendations.

View in browser ( https://stratechery.com/2024/meta-earnings-measuring-metas-spending-meta-recommendations/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L21ldGEtZWFybmluZ3MtbWVhc3VyaW5nLW1ldGFzLXNwZW5kaW5nLW1ldGEtcmVjb21tZW5kYXRpb25zLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzMzMzIyMTI2LCJpYXQiOjE3MzA3MzAxMjYsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.dPMKpXtIiyHmjCauxAYPyT3QIGEEu8PMhaEkKHRZ0d_Z9pSS_F99XnEvdBtP9fTyLoSEHoBjCLFJGJXD2jkcHE-tYzVWHRhRS31Nr6jqDbZQAph1GqqgV8CmT7VfvfuaejaJAje1xsUQvvcOjCXUADuoEJQ1nkZjGCsCNmvwB_almkKwVSU0deyXqZcmXi8hnRZS_NCxBNXmJu9aeK_vIGpbkS8eHsV1LQOQqmogaiBmR7JB2e8brl_mwjJ7ked8wIe5UoPKU2JOe37PLN6tHv7esnl0liZ3P_TJKPp5IXvPHKggTTqkKuVH6j8d0Zhkt-anmoWvtJGMQ4L8byjuyQ )

( https://stratechery.com )

**************************************************************
Meta Earnings, Measuring Meta's Spending, Meta Recommendations
**************************************************************

( https://stratechery.com/2024/meta-earnings-measuring-metas-spending-meta-recommendations/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L21ldGEtZWFybmluZ3MtbWVhc3VyaW5nLW1ldGFzLXNwZW5kaW5nLW1ldGEtcmVjb21tZW5kYXRpb25zLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzMzMzIyMTI2LCJpYXQiOjE3MzA3MzAxMjYsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.dPMKpXtIiyHmjCauxAYPyT3QIGEEu8PMhaEkKHRZ0d_Z9pSS_F99XnEvdBtP9fTyLoSEHoBjCLFJGJXD2jkcHE-tYzVWHRhRS31Nr6jqDbZQAph1GqqgV8CmT7VfvfuaejaJAje1xsUQvvcOjCXUADuoEJQ1nkZjGCsCNmvwB_almkKwVSU0deyXqZcmXi8hnRZS_NCxBNXmJu9aeK_vIGpbkS8eHsV1LQOQqmogaiBmR7JB2e8brl_mwjJ7ked8wIe5UoPKU2JOe37PLN6tHv7esnl0liZ3P_TJKPp5IXvPHKggTTqkKuVH6j8d0Zhkt-anmoWvtJGMQ4L8byjuyQ ) Monday, November 4, 2024

Listen to this Update in your podcast player ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Good morning,

On Thursday’s episode of Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/episode/meta-and-an-abundance-of-ai-opportunities-when-ai-integrates-into-the-feed-ai-for-ui-and-one-emailers-dismay ) we discussed Meta’s AI Abundance ( https://stratechery.com/2024/metas-ai-abundance/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L21ldGFzLWFpLWFidW5kYW5jZS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTczMzMyMjEyNiwiaWF0IjoxNzMwNzMwMTI2LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwaS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.HzWHEWVEVUii-IwJq8WcwJzwEbqUhnjFTca5-ayVgrollBiDna86HeKR6bkHdkcAwlvQDaaf2Rkn_6PRZshYnJrmb0nFOzNFrKJz3wDztu4YCJzY5Ap06npDCrYvYe1iPbk-IXuYAJOCj2ZWNB4sSM6aPmaPems1AvJgQIzWjuuIO3KR1AOWxVQrXvuMEiofkBsY7VslMIDilUYyP6yNFzjT6N050GmSLuE6N-Ckn3WENRefLneO1-eRIxlUwCNEpshLGUolugHbj2OjuVj70agpigSFtOz7yx1Dr-yhvMIJxFifX1timj5ZMyiZRNenyFKcPcNDVOAnI_gQXLMd_w ) , and why what is good for business may not necessarily be good for society.

On to the Update:

Meta Earnings
-------------

From the Financial Times ( https://www.ft.com/content/8ae0eea7-a4bd-4f5c-b448-c44899dfa243 ) :

Mark Zuckerberg said Meta’s numerous bets on artificial intelligence were showing “strong momentum” as quarterly revenue and earnings topped Wall Street expectations, but he forecast that the company’s AI spending spree would accelerate into next year. Investor response to the earnings release on Wednesday was muted as Meta said it expected “significant” 2025 capital expenditures growth given its ongoing investments in running costly AI infrastructure, and posted big losses from Reality Labs, its virtual and augmented reality arm. Meta shares, which are up more than 70 per cent in 2024 to recent record highs, were down about 4 per cent on Thursday.

Chief executive Mark Zuckerberg has poured investment into AI to improve Meta’s advertising offering and content feeds, and begun integrating generative AI tools into the platform, pivoting the company from his lossmaking bet on building an avatar-filled metaverse, following alarm from investors. However, he still faces pressure to show that he can monetise the initiatives, given the hefty costs of running servers and data centres to develop the cutting-edge technology, and competition from rivals such as Google.

Revenues in the third quarter increased 19 per cent to $40.6bn, at the top end of its guide range and a whisker above Wall Street estimates of $40.3bn. Net income jumped 35 per cent to $15.7bn, well above consensus of a rise to $13.6bn. Daily active users across its family of apps rose 5 per cent to 3.3bn.

Meta’s results were perfectly fine, but weirdly framed as disappointing by a lot of media outlets; I suspect this was in response to the after-hours decline in the stock price, which I think had more to do with the open-ended but definitely-growing commitment to increased spending, both in terms of capex and also headcount. More on that in a moment; for now, here is the chart I post after almost every Meta earnings report:

These are the exact trends that I warned about last spring in Meta and Reasonable Doubt ( https://stratechery.com/2024/meta-and-reasonable-doubt/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L21ldGEtYW5kLXJlYXNvbmFibGUtZG91YnQvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MzMzMjIxMjYsImlhdCI6MTczMDczMDEyNiwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.t90w0o4r36c590mn7RykzwzC4KYEP316wpKgs8ed_UVF5w4nbEPl-hpH0Ud2yjlEJM6ULEtiqvTLiI9GpBLC5_-D_6ri7_RioNLqTpqqB--P-hTp9m8d-8YF-LlkvMgyXu9HOB1hIK4uGBbCqhbZSLwb43f_cNSCn48cahndwxheuHdPUmNRJE95Pb6tAe19L3yaI6VQCP-HMam7aftLU3yU-UMY0_IdoBxKnwfTDvFy_SeMj75McqBxiig8jxKxbTNcLwucsndVhQRqqa-jSpxpX9EU9yipYXJnxQ3NKWVaV5gZKti6_Oc7zvv0c8IXSoNe5nmbt8MivoKoP84pLw ) , particular the cross-over in growth rates of impressions and price-per-ad. This, in broad strokes, represents the culmination of Meta harvesting Reels inventory expansion. I explained in that Article:

The most important thing to understand about this chart is that the growth in impressions is usually inversely correlated with the growth in price-per-ad, which makes intuitive sense: more impressions means more supply which, with an equivalent amount of demand, results in lower prices. The two big exceptions are related to Apple’s App Tracking Transparency changes: in 2022 the price-per-ad decelerated much more quickly than impressions grew, as Meta dealt with the loss of deterministic signal it suffered because of ATT; then, in 2023, the price-per-ad grew even as impressions grew as Meta reworked its targeting to operate probabilistically instead of deterministically…

The most optimistic time for Meta’s advertising business is, counter-intuitively, when the price-per-ad is dropping, because that means that impressions are increasing. This means that Meta is creating new long-term revenue opportunities, even as its ads become cost competitive with more of its competitors…it also means this specific moment in time is a much less bullish one for Meta’s advertising business than past stock drops: impressions growth declining means that price-per-ad is the primary route for revenue growth, which will happen but will also open the door for more of Meta’s competitors. Yes, those future advertising opportunities that Zuckerberg talked about will probably lead to another inversion at some point, but not only are those opportunities uncertain as I noted, but they also are quite a ways in the future (and the bill for GPUs is today).

All of the concerns in that Article are, as these earnings demonstrate, still relevant; the big change — and the one that inspired me to write Meta’s AI Abundance ( https://stratechery.com/2024/metas-ai-abundance/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L21ldGFzLWFpLWFidW5kYW5jZS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTczMzMyMjEyNiwiaWF0IjoxNzMwNzMwMTI2LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwaS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.HzWHEWVEVUii-IwJq8WcwJzwEbqUhnjFTca5-ayVgrollBiDna86HeKR6bkHdkcAwlvQDaaf2Rkn_6PRZshYnJrmb0nFOzNFrKJz3wDztu4YCJzY5Ap06npDCrYvYe1iPbk-IXuYAJOCj2ZWNB4sSM6aPmaPems1AvJgQIzWjuuIO3KR1AOWxVQrXvuMEiofkBsY7VslMIDilUYyP6yNFzjT6N050GmSLuE6N-Ckn3WENRefLneO1-eRIxlUwCNEpshLGUolugHbj2OjuVj70agpigSFtOz7yx1Dr-yhvMIJxFifX1timj5ZMyiZRNenyFKcPcNDVOAnI_gQXLMd_w ) — is the degree of confidence I have that Meta’s long-term investments in AI will pay off, and not just in the long-term. What was interesting about the earnings call ( https://s21.q4cdn.com/399680738/files/doc_financials/2024/q3/META-Q3-2024-Earnings-Call-Transcript.pdf ) is that this seems to present a bit of a conundrum for Meta management in terms of articulating the opportunity: instead of a grand vision up-front it was almost as if Zuckerberg threw up his hands and was like, look, you just gotta trust me on this one, it helps us everywhere.

We are making a lot of progress with our AI efforts too, and we’re seeing AI have a positive impact on nearly all aspects of our work — from our core business engagement and monetization to our long-term roadmaps for new services and computing platforms. And I think that this partially comes from having a vision and roadmap that is aligned with the direction that technology is heading, but even more importantly from our teams doing some really excellent work on execution on so many fronts.

Zuckerberg did get more specific in the Q&A section of the call:

I think the main point here is just that it seems broadly applicable to a very wide variety of products. So there are areas that are more part of our core business from making Feed more relevant and Reels more relevant to making ads more relevant to helping advertisers generate better ads, to helping people create the content that they want, helping our integrity operations and compliance and the work that we do there, that’s important.

It’s very valuable across all these aspects of the core business, but then it also is going to enable completely new types of services, like we didn’t have something like Meta AI before. We didn’t have something like the Ray-Ban Meta glasses before and AI is going to be a really important ingredient of all of these things. There are also other new products like that, things around AI Studio. This year, we really focused on rolling out Meta AI as kind of our single assistant that people can ask any question to, but I think there’s a lot of opportunities that I think we’ll see ramp more over the next year in terms of both consumer and business use cases, for people interacting with a wide variety of different AI agents, consumer ones with AI Studio around whether it’s different creators or kind of different agents that people create for entertainment. Or on the business side, we do want to continue making progress on this vision of making it so that any small business or any business over time can, with a few clicks, stand up an AI agent that can help do customer service and sell things to all of their customers around the world, and I think that’s a huge opportunity.

So it’s very broad. And I think part of what we’re seeing is that there are a lot of opportunities. Some of the longer-term ones are on Meta AI or AI Studio; those aren’t necessarily a next few years, massive profit opportunity. But there are a lot of things in the core business around engagement and monetization which I think will be, over the next few years. So I think we’re trying to make sure that we get the right people working on this and that we have the right amount of investment that’s just going towards what we view as a very, very large opportunity.

This is both more specific and yet broad and inexact all at the same time; I’m convinced, though, and at this point I think Zuckerberg deserves the benefit of the doubt.

Measuring Meta’s Spending
-------------------------

Still, metrics matter, particularly given the amount of money that Meta plans on spending, and the problem with promises of broad applicability and wide-ranging upside in the short, medium, and long-terms is that it is hard to hold management accountable for their spending. This is exacerbated by the fact that so much of Meta’s investment is in R&D, which goes under the line, and capex, which goes into Cost of Revenue but which is only realized as depreciation over five years (and, as an aside, kudos to Meta for sticking with a five-year depreciation schedule, instead of the six years that many of its peers have switched to even as they are ramping up spending on GPUs, which likely burn out faster than CPUs).

To that end, I propose a simple metric: free cash flow as a percentage of revenue. Here is what that chart looks like for the past decade:

Free cash flow bounces around a bit, which is why I used trailing-twelve month numbers instead of quarterly numbers. Even so, this chart is a pretty good summary of Meta’s business over that time period:

* The core advertising business was, in the middle of the 2010s, everything you would want to see from a classic tech company ( https://stratechery.com/2018/lessons-from-spotify/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDE4L2xlc3NvbnMtZnJvbS1zcG90aWZ5LyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzMzMzIyMTI2LCJpYXQiOjE3MzA3MzAxMjYsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.O9BCpyOkCwuQE86oWsTgjm1XDsFuyeHkwIAh2HaM_LOPQ_o8LepLjvmvYEGbCauhF3b-zBXEgOIvth7yNe3WpMrPcK-MvNwJd7XjryPveApmxR0ttgvxCi4-vnaPaW8s7G5ae7J59zatHVqkc7kdrNH0LTvgpeqhypW4ySdNJ2nVW1ttYTQCT3yn0YBL4qcrTB-1XVgoF4HdkP9QMn0gqway0g2PqE9c4UKb4f6zIbWqefyONN3IxxlwQLPn4kF1tWDF8TeQzPb8j8BIseTbk1gyIktpmRcaQA1UKD6AwKGIl3goI-nf8C06R7aAW8rFC_wr-9Fxxn1dyhNlyfTSFg ) : revenue growth vastly outpaced expense growth, leading to ever-increasing cash flows.
* Meta didn’t start formally reporting Reality Labs losses until Q4 2020, but it seems likely that major expenditures really started ramping up in 2018. This was also the period when tech in general was on a massive hiring binge and jacking up salaries to keep employees. Notably, gross margins stayed consistently high throughout this period, so there weren’t drastically higher capital expenditures using up free cash.
* Meta went through the same COVID-era revenue pull-forward that impacted lots of tech companies, and then was caught out in 2022 when ATT both impacted revenue growth and they were forced to face the reality that the company had a lot of fat to trim.

What is notable is that even with the large capital expenditures over the last couple of years, Meta’s free cash flow seems to have stabilized in the lower 30% range, which leads to a couple of takeaways for the future.

First and foremost, investors probably should accept that the mid-2010s era of free cash flow growth outpacing revenue growth is over. Sure, Meta could pull back on capex and Reality Labs and have a cash-generating machine, but they’re not going to; Zuckerberg was quite clear on this point in the call. First, with regards to AI and capex:

On the infra side, it goes towards building out the expenses faster, right? So I think part of what we’re seeing this year is the infra team is executing quite well. And I think that’s why, over the course of the year, we’ve been able to build out more capacity. I mean going into the year, we had a range for what we thought we could potentially do. And we have been able to do, I think, more than, I think, we’d kind of hoped and expected at the beginning of the year. And while that reflects as higher expenses, it’s actually something that I’m quite happy that the team is executing well on. So that execution makes me somewhat more optimistic that we’re going to be able to keep on building this out at a good pace but that’s part of this whole thing.

This part of the formula around kind of building out the infrastructure is maybe not what investors want to hear in the near term that we’re growing it out. But I just think that the opportunities here are really big. We’re going to continue investing significantly in this. And I’m proud of the teams that are doing great work to stand up a large amount of capacity so that way we can deliver world-class models and world-class products.

Second, with regards to Reality Labs, I thought this question from the follow-up call with CFO Susan Li ( https://s21.q4cdn.com/399680738/files/doc_financials/2024/q3/META-Q3-2024-Follow-Up-Call-Transcript.pdf ) was illustrative of investors who long for that 2010’s era, which Li made clear wasn’t returning:

*And second is on Reality Labs and the OpEx for Reality Labs. It has consistently increased as a percentage of overall OpEx. With Orion out there, the hypothesis is that perhaps the velocity of spend may start to slow down a little bit. Would love to get your reaction to that as well as how do you think about the decision-making around increasing OpEx from Reality Labs into the next couple years?*

I would say we have a really big investment portfolio here. It is multifaceted across both the current and next generation of hardware devices and software. In the near-term, we’re really focused on growing adoption of our existing products. We want to accelerate the adoption of products like the Ray-Ban Metas that we’ve seen have very strong product market fit and that, frankly, we think are accelerating the timeline on sort of bringing AR glasses to market and are just an extremely natural form factor for a lot of our AI tools.

You kind of talked about Orion, and much of our investment, of course, is in areas that are not currently reflected in products on the market. There’s still a lot to do around conducting the fundamental R&D to invest and productize and scale new technologies. And there is certainly a lot we need to do on Orion before we think it’s ready to be a product that we would bring to market in terms of making both the actual display quality better, the form factor more comfortable, and making it more affordable to build at scale.

So it’s just a big portfolio in Reality Labs. It’s a place where, while the ambitions are significant and, again, span a lot of products, it’s also a place where we’re focused on efficiency, too, and that is definitely a part of the budget conversation, which is where are the places where we can be more efficient in Reality Labs such that we have room to expand our ambitions around things like smart glasses and accelerate bringing those to market and trying to find tradeoffs as we think about the Reality Labs portfolio.

In short, Meta isn’t going to stop spending; investors either need to be comfortable that that spending will pay off with continued revenue growth, or get off the train. That, by extension, is why I’m looking at free cash flow, and not profit margin; if the spending is going to continue, then looking at profit margin simply delays the interpretation of reality by the depreciation schedule — just get the numbers now!

And, by the same token, if the thesis is that all of this spending, particularly in the case of AI, has applications to every aspect of Meta’s business, then just look at revenue: if it’s going up, then the spending is working, and as long as it is going up at a sufficient enough rate to keep up the current ratio of revenue to free cash flow I’m on board.

Meta Recommendations
--------------------

One additional note that I found interesting from the earnings call was this revelation from Li’s prepared remarks:

Let me talk more about our multi-year roadmap for recommendations. Previously, we operated separate ranking and recommendation systems for each of our products because we found that performance did not scale if we expanded the model size and compute power beyond a certain point. However, inspired by the scaling laws we were observing with large language models, last year we developed new ranking model architectures capable of learning more effectively from significantly larger data sets.

To start, we have been deploying these new architectures to our Facebook video ranking models, which has enabled us to deliver more relevant recommendations and unlock meaningful gains in watch time. Now, we’re exploring whether these new models can unlock similar improvements to recommendations on other surfaces. After that, we will look to introduce cross-surface data to these models so our systems can learn from what is interesting to someone on one surface of our apps and use it to improve their recommendations on another.

This will take time to execute, and there are other explorations that we will pursue in parallel. However, over time we are optimistic that this will unlock more relevant recommendations while also leading to higher engineering efficiency as we operate a smaller number of recommendation models.

This makes a lot of sense when you think about Meta’s feeds structurally. Until just the past few years you feed was constrained by who was in your network; I noted in last week’s Article ( https://stratechery.com/2024/metas-ai-abundance/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L21ldGFzLWFpLWFidW5kYW5jZS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTczMzMyMjEyNiwiaWF0IjoxNzMwNzMwMTI2LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwaS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.HzWHEWVEVUii-IwJq8WcwJzwEbqUhnjFTca5-ayVgrollBiDna86HeKR6bkHdkcAwlvQDaaf2Rkn_6PRZshYnJrmb0nFOzNFrKJz3wDztu4YCJzY5Ap06npDCrYvYe1iPbk-IXuYAJOCj2ZWNB4sSM6aPmaPems1AvJgQIzWjuuIO3KR1AOWxVQrXvuMEiofkBsY7VslMIDilUYyP6yNFzjT6N050GmSLuE6N-Ckn3WENRefLneO1-eRIxlUwCNEpshLGUolugHbj2OjuVj70agpigSFtOz7yx1Dr-yhvMIJxFifX1timj5ZMyiZRNenyFKcPcNDVOAnI_gQXLMd_w ) :

It took Facebook another five years — and the competitive threat of TikTok — but the company finally did make the leap to showing you content from across the entire service, not just that which was posted by your network. The latter was an artificial limitation imposed by the company’s own self-conception of itself as a social network, when in reality it is a content network; true social networking — where you talk to people you actually know — happens in group chats.

It’s unsurprising that this constraint in one part of the content value chain led to constraints in the recommendation algorithms; now, though, if you can access content from anywhere, well, it makes sense that recommendation algorithms that pull from everywhere are more viable as well. To be clear, Li noted that this is still an experiment, but I would be surprised if this doesn’t work out in the long run, which will both lead to better recommendations and lower costs — which will help the revenue to free cash flow ratio!

This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member ).

The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.

Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!

Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player: Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharptech.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Dithering ( https://dithering.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.dithering.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp China ( https://sharpchina.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharpchina.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Greatest Of All Talk ( https://goat.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgoat.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Subscription Information

Member: Omar Zoheri
Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com
Member since: April 23, 2022
Your subscription renews every year
Renewal date: December 8, 2024

You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery ( https://www.stratechery.com ).

Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/login?email=stratecheryUSC%40khamel.com ) to view your account and manage your subscriptions.
Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/unsubscribe?unsub=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.passport.online%2Fapi%2F1.0.0%2Fusers%2FRseuYE8jgHePpWJf1fAb4C%2FchannelOptOut%3Faccess_token%3DeyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL2FwaS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvYXBpLzEuMC4wL3VzZXJzL1JzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMvY2hhbm5lbE9wdE91dD9jaGFubmVsPWVtYWlsXHUwMDI2cmVkaXJlY3RfdXJpPWh0dHBzJTNBJTJGJTJGc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lJTJGbWVtYmVyJTJGdW5zdWJzY3JpYmUiXX0sImV4cCI6MTczMzMyMjEyNiwiaWF0IjoxNzMwNzMwMTI2LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwaS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6Im1lbWJlcjp3cml0ZSIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.GqlZ3GUEFhyeLsa56s5FUzSV5rVP7qFnvr6ndXRwnBS1j39B275uC4C-yGp6gNsTtCXblSI7JxGQ70aIcBvAr_hjCa5FivTnNqI638Q_KooRp4SMAyqxGqg_El_DnFKxQB25zgY27vxSAMmKNh9DVs3Q52sKvoR1pPnxi-1t32r3jIG5gHVkWnhr54Tex_p7m4MsbnwCl4SGJBT4OxLmvOS5NlSN6HKB7iUO3CsO_iW0tLvVe24Vf5CM9x1-ZyWDwx3aSy4xhWhdB6UtLgKH3-jbdTdKI1sqcPoNIItXkNrxqpCskrTPTJDCeRVFmHkoYbECOu2dbOdy1vv91UYt_Q%26channel%3Demail%26redirect_uri%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fstratechery.passport.online%252Fmember%252Funsubscribe ) to unsubscribe.

© 2024 Stratechery LLC ( https://www.stratechery.com ) , 2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703