# Microsoft, Activision, and Ubisoft(?!); The Activision Deal; Foolhardy Forecasting (Stratechery Update 8-22-2023)

**From:** Ben Thompson <email@stratechery.com>
**Date:** Tue, 22 Aug 2023 11:40:41 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/Microsoft, Activision, and Ubisoft(!); The Activision Deal; Foolhardy Forecasting (Stratechery Update 8-22-2023)_Tue,_22_Aug_2023_11-40-41_+0000_18a1d0c20e0ce997.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:05.667228

Microsoft has substantially reworked its deal with Activision to satisfy U.K. regulators; it's a win for the CMA, and time to consider what comes next.

View in browser ( https://stratechery.com/2023/microsoft-activision-and-ubisoft-the-activision-deal-foolhardy-forecasting/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.KxiwMio5ZLITy3ojzcIOm1Nn8oGEc3SkSxV2jGuRcCXpFFnNn_OBuOUTv4mxnhOVtQrtPqmxj4c6D9gY5joi3g1qBlRIRQy_Yn_Zp3SHVEepp8RrgTI6FjZBJUAEozrKJF9vb7wL78pOk4KhN6Dq0bsm0AYsJVMJttVQYZ0wtxXosIvnALFPJO_BZ5xld4hVmvUQROFj_qfpbVLtJAZZ-YNfnPQKnDm6M220PtGf6y7GdumjQpJcETBAejc8xgLEWB-Pt6UkVgZW4s2edPW6gVKr8cm4r9Ed91Ksm5KDtmsq7NOA2ag3jnZCPUzcVPHDy7Anu8_KoAIjwIqf4UX-JA )

( https://stratechery.com )

**********************************************************************************
Microsoft, Activision, and Ubisoft(?!); The Activision Deal; Foolhardy Forecasting
**********************************************************************************

( https://stratechery.com/2023/microsoft-activision-and-ubisoft-the-activision-deal-foolhardy-forecasting/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.KxiwMio5ZLITy3ojzcIOm1Nn8oGEc3SkSxV2jGuRcCXpFFnNn_OBuOUTv4mxnhOVtQrtPqmxj4c6D9gY5joi3g1qBlRIRQy_Yn_Zp3SHVEepp8RrgTI6FjZBJUAEozrKJF9vb7wL78pOk4KhN6Dq0bsm0AYsJVMJttVQYZ0wtxXosIvnALFPJO_BZ5xld4hVmvUQROFj_qfpbVLtJAZZ-YNfnPQKnDm6M220PtGf6y7GdumjQpJcETBAejc8xgLEWB-Pt6UkVgZW4s2edPW6gVKr8cm4r9Ed91Ksm5KDtmsq7NOA2ag3jnZCPUzcVPHDy7Anu8_KoAIjwIqf4UX-JA ) Tuesday, August 22, 2023

Listen to this Update in your podcast player ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Good morning,

Yesterday’s Update ( https://stratechery.com/2023/adyen-earnings-adyens-european-context-adyen-vs-stripe/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIzL2FkeWVuLWVhcm5pbmdzLWFkeWVucy1ldXJvcGVhbi1jb250ZXh0LWFkeWVuLXZzLXN0cmlwZS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY5NTI5NjQ0MSwiaWF0IjoxNjkyNzA0NDQxLCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwaS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.BChQx11VDpuHnPCedkeOlXkXPmnBbX2orjqah7JGfdIZd1OlZvCdt98DCRQlbpk99I-q93iazZH8-RyahGueUFM7sXme_MlWlzVRxOBxh-s-wM-xdXHVMRz0Y5mX6QebqQk5YzSBft4aSRRlUKZqoLsZkPKPuC41-HkRNzHdpoQcuCk4Jz9KySzRG_7CfzIduSbcqPdctieZMKEz4r9PRCzeK5bKquZgL8G8LzMcoaYAmdokDA-21-mOMWmpXa8Y1hmDmJxtVQ4QY6iRb769d6M1Dahlj41jkv7tltLCA8RoIFIHvPOxO9KED-bpqgY0CKsC1xQSr2CMPcHm499BMQ ) stirred up a good amount of debate; I’ll revisit the topic soon, but there is breaking news.

On to the Update:

Microsoft, Activision, and Ubisoft(?!)
--------------------------------------

From Bloomberg ( https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-08-22/microsoft-concedes-activision-cloud-streaming-rights-to-ubisoft ) :

Microsoft Corp. said it will give Ubisoft Entertainment SA the cloud streaming rights for all of Activision Blizzard Inc.’s console games released in the next 15 years in order to placate regulators reviewing its $69 billion deal for the Call of Duty maker. Under the arrangement, French gamemaker Ubisoft will get exclusive worldwide rights to stream Activision titles and non-exclusive streaming rights in the European Economic Area, after Microsoft’s deal for Activision is completed, the Redmond, Washington-based company said in a statement on Tuesday. Separately, the UK’s antitrust watchdog said it opened a fresh probe into the Microsoft-Activision transaction after the tech giant submitted a substantially different deal, giving the acquisition a rare second chance to appease regulators.

The U.K. Competition and Market Authority (CMA) closed its original case with a worldwide injunction against Microsoft’s acquisition, and opened a new case around the restructured deal; the regulator’s press release included additional details ( https://www.gov.uk/government/news/microsoft-submits-new-deal-for-review-after-cma-confirms-original-deal-is-blocked ) :

Under the restructured deal, Microsoft will not acquire cloud rights for existing Activision PC and console games, or for new games released by Activision during the next 15 years (this excludes the European Economic Area). Instead, these rights will be divested to Ubisoft Entertainment SA (Ubisoft) prior to Microsoft’s acquisition of Activision.

Microsoft has stated that the restructured deal is intended to address the concerns set out in the CMA’s Final Report in April. In particular, the transaction is intended to provide an independent third-party content supplier, Ubisoft, with the ability to supply Activision’s gaming content to all cloud gaming service providers (including to Microsoft itself). Ubisoft will be able to license out Activision’s content under different business models, including subscription services. The deal also proposes that Ubisoft would have the ability to require Microsoft to provide versions of games on operating systems other than Windows.

More details came from Microsoft’s blog post ( https://blogs.microsoft.com/on-the-issues/2023/08/21/microsoft-activision-restructure-acquisition/ ) :

We are restructuring the transaction to acquire a narrower set of rights. This includes executing an agreement effective at the closing of our merger that transfers the cloud streaming rights for all current and new Activision Blizzard PC and console games released over the next 15 years to Ubisoft Entertainment SA, a leading global game publisher. The rights will be in perpetuity…Under the restructured transaction, Microsoft will not be in a position either to release Activision Blizzard games exclusively on its own cloud streaming service — Xbox Cloud Gaming – or to exclusively control the licensing terms of Activision Blizzard games for rival services.

The agreement provides Ubisoft with a unique opportunity to commercialize the distribution of games via cloud streaming. The agreement will enable Ubisoft to innovate and encourage different business models in the licensing and pricing of these games on cloud streaming services worldwide. Ubisoft will compensate Microsoft for the cloud streaming rights to Activision Blizzard’s games through a one-off payment and through a market-based wholesale pricing mechanism, including an option that supports pricing based on usage. It will also give Ubisoft the opportunity to offer Activision Blizzard’s games to cloud gaming services running non-Windows operating systems.

I had heard that Microsoft might seek to ameliorate the CMA’s concerns by selling Activision’s cloud rights for the U.K.; I’m pretty surprised that this agreement applies to the entire world (with the caveat that Microsoft will retain the rights necessary to fulfill its agreement with the European Commission as far as making Call of Duty available to other streaming platforms). In fact, I’m so surprised that I thought I might have to revisit my entire understanding of the deal.

The Activision Deal
-------------------

For the 19 months that this deal has been under review, I have mostly talked about the strategic reasons to acquire Activision, which were primarily about bringing Activision titles — particularly Call of Duty — to the Xbox Game Pass subscription service. I wrote in an Update in January 2022 ( https://stratechery.com/2022/microsoft-acquires-activision-blizzard-notes-on-the-acquisition-an-interview-with-microsoft-gaming-ceo-phil-spencer/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.YGm7fHTv-ljyrdbMW4n3fIAkI61Xue4iseabaIDIIJ4KO0pX3xEClXYARmW_w0WoPucj6uHeqvpcUYHnB8ZwBtbuhuVDQv97pg7jcJZWs_hLJ5f5cRGn8Pa1I1kkoXMgKIKCAbLQe0pbAwgpQSFEMLDQOoxg52sQvqGy1bD3yHsY2E5VFlCJhbjkAgGuq6yxlsRrbWDNBruvtIjyUWByl_MT82pUSWQK_dIW6hqthya7_Yzg55KmdMeogc8R36JFh8nSlfqDh0JKfenv9ANl51ARLZX5z2DZ5gSRrJC0_xLaAVmuxxenYAf5CF5bC4Vxq5NAevCSmhW2GtDG8M0FZg ) :

Start with the big one: Xbox Game Pass. I explained after 2020’s ZeniMax acquisition ( https://stratechery.com/2020/microsoft-and-zenimax-microsoft-ignite-microsoft-and-covid/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIwL21pY3Jvc29mdC1hbmQtemVuaW1heC1taWNyb3NvZnQtaWduaXRlLW1pY3Jvc29mdC1hbmQtY292aWQvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2OTUyOTY0NDEsImlhdCI6MTY5MjcwNDQ0MSwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.s9MX2Q7DwQuK7zdK1adTZcm8hCMJnK5wXOLfkG1q9LBUiH3eDMqP-93VarvYznplBehQh4dCCEPUPvClE2g9ypH66x-0M8mhFxFWgivUPAWqnksF1UanrXWxU5b6LahpE7GzE07xPH_tYk3poZWEydt1g1MYoZicA-Lf3w7F6VuElb8v2EavrZm2omG0VmdS3XyaJpbke9Rlnfn61iWGLu34lSI46oZbt5ZBmK3zj6MYfTu10TtqwQ_GMcu6OLxWDmk3OWWRb87TjhKdFdoT6t8VfI0ZkoDe17YnwiAy8jZNWLiHAivoWItKLXEqUWOaMnQ59N5ihAmqPfiw9rdW9w ) how Microsoft’s shift to a new business model focused on selling a subscription to a customer instead of a game for a device gave it significantly more degrees of freedom relative to Sony, particularly when it came to acquisitions. Given that publishers like Activision are cross-platform, an acquisition in pursuit of exclusives is normally value destructive, since you are giving up sales on other platforms; Microsoft, though, is perfectly happy to keep selling you Activision Blizzard games based on their current business model, whether that be retail like Call of Duty, free-to-play like Starcraft, or subscription like World of Warcraft; the company achieves the benefit of the acquisition by adding all of those titles to its subscription offering, making it that much more enticing — and sticky (it will be interesting to see how Microsoft handles World of Warcraft specifically, which by itself costs the same $15/month as Xbox Game Pass).

The reason why this strategic rationale is important is that the acquisition, all things being equal, wouldn’t make sense otherwise: Activision’s price in the market would be based on its current business selling games on both Xbox and Sony (and mobile); to stop selling on the PS5 would be value destructive, while a premium to simply buy the existing business would just be a waste of money. Activision as an independent company, though, didn’t have any incentive to make its games available on subscription streaming services because it might cannibalize its core business; Microsoft as owner could make that sacrifice in service of building its overall subscription service.

All of that is still true. Ubisoft will only hold Activision cloud streaming rights, for example, so it is incentivized to make cloud streaming deals — including subscriptions — in a way that Activision was not. However, while Microsoft was happy to let Nvidia or anyone else *sell* Call of Duty on their cloud gaming services, I assumed it was essential to keep the subscription rights to itself. Apparently not!

Now Microsoft may feel that its position in the cloud subscription space is well enough established that it can handle Call of Duty being licensed to other subscriptions services; the important thing is that Microsoft have access to it. Still, it seems obvious to me that this new deal is value destructive from Microsoft’s perspective, at least as far as the strategic considerations are concerned. Of course Ubisoft is paying for these rights, so maybe Microsoft decided it was better to lay out less money.

That leads to what I actually seemed to have gotten very right at the time of purchase — specifically, not all things were equal. Here is the first section of that Update:

From the Wall Street Journal ( https://www.wsj.com/articles/microsoft-to-buy-activision-blizzard-games-11642512435 ) :

Microsoft Corp. agreed to buy Activision Blizzard Inc. in an all-cash deal valued at about $75 billion, using its largest acquisition by far to grab a videogame heavyweight that has been roiled by claims of workplace misconduct. The deal, if completed, would sharply expand Microsoft’s already sizable videogame operation, adding a stable of popular game franchises including Call of Duty, World of Warcraft and Candy Crush to Microsoft’s Xbox console business and its own games like Minecraft and Doom. Microsoft said the transaction would make it the world’s third-largest gaming company by revenue, behind China’s Tencent Holdings Ltd. and Japan’s Sony Group Corp. The deal is valued at $68.7 billion after adjusting for Activision’s net cash, Microsoft said…

The deal entails significant complications, too. Shares in Activision had been down nearly 30% since California regulators filed a lawsuit against the company in July alleging sexual harassment and gender-pay disparity among the company’s roughly 10,000 employees…Bobby Kotick, Activision’s longtime CEO, is expected to leave after the deal closes, according to people familiar with those plans. Microsoft had said in its announcement Tuesday that Mr. Kotick “will continue to serve as CEO of Activision Blizzard,” and that after the deal closes “the Activision Blizzard business will report to Microsoft gaming chief Phil Spencer. ” But the companies have agreed that he will depart once the deal closes, the people said.

There are definitely strategic reasons to make this purchase — I’ll get to them in a moment — but my immediate read on this deal is that Microsoft, as behooves a company with $130 billion cash on hand, saw a valuable asset trading at a heavy discount and snapped it up (just as the company did five years ago when it acquired LinkedIn ( https://stratechery.com/2016/microsoft-and-apple-double-down/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDE2L21pY3Jvc29mdC1hbmQtYXBwbGUtZG91YmxlLWRvd24vIl19LCJleHAiOjE2OTUyOTY0NDEsImlhdCI6MTY5MjcwNDQ0MSwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.HNYzCoa1HS1Gt_o8YVw-AINOCNbA7UaHk89Timc_TiSohn3fhGAgiSY-ppVEpE05FHYQa7c2Zjan44lPnw0lKUMB1xzvHQt3A5VQy6DcG2u-45IdgGeqHCOKI6ZK5CGoIeZdHUZ2Zv8i0UyIpPY_ZKXrZGnNN8_ZlK0XSydFxrNXwIu4OW_M_lTsY2IXhgOxlsidwlx7vW5a-m1IfmElu8EffiWwcCryJxmxBm8oI9WJuYRaf5NRMKEKX8kiemurBGrr4DOSBpgseZ5A7G38D9CvDdB6CM7Owh2L1BcKxfM7GzLNJxC4y13nlVMsv9Yg7tJyruaXqQ2rCU-1IAp4gQ ) ). It was only 11 months ago that Activision Blizzard had a market capitalization of $80.23 billion; by December 2 that had been cut nearly in half, to $45 billion, which is probably about the time these talks kicked off.

Microsoft does, of course, inherit the lawsuit and associated issues ( https://news.bloomberglaw.com/daily-labor-report/activision-blizzard-sued-by-california-over-frat-boy-culture ) that led to this decline, but that almost seems like an opportunity in its own right: whereas acquisitions usually present concerns about integrating different cultures and management teams — after all, you don’t want to destroy whatever it is you bought — Microsoft actually has full license to completely wipe out Activision Blizzard’s management team and culture and instill its own way of doing things. I strongly suspect that once this acquisition closes we will never hear the name “Activision” ever again.

19 months on and I’m not sure about that last sentence, but the rest of it seems spot on: the number one reason for Microsoft to pursue this deal to the bitter end, even if it means giving ground on its (legitimate) strategic rationale, is that it feels it got an unbelievably great deal for Activision’s business. Again, this isn’t the only reason — as I noted above, giving Ubisoft control of Activision’s cloud gaming rights almost certainly means that Call of Duty will be available on Xbox Game Pass when it would not have been otherwise, so that’s a win, even if it’s not exclusive — but at this point it seems like the most important one.

That raises the question as to why Activision agreed to extend the acquisition deadline at the original price. It is worth noting that Electronic Arts has basically been flat since January 2022, while Ubisoft is down 50%; Microsoft is paying the equivalent of Activision’s all-time high, and that’s not the worst thing in the world for a management team that has probably been counting the days until they can retire.

Foolhardy Forecasting
---------------------

There is a certain irony in my original take on this deal probably being the right one, given that everything else that has happened over the last 19 months has been difficult to predict. That noted, here’s what I suspect happens next, along with some takeaways:

* I think the CMA will approve this deal, for a couple of reasons. First, the CMA is obviously on a bit of an island as far as worldwide regulators are concerned. Second, though, this is a very meaningful concession from Microsoft. The CMA stated that its concern was competition in the cloud gaming and subscription spaces, and it has ensured that there will be more competition in the former in particular. Indeed, this very well may embolden the CMA moving forward, which is a bit of a reversal from a month ago.

*

The FTC’s Activision case looks even dumber now: as I noted repeatedly ( https://stratechery.com/2023/microsoft-activision-updates-reader-follow-up-free-speech-the-government-and-scale/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.UW6D_JosJKnsZ1H8zCkvy8oJWPZ7QjxtVf8Zm4U7Qf-n42LqO0CZzU_DcSDJCrWDKhV8BVkDUj4SdIwAKZyEtOKfWa72kgT3GzRl4-wIRIEtbPxXhyICoLk_pfz9xSzaz4oEpAqQOPtdeGz3Ugmuq65pBEntBfoJ3_1sGtLtnzAPh_ahyVUq2zEXfpfkExdssQRn-7r0Jjczmy0EnpCxUkEsjHTOVfI-LYPXPt8RxLhlv89z4XTtYJwc0zF-qYCMKce90VutQ0lVq_d3TfWBcaj4UVrZdHYrzTHfeAjtDADczZeNUTguJEsCyr1C0OzXMOPpCA44ze-M5s1MYej-0w ) the CMA’s concerns at least made logical sense; the reason I thought they were problematic was because it wasn’t even clear if there would ever be a cloud or subscription market, and I was worried the CMA was stifling innovation. The FTC, though, didn’t pursue that angle: they insisted that Microsoft, contrary to all economic logic and documented evidence ( https://stratechery.com/2023/microsoft-can-acquire-activision-the-ftc-vs-the-record-the-ftcs-failed-vendetta/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.k_EmDk4AgYrY5354pkFM7ohp28C-Xu-X513YKZMoI_4noMKuFAwwKpcifHWFuUMfNshA-g6Q0_h91uuf0qeNtg4CMcUCBHJQBRLh6mALW_JKUUErBXF_u9tsJcODdjpC456zdlbg7ITNt8XqZVDmRYxQhQxiEALhWC4hl2h8yYVx8BXQ3P-hkjmCKfk1WJE8fVW74OvUqbVQSwVzJp-hYfV6X59-RQLg9cYTjceFf7zDPDQmP_aOv2xdroLeIAWAwCu8woFdohrd_VZO4Nacpz1RIL0dIKKEUKOdpq-MEDX-NfqzDwilUT7yO4jWzIulyLQbJ_gm5U5lR8LR6zT8vw ) , was going to pull Call of Duty from PlayStation. The only purpose this served was to add credence to the argument that the FTC is ideologically motivated and willing to bring cases without understanding the markets it is regulating; it’s one thing for me to argue this ( https://stratechery.com/2022/consoles-and-competition/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIyL2NvbnNvbGVzLWFuZC1jb21wZXRpdGlvbi8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY5NTI5NjQ0MSwiaWF0IjoxNjkyNzA0NDQxLCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwaS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.JG6YWqivjsbd6TV42SUFGYDOkQxf5TfPSiy-YC0cFNeu_Axng9i4pIblS2tTqPiDdqklEg2Xj0SG9Nb1wTovIpy2VQ27bgQb7vtxdBC1wQt_t0Xvb1rZHsMY7Qeh9Qx3o-XkN3fugvOGR3_InAy89EJRHzOVLs3nv66Q7oT7K26fRp1GkSdF-WNO84l9gGOu8eTuD4Yser540AIsDF65ZDN2T2ZfngsxWxcdlJwviijiJWJafhowEts9CQJ1_FOvwjmAGRahRU-HY5D5ip7Wx6EPzYuqLxoLLeb-ba1WXB7ayMGlpgTa46Pa7KvyRdQkJrHHv7ry_0-dzuHmnlL2YQ ) , and it’s another for the CMA to prove that an approach rooted in reality is both possible and infinitely more effective.

*

I suspect that this deal makes it even more likely that Microsoft will make future Activision games console exclusives (i.e. games that are not yet released). If we assume that Microsoft’s primary goal is to grow Xbox Game Pass, then before this deal the company could count on having an exclusive to Call of Duty on a subscription basis, along with all of the other Activision titles; that’s a pretty highly differentiated feature, and a reason to buy an Xbox. Now, though, any Activision title could potentially be available on any cloud service with a subscription business model; the real differentiation will be the ability to play on a console, which means those future games will probably only be available on one console — an Xbox. Granted, this actually isn’t that radical a proposal: Microsoft has made new-to-the-world Zenimax games like Starfield Xbox exclusives, so it would make sense that Microsoft would pursue the same strategy here.

That noted, it’s not out of the question that Microsoft simply takes their win and abandons their ambitions to be a cloud platform or even a console maker: could the company simply become a game publisher for Sony and Ubisoft’s cloud service and whoever else wants to give it a shot? For the record, I do think this is unlikely, at least in the near-term (Microsoft will give Xbox Game Pass a shot), but it wouldn’t be irrational and may happen down the road, particularly once you realize the biggest motivation for Microsoft may very well have been the price it paid.

This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member ).

The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.

Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!

Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player:
Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharptech.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Dithering ( https://dithering.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.dithering.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp China ( https://sharpchina.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharpchina.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | GOAT ( https://goat.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgoat.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Subscription Information

Member: Omar Zoheri
Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com
Member since: April 23, 2022
Auto-renewal is disabled
Expiration date: December 8, 2023

You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery ( https://www.stratechery.com ).

Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/login?email=stratecheryUSC%40khamel.com ) to view your account and manage your subscriptions.

© 2023 Stratechery LLC ( https://www.stratechery.com ) , 2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703