# Own the Internet

**From:** Not Boring <notboring@substack.com>
**Date:** Mon, 24 May 2021 12:54:53 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/Own the Internet_Mon,_24_May_2021_12-54-53_+0000_1799e728b486d4fe.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:11.820042

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEuOgzAMhk_T7IoSh9CwyGI2cw2UhwtRIUHBDOL2k1JpRvJDsmX_9uct4ZjLada8EXuHgc4VTcJjm5EIC9s3LEMMRnSgpWp7FkwbhFaaxW14FsTFxtlQ2ZGtu5ujtxRzuiY4B8Um02vnQydqfASUTgEXqB7Ce3CAIPGja_cQMXk0-IPlzAnZbCaidbvJrxt8VzuOo0mZXC4xjY3PtbRWz0e604T3mOq5CYlFAxwEV9AKUK2SjWhAo3PBeae89NIKCL3i0AuvlAreP28tX0Zott1tZP2rLl9YMX9itf2a7ILz1ahvDjUve4p0DpismzF8CNAH5MVkGDFhqYDDYOmNT-iO97zVleH1cUUku04_pOxZVQ65TqV_0V-cCYsm

Welcome to the 2,273 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since last Monday! Join 51,163 smart, curious folks by subscribing here:
🎧 To get this essay straight in your ears: listen on Spotify [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkctqwzAQRb_GWho9HXuhRdtQKE0pfWy6MnqMHRFbMpKc1v36KsmiMMyFGS53OGNUhjHETS4hZXRpfd4WkB6-0wQ5Q0Rrgtg7K0lDWyZ4h6zklrSiRS71QwSYlZtkjiugZdWTMyq74K8OjKlARzkYDWYYbEc047zR1HaGgW04dO3OdOSWq1brwBuQcIa4BQ9oksecl1Sxu4o-lgoL-DotIbthq02Yyygdw3eR5kS-Dvfn1_f3ly2k5439kJ-nqWKPyVVsv1827h6ed2-CfpADZ-Q3feIROUkxJVhQTqjggtWkpi1obbXRwjDDFCmXCkw7YoQQ1pih4ngeaZ1WnbIyp8sRKEofsg7R-bGsT0c1w3RdFBp90Xn1Lm89eKUnsDdQ-cb7iq4fwUMsf7C9yhfKpG1wh3lbUF_BFJKsadodYx0qyTYUl_8P_QP3PpbF] or Apple Podcasts [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtuxCAMRb9m2DXi5QwsWHTT34h4OBnUBCIgrfL3ZTKVRrKwwbo64njbcMnlNHuujTyPqZ07moS_dcXWsJCjYpliMGzkSoDUJBgZmAJFYp3mgrjZuJpWDiT74dbobYs5XQlKOZCHGWevASQb70zxWSsmwuyoEHcrKBcUXlx7hIjJo8EfLGdOSFbzaG2vN_F541-99hy8ra0Odt9XHHze-uNR35s-pdw-XC4xLf0SAwN-l5xpwUg0nHJGgUvGQYIY2MAVOhecd-CFF5bxoIFyzTwABO_nm6Tbwod6uNqs_34SSTEd8U-Q9PthN1yvRf_81Pt2pNjOCZN1K4aXl_bSe5maFkxYuvYw2faUytRINZWqm708dHFiHNVdCE06OeSeSm_oHxhTj58]
Today’s Not Boring is brought to you by … the Alto CryptoIRA [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEtuwzAMRE8T7WroR1daaNFNr2HoQztCbcmQ6Qa-fZVkUYAgAQ7IwbzoCZfaLrfXg9izTXTt6Ao-jhWJsLHzwDbl5MQojQJtWXI6CQOG5WOaG-Lm8-qoncj2M6w5esq1vC44l8DuTs84J8lnmG3iowYTLAebQM4xBBTq7evPlLFEdPiL7aoF2eruRPtxU183-d1rafUx-JVqbn6IdeurEj5iu3aqLDvJpeAgtZCgQQ1ikAZDSCEGiCoqL2SywKUVEQBSjPNN822Rw3GGg3z8eb5kzZVKobZcli7_3P2G60vo2aY-t7NkuiYsPqyY3rHpTe8FYlqwYOtU0-TpyUyYkVuuTQf3itm5qHE0n0pZ1p1T7Vfl3_QPlZOHUg]
We planned this sponsorship weeks ago, before we knew that crypto prices would fall or that I’d be writing a bull case for ETH. But with crypto on a fire sale, the timing works. 
The Alto CryptoIRA lets you buy, sell, and trade cryptocurrencies with your retirement savings. You can trade any cryptocurrency available on Coinbase right in your Alto CryptoIRA account, and get the benefits of tax-free or tax-deferred gains. Crypto taxes are a nightmare. Alto lets you trade or hodl cryptocurrencies today, and deal with the taxes only after you retire and withdraw the money. 
On average, 70% of Americans’ net worth is in retirement accounts, and there are $11 trillion in IRAs alone, but most IRAs are deeply underweight alternative assets compared to professional investors and endowments. More and more investors, me included, are adding crypto to the mix to diversify their portfolios and hedge against inflation. 
I’m moving money over as we speak to buy ETH (fact, not investment advice!). To set up your Alto Crypto IRA, use this link below and get $50 off on crypto custody fees.
Hi friends 👋 ,
Happy Monday! Sometimes, it’s better to be lucky than good. 
I was actually planning to write this piece last Monday, before Matthew Brennan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEtuhTAMRVfzMkT5GcIgg066DZSPgaiQoCT0id038AaVLFuWZV_f40zFJeVLH6lUcqepXgfqiO-yYa2YyVkwT8Fr1nMlQI7Ea-mZAkVCmeaMuJuw6ZpPJMdpt-BMDSk-G5RyIKt2BqmytOeDh4EPM_NUwgAz-FHOntuPrjl9wOhQ4y_mK0Ukm15rPcpLfL34d4v6DvdHnUt763abMUYT3RqiIUFzyhkFLhkHCaJjHVdorbfOghNOGMb9CJSPzAGAd25-SbovvCunLdW4n_ssyTqmalMOcWnjn9XsuD2DZm1qdT9jqNeE0dgN_cd1_cB7OEwLRswNqp9MvZEx1dORStW4PS4bFtH3ahBiJE3Zp7YV_0X_ANWPht0] reached out to me to collaborate on SHEIN. While this is *NEVER* investment advice, and you need to do your own research, and you should know by now never to listen to me, some of you would have learned about ETH, started doing your research, and decided to invest. It would have been rough timing. 
Last week, the price of bitcoin crashed almost precisely 50%, from a May 10th price of $59.6k to a momentary May 19th low of $30,000.00. ETH fell even harder, dropping 60% from a May 12th high of $4,384 to a low of $1,728 yesterday. If you do your own diligence and decide to invest in ETH today, you’re doing it at about a third lower than you would have if I’d sent this last Monday. Phew. 
On the other hand, I was a little unlucky, too. Smart people put out great content on ETH last week, in line with the thesis I was going to write. 
Patrick O’Shaughnessy had Justin Drake on Business Breakdowns [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkctq7DAMhp8mXgbfx1l4ceiFLgrtoqWHswm-KDOeJnawnZb06euZWRwQktCP-MUnZyocU971mkpFlzTWfQUd4bvMUCtktBXIY_CaSKqY4APymnuihEKhjFMGWEyYdc0boHWzc3CmhhSvGxhTgU6aGy45AYcJ9hJPArsDMQcvBkcZ8wzffM3mA0QHGr4g7ykCmvWp1rV07E9HH1ukFWJf1lTDtPcuLW0EayjJQ-vEv78_zw_PH4Srwdyd31-fzm8vvGOPJXTs3k-WSgxSDc5zIwEFTTElWFBOqOCC9aSnCqz11lnhmGOGUD8ITAfihBDeuanjeDnSvmy2VOM-LxegrGOqNuUQj03-PJkF5qvQUIytLlsMdR8hGjuDv1GqN9hXbuMRIuT2BD-aekFMlMQD5qpxvlJpGJmU6sDYgJqzT20r_jf9Bf3Zk_I] to discuss Ethereum. James Wang wrote a great post on Ethereum’s Q1 Results [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkkuP2jAUhX8N2Q3yIw5hkQUMoAZBEB0oTDeRHxfikDiZxCmEXz8GKlWV_JB979GRfT7JLZyrpo_qqrXeY0ltX0Nk4NoWYC00XtdCk2oV4YCElPljT0W-wiELPd2mpwag5LqIbNOBV3ei0JJbXZmnAiHCvCwS1BdCIhwCDxBGip3Ax5T66BTKMAzUy5d3SoOREMEfaPrKgFdEmbV1O6CTAVm4oRoOsiq1qYZtJ1rL5WXozq5Suwk2gwa68u0LvxFE8FsDbVdYJ1_Y6gJmQGfQL7Ekv_ojKS5xXvXJbE43s3m_el9eBU3Q3_t7km9ZstuzzftVH_s4iMv6QxyX01hfNT8skOu5JXl8W-dbf7ObYKcv4MdEb_I5WefzPtnFeD3bt3FZ3OVDb6b4U6P7erdF69lWu_67OsR6o1--q-Oy-DwkiB_GXWzQsGL7FC4JyW_9aPlzebQf19tqkRXr3xBOvzCmF17Ho0yXk9jT0eOxiBEfE-YzOsRDEoIQSkjBJJWUY6LGDJExlowxJeVp4KPyTP77Q6-JTGVF1WhzduVLxksongWXaer2sjPa9ikYLgpQr7jti5onAOkZDDSOJpVy-2AFhwEaIz90wDzjdTzQIAhHlI4956wqpzL_TL8B-c3ZAQ]. Bloomberg’s Joe Weisenthal wrote a post about finance normies getting ETH-pilled [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUctuxCAM_JpwI-KZTQ4cKlXtN7SXiIeTRSUQAelq_74ke6iEsLFlzzBjdYU15afaU6novOb63EFFeJQAtUJGR4E8e6fowEYuxYScEo6OckS-zEsG2LQPquYD0H6Y4K2uPsVrghAm0V2J23ibJNfDzU3MCD1SPUgrgA50oZLxF64-nIdoQcEv5GeKgIK617qXjr917KOdx-PRm5DSZiCvvU1bq51EW9C5ehvgTBlhFBOJGWmPLWXAOjp8JTHlzUPBacGLj7qBYd3Ka_uojyuGese7DwFcxz9KhqXj77_H16cv4Rt5dS4mkgnKpJC8pz0bwRhnrJGWW64pc5MkbKJWSumsXTpBtpX15TClavtzMkZZxVRNyg2vtX_ueoNwNZp2c4vbEX19zhC1aTxestaXO5fQ8woRcnPNzbqentBxIBMRYzPmkrHpzodhvHE-oYbsUpuK_6B_IdWmpw]. Generally, a lot of the smartest people I know are getting very excited about Ethereum. Writing this week, I’m a little less ahead of the curve. 
At first, I was a little bummed. I had this whole angle ready to write up, and it got scooped. But the more I thought about it, the more I realized that the fact that all of these people are spreading the word about Ethereum is part of the analysis itself. It’s shifting the narrative.
Before we get started, some important things: 
Disclosure: I am long ETH and plan to get longer. This is not investment advice.
Caveats: There are much smarter people than me on all of this. I recommend that you read and listen to their work, much of which I link to in this piece. This is mainly a bull case. There are obvious risks, many of which I’ll address, but for ones I miss, I asked Twitter for the downsides. Their replies in all their glory:
Also, please, for the love of God, look at what has happened in the crypto markets over the past few days and do your own research before buying anything. With that said… 
Let’s get to it.
Own the Internet
“The most bullish thing for Ether is to be understood.”
Ryan Sean Adams, Bankless
What if I told you about a business with strong network effects and 200x YoY revenue growth that was preparing to offer a 25% dividend and implement a permanent share buyback program? Is that something you might be interested in? 
That’s pretty much Ethereum. It’s one of the most fascinating and compelling assets in the world, but its story is obfuscated by complexity and the specter of crypto. 
Ethereum is so many things at once, all of which feed off of each other. Ethereum, the blockchain, is a world computer, the backbone of a decentralized internet (web3), and the settlement layer for web3. Its cryptocurrency, Ether (ETH), is a bunch of things, too: 
Internet money. 
Ownership of the Ethereum network. 
The most commonly-used token in the Great Online Game [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkNuOhCAMQL9G3sZwdfCBh33Z3zBcqpJRMFjX-PfLOMluAjSlaU96vEWYcrnMlnck72fAawOT4NwXQIRCjh3KEINhHddCyZ4EIwPTSpO4D2MBWG1cDJYDyHa4JXqLMae7g1KuyGw6-nwyFpgbR2VHP7Jec607bwMPzEv64dojREgeDPxAuXICspgZcdsb8dXw73rO82xTRpdLTFPrc_3a6sUZHlMBi4-clphqYlcg0XDKGVVcMq6kEi1ruQbngvNOeeGFZTz0ivKeeaVU8H5sJF0n3u6H29H6VyWspJg_Yi2_5jp6uQt116HG9UgRrwGSdQuEjwb82LzFDBMkKNVyGCy-HTLd0Z5KXUXea1dPouv0U4ieVHLItSv9Q38BHyCMng]. 
Yield-generating. 
A Store of Value (SoV). 
A bet on more on-chain activity, or the web3 future. 
Because Ethereum is so much at once, it’s hard to understand. This post is an attempt to help Ethereum be understood. To a group like us, people interested in technology businesses, finance, and strategy, it’s much more fascinating than bitcoin, but that comes with a tradeoff. It’s much harder to grok than bitcoin, and because of that, it hasn’t gotten the mainstream or institutional attention that bitcoin has. 
Bitcoin is easy. It’s digital gold. It’s a Store of Value (SoV). It just kind of sits there. 
That’s its value prop. It’s immutable and the most decentralized asset in the world. It’s the OG and the hardest to attack. At this point, your bitcoin will not disappear overnight (although this post on Tether [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcuu4yAMhp-m7Ii4pmTB4mzOa0Rc3AY1QATOjPL2Q9vFSJa9sH__1ufgEJ61XfaoHck7rXgdYAv87TsgQiNnh7amaPksjNRqIdGqyI02JPX10QCyS7vFdgI5Tr-n4DDV8lEwJjTZLIMFpBDqbtRdSsNDFH5WngexqDBr-fV1Z0xQAlj4A-2qBchuN8Sj3-TPTfyOCO06sFJXarlyPTsVTPApQ0xnnkLNYwQ3oD4h7VttSFPpKQL96jqNteYe3UWzC1sqQB8mhsfduFlFSZJ9r2NaKC600nLikzDgffTB6yCDdFzERTOx8KC1jiE8borlp5j66Tu68HrfQJotFX1tqTxH-7W5DPunMeCso-azJLxWKM7vEL_c8Iv_Q3J9QoE23hJXh2_o3MxsYcoM8h9OA6ycZzNILmQ4xzpU5b_pP7_NnVc] is illuminating with regards to ways it, and other cryptos including ETH, can be manipulated nonetheless). As long as other people believe in its value, it will continue to be valuable. Technically, upper-case-B-Bitcoin is the blockchain and lower-case-b-bitcoin is the cryptocurrency, but for all intents and purposes, they’re the same. Bitcoin exists to make and track bitcoin. It’s very good at what it does.
Ethereum is so much more than a cryptocurrency. It’s a “world computer,” and the “value layer” of the internet. It lets people build apps and products with money baked into the code. If you believe that web3 is going to continue to grow, then you likely believe that over time, Ethereum will become the settlement layer of a new internet. All sorts of transactions, whether they happen on Ethereum, another blockchain, or even Visa [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcGOrCAQRb-m2WkExNEFi7d5v2GgqO4mrWCgHOPfT-ksJiHckEvVLQ7gCF-5nHbLlcS1zXRuaBMedUEiLGKvWOYYrBzUqE0_iWD7IEcziljnZ0FcXVwslR3FtvslgqOY013RdcqItw1K9toDSj3K4MwArtfBfSkVngYNX7lz3R4iJkCL31jOnFAs9k201Yf-91D_eR3H0dIb_ZLhA-XcKLeQVzauepZpGvTE-h2ra1I-msovWLA2mztXTFSbmJq9BmgqOb8gZD4jdyy4ryJa1SnZGdVLZXqjW9mqEb0PHrwBDdpJFSbTqUmCMSYAPB99t75UW3fPDeFzTSOKTZl8LjG92P683YrLbTCcmXXdU6RzxnRNEH650S_-m-T8woSFvyXMji7ochy6qetHJn9zYrB6GMYvrSfBySFzVfoL_QFou57l], will turn to Ethereum to exchange funds and keep secure, immutable records. A year ago, I wouldn’t have said that. 
Until the past year, a lot of Ethereum’s value existed in a theoretical state, in the ideas of what might be possible on a decentralized global internet. Personally, I viewed it as a kind of more interesting thing that was kind of like Bitcoin but smaller and maybe higher upside? As a result, after buying ETH for fun in the 2017 run-up, I sold all 15 of my remaining ETH in June 2020 once I broke even. Lack of understanding = weak hands. 
As you know, I’m an idiot. Even after the recent drop, those 15 ETH are worth over $30,000. I missed ~10x upside. Not as painful as my $2 million bitcoin mistake [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMmKwzAMQL-mviV4TZ2DD3OZ3whe5NY0sYOXCfn7cVOYAcsCCemhZ3WFR8qn2lOp6P0t9dxBRTjKCrVCRq1AXoJTZKKSCT4jp7gjUkgUyuIzwKbDqmpugPZm1mB1DSleExhTgZ5KgPP8LqWRgNlEvKOazVo4KaUwnOMPVzcXIFpQ8AP5TBHQqp617uXGvm70u7_jOMaYqkk5xMdoUy_tPUIZzJrsy4fBt9oyDMkPPkTdlw0UBUUxJVhQTqjggo1kpBKMccYaYZllmlA3C0xnYoUQzlp_43h70LE0U6q2r47aUFZ_6N5-PfUG69XoRy89by2Gei4QtVnBfXzUj9bL0PKACLnrdouub5lETnjGXHaj1_1dGJsmeWdsRp3sUp-K_9Bf4r2PZQ], but still dumb. To be fair, though, you shouldn’t invest in this stuff unless you understand it, and I didn’t. I’m starting to. 
Between then and now, a few things have happened that flipped me from moderately curious to both very curious and very bullish: 
Use Case Explosion. DeFi, NFTs, and DAOs have emerged as real use cases for crypto, and have grown spectacularly over the past year.
Ultra Sound Money. With the upcoming implementation of EIP 1559, Ethereum will likely become deflationary, knocking out its biggest monetary weakness. 
Eth2. Ethereum is currently running a test chain that will merge with the main Ethereum chain in about six months. When it does, Ethereum will switch from Proof of Work (PoW) to Proof of Stake (PoS), and more value will accrue to ETH holders.
Narrative. The narrative around Ethereum is gaining steam and jumping from crypto people to the mainstream. Last week’s releases from Patrick O’Shaughnessy, James Wang, and Joe Weisenthal came in hot. This essay is one small additional push. 
Right now, Ethereum is at a narrative inflection point, and narrative reflexivity is more important for blockchains than for almost any other company or asset. 
I’m increasingly convinced that ETH will be one of the best assets to own over the next five years, but it’s not guaranteed. There are some major threats, both internal and external. 
Here’s the bull case in a nutshell: 
Owning ETH is like owning shares in the internet. Demand for ETH will go up with increased web3 adoption, while upcoming changes will decrease the supply of ETH and let more value accrue to holders. It’s like a tech stock, a bond, a ticket to web3, and money, rolled into one. 
To make the bull case clear, we’ll need to understand why Ethereum will survive and adoption will grow, how it actually makes money, and the differences between ETH and a tech stock. We’ll cover:
Ethereum is the Excel of Blockchains
How Ethereum Makes Money
Legitimacy and Lindy
L1 Ecosystem 
The Bull Case for Ethereum
Threats, More Caveats, and a Conclusion
For ETH to be worth something, and for the bull case to matter, Ethereum needs to survive and grow. It has faced early challenges and competition from purpose-built blockchains, and this past week was scary. Nothing’s guaranteed. 
To understand why Ethereum isn’t going to die, let’s start with an analogy. 
Ethereum is the Excel of Blockchains
If you’re going to be bullish on Ethereum, the first thing you’ll need to believe is that it will be around for a long time, and that more and more people will continue to use it, and that other people also believe those things to be true.
You’ll be comforted to know, then, that Ethereum is the Excel of blockchains. 
That’s not exactly right. The analogy breaks down in places. But for our purposes, it’s good enough. Start by comparing it to Bitcoin. 
Bitcoin is like a database. That’s what a blockchain is -- a distributed ledger of transactions. The Bitcoin blockchain lets people send each other bitcoin (BTC) and tracks who owns which bitcoin at any given time. It can also reward people for securing the database by giving them BTC for turning electricity into solutions to math problems (Proof of Work or PoW). It does one thing really well: track ownership of bitcoin. 
Bitcoin is kind of like a spreadsheet, and many people compare blockchains to spreadsheets, but that’s not what I mean when I say that Ethereum is like Excel. I mean that the same elements that have propelled Excel for nearly four decades are present in Ethereum, too. 
It starts with flexibility. Ethereum is a Turing complete, programmable blockchain that lets anyone build full-blown applications using smart contracts. People can build all sorts of decentralized apps (dApps) on top of Ethereum, plugging into the blockchain and the surrounding ecosystem to provide everything from security to identity to payments. Decentralized Finance (DeFi) apps, NFT marketplaces, Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs), and games and virtual worlds can all be built on top of Ethereum, all fueled by the native currency, ETH. 
That flexibility is really hard to do. 
In Excel Never Dies [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEmOwyAQRU8TdrEYDMELFtn0NRBDxUHBYAFut2_fxJG6pRqkKv36qudMgzmXQ625NvQuuh0rqAR7jdAaFLRVKDp4RQSVjI8T8mr0RHKJQtWPArCYEFUrG6B1szE400JOpwJjytFTCW7BUAY3xjDBgvgbmdyNYMeIwYLTj6_ZfIDkQME3lCMnQFE9W1vrhd0v9KvHvu9Dys3mEtI8uNxHa0_4cRCv6S279hMVBUUxJZjTkVA-cjaQgUqw1ltnuWOOGUL9xDGdiOOce-celxEvMx3qZmsz7tWPL6ioP7O-fj3NAvFc9Dd178uWQjs0JGMj-A-B9gF5MtEzJCgdsNemvfERKfCER9kZnh93REwI2bFMqDv73FXp3_QXH2KJzQ], Ben Rollert [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuKwzAMRb-mXgY_M87Ci9n0N4wfSmrq2MFRpuTvx2kHBoSEENLVPcEhLLWdZqs7kitZPDcwBV57BkRo5Nih2RQNG7kWSk4kGhmZVpqk3c4NYHUpG2wHkO3wOQWHqZb3BqVckYcRwL1TswRQInCnJ6aE9vMk5xFGIaaPrjtighLAwA-0sxYg2TwQt_0mvm_83gNf6fpoCHXtnYfSas7QkCTDKWdUccm4kkoMbOAavI8-eBVEEI7xOCnKJxaUUjGE-SbpuvBhP_yOLjyvm6SZUtHXlsrSx8-HWyG_B92X7XU9SsLTQnE-Q_xYxg-5NwS7QIHWiUbr8OLF9EgnKrX8s9iZiHHUX5fnrhxr3yr_or8-BoXO] and I wrote about Excel’s staying power in a technology landscape that typically sees new products replace old ones every few years. We wrote: 
If there is a core product design lesson to learn from Excel, it’s that combining usability with flexibility is both incredibly difficult and incredibly rewarding….
A design principle for developers is to make any one piece of software really good at one specific thing, deliberately constraining its capabilities to a specific domain. Excel is a truly remarkable exception to this rule - it is something of a choose-a-phone, and clearly hundreds of millions of people do want to compose for it.
You could replace “Excel” with “Ethereum” and it works perfectly. Ethereum’s early usability challenges are a function of its flexibility. Ethereum is something of a choose-a-phone, and clearly millions of people do want to compose for it. 
Beyond the product philosophy, there are some specific similarities between the two: 
Turing Completeness. If something is Turing complete, it means that it can solve any reasonable computational problem. With the introduction of Lambda, which lets users create their own formulas, Excel became Turing complete. With Ethereum, you can write smart contracts that can solve any reasonable problem.  
Composability. In Excel, “You can chain functions, passing the output of one function as the input to another, allowing for an enormous number of potential computational pipelines. Each time Excel adds a function, the power and flexibility of Excel is multiplied, since that new function can be chained to a large number of existing functions.” This is very similar to the idea of composability, or “X Legos,” on Ethereum. 
Together, Turing completeness and composability mean that you can build smart contracts to compute anything, and then chain them together to build increasingly complex things, more quickly. It takes time to get the engine revving, but it should move quickly once it’s moving. 
That’s exactly what’s happening. After years of building in relative obscurity through the crypto winter, facing doubt that there was any actual use for any of this stuff, 2020 and early 2021 saw an explosion of real use cases for the Ethereum ecosystem. In Ethereum Announces First Quarter 2021 Results [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkkuP2jAUhX8N2Q3yIw5hkQUMoAZBEB0oTDeRHxfikDiZxCmEXz8GKlWV_JB979GRfT7JLZyrpo_qqrXeY0ltX0Nk4NoWYC00XtdCk2oV4YCElPljT0W-wiELPd2mpwag5LqIbNOBV3ei0JJbXZmnAiHCvCwS1BdCIhwCDxBGip3Ax5T66BTKMAzUy5d3SoOREMEfaPrKgFdEmbV1O6CTAVm4oRoOsiq1qYZtJ1rL5WXozq5Suwk2gwa68u0LvxFE8FsDbVdYJ1_Y6gJmQGfQL7Ekv_ojKS5xXvXJbE43s3m_el9eBU3Q3_t7km9ZstuzzftVH_s4iMv6QxyX01hfNT8skOu5JXl8W-dbf7ObYKcv4MdEb_I5WefzPtnFeD3bt3FZ3OVDb6b4U6P7erdF69lWu_67OsR6o1--q-Oy-DwkiB_GXWzQsGL7FC4JyW_9aPlzebQf19tqkRXr3xBOvzCmF17Ho0yXk9jT0eOxiBEfE-YzOsRDEoIQSkjBJJWUY6LGDJExlowxJeVp4KPyTP77Q6-JTGVF1WhzduVLxksongWXaer2sjPa9ikYLgpQr7jti5onAOkZDDSOJpVy-2AFhwEaIz90wDzjdTzQIAhHlI4956wqpzL_TL8B-c3ZAQ], James Wang [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuOhCAQRb-mWRoeorhgMZv5DQNUaZNWMFhOx78ftCeZhPBIpepyTnCEcy6n3fJO7NpGOje0Cd_7gkRY2LFjGSNY0UmjdDswsC0Iow2L-zgVxNXFxVI5kG2HX2JwFHO6OziXmj1tp_o-uGkCpQfeqn7wYMCJXk0dAqrhk-sOiJgCWvzBcuaEbLFPom1_qK-H_K6L3vH6URPyWl9QHNZbTJlFK7kUXMtWSN1q1YhGGvQefPA6qKCckDBoLgcRtNYQwvRo-TrLZj_8Ti68rpms2JTJ5xLTXMuvp1txuQuVa6zneqRI54jJ-QXhg0wfc7eEccaEpRqF0dHlS5iOV2LT_iFWJ6rrTK8qc02GXLvSf-gvXeuF7A] included a Results Table highlighting the year’s progress:
Source: James Wang, Ethereum Announces First Quarter 2021 Results
Those are just absolutely massive numbers across a wide range of use cases. This is not one thing. It’s not just “price go up.” It’s a sign of the momentum and composability in the space, where improvements in one area feed directly into improvements in another: 
Volume traded on Decentralized Exchanges (DEX) like Uniswap increased 76x to from $2.3 billion in Q1 2020 to $177 billion in Q1 2021. 
Total Value Locked, or the amount of ETH staked in DeFi, increased 64x from $800 million to $52 billion. 
Beyond finance, NFT art sales increased 562x from $700k to $396 million. 
Ethereum usage exploded in Q1, and while NFT sales have slowed, partially as a result of high gas fees and partially because the initial euphoria has died down, DeFi is still going strong: 
Source: DeFi Prime [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEluwzAMRU8T7WpodKSFFt30GoIG2hFqS4aGtL59FWdRgCBBfJAf_3nbYM3l1EeuDb2aaecBOsFP3aA1KKhXKCYGTWYqmeAKBc0DkUKiWM1SAHYbN91KB3R0t0VvW8zpusCYCvTQnlEnJcWLYncrgErB-H22AivPhBDz29f2ECF50PCEcuYEaNOP1o56Y583-jUqwBKPEneYfN6v_ffjmbe-A4qaYkqwoJxQwQWbyEQlOBecd8IzzyyhQQlMFfHDMni_3DjeVzrV7mqz_vv1ExWdcnO5xLQO-fthd9guYSQzY-49xXYaSNZtEN6h25vdhcGskKAMpsHY9iJG5IwV5nJgu0IOKmye5Z0xhYZzyOMq_Zv-AQq9hUk]
From May 1st through May 22nd, just Uniswap and Sushiswap, the two largest Ethereum-based DEXes, handled $78 billion in transaction volume. Q2 will blow Q1 out of the water. 
Despite the explosion in activity and transaction volume, though, the question remains: what does that mean for ETH?
How Ethereum Makes Money
I’ve been aware of Ethereum for a long time. I first bought (then sold) ETH in 2017, but it was speculative and I didn’t get it. The big question mark I had with Ethereum was how it made money. How does more activity on top of Ethereum translate into a higher price for ETH?
In the near future, the answer will be that more transactions mean higher yields for ETH holders and a decreasing supply of ETH. But that’s not how it works, yet. 
Let’s start with how it works today, look at the challenges of the current model, the proposed solutions, and what it will look like in the future. 
(Note: For a more in-depth explanation, listen to Justin Drake on Business Breakdowns [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkctq7DAMhp8mXgZfM87Ci0MvdFFoFy09nE3wRZ7xNLGD7bSkT1_PzOKAkISE-H8-WV3hmPKu1lQquqSp7iuoCN9lhloho61AnoJTZKCSCT4ip7gjUkgUyuQzwKLDrGreAK2bmYPVNaR4vcCYCnS6VA_MeGuMIwaod95Iay0TgyZEHm66enMBogUFX5D3FAHN6lTrWjr2p6OPLdIKsS9rqsHvvU1LG8EaSnLQOvHv78_zw_MH4XLUd-f316fz2wvv2GMJHbunjjkvDR4PB8_d6FBQFFOCBeWECi5YT3oqoRk01gjLLNOEulFgOhIrhHDW-o7j5Uj7splStf28OEBZxVRNyiEe2_rzpBeYr4uGYmp12WKo-wRRmxncjVK9wb5ym44QIbcnuEnXC2IiBzxiLhvnK5WGkQ2DPDA2oqbsUruK_0V_AdpnlVA])Today
Today, when you want to transact on Ethereum, you need to use ETH. There are currently around 116 million ETH, and the price is loosely governed by supply and demand. More transactions on Ethereum means more demand for ETH which means higher price, all else equal. 
When you transact, say if you send another person ETH, a few things happen: 
You send 1 ETH and the other person receives 1 ETH
You pay gas fees, say .01 ETH
Your account balance on the chain goes down by 1.01 ETH, theirs goes up by 1 ETH
To keep Ethereum running, it uses a Proof of Work consensus mechanism [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUtuOnDAM_Rp4Kwq5MPDAQ7vd_YK-o-B4hmhCghLTWf6-IWy1UuRL4vgc2Qc04SPEY9xCovo0Ex0bjh5fySERxnpPGCdrxrbjvVByqM0oTdurvrZpukfEVVs3Utyx3vbZWdBkgy8_GOOqXkYQvVQakPEWZxCayeEmGUjkZuhlCxeu3o1FDzjiX4xH8Fi7cSHaUiV-VvwjH6QFI-5rE-LjTH02Jle7sGFMZxLgdBB8Qp_29GNFWLS3aT2vt_AqfcTZ8PaeLeEnVeL3-1ffiiv-dhrm7BNL8MsSBOu_X2CPET25o2R5NrnzG2AkfVWxp_UmlSjci8NMJ6wWSqKJNDxTU_HuC_zPYq_yl3XuqnEplGBbdLpohJ2KX623_lHCewyFMPvPvqntyPOImeKy5Uoq0bQN73GezQyzApEn3-aJK8aHFpRSBuBeSbY-eJP2OZ3EGghrHUcfaA7xRJLsuegVXXnI652yX3dv6ZjQ69mhuTZPl4CKFqYHeoxZWGbSdMqm7Ts2MNln7ZRNZ2mIrutvQgx1RjYh__LfoP8AWMnW8g] to trustlessly agree on the state of the blockchain. Bitcoin also uses Proof of Work, that’s where Ethereum got it from, although Bitcoin mining is able to be run on cheaper hardware and has 20x more miners than Ethereum, and is therefore more decentralized.
PoW achieves the same thing as your bank account balance going up and someone else’s going down when they send you money, except in the place of a centralized bank, there is a distributed network of miners who agree that these transactions occurred and that all balances are updated.
To do it, miners around the world race to solve increasingly difficult cryptographic problems in order to create a new block on the blockchain containing the new transactions. These problems are typically hard to solve -- read: require a lot of energy -- but easy to verify [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUc3OpCAQfJrhphEQxQOH77KvYfhp1IyCC80a334Z5_AlnabTRacqVVYjLDHd6owZyafNeJ-gAlx5B0RIpGRI8-YUHZjkop-IU72jUkiy5dkngENvu8JUgJzF7JvVuMXwXHQdE2RVholR-slb3xsY2aC5HsFZw83kpaD0y6uL2yBYUPAP0h0DkF2tiGd-8Z8X-1Pr0LjGCvo9Xm0ArKu_BfKHLteZDdMohzpcq8bGxuMs-GjRe3OmaHY4cnPFsrvGQLPE6D7r6JtaV0zv308-psam-8RoS0pANsU6RjvBespEL3hLWybBGGesEZZbrilzk-jYRK0QwlnrX313LKzNxWTU9t1WOSSpENHEtIWlwu9VH7A_QPVtru9Rwob3DEFXGe5rKX6TeUyeFwiQamJu1vjJg8qhm7pe1lAeC6vnfBjkyPlEKrOL9Sr8kv4Hvwip7A]. When a block is entered into the blockchain, the transactions in it officially become part of the record. Miners who successfully create a block are rewarded with 2 freshly-minted ETH (down from 5 in the beginning) and all the transaction fees within the block. 
Those transaction fees, called gas, are what people pay to submit transactions to be included in the block. When a user sends someone ETH on Ethereum, or mints an NFT, or does any number of things that need to be validated on-chain, they have to pay a gas fee. That gas fee goes towards incentivizing miners to spend the money required, in the form of hardware and electricity, to solve the puzzle and create the block. 
So currently, the price of Ethereum is based on a combination of supply and demand, and the price it costs miners to secure the blockchain. To participate, you need ETH, and you need to pay the gas. Miners receive ETH in the form of newly-minted supply and your fees. Miners pay for hardware and electricity and taxes, and keep ~5% of their earnings. Today, most of the value accrues to GPU makers, electric utilities, and the government, with the miner’s portion competed down to close to 0.
To learn about how Ethereum makes money, Ultra Sound Money, Legitimacy and Lindy, the L1 Landscape, the Bull Case for Ethereum, and Risks:
Thanks to Anatoly Yakovenko [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OwyAMhU9TlhUYSMmCxWzmGhE_boqSQEScVrn9kHQxkmXLsuzn9wVHOJZ62LVsxM400LGizfjZZiTCyvYN65CiFR0YqVXPolVRGG1Y2oZnRVxcmi3VHdm6-zkFR6nka4Nz0OxluxAlgDN9DygURyFBo3mooINRWj2_um6PCXNAi2-sR8nIZvsiWreb_LnBbwv6pPOjeyhL6xwebipvzFNhyQIHwTUoAVppeRd3MOh99MHrIIN0AmKvOfQiaK1jCM-b4ssI9233G7kwnUdZtbmQLzXlsY2nl1twvgbN2NDqsudEx4DZ-Rnj1zN90V0UhhEz1oY0Do5OYMJ0vOfKNGqXxwZFdp15SNmzphxL28r_on8j8IWa], Ben Sparango [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtuxCAMRb9mWEY8QgYWLLrpbyAeTgY1gQicjvL3JZlFJcuWZdnX9wSHsJR6mr00JFeyeO5gMrzbCohQydGg2hQNm7gSctQkmjEyJRVJzc4VYHNpNVgPIPvh1xQcppLvDUq5JC-jp-ckvHZKCaCj0nx6zhAYZXFmPszio-uOmCAHMPAL9SwZyGpeiHt7iK8H_-6B73R9NISy9c5DzqdPGErKjSTDKWdU8pFxOUoxsIEr8D764GUQQTjGo5aUaxaklDGE-THSbeFDO3xDF36us6SaXNCXmvLSxz8vt8F6D7o12-t25ISnhez8CvHjGj_wbg52gQy1Q43W4YWMqYnqbrpzu112LGKa1FMITbpyLH0r_4v-AcB7hts], Jon Wu [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuOwyAMRb-mLCueKSxYzGZ-A_FwUqYJRMSZKn8_JF2MZNmyLPv6nugRptoOu9YNyZkcHivYAu9tBkRoZN-guZwsG7gWShqSrExMK03y5sYGsPg8W2w7kHUPc44ecy3XBqVckac1LDGpxyHSwXPNmHnEZLweFZWC-Th-dP2eMpQIFn6hHbUAme0Tcd1u4uvGv3vgO58f3WNdevdTy3t3JFtOOaOKS8aVVOLO7lxDCCnEoKKIwjOejKLcsKiUSjGON0mXid-3PWzo4-u8R5otFUNtuUx9_Hr6BeZr0D25Xpe9ZDwcFB9mSB-7-KF2AXATFGidZnIeT1ZMD9RQqTuwy17nIYZBP4QwpCun2rfKv-gfmbiD6Q], and Ryan Sean Adams [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEuOgzAMhk_TLFGeNCyy6GYOMHMAlIehUSFBiZmK20-gi5EsW5Zl__4_bxHmXA6z5YrkTCMeG5gE77oAIhSyVyhjDIb1XAslBxKMDEwrTWIdpwKw2rgYLDuQbXdL9BZjTtcGpVyRp4GJAaP2rvldCSsth8HKnilwnrOJTx9du4cIyYOBXyhHTkAW80Tc6k08bvyrBb7j-VHn89q678Omn0ewayXRcMoZVVwyrqQSHeu4BueC80554YVlPAyK8oF5pVTwfrpJus68q7uraP3rvEmKSRldLjHNbfx62hWWa9B8ja2ue4p4jJCsWyB8LOOH3AVhnCFBaUTDaPHkxXRPByp1g3ZZbExE3-u7EANpyiG3rfQv-gf7O4V8] for input, and brother Dan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uhDAMhU8zWaL8MmGRRTe9Bkpsw0QDCQqhFbdvYBaVLFuWZT-_D3ylOZfTbXmv7EpjPTdyiX73hWqlwo6dyhjRiV5aZfTA0GkU1lgW93EqRKuPi6vlILYdYYnga8zp3uBcGvZy-CQvwD9hIBGk0Dog9cGi0H6a1IQfXX9gpATk6IfKmROxxb1q3faH-nrI7xb1N14fdZDX1qFfAXJZI7yFYtFJLgU3UgtptFGd6KSlEDBAMKBAeSFxMFwOAowxCDA9NF9n2e1H2KuH93WWFZdyDbnENLfx--VXWu5Bsza2uh4p1nOk5MNC-HFdP_BuDuNMiUqDiqOvFzJhez5wbRu322XDovrePpUaWFPG3LbSv-gfrC-Hfw] for editing!
How did you like this week’s Not Boring? Your feedback helps me make this great.
Loved [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxF0M1qxCAQB_CnicegTsbEg4dC6WsEP2Z3pYkGNS15-7q7h4Kj4DD8h5-3je65XObItbHntbbrIJPot27UGhV2ViprDEYouQBOmgUzBbHgwmJdb4Vot3EzrZzEjtNt0dsWc3pNcC6RPYxyTs7qZq32Yvaco_WWAqCVYCURvHPtGSIlT4Z-qFw5EdvMo7WjDvAxyK9-6ll-6Krjc6ON7DHG3H9nhQqhF4cFb7MGCXqmGZRWE1gQAIAwAR_gqwzwiSwayaXgKCchcUIYxSgXci4479CDBytk0MilFh4Rg_e3YeL7XY71dLVZ_z36vLNiUm4ul5juvf39sDttr0ZXWPu7nym2a6Vk3UbhDdTezi-y9U6JSvcPq21PXbEorvm0dOIXSBcEpZYZQLOeHHKfSv-hf45AkAo] | Great [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxF0M1qxCAQB_Cnicegjho9eCiUvkbwY3ZXmmhQ05K3r7t7KDgKDsN_-AXX8V7qZY_SOnlea78OtBl_24a9YyVnw7qmaJniGqQwJFoRmZaapLbeKuLu0mZ7PZEcp99ScD2V_JqglEvysFJjvHG2UAZu8QswT42RIXjjueRUvXPdGRPmgBZ_sF4lI9nso_ejTfAx8a9x2ll_8Grzc6MN3TGnMn4XJZWEURS0vC0GOJgFF1BGCXDAAECCADrBV53gU5BkOeWMSi4Yl0LCzGau0fvog5cBAjjGo5GUGxaklDGE2yTofudzO33rLnzPoeyk2ly6LzXl-2h_P9yO26sxFNbx7mdO_VoxO79hfAP1t_OLbL1jxjr84-r6U5dpRQ0VehC_QIYgKKUXAENGcixjKv-H_gE2QI76] | Good [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxF0M2K5CAQB_CniceglpWYg4eFYV4j-FHplkk0qJklb79292FBLbAo_sXP20aPXG5z5trY61nbfZJJ9Lfu1BoVdlUqawxGTFIDqoUFo4LQqFms61aIDht308pF7LzcHr1tMaf3BOcS2dNwRRRo81YjB2eFDEKgc8LhZr2Q_pNrrxApeTL0S-XOidhunq2ddYA_g_zup17ll-46vjbayZ5jzP13nnBC6JeDxm1eQMIy0wzTMimwIAAAQQEf4LsM8AUsGsml4CiVkKgQRjFKTc4F5x168PDacEEuF-ERMXi_DYofDznWy9Vm_c_o88GKSbm5XGJ69PbP0x60vxtdYe31uFJs90rJup3CB6h9nN9k64MSle4fVtteukJPfOFKd-I3SBeEadIzwMJ6csh9Kv0P_Qe9zJAt] | Meh [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxF0M2K5CAQB_Cniceglho9eFgY5jWCH5VumUSDmlny9mt3HxYsBYviX_yC6_go9bZnaZ28rrXfJ9qMf9uOvWMlV8O6pmiZ4hqkMCRaEZmWmqS2bhXxcGm3vV5IzsvvKbieSn5PUMoleVoVtd6coc5vjgkuzQJiC9qLgJHHwD657ooJc0CLv1jvkpHs9tn72Sb4M_HvcdpVf_Fu82ujHd05pzJ-FyWVhFEUtNwWAxzMggsoowQ4YAAgQQCd4LtO8MVJspxyRiUXjEshYWYz1-h99MHLAAEc49FIyg0LUsoYwjYJejz43C7fugs_cygHqTaX7ktN-THaP0934P5uDIV1vMeVU79XzM7vGD9A_eP8JlsfmLEO_7i6_tJlWlFDhR7Eb5AhCErpBcCQkRzLmMr_Q_8BbviP8g] | Bad [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuKxCAQRb8mLoNaaszCxcDQvxF8VHfLJBrU9JC_Hzu9GKgHVHG5l-Ntw0cup9lzbeQ9lnbuaBL-1hVbw0KOimWJwTDFNUgxk2BEYFpqEutyL4ibjatp5UCyH26N3raY06WglEvyNEF1qXDMefBOSg5UiztTyvrJBu3w42uPEDF5NPjCcuaEZDXP1vY6wNfAb73qUV541vGdaEW7jzH366SkktCbgpb3aQYO84QTqFkJsMAAQIIAOsCtDPDNSDScckYlF4xLIWFkI9foXHA9XY8IlvEwS8pn5qWUwfv7IOj24GM9XG3W_4w-b6SYlJvLJaZHf_887Ybr9egUlr63I8V2LpisWzF8ALUP5wvZ8sCEpfMPi21vukwrOlOhO-ILSCcISukJYCbdOeSuSv-mf-UNj4g]
Thanks for reading and see you on Thursday,
Packy

Unsubscribe https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkt1uozAQhZ8mXCJsY4ovuFglTUq2JFq1mya5Qf4ZEhcwLJiy8PR1EmlXsuzRjGaOdb6R3MKl6aakbXrr3a7cTi0kBsa-Amuh84YeulyrBEU4JjRknkpChWIae7rPiw6g5rpKbDeA1w6i0pJb3Zh7RxBg6l0TxASiQqIYYU6KIoyeioCzGIdEAlMFPHT5oDQYCQl8QTc1BrwquVrb9gvyY4HX7ozj6JvGiqbT5uLLxqW4vIm5QOmeiwry-28WZG2bEsyCrGDaIokP0xFXZfrZ_N19pmE2_w72b6OWGzarNWvPyzTK5hPer-SczWWf1tVV3XLvpyl7v-BsVY675aj5cTe7GVq-HPTr-_OYrVKUajeHHPQtf95U8-lj258PrBIf61Yst8wfV0hFr0eE_pjTz-3XRo_7KyW_jvNbvkxNBy95gA4jftbD6OkEBxgFFIcI05ASH_k4BiGUkIJKIglHWDEaYIYkpVRJWSzCoL5gvx9Eb7ksnSu11yX_XHLl8sprqO4Fxyd3bz0YbacczM0x9UBnHxtwty-_gIHObYbKub1xR3EUsCCMHfw7KseWRFH8RAjznLJqXJf5L_oNr0DKNw