# Podz & The Future of Audio

**From:** Not Boring <notboring@substack.com>
**Date:** Thu, 28 Jan 2021 13:55:56 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/Podz & The Future of Audio_Thu,_28_Jan_2021_13-55-56_+0000_1774948d75219da9.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:05.642308

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkEluhDAQRU_T3oHwxLDwoje5hmVwAVaDTexyR-T0cdNSokg1LL6qvv6bDMIS4qmOkJC8hsbzAOXhK22ACJHkBFE7q2jLei7FQKwSlvayJy7pOQLsxm0KYwZy5HFzk0EX_HXRNEySVQnoBuhkO3DbtfPMOtqZgVopuOCNmOTb12TrwE-g4AnxDB7IplbEI934_cY-SvmAY4jOL3XKY0IzPeop7EU4Xh3sd2W8rXCFas6YI1Rhrl5fA3GKNYw2lPWUSynbmtaTeIJ8fKLk4SaafWH_npKoft2K_FjNDtsllIy67D17h6cGb8YN7Ds-vileQPQCHmKha7XBwo7SXjAqW1EAXnELH04H0RcqpDjbUK78n-kPaDeLIg

Welcome to the 520 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since Monday! If you aren’t subscribed, join 31,634 smart, curious folks by subscribing here:
🎧  Listen to my interview with Podz CEO Doug Imbruce on Podz [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtuhDAMRb9mskTkSVhk0U1_A-VhmGggoYmZin59U1hUsmxLln19j7cISy6n2XNF8pcmPHcwCb7rCohQyFGhTDEYqpjmUowkGBGolprEOs0FYLNxNVgOIPvh1ugtxpyujb5nkjyN6ilzs5KaBa6kF8oF0IMLo2Wj5zDfuvYIEZIHA28oZ05AVvNE3OuDfzzYZ4s9_NTO59axmVI-2lkHO4swWz3o0Q58GJRjlNL2mmE9o01XUy6lVB3tvHiDfH2h5Pkh-m1hXT1cRetf7eZGikkZXS4xLW38etoN1mvQTE2tbkeKeE6QrFsh3H7xxnYRmBZIUBrOMFlssNoXglGpRCN2-WtAOB2FViMnTTnktpX-RX8BRC6C9Q]
Hi friends 👋 ,
Happy Thursday!
Every week, I record an audio edition of Not Boring. Typically the morning of the newsletter, I wake up at 5:30am, head to the basement, record, edit, pick music for, and publish a version of the essay that I read out loud. I have a face for radio and a voice for Twitter, but I like doing the audio version because it lets me give you another way to consume these essays that I spend so much time on.
Thing is, while anywhere between 30k - 100k people read each essay (thanks for sharing!), about 1,500 max listen to the audio version, despite the relative ease of consumption. A big part of the reason for the delta? Podcast discovery sucks.
Today, I’m writing about Podz [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OwyAMhU9TllH4S8iCxWzmGogEN0UlQMHpKHP6ocliJMuWbD0_fW-xCGsqh86pIvk0g0cGHeGnBkCEQvYKxXin6cAUl2IiTgtHlVTEV3MvAJv1QWPZgeR9Dn6x6FM8FX3PJHloZUfKFbd2Gicx0slSLuldqlG6fpzv7PK1u_MQF9DwhnKkCCToB2KuN_51Y9-tgq8IEVNO7rdb0tZWNmfiNesZ7SlT7a-UQ0e7RbxBPl8oebqJfltZV_e5ol2eHx0pOiacU_Fxbefnw24QzkMDMG1ue_R4GIh2DuAuNrwiOmnNChFKi84Ziy0YSpVgVA6ipXOyNHhOJ6GGiZPm7FJTxX_TP6Myfoc], a company whose product I believe has the potential to change that. This is the first time I’ve written a sponsored deep dive about a consumer social product - all of the rest have been fintech or investing-adjacent - because I assume that if you’re the kind of person who takes the time to read Not Boring once or twice a week, you want to learn new things. I think Podz is going to make it a lot easier to find new audio content on the subjects you want to learn about, and make it easier for the people who, like me, spend hours behind a microphone recording.
Podz only ask out of this is that you try the Podz Beta:
And fill out this survey with your feedback:
To encourage you to give feedback, Doug has generously offered to donate $10 to the charity of my choice for every Not Boring reader who fills it out. I chose Alzheimer’s Foundation of America [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtuxCAM_JrlGPFOcuDQS38DQfBm0RJIwdkq_frS7KGSZcsejcYzi0NYSz3NXhqSv2bx3MFk-G4JEKGSo0G1MRim-SSUnEkwMrBJTSQ2e68Am4vJYD2A7IdPcXEYS74YlHJFHkYz7Uc9as6Zl2KkVMHM-pFSD3r08NZ1R4iQFzDwgnqWDCSZB-LebuLjxj97ufRzD3kode0LiYZTzijjExNKKT2wYZEvUM8vVKLcJN1WPrTDN3TLc1jKRqrJBX2pMa8dfj7cBukC-t-2z-3IEU8L2fkE4W0J38lcJu0KGWpPLFiHPQ_GJsmZ0rKHclnongWb5aRnQbpyKJ2V_0V_AVXRels], because my grandmother suffered from Alzheimer’s, and to me, one of the best parts of audio is that it captures and preserves memory.
As always, I’m letting you know how I’m getting paid: today is a CPM deal.
I’m excited about this one. Let’s get to it.
Podz & The Future of Audio
Getting on Audio’s Wavelength
I have heard the future of audio, and no, this isn’t another Clubhouse piece. I’m talking about Podz [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uxCAMhU8zLKPwl4YFi256DUTAk6AQSMGZKj19mWRRybIlW0_P33MWYc7l1HuuSN7N4LmDTvBTIyBCIUeFYoLXdGAjl0IRr4WnoxxJqOZZADYbosZyANmPKQZnMeR0KfqeSbLoj8k78Jz5QQiQbFLuqTwMaqDAmVDy9rWHD5AcaHhBOXMCEvWCuNcH_3ywr1YxVISEec_-t3N5aysSNOsZ7SkbKZdSDh3tnHiBXL9R8vwQ_Tazrh5TRevWt4gUnTJOuYQ0t_O62A3idWjfmza3IwU8DSQ7RfA3GN75XKhmhgSl5eaNxZYKpaNgVDY2dYM0ck6VGAfFSXP2uanSv-kf_Qp-PA]. Its solution, ten years in the making, has a legitimate shot at solving audio’s biggest challenge.
It’s bizarre that the social audio opportunity is still up for grabs. Talking is the oldest form of communication, but while text-, photo-, and video-based consumer social each have both casual and quality winners, audio just joined the party in 2020. Clubhouse has taken the lead in casual social audio, but Podz is going after what I think may be the bigger prize: building the quality social audio feed that surfaces the best content we humans create with our voices.
In April, I wrote one of my first Not Boring essays, Wackos and ZoomGlüts [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkM1uwyAQhJ8m3GLxYyx84NBLX8PCsDgoGBxYJ3KfvtSRWlUCVmg0O5rPGoQll0NvuSL5eSY8NtAJXjUCIhSyVyhTcJoNXAnZj8Tp3jElFQl18gVgNSFqLDuQbZ9jsAZDTqeDUi7JTfORU0_9TL0dhaSeG89AzNxT5TgD-841uwuQLGh4QjlyAhL1DXGrF_Fx4Z_tpIxzLiEtXd3nisbeO5vXJmztvto316tJ7vqV87pErCRoTjmjjCsmpJRDxzrbP0HeHyhFvvR0Xfi_XaTo35Am329mhXgKrdrU5rqngMcEycwR3Ls1vuGdHKYFEpQG1U0GGzLGVM-ZHPrG7WzZsAg29moYBWnJLjdX-gv9BqLBiRg], in which I used an old episode of Hey Arnold to explain why, at the same time:
It was so hard for podcasts and virtual events to stand out, and 
The buzziest startup around was one that combined podcasts and virtual events. 
I was talking, of course, about Clubhouse [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OgzAMhU_TLFGcHwYWWcym14hC4kKmkDDBFHH7SeliJMuWbD09f887wjGX06x5I_Zuls4VTcJjm5EIC9s3LDYGA63opFY9C0YF6HTH4mYfBXFxcTZUdmTrPszRO4o5XQrOhWaTcaID7DmGIH3vHhxASgQ3aAdcfz2Gj6_bQ8Tk0eALy5kTstlMROt2k983ca91HEfzk2Py8z5Muf7V-LzUPYtGcAEcqo_UWrcNNF69UD9_Sct8U3wZRbPtw0bOP98iVkzKNOQS01jPz8ktOF-HimDrXPYU6bSY3DBj-NDRJ6SL146YsNTwgnVUowHolADdqprPRVPxJfSqa3vJqnPIVZX-Tf8AmEyAHw], the drop-in audio chat app that launched in March.
It seemed crazy then. At the beginning of the quarantine, any brand, community, or family with a Zoom connection was hosting free events. Zoom fatigue set in fast and hard. Meanwhile, I wrote, “At a time when podcast listening is down by 25%, Amazon sold out of podcast mics. Production is increasing even while demand plummets.”
Source: Chartable, Twitter
No commute meant less time to listen to podcasts, but more time stuck inside and more uncertainty about job prospects meant more people wanted to try their hand at making podcasts, hence a podcast supply glut. Our earholes weren’t wide enough to let everything in. 
Clubhouse cut through the noise. By limiting invitations to a small group of tech Twitter illuminati, it manufactured exclusivity at a time when every other organization on earth was begging people to come to their free online event/happy hour/conversation/panel. 
“While everyone else is begging ‘please!,’” I wrote, “Clubhouse is telling them ‘no.’ It’s the one velvet rope in a world of two-for-one happy hours hawked by overeager promoters.”
It worked. In May, Clubhouse announced [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEuOgzAMhk9DlihPCIssRhr1GigQl0ZAwgTTDrcfly5GsvxIZP_2N3qEKZfTbXlH9nY9nhu4BK99AUQo7Nih9DE40UirjO5YcDoIayyLe38vAKuPi8NyANuOYYmjx5jT1cG5NOzhGqu71kNQd5Bacz6EcdDt4I2gRJnw0fVHiJBGcPCEcuYEbHEPxG2v1Fclb2T4iu-N6jGvVPkFfsucU_GBqh09HjslQjZCyaZttW2tFVoKXqnb4tNUqW9ILDrJ6U1IK5QxpqlFPeonmPkHjcqV5usk6_0YaOA4v6VYcSnjkEukEZrPD7_Ccn3QuT3F9UgRzx6SHxYIHxL4AXqx6SdIUAh06D0SRiEsbWUaTSyvywmVEp22TacYKYdMXelf9A8Iaoxq] a $12 million, a16z-led Series A that valued the company at $100 million. The company was still in beta, had a couple thousand users, and no revenue. Thinkpeople were flummoxed. 
But here we are, nine months and eight decades’ worth of quarantine later, and Clubhouse just raised a fresh $100 million Series B, once again led by a16z [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEtuxCAQRE8z7GLxtfGCRTa5hsWnx4PGBgfaEzmnD_YsIqFqpKK76OctwpzLYbZckZwy4bGBSfBTF0CEQvYKZYrBsJ5roeRIgpGBaaVJrNO9AKw2LgbLDmTb3RK9xZjT1UEpV-Rh4O6C5oIyEQav1KDcQJnno7bMuXHw71y7hwjJg4EXlCMnIIt5IG71Jj5v_Ksdy_rfzue1XTnlrBV6CpdNYnpBxZjmj5g-_LK7R24fbwaJ5nxMGddMKKX6jnVevkA9v1GJfJN0nXlXd1fR-uc5nhSTMrpc2rRmPx92heUy2n5Tq-ueIh4TJOsWCO_V8U3wgjHNkKA0smGy2LgxpiVnqpcN3rVqYyPYKHU_CtKSQ25d6T_0D_JShtw], this time valuing the business at $1 billion. This time, out of beta, with 2 million users, and plans for creator-focused revenue generation, people get it.
Clubhouse’s success is remarkable, but it isn’t unique in the world of audio. In fact, after an early-pandemic dip, podcasts have come roaring back. Listening is up dramatically, all of the usual suspects are spending hundreds of millions on content, and more people are recording themselves talking than ever before. 
Despite that, spoken-word audio is in the early innings of digitalization and monetization:
Podcast ad revenue is projected [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcmOwyAMhp-m3IjClpADh7nMa0QsTosaIAOkmbz90PQwkuVFlv1bn62ucE_5VFsqFb3dXM8NVISjrFArZLQXyLN3igxUMsEn5BR3RAqJfJmXDBC0X1XNO6BtN6u3uvoUr4m-pwI9FIyjc4uzctB04ZaM0nHB2CCMHTkx5qOrd-chWlDwgnymCGhVj1q3cmNfN_rd7DiOTv_6VDqbQqu35KwuFZu9-AilYJNS8PGOFzhw0M93GtqiEzsx9D3pDRZMLpiPdMFmmRxmoKUDM41cyu5Rw4q8oj0lPaGSMCHE0JHO8heI508VLN14H-60K7spVdvn-w6UVUzVpNzUWvv50AHWq9FozC2GPfp6zhC1WcF9QNUP7wvdfIcIuf3Bzbo2yoRITokYeEN9gWkkGZm4HCaGmrJLbSr-i_4BbDmYhA] to grow 10x faster than the next closest medium over the next five years, and even then, it will bring in less than 10% of what radio does. 
A tiny minority of podcasters take home the vast majority of the listens and dollars.
Clubhouse and Twitter Spaces are pushing audio-only public conversations forward. 
Companies like Otter and Descript are making it easier than ever to capture and transcribe all sorts of conversations. 
And still, spoken word audio discovery is an absolute disaster. It’s one of the things holding podcasts back. 
That’s what Podz [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uxCAMhU8zLKPwl4YFi256DUTAk6AQSMGZKj19mWRRybIlW0_P33MWYc7l1HuuSN7N4LmDTvBTIyBCIUeFYoLXdGAjl0IRr4WnoxxJqOZZADYbosZyANmPKQZnMeR0KfqeSbLoj8k78Jz5QQiQbFLuqTwMaqDAmVDy9rWHD5AcaHhBOXMCEvWCuNcH_3ywr1YxVISEec_-t3N5aysSNOsZ7SkbKZdSDh3tnHiBXL9R8vwQ_Tazrh5TRevWt4gUnTJOuYQ0t_O62A3idWjfmza3IwU8DSQ7RfA3GN75XKhmhgSl5eaNxZYKpaNgVDY2dYM0ck6VGAfFSXP2uanSv-kf_Qp-PA] is working to fix, and the product is magical. Podz uses machine learning to pull the best clips from podcasts and deliver them to listeners in personalized feeds. Whenever you hear “machine learning” or “AI,” you should be skeptical, and I was too, until Podz sent me three clips of my own podcast. It picked highlights better than I could myself, pulling out the thesis from each (here [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEFuhDAMRU8zWSLsJBQWWXTTa6CQGCYaSGhipqKnb4ZZVLJsS1_213_OMi0pn2ZPhcWrjXzuZCL9lJWYKYujUB6DN9BhL7UahDfKQ697Eco4Z6LNhtVwPkjsx7QGZzmkeF20LWpxN9rOs9MtqA-QpLAFJNd1SFZKNUts37728IGiI0NPymeKJFZzZ97LTX7e8KvW7n9L41LdpBwQCdQAH07ZyQ-vbwRutv2As0IRDLYI1akHqbXuGmicepJ-fLOW6ababcGmHFNh6x715yayiYmnlENcqvy4243WS6ihxjq3IwY-R4p2Wsm_8_Ib20VgXChSrjj9aLnCAugVgu5UJXblq0AkDKrvBimqs0_1Kv6b_gGfEYJo], here [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM2OhCAQhJ9mOBpAUDxw2Mu-BuGndcgouNDOxn36ZfWwSYcmqRRFfd4iLLmces8Vyd9h8NxBJ_iuKyBCIUeFYmLQbOCql2IiQYvAlFQkVjMXgM3GVWM5gOyHW6O3GHO6HJRySZ7aC0_DyMZJ0Zl6N9qZCcrpyCdnJyrUnWuPECF50PCGcuYEZNVPxL0--o8H_2yzh5_a-dxuzTXPs2PBKSeUHxRw4KOFHlgYBt--pjnljDKuWC-lHDrWefEG-fpC2eeHoNvCu3q4ita_2psbKTpldLnEtDT59bQbrJfQSpm2tyNFPA0k61YId1-8sV0EzAIJSsMZjMUGizElOJODaMSufg1IzyahhqknLTnk5kr_ob8u84MT], and here [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uxCAMhU8zLCPM3yQLFt30GhEBJ4MmgRScqdLTl2YWlSzb0pP99D7vCJdcTrvnSuyvjXTuaBN-1xWJsLCjYhljsGBEL7UaWLAqQK97Fus4F8TNxdVSOZDtx7RG7yjmdF1wLjR7WK-D8D5I76WY_B2CUdqpEIZhMDNo_fZ1R4iYPFp8YTlzQrbaB9Feb_LjJj5b7eGndj63jYvJzYrrOwelxN07CDB7oY2RZp55YNEKLoCD6EFqrU0HnVcv1M8v0jLfFN8W0dVjquT8s_3cWLEp05RLTEuTnw-34XoJLdTY5nakSOeIyU0rhndeemO7CIwLJiwNZxgdNVgAvRKgjWrErnwNiIRB9WaQrDmH3K7Sv-kvXoKC_g]). It was so good that I thought the team had done it manually and e-mailed the founder and CEO, Doug Imbruce to confirm:
I think that Podz, which is launching its beta today, has the chance to be something special. Like the Clubhouse founders, the Podz team has been working on social products together for over a decade, and like Clubhouse, it’s building a product that stands out in a sea of audio. The first iteration of the product, like a TikTok feed for audio, solves a challenging podcast discovery problem. The underlying tech has the potential to transform audio consumption far beyond podcasts. 
Most of the sponsored posts I write focus mainly on the sponsor company, but Doug asked me to write up my views on audio more generally, and to help think through how Podz fits into the audio landscape. That fits with Podz’ (is there an s after the ’ if the word ends in z?) ethos. 
The team realizes it’s going after one of the few remaining large untapped opportunities in social, and that it needs to continually improve the product to capture the prize. In fact, Podz’ (going with it) big ask from all of you is to fill out a survey to help the team improve Podz. Download the Podz app here (iPhone only):
Then complete the survey: 
Today’s deep dive won’t be like the others. We’re going to go deep down the earhole to cover: 
The State of Audio in 2021.
Audio’s Challenges. 
Casual and Quality Winners. 
Podz and Human-Machine Pairs. 
The Opportunitiez for Podz. 
Podz is the best solution I’ve seen to one of the hairiest, longest-standing challenges in tech: audio discovery. 
The State of Audio in 2021
Note: to keep things simple, when we talk about audio, we’re talking about audio other than music unless otherwise stated. 
After a rough start, 2020 turned out to be a fantastic year for podcasts. Remember that chart from a couple minutes ago? The one where podcasts fell off a cliff? 
Source: Chartable
Turns out, that was a blip, a short pause in a line that otherwise climbed up and to the right. According to Chartable [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEuOrDAMRVdTmYHy7zDIoCdvGygkhooKEl5iaLH7TlGDlixblnV97eMdwpLLZfdckbzTiNcONsFPXQERCjkqlDEGyzQ3QsmBBCsDM8qQWMe5AGwurhbLAWQ_pjV6hzGnW0EpV-RpTXD8Sw2SDrMCrcNshHM0MOa053TWH193hAjJg4UTypUTkNU-Eff6EN8P_q_F6UoEvHqft3cX95Z9PmPo2NBxymkXt9157FytUOsGCbs9B-8qdmusCCmmpWNcSCO5lLTJSbRNyCjjhgmllO5Z7-UJ6vUflcgPSbeF9_WYKjr_ejuTYlPGKZe2q41fT7fBeg_a92Or25EiXiMkN60QPmDww_dGNS6QoDTuYXTYqDLWrmFKy4b2BtHICTZIowdBmnPITZX-TH8B9bKSVQ], podcast downloads of the 13,000 shows it tracks increased by 189% between January and the end of October. 
This isn’t a new trend. In May 2019, a16z, who’s, like, obsessed with audio… 
… wrote an in-depth report on the state of podcasting, called Investing in the Podcast Ecosystem in 2019 [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkN1uwyAMhZ-m3DUKvyIXXOxmrxERcFPUBDJwOmVPPzedNMmyLdnmcL7gEeZSD7eVhuyVRjw2cBm-2wKIUNneoI4pOm6ElVoNLDoVudWWpTbeKsDq0-Kw7sC2fVpS8JhKPi_6Xmh2d1ZaYyBEHwcvvImT1kbdDIjhpoMG9db1e0yQAzh4Qj1KBra4O-LWLvLjIj4pPDc_XSgrtaLnA5Vev3pJaSsx-IZXCKUdDWG9pvyEhinP179llpzoBe-5sFxq-kPHu6CeoB9fqGW5qH6dRdf2qaEPj5cQqy4XnEqlV2j8uPsVlnNATkeq654THiNkPy0Q3xDwzfLEMs6QoRLjOHokgpxbJTi5J4ynaaIk-aCsGSQj5VjoKv-L_gK1rYp-]. It’s a couple of years old now, but it’s worth reading for a deeper dive into podcasting’s history and landscape. In the report, a16z used data from Edison Research and Triton Digital to point out that, for the first time, more than half of Americans over the age of 12 had listened to a podcast. Edison and Triton’s 2020 Infinite Dial [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkdtqxCAQhp9mvUvwELPJhReFttDbHq6D0UkiazTVSZd9-7pZSkHmwM_MP3wajTDHdFNbzEjuYcDbBirANXtAhET2DGlwVrGWd0I2PbGqsayTHXF5mBLAqp1XmHYg2z56ZzS6GI4JSrkki9JGwiiAnq2R596Kc9vKsZlGfraCCgsPX71bB8GAgh9ItxiAeLUgbifxdOKv5V2v1xqsyzEkyKCTWWoT17uwVSYGhICl2Tcftc2l4pTTkqgo4XOB6i1MLjiE6tlpX93V6qv-qKuXY2f1_rd0sxNxquiMMt4xIaVsa1ab5gfk5RuliKeGrjOv8z5m1OZyP4MkFSKOMbkwF_my6BX8IRQoQ8nrXrxvAwQ9erAPXvjAfhAcZgiQynfYQWOBzVjXcCbbphA_-BSggvVN1_aCFGcby1T4N_0F82OaXA] report showed that number continuing to grow. 
Source: Infinite Dial, Edison Research & Triton Digital
As of March 2020, 155 million Americans have ever listened to a podcast. 104 million people listened monthly and 68 million listened weekly, and those weekly listeners listened to an average of six podcasts for an average total of 6 hours 39 minutes per week. 
That sounds like a lot, but the average American listens to the radio for 11.9 hours and watches 28 hours of TV per week. 
Podcasts also severely lag radio and TV in terms of monetization, which speaks to the opportunity in front of the industry.
The global radio advertising industry is a $35 billion industry [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkN1uwyAMhZ-m3DUKfw1ccLGbvUZEwE1RCWRAmuXt56WTJiFjY_sc8TnbYM7lMGuujfyGsR0rmAR7jdAaFLJVKGPwht6Y4lJo4o3wVElFQh3vBWCxIZpWNiDrNsXgbAs5nRt9zyR5GO2nnoLQd-kGxe8aPHhnGdfDoJQf_NvXbj5AcmDgBeXICUg0j9bWeuEfF_aJZ9_3rjaUx9C5vODTXxlcxYINTIsBkznmycZrsT7kq_Woh0MhzVf4XiH50LYCOEaCYT2jPWWKcinlraOdEy-Qz68meb6IfplZV7cJXdzz15EUk3KbckExbD8fdoF4NvDrI97LlkI7Rkh2iuDfVNob7slpnCFBQeh-tA2RUqoEo_ImkOtJAbFxqoW6aU7Q2WfcSv-mP40elAA]. Based on the earnings of the top 10 radio stations in the US [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkU2u4yAQhE8TdljmzzYLFrOZa1ht6MQoGDy4_aLcfnAy0kgIEEVRzdceCB-lvt1eDmLXNNN7R5fxdSQkwsrOA-scgxODnJTRlgWng5jMxOIx3yviBjE5qiey_VxS9ECx5I-j76VhqxNiVGHAXhvrvQjGWO1l6M2oINz1Yr-5cIaI2aPDH6zvkpEltxLtN_XrJn-38Xq9upiPGLBCiKXzZWunVwWXSGXnzxgPft_4tU_FQ-KfmzxmXtur-UR-L5XT2gxQKfqE8ygDBDDAh1EuXAi0HBajuVB2UCP0woPtVtoSi072UvRCTkIZY4ZOdF7_oHn-IaPKTffbQ3bHuRwE_nlVx6rLhZZSY340-bnChukjNFBzW7czR3rPmGFJGL4M6duKD9X5gbl9ljDMQK0BQkxaCjNo_Y9Zg6yE1dNgFWvJoTRX_h_6Fz39oPA], spoken word radio stations (news/sports) account for 57% of revenues. Applying that same percentage to the overall market, spoken word audio advertising is a $20 billion market before applying any sophisticated data or targeting. 
Worldwide TV ad spend is five times larger than radio, coming in at $166 billion in 2019. 
By contrast, podcasting is still tiny. PWC estimates $812 million in podcast ad revenue globally for 2020, but projects that that number will grow at a 22% CAGR through 2024, at which point it expects the industry to generate $1.7 billion in ad revenue. 
Today, time and ad money spent on podcasts is smaller but faster-growing than radio and TV. 
One of the main reasons for podcasts’ growth has been that it’s just easier and better to listen to audio on-the-go.AirPods, and AirPods Pro, have been a game-changer for the industry. Sales have nearly 6x’ed since their first year on market in 2017, and if this growth keeps up, they will be Apple’s third-largest product line by revenue next year. 
2020 is based on Bernstein’s estimate
AirPods, and high-quality wireless headphones more broadly, make it easy for anyone to listen to podcasts during whatever they’re doing. Unlike TV, which requires most of your attention, you can listen to podcasts while doing pretty much anything else -- working, working out, cooking, cleaning, falling asleep, commuting, or scrolling Twitter. 
The biggest tech and media companies recognize the opportunity in podcasting and have been aggressively buying up tech and content plays in the space. Spotify is leading the charge, but Amazon, Twitter, and Apple, on the tech side, and The New York Times, Sirius XM, and iHeartMedia on the media side, have acquired companies in the space over the past year. 
To learn about audio’s challenges, how Podz plans to use humans and machines to solve them, some potential applications of the tech, and a glimpse into the future of audio:
Try out the Podz Beta yourself to discover what you should be listening to:
And please fill out the survey to help Podz improve the product:
Follow @ListenToPodz on Instagram [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uhDAMhU8zWaL8CxZZdNNrRCExTDSQ0MQMoqdvBhaVLFu2ZT-9zzuEOZfTbLki-SSL5wYmwVEXQIRC9grFxmCY5r1QciDByMB61ZNY7VQAVhcXg2UHsu3jEr3DmNN1QSlX5Gmkp85rNg1K-8lNDvwog5Z0DN6B4OLWdXuIkDwYeEM5cwKymCfiVh_i68G_WxzH0cVU0c3FrZ3Pa5stsSIkzFsOv60l0XDKGWW8Z0IppTvWefkG9fpBJfJD0nXmXd3H9sW_Pj9IMSnjmEtMc1u_nm6F5Vo0N7bVdU8RTwvJjQuE2yjevC7rdoYEpXEM1mGjxFgvOVNaNlSXsUZCsEH2ehCkKYfcrtK_6B9JRoT-] and Twitter [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtuwyAQRb8mLC3zcvGCRTf9DcRj4qBgcGCcyP36EmdRCYHQaObOOd4iLKUeeisNyfsyeGygM7xaAkSoZG9QTQyaTkxxKWYStAhUSUViM9cKsNqYNNYdyLa7FL3FWPLZMY5Mkpv-uk7AnZ-tctyOnIHiVxncSBmVVIrpk2v3ECF70PCEepQMJOkb4tYu_PvCfvrBV3xvNPiy9l-KDSFj2Ur4JVGzkdE-UVEupZwGOnjxBHl_oOTlIsZ1YUPbXUPr7-8BpOpc0JUa89LL95tdIZ2FDmH6u-454mEgW5cgfPjwo-kkNgtkqF1fMBa7HEqV6DyT6IZOni6A01moaeakJ4fSu_J_6B960IDS] to stay up-to-date on all things Podz.
Thanks to Doug and Jen at Podz for being so much fun to work with on this!
Thanks for reading,
Packy

Unsubscribe https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkluvojAUhX8NPBraUoQHHrwfzEEzM463F1LaLVaBMrTqgV9_qiYzmaRpd9bO7mrWV84MFKrt4kZp4z63zHQNxDU8dAnGQOveNLSZFDEKcEioH7ki9gUKaehKnZ1agIrJMjbtDdzmlpeSMyNV_ZrwPEzdcwx5SOnQ970hYSTycuER4XshCM5PHJ3g7ctuQkLNIYY7tJ2qwS3jszGNdsjIwXO7amVy1cq6GOhbrg3j1wFXlW0w_rS0hZCa5SVkrzc5ZN4owZk2Dpk6ODDqCrUtoVsijrfdHpfX5KK-VpfET_vf3vrXQ_JF1It51BwnSZD2M7qaFni9SXVSlWfx1DaHr3RTeOllhlbyIdl-1ds7JP_Yys_N7JFOE5RYnZOtfOrHRdkfdkt93EZlvps3-WQZDQz7eeAKyrFedP14Uuv7uCibkVd9DOfHnT7vR6t0Mos-18cfroyxh5GHcIgIpTQYoAH370CvfwwlyvG9qsD_xeG28d-cbPt6ZhWUr4alk9mzutXSdBnUz6TEG5x583_FlhVQQ2v_hciYsdQRCn2MaOBb9C9QlixBkR8GEXGts1B2qv5n-g1C8sr7