# Ramp's Double-Unicorn Rounds: Behind the Scenes

**From:** Not Boring <notboring@substack.com>
**Date:** Thu, 8 Apr 2021 12:59:30 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/Ramp's Double-Unicorn Rounds Behind the Scenes_Thu,_8_Apr_2021_12-59-30_+0000_178b191f60d9236e.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:08.516702

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMFuhSAQRb_msdMMiIoLFt30Nwwyo5IqGMAa_770mbQJMAk3kzNzrMm0hHjrI6TMfp8x3wdpT1faKGeK7EwUR4ead0I1rRwYaolctYq5NM6RaDdu0zmexI5z2pw12QX_7gAQLVs1yRkabAYpANFwnJuhpWnmFnowYPHhmhMdeUuavinewRPb9JrzkV7Nx0t8lnNdV-1DnkJ0fqltKF9HudHsR6owFDhVp3c2RF_FcHpM1USr88icFiA4SFBctIOQNa_nxnQKAWCw3HLFrTJKdEYIhca2sn9J2BdRp3NK2divgttZ1H_4En-tZqftHZTFx1L3Qs_3SN6UUfBxkh-1b0vjQp5iUY6jyUUo75Xq-h5k1z8OirRGKtkrGFghYyhd_h_6Aw63kWg

Welcome to the 1,239 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since last Thursday! If you aren’t subscribed, join 43,175 smart, curious folks by subscribing here:
Today's Not Boring is brought to you by ... The On Deck Investing Fellowship [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM-OhCAMxp9mOBpAxHrgsJd9DcOfjkNWwUAd49svOx62adqkTfvl-3lLuORymT1XYn9lpmtHk_CsKxJhYUfFMsdghJbQD2piwaggYAAW6_wsiJuNq6FyINsPt0ZvKeb0ueBcDuxlrHdaai6007wfeni6yYo-gBaT4y1uXXuEiMmjwTeWKydkq3kR7fXRfz3kd8vzPDuHOQX0P53PWxvF9MZKMS0sGsml4IqDkMMkVSe6Z281hCYweeEFCA8WpLZSQrB-UOND8W2RXT1cJXu_ZMWkTC6X9rKtf152w_WzaN7m1rcjRbpmTNatGG7bdNP7gJgXTFga1TBbaszECKDHkSs93jYbl16BGoFPrCmH3K7Sv-gv-pqFkA] 
Software is eating the markets, and more people are investing than ever before. That’s a great thing overall, but in this environment, it can be hard to separate the signal from the noise. 
Determining your ideal strategy requires understanding risk, psychology, and your own preferences. Investing is simple, but not easy. There are core components of the investing process that you can learn to give yourself a better shot at building long-term wealth. They should teach this stuff in high school, but they don’t.
Enter On Deck Investing (ODI) [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM-OhCAMxp9mOBpAxHrgsJd9DcOfjkNWwUAd49svOx62adqkTfvl-3lLuORymT1XYn9lpmtHk_CsKxJhYUfFMsdghJbQD2piwaggYAAW6_wsiJuNq6FyINsPt0ZvKeb0ueBcDuxlrHdaai6007wfeni6yYo-gBaT4y1uXXuEiMmjwTeWKydkq3kR7fXRfz3kd8vzPDuHOQX0P53PWxvF9MZKMS0sGsml4IqDkMMkVSe6Z281hCYweeEFCA8WpLZSQrB-UOND8W2RXT1cJXu_ZMWkTC6X9rKtf152w_WzaN7m1rcjRbpmTNatGG7bdNP7gJgXTFga1TBbaszECKDHkSs93jYbl16BGoFPrCmH3K7Sv-gv-pqFkA]!
On Deck Investing [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM-OhCAMxp9mOBpAxHrgsJd9DcOfjkNWwUAd49svOx62adqkTfvl-3lLuORymT1XYn9lpmtHk_CsKxJhYUfFMsdghJbQD2piwaggYAAW6_wsiJuNq6FyINsPt0ZvKeb0ueBcDuxlrHdaai6007wfeni6yYo-gBaT4y1uXXuEiMmjwTeWKydkq3kR7fXRfz3kd8vzPDuHOQX0P53PWxvF9MZKMS0sGsml4IqDkMMkVSe6Z281hCYweeEFCA8WpLZSQrB-UOND8W2RXT1cJXu_ZMWkTC6X9rKtf152w_WzaN7m1rcjRbpmTNatGG7bdNP7gJgXTFga1TBbaszECKDHkSs93jYbl16BGoFPrCmH3K7Sv-gv-pqFkA] is a ten-week, remote program for investors who want to deepen their knowledge of public markets, sharpen their investor psychology, and accumulate practical tools for sustainable long-term wealth creation alongside a network of thoughtful peers. As an On Deck investor and alum, I know it will be high-quality.
Hi friends 👋 ,
Happy Thursday!
If you’re interested in startups and venture capital, today’s post might be more lesson-packed than any I’ve written. It’s a behind-the-scenes look at one of the world’s fastest-growing startups, how big funding rounds come together, why valuations make more sense than it seems in headlines, and how Stripe invests. 
I’ve told you that I’m an optimist, and that I’m going to be effusive about my favorite companies. That’s certainly going to happen in this piece. The idea here isn’t to pump up Ramp -- they don’t really need my help -- but to give you a glimpse at what makes a truly exceptional company truly exceptional, even in its earliest days. I hope it’s instructive for people building companies, and investors thinking about where to put their time, attention, and money.
Disclosure: This is not a sponsored piece, but I am a small investor in Ramp (this round) and they previously sponsored. 
Let’s get to it. 
Ramp’s Double-Unicorn Rounds: Behind the Scenes [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUtuOmzAU_JrwFmSMAfPAQ5WUlFXD9pJmN_uCjH2WOAEbGbMsfH2dRGolX6Q5OjPSzHBmodFmzno9WO_2VHbuIVMwDS1YC8YbBzCVFFkQYxpGJPVERkRAI-rJoXo3AB2TbWbNCF4_1q3kzEqt7hsI4cg7Z3UaMRyzOIohDSMaccxYXQOuE8wjQsVDl41CguKQwQeYWSvw2uxsbT-swi8rnLszTZOvtK21karxuXZQ765hXT-shXbisB6V5NqotdGjEsO6hrNUYhXmVl9BrcItzE8Bx8f5FbfX4qI_y0tB9ssf9Px7knyXLiJP-7dNEe-Xn6TccrLfXoeia8_ihh1On-XSkPLCw_1mkuy1XByH5N-O8vvh67TfFkEhHU94lHf8xrcJ5reX_CJ27Uctn1Jfh7b8tcQHrHUeaUOt_lHR57aC3XLKq4K9RH3VILyc1tqTGUY4QATRAEcpJn7gv4cspgIhlPKABzTglFHnLcZUMGdmsiKoa7A_jPVgGb86lzrPZP9cc-PrmXXQ3gcur8r9nTPNzhUo5hwUjyjtoxH3cKsGFBjXFFEx63oQJJTGSYJInDyic1mHhJKEotRzykK7LfVf9C-fEs8x]
^^ Click this to just read the whole thing online
Ramp’s Double-Unicorn Rounds: Behind the Scenes
Ramp is the fastest company to cross the $1 billion valuation mark in New York City history. And it did it twice, within a day.
Stripe just valued the two-year-old company at $1.6 billion, right after D1 Capital and other investors valued it at $1.1 billion. All in, Ramp has raised over $300 million. It has never made a fundraising deck.
Rounds like the ones Ramp just raised don’t come together often. Peeks behind the curtain when they do are even more rare. Ramp’s co-founders, Eric Glyman [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOhCAMhp9mOBpAFDxw2Mu8hqlQHTIKBupOfPvF8bBJ06Zp2r__54BwSfm0eyrErjTSuaON-CkrEmFmR8E8Bm9FL03bqYF5q7wwnWGhjHNG3CCslvKBbD-mNTigkOJ3g3PZsZfVWgnnhm7CaQYwwhmlPB86bIUQs1G3Lhw-YHRo8RfzmSKy1b6I9vJofx7yWYM-4fqocWmrHS7ruUFkwUouBVfcCNkNUjWimVvojeecD044cQmCkT1IaTy4TumH4tsim3JMhcC9r4Ms25hoSjnEpY7fL9hw_Q6qqbHW7YiBzhEjTCv62y_d2L4ExgUj5orTj0AVltDG9Fpz1evbXwXSKqO04QOryj7Vrfgv-gfLDoOU] and Karim Atiyeh [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOhCAMhp9mOBpABDxw2Mu8hqlQlYyCwboT336Z8bBJ06Zp2r__54FwzuVyez6IfdJA144u4ftYkQgLOw8sQwxOaGnbTvUsOBWE7SyLxzAVxA3i6qicyPZzXKMHijl9NziXHVucVmGaumAmYdpOat0bkBCsGk0rQEu8deEMEZNHh79YrpyQrW4h2o9H-_OQzxr0jp-PGp-32r2gxK1qXbiw6CSXgituhex6qRrRTC1oGzjnvRdeWOEtWKlBShvAd8o8FN9m2RzneBD41-coKy5lGnOJaa7j1wIbrt9BNTbUup0p0jVggnHFcHumG92XwjBjwlKRhgGoAhPGWm0MV9rcHiuUVlllLO9ZVQ65bqV_0T_5_YUZ], agreed to share how it all went down. They know that the whole thing is a little crazy, and that a double-round like the one they just put together is uncommon. That’s what makes it worth telling.
Headlines like “Two-year-old company raises two unicorn rounds within day” leave you with a lot of questions. What does it feel like to be at the center of a feeding frenzy? What metrics do you need to get a $1 billion valuation two years in? How do you decide which investors to bring onto your cap table? Why two rounds? Luckily, we have answers. 
Today, we’ll cover: 
Has Venture Capital Lost Its Mind?
Ramp’s Ramp: Trajectory and Velocity
Behind the Scenes of Ramp’s Double-Round
Round Construction: Don’t Optimize for Price
Stripe Invests in Ramp
What’s Next? 
This is a story about people, trajectory, and velocity, played out over a long time horizon. It’s about why it makes sense for investors to pay up for the best companies, and why the best companies care less about price. 
The market seems frothy, but in many cases, like this one, it’s more thoughtful and rational than it looks. 
Has Venture Capital Lost Its Mind? 
Let’s start with the facts: 
In December, Ramp [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOhCAMhp9mOBpAkHrgsJd9DVOh45BRMIC78e2X0cMmTdvkT_vn-x1WWlI-7Z5KZZ821XMnG-m3rFQrZXYUylPwVgwSeq1G5q3yAjSwUKZnJtowrLbmg9h-zGtwWEOK1wXnUrOXNRqM8bMZlffATU8otBiM5qCpf-J8--LhA0VHln4onykSW-2r1r08-q-H_G6Vcds7l7a2smAll4IrDkLqUapOdM8eB_Cc89EJJ0A4QJADSgkenVbmofi2yK4cc6no3p9PLNuY6pxyiEuT3y_caL2EhjK1uR0x1HOiiPNK_qasd1gX97RQpNxC9BPWFpEwAIMxXA3mpmox9AqUAT6y5uxTu4r_pn-FcH70], the NYC-based spend management platform and corporate card company, announced a $30 million round [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtuwyAQRb8m7Ih42cYLFt30N6wxjB1UGywYN8rflzykSggQw3AuxwPhmsvDHbkSe04TPQ50Ce91QyIs7KxYphic7JXVnRlZcCZI21kW67QUxB3i5qicyI5z3qIHijm9OoRQHbu50Gs79gL7YRilgR51503Qy7BoDDYMby6cIWLy6PAXyyMnZJu7ER31or8u6ruNAvtx9Xlv23nL6-eEF4gVK9eC73FraA6V0w35ApWwEl9Lvse0cp_LkUv7MPdQAo_t4o6l5WXRKaGkMMJK1Y3KXOV10dDbIIQYvfTSSm_Bqh6UsgF8Z4aLEfuqrvWcK4H_ecZixaVMcy4N1so_t_b89io0L1Nb9zNFekyYYN4wvJXR2_xL4rRiwmfAMAE133KwtjkTpv8oak61sWawYmSNHHLrSv_QP-pHm6A] led by D1 Capital Partners and Coatue Management. I wrote about it here [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMFuhCAQhp9muWkAEfDAoZe-hhlhdMkqGMAa-_Sla9ImwCT8mfkyn4WCS0yX2WMu5PcZy7WjCXjmFUvBRI6MafTOMMl114uBOCMc070mPo9zQtzAr6akA8l-TKu3UHwM7w5KeU-ehkrLJ0UlIFjLZwqKunlQjjvFOMrp5sLhPAaLBr8wXTEgWc2zlD0_uo8H_6znPM82xDLF5MPS2li_9noTbHtTnthYSK7J_htdM_sAdVZTEDbiDaecUUE14_3ARcvauQOpHaV0sMwyzawGzSVwrh3YXqiHoNvC23xMuYB9VdhGkvmD1_j1hA3Xd1DXHmvdjuDLNWKAaUV3Gym32LejccGAqQp3I5SqkymtpVJUSHUbqMo6oYXSdCCV7GLtCv_QH2b-kB4].
In February, it announced $150M in debt financing from Goldman Sachs [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcGOhCAMhp9muGkAUTsHDnvZ1zAVqpIVMIC78e2XGTfZpGmbNn_-5qvBQmtMlz5iLuyVpnIdpAP95J1KocTOTGlyVotBQterJ7NaWQE9MJenJRF5dLsu6SR2nPPuDBYXw1vBuezZplEMI3WAol9mWIwk6DvVIQiFy8wl3r54WkfBkKZvSlcMxHa9lXLkR_fxkJ81EvqjNdHXdt7j-jdpMIR4VmFuRM9940JjaS7N4gIG48LaLCn6Zo279RiajGbLzGnJpeCKg5D9U6pWtEuHA1jO-dMII0AYQJADSgkWTa_Gh-J-lW0-51zQfL0OYUmHWOaYqktdf23oaX8vKompVn8GV66JAs472RtSuVm_sU0rBUr1B3bCUgmLEWAYR66G8YZSKXYK1Aj8yaqzjVUV_k1_ARd1llk]. 
Today, Ramp is announcing (themselves) that they’ve raised $115 million in two back-to-back rounds:
One, a $65 million round led by D1 Capital Partners, with participation from Goldman Sachs, Founders Fund, Coatue Management, Thrive Capital, Redpoint Ventures, Box Group, Neo, Contrary Capital, and a roster of angels valuing the company at $1.1 billion.
The second, a $50 million round led by Not Boring favorite Stripe at a $1.6 billion valuation.
The gut and easy reaction to that is, “Wow, investors have really lost their minds. This is just a sign of the times -- low interest rates during a pandemic -- and it’s not going to end well.” 
Yes, interest rates are low. Everyone is raising a mega fund. SoftBank was mocked, but it was just the beginning. Tiger Global just closed a $6.7 billion venture fund [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUUGO5CAMfE1zowU0AXLgMJf9RkTASdgh0AIzo_79ku7DSshGLuzCVd4h7KW-7LM0JFdY8PUEm-G3JUCESnqDusRguRLmMcmZBCsDN5MhsS1bBThdTBZrB_Lsa4reYSz53cGYmMhhfVBrYHIO8-Q2zTelDedm82Hyc1DOf3hdDxGyBws_UF8lA0n2QHy22-PrJv6Mg-APX3v2x92XcxQEE3wkJq9w3TDuUOmeyuoS_dsbUp9Kg0DHOFo2igfQNe47DOQHMvYKdOs5NHqR0t-IB1VUjzcpjSXGRBLtxcIkM1xMs5B3ft8eTpnAGJs999xwb5wRyglhgvOT1DfJzl3cW18bOv99fZZUmwuupca8D_j7cCekNzA0W0Y-e474WiC7NUH4yIkfV94CLztkqMOtsDgcXnBtjNKaSaU_8g29H9JIbdhMBnMooyv_J_0HiYajxA]. Crossover funds like Coatue, D1, Altimeter, and Greenoaks are going earlier and earlier. Startups themselves are investing in other startups, none more than Stripe. There is more demand (investment dollars) chasing supply (fast-growing startups) than ever. 
But if you’ve been reading Not Boring, you know I don’t think that’s the whole story. None of these funds are dumb. They’re not trying to light their LPs’ money on fire. They’ve seen that tech companies with the right stuff can get faster and bigger than ever before. 
In Dreams All the Way Up [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtuhSAQQL_mstMAguCCRTf9DTPCqKQKBrDGvy-9Jm0yj2Qmk5M5FgouMd3miLmQ3zKW-0AT8MobloKJnBnT6J1hPdedFANxRjimpSY-j3NC3MFvpqQTyXFOm7dQfAzvC0q5JKtRUgkGqsPecdUzOTBkVMuZUzlbQbuHC6fzGCwa_MZ0x4BkM2spR351Hy_-WeO6rjbEMsXkw9LaWEdHTZcQ9tzAtjVlxeaCuzkP4g2nnFFBNeNy4KJl7dxBrx2ldLDMMs2sBs174Fw7sFKol6D7wtt8TrmA_aqEnSTzR6zrrxV23N6L-utY-34GX-4RA0wbukdDeWy-xYwLBkzVshuhVIdMad0rRUWvnrerp05ooTQdSCW7WK_CP_QHJwCKhw], I wrote that valuations for the best early stage tech companies might actually be low if you look at startup valuations as a probability that the companies become as big as the biggest tech companies, or at least the biggest companies in their categories. If Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, and Google are fairly valued, and their market caps have grown faster than startup valuations over the past decade, then either startups have a lower probability of becoming as big as the biggest companies, or they’re undervalued. 
That’s a numbers-based argument, but there’s a common sense reason that the best startups today should be worth more than the best startups a few years ago were at the same age and stage. As Eric told me, “There have never been so many people in and around this ecosystem who get what scale looks like, and have been part of a ride on the way up.”
Plus, new startups have advantages over startups built just a few years ago: 
Examples of successful exits show that it can be done.
Investors have seen those exits and are willing to make bets earlier.
Talent with experience building products at scale.
Tools that make it easier to build great products more quickly.
Today, a top engineering team can take so much good software off the shelf that development timelines have been dramatically compressed. Logan Bartlett [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOhCAMhp9mOE4AUeqBw172NUyF6pBVMFh34tsvjodNmjZN0_79P49Mcy6n2_LO4koDnxu5RO99IWYq4tipDDE41WloWtOL4ExQ0IKI-zAVohXj4rgcJLZjXKJHjjl9NqTUrXg5CLqVYAEMWm1J6QmwG1UTrOwmSeHWxSNESp4c_VI5cyKxuBfztj-ar4f-rsHveH309Hmt3ZJnTCMWvv4U0WmplTQSlG57bZ7qOTXYQZBS9l55BcoDgu5QawjoW2MfRq6zfu7HuDP6n-usKC5lHnOJaa7jnxeutHwG1dpQ63qkyOdACceFwu2ab3gfDsNMiUqFGgbkikxV15210nT2dlmxNAaMBdmLqhxy3Ur_on_tMIXB], a VC at Redpoint, guessed that just a decade ago, it would have taken seven or eight years for even a great company to build what Ramp did in two. And Ramp did it with a team of less than 100 people. Of course Ramp is worth more, faster today than a similar company would have been before. 
Companies are getting really big, really fast, and that’s altering the markets. Let’s say, with all those advantages, that if it would have taken Company A four years to get to $100 million in revenue five years ago, it takes a similar company, Company B, three years to get there today. 
That seems minor, but it’s a completely different trajectory: Company A is growing at 115% per year and Company B is growing at 216% per year. Over time, that difference gets dramatic.
By each company’s fifth year, Company A, the older one, will be at $215 million in annual revenue. Company B will be at $1 billion. Obviously, a lot of things can change: growth can slow, an early market may get saturated, customers can churn. But it illustrates that trajectory really matters, and it matters more than you can easily comprehend. 
Company B shouldn’t just fetch the same valuation as Company A when they’re both at $100 million in revenue; it should be worth more, because it’s growing so much faster. Having seen similar scenarios play out successfully, investors now have a better sense for the impact of compounding at hypergrowth companies, and are more willing to underwrite against it. They’re willing to pay more, earlier, because they trust the trajectory. 
Lest you think I’m a valuation maximalist, my willingness to apply this logic only extends to the very best companies, the ones that are actually on that trajectory. I think Clubhouse’s rumored $4 billion valuation [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUcuOwyAM_JrmRgSEBHLgsJf9jciAk6IlUPHYqn-_pD2shGyMZWY8Y6HikfJLP1KpwxW2-nqgjvgsAWvFPLSCefNOs4WraRbr4LRwTM1q8GXbM-IJPuiaGw6PZoK3UH2K7wlK-TzcNYV1BuukmJiZHaCUCiR18y4Ys24XH1xozmO0qPEX8ytFHIK-1_oot-nrxr_7eT6fowkpnQbzMdp09reLaE-Qq7cBryunnBEqCF16YUMz99RXIL6QAt6RmojzxbZSyN6i8_EgUAmY1CoRxPgQOnvyC6Hv4_X1GRVUMT6vXIxs3CdYlKOUrpZZpphVoPgCnCsHdhbyJuh58LE0UyrYn4vlkHVM1aTcsXr75w4nhnej67X1fLbo62vDCCag-0hZP468xd0OjJi7U26D2n1gUqlFSioW-ZGuaz0JJaSi69CRXepT8R_0D4f3ows] pre-revenue is fucking bonkers, and even though I love Stripe, I do not understand its investments in Fast [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkU2OwyAMhU9TdlT8JSELFrOZa0QOuAlqAhWYGfX2Q9vFSNazhGU_9D0PhFsuT_fIldhLFno-0CX8rQcSYWGtYllicHJUVg9mZsGZIO1gWazLrSCeEA9HpSF7tPWIHijm9N4QQg1sdzjpMQhv5DygmswqJqtXvHkTtDarXj--0ELE5NHhD5ZnTsgOtxM96kV_XdR3L0K_-9KS368-n_1BCSV7Ey9RY5cbVOIFYsXKpVAnh8ppR57TERNyv6O_50b8F0rlPieKqSGnzIGogCe-tw15TD9Y6cRE_SSL7mUjjLBSDbMyV3m9aRhtEELMXnpppbdg1QhK2QB-MNPFiHNT19rWSuDvr9-y4lKmNZeYtj6-73Di8R50aEvvZ0uRngsmWA8MH570ieVNeNkwYelxhQWohyEna8dpEmacPvw6cG2smayYWXcOuW-lf9M_dtej5w]. 
For companies like Ramp, though, and there aren’t many, trajectory and velocity are driving high valuations that may look cheap in even a few months. 
Ramp’s Ramp: Velocity and Trajectory
I wrote Ramp: The Card-Sized Finance Team [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMFuhCAQhp9muWkAEfDAoZe-hhlhdMkqGMAa-_Sla9ImwCT8mfkyn4WCS0yX2WMu5PcZy7WjCXjmFUvBRI6MafTOMMl114uBOCMc070mPo9zQtzAr6akA8l-TKu3UHwM7w5KeU-ehkrLJ0UlIFjLZwqKunlQjjvFOMrp5sLhPAaLBr8wXTEgWc2zlD0_uo8H_6znPM82xDLF5MPS2li_9noTbHtTnthYSK7J_htdM_sAdVZTEDbiDaecUUE14_3ARcvauQOpHaV0sMwyzawGzSVwrh3YXqiHoNvC23xMuYB9VdhGkvmD1_j1hA3Xd1DXHmvdjuDLNWKAaUV3Gym32LejccGAqQp3I5SqkymtpVJUSHUbqMo6oYXSdCCV7GLtCv_QH2b-kB4] in December, and if you’re interested in more of the Ramp story and strategy, you should check it out. For this piece, I want to highlight the things about Ramp that are relevant to this double-round coming together in the way it did: velocity and trajectory. They’re Ramp’s Ramp. 
Ramp can move faster than other payments companies because of how it’s built and what it’s building: it’s an engineering and product-driven company slash corporate card (and not the other way around [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGKxCAQRL8mHoMaE_XgYWGZP9jLXoLRnoxMosG0E_L360wOC003dFEU9ZxFmFM-zZZ2JO814rmBiXDsCyBCJmWHPAZv2MBV1wtNvBGeqV6RsI_3DLDasBjMBchWpiU4iyHFj4NS3pOH6aXUnHsxgesZ16A1l4I6a51gg_PdlWuLDxAdGHhBPlMEspgH4rY33VfDb3WO42jPVLBM0Lq0vj8W3aPpbq-m--bCajzZ2v3-kGA45YwKqhjvNRcta--dHZSnlGrHHFPMKav4YDlX3rpeyEbQdebtXqYdrXu-A0g2MeGUcohzlZ8Pu8LyEWrRsd61xIDnCNFOC_iLAV4oP1TGGSLkitiPFitAJpUapKRikFfnCqkTSkhFNanJPlVX_A_9A4d3iTk]).
Ramp’s corporate card is where it makes most of its money today, but really, it’s just a Trojan Horse into the CFO Suite. 
Ramp’s goal isn’t to make the world’s best corporate card; it wants to help companies spend less money. Seriously, this is what they’ve been telling investors, too, from the beginning. Here’s an email from Karim to Keith Rabois and Delian Asparouhov at Founders Fund in May 2019.
Ramp’s strategy is to align itself with customers, decrease spend, and build healthier businesses that can reinvest in growth. It’s the long-game, but it’s already working. Ramp is in the driver’s seat to own spend management for mid-market companies, and from there, to move upmarket. After wedging into companies with the corporate card, Ramp gives them new software products to help control and manage spend at an astonishing rate. 
You need both -- the card and the software -- to win.
Companies that stay software-only, like Expensify, are getting picked off by companies like Ramp that turn its whole business into a free feature, while companies that focused too heavily on corporate card sales and marketing at the expense of product, like Brex, were caught flat-footed as the card itself became table stakes.
Software companies are just faster, and that’s a major advantage in a massive market with essentially uncapped upside. In a market like that, winning is all about trajectory and velocity. New features help acquire new customers, and retain and delight existing ones by saving them money.
How does Ramp ship so fast? People. 
When Karim, Eric, and I had our first conversation about this piece, Karim highlighted how they think about hiring: “We hire people for potential and growth trajectory, slope over intercept. We make bets on people. The goal is not zero defects, but 10x potential.” 
The team today, at 85 employees, is absurdly talented. One-third of the team are former founders, and at least five people on the team graduated with perfect GPAs from MIT, Stanford, Harvard, and other top schools. The team also includes a few dropouts. Overall, the team skews heavily towards engineering and design. That, plus conversation with angels and customers, has allowed them to ship at an unbelievable cadence. 
In an internal email, “2020 Product Recap,” Ramp’s Head of Product, Geoff Charles [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOhSAMRb_msRsDiIILFrOZ3zAVqpKHYADH-PfD08UkTZvc5ua2x0DBJaZL7zEX8mljuXbUAc_ssRRM5MiYRmc167lqOzEQq4VlqlPE5XFOiBs4r0s6kOzH5J2B4mK4HZTyjqyazYLNlMnBdAYRJ6E4tnwANjDJoKVPLhzWYTCo8RfTFQMSr9dS9vxqv1_8p9Z5no134Y3WhcbErUou1LZgnOsh15dZIXnMVSJOc8oZFVQx3g1cNKyZW-iVpZQOhhmmmFGgeA-cKwumE_Il6LbwJh9TLmDenwSSdIhlismFpa7fK2zo70V9daxzO4Ir14gBJo_2oVAemDeXccGAqUK2I5SKkEmleimp6OXzdcXUCiWkogOpyTZWV_gP_QNLGIqx], wrote (and I beautified using my Figma skills):  
And Ramp just keeps building. Since that December email, Ramp has introduced custom spend controls, more accounting automations, multiple expense policies (i.e. an exec needs a receipt for anything over $100, an intern needs a receipt for anything over $25), more savings insights, more benchmarking, and an integration with 1Password [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOhCAMhp9mOBpA0HrgsJd9DVKhOmQVDOBOfPtlxsMmTdvkT_vn_xxWWlO-zJFKZe9m63WQifQqG9VKmZ2Fsg3eiEFCr9XEvFFegAYWil0y0Y5hMzWfxI5z3oLDGlL8XHAuNXsa550e9dIr8LiAmyc3I0dBHqTocYDbF08fKDoy9Ev5SpHYZp61HuXRfz3kd6uM-9G5tLdVHFjKK2XPgpFcCq44CKknqTrRLe-nnnM-OeEECAcIckApm7_Tanwovq-yK-dcKrqf90uWTUx1TjnEtck_T9xp-wgtk21zP2Ool6WI80b-jltvah8AdqVIudH0FmtjJUaAYRy5GsY7XuPRAKgR-MSas0_tKv6b_gHHEoOk]. They’re not slowing down. 
To learn more about Ramp’s strategy, a behind-the-scenes look at how the round came together, how to construct a cap table in a competitive round, and how Stripe invests:
Thanks to Eric and Karim for letting me behind the curtain, and to Dan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGuhCAMRb9mWBpA1Lpg8TbzGwZLdcgoGKxv4t8_dBYvITTNpb3cg45pTvm0W9pZXNfA50Y20mdfiJmyOHbKQ_BWtRrqxvTCW-MVNCDCPkyZaHVhsZwPEtsxLgEdhxTvCSl1I14WoelQU9dJ7du2lGnyU-N7D9r1WJ7cvu7wgSKSpV_KZ4okFvti3vZH_fPQz3L4E64fVZjW0nm3Iqa8BnyrWgSrpVbSSFC66bWpVDXVrgUvpexRoQKF4EC3TmvwDhvTPYxcZ13tx7izw_e1VmQbE48phzgX-f1yKy23UKINpa5HDHwOFN24kP-m5i-8m8MwU6RcoPrBcUGmOoArsWm7b8qCpTZgOpC9KM4-lan4b_oH-YKFng] for editing.
How did you like this week’s Not Boring? Your feedback helps me make this great.
Loved [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkNtqxCAQhp8mXgZ1PF54USj7GsHo7K400aCmJW9fu3tRmBMz_PzDF3zHR6mXO0rr5K8s_TrQZfxpG_aOlZwN65KiY4obkMKS6ERkRhqS2nKviLtPm-v1RHKc65aC76nkl4JSLsnTcbPaqKn1XgTB6ZhAcRnvgVvBfVBvX3_GhDmgw2-sV8lINvfs_WgTfEz8NqKd9RuvNv99tKE_5lTGViupJIykYORdW-BgNWpQVgnwwABAggA6wa1O8ClJcpxyRgU1jEvLxczmO3hlIqXUBhaYYcF4w5Xn3EQfpNCToPuDz-1cW_fhaw5lJ9Xl0tdSU36M89fT77i9DoPCMvp-5tSvBbNfN4xvQP3N-YVseWDGOvjHxfdBl2ljlNZUKP0GMgiCMEIbaslwjmWo8r_pL6XXjiE] | Great [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuKxCAQRb8mLoNavrJwMTD0bwSjlW6ZRIOaHvL3Y3cvBupFFZdbHO8a3nO57JFrI68yt-tAm_C3btgaFnJWLHMMliluQIqJBCsCM9KQWOe1IO4ubraVE8lxLlv0rsWc3gpKuSQPK8SkmEO1MsZXLqBPni8BJUovJbiPrztDxOTR4hPLlROSzT5aO-oAXwO_9ahneeJVx9dHG7pjjLlvtZJKQk8KRq56Ag6TRg1qUgIcMACQIIAOcCsDfAsSLaecUUEN43LiYmTjCk6ZQCmdPPPMMG-c4cpxboLzUuhB0P3Ox3outTn_M_q8k2JTbksuMd37-efhdtzeh05h7n0_U2zXjMktG4YPoPbh_EY23zFh6fzD7Fqny7QxSmsqlP4A6QRBGKENnUh3Drmr0r_pH1Wljq4] | Good [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuKxCAQRb8mLoNavrJwMTD0bwSjlW6ZRIOaHvL3Y3cvBuoBdbnc4njX8J7LZY9cG3mNuV0H2oS_dcPWsJCzYpljsExxA1JMJFgRmJGGxDqvBXF3cbOtnEiOc9midy3m9HZQyiV5WCkoLMAXJdzKJspWDBg818KsallW-sl1Z4iYPFp8YrlyQrLZR2tHHeBr4Lde9SxPvOr4-mhDd4wx96tWUknoTcHIVU_AYdKoQU1KgAMGABIE0AFuZYBvINFyyhkV1DAuJy5GNq7glAmU0skzzwzzxhmuHOcmOC-FHgTd73ys51Kb8z-jzzspNuW25BLTvcs_D7fj9hY6hbnv_UyxXTMmt2wYPoDah_Mb2XzHhKXzD7NrnS7TxiitqVD6A6QTBGGENnQiPTnk7kr_oX-HD47W] | Meh [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuKxCAQRb8mLoNavrJwMTD0bwSjlW6ZRIOaHvL3Y3cvBuoBdSnu5XjX8J7LZY9cG3mNuV0H2oS_dcPWsJCzYpljsExxA1JMJFgRmJGGxDqvBXF3cbOtnEiOc9midy3m9P6glEvysH7hguqwguMBVufXhTpujNdeTbBI_vF1Z4iYPFp8YrlyQrLZR2tHHeBr4Lde9SxPvOr4SrShO8aY-1UrqST0pmDkqifgMGnUoCYlwAEDAAkC6AC3MsA3J9FyyhkV1DAuJy5GNvZoygRK6eSZZ4Z54wxXjnMTnJdCD4Ludz7Wc6nN-Z_R550Um3Jbconp3uWfh9txewudwtz3fqbYrhmTWzYMH0Dtw_mNbL5jwtL5h9m1TpdpY5TWVCj9AdIJgjBCGzqR7hxy_0r_pn_Oj48E] | Bad [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxF0M2KwyAQB_Cnicegjl85eFhY-hrB6LSVTTSo6ZK3X9scFtQBh-E__Lxr-MjltHuujbyfuZ072oS_dcXWsJCjYpljsExxA1JMJFgRmJGGxDrfC-Lm4mpbOZDsx7JG71rM6TNBKZfkabk3eNdhMgFAOM-850rrJRgQOnBHr1x3hIjJo8UXljMnJKt9trbXAb4GfuunHuWFZx3fG63o9jHm_quVVBL6pWDkXU_AYdKoQU1KgAMGABIE0AFuZYBvRqLllDMqqGFcTlyMbLyDUyZQSqe-HTPMG2e4cpyb4LwUehB0e_CxHkttzv-MPm-k2JTbkktMj97-eboN10-jK8y9bkeK7ZwxuWXFcAG1y_lDNj8wYen-YXat6zJtTGehQukLpAuCMEIbOpGeHHKfSv-hf2bUjrM]
Thanks for reading and see you on Monday,
Packy

Unsubscribe https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUl1vmzAU_TXwiPwFmAce2qTpyArb1C5N84KM7RAnYDMwpfDr5yTSJln21bm691jnHM6srE0_p50ZrH-9Sjt3MtVyGhpprez9cZB9qUQKI0RxSBJfpERAGlJfDeWxl7JlqkltP0q_G6tGcWaV0bcJAFDon1J6TEIMECS4opKyOIEopgjGHJMoRAm987JRKKm5TOWn7Gejpd-kJ2u7wcMPHtq4M01ToI2tTK90HXDjIMavZK4QamBVI8vbbzy86YzgbLAeXnsosuYitSvlvIUc7eY9ai7Z2XwV54zky2_w43VS_DlZxCbpDqssypdfpFhzkq8vQ9Y2J3HF3j6-iqUmxZnjfDUpti8Wt0Pxbzv18vY05esMZsrtwTt1xQ_PzfLxvh0Ou6Sp3jddtdomgYz5nq-PTy-6f-xgrbqfeHX8BOjhcSsLuHzPs8xo8AcscPJVipxmgAAKUZggEsDgiFlEBQAg4ZBDCjllFEUMISoYD0nsEdDWKBjGarCMX5xErd-n_yRz7cuJtbK5NZxZpXvbUSs7l1Jf5RN3H-09Djcty1pq2buYiJJZFwIYUxrFMSBRfPfNGY0JJTEFie-YhXFT-j_pX49sy0I