# Reliance: Gateway of India

**From:** Not Boring <notboring@substack.com>
**Date:** Mon, 12 Oct 2020 12:56:13 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/Reliance Gateway of India_Mon,_12_Oct_2020_12-56-13_+0000_1751ce44cdadbccf.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:04.262024

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUMuKwzAM_Jr61mArcZoefNjL_kZQYiUVdezgR0v269fbwi4LEgINo9HMjJnWEA-zh5RFSRRHtkb1MLS6uwprOqsGPQhO4xKJNmRnciwk9jI5njFz8C-GlKDFzQwtam0BlLr07QIzLJLQSr2A7HGYlPjRGbFYJj-ToQfFI3gSztxy3tOp_TjBZy0f8hQi-7VJZUoZ53szh60Ce-1IjrHSz2v9_onHOSxn9pZRsAEJUkkFCnSv2kY1-4YX_IJHWfjUyW2FfxdFNL9SFb7fcCP3AqrBsc6teM7HSB4nR_btPb_TelnJx07G0zM5ypnie1kDuYC6dp0SVcyGGpv_0_kG-32AVw

Welcome to the 1,034 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since the last email! If you’re reading this but haven’t subscribed, join 17,234 smart, curious folks by subscribing here!
🎧  If you prefer to hear me stumble over “Atmanirbhar Bharat,” listen here [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkEGOwyAMRU9TdomAkjZdsOhmrhEZcFJUAhGYVpnTD22lGY1ky5K_7Gd_C4RLyrveUiFWC-bJOy1OcjwO6sKcVk6Mw8h8meaMuIIPmnJFtlUTvAXyKb4nOJcDu2nrQAk1SkRQMxiL4mKE4AINP-N4EuzFmaA6j9GixgfmPUVkQd-ItnI4Xg_yq0VMZFL2celLNYXA3nub1iZsLTMGD228W9r1T9i7NHc-Og_da3FiXksueaNKIYeTOPai31Y4w7d81NkfFF8X-W8vy_oX2OT7DVYMb6G9ObW61uhpnzCCCeg-DtDHs_dDtG-oIz5LQCLMn2az5SzFRSnBGsylZl784_wA-G6DVg] or on Spotify [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEtPwzAQhH9NfIziR14HH4qggAAhtVzKJXLiTWM1sYPtNDW_Hrc9sFpppBmtPu10wsPR2MBn4zxaHNhGSY4LUtGc1UhyJnGVV0i5prcAk1Aj93YBNC_tqDrhldG3iywjORp4W9KKCcokq-NUFAqWF4JBW4ma5qJHV04jFqlAd8DhDDYYDWjkg_ezS-gmIdu4Zgadutl41Ye0M1O03GDWKMUJH94fzp-73Ucw7i3QC768jgndOpXQx-a7nCR0P1_7_cGuwwtc1uenDVKcZCTDGSaY5AWmKU7nSZTil5yXXiUsm44kdUvrvOhOVx6yXBvfGqv0McanQUww3oL4eBN1WrTyoQEt2hHkvRN_b_H2og8zcA2rG8F7sHczFlUSXDOGUYRJE-vU_5w_M-SHVg].
Hi friends 👋 ,
Happy Monday! This is my first Not Boring as a dad, and we are absolutely loving it (although please forgive me if there are sections in which it seems like my brain is mush — it is.)
The timing worked out perfectly for this week’s topic. A couple of weeks ago, I asked people on Twitter [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOwyAM_JpwjMBAQg4cVlr1tt8QEXBa1AQiHq2yX7-0PaxkyWNb47HHmoLXmE59xFxIzZhm7zQbQHEpJuK0cExJRXye14S4G7_pkiqSoy6bt6b4GN4MSkGSm3YrjGpCYezChON2pEYZS1c5SS4BHHnpzKY6j8GixgemMwYkm76VcuSOf3VwaVGevhRMvY17qw5j7-dPA7mYUnMDjDPGASamRglqGDgVHb80_jdQ4jVQoIwyYCAHxnvWH7sZzS886uo7Qfcr9LkubZu9vyRI0iGWJSYfrm18v5kdt_egvTm3vNfgyzljMMuG7uNA-Xj2fqicB-qAz7zh6-xPs9kyApuEYKSJudjMC_86fwgGfgQ] for their favorite international companies that not enough people know about. The topic of today’s Not Boring, Reliance, was among the most popular answers. So for my first essay as a father to a half-Indian son, I get to tell the story of India’s most important company.
But first, a word from our sponsor:
This week's Not Boring is brought to you by… 
As we'll discuss today, Reliance democratized investing in India back in 1977 when it went public at ₹10/share. The low price gave everyone a chance to own a little piece of a public company, and its strong performance since has generated huge returns for regular investors. 
Today, Public [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtuxCAM_JpwjICFPA4cetnfiHg4CdoEIjBbpV9fNpFayZJlj8bjGasRlphOdcSMpGRIk3eKdXx4SDESp4RjgxyIz9OcAHbtN4WpADmK2bzV6GO4GJRySVbloON2pnZ2PQhhhByZAwkwmt4xM2ry0Zl0cR6CBQVvSGcMQDa1Ih65eXw1_FnrPt_auNchRDQx-bAQrzjllFHGGZcde7SsPXbd6x_-LrNvBN0X3uZiMmr7-rBJUn_sCr9WvcN2AVVhqn0vweM5QdBmA3d7wzuN61U8D1ABvvMGiJDuZTXcczYKwUgVc7HGEv51fgGXQHXk] is democratizing investing by making the stock market social. It's the place where newcomers and experienced investors alike come to discuss their favorite companies and market trends. And it keeps getting better. Just last week, my favorite pseudonymous FinTwit account, Ramp Capital [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMmOwyAM_ZpyjIBClgOHUaU59TQ_EBFwWtSwCEyrzNcPaQ8jWbLsJ_stRiPcYt5VigVJLZBnZxXr-XiWYiJWCctGORJX5jUDeO02hbkCSXXZnNHoYnhfUMoluateTOMkVmAgB0Ynbqw1Ugu5wqCXoTfk4Jl1tQ6CAQVPyHsMQDZ1R0zldP468e9W-HKIkDsTfZt-tE8XnRzq7Xq9EKc45ZRRxhmXPTt3rEteD_qXP-vqToL6G-9KXQpq8zhekKxCxCVmF24Nfty1h-0NNBtz674Gh_sMQS8b2I9D_GTyFox7AhXgVTY4ZH2WzfbA2SQEI43MxhZO-Of5A4Q7dxc], joined Public.
I’ll be discussing today’s essay over on Public, and can't wait to talk about the surge of Indian IPOs on US exchanges over the next year on there. Join me. 
*This is not investment advice. See https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMmOgzAM_ZrmiIghlB5ynfP8AXISQ6NmQVk6Yr5-UjjMybKf_DaNhbaYDrnHXFjNlBZrJJ9gHsT4YEaOhs9iZjYvayLyaJ0sqRLbq3JWY7ExnB99D4I9pRhgUGgIcSUDOGrBH0BKrZxwWnFgH50Fq7EUNEl6UzpiIObk90nY6ehv8GVs1i7mmii3jVkJPfS858BBTHzoeLd7vOMvvOtqb2PvN-hyVbmgfn0oWJIhFhWTDVuDX0_05E6g-V7a9DXYciwUUDkyV6RylXA6LMdOMtBPdlQKpevYct6BP8aRsyZmYmsj_Ov8AR1uc3k [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEGOwyAMfE05RkCThhw47GW_ERlwUlQCEZiusq9fmhxWsmSNR57x2ALhmvKh91SI1YJ59k6Lh1T3oZ-Y070TalDMl3nJiBv4oClXZHs1wVsgn-K5wbkc2FNPo1RuMSOAVcJOdnHQy8GaUXFlABz7-MxQncdoUeMb85EisqCfRPvt_nWT360u9c6mrQHniw2p1IylIea15JILLqSQw0PcO9HtG4zwK9918beeb6vsSjWFwL4-EizrmMik7OPa6NcTNgwn0Wzm1rcaPR0zRjAB3ZWPro-c59Kxo474UwISYb6GLfQoxdT3gjUzl9pr4r_PHyKvduU].
So throw on some A.R. Rahman…
and chalo!
Reliance: Gateway of India
In Mumbai, a short walk from Leopold Cafe and across the street from the Taj Hotel, where Puja’s parents were married, a large stone arch-monument called Gateway of India sits between the city and the Arabian Sea. The British commissioned Gateway of India in 1911 to commemorate the landing of King-Emperor George V and Queen-Empress Mary, the first British monarchs to visit India. After Indian Independence from Britain in 1947, the last British soldiers left India through the very same gate. 
Today, that structure is largely a tourist destination. The real Gateway of India, as far as foreign companies and investors are concerned, is Reliance Industries.
Atmanirbhar Bharat
Since I started writing Not Boring, one type of company has fascinated me more than any other: the Asian tech conglomerate.
Japan’s SoftBank, led by Masayoshi Son [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkNFuwyAMRb-mvDUKTtKSBx76st-IDLgtaoAITKfs68daadMkW5Z8ZR_da5HplvKut1RY1EJ58U7LE6hhGmfh9OikmpTwZblmooB-1Zwria2a1Vtkn-Lrou9hEneNCBMoSQqmcZQw2EFJa-Tsrmo29gzih7NgdZ6iJU1PynuKJFZ9Z97KYbgc4KNVTGxS9vHWlWoKo310NoUmbK0DFjwGdJFKOQ7WCK-hh172EiRMJzl0stsCnvELnvXqD2MfbvDvkcj6l9Dkxx0DrS-h-VraDDV63heKaFZyb8v8DunlgPeNdKTPshIz5fey5XAGOTfjosFcamnFP843CsN8gQ], distorted both the private and public markets through its Vision Fund and 555 Fund investments. Masa has been reinventing his company since the ‘80s; today, it’s more investor than operator.
The 2010s were China’s decade. Tencent [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUEluwzAMfE10iyHJ8nbQoZd-w9DCxEK0GBKVwn19FQdoUYAEAQ6GwxmjEO4pH3JPBUktkFdnJRv53A9iIVYKy-ZhJq6stwwQlPMScwWyV-2dUehSPBmU8oFscplBL9aO_UCHmVLBtTZmFFozrkGpibx0VlWtg2hAwhPykSIQLzfEvVz6jwv_bBUT6pRdvHel6oLKPDqTQgP21vjiRrziBtfq0YVm4poqFmchEyc55ZRRxhkfRtZ3rNuDmtQ3f9abuwga7vzfVZLlr1yDH5sK4E-gmVzbDDU6PFaISnuwb__4Tuy0g8cOMsJX8YDYPjiXLZSJs0UIRpqYTS26-KfzAwZGguc] and Alibaba, with a combined market cap of $1.4 trillion, are now household names in the kinds of households that read Not Boring. They’ve parlayed strong core businesses into unparalleled global equity portfolios.
The 2020s will be India’s decade. And unlike China, which features a fierce competition at the top between Tencent and Alibaba, in India, Reliance is the main game in town.  
Reliance Industries Ltd (“Reliance” or “RIL”) is like an India-focused Exxon, Dow Chemical, Walmart, AT&T, and Comcast all rolled into one. If it fulfills its Jio vision, it will add Shopify, DoorDash, Zoom, WeChat, Square, AWS, and more to that roll. Its $200 billion market cap is the largest in India, where its backstory, leaders, products, and dramas are well-known. But when I asked a bunch of smart non-Indian friends what they knew about Reliance, they replied, “Who?” 
I salivated. Nothing gets me jazzed like an under-discussed Asian tech conglomerate.
At RIL’s helm is Mukesh Ambani, one of company founder Dhirubhai Ambani’s two sons. Mukesh is the richest person in Asia and the sixth richest person in the world [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOwyAM_JpyjICQRw8c9tLfiHg4KSqPCEyj7NcvbQ4rWbI8I3s8YxTClvIp91SQ1AJ5cVaykc_9IO7ESmHZPMzElWXNAEE5LzFXIHvV3hmFLsXvBqV8IE85CuhnZlc-C63N3egVBs0sZ3dNp97O5KOzqGodRAMS3pDPFIF4-UTcy63_ufFHq-M4Ou1TChry1pkUGqad901OuQyljcRJTjlllHHGh5H1Hev2oCb1y991dTdBw8a7UnVBZV6fGyTLmFCn7OLW6NdTBfBforlZWg81OjwXiEp7sJdRvKL5_o3nDjLCUTwgQr7A5n5q_oRgpInZ1DKK_zp_HaN54Q], with a net worth of $85 billion. His house is worth more than whole small cap companies.
Under Dhirubhai, the company was a dominant force in domestic Indian business and politics for nearly thirty years. Under Mukesh, particularly since the start of Coronavirus, it is making a dramatic push into the western consciousness.
This summer, Reliance made waves by selling 33% of its Jio Platforms business for $20.4 billion to a who’s who of international strategic and financial investors, from Facebook to KKR to Mubadala. Over the past three weeks, Reliance has been at it again, selling stakes in its Reliance Retail business to many of Jio’s financial investors, with a potential Amazon investment waiting in the wings. 
It’s no surprise that the world’s largest companies, investors, and sovereigns want a piece. India is the world’s most important growth story, and Reliance is its gateway.
Now, I might be biased on the India front. Last week, I became a dad to a half-Indian son, and this is a picture of me at my wedding: 
So caveat emptor. But I’m in good company. When many of the world’s smartest investors plow large sums into not one but two Reliance subsidiaries in less than six months, you should take notice. Here’s why they’re excited about India: 
The world’s second largest country by population with 1.3 billion people.
The fifth-largest economy in the world by Nominal GDP at $2.94T.
The second fastest-growing trillion-dollar economy behind China.
Expected [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxNUUGO5CAMfE1zIyKEpDsHDnvZb0QEnI7VASJwZpR5_bjTh10JyYZyUXbZO4JnLqfdcyVxVCgTBtsO-tH1ZhTBmtA--ofAOi0FIDrcLJUDxH7MG3pHmNPFUEr3YrXjPIT-3oOZx0UNejHd0MEIo3-4ZQnAPNaZ3BEQkgcLX1DOnEBsdiXa6637c9N_-YDPKUf0hBFqgymg-6Q-R4YJ_MoBE0FJQP-l8j1DlZjkRZKUZcEKcj6lUbJGV2hfWbG-kZB5igvTSncy-hemCid_x2XoN6hr_ubbMCqjurFvfKwCLRerVrW61f3Qdk3b7NHd3Y_-Oha8GRWfuqnHXMn517tfUWzKNOeC6cnwa3URtgtgEyeO8UhI5wTJcTfh4y99NnLZRecONsF33YB4ys8jm37X7WhMK1gsZF5N-qfzCz5fo_M] to grow mobile users by 40% to 800 million by 2023.
Not China. The Indian economy has similar characteristics to China’s without the CCP’s... baggage. Plus, India is leading the anti-China charge, banning 59 Chinese apps after a May border clash between the two countries in the opening salvo of a battle that will be fought  with dollars instead of guns. 
Increasingly, India is the play for smart money that wants to bet on Asian growth and technological capability without China’s political or ideological hairiness. And Reliance is the best partner for foreign companies and investors who want exposure to India. These are just a few of its accomplishments: 
The first Indian company to cross a $150 billion and then $200 billion market cap.
Responsible for 3% of Indian GDP and 5% of its tax revenues [source [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuOgzAMRb-m2YFICAUWWcxmfgM5iYGoeTB5FDFfP2m7GMmSLV9HRzkKMm4hXuIIKZOSMC5GC3pnUz_wmWjBNZ2GiZi0rBHRgbEix4LkKNIaBdkE_37RdWwgu1ATghzUylbgwEY-UToz1d9HOXOqR0ZenAWKNugVCnxivIJHYsWe85Fu_deNfdc6z7OVNgQnMW4_xfjcquBqIEsyHlOqYzS2gc01rGNd48oD096Ak-BNA143eccmojVQQQ2q4IO7iBGva9pRRtlwp31L28PBCL_sWVZz453bWJuKTBnU44UkUfiQZYjGbzV-7ODQvoNqYKndFW_ytaAHaVF_5OSPzvdf83Wg8Hgmizlj_CyrsZHRmXNKKkyH6tX_c_4Av9GMbQ]].
Reported ₹772,752 crore or roughly $105 billion in revenue for the past fiscal year. (This conversion isn’t intuitive, so from here on out I’ll use dollars, but for our edification, “crore” means 10 million and a dollar is currently worth about 73 rupees.) 
Runs India’s largest energy and petrochemicals business, part of which it will spin off to attract more global investment from the likes of Saudi Aramco and BP.
Operates the country’s largest retailer, Reliance Retail, and is pushing into ecommerce with JioMart, in a traditionally super-fragmented market.
Bringing about a mobile revolution with Jio Platforms, slashing data costs by 95% since 2013 and driving a 20x increase in Indian data consumption to 8.3 GB/mo/user, on par with South Korea. 
Market cap has grown at a 32% CAGR for the past 43 years.
In 2020, fueled by Jio and Retail, Reliance is up another 47.5%.
Most of Reliance’s success to date is due to its fortress position in its home market. Now, it’s going global. During Reliance’s most recent Annual General Meeting [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEtrhDAQ_jXmVslLVw85lJaF3nrpWfIYNawmEicr9tc3u3soDAx8HzPfw2qEKaZTbXFHkndIg3eKtbwTjeyJU9KxrumI34cxAazaLwpTBrJls3ir0cfwvKCUN2RWlopWONOzVrIGRujdZZQj662h0mjekYfOoLPzECwouEM6YwCyqBlx2yvxXvFrmeM46jNmzAZqG9cHotHOlbjeK_E54cfbz_dN5O6LeMUpp4wyznjTMlGzelv1Rf_yex59Jek68XrPZkdtb49fJKkQ0cTkw1To26xXWJ5EyTSUvebg8RwgaLOAe8XFV0FP93huoAIc-wKIkF5g6eDCWS8lI0XMxdJU-Nf5Awf8erY] in July, Mukesh Ambani highlighted Reliance’s plan to build products that are “Made in India, Made for India, Made for the World.” He wants to run Amazon’s “First-and-best customer” strategy on a national scale. 
In many ways, Reliance’s strategy is a reflection and extension of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, which translates to “Self-Reliant India Mission.” Announced in May [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFULlqxDAQ_RqrNJZ8yYWKQLJVqm0CaYyO8VpYlow8Wsf5-mh3i8DAwHvMvENLhFuIp9jCjiTtEEdrBO0Yr9tmIEY0hvKWE7uPUwRYpXUCYwKyJeWslmiDf15UFWvJLKDvtdK8HmrQnE-m6xjQiTfDJBWf2pY8dEaZjAWvQcAd4hk8ECdmxG0v6reCXfIcx1GeIWFSUOqwPhCJei7qy72o33-OL_j4vrrP60KsYBWraEUZZW1H65KW2yp7-cvuabJFU603Vu5J7Sj18vhFovABVYjW3zK9zHIF9yRypjHvNXmL5wheKgfmFRdfBT3d47mB8HDsDhAhvsDcQc_o0DSUZDETclP-X-cPvmZ7lA], Atmanirbhar Bharat is not as isolationist or protectionist as it sounds. It’s meant to make India “a bigger and more important part of the global economy.” No company is better positioned to profit from Atmanirbhar Bharat than Reliance. 
To date, Reliance has very much been Made in India, Made for India. Its stock has been the most widely-owned in India for over four decades, but it’s nearly impossible for foreign investors to own directly. 
Now, India and Reliance are taking their place on the world stage. No doubt driven by Ambani’s desire to take Jio Platforms public on the Nasdaq, the Indian government is considering changing rules that prohibit Indian companies from listing directly on foreign exchanges. 
Now is the time to get smart on India, and this two-part series will serve as your guide to Reliance’s history, present, and future. In Part I today, we’ll cover Made in India, Made for India:
Reliance Under Dhirubhai. Dhirubhai Ambani learned to work the government and its regulations to his advantage in building a multi-billion dollar energy and petrochemicals empire. 
Succession. Dhirbubhai’s death precipitated a vicious succession battle between his two sons, Mukesh and Anil. 
Reliance Today. Reliance is the first Indian company to hit a $200 billion market cap. While the great majority of its revenue and profits come from its energy and petrochemicals businesses, Mukesh is reshaping the company to focus on Retail and Technology. It benefits from the Modi government’s mission of Atmanirbhar Bharat.
Reliance Retail. Reliance runs the largest retail business in India, and is wrangling entropy on both the supply and demand sides to modernize India’s retail infrastructure in partnership with existing retailers big and very small. It’s attracting investment from abroad, and Amazon might be next. 
Jio. By leapfrogging 2G and 3G to focus on 4G and 5G, Reliance built India’s largest telecom network in under a decade. Investors from Facebook to KKR have poured more money into Jio in the past six months than all Indian startups raised in 2019 combined. 
In Part II, we’ll make some predictions about Reliance’s future, its opportunity in the Indian technology landscape, and its growing importance on the world stage. We’ll cover how Reliance is ready to Make for the World. 
By the end of this two-parter, you’ll understand why Reliance is on the precipice of becoming one of the world’s most important tech companies. When it joins that echelon, it will be unique among its peers in that its most important input in the early days wasn’t silicon, but polyester. 
Dhirubhai Ambani: The Polyester Prince
The Dhirubhais [of this world] are to be thanked, not once but twice over. They set up world-class companies [and] by exceeding the limits in which those restrictions sought to impound them, they helped create the case for scrapping those regulations.
-- Arun Shourie, former Indian Minister for Disinvestment, Communication, and Information technology. Quote from The Billionaire Raj [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMlugzAQhp8GH5E3wBx8aBXl0GPVnpGNh8QCbOQliDx9TXKoNJrRrJ_mH1WCmw-H3HxMKEcIgzWStFSwhvfISG6IaASycZgCwKrsIlPIgLasFzuqZL17bWBMG3SXXc_MpFvSqUb3re4njgXmRmumaSdYh07OoLKx4EaQ8IBweAdokfeUtlixj4pei-37XqtVPb2rR7-WgtmK-8TdpRdMfH2fU-w6lCPeWHer2OX35yoq2uo0h5IRZCXFFBNMKKFNS1hN6m1VnXrSR55sxfF6o3XMOiY1zicEBel80j6c9zie72qF5dUovw4lrtnZdBSm0guYtwzpLdzrq3RsIB3scYGUILyLRZuOkp5zggrM-KKg--f8AX_LgBU].
The history of Reliance has been well-told in many places, from books like The Billionaire Raj [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMlugzAQhp8GH5E3wBx8aBXl0GPVnpGNh8QCbOQliDx9TXKoNJrRrJ_mH1WCmw-H3HxMKEcIgzWStFSwhvfISG6IaASycZgCwKrsIlPIgLasFzuqZL17bWBMG3SXXc_MpFvSqUb3re4njgXmRmumaSdYh07OoLKx4EaQ8IBweAdokfeUtlixj4pei-37XqtVPb2rR7-WgtmK-8TdpRdMfH2fU-w6lCPeWHer2OX35yoq2uo0h5IRZCXFFBNMKKFNS1hN6m1VnXrSR55sxfF6o3XMOiY1zicEBel80j6c9zie72qF5dUovw4lrtnZdBSm0guYtwzpLdzrq3RsIB3scYGUILyLRZuOkp5zggrM-KKg--f8AX_LgBU] to The Polyester Prince [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFULluwzAM_ZpoiyHJsuMMGrp0ztDd0EHbQmRJ0JHA_foyyVCA4E0-8hlVYY35kCmWSlqBPDsr2cinfhBXYqWwbBom4sq8ZIBdOS9rbkBS094ZVV0M7wlK-UA2qbSgXJhLb4UepnEYtLmqnlM9aUX7hZMXzqyadRAMSHhAPmIA4uVWazr1Xyf-jbK23FJWRdkuQMXEM51NDBXCK2jJR2ULepyyHg1jqH42ON-iP6BUyOdbdgjQJbsQJznFRso448PI-o51aVcX9csfbXEnQfeVd6XpUpW5dybuJMsQq464YsXyfVM7-HcBv57R7i24eswQlPZgP4TUD4Xv_-qRQAZ4Fg8Vj_kkkaULZ1chGEEwG5HL8I_zB4KyhgY] to Vedica Kant’s excellent essay, Reliance: Origins [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUMtuxCAM_Jrl1ggIeR047KW_EZHgJNYSiMBslX59aXKoKtmy5NF4PDMbgjXEUx8hEcsJ4ohWi1b2daMGZrWyom96hmlcIsBu0GmKGdiRJ4ezIQz-YnAuG7bpoR-6ruGD5DW3C2_BtKqpFQydhMV0NfvVGU22CH4GDW-IZ_DAnN6IjvSonw_5WWpDb6uUp0RmflVz2MvuKB3BoSnMjxBxRZ8YasklF1xIIZtW1JWojt105lu-84IPxfdV_jvEovaBpsL3a4Ffm9nBXUCxNJa5Z490juDN5MDebunO53qezgO0h6_kgAjivSwRdFIMSglWxGwoQfk_nR9aSnqV]. I will lean on these sources heavily in this history, and you should read them if you’re interested in learning more.
Born in a small village to a schoolteacher father and his wife in what is now the state of Gujarat in British-ruled India in 1932, Dhirubhai Ambani’s life is a classic rags-to-polyester suits story. When he was in his late teens, Dhirubhai moved to Aden, a British port in modern-day Yemen, where he worked as a Shell pump attendant and then office clerk. At Shell, he learned the oil business, but in the Yemeni souks, he learned to trade. In To Understand Jio, You Need to Understand Reliance [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkMFuwyAQRL8m3GzBBsf2gUMv_Q1rMeuExgYLllTu15cmhyrSrlaa0Wo0b0ama0yH2WNmUTKlyTujLjCcOz0KZ7RTQzcIn6clEW3oV8OpkNiLXf2M7GN4fkgJnbiZfkCH0A8gZ63toN2II6p-7KTtlw6s-MuZsDhPYSZDD0pHDCRWc2Pe8-n8cYLPOs4vS5uLzYzzvZ3jVrW9LsemBEep6sE1Xz42RyxNIHLNmyW8AQlSSQUKuos6t6rdN-zxBx5l8Scttyu8BYhkQmQbkw_Xat9vuNH6NGrVqd6tBM_HRAHtSu5FgV_cnqX42MkE-s4rMVN6iRVND2rUWoka5mIFGP5zfgE5HoQi], Byrne Hobart recounted this telling story from The Polyester Prince [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFULluwzAM_ZpoiyHJsuMMGrp0ztDd0EHbQmRJ0JHA_foyyVCA4E0-8hlVYY35kCmWSlqBPDsr2cinfhBXYqWwbBom4sq8ZIBdOS9rbkBS094ZVV0M7wlK-UA2qbSgXJhLb4UepnEYtLmqnlM9aUX7hZMXzqyadRAMSHhAPmIA4uVWazr1Xyf-jbK23FJWRdkuQMXEM51NDBXCK2jJR2ULepyyHg1jqH42ON-iP6BUyOdbdgjQJbsQJznFRso448PI-o51aVcX9csfbXEnQfeVd6XpUpW5dybuJMsQq464YsXyfVM7-HcBv57R7i24eswQlPZgP4TUD4Xv_-qRQAZ4Fg8Vj_kkkaULZ1chGEEwG5HL8I_zB4KyhgY]:
In the early 1950s, monetary authorities in Yemen noticed a concerning trend: a currency shortage. After investigating the matter, they traced it back to a young clerk in the city of Aden, who had discovered that at the prevailing exchange rate, Yemeni rials contained more silver than their face value. So he bought them for British pounds, melted them into silver, exchanged the silver for pounds, and repeated the process.
Young Dhirubhai saw that rials were worth less as currency than as metals, and arbitraged the system to generate a tidy profit. It was the first example of what would become a long career of understanding and bending the system to achieve his desired outcome. Soon after, Dhirubhai returned to India and founded Reliance Commercial Corporation in 1966. In 1973, he renamed the company Reliance Industries, representing its expanded focus. 
Leaning on his education in the souks of Aden, Dhirubhai started Reliance by trading spices and textiles. He made his first fortune, though, in import licenses. 
To encourage manufacturing, the Indian government put strict import limits on yarn and other textiles, giving licenses only to textile exporters who needed to import raw materials. Dhirubhai acquired these “Replenishment Licenses” from the exporters and began to control the supply of yarn. His next moves showcased what would become two major elements of Reliance’s success: vertical integration and cultivating government relationships. 
In order to capture more of the profits from the yarn, Ambani set up a textile manufacturing facility, vertically integrating from trade of raw materials to manufacturing finished products.
He also formed important government relationships with aides to Prime Minister Indira Gandhi (no relation to the Gandhi). In The Billionaire Raj, James Crabtree wrote, “His philosophy was to cultivate everybody from the doorkeeper up.”
His relationships paid off early and often. Vedica Kant wrote [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUMtuxCAM_Jrl1ggIeR047KW_EZHgJNYSiMBslX59aXKoKtmy5NF4PDMbgjXEUx8hEcsJ4ohWi1b2daMGZrWyom96hmlcIsBu0GmKGdiRJ4ezIQz-YnAuG7bpoR-6ruGD5DW3C2_BtKqpFQydhMV0NfvVGU22CH4GDW-IZ_DAnN6IjvSonw_5WWpDb6uUp0RmflVz2MvuKB3BoSnMjxBxRZ8YasklF1xIIZtW1JWojt105lu-84IPxfdV_jvEovaBpsL3a4Ffm9nBXUCxNJa5Z490juDN5MDebunO53qezgO0h6_kgAjivSwRdFIMSglWxGwoQfk_nR9aSnqV] that in 1971, PM Gandhi’s government set up a High Unit Value Scheme, which allowed the import of polyester filament yarn against exports of nylons. Reliance “accounted for 60% of imports and exports under the scheme.” In 1977, a new Congress scrapped the scheme, forcing Reliance to focus on retailing to the Indian market instead of exporting, which had accounted for much of its business to that point. Dhirubhai created the Vimal polyester suit brand and established a network of Vimal franchises across India to sell product directly to consumers. 
That same year, under pressure and needing cash, Reliance decided to go public. It democratized access to public market equity investments in India by offering stock at an incredibly affordable ₹10 per share. Puja’s parents lived in India at the time and told me that everyone bought shares in Reliance. The numbers back them up. In an investment frenzy that makes Tesla and Apple’s stock split-driven demand look tame, Reliance’s IPO was 7x oversubscribed. As Indian stock market investors quadrupled between 1980 and 1985, one in four owned Reliance shares. So many people owned Reliance that, years before Warren Buffett brought Berkshire Hathaway’s shareholders together in Omaha, Dhirubhai Ambani held his Annual General Meetings in sold-out cricket stadiums. 
Hobart points out that the IPO “gave Reliance a broader political constituency: instead of buying individual regulators with bribes, they nudged the electorate with dividends.” As Puja’s dad explained it to me, Reliance made a lot of regular Indians wealthy, as the stock grew and split and grew and split and grew and split over the intervening 43 years. At the 2017 AGM, Mukesh Ambani said that ₹10,000 invested at IPO would be worth ₹1 crore in 2017, a 1000x return. The stock is up 3.25x since then, which means that $1,000 invested in 1977 would be worth $3.25 million today. Reliance Industries’ stock has grown at a 32% CAGR for 43 years! 
For context, the new Netflix show Bad Boy Billionaires: India [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEGOwyAMfE05RoaQBg4c9rLfiEhwWlQCEZhms69f2h5WsjTSjOzxzGIJbymfZk-FWC2YJ-8MvwrVD1IzZ6TjalDMl2nNiJv1wVCuyPY6B79Y8im-NwDEwO5GDz1oN1y5UnxQKDSXKK8cm7rCCMBePpOtzmNc0OAT85kismDuRHu59F8X8d3mOI4uIq3B_3RL2hpDngI2VKA1wNgzbwQI4MAFF82w73i3b3a0v-JZV3-RsN1EV-pcyC6P1xGWTUw0p-zjrcmPu90wvIUWZmq41ejpnDDaOaD75KRPM--36dzRRDxKQCLMH7KFHwXXUnLWzFxqFcV_nz_dzXY-], tells the story of Sahara, a pyramid scheme that promised poor Indians 6.5x returns over 15 years on small amounts of money. Those investors lost everything. Had they invested their money in Reliance stock, instead, they would have multiplied their money by 64x over the same period. 
Flush with cash, supported by millions of happy shareholders, and with Indira Gandhi back in power in the early 1980’s, Reliance backward integrated, making its own polyester fibers through a subsidiary, Reliance Petrochemicals. The liberalization of the economy set the stage for further expansion.
Between its independence from Britain in 1947 and 1991, India operated a protectionist economy with heavy state intervention, more akin to the Soviet Union than the United States. (In fact, India was militarily aligned with the Soviets during the Cold War, and still flies MiGs today, although as its economy becomes more American, it’s buying more of its arms from the US.)
Elaborate licenses and red tape, known as the “License Raj,” limited who could set up what type of business. Dhirubhai played this system masterfully to produce Reliance’s early success, and from that strong position, Reliance was well-prepared to take advantage of economic reforms. In 1991, under Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao and Finance Minister Manmohan Singh, India liberalized and laid out a five-point plan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtuwjAQ_Bp8a5R1HAcOPnCgqCrtre0xcuwluCS25QcofH0NHCrtalezOxrNKJlwdGER3sVEcsTQGy2A03XTsg3RgmlYt2tiYn8MiLM0k0ghI_F5mIySyTj7YNQ1bclJKJBSDV2nOKNcd6AolxwYgmx5q6Dwik4vszZoFQq8YFicRTKJU0o-rprtir6W0k7FanRunLBSbn4ieUab7mtpuH4etv7ny9Od35qd9_XmY9nbd3ZtXvZvP4fv3fwLewrDjbvyjtokYgStaQ01UKAth6aCys-ykzd6yUezYvU80irmISapzndZEoR1aXDB2LGczyc54_Q4FPt9mXO2Ji09WjlMqJ_JpGeWD6Np8SgsXuOEKWF4giWujsKGMSBFTLsSqv3X-QO-44hN] to foster the Indian economy:
Abolish the License Raj by removing licensing restrictions for all but the most security-sensitive industries.
Incentivized foreign investment by pre-approving all investment up to 51% by foreign companies, allowing them to bring money, technology, and development.
Incentivized technological advancement by scrapping the need for government approval for technology agreements. 
Dismantled public monopolies by selling shares in public sector companies and limiting public sector growth to things western governments do, like infrastructure and defense. 
Uncapped company upside by eliminating the concept of an MRTP company, which were placed under government supervision when their assets exceeded a certain value. 
My father-in-law told me that this evolution from a state-run to liberal economy was planned all along, and Reliance was prepared. The company still benefits today.
Freed by India’s liberalization, Reliance backward integrated even further, establishing Reliance Petroleum to finance its own oil refinery, Jamnagar, which was the world’s largest when it opened in 2000. (Just to give you a sense of Reliance’s mind-blowing scale, it’s casually the largest exporter of mangoes [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM2OhCAQhJ9muGkAFfXAYS_7GgahVTJAG35m1n36ZWYOm3TSSVcqX1dplWHHeMkTUyYlQVyskUzwqRv6mRjZGzYNE7Fp2SKAV9bJHAuQs6zOapUthreDUj6QQ87zSIVRYuYTF1RtQuh-HoaNswFGDoy8OIsqxkLQIOEB8cIAxMkj5zPduq8b_66Tsoq4-SthhFajr6cDn00EZ1U1Nito5aF5YnQmNU7FHVJu4OfEmCE2uDVehR0hVSOxklNOGWWc8UGwrmXt6dWofvmjbPbWU7_zNpW1QvX9RSNRBswrRhv2Kt-PynJvocZe6vYl2HwtENTqwHwayZ8O3wHzdYIM8EwOcv3nc6w1jZzNfc9IhRmsZYZ_zh-lNIil] after the company planted mango trees at Jamnagar to assuage pollution concerns.)
Reliance was on a tear and Dhirubhai was worth $25.6 billion when, in 2002, he suffered a stroke and passed away at age sixty-nine. As captured in the quote at the beginning of this section, he not only built a leading Indian company, he exposed and leveraged holes in the Indian regulatory framework that likely played a part in liberalizing the economy. 
Dhirubhai left behind an enduring legacy and a multi-billion dollar empire. His death set off a succession battle fit for Jio TV+.
There’s a lot more Reliance where this came from! To read about the Ambanis’ succession battle, what Reliance’s business looks like today, Reliance Retail, Jio, and the mega-investors they’ve attracted, keep reading online.
Thanks to Dan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOwyAM_JpyawTkQXLg0Mv-RuSA21oJEPFolP36pe1hJcuWZ2SPZgxkfIR46j2kzErCOJPVYpBj23cTs7qzYuxHRmm-R0QHtOkcC7K9LBsZyBT854Jz2bOnNoMSCtuB49IDVwrUNEI7KewBrFoG9taZoVhCb1DjC-MZPLJNP3Pe06W9XeRPreM4mo38ipZ8Y4KrEPnaLPirMyZER2a9TsMkhBJcVIaRllzyukgh-0G0jWh2Bwp-5avc6dJx95BNKkvKYNb3Txa1D3kJkfyj0usTHG4fopqb63TFUz5n9LBsaL--8zepj4187qg9HmnDnDF-wRqGkmLqOsGqmA01Mv-v8weK73yv] for the edits, and to my father-in-law, uncle Sudhir, and Sid Jha [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtuxCAM_JrlGAEhrwOHXvobkQPehG4CEZhdpV9fkhwqWbI8I3s8Y4BwDvHQe0jEcsI4OqtFK_u6UQOzWlnRNz1zaXxGxA3cqilmZHueVmeAXPDXBueyYYtuUaquFgI6I42yXYeqH6wZhoIagQ07dUbI1qE3qPGN8Qge2aoXoj096q-H_C5FH0eEsTJhK1NydoFIC_wswJyWXHLBhRSyaUVdiWrfoINf-c5P91B8m2WV8pQIzOs8wKL2gaYQnZ8L_Vpgw_Uiiomx9C17R8eIHqYV7e2P7kSud-nYUXv8pBXPp26wmO6kGJQSrIjZUKLx_zp_XzV2SA] for their input! And of course, to Puja [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOwyAM_JpyawTkfeCwl_2NyIDTsCUQEdMo-_VLm8NKli3N2B7NGCB8xHSqLe7E8o5pclaJTg5124zMqsaKoR2Y26c5Ia7gvKKUkW1Ze2eAXAyfC85lyxbVj9DPOOqO14Oxvea1rXmNMAxg5FxW3joTZOswGFT4wnTGgMyrhWjbb_XXTX6XOo6j8i480bpQmbgWyIXStvwDd70A0X3kndTQtQVlTkkuueBCCtl2oq5Eta3Qw6985dndGr4-ZLVnvROY5_sfSypE0jG58Cj0c4EV_YcoxqYy1xwcnRMG0B7t5ZmulD4W6NxQBTx2j0SYLrAE0UsxNo1gRczGElf41_kDDFF72w], for bringing Dev into the world and still reading drafts 😍
Thanks for reading,
Packy