# Robinhood Robinhooded Robinhood

**From:** Not Boring <notboring@substack.com>
**Date:** Mon, 1 Feb 2021 13:55:55 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/Robinhood Robinhooded Robinhood_Mon,_1_Feb_2021_13-55-55_+0000_1775de215326ddbd.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:05.240252

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkEFuxCAMRU8z7BqBgQldsOim10AEPAmaBBCQtrl96USatgiMpa_vLz9nG86pHDqn2shPMe3IqCN-1hVbw0L2isUEr9kVFJfilXgtPFNSkVDNrSBuNqy6lR1J3qc1ONtCig8HpSDJovlIuRIju9mrlfBKvVR-FCAESGDjzZ25dvcBo0ONH1iOFJGsemkt1wt_u8B7vzG1KZUQ56HuU23W3QeXti7k_kqaQlxS8i_PDv_0JGigwChQxrjsZ2DDNuWvjEVk7i6CbjP8m0uKfgZ2-b7YDdeH0Nc0_d_2GNphMNppRX8SaCfIBxMzY8TSAXtjW8fHgKlxlBKkPDfuiDhQ1fEI0pN96q74G_oNlA6NDA

Welcome to the 517 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since last Monday! If you aren’t subscribed, join 31,873 smart, curious folks by subscribing here:
🎧 To get this essay straight in your ears: listen on Spotify [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM1OwzAQhJ8mPkb-iZtw8KEICggQUsulXCLH3iZWE9vYTtu8PW57YLXakXa0Gu2nZILehUV4FxO6jjYtHoSFcxwhJQhojhBaowVZ0Ybx6gFpUWnS8AaZ2B4CwCTNKFKYAfm5G42SyTh7u8CYcjSIeqUaYETLFaiDBKw0ZoQ3HDhjVdXBPVfO2oBVIOAEYXEW0CiGlHws2Lqgm9zOgy2jd8kcllK5Ka_i4M5ZVkey_3g8fW23n4uL7wu7kMvbWLBNNAV7an_qSYP6_d7t9uE8vMLl_PK8RkZQTAmmmBDGc5WknDp_8RAqz1RR4amnZZy7mKQ6XvNQENalzgVj-2wfBznBeDPy423WabYmLS1Y2Y2g70zSHe2NUtuDhZCR61amDJRQ0tQ155TzO4MMjVHcsBpXKCdrl6_sf-gfnuKSeQ] (in about an hour).
This week’s Not Boring is brought to you by… Future [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM1uwyAQhJ8mHC1-TLAPHHrJayAMa4fGBgRLW799aXwogl2k0Wj0jbMIWyqnzqki-RsGzww6wnfdAREKaRWKCV6zO5-EHGfi9ejZJCcSqlkLwGHDrrE0ILkte3AWQ4pvB6VckqeGlc-rVUzMyjor6F2OE3hPYRbKr265cm3zAaIDDV9QzhSB7PqJmOtNfNz4o9-1YSswuNT_rr9Pcc5BvhQJmlPOKKeMCdnPwIZjyT8ZypiFu4302PhQ21LRulf3H6TomHBJJcSty6-nPWB_Cx3B9H20GPA0EO2yg7_o8CrpzWs2iFB6ed5Y7NUwzialpORSXjQdX3A6CUVH0pN96q74H_oLJf1_dQ]
Two weeks ago, I told you about Future [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkdtuhCAURb9G3mq4iDoPPDRp5jcIwtEhI5cg1Pr3xbHpEAIhK4cN62iVYQnpEDFsGZ2LzEcE4WHfVsgZEiobJGmNID0dGe9uyIjOkJGPyG5yTgBO2VXkVADFMq1Wq2yDf1VgTDl6CD3PIxsMHeauo12vgffsBj25aTqOE52vXFWMBa9BwDekI3hAq3jkHBv22dB7nfu-t3PJJUGrQz2voJL_cCHBydm9ZCe3UJKGhn29P7A1tD-RVi4qu_gThjyFZP2i1zL9YQfGFlehC96oQ1Iyw4QJsoJiSjDFhDBeR0taN8WfCKmLTDcddgtttzJtWelnfZhDSfzfX_HzoRysL1D1yLq74m0-JHg1rWAuc_lqwMulXMBDqo0xUuWqnVAyDgPnlPPLVFXLKK5KcYdqsgm1yr9DfwGXVqDy], the 1-on-1 remote personal training app I’m using to fight off the dad bod. I shared my workout stats publicly to give myself some extra accountability, and it worked: I haven’t missed a workout since that email. 
Lest I get too comfortable, last week, Future upped the intensity by introducing Challenges [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM1uwyAQhJ8mHC1-TLAPHHrJayAMa4fGBgRLW799aXwogl2k0Wj0jbMIWyqnzqki-RsGzww6wnfdAREKaRWKCV6zO5-EHGfi9ejZJCcSqlkLwGHDrrE0ILkte3AWQ4pvB6VckqeGlc-rVUzMyjor6F2OE3hPYRbKr265cm3zAaIDDV9QzhSB7PqJmOtNfNz4o9-1YSswuNT_rr9Pcc5BvhQJmlPOKKeMCdnPwIZjyT8ZypiFu4302PhQ21LRulf3H6TomHBJJcSty6-nPWB_Cx3B9H20GPA0EO2yg7_o8CrpzWs2iFB6ed5Y7NUwzialpORSXjQdX3A6CUVH0pN96q74H_oLJf1_dQ], a global competition to hit 21 workouts with your friends. I have a bet going with Future’s CEO Rishi and friend of Not Boring Mario - whoever gets there first gets a share of $RBLX from the losers.
Join in on the Challenge and get your first 45 days of Future coaching free by signing up with my personal Challenge link:
Hi friends 👋 ,
Happy Monday! 
Last week was not normal. Your mom is asking you to explain Reddit and Gamma Squeezes in the same sentence. The markets feel unstable in the most internet-y way possible. So this won’t be a normal newsletter. 
If you write a newsletter that covers tech and finance, you kinda have to write about Gamestop / WSB / Robinhood. That means that plenty of really smart people have written great analyses. See: Jill Carlson [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OwyAMhU9Tdo2AhCZdsOhmrhHxY1JUAgicyeT2wySLsSwb2TJP7zMKYUnlkDlVJH9lxiODjLDXAIhQyFahzN5K9uBTL4YnsXKwbBIT8XV2BWBVPkgsG5C86eCNQp_ieUEpF-QtqRse0-iMdUpT9nyKkVPXu8E5IbR56EtXbdZDNCDhG8qRIpAg34i53vrXjX-13Pe9M8lHC_XTHmsbLWqFiinfC6hwX1X5ALYWfd6CwlQq8ZJTziinjPWiRce6VeefDGXIvbkNdF14VzddUZnzV1JkTKhT8XFp68-7SYRz0ezNra9b9HjMEJUOYC_neAE8WcwLRCgNrJ0VNmyMs2kcheBCXE4bmp7TqR_pQJqyTe0q_ov-AqvGi5o], Matt Levine [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkc9uwyAMxp-m3BLxJzTZgcMue40IgpugJRiBs65vP7c9DCFs_Mn-0I_FE6xYH65gI_E8ZnoUcBnubQciqOJsUOcUnbrqydjhQ0Q3RDXZSaQ23yrA4dPuqJ4gyhn2tHhKmF8dUmorNuejhsn4SYIZvYWgzHUBOxrpg5yMub19_RkT5AUc_EB9YAaxu42otIv5vOgv3vf7vQ874hGgrv2CB9ewpMx2nPlKadmhcaqlVp1Unf7gS4UYE3VUfYTaOsxdxZDyhhg7X-FZCEhb11IElm_d6g9ohEUk9xwktVTKWF696o9QfgvUoZjlMshj1X07QyO_fD_fI6rLSAFryivL3xtP2l8Ck5k5HmdO9Jgh-7BDfEOjN_sXxnmFDJX_JM6emLjSahpHa7W1b0hM1WiGNspBsHNE7sr_pn-V-55Y], and Alex Danco [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUEluwzAMfE10NLTG9kGHXvoNQQtjC7ElQaKb-vdV40NRggtAghzOeIuw5HrqkhuS32TwLKATvNoGiFDJ0aCaGDS780koOZOgZWCTmkhs5lEBdhs3jfUAUg63RW8x5vTeoJQrsmo73e388MqL-zyPltFxnIX0bh4le4CjF649QoTkQcMX1DMnIJteEUu7iY8b_-webPJ5aIdraP1z8HnvzdKjvtaIsOb-qgNsJGpOOaOcMiZUt4ENuyvfBaoswt8k3Rf-7w6pOmV0uca09PFztTts70GnZHrdjxTxNJCs2yBcbPES7c3fLJCgdjGDsdilYpxN46gUV-pi1-UQnE5ipJJ05JD7VvoD_QH074YF] for some thorough and thoughtful takes. 
But I haven’t yet seen the take that I want to read: that this was inevitable. Given how Robinhood built and incentivized itself, it would have taken a black swan event for the company not to end up in this situation at some point. And it’s only going to get crazier. 
Let me get this out of the way upfront: I am clearly conflicted here, on both sides. Public [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEtuxSAMPM1jGfFt0gWLbnoNxMdJ0EsAgdM2ty8vkVrLsmVb49GMtwhLrqcuuSF5FYNnAZ3gu22ACJUcDaqJQbM3Pgkl30nQMrBJTSQ2M1eA3cZNYz2AlMNt0VuMOV0ISrkiq2aKKsGYm8PcV0zO0ol5BKqCHUfq6c1rjxAhedDwBfXMCcimV8TSHuLjwT973u8Hn_c-pIwu15gWEjWnnFFOGROqx8CG3ZWfAlUW4R-S7gsf2uEaWv98oUnVf-h-fq52h-06dAbT-36kiKeBZN0G4daGt0WXWrNAgtqtC8ZiN4ZxNo2jUlypW0sXLzidxEgl6cwhd1T6J_0FJSx_Ig] has sponsored Not Boring, the Not Boring Syndicate invested in Composer [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM1uwyAQhJ8mHC1-TOwcOPTS10Bg1g6qDQjWcf323cSHrtAu0mg0-mZyCEuupym5IXsvi2cBk-BoKyBCZXuDamMw4i5HpfsHC6YPYtQji83OFWBzcTVYd2Bl92ucHMacPg7OpWZPI7wH78IsgphBhFk_hkHpEPp7UO4B85Xr9hAhTWDgBfXMCdhqnoil3dTXTX7TO46ji-kFDae8kQdqRx8SWDSSS8ElF0Jpmk50my-_BWpf1HTr-bbIru2-oZt-3iZWTcroc41pIfnn6TZYPwIxWLrbniKeFpLzK4QLD6-WPsB2gQSV2gvWIXUjpBiHQWup9YVD_EryUQ28Z5QcMrnSf-gfW--B1g], I know people who I like and respect who have invested in Robinhood, and I trade some of my money in Robinhood.
None of those facts change the way that I think about this situation. I have the paper trail to prove it. I’ve been expecting this for years [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtuxCAMRb8mLEc8h2TBolI1u35DxMPNoEkAgdNp_r7MZFFkgS3r-uLjLcKS62FKbkhe14xHAZPg2VZAhEr2BnWOwbArH4WSEwlGBjaqkcQ2f1eAzcbVYN2BlN2t0VuMOb0VlHJF7sa6AIoqzZi2bnQT5WKyfrp6brUPTp6-dg8RkgcDP1CPnICs5o5Y2iA-Bn7rgc_4-tHF561XxfrH8dWThhb31pNJMqoUGwXT-sq0pOMgbl3-ySmJhlPOKKeMCdXPhV02V34LVFmEHyTdFn5pu-vD_OPlQKpJGV2uMS29_bjbDdZ3o28593fbU8RjhmTdCuEEgCfHN5J5gQS18w2zxU6PcTZqrRRX6ly4ExKcjkJTSbpzyF2V_k3_AFNxiIY]! 
The Robinhood story is a story about risk and chaos. If you introduce more chaos into the system than you’re ready to handle, the chaos is gonna getcha. 
Let’s get to it.
Robinhood Robinhooded Robinhood
Do not be deceived: God is not mocked, for whatever one sows, that will he also reap.
Galatians 6:7.
Financial Chaos is a Ladder
Finance isn’t about good or evil. It’s about risk management. Hedge funds aren’t evil, Wall Street banks aren’t evil, regulators aren’t evil, retail investors aren’t evil. That’s one of the beautiful things about finance. It’s not about value judgments. It’s about numbers.
Robinhood isn’t evil, either, it just made a risky bet with tremendous upside potential, kind of like the bets that many Robinhood traders make every day. Robinhood bet that it could introduce tremendous amounts of risk into the financial system, push all of it onto its users and the market at large, and insulate itself from the consequences. 
And it would have gotten away with it too, if it weren’t for those meddling kids! 
In the good old days, circa a week ago, when Robinhood was still Robin Hood and st0nks only went up, there was a meme that circulated every so often about what would happen to the market when Robinhood went public and Robinhood traders could trade Robinhood shares on Robinhood. Woah. 
It reminded me of that scene in Being John Malkovich [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkD1vhDAMhn8NGVE-yJEOGSpVp_a2bt1QIAaigyQKzlH-fXPHUMuyJVv2q_cZDMIU0qFj2JA8S4dHBO1h3xZAhETyBqlzVrMLV0I2b8TqxjIlFXFbNyaA1bhFY8pAYu4XNxh0wb8uKOWSzLoFZWxr-8soWmVF-2bshY1jQ0FaJYfx1DXZOvADaHhAOoIHsugZMW6VeK_4teS-7_URMuYe6iGsz4nBYa7E9VGJj-UrwkPdfm6f38RpTjmjnDImZIma1WsffyOkJoqhaug68XrL_YZmuD9_kaR9wD4k56eyvs9mheW1KJ660tfsHR4deNMvYE-7eFJ7Aegm8JAKTdsZLKwYZ6ptpeRSnvYKD8GpEi1tSFG2oVz5f9E_dHSF7A], the one in which John Malkovich goes through his own portal and ends up surrounded by other John Malkoviches who can only say, “Malkovich.”
Robinhood Robinhood Robinhood. 
There was also a meme, less cartoon and more condescension, among more serious markets types about what would happen to Robinhood traders when they got too long on margin and the market finally turned against them. They’d Robinhood themselves into financial ruin. 
Robinhood, this idea went, made it too easy for unsophisticated investors to trade on margin (borrow money to buy stocks or options). That works really well when stocks go up, and really poorly when they go down. 
If you own a bunch of stocks on margin, and the price of those stocks drops, you get hit with a margin call, and need to put up more cash, or sell the stock. Margin calls can be a killer, forcing traders to unwind at exactly the wrong time and lose a ton of money.
Robinhood knew that the people who traded on its platforms (I hesitate to call them customers, because “if you’re not paying, you’re the product”) might get hit with margin calls, or might wipe themselves out by trading options without fully understanding them, or do any number of things that could lead to huge losses. And they did. The most infamous and tragic example occurred in June, when 20-year-old Alex Kearns committed suicide [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkU1uxCAMhU8z7IiAhEy6YNFNrxHx40nQJBCBaZrb151ZFCFbyDx_8OwtwpLLZY5ckf2FGa8DTIKzboAIhbUKZY7ByFFNvR4-WDBDkJOeWKzzowDsNm4GSwN2NLdFbzHm9FIIoTRbTRjcBG4chfXgvR76cVIPGPwodNC98G-ubSFC8mDgG8qVE7DNrIhHvfWfN_VF-zzPzifnO593OiqhBCUxUpAThSu3tHAsNkDh1Kxyd_Haoo8BuH3QZziuMT0j3VqBF-ufEHg7uIsL33KtpMiJl-xiWnMO3Yr7xqIhkCSWlL2m1clud8fPAWU4en8bxL6orjZXkfr9PY0VkzK6XIhD5edqd9heBfJnpry3FPGaIVm3QXhbh-8JvMycF0hQaDJhtki-SyWn-11rpfXbKvK2V2Lq72JgRA6ZVOkf-gv0bqBI] after mistakenly thinking he owed over $730k due to margin trading. 
But Robinhood, and I hope you’ll pardon my French here, did. not. give. a. fuck. 
Until now, Robinhood has been able to push all of the risk it facilitates onto its users and to the market at large, and hide behind language about market democratization.  
The markets, it turns out, do not give a fuck either. Numbers are numbers. Words are just words.
The delicious irony of last week is that by encouraging so many of its customers to make risky trades on margin, Robinhood Robinhooded Robinhood. It took on too much risk itself, got hit with a margin call of its own, and was forced to reveal whose side it was really on - its own. Them’s the breaks. 
This was bound to happen, and it will happen again. Every move that Robinhood makes seems to increase entropy in the system by encouraging riskier and riskier behavior by retail traders. While it would have been impossible to predict exactly how this would go down, it was very easy to predict that something like it would. That’s the nature of chaos. 
Today, we’ll cover: 
We’re All Idiots. Me included.And options trading is really hard. 
How Robinhood Makes Money. Looking at Robinhood’s incentives.
Robinhood, WSB, and Entropy. A look at Robinhood’s history and chaos. 
Robinhood Robinhooded Robinhood. What happened last week? 
Where Do We Go From Here? Will Robinhood end up like Uber or Napster? 
Please don’t get me wrong here: I firmly believe that people should be allowed to manage their own money. That genie is out of the bottle, thanks in large part to Robinhood, and that’s a good thing overall. It’s just that, if you’re going to facilitate and profit from chaos, don’t be surprised when that chaos turns back on you.
We’re All Idiots
Let me start out with a personal story that colors my views on all of this.
I started my career at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in 2009. When you work at a financial institution, they put all sorts of restrictions on your ability to trade: you need to get approval to buy stock or options on a specific company, you have to hold for thirty days, etc… 
The intention of the rules is to protect the bank. Banks don’t want their employees trading on insider information, of which there is necessarily plentiful amounts floating around. But those rules also protected me. 
When I quit in the summer of 2013, I owned a portfolio of stocks that I wanted to own for a long time. Facebook at $19, Tesla at $29, Apple at a split-adjusted $15. I even owned 38 Bitcoin at ~$100 because they weren’t subject to the bank’s restrictions. The list goes on, but I’m getting nauseous just writing it out. 
Quitting meant no more restrictions. Time to make the real money. I logged into my Merrill Edge account and applied for access to options trading. I checked all the boxes -- good salary, professional experience with options, Series 7 and 63 licensed, recently employed by Merrill itself -- and there was still a bunch of friction, but I finally got approved to trade options.
Want to guess how the story ends? 
I got my ass handed to me. I made all of the rookie mistakes, like buying short-dated Apple calls into earnings, as if I had an insight that the millions of traders who watch Apple every day missed. Apple beat earnings - woohoo! - and my calls went to zero. My premium got wiped out by the vol crush. I wasn’t trading; I was gambling. Thankfully, I wasn’t trading on margin, or things could have gotten out of hand quickly. 
I tell you all of this for a couple reasons: 
No Judgment. I don’t look down on “Robinhood Traders.” I’ve been there. 
Options Are Hard. I was relatively sophisticated on paper and still got crushed. 
I Know How This Story Ends. Trading naked calls when they’re going up is the most fun thing in the world; when they’re going down, it’s the least fun thing in the world. And Robinhood is in the fun business. 
My views on Robinhood are not colored by some patronizing opinion that other people -- retail traders, Redditors, the WSB crew, whoever -- are some special class of idiot not capable of options trading. We are ALL idiots. 
Even the hedge funds who trade options don’t do it based on the opinions of some special class of genius. They do it based on systems that allow them to predictably hedge risk, hence the “hedge.” 
If you’ve heard about Gamma Squeeze for the first time this week, for example, it’s made possible because hedge funds hedge. Here’s what it means: 
If someone is buying a call option, someone else is selling it. That person theoretically has uncapped downside risk, since a stock can theoretically go to infinity dollars. 
To hedge that risk, institutional investors who sell call options also buy the underlying stock to offset the risk based on something called “Delta,” which describes how sensitive an option is to a change in the price of the underlying stock. 
If the Delta is .20, the price of the call is expected to move $0.20 for every $1 move in the underlying stock, so the option seller would need to buy 20 shares to hedge the risk on the contract (options contracts are 100 shares). 
With me? Ok. Well as the price of the underlying stock changes, so does the Delta. The rate of change of the Delta is called the Gamma. Roughly, Delta measures speed, Gamma measures acceleration.
All else equal, Gamma increases the closer the price of the stock is to the strike price of the call option, which means that as you get closer to the strike, Delta increases more quickly and the call seller needs to buy more underlying, faster, to stay hedged. 
That drives the price up faster, too, as more people buy the stock, which means call sellers need to buy even more underlying to remain hedged, and so on. That’s the Gamma Squeeze. 
Still with me? That’s just one thing that happens with options, and probably the sexiest because acceleration is sexy and it works with you if you own the call. But to really understand options, we need to understand more Greeks, too. 
Theta deals with time - how the price of the option moves as it gets closer to expiration.
Vega deals with volatility - the more implied volatility, the more expensive the option. Vega explains the “vol crush” that wiped me out when I traded Apple calls. 
Rho deals with interest rates - options prices are sensitive to interest rates, too!
I’ll stop, but I hope my point is clear: this shit is complex. 
Given all of that complexity, Robinhood’s options interface mayyyy be a level of abstraction or two too high:
Depending on how you look at it, that’s “democratizing options trading” or making it way too easy so Robinhood can make money. 
How Robinhood Makes Money
“Show me the incentive and I’ll show you the outcome.” 
Robinhood is clearly incentivized to get its users to take on risk; last week’s outcome was inevitable. 
Robinhood designed its product to encourage and facilitate margin and options trading, because that’s how Robinhood gets paid. It makes money in five ways [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEtuxCAQRE8z7MYCDLZnwSKbXMPC0LbRmI_4JPHt0zOWEoQKUKm6xDO6whbzqVIslbxkrmcCFeC7HFArZNIK5NlZxQY-9VI8iFXCsklOxJV5zQBeu0PV3ICkthzO6OpieCco5ZLsShszDYMeQNuRjxOsveDrKgSFh6GrfFy9ulkHwYCCL8hnDEAOtdeayq3_uPFP3DkuLuwx2s5Ej-9WUCCglJZSzBVvOldnDng5e_y-_0XuXj-h3D3OPdEjTnHKGeWUsV7i6ljnl_STIIvUm5ugfuNdaUup2jxffSSrEOsSswsb2s9dezjeBv56xtO34Oo5Q9DLAfYCUi-ub0TzBgEy8razrkiTcTaNo5RcygsAEus5nfqRCoLNNmIq_Jf-ArJLkmQ]:  
Selling order flow to hedge funds (“payment for order flow” or “PFOF). They typically make more by selling options order flow than equities order flow. 
Selling Robinhood Gold subscriptions for $5/month, 
Providing margin to customers at a 2.5% interest rate (down from 5%) in December. 
Lending out securities to counter parties who want to short it. 
Earning interest on cash balances.
Let’s cover PFOF first, because it’s one of the most controversial and misunderstood issues surrounding Robinhood. PFOF is not inherently bad, and most brokerages do it. Here are two fun bits of history, though: 
Know who came up with the idea for PFOF? Bernie Madoff. [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkUtuhDAMhk8zWaI8gVlk0U2vgfIwEJUkNISZcvsaWFSNLNty7N_RF2cqTLkces1bJacb6rGCTvDeFqgVCtk3KEPwmrW8F0o-idfSs171JGzDWACiCYuuZQey7nYJztSQ0zVBKVdk1q314FinnqO0lMHTC6Fo27dOecup9fdes_sAyYGGF5QjJyCLnmtdt4f4ePBPtDfYxhQ3hxc0uUx3BT2nnNKedYxLfB8W_o9F1Doal1LjcrzaKcVA1Zmf7SG9YKshnYrfQzQ-jyOmJGhUZijOmFB4GtZEu_6sUOQq3EPSOPFm2-1Wjfs6xUnRKVeby6kl6ddsIizXBZIZMMY9hXoMkIxdwN_Q6s3-wjhMkKDgn_jBVCTOOOu7Timu1A0JqQpOe9FRSXCzzziV_pb-AiDSmEM] Yup. 
Citadel, the largest buyer of Robinhood’s flows, wrote a letter to the SEC in 2004 [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEtuxCAMhk8TliMgOJMsWFSq5hoRDzeDmkAEptPcvmSyqISMLT9--3OGcEn50HsqxE4z07GjjvgqKxJhZrVgnoPXYpBjD2piXisvRhhZKPNXRtxMWDXlimyvdg3OUEjx3cG5BPbUIIR3fhIeJjlNYD0fB-sMKD8IsI5fuqb6gNGhxh_MR4rIVv0k2kvXf3Ty0R69wrnRzaWtRXapecWjeYUM1dIc0QNMwLlomw6TBKV41z_agE8pWNCSS8ElF2cZwE3cNrv_7pjV3rtO8W2Rt1Jtm-a-Tw2WdUxkUw5xaenvp9lwfSfanXP7txoDHTNGY1f0FwK6SL6hzAtGzI2wnw01fkKK8X4HkADXyY1RL_nY37liTdmn1hX_Rf8AGVqI7w] arguing that PFOF should be banned. lol.
Additionally, Robinhood makes more money for selling its order flow than most brokerages. FinTech Today [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkM1uxCAMhJ9mOUb8hIQcOPSyr4EIOAnaBBA4bfP2pZtDVcuyD6PR6BtnEdZULp1TRfJ7DF4ZdISvugMiFHJWKCZ4zQauhOwn4nXvmZKKhGqWAnDYsGssJ5B8zntwFkOKbwelXJJNz8MyCGmpnZSaYPGM22HsRz5Qy0YrpjvXnj5AdKDhE8qVIpBdb4i5PsTHgz_bLiEiuA2Tt1dXz7mida_OpaNpJGhOOaOcMiZkm451x5y_M5Q-C_fo6bHyfyZSdEw4pxLi2uTXZg_Y30LDMO0fZwx4GYh23sHfhHgX9WY2K0QorUBvLLZ6GGdqHKXkUt5ErQLBqRIj7UlL9qm54l_oD1YkgVY] asked some experts why that is back in July, and the answer comes down to three things: 
The type of trader on Robinhood: easy for funds to assume they’re all unsophisticated given the simplicity of the interface, whereas it’s harder to tell on other platforms. 
What they trade: a ton of options, many with wide bid-ask spreads
How Robinhood charges: a % of the spread vs. a fixed fee for most brokerages. 
Benn Eifert [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEuOwyAQRE8TlhbfQBYsZjPXsPi0HRQbEG5PxrcfHC8GIVqoVKp-FRzCXNpha9mQnM-IRwWb4b0tgAiN7Bu0MUXL7twIJR8kWhmZUYakbZwawOrSYrHtQOrulxQcppI_Dkq5Ik_LpWbGCfPwMMkpTELEqLnW9wDgJ-quXLfHBDmAhR9oR8lAFvtErNtNfN34d7_4TudGQyhr_3nIuUKaoCFJllPOKKeMCdXPwIbV198KTVYRbpKuMx-23W_owuv0k2ZzQV9aynOXX0-3wvIROsPY57rnhMcI2fkF4oWHV0sf4HGGDK23F0eHvRvGmdFaKa7UhdP5BadGaCpJT46lu_J_6B_IDYFe] put it succinctly: “The profitability of order flow determines its pricing power. The product is the user, and high volume of non-toxic (uninformed) order flow in high spread options trades is highly profitable.” 
Saying Robinhood traders are unsophisticated isn’t mean; it’s facts. The market puts a price on how bad the trading on each platform is, and it pays Robinhood more than anyone else. 
The fact is, value judgments aside, the company is clearly incentivized to get people to trade more often, to trade more options, and to trade on margin. The ideal trader on Robinhood, from a revenue perspective, is a Robinhood Gold subscriber who frequently trades options on margin. That also happens to be the riskiest kind of trading behavior for the individual traders themselves.
When things go wrong, which they inevitably do, and someone criticizes Robinhood, the company hides behind the guise of democratizing access to the markets, saying something like: 
It’s a free market! They’re adults! Are you saying they aren’t entitled to the same wealth creation opportunities as the big fancy hedge funds just because they weren’t born rich? We’re on the side of the little guy! Whose side are YOU on anyway? Elite… 
This is Silicon Valley 101. It feels wrong, using slick and disingenuous marketing to obscure misaligned incentives, but all of the big tech companies do some version of this. As long as it operates within the legal and regulatory bounds, though, Robinhood is able, and even fiduciarily obligated, to do whatever it takes to maximize shareholder value. 
But, as last week showed, Robinhood is also subject to the savagery of the market. It can’t externalize all of the real risk it generates with words alone. 
Robinhood, WSB, and Entropy Theory 
In 2013, two Stanford grads, Baiju Bhatt and Vlad Tenev, founded Robinhood, based, so the story [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOgzAM_JrmiJKQAD3ksJf-BsrDhah5KRi6_P2m5bCWZVu2xqMZqxGWXE9V8obkU2Y8C6gE7y0AIlSyb1Bn7xQb-NRLcSdOCccmORG_zc8KELUPCusOpOwmeKvR5_RFUMolWdXdiaeV91GMBvQg-WC1dOMgR9FTY6S4ePXuPCQLCg6oZ05AgloRy3brf2780RJXwDckPKNPO8JhO5tj2x9BO4QER5uJV5xyRjllrJctOtZFU34LVFF6exM0LrzbdrOhtq_PA1JVymhy9Wlp59eqI4TvocmZW4978njOkLQJ4C6leBn21T4vjbs2I92ssdnEOJvGUUou5aWsWdFzOvUjFaQxu9xQ6Z_0DwOWhLk] goes, on two simultaneous events: Occupy Wall Street and the rise of mobile. They set out to build a mobile commission-free trading app that “untethered the financial markets from the typical computer setup with multiple monitors.” 
Between 2013 and 2017, Robinhood was a typical Silicon Valley startup. It used technology to make trading easy, and introduced innovations like commission-free trading and fractional shares, which genuinely democratized access to investing. 
Source: Crunchbase
By 2017, Robinhood had raised a little under $70 million. In April 2017, it became a unicorn when it raised a $110 million Series C at a $1.3 billion valuation from DST after crossing the 2 million mark and growing its Robinhood Gold Subscription product. Between the C and D, Robinhood introduced two products that would help fuel its growth - commissions-free options and crypto trading. In December 2017, when they rolled out options, I predicted how this was going to end. 
In May 2018, it raised a $363 million Series D [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OhCAQhU_T7DSA0o0LFrOZaxh-SiUqECi7x9sPo4upkCKVyst79VmNMMd8qhQLkr824plABfiUDRAhk6NAHr1T7MllJ_qBONU7JoUkvoxTBti13xTmA0g6zOatRh_DpaCUC7IoKZzrhaW074ZJDnIyXA_C0Kd2nGuA21cfzkOwoOAN-YwByKYWxFQe3deDf9eXPNrFxLi2Nu51_g9ZhxyND0uMrjRvvR1XiKasZ452BSzNx-PSbPXcgs3kgw7Wh5l4xSlnlFPGOlGrZe1u0k-C3KfOPnq6z7wthymo7WVLsgoRTcxVXdfronfYrkU9fqz_fgSP5whBmw3czQVvvBepcYYAueZwo8YKlXEmXy8huBA3hwqu41R2L9qT6uxiVYV_01-hhZcy] at a $5.6 billion valuation. More than 3x growth in valuation in eight months implies that options trading was working well for the company, but it also introduced a whole new level of risk, for users and for the company itself.
Between the Series C in 2017 and the beginning of 2020, Robinhood grew steadily from 2 million to 10 million users. Then COVID hit, and things started to get really interesting. Robinhood added 3 million users in the first three months of the pandemic. By October, akram’s razor estimated [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkduKwyAQhp8m3rVEjUl64cXC0tcIRqepNB7QsYd9-rVJYVnxAP8_wy_faIWwhPSSMWQk72vCVwTp4ZFXQIRESoY0WSNpz0YuuhMxsjN0FCOxebokAKfsKjEVILHMq9UKbfBbR9syQa6SKjGMivfiMp46NpyAidnABXrTdzD2dM9VxVjwGiTcIb2CB7LKK2LMDf9q2LludUvK5aR-QjrmMmdU-nbUwVUr1oNXOOhwt-bgVLoBNvycGv69xmet6Au6SSsXlV18Vd-RH9WBscVV7QHzR8qhJA1VwofdIFjJWkZb1lLKRV1HenRzfEZIXeS66Vq3sH9_Ikn6gHNI1i_Vvl2Vg3UzKqSpvq54i68JvJpXMDs_3MewEZ0W8JDqeMyksMKnjI7DIAQTYudVAXPWjnxoO1KTTahd_i_0F06novU] it had 16 million users.
To learn how WSB and Robinhood fed off each other, how Robinhood Robinhooded Robinhood last week, and how all of this might end…
Thanks to Dan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuOhCAQRb9Gdm0ApdEFi9nMbxgepU3kFcBx_Puh28VUKkXCTdXNPVpW2GK-RIqlovdY6pVABDiLg1oho6NAXqwR5EmngY0zMmI0ZGITsmVZM4CX1omaD0DpUM5qWW0Mnw2MKUMv8eSKUEbJLBmsiqtZ0nU0zGjFYTV8un3lYSwEDQJ-IF8xAHLiVWsq3fDV0e_W53n2zoYdjA29jr592dCGkeHhtY7ZW70_5udMCCeYNAVZQTElmGJCBtaqJ71X6TdBHtOguxH7jfblUKVKvb9voixCrCpmG7Ym7y_pwX2EFm5prz-CrdcCQSoH5s5db3wfEssGAXLDahZZGzRCycQ5Y5SxO2cDM1A8DRyPqDmb2LbCv-kfS2SHww] for editing!
One more thing: WeWork might SPAC! Dror Poleg [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMFuwyAQRL8mHC3AEOMDh176GwjMxkHBgGDd1H9fHB-KECs0Gs2-WSzCmuuhS25IzsfgUUAneLcIiFDJ3qCa4DW7czVKMROvhWdKKhKaeVSAzYaose5Ayu5iWCyGnD4OSrkkTz06ySY3WzpxBfeHklQwK9zswHE1z-zKtbsPkBbQ8AP1yAlI1E_E0m7j141_94vvcG40LHnrP19zLTnCSoLmlDPKKWOj7Gdgw-bKb4EqyrjcBN1WPrTdNbTL63STqlNGl2tIa5dfT7tB_AidwPS57SngYSBZF8FfcHh19ME1KySovTtvLPZmGGdqmqTkUl4wnX7kVI0TFaQn-9xd6T_0D8gsf6Y] and I talked about the company on Friday:
Good luck out there this week! See you on Thursday.
Thanks for reading,
Packy

Unsubscribe https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUl2P2jAQ_DXJW5Fjx5A85KGCA0IvXHtwHPAS-WMBQ-JYiXOQ_PozILWqZdmrnd0da8aCWThWdZeYqrH-_chtZyDRcG0KsBZqv22gzpVMgiGOCA1jXyahDCIa-arJDzVAyVSR2LoF37S8UIJZVelHB0KY-qcEhSSEA6EHKQAiEo4wpwCIx0hyyZl48rJWKtACEviCuqs0-EVystY0Hvnp4anburK8qpU-DpqWN5aJy0BUpQOYuFO6QKqG8QLyx5s8MjWVFKyxHpl4eGirC2gXQrcIBN50W1xc0nN1W57TMOs_0NvqqsQs7uU0NvtxOsz69Po2yUg2-dOkZXGS99x6d8vOL-GyF8HS1bPtsnczlJhv1Ov65ZpN0iBVbg7ZqHt-Pyv63eei2W_ign9ODR8v4gFdZ-_vq3H5tUtnP1I6_L2D-bTX5nWbXfbxx25u9quj_XUYH4SvEoxwgDAKAkLdGgSDkpubgTo0RHghKo_4Pzn8Ovmrk4MvJ1ZC8QCcO7m7y1Yr2-Wg70rJp3H26f9DtvwIGmr3L2TOrHM9wEE0GlGKKX0a5ZwlGEVkhELfMcvKdel_pN8xact7