# Shopify-Amazon Follow-Up, Amazon and Pinterest, Meta Shops To Require Native Checkout (Stratechery Update 5-9-2023)

**From:** "Ben Thompson" <email@stratechery.com>
**Date:** Tue, 9 May 2023 14:28:29 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/Shopify-Amazon Follow-Up, Amazon and Pinterest, Meta Shops To Require Native Checkout (Stratechery Update 5-9-2023)_Tue,_9_May_2023_14-28-29_+0000_18800e9fe8fa8d1a.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:09.522748

Recent announcements from Amazon and Pinterest and Meta with regards to shops show how owning conversion is essential in a post-ATT world.

View in browser ( https://stratechery.com/2023/shopify-amazon-follow-up-amazon-and-pinterest-meta-shops-to-require-native-checkout/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvc2hvcGlmeS1hbWF6b24tZm9sbG93LXVwLWFtYXpvbi1hbmQtcGludGVyZXN0LW1ldGEtc2hvcHMtdG8tcmVxdWlyZS1uYXRpdmUtY2hlY2tvdXQvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODYyMzQ0OTksImlhdCI6MTY4MzY0MjQ5OSwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.ByQw3cc13WcJR9tyXfAkq_OZhNfFK0blPqb_WHoYg2UKyTX9cXyfjCyHaV2ivqsQYU3OqHklxUxF4Pj2CCYRTz1QavQVs7gw68J0KscRS4pJz5NEjohm9vwTzuh3-k4FDNFrDwF8S3gD_vtaRW77mDPW430WI5wBhgQmcaKxv6bOxNO4PzxPhJrpzuygr-huichefF8gC-u34JERM1M4sdPMm5SEJxqKCUcavCdUVBJQdg2IIVxei_TGrakHIETL_LXYBvlAfuaqayn6Kddat0ssYcZuznFHZ9lGl-fNIuleQJu4BKtXr7vJmECIVvftU0JAjYIUd4PDpIZZQNJc2w )

( https://stratechery.com )

*************************************************************************************
Shopify-Amazon Follow-Up, Amazon and Pinterest, Meta Shops To Require Native Checkout
*************************************************************************************

( https://stratechery.com/2023/shopify-amazon-follow-up-amazon-and-pinterest-meta-shops-to-require-native-checkout/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvc2hvcGlmeS1hbWF6b24tZm9sbG93LXVwLWFtYXpvbi1hbmQtcGludGVyZXN0LW1ldGEtc2hvcHMtdG8tcmVxdWlyZS1uYXRpdmUtY2hlY2tvdXQvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODYyMzQ0OTksImlhdCI6MTY4MzY0MjQ5OSwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.ByQw3cc13WcJR9tyXfAkq_OZhNfFK0blPqb_WHoYg2UKyTX9cXyfjCyHaV2ivqsQYU3OqHklxUxF4Pj2CCYRTz1QavQVs7gw68J0KscRS4pJz5NEjohm9vwTzuh3-k4FDNFrDwF8S3gD_vtaRW77mDPW430WI5wBhgQmcaKxv6bOxNO4PzxPhJrpzuygr-huichefF8gC-u34JERM1M4sdPMm5SEJxqKCUcavCdUVBJQdg2IIVxei_TGrakHIETL_LXYBvlAfuaqayn6Kddat0ssYcZuznFHZ9lGl-fNIuleQJu4BKtXr7vJmECIVvftU0JAjYIUd4PDpIZZQNJc2w ) Tuesday, May 9, 2023

Listen to this Update in your podcast player ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Good morning,

It was just a small update to my home network, I swear…at least until it took me 5 hours to finally get my home Internet working again. In related news, I apologize that today’s Update is coming out so late!

On yesterday’s Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/episode/the-chip-ban-seven-months-later-chinas-response-more-on-intel-and-tower-semiconductor ) , meanwhile, Andrew and I discussed the China chip ban, building on the last two Stratechery Interviews with Chris Miller ( https://stratechery.com/2023/an-interview-with-chip-war-author-chris-miller/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvYW4taW50ZXJ2aWV3LXdpdGgtY2hpcC13YXItYXV0aG9yLWNocmlzLW1pbGxlci8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY4NjIzNDQ5OSwiaWF0IjoxNjgzNjQyNDk5LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.KUVNZtXof1y6R-oVZ4FFKf1KyjeSzuXlxRnalMCsOpKMglIeWWFRZYe8GcG64o6dLCncNP-aC52-fI8jVKFNEdmlTVt2LYR_1g9b2-Us-o1TyYbaQpGEJ2Rewzd4vl0ojMHfMeQxnm4kSeFnnxrRdyxFNPwewF8HCNja9GffxDFOGUKgOxNXRVrw8tcfG3nNMBFBNq61r_Wu-HJKSjRtnS5_rvx6cNiBqV8Lkwbx55C97ssaSg017i01SRvafslc5hmyk0kBIIsiNjkYaCZ9ecOUNitt4MOmURIYeJeYfIQBYzvNW1AAFtbTJDMne-fVM7xPbS18jQ7IPwWzNWC4MQ ) and Gregory Allen ( https://stratechery.com/2023/an-interview-with-gregory-c-allen-about-chinas-chip-ban-response/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvYW4taW50ZXJ2aWV3LXdpdGgtZ3JlZ29yeS1jLWFsbGVuLWFib3V0LWNoaW5hcy1jaGlwLWJhbi1yZXNwb25zZS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY4NjIzNDQ5OSwiaWF0IjoxNjgzNjQyNDk5LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.ImSuP2B9i-lN7xXDjRrMFTXvf0JfRoNrnIHKJJaxG64oXF0j1mn8dxmx2tuvVnGSxEKphdTR3otbPWDuxG21OzYwkeHHofN2T5YTHn3Q8CGMFHUGhTyvmym8WoFaxcVf18OUpoVlNT-8Qk_e8iCsEOp4_DusWZlLAfLDZ-NjkzsyvA_0C4JgGPHXGJ-6jvtkOeLHfbPhW9k2oKWKCS3jmOTdTXyJjH1bVPNbS9yYBUmhZcTCvtKQxK0JlmGq7UZ0oYtS9UEJlMmwbgerY0tvufsdQhb_aj9iqLde1TJ3UfBadJzPSCct1z0IxZg4ZPh9Elh99k1wQYVk7YLIUi6zcA ). You can listen to the episode at the link above, or by adding Sharp Tech to your podcast player using the link at the bottom of this email.

On to the update:

Shopify-Amazon Follow-Up
------------------------

I received a very interesting bit of feedback from a reader arguing that tying Amazon Pay to Buy with Prime wasn’t really that important to Amazon strategically; rather, by controlling payments Amazon could better protect the brand value of Prime. For example, if there were some sort of snafu, Amazon could easily issue a refund; that would be much more difficult to do if Buy with Prime were allowed to work with a different payment provider.

That, though, actually makes me more optimistic about a potential Amazon-Shopify agreement: Shopify could provide various guarantees to Amazon around things like refunds and dispute resolutions, and make Amazon whole immediately without the need for Amazon to offer a de facto loan to a merchant on whose behalf they issued a refund; on the merchant side Shopify could also take on the burden of merchant verification and validation, perhaps by limiting Buy with Prime to one of its premium service tiers (which would also have the benefit of driving high margin subscription revenue for Shopify). All of this is very much in the spirit of the platform Shopify wants to be: a common interface between different parts of the value chain.

Amazon and Pinterest
--------------------

From TechCrunch ( https://techcrunch.com/2023/04/27/pinterest-announces-multi-year-ads-partnership-with-amazon/ ) :

Pinterest today announced a multiyear strategic ad partnership with Amazon aimed at bringing more brands and relevant products to its platform. The new deal will make the e-commerce giant Pinterest’s first partner on third-party ads, the company said in a blog post ( https://newsroom.pinterest.com/en/post/pinterest-announces-partnership-with-amazon-to-bring-third-party-ad-demand-to-the-platform ) shared alongside its first-quarter earnings beat…

While Pinterest has for years worked to connect product inspiration to purchases, the Amazon ads partnership could potentially offer consumers a more seamless buying experience. Unlike on some e-commerce websites, Amazon shoppers may not have to fiddle with filling out forms, as most have their payment information already on file with the company, leading to faster checkouts. When users click on an Amazon ad on Pinterest, they’ll be taken directly to Amazon to make the purchase, Pinterest says.

This is a deal that simultaneously makes a lot of sense for Pinterest, even as it is a pretty bearish indicator for the company’s long-term prospects.

There are, broadly speaking, two important elements of digital advertising. The first is accurately targeting users with ads that are relevant to them. The best way to do this is search advertising, like Google or Amazon. The most valuable way to do this is knowing enough about the customer to show them ads they will probably be interested in; this is what Meta excels at, and the reason it is so valuable is because while search ads depend on the user already knowing what they are looking for, targeted ads of the Meta variety expose the user to products they didn’t know existed, or didn’t know that they might want. The third way to do this is through contextual advertising: showing the user products that are similar to whatever they are looking at currently.

The second element of digital advertising is tracking conversions: did the user actually buy the product in the ad that they saw? This was the part of digital advertising that was most hurt by Apple’s App Tracking Transparency initiative: it used to be that an advertising platform like Meta would place a pixel on an advertiser’s website, or an SDK in their app, and be able to perfectly measure the extent to which a particular ad led to a conversion (and how much that conversion ended up being worth in the long run). In this world advertising was a determinative exercise: everything could be measured, which meant that companies like Meta could basically sell growth to any company willing to pay.

In the post-ATT world you can still measure conversions, as long as they happen on your platform (more on this in a moment); absent that, though, the best ad platforms can offer is probabilistic measurement: they don’t know for sure which ad converted, but they have a pretty good idea, at least in theory. To the extent that Meta has cracked the ATT code ( https://stratechery.com/2023/facebook-earnings-generative-ai-and-messaging-monetization-open-source-and-ai/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvZmFjZWJvb2stZWFybmluZ3MtZ2VuZXJhdGl2ZS1haS1hbmQtbWVzc2FnaW5nLW1vbmV0aXphdGlvbi1vcGVuLXNvdXJjZS1hbmQtYWkvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODYyMzQ0OTksImlhdCI6MTY4MzY0MjQ5OSwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.KPnfObr0uiHshPczJr-2RxrFLDdFMc0f_2SFzFcwoUBv-ZKBAsDap0d9tMbARR_e2q0UR50qj00KuQJ1oAJVVxJWK1gL2Kq_GmeXGwDmxy-FcODNSF3zZtOTvOSSnLGIPN-2tM_26YFd91O34soVCjfUhErdQT9UTxqncBkJCV-IKzQE0MVjrRk0KVc6oiq3_FdEtk7KHPi8F3oIzXZrASeNut0HHmXrdyLYVf_iCCI6vaFo8f36i6arjCQ0UgzjlK5QO6kW-iRmuhCQC_RRVZB2U6tuMXvub52FDO8nr3rBojFAxe3dO-cPKGYMW_K11czPipYuXIt48vNtixACWQ ) this is almost certainly the major driver. Still, there is a downside to brands: probabilistic measurement is much more difficult to verify, and you’re going to get better results the more that you simply put money into the advertising platform’s black box of AI driven ad placement, which inevitably means you’re giving up both margin and knowledge of your customers in the long run.

Pinterest has had aspirations of being an ad platform a la Meta, and there was reason to be optimistic about their chances. What has always made Pinterest compelling is that it is aspirational: you go to Pinterest to plan a wedding, or a home remodel, or collect recipes or craft ideas, or whatever else. This is pretty compelling data — volunteered by the user in the course of using the product — around which to target. Plus, Pinterest also has search functionality, another important signal.

Advertising, though, is a two-sided market: you not only need users and targeting data, you need advertisers and ads to fill inventory; this was a struggle for Pinterest even before ATT made it that much more difficult to convince advertisers that your platform was worth the investment. CEO Bill Ready said on the company’s earnings call ( https://www.fool.com/earnings/call-transcripts/2023/04/28/pinterest-pins-q1-2023-earnings-call-transcript/ ) :

The macro point in your question, which is spot-on, is that our platform — I talked about this before, our platform overall, it’s a a more nascent ad platform. And relative to the very high consumer commercial intent on our platform, we’re quite under-monetized. And there’s a real opportunity for us to simultaneously drive better user engagement through highly relevant ads that help users satisfy commercial intent while also driving up revenue on the platform. So, you’ve seen that with like our whole page optimization and the fact that we’re able to grow ad load 30%-plus while still having positive progress on engagement. This demonstrates that highly relevant ads that help the user satisfy their intent can be great content for the user and be enhancing of both engagement and revenue simultaneously.

So, that’s our macro opportunity. As you rightly called out, while we are under-monetized overall, we are really under-monetized internationally. And if you look at our results, you see really positive growth on a percentage basis internationally for us, which is evidence that there’s a lot more potential there. And so, that’s something we’re investing in directly with our first-party sales, but also something where we think partnerships can certainly be helpful in accelerating that progress.

And so, we think that overall, there’s a significant opportunity to drive the monetization of our platform at a much greater rate than growth in not only users but also growth sort of engagement that we can drive monetization faster than that, particularly as we’re demonstrating good results for advertisers, particularly as they implement new measurement tools, new priority safe tools. So, we feel like that is a significant opportunity for us and partnerships can definitely be helpful there.

In short, Pinterest has great signal, and it has headroom in terms of ad load, but it just doesn’t have enough advertisers; now Amazon can fill that gap by making Pinterest one of the channels available to Amazon advertisers. What is interesting is that Amazon is the inverse of Meta: whereas Meta has tons of inventory and was previously able to capture signal from inside disparate websites and apps, Amazon has tons of products and captures every conversion; the disconnect in this case will be in targeting. Remember, though, targeting is exactly what Pinterest is uniquely good at: if you must use contextual data, it’s hard to imagine better contextual data than a user’s Pinterest account, particularly when you layer on search.

The downside for Pinterest is that this move does lower their longterm ceiling as an ad business: yes, if there is ever increasing demand for Pinterest native ads then the Amazon ads would be priced out, but it’s hard to see why that would happen outside of Pinterest turning into a store in its own right — which, Meta, of course, is trying to do right now.

Meta Shops To Require Native Checkout
-------------------------------------

From TechCrunch ( https://techcrunch.com/2023/04/27/instagram-facebook-force-checkout-experience-shops-soon/ ) :

Meta announced ( https://developers.facebook.com/blog/post/2023/04/27/instagram-product-tagging-updates/ ) today that it will be phasing out onboarding of new Shops without checkout on Facebook and Instagram enabled. Beginning April 24 of next year, Shops without checkout on Facebook and Instagram enabled will no longer be accessible. This means that shops that direct people to an e-commerce site to complete a purchase, rather than allowing people to make a purchase directly through Facebook or Instagram, will no longer be accessible.

Beginning June 5, onboarding of new shops via Commerce Manager and Shopify will only be with checkout on Facebook and Instagram enabled. By August 10, onboarding of new shops via all other partners will only be with checkout on Facebook and Instagram enabled. Meta notes that businesses without checkout-enabled shops will no longer be able to use features associated with Shops, including organic product tagging in posts and creating new custom/lookalike audiences derived from people who visited a Shop.

This is a Shopify-related announcement that I got right; when Facebook announced Shops back in 2020 I wrote in Platforms in an Aggregator World ( https://stratechery.com/2020/platforms-in-an-aggregator-world/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjAvcGxhdGZvcm1zLWluLWFuLWFnZ3JlZ2F0b3Itd29ybGQvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODYyMzQ0OTksImlhdCI6MTY4MzY0MjQ5OSwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.YT4zechBsGibUszLK5izOyUZ_EfIhbm-jREYzqFoFDkkDf-SpfgMGc5JENAqrQDKjuFHRQiDhl9eDh5pT0pf0iOJyO2XKu1o6bcDHFIcNHRiRogD-XHl2PsDWHrv1X5Ugini32KNziI5O_-4_42iJ-HVEwx7qogvfx6C-nTuZDPsMvhib1_0jvxtr_xkCsSjdlGQL5FJtJq_RF68nxkZH5Cs3zet_z4OneFmF-tXo_h6QaBjA-TjOrxUjFi2ddYsyKDlF_stNHiqvC63G0pfBJ1OVSW1kNHOIolouzWpxjX9J5mY2lCZypiOVHDB4YLRy5kf6mORc6w1TDW43zSBEg ) that Shops threatened Shopify’s integration into payments, but that said threat was ultimately downstream from changes made by platforms, particularly Apple:

The reason for this rigamarole is that for the last three years Apple has been leading the charge towards the elimination of 3rd-party cookies of the sort I just described. There are good reasons for this, specifically the elimination of 3rd-party trackers primarily loaded by advertisements. There are, though, real casualties along the way, including Shopify and its merchants…

Facebook Shops is a perfect example: it is going to succeed because it is good for Shopify’s merchants, but the reason it is good for Shopify’s merchants is because Facebook and Apple effectively teamed up to make it impossible for Shopify to fix the payment problem on their own.

I published that Article two weeks before Apple announced ATT, which extended the challenge to apps (and, by extension, apps linking to websites, like those hosted by Shopify); it’s also worth noting that I viewed this fundamental challenge to Shopify’s payment integration as a reason to invest in the Shopify Fulfillment Network (although, as I explained yesterday, this was back when the investment was primarily software, not capex).

At the time I got a bit of pushback from some folks at Shopify, arguing that I overstated the threat, but the issue was and remains a structural one: the single best way to solve the attempts to sever the connection between ads and conversions was to move conversions to the same platform the ads were on. If anything it’s a surprise that Meta waited this long to give Facebook Shops no choice.

One additional note: this validates my take last fall ( https://stratechery.com/2022/shopify-vs-buy-with-prime-instagram-shopping-cuda-and-china/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvc2hvcGlmeS12cy1idXktd2l0aC1wcmltZS1pbnN0YWdyYW0tc2hvcHBpbmctY3VkYS1hbmQtY2hpbmEvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2ODYyMzQ0OTksImlhdCI6MTY4MzY0MjQ5OSwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.iDmmsS-QuOwwb0NkhFiPXHQYt7SNDgo6tR1hFr4yqPux258D3HgdvNfYfAZBTDWjhq-2gZRNtlgd2wUqNVebKzuqOOeM6xRyQDwtoaKFiJPsnn3_dxDLC-ltXQFpxeHe325YA4MY4innbaP-LVNcoqL1haiXZAYO4A2lGnIEeVu7jwNKqBYK_MUe4i6l03XOBpzbTNE-7EumKSstktscx2jdb-VCF4kEi8V9tr8lCic0tfrNVu8KR5bWMjA7JeebRB0jv5kMKCghLhcxlTzBmu_0DXclDVsQIgpEgkDQG5eXMUl4dOqJDPkyxoO6utjIOsIZqZ2J4Z7FTawNC5PY_w ) that the wind-down of Instagram’s Shopping page was not a retreat from Shops, but in fact the opposite: the priority for Meta in a post-ATT world is to make ads into in-app conversion experiences, and Instagram’s Shopping page — which was more of a general storefront — was a distraction from that. As I wrote at the time:

Indeed, this logic [of conversions being on the same platform as ads] is so compelling that I think this news is being misinterpreted by many. The Information report appears to be mostly about Instagram’s Shopping Tab which, to be frank, never made a ton of sense to me. What makes Meta advertising so compelling is the fact that you are exposed to products you would have never considered otherwise; a distinct Shopping Tab, though, requires a degree of intentionality that is different than seeing an ad and buying the product on the spot.

To that end, my guess — and this is, to be clear, a guess, not a report — is that the “Tab Lite” experience is about the shopping experience you might get after being exposed to an ad. That is exactly what Meta should be focusing its resources on, because that directly impacts the company’s advertising business.

Stepping back, in the pre-ATT world, owning targetable inventory was very valuable; in the post-ATT world, though, owning conversion matters far more. That is why Amazon is such an attractive partner to Pinterest, and it’s why Facebook is giving advertisers no choice but to add native checkout on its own platform.

This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member ).

The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.

Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!

Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player:
Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharptech.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Dithering ( https://dithering.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.dithering.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp China ( https://sharpchina.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharpchina.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | GOAT ( https://goat.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgoat.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Subscription Information

Member: Omar Zoheri
Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com
Member since: December 8, 2022
Auto-renewal is disabled
Expiration date: December 8, 2023

You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery ( https://www.stratechery.com ).

Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/login?email=stratecheryUSC%40khamel.com ) to view your account and manage your subscriptions.

© 2023 Stratechery LLC ( https://www.stratechery.com ) , 2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703