# Software is Eating the Markets

**From:** Not Boring <notboring@substack.com>
**Date:** Mon, 26 Oct 2020 12:46:54 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/Software is Eating the Markets_Mon,_26_Oct_2020_12-46-54_+0000_17564f54d893b3b4.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:08.480317

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkMGOhCAMhp9GbhpBUDhw2Mu-hgGpSlQwUHfiPv0yM8luNmnTpH_av_0mg7DEdOszZiRXhjR6p2nPZCe4Ik5zR6WQxOdxTgCH8bvGdAE5L7v7yaCP4TXRtkyQVXdmmMEOlErFe2r5AMYoJRWd5WT5rMjTZzSX8xAm0PAF6Y4ByK5XxDNX3UfFPkuEiDYmH5YmXzajmbZmikcRzpI5zvgwCWqfaygnhKXGFerDpA0wE69Zy1rasp4y3gve0Eb17gzxW_hBVrw9FvZvLUn616_I22oO2F9C-XIs9biCx3uEYOwO7g0A38he_-B9gg7wyDsgQno3n1R4JwZBFSluLhZ44c_oB1Z1gnY

Welcome to the 574 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since the last email! If you’re reading this but haven’t subscribed, join 18,613 smart, curious folks by subscribing here!
🎧  The audio version will be out later this morning. Get it on Spotify [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEtPwzAQhH9NfIz8iPM4-FAEBQQIqeVSLpETbxqriR1sp2n49bjtAWmlkWZ29WmnlQGO1q1isj6g2YOrtRIkpyXjWYWUyBQpeYm0rzsHMEo9iOBmQNPcDLqVQVtzu8CYctQLRYq8yyThXYGbnFSyUwCFkophyVRcuXJqOSsNpgUBZ3CrNYAG0Ycw-YRtErqNYycwqZ9s0N2atnaMlu_tEiU_kcP7w_lzt_tYrX9b2YVcXoeEbb1O2GP9XYwK2p-v_f7glv4FLsvz0wZpQTHFBNOc0CznWUrSKleTsb9cF2WS4fFIUz83Psj2dOUhJ4wNjXXaHGN86uUIwy2Ij9dRx9nosNZgZDOAuncS7i3eXgzrBMLA4gcIAdzdvBaVMV5wUqFIUzb2af5Bf11ph8w] or follow me on Twitter [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOhSAM_RpZGkBAXbCYzd3NNxiQquQqGKhz43z9oC4madK0p815jAZhjunUe8xIjgxp8E4zxbtGip44LRzrZEd8HqYEsBm_akwHkP2wqx8N-hjuD0q5JIvuFIxcCumgobZVME0GnOJmYgDWSUsunsEczkMYQcMPpDMGIKteEPdcNV8Vf5XCj0eEVI9xK9Nuxvf5TbzmlFNGuWJcKClqVvfK7SH-St92laDbzOt82Izl_nolSYeINiYf5gK_F7PBegNF_lD6dgSP5wDB2BXc4wyfLG6heO6gA3zyCpecZ3nZFY1sJetJYXOxpBL-if4A2H903g] and I’ll share the link when it’s live. 
Hi friends 👋 ,
Happy Monday! 
Not Boring straddles two worlds - technology and finance. I try to bring pro-level insights to a consumer audience. Today’s essay is about what happens when those things start to blur, when technology alters finance and consumers play a larger role in shaping the markets. 
It’s an early exploration of a topic that I’ll be writing a lot more about in the months and years ahead, putting thoughts down on paper so that we can debate and stress-test them together. I’d love to hear your thoughts in the comments. 
But first, a word from our sponsor:
Today's Not Boring is brought to you by…
Seemingly everyone is talking about how next week’s elections will impact the markets and their investments. The fear makes sense -- historical data shows US presidential elections tend to make investors more conservative. Even my most risk-seeking, SPAC-loving friend told me that he’s going to cash until after the election. But knowledge is better than fear: do markets perform better in Democratic or Republican administrations? And most importantly, is there an ideal investment strategy during an election season?
Weathering financial uncertainty during this election is crucial for long-term financial success. Yet, it can be challenging to find a go-to source for trustworthy and unbiased insights. That’s where Zoe Financial comes in.
Read Zoe Financial’s Top 5 Investment Impacts of US Presidential Elections Here:
Software is Eating the Markets
In 2011, Netscape and a16z founder, Marc Andreesen, wrote a guest post in the WSJ titled Why Software Is Eating the World [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uwyAQhU8TltYwgA0LFu2iF-gBLGwmCa0NFuBa7ulLkkWlkebnafTpvdlVuqV82i2VyvZCeQze8h61UNIwb6XnWmkWynjNRKsLi615J7bt0xJmV0OKzw8AVOxuJ0GScBAeBhzMdNWoNSh_9cPEhZQze3BGt_tAcSZLP5TPFIkt9l7rVi7i7YIfrY7j6I7y1c1pbZvLNcwLlTZ-vjcUcIkSlOCcGxBSgwGphl5xRAWGqx6N7IEFi4DAAXuOsley453p_RbTrwqDvkhYb9iVfSrVzd8PFMs2pjqlHOKtyd93t9LyFJrdsfV1j6GeI0U3LeRfSdRXdk9j9dzIRjrKQrVSfh0f8UihBsUNazSfWorxH_QHCXV9ww]. With nine years of hindsight, he was so obviously right that it’s cliché to cite it today. I’m kind of mad at myself for typing these words right now. 
Software has fundamentally altered nearly every industry. Netflix put a dent in cable’s long standing dominance, and already TikTok and Fortnite threaten Netflix. Newspapers are dying. Millions of people now earn livings in the Gig Economy or the Passion Economy. A private company, SpaceX, is doing things that NASA can’t. The list goes on. 
But despite that, we operate under the assumption that financial markets are somehow different, impervious. Of course, technology has impacted finance. High-speed trading accounts for an increasingly large percentage of activity, and institutional investors will spend millions or billions on any tech that gets them a slight advantage. But if recent tech history is a guide, technology’s ultimate impact on finance will be less about further entrenching incumbents; it will empower consumers. 
Consumers are participating directly in the market in greater numbers than ever before, but every analysis I’ve read treats increased retail participation as a temporary COVID-induced blip, and retail traders as irresponsible and irrational gamblers just looking to have a good time. Soon, serious people argue, things will go back to the way they were.
They may be right. But what if they’re not? 
Investing in Social Status
In November, back when San Francisco was still more physical place than state of mind and most people associated Corona with lime, Alex Danco wrote an excellent post called The Social Subsidy of Angel Investing [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOhCAQ_JrhpgFERg4c5rK_YRBaJYNgoJ1d9-sXZw6bdPpdXemyBmFJ-dR7KkiOAnn0TjPJh64XijgtHBv6gfgyzhlgMz5ozAeQ_ZiCtwZ9im8EpbwnqzaMTbNScqYT77ikQBVXlslBdWYAOZOLZzSH8xAtaHhBPlMEEvSKuJdb97jxr2omwI8z0abWpq3WnDJVA2NXfq8OV2hKst6EphxT8e5s0tyYuEBofHxBQR-Xuke85rSiKZeMC9mLlrVKuj2m397fh5ug28Lb6wQa-7zYSNYx4ZTydUDQ52o2CO9B_XmscTuix3OEaKYA7iMHfgR8f4fnDjrCdwmACPnTvDQSXX_vmSKVzaUqZfwn-gOXvoP5]. 
In it, he argued three main points: 
Angel Investors in the Bay Area don’t just invest for the financial returns; they also invest for the social returns. 
The social rewards of angel investing solve an important chicken-and-egg problem in early stage fundraising that financial rewards do not.
The social returns to angel investing have a strong geographical network effect, because they require a threshold density in order to kick in.
In San Francisco, owning a Ferrari wasn’t nearly as cool as owning pre-seed shares in Stripe or Uber. In some ways, startup equity behaved more like a Veblen Good -- one that paradoxically sees more demand as the price goes up -- than like an investment. How else to explain the mad dash to invest in Clubhouse at any price? A high price signaled a more competitive round, which meant more social status for getting in.
To an outsider, this might seem crazy. Why invest your hard-earned money in something that doesn’t provide the best risk-adjusted returns? When angel investors wrote checks into startups, they were really buying two things: an asset with a potential financial return and a status symbol. 
As usual, Danco was prescient, but he couldn’t have predicted what happened in the year since his post. 
Since the beginning of the COVID pandemic in the US in March, the economy is struggling, consumers are buying fewer things, and millions are unemployed. And yet, the stock market hovers near all-time highs. People are spending less on services and luxury items, and investing more.
There is no one way to explain everything that’s been going on, but there are a few that I like: 
Low Rates + Fiscal Stimulus: Interest rates are at all-time lows, so anyone looking for yield needs to invest in stocks. Plus, the Fed has provided a backstop that makes risky assets less risky. 
Tech Strength: Tech companies make up a bigger piece of the major indices than ever, and they are actually benefiting from COVID. Plus, normal people are familiar with those companies -- we use their products every day -- so they are more likely to invest in them. 
Boredom Markets: Investors are bored at home -- Bloomberg’s Matt Levine calls it the “boredom markets hypothesis [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEuOhCAQQE_T7DSIgrpgMZu5huFTraQRDJRt7NMPtotJKqlfKi_1jEKYYzrlFjOSPUOanJWNYEPLu5FY2dlm4ANxeXomgFU5LzHtQLZde2cUuhi-F5QyThapmBG9GrVuhxaENbwdYeyt4KwXpqcduTiT2q2DYEDCG9IZAxAvF8QtP9qfB_stcRxHrX2Mq4Y01yauZRY3FwquVCqhMx5yKRlltKKialhp3LM6414dKmC1QMJPtag3VDmucPfEyeugoUw0rBO8q5t6FHYL8cNdPzw6us6szrvOqMzr4pIkQ0QdkwtzWb8WtYL_LoqBqeR1Dw7PCYLSHuwtB2-d31_x3EAGOLIHREj38DLWtbznzUgKzcYiNvyD_gBMeIop]” -- and not spending as much discretionary income on fun experiences and luxury goods, so they’re investing instead. 
There’s another take that I haven’t heard but want to explore today: 
Software is eating the markets. Flush with cash and empowered by new tech platforms that blur the lines between investment, experience, entertainment, and digital assets, a segment of consumer investors are shifting money from consumption to investment. Consumer investors expect different things from their investments than professionals do and value assets differently as a result. New technologies, regulations, social trends, and asset classes mean that this shift is here to stay, and could continue to gain momentum after COVID is gone. This time, maybe it really is different. 
Like angel investments in the Bay Area, when you add social and experiential value to other asset classes like stocks, sneakers, and cryptocurrencies, price is divorced from hard math and becomes more emotional. That doesn’t mean that people are sitting at home bored and gambling; they may be making perfectly rational decisions when accounting for the many roles their investments are doing for them now.
The rise of consumer investors will alter how markets operate. To understand why and how, we’ll cover:
The State of the Market. People have a lot of savings, they can’t spend on luxury goods and experiences, and rates are historically low. Enter: more fun asset classes. 
What Clayton Christensen Got Wrong. Consumers and professionals value different things in the products they buy. Why not in the investments they make? 
New Technologies Breed New Spending Patterns. New platforms make investments feel more like digital goods and steal spend from non-investment categories.
Modern Platforms and Asset Classes. The platforms driving retail investment in stocks, alternative assets, venture, and crypto.
Is It Different This Time? Why the COVID-induced changes to the way we invest might persist.
Let’s start with why things are the way they are. 
The State of the Market
In March, it seemed like the world was ending. Stocks plummeted 35% between late February and late March. Millions lost their jobs. Anyone deemed non-essential stayed inside. Everyone braced for a deep recession. 
But then, things shifted. The Fed stepped in and lowered rates while the government pumped trillions of dollars of fiscal stimulus into the economy. While 12.6 million Americans remain unemployed and 100,000 small businesses will never reopen, the market has roared back. 
Not only did public companies perform well, new ones came to market to take advantage of insatiable demand for risk assets: 
Companies like Snowflake, Unity, Asana, Palantir, BigCommerce, and Lemonade IPO’d to great success.
SPACs dumped new, riskier supply onto the market, and the market is gobbling it up. 
Startups are raising at ever-higher valuations, including companies that themselves offer new assets classes to yield-hungry investors. 
People much smarter than me have explained why the markets are the way they are today. 
Dan McMurtie called it very early in Devil’s Advocate: The Bull Case [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuOwyAMRb-m7BLxJlmwmM38RkTAaVEJRDw6ynz9kHYxkiXLtuzje62pcE_51EcqFbUCefFOE0knJviMnOaOTGJCvixbBtiND7rmBuhoa_DWVJ_iewNjKtBDC8skm6fZKGIm5yybmbSKci63bbIbRhdnMc15iBY0vCCfKQIK-lHrUW7s60a_e-zgfNtHm_ar5tiZuEg8S9VLBy8fymDcK_UHYKgPGNYWwmBNgYGxSZGOIkpZ5DXFFBNMJaFcCj6ScZbuiOlXeDX1u_udjqWtpRr7vGgo65jqmrKP9z5-PswO4T3ogpee9xZ9PReIZg3gPl7Uj3tvafU8QEf4KQFqhfxpXgZxJpQgM-o0l7qP8R_0BxyugrM] back in May. 
Jesse Livermore discussed first, second, and third order causes and effects on Invest Like the Best [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMGOwiAU_Jpys6FQKj1w0KgnLyZrmj01tLxaYgsIdE336xf1sMlL3mQmL_NmehnhZv0qnA0RLQF8q5UoKsIpK2ukRKkKzjjSoR08wCz1JKJfALmlm3Qvo7bmfYExYWgUNaMUEsaK0oFuJXDGBl4qQrEkSlXo5dPKRWkwPQj4Ab9aA2gSY4wuZHSXkVMa68DkwdmohzXv7ZwocDpYBQnhZr7uH9fvpqkWJYeaj0dfHTJ6Cjqjh6_HhnWzO1yO63nT7C_K0PP-ibQg6a0Ck6ogZcXKvMjrSjljf5ne8qzE843kYelClP39ZYm8MDZ21mtzS_J9lDNMbyFlb9OeF6Pj2oKR3QTqU0v8FPlOGVcHwsAzTBAj-A_56qqkbMuKGiU3ZVOl5t_oDwoVhsQ].
Howard Marks recently wrote a letter to Oaktree’s clients called Coming Into Focus [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOhCAMhp9GbmMEBZ0Dh73saxiEOkNGKYGyxn36xZnDJk2a9G_7tb81BA9Mp46YiZUMafZOcyWmXg535vTg-CQn5vO8JoDd-E1TKsBiWTZvDXkM74muE5I9tZOwdqrnYhmVEXZU0PfSKOmAi9UOPbs4synOQ7Cg4QfSiQHYpp9EMTf9VyO-axzH0aJ5UWVaEz2ZrbW4V8GhzVeC1ZSNbhlLslALO-x4CbXLh8fNB8LbirbkNrqVeS060fFOKC4GJYeWt3flYsBf6cepGbr9IdpclkzGvi4SSzogLZjqsiq_nmaH9wnX43PNewmezhmCWTZwH0_o4-L7RToj6ABH3oAI0qd4GTX0cpT8zirNYfUz_IP-ABl5iPY].
Their explanations go something like this: 
The Fed lowered the Fed Funds rate, on which all other rates are based, to 0-0.25% on March 15th. 
The Federal government learned from the 2008-2009 financial crisis and stepped in quickly to provide $3 trillion in fiscal stimulus to support a shut-down economy, which both pumped money into the system and gave investors confidence in a backstop. 
Low interest rates did a lot of things:
Stimulated the economy: “Mortgage rates are so low, we should buy a house!”
Increased the discounted present value of future cashflows: everyone adjusted their models with lower discount rates, and present values shot up automatically.
Brought down demanded returns across all asset classes: when the risk-free rate is lower, people also expect lower returns on riskier assets, which drives up prices. 
Forced people to search for returns in riskier assets: if returns on all asset classes come down, you need to invest in riskier assets to get the same return.
Importantly, low interest rates favor more fun assets, like art, cards, and tech stocks, over more boring ones, like bonds and value stocks. Tech stocks got a triple whammy of tailwinds:
The underlying businesses improved as everything moved online, and tech businesses like Zoom and Shopify reported massive growth.
Lower discount rates benefit every company’s valuation, but they benefit faster-growing companies the most. All else equal, if Company A has a higher proportion of its cash flow in future years than Company B, Company A’s DCF-based valuation will improve more as the discount rate drops. Tech companies, which trade profits today for growth and profits in the future, are the ultimate beneficiary of low rates. 
Retail investors love investing in the tech companies they use every day, and a segment of retail investors has a lot more cash to invest. 
Additionally, with bonds at all-time low rates, investors can make a rational argument that they should actually diversify into more interesting asset classes like art, trading cards, real estate, and sneakers, which are now more accessible due to Reg A+ and the businesses the regulatory change has enabled. It’s hard to measure the impact of “fun” on asset prices, but across almost every consumer category, a more fun product with a better user experience will attract more dollars than a more boring one with a worse user experience. The same applies to investing.
Simultaneously, the type of people who invest in the markets already maintained their income but dramatically lowered their expenses. While personal consumption expenditures [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtuwyAQ_BpztGAB2zlwqFTlNywwmwQFgwXrVu7XlziVKq20sy_NziyW8J7LYbZcie0Vyxy8EQNMUqsL80Z5MemJhTrfCuJqQzRUdmTb7mJYLIWczgvOQbOHGexNOAdu1DBZLXEUHAGk9QsflXCKvXhmu_uAaUGDX1iOnJBF8yDaaic_Ori2aGS-rxTzHuqtwVzurVswoq3YEFkXsa1fS_Cd_NSqgwFPKAF4B7Kmv0oIFgxw4ILDIEANWvWivwx-S_lHh3HqFF_v0NfdVbLLs1_yyopJmVwuId3b-PmwK8Zz0GTPLa97CnTMmF5v-Lcj9PbwFEjHhibhd41IhOXdfNmkpB61uLDG5nNzM_0T_QLSWYPd] on goods bounced back to pre-COVID levels quickly -- people need to eat -- spending on services in August 2020 remained 7% below August 2019 levels, and McKinsey forecasted [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uxCAMhU8z7IjyRxIWLLrpNSICzoCGQARm0vT0JZlFJcuW_fT0rE9JhGeIp9hDQpITxNlq0Qzt1LGeEy163UxsIjbNawTYpHUCYway58VZJdEGfzvqumXEiJUPHatHLsdJas6Bj1yt49TAyuSqZUeunFlmbcErEPCGeAYPxAmDuKdH9_Vov0sdx1Epv6hKha2sbd3WZdTT1cbSXP7J8aRGJroAeGosliVqupwUDdC3jTlR6TU9jESqgk95g5joW7oMt08Z6Z-gK4ObI1ZcEU3dDk3bD6yvmooPevfhl9lxevT19myrlJeEUr2up0gUPuASovXPIr-M3MDdQiEzl7llb_GcwcvFgf5Aww_mmwGeOwgPR3KACPFzvEj2HRtZw0lJ06EA9_9Bf89Ykw0] that the luxury goods market would drop by 35% to 39%. People are traveling less, dining out less, getting their hair cut less, and buying fewer physical status symbols. No one can see the red sole on your Louboutins when you’re on a Zoom.
As a result, retail investors have more money to spend. Disposable personal income [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUNtqxCAQ_Zr4GNRokn3woVD2N4KX2ays0aBjS_r1NVloYWDOXA5n5liNsKZ8qD0VJLVAXrxTbOTzIMWNOCUcm-VMfFkeGWDTPijMFcheTfBWo0_xYlDKJXk2JuPCUgp6opaNo5yEkGayWls5G-PIqbPo6jxECwq-IB8pAgnqibiXbvjo-L1FE3N9wZCqL48GU15bN0MAXaAh1CZAW79n77rhU4qOj3BBJqUQQ8eHEv_qiROvOOWUUX4eOErRs_42uj2mH-mnuRN0W3lfqimo7au3aSNZxYQmZR_XNn499QbhGrTXl5a3Gj0eC8TzFPd2Bd8-Xk_isYOK8F0CIEJ-N0-rxCAnyW6kqbnUHI3_Qr-CuoTC] is up 5% year-over-year (YoY) and the personal savings rate doubled from 7.3% last year to 14.1% this year!  Retail investors, regular people investing their personal money, now make up 25% of trades versus 10% in 2019. 
With savings accounts yielding next to nothing, people are putting that money to work in financial assets, including but not limited to stocks, not just for the potential financial gain, but because those assets themselves are filling the need for social status, connection, entertainment, and education that we’re not able to get elsewhere.
I did an informal twitter poll to see what people were doing with the money they weren’t spending:
60% of people decided to invest their money - in stocks, Bitcoin, and new alternative assets - instead of buying new things or saving it in cash. When interest rates are near-zero and inflation risk looms, investors feel the need to put money to work. 
Viewed through that lens, recent investment behavior looks a lot less like crazy professional investing and a lot more like consumers buying things and experiences that also have financial upside. 
What Clayton Christensen Got Wrong
It’s easy to make fun of the new wave of Robinhood-using, SPAC-buying, WallStreetBets-posting “investors.” They’re not doing the type of deep analysis traders would do, choosing to invest with the herd instead of uncovering their own hidden value gems.
One popular view of this phenomenon is that in a market like this, Robinhood is just a casino. Gamblers know the odds are against them, but they do it anyway, for the rush or the small chance of a huge return. That’s certainly part of it. 
But this retail trader trend has persisted for nearly a year, around the world, and I think there’s something more to it. Retail investors value different things than institutional ones. 
In What Clayton Christensen Got Wrong [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEGOwyAMfE24NQICJBw47GW_ERFwE1QCEThbZV-_tD2sZGkkj-3xjLMIay6XOXJFclYoc_CGKT4NUmjijfBskhMJdb4XgN2GaLCcQI5zicFZDDm9NyjlkmyGWuWotAy0miavQGhP9WjvfFxGPTpFXjqzPX2A5MDAD5QrJyDRbIhH7Yavjn-3qljaZ25rdO_y3jqcsqGBi_bCnG5uK6EipArptma8PUtOa-NJMJy2WcoV40JJ0bNeK3-k_CvDOHWC7ivv67lUtO7xuk2KSRmXXEI7IOhjszvEN9E8zg33MwW8Zkh2ieA_9vET2NsNXgeYBM8aARHKp_nKRAxylEyTpuZziy79C_0BRCqAdg], one of the earliest Stratechery pieces, Ben Thompson critiqued the titular HBS professor and creator of disruption theory’s prediction that the iPod and iPhone were doomed to fail. Christensen argued that while Apple’s integrated approach makes sense in the early days of a new market, over time, as the products’ components become commoditized, a more modular approach wins out. When even modular products become “good enough,” the low-cost solution dominates the market.
What he got wrong, according to Thompson, was assuming that consumers and businesses make decisions in the same way. Specifically, Thompson highlighted three of Christensen’s flawed assumptions:
Buyers are rational.
Every attribute that matters can be documented and measured. 
Modular providers can become “good enough” on all the attributes that matter to buyers.
Those assumptions largely hold for business buyers, but not for consumers. Business buyers care about getting all the features they need at the lowest possible cost. Consumers care about user experience, and how a product makes them feel. 
Institutional investors still account for the vast majority of dollars traded. Even though retail traders’ share of daily average revenue trades (DARTs), according to Citadel [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUcGO6yAM_JpyIyIQSHLgsJf3GxEBt0UlkAcmq-zXL2kPKyGMxtgzHluD8Ej51HsqSGqBvHine8UnIYeZOD24fpIT8WW5Z4DN-KAxVyB7XYO3Bn2K7wrGuCRPPXMjlISei16YEZRioO5K2skAm-xqycWzmOo8RAsaDshnikCCfiLu5Sa-bvxfO5vJL8DSrbX4CKVdxTvInU1by0b4Li0UTPZ1PTJgE0Z9PKBhudD_1WSETNOdvj_RTz9qU07RHD7XQo8Umvzg8aSYjfPxQa1H4yBQzjijI-0Zn8XEmZA3LojXF9ww1fNByaHru1m5PaYf6cfpNrDtwbtS14LGvi6hJOuYcE25tW7p19NsEN6JZt7S4lZjY18gmjWA-_iKn028bcJzB33NGgDbNB_wMnsQcpT9TBqbS20n8Y_oF0lUoKs], has more than doubled in the past year from 10% to 25%, professional investors still make 75% of trades, and make much larger trades. But if retail participation persists, 25% is still a large enough share to impact the market, and retail investors care about different things than professionals do. Like iPhone buyers and Bay Area angel investors, this new generation of retail traders is buying more than just an expected future return when they buy an asset. 
Although they’re often derided as irrational, or gamblers, or YOLO traders, retail traders might be behaving perfectly rationally when you price in everything else that they’re buying: an experience, a status symbol, a digital good, belonging, entertainment, education, and more. That should mean that they have a higher willingness-to-pay than someone who attributes no value to those things. 
During COVID, if some retail investors have come off as irresponsible gamblers, I’d argue that that has more to do with the software they’re using than their investing preference. Robinhood encourages gambling; it feels like a game. But new products designed with the investor-as-consumer in mind are changing that.
New Technology Breeds New Behaviors
In Audio’s Opportunity and Who Will Capture It [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOwyAM_JpyjIAACQcOe9nfiHi4DVoCETiNsl-_tD2sZNnWjEbjsbcIj1Ivs5eG5GhQlxgMU3wepdAkGBHYLGcS23KvAJuNyWA9gOyHS9FbjCW_FZRySVYzy6DvIGcvRqUnrucwuckqpwRIyrQmL5_FHiFC9mDgCfUqGUgyK-LebuPXjX_3Os9z2CziCqezKQ1P38G-vHoXFwS_kmg45ZRRrhgXSoqBDVqFPZdfGaf5Juj24EM7XEPrfwZfNlJNLuhKjfnR6Z_VbpDeRI-z9LkdOeK1QLYuQfgkxc9v3ofjtYPJcLYEiFA_4Cu-GOUkmSbdLZT-pfxv9Af98Xkq], investor Matthew Ball [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEuOhSAQPM1jaRABZcFiNnMNA9I-yUMw0I5xTj-oi0k66XRXKvWZDMI75VNvqSDZC-TRO91KNnSCK-I0d-0gBuLLOGeA1figMe9Att0GPxn0Kd4MSpkgi-6UlIoZPtF57qRVxszKceiNtL3tmCKXzmh25yFOoOEH8pkikKAXxK28uq8X-66Dh0eE3ExprZc1IawGcYGDeM0ooy1lsmVcCt60jZJui-lX-H54cbq-WVN2W9BMn4tPso4Jbco-viv8WcwK4QZqhrHudY8ezxGisQHcEw-fQm63eG6gIxwlwOXpeV6ZeSd60SpS1Vyq1cR_oT-Z1nYr] wrote about technology’s impact on audio, video, and gaming. Song lengths, for example, are a function of the medium on which the song is played or the way its creators are paid. 45s limited a song’s length to below four minutes; Spotify’s pay-per-listen business model encourages shorter songs that can be played more often. 
But while each new form factor or delivery method for music stole share from the previous generation, new forms of video and video games increased the size of the overall pie. 
The advent of mobile gaming didn’t mean that people spent less time and money on console gaming, it meant that they played more games, because they could do so from anywhere. 
Like mobile gaming, new investment platforms will grow the overall investing pie.
The dot-com bubble was driven by both tech stocks, and tech platforms that allowed retail investors to easily trade for themselves for the first time, at the click of a button. E*Trade touted trades for just $14.95 while suggesting that if investors wanted something done right, they had to do it themselves.
That new technology brought more people into the market and encouraged new behavior. Unwatched by the professionals, retail investors could make risky gambles that they would be too embarrassed to tell their broker to put in for them. The time between hearing about a hot new stock and being able to execute a trade fell to practically zero. But the online brokerages’ interfaces were simplistic, and the ways for “investors” to find and communicate with each other limited to clunky, text-based message boards. They weren’t buying new experiences, just trying not to miss out on the gains their neighbors were generating. They moved money from savings, brokerages, or 401ks into accounts they managed, and invested in anything with a “.com” in its name. 
In other words, they changed how they invested the same pool of investment funds, personally directing investments towards riskier trades, but didn’t re-allocate money from buying things or experiences. In fact, personal consumption expenditures grew at slightly higher rates in 1999 than in the years leading up to the bubble.
Instead, investors moved money from safer assets, like bonds, into riskier ones, like shares of Pets.com, despite the fact that bonds’ expected returns were higher than stocks’. We all know how that ended. 
Today is different. People are looking for new ways to spend money they would have otherwise spent on new clothes, trips, dining, and all of the things that people valued before the pandemic. It even makes sense for most people to move allocations away from bonds -- the most boring asset class -- because of low rates. Concurrently, new platforms are changing both what assets retail investors can buy and their experience owning those assets. 
That has major implications on the prices that people will pay and the returns they’ll accept. Because the expected long-term return on many goods and experiences is zero -- you don’t expect to get $120 back after going to a concert for which you paid $100 -- treating investments partially as a consumption good and partially as an experience should mean that consumer investors are willing to pay higher prices, or conversely, to get lower returns.
This won’t just drive up the value of hot stocks. Prices are not nearly as crazy as they were during the dot com bubble, and they won’t be. It will represent a shift from consumption into investments on new platforms and in new asset classes. 
To read more about the new platforms and asset classes reshaping the way consumers invest, and to understand whether “it’s different this time”:
Social trends data was brought to you by Pulsar [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOhCAQRL9GjgYQFA8c9rK_YVDakQwCgWaN-_XLzBw26aSTfqlUV20G4RHzrVMsSGqBvDir2cjVIMVMrBaWKamIK8ueAU7jvMZcgaS6ercZdDG8FZRySQ49WLEpBuvMGExUSpBgZzWbfRhGJdeRvHwWU62DsIGGH8h3DEC8PhBT6Yavjn-3ua6rT9UXk5M3uMd89ls8GyBOc8opo3xkXIxS9KyfR5tC_JVuUp2g54P3pa4FzfZ8iUjWIeIaswuPhp-HOcG_QcuwtH3W4PBeIJjVg_3Ew08h72_xTqADXMUDIuTP8ZVZDHKSbCbNzcZWTfg3-gM8e3W2], the Official Audience Intelligence Sponsor of Not Boring. Big thanks to Marc [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOhCAQ_JrhaAAB9cBhL3PbbzA8epSMgoF2J-7XL-phk0463ZXqqmpnEKaUD72lgmQvkMfgNVO8b6UYiNfCs172JJTxlQFWExaNeQey7XYJzmBI8WJQyiWZNadWtazvOsWZ4ZRC1_uXGdwwOM4625JTZzS7DxAdaPiBfKQIZNEz4lYe7deDP2vhJyBCblxa6_RtshsDklDvc8ooV4wLJUXDmkH5LaZfGbr-Ieg68abstqBx75NLso4JbcohThV-z2aF5QKq_7H2dY8BjxGisQv4Oxrez7ic4rGBjvApC5x-7uWZV7Syk2wgVc2n-pb4L_QHr0pzhA] and the Pulsar team for helping pull signal from the noise.
And of course, thanks to my favorite brother and editor, Dan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEmOwyAQfI25xQLMYh84zGW-YbF0EmQWC_BYntcPSQ4jtaqlKnWXqqxu8MjlUnuuDR0VyuqdIoLOE2cLcoo5MvMZ-breC0DUPqhWDkD7YYK3uvmc3hcYU46eyog7d1rYiQhp3GzAUTEvjEgqOWgt0ctn1YfzkCwo-IFy5QQoqGdrex2mr4F-9znPcww-beB8Gm2OnfKpg9PpFq3NJXq73RaxECIJJl1BXlFMMcFUEMoEZyMZF-H2lH-5l_PAcHzQsR6mNm23109UVMrN5OLTo8vbU0cIb6GHW_uOR_LtWiFpE8B9crdPU-8Y7dpBJThrgNagfMhXGWzikpMFdTeXe2fp3-gP8g58iQ] for editing. 
Thanks for reading, and see you on Thursday,
Packy