# Startup Stock Options Options with Secfi

**From:** Not Boring <notboring@substack.com>
**Date:** Thu, 22 Apr 2021 12:55:36 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/Startup Stock Options Options with Secfi_Thu,_22_Apr_2021_12-55-36_+0000_178f9a7735e334b0.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:07.680260

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOgyAQhp-m3GpgAKsHDr3saxiUUUkVDIxrfPulNekmwJ8wmfky32AJp5hOs8VM7P10dG5oAh55QSJMbM-YOu-MqKGRWrXMGeVEoxvmczcmxNX6xVDakW17v_jBko_h08E5aDYbVL1Dh_xRjyCxda1w6tGMtW6cUq0YL67dnccwoMFfTGcMyBYzE235Jp83-CnnOI4qROpj8mGqhli-tnIz2UT7ds8Uh9c9bm98_ubhaWbeAAfBFYAArSWvRNVDI7h-OK205QCqH-WoYQQ7aA5S403xdYIq732ZP7wKbmXJfPGl_JrtisunUBbvSq578HR2GGy_oLuc0KX2Y6mbMGAqyl1nqQgVLW9rIWvQ8nJQpBXFteCNYIXsYukK_9A_A_eRPQ

Welcome to the 867 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since last Thursday! If you aren’t subscribed, join 45,133 smart, curious folks by subscribing here:
🎧 To get this essay straight in your ears: listen on Spotify [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkUFLxDAQhX9NcyzJpKntIQd1WZBVxNWLp5I2k27YNilJqlt_vXH3IAwzMI_HG74ZVMLRh00uPiby17q0LSgdfscJU8JA1oihs1qyGhouqpZoWWnWiIbY2JmAOCs7yRRWJMvaT3ZQyXp3dVAKgpwkZX3DazTaDLxWpkZFm0Gj4b0SLRPtLVet2qIbUOIXhs07JJM8pbTEgt8XsM_lF3RlXHyyZisHP-dVPPnvPOoz-3x--Ho9Hl82Hw8bv7DL01TwfbQF3-2WrbKPh7s3Ae_sueLsJ37QkVgJFBitABgIwWnJyh4aRsWdFpVQFKDqDTcCDKhBUOACi4rOI5Rx7WNSw_nvCBKk86n3wboxy-eTmnG6CplGl-e8Opu2Dp3qJ9Q3UOnG-4quG9FhyH_QnUqZMmtpWzNeg-A3MJlk5l4z2jCSk7XPLvcf-gsOkpVx] or Apple Podcasts [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEtuxCAMQE8z7BqBwZlkwaKbXiPi42RQE4iAtMrty0wqjWRhg2U985yptKR86j2Vyp7HVM-ddKTfslKtlNlRKE_Ba9HDIFGNzGvlxYADC2WaM9FmwqprPojth12DMzWk-JrgHJA9tO9nMJysFWacoZeDvSskIwd0SiG_X1xz-EDRkaYfymeKxFb9qHUvN_l5g68We_LOlFo6s-8rdS5t7fEo706rYqofNuUQl3YJXiDcFYhRChY0cBBcAQhAlLwTnYVBcLx7VGg4gLKznBHasg45SKSb4tsCXTlsqcZ9P4ks64b4Jyj-_TAbra9G-_zU8nbEUM-JorEr-ctLvfS-TE0LRcpNu59MbVLFyMdeyB5QXh6auKa5F3wQrJF9alPxDf0Dei6PSA]
Hi friends 👋 ,
Happy Thursday!
Startup stock options are one of those things that startup employees should know a ton about but just don’t. There’s a never-ending debate in tech around whether stock options make sense for employees, or whether they’re just a way for companies to pay less cash. Even when things seemingly go really well for a company, employees’ situations are often murkier than it seems.
That’s why I was so pumped when Shanna Leonard, who runs marketing at Secfi [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkduKwyAQhp8mXgaPqb3wYmHpawQPYyobNXjY0rdf0y4UZIT5-flnvrG6wZbLUx25NnSWtT0PUAkedYfWoKBeoazBKbJQyQS_Iqe4I1JIFOrqC0DUYVetdEBHN3uwuoWcXg6MqUB3xblhFntL5dV4KxYt5MVLIz3xEl8Eeefq7gIkCwp-oTxzArSre2tHndjXRG_jPR6PuYL1YbY5ni126y2uNfdiYWLfKTeTS0jbRJdTiOBCj0OwOTVI7b9tdTx02NLp-KwZFMWUYE4poUIwPJPZUEmwuDjBhcaUcuOZF9RTbQWmTMDEcdzoXLupTdufcypU1GcKjn_uOsL-Egabdfyxp9CeKyRtdnBvbO1N_wVy3SBBGVdxq26DObni60LYQgV7YxpcxxUWgiVBI9nl4Uqf0D-kuZzx], reached out about working together. I’ve been wanting to write about this forever.
This essay is a Sponsored Deep Dive on Secfi. For those who are new around here, that means that Secfi is paying me to write about their business. You can read more about how I pick and work with partners here [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkU2P4yAMhn9NOUbgQEsOHEaaXY06O3sZqdo9RXw4KWoCGSBT5d8vbQ4r2cayZb_osdUFx5g2tcRcyCP0ZVtQBbznCUvBRNaMqfdOsSPIVvCOOMUdk0ISn_shIc7aT6qkFcmymslbXXwMzwlKQZCrYo4bacVwcoO1ndQAgxi4k8bxU2datuvq1XkMFhV-Y9piQDKpaylLPrQvB_hZzUWbmzHGccLGxnmvrDOG8kirs3fg7uVd3E6_3ta_H_n8sTnQ9vXz6y7ND3ee-8X6S5ovv_88VqLzhXgFFBjlAAyEaGnDGgOSUXFyggtNAbgZ2kHAUDcJCq3AA6fzCE1eTS7a3h5_IUmFWExMPoy1fbvqGadnozLp6zuvwZetx6DNhG7HVXbqT4D9iAFTvYbrdamsWUe7I2uPINodT-VZ6R8ZlYxUZRfrVPgv-g8HGZga].
This one is a little bit different though. The Secfi team really just wants more startup employees to know what their options are, make a plan, and not leave millions of dollars on the table. Each person I’ve spoken to there has their own personal startup equity horror story, and they want to make sure that you don’t go through the same thing. I, too, gave up cash for equity, and it was a terrible financial decision. This one is personal.
Obviously, if Secfi can help you make smarter decisions, that’s a win-win, but more thoughtfulness around employee equity is a win in itself. So we’re going to go deep on how equity works, why people don’t exercise, and what happens when they don’t.
(One note: I wanted to call this post ESOP’s Fables, but ESOPs are a public company thing more than a private company thing. But I thought it was clever, so I couldn’t not share.)
Let’s get to it.
Startup Stock Options Options with Secfi [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUl1v4jAQ_DXkrZHtxA55yAMqhEvvCj2V40pfIsfegMmHI8dpCL_-DEg9yeuVZrU70swIbuGozZR0urfe7cvt1EHSwtjXYC0Yb-jB5EommJF5QMPYk0ko8ZzOPdXnpQFouKoTawbwuqGoleBW6fa-gRCh3ilBDGjERFnIiISsYBEO4ojwkgCKeBmRBy8fpIJWQAJfYCbdglcnJ2u7fhYsZiR1bxxHv9W20Ea1R19oB3WuesuNHbqn3mpRPenuRt9_91HZ0yxIra6gnQVLmF6wIPvpg9RVdtaXzTkLX69_0PZ9VGIdX2Uad5_PGbthm_Nq3C5XfdbUJ3nDdofLdregDr9u1Kj4x-bqbijxY69-7Vbj6zLDmcNFsFd3_HbvGU-ff9OzXNdfhXqJ_bcFXqzY8LR-uyzFYV-xKX-3V2YOmbX9zxxWl22tzlma_q48lRBEMAoJwYTSAPnYL8gcIxpJGlKOCAmLMigpKQkXFJGAwixEzZH4_VA4WUTlVGo8k3yr5sbViTdQ3wfOr9z1ZmiVnXJoeVGDfFhpH4m4m5sfoQXjkiJzbl0OcIxihgNGaPCwznntksEwmmPPMUvtttr_pP8AsN3PNQ]
In 2020, startup employees left $4.9 billion [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uxCAMhU8zLCMwkCELFt30GogfJ4OaQASkUW5fZrKoZNmynuyn93nbcMnl0nuujbybadeOOuFZV2wNCzkqFhODZiMoLsVEghaBKalIrGYuiJuNq27lQLIfbo3etpjT54JSkOSlPRuZsjA9BeBoFfeAjj2po6hmISncvvYIEZNHjb9YrpyQrPrV2l4f_OsB373O8xwq-jkOPm99BwqURN0HowKAgZScDmxwoBiVzyCFtBRAuJnPEmawvptxiQ9BtwWGerjarP95fyNFp9xcLjEtXf552Q3Xj9AzmT63I8V2GUzWrRjuuO2m9gFgFkxYOs1gbOus2ESnkfERJL_jdR6d3sioYqQ7h9yv0r_pH4-_gSQ] on the table by not exercising their pre-IPO options. 
Not exercising pre-IPO means employees missed out in two major ways:
They let the typical 90 day window pass after leaving and forfeited unexercised options, either all of their options or a portion. 
They stayed at the company through IPO, but didn’t exercise before the IPO and had to pay short-term capital gains or ordinary income instead of long-term capital gains because of “cashless exercising.” Costs can soar post-IPO.
That combination cost employees four point nine billion dollars. $4,900,000,000. 4,900 million. At Snowflake alone, ex-employees left 72 million options worth $1.27 billion unexercised. Ouch. 
Those numbers are so big as to feel kind of meaningless, but they represent years of blood, sweat, tears, uncertainty, and financial trade-offs down the drain. 
Most people who work for early stage startups take less cash compensation than they’d be able to get at a more mature company in exchange for a few things: a more fun work environment, the chance to change the world, more responsibility than they’d get elsewhere, and a host of soft benefits, but mainly, they do it for the employee stock options. 
Employee stock options are the lifeblood of a startup. Options are the main way startups compete on comp with big companies like Google and Goldman that can afford to pay infinity times more cash. They offer the promise of millions and millions of dollars if things go really, really well. 
When I left Bank of America Merrill Lynch and went to Breather, I took a 70% pay cut on the cash side, but I got options worth 1% of the company in exchange. Even coming from finance, I didn’t fully understand my options. I just did some hyperoptimistic expected value math (1% * $1 billion = $10 million!) and that was good enough for me. 
I’m certainly not alone. Most startup employees don’t understand their options. Some don’t even know they need to exercise them or put out money at all. Because options feel like lottery tickets at the early stage, employees don’t think all that much about things like the tax implications of when they exercise, what happens if they leave the company, and all of the little details that can mean hundreds of thousands or even millions of dollars. Which is crazy, because those options can often represent, on paper, a huge percentage of their net worth. 
For a group of ostensibly intelligent people, startup employees put surprisingly little thought into managing their options. These are builders. They get so immersed in their day-to-day and building great things that they lose sight of their own personal gain at times. Plus, it’s kind of taboo to talk about maximizing the value of your options when there’s real work to be done. 
And most companies don’t do much to help. It’s (generally) not because they don’t want to, but because this stuff is really complicated, and so far in the future, and startups have dozens of more pressing fires to put out at any given time. In the Eisenhower Decision Matrix, employee options fall into the “important, not urgent” bucket...
UNTIL all of a sudden, your company is all over the news. It’s going to IPO. Everyone is talking about it. You did it. Finally! But, wait, what the hell happens to your options? It costs HOW much to buy them and you owe WHAT in taxes? Now, it becomes personal. And urgent. 
A lot of startup employees are going through that emotional arc right now. 2021 looks like it’s going to be even more painful for ex-employees who didn’t exercise their options (and even for current employees who will pay higher taxes if they haven’t planned properly, but it’s hard to feel too bad for them). 
The year is less than four months old, and there have already been 429 IPOs [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEuOxCAMRE_TLFtgIJ8Fi9nMNSI-Thp1AhE4M8rth04WI1lYplQu-XlLuORymj1XYp9nonNHk_C3rkiEhR0VyxSDER0MUquRBaOCGPTAYp3mgrjZuBoqB7L9cGv0lmJOl4Nz0OxlOEoZOui5HrkUY8_ButlbZdXQy9nBnWuPEDF5NPiD5cwJ2WpeRHt9yK8HfLeqlP3bJrueNdanz1v7i817SS21UvSfgUUDHARXAAK0lvwpng4GwXUftNKWAyg3y1nDDNZrDlLjQ_FtgWc9XFvl35_trJiUyeUS09Lk98tuuF5Cu3NqfTtSpHPCZN2K4UZAN8kLyrRgwtIIh8lS4ydGPnZCdqDlfXJj1Ih2gg-CteSQmyv9h_4Bj7aJiA] on US exchanges. This time last year, there were 40. That’s a 10x increase. To be fair, a lot of the new IPOs are SPACs -- 308 SPACs have raised $99 billion via IPO already this year versus $83 billion in 248 IPOs all of last year -- but there have been some major tech IPOs already this year: 
That’s an incomplete list, plus those 308 SPACs and many of last year’s 248 are lurking with bags full of money that they need to spend on taking companies public within two years. 
For people who own equity in those startups, this is going to be an amazing year. Thousands of people will become millionaires for the first time, some will generate multi-generational wealth, and a few will even become billionaires. But each of those companies also has tons of former employees consumed by regret at not having purchased their options, and many others who will end up giving the government nearly as much as they take home. 
Secfi [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkduKwyAQhp8mXgaPqb3wYmHpawQPYyobNXjY0rdf0y4UZIT5-flnvrG6wZbLUx25NnSWtT0PUAkedYfWoKBeoazBKbJQyQS_Iqe4I1JIFOrqC0DUYVetdEBHN3uwuoWcXg6MqUB3xblhFntL5dV4KxYt5MVLIz3xEl8Eeefq7gIkCwp-oTxzArSre2tHndjXRG_jPR6PuYL1YbY5ni126y2uNfdiYWLfKTeTS0jbRJdTiOBCj0OwOTVI7b9tdTx02NLp-KwZFMWUYE4poUIwPJPZUEmwuDjBhcaUcuOZF9RTbQWmTMDEcdzoXLupTdufcypU1GcKjn_uOsL-Egabdfyxp9CeKyRtdnBvbO1N_wVy3SBBGVdxq26DObni60LYQgV7YxpcxxUWgiVBI9nl4Uqf0D-kuZzx] wants to change that, starting by helping you get smarter on startup equity: 
How Startup Equity Works
Why Employees Don’t Exercise 
Options Exercise Options 
Meet Secfi
The CAC Arbitrage
Secfi’s Vision
The best time to start thinking about how to handle your options was when you got your offer letter. The next best time is now. 
Secfi [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkduKwyAQhp8mXgaPqb3wYmHpawQPYyobNXjY0rdf0y4UZIT5-flnvrG6wZbLUx25NnSWtT0PUAkedYfWoKBeoazBKbJQyQS_Iqe4I1JIFOrqC0DUYVetdEBHN3uwuoWcXg6MqUB3xblhFntL5dV4KxYt5MVLIz3xEl8Eeefq7gIkCwp-oTxzArSre2tHndjXRG_jPR6PuYL1YbY5ni126y2uNfdiYWLfKTeTS0jbRJdTiOBCj0OwOTVI7b9tdTx02NLp-KwZFMWUYE4poUIwPJPZUEmwuDjBhcaUcuOZF9RTbQWmTMDEcdzoXLupTdufcypU1GcKjn_uOsL-Egabdfyxp9CeKyRtdnBvbO1N_wVy3SBBGVdxq26DObni60LYQgV7YxpcxxUWgiVBI9nl4Uqf0D-kuZzx] can help. I could (and will) nerd out on this problem for hours, but Secfi is paying me and I want to make sure you check them out, so I’ll introduce you to Secfi [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkduKwyAQhp8mXgaPqb3wYmHpawQPYyobNXjY0rdf0y4UZIT5-flnvrG6wZbLUx25NnSWtT0PUAkedYfWoKBeoazBKbJQyQS_Iqe4I1JIFOrqC0DUYVetdEBHN3uwuoWcXg6MqUB3xblhFntL5dV4KxYt5MVLIz3xEl8Eeefq7gIkCwp-oTxzArSre2tHndjXRG_jPR6PuYL1YbY5ni126y2uNfdiYWLfKTeTS0jbRJdTiOBCj0OwOTVI7b9tdTx02NLp-KwZFMWUYE4poUIwPJPZUEmwuDjBhcaUcuOZF9RTbQWmTMDEcdzoXLupTdufcypU1GcKjn_uOsL-Egabdfyxp9CeKyRtdnBvbO1N_wVy3SBBGVdxq26DObni60LYQgV7YxpcxxUWgiVBI9nl4Uqf0D-kuZzx] now, then we’ll come back to them later. 
Secfi is a team of equity experts 100% focused on helping startup employees understand, maximize and unlock the value of their stock options and shares. If you’re an employee at a startup, Secfi [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkduKwyAQhp8mXgaPqb3wYmHpawQPYyobNXjY0rdf0y4UZIT5-flnvrG6wZbLUx25NnSWtT0PUAkedYfWoKBeoazBKbJQyQS_Iqe4I1JIFOrqC0DUYVetdEBHN3uwuoWcXg6MqUB3xblhFntL5dV4KxYt5MVLIz3xEl8Eeefq7gIkCwp-oTxzArSre2tHndjXRG_jPR6PuYL1YbY5ni126y2uNfdiYWLfKTeTS0jbRJdTiOBCj0OwOTVI7b9tdTx02NLp-KwZFMWUYE4poUIwPJPZUEmwuDjBhcaUcuOZF9RTbQWmTMDEcdzoXLupTdufcypU1GcKjn_uOsL-Egabdfyxp9CeKyRtdnBvbO1N_wVy3SBBGVdxq26DObni60LYQgV7YxpcxxUWgiVBI9nl4Uqf0D-kuZzx] wants to make sure you’re on the right track. Really. I badly want this piece to go viral mainly because the team genuinely cares so much about helping startup employees.
So here’s an ask: if you know an employee at a unicorn startup, share this essay with them to make sure they’re thinking through things properly.
Secfi has educational resources, tools (including tax calculators), and real live people who can help you think through your equity. Secfi’s equity strategists have deep experience as financial advisors, wealth managers, investment managers and analysts, and tax professionals, and have worked with employees at the vast majority of US unicorns. They can help you. 
If you have options, stop reading, check them out, and then come back:
Welcome back. Let’s learn why startup equity is great, but not as simple as it seems. 
How Startup Equity Works
First things first, stock options are pretty great. A century ago, even a couple decades ago, the idea of an employee sharing in the upside with the owners of a business would have sounded absurd. When we spoke, Secfi’s CEO Frederik Mijnhardt [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uhDAMhU9DlihxCAOLLCpVvUAPgBxiIJ2QoBCKuH0zM60qWc-Sf_Tsb8RMc0yX3uKe2UOGfG2kA527p5wpsWOnNDirRQudVE3PrG6s6FTH3D5MiWhF53VOB7HtMN6NmF0Mzw3OQbFFTy22NzIt8huq1nA-Ud-pEVB1DaGUL188rKMwkqZvSlcMxLxect72Sr5V8FHiPM_au3An60I9xrWUXCiyuq-wYLL5MSY_YnKzC-g_D2NjOS5U8j145jRwELwBEKCU5LWoDXSCq5tVjUIO0JhJTgomwFFxkIqqhq8z1Pth9ozj_eHJkg4xm-IR5tK-L7iSfzbK80PJ6xFcvgYKaDzZF5f8wvskNcwUKBXsdsBcoIqe962QLahfDgVcwdwK3gm2_73wb_oD_EmRGw] pointed out that startup employees owning 20% of their businesses on average is a great step (but only a first step) towards minimizing wealth disparity.
Silicon Valley is built on the back of stock options. They represent a chance for employees to become capital instead of just labor. They reward people for early belief in an idea, and the hard work it takes to make that idea a reality. Without options, it would be hard for cash-poor early stage companies to attract the top talent it needs to succeed. Goldman and Google will always be able to pay more cash than any startup. But ~*options*~ are a Golden Ticket. 
A major part of the allure of joining a startup is the chance to work really hard for a few years and make millions. Join a startup when it’s young, get shares in the company, help it grow into the next big thing, exit, and retire rich. 
It sounds simple, but it’s so much more complex.
First, you don’t just get equity in the company. If you work at a company long enough, you earn the right to buy equity in the company. Those are called options. Just like options on public equities, they give the owner the right, but not the obligation, to buy shares in the company at a certain price. If you’re really early, that price might be $0.01 per share or $0.10 per share or some other very low number, meaning it’s mostly upside. But either way, options do not mean that you own shares in the company. You need to actively buy them.  
Plus, you don’t earn them all upfront. Typically, if you stay for a year, you earn a quarter of your options, and then you earn a little bit more every month for the next three years. That’s called vesting, and this particular case is the most common: four year vesting with a one-year cliff.
As those options vest, employees have the right to exercise them, or to keep them as options. Exercising means plopping down cash upfront for shares that may or may not be worth something, but it also means potential tax benefits down the line. While you’re employed, you have the option and some time to figure it out. Once you leave, you don’t.
If you leave at any point -- whether you’re fired or leave voluntarily -- you typically have 90 days to decide whether you want to exercise the portion of your options that have vested aka buy equity in the company. Some companies offer longer time periods, but after 90 days, Incentive Stock Options (ISOs) convert to Non-Qualifying Stock Options (NSOs), which come with higher taxes. 
Exercising has a direct cost -- if you own 50,000 options that give you the right to buy shares at $1 per share, you have to pay $50,000. That’s a lot of cash to plop down, and if you have meaningful equity, the number may be much higher than that. 
Worse, you often have to pay taxes based on the delta between your strike price (the $1 per share number) and the company’s most recent valuation (talk to a tax professional or Secfi [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkduKwyAQhp8mXgaPqb3wYmHpawQPYyobNXjY0rdf0y4UZIT5-flnvrG6wZbLUx25NnSWtT0PUAkedYfWoKBeoazBKbJQyQS_Iqe4I1JIFOrqC0DUYVetdEBHN3uwuoWcXg6MqUB3xblhFntL5dV4KxYt5MVLIz3xEl8Eeefq7gIkCwp-oTxzArSre2tHndjXRG_jPR6PuYL1YbY5ni126y2uNfdiYWLfKTeTS0jbRJdTiOBCj0OwOTVI7b9tdTx02NLp-KwZFMWUYE4poUIwPJPZUEmwuDjBhcaUcuOZF9RTbQWmTMDEcdzoXLupTdufcypU1GcKjn_uOsL-Egabdfyxp9CeKyRtdnBvbO1N_wVy3SBBGVdxq26DObni60LYQgV7YxpcxxUWgiVBI9nl4Uqf0D-kuZzx] about your specific case). This is based off something called a 409a valuation, in which an outside firm analyzes the business based on comps and ballparks what the company is worth. The better your company is doing, the higher your tax bill is going to be when you exercise, even though you might not be able to sell your shares and make any actual money for years.
Up until an actual exit, either via an IPO or an acquisition, most employees don’t know how to turn their valuable equity into cash. Even if things are looking good, they can all fall apart. 
Most startups fail. Many once-hot startups end for selling for less than they raised. In those cases, employees typically get nothing for their options, even if they exercised, or worse. When WeWork filed to go public, many employees took out loans against their options to buy houses; when the IPO imploded, they were stuck with mountains of debt backed by equity whose value had collapsed 80% and many were fired from their job. 
If your company is one of the lucky few that does have a successful exit, you’ve won the lottery. If you still work for the company, or left and exercised your options (bought the shares), you stand to make life-changing amounts of money. But the $4.9 billion number we started this piece with represents the fact that there are thousands of employees who left companies that ended up having successful exits but didn’t exercise, or simply never exercised pre-IPO. They had the golden ticket, and they gave it away, either completely or in chunks to Uncle Sam. 
Why would they ever do that? 
Why Employees Don’t Exercise
There are two ways to think about exercising options: 
You can exercise your options as they vest while you’re still employed. 
If you leave, voluntarily or involuntarily, you typically have 90 days to exercise. 
There are different consequences for each. 
Not exercising while remaining employed can mean tax consequences later, through a higher delta between your strike and current valuation and through the difference between short-term and long-term capital gains. But you still hold onto the right to exercise and to benefit from a liquidity event like an IPO or acquisition. 
Not exercising after you leave means forfeiting the right to buy shares in the company, and means missing out on all of the upside in the case of a liquidity event. That sucks. 
While both cases are very different -- the former means an unbelievably amazing exit becomes slightly less unbelievably amazing, the latter means a lifetime of regret -- they both have the same root causes. 
Lack of awareness
Uncertainty about the company’s prospects 
High costs of exercising
We’ll take each in turn: 
Lack of Awareness 
Most startup employees simply don’t think deeply about managing their options. They often make lower salaries than they would at other jobs, savings are tight, and they don’t save up money to exercise. They often don’t even realize that exercising while employed is even an option, and don’t understand why it might be beneficial. Even while Breather was growing quickly, from a $20 million valuation to $250 million while I was there, I never once thought about exercising my options. I didn’t even realize it was a thing. (In retrospect, thank god [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkU2OwyAMhU9Tdo3ACSldsJjNXCPix0lRCURAOpPbj9ssRkJG4vn5WR_ONFxyOfSWa2PvMrVjQ53wp0ZsDQvbK5YpeC1GUL0c7szrwQslFQt1mgviakLUrezItt3G4EwLOX0cnINkD-3QC2u58iCFN4qjEuOsbmoc7oPk1py5ZvcBk0ONLyxHTsiifrS21Uv_dYFvOi6vKxYXTMyWlqK2jp5IAA6cLgFUbEHTHliuc8Tfa92Mw6uLuYa0XF1-BU89LGiyCD4ACJCy553oLCjB5c3LQRoOMNi5nyXMYJzk0Eu8DHxdoKu7rc245zuZFZ1ys7nQbJKfD7Ni_AgEYnpvu6fQjgmTsRH9yaidqD_UpgUTFvoCP5lGgMWd30fRjyD7kwlBJOSj4EowSvaZXOk_9A9O6pRw].) 
Consider yourself aware. You need to think about this. Might I suggest Secfi’s Equity Academy [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkd2KwyAUhJ8mXgY9xjS98GJh6WsEf46pbNTgz5a8_dp2oSCKDsMcvzGq4pbyKY9UKnluaz0PlBEfZcdaMZNWMK_eSjbDwsV0JVZOli1iIb6sLiMG5XdZc0NyNL17o6pP8eWgFAS5S3DUXcSFOnNdZs5nYAu4hWoHWmlk9J2rmvUYDUr8xXymiGSX91qPMvCvAW59PR6PsaBxfjQp9LsyymI4B35rNawltWxw4N8xVZ2yj9sA81MIaH0LXTApVoz1_9mocCi_xafj81svgQKjEwADITgd2ahhYVRcrJiEogCTdtwJcKCMoMAFDhMNG4yl6VKV-XkOR7L8TDHRn7sKuL-EjmjtZ2jR13PFqPSO9k2vvkt48Vw3jJh7OXZVtaNnV3qdWUcn-JtWx9vLmBldGOnJNnVX_IT-ARdzn4E] and Options Exercise Tax Calculator [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkd2KwyAUhJ8mXgY9xjS98GJh6WsEf46pbNTgz5a8_dp2oSCKDsMcvzGq4pbyKY9UKnluaz0PlBEfZcdaMZNWMK_eSjbDwsV0JVZOli1iIb6sLiMG5XdZc0NyNL17o6pP8eWgFAS5S3DUXcSFOnNdZs5nYAu4hWoHWmlk9J2rmvUYDUr8xXymiGSX91qPMvCvAW59PR6PsaBxfjQp9LsyymI4B35rNawltWxw4N8xVZ2yj9sA81MIaH0LXTApVoz1_9mocCi_xafj81svgQKjEwADITgd2ahhYVRcrJiEogCTdtwJcKCMoMAFDhMNG4yl6VKV-XkOR7L8TDHRn7sKuL-EjmjtZ2jR13PFqPSO9k2vvkt48Vw3jJh7OXZVtaNnV3qdWUcn-JtWx9vLmBldGOnJNnVX_IT-ARdzn4E] as starting points? 
Uncertainty About the Company’s Prospects
Sometimes, you’re at a startup and you’re just not sure it’s going to work, or how much it’s going to work. 
While you’re employed, you’re willing to pay higher taxes in the future so you don’t have to spend your hard-earned money today on an uncertain bet. They’re called options for a reason.
When you leave, you need to make a hard choice: spend my money to buy these shares now and hope that there’s a good liquidity event in the future, or forfeit most of the on-paper comp earned through years of hard work. It’s never easy to give away those options, and many people just buy so that they don’t feel regret if things do go well. But it’s expensive. 
Sometimes, employees even leave, exercise their options, and then sell when given the opportunity because they think the buyer believes in the company more than they do. If you haven’t listened to my podcast with my friend Brett [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OwyAMhU9TlhUYnCYLFrOZa0T8OCkaAhGQqXL7oc1iJMuWZdnP73Om0ZrLqfdcG3unuZ076USvGqk1KuyoVObgtRhglKgm5rXyYsSRhTovhWgzIepWDmL7YWNwpoWcPhucA7KnVuIhlJsm7wduSKIZ7QIPcii4HQROl645fKDkSNMvlTMnYlE_W9vrTX7d4LtHe4X3R3eXt95ZSzH6QrWGtLKggYPgCkAAouR3cbcwCo4PjwoNB1B2kQvCAsYhB4l0U3xb4V4PW5txP--zrOiUm82ln-zjn6fZKH4G3drc63ak0M6ZkrGR_OW6XfA-HOaVEpUO1c-mdWRi4tMg5AAoL5cdS4c4CD4K1pV97lvpX_QP2eSFcA], he was the first employee at Drizly and sold most of his shares in the secondary market when he got the chance. He thought he was real smart, until Uber recently acquired Drizly [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUduu2yAQ_JrwZgsW4zgPPFSqzm9YXNYxOhhSLo3cr-8mUVUJdgSr3RnNONPwnsupH7k29iprOx-oEz5rxNawsF6xrMFrMcMi1XRjXk9eLGphoa5bQTxMiLqVjuzRbQzOtJDTe4JzUGzXwI3bvBOLoQsgpJrt7Ly7mhuXfp4_vKb7gMmhxt9YzpyQRb239qgX-eMCX3Sez-e45WKxji4f9FFDw0ro9hLq1ksyJdATOAgCDv9Kt1iGlgfjfvVQcPAl_InnENIgxGBDjCR48Gjii0d-1f0if87XSZDcbQKuWNCvnXwi8aCU5KMYLSyCq6tXkzIcYLKb3BRsYJziIBVeJn7cYazd1mbc90sxKzrlZnMJ6U7t790cGN8NMm4lPHoK7VwxGRvRfzxtn2jeLq93TFgoMr-aRoGIG7_NQs6g5MdDMp0imgVfBCNmn2kq_Sf9C6wGocE] for $1.1 billion dollars. For a raw take on what it feels like to miss out on all of that upside, give it a listen: 
High Costs of Exercising
It can be really, really expensive to exercise your options. That’s because there are two costs when it comes to exercising: the direct cost and the tax bill. 
The direct cost is straightforward. You own 50k options at $1, you pay $50k for the shares. That’s a lot of money, but ideally you’re doing it because you believe that what you’re buying is worth a lot more. Let’s say, for example, that the company was recently valued at $100 per share Nice! Free money! 
Well… that’s where the tax bill comes in. According to Secfi’s research across 69 late-stage unicorn companies (companies valued at more than $1 billion), taxes make up 85% of the cost of exercising stock options. 🤮
Since most people are unaware they’re going to have to pay taxes, Secfi calls it the surprise factor. They call the overall expense the unaffordability factor. 
I’ve seen this firsthand (unfortunately, I haven’t felt it firsthand, but close enough).
At Breather, I worked with an ex-Uber employee who needed to exercise his options within 90 days of leaving Uber to join Breather. He was early at Uber and left when they were worth $10s of billions of dollars. Pretty amazing, right? Not so fast. Exercising meant he owed hundreds of thousands of dollars in taxes, even though Uber wouldn’t IPO for another two years. 
He couldn’t sleep because of the tax bill hanging over his head. He spent the better portion of a few months on calls with people he was trying to sell shares to in order to generate the cash he needed to buy his options. He asked me if I had any friends who might want to buy. Finally, he was able to find some people to buy some of his shares in the secondary market and used the proceeds to pay off the tax bill, but that meant giving up his hard-earned upside after months of stress. 
It’s easy to dismiss that as a Champagne problem, but it really sucks. Upside is what your startup promised you, and why you took a pay cut in the first place. Try choosing between owing the IRS hundreds of thousands or giving up equity you earned from years of grueling work. Uber was not known for its work/life balance. 
Luckily, he was able to figure it out, and he did really well when Uber IPO’d (as did the people who bought his secondary). 
Selling some of your shares to cover the tax bill is just one way to exercise options. Let’s go over the full menu.
To learn about stock option exercise options, how Secfi can help, the fintech CAC arbitrage, and Secfi’s vision:
How did you like this week’s Not Boring? Your feedback helps me make this great.
Loved [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxF0MGK7SAMBuCnqcuiibHtwsXAMK9RbE3PkWm1qJ1L3_465ywGjIIh_OFbXeVHyrc9U6ni95rrfbKN_K_sXCtncRXOc_BWGRiR9CS81V6NNIpQ5i0zHy7stuaLxXkte1hdDSm-JqQEEk-LRssRYdNEm5HaaEYmWJwZvNnQDO9cd_nAcWXLP5zvFFns9lnrWTr86OCrnXLlH75L_7vRzu7sQ2q_gyFD2EriSNswIeA08IBmMhodKkQk1Cg7_ModfpIIFiQoqQEUEKHsVb_AqCQNnjQ5CaCXDTeCDdxKEpC40_J4QF-upVS3fvdrOkS2MdUl5RAfrf39dAfvr0ZTmNt7XDHUe-bolp39G6i-nV9k84Mj5-bvZ1ebrprkZBQaIHyDNMHmbZQclWjJPrWp-Bf6HwBQjWg] | Great [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxF0MGK7SAMBuCnqcuiibF24WJgmNcotqbnyLRarJ1L3_465ywGjIIh_OFbfOVHLrc78lnF7zXV-2CX-N-5ca1cxHVymWJwyoBF0qMITgdlyYp4Tmth3n3cXC0Xi-Oat7j4GnN6TUgJJJ6OLFsYpB-tMmEZg1lptuRBK14Il_DO9VeInBZ2_MPlzonF5p61HmeHHx18tXNe5Yfvs__daGN_9DG338GQIWwl0dI6jAg4DjygGY1GjwoRCTXKDr9Kh59aRAcSlNQACohQ9qqfwSpJQyBNXgLoecWVYAW_kAQk7rTcH9Cf13xWv3z3S95FcSnXOZeYHq39_fQ7b69GU5jau18p1nvi5OeNwxuovp1fZNODE5fmHyZfm64a5WgUGiB8gzTB5m2UtEq05JDbVPoL_Q_4Ro4q] | Good [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxF0E2KxCAQBeDTxGXQKk3MwsXA0NcIGivdMokGNT3k9mN3Lwb8AYvHk2-xle4pX-ZIpbLXMdfrIBPpt2xUK2V2Fspz8EYMoFHJiXkjvdBKs1DmNRPtNmym5pPYcbotLLaGFN8JzkGxh5HcI3Ikr1oMF4caEMBpoVci55dPrz19oLiQoSflK0Vim3nUepQOvzq4tVXO_KSr9K8fbWSPPqT2Og5qUNg2R63WcULAaaQRh2mQaFEgokKJvMNb7vAbWTDAQXAJIEAp5L3oHWjB1eiVVJYDSLfiqmAFuygOqKiTfL9DX05Xql1--iXtLJuYqks5xHsb_zzsTtt70BTmdu9nDPWaKVq3kf8A1Y_zm2y-U6Tc_P1sa9MVE58GgQMo_IA0weY9CK4Fa80-tVT8L_0D0a2ODw] | Meh [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OwyAMhU8TlhHYQMKCxUijXiMiwWnRJBAB6Si3H9ouRvKPZMt-T9_iKt1TvuyRSmWvMtXrIBvpt2xUK2V2FspT8FZoGFFJw7yVXoxqZKFMaybaXdhszSex45y3sLgaUnxfcA6KPax0BpbVCD6jXkcBig9iUbAa542g9uit604fKC5k6Un5SpHYZh-1HqXDrw5uLcqZn3SV_uVoI3f0IbXpoJVW2JLjqNbBIKAZaEBttESHAhEVSuQd3nKH38CCBQ6CS4BmRSHvRT_DKLgavJLKcQA5r7g2g-AWxQEVdZLvd-jLOZfqlp9-STvLNqY6pxziva1_Hm6n7b1oFKbW9zOGek0U3byR_wCqH85vZNOdIuXG30-uNrrCcKMFalD4AdIINt5a8FGwpuxTu4r_on92To2_] | Bad [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxF0MGKxCAMBuCnqceixtj24GFhmdcoWtMZ2VaL2ln69uvMHBZEISH-4VtspXvKlzlSqex1zfU6yET6LRvVSpmdhfIcvBFajoBqYt4oL0YcWSjzmol2GzZT80nsON0WFltDiu8JziWyhxHeTQtXBBoFAhLhgKTV4PRgV7Luk2tPHyguZOhJ-UqR2GYetR6lg69O3topZ37SVfrXRhvZow-pVQeNuv2qkcOI6zCBhGmgAfSkFVgQAICggHdwyx18CxaM5FJwJaWQiMB70Ts5Co6DR4WWS6ncCivKVdoFuWwbd4rvd9mX05Vql59-STvLJqbqUg7x3to_D7vT9m40hbm9-xlDvWaK1m3kP0D14_wmm-8UKTd_P9vadMXEJy1AS4QPSBNs3lrwUbCW7FObiv-hfyhpjk8]
Thanks for reading and see you on Monday,
Packy

Unsubscribe https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUl2PmzAQ_DXhEWEbE3jg4ZSvkvaS6i7N1wsy9kKcGEPBlINfX5NIrWTZq1ntjjUznBkoqmaI66o1znSlZqgh1tC3CoyBxulaaFIpYhTgkFA_ckTsCxTS0JFtmjcAJZMqNk0HTt1lSnJmZKWfE56HqXOLc-wTlmPiYwQ-DTNCo3keUJ_llAWIhy9e1gkJmkMMf6AZKg2Oim_G1O2MvM3w2p6-711dmaxqpC5cXlmI8YnMFkK2LFOQPn8zI-u6Epy1ZkaWMxyY6gHaljBsEcfH4YzVI7lXX7t74r-Pv7z9Zy_5JhrFOqqviySYsN191e-XqzYp1U1M2OHytT-8UYuPO9lLdt6Ndofk347yx2HVvy8TlFick6Oc8OtGjZfTtr0eI5Wd1nW22EauOs2bfNTNuPjgm8_-EvWi2ax1YX5__1KQdxCozfny82OxKhwZYw8jz8cYYUqJ5yI3wyHy6FxQnzIPYz_LSU5xjhmnHiYUZr5XFthtu6w1jD-sRKXTxP8ks-3HjZWgng1rVmrfstPSDCnoST7x8tG84vDUMi1AQ2NjIlJmbAhQ5EUBIgGm5OWbNdrGIkBeiBzLLCo7pf-T_gW8yM2e