# Truework: A True Strategy Masterclass

**From:** Not Boring <notboring@substack.com>
**Date:** Thu, 6 May 2021 12:56:25 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/Truework A True Strategy Masterclass_Thu,_6_May_2021_12-56-25_+0000_17941c116e5d1ec0.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:04.466554

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OhCAQhU8jOw0_grBgMZu5hkEobdIKBnCMtx9sk5kEKFKVynvvs6bAEtOl95gLup-xXDvoAGdeoRRI6MiQRu80EVQy3ivkdO-I5BL5PM4JYDN-1SUdgPZjWr01xcfw2cCYcvTSZHKsV8C4dT110-wGkGAlENnDwCf16JrDeQgWNPxAumIAtOpXKXtu2FdDv-s5z7MLsUwx-bB0NtbWXu8tfcb0bk17f9tc0p3qajeTawC7mpyR1xRTgjkWhHJBeEc6WjtidpwMzIhhvp3xGbBjxIFSjDY93hba5WPKxdh3FdxQ0n8G6vj9Mhusn0GNPta6HcGXa4RgphXcQ6U8cD-cxgUC3PbcaMqNFDPMB8mVEg-Fio0JLCUVClVlF-tW-Bf9BdzqktM

Welcome to the 225 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since last Thursday (Substack confirmed they dropped some)! Join 46,444 smart, curious folks by subscribing here:
🎧 To get this essay straight in your ears: listen on Spotify [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkctqwzAQRb_GWho9LNleaNE2BEpSSh-broxsjW0RWzKSnMT9-irJojDMhRkudzjTqQiD85tcXIjo1pq4LSAtXMIEMYJHawDfGC2JoBXjRY20LDSpeIVMaHoPMCszyehXQMvaTqZT0Th7d2BMORolI0UnKk46wbBohaC4xJUCpoqC0B7gkatWbcB2IOEMfnMW0CTHGJeQsaeM7lO5BWweFhdNv-Wdm9MojO6SRJzIz_H5_P75-ba5cNjYlVxfp4ztg8nYbrdshXk5lB-cfpFjwchv-MYDMpJiSjDHglAuCM9JTtNE9JqTkilR9lS3Pe8Ba0Y01DWjWYHngeZhbUNU3el2BPLSutg6b-yQ1qdRzTDdF4lGk3RerYlbA1a1E-gHqPjgfUfXDGDBpz_oRsUbZcwwLyte1-IBJpFkAlcVFTVKydoll_0P_QOKw5Sj] or Apple Podcasts [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEuOwyAMQE9TdhPxCQQWLLqZa0QEnBQ1gQicGeX2Q5uRKiEwtqxnP-8QllxOu-eK5HWNeO5gE_zWFRChkKNCGWOwTHEtZG9IsH1gWmoS6zgXgM3F1WI5gOzHtEbvMOb07qCUS_Kw2kiu9Uy9k1xp6dTQs6HXajCzN4N3F9cdIULyYOEHypkTkNU-EPd6E_cb_25nz8G7irVz-75C5_PWkkf9VFqUMn5NucS0tE8MTPKh58wIRqLllDMqqWJcKiY71vGWUXOQbBBtqJmHaZYz0CBYAGMEv_V0W3hXj6mi888XkRTbEP-Enj4fboP1XWjLj-3djhTxHCG5aYVwecFL79vUuECC0rSH0eFLKhVUDloaoy4PTZxQVGuuDGnkkFtX-kD_AP3zj0A]
Today’s Not Boring, the whole thing, is brought to you by … Truework [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcuKxCAQRb8mLoOPaJKFi4Ghf0OMVtIyUYOPCfn7Md0NA4UFdSnu9ZTRBbaYLnnEXND9qHIdIAOceYdSIKGaISlnJRF0YnyYkZWDJROfkMtqTQBeu12WVAEdddmd0cXF8NrAmHL0lPOkJ85GakdO10EQYe2yGmIGOwu6Wvz21dU6CAYk_EK6YgC0y2cpR-7YV0cfrc7z7G-fM6af3kR_T9mjFq9yrMlAx75DLGqJyYWto-JWPFhXfVNOWLIr8Bkb7Q_tttAEnYozOyjM76KYEuTk3TDHglAuCO9JT9tErJaTkWkxrrT9gK-ALSMW5pnRbsB-o32uSy7avOKhJFucT5oB_zy1h_0lNE6qdV-DK5eCoJcd7BtheV_iBVVtECC1C1mly80fM8zHic-zeCNrjJnA00TFjJqzjW0r_Jv-AdeYoJM]
Read on to learn how Truework [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcuKxCAQRb8mLoOPaJKFi4Ghf0OMVtIyUYOPCfn7Md0NA4UFdSnu9ZTRBbaYLnnEXND9qHIdIAOceYdSIKGaISlnJRF0YnyYkZWDJROfkMtqTQBeu12WVAEdddmd0cXF8NrAmHL0lPOkJ85GakdO10EQYe2yGmIGOwu6Wvz21dU6CAYk_EK6YgC0y2cpR-7YV0cfrc7z7G-fM6af3kR_T9mjFq9yrMlAx75DLGqJyYWto-JWPFhXfVNOWLIr8Bkb7Q_tttAEnYozOyjM76KYEuTk3TDHglAuCO9JT9tErJaTkWkxrrT9gK-ALSMW5pnRbsB-o32uSy7avOKhJFucT5oB_zy1h_0lNE6qdV-DK5eCoJcd7BtheV_iBVVtECC1C1mly80fM8zHic-zeCNrjJnA00TFjJqzjW0r_Jv-AdeYoJM] is building the verified identity layer of the internet.
Hi friends 👋 ,
Happy Thursday!
I met Ryan Sandler, Truework [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcuKxCAQRb8mLoOPaJKFi4Ghf0OMVtIyUYOPCfn7Md0NA4UFdSnu9ZTRBbaYLnnEXND9qHIdIAOceYdSIKGaISlnJRF0YnyYkZWDJROfkMtqTQBeu12WVAEdddmd0cXF8NrAmHL0lPOkJ85GakdO10EQYe2yGmIGOwu6Wvz21dU6CAYk_EK6YgC0y2cpR-7YV0cfrc7z7G-fM6af3kR_T9mjFq9yrMlAx75DLGqJyYWto-JWPFhXfVNOWLIr8Bkb7Q_tttAEnYozOyjM76KYEuTk3TDHglAuCO9JT9tErJaTkWkxrrT9gK-ALSMW5pnRbsB-o32uSy7avOKhJFucT5oB_zy1h_0lNE6qdV-DK5eCoJcd7BtheV_iBVVtECC1C1mly80fM8zHic-zeCNrjJnA00TFjJqzjW0r_Jv-AdeYoJM]’s CEO, via an introduction from Ramp co-founder and CTO Karim Atiyeh. Aside from running NYC’s fastest ever unicorn [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OhCAQRk8jOw0_grBgMZu5hkEolbSCARzj7Yduk5kEqOSrVF7xrCmwxHTrI-aC3s9Y7gN0gCtvUAokdGZIo3eaCCoZ7xVyundEcol8HucEsBu_6ZJOQMc5bd6a4mP4TGBMOVo1YcpaLAaubE8ltoB7IRQVUilF5Nw_XHM6D8GChh9IdwyANr2WcuSGfTX0u57ruroQyxSTD0tnY42OepPZj9y6WOHQnsHbmEKb4hlcbidYfXDIa4opwRwLQrkgvCMdrYmYHScDM2KYqZtmPgN2jDhQitGmx_tCu3xOuRj7qrgdJf2Hr-3XanbYPo368bHWvdLLPUIwdRX3OCmP2o-lcYEAqSp3oylvoZhhPkiulHgcVGlMYCmpUKiSXaxT4R_6C1mgkBY], Karim is also a top angel investor. One mutual friend told me that no one is better at identifying strong engineering teams than Karim. So when he told me I needed to look into Truework, my ears perked up. 
Karim was right. Truework reminds me a lot of Ramp [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEFuxCAMRU8z7BoBGZiwYNFNrxGZ2MmgJhCB0yq3LzNZVEJgYfl__zcB05LL6fdcWbyukc-dfKLfuhIzFXFUKmNEr6weenN3Av0d1WAGEes4F6IN4uq5HCT2I6xxAo45vSek1EY8PYCbCOZ5ANRoESYXjAUzaBsCBNSXLxwYKU3k6YfKmROJ1T-Z93rrP2_6q50C295NeWvlDoUTldrKlPkj5BLTIqLXUitppFXaWGU61en2Y2c06tGDfcwaw2xmktgrJOd6fbvLbdFdPUJlmL5f8qL4pnlJtvb3EzZa342Wb2zvdqTI50gJwkp4ReeL4BvGuFDbrZHFEfjFTfbSPAbjnL2iNja9lUMD4ERzxtym0r_pH2HTiPM], a Not Boring favorite: Rabois-backed, fintech, Harvard founders, going after an absolutely enormous market led by a too-comfortable incumbent, strong technology chops, and a long-term, worldbuilding strategy starting with a smart wedge.
It’s different than Ramp, too. First, it’s not starting with a product that the end-user touches. It built a platform and API used mostly by employers and verifiers. It’s intentionally unsexy. Second, it has a different ambition, which required it to act differently, more quietly, in the beginning. (Until now. That’s why we’re here.) And third, Truework is a privacy-first company. 
Truework’s story has lessons for founders, investors, anyone who works in regulated industries, and even incumbents. It’s a masterclass in Worldbuilding.
This essay is a Sponsored Deep Dive on Truework [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcuKxCAQRb8mLoOPaJKFi4Ghf0OMVtIyUYOPCfn7Md0NA4UFdSnu9ZTRBbaYLnnEXND9qHIdIAOceYdSIKGaISlnJRF0YnyYkZWDJROfkMtqTQBeu12WVAEdddmd0cXF8NrAmHL0lPOkJ85GakdO10EQYe2yGmIGOwu6Wvz21dU6CAYk_EK6YgC0y2cpR-7YV0cfrc7z7G-fM6af3kR_T9mjFq9yrMlAx75DLGqJyYWto-JWPFhXfVNOWLIr8Bkb7Q_tttAEnYozOyjM76KYEuTk3TDHglAuCO9JT9tErJaTkWkxrrT9gK-ALSMW5pnRbsB-o32uSy7avOKhJFucT5oB_zy1h_0lNE6qdV-DK5eCoJcd7BtheV_iBVVtECC1C1mly80fM8zHic-zeCNrjJnA00TFjJqzjW0r_Jv-AdeYoJM]. For those who are new around here, that means that Truework is paying me to write about their business, but that I would have written about it anyway. You can read more about how I pick and work with partners here [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkU1r5DAMhn_N-Bj8ETvxwYdCdyntdi8LpT0FJ1IyZhI7tZ0t-fd1JoeCZQkJ6RWPBptxCnE3a0iZHF-X9xWNx680Y84YyZYwdg4MU7wVstYETA2slS1xqRsj4mLdbHLckKxbP7vBZhf8vYNSLsnVUEGpVE2jRK84UIa1Vb22HIXmGpg9de0GDv2ABv9j3INHMptrzmu6iIcL_10ehCFVUwjTjNUQljOzLejzERZjL7yGhxd5a_48bR-v6fl1B26Hx3-fX23_C56Xbh3cW1ze_r4fIxFcJs5wyhmVVDEuFZMVq3jJqBEka4RVzcihH-WIFAQD1FrwS02XiVdp61O2w-3YhUTjQ-5DdH4q5dvVLjjfC4VJV_yyeZf3Dr3tZ4QTVz6p3wF2E3qM5RrQ2XywLtBk00qt1Ymn8BSKti1XmhRlCKXL_4h-A6iyl3E].
Let’s get to it. 
Truework: A True Strategy Masterclass
This is a story about strategy. 
It’s also about privacy, identity, income verification, credit bureaus, breaches, regulations, and owning your data. It’s about worldbuilding and unsexiness. It’s about the ability to fill out a mortgage application simply by clicking “login.” But mostly, it’s about strategy. 
Truework [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcuKxCAQRb8mLoOPaJKFi4Ghf0OMVtIyUYOPCfn7Md0NA4UFdSnu9ZTRBbaYLnnEXND9qHIdIAOceYdSIKGaISlnJRF0YnyYkZWDJROfkMtqTQBeu12WVAEdddmd0cXF8NrAmHL0lPOkJ85GakdO10EQYe2yGmIGOwu6Wvz21dU6CAYk_EK6YgC0y2cpR-7YV0cfrc7z7G-fM6af3kR_T9mjFq9yrMlAx75DLGqJyYWto-JWPFhXfVNOWLIr8Bkb7Q_tttAEnYozOyjM76KYEuTk3TDHglAuCO9JT9tErJaTkWkxrrT9gK-ALSMW5pnRbsB-o32uSy7avOKhJFucT5oB_zy1h_0lNE6qdV-DK5eCoJcd7BtheV_iBVVtECC1C1mly80fM8zHic-zeCNrjJnA00TFjJqzjW0r_Jv-AdeYoJM] launched in late 2017 with a vision: empower people to own and control their personal information. That’s one of those “much easier said than done” visions. Others have tried and failed. To succeed, you need a strong wedge, and a master plan. 
Truework [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcuKxCAQRb8mLoOPaJKFi4Ghf0OMVtIyUYOPCfn7Md0NA4UFdSnu9ZTRBbaYLnnEXND9qHIdIAOceYdSIKGaISlnJRF0YnyYkZWDJROfkMtqTQBeu12WVAEdddmd0cXF8NrAmHL0lPOkJ85GakdO10EQYe2yGmIGOwu6Wvz21dU6CAYk_EK6YgC0y2cpR-7YV0cfrc7z7G-fM6af3kR_T9mjFq9yrMlAx75DLGqJyYWto-JWPFhXfVNOWLIr8Bkb7Q_tttAEnYozOyjM76KYEuTk3TDHglAuCO9JT9tErJaTkWkxrrT9gK-ALSMW5pnRbsB-o32uSy7avOKhJFucT5oB_zy1h_0lNE6qdV-DK5eCoJcd7BtheV_iBVVtECC1C1mly80fM8zHic-zeCNrjJnA00TFjJqzjW0r_Jv-AdeYoJM] has both, and is executing on one of the most patient and ambitious worldbuilding strategies I’ve seen, backed by Keith Rabois at Founders Fund, Alfred Lin at Sequoia, and Steve Sarracino at Activant. You don’t assemble that board if you’re fucking around. 
Its master plan starts with employment and income verification, a process that touches all of us. If you want a house, a job, or a car, your lender or employer needs to confirm where you work and what you make. It’s a $5+ billion market with one dominant incumbent, a bunch of small players, and a lot of pen, paper, emails, and faxes. It’s broken, unsecure, and slow. 
But employment and income verification is a wedge into a much bigger opportunity: to become the verified identity layer for the internet, giving people control of which data they share, and where, and speeding up transactions that require trust. 
Truework’s journey thus far, and it’s plan for the next half-decade, is a case study on how tech startups can win huge markets controlled by dominant incumbents without using low-end disruption. Let’s study: 
Meet Truework
How to Win a Legacy Industry 
Regulatory Counter-Positioning
The Verified Identity Layer
Meet Truework 
In 2017, after product managing LinkedIn Salary (a Glassdoor competitor) to launch, Ryan Sandler left LinkedIn and linked up with his Harvard roommate, Ethan Winchell, and fellow LinkedIn-er, engineer Victor Kabdebon, to explore ideas for their own thing. 
Having gotten interested in data ethics in college, Sandler knew that he wanted to start a company in the data privacy space, but he didn’t know exactly what the idea was. He did know which boxes it needed to check: 
Unsexy 
Overlooked by Silicon Valley 
Lots of data
Large market
Once they identified spaces that met their criteria, they cold emailed companies to pick their brains, narrowed the list down, and started talking to customers to validate the top ideas. After speaking with mortgage lenders, they chose employment and income verification. Sandler told The Venture Brief [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkU1LxDAQhn9Ncyz52KTpIQdFBRUVP2FPJU2mbbBNSpIq_fdmdw_CMDPMy_AOzxidYQxxV2tIGZ1Sl_cVlIffNEPOENGWIHbOKiKoZPzQIqsOlkgukUvdEAEW7WaV4wZo3frZGZ1d8OcNjClHkzK9aBoiNLfMYtFSetDSGMKMZK3mTF589WYdeAMKfiDuwQOa1ZTzmip2VdG7EmEFX6c1ZDfstQlLGcHqUrBQOnJtnt-OiYr7a3a73Jtx1O_mqmJ3yVXs5ou-TK-fYnpbxePH7evAbp6ODyNyimJKMMeCUC4Ir0lNy0QMlpOGadEM1PYDHwBbRiy0LaPVAS8jrdPWp6zN9-kOFJUPuQ_R-bHI35NeYD4LBUhX6rJ5l_cOvO5nsBdW-YL8TK8bwUMsr7CdzifQmGHeSN624sKmwGQCS0lFi4qzDWXL_5v-AYKPlbs] they chose the category because of: 
How overlooked it was, yet such a big market, and so important in the economy. Every time someone gets a loan, apartment, a new job, there’s sensitive information that needs to be verified about them. Most prominently, their income, employment, assets, credit, other pieces of their identity. And consumers have no idea that this information is being verified and being shared with a ton of third parties.
Employment and income verification checks all the boxes. 
Privacy has been a huge issue, despite the sensitivity of the data. ✅
It’s unsexy. ✅
It’s overlooked by Silicon Valley (quick, name your favorite employment and income verification startup). ✅
There’s a ton of data: the product is all about collecting and sharing data, fast and securely. ✅
It’s a massive market. ✅
In 2020, the industry leader did nearly $1.5 billion in revenue, up 51% YoY. Income is one of the best measures for underwriting; verifying that income is the glue that holds lending together. Dodd-Frank, the consumer protection legislation that came out of the housing crash in 2008, even mandates that lenders verify the data before approving a mortgage. 
Verification of employment (VOE) and income (VOI) is so critical that even after a data breach that exposed over 145 million Americans’ data, Morningstar analyst Brett Horn told CNN [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM1uwyAQhJ8m3GrxYzA-cOilr2FhWBIUG1y8buO37yY5VFrName0GukLHuFa2-m2uiN7yoTnBq7A774AIjR27NCmHJ0w0irdjyy6PgqrLcv7lBrA6vPisB3AtmNecvCYa3l9cC41u7nZG6mCtzqMVkEf4mDNzKFPWsfERXz3-iNmKAEc_EA7awG2uBvitl_U50V-0axknl0opQt1pVtyMdASnIQrki2RwPeRk398bK2mjGTkEuHR3XBdWHaSS8E1N0JqI3QnOkmOSVGLQXkzJBnnpBPwqESEcVTy0vP1Krv9mHf04f6sZs2VinNtuVwpvt_8CssrIAAT7fUoGc8Jip8XiG82-Eb8ojVdoUAj9HHy-ATLFdeD1eNo3iwInjLcWmlGRs2x0lf5L_0DkcaQ3A], “I think, frankly, it’s not in the interest of the industry or even regulators to shut down [a credit bureau involved in the leak]. They provide an essential service for consumer lending.” 
Until 2017, the industry and regulators didn’t have much of a choice. Enter Truework [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcuKxCAQRb8mLoOPaJKFi4Ghf0OMVtIyUYOPCfn7Md0NA4UFdSnu9ZTRBbaYLnnEXND9qHIdIAOceYdSIKGaISlnJRF0YnyYkZWDJROfkMtqTQBeu12WVAEdddmd0cXF8NrAmHL0lPOkJ85GakdO10EQYe2yGmIGOwu6Wvz21dU6CAYk_EK6YgC0y2cpR-7YV0cfrc7z7G-fM6af3kR_T9mjFq9yrMlAx75DLGqJyYWto-JWPFhXfVNOWLIr8Bkb7Q_tttAEnYozOyjM76KYEuTk3TDHglAuCO9JT9tErJaTkWkxrrT9gK-ALSMW5pnRbsB-o32uSy7avOKhJFucT5oB_zy1h_0lNE6qdV-DK5eCoJcd7BtheV_iBVVtECC1C1mly80fM8zHic-zeCNrjJnA00TFjJqzjW0r_Jv-AdeYoJM]. 
Starting with employment and income verification, Truework is building a digital-first credit bureau that makes it faster for consumers to apply to loans, apartments, jobs, and more, while maintaining privacy. 
It’s a three-sided network: 
Verifiers: Lenders, landlords, employers, and others need to verify your data in order to give you a loan, rental, or job. They’re the payers in the network, paying each time they need to verify information. 
Employers: Employment and income data lives, unsurprisingly, in HR and Payroll systems. Truework works directly with companies, and with payroll providers like Gusto, to access that data directly. 
Consumers: The people whose data is being accessed and shared are typically overlooked in this network. They often don’t even know that Employers, Verifiers, and credit bureaus are sharing their information behind the scenes. 
Truework [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcuKxCAQRb8mLoOPaJKFi4Ghf0OMVtIyUYOPCfn7Md0NA4UFdSnu9ZTRBbaYLnnEXND9qHIdIAOceYdSIKGaISlnJRF0YnyYkZWDJROfkMtqTQBeu12WVAEdddmd0cXF8NrAmHL0lPOkJ85GakdO10EQYe2yGmIGOwu6Wvz21dU6CAYk_EK6YgC0y2cpR-7YV0cfrc7z7G-fM6af3kR_T9mjFq9yrMlAx75DLGqJyYWto-JWPFhXfVNOWLIr8Bkb7Q_tttAEnYozOyjM76KYEuTk3TDHglAuCO9JT9tErJaTkWkxrrT9gK-ALSMW5pnRbsB-o32uSy7avOKhJFucT5oB_zy1h_0lNE6qdV-DK5eCoJcd7BtheV_iBVVtECC1C1mly80fM8zHic-zeCNrjJnA00TFjJqzjW0r_Jv-AdeYoJM] brings Consumers into the loop. Employers provide data to Truework, but Truework never shares that data with Verifiers without digital consent each time the data is shared. That seems like it’s obviously the right move, but it’s not the way it works today. 
To make the process smooth, fast, and easy for Verifiers, who are the paying customers, Truework has three products that roll up into a one-stop solution for income verification.
The bread and butter is the Instant product. This is what lenders and other Verifiers care about most: with the Consumer’s consent, data is returned cleanly and instantly, without any user friction to cause drop-off. Truework has spent the first 3.5 years of its life building up partnerships with companies and HR and Payroll providers like Gusto, Zenefits, and Paylocity to create a database of 35 million employees. It’s already the second-largest network, and it’s growing quickly (100x in the past year alone).
Truework recently added Credentials to its waterfall. There are a number of players now attacking this part of the waterfall, including Payroll scraping APIs, and Truework partners with them. This is an important piece of the waterfall, but not a full solution by itself and not as preferred as Instant. Payroll scraping APIs have high drop-off rates (think of the number of times you’ve dropped off when asked to provide your banking credentials in Plaid, and multiply that by how hard it is to remember your payroll system password). That’s why it’s just a fallback for Truework, albeit an important one. 
For everyone who isn’t covered into those two buckets, Truework has an automated Smart Outreach system backed by a team of employees using proprietary technology to get in contact with HR teams quickly. The difference between the current, fax-heavy process and Truework’s is the difference between dealing with customer service at a bank and at a startup, plus a lot of automation and machine learning to route thousands of requests per day to the right person at hundreds of thousands of HR departments.
The magic of this approach is that Truework is the only one stop solution for Verifiers. They realized early on that until they have all of the data on one network, they needed to become an aggregator, not in the Thompsonian sense, but in the more traditional sense: aggregate access to the data, whether first-party or third-party, via a single, easy-to-use access point in one place. Because of that, Truework is able to verify any applicant, through the waterfall described above: Instant, then Credentials, then Smart Outreach. In order to make sure they have complete coverage, they even work with other credit bureaus and payroll scraper APIs on the backend to fill in gaps. 
The one-stop approach is working. Truework now works with over 15,000 SMB lenders using its self-serve product, and the largest mortgage providers in the country now use Truework’s API.
But for Truework to hit its massive vision, it’s going to need to grow its Instant network from 35 million people to over 100 million. To do that, it’s going to need to transform the credit bureau market itself. 
How to Win a Legacy Industry
Some startups create new markets. Others come into established markets and compete with entrenched incumbents. Often, they do it via low-end disruption: find an overserved segment of the market, build a pared down, good enough, cheaper product, and then move upmarket. 
Truework is competing in a legacy market without low-end disruption, by building a better, consumer-first experience and playing the long game.  
To date, the traditional credit bureaus have reigned supreme in identity, including the employment and income verification space. The largest player still covers 80-100 million people compared with Truework’s 35 million. These credit bureaus are so entrenched in verticals like identity that even after multiple massive data breaches, nothing changed. 
The major credit bureaus almost seem like quasi-governmental institutions, beyond reproach. (That said, the Biden Administration is contemplating [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUc2O8yAMfJpyS8RPSciBw16-14gAOynaBCJwturbf7RZaSWMjWE8aCY4wjWXlz1yJfbeZnodaBM-64ZEWNhZscwRrBikUfo-MbB3EEYbFuu8FMTdxc1SOZEdp99icBRz-iA4l5o9rBkdB6ECjm6EEYzXRi6hhfcAKsiL150QMQW0-IPllROyzT6IjnpTXzf5r63n89kvuXisfch7azj4iTWXVoWCEKkLrkBtx6NgjYCJOv9OtTs2lzrKXXi4tGL3-7zgkQvFtHYuQVdDLq1ucBat5FJwzQch9SB0L3rZOsMCWozKDeMiwS96QQ5KAE6Tkrc731fZ19NXcuH7_UNWbMrkr6l3_v1wO26fiybU3PJ-pkivGZPzG8KlIV1WfFSdV0xYmkUwO3obwBXXo9HTNFyaNZHVwI2Rw8QaM-SGSn-k_wHLTKM2] creating a governmental credit reporting agency to compete with, and potentially replace, the existing big three - but it will be an uphill battle.) That’s why no one’s been able to take them head-on, and why Truework’s market checked the “overlooked by Silicon Valley” bucket. It’s why payroll scraper APIs try to go around the credit bureaus instead of competing directly. 
But Truework is going head-to-head. This is where this becomes a story about strategy. 
Start with the why now. What’s changed? 
First, technology. On the Employer side, HR and Payroll platforms recently launched open APIs that make it easy for employers to connect data with Truework. On the Verifier side, more and more lending is going digital, with companies like Roostify, Blend, Better, SoFi, Rocket Mortgage taking a greater share of the market. That created an opening for a tech-first solution like Truework that connects the two sides seamlessly, securely, and instantly. Credit bureaus, on the other hand, are not known for the quality of their APIs. 
Second, privacy. Since the Cambridge Analytica scandal, online privacy has become a louder part of the global conversation. Europe passed GDPR and California passed CCPA. Both regulations require consent before sharing employee data. When hackers breached one of the major credit bureaus in 2017, they shone a light on the previously shadowy verification industry, and consumers didn’t love what they saw. It’s a tough time to be a company that shares data without consent. 
But privacy is one of those things that people say they care about without opening up their wallets to prove it. The startup graveyard is littered with companies whose main value prop was privacy. 
Instead, Truework [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcuKxCAQRb8mLoOPaJKFi4Ghf0OMVtIyUYOPCfn7Md0NA4UFdSnu9ZTRBbaYLnnEXND9qHIdIAOceYdSIKGaISlnJRF0YnyYkZWDJROfkMtqTQBeu12WVAEdddmd0cXF8NrAmHL0lPOkJ85GakdO10EQYe2yGmIGOwu6Wvz21dU6CAYk_EK6YgC0y2cpR-7YV0cfrc7z7G-fM6af3kR_T9mjFq9yrMlAx75DLGqJyYWto-JWPFhXfVNOWLIr8Bkb7Q_tttAEnYozOyjM76KYEuTk3TDHglAuCO9JT9tErJaTkWkxrrT9gK-ALSMW5pnRbsB-o32uSy7avOKhJFucT5oB_zy1h_0lNE6qdV-DK5eCoJcd7BtheV_iBVVtECC1C1mly80fM8zHic-zeCNrjJnA00TFjJqzjW0r_Jv-AdeYoJM] needed to compete by building a better product with internet-native distribution that also happened to have privacy baked in. It needed to play the long game. It needed to be a Worldbuilder. 
In Two Ways to Predict the Future [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOhCAMQL9muGkABeHAYS_7GwalOGQUDNQ1_v0yY7KbUJq0aV77ZouwpHyZPRUk72_EawcT4SwrIEImR4E8BmeY5KoTvSbO9I4poUgoo88Amw2rwXwA2Y9pDbPFkOJnglIuyNNoZfUkOZNSKOsn4MqzYdC99p2V3Kubaw8XIM5g4AfylSKQ1TwR9_Lovh78u77zPNuYcEo5xKWdUy3tNfBMzWmv0mBq9gwuzNjgExp_4JGBBMMpZ1RQybiQTLSs5bUivRNsqAsMnrvJCw_UdcyB1h1_9HRbeFuOqaCdXxW1kWz-0LX9etoN1k-jHj3WvB0x4DVCtNMK7vaBt9aPoXGBCLnqdqPFt0zaUTEoobW876_COkmV4lKTSnapTsV_6C-5Vo8u], I wrote that there are two ways that companies go after big markets. “Shotcallers find an obviously big market, guarantee that they’re going to transform it, and try to spend their way into making that happen.” Worldbuilders, on the other hand: 
Predict something non-obvious about the way the world is moving before others see it and before the market is ready for their ultimate vision.
Create a wedge into the market and leverage it into a much larger opportunity. The public often ridicules or dismisses the initial wedge product. 
They timestamp their vision, whether in public announcements or confidential documents. 
Obvious Worldbuilders include Musk and Bezos. This video is classic Worldbuilder:
Predict something non-obvious: Commerce on the internet is going to be massive. 
Create a wedge: Books were not the biggest category, but they benefited the most from the internet’s capabilities, and were the right category in which to build the muscle.
Timestamp the vision: Bezos never said books are the end-all-be-all. He said that they were the “first and best product” to sell online. 
Truework is a Worldbuilder, too. 
Predict something non-obvious: As HR systems and lending move online, there’s an opportunity to build a privacy-first identity layer across the internet. 
Create a wedge: Employment and income verification is a vertical of identity that everyone needs that has the least digital competition; it allows Truework to build up its most important asset: data. 
Timestamp the vision: The team shared with me a 10-year vision that they set out to accomplish in 2017. They’re executing on it almost perfectly so far, and have big ambitions for the next six years.
Truework [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcuKxCAQRb8mLoOPaJKFi4Ghf0OMVtIyUYOPCfn7Md0NA4UFdSnu9ZTRBbaYLnnEXND9qHIdIAOceYdSIKGaISlnJRF0YnyYkZWDJROfkMtqTQBeu12WVAEdddmd0cXF8NrAmHL0lPOkJ85GakdO10EQYe2yGmIGOwu6Wvz21dU6CAYk_EK6YgC0y2cpR-7YV0cfrc7z7G-fM6af3kR_T9mjFq9yrMlAx75DLGqJyYWto-JWPFhXfVNOWLIr8Bkb7Q_tttAEnYozOyjM76KYEuTk3TDHglAuCO9JT9tErJaTkWkxrrT9gK-ALSMW5pnRbsB-o32uSy7avOKhJFucT5oB_zy1h_0lNE6qdV-DK5eCoJcd7BtheV_iBVVtECC1C1mly80fM8zHic-zeCNrjJnA00TFjJqzjW0r_Jv-AdeYoJM] found a market with a non-technical incumbent with an approach that was non-obvious to other startups. It had to lay two foundational pieces down before executing on its master plan. 
Its first decision, which is common among startups, was to be product-and-engineering first. The incumbent had a distribution advantage -- it worked with most of the large enterprise companies -- so Truework had to win on product. It built a team of top product, engineering, security, and marketing talent from Airbnb, Coinbase, Stripe, Gusto, LinkedIn, Patreon, and Facebook. 
From that base, Truework has executed against a master plan to grow its Instant network. Get more Verifiers on the platform to attract more Employers, use more employers to attract more Verifiers, use those Verifiers to attract HR and Payroll Platforms, and so on. It’s Truework’s Flywheel, and its network effect.
To learn about Truework’s execution against its master plan, Regulatory Counter-Positioning, and Building the Verified Identity Layer of the internet…
(Note: I’d love for this button to take you to the place you left off, but Substack won’t let me.)
How did you like this week’s Not Boring? Your feedback helps me make this great.
Loved [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OhCAQhU8jSwMUoCxYTDLpaxiE0iajYAB74u2HbheT1E_yKlWv8jlbcU35MkcqlbzLVK8DTcTfsmGtmMlZME_BG6b4CFJo4o3wbJQjCWVaMuJuw2ZqPpEc57wFZ2tI8bNBKZfkaRY7c26tnN2ImgnmlGbcg7CUWS6Uu33t6QNGhwZfmK8UkWzmWetROvjq-KNFOfMLr9K_P9rQHn1ITR2UVBJaUhjlMmjgoAccQGklwAIDAAkCaAeP3MG3JMFwyhmVVDEuFZM963lT1OIlG8CqYeF-XuSC1APzqNvFTtB95X0551Kt--ld2kk2MdU55RDXNv552h23z6BRmFrfzxjqNWG084b-BlRvzh9k04oRc-PvJ1vfdClQOYxSa3UDaQRB0XHkSpPm7FPbiv-mf2ICjsU] | Great [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuOwyAMRb8mLCPA4bVgMdKovxERcFo0CURAOsrfD20XI_khXcu-1vGu4T2Xyx65NvIqc7sOtAl_64atYSFnxTLHYJnkGsRkSLBTYFpoEuu8FsTdxc22ciI5zmWL3rWY03uDUi7IwyoWgncOjBeMGsYXvU7BOa9Ae2om9_F1Z4iYPFp8YrlyQrLZR2tHHeBr4Lce9SxPvOr4-mhDd4wxd1VJIQX0pKDFqgxwMAoVSCMncMAAQMAEdIBbGeB7ItFyyhkVVDIuJBMjG3lX5BoEU-CkWnlYVrEiDcACmn5xmOh-52M9l9qc_xl93kmxKbcll5juffzzcDtu70GnMPe-nym2a8bklg3DB1D7cH4jm--YsHT-YXbtRZcCFUoLY-QHSCcIkmrNpSHdOeS-lf5N_wCrk48D] | Good [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OwyAMhU8TlhHgmMCCxUijXiMiwWnRJBAB6Si3H9ouRvKP9Cz7Wd_iKt1TvuyRSmWvMtXrIBvpt2xUK2V2FspT8FYoqQEHw7wdvNCoWSjTmol2FzZb80nsOOctLK6GFN8bnEtkDysQvPKgNV8RzKwX4TmBQEHLyGFYP77u9IHiQpaelK8UiW32UetROvjq5K1FOfOTrtK_PtrIHX1ITR0VKoSWHDSuowEJZqQRlFEDOBAAgDAA7-CWO_gGFqzkUnDkSkhUAnvRy6ao1aMYwalxlX5ecSXuQXgy7WI38P0u-3LOpbrlp1_SzrKNqc4ph3hv45-H22l7DxqFqfX9jKFeE0U3b-Q_gOqH8xvZdKdIufH3k6svuhw4jhqNUR8gjSAorrVUhjVnn9pW_Df9A7xCjko] | Meh [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OwyAMhU8TlhFgILBgMdKo14gIOC2aBCIgHeX2Q9vFSP6RbD0_6_Ou4T2Xyx65NvIqc7sOtAl_64atYSFnxTLHYJniGqQwJFgRmJaaxDqvBXF3cbOtnEiOc9midy3m9FZQyiV5WIVcdOkimKB-mRC49p5zCN5rLczy8XVniJg8WnxiuXJCstlHa0cd4Gvgtx71LE-86vj6aEN3jDH36aSkktCTgpbrZICDmXACZZQABwwAJAigA9zKAN-cRMspZ1RSxbhUTI5s5H2i1iDZBE5NKw_LKlekAVhA0y8Ogu53PtZzqc35n9HnnRSbcltyiene1z8Pt-P2XnQKc-_7mWK7Zkxu2TB8ALUP5zey-Y4JS-cfZtdedClQOWlpjPoA6QRBUa25MqQ7h9xV6d_0D_jRjns] | Bad [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM2OhCAMx59GjgaogBw4bLKZ1zAg1SGrYABn49svMx426VfatP_mN9uKa8qXOVKp5B2meh1oIv6WDWvFTM6CeQreMMlHEIMm3gyejWIkoUxLRtxt2EzNJ5LjdFuYbQ0pfjYo5YI8jRok17rVjrWKD3qZF-FmpxRzg6Nw69rTB4wzGnxhvlJEsplnrUfp4Kvjj2blzC-8Sv_-aEN79CG1rpJCCmhOYRSL0sBBK1QgtRzAAgMAAQPQDh65g29GguGUMyqoZFxIJnrW89aRixdMgZVq4d4tYkHqgXnU7WI30H3lfTldqXb-6ee0k2xiqi7lENc2_nnaHbfPoFGYWt7PGOo1YbRuQ38DqjfnD7JpxYi58feTrW-6FKhQo9Ba3kAaQZB0HLnUpCn71Lbiv-gfeRiOGQ]
Thanks for reading and see you on Monday,
Packy

Unsubscribe https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUtuOmzAQ_ZrwVmQbzOWBh3ZTskSbbLWbTTZ5QcaeEHMxFExZ-PqaRGolazw6o5kzOmc405A33RS1Ta-tJaR6aiFSMPYVaA2dNfTQpVJE2COBQ93QEpErcEADS_bptQOomawi3Q1gtUNWSc60bNS9AyFCrVvkZgQJz3MCn2MqMvCDTDhAAhb6rusDevCyQUhQHCL4A93UKLCq6KZ126-c7ysSmzeOo60anTWdVLnNGwMxvpCZRMieZRWk921WTqybEtTKWcO0xZwcp09SlUnRfO2LxN3NH-j1fZR8E84iDtvLU-Lt5vP4us6nfVH2SV3dxIIdztNuvRv3B-7un0bJPvezmSH581G-HH6Ou3WCE2nmOEe54JdNNZ9P2_5yDKvsFLfZ0za049Nm_F0curF2ixm_fXzF6kJvxfNWHoYX7eZh-db--Nbi-he3ZEQQwYgiDxPqYWpjmxjEuwqKfYd5_pWI7EqvgISDBYShQ1YuqnNi90PWa8ZLo0ptddE_lUy5vLEaqnvB-JOavx6U1FMKalFMPKzTjwu4y5fmoKAzlyFSphffkYOoH9Aw9B5WGW8dDwUB8ULLMIvGdKn_pH8BYoXJ-Q