# We Good Now? 

**From:** Not Boring <notboring@substack.com>
**Date:** Mon, 29 Mar 2021 12:57:32 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/We Good Now _Mon,_29_Mar_2021_12-57-32_+0000_1787e10996efc96f.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:13.564571

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkN2KhDAMhZ_G3o3U9M9e9GJv9jWkttEpo63UuuLbb2eEXQgJnJAczudswTnly2xpL-TdhnJtaCKe-4KlYCbHjnkI3nQSeia4Jt5w3_WiJ2Efpoy42rCYkg8k2zEuwdkSUvxcUAqCPI3SyvaOOjqiQtCKcSmcBYZSasFR3b728AGjQ4M_mK8UkSzmWcq2N-yrge9a53m2MZUx5RDn1qUqbW8ZH3NK_hHTSYIBCh1loDsQqlNt13IGcppGZd2op14gk9wL5JPUbvKCQcPpOkO7H-NerHvVvyvJ5s-nrl9Pu-LyWdSEQ53rEUO5Box2XNDf4cvN8INjmDFirmz9YEsl1ykKIAVwAXfYSodx1vdcaFKdfapX8d_0F6SXiBc

Welcome to the 997 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since last Monday! If you aren’t subscribed, join 41,668 smart, curious folks by subscribing here:
🎧 To get this essay straight in your ears: listen on Spotify [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkc1q3TAQhZ_GWhr9W15o0TQESlJK0266MrI08hXXlowkJ3Gfvsq9i8IwA3NmOMM31lRYUj71nkpFn2mq5w46wntZoVbI6CiQp-A0kVQxwUfkNHdECYVCmXwG2ExYdc0HoP2Y12BNDSneNjCmAl00adNWYS4l92AoxYo4LO0o3eidaiM3X3O4ANGChjfIZ4qAVn2pdS8d-9LRpxZph9iXPdXgz96mrbXKJb23Iq_kz8vD24_X1-9nKs8n-yAf39aOPZXQscfH_eTh6_PwU9Bf5IUz8rf8xgsKmmJKMKMjoWIgQ096zqj0fh6MnUevBDDJnQDu5Wi9E4x2HG8L7csxl2rs9fMIlHVMdU45xKXJ14vZYL0JjcbU6nbEUM8JoplXcHdQ9c77hm5aIEJuf3CTqY0yGTClUlAu6B1MI8k4U4qLETVnl9pW_G_6D_o5lSM] or Apple Podcasts [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uxCAMRk8z7BoF8xNYsOim14gImBnUBCIgrXL7MpNKI1nYYH164jnb8J7LafZcG3keczt3NAl_64qtYSFHxTJHb6gExQTXxBvuqRKKxDqHgrjZuJpWDiT7sazR2RZzeiXGEQR5GKm1oyCZop4rCMIHpxAcUyJIr9R0ce3hIyaHBn-wnDkhWc2jtb3e2OcNvnrt2TtbWx3svq84uLz1x6O-N31KuX0sucR075foqYCJA9WMkmhgBDoy0BTERKeBDpyBDGGZrFt0UAKZ5F4gD1K74AWDGx-3Owz1WGqz7vtJJMV0xD-Bj98Pu-H6WvTPz71vR4rtnDHZZUV_eWmX3pep-Y4JS9fuZ9u6VDqNAFIAF3B56OIYZ0pxoUkn-9xT6Q39A8YNkAo] (in an hour)
Today’s Not Boring is brought to you by… Masterworks [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUduOpCAU_Bp5G4NcVB54mMmmHzf7BwbhYJMWMIBr-u8H7c5MQs4hFEUVp7QqsMT0lFvMBZ1lKs8NZIAjr1AKJLRnSJMzsuvJSDkTyEhmupGPyOXJJgCv3CpL2gFt-7w6rYqL4WJgTDi6S9MbZSm3tBeDtbqbqejp2I1KCS5mg1-6ajcOggYJ_yE9YwC0ynspW27oZ0NudR3H0XqVq6kjpkduXTzP6W0vfspxTxoa-ifEMsfkwtKQ_gQ8GLf7E_j50hvRym_KLaFi9IOID4LfQL1yEv4p_bje4WTIZ8V_Y7n611ugbm-pmjYZOUkw6TAloiN86Ia2axklvbXzoPQs7MiB9sxwYLYX2hpOScOwX0ib9zmXKtXq6FGSv_4ZftyVh_UC6min2v0eXHlOENS8gnlNvbzCu3KYFgiQaqhmUqVG1g2YkJ4TxslryjUWyug4Mi5QVTaxssKv6Dc7XrCz]
Last week, you might have heard that the art market went—as they say in b-school—absolutely bonkers, setting a nice new record of $69 million for a nifty digital artwork. The takeaway? Art investing has hit the mainstream. But perhaps putting your money in physical art by the blue-chips makes more sense for you. Me, I own 5 paintings on Masterworks 👨‍🎨
Contemporary art has outperformed the S&P by 172% from 2000–2020, according to data from Masterworks. They were the first platform to let you invest in paintings by the likes of Basquiat, Kaws, and Haring. But what about returns? They’ve got that too: They sold their first Banksy work for a cool 32% annualized return to investors.
With results like that, it’s no wonder there are over 17,000 people on the waitlist. To skip the line, just use my special link [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUduOpCAU_Bp5G4NcVB54mMmmHzf7BwbhYJMWMIBr-u8H7c5MQs4hFEUVp7QqsMT0lFvMBZ1lKs8NZIAjr1AKJLRnSJMzsuvJSDkTyEhmupGPyOXJJgCv3CpL2gFt-7w6rYqL4WJgTDi6S9MbZSm3tBeDtbqbqejp2I1KCS5mg1-6ajcOggYJ_yE9YwC0ynspW27oZ0NudR3H0XqVq6kjpkduXTzP6W0vfspxTxoa-ifEMsfkwtKQ_gQ8GLf7E_j50hvRym_KLaFi9IOID4LfQL1yEv4p_bje4WTIZ8V_Y7n611ugbm-pmjYZOUkw6TAloiN86Ia2axklvbXzoPQs7MiB9sxwYLYX2hpOScOwX0ib9zmXKtXq6FGSv_4ZftyVh_UC6min2v0eXHlOENS8gnlNvbzCu3KYFgiQaqhmUqVG1g2YkJ4TxslryjUWyug4Mi5QVTaxssKv6Dc7XrCz], tell them the Packy sent you, and you’ll be good to go.
P.S. Here's some important legal info from Masterworks [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUUmO5CAQfI25tcXq5cChW6M6juYHFoa0C5UBi2Ws-n1jV6lbQpmIIIggQ6sMa4hPuYeU0Vmm_NxBejjSBjlDRCVBnKyRpKMDE3xERnJDBjEgm6YlAjhlN5ljAbSXebNaZRv8xcCYCnSXzBDWDyNRnHdiZlgPQjA8E65GTKDvXrqqGAteg4T_EJ_BA9rkPec9Neyzobe6juNonUrV1BHiI7U21ENjk96UdRAbdivZTSmUqKFhf3zIc4jWrw3tTsCBscWdwM_n3ohWbld29RVjH3T8oPgN1Csn4Z_Sj-sdQft0Vvw35Kt_vQXq9harfZOQlRRTghkdCRU96VvScka7ZZl7pedxGQSwjhsBfOlGvRjBaMOxW2mbypxylWp1cCjKX_8cP-7KwXYBdchT7a54m58TeDVvYF7zz68Yr0SmFTzEGq-ZVK7hkR5T2gnKBX3NuwbEOBsGLkZUlU2oLP8r-g1AubOW]
Hi friends 👋 ,
Happy Monday! 
Today’s essay is one that I’ve been waiting a long time to write: WeWork is going public. 
I’m bringing in the big guns for this one: Dror Poleg [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM-OhCAMxp9mOBosIHjgsJd9DcOf6pBVMFh34tsvMx42ado0Tfv1-wVHuJR62b0cxN5pomtHm_F1rEiElZ0H1ilF2w9ghJIji1bG3ijD0jHNFXFzabVUT2T76dcUHKWSPxucg2JPGzUXCJE77n1QqOZBmYACBWgzota3rjtjwhzQ4i_Wq2Rkq30S7cdDfD3guwW90vujLpStdbGWupcVF5YscOi5gLEHpXvd9Z0UMMyz1y74cTYKxSCjQjkPY5ijEvCQfFugO05_kAs_75Os2lzIl5ry0sY_T7fh-hk0W1Or25kTXRNm51eMt2O6wX0YTAtmrA1onBw1XL3mAIMCqeB22JAIKYyRamRNOZa2lf9F_wCpIYVE]. Dror literally wrote the book on the future of real estate -- Rethinking Real Estate [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxNUU2L3DAM_TXjY_Bn7Bx8WCgDvexl23Pwh5Ixm9jBcXaY_voqMwstCFl6kvzEU3AN5lIfdit7I6cb22MDm-G-L9AaVHLsUMcULeu5EUoOJFoZmVGGpH2cKsDq0mJbPYBsh19ScC2V_JyglCtysy5O3nDmBHgtAxUhQNSaBe2BTibKF687YoIcwMIX1EfJQBZ7a23bL-Ltwq9o9_u9c6v7U3IXyorAvKHbaolHaBgJKigTUipz9otrgov48fvXFdMeLbh1Q4BpM5xZBVz062wZBFffLd_g28fPdyz8_2FPkuWUMyr4wLjSTHesk4L30-S1C36YjALRy6hATv0QpqgEv0i6zrzbD783Fz7PtUm1uTRfasozlj9vboXlWUD1RnzXI6f2GCE7v0B8Cdte93lKPc6QoeLd4ugaXoVpynmvuFT8JSQqL6QwRqqBIHMsOJX_kf4FtdOgSA Dror’s writing combines history and future, and is brilliant, nuanced, and balanced, words that don’t often describe WeWork coverage. 
We’ve waited years for this. We can’t wait any longer.
Let’s get to it. 
We Good Now? [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkltvozAQhX9NeCvyBXN54KFtmi7ZTbrVkrTpCzJ4IE7ARmBC4devk0i7kjWWznjOSOdzwQ1UupviVvfGuZbMTC3ECsa-BmOgc4YeukyKGPskpMyLHBF7AocsdGSflR1Aw2Udm24Apx3yWhbcSK1uEwgR5hzjiCGWo7IUGFFfAMEB90souCg5Bs-H-14-CAmqgBgu0E1agVPHR2PafkEfF2RlzziOrtIm151UlVtoK7VXGR4qrcWD0uOCrow-g1rQJUxrXJD99Enqc3LS39tT4m3mHXr7M8riNZrFKmq_nhN_M7_Pb8sKbdNznzT1UVy19PC9nR-nzemAN_Y9_9zO1kMWP_byV_oybpYJTqT1oXt5069-z3j6-lidxGt9yeU6cqvwN3lKg92-iZYqV2stUonw7mfT0INOQ5I-IXLJtjjjNsmYIGLTIREmLMCBi12PEr8s84AXeVSGDKjvCQZe6UdFKRglCw81FXH7Ie8NL842jsbp4n_x2Pb5yBuobw0LJrN3MyhppgwUz2sQd2bmjv5GMatAQWe_hMi4scBxgAjxGfEYuTOyUKlHw9BjkWM3C22n1P-lfwET7cZ3]
by Dror Poleg [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM-OhCAMxp9mOBosIHjgsJd9DcOf6pBVMFh34tsvMx42ado0Tfv1-wVHuJR62b0cxN5pomtHm_F1rEiElZ0H1ilF2w9ghJIji1bG3ijD0jHNFXFzabVUT2T76dcUHKWSPxucg2JPGzUXCJE77n1QqOZBmYACBWgzota3rjtjwhzQ4i_Wq2Rkq30S7cdDfD3guwW90vujLpStdbGWupcVF5YscOi5gLEHpXvd9Z0UMMyz1y74cTYKxSCjQjkPY5ijEvCQfFugO05_kAs_75Os2lzIl5ry0sY_T7fh-hk0W1Or25kTXRNm51eMt2O6wX0YTAtmrA1onBw1XL3mAIMCqeB22JAIKYyRamRNOZa2lf9F_wCpIYVE] and Packy McCormick [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OhCAQhU_TLI38CS5YzGZ2cwaDUNikFQyU0_H2g-1iEgJFKvVevc9ZhCWX0-y5IrmuCc8dTIJ3XQERCjkqlCl6QwemuRQj8UZ4qqUmsU6hAGw2rgbLAWQ_5jU6izGnz0TfM0meRs0KBNXchX7QXIzUcyqtsq3QEgBuX3v4CMmBgV8oZ05AVvNE3OuDfz3Ydzv4jtdGnctb--3Wvc4fEg3rGe05GymTiqqOdoKzIYRZWTePoTnwQXgJIgyjC15y9hD9trCuHnPFJnLpkWJSxjmXmJbWfj3tBuun0TJN7d2OFPGcINl5BX_HxZvaB8C0QILSaPrJYmNFVc_YIJmQ7I7XeHDBtRZyJM3Z5zaV_k3_AFiwg38]
If I told you about a company doing $3 billion in revenue, leading a multi-hundred-billion-dollar market, that offers the easiest way for Fortune 500 companies to do flexible work, counts Amazon, Microsoft, Walmart, Goldman Sachs, Spotify, Netflix, IBM, and Airbnb as customers, and is going public at a $9 billion enterprise value (EV), would you buy it? 
What if I told you it’s burning $3.2 billion per year, has historically failed to meet nearly every target it set, and has to do construction every time it wants to increase its inventory? And that it had to pull a planned 2019 IPO due to investor disgust at the founder and CEO’s antics. Would you buy it then? 
This is the WeWork enigma. It has done some truly mind-blowingly impressive things while burning mountains of Masa’s money. If it weren’t for some huge unforced errors, it would have gone public at a valuation near $50 billion way back in 2019, before COVID supersized remote work valuations. It rode a positive narrative to the moon, and came crashing down when the narrative flipped. 
We all know We. The company’s story was everywhere in the fall of 2019. WeWork’s failed IPO was a car crash of epic proportions, and we all rubber necked. As someone who worked for a WeWork competitor, Breather, I watched it all with particular schadenfreude (this is Packy, speaking for myself). 
But since its public failure, it installed new management, flew under the radar, and refocused on its core business. It’s less exciting, but more solid. Its business model is neither inherently terrible nor is it as high-margin, high-growth as a pure software business. 
When WeWork was private, figuring out WeWork was SoftBank’s problem. We could afford to laugh at the company’s story without thinking too much about the actual business. But now that BowX SPAC’d it at a seemingly reasonable $9 billion valuation on $3 billion in revenue (in this economy?!), it’s worth taking a closer look. Today, we’ll do that: 
The Royal We. Adam Neumann was narcissistic and brash… exactly what was needed to shake up office real estate. 
WeStory. From 3,000 sq ft in Soho to millions across the world, fueled by an epic hype flywheel.
From WeWork to We. Neumann pushed the company outside of office and into a little bit of everything. 
IPOh No! WeWork’s attempted 2019 IPO failed spectacularly thanks to unforced errors, and the company brought in new management, refocused, and trimmed down.
WeSPAC. On Friday,Vivek Ranadivé’s BowX SPAC announced that it’s taking WeWork public at a $9 billion valuation.
Side Note: Masa is a Genius Again. Masa is on a tear. WeWork breaking even would be the icing on his comeback cake. 
WeWork by the Numbers. The refocused WeWork is a straightforward business. 
The WeWork Bear Case. This time, maybe it’s the market’s fault. 
The WeWork Bull Case. WeWork survived, erased its mistakes, and is perfectly positioned to capture value in a more flexible world.
Back to the Future. You know who would have been a perfect CEO for this market?
Look, no one expected us to be publicly defending Adam Neumann less than we, but here we are.
The Royal We
Maybe Adam Neumann really was the savior Adam Neumann thought Adam Neumann was. 
For the first eight years of WeWork’s life, the We Story was the Adam Neumann story. The two were inextricably linked. He was the Royal We.  
The WeWork co-founder and ex-CEO was a narcissistic cult leader who made off with billions and left employees and investors holding the bag. 
He regularly called his direct reports’ direct reports into late-night meetings to publicly embarrass their bosses. 
He pushed his co-founder, Miguel McKelvey, aside to give his wife Rebekah more power. 
He personally trademarked “We” and sold it back to his own company for $6 million. 
He established what is quite possibly the dumbest fucking financial metric in financial metric history: Community Adjusted EBITDA [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkUuO7CAMRVdTzBKBgXwGDHrythHxMSlUCURAXpTdN1U1aMmyLVtX1zq2uuKa8q2OVCp5p6XeB6qIV9mwVszkLJiX4BQbYOJSzMQp4dgkJxLK4jPirsOmaj6RHKfZgtU1pPhRUAqSPNU8M8dg0JNl1DE2OjpK48HM1s-eyuHrq08XMFpU-B_znSKSTT1rPcqD_zzgX4vrunqzpbQbzGtv095m6Qix2bVO5xrshqW1QNnUUdHB-FbhlfKr09amM9bS-ZQ7m2KxIZ0lYikkKKDAKIeZgRzZ2LNecBi8N6O2ZvaTRD4IJ1H4od3sJIeHoPsKfTlNqdq-3seQrGKqJuUQ17Z-PfWO22fRsCyt7mcM9V4warOh-xKrX_AfhsuKEXN7iFt0bbjZSAEGCULCl1BDygWfJiFn0pxdaqr4Z_oLq4CawA]. 
He set delusional goals [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUUmOxCAMfE1zIwpblgOHucw3Ihanw3QCETgd5ffDpA8jWQZkymVXOYPwTPnSeypI_tKE1w46wllWQIRMjgJ5Cl6zjg9CyZF4LT0b1EBCmeYMsJmwaswHkP2wa3AGQ4o3om25IouerZOStcIqMIwZcJ2fBWOg1AzWK_nhNYcPEB1oeEO-UgSy6gVxLw_x9eDfNc7zbM7y07i01ZfJGNwKpV5xCYXWiAkpLkBPc9G7i03-ohYW84ZCl3RS481GIxybibHQVP_cAEw7LXitQO0RVqQnnCm_KGOqGwYuBt6ToHnL6xJ8ZFz1rG9YIwXv5tn2xtlxHhSITnoFcu5GN3sl-EO225M35bAFjXv9zU2yrkPalEN81vJrMRusd6FqN9VzO2LAa4Jo7Ar-Iyt-3LmFnp4QIVfX_GSwesL6lvNOcan4R8aqu5BiGKQaSWX2qaLiP-kvODepeQ] for himself: “becoming leader of the world, living forever, amassing more than $1 trillion in wealth.”
But Adam Neumann was also the perfect person to launch WeWork, shake up the sleepy commercial real estate industry, and change the way that people rent office space.
Commercial real estate isn’t like software, a fact that critics pointed out over and over again as WeWork’s valuation soared to $47 billion. In the world of bits, a polite, meek coder can spend months locked away in a dark room, emerge with a brilliant piece of software, put it up for sale on a website that anyone can access, and let the market decide whether what they built is worth paying for. It’s pretty close to a meritocracy. 
Commercial real estate is an oligopoly. A handful of families, companies, and Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) own the vast majority of the desirable real estate in the world’s major metropolises. They own buildings and collect rent checks. Life is pretty good if you own the right piece of real estate, so landlords are not known for being particularly forward thinking or open to change. Polite and meek don’t work in real estate.
Adam Neumann almost sunk his company, but he was also the right person, in the right place, at the right time to get it off the ground in the first place. 
With the benefit of hindsight, it’s easy to say that WeWork should have done all of the good stuff and none of the bad stuff. They should have done revenue share deals with landlords instead of taking on lease obligations. They shouldn’t have thrown big parties. Adam should have been more straightforward and honest. 
But you can’t have your cake and eat it too. A quieter, more conservative WeWork wouldn’t have had the scale, money, shine, or leverage to make a dent in commercial real estate. 
WeWork was the disruptor. Like Napster, it broke some rules. Normally, the disruptor makes a lot of noise, spends a lot of money, and fails. Someone else swoops into a shaken industry, works with landlords, and builds a solid business. 
But in this story, Adam met Masa. SoftBank’s billions both choked WeWork and kept it alive. Adam got the boot, and rightly so. His company, under new management, lives to fight another day. 
What’s unique about this story is that WeWork is both Napster and Spotify. It’s disruptor and partner, destroyer and builder. Somehow, eleven years into the WeWork journey, after a failed IPO attempt and turbulent ups and downs that would make Kingda Ka [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEuOwyAMhk9TdhMlBhJYsJjNXCPiYVLUhETgtNPbD20XI1m2bMv-7c9bwmUvT3PsldjLzfQ80GR81BWJsLCzYplTMMMIikuhWTAiDEoqluocC-Jm02qonMiO063JW0p7fk_0PUh2Nb3S4Dx460FpVKOS0kUR-OSi01oPH117hoTZo8E7lueeka3mSnTUC_--wE-zx-PR1fQbV7vUzu9bKy0FLdlwx0xnwVawRMX61wW1ZbeUl2C_bpYlAz0MPQc9gJyGqRs6wWGM0U3WOx2VRD6KIFHEUfsYJIeL6LcFunq6StbfXoqsmLyT20vb29q3q91wfTfa63OL25kTPWfM1q0YPlToA_fNaV4wY2nQw2ypIR2mHmCUICR8KDRsXHClhNSsKYe9TeV_0T9R6JJl] jealous, WeWork is going public. It’s in the best position to capture the value created by the destruction it wrought.
But it all started with 3,000 square feet in Soho. 
WeStory 
Just as mobile boomed, the financial markets crashed, and people began working over WiFi on laptops, Neumann and McKelvey launched GreenDesk, an environmentally-conscious co-working space, in Brooklyn’s Dumbo neighborhood in 2008. They quickly realized that green wasn’t the draw, community was, so they sold GreenDesk and launched WeWork in 2010 with 3,000 square feet at 154 Grand Street in Soho. Coincidentally, Packy got coffee at Gasoline Alley in that building every day when Breather’s office was down the street.
WeWork wasn’t the first coworking space -- that honor goes to the aptly-named Coworking Space [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEmOhDAMRU9T2RUKGSAssuhNXwNlcCAqSFCGRty-U4XULVn24tv-9jOqwBLTJY-YC3qnuVwHyABn3qAUSKhmSLO3sh-IoJxNyEpme8EF8nl2CWBXfpMlVUBH1Zs3qvgYPhMYE45WiZnWE53UCMZZ4ZQGbQTBlumBcoPh9lXVeggGJPxAumIAtMm1lCM_6NeDfLc4z7Mz8Yzp5cOSIMeaDOQupqWJeovvsvpc2j_P6J5_rchLgkmPKZl6wsd-7PqOUTI4p0dl9OQEBzowy4G5YWo3ckoeDO8L6XLVuSjzar47SjLEomNqK5v8WtUO20dof8-t7jX4cs0QlN7A3kjKTfYDaV4gQGrE7axK49mPmJCBE8bJjaAxo4wKwfiEmrONbSr8m_4CDLSStQ], launched in 2005 in SF -- but it was the loudest and most ambitious. It took Neumann’s special blend of confidence, salesmanship, capital-raising ability, and casual relationship with the truth to force an otherwise unmovable industry to fundamentally change. 
When WeWork started, there were a few thousand square feet of coworking space in the world, but the combustible cocktail of Neumann and venture capital changed that quickly. WeWork raised a humble $1 million Seed in October 2011 and another $6.9 million that December, and in April 2012, Benchmark came in to lead a $17 million Series A. It quietly raised another $190 million in 2013, before lifting the veil and announcing [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkUGOwyAMRU9TdqmCgSQsWMxmrhFBcFpUAhE4rXL7oe1iJOtbsvX1refFEt5yOc2eK7G3zHTuaBK-akQiLOyoWObgDR9gEkpq5o30fFITC3VeC-JmQzRUDmT74WJYLIWcPo6-B8XuRukFnJwAJDotV-kUl3rkGhSHSa7jN9cePmBa0OATy5kTsmjuRHu9iJ8L_LZ6YqKjoENL1yVvbQI9l61xeItq8sJXLo-u2FCxdkKprbPUJbQlnp1y3dPG43Nft0ebahf23FwsGOiB9wI0BzXy8cqvUsCwrm60i9PrpFAM0iuU66CX1SsBF9lvN7jWw1Wyy-N9ECsmZXK5hHRr68fdbhg_iwZmbn07UqBzxmRdRP9lRl_0H4rzDROW9hI_W2rA-dgDDAqkgi-jBlVIMU1SadaSfW6u9B_6BwqpmLs] a massive $355 million Series D at a nearly $5 billion valuation in October 2014 led by major institutional investors Goldman Sachs, Wellington Management, and T. Rowe Price. 
Those investors’ involvement sent a clear signal that WeWork wanted to go public, and that the public markets were waiting with open arms. At the time, institutional investors rarely backed private companies. Instead, T. Rowe, Goldman, and Wellington and other large institutions received allocations in the Initial Public Offering (IPO), and their purchases supported companies’ ability to smoothly enter the public markets. If those IPO experts were in, the logic went, they must believe that WeWork had a good shot as a public company. 
In reality, what it meant is that Adam Neumann’s skills as a salesman extended beyond just local landlords and VCs. He was able to convince some of the world’s most buttoned-up investors that WeWork wasn’t just any real estate company. That, in turn, convinced landlords to lease WeWork more space, which meant more revenue, which got investors excited, which got landlords excited, and so on. Neumann built a Hype Flywheel so strong that it sucked in people typically immune to hype, including Jamie Dimon and WeWork’s board [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcmO6yAQRb8m7LDMaLNg0Zv3GxZDOaZjIAL8LP99k6SllhgKFbdu6ZQzDe65XPqZa0OvY2nXE3SCs-7QGhR0VChL8JpIOjPBFfKaezKLGYW6rAUgmrDrVg5Az8PuwZkWcnorxpEKtGm7jhOTXo5qsoowBZT0DYquxBFi7cfXHD5AcqDhP5QrJ0C73lp71hv7utF_fZ3nOZz1e3A59pcpLbgdag_bBjh2xYUjJHxuGUMydgePjTcRJziiSQmb5PHr6wlnLg_swZpeABMiJkmVkkSioOlIycioIlRMZBrIwBmV62on46xaZwFMci-Ar1K51QtGb3yMdzrUw9Zm3OPVHSo65WZzCene04_NRNjfiU5o6Xc8UmjX8tvlB177zOCNc7lDgtJn4xfTOnkyjZRKQbmgH1idLuNsnrlQqDv73FXpz_QHhD2eJQ].
In just four years, WeWork transformed coworking from a quaint, communal way to work into something on every landlord’s mind. At the time of the Series D announcement, just four years into its life, WeWork was generating $150 million in revenue at 30% operating margins, and had accumulated over 1.5 million square feet of leases. Over the next three years, it would add roughly 6.5 million square feet in the US alone, while going international and launching subsidiaries in China and Japan. 
Source: Vox
Today, about 4% of the 3.5 billion square feet of office space in the country are flexible. By 2030, that number will be several times higher. The trend towards more flexibility in office rental is inevitable: flexible office reduces friction, lowers upfront costs, and shortens commitment lengths. It lets office experts do what they do best, and lets companies focus on the things that they do best. It does to office what SaaS and the cloud did to software, and gives employees a say in where they work. It transforms office expectations from B2B to consumer. 
That transformation would not have happened nearly as quickly without Adam Neumann. If that were the whole story -- WeWork uses capital, aggression, and force of personality to transform massive, sleepy industry -- the company would have gone public years ago, and Neumann would be a venerated public company CEO. 
But there were clues in the deck [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEmOhDAMRU9T2RUiE8Mii970NVAGByIgQYlpxO07XSxasmzJ319fflYjzCnf6kgFyV-b8D5ARbjKBoiQyVkgT8Ep2rGBSzESp4SjgxxIKJPPALsOm8J8AjlOswWrMaT4cbQtk2RRvYB-FNIxQ33Hei380I0DNVX3nnb2ydWnCxAtKPiBfKcIZFML4lFe_OvFvmtd19WULTgoi87QRMC6LKgznseSdvg7gSvl9X0EtMvbgV3fXMr9nXUo4EhQrGW05WykTPa0b2gjOOu8N722ZvSDBN4JJ0H4brTeSc5eot1n1pTT1CC7NjbtJKuY0KQc4lzlddE7bB-h_j_VuZ8x4D1B1GYD96DBh_AH1jRDhFzJu0lj5Ur7lrFOMiHZg6Ky44IPg5AjqckuVVf8D_0FhKSTcQ] the company used to raise that $355 million Series D that it didn’t want to just rent desks. It wanted to change the way WeLive and “elevate the world’s consciousness.” And in 2017, Neumann found his soulmate, and with him, the pools of money he’d need to rule the world. 
From WeWork to We 
When he met McKelvey, Adam Neumann had run two failed companies: one that made a collapsible heel for women’s shoes, another that made baby clothing with knee pads. Both seem like Shark Tank pitches that would have gotten five “I’m outs.” 
In half a decade, though, Neumann had built the largest coworking company in the world, thrown the traditional five-to-ten-year lease model into question, and raised over $1 billion dollars. His company controlled millions of square feet of office. Given that meteoric rise, it’s understandable that Neumann thought he could do anything. 
It started with WeLive. If coworking worked, why couldn’t coliving? Theoretically, the same principles apply: lease space wholesale, chop it up and add shared amenities, and sell it retail. Plus, maybe if we all lived together, we could cure loneliness and make people happier. In the company’s Series D deck, it said, “The demand for Space as a Service extends to residential real estate, making WeLive a natural extension of the WeWork concept, community, and brand.”
Series D investors bought it, as did investors in the company’s $433 million May 2015 Series E and its $690 million November 2016 Series F. But no one bought Neumann’s vision to be more than just office space than his Series G lead: Softbank’s Masa Son. 
When Adam met Masa in December 2016 [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcuurCAQRb-mmWF4qwMGZ3J_wxRStqQVDOA1_v2huwcnIVRSj-ydtWeo-Ez5tkcqlby_qd4H2ohX2bBWzOQsmKfgLTdikFqNxFvl-aAHEsq0ZMQdwmZrPpEcp9vCDDWk-LlgTGiy2oVJ9LNRvJ8NB9b3zjmhei64Qw5u-OrC6QPGGS3-x3yniGSza61Hecifh_jX3nVd3QKlzmk_IN5dq607MiWMUua9gEvzQtd00boi9Snt6OkOBWhJkYKHnUY8d4iRZtw-RssaDlqw0guvlF-07b1vcwJPa6I-lKbYMAQrmOBMipEL3fO-452SwiyL62F24zJolEZ5jWox47x4LcVDsf0punK6UmF-vf2SbGOqLuUQn238WmHH7TNo7KZW9zOGek8YwW3ov1jrN50P6OmJEXNLzU9QWya8Z0IYLZQWX4yNu1RyGJQeSVP2qV3FP9FfOYypWA], the SoftBank CEO showed up two hours late, told Neumann he had 12 minutes for a tour, and suggested they continue the conversation in the car. There, after knowing each other for 28 minutes, Son famously whipped out an iPad, drew up terms for a $4.4 billion investment, and asked Neumann to sign. He did. 
Masa, according to Neumann, appreciated that he was crazy, but thought that he needed to get crazier. Oh, he did.
In the two and a half years between closing that investment and filing to go public, in addition to accelerating the expansion of its core business, WeWork: 
Invested in a wave pool company, WaveGarden [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcGu4yAMRb-m7IiCgUAWLN5mfiMiYFqmCURAXtS_H9ouRrJsWVdX1zp2tuE9l5c5cm3k3Zb2OtAkvOqGrWEhZ8WyRG_YBJpLMRNvhGdaahLrEgribuNmWjmRHOe6RWdbzOnjGEeQ5GEkA6GF08AgCKUgKO95CBNXs-UyTN9ce_qIyaHBXyyvnJBs5tHaUW_85wZ_el3XNVz17-Dy3jdbWnQb1reAVy5P2uwTK7XUx4PGRNsD6WV_kR45b3Q9a0xYK2WSjWqSSo8kGhiBjRxmBlIxNbBBcJhCWJV16xy0RD4JL1GEaXbBSw43Me53GOq51mbd830LKSbltuYS073Lz4fdcfsIncfS536m2F4LJrtu6L-o2pf4B95yx4Slf8IvtnXOTI0AkwQh4Yums-SCay3kTHqyz92V_of-A7Cql2w]
Opened its first gym/spa, Rise by We [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uxCAMhU8z7BoFA_lZsOim14gImARNAiNwGuX2ZSaLStaz5GfrWZ81hEvKl36lQuwtE10v1BHPsiERZnYUzFNwmncwCCVH5rR0fFADC2XyGXE3YdOUD2SvY96CNRRS_Fy0LSi2au9nUKY3xszCSeOs6IXAHtRgzei9v3PN4QJGixp_MV8pItv0SvQqD_H9gJ9a53k28aKwY2ls2usEWt7Xxtu3QJVC14bvVTxTfn75QBFL-VquvTQr7RsLGlrgrYCRg-p53_BGCujqi72x8-gHhaKTTqH03Wi9UwIest0XaMoxFzL2-Y5mWcdEc8ohLtV-rmbH7WNUBFPt-xEDXRNGM2_objp0Q_7wmhaMmCt8NxmqaHnfAnQKpIKbRsUnpBgGqUZWk12qV_E_9A_m9pOw], in New York
Launched a grade school for young entrepreneurs, WeGrow [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcvO3CAMhZ9m2GUUbrksWHTT14gcMAkaAhE4HeXtyz9TqRIyiGP7WJ8tEG653ObMldhPWOg-0SR814hEWNhVsSzBGT6ISWo1M2eU45OeWKiLL4gHhGioXMjOa43BAoWcPhV9LzTbDR-dWx0o3w-8507MctXaTmp2XngA__WFywVMFg3-wXLnhCyaneisD_nrIX63QzteZYXkWkbMJ5anzUf7h0LBRqzt-cZ3Lq-uInURrmT37izhgHJ31e45xw42dB0mKngWTK1fgPhPY8GIXvBeipkLPfLxyZ9KisH7dQS7zn7SKAflNCo_zNY7LcVD9ccmnvVaK4F9_QzEikmZ1lxC2pr82uHA-BEanqXdx5UC3QsmWCO6Lzn6LuDDctnaYKUtxi1ADTsfeyEGLZQWX1INrVRympSeWXN2uVWl_6Z_AbnEoWE], under the leadership of Adam’s wife, Rebekah 
Acquired coding boot camp Flatiron School
Acquired Meetup for $200 million 
Acquired MissionU, a one-year vocational bootcamp, under the WeGrow brand
Acquired Teem, a facility management software company, for $100 million
Raised another $3 billion from SoftBank
Legally changes its name to The We Company, as part of Neumann’s expanded vision "to encompass all aspects of people's lives, in both physical and digital worlds"
Updated the company’s mission to “elevate the world’s consciousness.”
Nearly sold over half the company to SoftBank for $16 billion before SoftBank pulled out and invested $2 billion at a $47 billion valuation 
Acquired office management platform Managed by Q for $249 million 
Acquired Islands, Prolific, and Waltz in one week 
Acquired workspace management software Space IQ 
Acquired Spacious, which built ground-level drop-in workspaces
By the time it filed its S-1 [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcGOhCAMhp9mOBoooHDgsJd9DYNQlYyCARzj2y8zc9iE9G_TNn_z4WzFJeXbHKlU8g5jvQ80Ea-yYa2YyVkwj8Eb1oPiUmjijfBMSUVCGeeMuNuwmZpPJMc5bcHZGlL8bFAKkqxmYFppxq30wJ3rgU5sUpJalFx75-nX154-YHRo8IX5ThHJZtZaj_LgPw_4be-6rq6g65b0atVPdmt4YWkp-sXmpt5W24RJziXwllFKGdOcgWQagAqt31ODageBL6xb606CAQqMctBtbGBDxzrBoZ_nabBu0rOSyHvhJYq51272ksND0H2BrpxTqdY9O5d2kk1MdUo5xKW1n6vdcfs0GpSx6X7GUO8Ro5029F9e9Yv9Q3BcMGJu3-FHWxtsNlCAXoKQ8OXTgHLBlRJSk-bsU9uK_6Z_6GiT1Q] to go public on August 14, 2019, Neumann’s company had transformed from WeWork, a coworking company, to The We Company, which did a little bit of everything. That’s when things started to fall apart. 
To read about WeWork’s failed IPO, the recently announced SPAC, and the bear and bull cases for the stock…
Thanks to Dror for teaming up, and to Dan for editing!
How did you like this week’s Not Boring? Your feedback helps me make this great.
Loved [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM2K7CAQhZ8mLoNa_i6yGBjmNYLGslsm0aBmLnn763QvBuoH6lCcw7e5jo9S7-UsrZPfsfb7xCXjv7Zj71jJ1bCuKSxMcQNSWBIWEZiRhqS2xop4uLQvvV5IzsvvaXM9lfz6oJRL8lw4DSyozRuvkbHIAyCNwbrolWHcqbevu0LCvOGCP1jvkpHsy7P3s03wMfGvUe2qP3i3-TfRju6cUxlXraSSMJqCkVFb4GA1alBWCXDAAECCADrBV53gU5I0AnFGgVvGpWZ6ZrMArmL02m3eRiMRlAgSRVR2i0ECnwQ9Hnxul2_dbd_zVg5Sl1y6LzXlx5C_n-7A_SUMCuvYx5VTv1fMzu8Y3oD6m_ML2frAjHXwD6vrgy7TlHMluZD8DWQQHLmNEdKS4RzK-Mp_pv8BOjaPoA] | Great [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM2K7CAQhZ8mLoOx_F24GBjmNYLRslsm0aBmLnn763QvBuoH6lCcw-ddx0eptz1L6-R3rP0-0Wb813bsHSu5GtY1BbtIpkFwQ4LlYdFCk9TWWBEPl3bb64XkvLY9eddTya8PSpkgT4uSawxROmCbcVSouFHvheAL6Bi8evu6KyTMHi3-YL1LRrLbZ-9nm-BjYl-j2lV_8G7zb6Id3TmnMq5KCilgNAUtojLAwChUII3k4GABAAEc6ARfdYJPTpJllC0UmFmYUIual5kDkzFuyvnNRC0QJA8CeZTGxyCATZweDza3a2vd-e_Zl4NUm0vfSk35MeTvpztwfwmDwjr2ceXU7xWz23YMb0D9zfmFbH1gxjr4h9X1QXdRlDEpGBfsDWQQHLm15sKQ4RzK-Mp_pv8BEgmPfw] | Good [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtq7DAMhp8mXgbH8i0LLwqlrxF8kWdMEzvYTg95--POLAq6gIT0_3zednyUepuztE5-y9bvE03Gf23H3rGSq2HdUjCLZBoEX0kwPCxaaJLaFiviYdNuer2QnJfbk7c9lfy6oJQJ8jQyOk4XVNqjBeWY9xQ0i5I5iRqDeuvaKyTMHg3-YL1LRrKbZ-9nm-BjYl8j2lV_8G7zr6Md7TmnMqZKCilg5HgqolqBwapQgVwlBwsLAAjgQCf4qhN8AkmGUbZQYOvChFrUvMwcmIzRKevdGrVAkDwI5FGuPgYBbOL0eLC5Xa51679nXw5STS7dlZryY6y_n_bA_bUYFLbRjyunfm-YrdsxvAH1N-cXsu2BGevgHzbbB91FUcakYFywN5BBcPjWmouVDOVQxlX-E_0PDF-PfA] | Meh [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuK7CAQhp8mLoOxvC5cDAzzGsFo2S2TaFAzh7z9cboXA3Wjip-_-Lzr-Cj1tmdpnfyWtd8n2oz_2o69YyVXw7qmYBfJNAhuSLA8LFpoktoaK-Lh0m57vZCc17Yn73oq-aWglAnytMpT7SUGtkTDuNqCVhHH5HWMRm7w9nVXSJg9WvzBepeMZLfP3s82wcfEvka0q_7g3ebfj3Z055zK2CoppICRFLSIygADo1CBNJKDgwUABHCgE3zVCT4ZSZZRtlBgZmFCLWpeZg5Mxrgp5zcTtUCQPAjkURofgwA2cXo82NyurXXnv2dfDlJtLn0rNeXHOH8_3YH76zAorKMfV079XjG7bcfwBtTfnF_I1gdmrIN_WF0fdBdFGZOCccHeQAbB8bfWXBgynEMZqvxn-h_t7o9k] | Bad [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuKxCAQRb8mLoNaPuLCxcDQvxE0VrplEg1qesjfj929GKgH1KW4l7O4hvdcLnvk2shrzO060Cb8rRu2hoWcFcscg2WKTyCFIcGKwCY5kVjntSDuLm62lRPJcfotLq7FnN4flHJJHtYoY1hg4PTkRACqWQCm_cKpV56i_Pi6M0RMC1p8YrlyQrLZR2tHHeBr4Lde9SxPvOr4SrShO8aY-1UrqST0pjDJVRvgYDRqUEYJcMAAQIIAOsCtDPDNSLScckaBG8alZnpkowCu1tVrt3izThJBiSBRrMosa5DAB0H3Ox_r6Wtzy8-45J0Um3LzucR07_LPw-24vYVOYe57P1Ns14zJ-Q3DB1D7cH4jm--YsHT-YXat02Wacq4kF5J_gHSCPfc0CWlIdw65f6V_0z8DHY6u]
Thanks for reading and see you on Thursday,
Packy

Unsubscribe https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUsuumzAQ_RpYImNjHgsW0U2TkpZcpU3z2iBjD4nDwwhMuPD1dRKplSx7dMYzZ3TOcKbhqropblWv7eeV6amFuIGxr0Br6Oyhhy6TInZ9HBLqRbaIPeGGNLRlnxUdQM1kFetuALsd8kpypqVqXhUIYWrfYi9EIHzCsM8YCsI88klECko454i6hf_mZYOQ0HCI4QHdpBqwq_imddtbZGHhlTnjODqN0rnqZHN1uDIQ408yEwjZs7yC7DWNRVatEpz12iJLC_taldCYEKaNy_FhOuGqTO7qa3tPvHT-gz5_j5Kvo1msovbykfjpvJs_l1e03Zd9Ulc38cT256_tvJjS-9lNzX922s6mh-TfD_Ln_tuYLhM3kaYPOcgnfllX8_m46S-HqMqPqzb_2ETOj82l2B3TMKcPIstHhXY4vyt3Dor5Ua6XqB7Dk2oDPvxa2DLGCLuI4MjFNHADx3U8gv2iyAPG86gIKRDfExS8wo94ISjBlofqK3b6Ie8146WRqLa7-J9kJl3eWA3VK2HMysxbD43UUwbNUz7x9lG_1-GlZXaFBjqzJiJj2iyBGyCMfYo9it--GaOJR8LQo5FtmIUyVc1_0r8Tas35