# We're Never Going Back

**From:** Not Boring <notboring@substack.com>
**Date:** Mon, 30 Nov 2020 13:54:43 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/We're Never Going Back_Mon,_30_Nov_2020_13-54-43_+0000_17619706b1d73eb3.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:10.305373

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUEGOwyAMfE25JQISUjhw6GW_EZHgpKgEInC2yu_XbaVdrYSF5PF4PDM7hDWX0-65IjsqlDF4KwapO9Ub5m3vhVaahTouBWBzIVosB7D9mGKYHYac3gzOpWJ365XvnNHKEP86KL6AX5zxGrh2vAPJXjqjO3yANIOFbyhnTsCivSPu9dLdLvKLXso45RLS2tZjqujmRzvnjYCd6gkFmvTiNmummWYinAUrueRCdFzQ7X3XinZQRZ1xMEMPl55vq_y3jRX7K0Pw4-42iG-AzI30b0cKeI6Q3BTBf3zjJ6m3DTx3sAmeNQIilE-TwpBci6sRhpGaz5RZ-hP6ASsQfk4

Welcome to the 759 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since the last email! If you’re reading this but haven’t subscribed, join 21,976 smart, curious folks by subscribing here:
🎧  If audio’s more your speed, listen on Spotify [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMFuwyAQRL_GHC0DxrEPHFq1aau2qpT0kl4sbNYxCgYXcBz-viQ5VFpppBmtRvN6EeBoXeSz9QEtHlyrJMcVqSkrGyR5KXHNaqR8OziASSjNg1sAzUunVS-Csub2URSEoZHLUjBSlfUgB1Z33TAMjaCSbXoKhBFco2tPKxapwPTA4QwuWgNI8zGE2Wf0ISPbdHYGk_vZBjXEvLdTsvxo1yTVCR8-Hs9fu91ntP490gu-vOmMbr3K6FP7s5kk9L_f-_3BreMrXNaX5wekOClIgTEtcNpV0hznFXMs6qqpSsjKYjqS3C-dD6I_XfuQ48aGzjpljik-jWICfQvS8DbptBgVYgtGdBrknUm4U7xNDHEGbmD1GkIAdzcTKFLUeNPgBqU2aRNP81_0BwJShzw].
This Week’s Not Boring is brought to you by… MarketerHire [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtqxDAMRb8m3jX4Eeex8KJlmGXpHwTH1mTMxHaw5Zb8fT2TQkEg0JV0ucdohDWmQ-0xIykZ0uysYj0fhewmYlVn2ShH4vJ8SwBeu01hKkD2smzOaHQxvC4o5ZLcFR2MhG4YwWrZ94OEG5vMwoS1E8BtGsnTZ9bFOggGFHxDOmIAsqk74p4b8d7way2v0wMQ0t0laE30jbgW9HOOJRloxOVLO9vw_jnzYF2pC5fPiB8xubD-CUb7Xbs1VImxN0HfOCVOccopY4KyGrATLWt7meSx9VPfQdNRv_I2lyWjNo-nMUkqRFzOvx193LWH7SVUAnPtvgSHxwxBLxvYEw6eOF9Z8dhBBfjJG2ANdA4rMU5HNkxsItXNxgo2_Bv9Av0yij8].
Hiring a full-time marketer can take months of legwork with no guarantee of success. That’s why MarketerHire built a network of expert marketing professionals, pre-vetted by top marketers from brands like Glossier, Allbirds, Headspace and more. In as little as 48 hours, MarketerHire's team matches you with a hand-picked expert marketer who is aligned to your business goals and can drive real results. Their network is filled with marketers who have deep expertise in email marketing, social media ads, growth marketing, SEO and more — and they're available on-demand in hourly, part-time and full-time engagements. No retainers. No long-term contracts. 
It works. A couple of months ago, I was talking to my friend FJ about his eCommerce business, and he told me that he’d brought on a part-time marketer who was doing an amazing job. I asked if he used MarketerHire. He laughed, confused, and said yes. No joke, that’s a real story.
The best part? There’s no risk. You don’t sign or pay anything unless you choose to work with someone. Plus, MarketerHire is offering a $500 credit for any Not Boring reader who signs a contract before 12/15/20. If you’re looking for marketing talent you can trust to deliver, click the link below to get started.
Hi friends 👋 ,
Happy Monday! 
On Mondays, I typically write deep dives on some of the most fascinating companies in the world. About once a month, though, I like to get a little wild, pick a trend, and work through its implications.
Last month, I wrote that Software is Eating the Markets [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkMFuhSAQRb_msdMAIuqCRTf9DYMwKhHBwNgX_75UkzZNmJDMzcyde4xGWGK61BEzkjNDGp1VTPK-acVArBKW9W1PXB7nBLBr5xWmE8hxTt4ZjS6Ge4JS3pJVUd6J3gotYW6NBKM5n6bGdP2sQQrByI_PqE_rIBhQ8AXpigGIVyvikV_Nx4t_lhciTjG5sNT5nDJqs9Um7kU4SuU441snqFyuoJwQlgpXqHadNsBMnOKUU8YaykoI0dSslm1qLy8HKeAl6L7wf2tJUr9-Rd5WvYO_hZJyLP9-BofXCEFPHuwDAB9kdx68DlAB3tkDIqSnWahw2rNuYAMpbjYWeOHP6BtdL4JD]. Today, I’m exploring Remote Work, about which two things are true:
We talk about it a lot already.
Its potential impact is deeply underappreciated.
Remote Work will change everything.
Now let’s get to it.
We’re Never Going Back
Admit it. When you first heard the news about the 90-95% effective vaccines, out loud you said:
“Oh that’s wonderful! Think of all the lives saved!” 
While inside you were like: 
“Ah fuck.” 
That doesn’t make you a bad person. The selfish part of your brain has a faster reaction time than the good person part. And selfishly, for those lucky or privileged enough to have avoided losing loved ones to COVID and to be able to work from home, COVID has had some positives. 
The vaccine, for all its benefits, also means a few things you’re not going to be happy about if you’ve gotten used to the “new normal.” Bye bye ready-made excuse for any social event you didn’t really want to go to. Sweatpants are out, slacks are in. Hope you enjoyed spending time with your family, that’s done. Gas up the car for your morning commute! It’s time to go back to the office. 
Or is it? In month one, two, three, or even maybe four of the pandemic, it was a foregone conclusion that once this whole thing was over, we would go right back to the office. Then, after people moved around, spent more time with family, set up their home offices, became adept at matching sweatpants with a presentable top, and got used to their 15-second commutes, that conclusion seems less foregone. And as people learned new routines, companies adopted new ways of working together. It’s not perfect, but nothing ever is eight months in. 
Now, a debate rages among three camps: 
Return. In this camp are the old school businesses and new school businesses led by more conservative leaders who want their teams to get back to the office so they can get back to real work.  
Remote. The organizationally bleeding-edge companies were remote-first or remote-friendly even before COVID, and many tech companies have announced that they plan to let their employees work from anywhere even after a vaccine.
Hybrid. This camp agrees that things won’t be exactly the same, and their solutions range from “Maybe we’ll let people work from home on Fridays!” to much more creative combinations. “Hybrid” gets a bad rap because to date, it’s meant “most of us are in the office but some of you can be remote and Zoom in for meetings,” but I’ll be referring to a more intentional type of Hybrid that treats everyone as a combination of Remote and in-person. 
Missing from the debate is the fact that it’s not really up to the companies to choose. Employees will ultimately make the decision. The best employees have more options now than ever before, and they’re not going to work for companies that make them shave, get dressed, hop into a car or a crowded subway, and sit at a desk in an office five days a week with their headphones on trying to avoid distractions and get work done. 
Choosing to Return to the way things were is like choosing not to adopt software a decade or two ago. It’s an option, but one that will doom a company to mediocrity. 
The idea that Remote is coming and the role of the office is changing is not novel. Much ink has been spilled on the subject, both before and after the start of COVID (no one, I think, has written better on the topic than my friend Dror Poleg [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUM1uhiAQfJqPo2ERrB449NLXMAhbJR-CgaWNb1_UQ5NNJtnJZH6sIVxTPvWRCrFaMM_eaRjE2Cs5Maelg1GNzJf5OyPuxgdNuSI76hK8NeRTvBWcC8U2LSaQg7JGKQmjU1wAB-N6dMK6pQfHLp_ZVOcxWtT4g_lMEVnQG9FRXv3nS3y1K3UpNvsFO5dTPlLAtbNpbwzzWnDBAXoOLaPsO-gGldUZhmmQ-JJ8X0V36cnY9yViWcdES8o-ro1-b2bHcBOtxNxwr9HTOWM0S0D39KNnkTsunQfqiL8lIBHm59lKCz7CxwQTa24utW3iv9EfGhR1Qg]). Even Bill Gates recently predicted that [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OgzAMhU_T7EAJBEoXWcxmroHyY6jVkCAnAXH7SdvFSJZt2fJ78md1hjXSpfaYMisJaEanxNhN_SAfzCnpxDRMDNO8EMCm0atMBdhejEerM8bwueC8G9hTDXchJmEmA8Nkl9E4LpcepJGjdnqBO3v7zLo4hGBBwQF0xQDMq2fOe7r1P7fut8Z5nu0JS6SytZHWOtErBKdr0_GO1yJETQa9b9b6Q2p2HRxsaBsbD3Q1Uwz6QCqpOSO9mkz6AN-YkjBASo3DFbP2VYShemsK0XNRv5Z9K9pxoOHy42OUcJN8W7s2FZOytq_Wxo2RCjGbSBjWun499Qb-s6hY5lq3EjBfMwRtPLgvsfxl_AGQrx1UgDN5yBnoO6wYOz6J-0M8WHVzsdIO_0Z_O4WSxw] “30% of the days in the office will go away.” 
Generally, though, people are both overestimating the likelihood that companies will successfully Return to the office full-time and dramatically underestimating the first-, second-, and third-order impacts of Remote or Hybrid work. 
To help put that into context, we’ll explore:  
The Remote Hype Cycle. We all went Remote way too quickly. It’ll get better.
The Risk of Return. The decision isn’t up to employers, it’s up to employees. Companies that try to force a Return will lose the talent war.
New Physical and Digital Solutions. Remote won’t always mean Zoom, and the Office won’t always mean sitting at a desk five days a week. 
Implications of Remote and Hybrid Work. The shift to Remote and Hybrid is going to change everything from work itself to housing, gaming, fitness, and so much more. 
We’re never going back to the way things were. Like any major dislocation, that presents massive opportunities for those who are prepared and is going to completely run over those who aren’t. This essay doesn’t have all of the answers. Instead, it’s an exploration of the trend, new options, and some implications, and a wakeup call to get ahead of this and win the gold rush. 
The Remote Hype Cycle
It always feels safer to bet on the status quo. We’ve worked in offices for more than a century, and we’ll work in offices again. 
Partially, that’s because the burden of proof is always on the new thing; fads come and go, but at any moment, the way things are is the likeliest suspect for the way things are going to be. Partially, it’s because the new thing is clunky; of course it is, it’s new. And partially, it’s because all of the other things that will spring up around the new thing haven’t sprung up yet. 
Take the laptop. In a 1985 New York Times piece titled “The Executive Computer [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEGOwyAMfE25bQQEknDgsJf9RkTAaVAJRGCaze-XtoeVLNsa2xrPWINwT_nSRypIaoE8e6fZwKdeCkWcFo5NciK-zGsG2I0PGnMFctQleGvQp_i-oJRLsumRGy6EHOXK3cDNOq7ODj2ohTuqlJHkxTOb6jxECxqekK8UgQS9IR7l1n_f-E-L8zy7eKHfoXQ27Q1hapKvwluiU0tLLT5CKa3FDb7gF2xF_4Svtn9UhNxtuAfiNaecMtZT1iSJvmPdILO8wqAGATdB9zvvSl0KGvt4cZGsY8IlZR_vbfzYzA7hPWia51b3Gj1eM0SzBHAfO_Bj4FsdXgfoCGcJgO2ND9g84nRio2KKNDaXmpXxn-gPYCaEtQ],” Erik Sandberg-Diment concludes a skeptical journey through various viewpoints on the laptop’s potential by writing: 
As the software that is capable of turning them into true satellite offices becomes refined, they will probably even be used - in fact, profitably so. But the real future of the laptop computer will remain in the specialized niche markets. Because no matter how inexpensive the machines become, and no matter how sophisticated their software, I still can't imagine the average user taking one along when going fishing.
It’s hard to blame him. Desktop computers and floppy disks were the norm. Laptops were clunky. And the whole ecosystem of wifi, lithium-ion batteries, coffee shops, cloud-based software, and the millions of other things that combine to make laptops useful wasn’t yet in place. A laptop was a poor substitute for the real thing. 
Those in the Return camp think that, like the laptop, remote work will be for specialized niche companies, not the average one. They’re wrong, but it’s hard to blame them, either. Remote work today isn’t very good. 
Remote is new. Before the pandemic, only GitLab really did it at any meaningful scale. 
Remote is clunky. Sitting at your kitchen table all day with kids screaming in your ear while you hop on the 7th Zoom call of the day, which is, by the way, a depressing Zoom Happy Hour, is a terrible experience. 
Remote’s ecosystem is underdeveloped. We’ve had to shoehorn pre-Remote solutions to fit a new paradigm, and the impending wave of new tools hasn’t yet arrived. 
Because of the biggest exogenous shock to the system in decades, Remote work, which can be viewed comprehensively as a technology, hasn’t gotten the chance to methodically work its way through the Adoption S-Curve. Instead, like Snapchat [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUM2OhCAMfprhNgZQFA4c5rKvYRCqkkEwUHfj2y-ryW42adOkX9rvxxqEJeVT76kgOQrk0TvNei5b0SnidOeYFJL4Ms4ZYDM-aMwHkP2YgrcGfYrXBaVckFUrykC1_dwKUB0YOg8OrBpmSaXpp0GSH57RHM5DtKDhE_KZIpCgV8S9PNrXg3_UigmnlH1cmnJMBY19NzZtFdhrp_VZotmfxGtOOWWspazK7dqGNb3I4gy96jt4dHRb-L8HJOvfzxV-r2aDcAHVz1jndkSP5wjRTAHcbRXvcC7leO6gI3yVAIiQ72X1z6lkg2KKVDaXakzxj-gbgDV5Ow], Laptops, and Bitcoin, it’s going through one of my favorite frameworks: the Gartner Hype Cycle. 
COVID triggered a rush to remote work, and proponents quickly prophesied a remote-only future in which everyone lives and works from anywhere -- the Peak of Inflated Expectations. As the reality set in -- Zoom fatigue, kids at home, loss of social connection with co-workers -- remote fell into the Trough of Disillusionment. Remote and Hybrid skeptics point at the shortcomings and say, “See, it might work for some companies, but not every company, not serious ones like ours.” 
Now, with a post-COVID world in view thanks to the vaccine, and faced with the possibility of having to put real pants back on, we’re hitting the Slope of Enlightenment, which is defined as 1) the point at which the benefits begin to crystallize, 2) second and third generation products emerge, and 3) some enterprises pilot solutions while the most conservative remain skeptical. Check, check, check. 
The manifold benefits of Remote or Hybrid are beginning to crystallize, a few of which are:
No Commute. People spend nearly one stressful hour commuting every day. That’s time they could be sleeping, working out, hanging with their kids, or even doing more work. Now that we’ve lived without commutes, it’s hard to imagine going back. 
Live Anywhere. Not going to the office every day expands the choices for where to live. In Hybrid companies, employees might be able to live in the country two hours outside of the city and go in once or twice a week. Remote employees can live anywhere they desire, with anyone. Location will no longer be tied to employment. 
Increase Opportunity and Access. Only .01% of the people in the world live in San Francisco, but a disproportionate amount of great jobs were based there. Now, the best people anywhere in the world can find their dream job without leaving their friends and families.
Find Better Talent. The flip side of the above is that companies who look globally can access the best talent in the world, regardless of where they happened to be born. 
More Time With Family and Friends. Out of necessity and that magic that binds people going through a challenge together, people accepted that their co-workers were also going to be the people they spent the most time with: eight-plus hours in the office together, five days per week, plus happy hours. Remote will unbundle work and social.
Importantly, all but the most conservative companies understand that they will at least need to be Hybrid, if not fully Remote, not because they want to, but because the best people want to.
The Risk of Return
Typically, it’s safe for companies or people to wait until a technology gets a little bit further up the Slope of Enlightenment before deciding whether or not to adopt it. Competitors might move a little faster in the short term, but they could always adopt the new thing next year and be OK.
Companies don’t have that luxury with remote work. Those who force their teams back into the office risk losing their most valuable resource: their most highly-sought-after employees. 
In a May interview with The Verge [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEGOhCAQRU_T7DCACrpgMZu5hkEslTSCgbKNtx-0F5NUQqV-qF__WYOwxHTpPWYkR4Y0uElzKbq6bXoy6WbiXdsRl4c5AWzGeY3pALIfo3fWoIvh-cGYaMmqWyX5KGY7q65WvaytYkqqTo0WoDY9J7fPYI7JQbCg4QPpigGI1yvinl_1z0v8ljrPs8L1lheobNzKSHAh-061pc3e2De1EGlGOE1COh6IkGYHfqIulPbj4KSbsynmOCNNsEUEesb0ps9Sa0pepwUTjPOa8RK3qSteyTa1l5e9bODVsG0RVT7GjMXvPoMkHSKOMbmwFPm9mg38IxQeQ3m3Izi8Bghm9DB9UeEX7pMcrx10gDN7uA_-Dgs_wTquet6T4jbFgjn8G_0BPMmQ0Q], Slack CEO and Not Boring hero, Stewart Butterfield, responded to a question about how he’s planning to organize the company geographically: 
In other words, the decision isn’t up to the traditional decision-makers. The possibility of remote work will create a liquid global talent marketplace, unshackling employment and geography and giving the best employees more optionality than they’ve ever had. Forward-thinking companies, too, will have more qualified candidates to choose from than ever before. 
If you believe that a company’s most valuable asset is its employees, then the decisions that companies make around remote work in the coming months will be the most important they’ve ever made. There will be a massive first-mover advantage available to the companies who move quickly and intelligently. The shakeout will lead to a massive bifurcation in talent quality. 
(I bought an iPad so I could make beautiful drawings like this)
Remote Co can attract A players from anywhere in the world, including Local Co’s hometown. Local Co is left with the B and C players in its hometown. 
Last year, Stripe made Remote [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtuhSAQ_RrZ1QCCxQWLbvobBnBUchEMDG38-3J10WSSyTzPwxmELeVLn6kgqQXy7BfNRq4GKSayaLEwJRXxZV4zwGF80JgrkLPa4J1Bn-J9QSmXZNcrKGkFVcqIwfJpcsoJIZkF0RYGuZI3zmzq4iE60PAD-UoRSNA74lm64avj3y0KZn9C79LRChvS1lKGIyF87NUSrznllLGBssZTDD3rR5nlFcZpFNAJemy8L9UWNO71_kKyjgltyj5ubfzazQHhHjQhc8tHjR6vGaKxAZZHIz6u3JTxOkFH-C0BECE_zSacU8U-JzaRhrak5k_8B_oDqkh2QA] its fifth engineering hub, in addition to San Francisco, Seattle, Dublin, and Singapore. This September, it offered employees $20,000 [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OhCAQhU_T7DCA4uiCRW_mGgahWkkjGCjaePtBezEJSRWvfl7lMxphielUe8xISoY0Oat4L4ZWdiOxqrN8kANxeXolgE07rzAVIHuZvTMaXQz3BGNCklX1ohtGPrARetsbzrTg0Frgc2ukhddALp9JF-sgGFDwgXTGAMSrFXHPj_b5EL_1HcfR-Lp9g9yYuFVlLtkFyLmmCGYN0cflrJ-M9fwaBROMspFyeYvJ7UAP5z3d9UmPmN6QMr1aGKMY6RY_QHGFQE3BK3Hp6iROXYs4bxmvBLq24U0vkzx9P_YdPDq2LaLJZc6ozfs6jSQVIs4xubDU8nvVG_i7UBFNNW4lODwnCHr2YL_08Mv7hoHnDirAkT0gQvqKFalgA_8Z-Uiqm42VfPg3-gOZLZUd] upfront (with a potential cost of living pay reduction) to move out of the Bay Area, New York, or Seattle. Already a desirable place to work, Stripe can attract the best talent from anywhere in the world with the promise that they will be equally important to the employees in the four physical hub cities. 
On the other end of the spectrum, imagine a company that plans to make employees come back to the office five days a week. Assuming that most employees have gotten comfortable working from home and like the flexibility of at least a Hybrid option, and will look for jobs at companies that offer Hybrid or Remote work, this company is left with the people who: 
Live in or near the city in which their office is located. 
Don’t want to work for a Remote or Hybrid company or couldn’t get a job at the Remote or Hybrid company of their choice. 
It’s not just tech employees, either. I have one lawyer friend who just chose one offer over another because its location was going to be more flexible, and another friend in finance who told me that he’s going to look for a new job as soon as his firm asks him to come back to the office. 
If you choose to Return, you’re essentially making a bet that the benefits of all being in the same office every day outweighs the risks of attracting lesser talent and potentially losing your best employees. Mayyyyybe you make that trade if you assume that physical and digital solutions will remain exactly as they are today. But they won’t. They’re already improving. 
Continue reading online to learn about what companies can do to adapt their physical and digital tools to Remote and Hybrid work, and a thought experiment on the implications of a world in which we never go into the office every day ever again.
Thanks to Dan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEmOhDAMfE3niLIADYcc5tLfQFkMRGRBiZkWv58Ah5EsWXbJrsUohCXlU-6pIDkK5MlZyXo-iK4diZWtZUM3EFemOQME5bzEfADZD-2dUehSvC8o5R1ZJW372VAxGq35PGvFeE87QfnI34yawZCLZ1KHdRANSPiFfKYIxMsVcS8v8fPin1r4dYiQG5NCnawKxqQcnNmYIE5yyiljgrIqshUNa_oud6fvx76FV0vDwpty6ILKbNcHkmVMqFN2canwtqoA_gaqi6n2cESH5wRRaQ_2MYhPJLdePHeQEb7Fw6XqWVbXnA7sPbKRVDabajjxn-gPhYB1fA] and Puja [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEGOwyAMfE25NcIksMmBQy_7jYiA27AlEIHZKL9f2h5WsmxpRvZ4xhrCR8qn3lMhVgvm2TsNSoy9HCbm9OBglCPzZb5nxM34oClXZHtdgreGfIrvDc6FZKse7xJAKZB8tKCGu3LGTlwIrsA4ZxV76cymOo_RosZfzGeKyIJeifZy6W8X8d3qOI4u-PhE52Nn09YgH1vb64-5Lqshuk5cicUo2VDmteCCA_Qc2t9D30GnZJZnUJMa8DLw7SG6UpdCxj5f91jWMdGSso-PRj9Xs2F4E83Y3OZWo6dzxmiWgO7jmT4pvS3QuaOOeJSARJg_YAtC8BG-JphYU3Op5RX_hf4ARy56cg] for editing, and to Dan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuuhCAM_ZphaQAfyILF3cxvGB5VySAYqHfi31_UxU2aNO1Jex5WIywpn2pPBclRIE_eKTbwse07SZzqHBv7kfgyzRlg0z4ozAeQ_TDBW40-xfuCUt6TVTFjpOiFEXSQs-mYFTBwK4VoOZ2tm8nFM-nDeYgWFPxCPlMEEtSKuJdX-_Pi71r49YiQG5u2OjnQLpxTipWNeMUpp4y1lFWNXduwZuhzf4ZBDh28OrotvCmHKajt53pAsooJTco-LhX-rHqDcAPVxFT7dkSP5wRRmwDu8YdPIrdcPHdQEb4lwCXqWVbTnI5MSCZJZXOpZhP_if4AoM515A] and Dror [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOhCAQ_Bo5GkB08MBhL_MbhkerZBAMtDvx7xf1sEknne5KpR5WIywpn2pPBclRIE_eKTZw2fViJE4Jx2QviS_TnAE27YPCfADZDxO81ehTvBmU8p6syrK-c7OkDDrh7DxzDuCM0TAbKeHFyaUz6cN5iBYU_EI-UwQS1Iq4l6b7afi7Dn49IuTWpq1eLqe8pwAL8YpTThnrKKsGRdeyduhzf4ZhHAQ0gm4Lb8thCmr7udgkq5jQpOzjUuHPqjcIN1ATTHVvR_R4ThC1CeCecPjUcXvFcwcV4VsCXI6eZ03MqWSvkY2kqrlUi4n_Qn81aXXO] for input and inspiration.
We’ll be back on Thursday with a Not Boring Investment Memo on a company I can’t wait to tell you about.
Thanks for reading,
Packy

Unsubscribe https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUV2v4iAU_DXtowH6YXnog9GrW7PV3KzrVV8aCkelUtoAXbf--kVNdrMJCSczMHMyw5mDS2fGvO-sCwcLppIixynJoiSmochjgbMkC6WtzgagZVLlzgwQ9kOtJGdOdvr1AyGShNec4CRNz5SAwAAo8yoCJQRNozNJ_cjDp0_FBiFBc8jhF5ix0xCq_Opcb4NoFpClP7pzdWekvkzsUFvH-G3Cu9YTjD8t_SCkZbWC6rVTEC37TnBmXRAtApK67gbajzCuMSf78UDUrWi635umiMvHT7T9cZd8RR9iSfvTvEjLZhaXO56Uu5stWnUVT2x3vG8ajjaLz7j079lh8_Aakn_by--7j3u5KHAhvU60l0_8tFKP49fanvZU1V_Lvp6v6aSnbKTTqN_qWZY01zn-3C6H-fFjdUkOs7UxrDnXUlx0veGhzAkiCOMIYR9-HE3wJE1MMqqUpjEEMWov5L84QpP_zcnTtytrQb0I307l73bQ0o0V6GdS4l2ce1f96sGNPeQa7laBc2DeoG-ToAxPKaahdxOdD1j_M_oDgM--pQ