# Web of Relations

**From:** Not Boring <notboring@substack.com>
**Date:** Mon, 14 Feb 2022 13:56:07 +0000
**Source:** inputs/saved_emails/Web of Relations_Mon,_14_Feb_2022_13-56-07_+0000_17ef8863c9156b03.eml
**Processed:** 2025-08-24T19:13:10.782907

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEGOhCAQRU_T7MYAIuiCxWzmGgaktEkjGCjbePuhNZlJKhCqUrz8NxmEJeVTb6kg-RwjnhvoCEcJgAiZ7AXy6J1mkvdtJwbitHCs73riyzhngNX4oDHvQLbdBj8Z9CleG5Tyjjw1G1Tfq8FY6qyQwswzU6w-BwWtdXy6uWZ3HuIEGt6QzxSBBP1E3Mqj_X7wn1rHcTQxoU3Zx6WZUm1tnzbYrzR_ZQgXuRCvOeW1mGBtJ6lqeDMxq-jMuXFgAAxv3mhPE-z7Iei68KbstqCZXvXXlWT9R6nj19OsEK5BzTfWe92jx3OEaGwAd0fH2-AlY1wgQq5m3WiwehOiF3JQkkt6R61uRC8HPlSblexS3Yr_0F-XBoow

Welcome to the 370 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since last Monday! Join 104,529 smart, curious folks by subscribing here:
🎧 To get this essay straight in your ears: listen on Spotify [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkUtrwzAQhH-NdTTWw4p90KFtKJSmlD4uPRk91o6ILRlJTqr--qrJoTDswg7DwLdaJph8yGL1MaG_MaS8gnBwiTOkBAFtEcJgjcCcdLRlPTKCGdy1HbJxGAPAIu0sUtgArZuarZbJendNNA1p0VFIYDAaysHodqQ90dBio7TiBtNRm_HWKzdjwWkQcIaQvQM0i2NKa6zoXUUei_wKro6rT3bMtfZLOcWjv5TFT_jrcH9-fX9_yT4-Z_qNv5_mij5GW9H9fs3MPjzv3lrygQ-M4p_42UzICtKQIswwbXmzq0mtsdo1IyHSgASQpD4nleWszhVrlonUcVMxSX36a0dBOJ-UD9ZNxT4d5QLz1SgYhrKXzdmUB3BSzWBuhNIN9JXZMIGDUB5gBpkKXsY6xvsdJ7y5ESkIWcd70hfopdn4knL_pb-u3Jax] or Apple Podcasts [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEuOwyAMhk9TdhMBIQQWLGYz14h4uC0qgQicjnL7oc1IlSw_Zf_y5y3CrdTDbKUhebkFjw1Mht-WABEq2RvUJQbDJFfjJDQJRgSmJkViW64VYLUxGaw7kG13KXqLseT3BqV8InejHZdhYqMaFZsnqrzklimhZVBM-8BOXbuHCNmDgSfUo2QgydwRt3YZvy_8p9tWgrcN22C3LcHgy9qbe_tMepYLfrlSY771IgY28VlwpkdGouGUd2OCjZOk88AHz9xMr5zbABbA8uGJ7rDJPS-Crjc-tN01tP7xkiLV9Nv_pwV93O0K6T3oXy89rnuOeCyQrUsQTiB4cn0jWm6QoXbeYbHYaQqhhNSz5JKeADoxoaTmujPuyqH0rfwR_QM5z47r]
Today’s Not Boring is brought to you by… Meow [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkNGOhCAMRb9meDSAiPLAw77sbxCQjkMGwUB14t8vq8lu0rRpbtqbe2aLsORy6i1XJL_N4LmBTvCpERChkL1CMcFrJvnUD0IRr4Vn0zCRUM2zAKw2RI1lB7LtLobZYsjpuqCUD-Sl1USFUgrsqPpBAXdOKPdkI5dCMqHs7Wt3HyDNoOGAcuYEJOoX4lYf_deDf7daIX-6OV9LnzK6XEJaSNCc8lZMsH6QdOx4NzM30ifn1oMFsLw70J02uuMh6Lrwru6uop3f7dtKiv771eT3y64QL6HFMW2uewp4GkjWRfB3UryBXdnNAglKA-mNxYZJiElINUou6Z2soRCTVFw1eM3Z53aV_k1_AAb3grc]
I love Meow. I love Meow so much that I not only invested, I told my best friend to work there.
Here’s why: Meow [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkNGOhCAMRb9meDSAiPLAw77sbxCQjkMGwUB14t8vq8lu0rRpbtqbe2aLsORy6i1XJL_N4LmBTvCpERChkL1CMcFrJvnUD0IRr4Vn0zCRUM2zAKw2RI1lB7LtLobZYsjpuqCUD-Sl1USFUgrsqPpBAXdOKPdkI5dCMqHs7Wt3HyDNoOGAcuYEJOoX4lYf_deDf7daIX-6OV9LnzK6XEJaSNCc8lZMsH6QdOx4NzM30ifn1oMFsLw70J02uuMh6Lrwru6uop3f7dtKiv771eT3y64QL6HFMW2uewp4GkjWRfB3UryBXdnNAglKA-mNxYZJiElINUou6Z2soRCTVFw1eM3Z53aV_k1_AAb3grc] allows companies to earn up to 4% on their balance sheet with zero lock-in. Compare with 0.25% at a bank, if you’re lucky. It’s a no-brainer.
Plus, Meow takes a compliance-first approach and only works with businesses. You just deposit cash, Meow earns yields for you, and when you need the money, you can withdraw in cash in 1-3 business days. It’s the easiest way for businesses to capture the yield advantages of crypto, without the hassle.
If you’re a business, family office, or RIA and all your cash is sitting in a bank account, you’re doing it wrong. Start playing offense with your balance sheet.
And Meow has something special for Not Boring readers: earn up to 5% by using the special Not Boring link [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkNGOhCAMRb9meDSAiPLAw77sbxCQjkMGwUB14t8vq8lu0rRpbtqbe2aLsORy6i1XJL_N4LmBTvCpERChkL1CMcFrJvnUD0IRr4Vn0zCRUM2zAKw2RI1lB7LtLobZYsjpuqCUD-Sl1USFUgrsqPpBAXdOKPdkI5dCMqHs7Wt3HyDNoOGAcuYEJOoX4lYf_deDf7daIX-6OV9LnzK6XEJaSNCc8lZMsH6QdOx4NzM30ifn1oMFsLw70J02uuMh6Lrwru6uop3f7dtKiv771eT3y64QL6HFMW2uewp4GkjWRfB3UryBXdnNAglKA-mNxYZJiElINUou6Z2soRCTVFw1eM3Z53aV_k1_AAb3grc], saying Not Boring referred you, and depositing in the next 2 weeks.
Hi friends 👋, 
Happy Monday! 
And Happy Valentine’s Day to those who celebrate… I hope the rest of you are enjoying ETH Denver!
In either case, this isn’t a day for sitting alone and reading a long newsletter. It’s a day for relationships.
So I’m going to keep it short, keep it “relationship”-focused, and if you really want to read more words, recommend two mind-bending books. 
Sometimes, my job here is just to be willing to get weird in case it shakes something useful loose.
Let’s get to it.
Web of Relations
If the strangeness of quantum theory confuses us, it also opens new perspectives with which to understand reality. A reality that is more subtle than the simplistic materialism of particles in space. A reality made up of relations rather than objects.
– Carlo Rovelli, Helgoland [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkLFuhDAMhp_mMqIkhECGDO3Q6aZTd2SIcxcVEhTMIfr0zR1DJcuWbdm__m8EwnvKh13SSuyVejoWtBH3dUIizGxbMffBWaFlVzfKMGeVE13TsbD2PiPOECZLeUO2bMMURqCQ4vuCc9mwh_UwGlCgDArRSF17QKcNNMJ7D2D8qQubCxhHtPjEfKSIbLIPomW91B8X-VVi3_cKZvhNsRrTXAZuKemTd9dbW9--r6VhwUouSwgl6kbztpLVKIaWeynBISCCrJ40HDANz4vi811W6zasBOPP6ynLNiYaUg7xXtY_D5hxei-Kt77UeYuBjh4jDBO60zad9N4g-jtGzIWq64EKM6U6pU2rpeanzcJFddpIU0gWZZfKVfwX_QOZLIdx]
Over the past couple weeks, I’ve been down a new rabbit hole: Carlo Rovelli [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEGOgzAMRU_TLBG4IU0WWcxmroEcYmjUkKBgqLj9pGUxkmXLsuzv_0ZkmnM57Zo3Fp808LmSTfTeIjFTEftGZQjedgr0vZdGeCt9p3stwjZMhWjBEC2XncS6uxhG5JDTd6NtoRdPa2jqlTG9QpBAvXTg9NSRQdQacLpfurj7QGkkSweVMycS0T6Z1-12_7nBbw1-h89HzZiX2o1YYi75oBiDCBZaqNHJ7t6r9tFAM3bu0U4A6AmJEJqD3YnRHTfZLjM02-42xvH1OSeKTZldLiHNdfx64kLxO6iWhlqXPQU-B0roIvnLLV_Qvv6HmRKVCtMPyBWVlFoq81Cg2stdxSG1MmAqwKrsc91K_6J_vqyF5Q] books. 
Rovelli is a quantum physicist who also happens to write more clearly and beautifully than most professional writers. He’s simultaneously a (very, very, very tiny) shape rotator and a wordchad. He has catapulted up to join Tim Urban [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOhCAMhp9mOBpEBObAYS_7GqZAVTIKBusY336Z8bBJ06Zp2r__54FwyuWyW96JfdJA14Y24bkvSISFHTuWIQbbKmG6Xj5ZsDK0pjcs7sNYEFeIi6VyINsOt0QPFHP6bnAuejZb6Dj4seud7rUAo4we0RmltPFBKqlvXThCxOTR4hvLlROyxc5E2_7ofh7itwad8fNR4_NauxMiuYPO-WLRCi5qtLLtesV1IxrfOs1HISAgIIJo3uQuWNz7Ifk6iWY_3E7gX59jrNiUyeUS01THrxlWXL6DamiodT1SpGvABG7BcHulG9nX_TBhwlJRhgGogpLSSPXUSih-e6swpFFP8az4qnLIdSv9i_4BhFSFAg] in my personal pantheon of “Inspirations for Explaining Very Complex Ideas Simply.” 
Lest you think you’re in the wrong place, no, Not Boring isn’t a quantum physics newsletter, but it is a newsletter about the future. Understanding some of the core ideas is useful on three levels: 
Understanding the current state of the science. It’s at least interesting, if not practically useful to most of our day jobs, to understand where the cutting edge of physics is today.
Web of Relations as a useful model. Quantum theory’s main insight – that everything exists as a web of relations – is a helpful framework for many of the ideas that we discuss here.
Getting comfortable with the weird. I don’t remember a lot of the specifics from the essays I write; I can’t expect you to. Instead, I want you to walk away with an informed open-mindedness and comfort with new technologies and ideas. I’m successful here if you see something new and crazy and think, “Woah, fascinating” instead of “Yeah right 🙄.” 
One of my favorite ways to get ready for the future is to read sci-fi. I read 10x more sci-fi than business books. Sci-fi helps me zoom out, take a wider perspective, and inhabit worlds crafted with authors’ best extrapolations. 
Sometimes, though, sci-fact is even more mind-bending than sci-fi. That’s the world in which Carlo Rovelli researches and writes. 
Today, we’ll cover two of his recent books – The Order of Time [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE9vtCAQxj-NHA2OiHjg8DbNHpr21p4Nf0aXrIJBXGM_fXE9vMlkJgPzzAM_oxKOIR5yCWsiZ-rTsaD0uK8TpoSRbCvG3llZcRB1wzpiJbOVaARxaz9ExFm5Saa4IVk2PTmjkgv-paAUGnKX3AwDGC4sNlyIoW0FbaEZLNR11SDVl6_arENvUOIT4xE8kkneU1rWov5XwC3Hvu-lmtVv8KUJcz6wS05vtOW1-BIfn-dUfevzkmCdH4v6_ef7JgrgOj1i7iriJFDIUbGqbjhtSyhNpVs6ACiLClFB-Uz6UJN-FozOI5TrptekzOO0JFH6kHSI53ZGH3c14_S6yD_vc50379KRX6D0hPaCki62L0z9iB5jZm57lTJRxgTjXcuB0wtCpsYE76DLnLOzDVnl_5v-AcBjjzU] and Helgoland [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkLFuhDAMhp_mMqIkhECGDO3Q6aZTd2SIcxcVEhTMIfr0zR1DJcuWbdm__m8EwnvKh13SSuyVejoWtBH3dUIizGxbMffBWaFlVzfKMGeVE13TsbD2PiPOECZLeUO2bMMURqCQ4vuCc9mwh_UwGlCgDArRSF17QKcNNMJ7D2D8qQubCxhHtPjEfKSIbLIPomW91B8X-VVi3_cKZvhNsRrTXAZuKemTd9dbW9--r6VhwUouSwgl6kbztpLVKIaWeynBISCCrJ40HDANz4vi811W6zasBOPP6ynLNiYaUg7xXtY_D5hxei-Kt77UeYuBjh4jDBO60zad9N4g-jtGzIWq64EKM6U6pU2rpeanzcJFddpIU0gWZZfKVfwX_QOZLIdx] – but let’s make a deal: I’ll promise to keep this shorter if you promise to read these two books yourself. (Or listen; Benedict Cumberbatch himself narrates the audiobook version of  [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1rwzAMhn9NfUtIXOfr4MM62GGXMdZ7kG0lMY3t4CgN2a-f2x4GQgK9kl7xaCAcQzzkElZij9TTsaD0uK8zEmFk24qxt0aWNW_PleiYkcKUbdUyu_ZDRHRgZ0lxQ7ZsarYayAb_3CgKXrFJwgCNQhSqLLUetNK6SRcMB24Mdq1--cJmLHqNEu8Yj-CRzXIiWtbT-e3EP1Ls-56Dg9_gcx1calwnzL6iwZiFIbtah9kFPRqrKXvfnMKogPSUBs2S0qVoLuLzp22_mZW84ClKUZ6rumhynutSNcXAORgEROD5ndQBs7qfROFGnq-bWgn07WHNovSBVIjWj0m-TeBwfgqJQJ-q27ylo0cPakbzgkMvxk9c_Zj-jIm96YESWSFaUXdNzeviBSPRE23d8S7xTs4mpC3_b_oHjdyV2A]The Order of Time [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1rwzAMhn9NfUtIXOfr4MM62GGXMdZ7kG0lMY3t4CgN2a-f2x4GQgK9kl7xaCAcQzzkElZij9TTsaD0uK8zEmFk24qxt0aWNW_PleiYkcKUbdUyu_ZDRHRgZ0lxQ7ZsarYayAb_3CgKXrFJwgCNQhSqLLUetNK6SRcMB24Mdq1--cJmLHqNEu8Yj-CRzXIiWtbT-e3EP1Ls-56Dg9_gcx1calwnzL6iwZiFIbtah9kFPRqrKXvfnMKogPSUBs2S0qVoLuLzp22_mZW84ClKUZ6rumhynutSNcXAORgEROD5ndQBs7qfROFGnq-bWgn07WHNovSBVIjWj0m-TeBwfgqJQJ-q27ylo0cPakbzgkMvxk9c_Zj-jIm96YESWSFaUXdNzeviBSPRE23d8S7xTs4mpC3_b_oHjdyV2A].) Each takes less than a weekend to read, and each guides you skillfully and comfortably to some deeply counterintuitive truths about the universe. 
Like the fact that time doesn’t exist… 
The Order of Time
I started my Rovelli journey with his 2018 hit, The Order of Time [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE9vtCAQxj-NHA2OiHjg8DbNHpr21p4Nf0aXrIJBXGM_fXE9vMlkJgPzzAM_oxKOIR5yCWsiZ-rTsaD0uK8TpoSRbCvG3llZcRB1wzpiJbOVaARxaz9ExFm5Saa4IVk2PTmjkgv-paAUGnKX3AwDGC4sNlyIoW0FbaEZLNR11SDVl6_arENvUOIT4xE8kkneU1rWov5XwC3Hvu-lmtVv8KUJcz6wS05vtOW1-BIfn-dUfevzkmCdH4v6_ef7JgrgOj1i7iriJFDIUbGqbjhtSyhNpVs6ACiLClFB-Uz6UJN-FozOI5TrptekzOO0JFH6kHSI53ZGH3c14_S6yD_vc50379KRX6D0hPaCki62L0z9iB5jZm57lTJRxgTjXcuB0wtCpsYE76DLnLOzDVnl_5v-AcBjjzU]. Rob Solomon [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM2uhCAMhZ9mWBpARF2wuJv7GoSf6pBBMFCd-PaXGRc3ado0TXt6PmcQ1lwuteeK5JM0XjuoBO8aAREKOSoUHbxikk_9IGbilfBsGiYSql4KwGZCVFgOIPthY3AGQ07fDUr5QJ5q8NYvjvUW2CL8LPpp5MPI-sUyZxcrb11z-ADJgYITypUTkKieiHt99D8P_tsC3-HzUefy1rqS7VZzzFtOJChOeQsmWD9IOna8c8yOdOHceDAAhncn2stEez4E3Vbe1cNWNO71uUaKShltLiGtbfx6mg3id9Ac6Va3IwW8NCRjI_jbLN7Mvvb1CglKY-m1wUZKiEnIeZRc0ttcoyEmOfO58WvKPret9C_6B8Lghgk], now the co-founder of DIMO [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMFuxCAMRL9mOUbESwgcOPTS34gMOLuoCUTE2Sr9-tLNoZJlWxqNRvMCMj1KPd1WdhZ_a-JzI5fpe1-Imao4dqpTiq7XYO6DsiI6FXszGJH2aa5EK6bFcT1IbIdfUkBOJb8dUsIgns56RDWQ0WAtgO7tqILEYI2c4xwMXrl4xEQ5kKMX1bNkEot7Mm_77f5xg882Ma2l-2lK-0VyIKFNr_r7oOXYQRd6P8oZACMhEUL3Yn_i4l83JdcHdPvhd8bw1YWyiupyYV9qyo8mfz1xpeUttBJTu-uRE58TZfQLxasfX5jejacHZaoNX5yQGxyljNJ21KDl1acBUEZbsA1ZS46lufJ_6C-XW3_m], recommended that I read it over two years ago. I finally listened. I’d say that I should have listened a long time ago, but… time isn’t real. 
Rovelli demolishes time as we know it, and then builds it back up, in three parts: 
The Crumbling of Time. Rovelli walks through the history and physics of time and arrives at a strange conclusion: everything we think we know about time is false. There is no time.  
The World Without Time. If time doesn’t exist, how do we make sense of this new, timeless world? Instead of a linear time, Rovelli offers in its place a “net of interconnected events, where the variables in play adhere to probabilistic rules.” Instead of time and objects, “There are only events and relations.”
The Sources of Time. Ok ok cool BUT … evolution occurs, erosion reshapes landscapes, we experience time, we have memories of the past, we can’t remember the future. Where does the sense of time’s flow come from if time isn’t real? Rovelli offers up some explanations here based on the best thinking today. Ultimately, what we experience as time is “a multilayered, complex concept with multiple, distinct properties deriving from various different approximations.” 
This is trippy stuff. 
Whenever I fly, I have a cranberry vodka. I’m not sure why. I don’t drink cranberry vodka on the ground. But somehow, it’s become my plane drink. So earlier this month, I found myself 1.5 cranberry vodkas deep on a flight, sitting aisle with Puja by the window and Dev asleep in his carseat between us. And I was absolutely giddy. 
At the risk of waking the baby and ruining the flight for us and everyone around us, I kept passing my iPad over to Puja, watching her reaction expectantly as she read just-highlighted sections I pointed at, like this: 
Dear reader, pause for a moment to let this conclusion sink in. In my opinion, it is the most astounding conclusion arrived at in the whole of contemporary physics. It simply makes no sense to ask which moment in the life of your sister on Proxima b [a planet far, far away] corresponds to now…
The notion of “the present” refers to things that are close to us, not anything that is far away. Our “present” does not extend throughout the universe. It is like a bubble around us…
The idea that a well-defined now exists throughout the universe is an illusion, an illegitimate extrapolation of our own experience... The “present of the universe” is meaningless.
There is no universal now. 
There’s not a moment that’s the same on a far away planet as the one you’re experiencing right now – not as measured on a clock, just… at all. I, too, like you might be right now, tried imagining it, and of course there’s a moment that’s happening now, there, even if we can’t access it. But, apparently, there’s really not. According to Rovelli, asking what’s happening on Proxima b now is like me sitting in New York and wondering what’s happening in Beijing here. 
That’s just one of the five or six sections I passed to Puja. Non-stop brain-melters. 
The takeaway: there is no one time. 
Our experience of time is based on our perspective and relationship with the universe, and on our experience constantly living in the present moment, sandwiched between memory and anticipation.
In other words, there is no time independent of us. 
Patrick O’Shaughnessy captured my thoughts well: 
But even when time melts away, fine, alright. I mean, I can’t touch time. I can’t see time. I can’t taste time. If the concept of time falls apart at the quantum level, but I perceive and experience time in exactly the same way I did before reading the book, then fine. Fascinating, trippy, mind-expanding, but ultimately not the end of the world. 
I’m still sitting in this physical chair, typing on this physical keyboard, feeling jittery from too many physical cups of coffee. That’s the real stuff, whether that social construct, time, exists or not, right?
Ummmmm… 
Helgoland
OK, so remember from a couple paragraphs ago how time isn’t real and it doesn’t exist except in the mind of the person perceiving it? 
What if I told you that nothing exists except in relation to other things? 
That’s the journey Rovelli takes us on in Helgoland.
Helgoland, named after the island on which Werner Heisenberg “built the mathematical structure of quantum mechanics,” is about “Making Sense of the Quantum Revolution.” 
Quantum theory describes the odd nature and behavior of particles at the atomic and subatomic level. None of its predictions have ever been contradicted by experiments. In its 97 year life, it has become foundational to theory and application:
Quantum theory has clarified the foundations of chemistry, the functioning of atoms, of solids, of plasmas, of the color of the sky, the dynamics of stars, the origins of galaxies… a thousand aspects of the world. It is at the basis of the latest technologies: from computers to nuclear power… It has never been wrong. It is the beating heart of today’s science. Yet it remains profoundly mysterious, subtly disturbing.
The math, apparently, checks out. How that math translates to what’s actually going on, however, is open to interpretation. Many interpretations. The Wikipedia page on Interpretations of Quantum Mechanics [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtuxCAMRb9mWEaEQB4LFt1U6lcgHk6CJoEUzIzy92WSRaUrW7ZlXftYjbDEdMojZiSfoPA8QAZ45w0QIZGSISnvZNuzsRN8Ik5y145iJD6rOQHs2m8SUwFyFLN5q9HHcG1QygRZpbVTx5nQs5ha0RvrjAM7t91Au5EJ092-ujgPwYKEF6QzBiCbXBGP_Oi-Huy7CkLz9k9_gPO6iWmprU9d00-olx4J8PLOKs7qt-iAZVc72FUHbzPxklFW1fK2Ez0dGtbY1gx0Zkw70ACaNS80p97M68HpvrAmF5NR22dj406SDBFNTD4sdfxc9Q7bNahvq5r3EjyeCoI2G7ibCN5gL0ZqgQCpAndKY8XJ-cj7aehZT28CFRkf-4lNFXJ1drFuhX_TP-_-k-I] lists fifteen of them, plus “Other interpretations.”
Rovelli addresses a few of the leading interpretations – Many Worlds, Hidden Variables, and Physical Collapses. The one with the wildest implications is Many Worlds, which, as its name implies, holds that quantum theory describes a reality in which observations create new parallel worlds. 
For example, in the famous Schrödinger's Cat [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkF2OhCAMx08jjwYQUR942NlkL7AHIHx0lIyCAZyJt9_O-LBJ06Zt2n_7c6bCnPKp9lQqeTtdzx1UhFdZoVbI5CiQdfCKST52vZiIV8KzsR9JKPqeATYTVlXzAWQ_7BqcqSHFzwSlvCeLGsBC50fDLZPM2E5651w3SsYcFVL2l645fIDoQMET8pkikFUtte6l6b4a_oMGsX2FR9jBB9OmPGPpnWP4dUtueP_dobtJH-IM75wPReM5JChOORoTrOslHVreOmYHeufceDAAhrfPak-z2mcj6Dbzthy2VOMerUsbySqmalPGvdh-LGaD9dPAhzXG7YihnhqisSv4i0W9kH7o6BkiZETttakIUohRyGmQXNLrd4QlRjnxCfGisk84Ff9F_wBS5Y3z] thought experiment, instead of existing in a probabilistic superposition of dead and alive, which collapses to one path (dead or alive) as soon as the observer opens the box, the Many Worlds interpretation suggests that both states are real, and that opening the box branches the world into two: a world in which the observer sees the cat alive and another in which the observer sees the cat dead (Rovelli uses awake and asleep). 
And it’s not just cats and boxes; it’s every system. Each interaction with any number of systems creates a parallel universe. Many Worlds predicts infinite universes. Although many physicists subscribe to the Many Worlds interpretation, Rovelli doesn’t.  
Instead, Rovelli introduced his own interpretation in 1994: relational quantum mechanics (RQM). In RQM, the interpretation he uses throughout Helgoland: 
The properties of an object are the way in which it acts upon other objects; reality is this web of interactions. Instead of seeing the physical world as a collection of objects with definite properties, quantum theory invites us to see the physical world as a net of relations. Objects are its nodes. 
Observers aren’t just scientists in a lab, and observations aren’t just scientific measurements. Quantum theory, according to Rovelli, “describes how every physical object manifests itself to any other physical object.” 
In one example, Rovelli lays out a thought experiment on “the most enchanted and dreamy of the quantum phenomena. Entanglement. It is the phenomenon by which two distant objects maintain a kind of weird connection, as if they continued to speak to each other from afar.” Einstein once described entanglement as “spooky action at a distance.” 
He comes to an understanding of entanglement that isn’t as spooky as two photons communicating instantaneously – faster than the speed of light – at great distances. It requires the introduction of a third object – “the correlation manifests itself when the two correlated objects both interact with this third object” – but, he writes, “it comes at a cost: no universal set of facts exists.”
Nothing exists except in its interactions with other things. Everything is a web of relations.
According to Rovelli, “A single equation (Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle: ΔXΔP ≥ ℏ/2) codes quantum theory: 
It implies that the world is not continuous but granular. 
There is no infinite in going towards the small: things cannot get infinitely smaller.
It tells us the future is not determined by the present. 
It tells us that physical things have property in relation to other physical things, and that these properties make sense only when things interact.” 
It’s hard to believe that this is how things work, but quantum theory remains undefeated. It’s the best science we have today. It’s more likely that this is essentially the way the world works than not. Our intuitions based on lived experience have misled us before. 
People believed that the Earth was flat, until Ancient Greek scientists proved it was round (unless you’re Kyrie [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUUuu5CAMPE1nRxQI-S1YvM27RmSI00FNIAKnZ3L7cXcWI1mA7DJlVzkgfKZ8mSMVqj7HTNeBJuKfEpAIc3UWzLNfjOzV2HZ6qhajFzl2Y-XLvGbEHXwwlE-sjtMG74B8it-OplFdtZkJxm5op1Z3SipY3KjBdsq1qrMrDlLevHAuHqNDg2_MV4pYBbMRHeXR_jzUL4cNCG7DnPFImWqXdk5CJu8CFn6qQcup7cTryh6Fz28fnwL_HgF8LGINQAIZvolCwESiwFUE8YcMLiImkRGCOLyjk1NpvdGVN6pRHFLLtuuboVa1k3ZoVsXLICCCqt9kLwj2_dDN_lR1OS1zuNdnxiqbmMimzNNw-bXBjuFbYLlmvvczerpmjMALLreSdBvy1XZ-YsTMRi0zENug9aj7aehV39zKsdR67Cc1sTnMvCTuiv9J_wFZUqZh]). People believed that the Sun rotated around the Earth, until Copernicus showed them the light. As Rovelli wrote in The Order of Time: 
That which seems intuitive to us now is the result of scientific and philosophical elaborations in the past.
To learn how this all applies to the things we normally discuss here, and how Rovelli can teach you to get comfortable with weird new things…
How did you like this week’s Not Boring? Your feedback helps me make this great.
Loved [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkN2OhCAMhZ9GLg22gHLBxSabeQ2DUB2yCgZxNr79MuPFJv1J25yc9HO20JLyZfZ0FPYuY7l2MpF-j5VKoczOg_IYvOkUDCiFZt4I3w1yYOEY50y02bCakk9i-zmtwdkSUvwoOAfJnkYr6QZCLQA8eu-d93pyvRSgAXFWt689faDoyNCL8pUisdU8S9mPBr8aeNSw7bHnsLQubXXqlVQSa3Ic5NxrBNQ99ai0EmhRIq8bjtjgIzf4LVkwwKFGJ7oq430Lreumns8A1pMlstC-ynTZdXo1gm8LtMc5HcW6n7clyyamMqUc4lLPP0-70fo51LfH2rczhnKNFO20kr-JlBvsh9G4UKRcgfvRlopTiEEo3StQ_CZQkYlBadAVcnX2qariv-kfcMmLGw] | Great [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMmOhCAURb9GlgZ4DLpg0UmnfsMwPC3SCgaxOv59U-Wi8wYCNzc3HG8rLrlcZs9HJe811WtHk_D3WLFWLOQ8sEwxGKb4AFKMJBgR2CAHEo9pLoibjaup5USyn26N3taY08dBKZfkaRy3XDMvWlk3oJyRgQPB_Azcz0rdufYMEZNHgy8sV05IVvOsdT86-Or4o7Xtj73Epfd5azetpJLQhsIgZz0Ch1GjBjUqARYk0PZCATp4lA6-BYmGU96aCdZsVPe898xpOnNuA1pEy_tXdZdd3asTdFt4f5zuqNb_vCNJMSlXl0tMS5N_nnbD9SO0b0_t3M4U6zVhsm7FcBOpN9gPo2nBhKUBD5OtDacQg1CjVlzRm0BDJgY18rFBbskhN1f6D_0D9kmLiA] | Good [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkNGOhCAMRb9GHg1SBHngYZPN_IapUh0yigZxNv79dmY22aSFlPZy4YxYaN7y5fftKOK19OXaySf6ORYqhbI4D8p9DL4xqoNWOxG8Dk3XdiIe_ZSJVoyLL_kksZ_DEkcscUtvhZSqFXcet40iVBYRyFhHE1nAMIK2o3ZKfnzxDJHSSJ6elK8tkVj8vZT9qOCrUjcOrI89x7ket5Ura1rTAqeErp2sAwXO8sXGGQ0ILUg-kQAV3HIF3yCiV1JxNLphmbS1qsdmsHJSCgMh8QvrZxkuXIZnpeU6q_o4h6Pg-HhZiuzTVoYtxzRz-3HHlZZ3g7_d876eKZarp4TDQuFDpHzAvhn1MyXKDDz0WBin1p02zhpl_ggwMt0ZpxxDZuewsSr9m_4Cl9yLOQ] | Meh [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuKxCAQRb8mLoMpX3HhYmDo3whGK2mZRIOaHvL3Y3cWA_Wgqrhc6jhbcU35MkcqlbzLVK8DTcTfsmGtmMlZME_Bm0HCyATXxBvuh1GMJJRpyYi7DZup-URynPMWnK0hxY-CUhDkafSi6aIUeOAORu3toB0wNywMqQLBb197-oDRocEX5itFJJt51nqUjn118Ghh-3LksPYu7W1SUkjBWlI2ikVpBkwrVExqyZllgtG2oYx17JE79g0kGKDQYuBDk1HVQ--GWdEFwHq0iBb6V50vu82vjtN9hb6cc6nW_bwtSTYx1TnlENd2_nnaHbfPob09tb6fMdRrwmjnDf1NpN5gP4ymFSPmBtxPtjacnI9caiVB0ptAQ8ZHqUE3yM3Zp6aK_6Z_7xyKrg] | Bad [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkN2KhDAMhZ_GXkpt-mMverGwzGtIbKNTVqvUOotvv53xYiEkJOHkkM9joXnLl9u3o7B3Gsq1k0v0eyxUCmV2HpSHGFynRQ9KWhacDF2vehaPYcpEK8bFlXwS289xiR5L3NJHwblQ7OmCD2AUKPJgJLdcEqBBSdJOekL0ty-eIVLy5OhF-doSscU9S9mPBr4a8aiB7bHnOLd-W2tntNL1qFYcejUZCwKsIQPaagkICnidcIAGHrmB745FJ7io0cmuyrhpReu70fBJCAyERCjaVxkvXMZXI_k6i_Y4x6Og_3lbsuzSVsYtxzTX9c8TV1o-i_r2UOt6pliugRKOC4WbSLnBfhgNMyXKFXgYsFScUvZSW6OF5jeBikz22gpbIVfnsFVV-jf9A8kli2c]
Thanks for reading and see you next Monday,
Packy

Unsubscribe https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUsuO4jAQ_BpyjBzn6UMOu8MwhIHMrJYBhkvkRwMmThwSh2z4-jUg7Uotu1Xt7rKqmlMDR92OaaM749yPwowNpDUMnQJjoHX6DtpCitSLcOKHAXFEGggvCRNHdsWhBaioVKlpe3CaninJqZG6fnQghEPnlMY-IhGOScxZHGEQhEbMx7HAiaAHL6BPXtoLCTWHFK7QjroGR6UnY5pu4v-Y4JmNYRjcWhumW1kfXa4tRPmdzCZCdpQpKB6_mfgzo0uoJ_4UxoXH8WbcYVVmZ_0nP2fB6vaFPn4Pkr-Rm5iRZv-SRfn0iD_WWZhPyy6r1ElYbLX-RhZH-bn0c_ue7vKbnSH5fCOX69dhNc28TNo5_kbe8f2bun1vF91-QxTbzhr2siDu6zBwdNkWF1aSOf48LTdfh-VlvrqY3fsvfdXRT7LNPt_bc9g5MsUI2_ACzw8jFLvY5R6L0QFjKoACUOxeDRupYtdJgKojdruedYby0spROW36Tx5bLk-0AvUoWGMKe1d9Lc1YQH2XSjw9M0_rH7oVR6ihtSshCmqs4UGQBBGxnkXo6ZE1NUgigoldA8sstO2q_5P-BbPkyJE