# The NPR Politics Podcast: President Trump Asks Supreme Court To Uphold Tariffs

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2025/09/08/nx-s1-5534101/president-trump-asks-supreme-court-to-uphold-tariffs
**Type**: podcast
**Created**: 2025-09-30T13:31:46.233933

---

Podcast: What happens if the Supreme Court rules Trump’s tariffs illegal? : The NPR Politics Podcast : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Podcast: What happens if the Supreme Court rules Trump’s tariffs illegal? : The NPR Politics Podcast President Trump has asked the U.S. Supreme Court to uphold his authority to issue tariffs under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act. We discuss the implications of a possible ruling — if the court strikes down his tariffs and if it says Trump’s tariffs are legal. This episode: political correspondent Ashley Lopez, White House correspondent Danielle Kurtzleben, and senior national political correspondent Mara Liasson. This podcast was produced by Casey Morell & Bria Suggs, and edited by Rachel Baye. Our executive producer is Muthoni Muturi. Listen to every episode of the NPR Politics Podcast sponsor-free, unlock access to bonus episodes with more from the NPR Politics team, and support public media when you sign up for The NPR Politics Podcast+ at plus.npr.org/politics . The NPR Politics Podcast NPR The NPR Politics Podcast LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music RSS link Sign up for the [TITLE] Newsletter Get perks with [Podcast Title]+ Your support helps make our show possible and unlocks access to our sponsor-free feed. LEARN MORE --> President Trump asks Supreme Court to uphold tariffs September 8, 2025 4:13 PM ET By&nbsp; Ashley Lopez ,&nbsp; Danielle Kurtzleben ,&nbsp; Mara Liasson President Trump Asks Supreme Court To Uphold Tariffs Listen &middot; 15:42 15:42 Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed "> &lt; iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5534101/nx-s1-mx-5707405" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"&gt; Transcript President Donald Trump speaks during an event to announce new tariffs in the Rose Garden at the White House, on April 2, 2025, in Washington. Mark Schiefelbein/AP hide caption toggle caption Mark Schiefelbein/AP President Trump has asked the U.S. Supreme Court to uphold his authority to issue tariffs under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act. We discuss the implications of a possible ruling — if the court strikes down his tariffs and if it says Trump's tariffs are legal. This episode: political correspondent Ashley Lopez, White House correspondent Danielle Kurtzleben, and senior national political correspondent Mara Liasson. This podcast was produced by Casey Morell & Bria Suggs, and edited by Rachel Baye. Our executive producer is Muthoni Muturi. Listen to every episode of the NPR Politics Podcast sponsor-free, unlock access to bonus episodes with more from the NPR Politics team, and support public media when you sign up for The NPR Politics Podcast+ at plus.npr.org/politics . Sponsor Message Facebook Flipboard Email Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor