# The NPR Politics Podcast: Are Trump’s Immigration And Manufacturing Goals At Odds?

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2025/09/10/nx-s1-5536606/are-trumps-immigration-and-manufacturing-goals-at-odds
**Type**: podcast
**Created**: 2025-09-30T13:31:44.755881

---

Podcast: Can Trump boost American manufacturing without immigrants? : The NPR Politics Podcast : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Podcast: Can Trump boost American manufacturing without immigrants? : The NPR Politics Podcast A recent immigration raid at a Hyundai manufacturing facility in Georgia led to the detention of nearly 500 workers, most of them South Korean nationals. Lawyers for some of the immigrants say they have highly specialized skills needed to get the factory online. We discuss whether raids like this impede President Trump’s stated goal of boosting American manufacturing. This episode: political correspondent Ashley Lopez, political reporter Stephen Fowler, and senior political editor and correspondent Domenico Montanaro. This podcast was produced by Casey Morell & Bria Suggs, and edited by Rachel Baye. Our executive producer is Muthoni Muturi. Listen to every episode of the NPR Politics Podcast sponsor-free, unlock access to bonus episodes with more from the NPR Politics team, and support public media when you sign up for The NPR Politics Podcast+ at plus.npr.org/politics . The NPR Politics Podcast NPR The NPR Politics Podcast LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music RSS link Sign up for the [TITLE] Newsletter Get perks with [Podcast Title]+ Your support helps make our show possible and unlocks access to our sponsor-free feed. LEARN MORE --> Are Trump’s immigration and manufacturing goals at odds? September 10, 2025 4:28 PM ET By&nbsp; Ashley Lopez ,&nbsp; Stephen Fowler ,&nbsp; Domenico Montanaro Are Trump’s Immigration And Manufacturing Goals At Odds? Listen &middot; 16:44 16:44 Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed "> &lt; iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5536606/nx-s1-mx-5710972" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"&gt; Transcript This image from video provided by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement via DVIDS shows manufacturing plant employees waiting to have their legs shackled at the Hyundai Motor Group's electric vehicle plant, on Sept. 4, 2025, in Ellabell, Ga. Associated Press/Corey Bullard/U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement hide caption toggle caption Associated Press/Corey Bullard/U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement A recent immigration raid at a Hyundai manufacturing facility in Georgia led to the detention of nearly 500 workers, most of them South Korean nationals. Lawyers for some of the immigrants say they have highly specialized skills needed to get the factory online. We discuss whether raids like this impede President Trump's stated goal of boosting American manufacturing. This episode: political correspondent Ashley Lopez, political reporter Stephen Fowler, and senior political editor and correspondent Domenico Montanaro. This podcast was produced by Casey Morell & Bria Suggs, and edited by Rachel Baye. Our executive producer is Muthoni Muturi. Listen to every episode of the NPR Politics Podcast sponsor-free, unlock access to bonus episodes with more from the NPR Politics team, and support public media when you sign up for The NPR Politics Podcast+ at plus.npr.org/politics . Sponsor Message Facebook Flipboard Email Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor