# The NPR Politics Podcast: RFK Jr. Under Fire Following Vaccine Changes And CDC Shakeup

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2025/09/09/nx-s1-5535236/rfk-jr-under-fire-following-vaccine-changes-and-cdc-shakeup
**Type**: podcast
**Created**: 2025-09-30T13:31:45.452322

---

Podcast: Is Kennedy’s fixation on vaccines getting in the way of other goals? : The NPR Politics Podcast : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Podcast: Is Kennedy’s fixation on vaccines getting in the way of other goals? : The NPR Politics Podcast Senators in both parties had harsh words for Health Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. at a recent hearing. We discuss the health and political implications of the latest controversy surrounding the secretary and the agencies he leads. This episode: political correspondent Ashley Lopez, health correspondent Selena Simmons-Duffin, and senior national political correspondent Mara Liasson. This podcast was produced by Casey Morell & Bria Suggs, and edited by Rachel Baye. Our executive producer is Muthoni Muturi. Listen to every episode of the NPR Politics Podcast sponsor-free, unlock access to bonus episodes with more from the NPR Politics team, and support public media when you sign up for The NPR Politics Podcast+ at plus.npr.org/politics . The NPR Politics Podcast NPR The NPR Politics Podcast LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music RSS link Sign up for the [TITLE] Newsletter Get perks with [Podcast Title]+ Your support helps make our show possible and unlocks access to our sponsor-free feed. LEARN MORE --> RFK Jr. under fire following vaccine changes and CDC shakeup September 9, 2025 4:14 PM ET By&nbsp; Ashley Lopez ,&nbsp; Selena Simmons-Duffin ,&nbsp; Mara Liasson RFK Jr. Under Fire Following Vaccine Changes And CDC Shakeup Listen &middot; 15:16 15:16 Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed "> &lt; iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5535236/nx-s1-mx-5709127" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"&gt; Transcript Secretary of Health and Human Services Robert F. Kennedy Jr., appears before the Senate Finance Committee, on Capitol Hill in Washington, on Sept. 4, 2025. Mark Schiefelbein/AP hide caption toggle caption Mark Schiefelbein/AP Senators in both parties had harsh words for Health Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. at a recent hearing. We discuss the health and political implications of the latest controversy surrounding the secretary and the agencies he leads. This episode: political correspondent Ashley Lopez, health correspondent Selena Simmons-Duffin, and senior national political correspondent Mara Liasson. This podcast was produced by Casey Morell & Bria Suggs, and edited by Rachel Baye. Our executive producer is Muthoni Muturi. Listen to every episode of the NPR Politics Podcast sponsor-free, unlock access to bonus episodes with more from the NPR Politics team, and support public media when you sign up for The NPR Politics Podcast+ at plus.npr.org/politics . Sponsor Message Facebook Flipboard Email Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor