# The NPR Politics Podcast: Congress Deadlocked As Possible Government Shutdown Looms

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2025/09/22/nx-s1-5550052/congress-deadlocked-as-possible-government-shutdown-looms
**Type**: podcast
**Created**: 2025-09-30T13:31:44.025345

---

Podcast: Will there be a government shutdown? : The NPR Politics Podcast : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Podcast: Will there be a government shutdown? : The NPR Politics Podcast Funding for the federal government runs out after September 30 unless Congress can pass a bill to prevent it. We discuss congressional leaders’ negotiations over a spending bill and the politics surrounding a potential shutdown. This episode: White House correspondent Danielle Kurtzleben, congressional correspondent Deirdre Walsh, and senior national political correspondent Mara Liasson. This podcast was produced by Casey Morell & Bria Suggs, and edited by Rachel Baye. Our executive producer is Muthoni Muturi. Listen to every episode of the NPR Politics Podcast sponsor-free, unlock access to bonus episodes with more from the NPR Politics team, and support public media when you sign up for The NPR Politics Podcast+ at plus.npr.org/politics . The NPR Politics Podcast NPR The NPR Politics Podcast LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music RSS link Sign up for the [TITLE] Newsletter Get perks with [Podcast Title]+ Your support helps make our show possible and unlocks access to our sponsor-free feed. LEARN MORE --> Congress deadlocked as possible government shutdown looms September 22, 2025 4:12 PM ET By&nbsp; Danielle Kurtzleben ,&nbsp; Deirdre Walsh ,&nbsp; Mara Liasson Congress Deadlocked As Possible Government Shutdown Looms Listen &middot; 17:03 17:03 Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed "> &lt; iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5550052/nx-s1-mx-5728644" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"&gt; Transcript Speaker of the House Mike Johnson, R-La., left, and Senate Majority Leader John Thune, R-S.D., make statements to reporters at the Capitol in Washington, on April 10, 2025. J. Scott Applewhite/AP hide caption toggle caption J. Scott Applewhite/AP Funding for the federal government runs out after September 30 unless Congress can pass a bill to prevent it. We discuss congressional leaders' negotiations over a spending bill and the politics surrounding a potential shutdown. This episode: White House correspondent Danielle Kurtzleben, congressional correspondent Deirdre Walsh, and senior national political correspondent Mara Liasson. This podcast was produced by Casey Morell & Bria Suggs, and edited by Rachel Baye. Our executive producer is Muthoni Muturi. Listen to every episode of the NPR Politics Podcast sponsor-free, unlock access to bonus episodes with more from the NPR Politics team, and support public media when you sign up for The NPR Politics Podcast+ at plus.npr.org/politics . Sponsor Message Facebook Flipboard Email Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor