# The NPR Politics Podcast: Sources & Methods: Navy cartel strike, China's power flex

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2025/09/06/nx-s1-5530168/sources-methods-navy-cartel-strike-chinas-power-flex
**Type**: podcast
**Created**: 2025-09-30T13:31:47.059873

---

Sources &amp; Methods: Navy cartel strike, China's power flex : The NPR Politics Podcast : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Sources & Methods: Navy cartel strike, China's power flex : The NPR Politics Podcast Today, we're sharing another episode from NPR's newest podcast, Sources & Methods . Each Thursday, host Mary Louise Kelly breaks down the week's biggest national security news with NPR's team of reporters covering the military, State Department, and spy agencies. NPR correspondents stationed around the world also join the conversation. This episode: Pentagon correspondent Tom Bowman and international correspondent Anthony Kuhn discuss the Trump administration's use of the military against South American drug cartels, and unpack the geopolitical significance of an historic gathering with the leaders of China, Russia, and North Korea. Find new episodes of Sources & Methods on the NPR App or wherever you listen to podcasts. Listen to every episode of the NPR Politics Podcast sponsor-free, unlock access to bonus episodes with more from the NPR Politics team, and support public media when you sign up for The NPR Politics Podcast+ at plus.npr.org/politics . The NPR Politics Podcast NPR The NPR Politics Podcast LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music RSS link Sign up for the [TITLE] Newsletter Get perks with [Podcast Title]+ Your support helps make our show possible and unlocks access to our sponsor-free feed. LEARN MORE --> Sources & Methods: Navy cartel strike, China's power flex September 6, 2025 3:05 PM ET Sources & Methods: Navy cartel strike, China's power flex Listen &middot; 22:20 22:20 Toggle more options Download Embed Embed "> &lt; iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5530168/nx-s1-mx-5704204" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"&gt; The U.S. Navy warship USS Sampson docks at a port in Panama City, Saturday, Aug. 30, 2025. Matias Delacroix/AP hide caption toggle caption Matias Delacroix/AP Today, we're sharing another episode from NPR's newest podcast, Sources & Methods . Each Thursday, host Mary Louise Kelly breaks down the week's biggest national security news with NPR's team of reporters covering the military, State Department, and spy agencies. NPR correspondents stationed around the world also join the conversation. This episode: Pentagon correspondent Tom Bowman and international correspondent Anthony Kuhn discuss the Trump administration's use of the military against South American drug cartels, and unpack the geopolitical significance of an historic gathering with the leaders of China, Russia, and North Korea. Find new episodes of Sources & Methods on the NPR App or wherever you listen to podcasts. Listen to every episode of the NPR Politics Podcast sponsor-free, unlock access to bonus episodes with more from the NPR Politics team, and support public media when you sign up for The NPR Politics Podcast+ at plus.npr.org/politics . Sponsor Message Facebook Flipboard Email Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor