# 4bbdfed4a8154b18

## Document Information
- **Source File**: inputs/saved_emails/Microsoft Earnings, Azure's Slowdown, Office Strikes Back (Stratechery Update 1-31-2023)_Tue,_31_Jan_2023_13-06-04_+0000_18607ef64127189a_20250818_154500.eml
- **Document ID**: 4bbdfed4a8154b18
- **Processed**: 2025-08-19T09:37:55.761120

Microsoft's earnings were down: the news about PCs was encouraging, while Azure unsurprisingly felt the pain later than AWS. Anyone competing with Office 365, though, is in worse shape.

View in browser Microsoft Earnings, Azure's Slowdown, Office Strikes Back Tuesday, January 31, 2023 Listen to this Update in your podcast player Good morning, Yesterday’s Sharp Tech was a mailbag episode covering online groceries, MVNOs, and data versus humans in the arena of content creation. Greatest Of All Talk discussed the Lakers-Celtics controversy and the Jokic vs. Embiid showdown. You can add all of these podcasts, along with Dithering and Sharp China , using the links at the bottom of this email. On to the update: Microsoft Earnings From the Wall Street Journal : Microsoft Corp. recorded its slowest sales growth in more than six years last quarter as demand for its software and cloud services cooled on concerns about the health of the global economy. The Redmond, Wash., company’s revenue expanded 2% in the three months through Dec. 31 from a year earlier to $52.7 billion. Its net income fell 12% to $16.4 billion. That is the company’s lowest revenue growth since the quarter that ended in June 2016… Microsoft’s Intelligent Cloud business, which includes its Azure cloud-computing business, grew 18% to $21.51 billion. Azure grew 31%, which was slightly above some analysts’ expectations. Microsoft’s chief financial officer Amy Hood cautioned that growth in the Azure business slowed at the end of the year, and would further slow in the coming months… Microsoft is one of the top companies in cloud-computing services that have boomed during the pandemic. In the middle of the health crisis, Microsoft reported several quarters in a row of 50% or more year-over-year sales growth for its cloud-computing platform, the world’s No. 2 behind Amazon.com Inc.’s cloud. While Azure and Microsoft’s other cloud services remain the main engine for the company’s growth, demand isn’t what it was even a year ago as customers try to manage their cloud computing costs. The biggest contributor to Microsoft’s minuscule earnings growth — in addition to currency effects — was the plummeting PC market; as Intel so painfully experienced PC sales shot through the roof during the pandemic, but a lot of those sales pulled forward growth, leaving a big hangover. That said, I actually thought that Microsoft’s commentary on the PC market was pretty encouraging on two fronts. First, from CFO Amy Hood on the earnings call : In More Personal Computing, we expect revenue of $11.9 billion to $12.3 billion. Windows OEM revenue should decline in the mid to high 30s, in line with the PC market. We expect Q3 PC units to be similar to pre-pandemic levels. That’s a pretty big drop: At the same time, given that More Personal Computing was declining up to around 2017, beating pre-pandemic quarters isn’t too shabby. Not all of More Personal Computing is PCs, of course: the division includes devices, gaming, and search and news advertising. Still, Xbox doesn’t have any original games on the docket, and advertising is depressed, so all-in-all that’s a better forecast than I would have expected. CEO Satya Nadella gave a clue as to why this might be the case in his prepared remarks: While the number of PCs shipped declined during the quarter, returning to pre-pandemic levels, usage intensity of Windows continues to be higher than pre-pandemic with time spent per PC up nearly 10%. Monthly active devices also reached an all-time high this quarter. Intel made the case earlier this month that the PC market had permanently increased thanks to COVID: yes, sales were pulled forward, but more people realized the value of PCs while being stuck at home, and would buy more PCs more frequently going forward. This prediction was panned a bit, given how self-serving it was, particularly given Intel’s current struggles. Nadella’s data point about time spent, though, along with the bad-but-not-as-bad-as-I-expected forecast for PC growth suggests there might be something to this. Azure’s Slowdown The biggest news in terms of Microsoft’s stock, though, was Azure; Hood reported: Next, the Intelligent Cloud segment. Revenue was $21.5 billion, increasing 18% and 24% in constant currency, in line with expectations. Overall, server products and cloud services revenue increased 20% and 26% in constant currency. Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 31% and 38% in constant currency. As noted earlier, growth continued to moderate, particularly in December, and we exited the quarter with Azure constant currency growth in the mid-30s. As for the forecast: As I noted earlier, we exited Q2 with Azure growth in the mid-30s in constant currency. And from that, we expect Q3 growth to decelerate roughly 4 to 5 points in constant currency. I only highlight this because I found this exchange in the Q&A portion of the call humorous: When you talk about a 4-point to 5-point decel in Azure, that’s off of the 38% reported for December, right, not off the 35% exit rate? Thank you. …On the second half of your question, which is the guide of the exit rate – it’s off the exit rate on Azure of four points to five points, just to make sure that is clear. Needless to say, analysts really wanted to believe the opposite! After all, Microsoft had delivered impressive Azure growth last quarter while AWS struggled. I suspect, though, that Microsoft is simply feeling the same pain AWS did on a delayed basis. First off, with regards to the nature of the pain, I wrote this after Microsoft and Amazon’s earnings last quarter : For most of the history of cloud computing, that flexibility has been valuable in terms of scaling quickly: instead of buying and provisioning servers to meet growing demand, companies could simply rent more server capacity with the click of a button. That promise of flexibility, though, also included big slowdowns; that certainly has included microeconomic slowdowns in the context of an individual business, but what is very interesting to observe right now is a macroeconomic slowdown in the context of the broader economy. Remember, AWS didn’t launch S3 until 2006; when the Great Recession rolled around two years later Amazon was still busily harvesting the low-hanging fruit that was available to the company who was first in the space. AWS also benefited from the launch of the iPhone in 2007 and the App Store a year later: cloud computing has grown hand-in-hand with mobile computing, and just as Apple didn’t really feel the Great Recession, neither did AWS. Today, though, is a different story: while AWS and Azure (and GCP) are still growing strongly, that growth is much more centered in the sort of businesses that are heavily impacted by recessions; moreover, all of those companies that grew up on cloud computing are much more exposed as well. What that means is that the same time, cash, and scale arbitrage play is going to reverse itself for the next little bit: AWS and Azure are going to bear some of the pain of this slowdown on behalf of their customers. In that Update I lumped AWS and Azure together, but in reality AWS is much more exposed to startups, SaaS, and Internet-centric companies, while Azure is much more exposed to traditional multinationals. In that sense it makes sense that AWS felt the pain first: its customer base is responding to difficult fund-raising rounds, easily trimmed SaaS subscriptions (more on this in a moment), and slowing digital advertising. Azure, meanwhile, is downstream from slower-moving companies that often need to feel pain before they respond. What is notable is that Azure is in fact feeling the pain, which suggests — in a way that wasn’t yet clear last quarter — that there is an economic slowdown that extends beyond tech. Office Strikes Back There was one other exchange with Hood on the earnings call that I thought was notable: On Office 365 Commercial, with you guys approaching 400 million seats and the E5 business really starting to accelerate here on that consolidated sort of expense ROI that you are putting forth, should we think about the growth there more evenly balanced between seats and ARPU going forward or still to continue to favor seats? That’s a good question, especially because this quarter you started to see a little bit more of that ARPU influence. And as you might have gathered from your question and I will just reinforce it, as we see some of this moderating seat growth, whether that’s some of the new SKU weakness that we had talked about, some of the standalone stuff, you are starting to also see E5 ARPU happen at the same time. So, it does create some stability in that Office 365 Commercial revenue number. So, we are seeing still good seat growth, still growth across all workloads. And as you are pointing out, we are getting further into the E5 health, where we have seen, I want to say, four or four really good quarters of E5 adoption. The value there is just very high for customers in this environment between analytics, security, and I think we have given some, I think good security data points in terms of adoption. And voice, this is a place where customers can save money by moving to this suite. And I do think you are starting to see some of that ARPU help. In short, Microsoft’s seat growth for Microsoft 365 (née Office 365) is slowing down, but that slowdown is made up by upselling current customers to the highest per-seat pricing plan (E5). What is notable is that this actually aligns with the view that there is a significant economic slowdown happening. Here is how Microsoft pitches E5 : Microsoft 365 E5 combines best-in-class productivity apps with advanced security, compliance, voice, and analytical capabilities. Extend identity and threat protection with integrated and automated security to help stop damaging attacks. Bring together information protection and advanced compliance capabilities to protect and govern data while reducing risk. Get audio conferencing and calling capabilities in the cloud to enable your teams. Benefit from Power BI capabilities that help you realize significant business value from your data. Just about every bullet point on this list is associated with a standalone SaaS product; that also extends into the productivity apps at the base. Consider Teams and Slack: a company might prefer Slack, but when it comes time for belt-tightening, you can certainly imagine a CIO deciding that it is simply not worth it to pay for Slack when the company’s Office 365 subscription already includes Teams. Then, you can extend that all the way down the bullet list: not only do Microsoft products benefit from being designed to work together, they are also cheaper when bundled together, and that’s about as compelling a proposition there is during an economic slowdown. This isn’t to say that the slowdown won’t hurt Microsoft: the company, by virtue of being exposed to basically everyone, is already feeling the pain. However, that pain could definitely pale in comparison to smaller companies whose products compete with anything in E5. This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery . The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day! Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player: Stratechery | Sharp Tech | Dithering | Sharp China | Greatest Of All Talk Subscription Information Member: Omar Zoheri Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com Member since: December 8, 2022 Auto-renewal is disabled Expiration date: December 8, 2023 You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery . Click here to view your account and manage your subscriptions. Click here to unsubscribe. © 2023 Stratechery LLC ,
                                                        2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703
