# 0d01e605d118c905

## Document Information
- **Source File**: inputs/saved_emails/Meta and the Quest Pro; Meta and VR as Console; Microsoft, Activision, and the EU (Stratechery Update 3-6-2023)_Mon,_6_Mar_2023_13-35-01_+0000_186b72206059f88c_20250818_154500.eml
- **Document ID**: 0d01e605d118c905
- **Processed**: 2025-08-19T09:37:20.717180

Mets seems to be abandoning the Quest Pro. Meanwhile, is the Quest for gaming? That the question isn't clear — nor the answer — gets to they VR and AR remain questionable investments.

View in browser Meta and the Quest Pro; Meta and VR as Console; Microsoft, Activision, and the EU Monday, March 6, 2023 Listen to this Update in your podcast player Good morning, Sharp China continues to publish weekly, with a recent focus on China’s role in the ongoing Ukraine conflict. Last week’s episode covered China’s 12-point plan for a Ukraine settlement, and discussed Congress’ plan to investigate the origins of COVID-19. February 23’s episode covered the U.S.-China meeting in Munich and Bao Fan’s disappearance. As a subscriber to Stratechery Plus you have access to all Sharp China episodes; you can listen at the above links or add Sharp China to your podcast player using the link at the bottom of this email. On to the update: Meta and the Quest Pro From The Verge : Mark Zuckerberg has announced that the Meta Quest Pro, the company’s mixed and virtual reality headset focused on business users, will be getting a substantial price cut, going from $1,499.99 to $999.99. Likewise, the 256GB version of the Quest 2 will be going from $499.99 to $429.99. Meta says its goal is to “create hardware that’s affordable for as many people as possible” and that it’s lowering the Pro’s price to make its tech “available to even more businesses and professionals around the world.” According to the company’s hardware roadmap, which was published by The Verge earlier this week, it doesn’t seem like the high-end VR headset is getting a follow-up for at least a few years. Given that context, a price drop of this magnitude makes the most sense if the company’s trying to get rid of its existing inventory. I agree. To the extent this price drop is about making the Quest Pro “available to even more businesses and professionals around the world” that almost certainly is with the hope that someone buys this thing, particularly before the next lower-end Quest headset comes out sometime this year. More from The Verge via Business Insider (this bit comes from a for-pay newsletter, which apparently does not have an online archive, which makes no sense to me, but I digress): Meta’s chief technology officer reportedly told employees the company is not planning to make a second Quest Pro headset. Andrew ‘Boz’ Bosworth announced Meta’s decision to not continue with its planned second-generation Quest Pro virtual-reality headset at the company’s road map presentation, Alex Heath of The Verge reported in his Command Line newsletter. The company’s $1,499 Quest Pro has received mixed to poor reviews and disappointing sales, and was costly for Meta to develop along with its other headsets. The company’s Reality Labs division saw a $13.7 billion loss in 2022, according to its fourth-quarter financial results. However, Meta’s Quest 2, which is more affordable than the Quest Pro, has done “quite well,” according to CEO Mark Zuckerberg. Heath reported earlier this week that the internal Meta presentation shows the company plans to continue developing three more Quest headsets over the next four years, with a Quest 3 headset set to release later this year. The headset is expected to be thinner but more powerful and expensive than the Quest 2. I don’t necessarily think that the cancellation of future Quest Pros indicates that Meta is stepping back from the Metaverse space; the most obvious explanation is that Zuckerberg and company have come to agree with John Carmack’s view that going high end was a mistake; from Ars Technica last October: Carmack also seemed skeptical that the $1,499, feature-laden Quest Pro was the right product for Meta to be focusing on at this time. “I’ve always been clear that I’m all about the cost-effective mass-market headsets being the most important thing for us and for the adoption of VR,” Carmack said. “And Quest Pro is definitely not that…” As a “counterpoint” to the push for the Quest Pro in the Meta offices, Carmack says he “personally still [tries] to drum up interest internally in this vision of a super cheap, super lightweight headset.” His rallying cry, he says, is a target of “$250 and 250 grams” for a headset that cuts out as many extraneous features as possible while still being usable (the Quest Pro weighs 722 grams, while the Quest 2 is 503 grams). That could help bring “super light comforts” to “more people at low-end price points.” “We’re not building that headset today, but I keep trying,” Carmack said with some exasperation. Carmack is no longer trying, of course; he fully stepped down from Meta last December . It appears unfortunate for Meta that it took a whole lot of money and unsold inventory — and, you know, losing John Carmack — to realize he was right. The fundamental issue for Meta in particular is that the company’s goal is not just to build the/a Metaverse, but to do so in line with its stated mission of connecting people. That, though, only makes success that much more difficult to achieve: it’s not enough to get individuals using virtual reality, but their network as well. Meta and VR as Console Alex Cranz had an opinion piece on The Verge complaining that Meta wasn’t treating the Quest like the console that he claims it is: Meta changed its name because it wanted you to forever associate it with the nascent metaverse. The hardware it produces is meant to be our window into that metaverse. When you pick up a Meta Quest 2 headset and slip it over your head, you’re meant to gasp and softly wonder at this new virtual world. But I put on my Meta Quest 2 to play Beat Saber or Tetris or maybe Pistol Whip. It’s not a terminal into the metaverse — it’s a game console. And I don’t think Meta realizes that… That plan to focus on something new and different instead of the games that made the console thrive is very similar to what Microsoft did when it launched the Xbox One. That device came with an IR blaster! It had a coax line in so you could use it as a cable box. Microsoft pitched the Xbox One as a home theater computer that also played games. And the gamers just went and bought the Playstation 4 instead. I think Cranz’ evaluation is more accurate than he even realizes. The problem from Meta’s perspective is not that he might be wrong — although he might be. We know how many Oculus’ have been sold, be we don’t know how many are still in use, and as Cranz notes, the biggest hit (Beat Saber) is four years old at this point. What is more concerning is that Cranz is right, and Oculus could be a great console, but that is all that it is. I wrote back in 2016 : I’ve hinted at this before , but I think it’s useful to make a distinction between virtual and augmented reality. Just look at the names: “virtual” reality is about an immersive experience completely disconnected from one’s current reality, while “augmented” reality is about, well, augmenting the reality in which one is already present. This is more than a semantic distinction about different types of headsets: you can divide nearly all of consumer technology along this axis. Movies and videogames are about different realities; productivity software and devices like smartphones are about augmenting the present. Small wonder, then, that all of the big virtual reality announcements are expected to be video game and movie related. Augmentation is more interesting: for the most part it seems that augmentation products are best suited as spokes around a hub; a car’s infotainment system, for example, is very much a device that is focused on the current reality of the car’s occupants, and as evinced by Ford’s announcement, the future here is to accommodate the smartphone. It’s the same story with watches and wearables generally, at least for now. I highlight that timing reference because it’s worth remembering that smartphones were originally conceived of as a spoke around the PC hub; it turned out, though, that by virtue of their mobility — by being useful in more places, and thus capable of augmenting more experiences — smartphones displaced the PC as the hub. Thus, when thinking about the question of what might displace the smartphone, I suspect what we today think of a “spoke” will be a good place to start. And, I’d add, it’s why platform companies like Microsoft and Google have focused on augmented, not virtual, reality, and why the mysterious Magic Leap has raised well over a billion dollars to-date; always in your vision is even more compelling than always in your pocket (as is always on your wrist). Meta will tell you that they are firmly focused on AR, and that VR is a means of getting there. The problem from the VR-as-gaming-console perspective is that Meta gets stuck in the weeds of VR, in a product vein that is an interesting business but not of the scale that Meta wishes, and one that doesn’t really align with the need for a social network to be widely accessible and available. There is another danger, though, which is that Meta is right, and VR should be first, but that Meta is so eager to get to what is beyond VR that VR never actually becomes a thing. Think about something like GPUs and the importance they play in AI: the entire reason why GPUs exist as a category is because they were built for gaming; it was only after the invention of the shader that Nvidia realized they had the building block for AI applications. Would Nvidia be what it is today had it been building for AI from the beginning, and skipped over gaming because it wasn’t ambitious enough or properly aligned with their long-term goals? This is where Cranz’ invocation of the Xbox is important: Microsoft got into the space because it saw the console as a means to an end of having a computer in the living room (i.e. three screens and a cloud, to use an old Steve Ballmer phrase). It was the focus on Xbox’s non-gaming goals, though, that fundamentally compromised the device and helped Sony achieve the dominant position it has today. Microsoft, Activision, and the EU Speaking of Microsoft, from Reuters : Microsoft Corp is expected to secure EU antitrust approval for its $69 billion acquisition of Activision (ATVI.O) with its offer of licensing deals to rivals, three people familiar with the matter said, helping it to clear a major hurdle. Microsoft announced the Activision bid in January last year, its biggest ever, to take on leaders Tencent and Sony, in the booming videogaming market and to venture in the metaverse which is virtual online worlds where people can work, play and socialise. The European Commission, which is scheduled to decide on the deal by April 25, is not expected to demand that Microsoft sell assets to win its approval, the people said. In addition to the licensing deals for rivals, Microsoft may also have to offer other behavioural remedies to allay concerns of other parties than Sony, one of the people said. Such remedies typically refer to the future conduct of the merged company. Microsoft’s deals were to bring Call of Duty to Nintendo devices and Microsoft PC games to Nvidia’s GeForce NOW cloud gaming service (including Call of Duty). From Nvidia’s press release : Microsoft and NVIDIA will begin work immediately to integrate Xbox PC games into GeForce NOW, so that GeForce NOW members can stream PC games they buy in the Windows Store, including third-party partner titles where the publisher has granted streaming rights to NVIDIA. Xbox PC games currently available in third party stores like Steam or Epic Games Store will also be able to be streamed through GeForce NOW. Notice that this is for games that are purchased, and keep in mind that Microsoft’s goal with the Activision acquisition is not to gain exclusive games to sell but rather games to subscribe to. As I’ve argued the only way this acquisition makes sense is the extent to which it makes possible a new business model for gaming; simply buying exclusives via established titles like Call of Duty would be hugely value destructive. What is notable about Microsoft’s subscription push is that it aligns the company’s Xbox division with Microsoft’s overall push towards cloud computing and subscription services. What is interesting to consider are two questions: First, would Microsoft have ever gone down this path absent the investment in its original (failed) Xbox strategy? I would argue the answer is no; this is a reasonable leveraging of Xbox assets, but I do wonder if Microsoft could go back two decades if they would even bother. Second, if regulators were to kill this deal (Microsoft still needs approval from the UK and the US) would Xbox be long for this world? It’s hard to see how the division makes sense if Microsoft has the current business model dictated to them, given just how dominant Sony is with said business model. In a similar vein, it continues to be reasonable to wonder if someday similar questions might be asked about Meta and its astronomical investments in VR and AR. This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery . The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day! Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player: Stratechery | Sharp Tech | Dithering | Sharp China | GOAT Subscription Information Member: Omar Zoheri Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com Member since: December 8, 2022 Auto-renewal is disabled Expiration date: December 8, 2023 You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery . Click here to view your account and manage your subscriptions. © 2023 Stratechery LLC ,
                                                        2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703
