# Content from https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/business/digital/ew-scripps-acquires-podcast-network-810326/

*Retrieved: 2025-09-14T22:14:37.013631*

---

<html><body><div><div class="pmc-paywall"><p>The boom in <span data-scayt_word="podcasting" data-scaytid="1">podcasting</span> over the last year has made an impact on one Hollywood company.</p>
<p><span data-scayt_word="Midroll" data-scaytid="2">Midroll</span> Media, which operates an advertising network for podcasts including <em>WTF With Marc <span data-scayt_word="Maron" data-scaytid="3">Maron</span></em> and <em><span data-scayt_word="Nerdist" data-scaytid="5">Nerdist</span></em>, has been acquired for an undisclosed price by E.W. Scripps Co. </p>
<p></p>
<p>Sale talks began last fall when momentum around the <span data-scayt_word="podcasting" data-scaytid="4">podcasting</span> space began to heat up — due in large part to the popularity of <em>This American Life</em> <span data-scayt_word="spinoff" data-scaytid="8">spinoff</span> <em>Serial</em> — and <span data-scayt_word="Midroll" data-scaytid="7">Midroll</span> saw an uptick in interest from potential investors and acquirers, says CEO <strong>Adam Sachs</strong>. The profitable company wasn’t interested in taking outside investment and began to consider an acquisition. “We realized that there might be companies out there who could help us do what we’re doing, who potentially shared our vision and could help us achieve our goals more quickly,” Sachs adds.</p>
<p> </p>

<p><span data-scayt_word="Midroll" data-scaytid="10">Midroll</span> ultimately found the right partner in Scripps, the more than 100-year-old media company known for its portfolio of TV and radio stations. “Scripps has had a history of always evolving to stay in the front of the media business,” says Scripps chief digital officer <strong>Adam <span data-scayt_word="Symson" data-scaytid="13">Symson</span></strong>. “When I look at where <span data-scayt_word="podcasting" data-scaytid="14">podcasting</span> and streaming audio is today, it’s obvious that this is a platform that’s going to be really critical and important for the future of media. We’re planting a huge flag in this ecosystem, and we’re really excited about what the future will hold.”</p>
<p> </p>

<p>The two companies have also found that they are more aligned than not. In May, Sachs and the <span data-scayt_word="Midroll" data-scaytid="16">Midroll</span> management team flew to Scripps’ Cincinnati headquarters to meet CEO <strong>Rich <span data-scayt_word="Boehne" data-scaytid="18">Boehne</span></strong> and the Scripps digital team. There, in a conference room, both companies read their missions and discovered that they were focused on the same principals: informing and empowering the media. </p>
<p>“There’s so much overlap between our missions that we had a goose bumps moment in the room,” says Sachs. “We couldn’t help but feel like it was a really great fit.” </p>

<p>More practically, Scripps will help <span data-scayt_word="Midroll" data-scaytid="20">Midroll</span> find access to wider distribution and a new set of advertisers who haven’t traditionally spent money in the <span data-scayt_word="podcasting" data-scaytid="22">podcasting</span> space. <span data-scayt_word="Midroll" data-scaytid="21">Midroll</span> currently works with more than 240 brands including HBO, <span data-scayt_word="Hulu" data-scaytid="27">Hulu</span> and website builder <span data-scayt_word="Squarespace" data-scaytid="28">Squarespace</span>.  </p>
<p><span data-scayt_word="Midroll" data-scaytid="29">Midroll</span> began in 2010 as comedy podcast network <span data-scayt_word="Earwolf" data-scaytid="31">Earwolf</span>, founded by comedian <strong>Scott <span data-scayt_word="Aukerman" data-scaytid="32">Aukerman</span></strong> and <strong>Jeff <span data-scayt_word="Ullrich" data-scaytid="33">Ullrich</span></strong>. <span data-scayt_word="Earwolf" data-scaytid="34">Earwolf</span> merged with podcast advertising network The Mid Roll last year to create <span data-scayt_word="Midroll" data-scaytid="36">Midroll</span> Media. Today, the 35-person company runs an advertising network that works with more than 200 podcasts and operates two comedy and pop culture-focused networks, <span data-scayt_word="Earwolf" data-scaytid="35">Earwolf</span> and <span data-scayt_word="Wolfpop" data-scaytid="40">Wolfpop</span>, which produce podcasts including <em>Comedy Bang Bang</em> and <em>Kevin <span data-scayt_word="Pollak's" data-scaytid="43">Pollak’s</span> Chat Show</em>. </p>
<p><span data-scayt_word="Midroll" data-scaytid="41">Midroll</span> will remain based in Hollywood and will continue to be led by Sachs, who says he’s got a number of projects lined up, including the launch of a new consumer-facing business. <span data-scayt_word="Midroll" data-scaytid="42">Midroll</span> also recently created its own podcast listening app, Howl, that combines photos and community elements for each podcast. </p>
<p>“The space is getting competitive with all of this interest, so for us to be able to partner with a company like Scripps that has such a reach in terms of their media and their advertisers, that was just too appealing for us to pass up,” Sachs says. </p>

</div>
</div></body></html>
