# Why Belonging Is A Big Issue In Business Today

**Source**: https://joshbersin.com/2020/08/why-belonging-is-a-big-issue-in-business-today/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:50:42.540285+00:00

---

Why Belonging Is Such A Big Issue In Business Today &#8211; JOSH BERSIN -- End of the comment --> Skip to content JOSH BERSIN --> Join the Learning Revolution! Galileo Learn™, the AI-powered learning system for HR professional development, n ow available Search for: Home Membership Bersin Research is Back CHRO Insights Vendor Membership About Us Topics Enterprise Learning HR Technology Human Resources Sourcing and Recruiting Diversity and Inclusion Employee Experience Wellbeing People Analytics HR Skills and Capability Research Employee Experience, Engagement, Hybrid Work Corporate Learning, Training, Career Management HCM Excellence Resources HCM Best Practices SAP SuccessFactors HCM Best Practices Oracle Report The Definitive Guide: HCM Excellence HR Technology, Vendors and Tools Diversity, Leadership &#038; Culture Talent, Recruiting, and Career Mobility The Big Reset Research Healthy Organization HR Capabilities Talent Climate Series Talent Acquisition Factbook Internal Hiring Factbook Time-to-Hire Factbook Emerging Trends in Talent Acquisition Just Released The Talent Acquisition Revolution: How AI is Transforming Recruiting AI Pacesetters: Six Secrets Of The Superworker Company It’s Time for an L&#038;D Revolution: The AI Era Arrives GWI Project Research: Insurance Industry Maximizing the Impact of AI in the Age of the Superworker CHRO Insights Initiative Rise of the Superworker: Predictions &#038; Imperatives for 2025 100+ Proven Use Cases for Galileo Emerging Trends in Talent Acquisition Definitive Guide to People Analytics AI HR Tech Trailblazers GWI Project: Automotive Enterprise Talent Intelligence Talent Acquisition Factbook Systemic HR Intiative AI in HR The Four-Day Work Week Post-Industrial Age GWI Project GWI Project Research GWI Project Pacesetters AI Pacesetters: Six Secrets Of The Superworker Company GWI Project Details GWI Project FAQs Access the GWI Project Podcasts Galileo Learn Galileo Josh&#8217;s Book Irresistible 2026 Join the Learning Revolution! Galileo Learn™, the AI-powered learning system for HR professional development, n ow available Home Membership Bersin Research is Back CHRO Insights Vendor Membership About Us Topics Enterprise Learning HR Technology Human Resources Sourcing and Recruiting Diversity and Inclusion Employee Experience Wellbeing People Analytics HR Skills and Capability Research Employee Experience, Engagement, Hybrid Work Corporate Learning, Training, Career Management HCM Excellence Resources HCM Best Practices SAP SuccessFactors HCM Best Practices Oracle Report The Definitive Guide: HCM Excellence HR Technology, Vendors and Tools Diversity, Leadership &#038; Culture Talent, Recruiting, and Career Mobility The Big Reset Research Healthy Organization HR Capabilities Talent Climate Series Talent Acquisition Factbook Internal Hiring Factbook Time-to-Hire Factbook Emerging Trends in Talent Acquisition Just Released The Talent Acquisition Revolution: How AI is Transforming Recruiting AI Pacesetters: Six Secrets Of The Superworker Company It’s Time for an L&#038;D Revolution: The AI Era Arrives GWI Project Research: Insurance Industry Maximizing the Impact of AI in the Age of the Superworker CHRO Insights Initiative Rise of the Superworker: Predictions &#038; Imperatives for 2025 100+ Proven Use Cases for Galileo Emerging Trends in Talent Acquisition Definitive Guide to People Analytics AI HR Tech Trailblazers GWI Project: Automotive Enterprise Talent Intelligence Talent Acquisition Factbook Systemic HR Intiative AI in HR The Four-Day Work Week Post-Industrial Age GWI Project GWI Project Research GWI Project Pacesetters AI Pacesetters: Six Secrets Of The Superworker Company GWI Project Details GWI Project FAQs Access the GWI Project Podcasts Galileo Learn Galileo Josh&#8217;s Book Irresistible 2026 Search for: JOSH BERSIN Insights on Corporate Talent, Learning, and HR Technology Diversity and Inclusion Why Belonging Is Such A Big Issue In Business Today by joshbersin &middot; Published August 31, 2020 &middot; Updated September 7, 2020 As part of The Big Reset we have been having a series of deep, meaningful conversations with Diversity and Inclusion leaders. And among the many things we&#8217;re discovering, one of the most interesting is the enormous focus on Belonging. Diversity is a strategy ; Inclusion is a goal; Belonging is a feeling.&nbsp; And a feeling of Belonging is the most important goal of all. (Download The Big Reset: What&#8217;s Working Now research here .) Let me start with the context. In today&#8217;s political environment, it&#8217;s very common for many of us to feel &#8220;not included.&#8221; The whole Cancel Culture topic, which started as a meme on social media, is about &#8220;not including&#8221; someone because they&#8217;re different, their opinions are not like yours, or perhaps they said something you didn&#8217;t like. The 2020 election is dominated by strident statements by each party that &#8220;the other party will ruin the country,&#8221; creating a tribal atmosphere where many of us feel that we are just &#8220;not included.&#8221; In one of the D&amp;I sessions, several of the leaders expressed anger, frustration, and helplessness around the racial injustice in Wisconsin this week. Some of them came to tears, largely with a feeling that &#8220;there&#8217;s nothing we can do&#8221; or &#8220;the system itself is just not listening to our needs.&#8221; I also heard today that eight out of the last nine presidential elections there was a majority vote for Democrats, yet Republicans won about half the time &#8211; again &#8220;cancelling&#8221; many people&#8217;s votes and making them feel excluded. At work, of course, a sense of &#8220;not being included&#8221; can be deadly. As many of the references below cite, when people feel are left out of meetings, don&#8217;t have input on their work assignments, or sense that they have been excluded from decisions or opportunities, they feel stress, anger, mistrust, and anxiety. This, of course, results in turnover problems and ultimately makes the company brittle and underperforming. In fact Glint&#8217;s new research found that Belonging is the most powerful D&amp;I measure of all: people who feel they belong are six-times more likely to be highly engaged . BetterUp research shows a 56% reduction in turnover, and also shows that &#8220;unbelonging&#8221; encourages people to give up or sabotage work.&nbsp; In our conversation with D&amp;I leaders this topic comes up a lot. Yes, we should have a diverse slate of candidates; yes we should mandate pay equity and equal opportunity for promotion; yes we should teach people about bias (&#8220;unconscious&#8221; or not), microagresssion, and language; yes we need Employee Resource Groups and other places for people to express their feelings. But at the end of it all, if the company doesn&#8217;t create a place of &#8220;high-belonging,&#8221; all these programs don&#8217;t drive results. A Framework For Belonging In my research on this topic (with more to come), I came across the framework below, from Lynn Shore and her research .&nbsp; I found it very insightful and useful. As you can see, the two axes break the problem into &#8220; uniqueness &#8221; and &#8220; belonging &#8221; &#8211; each of which have a range of options. Uniqueness gets to the issue of Diversity . If everyone in your company is young, male, white, or from a certain college &#8211; then you have a lot of &#8220;sameness.&#8221; And this is essentially what diversity programs try to prevent. If you value sameness you&#8217;re at the bottom row, if you value uniqueness you&#8217;re at the top row. There are many reasons companies value sameness. One is that often the founders or top executives come from a certain background so they believe &#8220;people like me&#8221; are the best to hire. Many studies have proven the downside to this approach, including many that show how relying on college degrees, pedigree, and other forms of &#8220;credentials&#8221; themselves are not effective. Of course if you&#8217;re biased, racist, or just like to &#8220;hire people you feel comfortable with,&#8221; you&#8217;re going to create a &#8220;sameness&#8221; culture without realizing it. Companies in consumer businesses, travel, hospitality, and food service tend to value &#8220;uniqueness&#8221; much more. Why? Because they often have no choice. As I&#8217;ve discussed in other articles, these types of companies need employees that reflect their customer base and they have learned that diversity attracts strong talent, creates representation, and builds a culture of innovation and creativity. But do all these different people feel they belong? This gets to the vertical axis of Belonging, which refers to Inclusion . In some companies, as the academic research found, differences are respected but not fully valued. In other words, they may stereotype people into roles. Are all the women in lower rank or customer service roles?&nbsp; Are Asians expected to work as analysts or technical roles? You get the idea. These may be &#8220;diverse&#8221; organizations but they don&#8217;t promote a sense of inclusion and belonging. Imagine a situation where you are a young mother working in a team with male young engineers. When you need to go pick up your child at daycare, you may need to leave a meeting early. Of course people will be respectful, but after you leave will they mention &#8220;I wish she didn&#8217;t have to leave early all the time?&#8221; That doesn&#8217;t fully respect her difference. On the right side of the axis we find companies that truly listen to, value, and respect people regardless of who they are, what they look like, how old they are, or what their background may be.&nbsp; How Do You Build Belonging? Well, belonging is the topic of the day. Belonging is a feeling we can all understand, and it makes the D&amp;I program become real. Ask people if they feel they are i