# Frontier Ai Taskforce First Progress Report

**Source**: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/frontier-ai-taskforce-first-progress-report/frontier-ai-taskforce-first-progress-report
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:18:26.146171+00:00

---

Frontier AI Taskforce: first progress report - GOV.UK Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Accept additional cookies Reject additional cookies View cookies Hide cookie message Skip to main content GOV.UK Navigation menu Menu Menu Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments Departments, agencies and public bodies News News stories, speeches, letters and notices Guidance and regulation Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Research and statistics Reports, analysis and official statistics Policy papers and consultations Consultations and strategy Transparency Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Search GOV.UK × Search GOV.UK Search Search GOV.UK Search Home Business and industry Science and innovation Artificial intelligence Frontier AI Taskforce: first progress report Department for Science, Innovation &amp; Technology AI Safety Institute Independent report Frontier AI Taskforce: first progress report Published 7 September 2023 Contents 1. We have established an expert advisory board spanning AI Research and National Security 2. Recruitment of expert AI researchers 3. Partnering with leading technical organisations 4. Building the technical foundations for AI research inside government 5. Moving fast matters Print this page © Crown copyright 2023 This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3 or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk . Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission from the copyright holders concerned. This publication is available at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/frontier-ai-taskforce-first-progress-report/frontier-ai-taskforce-first-progress-report The Taskforce is a start-up inside government, delivering on the ambitious mission given to us by the Prime Minister: to build an AI research team that can evaluate risk at the frontier of AI . As AI systems become more capable they may significantly augment risks. An AI system that advances towards human ability at writing software could increase cybersecurity threats. An AI system that becomes more capable at modelling biology could escalate biosecurity threats. To manage this risk technical evaluations are critical - and these need to be developed by a neutral third party - otherwise we risk AI companies marking their own homework. Given these potentially significant frontier risks, as of today, the Taskforce is being renamed to the Frontier AI Taskforce. This is the Frontier AI Taskforce’s first progress report. 1. We have established an expert advisory board spanning AI Research and National Security Given that a number of risks from frontier systems touch areas of national security, we have established an expert advisory board that bridges some of the world’s leading experts in AI research and safety as well as key figures from the UK’s national security community. Our initial advisory board members are: Yoshua Bengio . Yoshua is most known for his pioneering work in deep learning, earning him the 2018 A.M. Turing Award, “the Nobel Prize of Computing,” with Geoffrey Hinton and Yann LeCun. He is a Full Professor at Université de Montréal, and the Founder and Scientific Director of Mila – Quebec AI Institute. Paul Christiano . Paul is one of the leading researchers in the field of AI Alignment. He is co-founder of ARC , the Alignment Research Centre and previously ran the language model alignment team at OpenAI. Matt Collins . Matt is the UK’s Deputy National Security Adviser for Intelligence, Defence and Security. He has been in the civil service for 18 years, in a variety of roles covering national security, online harms and crime reduction. Anne Keast-Butler . Anne is the director of GCHQ . Anne has an impressive track record at the heart of the UK’s national security network, helping to counter threats posed by terrorists, cyber-criminals and malign foreign powers. Alex van Someren . Alex is the UK’s Chief Scientific Adviser for National Security. Alex was previously a venture capital investor and entrepreneur, focusing on investing in early stage ‘deep technology’ startups. Helen Stokes-Lampard . Beyond national security and AI research expertise we are also excited to build an advisory board that can speak to critical uses of frontier AI on the frontlines of society. Helen is not only a practising General Practitioner observing how conversational AI tools can impact day to day medical diagnoses but also an incredibly experienced leader across the UK’s medical community, having Chaired the Royal College of General Practitioners and currently Chair of the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges. Matt Clifford . Matt is the Prime Minister’s joint Representative for the AI Safety Summit, Chair of ARIA and co-founder of Entrepreneur First. His appointment as Expert Advisory Board Vice Chair demonstrates the level of coordination across UK initiatives around frontier AI - including the Taskforce and the AI Safety Summit. We will announce other members of our advisory board in due course. 2. Recruitment of expert AI researchers Eric Schmidt, former CEO of Google, recently captured the state of state capacity in frontier AI when he stated in May 2023: “The technology is enormously complicated…there’s no one in the government who could get it right [footnote 1] .” This cannot be true if society is to successfully navigate this rate of progress in AI . Sam Altman, CEO of OpenAI, recently suggested that the public sector had a “lack of will” to lead on innovation, asking “Why don’t you ask the government why they aren’t doing these things, isn’t that the horrible part? [footnote 2] ” We have an abundance of will to transform state capacity at the frontier of AI Safety. This is why we are hiring technical AI experts into government at start-up speed. We are drawing on world-leading expertise: Yarin Gal will join as Research Director of the Taskforce from Oxford where he is head of the Oxford Applied and Theoretical Machine Learning Group. Yarin is a globally recognised leader in Machine Learning, and will retain his position as Associate Professor at Oxford. David Krueger will be working with the Taskforce as it scopes its research programme in the run up to the summit. David is an Assistant Professor at the University of Cambridge’s Computational and Biological Learning lab, where he leads a research group focused on Deep Learning and AI Alignment. The Taskforce is housed inside the UK’s Department for Science Innovation and Technology ( DSIT ) which employs roughly 1500 civil servants. When I arrived in June there was just one frontier AI researcher employed by the department with 3 years of experience in frontier AI . This lone researcher was Nitarshan Rajkumar who put his PhD on pause to join DSIT in April, and is a testament to what an earnest, incredibly hardworking technical expert can accomplish when they commit to public service. Michelle Donelan, Secretary of State for DSIT recruited Nitarshan and he has materially influenced many of the bold efforts that the UK has been making to invest in frontier AI Safety. We need more Nitarshans! Thanks to a huge push by the Taskforce team we now have a growing team of AI researchers with over 50 years of collective experience at the frontier of AI . If this is our metric for state capacity in frontier AI , we have managed to increase it by an order-of-magnitude in just 11 weeks. Our team now includes researchers with experience from DeepMind, Microsoft, Redwood Research, The Center for AI Safety and the Center for Human Compatible AI . These are some of the hardest people to hire in the world given the huge wave of attention and money being thrown at AI right now. They have chosen to come into public service not because it’s easy, but because it offers the opportunity to fundamentally alter society’s approach to tackling risks at the frontier of AI . These researchers and engineers will bring their skills towards giving the government the capability to work directly on frontier AI models and evaluate their risks – through model evaluations, red-teaming, and other aspects of safety infrastructure. I’m immensely grateful to these people for stepping up and performing this public service at a critical moment in the development of AI . This is not to diminish the incredible broader team at DSIT but part of an active effort supercharged by our Secretary of State to expand the diversity of people inside government to include more AI researchers, so we can together tackle this challenge. We are rapidly expanding this team and are looking for researchers with an interest in catalysing state capacity in AI Safety. We plan to scale up the team by another order of magnitude . Please consider applying to join us here . With the first ever AI Safety Summit in the UK on 1 and 2 November, this is a critical moment to influence AI Safety. We are particularly focused on AI researchers with an int