# Exhibit

**Source**: https://techcrunch.com/events/tc-disrupt-2025/exhibit
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:52:51.304389+00:00

---

Exhibit - Disrupt 2025 | TechCrunch &#8211;:&#8211;:&#8211;:&#8211; FLASH BUNDLE WEEK: Limited-Time Founder Bundle &amp; 20% Off Investor Groups. Click here to save. Close &#8211;:&#8211;:&#8211;:&#8211; FLASH BUNDLE WEEK: Limited-Time Founder Bundle &amp; 20% Off Investor Groups. Click here to save. Close TechCrunch Disrupt 2025 Mobile Menu Toggle Overview Tickets Investor Pass Founder Pass Hotel Speakers Agenda Exhibit More Partners Side Events Startup Battlefield Volunteer Attendee Portal Exhibit at TechCrunch Disrupt 2025 Maximize your brand impact Back by popular demand: Only a few tables left! Book Now Want to put your brand in front of 10,000 founders, VCs, and tech leaders? The Exhibitor Program at Disrupt 2025 lets you set up, stand out, and seize game-changing connections. Secure prime exhibit space in the Expo Hall and make your mark at the center of startup innovation. See why exhibitors return to the Disrupt floor Book Your Table Exhibitor benefits Exhibit for three days at a (1) 6’ x 30&#8243; table, with (1) table linen, and (2) chairs (1) 11” x 14” tabletop sign with sponsor logo Access to lead generation provided through the Disrupt mobile app Access to complimentary partner Wi-Fi network Branded as a Silver Tier sponsor Access to the TechCrunch Disrupt press list (10) Passes for you and your team Branding on the website, event app, signage, and more Reserve your exhibit table, unveil your innovation Exhibit Program Exhibitor Program $10,000 Buy Now Nonrefundable and nontransferable. Image Credits: Slava Blazer Photography FAQs Who can register for the Exhibitor Program? Any startup at any stage can apply for this program. What’s included in the Exhibitor package? With your package you will receive:&nbsp; Exhibit for three days at a (1) 6’ x 30&#8243; table, with (1) table linen, and (2) chairs. (1) 11” x 14” tabletop sign with sponsor logo. Access to lead generation provided through the TechCrunch Disrupt mobile app. Access to complimentary partner Wi-Fi network. Branded as a Silver Tier sponsor. Entry-level branding in sponsor listings. (5) Expo Only passes. (5) General Admission passes. Additional internal team member passes (General Admission) may be purchased at a 50% discount. Access to the TechCrunch Disrupt press list. Logo on a shared thank-you slide during programming breaks. Logo and company description on the TechCrunch Disrupt event page. Logo and company profile in the TechCrunch Disrupt mobile app. Company name in select TechCrunch article(s) announcing new sponsors. Acknowledgment during the closing ceremony. Should I still book individual tickets for myself and my team? Your exhibit table includes a Founder Pass for you, and you&#8217;ll receive a promo code to register up to 10 team members or guests for free passes — 5 General Admission Passes and 5 Expo+ Passes. Do all team members get access to the same benefits or do founder members get additional benefits? While all team members will get access to the same benefits, only the founder(s) of the company will be able to access additional founder-only benefits such as access to the Deal Flow Cafe, Speaker Q&amp;A Sessions, Investor-to-Founder Networking, and Investor Opt-In List. This is all included in the price of your package, and you’ll designate your founders during onboarding once your application is approved. Is there a cost? Yes, the Exhibitor Package is priced at a nonrefundable $10,000. When does this offer end? This Exhibit Program will last until October 10, 2025, or until the remaining few tables are booked. Where do I purchase the package? Click&nbsp;here &nbsp;to register. Is this package refundable? No, this Exhibit package is nonrefundable. Can I transfer my package to another startup? No, all packages are nontransferable. Can I buy more than one package? No, it is one package per startup. Can I pay by invoice? No, all payments must be made by credit card and through our tickets page. I have more questions. Who can I reach out to? Email&nbsp; exhibitors@techcrunch.com . X LinkedIn Facebook Instagram youTube Mastodon Threads Bluesky TechCrunch Staff Contact Us Advertise Crunchboard Jobs Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy RSS Terms of Use Code of Conduct H1-B Visa GPT Pulse Grok Steph Curry TechCrunch Disrupt Tech Layoffs ChatGPT © 2024 Yahoo.