# S42256 019 0088 2

**Source**: https://www.nature.com/articles/s42256-019-0088-2
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:54:38.834147+00:00

---

The global landscape of AI ethics guidelines | Nature Machine Intelligence Skip to main content Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript. Advertisement View all journals Search Log in Explore content About the journal Publish with us Subscribe Sign up for alerts RSS feed nature nature machine intelligence perspectives article Perspective Published: 02 September 2019 The global landscape of AI ethics guidelines Anna Jobin 1 , Marcello Ienca 1 &amp; Effy Vayena 1 Nature Machine Intelligence volume 1 , pages 389–399 ( 2019 ) Cite this article 77k Accesses 3668 Citations 833 Altmetric Metrics details Subjects Ethics Information systems and information technology Information technology Science, technology and society Abstract In the past five years, private companies, research institutions and public sector organizations have issued principles and guidelines for ethical artificial intelligence (AI). However, despite an apparent agreement that AI should be ‘ethical’, there is debate about both what constitutes ‘ethical AI’ and which ethical requirements, technical standards and best practices are needed for its realization. To investigate whether a global agreement on these questions is emerging, we mapped and analysed the current corpus of principles and guidelines on ethical AI. Our results reveal a global convergence emerging around five ethical principles (transparency, justice and fairness, non-maleficence, responsibility and privacy), with substantive divergence in relation to how these principles are interpreted, why they are deemed important, what issue, domain or actors they pertain to, and how they should be implemented. Our findings highlight the importance of integrating guideline-development efforts with substantive ethical analysis and adequate implementation strategies. Access through your institution Buy or subscribe This is a preview of subscription content, access via your institution Access options Access through your institution Access Nature and 54 other Nature Portfolio journals Get Nature+, our best-value online-access subscription $32.99 / 30 days cancel any time Learn more Subscribe to this journal Receive 12 digital issues and online access to articles $119.00 per year only $9.92 per issue Learn more Buy this article Purchase on SpringerLink Instant access to full article PDF Buy now Prices may be subject to local taxes which are calculated during checkout Additional access options: Log in Learn about institutional subscriptions Read our FAQs Contact customer support Fig. 1: PRISMA-based flowchart of retrieval process. Fig. 2: Geographic distribution of issuers of ethical AI guidelines by number of documents released. Similar content being viewed by others Challenges and opportunities in translating ethical AI principles into practice for children Article 20 March 2024 Mapping AI ethics narratives: evidence from Twitter discourse between 2015 and 2022 Article Open access 15 February 2025 Public attitudes value interpretability but prioritize accuracy in Artificial Intelligence Article Open access 03 October 2022 References Harari, Y. N. Reboot for the AI revolution. Nature 550 , 324–327 (2017). Article Google Scholar Appenzeller, T. The AI revolution in science. Science https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aan7064 (2017). Jordan, M. I. &amp; Mitchell, T. M. Machine learning: trends, perspectives, and prospects. Science 349 , 255–260 (2015). Article MathSciNet Google Scholar Stead, W. W. Clinical implications and challenges of artificial intelligence and deep learning. JAMA 320 , 1107–1108 (2018). Article Google Scholar Vayena, E., Blasimme, A. &amp; Cohen, I. G. Machine learning in medicine: addressing ethical challenges. PLOS Med. 15 , e1002689 (2018). Article Google Scholar Awad, E. et al. The Moral Machine experiment. Nature 563 , 59–64 (2018). Article Google Scholar Science must examine the future of work. Nature 550 , 301–302 (2017). Brundage, M. et al. The Malicious Use of Artificial Intelligence: Forecasting, Prevention, and Mitigation (Future of Humanity Institute, University of Oxford, Centre for the Study of Existential Risk, University of Cambridge, Center for a New American Security, Electronic Frontier Foundation, OpenAI, 2018). Zou, J. &amp; Schiebinger, L. AI can be sexist and racist — it’s time to make it fair. Nature 559 , 324–326 (2018). Article Google Scholar Boddington, P. Towards a Code of Ethics for Artificial Intelligence (Springer, 2017). Bostrom, N. &amp; Yudkowsky, E. in The Cambridge Handbook of Artificial Intelligence (eds Frankish, K. &amp; Ramsey, W. M.) 316–334 (Cambridge Univ. Press, 2014). https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9781139046855.020 Etzioni, A. &amp; Etzioni, O. AI assisted ethics. Ethics Inf. Technol. 18 , 149–156 (2016). Article Google Scholar Yuste, R. et al. Four ethical priorities for neurotechnologies and AI. Nature 551 , 159–163 (2017). Article Google Scholar Cath, C., Wachter, S., Mittelstadt, B., Taddeo, M. &amp; Floridi, L. Artificial intelligence and the ‘good society’: the US, EU, and UK approach. Sci. Eng. Ethics 24 , 505–528 (2018). Google Scholar Zeng, Y., Lu, E. &amp; Huangfu, C. Linking artificial intelligence principles. Preprint at https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.04814 (2018). Greene, D., Hoffmann, A. L. &amp; Stark, L. Better, nicer, clearer, fairer: a critical assessment of the movement for ethical artificial intelligence and machine learning. In Proc. 52nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2122–2131 (2019). Crawford, K. &amp; Calo, R. There is a blind spot in AI research. Nature 538 , 311–313 (2016). Article Google Scholar Altman, M., Wood, A. &amp; Vayena, E. A harm-reduction framework for algorithmic fairness. IEEE Security Privacy 16 , 34–45 (2018). Article Google Scholar Bolukbasi, T., Chang, K.-W., Zou, J., Saligrama, V. &amp; Kalai, A. Man is to computer programmer as woman is to homemaker? Debiasing word embeddings. Preprint at https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.06520 (2016). O’Neil, C. Weapons of Math Destruction: How Big Data Increases Inequality and Threatens Democracy (Crown, 2016). Veale, M. &amp; Binns, R. Fairer machine learning in the real world: mitigating discrimination without collecting sensitive data. Big Data Soc . https://doi.org/10.1177/2053951717743530 (2017). Article Google Scholar Shoham, Y. et al. The AI Index 2018 Annual Report (AI Index Steering Committee, Human-Centered AI Initiative, Stanford University, 2018). Sossin, L. &amp; Smith, C. W. Hard choices and soft law: ethical codes, policy guidelines and the role of the courts in regulating government. Alberta Law Rev. 40 , 867–893 (2003). Article Google Scholar Campbell, A. &amp; Glass, K. C. The legal status of clinical and ethics policies, codes, and guidelines in medical practice and research. McGill Law J. 46 , 473–489 (2001). Google Scholar Benkler, Y. Don’t let industry write the rules for AI. Nature 569 , 161 (2019). Article Google Scholar Wagner, B. in Being Profiled: Cogitas Ergo Sum: 10 Years of Profiling the European Citizen (eds Bayamlioglu, E., Baraliuc, I., Janssens, L. A. W. &amp; Hildebrandt, M.) 84–89 (Amsterdam Univ. Press, 2018). Arksey, H. &amp; O’Malley, L. Scoping studies: towards a methodological framework. Int. J. Soc. Res. Methodol. 8 , 19–32 (2005). Article Google Scholar Pham, M. T. et al. A scoping review of scoping reviews: advancing the approach and enhancing the consistency. Res. Synth. Meth. 5 , 371–385 (2014). Article Google Scholar Liberati, A. et al. The PRISMA statement for reporting systematic reviews and meta-analyses of studies that evaluate health care interventions: explanation and elaboration. PLOS Medicine 6 , e1000100 (2009). Article Google Scholar Boddington, P. Alphabetical list of resources. Ethics for Artificial Intelligence https://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/efai/resources/alphabetical-list-of-resources/ (2018). Winfield, A. A round up of robotics and AI ethics. Alan Winfield’s Web Log http://alanwinfield.blogspot.com/2019/04/an-updated-round-up-of-ethical.html (2017). National and international AI strategies. Future of Life Institute https://futureoflife.org/national-international-ai-strategies/ (2018) Summaries of AI policy resources. Future of Life Institute https://futureoflife.org/ai-policy-resources/ (2018). Hagstrom, C., Kendall, S. &amp; Cunningham, H. Googling for grey: using Google and Duckduckgo to find grey literature. In Abstracts of the 23rd Cochrane Colloquium Vol. 10, LRO 3.6, 40 (Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, 2015). Piasecki, J., Waligora, M. &amp; Dranseika, V. Google search as an additional source in systematic reviews. Sci. Eng. Ethics 24 , 809–810 (2017). Google Scholar Moher, D., Liberati, A., Tetzlaff, J. &amp; Altman, D. G., The PRISMA Group. Preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses: the PRISMA statement. PLOS Med. 6 , e1000097 (2009). Article Google Scholar Saldaña, J. The Coding Manual for Qualitative Researchers (SAGE, 2013). Noblit, G. W. &amp; Hare, R. D. Meta-Ethnography: Synthesizing Qualitative Studies (SAGE, 1988). Daniels, N. Justice and Justification: Reflective Equilibrium in Theory and Practice (Cambridge Univ. Press, 1996). Guidelines for artificial intelligence. Deutsche Telekom https://www.telekom.com/en/company/digital-responsibility/details/artificial-intelligence-ai-guideline-524366 (2018). Transparency and trust in the cognitive era. IBM https://www.ibm.com/blogs/think/2017/01/ibm-cognitive-principles/ (2017). Initial code of conduct for data-driven health and care technology. GOV.UK https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/code-of-conduct-for-data-driven-health-and-care-technology/initial-code-of-conduct-for-data-driven-health-and-care-technology (2