# 10403

**Source**: https://web.archive.org/web/20240213104509/https://www.metmuseum.org/art/collection/search/10403
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:11:07.086060+00:00

---

Mary Cassatt | Mother Feeding Child | American | The Metropolitan Museum of Art Jump to content tickets Member | Make a donation Search Visit Plan Your Visit Buy Tickets Become a Member Museum Map Food and Drink Accessibility Group Visits Exhibitions and Events Exhibitions Events and Tours Performances Art The Met Collection Curatorial Areas Conservation and Scientific Research Learn with Us Learning Resources Publications Timeline of Art History Workshops and Activities Articles, videos, and podcasts Research Libraries and Research Centers Shop Search Go The Collection The American Wing Ancient Near Eastern Art Arms and Armor The Michael C. Rockefeller Wing Asian Art The Cloisters The Costume Institute Drawings and Prints Egyptian Art European Paintings European Sculpture and Decorative Arts Greek and Roman Art Islamic Art Robert Lehman Collection The Libraries Medieval Art Musical Instruments Photographs Antonio Ratti Textile Center Modern and Contemporary Art &times; Crop your artwork: Scan your QR code: Gratefully built with ACNLPatternTool Mother Feeding Child Mary Cassatt American 1898 Not on view After about 1893, Cassatt's attention to the special bond between mother and child came to the fore in her work. In this ambitious sheet, the suggestion of the woman as a secular "modern Madonna" is explicit. Cassatt, however, seemed equally interested in creating a childhood genre scene and exploring textures, patterns, and still-life details. The delicate handling of the medium reflects her susceptibility to French Rococo pastels, such as those by Maurice Quentin de La Tour, drawings that are notable for their precision, clarity, and light painterly touch. View more Due to rights restrictions, this image cannot be enlarged, viewed at full screen, or downloaded. Public Domain Open Access As part of the Met's Open Access policy , you can freely copy, modify and distribute this image, even for commercial purposes. API Public domain data for this object can also be accessed using the Met's Open Access API . Share https://www.metmuseum.org/art/collection/search/10403 https://www.metmuseum.org/art/collection/search/10403 Link copied to clipboard Facebook Twitter Pinterest Animal Crossing Email Download image Enlarge image This artwork is meant to be viewed from right to left. Scroll left to view more. Due to rights restrictions, this image cannot be enlarged, viewed at full screen, or downloaded. Due to rights restrictions, this image cannot be enlarged, viewed at full screen, or downloaded. Due to rights restrictions, this image cannot be enlarged, viewed at full screen, or downloaded. Due to rights restrictions, this image cannot be enlarged, viewed at full screen, or downloaded. Artwork Details Use your arrow keys to navigate the tabs below, and your tab key to choose an item Overview Signatures, Inscriptions, and Markings Title: Mother Feeding Child Artist: Mary Cassatt (American, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 1844–1926 Le Mesnil-Théribus, Oise) Date: 1898 Culture: American Medium: Pastel on wove paper, mounted on canvas Dimensions: 25 1/2 x 32 in. (64.8 x 81.3 cm) Credit Line: From the Collection of James Stillman, Gift of Dr. Ernest G. Stillman, 1922 Accession Number: 22.16.22 Signature: [at lower left]: Mary Cassatt Learn more about this artwork Connections : Gesture Curator of Asian art Denise Leidy uses gesture as the key to unlocking narratives in works of art. Timeline of Art History Essay Mary Stevenson Cassatt (1844-1926) Chronology The United States and Canada, 1800-1900 A.D. Museum Publications American Pastels in The Metropolitan Museum of Art American Drawings and Watercolors in The Metropolitan Museum of Art. Vol. 1, A Catalogue of Works by Artists Born before 1835 Related Artworks All Related Artworks By Mary Cassatt The American Wing Canvas Drawings Paper Pastels Wove paper From North and Central America From United States From A.D. 1800&ndash;1900 Young Mother Sewing Mary Cassatt (American, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 1844–1926 Le Mesnil-Théribus, Oise) 1900 Nurse and Child Mary Cassatt (American, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 1844–1926 Le Mesnil-Théribus, Oise) 1896–97 Margot in Orange Dress Mary Cassatt (American, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 1844–1926 Le Mesnil-Théribus, Oise) 1902 Mother and Child with a Rose Scarf Mary Cassatt (American, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 1844–1926 Le Mesnil-Théribus, Oise) ca. 1908 Mother and Child Mary Cassatt (American, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 1844–1926 Le Mesnil-Théribus, Oise) 1914 Resources for Research The Met's Libraries and Research Centers provide unparalleled resources for research and welcome an international community of students and scholars. The Met Collection API is where all makers, creators, researchers, and dreamers can connect to the most up-to-date data and public domain images for The Met collection. Open Access data and public domain images are available for unrestricted commercial and noncommercial use without permission or fee. Feedback We continue to research and examine historical and cultural context for objects in The Met collection. If you have comments or questions about this object record, please complete and submit this form . The Museum looks forward to receiving your comments. The American Wing at The Met The American Wing's ever-evolving collection comprises some 20,000 works by African American, Euro American, Native American, and Latin American artists, ranging from the colonial to early-modern period. The Met Fifth Avenue 1000 Fifth Avenue New York, NY 10028 Phone: 212-535-7710 The Met Cloisters 99 Margaret Corbin Drive Fort Tryon Park New York, NY 10040 Phone: 212-923-3700 About The Met Mission and History Collection Areas Conservation Departments Accessibility Press Support Membership Host an Event Travel with The Met Corporate Support Career Opportunities Volunteers Fellowships Internships Follow us Join our newsletter Sign Up Site Index Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Contact Information &#169; 2000–2024 The Metropolitan Museum of Art. All rights reserved.