# Euphoria Cast Podcast Dont Let This Flop 1293427

**Source**: https://www.rollingstone.com/culture/culture-news/euphoria-cast-podcast-dont-let-this-flop-1293427/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:11:45.532434+00:00

---

Podcast: What the Hell Is Going On With &#039;Euphoria&#039;? &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo Culture What the Hell Is Going On With &#8216;Euphoria&#8217;? Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Culture What the Hell Is Going On With &#8216;Euphoria&#8217;? The story's going off the rails, there's rumors of on-set tension — on this week's episode of 'Don't Let This Flop,' we talk about the first few episodes of Season 2, and whether the show has jumped the shark By Ej Dickson Ej Dickson How Disney Stumbled Stormy Daniels Versus the World Anna Delvey Is Far From the Shittiest Person to Compete on &#8216;Dancing With the Stars&#8217; View all posts by Ej Dickson February 2, 2022 Sydney Sweeney in HBO's "Euphoria" Eddy Chen/HBO The second season of&nbsp; Euphoria &nbsp; has been, in a word, a clusterfuck. In addition to seemingly sidelining key characters, such as cam girl Kat (Barbie Ferreira), the show has paired up two completely disparate characters (Cassie, played by Sydney Sweeney; and Nate, played by Jacob Elordi) in the name of fan service, as well as given sympathetic narratives to out-and-out villains like pedophile Cal (Eric Dane). Although it&#8217;s only a few episodes into its second season, many fans on social media appear to view the show as having gone off the rails, an opinion that&#8217;s only been fueled by juicy rumors of on-set tension. The first stirrings of on-set tension have focused on Ferreira and writer/director Sam Levinson , the auteur behind the edgy teen drama. According to a tip published on the celebrity gossip Instagram account DeuxMoi, Ferreira expressed her disappointment with her character&#8217;s storyline this season, prompting her to walk off set and Levinson to significantly reduce her presence in this season&#8217;s storyline. (As of episode four, Kat has appeared only briefly on the show, largely in a tepid storyline about the burgeoning relationship between her and nice-guy Ethan.) While neither Ferreira nor Levinson have publicly commented on such rumors, her absence at the season two premiere prompted many on TikTok to speculate about her future on the show. @affirmativemurder It really is out of nowhere sometimes😭 #euphoria #sydney #hbomax #takethemout ♬ original sound &#8211; AMPod Two actors who have spoken out about the trajectory of their characters, however, are Algee Smith, who plays football player McKay; and Sydney Sweeney, who plays the lovelorn, overly attached Cassie. Smith has also barely appeared in the second season of&nbsp; Euphoria,&nbsp; expressing consternation about his storyline to a&nbsp; Daily Beast&nbsp; reporter: &#8220;I think that&#8217;s a question we have to ask our creator [Sam Levinson], where he sees it going. We haven&#8217;t even gotten that far in the conversation, him and myself, on this, actually,&#8221; Smith said when asked about his character&#8217;s relative absence this season. Editor’s picks The 250 Greatest Albums of the 21st Century So Far The 100 Best TV Episodes of All Time The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century By contrast, Sweeney, a rising Hollywood star who also appeared in HBO&#8217;s&nbsp; The White Lotus&nbsp; this year, has gotten plenty of screen time on&nbsp; Euphoria&nbsp; this season. Yet fans have criticized the show&#8217;s overly sexualized depiction of her character, particularly Cassie&#8217;s many gratuitous nude scenes. In an interview with the Independent , Sweeney herself said that she was uncomfortable with how many nude scenes she was asked to do, though she says Levinson was receptive when she asked him to cut some of them. &ldquo;There are moments where Cassie was supposed to be shirtless and I would tell Sam, &lsquo;I don&rsquo;t really think that&rsquo;s necessary here,&rsquo;&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;He was like, &lsquo;Okay, we don&rsquo;t need it.&rsquo; Sweeney added, &#8220;I&rsquo;ve never felt like Sam has pushed it on me or was trying to get a nude scene into an HBO show. When I didn&rsquo;t want to do it, he didn&rsquo;t make me.&rdquo; @jeremyoharris Stop reading bad #gossip about #euphoria and running with it. ♬ original sound &#8211; Jeremy O. Harris Nonetheless, many fans of&nbsp; Euphoria&nbsp; jumped on Sweeney&#8217;s comments, using them to fuel criticism of the show and Levinson himself. Though consulting producer Jeremy O. Harris jumped into the fray, attempting to defend Levinson and quell the rumors with a series of TikToks, there&#8217;s a general sense on social media that the show may have jumped the shark, with the cliffhanger ending of the latest episode only serving to fuel the fire. This week on&nbsp; Don&#8217;t Let This Flop,&nbsp;Rolling Stone &#8216;s podcast about TikTok and internet culture, co-hosts Ej Dickson and Brittany Spanos pour a piping hot cup of&nbsp; Euphoria&nbsp; tea, as well as discuss the debut of TikTok pop band FutureX, the breakup of social media darlings Chris Olsen and Ian Paget in a very special segment of Straight People: Gay Edition, and viral Julliard reject/professional himbo Axel Webber (and his subsequent villain arc). DLTF &nbsp; is released Wednesdays on all audio streaming platforms, including Apple Podcasts ,&nbsp; Spotify ,&nbsp; Amazon Music ,&nbsp; Stitcher ,&nbsp;and more. In this article: Don&#039;t Let This Flop, Euphoria, Podcasts Culture (Sub)Culture News More News Dave Chappelle Says 'It's Easier to Talk' in Saudi Arabia Than the U.S. Oh the Irony By Tomás Mier and Emily Zemler Theo Von Addresses 'Choppy' Filmed Comedy Show: 'I'll Eat Failure for Breakfast' Being Honest By Tomás Mier Brennan Lee Mulligan Is Saving the World, One Dungeons and Dragons Game at a Time RS Gaming By Elisabeth Garber-Paul He Grew Obsessed With an AI Chatbot. Then He Vanished in the Ozarks Missing Person By Miles Klee Jane Goodall, Trailblazing Primatologist and Environmental Activist, Dead at 91 Obituary By Jon Blistein Read more Trent Reznor And Atticus Ross’ Future Ruins Fest Cancelled Over 'Logistical Challenges' Called Off 44 minutes ago Sean Combs Sentenced to Over 4 Years in Prison Diddy Trial 3 hours ago Tomorrow X Together on Their New Era, Contract Renewal, and What the Future Holds Exclusive 5 hours ago Eric Dane Missed the 2025 Emmys Because of a Head Injury That Required Stitches Ouch 5 hours ago Top stories newsletter A Cultural Force That Transcends Generations Enter your Email By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Go to PMC.com Most Popular J.K. Rowling Slams &#039;Ignorant&#039; Emma Watson as Their Rift Intensifies; Author Claims Watson Once Wrote Her a Note Expressing Sympathy Over Anti-Trans Backlash Bill Burr Defends Performing at Controversial Riyadh Comedy Festival: &quot;They&#039;re Just Like Us&quot; Insider Claims Nicole Kidman &amp; Keith Urban&#039;s Separation Is &#039;One-Sided&#039; Federal Judge Denies Motion to Dismiss by Kasseem ‘Swizz Beatz’ Dean in 1MDB Scandal Case You might also like ‘Taylor Swift: The Official Release Party of a Showgirl’ Review: Taylor Swift Introduces the 12 Music Videos From ‘The Life of a Showgirl.’ But Only One of Them Is Great 3 hours ago 19 Breast Cancer Products That Are Helpful for Patients &amp; Survivors 2 hours ago ‘Anemone,’ ‘After the Hunt’ Shake Up New York Film Festival as ‘One Battle’ Heads Into Second Weekend — Screen Talk 1 hour ago NFL on Record Pace as TV/Streaming Windows Grow 8% to 20M Viewers 44 minutes ago Rolling Stone Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture Staff Contact Advertise Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Use AdChoices PMC Entertainment California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Accessibility Policy on Anonymous Sources Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Newsletter Signup Enter Your Email Subscribe Got a Hot News Tip? We want to hear it. Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Rolling Stone is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 Rolling Stone, LLC. All rights reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Log In Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Music News Features Lists Album Reviews Live Reviews Artists You Need To Know Songs You Need To Know RS Country RS Latin Politics News Features Lists TV &amp; Movies News Features Lists Recaps Reviews Video &amp; Photos Photos Videos The Cover Musicians on Musicians RS LIVE Culture News Features Lists Creators RS Gaming RS Films RS Recommends Reviews RS Essentials RS Audio Awards Gift Guides Culture Council Subscription Icon Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Alerts &amp; Newsletters Email Address By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. ad