# Jayson Tatum Boston Celtics Bill Simmons

**Source**: https://www.theringer.com/nba/2018/5/26/17397294/jayson-tatum-boston-celtics-bill-simmons
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:04:00.563271+00:00

---

The Savior of the “No-No-Yes” Celtics - The Ringer Discover anything Discover anything Videos Podcasts The Latest The Latest Fantasy Football Rankings Fantasy Football Rankings NBA NBA NFL NFL TV TV Movies Movies MLB MLB The Ringer 107 The Ringer 107 Music Music Soccer Soccer Events Events The Streaming Guide The Streaming Guide Simmons Pod Simmons Pod Rewatchables Rewatchables Big Picture Big Picture Russillo Pod Russillo Pod The Watch The Watch Higher Learning Higher Learning House of R House of R The Town The Town Plain English Plain English By Bill Simmons May 27, 2018, 3:23 am UTC • 14 min NBA NBA The Savior of the “No-No-Yes” Celtics Jayson Tatum doesn’t know he’s Boston’s best player—and that’s the best thing about this Celtics season AP Images/Ringer illustration By Bill Simmons May 27, 2018, 3:23 am UTC • 14 min “Go get the ball, Jayson!” “Just take him, Tatum!” “Every time! Just like that!” I grew up in the Boston Garden. My dad’s season tickets are older than Dave Chappelle and Terrell Owens. I love the Celtics more than anything short of friends and family, but in a way, they ARE family. I read every NBA book ever written and once spent three years writing my own 750-page NBA opus. I have a Google doc of a 110-player NBA Pyramid, spun off from my book, that I update every month just because I am insane. I remember more about the NBA than I do about things that happened in my own life. I watch random old games in August on NBA TV that I’ve already seen for no reason whatsoever, then text my one buddy who loves the NBA as much as me, and usually he’s watching the same game, and neither of us think this is weird. I am comically, stupidly obsessed with the NBA. Of the 50 greatest moments of my life, maybe 16 of them happened at a Celtics game. (This is not normal. I get it.) Considering I have watched this particular Celtics team, day in and day out, since October … you would think I had answers … for … well … this. And I can’t explain it. I can’t explain the most delightfully unexpected Boston playoff run since the Holy Winter of 2001. I also can’t explain how this century’s most blessed and fortunate fan base — which extends from Maine to Hawaii, with transplants spread everywhere (including me) — found itself completely blindsided by a potential Finals team. We haven’t seen a team accomplish what the Celtics are doing since the 1970s, when the NBA was missing foreign players and a 3-point line, when everyone wore flimsy Converses and didn’t know what the word “arthroscopic” meant, when everyone flew commercial and routinely played four games in five nights, when players chose beer and cocaine over Pilates and hyperbaric chambers, when coaches dressed like this … Back then, the upstart ’76 Suns, precocious ’77 Blazers and young-and-hungry ’78 Sonics made the Finals, and it didn’t make much sense. But it made a LITTLE sense. Why? Their best players were actually playing . They had Westphal and Adams and Walton and Lucas and D.J. and Gus and Sikma and Sikma’s hair. The 2018 Celtics have Kyrie and Hayward … in street clothes. The 2018 Celtics are favored to make the Finals Sunday night, even with the league’s best player in 20 years standing in their way. The 2018 Celtics make no sense. You can win three football games and steal a Super Bowl. You can steal a college hoops title in two weeks. You can win a Stanley Cup with an expansion team. The NBA doesn’t work that way. The better team always wins a seven-game series unless it veers into the Injuries/Officials/David Stern vortex. (Shout-out to Sacramento!) In this decade, every Finals has featured a future top-30 all-timer on both sides, along with four to five other Hall of Famers sprinkled around like role players in a Scorsese flick. The last four WTF Finals teams were the ’09 Magic, ’07 Cavs, ’86 Rockets and ’81 Rockets, but those teams also had Peak Moses, Hakeem and Ralph, Young LeBron and Peak Dwight. The last two champions missing a superstar were the ’04 Pistons and ’79 Sonics. As far as I can tell, nobody has ever won four playoff games, much less 11, when they were missing their two best players. But it’s even crazier than that. They won 10 straight home playoff games with Al Horford and 11 teammates who make, collectively, a shade less than LeBron James earned this season. Other than Horford, their two most important players are only a combined four years older than Kyle Korver. And their most reliable scorer, by far, doesn’t always want to shoot. (Hold that thought.) I would describe them as a masterfully coached group of unafraid, unselfish, high-basketball-IQ athletes who hustle their asses off and cannot be bullied. They close out on 3s and race back on defense as well as anyone. Their Zoltar Machine of a coach always seems like he’s two steps ahead of the other team, and the success of his big-moment plays after timeouts is becoming genuinely creepy. On the pivotal play that decided Game 3’s overtime in Philly, he called a play to peek at their defensive strategy, called a second timeout, then drew up the playground play in which Al Horford sealed off Robert Covington for a lob for the winning basket. Why? Because Covington switched to Horford on the dummy play. Stevens calmly figured this out the same way you might butter an English muffin. That’s every night. Stevens has become so popular in Boston that, when they announce the starting lineups, the crowd cheers for him like he’s one of the starters. In general, the jovial atmosphere for this playoff run ranks with anything we’ve seen since the Bird era — it’s like Boston finally landed its own Cinderella for March Madness. On my podcast this week , J.J. Redick admitted that it was the loudest crowd he’s ever heard. These Celtics feed off their fans in ways that, frankly, don’t happen in professional sports anymore. The crowd becomes their own personal Black Panther suit. That connection is real. You can see it and feel it. Related Hail to the Chief: How Brad Stevens Has Stopped the Sixers Hail to the Chief: How Brad Stevens Has Stopped the Sixers Brad Stevens Built the Pyramids Brad Stevens Built the Pyramids Related Hail to the Chief: How Brad Stevens Has Stopped the Sixers Hail to the Chief: How Brad Stevens Has Stopped the Sixers Brad Stevens Built the Pyramids Brad Stevens Built the Pyramids These are all wonderful things. But they shouldn’t translate to a Finals appearance. You have to dig deeper. Check out the chips on their shoulders. Al Horford has had his butt cheeks kicked by LeBron for his entire career. Jayson Tatum can’t believe Philly picked someone else. Jaylen Brown will never forget everyone booing on Lottery Night. Terry Rozier waited three years for any semblance of a chance. Aron Baynes is a rough-and-tumble Australian who doesn’t care that he’s the white guy with the man bun who just got dunked on in your Twitter GIF. And the Marcuses (Smart and Morris) define themselves, and every decision they make on a basketball court, by that bulky chip for better and worse. There’s an irrational confidence with these guys that borders on lunacy. I sat next to my 70-year-old father for three playoff games and never heard him yell, “NO-NO-YES!” more in my entire life. Smart launched a 29-footer on Wednesday night that, if I could have paused the game, grabbed a ladder and pounced on it like a live grenade, I would have. This shot made my dad yelp like he’d accidentally stepped on a rusty nail. Nooooooooooo! What happened? Smart swished it. Of course he did. This is the best “NO-NO-YES!” Celtics team ever, and it’s not close. (Also, they might kill my dad. Stay tuned.) They can weather devastating plays or sequences in an almost supernatural way. The scoreboard could fall on Semi Ojeleye and this team would wait for them to clean up everything, whisk Semi’s body away, then emerge from the timeout and calmly run a pindown screen for Jaylen for a 3. Twice during these playoffs, an opponent hit a ludicrous, backbreaking shot off a defensive brain fart to force an overtime. Nobody hung their heads, rolled their eyes, pointed fingers, anything. Both times, the Celtics won. And it goes back to a recent quote from Zoltar Stevens. Mental toughness in general isn’t being the most physical or just being able to make the big shot. It’s being able to do your job on the next play every single time. That’s hard to do. That consistency isn’t for everyone. And that’s why it’s the mark of really good players. That quote and so many other qualities remind me of the 2001 Patriots: exceptional coaching, do-your-job, on-to-the-next-play, young stars, tough veterans … and a second life after everyone wrote them off. That Patriots team didn’t have a great player, just a bunch of good ones. Brady wasn’t all-caps TOM BRADY yet, but he carried himself like a seasoned pro, came through a few times, seemed unusually calm in big moments. His teammates loved him. He idolized Joe Montana, and once we found that out, everything made a little more sense. “Maybe he could be our Montana,” some of us thought. “Maybe.” We didn’t know for sure. With Jayson Tatum? We know. But he doesn’t know. And that’s the most improbable thing about the most improbable Celtics team ever: Their best player doesn’t know he’s their best player. (Yet.) “Go get the ball, Jayson!” “Take us home, Tatum!” “All day, Tatum! They can’t stop yoooooou!” Two of the oldest NBA franchises are the Boston Celtics and the New York Knickerbockers. Neither has really changed since 1946. You can always count on the Knicks to do something dumb, and you can usually count on the Celtics to exploit someone else’s foolishness with an always-evolving combination of savvy and luck. That’s how they landed Bob Cousy, Bill Russell, Sam Jones, John Havlicek, Larry Bird, Robert Parish and Kevin McHale (same trade), Lenny Bias (RIP), Paul Pierce, Kevin Garnett and, most recently, Jaylen Brown, Jayson Tatum AND Kyrie Irving from the Great Brooklyn Heist of 2013.