# Meat Everything You Need To Know

**Source**: http://kottke.org/14/09/meat-everything-you-need-to-know
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:30:06.478877+00:00

---

Meat: Everything You Need to Know KOTTKE DOT ORG KOTTKE DOT ORG MENU Member Login Home Membership Newsletter Goods Archive + Tags About/Contact dark mode light mode Advertise here with Carbon Ads Socials & More Newsletter RSS Feed Bluesky Mastodon This site is made possible by member support . 💞 Big thanks to Arcustech for hosting the site and offering amazing tech support. When you buy through links on kottke.org, I may earn an affiliate commission. Thanks for supporting the site! kottke.org. home of fine hypertext products since 1998. Beloved by 86.47% of the web. 🍔 &nbsp; 💀 &nbsp; 📸 &nbsp; 😭 &nbsp; 🕳️ &nbsp; 🤠 &nbsp; 🎬 &nbsp; 🥔 × close posted Sep 17 @ 05:49 PM by Jason Kottke &ensp;·&ensp; gift link Meat: Everything You Need to Know Whoa hey, super-butcher Pat LaFrieda has a cookbook out, Meat: Everything You Need to Know . No one understands meat&#8217;s seductive hold on our palates better than America&#8217;s premier butcher, Pat LaFrieda. In Meat: Everything You Need to Know, he passionately explains the best and most flavorful cuts to purchase (some of them surprisingly inexpensive or unknown) and shares delicious recipes and meticulous techniques, all with the knowledge that comes from a fourth generation butcher. If you have ever wondered what makes the meat in America&#8217;s finest restaurants so delectable, LaFrieda — the butcher to the country&#8217;s greatest chefs — has the answers, and the philosophy behind it. Paired up with Tartine Bread , all we need now is some emulsifying genius to hit us with Mayonnaise cookbook and we&#8217;ll be all set in sandwich-land. books food Meat Pat LaFrieda Share