# Bill De Blasio

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/bill-de-blasio/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:59:23.987026+00:00

---

Bill De Blasio - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: Bill De Blasio just asking questions Sept. 25, 2025 De Blasio Thinks ‘It’s Time’ for Schumer to Back Mamdani The former mayor explains what impresses him about Mamdani — and why the race isn’t over. By Benjamin Hart just asking questions June 19, 2025 Bill de Blasio on Andrew Cuomo and That Nasty Times Op-Ed The former mayor has a few things to get off his chest. By Nia Prater celebrity couples Feb. 13, 2025 Bill de Blasio Has a New Girlfriend The former New York City mayor is off the market. By Elizabeth Gulino the city politic Dec. 26, 2024 The Miracle of Universal Pre-K Ten years in, Bill de Blasio and his allies explain how they did it — and what future mayors could learn from their success. By Bryce Covert urban fauna May 6, 2024 Does Rat Birth Control Actually Work? And everything else we wanted to know about this novel approach to the city’s rat problem. By Clio Chang bachelors Dec. 18, 2023 Imagine Blowing Up Your Life for Bill de Blasio Our ex-mayor’s new lady appears to have left her husband, according to the New York Post . By Danielle Cohen de mayor Dec. 15, 2023 De Blasio’s Fling With a Married Woman Is the Year’s Messiest Story Did a Michigan man find out he’s getting a divorce, and that his wife’s new man is the former mayor, from the New York Post ? Maybe! By Margaret Hartmann mayoral singles in your area Sept. 27, 2023 The New York Post Is Going to Love Horny Bill de Blasio The tabloid has found a perfect lane of coverage in the former mayor’s dating life. By Matt Stieb celebrity Aug. 31, 2023 It’s a Great Summer to Break Up A guide to the many, many celebrity relationships this season has claimed. By Danielle Cohen the real estate July 12, 2023 It’s the Summer of Postdivorce Cohabitation Bill and Chirlane, Steve and Miranda, Ariana and Tom … By Kim Velsey getting around July 11, 2023 So Is the BQE Going to Collapse? Talking to the former chief engineer of the DOT about highway nightmare scenarios and the long, long road to a real fix. By Clio Chang de mayor July 5, 2023 Why Are Bill de Blasio and Chirlane McCray Telling Us This? Four theories on why New York City’s former mayor and First Lady announced their open relationship in a cringey, three-hour New York Times interview. By Margaret Hartmann breakups July 5, 2023 That’s One Way to Announce Your Separation In a three-hour sit-down with the New York Times , Bill de Blasio and Chirlane McCray said they are seeing other people. By Bindu Bansinath the city politic June 18, 2023 Eric Adams, Micromanager It’s clearer than ever that he’s running New York on his own. By Errol Louis politics June 15, 2023 De Blasio Hit With Huge Fine From Ill-Fated Presidential Bid The ex-mayor billed the city for a security detail that accompanied him on 31 out-of-state trips. By Nia Prater just asking questions June 14, 2023 Bill de Blasio on Post-Mayoral Life and His Biggest Regrets (Groundhog Included) The candid ex-pol stands firmly by his record but wishes he hadn’t been so stubborn while in office. By Benjamin Hart met gala 2023 May 2, 2023 Your Local Councilmember Might Have Been at the Met Gala A roundup of the local politicians and notables who made the Anna Wintour cut. By Clio Chang early and often July 20, 2022 Farewell, My Hot de Blasio Summer The former mayor was everywhere in Park Slope as he campaigned for Congress. Maybe that wasn’t a good idea. By Ryu Spaeth politics July 19, 2022 De Blasio Sees Writing on the Wall, Drops Congressional Bid “I really want to keep serving and I’m gonna find a different way to serve.” By Nia Prater politics July 18, 2022 New Polls Show De Blasio Near the Bottom of the Field in Race for Congress City Councilmember Carlina Rivera leads the field with 17 percent of support from likely Democratic voters in the district in a recent poll. By Nia Prater stop the presses July 8, 2022 Lis Smith Loves Politics (If Not All Politicians) The fearless political operative on Mayor Pete, Andrew Cuomo, Bill de Blasio, Joe Biden — and her new book, ‘Any Given Tuesday.’ By Shawn McCreesh early and often June 3, 2022 How New York’s Redistricting Became a War of All Against All for Democrats “It was mass hysteria. Everyone assumed the whole thing was a plot against them.” By David Freedlander the city politic May 23, 2022 Maybe Bill de Blasio Deserves a Comeback The former mayor stooping to run for Congress is absurd, but a little less so when considering his record. By Ross Barkan the city politic May 21, 2022 6 Things to Know About New York’s New Congressional Map The final redistricting map was revised to avoid a civil-rights firestorm, but it still creates a complicated mess for Democrats. By Errol Louis politics May 18, 2022 De Blasio Finally Settles on a New Job: Running for Congress The summer of Bill, part two! By Nia Prater hotels May 2, 2022 Bill de Blasio Is Living in the Downtown Brooklyn Marriott Possibly rubbing elbows with people in town for conferences and graduations. By Clio Chang media Apr. 8, 2022 City Hall Wants to Know If Journalists Have Criminal Records A new policy governing press credentials is more strict than what was used by the NYPD. By Victoria Bekiempis politics Feb. 15, 2022 De Blasio Lets Down Unknown Number of People, Won’t Run for Congress The former mayor won’t run to represent his home in Park Slope, which has been put together with Staten Island in a new map. By Nia Prater politics Feb. 3, 2022 De Blasio Contemplates Entering a Race He Could Actually Win The ex-mayor sees an opportunity in his backyard. By Benjamin Hart politics Jan. 18, 2022 De Blasio Drops Bid for Governor Like It’s a Groundhog “I was not good with groundhogs at all. Probably should not have gone to the gym.” By Nia Prater the city politic Jan. 1, 2022 Mayor Adams’s Big, Beaming Debut After the old mayor dropped the ball, Eric Adams vowed a New Year’s comeback for the city he now runs. It’s not yet clear what that will entail. By David Freedlander covid-19 Dec. 28, 2021 NYC Schools Will Reopen With Increased COVID Testing Mayor de Blasio announced that students will be provided with at-home testing kits if there’s a positive COVID case in their classroom. By Nia Prater covid-19 Dec. 19, 2021 New York’s Hospitals Are Waiting What they think about the arrival of Omicron. By Aaron Short the city politic Dec. 16, 2021 Bill de Blasio Did What New Yorkers Wanted Yet as the mayor prepares to leave office, he remains stubbornly unpopular. By David Freedlander new york city Dec. 8, 2021 De Blasio Ignored Warnings to Stop Hitting Up Developers for Donations A revived conflict of interest concern could be trouble for a mayor with his eyes on the governor’s mansion. By Matt Stieb politics Dec. 6, 2021 De Blasio Blindsides Just About Everyone With New Vax Mandate City Hall won’t release guidance for how businesses should enforce the new mandate until December 15, following talks with the business community. By Nia Prater the city politic Nov. 11, 2021 Eric Adams Needs to Knock Off the Globe-trotting The mayor-elect’s frequent international jaunts could come at a political cost. By Errol Louis new york city Nov. 1, 2021 NYC Vaccine Mandate: 9,000 City Workers Put on Unpaid Leave Another 12,000 unvaccinated city employees have applied for exemptions to the mandate. 18 FDNY companies are out of service amid an alleged sick-out. By Intelligencer Staff last night on late night Nov. 1, 2021 Watch Desus and Mero Roast Celebrity Halloween Costumes That’s not Kirk’s uniform, Mayor de Blasio! By Bethy Squires de mayor Oct. 28, 2021 Bill de Blasio Dressed As the Picard Facepalm Meme for Halloween Mixing up the most famous Star Trek characters is a very de Blasio thing to do — or maybe his “Captain Kirk” costume had a deeper meaning. By Margaret Hartmann politics Oct. 26, 2021 The NYPD is the Latest Police Force to Fight Vaccine Mandates The city’s biggest police union is suing. By Nia Prater reopening Oct. 26, 2021 Will Our Streeteries Become Siberias? The city is cracking down. Customers are headed indoors. It could be a long, lonely winter for New York’s outdoor diners. By Rachel Sugar the city politic Oct. 22, 2021 City Hall Starved Taxi Drivers Before They Wen