# Donald Trump Closing Argument Loss Waste

**Source**: http://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2016/11/8/13561676/donald-trump-closing-argument-loss-waste
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:35:31.386635+00:00

---

Donald Trump’s closing argument: if I lose, this was all a “waste of time” | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo Donald Trump’s closing argument: if I lose, this was all a “waste of time” Free speech needs fearless journalism Free speech is endangered; unbiased and trustworthy news is elusive. In a time of noise, confusion, and spin, we’re committed to clarity, truth, and depth — even when it’s hard. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join now Politics Donald Trump’s closing argument: if I lose, this was all a “waste of time” by Tara Golshan Nov 8, 2016, 3:20 PM UTC Share Gift Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images Donald Trump has made his closing argument: If he doesn&rsquo;t get elected president, it will be the &ldquo;single greatest waste of time,&rdquo; the Republican nominee told a crowd at a campaign rally Monday afternoon in an effort to get out the vote. It might seem like an odd counter to his campaign&rsquo;s insistence that Trump&rsquo;s nomination has started a movement in the United States &mdash; one that cannot be silenced &mdash; but Trump isn&rsquo;t changing his underlying message. According to him, he is the only person who knows what is wrong with America, and he alone can fix it. &ldquo;Go vote because believe me, if we don&rsquo;t win, all of us, honestly, we&rsquo;ve all wasted our time,&rdquo; he said at the rally. &ldquo;They may say good things about us as a movement. It won&rsquo;t mean a damn thing.&rdquo; Privately, Trump seems to have accepted a potential loss. Campaign manager Kellyanne Conway told New York magazine&rsquo;s Gabe Sherman that Trump privately told her that if he loses, &ldquo;that&rsquo;s okay too.&rdquo; She responded that he had a responsibility to the movement he started. Trump&rsquo;s public claim that the election would be a &ldquo;waste,&rdquo; though, is among some of the most fitting articulations of the worldview he&rsquo;s built over the years: Politics, as in life, is a zero-sum game. In Trump&rsquo;s world, you either get everything you want or the most disastrous deal in history. &ldquo;For Donald Trump, calling someone a loser is not merely an insult, and calling someone a winner is not merely a compliment,&rdquo; my colleague Dylan Matthews wrote after Vox&rsquo;s staff reviewed 12 of Trump&rsquo;s books. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s always believed in the fundamental zero-sum nature of the world. Whether he&rsquo;s discussing real estate in New York, or his &rsquo;00s reality TV career, or his views on immigration and trade, he consistently views life as a succession of deals. Those deals are best thought of as fights over who gets what share of a fixed pot of resources. The idea of collaborating for mutual benefit rarely arises. Life is dealmaking, and dealmaking is about crushing your enemies.&rdquo; Losing to Hillary Clinton is no different &mdash; it&rsquo;s losing, and it&rsquo;s about him. See More : 2016 Presidential Election Donald Trump Politics Most Popular The chaos at the Pentagon, explained Podcast Jane Goodall’s most radical message was not about saving the planet Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword This is, objectively, the worst pasta shape The Supreme Court fight over whether gay and trans people can be “cured,” explained Today, Explained Understand the world with a daily explainer, plus the most compelling stories of the day. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Politics Hamas responds to Trump’s peace plan A reality check on Trump’s Gaza peace plan Will TrumpRx save me money on drugs or not? Podcast The chaos at the Pentagon, explained Trump’s “war” with drug cartels, briefly explained Democrats are doing more to resist Trump than their voters think The Logoff An hour ago The Logoff An hour ago Hamas responds to Trump’s peace plan The latest on Trump’s Gaza peace plan, briefly explained. By Cameron Peters Politics Two hours ago Politics Two hours ago A reality check on Trump’s Gaza peace plan The president’s relationships with Netanyahu and Putin have something in common. By Joshua Keating Health 11:00 AM UTC Health 11:00 AM UTC Will TrumpRx save me money on drugs or not? The president’s new plan to slash drug prices is “a splashy announcement without a lot of substance.” By Dylan Scott Podcasts Oct 2 Podcast Podcasts Oct 2 The chaos at the Pentagon, explained Why Trump is sticking with Pete Hegseth. By Devan Schwartz and Noel King The Logoff Oct 2 The Logoff Oct 2 Trump’s “war” with drug cartels, briefly explained Why Trump is claiming drug cartels are attacking the US. By Cameron Peters Politics Oct 2 Politics Oct 2 Democrats are doing more to resist Trump than their voters think There’s only so much you can do without a majority. By Christian Paz Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Vox Vox logo Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok About us Our staff Ethics &amp; Guidelines How we make money Contact us How to pitch Vox Newsletters Privacy Notice Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Settings Licensing Accessibility Platform Status Careers © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved