# Honda Civic Type R Fantastic Two Faced Commercial

**Source**: http://www.theverge.com/2014/11/2/7143621/honda-civic-type-r-fantastic-two-faced-commercial
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:38:10.734881+00:00

---

Honda’s glorious new car commercial has two faces | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Honda’s glorious new car commercial has two faces Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Watch This Close Watch This Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Watch This TL;DR Close TL;DR Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All TL;DR Transportation Close Transportation Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Transportation Honda’s glorious new car commercial has two faces Symmetrical videos show Honda’s dark and light side Symmetrical videos show Honda’s dark and light side by Dante D&#x27;Orazio Close Dante D&#x27;Orazio Reporter, The Verge Last published Apr 11, 2016 Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Dante D&#x27;Orazio Via Jalopnik | Source Wieden + Kennedy London Blog Nov 2, 2014, 4:05 AM UTC Link Facebook Threads Honda’s latest ad goes through brilliant &mdash; and beautiful &mdash; lengths to prove that the Japanese car company doesn’t just make boring cars that can take a beating. The short film, called “The Other Side,” shows the dichotomy between Honda’s dependable cars and its racing pedigree. One half of the tale follows a seemingly normal father picking up his daughters from school. But the other half reveals a bit more: that friendly dad is actually a getaway driver by night. Both 3-minute videos are wonderfully shot, and you can seamlessly switch between them during playback by hitting the “R” key. That’s “R” as in the Honda Civic Type R , the dashing red hot hatch that serves as the getaway car in the clip. Be sure to watch to the end: not everything is as it seems. To watch the full ad, you will have to visit Honda’s YouTube page . The video above is just a trailer. Follow topics and authors from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates. Dante D&#x27;Orazio Close Dante D&#x27;Orazio Reporter, The Verge Last published Apr 11, 2016 Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Dante D&#x27;Orazio Cars Close Cars Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Cars Honda Close Honda Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Honda TL;DR Close TL;DR Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All TL;DR Transportation Close Transportation Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Transportation Watch This Close Watch This Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Watch This Most Popular Most Popular Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store Behold: The Lego Game Boy has already been modded to play games for real Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Everything is terrorism in Trump’s America Satya Nadella appoints a new CEO to run Microsoft’s biggest businesses The Verge Daily A free daily digest of the news that matters most. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Watch This This PC orchestra, built from 512 floppy disk drives, is wondrous to hear and behold Nvidia shows off AI model that turns a few dozen snapshots into a 3D-rendered scene Geralt fights giant monsters, and Jaskier befriends rats in new Witcher season 2 trailer Boston Dynamics’ Spot robot looks like a scary Jim Henson puppet in this Rolling Stones tribute Uncharted’s first movie trailer is full of very familiar action Netflix’s latest live-action Cowboy Bebop teaser makes bounty hunting look easy This PC orchestra, built from 512 floppy disk drives, is wondrous to hear and behold James Vincent Jun 16, 2022 Nvidia shows off AI model that turns a few dozen snapshots into a 3D-rendered scene James Vincent Mar 25, 2022 Geralt fights giant monsters, and Jaskier befriends rats in new Witcher season 2 trailer Chaim Gartenberg Oct 29, 2021 Boston Dynamics’ Spot robot looks like a scary Jim Henson puppet in this Rolling Stones tribute James Vincent Oct 29, 2021 Uncharted’s first movie trailer is full of very familiar action Chaim Gartenberg Oct 21, 2021 Netflix’s latest live-action Cowboy Bebop teaser makes bounty hunting look easy Chaim Gartenberg Oct 19, 2021 Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories 2:00 PM UTC With a Friend like this, who needs enemies? 5:08 PM UTC I’ve fallen into Sora’s slippery slop 1:03 PM UTC I tried Amazon and Google’s new smart home gadgets, ask me anything! 3:06 PM UTC The quest for every Gap store playlist ever 4:52 PM UTC Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom 1:57 AM UTC Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved