# As India Bans Real Money Games Dream Sports Mpl Start Pulling The Plug

**Source**: https://techcrunch.com/2025/08/21/as-india-bans-real-money-games-dream-sports-mpl-start-pulling-the-plug/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:06:12.754617+00:00

---

As India bans real-money games, Dream Sports, MPL start pulling the plug | TechCrunch TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps Disrupt 2025 Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech &amp; Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government &amp; Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media &amp; Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Crunchboard Contact Us Image Credits: Jagmeet Singh/TechCrunch Gaming As India bans real-money games, Dream Sports, MPL start pulling the plug Jagmeet Singh 1:56 PM PDT · August 21, 2025 Top Indian startups in the real-money gaming space have begun shutting down operations after New Delhi effectively banned the sector through new legislation that&#8217;s now on the verge of becoming law. On Thursday, the upper house of the Indian Parliament passed the Promotion and Regulation of Online Gaming Bill, 2025 — proposing to completely ban real-money gaming while aiming to promote casual online games and esports. The vote came just a day after the bill cleared the lower house , leaving only presidential assent before it becomes law — a formality expected to happen soon. Shortly after the bill passed in Parliament, Indian unicorns Dream Sports and Mobile Premier League (MPL) — along with other startups like Gameskraft, Probo, and Zupee — began shutting down their real-money gaming operations. Some of these companies informed employees of their decision following the bill&#8217;s passage in the lower house on Wednesday, while others began notifying users directly through their apps. Dream Sports, which counts investors including Tiger Global, Multiples, Alpha Wave Global, and TCV, has shut down its recently launched quick-play fantasy gaming app, Dream Picks. Its other apps involving real-money transactions, including the widely-popular Dream11 and Dream Play, were still operational at the time of filing. However, TechCrunch has learned that the Mumbai-based startup plans to shut down its real-money gaming business entirely once the legislation comes into effect. At its town hall meeting on Wednesday, the startup informed its employees about the implications of the law, a person familiar with the matter told TechCrunch, requesting anonymity as the meeting was internal. Indian site Entrackr reported some details about the meeting earlier. Dream Sports was planning to expand outside India, two people privy to the information informed TechCrunch, on condition of sharing it anonymously, as the plan was not public. The startup also had some partnership talks for its Indian real-money business earlier this week that were about to be finalized, an investor source told TechCrunch. Techcrunch event Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss the 20th anniversary of TechCrunch, and a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. San Francisco | October 27-29, 2025 REGISTER NOW A Dream Sports spokesperson declined to comment. Similar to Dream Sports, MPL, backed by investors including Peak XV, Times Internet, MSA Novo, and Crown Capital, has suspended all real-money games and is no longer taking deposits. &#8220;Deposit cash (minus GST) will be available for withdrawal from 22 Aug. 2025,&#8221; a notification on the MPL app reads. MPL app showing a notice saying &#8220;Deposits are no longer available&#8221; Image Credits: MPL (Screenshot) Zupee, backed by investors including WestCap Group, Tomales Bay Capital, Nepean Capital, AJ Capital, and Z47 (formerly Matrix Partners India), has also shut down real-money games with immediate effect. &#8220;In line with the new Online Gaming Bill 2025, we are discontinuing paid games, but our hugely popular free titles like Ludo Supreme, Ludo Turbo, Snakes &amp; Ladders, and Trump Card Mania will continue to be available for all users for free,&#8221; a Zupee spokesperson said in a statement. Probo, another Peak XV-backed startup, which also counts Elevation Capital and The Fundamentum Partnership among its key investors, stopped its real-money gaming operations after Parliament greenlit the legislation. &#8220;As unfortunate as it is, we respect the government of India&#8217;s latest Online Gaming bill. In light of this development, Probo has decided to discontinue its real-money gaming (RMG) operations with immediate effect until further notice,&#8221; the Gurugram-based startup said. Bootstrapped startup Gameskraft has also stopped accepting money on its rummy apps as a result of the legislation. Similarly, Times Internet-owned fantasy cricket game Cricbuzz11 has discontinued its operations. &#8220;Deposits (net of GST) will be refunded to bank account within 30 days,&#8221; the app says on a notice to users. In addition to the shutdown of real-money gaming operations, many employees at these startups have begun searching for new jobs, with hundreds posting about their job hunt on social media. &#8220;We no longer have a secure job, as these companies are expected to cut some roles in the coming days to sustain their business and satisfy investors,&#8221; one employee, who requested anonymity for fear of jeopardizing future opportunities, told TechCrunch. Even though these startups could challenge the law in the Indian Supreme Court once it comes into effect, most have chosen not to pursue that route. &#8220;This assessment is accurate — they will have a tough fight in the Supreme Court,&#8221; a public policy expert working with some of these real-money gaming startups told TechCrunch, requesting anonymity for fear of losing clients. Real-money gaming startups in India have a combined enterprise valuation of ₹2 trillion (approximately $23 billion), generate cumulative revenues of ₹310 billion (around $3.6 billion), and contribute ₹200 billion (roughly $2.29 billion) annually in direct and indirect taxes, per estimates cited by industry bodies in their letters to the Indian Prime Minister and Home Minister earlier this week. They also project a 28% compound annual growth rate that would double the industry&#8217;s size by 2028. This Bill, passed by both Houses of Parliament, highlights our commitment towards making India a hub for gaming, innovation and creativity. It will encourage e-sports and online social games. At the same time, it will save our society from the harmful effects of online money… https://t.co/t1iUuH9JP1 &mdash; Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) August 21, 2025 We&#8217;re always looking to evolve, and by providing some insight into your perspective and feedback into TechCrunch and our coverage and events, you can help us! Fill out&nbsp; this survey &nbsp;to let us know how we&#8217;re doing and get the chance to win a prize in return! Topics Apps , Dream Sports , dream11 , Gameskraft , Gaming , India , MPL , Probo , Real money games , Real money gaming , Startups , Zupee Jagmeet Singh Reporter Jagmeet covers startups, tech policy-related updates, and all other major tech-centric developments from India for TechCrunch. He previously worked as a principal correspondent at NDTV. You can contact or verify outreach from Jagmeet by emailing mail@journalistjagmeet.com . View Bio October 27-29, 2025 San Francisco ONE-WEEK BUNDLE FLASH SALE Founder Bundle Offer: Land your investor and sharpen your pitch. Save 15% when you bring 4-9 founders. Investors Bundle Offer: Discover your next breakout startup. Save 20% when you bring 4-9 investors. Bundle offer ends October 3. Register Now Most Popular A new a16z report looks at which AI companies startups are actually paying for Dominic-Madori Davis Salesforce launches enterprise vibe-coding product, Agentforce Vibes Rebecca Szkutak AI recruiter Alex raises $17M to automate initial job interviews Marina Temkin Vibe-coding startup Anything nabs a $100M valuation after hitting $2M ARR in its first two weeks Marina Temkin The AI services transformation may be harder than VCs think Connie Loizos Famed roboticist says humanoid robot bubble is doomed to burst Connie Loizos Spotify to label AI music, filter spam and more in AI policy change Sarah Perez Loading the next article Error loading the next article X LinkedIn Facebook Instagram youTube Mastodon Threads Bluesky TechCrunch Staff Contact Us Advertise Crunchboard Jobs Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy RSS Terms of Use Code of Conduct H1-B Visa GPT Pulse Grok Steph Curry TechCrunch Disrupt Tech Layoffs ChatGPT © 2025 TechCrunch Media LLC.