# Pitchfork Gq Conde Nast Music Industry Change

**Source**: https://www.theverge.com/24070565/pitchfork-gq-conde-nast-music-industry-change
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:38:44.851147+00:00

---

Pitchfork lived and died by the internet | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Indie, rocked Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Music Close Music Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Music Entertainment Close Entertainment Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Entertainment Features Close Features Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Features Indie, rocked Pitchfork exploded as the music industry changed, then was cut down to size by another wave of technological change. Was that it? by Elizabeth Lopatto Close Elizabeth Lopatto Senior Reporter Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Elizabeth Lopatto Mar 19, 2024, 2:00 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads Cath Virginia / The Verge | Assets from Turbosquid Music Close Music Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Music Entertainment Close Entertainment Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Entertainment Features Close Features Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Features Indie, rocked Pitchfork exploded as the music industry changed, then was cut down to size by another wave of technological change. Was that it? by Elizabeth Lopatto Close Elizabeth Lopatto Senior Reporter Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Elizabeth Lopatto Mar 19, 2024, 2:00 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads Elizabeth Lopatto Close Elizabeth Lopatto Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Elizabeth Lopatto is a reporter who writes about tech, money, and human behavior. She joined The Verge in 2014 as science editor. Previously, she was a reporter at Bloomberg. Last year, in an appearance on Rick Rubin&rsquo;s podcast , Nine Inch Nails&rsquo; Trent Reznor observed that over the course of his career, music has become more ubiquitous &mdash; and, simultaneously, less special. &ldquo;I kind of miss the attention music got &hellip; not that I&rsquo;m that interested in a critic&rsquo;s opinion, but to send something out into the world and feel like it touched places.&rdquo; To platforms, music is just content A little more than six months after Reznor observed that his medium&rsquo;s cachet had been diminishing, half of Pitchfork &rsquo;s editorial staffers, including its editor-in-chief, were laid off and the publication was folded into GQ . Pitchfork , for a time, was a kingmaker in the music industry &mdash; pushing bands on indie labels into prime discourse while older music magazines struggled to modernize. Pitchfork came of age in the early aughts as music began to transition from analog to digital, rising to prominence as the way people listened changed from buying CDs and turning on the radio to pirating albums and downloading MP3s. It championed new artists, especially in the then-burgeoning genre of indie rock; there was even a period when Pitchfork could put bands on the charts. It also occasionally killed careers . Now, in the streaming era, music is more available than ever &mdash; but it&rsquo;s harder for bands to break through. A new artist is competing with a library of all the songs the streamer has licensed. Worse, those services &mdash; for instance, Spotify and Apple Music &mdash; plainly do not view music as art to be appreciated and savored. TikTok, the new force in music discovery , relegates music to background noise for videos; songs there aren&rsquo;t treated as entities in and of themselves. To platforms, music is just content. In theory, this should make music journalism more important than ever for new artists. Pitchfork didn&rsquo;t stop doing good work. But another wave of changing tech &mdash; in music and on the broader internet &mdash; has seriously reduced its power as a tastemaker. As a result, the internet-native publication was acquired and then bungled by an old-school magazine publisher. Speaking with former Pitchfork staffers and music writers, I wanted to know: What is the purpose of a music magazine now? And more critically, without journalism, what happens to music? After conversations with eight people, I have come to believe that Cond&eacute; Nast certainly doesn&rsquo;t know. Does anyone else? The New Romance Ryan Schreiber founded Pitchfork in 1996 , from his parents&rsquo; home, while working at a record store in Minnesota. At the time, US music writing was dominated by monthly magazines like Rolling Stone , Vibe , and Spin . Most album reviews at those magazines were &ldquo;capsule&rdquo; length, perhaps just a few paragraphs. Schrieber started &mdash; as most writers do &mdash; by writing stuff to amuse his friends: funny, rambly, and above all, highly critical of what he felt was bad or boring. The idea was to center independent music. &ldquo;I really wanted to create something that was very outspoken that was very tough from a critical standpoint on what sort of deserves to be part of this culture, who&rsquo;s making music that&rsquo;s innovative and progressive,&rdquo; he said during an interview on the podcast Popcast in January. He felt that most music journalists were basically just cheerleaders. “If you live in a major market, chances are there isn’t an independent commercial radio station on your radio dial.” When Pitchfork began, most music was purchased on CDs, and so the putative focus of magazine reviews in that era was usually advising consumers on how to spend their money, either at local stores or through mail-order publishers like Columbia House. CDs cost an average of $16.98 in 1995 &mdash; about $34.84 in today&rsquo;s dollars. Buying one album meant not listening to another. Besides magazines, radio was another way to discover music in the early &lsquo;90s. Once upon a time, it was possible for the music director of a single radio station to launch a career ; Chris Isaak&rsquo;s &ldquo;Wicked Game&rdquo; charted at number six on Billboard because one obsessive David Lynch fan in Atlanta happened to really like it. But the Telecommunications Act of 1996 deregulated radio ownership, and by 1999, consolidation meant about 1,000 radio station owners had left the business. &ldquo;If you live in a major market, chances are there isn&rsquo;t an independent commercial radio station on your radio dial,&rdquo; Lydia Polgreen wrote that year . At the same time, the rise of file-sharing services such as Napster meant there was more music to listen to than ever, and the launch of the iPod in 2001 made it easier to take a large catalog with you, in your pocket. But the iTunes store didn&rsquo;t come into existence until 2003, which made blogs an important source of not only curation but discovery. That created a spectacular opportunity for a source that could pull it all together. It was clear the brick-and-mortar businesses weren&rsquo;t keeping up with the deluge of new music. &ldquo;I first heard about Explosions in the Sky off Pitchfork ,&rdquo; Craig Jenkins, a critic at Vulture (who requested I note his indie rock cred: he saw The Dismemberment Plan pre-breakup). &ldquo;And I go to the record store, which should know about this stuff. And I&rsquo;m like, &lsquo;Do you have Those Who Tell the Truth Shall Die ,&rsquo; the second record. And the guy hadn&rsquo;t heard of it. He was like, &lsquo;We can order that for you.&rsquo; You were at the whim of the record store.&rdquo; There was no way a monthly publication could match the speed of file-sharing MP3s Even before internet distribution, monthly magazines were struggling to keep up with the pace of new releases. There was no way a monthly publication could match the speed of file-sharing MP3s; in fact, many of them barely had an internet presence at all. Pitchfork moved faster, posting daily. And it embraced new formats of distribution, introducing products like a monthly MP3 sampler &ldquo;to spotlight the latest music offered by our top sponsors.&rdquo; Pitchfork had one advantage over the traditional magazines: it was native to the internet. Its reviews were brash, sometimes bizarre, often typo-ridden. That&rsquo;s part of what made them fun to read; a Pitchfork review could say and do things that magazines would not. The site&rsquo;s tone &mdash; unpolished and, at times, unprofessional &mdash; made sense online. As a publication, it embodied the messy, speedy transition of the music industry to the internet. Much like the now middle-aged members of its audience, it was raised with music piracy, b