# New York University Ethiopia Urban Expansion Initiative Follow Up

**Source**: https://www.openphilanthropy.org/grants/new-york-university-ethiopia-urban-expansion-initiative-follow-up/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:37:42.816208+00:00

---

New York University — Ethiopia Urban Expansion Initiative Follow-Up | Open Philanthropy Partner With Us Focus Areas Cause Selection Global Health &#038; Wellbeing Abundance &#038; Growth Economic Growth in Low- and Middle-Income Countries Effective Giving &#038; Careers Farm Animal Welfare Global Aid Policy Global Health &#038; Development Global Health R&#038;D Global Public Health Policy Scientific Research Global Catastrophic Risks Biosecurity &#038; Pandemic Preparedness Forecasting Global Catastrophic Risks Capacity Building Potential Risks from Advanced AI Other Areas History of Philanthropy Grants Research &#038; Updates Blog Posts In the News Research Reports Notable Lessons About Us Grantmaking Process How to Apply for Funding Careers Team Operating Values Stay Updated Contact Us Close menu Partner With Us Focus Areas Cause Selection Global Health &#038; Wellbeing Abundance &#038; Growth Economic Growth in Low- and Middle-Income Countries Effective Giving &#038; Careers Farm Animal Welfare Global Aid Policy Global Health &#038; Development Global Health R&#038;D Global Public Health Policy Scientific Research Global Catastrophic Risks Biosecurity &#038; Pandemic Preparedness Forecasting Global Catastrophic Risks Capacity Building Potential Risks from Advanced AI Other Areas History of Philanthropy Grants Research &#038; Updates Blog Posts In the News Research Reports Notable Lessons About Us Grantmaking Process How to Apply for Funding Careers Team Operating Values Stay Updated Contact Us Mobile Navigation Toggle New York University — Ethiopia Urban Expansion Initiative Follow-Up Visit Grantee Site Category: Global Health &amp; Wellbeing Organization Name: New York University Amount: $450,000 Award Date: November 2022 Table of Contents A new road in Dato, Hawassa, Ethiopia. Courtesy of New York University. Open Philanthropy recommended a grant of $450,000 over two years to New York University to support research by the Marron Institute of Urban Management to follow up on their Ethiopia Urban Expansion Initiative . This initiative hosted workshops in Ethiopian cities to provide technical assistance on urban planning to mayors and other officials. This research will evaluate the initiative’s results in 18 Ethiopian cities. This falls within our work on global health and wellbeing . Related Items Global Health &amp; Wellbeing New York University — Wild Animal Welfare Program (2024) Open Philanthropy recommended a gift of $200,000 to New York University to support their Wild Animal Welfare program, led by Professors Becca Franks and Jeff Sebo. The program will conduct and... Read more Global Health &amp; Wellbeing New York University — Social Science Genetic Association Consortium (2023) Open Philanthropy recommended a grant of $1,000,000 to New York University to support the Social Science Genetic Association Consortium (SSGAC). This follows our September 2020 support and falls within our... Read more Global Health &amp; Wellbeing New York University — Wild Animal Welfare Program Open Philanthropy recommended a grant of $300,000 to New York University to support their Wild Animal Welfare program, led by professors Becca Franks and Jeff Sebo. The program... Read more Back to Grants Database Sign up for news about our grants, research, and more: We&#8217;re Hiring! Press Kit Governance Privacy Policy Stay Updated Mailing Address Open Philanthropy 182 Howard Street #225 San Francisco, CA 94105 Email info@openphilanthropy.org Media Inquiries media@openphilanthropy.org Anonymous Feedback Feedback Form &copy; Open Philanthropy 2025 Except where otherwise noted, this work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial 4.0&nbsp;International License. We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie Settings Accept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE &amp; ACCEPT