# Carmelo Anthony New York Knicks Legacy

**Source**: http://grantland.com/features/carmelo-anthony-new-york-knicks-legacy/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:57:58.352146+00:00

---

&raquo; No Escape From New York Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous The 30: East of Eden ➤ Next Small Ball Facebook Twitter Print NBA No Escape From New York With Carmelo Anthony staying with the Knicks, will we ever find out how truly great he can be? by Bill Simmons on July 15, 2014 T his wasn&#8217;t one of our happier years at the &#8220;You Can Absolutely Win a Title If Carmelo Anthony Is Your Best Player&#8221; Fan Club headquarters. Our man missed the 2014 playoffs in the rancid Eastern Conference, then received a rude comeuppance from his new Knicks boss, Phil Jackson, who lobbied him publicly to stick around at a discount price. The Bulls couldn&#8217;t carve out enough cap space for him. The Lakers couldn&#8217;t offer a good enough supporting cast. The Rockets never gained momentum, for whatever reason. Carmelo ended up re-signing for $122 million for five years, pretending that was the plan all along &#8230; even though it wasn&#8217;t. You know what really shocked me? Hearing Knicks fans and Lakers fans wonder whether it was a smart idea to splurge on Carmelo at all. Where are you REALLY going if he&#8217;s your best player? , they kept asking. Take my friend Lewis, a lifelong Southern California guy, one of those complicated superfans who&#8217;s nutty enough to grow a beard for the entire NHL playoffs, only he&#8217;s rational enough to freak out over Kobe&#8217;s cap-crippling two-year extension, but he&#8217;s also irrational enough to still believe the Lakers could eventually sign Kevin Love AND Kevin Durant. You can always count on him for a rationally irrational reaction, if that makes sense. Click here for more on 2014 NBA free agency. When news broke two weekends ago that the Lakers had become serious Carmelo contenders, I couldn&#8217;t wait for Lewis&#8217;s reaction. After all, he reacted to last March&#8217;s Marian Gaborik trade as if his Kings had just acquired Gretzky again 1 — I figured Carmelo would rank highly on the Gaborik Reaction Scale. Instead, here&#8217;s the email exchange we had. Me: Are u officially in Carmelo mode? Lewis: God no. Hope he goes to the Knicks. Wait a second &#8230; my rationally irrational Lakers buddy didn&#8217;t want Carmelo? Me: You don&#8217;t mean that. Lewis: It&#8217;s a bandaid on a broken arm. It locks them up with no flexibility for two years until Kobe goes. He didn&#8217;t want Carmelo Anthony??? On the Lakers??? I surfed a few Lakers blogs and message boards and found similar ambivalence. Some fans wanted him, others didn&#8217;t understand the point. Many felt like the rationally irrational Lewis &#8212; they wanted the Lakers to land a top-five lottery pick (if it&#8217;s lower than that, it goes to Phoenix), wipe Nash&#8217;s expiring contract off their cap, then make a run at the Kevins (Love in 2015, Durant in 2016). That&#8217;s a smart plan, except (a) they could easily stink and STILL lose that 2015 lottery pick, 2 (b) Love will probably get traded this season (and might like his new team), (c) nobody knows what Durant wants to do, and (d) nobody knows if the post–Dr. Buss Lakers are still a destination franchise. And it&#8217;s not like the Lakers are loaded with assets; they have Julius Randle, the promise of future cap space, the allure of Los Angeles and that&#8217;s about it. They&#8217;re owned by Jimmy Boy Buss. They owe Kobe $23.5 million this season and $25 million next season &#8212; nearly 40 percent of their cap &#8212; without even knowing if he can play at a high level anymore. The best asset on that side of Staples Center is probably Ramona Shelburne&#8217;s reporting for ESPN.com; she&#8217;s better than anyone on their actual team. The Lakers may have switched bodies with the Clippers two years ago and we just haven&#8217;t realized it yet. Knowing that, how could any Lakers fan not want one of the best scoring forwards in NBA history? Why weren&#8217;t Knicks fans freaking out that they might lose their franchise player for nothing? Why were so many Bulls fans (and I know three of them) saying things like &#8220;I&#8217;d love to get Melo, but I hate the thought of giving up Taj [Gibson] for him&#8221;? How did Carmelo Anthony, only 30 years old and still in his prime, become the NBA&#8217;s most underappreciated and misunderstood player? The problems start here: Carmelo Anthony is definitely better than your typical All-Star, but he&#8217;s not quite a superstar. You know what that makes him? An almost-but-not-quite-superstar. He&#8217;s not Leo DiCaprio or Will Smith &#8212; he can&#8217;t open a movie by himself. He&#8217;s more like Seth Rogen or Channing Tatum &#8212; he can open the right movie by himself. There&#8217;s a big difference. Here&#8217;s something I wrote on July 8, 2010 , the day that LeBron took his talents to South Beach. I need my NBA superstar to sell tickets, generate interest locally and nationally, single-handedly guarantee an average supporting cast 45-50 wins, and potentially be the best player on a Finals team if the other pieces are in place, which means only LeBron, Wade, Howard, Durant and Kobe qualify. There&#8217;s a level just a shade below (the Almost-But-Not-Quite-Superstar) with Steve Nash, Dirk Nowitzki, Carmelo Anthony, Brandon Roy, Chris Paul and Deron Williams. (Note: I think Derrick Rose gets there next season.) Then you have elite guys like Bosh, Pau Gasol and Amar&#8217;e Stoudemire who need good teammates to help them thrive … and if they don&#8217;t have them, you&#8217;re heading to the lottery. You know what we call these people? All-Stars. Sorry, Portland fans &#8212; I made a mistake not telling you to take a deep breath before you read that paragraph. My bad. But exactly four years later, those levels look like this. Superstars: LeBron, Durant. Almost-But-Not-Quite-Superstars: Blake Griffin, Dwight Howard, Anthony Davis, Carmelo Anthony, Kevin Love, Chris Paul, Russell Westbrook, Paul George. All-Stars: Stephen Curry, James Harden, LaMarcus Aldridge, Damian Lillard, Tony Parker, Tim Duncan, Dirk Nowitzki, Joakim Noah, Chris Bosh, Derrick Rose (if healthy), Rajon Rondo (if healthy), Kobe Bryant (???). A few semi-stunned notes about that revised list. First, two true superstars is the NBA&#8217;s lowest number since 1979, the season before Bird and Magic showed up. Second, Anthony Davis is our only superstar in waiting right now &#8230; well, unless you feel like bending the rules and counting Joel Embiid If He Stays Healthy or my illegitimate Australian son, Ben Simmons (a frighteningly gifted high schooler who looks like Benji Wilson 2.0). 3 (SIMMONS IS COMING!) Third, we&#8217;re in the middle of an under-30 talent boom that&#8217;s as loaded as any run since the early &#8217;90s, and yet we dipped from 11 superstars and almost-but-not-quite-superstars in 2010 to 10 of those guys in 2014. Six dropped out and five jumped in, not including Rose, who briefly careered into the superstar group in 2011 and 2012. 4 (You also could have talked me into putting Curry, Harden and Aldridge on the Almost-But-Not-Quite-Superstar list after enough drinks.) I didn&#8217;t expect that much turnover. Four years doesn&#8217;t seem like that long of a time, right? And fourth, Carmelo&#8217;s 2014 level was a tougher call than everyone else&#8217;s combined. After all, he&#8217;s made one conference finals and zero Finals. He’s never won more than 54 regular-season games or made an All-NBA first team, although he did finish third in 2013’s MVP voting (no small feat). He&#8217;s made only seven All-Star teams in 11 years (two fewer than Chris Bosh). Most damning, Carmelo has lost nearly twice as many playoff games as he has won: 23 wins, 44 losses. You can&#8217;t even use the whole &#8220;Look, Carmelo can drag any mediocre team to 44 wins and the playoffs!&#8221; argument anymore &#8212; not after last season. So what&#8217;s left? Can&#8217;t we downgrade him to All-Star and be done with it? Isn&#8217;t 11 years enough time to know &#8212; to truly, unequivocally know &#8212; whether it&#8217;s with television shows, music groups, girlfriends, quarterbacks or basketball players? For me, it keeps coming back to one question: Can you win the NBA championship if Carmelo Anthony is your best player? The short answer: Yes. You can. U nfortunately, we need to compare Carmelo to a better player to prove that point. The 2011 Mavericks won the title with a veteran team built around a spectacular coach (Rick Carlisle), an elite rim protector (Tyson Chandler), an elite perimeter defender (Shawn Marion), an elite heat-check guy (Jason Terry), quality 3-point shooting (39.4 percent and 184 made 3s in 21 playoff games), savvy team defense and one historically good scorer with crunch-time chops (Dirk Nowitzki). If you believe Carmelo can lead a championship team, you&#8217;re leaning heavily on that 2011 Mavs playbook &#8212; you&#8217;d need all the elements we just covered, and you&#8217;d need Carmelo to unleash a damned good Dirk impression. Only one problem: Dirk was better than Carmelo is. Dirk is one of the 20 best basketball players of all time by any calculation. He&#8217;s the best foreign player ever not named Hakeem. Of the 10 best forwards ever, he&#8217;s behind Bird, LeBron and Duncan, right there with Doc, Elgin and Pettit, and ahead of Malone, Barkley and Rick Barry. 5 He won an MVP and a Finals MVP. He made four first-team All-NBA&#8217;s and five second-team All-NBA&#8217;s. He won 50-plus games for 11 straight years, topped 60 wins three times, made two Finals, beat LeBron and Wade in the Finals, and won a Game 7 in San Antonio during Duncan&#8217;s prime. And it&#8217;s not like he had a ton of help. In 15 years, he played with only four All-Stars: Jason Kidd (2010), Josh Howard (2007), Steve Nash (2002 and 2003) and Michael Finley (2000 and 2001). Amazing but true: Dirk ne