# If Ruled Nba World

**Source**: http://www.grantland.com/story/_/id/6749669/if-ruled-nba-world?view=print
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:58:17.746850+00:00

---

&raquo; If I Ruled the (NBA) World Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous Wedded Blitz! The October Marriage Season ➤ Next LSU-Alabama: College Football&#8217;s Biggest Day AP Photo/Mary Altaffer Facebook Twitter Print Bill Simmons If I Ruled the (NBA) World Grantland's editor-in-chief solves the NBA lockout by Bill Simmons on November 14, 2011 G reed in its rawest form. That&#8217;s the National Football League&#8217;s lockout. Both sides were like two billionaire drug cartels splitting up a massive cocaine shipment who got pissed off and just started shooting each other. &#8220;You took too much! I saw that!!!&#8221; They will settle next week and slink into the sunset with their kilos. We&#8217;ll forgive them immediately because we love football and just want our Sundays back. The end. Stubbornness in its rawest form. That&#8217;s the National Basketball Association&#8217;s lockout. The owners want to &#8220;fix&#8221; the system without actually fixing it. The players want everything to remain the same even if that &#8220;same&#8221; makes no sense. Both sides spent the past few weeks poking holes in each other&#8217;s arguments, leaking unflattering tidbits to trusted writers 1 and excreting code-word spin control BS like &#8220;we&#8217;re unified&#8221; and &#8220;we&#8217;re in this for the long haul.&#8221; I never heard anyone say the words, &#8220;Hold on a second &#133; what&#8217;s really wrong here?&#8221; You know what it reminds me of, actually? That scene in Dave after Bill Mitchell impersonator Dave Kovic (played by Kevin Kline) secretly takes over Mitchell&#8217;s presidency, when Dave gets his nerdy accountant buddy (played by Charles Grodin) to balance the budget so they can save the First Lady&#8217;s homeless program. They meet with the Cabinet, and Dave starts laying out Grodin&#8217;s ideas . What if we slashed this by $47 million? What if we cut this program, that&#8217;s another $50 million? Every decision is totally logical. Dave ends up finding the extra money in about six minutes, followed by the Cabinet applauding in disbelief. 2 Totally improbable scene &#133; and yet, you feel like it&#8217;s totally probable as you&#8217;re watching it. Why? Because Dave threw out everyone&#8217;s agendas and said, &#8220;This is extremely important to me, we&#8217;re not leaving this room until we figure it out.&#8221; Then he did it. With the NBA&#8217;s lockout, we&#8217;re hopelessly mired in the &#8220;he said/she said&#8221; phase of things &#133; only we&#8217;re stuck with David instead of Dave. If Dave&#8217;s owners lost $340 million last year, he wouldn&#8217;t say, &#8220;We need to get that money back from the players!&#8221; No, he&#8217;d say things like, &#8220;Wow, David did a terrible job, I can&#8217;t believe he left me this mess&#8221; and &#8220;How could a league that just enjoyed one of its best and most interesting seasons ever be losing money?&#8221; Then Dave would gather everyone in a room and figure it out. Maybe not in six minutes &#133; but he&#8217;d figure it out. Let&#8217;s tackle the key issues and figure out how Dave (not David) would handle them. Issue No. 1: The owners lost $340 million last season. Or so they claim. In retrospect, making a huge deal about opening their books was the league&#8217;s smartest move of 2011, narrowly edging Stern&#8217;s forcing LeBron to throw the Finals so that Miami&#8217;s next season would be more compelling. 3 I know it threw me off the scent. They opened their books? That&#8217;s enough for me! The Players Association examined all 30 teams and flagged some creative accounting, with Billy Hunter even telling ESPN.com&#8217;s Henry Abbott, &#8220;If you don&#8217;t count interest and depreciation, you already lop off $250 [million] of the 370 million dollars.&#8221; 4 I have no idea what this means, and frankly, I&#8217;m not sure Hunter does, either. But once the sports blogs started stirring things up, that led to (ESPN.com&#8217;s cap consigliore) Larry Coon&#8217;s concluding the NBA&#8217;s number was flimsy at best ; Nate Silver&#8217;s writing a New York Times blog titled &#8220;Calling Foul on the NBA&#8217;s Claim of Financial Distress&#8221; ; the NBA&#8217;s putting out a press release disputing Silver&#8217;s piece; 5 and my spending 10 minutes trying to figure out what &#8220;amortization&#8221; meant (and failing). This was not how I wanted to spend my summer. What Dave would tell the owners: &#8220;Can we please stop claiming that we lost $340 million? That number can be picked apart too easily. Instead, let&#8217;s bang home the point that our league stopped being profitable &#8212; which is 100 percent true &#8212; and we&#8217;re committed to making it profitable again. Let&#8217;s take a little responsibility, as well &#8212; after all, we just had one of the best seasons in league history and lost money. We should all be ashamed. And also, please remember &#8212; nobody is going to feel sorry for you guys because you&#8217;re all fucking rich. Well, except for you, George, Joe and Gavin. But from now on, scrap the &#8216;woe is us, we&#8217;re losing money, boo hoo&#8217; routine. We&#8217;re just shining a neon spotlight on our own incompetence. Enough. Shut up.&#8221; Issue No. 2: The players are currently getting too big of a revenue share. The last labor deal guaranteed players 57 percent of basketball-related revenue (better known as &#8220;BRI&#8221;). If the league makes X.X billion dollars in a season, the owners HAVE to spend exactly 57 percent of that X.X billion on salaries. 6 The owners believe that number is too high. And actually, they&#8217;re right. By including a luxury tax in the previous two labor deals, they assumed it would frighten teams from overpaying players. Nope. If anything, it&#8217;s turned into something of a Jedi mind trick. You can&#8217;t win unless you&#8217;re overpaying players. Open your wallets. Open them. Our past four champions were luxury tax teams. Not a coincidence. As deputy commissioner Adam Silver told the New York Times , &#8220;We had predicted the tax would be more of a drag on salaries than it&#8217;s turned out to be. It became business as usual to pay the tax, and therefore it created a league of haves and have-nots, where you have the Lakers at $110 million and Sacramento at $45 million.&#8221; What Dave would tell the owners: &#8220;Fifty-seven percent was too high, and the tax created more problems than it solved. I get that. But with all due respect to Real Adam, I&#8217;d argue the Lakers should spend 225 percent as much on salary as the Kings. After all, they play in Los Angeles, not Sacramento. They make more local TV money in one year than Sacramento makes in 12. They can charge three times as much for tickets. And their owner has enough money to pay his players without hawking his prized possessions like he&#8217;s on an special episode of Pawn Stars . We ARE a league of Haves and Have-Nots. Look at every great season we&#8217;ve ever had &#8212; when we&#8217;re top-heavy and bottom-heavy, that&#8217;s when we have the best teams and the best playoff games. &#8220;Here&#8217;s a newsflash: We&#8217;re not the NFL. They have revenue sharing because it doesn&#8217;t matter who plays in the Super Bowl, or where Peyton Manning spends his career. All that matters is parity and television money. Our success hinges on star power and big-market teams; we could never survive one year without a team in Los Angeles, much less two decades and counting like the NFL just did. Our attendance numbers these past few years have told us &#8212; pretty convincingly &#8212; that small-market fans aren&#8217;t forking over money for professional basketball anymore unless their local team is good or great. And even then, they might not show up. &#8220;We have to reinvent our league. We have to figure out which 25 to 30 cities can handle a professional basketball franchise instead of wasting our time protecting the ones that can&#8217;t. We have to accept that big-market teams have a better chance of succeeding than small-market teams, for a variety of reasons, but mainly because wealthier owners want to own big-market teams and talented players want to play for big-market teams. That&#8217;s the reality. That&#8217;s the big picture. But yes, the small picture says we need to knock down that BRI a little. A 50/50 split seems totally fair.&#8221; Issue No. 3: Guaranteed contracts are too long Even the Players Association seems to agree on this one. 7 Long-term deals allow players to coast for years on end (how&#8217;s it going, Rashard Lewis?), mail in entire seasons (what&#8217;s happening, Charlie Villanueva?), or eat themselves out of the league (would you like another slice, Eddy Curry?). Any of those paths make the players look terrible as a whole. From the league&#8217;s perspective, you can&#8217;t have five- or six-year deals AND a salary cap, not when the wrong contract can singlehandedly submarine a team. Players also play their greedy butts off during contract years &#133; so by having more contract years and fewer Long-Term Deals Gone Wrong, the league&#8217;s quality of play would improve. At least that&#8217;s the hope. What Dave would tell the owners: &#8220;Fans can&#8217;t identify with overpaid players &#8212; especially if those guys aren&#8217;t trying as hard as they once did. They resent them, which means they resent our league. Why would we ever want that? Think of Clippers fans suffering through 2&#189; years of Baron Davis, and then losing their no. 1 overall pick because that was the only way their team could dump Davis. How can we expect them to enjoy our product after that? No NBA contract should last longer than four years except for rookie contracts. Period.&#8221; 8 Issue No. 4 (in 3 parts): NBA superstars should make more money than