# Tim Graham

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/author/tim-graham/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:45:08.766855+00:00

---

Tim Graham - The Athletic NFL MLB NCAAF NBA NHL WNBA Fantasy Football Golf Premier League Tennis NCAAM NCAAW College Sports Global Sports Soccer Women&#x27;s Soccer MLS NWSL Peak Formula 1 Olympics Sports Business Sailing Opinion Betting Fantasy Baseball Memorabilia and Collectibles Culture Motorsports NASCAR Women&#x27;s Hockey MMA Boxing The Pulse Newsletter Cities WNBA Finals Game 1 F1 Singapore GP Connections: Sports Edition Today&#x27;s News Tim Graham Senior Writer, Buffalo Tim Graham is a senior writer for The Athletic, covering Buffalo sports. He had been the Buffalo News' enterprise reporter and previously covered the AFC East at ESPN and the Miami Dolphins at the Palm Beach Post. Tim Graham is a senior writer for The Athletic, covering Buffalo sports. He had been the Buffalo News' enterprise reporter and previously covered the AFC East at ESPN and the Miami Dolphins at the Palm Beach Post. Ties in the NFL are unpopular. How about these alternatives instead? “Raise your hand if you like ending in a tie? So, nobody,” Bills coach Sean McDermott said this week. We can do better. The Athletic NFL Staff 114 The Satchel: Submit your Bills questions to Tim Graham Tim Graham 102 James Cook's hot start shows he was worth the money: 'It's something special' Tim Graham 27 Saints-Bills takeaways: Josh Allen accounts for 3 TDs as Buffalo remains undefeated The Athletic NFL Staff 65 How good was Caleb Williams? How did the Packers lose? Our NFL experts' Week 3 takeaways The Athletic NFL Staff 210 Advertisement More Stories Bills vow to fix awful third-down defense: 'It’s a little demoralizing' The Bills posted one of their worst third-down defensive performances in over 30 years on Thursday night. Tim Graham 74 Bills vs. Dolphins takeaways: Did Miami quiet Mike McDaniel firing rumors despite loss? The Dolphins fell to 0-3, but a game that was too close for too long — for the Bills — might've prolonged McDaniel's job security. The Athletic NFL Staff 249 NFL suspends Bills fan who hit Ravens' DeAndre Hopkins and Lamar Jackson The Bills fan was ejected from the Sunday night game after shoving the side of Hopkins' helmet following a 29-yard touchdown. Zach Powell and Tim Graham 392 Bills somehow find a way to stun Ravens: 'I’m in a dream state right now' “It was special to watch,” a bewildered Joey Bosa said. “Every text I have is, ‘I’ve never seen anything like that.’" Tim Graham 180 Bills eject fan who hit DeAndre Hopkins' helmet, got into altercation with Lamar Jackson The incident happened after Jackson's 29-yard touchdown pass to Hopkins near the end of the third quarter. Sarah Jean Maher and Jenna West 217 Josh Allen engineers stunning comeback over Ravens, Lamar Jackson in 41-40 win: Key takeaways Allen carried the Bills to overcome a fourth-quarter 15-point deficit. The Athletic NFL Staff 208 Advertisement Gov. Kathy Hochul talks mission to keep her beloved Bills in Buffalo: 'A way of life' Hochul reached out to the Bills' owners soon after she became governor to start negotiations on a new stadium. Tim Graham 68 'Hard Knocks' is a wrap: Buffalo Bills survive without revealing much Many potentially interesting subjects were left unexplored during the miniseries. Tim Graham 42 Josh Allen is everything to Buffalo Bills. Can they reach the Super Bowl like this? Allen is the cornerstone of a Super Bowl contender that lacks superstars. Tim Graham 57 25 greatest games in Bills stadium history: Epic battles, monumental wins, and that comeback The Bills will play one more season in their longtime home before moving to a new stadium across the street. Tim Graham 82 Bills ‘Hard Knocks’ Week 4 takeaways: Focus turns to players who wound up getting cut Plus, the man behind Josh Allen's improved mechanics. Tim Graham 40 2025 NFL win total projections for all 32 teams: Experts react to our model From the Bills' 11.2 projected wins to the Saints' 5.2, do our writers think the predictions are too high, too low or just right? The Athletic NFL Staff 370 Advertisement Bills 'Hard Knocks' Week 3 takeaways: Sean McDermott tries to rally sluggish team Plus, James Cook ends his hold-in and a look at Ed Oliver's horses. Tim Graham 49 She might be the world's best receiver: Meet Isabella Geraci, U.S. flag football star Geraci was a former college athlete looking for a way to keep the spark alive. She found flag football, and maybe a path to Olympic stardom. Tim Graham 330 James Cook signs long-awaited extension with Bills: 'Let's play football' The running back and the team had been at an impasse before reaching a deal. Tim Graham 44 Bills Hard Knocks Week 2 takeaways: Damar Hamlin inspires, Buffalo Joe gets the spotlight Elsewhere on campus, KJ Hamler's scooter adventure continued. Tim Graham 38 Bills RB Ray Davis finally gets his chance to kick, but he hopes it was his last The process of getting him ready to kick was not unlike a racing pit stop. Tim Graham 20 James Cook dresses but refuses to take field for Buffalo Bills: 'We wanted him to play' James Cook has seen several other Bills in his class get new contracts. Tim Graham 162 Advertisement Bills 'Hard Knocks' takeaways: Josh Allen is big man on campus, Tre'Davious White's sweet return Viewers also got a glimpse of A.J. Epenesa, python hunter. Tim Graham 102 Buffalo's 'dull' training camp is exactly what the Bills want The Bills' most challenging issues are relatively boring compared with other NFL teams dealing with major drama and distractions. Tim Graham 53 See More National Boxing Bundesliga Champions League Championship College Football College Sports Copa America Copa del Rey Cricket Culture Cycling Europa League European Championship FA Cup Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Basketball Fantasy Football Fantasy Hockey Fantasy Premier League FIFA Club World Cup FIFA Men&#x27;s World Cup FIFA Women&#x27;s World Cup Formula 1 Gaming Global Sports Golf International Football La Liga League Cup League One League Two Memorabilia &amp; Collectibles Men&#x27;s College Basketball Mixed Martial Arts MLB MLS Motorsports NASCAR NBA NFL NHL NWSL Olympics Opinion Peak Premier League Sailing Scottish Premiership Serie A Soccer Sports Betting Sports Business Tennis Top Sports News WNBA Women&#x27;s College Basketball Women&#x27;s Euros Women&#x27;s Hockey Women&#x27;s Soccer The Athletic Ink Podcasts Headlines US Arizona Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Buffalo Carolina Chicago Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Dallas Denver Detroit Houston Indiana Jacksonville Kansas City Las Vegas Los Angeles Memphis Miami Minnesota Nashville New Orleans New York Oklahoma Oregon Orlando Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento San Antonio San Diego Seattle St. Louis Tampa Bay Utah Washington DC Wisconsin Canada Calgary Edmonton Montreal Ottawa Toronto Vancouver Winnipeg Partners Collectibles by eBay Odds by BetMGM Streaming by Fubo Tickets by StubHub Subscribe Start Subscription Group Subscriptions HQ About Us Careers Code of Conduct Editorial Guidelines Business Inquiries Press Inquiries Support FAQ Forgot Password? Contact Us Terms of Service Newsletters The Pulse The Bounce The Windup Prime Tire Full Time Until Saturday Scoop City The Athletic FC MoneyCall Red Light © 2025 The Athletic Media Company, A New York Times Company Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Support RSS Sitemap