# 620695

**Source**: https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2021/11/leftist-language-policing-wont-fix-health-disparities/620695/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:21:04.046123+00:00

---

The AMA Embraces Leftist Language — and Leaves Patients Behind - The Atlantic Skip to content Site Navigation The Atlantic Popular Latest Newsletters Sections Politics Ideas Fiction Technology Science Photo Economy Culture Planet Global Books AI Watchdog Health Education Projects Features Family Events Washington Week Progress National Security Explore The Atlantic Archive Play The Atlantic Games Listen to Podcasts and Articles The Print Edition Latest Issue Past Issues Give a Gift Search The Atlantic Quick Links Audio Crossword Puzzle Magazine Archive Your Subscription Popular Latest Newsletters Sign In Subscribe Ideas The Medical Establishment Embraces Leftist Language New guidelines urge doctors to talk like social-justice ideologues. Whether patients understand them is beside the point. By Conor Friedersdorf H. Armstrong Roberts / Getty; The Atlantic November 13, 2021 Share Save L ast week, during a White House press briefing on COVID-19, CDC Director Rochelle Walensky urged Americans to get jabs for their kids. “We know that vaccination helps to decrease community transmission,” she said, “and protect those who are most vulnerable.” Her message was succinct, accurate, and easy to understand. But it was at odds with new guidance from the American Medical Association and the Association of American Medical Colleges. In a document called Advancing Health Equity: A Guide to Language, Narrative and Concepts , the AMA and AAMC urge physicians and other health-care workers to replace many “commonly used” words, such as vulnerable , with “equity-focused” alternatives, such as oppressed . John McWhorter: The surgeon general meets the language police The document is a classic example of how administrative bureaucracies of all sorts are thinking about social justice in 2021. Substantive disparities exist in health-care outcomes in the United States—across a variety of demographic and socioeconomic lines––alongside ongoing debates about their causes and how best to eliminate them. But in response, two leading medical organizations are proposing a lot of language policing that presumes far-left answers to a host of thorny questions. In this instance, the guide explains: Vulnerability is the result of socially created processes that determine what resources and power groups have to avoid, resist, cope with, or recover from threats to their well-being. Instead of stigmatizing individuals and communities for being vulnerable or labeling them as poor, we begin to name and question the power relations that create vulnerability and poverty. People are not vulnerable; they are made vulnerable. If adhering to the guidance, Walensky would have to say something like, “We know that vaccination helps to decrease community transmission and protect those who are most oppressed.” But that would be misleading. Medical vulnerability is not synonymous with oppression. Men are more vulnerable to COVID-19 than women, but not because men are more oppressed. My grandmother is far more vulnerable to the disease than a wrongfully incarcerated teenager, yet she is far less oppressed. Meanwhile, a warehouse worker whose boss fails to update workplace-safety protocols might indeed be vulnerable to COVID-19 because of lopsided power relations. But if exposed to a public-health message urging vaccination for “the most oppressed,” he might think, That’s not me , whereas a message informing him that “indoor workers are among the most vulnerable” is far more explicit about whom the advice is for. A language guide can be worthwhile even if it gets a few things wrong. But Advancing Health Equity is rife with specious reasoning, questionable assumptions, and dubious judgments, all presented in an effort to get doctors talking like ideologues of the social-justice left. “Dominant narratives … must be named, disrupted and corrected,” the guide declares. Among other things, it calls on doctors to reject individualism, to prefer equity to equality , to overturn “a dominant narrative” that “regards health as a personal responsibility,” and to “expose the political roots underlying apparently ‘natural’ economic arrangements, such as property rights.” No guidance is offered to doctors who agree with any of the dominant narratives in question, or who prefer to separate their clinical interventions from their politics or activism. One supposes, for example, that many AMA members believe that property rights are beneficial to the societies where they are protected, and that probing the political philosophy behind them is far beyond a doctor’s professional expertise. Worse still, the new guide is likelier to hinder equity than to advance it. The most vulnerable Americans suffer disproportionately insofar as the medical system adopts language to advance an ideology rather than to communicate clearly––especially if it leads doctors to use language that is most intelligible to people with degrees from fancy colleges and relatively inaccessible to almost everyone else. Fundamentally, doctors should talk in ways that listeners understand. F ounded in 1847 , the American Medical Association is a professional organization of physicians and medical students, representing an estimated 270,000 members, or roughly a quarter of the doctors in the United States. It lobbies on their behalf and publishes a medical journal. Any student of its history should feel heartened that today it intends to fight against racism. For more than a century, many of its chapters blocked Black physicians from membership, a practice that persisted into the 1960s. The Association of American Medical Colleges was founded in 1876. Its membership includes 172 medical schools and more than 400 teaching hospitals, many of which have their own shameful histories of white-supremacist racism. Ezekiel J. Emanuel and Risa Lavizzo-Mourey: 5 ways the health-care system can stop amplifying racism That history has almost certainly contributed to some racial disparities in health-care outcomes. And regardless, the AMA and AAMC ought to be applauded for, say, the attention now given to disparities such as the higher rates at which Black women die in childbirth or the importance of foreign-language interpreters who help patients and doctors understand one another. In an article titled “ Do No Harm: Critical Race Theory and Medicine ” in the journal Liberties , Sally Satel, a practicing psychiatrist and a lecturer at the Yale University School of Medicine, chronicles and praises various attempts, past and present, to reduce or eliminate health disparities. But she worries that some recent initiatives ostensibly promoting equity are so lacking in rigor that, at best, they waste scarce resources. For example, the AMA and AAMC both advocate for mandatory anti-racism training at member organizations, but “the data on effectiveness of such training initiatives are dismal,” Satel writes, “with study after study showing that such efforts often backfire by reinforcing racial and ethnic stereotypes while failing to improve morale, collaboration, or diverse hiring within a workplace.” A new drug that performed as dismally in clinical trials would never reach the public––but the medical profession’s normal standards of rigor seem not to apply to efforts branded as “anti-racism.” When I asked Satel what she thought of the Advancing Health Equity guide, she began by emphasizing that it is important for doctors to think about how to effectively communicate with patients from diverse backgrounds and to remember the extra obstacles that some patients face. For example, she told me, if prescribing a medicine that requires refrigeration, a doctor might stress the importance of keeping it cold and ask, “Is that going to be a problem?” If so, the doctor should connect a patient without a home or reliable electricity to a social worker to help address that obstacle. In Satel’s telling, however, the paucity of time that most doctors get to spend with each patient is the primary obstacle to providing sufficient care—not the “dominant narratives” that the guide seeks to upend with newspeak. “Most doctors don’t have enough time to discharge the limited expertise that we do have, and [the AMA and AAMC] want us to become activists on matters where we don’t have any expertise,” she said. “And a lot of the particular language they recommend isn’t natural speech. That’s intimidating to the average person. Patients would look at you like, ‘What is wrong with this doctor?’ They want a doctor who treats them like this is a normal human interaction, not like they’re going through a bureaucratic odyssey together. It’s bizarre and alienating.” The guide is also politically naive. The AMA and AAMC imagine that if doctors and other health-care professionals adopt the suggested language, they will bring about progressive change by way of the credibility that their words carry. More likely, they will squander that credibility. The medical profession won’t remain more broadly trusted than left-wing activists if the two become indistinguishable. And that’s what will happen if doctors follow the guide’s advice. Instead of saying, “Low-income people have the highest level of coronary artery disease,” it urges health professionals to substitute this doctrinaire sentence: “People underpaid and forced into poverty as a result of banking policies, real estate developers gentrifying neighborhoods, and corporations weakening the power of labor movements, among others, have the highest level of coronary artery disease.” In a section attacking “the narrative of individualism,” the guide posits that health promotion “typically means educating people as individuals,” and urges “shifting this narrative, from the individual to the structural, in order to more fully understand the root causes of health inequities in our society.” It’s already hard enough to get my conservative grandfather to heed his doctors about how best to care for a bad back worn down from decades i