# Raising Multiple Rounds Of Venture Capital Might Be Wrong For Your Startup

**Source**: https://techcrunch.com/2025/08/21/raising-multiple-rounds-of-venture-capital-might-be-wrong-for-your-startup/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:18:31.446817+00:00

---

Raising multiple rounds of venture capital might be wrong for your startup | TechCrunch TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps Disrupt 2025 Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech &amp; Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government &amp; Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media &amp; Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Crunchboard Contact Us Image Credits: SecurityPal Venture Raising multiple rounds of venture capital might be wrong for your startup Julie Bort 7:00 AM PDT · August 21, 2025 There’s a generally accepted script in Silicon Valley: Identify a startup idea. Sell a chunk of your company to raise venture capital. Make sales. Raise more venture capital, and make more sales. Repeat until the company goes public, or gets acquired, hopefully for billions either way. But what if you didn’t get on a fundraising treadmill after taking a first round? What if you structured your company to sprint to profitability through slower, sustainable growth, rather than the reverse — unprofitable growth — as so many VC-backed companies do?&nbsp; That’s the question that Pukar Hamal, founder and CEO of SecurityPal AI , asked himself after raising a $21 million Series A round in 2021 and, a year later, almost running out of money. The round was led by David Sacks&#8217; Craft Ventures, with participation from Andreessen Horowitz’s Martin Casado and Okta co-founder Frederic Kerrest. “I started the company back in March of 2020. It&#8217;s my second company that I founded,” he said on TechCrunch’s Equity podcast this week. His previous company, which sold via an acqui-hire, had raised its first capital before product-market fit, he said. That’s pretty common. Founders often raise before they’ve got a product that they know customers will pay well for. In retrospect, Hamal described that decision as his big “mistake.&#8221; So for SecurityPal, he did the reverse. He waited until the company hit $1 million ARR, which took about a year, and then did his first and only raise, the Series A. Techcrunch event Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss the 20th anniversary of TechCrunch, and a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. San Francisco | October 27-29, 2025 REGISTER NOW SecurityPal uses AI to speed enterprise security due diligence, which occurs in every large enterprise transaction when signing new IT contracts. SecurityPal promises to shrink the security review from months to days or even hours, helping companies to save money on the process while closing deals faster. It has big-name customers like Airtable, Figma, LangChain, and Grammarly, among others. But in 2022, he faced a crisis. Interest rates rose and crashed the venture capital market. Raising more funds would be tough. “We were burning a lot of capital,” he said. “We were, like, 14 months away from running out of money.” It was a wake-up call. Hamal had to drastically cut expenses, which meant a big layoff. That was so painful, he said, that he vowed to do things differently. “We extended our runway, and we tried to drive the company towards cash flow break-even, cash flow positive profitability,” he said. Although in 2025 VC money is flowing again, especially for AI startups, “we haven&#8217;t raised another round,” he said. The reason? He sees now that VC money comes with its own price tag. “The more capital we raise, the more expectations there are going to be, the more we&#8217;re going to sort of give up control of the company, the more pressure we&#8217;re going to feel to just hire a bunch of people that might not work out,” he said.&nbsp; “For venture capital, what matters is growth,” he said. For some investors, fast revenue growth is more important than improving gross margins, he said.&nbsp; That means a company can fall deeper in the red even as it sells more. VCs trust that founders will figure out profitability later. Until then, they can keep raising funds. And if they can&#8217;t, the company might not survive. Hamal wanted what he described as “durable growth” for SecurityPal: slow and solid.&nbsp;If sales were limited to a handful of deployments at any given time, his team could ensure that all customers were well onboarded, even for their edge cases. He didn’t want fast sales only to have customers not use the product and churn come renewal time. &#8220;That story happens all the time because there&#8217;s so much pressure on companies to grow,&#8221; he said. On the other hand, he said he found that slow ARR can lead to “healthy gross margins, great cash collection.&#8221; Hamal is clear that he’s not advocating against venture capital. Other startups may have to keep raising and chasing fast ARR. He’s not even ruling out another round for SecurityPal. He just wants more founders to think about the slow-growth, nuanced alternatives. “I raised venture capital. And I haven&#8217;t raised it again because what I&#8217;m trying to do is put the business in a position where it doesn&#8217;t need venture capital over and over again,” he said. Listen to the whole conversation on the Equity podcast , which includes Hamal&#8217;s suggestions on how to find capital outside of venture. We&#8217;re always looking to evolve, and by providing some insight into your perspective and feedback into TechCrunch and our coverage and events, you can help us! Fill out&nbsp; this survey &nbsp;to let us know how we&#8217;re doing and get the chance to win a prize in return! Topics ai security , raising capital , SecurityPal , Startups , TC , Venture Julie Bort Venture Editor Julie Bort is the Startups/Venture Desk editor for TechCrunch. You can contact or verify outreach from Julie by emailing julie.bort@techcrunch.com or via @Julie188 on X. View Bio October 27-29, 2025 San Francisco ONE-WEEK BUNDLE FLASH SALE Founder Bundle Offer: Land your investor and sharpen your pitch. Save 15% when you bring 4-9 founders. Investors Bundle Offer: Discover your next breakout startup. Save 20% when you bring 4-9 investors. Bundle offer ends October 3. Register Now Most Popular A new a16z report looks at which AI companies startups are actually paying for Dominic-Madori Davis Salesforce launches enterprise vibe-coding product, Agentforce Vibes Rebecca Szkutak AI recruiter Alex raises $17M to automate initial job interviews Marina Temkin Vibe-coding startup Anything nabs a $100M valuation after hitting $2M ARR in its first two weeks Marina Temkin The AI services transformation may be harder than VCs think Connie Loizos Famed roboticist says humanoid robot bubble is doomed to burst Connie Loizos Spotify to label AI music, filter spam and more in AI policy change Sarah Perez Loading the next article Error loading the next article X LinkedIn Facebook Instagram youTube Mastodon Threads Bluesky TechCrunch Staff Contact Us Advertise Crunchboard Jobs Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy RSS Terms of Use Code of Conduct H1-B Visa GPT Pulse Grok Steph Curry TechCrunch Disrupt Tech Layoffs ChatGPT © 2025 TechCrunch Media LLC.