# Batman Arkham Knight Gameplay Trailer

**Source**: http://www.theverge.com/2015/5/28/8677201/batman-arkham-knight-gameplay-trailer
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:56:20.054023+00:00

---

Watch 7 minutes of Batman: Arkham Knight gameplay | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Watch 7 minutes of Batman: Arkham Knight gameplay Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Gaming Close Gaming Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Gaming Entertainment Close Entertainment Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Entertainment TL;DR Close TL;DR Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All TL;DR Watch 7 minutes of Batman: Arkham Knight gameplay by Andrew Webster Close Andrew Webster Senior entertainment editor Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Andrew Webster May 28, 2015, 1:59 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads Andrew Webster Close Andrew Webster Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Andrew Webster is an entertainment editor covering streaming, virtual worlds, and every single Pokémon video game. Andrew joined The Verge in 2012, writing over 4,000 stories. There have been a lot of trailers for the upcoming Batman: Arkham Knight , detailing everything from the weaponized new Batmobile to some of the new playable characters . But the latest gives perhaps the clearest look at the game yet: it’s seven minutes of pure gameplay, letting you watch as Batman infiltrates a Scarecrow safe house and beats up a whole lot of thugs along the way. It doesn’t look radically different from past Arkham games, but you do get some cool new gadgets to play with. Arkham Knight is launching on June 23rd for PS4, Xbox One, and PC &mdash; for more on the game, check out Polygon ’s new hands-on preview . Follow topics and authors from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates. Andrew Webster Close Andrew Webster Senior entertainment editor Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Andrew Webster Comics Close Comics Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Comics DC Comics Close DC Comics Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All DC Comics Entertainment Close Entertainment Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Entertainment Gaming Close Gaming Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Gaming TL;DR Close TL;DR Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All TL;DR Watch This Close Watch This Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Watch This Most Popular Most Popular Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store Behold: The Lego Game Boy has already been modded to play games for real Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Everything is terrorism in Trump’s America Satya Nadella appoints a new CEO to run Microsoft’s biggest businesses The Verge Daily A free daily digest of the news that matters most. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Gaming Sony shrinks PS5 Slim storage in the US, too Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads PSA: you can get around paying the Xbox Game Pass Ultimate price increase — here’s how It’s your last chance to snag the Xbox Series S and X at its current price before they rise tomorrow Welcome to the Xbox $360 era Ghost of Yōtei can be chill or brutal with its new cinematic modes Sony shrinks PS5 Slim storage in the US, too Jay Peters 3:39 PM UTC Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Tom Warren 3:18 PM UTC PSA: you can get around paying the Xbox Game Pass Ultimate price increase — here’s how Cameron Faulkner Oct 2 It’s your last chance to snag the Xbox Series S and X at its current price before they rise tomorrow Sheena Vasani Oct 2 Welcome to the Xbox $360 era Tom Warren Oct 2 Ghost of Yōtei can be chill or brutal with its new cinematic modes Jay Peters Oct 2 Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories 2:00 PM UTC With a Friend like this, who needs enemies? 5:08 PM UTC I’ve fallen into Sora’s slippery slop 1:03 PM UTC I tried Amazon and Google’s new smart home gadgets, ask me anything! 3:06 PM UTC The quest for every Gap store playlist ever 4:52 PM UTC Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom 1:57 AM UTC Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved