# Microsofts Bing Chat Is Coming To Third Party Browsers Including On Mobile Devices

**Source**: https://techcrunch.com/2023/08/07/microsofts-bing-chat-is-coming-to-third-party-browsers-including-on-mobile-devices/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:51:02.808918+00:00

---

Microsoft&#039;s Bing Chat is coming to third-party browsers, including on mobile devices | TechCrunch TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps Disrupt 2025 Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech &amp; Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government &amp; Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media &amp; Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Crunchboard Contact Us Image Credits: Microsoft/OpenAI AI Microsoft&#8217;s Bing Chat is coming to third-party browsers, including on mobile devices Sarah Perez 8:02 AM PDT · August 7, 2023 In late July, Microsoft confirmed its ChatGPT-like Bing Chat was testing in third-party browsers like Chrome and Safari for select users after various reports had spotted the feature in action. Today, the company directly announced that Bing Chat would &#8220;soon&#8221; be available in third-party browsers, including both on the web and on mobile devices. The news indicates Microsoft aims to compete on AI across platforms besides its own, in addition to those places where Bing Chat is already available, like the Bing mobile app and Microsoft Edge web browser. It would also put the AI chatbot up against other browsers&#8217; built-in tools, like Google&#8217;s generative AI search features , available in the Google mobile app and Chrome browser. &#8220;This next step in the journey allows Bing to showcase the incredible value of summarized answers, image creation and more, to a broader array of people,&#8221; Microsoft explained in its announcement of the coming features, which celebrates the six-month anniversary of the AI-powered Bing. &#8220;You’ll get most of the great benefits of Bing and we’ll continue to optimize along the way to meet your needs across different browsers,&#8221; it read. However, the company cautioned that, while the Bing Chat experience would work in users&#8217; preferred web browsers, the &#8220;best&#8221; experience would be found in the Microsoft Edge browser. During tests, for example, users noticed that Bing Chat in Chrome only supported five messages per conversation, instead of the 30 available in Microsoft Edge. It was also limiting the character count to 2,000, instead of the 3,000 supported by Edge. Microsoft today hinted toward these limitations, adding that with Edge, users would &#8220;unlock longer conversations, chat history, and more Bing features built right into the browser.&#8221; In the blog post, the company also celebrated several other recently launched features, including multimodal visual search in Bing Chat &#8212; meaning the ability to search using both text and images &#8212; a feature Google first introduced back in 2021. Bing&#8217;s model, however, leverages Open AI to allow users to input images into the Chat and then prompt the chatbot with related questions. Techcrunch event Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss the 20th anniversary of TechCrunch, and a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. San Francisco | October 27-29, 2025 REGISTER NOW Microsoft additionally referenced the launch of Dark Mode for Bing Chat and the newly announced Bing Chat Enterprise , which includes commercial data protection for use inside organizations where sensitive data cannot leak out. A number of businesses have already banned employees from using consumer applications like ChatGPT due to data protection requirements, including Apple , Samsung , Walmart , Verizon and major banks , including Bank of America, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, Wells Fargo, and JPMorgan . The company also revealed a few milestones about Bing Chat to date, noting that it&#8217;s since seen over 1 billion chats and over 750 million images in the chatbot in addition to nine consecutive quarters of growth on Edge. An exact launch date for third-party browser support for Bing Chat was not provided, but the feature is said to be arriving soon. Microsoft&#8217;s Bing Chat comes to Chrome and Safari in tests for &#8216;select users&#8217; Topics AI , AI , Artificial Intelligence (AI) , Bing , bing chat , Microsoft Sarah Perez Consumer News Editor Sarah has worked as a reporter for TechCrunch since August 2011. She joined the company after having previously spent over three years at ReadWriteWeb. Prior to her work as a reporter, Sarah worked in I.T. across a number of industries, including banking, retail and software. You can contact or verify outreach from Sarah by emailing sarahp@techcrunch.com or via encrypted message at sarahperez.01 on Signal. View Bio October 27-29, 2025 San Francisco ONE-WEEK BUNDLE FLASH SALE Founder Bundle Offer: Land your investor and sharpen your pitch. Save 15% when you bring 4-9 founders. Investors Bundle Offer: Discover your next breakout startup. Save 20% when you bring 4-9 investors. Bundle offer ends October 3. Register Now Most Popular A new a16z report looks at which AI companies startups are actually paying for Dominic-Madori Davis Salesforce launches enterprise vibe-coding product, Agentforce Vibes Rebecca Szkutak AI recruiter Alex raises $17M to automate initial job interviews Marina Temkin Vibe-coding startup Anything nabs a $100M valuation after hitting $2M ARR in its first two weeks Marina Temkin Techcrunch event Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss the 20th anniversary of TechCrunch, and a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. San Francisco | October 27-29, 2025 REGISTER NOW The AI services transformation may be harder than VCs think Connie Loizos Famed roboticist says humanoid robot bubble is doomed to burst Connie Loizos Spotify to label AI music, filter spam and more in AI policy change Sarah Perez Loading the next article Error loading the next article X LinkedIn Facebook Instagram youTube Mastodon Threads Bluesky TechCrunch Staff Contact Us Advertise Crunchboard Jobs Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy RSS Terms of Use Code of Conduct H1-B Visa GPT Pulse Grok Steph Curry TechCrunch Disrupt Tech Layoffs ChatGPT © 2025 TechCrunch Media LLC.