# A Guide To What Teens Think Is Cool

**Source**: http://kottke.org/17/04/a-guide-to-what-teens-think-is-cool
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:40:43.037279+00:00

---

A guide to what teens think is cool KOTTKE DOT ORG KOTTKE DOT ORG MENU Member Login Home Membership Newsletter Goods Archive + Tags About/Contact dark mode light mode Advertise here with Carbon Ads Socials & More Newsletter RSS Feed Bluesky Mastodon This site is made possible by member support . 💞 Big thanks to Arcustech for hosting the site and offering amazing tech support. When you buy through links on kottke.org, I may earn an affiliate commission. Thanks for supporting the site! kottke.org. home of fine hypertext products since 1998. Beloved by 86.47% of the web. 🍔 &nbsp; 💀 &nbsp; 📸 &nbsp; 😭 &nbsp; 🕳️ &nbsp; 🤠 &nbsp; 🎬 &nbsp; 🥔 × close posted Apr 4 @ 01:39 PM by Jason Kottke &ensp;·&ensp; gift link A guide to what teens think is cool Google recently released a report about what US teenagers think is cool. The chart above is getting a bunch of attention on social media; teens aged 13-17 were asked to rank a bunch of brands according to how cool they think they are. Since the poll was commissioned by Google (and the results published by an internal marketing team ), it&#8217;s unsurprising that three Google brands (YouTube, Google, Chrome) are in the top 10. Other interesting data points: - Teens don&#8217;t know what Zara and Uniqlo are. Or Supreme. - Buzzfeed is only slightly cooler than Ford and Chevrolet, which are both cooler than HBO. Perhaps because HBO can&#8217;t get you to a party and you can&#8217;t make out in a Buzzfeed? - Kraft is cooler than Red Bull. - Whatsapp, TMZ, Vice, and Yahoo are all super uncool. - Twitter is cooler than Facebook, but Snapchat is much cooler than both. - The Wall Street Journal is the least cool thing in the teen universe. - This tweet is a good reminder not to take any of this too seriously. There&#8217;s also this curious sentence in the introduction about Generation Z : Unlike millennials, this group is ambitious, engaged, and feel like they can change the world. Ouch. In what universe is that even a remotely true or fair statement? Google Share