# Tom Brady

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/tom-brady/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:49:45.952266+00:00

---

Tom Brady - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: Tom Brady just asking questions Sept. 15, 2025 Gronk’s Guide to Partying (and Life) A more temperate Rob Gronkowski explains how a sense of fun defined both his football life and off-field exploits. By Adam Elder dating rumors July 10, 2025 Tom Brady and Sofia Vergara Are Having a Hot Euro Summer Hanging out on yachts in Ibiza, no less. By Emily Leibert relationships by haim July 10, 2025 Tom Brady and His Big, Fun, Rumor-Filled European Summer Everybody is in Europe, and nobody is dating. By Jason P. Frank yachts July 7, 2025 What If You Ran Into Tom Brady on Your Girls’ Trip? That was the unfortunate reality faced by Dakota Johnson and Kate Hudson last week. By Olivia Craighead bromance May 22, 2025 Are Tom Brady and Morgan Wallen Besties Now? The two bonded by golfing earlier this month. By Elizabeth Gulino celebrity May 7, 2025 Tom Brady Says Roast Was ‘Tough’ on His Kids He felt “a stake through the heart” when his kids shared their reaction with him. By Olivia Craighead celebrity couples Feb. 23, 2025 Is Tom Brady Back With Irina Shayk? The two have apparently rekindled their romance that ended a year ago. By Elizabeth Gulino super bowl Feb. 10, 2025 Why Would Tom Brady’s Watch Cost So Much? “Kim, there’s people that are dying.” By Danya Issawi exes Feb. 7, 2025 Actually, Tom Brady Is Totally Chill About Gisele’s New Baby He’s reposting Instagram quotes about “the secret to being loved.” By Emily Leibert encounter Jan. 5, 2025 How Nikki Glaser Became Toast of the Roast The comedian has been in the business for decades. But her set on the Tom Brady roast seems to have shifted something. By Gracie Hadland unretirement plan Nov. 14, 2024 Cameron Diaz Unretires From Acting for an Annie (2014) Reunion She picks up right where she left off in the new trailer with Jamie Foxx. By Rebecca Alter and Bethy Squires celebrity Oct. 29, 2024 Somebody Check on Tom Brady He’s posting through Gisele Bündchen’s pregnancy news. By Danielle Cohen and i’m getting older too Oct. 29, 2024 Yeah, Tom Brady Is Going Through It But who among us hasn’t listened to the Chicks’ cover of “Landslide” at a moment like this? By Justin Curto celebrity June 28, 2024 Bill Belichick Is How Many Years Older Than His Girlfriend? The rumored couple apparently bonded over the former cheerleader’s philosophy homework. By Tariro Mzezewa and Olivia Craighead celebrity June 17, 2024 Is Gisele Still Dating Her Jujitsu Instructor? After rumors of a split, the supermodel and her kids were spotted spending Father’s Day with her boyfriend, Joaquim Valente. By Emily Leibert celebrity May 14, 2024 Tom Brady Is Trying to ‘Be a Better Parent’ Post-Roast The former quarterback says he didn’t like how much the Netflix special “affected” his kids. By Emily Leibert celebrity May 12, 2024 Tom Brady Praised for Bare Minimum After a cringe-inducing Netflix roast, fans are celebrating the footballer for posting photos of the mothers of his children to Instagram. By Emily Leibert culture May 8, 2024 Netflix Edited Out Kim Kardashian Getting Booed The awkward moment was omitted from the streaming version of Tom Brady’s roast. By Tariro Mzezewa culture May 7, 2024 Gisele Wasn’t Impressed With the Tom Brady Roast A source claims she was “deeply disappointed” by the endless jokes about their divorce. By Tariro Mzezewa experiments May 6, 2024 Doing It Live Cuts Both Ways What lessons should Netflix take from its live Katt Williams special and Tom Brady roast? By Kathryn VanArendonk celebrity May 6, 2024 The Most Awkward Moments From Tom Brady’s Roast The roast was three hours long, and at least one of those hours was just Gisele jokes. By Olivia Craighead reverse roast May 6, 2024 Kim Kardashian Booed at Tom Brady Roast She came to diss the football player but ended up dissed by the crowd. By Zoe Guy celebrity May 3, 2024 Tom Brady and Jeff Bezos Had a Boys’ Night Out Not feeling a lot of FOMO about this one. By Olivia Craighead celebrity Mar. 31, 2024 Gisele Bündchen Must Really Love Jujitsu The supermodel was spotted yet again with her rumored boyfriend and jujitsu instructor in Miami. By Emily Leibert celebrity Mar. 25, 2024 Gisele Denies Cheating on Tom Brady “That is a lie,” she told the New York Times . By Olivia Craighead celebrity Mar. 6, 2024 Gisele Bündchen Is Feeling ‘So Blessed’ Post-Divorce The supermodel shared a few details about her “new season.” By Emily Leibert celebrity Feb. 26, 2024 It Really Seems Like Gisele Is Dating Her Jujitsu Instructor Rumor has it she and Joaquim Valente are going strong, and Tom Brady is adjusting to their new romance. By Danielle Cohen backstories Apr. 8, 2023 Inside 80 for Brady ’s Most Surreal and Guy Fieri–est Moments “[Marshawn and Rita] hit it off behind the camera and now they text each other, just to check in.” By Derek Lawrence relationship rumors Apr. 6, 2023 Reese Witherspoon Is Absolutely Not Dating Tom Brady According to their reps, they haven’t even met, okay? By Danielle Cohen fact check Mar. 22, 2023 Actually Gisele Loves Football She says she did not make Tom Brady choose between her and his other spouse, quarterbacking. By Claire Lampen celebrity Mar. 15, 2023 Gisele Bündchen and Her Jujitsu Instructor Are in Costa Rica Again Meanwhile, Tom Brady is adjusting to retirement. By Olivia Truffaut-Wong celebrity Feb. 28, 2023 Is This Really Tom Brady’s Plan to Win Gisele Back? The former quarterback is reportedly considering….comedy? By Tariro Mzezewa is this flirting? Feb. 6, 2023 Divorced Dad Experiments With Thirst Traps A newly retired Tom Brady is posting mirror selfies. By Claire Lampen vulture quiz Feb. 6, 2023 Can You Guess What Actually Happens in 80 for Brady ? 80 for Brady is one of the weirder comedies to arrive in theaters lately — so weird that describing it might make you think I am lying. By Jen Chaney please clap Feb. 2, 2023 Gisele Stays Winning She wishes her newly retired ex the best of luck in all his future endeavors [prayer-hands emoji]. By Claire Lampen finally Feb. 1, 2023 Do I Feel Sad for Tom Brady Now? Having lost everything to football, the quarterback is finally retiring for real. By Claire Lampen vulture sports! Feb. 1, 2023 Actor Tom Brady Retires From Other Career Just two days before the release of 80 for Brady. By Zoe Guy coming soon Jan. 20, 2023 Once and Future Oscar Winners Star in Tom Brady Fan-Fiction Film We’re getting Lily Tomlin her Academy Award one way or another. By Jason P. Frank games Jan. 17, 2023 Tom Brady Is a Rickety Old Man Still Chasing the Dragon He’s still solid at 45, but Monday night’s debacle in Dallas was hard to watch — and a sign of things to come. By Will Leitch culture Dec. 21, 2022 Tom Brady’s Christmas Plans Sure Sound Bleak He apparently plans to spend the holiday alone in a hotel room. By Tariro Mzezewa the law Nov. 17, 2022 Celebrity Crypto Ambassadors Get Caught in the FTX Crash Larry David, Tom Brady, Giselle Bündchen, Stephen Curry, and others are named in a class-action lawsuit. By Zoe Guy yikes Nov. 17, 2022 Gisele Bündchen and Tom Brady Named in Crypto Lawsuit A class-action suit has been filed against FTX and its celebrity ambassadors. By Olivia Truffaut-Wong crypto Nov. 16, 2022 All the Ways the FTX Implosion Is Shaking the Sports World The end of Sam Bankman-Fried’s empire has touched everyone from Tom Brady to the Miami Heat. By Benjamin Hart oh? Nov. 14, 2022 Gisele Went to Costa Rica With Her Jujitsu Instructor On what I can only hope is a flirty vacation. By Danielle Cohen divorce rumors Nov. 1, 2022 Gisele Bündchen and Tom Brady Are Officially Over Speaking on his podcast, Brady called the split “very amicable.” By Olivia Truffaut-Wong tremendous content Oct. 24, 2022 Tom Brady Texting Ron DeSantis Is Trump’s Nightmare Come True When it comes to humiliating Trump, Brady is truly the GOAT. By Margaret Hartmann typical Oct. 24, 2022 Tom Brady Is Buddies With Ron DeSantis? It appears the quarterback is texting through his rumored breakup. By Claire Lampen cut opinion pages Oct. 13, 2022 Good for Gisele The enemy of my enemy (Tom Brady) is also my friend. By Claire Lampen good job Sept. 20, 2022 Tom Brady Endorses a Shorter Workweek The quarterback will