# A Visual Walkthrough Of Deepseeks Multi Head Latent Attention Mla %Ef%B8%8F

**Source**: https://towardsai.net/p/artificial-intelligence/a-visual-walkthrough-of-deepseeks-multi-head-latent-attention-mla-%EF%B8%8F
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:59:47.056200+00:00

---

A Visual Walkthrough of DeepSeek’s Multi-Head Latent Attention (MLA) &#x1F9DF;‍&#x2642;️ | Towards AI Latest Trends Shop Latest Categories Archive Artificial Intelligence Fairness Careers Cloud Computing Computer Science Computer Vision Data Analysis Data Engineering Data Science Data Visualization Deep Learning DevOps Editorial Education Ethics Future Machine Learning Mathematics Natural Language Processing Neuroscience News Programming Research Robotics Self-driving Cars Software Engineering Statistics Web Scraping Sponsors Newsletter Company Subscribe For Authors About Contact Resources Editorial eBooks AI Jobs B2B Products LLM Book AI Community LLM Academy LLM Academy Name: Towards AI Legal Name: Towards AI, Inc. Description: Towards AI is the world's leading artificial intelligence (AI) and technology publication. Read by thought-leaders and decision-makers around the world. Phone Number: +1-650-246-9381 Email: pub@towardsai.net 228 Park Avenue South New York , NY 10003 United States Website: https://towardsai.net/ Publisher: https://towardsai.net/#publisher Diversity Policy: https://towardsai.net/about Ethics Policy: https://towardsai.net/about Masthead: https://towardsai.net/about Name: Towards AI Legal Name: Towards AI, Inc. Description: Towards AI is the world's leading artificial intelligence (AI) and technology publication. Founders: Roberto Iriondo , Website , Job Title: Co-founder and Advisor Works for: Towards AI, Inc. Follow Roberto: X , LinkedIn , GitHub , Google Scholar , Towards AI Profile , Medium , ML@CMU , FreeCodeCamp , Crunchbase , Bloomberg , Roberto Iriondo, Generative AI Lab , Generative AI Lab VeloxTrend Ultrarix Capital Partners Denis Piffaretti , Job Title: Co-founder Works for: Towards AI, Inc. Louie Peters , Job Title: Co-founder Works for: Towards AI, Inc. Louis-François Bouchard , Job Title: Co-founder Works for: Towards AI, Inc. Cover: Logo: Areas Served: Worldwide Alternate Name: Towards AI, Inc. Alternate Name: Towards AI Co. Alternate Name: towards ai Alternate Name: towardsai Alternate Name: towards.ai Alternate Name: tai Alternate Name: toward ai Alternate Name: toward.ai Alternate Name: Towards AI, Inc. Alternate Name: towardsai.net Alternate Name: pub.towardsai.net Follow us on: Facebook X LinkedIn Instagram Youtube Github Google My Business Google Search Google News Google Maps Discord Shop Towards AI, Medium Editorial Medium Flipboard Publication Feed Sponsors Sponsors Contribute 5 stars – based on 497 reviews Frequently Used, Contextual References TODO: Remember to copy unique IDs whenever it needs used. i.e., URL: 304b2e42315e Resources Our 15 AI experts built the most comprehensive, practical, 90+ lesson courses to master AI Engineering - we have pathways for any experience at Towards AI Academy . Cohorts still open - use COHORT10 for 10% off. Publication Home Publication Artificial Intelligence A Visual Walkthrough of DeepSeek’s Multi-Head Latent Attention (MLA) &#x1F9DF;‍&#x2642;️ Artificial Intelligence &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Latest &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Machine Learning A Visual Walkthrough of DeepSeek’s Multi-Head Latent Attention (MLA) &#x1F9DF;‍&#x2642;️ ifttt-user 3 likes June 20, 2024 Last Updated on June 23, 2024 by Editorial Team Author(s): JAIGANESAN Originally published on Towards AI . A Visual Walkthrough of DeepSeek’s Multi-Head Latent Attention (MLA) &#x1F9DF;‍&#x2642;️ Exploring Bottleneck in GPU Utilization and Multi-head Latent Attention Implementation in DeepSeekV2. Image by Vilius Kukanauskas from Pixabay In this article, we’ll be exploring two key topics. First, we’ll discuss and understand the bottleneck problems that transformer models, also known as Large Language Models ( LLMs ), encounter during training and inference. Then, we’ll delve into a specific bottleneck issue in LLM architectures regarding KV cache, and how DeepSeek’s innovative approach, Multi-Head Latent Attention , addresses this problem. Disclaimer &#x1F6D1;: This article is not sponsored or affiliated with DeepSeek in any way. The content is inspired by publicly available information. The topics we’ll be covering in this article are: &#x2728; The bottleneck problem in GPU processing &#x1FA84; Multi-Head Latent Attention (MLA) 1. The bottleneck problem in GPU processing: &#x1F988; In recent years, there has been a surge in research and investment in Graphics Processing Units (GPUs). In fact, when I wrote this article, I came across the news that NVIDIA had become the second most valuable public company, with a staggering valuation of $3 trillion . But why is that? The answer lies in the fact that AI models need to run lots of mathematical operations , and GPUs are instrumental in making that happen to run faster. They have become incredibly efficient at performing calculations, and, unsurprisingly, they’re in high demand. GPUs have become too fast. They can perform calculations at an incredible rate, measured in floating-point operations per second (FLOPs). But there’s an issue— the speed of computation has far outpaced the memory bandwidth (GB/s), which is the speed at which data is transferred between different memory areas in GPUs. This mismatch has created a bottleneck that slows down the entire process. To help illustrate the bottleneck problem, let’s take a look at images 1 and 2. Image 1: Source: nvidia.com Image 1 shows the specifications of NVIDIA’s A100 GPU. As you can see, this powerful GPU can perform an impressive 19.5 TFLOPs (tera floating-point operations) in FP32 mode. However, its GPU memory bandwidth is limited to around 2 TB/s. Though these two are two different things, there is a connection. This highlights a crucial point, the bottleneck isn’t always about how many operations we can perform, but rather how quickly we can transfer data between different parts of the GPU . If the number of data transfers increases with high memory the latency will also increase. * The size and quantity of tensors involved in our calculations play a significant role in this. For example, computing the same operation on the same tensor multiple times might be faster than computing the same operation on different tensors of the same size. This is because the GPU needs to move the tensors around, which can slow things down. So, our goal shouldn’t just be to optimize the number of operations (KV cache, MQA, GQA) we perform but also to minimize the memory access and transfers we need to make. Image 2 will help clarify these concepts and give you a better understanding of how these operations work. Image 2 illustrates how Attention operation happens in GPU. Image 2: Attention Operation in GPUs. Created by author Now that we’ve explored the bottleneck problem, it’s clear that it can significantly increase latency. To tackle this issue and reduce latency during inference, researchers have proposed various approaches, including flash attention, multi-query attention, grouped query attention, KV cache method, rolling buffer KV cache, and more. Even the recently popularized method, MAMBA, addresses this problem indirectly. Take a closer look at Image 1, and you’ll notice that the GPU memory is 80 GB HBM2e (High Bandwidth 2nd Generation enhanced). However, when training and inferencing large language models (which have grown exponentially in parameters in recent years, especially with the rise of LLM and multi-modal models ), this HBM memory can quickly become a limiting factor, creating a bottleneck in the process and increasing latency. 1.1 So, what bottleneck problem does DeepSeek address? &#x1F635;‍&#x1F4AB;&#x1F635; As we’re all aware, KV cache inference is a solution that helps reduce the computational load in the attention mechanism (The vanilla transformer — attention is all you need paper architecture). It works by caching tokens in Key and value to generate the next token. However, in real-life scenarios where we’re dealing with long sequences, the KV caches become extremely large and memory-intensive. This limits the maximum batch size and sequence length , creating a bottleneck . In an effort to solve this bottleneck and reduce latency, the researchers at DeepSeek came up with a new approach called Multi-Head Latent Attention . This new method aims to mitigate the bottleneck problem and speed up the inference process . 2. Multi-Head Latent Attention (MLA) &#x1F9DE;‍&#x2642;️&#x1F9DE;‍&#x2642;️ I assume you are familiar with self-attention and multi-head attention in large language models. If not, please familiarize yourself with these concepts. Large Language Model (LLM)&#x1F916;: In and Out Delving into the Architecture of LLM: Unraveling the Mechanics Behind Large Language Models like GPT, LLAMA, etc. pub.towardsai.net In simple terms, researchers have made a breakthrough with multi-head latent attention by reducing the space complexity, or memory usage, to decrease time complexity, ultimately leading to lower latency. I want to give a small description of what a Latent vector is. A latent vector represents an underlying or unobservable factor influencing or contributing to a model&#039;s observed data or outcome . In some models, like Mistral, the dimension of the model is set to 4096. This means that all vectors, layer outputs, and embedding dimensions will be the same size as the model dimension. However, researchers working on DeepSeek took a different approach. They reduced the model dimension to store the KV cache efficiently. For example, they shrunk the vector dimension from 4096 to 1024. This allows the KV cache to store in the 1024 dimension, while other layers still use the original model dimension. Let’s dive deeper into how this works, both mathematically and visually. Image 3: Multi-Head Latent Attention in DeepSeekv2[1] The architecture of multi-head latent attention is shown in Image 3. This architecture shows how the latent vector is created and how the hidden input is passed through the RoPE (Rotary Positional Embedding) module. 2.1 Low-Rank Projection Image 4