# Porn Sites Black Out For Sopa

**Source**: https://www.webpronews.com/porn-sites-black-out-for-sopa/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:23:57.971765+00:00

---

Porn Sites Black Out For SOPA WebProNews Advertise with Us 🔥Firehose Business AccountingToday AICxTrends AutomotivePro BizDevUpdate BusinessCommunicationTrends CallCenterPro CAOTrends CCOPro CEOTrends CFOTrends CloudWorkPro CMSPro COOUpdate CPOTrends CustomerExperienceNews DigitalWorkplaceTrends EmployeeExperiencePro ENTBusinessNews EnterpriseWebPro FinancePro HRProNews InsideOffice InternalCommsPro LocalSearchPro PayrollPro ProcurementPro ProductManagementPro RemoteWorkingTrends RiskManagementPro SAASPro SalesEnablementTrends SalesTechPro SmallBusinessNews SmallBusinessUpdate SmallSiteNews SmallWebBusiness WebProBusiness WebsiteNotes IT Management BigDataPro CDOPro CIOProNews CISOUpdate CloudPlatformPro CloudSecurityUpdate CSOPro CTOUpdate CybersecurityUpdate DataAnalystPro DatabaseProNews DevSecOpsPro EnterpriseITPro EnterpriseSecurity InfoSecPro ITManagementNews ITProNews LowCodeUpdate MultiCloudPro NetworkingFiles NetworkNews SecurityProNews SOCUpdate SysAdminNews Developer AIDeveloper AppDevNews DesignNews DevNews DevOpsUpdate DevSecurityPro DevWebPro KubernetesPro MobileDevPro ObservabilityTrends SoftwareEngineerNews Emerging Tech 5GRevolution AgenticAI AutoRevolution AITrends ChinaRevolutionUpdate CloudRevolutionUpdate CompliancePro CryptocurrencyPro EdgeComputingPro EdTechUpdate ElectricVehicleTrends EmergingTechUpdate FinTechUpdate GenAIPro HealthRevolution HealthcareITPro HiTechEdge IoTUpdate MachineLearningPro MobilityRevolutionUpdate RideShareRevolution RobotRevolutionPro SpaceRevolution TransportationRevolution VirtualRealityTrends Advertising &amp; Marketing AdvertisingDay AdTechPro AnalyticsPro AppProductPro B2BMarketingTrends BrandBuildingPro CDOUpdate CDPTrends CMOTrends CMSPro ContentMarketingNews CRMNews CROTrends DAMPro DataDrivenMarketingPro DemandGenPro DigitalAgencyPro DigitalExperiencePro DigitalMarketingNews DigitalTransformationTrends EmailMarketingToday EnterpriseCRMNews EnterpriseMarketingNews EnterpriseSalesNews FullStackMarketerNews InfluencerMarketingPro MarketingAI MarketingNews MarketingStrategiesPro MarTechPro MediaTransformationUpdate MOPSPro OmniChannelMarketer PodcastingPro ProgrammaticAdvertisingPro PublicRelationsPro RevOpsPro SalesNews SearchNews SEOProNews SocialMediaNews UGCTrends VideoMarketingPro Retail &amp; eCommerce B2BeCommerce CPGTrends DigitalCommerceNews DTCProNews EcommerceMarketing EcommerceTrends eCommNews EnterpriseCustomer EnterpriseECommerce FutureRetailNews LogisticsPro ManufacturingPro MarketplaceCommerce MobileCommercePro PaymentTrends RestaurantRevolution RetailConvergence RetailMarketingPro RetailPro RetailRevolution SharingEconomyTrends SubscriptionEconomyPro SupplyChainPro 🔥Firehose Browse Categories Business IT Management Developer Emerging Tech Advertising &amp; Marketing Retail &amp; eCommerce Home Contact Us Privacy Policy Advertise With Us Newsletter Signup Request Media Kit IT Management Porn Sites Black Out For SOPA With so many sites down today to protest SOPA and PIPA, it&#8217;s safe to assume that many internet denizens will turn to other recreational sites to fill the void (I&#8217;m looking at you, redditors). But don&#8217;t think that just because you&#8217;re browsing the porn tubes, that means you&#8217;re in a SOPA Blackout-free zone. In fact, [&hellip;] Porn Sites Black Out For SOPA Written by Josh Wolford Wednesday, January 18, 2012 With so many sites down today to protest SOPA and PIPA, it&#8217;s safe to assume that many internet denizens will turn to other recreational sites to fill the void (I&#8217;m looking at you, redditors). But don&#8217;t think that just because you&#8217;re browsing the porn tubes, that means you&#8217;re in a SOPA Blackout-free zone. In fact, many popular streaming porn tube sites have joined in the SOPA protest, and their participation ranges from blacked out landing pages to censored logos. PornHub has placed a &#8220;stop censorship&#8221; bar over their logo, reminding users that the site, like other tube sites, would struggle to exist under SOPA and PIPA: In fact, other tube sites in the extremely popular PornHub network participating in the protest too. This includes Tube8 and SpankWire: Xvideos and XNXX have gone to greater lengths in protest of the legislation. Upon visiting their sites, users are directed to a landing page that announces the blackout: SOPA and PIPA are laws that would lead to a censored internet, in the name of copyright protection. You may not have heard about them yet as the big medias are hardly covering the subject because they are all in favor of SOPA. This new set of laws was about the pass silently (less internet = more TV). It would allow copyright holders to shut down any site with user generated content (even just a little as it could be seen facilitating infringements), without due process, and create an American internet blacklist. You can then access the site, but with this warning message: Thank you for reading all this, you can continue to our site by clicking anywhere, this time&#8230; One of the most interesting SOPA protests comes from TBLOP, or The Big List Of Porn. TBLOP is exactly what it sounds like &#8211; a giant directory of some of the best tube sites, pic sites, blogs, aggregators, and porn torrents on the web. They have greyed out every site on their list that might not exist if SOPA and PIPA were to pass: TBLOP NEEDS YOUR HELP TO STOP SOPA &amp; PIPA! FREE PORN IS IN DANGER OF DISAPPEARING. This is because of two new bills being voted on in the USA, called SOPA and PIPA. If passed, these bills could block or ban most websites. See the list below? The faded sites may soon be gone forever. It may seem like a trivial thing &#8211; to put up these SOPA notices on porn sites. But just think how many daily visitors these sites have. Any little reference could spark further research into the topic &#8211; and knowledge is power. Of course, can you imagine the freakout if some of these porn sites would have shut down completely, not just participated in the protest with censor bars and landing pages? Since this was basically a warning shot, a &#8220;see what could happen&#8221; if you will, by all means, resume your previous activities. Subscribe for Updates Newsletter By signing up for our newsletter you agree to receive content related to ientry.com / webpronews.com and our affiliate partners. For additional information refer to our terms of service . Notice an error? Help us improve our content by reporting any issues you find. Request Correction Name * Company Email * Article URL Article Title Edit Request * Submit Request Get the WebProNews newsletter delivered to your inbox Get the free daily newsletter read by decision makers Subscribe Advertise with Us Ready to get started? Get our media kit Advertise with Us About Us WebProNews is a leading publisher of business and technology email newsletters and websites. Contact Us Reach our audience Advertising Client Library Newsletter Signup Publication Categories Advertising &amp; Marketing Business Developer Retail &amp; eCommerce Emerging Tech IT Management Advertise With Us Deliver your marketing message directly to decision makers. Get Started WebProNews is an iEntry Publication &copy;2025 iEntry, Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy | Legal | Contact Us | Login --> [forminator_form id="2543"]