# Hugging Out

**Source**: http://www.grantland.com/story/_/id/6790803/hugging-out
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:54:52.792428+00:00

---

&raquo; Hugging it Out Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous From Patty Hearst to David Stern ➤ Next Statis Pro Baseball: An Instruction Manual Claudette Barius/HBO Facebook Twitter Print Celebrities Hugging it Out A bicoastal e-mail debate on the end of Entourage by Chuck Klosterman and Molly Lambert on August 4, 2011 T he eighth and final season of HBO&#8217;s Entourage premieres Sunday night, much to the delight of all people who love the worst things about Hollywood, male friendship, and cross-marketing tequila. Molly Lambert and Chuck Klosterman were able to preview the new season on opposite coasts and proceeded to conduct the following e-mail discussion, most of which makes only slightly more sense than that string of episodes featuring the rapper Saigon. But &#8212; as always &#8212; everything works out nicely in the end &#133; Lambert What the hell is going on with this show? It&#8217;s like it suddenly developed sentience. They are addressing within the show every criticism you might have ever lobbed at it, finally attempting to deepen the friendships between the guys and their relationships with women. I don&#8217;t know why, but I still care, I really do. I&#8217;ve always loved Drama. He is a genuinely great fictional character, like a Shakespearean clown. I love the alliance between Drama and Turtle. They jockey for status, but then ultimately protect and don&#8217;t want to hurt each other. On The Sopranos it was a given that any of the crew, no matter how loyal, might turn on Tony if things got dire enough. On Entourage you get the sense that they really do care about preserving these friendships, because it&#8217;s not just business. I don&#8217;t think I realized how much I had actually invested in the friendships until I saw How To Make It In America , which is exactly the same show but with totally boring characters and even lower stakes involving Kid Cudi and jeans. Granted &#8220;will Medellin bomb?&#8221; is pretty low stakes for a fictional universe, but if we&#8217;ve accepted that we want these guys to do well, it seems like they&#8217;re finally questioning (a) what &#8220;doing well&#8221; in Hollywood means, and (b) whether these guys actually deserve to do well. Which is also what Mad Men is really about. Klosterman The fact that you use the word &#8220;care&#8221; is interesting to me. I know that people who make television shows (and people who talk about television shows) are always obsessed with whether or not the audience can (or should) care about specific characters, but that barely seems relevant here. To me, this show is mostly about everything that surrounds these people &#8212; what L.A. looks like, what kind of cars they drive, what specific anxieties people in Los Angeles are assumed to be obsessed with, what kind of music a rich person would think a cool person might listen to, etc. The guys are just the mechanical parts that make it into a TV show, because you can&#8217;t have a TV show without people talking about themselves. I&#8217;m not sure how much people really &#8220;care&#8221; about Vinnie Chase. I think if Vinnie Chase had died from a drug overdose in the finale of last season, the public reaction would been, &#8220;Wow, Entourage is suddenly compelling.&#8221; I can&#8217;t imagine the person who would have said, &#8220;Damn, I&#8217;m really going to miss the dude.&#8221; What I like about Entourage is that it defies the viewer to think about it as a fictional world. In the first episode of the new season, there&#8217;s a cameo by the star of a popular CBS sitcom, but this &#8220;star&#8221; is considered only mildly famous within the grand scheme of Hollywood. So there&#8217;s this fleeting moment when you don&#8217;t know if this person is playing himself, or he&#8217;s being introduced as a new character on Entourage . This type of weird sensation happens constantly. Whenever Vinnie is interested in a movie script, my immediate question is, &#8220;Does this sound like a movie that could actually exist? Is this the kind of career move a celebrity of Vinnie&#8217;s stature might make?&#8221; When Turtle pulls up alongside 50 Cent in his car, the only part of the interaction that&#8217;s intriguing is the degree to which that interaction actually resembles a random conversation between a famous rapper and the friend of a famous actor. To me, the reality of Turtle and Drama&#8217;s friendship is a secondary concern. Here are some things I&#8217;d be interested to get your opinion on: 1. You live in Los Angeles. People in England seem to love Entourage (in 2006, The Guardian named it the best show on television). So let&#8217;s pretend you have a very rich, very attractive, incredibly ambitious friend living in London who&#8217;s never been to L.A., and she decides she wants to move there to get involved with the film industry. She asks you, &#8220;On a scale of 1 to 10, how much will my life be like Entourage &#8220;? What would you tell her? 2. Is E a good person? 3. If you were asked to write a script for this show, what would be the premise of the episode? Lambert The most hilarious thing about this season and last is the idea that it would have taken Vince seven years of being an A-list (is Vince supposed to be A-list?) actor to develop a raging coke problem. And that the other dudes would care about his coke problem affecting his work and personal life, and not just be worried the money is going to run out. Vince is a non-thing. I&#8217;m never sure if we&#8217;re supposed to believe he&#8217;s a good actor. Do you think we are? The aspect of Hollywood that was underplayed before but seems to be coming up now with Scott Caan&#8217;s character is how much everybody in entertainment is always bullshitting each other. And that if you are naive enough to trust all the people who are like, &#8220;Of course I&#8217;m going to make sure your comeback goes perfectly,&#8221; you will be surprised when they abandon you if your comeback fails. Totally agree that the best thing about the show is when they have a famous person on and you&#8217;re not sure whether they&#8217;re meant to be playing themselves or a fictional version of themselves until they address them by name (like William Fichtner isn&#8217;t playing himself, but Andrew Dice Clay is). I&#8217;ve never been very interested in the materialist aspects of Entourage , even though it&#8217;s always been the same fantasy about having a million cars and a million women (and that it equivocates those two things as being the same). I gave up on the show for a few seasons because I was tired of how much they always won. No matter what went wrong, nothing bad or depressing ever actually happened to them. Every episode ended with high fives and snowboarding. That got boring and also felt like the show was taking place on another planet. It&#8217;s true that the reality of their friendships is always secondary to all the other bullshit on the show, but what I like about this season is it&#8217;s getting towards the idea that all they ultimately have is those friendships. They can&#8217;t afford to screw each other over, but they also don&#8217;t want to. I like that, for a show that is so superficial and portrays L.A. in a superficial way and emphasizes all of its worst aspects, it&#8217;s also about how lifelong friendships are not superficial, and how that is more complicated. To answer your questions &#133; 1. It depends what she&#8217;s trying to do. If she&#8217;s trying to be a cinematographer her life might be a 3 or 4 on the Entourage scale. If she&#8217;s trying to be an actress, more like a 10. Entourage is a pretty accurate reflection of agency culture, which does involve a lot of phone slamming, smoked glass, and beer pong. I don&#8217;t think I&#8217;ve ever seen them depict any of the boring bullshit that actually goes into moviemaking, but that&#8217;s not what the show is about. 2. E is not a good person. He is just surrounded by people who are even worse than he is. I buy that he&#8217;s smarter and more sensitive (sort of). 3. I did write a spec episode of Entourage ! When I first moved back. I rewrote it a billion times and got a lot of advice from people, but nobody told me the actual cynical truth about the only surefire way to break into Hollywood, no matter how good you are at anything: You have to know somebody. I&#8217;ll take this last moment to inform you that Entourage has 9 stars on IMDb . Klosterman It has always been my assumption that Vince is supposed to be a supercharismatic &#8220;eat the lens&#8221; type of performer who still has high-brow aspirations. I know he was modeled after Mark Walberg, but I initially though they were going for a Leo DiCaprio trajectory: Queens Boulevard being a composite Gilbert Grape / Basketball Diaries mainstream art house flick, followed by Aquaman (which is always portrayed as being some quasi- Titanic -level blockbuster), followed by Medellin (which is like what would have happened if The Beach had failed worse than it actually did), and then he somehow makes a Scorcese movie that everybody loves. Maybe not, though. The fact that everything always works out for everybody on Entourage is probably the single biggest complaint people have with this show, and it&#8217;s ultimately the reason this program is ridiculous. But there&#8217;s almost no way around this. I mean, the show is directly called &#8220;entourage,&#8221; and failures don&#8217;t have entourages. This is intended as aspirational TV. I do think it would have been interesting if the makers of Entourage had decided to make this final season totally dark and weird, with every episode ending negatively until the finale (where Vince would be bankrupt and wrecked and forced to move back to New York). Because if they did this &#8212; and if the four core characters still remained frien