# Cost Of Financing Us Deficits

**Source**: https://ritholtz.com/2020/12/cost-of-financing-us-deficits/
**Extracted**: 2025-09-30T23:28:54.918452+00:00

---

Cost of Financing US Deficits - The Big Picture --> Home Invest with Barry Speaking Contact MiB Podcast Cost of Financing US Deficits December 18, 2020 12:30pm by Barry Ritholtz Source: Peterson Institute for International Economics , &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; As the Congress continues to debate the details of a Covid rescue package, a brief reminder: Low interest rates makes it easier to pay off debts . This is what awaits the new administration that will begin governing in a little over a month. The facts about deficit financing should be front and center of the White House and Congress. Its the Debt servicing costs, stupid &#8212; not total debt. Consider in 2000, when the US federal debt was 34% of GDP, relatively close to its post-war low. By the end of 2020, the debt-to-GDP ratio will have nearly tripled to over 100% of GDP. At the same time, the cost of servicing this larger debt has fallen, relative to the size of the economy, because of the widespread fall in interest rates across advanced economies. As a share of GDP, the cost of servicing US debt has fallen since 2000, even though federal debt has increased. The Peterson Institute has observed: &#8220;This situation also creates more space for primary deficits (noninterest spending minus revenue) without resulting in an unlimited explosion of debt. Rather than focus on the size of US debt, policymakers should assess fiscal capacity in terms of real interest payments, ensuring they remain comfortably below 2 percent of GDP. By this measure, there is room for substantial additional fiscal support and needed public investments while maintaining a sustainable public debt.&#8221; (adapted from Jason Furman and Lawrence H. Summers’ working paper, &#8220;A Reconsideration of Fiscal Policy in the Era of Low Interest Rates ) I will be watching to see if this argument carries with the faux deficit hawks. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Previously : Can We Please Have an Honest Debate About Tax Policy? (October 2, 2017) Deficit Chicken Hawks vs Ronald Reagan (July 13, 2010) Politics &amp; Investing This content, which contains security-related opinions and/or information, is provided for informational purposes only and should not be relied upon in any manner as professional advice, or an endorsement of any practices, products or services. There can be no guarantees or assurances that the views expressed here will be applicable for any particular facts or circumstances, and should not be relied upon in any manner. You should consult your own advisers as to legal, business, tax, and other related matters concerning any investment. The commentary in this “post” (including any related blog, podcasts, videos, and social media) reflects the personal opinions, viewpoints, and analyses of the Ritholtz Wealth Management employees providing such comments, and should not be regarded the views of Ritholtz Wealth Management LLC. or its respective affiliates or as a description of advisory services provided by Ritholtz Wealth Management or performance returns of any Ritholtz Wealth Management Investments client. References to any securities or digital assets, or performance data, are for illustrative purposes only and do not constitute an investment recommendation or offer to provide investment advisory services. Charts and graphs provided within are for informational purposes solely and should not be relied upon when making any investment decision. Past performance is not indicative of future results. The content speaks only as of the date indicated. Any projections, estimates, forecasts, targets, prospects, and/or opinions expressed in these materials are subject to change without notice and may differ or be contrary to opinions expressed by others. The Compound Media, Inc., an affiliate of Ritholtz Wealth Management, receives payment from various entities for advertisements in affiliated podcasts, blogs and emails. Inclusion of such advertisements does not constitute or imply endorsement, sponsorship or recommendation thereof, or any affiliation therewith, by the Content Creator or by Ritholtz Wealth Management or any of its employees. Investments in securities involve the risk of loss. For additional advertisement disclaimers see here: https://www.ritholtzwealth.com/advertising-disclaimers Please see disclosures here: https://ritholtzwealth.com/blog-disclosures/ twitter facebook linkedin Posted Under Bonds/Interest Rates Politics Previous Post 10 Friday AM Reads Next Post Succinct Summation of Week&#8217;s Events for 12.18.20 About Barry Ritholtz &nbsp; Barry L. Ritholtz is co-founder, chairman, and chief investment officer of Ritholtz Wealth Management LLC. Launched in... Read More Say Hello It's here! Order now Disclosures Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Masters In Business Listen To My Podcast on iTunes Bloomberg Opinion See My Bloomberg Opinion Posts The Washington Post Read My Washington Posts Columns Get subscriber-only insights and news delivered by Barry daily. Leave this field empty if you're human: Quote of the Day He who is not a good servant will not be a good master. Plato Search for: Categories Categories Select Category 100 Things&nbsp;&nbsp;(1) 401(k)&nbsp;&nbsp;(71) Active Management&nbsp;&nbsp;(564) Alternatives/PE/Hedge Funds&nbsp;&nbsp;(300) Analysts&nbsp;&nbsp;(47) Apprenticed Investor&nbsp;&nbsp;(64) Asset Allocation&nbsp;&nbsp;(176) At the Money&nbsp;&nbsp;(87) Bad Math&nbsp;&nbsp;(78) Bailout Nation&nbsp;&nbsp;(31) Bailouts&nbsp;&nbsp;(179) Behavioral Finance/Psychology&nbsp;&nbsp;(1,568) Blog Spotlight&nbsp;&nbsp;(31) Bloomberg View&nbsp;&nbsp;(688) Bonds/Interest Rates&nbsp;&nbsp;(356) Books&nbsp;&nbsp;(275) Bubbles&nbsp;&nbsp;(7) BusinessWeek&nbsp;&nbsp;(4) Cars&nbsp;&nbsp;(486) Climate Change&nbsp;&nbsp;(47) Cognitive Foibles&nbsp;&nbsp;(133) Commodities&nbsp;&nbsp;(316) Company Specific&nbsp;&nbsp;(573) Consumer Spending&nbsp;&nbsp;(314) Contrary Indicators&nbsp;&nbsp;(83) Credit&nbsp;&nbsp;(592) Crony Capitalists&nbsp;&nbsp;(9) Currency&nbsp;&nbsp;(173) Current Affairs&nbsp;&nbsp;(195) Cycles&nbsp;&nbsp;(111) Data Analysis&nbsp;&nbsp;(1,080) Derivatives&nbsp;&nbsp;(272) Digital Media&nbsp;&nbsp;(894) Dividends&nbsp;&nbsp;(15) Earnings&nbsp;&nbsp;(206) Employment&nbsp;&nbsp;(488) Energy&nbsp;&nbsp;(232) ESG&nbsp;&nbsp;(26) ETFs&nbsp;&nbsp;(103) Favorite&nbsp;&nbsp;(1) Federal Reserve&nbsp;&nbsp;(772) Film&nbsp;&nbsp;(293) Food and Drink&nbsp;&nbsp;(39) Friday Night Jazz&nbsp;&nbsp;(118) Gold &amp; Precious Metals&nbsp;&nbsp;(39) How Not To Invest&nbsp;&nbsp;(51) Humor&nbsp;&nbsp;(301) Index/ETFs&nbsp;&nbsp;(147) Inflation&nbsp;&nbsp;(550) Information Theory&nbsp;&nbsp;(1) Intellectual Property&nbsp;&nbsp;(41) Investing&nbsp;&nbsp;(1,695) IPOs&nbsp;&nbsp;(16) Legal&nbsp;&nbsp;(261) Links&nbsp;&nbsp;(4,247) M&amp;A&nbsp;&nbsp;(77) Macro/Econ&nbsp;&nbsp;(2,233) Market History&nbsp;&nbsp;(2,060) Mathematics&nbsp;&nbsp;(63) Media&nbsp;&nbsp;(763) MiB&nbsp;&nbsp;(1,361) Music&nbsp;&nbsp;(612) Mutual Funds&nbsp;&nbsp;(46) Oblivious&nbsp;&nbsp;(6) Options&nbsp;&nbsp;(11) Pension Funds&nbsp;&nbsp;(9) Personal Finance&nbsp;&nbsp;(1,041) Philanthropy&nbsp;&nbsp;(30) Philosophy&nbsp;&nbsp;(217) Podcast&nbsp;&nbsp;(452) Politics&nbsp;&nbsp;(1,203) Quantitative&nbsp;&nbsp;(114) R&amp;D&nbsp;&nbsp;(3) Real Estate&nbsp;&nbsp;(853) Really, really bad calls&nbsp;&nbsp;(1,069) Regulation&nbsp;&nbsp;(121) Research&nbsp;&nbsp;(14) Retail&nbsp;&nbsp;(240) RR&amp;A&nbsp;&nbsp;(47) Rules&nbsp;&nbsp;(52) RWM&nbsp;&nbsp;(111) Science&nbsp;&nbsp;(423) Sentiment&nbsp;&nbsp;(74) Short Selling&nbsp;&nbsp;(61) Sports&nbsp;&nbsp;(68) Succinct Summation&nbsp;&nbsp;(440) Taxes and Policy&nbsp;&nbsp;(374) Technical Analysis&nbsp;&nbsp;(466) Technology&nbsp;&nbsp;(628) Television&nbsp;&nbsp;(211) Think Tank&nbsp;&nbsp;(1,345) Transports&nbsp;&nbsp;(5) Travel&nbsp;&nbsp;(90) Uncategorized&nbsp;&nbsp;(242) UnGuru&nbsp;&nbsp;(12) UnScience&nbsp;&nbsp;(30) Valuation&nbsp;&nbsp;(274) Venture Capital&nbsp;&nbsp;(129) Video&nbsp;&nbsp;(1,209) Wages &amp; Income&nbsp;&nbsp;(341) War/Defense&nbsp;&nbsp;(160) Washington Post&nbsp;&nbsp;(62) Wealth Management&nbsp;&nbsp;(8) Web/Tech&nbsp;&nbsp;(429) Weblogs&nbsp;&nbsp;(423) Weekend&nbsp;&nbsp;(764) Writing&nbsp;&nbsp;(15) Bailout Nation How Greed and Easy Money Corrupted Wall Street and Shook the World Economy Learn More... Archives Archives Select Month September 2025 &nbsp;(37) August 2025 &nbsp;(37) July 2025 &nbsp;(44) June 2025 &nbsp;(40) May 2025 &nbsp;(43) April 2025 &nbsp;(46) March 2025 &nbsp;(46) February 2025 &nbsp;(34) January 2025 &nbsp;(33) December 2024 &nbsp;(27) November 2024 &nbsp;(33) October 2024 &nbsp;(32) September 2024 &nbsp;(27) August 2024 &nbsp;(28) July 2024 &nbsp;(28) June 2024 &nbsp;(32) May 2024 &nbsp;(30) April 2024 &nbsp;(29) March 2024 &nbsp;(26) February 2024 &nbsp;(28) January 2024 &nbsp;(34) December 2023 &nbsp;(43) November 2023 &nbsp;(61) October 2023 &nbsp;(64) September 2023 &nbsp;(51) August 2023 &nbsp;(56) July 2023 &nbsp;(63) June 2023 &nbsp;(47) May 2023 &nbsp;(62) April 2023 &nbsp;(59) March 2023 &nbsp;(51) February 2023 &nbsp;(52) January 2023 &nbsp;(64) December 2022 &nbsp;(47) November 2022 &nbsp;(61) October 2022 &nbsp;(65) September 2022 &nbsp;(58) August 2022 &nbsp;(64) July 2022 &nbsp;(67) June 2022 &nbsp;(64) May 2022 &nbsp;(67) April 2022 &nbsp;(69) March 2022 &nbsp;(70) February 2022 &nbsp;(54) January 2022 &nbsp;(71) December 2021 &nbsp;(70) November 2021 &nbsp;(70) October 2021 &nbsp;(72) September 2021 &nbsp;(68) August 2021 &nbsp;(71) July 2021 &nbsp;(73) June 2021 &nbsp;(72) May 2021 &nbsp;(76) April 2021 &nbsp;(78) March 2021 &nbsp;(78) February 2021 &nbsp;(74) January 2021 &nbsp;(79) December 2020 &nbsp;(75) November 2020 &nbsp;(76) October 2020 &nbsp;(87) September 2020 &nbsp;(84) August 2020 &nbsp;(86) July 2020 &nbsp;(90) June 2020 &nbsp;(84) May 2020 &nbsp;(96) April 2020 &nbsp;(103) March 2020 &nbsp;(90) February 2020 &nbsp;(83) January 2020 &nbsp;(92) December 2019 &nbsp;(94) Novem