# Bill Clinton

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/bill-clinton/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:25:24.567805+00:00

---

Bill Clinton - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: Bill Clinton early and often July 28, 2025 Buttigieg Is Right: Democrats Must Reinvent Government After Trump He’s the first prominent Democratic leader to acknowledge that just going back to the status quo won’t work. By Ed Kilgore tremendous content July 2, 2025 Trump Turned ‘Lewinsky Room’ Into Oval Office Gift Shop The Clinton-scandal landmark has long been a staple of Trump’s White House tour. Now he’s using it to store MAGA merch. By Margaret Hartmann early and often July 1, 2025 Do Democrats Need or Want a Centrist ‘Project 2029’? A group of centrist wonks is planning to emulate what MAGA wonks did for a yet-to-be-identified Democratic candidate. By Ed Kilgore early and often Apr. 17, 2025 Grim Reaper Finally Arrives for AmeriCorps Never fulfilling its potential and suffering from Republican hostility, the Clinton signature national-service program was a sitting duck for DOGE. By Ed Kilgore celebrity Nov. 26, 2024 The Clintons Had an Awesome Time at the Eras Tour “I get it now,” Bill Clinton told Kelly Ripa. By Olivia Craighead 2024 dnc Aug. 21, 2024 No One Loves a Convention Like Bill Clinton The Man from Hope. The explainer-in-chief. No matter the decade, he is always a force. By Andrew Rice a truly terrific new york listing Apr. 8, 2024 The Clintons and Carl Bernstein Schmoozed Here Publisher Stephen Rubin’s living room has 17-foot-high ceilings and a lot of built-in shelves. By Adriane Quinlan stop the presses Mar. 29, 2024 Biden’s Star-Studded, Triple-President Radio City Unity Blowout Just please ignore the protesters, and Trump’s law-and-order stinkbomb ploy. By Shawn McCreesh obits Mar. 28, 2024 Joe Lieberman and the Center That Did Not Hold The longtime senator and Democratic vice-presidential candidate, who has died at 82, crossed party boundaries and left an uneven legacy. By Ed Kilgore the law Mar. 15, 2024 The Failure of DOJ’s Special Counsel System The recent record is dismal. Just handle these high-profile cases like any other. By Elie Honig the inside game Mar. 4, 2024 The Return of the Clintons Bill talks economics with Biden. Hillary gives pointers to Harris. The former First Couple is as deep in politics as they have been since Trump won. By Gabriel Debenedetti obits June 14, 2023 Robert Gottlieb, Editor of Beloved and Catch-22, Dead at 92 The list of writers he worked with looks like a survey of 20th-century literature. By Bethy Squires early and often Mar. 10, 2023 Biden’s Risky Plan to Sit Out the 2024 Culture War The president is betting that he can neutralize most hot-button cultural issues with silence. His Republican opponent may not let him. By Ed Kilgore obits Mar. 23, 2022 Madeleine Albright Has Died The first woman to serve as U.S. Secretary of State died on Wednesday at 84. By Danielle Cohen book excerpt Mar. 1, 2022 The Wild True Story of Stan Lee and the Dot-Com Disaster In the late ’90s, the Marvel legend decided to strike out on his own — with an alleged con man as his business partner. By Abraham Riesman a long talk Feb. 8, 2022 Chuck Klosterman Lived Through This In his book The Nineties , he tried to write about the decade as it felt at the time — at least to some people. By David Wallace-Wells politics Jan. 28, 2022 Nikki Haley’s Shameless Walk on the Trump Tightrope Her startling call for Biden to “step down” was clearly an attempt to atone for crossing Trump. But she may need her dignity someday. By Ed Kilgore that happened Jan. 14, 2022 The Time Clinton Took Over Obama’s White House Podium and Stayed Awhile As Bill Clinton tries to revive Joe Biden’s stalled agenda, the president should remember his predecessor can be an excellent — if overeager — asset. By Margaret Hartmann politics Dec. 27, 2021 Why Biden Wants You to Think He’s Running in 2024 Whether or not he actually plans to run again, there are many good reasons for the president to keep insisting that he’s seeking a second term. By Ed Kilgore politics Dec. 5, 2021 RIP Bob Dole, Last of the Greatest Generation Presidential Candidates Dole was always a bit out of step with his party and his country, which may be considered a compliment now. By Ed Kilgore politics Nov. 30, 2021 Clinton’s Misunderstood ‘Sister Soulja Moment’ Doesn’t Need a Revival When you understand the full context of Clinton’s 1992 remarks, calls for Biden to deliver his own challenge to Black activists make even less sense. By Ed Kilgore fact vs fiction Nov. 16, 2021 Fact-checking Impeachment ’s Final Act An expert analysis of the finale’s depiction of the Starr report’s release and political fallout and our characters’ post-impeachment fates. By Scott Tobias fact vs fiction Nov. 8, 2021 Fact-Checking Impeachment ’s ‘The Grand Jury’ An expert analysis of the sympathetic and not-so-sympathetic treatment afforded to the Starr investigation’s key witnesses. By Scott Tobias politics Nov. 8, 2021 Enough With the Tired ’90s Takes on Today’s Democrats Mark Penn and Andrew Stein are advising Biden to turn his back on decades of change within his party and his country. It won’t, and shouldn’t, work. By Ed Kilgore fact vs fiction Nov. 1, 2021 Fact-Checking Impeachment ’s ‘Stand by Your Man’ An expert analysis of the enduring details (and jokes) that came out of Clinton’s grand jury testimony, and that “vast right-wing conspiracy” thing. By Scott Tobias becoming bill Oct. 21, 2021 How Impeachment Transformed Clive Owen Into Bill Clinton “I have a memory of Clive in his full Clinton prosthetics chasing me down a hallway of the West Wing set because he was so excited.” By Dan Reilly hospitalization Oct. 14, 2021 Former President Bill Clinton Hospitalized for Non-COVID-Related Infection “He is on the mend, in good spirits.” By Alejandra Gularte immigration Oct. 13, 2021 Life Under ‘Extreme Hardship’ Inside one family’s decade-long ordeal with America’s cruelly absurd immigration laws. By Deborah Chasman centrist democrats Oct. 8, 2021 Most Centrist Democrats Aren’t Like Kyrsten Sinema Party unity is less of a problem for congressional Dems than their very thin margin for error. By Ed Kilgore fact vs fiction Oct. 6, 2021 Impeachment : Fact-checking Episode Five, ‘Do You Hear What I Hear?’ An expert analysis of Clinton’s testimony in the Jones case and the behind-the-scenes drama in Ken Starr’s office. By Scott Tobias fact vs fiction Sept. 29, 2021 Impeachment : Fact-checking Episode Four, ‘The Telephone Hour’ An expert analysis of the personal and legal implications of Linda Tripp’s taped calls with Monica Lewinsky. By Scott Tobias past is prologue Sept. 29, 2021 Biden May Bounce Back Like Other Presidents Have History shows that presidents usually get reelected unless they are unlucky, or, like Donald Trump, they work hard at alienating voters. By Ed Kilgore fact vs fiction Sept. 21, 2021 Fact-checking Impeachment Episode Three, ‘Not To Be Believed’ An expert analysis of everything from Matt Drudge’s dumpster diving to how Paula Jones really felt about that $700,000 settlement offer. By Scott Tobias fact vs fiction Sept. 14, 2021 Fact-checking Impeachment, Episode Two, ‘The President Kissed Me’ An expert analysis of everything from Clinton and Lewinsky’s first kiss to Linda Tripp’s Christmas obsession. By Scott Tobias impeachment: american crime story Sept. 9, 2021 A Cheat Sheet for Impeachment: American Crime Story In case you’re curious how accurate the series is to real-life events involving Bill Clinton, Monica Lewinsky, and Linda Tripp. By Mia Mercado past is prologue Aug. 23, 2021 Clinton and Biden Bookend the Era of the Swing Voter Differences in how the two men approached campaigning and governing, despite their similar ideologies, reflect a massive shift in the U.S. electorate. By Ed Kilgore 2022 midterms Aug. 20, 2021 Democrats Should (Privately) Write Off 2022 and Just Govern When the deal goes down on Biden’s agenda in Congress, vulnerable Democrats should not be given bragging rights for thwarting their own party. By Ed Kilgore politics Aug. 17, 2021 Biden’s Approval Ratings Slip Below 50 Percent for the First Time His worst is still better than Trump’s best, but for a president trying to defy the odds and retain Congress in the midterms, it’s not gre