# Elie Mystal

**Source**: https://www.thenation.com/authors/elie-mystal/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:08:11.700973+00:00

---

Elie Mystal | The Nation --> Log In Email * Password * Remember Me Forgot Your Password? Log In New to The Nation ? Subscribe Print subscriber? Activate your online access Skip to content Skip to footer Magazine Newsletters Subscribe Log In Search Subscribe Donate Magazine Latest Archive Podcasts Newsletters Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts The Nation About Events Contact Us Advertise Current Issue Elie Mystal Justice Correspondent & Columnist @ElieNYC Elie Mystal is The Nation ’s justice correspondent and a columnist. He is also an Alfred Knobler Fellow at the Type Media Center. He is the author of two books: the New York Times bestseller Allow Me to Retort: A Black Guy’s Guide to the Constitution and Bad Law: Ten Popular Laws That Are Ruining America , both published by The New Press. You can subscribe to his Nation newsletter “Elie v. U.S.” here . Clarence Thomas Admits That He’s Coming for Our Rights Clarence Thomas Admits That He’s Coming for Our Rights In a little-covered speech, the Supreme Court justice explained how he thinks the court should reverse rulings conservatives don’t like. Oct 2, 2025 / Elie Mystal Trump’s Slumlord Administration Is Gutting the Fair Housing Act Trump’s Slumlord Administration Is Gutting the Fair Housing Act There can’t be true desegregation without ending discrimination in housing—which is precisely why the administration is rolling back enforcement of the FHA. Sep 24, 2025 / Elie Mystal Ad Policy Threatening Vulnerable People Is No Way to Mourn Someone Who Was Murdered Threatening Vulnerable People Is No Way to Mourn Someone Who Was Murdered Those who had nothing to do with the violence against Charlie Kirk are being menaced—just like always. Sep 19, 2025 / Elie Mystal How to Canonize a White Supremacist How to Canonize a White Supremacist On the brutal murder of Charlie Kirk, the certain blowback, and this country’s raging gun problem. Sep 12, 2025 / Elie Mystal The Supreme Court Just Gave the OK to Racial Profiling The Supreme Court Just Gave the OK to Racial Profiling The court’s ruling allowing ICE to resume its indiscriminate roundups of LA’s Latino residents can only be described as one thing. Sep 8, 2025 / Elie Mystal Donald Trump Really Is the Biggest Loser Donald Trump Really Is the Biggest Loser In his weekly newsletter, Elie Mystal parses everything from Trump’s recent spate of legal losses to Tom Cruise’s running prowess. Sep 5, 2025 / Elie Mystal The Military Has Officially Entered the Deportation Business The Military Has Officially Entered the Deportation Business The administration’s decision to deploy military lawyers as immigration judges is terrible and illegal, but when has that ever stopped Trump? Sep 4, 2025 / Elie Mystal How Democrats Flubbed the Gerrymandering Arms Race How Democrats Flubbed the Gerrymandering Arms Race New York State is a case study in Democrats’ failure to understand the evolving political landscape. Aug 29, 2025 / Elie Mystal Flag Burning Is Constitutional—but the Supreme Court May Burn That Too Flag Burning Is Constitutional—but the Supreme Court May Burn That Too Trump’s flag-burning order is totally preposterous—and a total setup. Aug 27, 2025 / Elie Mystal On the Power of Small Acts of Noncompliance On the Power of Small Acts of Noncompliance At a moment when large-scale resistance can feel futile, there are other ways to oppose, engage, and fight back. Aug 18, 2025 / Column / Elie Mystal Go to archive page 1 1 Go to archive page 2 2 Go to archive page 3 3 &hellip; Go to archive page 54 54 Go to next archive page Next Ad Policy Ad Policy Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts OppArt Poetry Letters Magazine Current Issue Masthead Archive Subscription Services Reprints More About Us Contact Us Advertise Nation Events Nation Shop Nation Travels Nation Podcasts Newsletters Follow Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube RSS Founded by abolitionists in 1865, The Nation has long believed that independent journalism has the capacity to bring about a more democratic and equitable world. Donate Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility Statement Help Careers Nation Fund Privacy Manager x