# Bubble Trouble

**Source**: https://www.wheresyoured.at/bubble-trouble/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:55:52.338373+00:00

---

Bubble Trouble Home About Better Offline Log In Subscribe Sign up Sign in Home About Better Offline Sign up Log in Subscribe Bubble Trouble Edward Zitron Apr 4, 2024 16 min read As I previously warned , artificial intelligence companies are running out of data. A Wall Street Journal piece from this week has sounded the alarm that some believe AI models will run out of "high-quality text-based data" within the next two years in what an AI researcher called "a frontier research problem."&nbsp; Modern AI models are trained by feeding them "publicly-available" text from the internet, scraped from billions of websites (everything from Wikipedia to Tumblr , to Reddit ), which the model then uses to discern patterns and, in turn, answer questions based on the probability of an answer being correct. Theoretically, the more training data that these models receive, the more accurate their responses will be, or at least that's what the major AI companies would have you believe. Yet AI researcher Pablo Villalobos told the Journal that he believes that GPT-5 (OpenAI's next model) will require at least five times the training data of GPT-4. In layman's terms, these machines require tons of information to discern what the "right" answer to a prompt is, and "rightness" can only be derived from seeing lots of examples of what "right" looks like. While the internet may feel limitless, Villalobos told the Journal that only a tenth of the most-commonly-used web dataset ( the Common Crawl ) is actually "high quality" enough data for models. Yet I can find no clear definition of what "high-quality" even means, or proof that any of these companies are being picky with what they train their data on, only that they have an insatiable hunger for more data, relying instead on thousands of underpaid contractors ( with some abroad making less than $2 an hour , a growing human rights crisis in and of itself) to teach their models how to say and do the right thing when asked.&nbsp; In essence, the AI boom requires more high-quality data than currently exists to progress past the point we're currently at, which is one where the outputs of generative AI are deeply unreliable. The amount of data it needs is several multitudes more than currently exists at a time when algorithms are happily-promoting and encouraging AI-generated slop , and thousands of human journalists have lost their jobs , with others being forced to create generic search-engine-optimized slop. One (very) funny idea posed by the Journal's piece is that AI companies are creating their own "synthetic" data to train their models, a "computer-science version of inbreeding" that Jathan Sadowski calls Habsburg AI .&nbsp; This is, of course, a terrible idea. A research paper from last year found that feeding model-generated data to models creates "model collapse" — a "degenerative learning process where models start forgetting improbable events over time as the model becomes poisoned with its own projection of reality." The Curse of Recursion: Training on Generated Data Makes Models Forget (2023) - Ilia Shumailov , Zakhar Shumaylov , Yiren Zhao , Yarin Gal , Nicolas Papernot , Ross Anderson , https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.17493 AI models, when fed content from other AI models (or their own), begin to forget (for lack of a better word) the meaning and information derived from the original content, which two of the paper's authors describe as " absorbing the misunderstanding of the models that generated the data before them ."&nbsp; In far simpler terms, these models infer rules from the content they're fed, identifying meaning and conventions as a result based on the commonalities of how humans structure things like code or language. As generative AI does not "know" anything, when fed reams of content generated by other models, they begin learning rules based on content generated by a machine guessing at what it should be writing rather than communicating meaning, making it somewhere between useless and actively harmful as training data. Sidebar: I spoke with Zakhar Shumaylov, PhD Student at the Department of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge, and one of the authors of the original model collapse paper . He believes that model collapse is already happening, and training with this generated data compounds existent biases in a model and, unfortunately, errors. One interesting note he made was that human-made training data, by the nature of it being written by a human, includes errors, and models need to be robust to such errors. So what do we do if models are trained with content created without them? Do we introduce errors ourselves? How many errors are there, and how do we introduce them all? It's tough to express how deeply dangerous this is for AI. Models like ChatGPT and Claude are deeply dependent on training data to improve their outputs, and their very existence is actively impeding the creation of the very thing they need to survive. While publishers like Axel Springer have cut deals to license their companies' data to ChatGPT for training purposes , this money isn't flowing to the writers that create the content that OpenAI and Anthropic need to grow their models much further. It's also worth considering that these AI companies may already have already trained on this data. The Times sued OpenAI late last year for training itself on "millions" of articles , and I'd bet money that ChatGPT was trained on multiple Axel Springer publications along with anything else it could find publicly-available on the web.&nbsp; This is one of many near-impossible challenges for an AI industry that's yet to prove its necessity . While one could theoretically make bigger, more powerful chips (I'll get to that later), AI companies face a kafkaesque bind where they can't improve a tool for automating the creation of content without human beings creating more content than they've ever created before. Paying publishers to license their content doesn't actually fix the problem, because it doesn't increase the amount of content that they create, but rather helps line the pockets of executives and shareholders. Ironically, OpenAI's best hope for survival would be to fund as many news outlets as possible and directly incentivize them to do in-depth reporting, rather than proliferating a tech that unquestionably harms the media industry. These problems compound when generating visual media. The consistent hallucinations (IE: visual errors) you see in OpenAI's DALL-E (image) and Sora (video) products can only be improved (note that I didn't say "fixed") with a great deal more data, and there's much, much less of it online. "Publicly-available" video data ( which CTO Mira Murati said Sora is trained on ) heavily suggests sources like YouTube, which can include everything from a cute video of a dog to every trailer of every Avengers movie, and if OpenAI's desperation has led it to train its model on any Disney property, Disney's $15m-a-year legal chief will personally send OpenAI to Hell. Data desperation has led to a boom of synthetic data hype, including an incredible Fortune piece that suggests that you could train a facial recognition model to be less racist by feeding it generative pictures of "every ethnicity. " Cognitive scientist Abeba Birhane recently warned in WIRED that online datasets already fueled racial stereotypes and other biases in generative models, and that synthetic data will only exacerbate these problems by shoving the same biases back into the machine, citing a Stanford paper that found a 57% increase of synthetic content on mainstream websites between January 1, 2022 and May 1, 2023. Yet model collapse may not be limited to the tech industry, with an IDC report saying that 40% of insurers will use Synthetic Data in AI to "guarantee fairness " and "enhance AI accuracy." Healthcare executives are excited about generating synthetic data to train their datasets , doing their best to wave off the obvious privacy concerns of generating things based on personally identifiable information, and the Department of Homeland Security is awarding contracts for those who can generate synthetic data to prepare for things like cybersecurity risks. There is, of course, one blatantly obvious problem: generative AI models are prone to hallucinations when using human data. How does synthetic data, created by the very models that need to improve, improve the situation? What happens when the majority of a dataset is synthetic, and what if that synthetic data has within it some sort of unseen bias, or problem, or outright falsehood? Are you seriously telling me that the solution to models giving the wrong answer to questions is to feed them more information from models with the same problem? Are you fucking kidding me? I don't care that there are allegedly ways to make smaller models trained on limited synthetic datasets . That doesn't fix the overall problem that we are running out of data to feed the models, and that the solution in many cases is to use the broken tool to make more data. I am, of course, conflating two problems — the deliberate creation of synthetic data by AI companies and AI-generated content filling the internet with synthetic data that models are then trained on. Yet the end result is the same — forcefully teaching autocomplete typos in the hopes that it'll be able to work out how to write America's next great novel. And as I hinted above, this isn't the only existential threat facing AI. Hey, real quick, the latest episode of Better Offline is a real banger. I sat down with Molly White to talk about why Wikipedia is so important, how it's kept its credibility, and why you should become a Wikipedia editor. You can listen to it on Apple Podcasts , Spotify , Google Podcasts , or you can plug the RSS feed in wherever you need it to. Cloud Control I've been hesitant to outright say that we're in an artificial intelligence bubble, or at least I was until I read that Microsoft an