# Divorce Rage Ex Husband Anger.Html

**Source**: https://slate.com/life/2025/02/divorce-rage-ex-husband-anger.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:23:04.462232+00:00

---

I’m over my divorce. Can I stay mad about it? Advertisement Advertisement Skip to the content Slate Shop Games Newsletters Sign In Account Activating this button will toggle the display of additional content Account Sign out Slate homepage News &amp; Politics Culture Technology Business Life Advice Podcasts Menu Open menu Close menu Menu News &amp; Politics Culture Technology Business Life Advice Podcasts Search Activating this button will toggle the display of additional content Light Dark Auto Subscribe Slate Shop Games Newsletters Sign in Account Sign out Slate homepage Account * Respect for Creatures Large and Small Submit search Enter query Activating this button will toggle the display of additional content Light Dark Auto Relationships Post-Divorce, Am I Allowed to Just Live Enraged? Notes on how to live with anger without letting it consume you. Advice by Scaachi Koul Feb 14, 2025 5:45 AM Illustration by Slate. Photos by Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Now That You’ve Left is a new Slate column from noted ex-wife Scaachi Koul, helping readers navigate all the big quandaries and questions that come after separation and divorce. Submit your questions here or to scaachi.koul@slate.com . Now That I’ve Left: When people say that love is the other side of hate, they aren’t kidding. I don’t think I truly knew what hate was until I got divorced. It took a year post-split for the anger to even start to ebb, and another for the PTSD to ease off its hair trigger. I still have lingering autoimmune issues from the stress . I raged with the entirety of my raw, betrayed, divorced-on heart. It was one of the worst periods of my entire life. But I also think that rage protected me. It kept my head clear when my ex told friends the divorce was “mutual,” and it sustained me through a series of unwelcome discoveries that filled in the blanks on his sudden departure. I also remember how that rage ruined my sleep, ravaged my GI system, and had me weighing the merits of prison vs. revenge. I remember multiple people (usually men) advising me to just let it go. Forgive him. Forget him. People with undisrupted lives love to tell you that anger is a hot coal burning in your hand. But what’s a bit of smoking rock if you’re already on fire? So here’s my question: Is it stupid to refuse to forgive someone? If I’ve forgotten (and I mostly have, minus those rare instances where I encounter a divorce column), is that enough? If I’ve forgiven pretty much everyone else in my life, is it OK to be a hater in this one, rare instance? Also: Why does it feel like I need permission to sustain a private long-term grudge? —Hot Hands Dear Hot Hands, I started losing my hair when I got separated. First it was just extra strands here and there, a handful in the shower. I thought I was using the wrong shampoo. But then my nails peeled and cracked, I got canker sores and burst blood vessels in my eyes. My grays came in seemingly overnight, thick bands of silver from both of my temples. I lost my appetite entirely, my blood pressure skyrocketed, and a nurse once took my pulse and said, impressed, “Well, if this is right, you should be dead!” Sometimes, you’re so angry that it starts to seep into your blood and your bones and, oop , will you look at that, you’re on your second ulcer and your third Klonopin. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement No one understands anger like a woman once divorced. You’ll always be able to find a man who tells you to release your rage, to smile more, to not be the bitter ex-wife. It’s bullshit: I know the bitterness saved you. The rage is the only thing that gets you out, and it’s the only thing that inures you to the shame and guilt and anxiety associated with a divorce. You are entitled to it. But it sounds like maybe you’re out of the immediate shadow of your split, and moving into that heady secondary period of learning how to have a life again. I don’t think you’re writing in just to be told whether you should or can be angry. It sounds like maybe you’d like a reprieve from it too. Maybe now, you’re learning the difference between rage and anger. Rage can only be temporary, a few moments of true fury to activate you. But anger? Baby, you can be angry for the rest of your beautiful little life. Advertisement I’ll never tell you not to be mad. It’s bad advice, but it’s also advice that’s impossible to follow: If you’re still angry, hearing a chorus of people tell you to let go isn’t going to calm you down. It sounds like you’ve rebuilt your life from the embers of a lot of harm done against you. I’m angry for you. But anger is exhausting, and your body has been telling you that for a while now. Advertisement Perhaps what you need is a bit more curiosity about what your anger is telling you and what it’s hiding from you. Anger is fun, but it’s only ever a filter. It kept you company and it kept you safe. Anger offered you a simple solution to a complex problem, it allowed you to feel righteous, and it was your friend. But underneath, you sound embattled, embittered, and deeply, deeply afraid of someone else doing this to you again. It sounds a little like you’re still fighting a battle that you just don’t need to have anymore. You’re free, you know? You can live like it. Have you ever read Gregory, the Terrible Eater ? It was my favorite book as a kid, and forgive me because the plot doesn’t make sense: Gregory, unlike the other goats, wants to eat human food instead of the landfill detritus his mother serves up for him. So they compromise; if he eats a square of wax paper or a tin can, he can have some orange juice and scrambled eggs. They add shoelaces to his spaghetti. He learns he can have it all, that variety will keep him healthy, that he doesn’t have to compromise what he wants for what he must have. (Was this a book instructing children to eat garbage? Leave me alone.) Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Related From Slate Delia Cai Help! I Made a Deal With My Girlfriend When We Recently Moved in Together. She’s Already Trying to Break It. Read More The point is that anger can also work in concert with other feelings. If you feel like you still need to be mad, then go for it, but surely there are some other emotional experiences you can add to the mix. It isn’t that you have to stop being angry altogether, but that you need to find ways to fuse it with something else. Can you be angry and productive? Angry and rest-filled? Angry and funny? Angry and protective? Angry and loyal? Is your anger offering you safety right now, or does it serve to alienate you from other people? You don’t have to date or seek a second husband, now or ever, but we’re on this ugly little planet in order to connect with people. As long as you’re still able to do that, your anger is fully in check. My fury started to dissipate when I started to do something with it. I wrote more, I made new friends, I made better friends, I read books, I went to Pilates, I volunteered, I donated blood, I bought groceries for a neighbor, I went for two, three, four-hour walks. Place your anger somewhere. Put it down. Trust that you can pick it up when and if you want to—like if your ex starts fucking with you again, or when you read a little advice column like this. Don’t lug it around like a broken printer that you don’t know how to dispose of; treat it like a weighted blanket, something designed for comfort when necessary, but not something you should be carrying around “just in case.” It’s heavy, and you’re tired. Advertisement Popular in Life This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Barron Trump Is 6’7”. He Is 19. He Is an NYU Kid. He Certainly Is Not This. Military Social Media Feels So Surreal Right Now This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Beer Is Officially on the Decline in America. No One Saw the Real Culprit Coming. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only The Myth of the “Refrigerator Mother” Set Autism Research Back for Decades. Here We Are Again. I spent a lot of time in my divorce trying to reassure other people I wasn’t angry. I didn’t want to seem like a bitter ex-wife (but I was!) and I didn’t want to hurt my ex’s reputation (except that I did!). All of this obfuscation of my own truths, private or public, only made me angrier. No one is going to give you permission to feel your feelings. You do not need permission to hate your ex-husband, certainly not from anyone other than yourself. But are these the feelings you want to have? Do they make you feel safe, or do they actually keep you safe? Advertisement My hair grew back, by the way. My nails did too. My blood pressure is normal (except for when I get mad, which is still quite often) and my pulse is no longer extraterrestrial. Sometimes I pass a man on the street who looks like a person I used to love and I feel a rush of indignation, but it always passes because I let it. My gray hairs remain gray, a reminder of how I saved myself through sheer force of will, but my anger has dissipated. All these changes occurred without me forgiving or forgetting. You don’t have to do either of those things to soothe your own burns. You can be angry without feeling like you’re on fire. —Scaachi Get the best of news and politics Sign up for Slate’s evening newsletter. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the The Slatest newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms . Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Dating and Relationships Romance Divorce Now That You&#x27;ve Left Advertisement Advertisement About A