# Deficits Rising Congressional Budget Office Ceo Debate

**Source**: https://www.vox.com/2018/4/10/17215440/deficits-rising-congressional-budget-office-ceo-debate
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:56:40.520846+00:00

---

CBO report: GOP tax plan leads to deficit spike. But do deficits even matter? | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo Deficits are rising. What’s to blame? Does it even matter? Free speech needs fearless journalism Free speech is endangered; unbiased and trustworthy news is elusive. In a time of noise, confusion, and spin, we’re committed to clarity, truth, and depth — even when it’s hard. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join now Politics Deficits are rising. What’s to blame? Does it even matter? Trump’s tax cuts boosted the deficit, but they’re not the main cause. by Dylan Matthews Apr 10, 2018, 3:00 PM UTC Share Gift Dylan Matthews is a senior correspondent and head writer for Vox’s Future Perfect section and has worked at Vox since 2014. He is particularly interested in global health and pandemic prevention, anti-poverty efforts, economic policy and theory, and conflicts about the right way to do philanthropy. On Monday, the Congressional Budget Office released its latest budget projections , predicting how much the US will tax and spend over the next 10 years. The headline finding is rough: As a result of recent policy changes, primarily the Trump administration&rsquo;s tax reforms, deficits are going to be about $1.85 trillion bigger over 10 years than previously projected, a 17.5 percent increase above what they&rsquo;d be without the law. If the law&rsquo;s cuts were made permanent, then the deficit would instead add another $722 billion, for a total cost of about $2.6 trillion over 10 years. The data gives new relevance to a debate that&rsquo;s been simmering among policy-minded economists for weeks, about how serious a problem the US federal debt is and about whether the best way to tackle it is by attempting to undo the Bush and Trump tax cuts, or by taking a run at cutting Social Security and Medicare substantially. A group of conservative economists , including veterans of the Reagan, Bush I, and Bush II administrations, took to the Washington Post to make a version of the latter argument, calling the tax bill a &ldquo;good first step&rdquo; and &ldquo;not by itself a budget buster.&rdquo; The Hoover Institution&rsquo;s Michael Boskin (also chair of the Council of Economic Advisers under Bush I), John Cochrane, John Cogan, George Shultz (also Nixon&rsquo;s Treasury secretary and Reagan&rsquo;s secretary of state), and John Taylor (who served under both Bushes) argued that any deal to reduce the long-run deficit must focus on cutting &ldquo;entitlements&rdquo;: Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and veterans&rsquo; health care, principally. A group of liberal economists from the Clinton and Obama administrations issued a reply, acknowledging that a debt crisis could be coming, but arguing that the biggest cause is a lack of tax revenue. &ldquo;There is some room for additional spending reductions in [entitlements], but not to an extent large enough to solve the long-run debt problem,&rdquo; wrote Martin Neil Baily, Jason Furman, Alan Krueger, Laura Tyson, and Janet Yellen, all former Democratic chairs of the Council of Economic Advisers and, in Yellen&rsquo;s case, the immediate past Fed chair. But a growing number of left-ier economists think even that stance concedes too much, that the economy could still use a boost from federal spending, and that the conditions when a deficit hurts economic growth just don&rsquo;t obtain in America in 2018. Under this perspective, the tax cuts might have been wasteful, or harmful because they encourage income inequality, but the deficits they create aren&rsquo;t a serious problem at all. Nor is increasing spending on Social Security and Medicare as the baby boomers age. The basic facts of the deficit While the tax bill made the deficit considerably larger, the CBO report is clear that the US would have seen large and growing deficits even without it. Since the last surpluses of the late Clinton administration, Congress has passed and, with some exceptions for the rich, made permanent two rounds of large tax cuts (in 2001 and 2003). It has financed two large-scale wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. It endured the financial crisis and recession, which necessitated massive fiscal stimulus, increased the cost of safety net programs that saw greater usage, and reduced tax revenue as incomes fell. As this classic 2013 chart from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities shows, the Bush tax cuts, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the economic downturn accounted for basically all of the deficit by Obama&rsquo;s second term in office, with the Bush tax cuts driving the lion&rsquo;s share: Center on Budget and Policy Priorities It is no longer 2013, and spending increases approved under both Trump and Obama, as well as Trump&rsquo;s tax cuts, have together expanded the deficit beyond what the above projections show. But it nonetheless functions as an important account of how we got to this point. This analysis suggests a very obvious answer to the deficit problem (if it even is a problem, about which more in a second): raise more revenue. The deficits are overwhelmingly driven by sharp reductions in revenue caused by Bush&rsquo;s and Trump&rsquo;s tax cuts, as well as past spending binges (principally the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan) that need to be paid off. Either way, the natural response is to raise taxes and bring in more money. Just returning to the Clinton-era tax code would get you most of the way there. That&rsquo;s the main conclusion of the group of Democratic economists. The disagreement: how to handle rising health care costs and population aging Congressional Budget Office The problem, from the point of view of deficit hawks, is that future deficits are likely to be driven substantially by factors other than the tax cuts and wars. America is an aging country, which means that programs like Social Security and Medicare, which mostly serve the elderly, as well as programs like Medicaid that disproportionately serve the elderly, are likely to grow in size, relative to the nation&rsquo;s economy. And the whole suite of government health programs, from Medicare and Medicaid to veterans&rsquo; health care to the Obamacare exchange subsidies, are likely to grow more expensive because the cost of health care has, in recent years, grown faster than inflation. Congressional Budget Office The latest CBO report finds that Social Security&rsquo;s cost, as a share of the economy, will grow from 4.9 percent to 6 percent over the next 10 years; the cost of major health programs (Medicare, Medicaid, the Children&rsquo;s Health Insurance Program, and Obamacare subsidies) will grow from 5.3 percent to 6.6 percent. Offsetting that increased cost would require 2.4 percent of GDP worth of new revenue, or $722 billion in 2028 alone. That&rsquo;s more than double the annual cost of the Trump tax cuts in their first few years, before major provisions start expiring. To conservatives, this means one thing: You have to cut entitlement programs, principally Social Security and Medicare. In practice, those programs are immensely popular, and Republican politicians typically default to targeting less universally beloved programs directed more toward the poor (like Medicaid and food stamps), but Social Security and Medicare, as the largest entitlements, have to be targeted for cuts if the goal is to balance the budget. &ldquo;Taxes alone cannot solve our budget problem,&rdquo; the Hoover economists write. &ldquo;Funding programs as they are currently structured will require high taxes for all income levels, taxes that would sharply reduce economic opportunity and growth, which in turn will make funding entitlements that much harder.&rdquo; To liberals who are nonetheless concerned about the deficit, the diagnosis differs. Social Security and Medicare are guarantees we&rsquo;ve made to seniors, and on health care, the government should be doing more, not less, to cover people. Sure, there might be savings to be had by changing how much doctors and other providers are paid, or bargaining for better prescription drug prices, but any spending cuts should be balanced, or swamped, by revenue increases necessary to pay for an aging population. The Democratic economists write that Social Security needs &ldquo;only modest reforms to restore its 75-year solvency, and these should include adjustments in both spending and revenue,&rdquo; and that Medicare should focus on &ldquo;reforms to payments and reformed benefit structures&rdquo; rather than reducing access to care. Above all, these changes have to be paired with tax increases of a scale capable of handling rising health care costs and an aging nation. The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities&rsquo; Paul Van de Water argues that the CBO report is a cause for &ldquo;concern, not alarm.&rdquo; He notes that the report finds that in 2019, federal revenues will drop to 16.5 percent of GDP, &ldquo;well below their 40-year average of 17.4 percent. Restoring the federal revenue base should therefore be the major goal of fiscal policy in the next few years.&rdquo; Should we be worrying about deficits at all? Congressional Budget Office Van de Water also notes that &ldquo;today&rsquo;s low real interest rates justify a higher debt-to-GDP ratio than was appropriate when the government faced much higher borrowing costs.&rdquo; He has a point. Interest rates on government debt are at historic lows, and have been for several years now. That suggests that unlike in the 1980s and &rsquo;90s, when rates spiked 