# Open Source Misses The Point.Html

**Source**: https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/open-source-misses-the-point.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:57:16.833687+00:00

---

Why Open Source Misses the Point of Free Software - GNU Project - Free Software Foundation Skip to main text Free Software Supporter : JOIN&nbsp;THE&nbsp;FSF GNU Operating System Supported by the Free Software Foundation Site navigation Skip ABOUT&nbsp;GNU = PHILOSOPHY = LICENSES EDUCATION SOFTWARE DISTROS DOCS MALWARE HELP&nbsp;GNU AUDIO&nbsp;&amp;&nbsp;VIDEO GNU&nbsp;ART FUN GNU'S&nbsp;WHO? SOFTWARE&nbsp;DIRECTORY HARDWARE SITEMAP &nbsp;/ Philosophy &nbsp;/ Essays&nbsp;&amp;&nbsp;articles &nbsp;/ About&nbsp;free&nbsp;software &nbsp;/ Free&nbsp;software&nbsp;&amp;&nbsp;open&nbsp;source &nbsp;/ Why Open Source Misses the Point of Free Software by Richard Stallman The terms &ldquo;free software&rdquo; and &ldquo;open source&rdquo; stand for almost the same range of programs. However, they say deeply different things about those programs, based on different values. The free software movement campaigns for freedom for the users of computing; it is a movement for freedom and justice. By contrast, the open source idea values mainly practical advantage and does not campaign for principles. This is why we do not agree with open source, and do not use that term. When we call software &ldquo;free,&rdquo; we mean that it respects the users' essential freedoms : the freedom to run it, to study and change it, and to redistribute copies with or without changes. This is a matter of freedom, not price, so think of &ldquo;free speech,&rdquo; not &ldquo;free beer.&rdquo; These freedoms are vitally important. They are essential, not just for the individual users' sake, but for society as a whole because they promote social solidarity&mdash;that is, sharing and cooperation. They become even more important as our culture and life activities are increasingly digitized. In a world of digital sounds, images, and words, free software becomes increasingly essential for freedom in general. Tens of millions of people around the world now use free software; the public schools of some regions of India and Spain now teach all students to use the free GNU/Linux operating system . Most of these users, however, have never heard of the ethical reasons for which we developed this system and built the free software community, because nowadays this system and community are more often spoken of as &ldquo;open source,&rdquo; attributing them to a different philosophy in which these freedoms are hardly mentioned. The free software movement has campaigned for computer users' freedom since 1983. In 1984 we launched the development of the free operating system GNU, so that we could avoid the nonfree operating systems that deny freedom to their users. During the 1980s, we developed most of the essential components of the system and designed the GNU General Public License (GNU GPL) to release them under&mdash;a license designed specifically to protect freedom for all users of a program. Not all of the users and developers of free software agreed with the goals of the free software movement. In 1998, a part of the free software community splintered off and began campaigning in the name of &ldquo;open source.&rdquo; The term was originally proposed to avoid a possible misunderstanding of the term &ldquo;free software,&rdquo; but it soon became associated with philosophical views quite different from those of the free software movement. Some of the supporters of open source considered the term a &ldquo;marketing campaign for free software,&rdquo; which would appeal to business executives by highlighting the software's practical benefits, while not raising issues of right and wrong that they might not like to hear. Other supporters flatly rejected the free software movement's ethical and social values. Whichever their views, when campaigning for open source, they neither cited nor advocated those values. The term &ldquo;open source&rdquo; quickly became associated with ideas and arguments based only on practical values, such as making or having powerful, reliable software. Most of the supporters of open source have come to it since then, and they make the same association. Most discussion of &ldquo;open source&rdquo; pays no attention to right and wrong, only to popularity and success; here's a typical example . A minority of supporters of open source do nowadays say freedom is part of the issue, but they are not very visible among the many that don't. The two now describe almost the same category of software, but they stand for views based on fundamentally different values. For the free software movement, free software is an ethical imperative, essential respect for the users' freedom. By contrast, the philosophy of open source considers issues in terms of how to make software &ldquo;better&rdquo;&mdash;in a practical sense only. It says that nonfree software is an inferior solution to the practical problem at hand. For the free software movement, however, nonfree software is a social problem, and the solution is to stop using it and move to free software. &ldquo;Free software.&rdquo; &ldquo;Open source.&rdquo; If it's the same software ( or nearly so ), does it matter which name you use? Yes, because different words convey different ideas. While a free program by any other name would give you the same freedom today, establishing freedom in a lasting way depends above all on teaching people to value freedom. If you want to help do this, it is essential to speak of &ldquo;free software.&rdquo; We in the free software movement don't think of the open source camp as an enemy; the enemy is proprietary (nonfree) software. But we want people to know we stand for freedom, so we do not accept being mislabeled as open source supporters. What we advocate is not &ldquo;open source,&rdquo; and what we oppose is not &ldquo;closed source.&rdquo; To make this clear, we avoid using those terms. Practical Differences between Free Software and Open Source In practice, open source stands for criteria a little looser than those of free software. As far as we know, all existing released free software source code would qualify as open source. Nearly all open source software is free software, but there are exceptions. First, some open source licenses are too restrictive, so they do not qualify as free licenses. For example, Open Watcom is nonfree because its license does not allow making a modified version and using it privately. Fortunately, few programs use such licenses. Second, trademark requirements added on top of the code's copyright license can make a program nonfree. For instance, the Rust compiler may be nonfree, because the trademark conditions forbid selling copies or distributing modified versions, unless you fully remove all uses of the trademark . Just what that requires in practice is not clear. Third, the criteria for open source are concerned solely with the use of the source code. Indeed, almost all the items in the Open Source Definition are formulated as conditions on the software's source license rather than on what users are free to do . However, people often describe an executable as &ldquo;open source,&rdquo; because its source code is available that way. That causes confusion in paradoxical situations where the source code is open source (and free) but the executable itself is nonfree. The trivial case of this paradox is when a program's source code carries a weak free license, one without copyleft, but its executables carry additional nonfree conditions. Supposing the executables correspond exactly to the released sources&mdash;which may or may not be so&mdash;users can compile the source code to make and distribute free executables. That's why this case is trivial; it is no grave problem. The nontrivial case is harmful and important. Many products containing computers check signatures on their executable programs to block users from effectively using different executables; only one privileged company can make executables that can run in the device and use its full capabilities. We call these devices &ldquo;tyrants,&rdquo; and the practice is called &ldquo;tivoization&rdquo; after the product (Tivo) where we first saw it. Even if the executable is made from free source code, and nominally carries a free license, the users cannot usefully run modified versions of it, so the executable is de-facto nonfree. Many Android products contain nonfree tivoized executables of Linux, even though its source code is under GNU GPL version 2. (We designed GNU GPL version 3 to prohibit this practice; too bad Linux did not adopt it.) These executables, made from source code that is open source and free, are generally spoken of as &ldquo;open source,&rdquo; but they are not free software. Common Misunderstandings of &ldquo;Free Software&rdquo; and &ldquo;Open Source&rdquo; The term &ldquo;free software&rdquo; is prone to misinterpretation: an unintended meaning, &ldquo;software you can get for zero price,&rdquo; fits the term just as well as the intended meaning, &ldquo;software which gives the user certain freedoms.&rdquo; We address this problem by publishing the definition of free software, and by saying &ldquo;Think of &lsquo;free speech,&rsquo; not &lsquo;free beer.&rsquo;&rdquo; This is not a perfect solution; it cannot completely eliminate the problem. An unambiguous and correct term would be better, if it didn't present other problems. Unfortunately, all the alternatives in English have problems of their own. We've looked at many that people have suggested, but none is so clearly &ldquo;right&rdquo; that switching to it would be a good idea. (For instance, in some contexts the French and Spanish word &ldquo;libre&rdquo; works well, but people in India do not recognize it at all.) Every proposed replacement for &ldquo;free software&rdquo; has some kind of semantic problem&mdash;and this includes &ldquo;open source software.&rdquo; The official definition of open source software (which is published by the Open Source Initiative and is too long to include here) was