# Joe Biden

**Source**: https://nymag.com/intelligencer/tags/joe-biden/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:55:50.239391+00:00

---

Joe Biden - Intelligencer Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Displaying all articles tagged: Joe Biden tremendous content Sept. 26, 2025 Trump’s Biden Autopen Portrait Is Stupider Than He Realizes From terrible design choices to inadvertently honoring Obama, the guy hardest hit by the “Presidential Wall of Fame” stunt is Trump himself. By Margaret Hartmann the white house Sept. 25, 2025 The White House’s Petty-Gag Era Trump’s Presidential Walk of Fame is a dorm-room joke blown up to national scale. By Christopher Bonanos books Sept. 23, 2025 All the Juicy Revelations in Kamala Harris’s Book 107 Days Harris is surprisingly candid in her 2024 campaign memoir. She dishes on all her potential running mates and accuses Team Biden of undermining her. By Margaret Hartmann early and often Sept. 19, 2025 Kamala Harris’s Book Shows She Still Doesn’t Understand Why She Lost The 2024 candidate had a tough job. But she missed her big opportunity to declare independence from Joe Biden. By Ed Kilgore diamond joe Sept. 16, 2025 Joe Biden’s 2025 Is Going About As Well As His 2024 He is having a hard time getting anyone to donate to his library — or give him the profitable gigs usually associated with being an ex-president. By Matt Stieb the law Sept. 15, 2025 How Donald Trump Has Made Himself Investigation-Proof He has systematically undermined our best institution for keeping presidents accountable. By Elie Honig early and often Sept. 10, 2025 Kamala Harris Accuses Biden’s Team of Sabotaging Her In an excerpt from her upcoming book about the 2024 election, she is seething at what she says was disrespect in the White House. By Ed Kilgore free country Sept. 8, 2025 The Spin on Gaza Those who resigned in protest over the war say its enablers are rewriting history. By Sam Adler-Bell early and often Aug. 24, 2025 Trump Sees Whitewashed U.S. Past and Dystopian Present His demands to the Smithsonian are about depicting a nation that was perfect — until Democrats unleashed “American carnage.” By Ed Kilgore early and often Aug. 19, 2025 Democrats Want Fresh Blood — But Keep Betting on Old Candidates Despite Biden’s defeat, Democrats are pinning their 2026 Senate hopes on a lot of septuagenarians. By Ed Kilgore early and often Aug. 15, 2025 Trump’s Inflation Promises May Finally Be Catching Up to Him If tariff-driven inflation is truly arriving, already low estimations of Trump’s handling of prices could really plunge. By Ed Kilgore politics Aug. 1, 2025 Kamala Harris Said She Wasn’t Going to ‘Pile On’ to Biden Criticism In her first post-2024 interview, Kamala Harris offered praise for Joe Biden, adding that she wasn’t going to participate in the pile on against him. By Nia Prater early and often July 28, 2025 New Data Shows Trump Gained Big With Muslims Just As He Betrays Them Over Gaza A new analysis indicates that Trump really did do better with Muslims in 2024. Will that support last? By Ed Kilgore early and often July 23, 2025 The DNC Chooses a Cover-up Instead of Investigating One It reportedly won’t look at the Biden and Harris campaigns for its 2024 autopsy. By Ross Barkan famous son updates July 21, 2025 Hunter Biden Unloads on His Father’s Team, George Clooney, and Critics In a rare interview, Joe Biden’s son defended his father and denied being the source of the White House cocaine in 2023. By Matt Stieb early and often July 15, 2025 Supreme Court Helps Trump Dismantle the Education Department In yet another unsigned ruling, the conservative majority treated a department closure like it’s just some minor layoffs. By Ed Kilgore early and often July 13, 2025 America Would Be Better Off If Trump Won in 2020 Joe Biden’s 2020 win was a Pyrrhic victory for Democrats, and the four-year gap just made Trump’s second term more horrific. By Ed Kilgore foreign affairs June 16, 2025 Israel’s Crimes of the Century How Israel, with the help of the U.S., broke not only Gaza but the foundations of humanitarian law. By Suzy Hansen early and often May 24, 2025 2028 Voters Won’t Care About the Biden ‘Cover-Up’ If people are still focused on the ex-president’s health, as some pundits think they will be, then Democrats will have bigger problems. By Ed Kilgore just asking questions May 22, 2025 Jake Tapper Dissects Bidenworld’s ‘Big Lie’ The Original Sin co-author discusses the former president’s decline and why it still matters amid Trump’s chaos. By Benjamin Hart what we know May 20, 2025 The Biggest Revelations in the New Book on Biden’s Decline Biden reportedly failed to remember top aides’ names and once didn’t recognize George Clooney. Aides also worried he would need a wheelchair. By Chas Danner roundup May 19, 2025 What Doctors Say About Biden’s Prostate Cancer Diagnosis His illness is serious, but it isn’t necessarily a death sentence. By Chas Danner early and often May 19, 2025 A Prostate-Cancer Survivor Reacts to Joe Biden’s Diagnosis There’s a lot we don’t know about the former president’s condition and probably didn’t need to know it earlier. By Ed Kilgore early and often May 19, 2025 Biden Cancer Diagnosis: Response From Trump and Other Leaders While President Trump’s response was surprisingly muted, Don Jr. and J.D. Vance are already casting blame and floating conspiracy theories. By Margaret Hartmann early and often May 14, 2025 Biden’s Policies, Not His Age, Doomed Democrats in 2024 A new book argues that Biden’s decline and late departure from the race did in Kamala Harris. But unpopular policies she shared were the real culprit. By Ed Kilgore american affairs May 12, 2025 Trump’s White House Briefing Room Has Become a Playground for MAGA Influencers Karoline Leavitt has found her preferred press corps. By Ross Barkan early and often May 2, 2025 Trump’s Second-Term Court-Packing Now Underway Even as Trump battles the judiciary, he will seek to shape it through his own nominations, which a GOP-controlled Senate will rubber-stamp. By Ed Kilgore early and often Apr. 30, 2025 Trump’s Megalomania Undermines Biden Blame Game As markets gyrate, the economy lurches toward stagflation, and polls tank, it’s too late for the 47th president to blame his predecessor. By Ed Kilgore extremely online Apr. 4, 2025 Trump Gives TikTok Another Extension Now, the app won’t go away until at least Juneteenth. By Jason P. Frank early and often Mar. 19, 2025 I Was Joe Biden’s Autopen A presidency foretold by a simple, cautious machine. By David Walter politics Mar. 17, 2025 Trump Claims (Legal) Autopen Usage Voids Biden Pardons Trump claimed an autopen was used to sign Biden’s preemptive pardons of the January 6 committee without his knowledge, making them invalid. By Nia Prater early and often Feb. 13, 2025 Fetterman Suggests Trump’s Power Grabs No Worse Than Biden’s The eccentric Pennsylvania Democrat is ignoring the revolutionary intentions of Team Trump in a search for false equivalence. By Ed Kilgore the law Feb. 11, 2025 The Ominous Legal Logic of Dropping the Eric Adams Case The Department of Justice isn’t even pretending to have good reasons. By Elie Honig miss americana Feb. 9, 2025 The Donald Trump–Taylor Swift Drama: A Super Bowl Refresher Did Trump tweet that he “hates” Swift? What did Travis Kelce say? How are Patrick and Brittany Mahomes involved? Here’s a guide to all the bad blood. By Margaret Hartmann early and often Jan. 23, 2025 Kamala Harris Hasn’t Ruled Out Running in 2028 She’s processing Trump and hasn’t given up on the presidency. But California and retirement also beckon. By Gabriel Debenedetti early and often Jan. 21, 2025 The Biden and Trump Pardons Are Not at All the Same Shielding people who have never officially been accused of any wrongdoing and conducting a jail break for insurrectionists are not equivalent acts. By Ed Kilgore just asking questions Jan. 21, 2025 Why the Gaza Cease-fire Probably Won’t Last Andrew Miller, a high-ranking State Department official under Biden, discusses the state of a fragile truce and Trump’s effect on the Middle East. By Benjamin Hart trump watch Jan. 21, 2025 Donald Trump Is a Weak President Who Acts Strong Everything we know about Trump suggests his legacy will be fainter than his reputation suggests. By Ross Barkan trump inauguration Jan. 20, 2025 Trump Begins Blitz of January 6 Pardons, Executive Orders Here’s what happened on Trump’s second inauguration day along with commentary and analysis from the entire Intelligencer team. By Intelligencer Staff what we know Jan. 20, 2025 Everyone Biden Has Granted Presidential Pardons and Commutations On the last day of his presidency, Biden preemptive pardoned numerous people who faced possible reprisals from Trump. By Chas Danner tiktok Jan. 19, 2025 How Long Will TikTok Return For? Updates The app is back after Trump promised to order a temporary reprieve. By Intelligencer Staff early and often Jan. 18, 2025 Sorry, President Biden, You Would Not Have Beaten Trump His regrets notwithstanding, Biden did the right thing in stepping aside last summer. By Ed Kilgore early and often Jan. 17, 2025 Biden Says ERA Is Ratified, But Supreme Court Gets Final Say The outgoing president’s move is mostly symbolic, but he has given the push for the 28th Amendment some new momentum. By Ed Kilgore free country Jan. 14, 2025 The Tragic Legacy of the Mourner-in-Chief Joe Biden was the anti-frailty president. By Sam Adler-Bell cable news Jan. 13, 2025 Biden’s Giving a ‘Last Word’ to MSNBC The outgoing president’s “final interview” has been set. By Josef Adalian early and often Jan. 10, 2025 Biden Leaves Office Less Popular Than Trump After January 6 Trump has mad