# The End Of Aol Instant Messenger Innovation Versus Interoperability 688357

**Source**: http://mailchi.mp/stratechery/the-end-of-aol-instant-messenger-innovation-versus-interoperability-688357?e=ef6eeda78d
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:23:57.330851+00:00

---

Oculus Connect 4, Russian Ads and the Law, Trump and Facebook (Stratechery Weekly Article 2017-10-12) The Daily Stratechery email, including exclusive content for members of Stratechery.com View this email in your browser Oculus Connect 4, Russian Ads and the Law, Trump and Facebook Thursday, October 12, 2017 blog post / forum thread Good morning, The Gmail-on-the-web bug in the new email template should be fixed; thanks to all those who sent in bug reports. Let me know if you are still having issues! On to the update: Oculus Connect 4 Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg opened the Oculus Connect 4 Keynote with an attempt to place virtual reality as the next step in technological progression: We&#8217;re here because we&#8217;re legitimately excited about the future, and we&#8217;re committed to making it a reality. And we believe that one day everyone will use virtual reality to improve how we work, how we play, and how we connect with each other. But we know that the most important technologies don&#8217;t start out mainstream. In fact, a lot of them seem too crazy or complex to start. And the conventional thinkers will always say that there will be something more familiar, that delivers enough of the value. So why build a completely new platform? They say, why build the PC, when most people just want a word processor? Why build the whole Internet when most people like dialing up through AOL? Why put a computer in your pocket when most people are just asking for a phone that texts well? And why build virtual reality when most people think 2D-screens are pretty good today? The reality is that every step along the way the future is built by the people who believe it can be better. The people who are dedicated to creating that foundation for all of us to build upon. And that&#8217;s why we&#8217;re all here. And that&#8217;s why I&#8217;m excited to be here with you. I&#8217;ve been consistently critical of Facebook&#8217;s efforts in virtual reality. When the company bought Oculus in 2014, I wrote in Face is Not the Future : What is so powerful about this analogy — that the computer is a bicycle for the mind — is that it elevates the humanity of a desired action, in this case transportation, and inserts the computer as an aid. This is exactly what the iPhone and the smartphones that followed have done for people: instead of a computer being a destination, it’s something that is always with us, ready to call up a map, or a restaurant recommendation, or simply fill time with a flapping bird. To put it another way, mobile is a big deal not because we use computers more, but because a computer is with us in more places. Envisioning a future in which Oculus’ technology is the dominant platform is diametrically opposed: it’s a reality where humans retreat from day-to-day activities in favor of computers. This idea — a life lived in computers — is something that appeals to the technically predisposed; who among us spends all day in front a glowing screen, and then goes home to do the exact same? I’m sure Zuckerberg is in that boat. But it’s a much smaller boat than many technologists realize. Over the intervening years, my criticism has been less philosophical and more narrowly focused on Facebook&#8217;s interests; I wrote after the Oculus Rift lauched : The aspect of the Oculus Rift that I am still having trouble is the Facebook perspective. Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg has said on multiple occasions, including in a speech last month at Mobile World Congress, that he believes that VR is the future of social… Here’s my question: are any of those “hundreds” of engineers [working on VR] working on the Vive or the PlayStation VR? After all, as a horizontal service Facebook ought to be concerned with being everywhere. This need is especially acute when it comes to social: the single most important feature of any network is how many of your friends are there, and Facebook’s chances of building the ultimate virtual reality service would be maximized by working across devices. There was, though, one line in yesterday&#8217;s keynote that really encapsulated what I think Zuckerberg sees in VR (emphasis mine): I don&#8217;t know anyone who sits in traffic and thinks to themselves, &#8220;Man, right here, this is the best that reality can be! Now a lot of people have ideas about how to make transportation better: self-driving cars, hyperloops, and don&#8217;t get me wrong, I love all of that stuff, but it&#8217;s 2017, and the biggest trend in transportation is that it&#8217;s a lot easier to move bits around than atoms. That&#8217;s it! That&#8217;s exactly how virtual reality fits in the Facebook paradigm. I&#8217;ve long argued that the key to understanding Facebook&#8217;s unprecedented rise was to appreciate the extent to which the company was built on the digitization of offline relationships: Facebook took real world relationships and moved them online, and, as Zuckerberg said, its a lot easier to move bits than atoms. And so it was we all had at least passing relationships with hundreds of people we might have otherwise forgotten due to the vagaries of distance and time. Indeed, this is something I started to pick up on last year : Ignore the fact that Facebook owns a VR company; the point is this: Facebook is, for better or worse, running a product that is predicated on showing people exactly what they want to see, all the way down to the individual. And while there is absolutely editorial bias in any algorithm, the challenge is indeed a technical one being worked out at a scale few can fully comprehend. Actually, don&#8217;t ignore the VR point — Facebook has always been predicated on virtual reality, and that is exactly why the company is such a juggernaut: after all, moving bits is free, and therefore infinitely scalable, but moving atoms is not. And, while this may make a lot of business sense, it is also disappointing: Zuckerberg discussed the areas of the U.S. he has visited this year that don&#8217;t have the same economic opportunity as Silicon Valley, and suggested VR as a salve. That is, I suppose, easier than uprooting regressive zoning laws that have arguably done more to exacerbate inequality than anything else. As for the announcements themselves? They were fine. A standalone $200 headset named Oculus Go is an important step down the cost curve; the price point and feature set suggest something much more in-line with the smartphone-based Gear VR than the Oculus Rift. What was still missing was any sort of consumer use case outside of the obvious video and games vectors; I&#8217;ve long maintained that VR and AR represent two distinct forks of technology: immersive (consoles, movies) and augmentation (PCs, smartphones), and that the latter is the larger market opportunity. The observation about the similarities between Facebook and VR aside, I&#8217;m not yet convinced VR can break out of that (still very large) market. Russian Ads and the Law As a quick (and as you will soon see, necessary) aside, this article on The Outline is well worth reading: Members of the House and Senate Intelligence Committees have called on Facebook to release ads paid for and promoted by the Russian government during the 2016 election, but a wiretapping law passed in 1986 is complicating things. The law is the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, referred to as ECPA, which governs when tech companies can disclose “communications” to third parties and the government. ECPA, an update to the federal wiretapping statute, was designed to protect the privacy rights of individuals in the spirit of the Fourth Amendment… Under ECPA, ads circulated through social networks are protected in the same way as private messages and things you post publicly on social networks, he said. “People tend to think of ads as the brick and mortar world of the 19th century instead of the digital world, where the ads are nothing more than bulletin board messages to many people,” Gidari said. “So I think in the end that&#8217;s where providers and platforms come out generally, is that an ad is just another way of communicating with people through their platforms.” The net of the story is this: Facebook&#8217;s decision to give the ads to Congress (and potentially release them publicly ) is almost certainly in violation of the ECPA; however, any violation would need to be prosecuted by the party whose rights were violated, and in this case, that means the Russian buyers, who almost certainly won&#8217;t sue. The bigger concern is the precedent. From The Outline story: However, while Facebook probably wouldn’t be sued by a Russian advertiser, giving in to Congress’s demands in this situation may weaken its ability to resist overbroad or intrusive requests by the US government in future cases. Right now Facebook is battling a separate request from the Trump administration to turn over information on three Facebook accounts, which could reveal the names of thousands of people who liked an anti-Trump Facebook page. It’s part of an investigation into hundreds of protesters who the DOJ says allegedly conspired to riot during Trump’s inauguration on January 20. Facebook’s hasn’t said if it has complied with the warrants but said it fought in court to notify the protestors in question of the pending warrant. If Facebook were to capitulate and reveal the content of Russian ads, that could set a precedent for turning over information in other cases. “The Department of Justice is very good at shaming people who have done something before and changed their policy because they&#8217;ve now decided the law says something different,” Girardi said. “I think [Facebook] should worry about that kind of an argument.” There is absolutely a reasonable debate to be had about whether or not Facebook was right to defy the ECPA (and, as I noted a few weeks ago , the consent decree between the company and the FTC). What is exceedingly unreasonable — yet all too common — are 