# Do Rfk Jr S Supporters Really Know Who He Is.Html

**Source**: https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2023/05/do-rfk-jr-s-supporters-really-know-who-he-is.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:17:03.794753+00:00

---

Do RFK Jr.’s Supporters Really Know Who He Is? Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Politics Business Technology Ideas About Intelligencer Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Close Close Politics Business Technology Ideas About Intelligencer Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Search Search Close early and often Do RFK Jr.’s Supporters Really Know Who He Is? By Ed Kilgore , political columnist for Intelligencer since 2015 May 26, 2023 save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment No chip off the block. Photo: Shannon Finney/Getty Images Joe Biden will almost certainly be the Democrats’ 2024 nominee, but like most presidents with iffy job-approval numbers, he’s dealing with nuisance candidates on the ballot in early states. One of them is 2020 retread Marianne Williamson , a lefty politician with some renown as a self-help author who has an ethereal (or if you wish, “spiritual”) bent. But Biden’s more notable challenger is Robert F. Kennedy Jr .; while the heir to the most formidable brand in Democratic politics can’t win the nomination, he is drawing the attention of Biden critics on both the left and the right. Many baby-boomers idolized the candidate’s father, Robert F. Kennedy Sr. , who was assassinated while seeking the Democratic presidential nomination in 1968. And many people have an attachment to the Kennedy family, anchored in admiration for John F. Kennedy and Ted Kennedy as much as for Bobby. So some support for RFK Jr. is likely due to associations that have nothing to do with the eccentric public figure he has become. Unfortunately, most of the limited 2024 Democratic presidential polling available to the public doesn’t explore the nature of RFK Jr.’s support, such as it is. But now CNN has a poll conducted by SSRS that provides some insights: Within his own party, 60% of Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters say they back Biden for the top of next year’s Democratic ticket, 20% favor activist and lawyer Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., and 8% back author Marianne Williamson. Another 8% say they would support an unnamed “someone else.” Another 44 percent of Democrats and “leaners” would “ consider ” backing Kennedy if they knew more about him. Unfortunately for RFK Jr., it seems voters really don’t know who he is, and his support will dwindle once they figure it out. CNN asked respondents to offer their own responses on why they might consider voting for Kennedy. The answers showed how little they knew about his signature anti-vaccination views. Per CNN: Among those who would consider Kennedy, 20% cite his connections to the Kennedy family as the main reason. One said, “I liked his dad (RFK) and his uncle (JFK) a lot. I would hope he has a similar mindset.” Many suggested they are merely open to learning more: 17% say they just don’t know enough about him to rule him out and 10% that they are open-minded and would consider any candidate. One respondent explained they would consider him, “Because a reasonable person considers things before making choices. It has nothing to do with RFK himself, just that I wouldn’t automatically say ‘no’ without consideration first.” Some say they’d back any Democrat (10%) or anyone who is not Trump (5%). About 1 in 8 (12%) say they would consider him because they support his views or policies and 4% mention his views specifically on environmental issues. Not a word was offered about his “views or policies” on vaccinations, which notoriously preceded the COVID-19 pandemic, as my colleague Matthew Stieb noted when Kennedy announced his candidacy: The founder of an anti-vaccine organization called Children’s Health Defense, Kennedy Jr. has promoted the disproven claim that vaccines cause autism in children — and nearly led a presidential commission on the nonexistent connection in the early Trump years. When the pandemic hit, RFK Jr. hit the useless COVID treatments hard, promoting horse dewormers and anti-malarial pills that don’t work . In 2021, he wrote a book called The Real Anthony Fauci , claiming that the former NIAID head pulled off “a historic coup d’état against Western democracy.” At an anti-vaccine rally in Washington, D.C., last year, he compared the COVID-vaccine push — tied together with 5G and satellite surveillance — to the Holocaust. Should Kennedy get out of the low 20s in Democratic polls nationally or in any early primary state, it’s likely he will get the exposure necessary to place a low ceiling on his support. Already in the CNN poll, 36 percent of Democratic and Democratic-leaning independents say they would not support RFK Jr. “under any circumstances.” That number is likely to rise, particularly if Kennedy continues to draw praise mostly from the far right . What does it mean that the incumbent president has drawn two challengers? Not a lot. Kennedy and Williamson are both counting on getting headlines for doing well against Biden in New Hampshire, where the president’s name likely won’t be on the ballot because the state is defying the Democratic National Committee’s calendar for early presidential primaries in 2024. Even if that all transpires, it probably doesn’t matter. Back in 1972, incumbent President Richard Nixon had two ostensibly credible opponents in New Hampshire, both of them sitting congressmen (one, Pete McCloskey, opposed the Vietnam War; the other, John Ashbrook, opposed Nixon’s détente with the Soviet Union). McCloskey won 20 percent of the vote and Ashbrook another 10 percent. Nixon ultimately won 1,347 of 1,348 delegates at the Republican National Convention and went on to win 49 states that November. Nuisance candidates are just that. More on politics House, Senate Locked in a Shutdown Stalemate: Live Updates The Other Demand Democrats Should Make During the Shutdown Fight Trump Goes Over the Brink, Labels Democrats the Party of Satan See All Sign Up for the Intelligencer Newsletter Daily news about the politics, business, and technology shaping our world. Email This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Vox Media, LLC Terms and Privacy Notice By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice and to receive email correspondence from us. Tags: politics early and often robert f. kennedy jr. 2024 presidential election Show Comment Do RFK Jr.’s Supporters Really Know Who He Is? Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission. Sign In to Comment THE FEED 4:22 p.m. we&#x27;ll do it live we&#x27;ll do it live House, Senate Locked in a Shutdown Stalemate: Live Updates By Intelligencer Staff Trump shared a weird AI video starring him as the Grim Reaper as Congress continued informal talks. Welcome to day three. 4:02 p.m. early and often early and often The Other Demand Democrats Should Make During the Shutdown Fight By Ed Kilgore The real prize is winning the 2026 election, and there’s a Trump executive order standing in the way. 1:43 p.m. early and often early and often Trump Goes Over the Brink, Labels Democrats the Party of Satan By Ed Kilgore Aside from poisoning the atmosphere, Trump’s demonization of the opposition is a shout-out to the QAnon cult and “spiritual warriors.” Most Popular An Epic Courtroom Mismatch Is Looming in the Comey Case By Elie Honig The New Court Tactic Helping ICE Deport Immigrants By Mark Chiusano U.S. Colleges Are About to See a Big Decline in Applicants By Jeffrey Selingo The Spinal Surgeries That Didn’t Need to Happen By Paula Aceves The Dark Side Driving Pete Hegseth By Sarah Jones An Epic Courtroom Mismatch Is Looming in the Comey Case By Elie Honig The Dark Side Driving Pete Hegseth By Sarah Jones The Spinal Surgeries That Didn’t Need to Happen By Paula Aceves The Mamdani Effect By David Freedlander Why Did DHS Send a Russian Exile to Costa Rica? By Amelia Schonbek 12:00 p.m. the approval matrix the approval matrix The Approval Matrix: The Life of a One-Term Mayor Our guide to what’s highbrow, lowbrow, brilliant, and despicable. 11:50 a.m. early and often early and often Trump Regards Millions of Americans As Enemies of the People By Ed Kilgore His sudden zest for mass layoffs of federal employees is another sign that Trump’s vengeance tour is taking in more territory every day. 9:30 a.m. early and often early and often Democrats Must Decide What It Means to Win a Shutdown Fight By Ed Kilgore They aren’t going to get everything they’re demanding. But Democrats can show they’re willing to fight and rehearse a midterms message. 6:00 a.m. the law the law An Epic Courtroom Mismatch Is Looming in the Comey Case By Elie Honig A prosecutorial legend will be facing off against a (to put it kindly) fumbling beginner. 5:00 a.m. immigration immigration Why Did DHS Send a Russian Exile to Costa Rica? By Amelia Schonbek How Trump’s third-country removal strategy forced an asylum-seeking family to start over — in Monteverde. 10/2/2025 tremendous content tremendous content Why Did Melania Trump Share an AI Body-Double Video?: 4 Theories. By Margaret Hartmann Is the First Lady’s bizarre X post an ad for her troubled cryptocurrency or confirmation of “fake Melania”? 10/2/2025 politics politics Is the Trump Administration’s Shutdown Messaging Illegal? By Nia Prater Federal-agency websites and fed