# Texas Highway Expansions Project Displacements Protests

**Source**: https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2022/apr/29/texas-highway-expansions-project-displacements-protests
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:52:12.469195+00:00

---

‘It’s just more and more lanes’: the Texan revolt against giant new highways | Texas | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 5 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art &amp; design TV &amp; radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love &amp; sex Home &amp; garden Health &amp; fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us View image in fullscreen ‘There’s no train, there’s no bus, there’s no anything that supports mass transportation. It doesn’t exist.’ Photograph: Arturo Olmos/The Guardian This article is more than 3 years old ‘It’s just more and more lanes’: the Texan revolt against giant new highways This article is more than 3 years old ‘There’s no train, there’s no bus, there’s no anything that supports mass transportation. It doesn’t exist.’ Photograph: Arturo Olmos/The Guardian Residents are voicing fury over expansions set to displace thousands while Biden’s administration last year launched an investigation into a Houston project By Oliver Milman in Texas Fri 29 Apr 2022 05.00 EDT Last modified on Fri 29 Apr 2022 16.40 EDT Share Texas, with its wide-laned roads and supersized highways, seems like an unlikely place for a rebellion against the supremacy of American car culture. But last week a band of residents from across Texas descended upon the state’s department of transportation (DoT) to voice fury over new highway expansions that are set to displace thousands of people and raze hundreds of businesses, schools and churches. Meanwhile, the state is actively crushing local plans to encourage more cycling and walking as an alternative to driving. Festering concern over the seemingly endless swelling of highways has even sparked an unusual intervention from the federal government, with Joe Biden’s administration launching a civil rights investigation last year into the Houston project that has paused its construction. “Federal transportation department monitoring and intervention on civil rights grounds is rare,” said Theodore Shaw, director of the center for civil rights at the University of North Carolina. “The courts have not done much about it.” Holding signs riffing off familiar tropes in this conservative state, such as a picture of a bicycle under the words “Come and take it”, several dozen protesters rallied outside the Texas department’s headquarters in the shadow of Texas’ pink-hued capitol in Austin. “It’s just plain Jane boring lanes, more and more lanes,” said Fabian Ramirez, a structural engineer whose property in Houston’s Northside district is set to be flattened as part of a controversial $9bn project to widen and realign the city’s highways . “There’s no train, there’s no bus, there’s no anything that supports mass transportation. It doesn’t exist. They [Texas DoT] love concrete. I mean, geez. I love building stuff, but I also have a moral compass.” Ramirez said repeated expansions of highways in Houston have invariably destroyed homes in Black and Latino neighborhoods like his. “All of these Black and brown neighborhoods are being attacked by this expansion,” he said. “I should be able to enjoy being Mexican in Houston in 2022 without somebody trying to push me out of my neighborhood.” City leaders in Texas, meanwhile, have also started to question the car-centric status quo. San Antonio planned to narrow a two-mile stretch of Broadway Avenue, a key thoroughfare, and add protected bike lanes, only for Texas DoT to overrule the city in January to halt it, citing fears over worsened traffic congestion. Ron Nirenberg, San Antonio’s mayor, accused the state of “1950s thinking” and a “religious fascination” with highway expansions. “Five years ago the idea that there would be any elected officials publicly opposing a freeway widening would seem farfetched,” said Jay Crossley, executive director of Farm and City, a non-profit that works on Texas urban living issues. “A lot is changing in Texas.” View image in fullscreen Photograph: Arturo Olmos/The Guardian But the federal government is still funneling $350bn to the states for highways via the infrastructure bill, a situation that experts warn could wreck the US’ climate targets by spurring more car driving and planet-heating emissions. While some states, such as California, have started to recognize studies that show if you sow more asphalt you simply reap more traffic, Texas is pushing ahead with an unprecedented blitz of new road space for cars. “This is a make-or-break moment. How the states use those highway funds will basically determine whether we meet our transportation emissions goals,” said Ben Holland, an urban design and land use expert at RMI, a clean energy non-profit. Beyond the highway expansion in Houston, Texas is upsizing major roadways that carve through Austin and El Paso, as well as eliminating the planned bike lanes and pedestrian crossings in San Antonio. The frenzy of road building is championed by Greg Abbott, the Texas governor, as a response to the state’s ballooning population, which grows by about 1,100 people a day, and driver frustration over gridlock. “Highways are essentially fossil fuel infrastructure but we haven’t really heard about them in climate discussions until now,” Holland said. “It’s just been universally accepted that it’s too hard to get people out of their vehicles and provide alternatives. There is certainly a car culture here, but in large part that’s because it’s been mandated.” In Texas, the mandate for the supremacy of roads comes via the state constitution, which requires that highways are funded to the exclusion of almost anything else that moves people around. About 97% of the $30bn a year the state gives its transportation department is spent on highways, leaving very little for buses, trains or bicycles. This focus is etched into the stone of the department’s headquarters, which is named the State Highway Building, a title carved above a triptych of native Americans on a horse, a pioneer wagon and a car. Last week, the monthly public meeting of Texas’ four transport commissioners was thronged with protesters who took turns to denounce the highway expansions. A teacher spoke of students who missed school because no one with a car was able to take them, while a young man recounted how he has to walk alongside a busy highway each day to get to work. Several demanded that San Antonio, and other cities, be allowed to give room to cyclists and pedestrians. “The constant never ending buzzing of cars, the honking, revving of engines at all hours and exhaust from vehicles idling in traffic causing a stream of pollution, make it hard to sleep and enjoy being outside in my own neighborhood,” said Tiffany Valle, a Houston resident. “The sounds of song birds are drowned out by the cacophony of cars from the unnatural river of concrete.” Several protesters also decried the death toll on roads which has, across the US, increased since the start of the Covid pandemic. “I am done accepting that people have to continue to die in cars,” said Kelsey Hughes, an Austin resident who said she lost four members of her church group in a car crash. “We’re here to say we’ve had enough. We want to live in a world where we walk to school, into grocery stores, where we bike to work and where we take high-speed trains to visit our family members.” Despite a high-profile road safety campaign by Texas DoT, more than 4,480 people were killed on the state’s roads last year, a situation critics say is exacerbated by the creation of ubiquitous, wide highways that encourage fast driving, coupled with a lack of safe pedestrian crossing points or bike paths, which are included along just 0.5% of the 80,000 miles of road overseen by Texas DoT. Houston is the deadliest major metropolis in the nation for drivers, their passengers and those who are mown down by cars, according to the Houston Chronicle . Map of the roads and highways of the Houston, Texas area. The proposed I-45 expansion is highlighted red. Two areas of the expansion are highlighted with inset maps showing details of a church that would be demolished, and a school that would be directly across from the highway. Across the US, more than 90% of the top pedestrian fatality hotspots are on roads with three or more lanes, according to a federal government analysis r eleased in January that also found that fatalities among pedestrians and cyclists are rising faster than those within vehicles. “People walking and biking suffer disproportionately from serious injuries and fatalities when a crash occurs compared to people in vehicles,” the report adds. America’s zeal for large, wide roadways can be traced back to the federal highway act of 1956, which spawned what was the largest public construction program in US history. A new network of 41,000 miles of highway would crisscross the country, connecting cities, improving travel times and helping upgrade roads that were in a dangerous condition. Dwight Eisenhower, then US president,