# Nba Mvp Straw Poll 20 Nikola Jokic Chasing History Here Why Capture It

**Source**: https://www.espn.com/nba/story/_/id/35658669/nba-mvp-straw-poll-20-nikola-jokic-chasing-history-here-why-capture-it
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:45:21.899071+00:00

---

NBA MVP Straw Poll 2.0: Nikola Jokic is chasing history -- here's why he might capture it - ESPN Another Joker sequel? Where NBA insiders think the MVP race is headed --> Skip to main content Skip to navigation &lt; &gt; Menu ESPN scores NFL NBA MLB NCAAF WNBA NHL Soccer More Sports Boxing NCAA Cricket F1 Gaming Golf Horse LLWS MMA NASCAR NLL NBA G League NBA Summer League NCAAM NCAAW NWSL Olympics PLL Professional Wrestling Racing RN BB RN FB Rugby Sports Betting Tennis TGL UFL WWE X Games Editions Where to Watch Fantasy Bet Watch NBA Home Scores Schedule Standings Stats Teams Players Transactions Injuries Fantasy: Sign Up Offseason Moves Draft NBA Summer League Depth Charts Trade Machine Free Agency NBA Power Rankings Odds Futures G League Awards NBA History Salaries NBA.COM tickets Tickets Another Joker sequel? Where NBA insiders think the MVP race is headed Dallas Mavericks 3y Tim Bontemps Paolo Banchero, Trae Young: Breaking down 10 names that could define NBA season New York Knicks 13h Tim Bontemps Lakers' Doncic to sit for first two preseason games Los Angeles Lakers 6h Dave McMenamin Doncic, Lakers focused on 'championship shape' Los Angeles Lakers 1d Dave McMenamin Excited Jokic: Plan is to be 'a Nugget forever' Denver Nuggets 1d Kuminga happy standoff over, focused on winning Golden State Warriors 1d Anthony Slater Kobe's first No. 24 Lakers jersey sells for $889K Los Angeles Lakers 1d Dan Hajducky Horford: Dubs obvious choice if not in Boston Golden State Warriors 2d Tim Bontemps Jovic agrees to 4-year rookie extension with Heat Miami Heat 2d Mavs' Gafford out 2-3 weeks after spraining ankle Dallas Mavericks 2d Tim MacMahon Knicks legends ride camels, 76ers go golfing: Top scenes from Abu Dhabi series New York Knicks 2d ESPN staff 10 NBA teams that gained -- or lost -- the most value in offseason deals LA Clippers 2d Neil Paine LeBron's future, Celtics' goals sans Tatum: Biggest question for all 30 teams Washington Wizards 5d ESPN Roster battles, extension breakdowns and what to watch at NBA training camps Washington Wizards 3d Bobby Marks Fantasy basketball: Eric Karabell's 'Do not draft' list, including Ball, Morant, Embiid 14h Eric Karabell Fantasy basketball category and roto league draft tiers: SF, PF are at a premium 2d Andre Snellings NBA MVP Straw Poll 2.0: Nikola Jokic is chasing history -- here's why he might capture it Tim Bontemps Feb 16, 2023, 07:40 AM ET Close Tim Bontemps is a senior NBA writer for ESPN.com who covers the league and what's impacting it on and off the court, including trade deadline intel, expansion and his MVP Straw Polls. You can find Tim alongside Brian Windhorst and Tim MacMahon on The Hoop Collective podcast. Follow on X Email Print Larry Bird, Wilt Chamberlain, Bill Russell. That's the list. In the more than 76-year history of the NBA, only three players have won three consecutive Most Valuable Player awards, and it has been nearly 40 years since Bird last accomplished the feat from 1984 to 1986. There have been plenty of chances at a three-peat. Michael Jordan -- after whom the trophy was renamed earlier this season -- failed in his bid. So have repeat winners Magic Johnson, Moses Malone, Stephen Curry , Tim Duncan, Steve Nash and Giannis Antetokounmpo . LeBron James and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, forever linked atop the NBA's all-time scoring list , each fell short twice. And, at the start of the 2022-23 NBA season, it was expected that Denver Nuggets superstar center Nikola Jokic would need a historic effort to join that exclusive club and win a third straight league MVP. Well, Joker is coming through. Not only is Jokic averaging a triple-double -- 24.7 points, 11.5 rebounds and 10.1 assists -- something only Oscar Robertson and Russell Westbrook have done over the course of a full season in NBA history, but Denver is also sitting atop the Western Conference with the NBA's third-best record. As a result, Jokic was the runaway leader in the second edition of ESPN's NBA MVP Straw Poll of the 2022-23 season, registering 77 out of 100 first-place votes and finishing with 913 total points, putting him in prime position to make history at season's end. How the NBA MVP Straw Poll works To gauge where the MVP race stands heading into the All-Star break, ESPN asked 100 media members to participate in an informal poll that mimics the NBA's postseason award voting process. To make the balloting as realistic as possible, there were at least two voters from each of the league's 28 markets, along with a cross section of national and international reporters. As with the NBA's official voting at the end of season, voters were asked to submit a five-player ballot, and results were tabulated using the league's scoring system: • 10 points for a first-place vote • 7 points for second-place • 5 points for third-place • 3 points for fourth-place • 1 point for fifth-place Following Jokic in the poll were Milwaukee Bucks forward Antetokounmpo (11 first-place votes, 552 total points), Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid (six first-place votes, 490 total points), Boston Celtics forward Jayson Tatum (five first-place votes, 410 total points) and Dallas Mavericks guard Luka Doncic (one first-place vote, 218 total points). Rounding out the poll are Memphis Grizzlies guard Ja Morant (8 total points), Oklahoma City Thunder guard Shai Gilgeous-Alexander (four), Cleveland Cavaliers guard Donovan Mitchell (three), Golden State Warriors guard Stephen Curry (one) and Phoenix Suns forward Kevin Durant (one). The first straw poll of this season , conducted in December, showed Tatum winning by 92 total points -- the second-smallest margin of any of the 12 straw polls that have been conducted since the 2016-17 season -- and receiving less than half of the first-place votes, despite his stellar individual season leading the Celtics to the NBA's best record. That indicated the race was wide open for someone to seize control. Enter Joker. Not only did Jokic do that with his combination of incredible individual achievement -- averaging that triple-double while shooting 63.2% overall, 39.1% from 3-point range and 82.2% from the free throw line -- but the field was also significantly weakened by injuries to MVP contenders. Four of the top nine finishers in the first straw poll conducted in December -- Curry, Durant, Suns guard Devin Booker and New Orleans Pelicans forward Zion Williamson -- have all missed several weeks because of injury and have fallen deeply behind in the race. The second straw poll, meanwhile, revealed more votes concentrated among the top five finishers -- Jokic, Antetokounmpo, Embiid, Tatum and Doncic -- than in any previous poll. There are often three or four players who are near consensus -- or, in the case of Jokic and Embiid, unanimous -- selections, but there has never been a poll in which five players have been on as many as Doncic's 89 ballots. (The highest previous total for a fifth-place finisher was 70.) For the third straight season, Jokic has surged to the top after starting the season in the middle of the pack: Jokic finished fourth in December's poll . He ranked fourth and second, respectively, across the first two polls last season, before taking the lead in the final vote. He was third in the first poll of the 2020-21 season before winning the second and final poll of that season. (Due to the condensed season, 2020-21 featured only two MVP straw polls.) Editor's Picks Breaking this NBA unwritten rule has consequences: 'You're just not supposed to do it' Tim MacMahon NBA teams are tossing millions at postseason spots that might not be there Brian Windhorst Points aside, LeBron James' legacy will be his empire Howard Bryant 2 Related Tatum dropped to fourth this time around, despite helming the team that heads into the All-Star break with the NBA's best record. Like all of the contenders for the award, Tatum is putting up absurd stats, averaging career highs in points (30.6), rebounds (8.6) and assists (4.5) per game. Antetokounmpo, who finished second for a second straight poll, is averaging 32.5 points, 12.3 rebounds and 5.5 assists for the Bucks. Embiid -- the MVP runner-up each of the past two seasons -- came in third, with he and Jokic also being the only players named to all 100 ballots. At 33.1 points per game, Embiid trails Doncic by 0.2 points for the league's scoring lead. Morant placed sixth once again, while the surging Gilgeous-Alexander (13th) and Mitchell (11th) moved up six and three spots, respectively. Williamson, Booker and Los Angeles Lakers forward Anthony Davis all dropped off the ballot this time around. NBA MVP Straw Poll 2.0 Results PLAYER TEAM 1ST 2ND 3RD 4TH 5TH TOTAL VOTES TOTAL POINTS PREV. RANK 1 Nikola Jokic DEN 77 15 7 1 0 100 913 5 2 Giannis Antetokounmpo MIL 11 38 25 14 9 97 552 2 3 Joel Embiid PHI 6 24 33 30 7 100 490 10 4 Jayson Tatum BOS 5 19 24 28 23 99 410 1 5 Luka Doncic DAL 1 4 11 26 47 89 218 3 6 Ja Morant MEM 0 0 0 1 5 6 8 6 7 Shai Gilgeous-Alexander OKC 0 0 0 0 4 4 4 13 8 Donovan Mitchell CLE 0 0 0 0 3 3 3 11 T-9 Stephen Curry GS 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 4 T-9 Kevin Durant PHX 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 7 Terms of Use Privacy Policy Your US State Privacy Rights Children's Online Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads About Nielsen Measurement Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Contact Us Disney Ad Sales Site Work for ESPN Corrections ESPN BET Sportsbook is owned and operated by PENN Entertainment, Inc. and its subsidiaries ('PENN'). ESPN BET is available in states where PENN is licensed to offer sports wagering. Must be 21+ to wager. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem and wants help, call 1-800-GAMBLER. Copyright: © 2025 ESPN Enterprises, Inc. All rights reserved.