# Printstory.Php

**Source**: http://kiplinger.com/printstory.php?pid=20240
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:35:05.479020+00:00

---

Kiplinger | Personal Finance News, Investing Advice, Business Forecasts Kiplinger From $107.88 $24.99 Subscribe to Kiplinger &times; Search Retirement Retirement Retirement Retirement View all Retirement Annuities Estate Planning Retirement Plans Social Security Medicare Investing Investing Investing Investing View all Investing Stocks ETFs Mutual Funds Bonds Wealth Management AI Taxes Taxes Taxes Taxes View all Taxes Tax Returns Tax Deductions Capital Gains Taxes State Taxes Tax Planning Personal Finance Personal Finance Personal Finance Personal Finance View all Personal Finance Savings Shopping and Deals Credit Cards Insurance Money-saving Banking Life Life Life Life View all Life Places to Live Real Estate Travel Careers Politics Business Adviser Intel More Kiplinger Puzzles Quizzes Tools and Calculators Kiplinger Economic Forecasts Newsletters Newsletter sign-up Manage my newsletters Latest issue of Kiplinger Today Latest issue of Closing Bell Subscriptions Subscriptions Store My Subscriptions Subscriptions Help Kiplinger Personal Finance The Kiplinger Letter The Kiplinger Tax Letter Kiplinger Investing for Income Kiplinger Retirement Report Kiplinger Retirement Planning Newsletter sign up Newsletter Trending The 15 Cheapest Places to Live: U.S. Cities Edition Vanguard Money Market Funds: What You Need to Know 10 Best Freebies for Retirees Average Net Worth by Age: How Do You Measure Up? Seven Things You Should Do Before 2026 Because of One Big Beautiful Bill Changes The new law ushers in significant changes for most taxpayers. Make these moves now to take advantage of them. How Confident Retirees Think Differently About Their Future There's No Jobs Report Today; Plus, Other Data Delayed By the I'm an Insurance Expert: This Is Exactly Why Your Insurance Rates Are Soaring (and What You Can Do) Bond Ratings and What They Mean investing The Best Biotech ETFs to Buy ETFs Moving Abroad? You Might Need a Cross-Border Financial Adviser Get Kiplinger Today newsletter &mdash; free Profit and prosper with the best of Kiplinger's advice on investing, taxes, retirement, personal finance and much more. Delivered daily. Enter your email in the box and click Sign Me Up. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. Investing Best Dividend Stocks to Buy for Dependable Dividend Growth dividend stocks How do you find the best dividend stocks to buy? Income investors know there's no substitute for regular dividend increases over the long haul. Dividend Stocks The Riskiest S&amp;P 500 Stocks Right Now Buyer beware: These are five of the riskiest stocks in the S&amp;P 500 at the moment, based on one measure of volatility. By Jeff Reeves Last updated 3 October 25 Stocks Dow Adds 238 Points as UnitedHealth, Caterpillar Pop: Stock Market Today The lack of a September jobs report didn't seem to worry market participants, with the data delayed due to the ongoing government shutdown. By Karee Venema Published 3 October 25 Stocks Kiplinger Housing Outlook: Home Price Growth Falls Economic Outlooks Existing home sales remain weak due to high financing costs. By Rodrigo Serme&ntilde;o Last updated 3 October 25 Economy VIEW MORE Personal Finance The Health Care Tax Credit Battle Behind the Government Shutdown Tax Credits Previous shutdowns have occurred for various reasons, including border wall funding. But this time, the standoff centers in part on health care and taxes. Taxes Kiplinger Housing Outlook: Home Price Growth Falls Economic Outlooks Existing home sales remain weak due to high financing costs. By Rodrigo Serme&ntilde;o Last updated 3 October 25 Economy Kiplinger Quiz of the Week: Test Yourself on the Week's Stories Quiz The Nike stock price, Amazon's settlement and the shutdown were all covered by Kiplinger this week &mdash; but why? How much do you know about the week's financial news? By Kiplinger Staff Published 3 October 25 Quizzes Ask the Editor: Tax Questions on Charitable Deductions Ask the Editor In this week's Ask the Editor Q&amp;A, we answer reader questions on the charitable deduction. By Joy Taylor Published 3 October 25 Tax Deductions VIEW MORE Meet Kiplinger's Experts Alexandra Svokos Digital Managing Editor Karee Venema Senior Investing Editor Kelley R. Taylor Senior Tax Editor Alexandra Twin Senior Retirement Editor David Dittman Investing Editor Ellen Kennedy Retirement Editor Carla Ayers Personal Finance Editor Dan Burrows Senior Investing Writer Gabriella Cruz-Mart&iacute;nez Tax Writer Donna LeValley Retirement Writer Kate Schubel Tax Writer Sean Jackson Personal Finance Writer Donna Fuscaldo Retirement Writer Rachael Green Personal Finance Writer Ben Demers Audience Engagement Manager Taxes The Health Care Tax Credit Battle Behind the Government Shutdown Tax Credits Previous shutdowns have occurred for various reasons, including border wall funding. But this time, the standoff centers in part on health care and taxes. Taxes Kiplinger Quiz of the Week: Test Yourself on the Week's Stories Quiz The Nike stock price, Amazon's settlement and the shutdown were all covered by Kiplinger this week &mdash; but why? How much do you know about the week's financial news? By Kiplinger Staff Published 3 October 25 Quizzes Ask the Editor: Tax Questions on Charitable Deductions Ask the Editor In this week's Ask the Editor Q&amp;A, we answer reader questions on the charitable deduction. By Joy Taylor Published 3 October 25 Tax Deductions Three Popular Tax Breaks Are Gone for Good in 2026 Tax Breaks Here's a list of federal tax deductions and credits that you can't claim in the 2026 tax year. Plus, high-income earners could get hit by a 'surprise' tax bill. By Kate Schubel Last updated 3 October 25 Taxes VIEW MORE Retirement The 7 Worst Assets to Leave Your Kids or Grandkids inheritance Leaving these assets to your loved ones may be more trouble than it&rsquo;s worth. Here's how to avoid adding to their grief after you're gone. Inheritance What Is a Good Inheritance? Six of the Best Assets to Pass Down inheritance Your heirs will thank you for leaving any of these six assets as an inheritance. By David Rodeck Last updated 3 October 25 Inheritance Kiplinger Quiz of the Week: Test Yourself on the Week's Stories Quiz The Nike stock price, Amazon's settlement and the shutdown were all covered by Kiplinger this week &mdash; but why? How much do you know about the week's financial news? By Kiplinger Staff Published 3 October 25 Quizzes Sleep 'Outside' Without Back Pain: Five Glamping Resorts for Luxury and Nature Glamping, or glamorous camping, offers older travelers a chance to reconnect with nature in comfort. These glamping spots range from the simple to the decadent. By Christy Bieber Last updated 3 October 25 Happy Retirement VIEW MORE Real Estate Kiplinger Housing Outlook: Home Price Growth Falls Economic Outlooks Existing home sales remain weak due to high financing costs. Economic Outlooks Where the Ultra-Rich Are Buying Real Estate Now Why the ultra-rich are flocking to new corners of the world &mdash; and what their moves reveal about real estate hotspots. By Paige Cerulli Published 3 October 25 Dealing With a Bad HOA Board? This Book Could Be Your Battle Plan 'Bad HOA' by Luke Carlson empowers homeowners to push back against unfairness, offering advice on dealing with challenging homeowners associations (HOAs). By H. Dennis Beaver, Esq. Published 30 September 25 Design Your Second Home to Pay for Itself Smart interior design can transform your vacation home into an income-generating rental without sacrificing comfort or style. By Dori Zinn Published 27 September 25 VIEW MORE Economic Forecasts Kiplinger Housing Outlook: Home Price Growth Falls Economic Outlooks Existing home sales remain weak due to high financing costs. Economic Outlooks Apple Readies for AI Upgrade with New iPhones The Kiplinger Letter The tech giant has stumbled when it comes to artificial intelligence, but a new batch of iPhones will help it make headway. By John Miley Published 30 September 25 The Kiplinger Letter Japan's New Era of Risk and Reform The Kiplinger Letter Japan has entered a pivotal moment in its economic history, undertaking ambitious policy and structural reforms to escape from decades of stagnation. By Rodrigo Serme&ntilde;o Published 29 September 25 The Kiplinger Letter Kiplinger GDP Outlook: No Recession, But Low Economic Growth Kiplinger Forecasts In the latest Kiplinger GDP forecast, we expect modest-to-moderate growth in the second half of 2025 and through 2026. By David Payne Last updated 25 September 25 Kiplinger Forecasts More from Kiplinger Sleep 'Outside' Without Back Pain: Five Glamping Resorts for Luxury and Nature Glamping, or glamorous camping, offers older travelers a chance to reconnect with nature in comfort. These glamping spots range from the simple to the decadent. Travel Health Insurance: Here's What You Need to Know Find out when travel health insurance is necessary, what it covers, how much it costs and more. By Erin Bendig Last updated 2 October 25 Eat Your Way Across America: Foodie Gems Worth the Drive Want to eat your way across America? Here's a look at foodie gems worth the drive, whether you&rsquo;re craving the nostalgic taste of juicy BBQ or fresh-caught seafood straight from the ocean. By Kathryn Pomroy Last updated 1 October 25 What Happens to National Parks During a Government Shutdown? A guide to what stays open and what's at risk &mdash; and how to plan your park trips when federal funding stalls. By Chonc&eacute; Maddox Published 1 October 25 How Medicare Is Affected by a Government Shutdown A look at how Medicare is affected by a government shutdown, as well as other government-related health care. By Donna LeValley Last updated 1 October 25 Will Your Social Security Checks Stop During the Governm