# Cheap Steak Cuts

**Source**: http://www.artofmanliness.com/2015/09/05/cheap-steak-cuts/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:16:55.024729+00:00

---

Cheap Steak Cuts: 8 Delicious Cuts of Meat | The Art of Manliness Cheap Steak Cuts: 8 Delicious Cuts of Meat | The Art of Manliness Menu random podcast Get Style Clothing Accessories Facial Hair Ties Get Strong Fitness Health Program Review Get Social Family Fatherhood Relationships Social Skills Get Skilled How To Manly Know-How Outdoor/Survival Podcast Books Random Find more of the Art of Manliness: Instagram Feedly Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Clothing Accessories Facial Hair Ties A Man’s Guide to the Rugby Shirt 5 Ways to Wear an OCBD With Style Men Don&#8217;t Dress Like Boys How to Wear a White T-Shirt With Style The Dos and Don&#8217;ts of Applying Cologne Did Commandos Go Commando? A Man&#8217;s Guide to Fragrance: How to Choose and Wear Cologne My Go-To Sunglasses for Summer How to Trim Your Eyebrows Your No-Nonsense Guide to Choosing the Right Beard Style How to Grow a Beard: The One and True Guide Beard Oil FAQs: Answering All Your Pressing Beardly Questions Skill of the Week: Tie a Full Windsor Necktie Knot How to Tie a Tie Skill of the Week: Put a Dimple in Your Tie Skill of the Week: Tie a Scarf 5 Different Ways Browse all Get Style Fitness Health Program Review What My Workout Has Looked Like Lately Podcast #1,086: Build Muscle Without the B.S. — A Straightforward Guide to Size and Strength How to Turn Treading Water Into a Legit Workout Skill of the Week: Effectively Traverse the Monkey Bars Skill of the Week: Tape a Sprained Ankle Podcast #1,084: Overdiagnosed — How Our Obsession with Medical Testing and Labels Is Making Us Sicker A Man’s Guide to Blood Pressure: What It Is, Why It Matters, and How to Keep It in Check Podcast #1,076: The Microbiome Master Key — How 100 Trillion Bacteria Influence Your Weight, Mood, and All-Around Health The Insanely Difficult Standards of History&#8217;s Hardest P.E. Program Which Fitness Program Is Right for You? A Review of the MovNat Workshop Strengthen Your Tribe: A Report on the Atomic Athlete Vanguard Browse all Get Strong Family Fatherhood Relationships Social Skills A Back-to-School Game Plan for Dads Podcast #1,056: The 80/80 Marriage — A New Model for a Happier, Stronger Relationship Podcast #1,039: What&#8217;s Behind the Rise of Parent-Child Estrangement? Take the D Word Off the Table Podcast #1,085: The Preparation — An Adventure-Driven, Skill-Building Alternative to College for Young Men Podcast #1,072: Men Don&#8217;t Run in the Rain — And 7 Other Essential Lessons for Being a Man The Dad Instinct: How Fathers Prepare Kids for the Wider World The 4 Parenting Styles (And Which One Is Best) The Yearly Marriage Checkup Podcast #1,068: Building Tribe — How to Create and Sustain Communities of Men Podcast #1,060: No, There Isn&#8217;t a Loneliness Epidemic (And That May Be an Even Bigger Problem) Podcast #1,058: The Science of Porn: Myths, Facts, and Overlooked Issues Podcast #1,087: Why You Need the Good Stress of Socializing Podcast #1,070: How to Have the Manners and Charm of a Proper English Gentleman How to Flirt Like It&#8217;s 1995 Podcast #1,052: Stop Saying Um (And Fix the Other Vocal Tics That Are Sabotaging Your Speaking) Browse all Get Social How To Manly Know-How Outdoor/Survival How to Crack a Whip Skill of the Week: Sharpen a Pocket Knife How to Drive a Tank How to Do a Brush Pass Like a Cold War Spy Skill of the Week: Heel-And-Toe Shift Skill of the Week: Make a Rope Swing (And Fly Like Tarzan) Skill of the Week: Jump From a Height Into Water How to Use a Multimeter Skill of the Week: Cross a Piranha-Infested River Skill of the Week: Fire a Flare Gun Skill of the Week: Open a Coconut (With or Without Tools) Podcast #1,078: From Plane Crashes to Terrorist Attacks — Who Survives, and Why Browse all Get Skilled in: Featured , Food &amp; Drink , Living Brett &bull; September 5, 2015 &bull; Last updated: June 4, 2021 Let’s Hear It For the Cheap Meats! 8 Delicious Steak Cuts for the Average Joe If you’re like me, you like beef. Some weeks I’ll consume a beef product every day for lunch. Beef is delicious and one of the best sources of protein and testosterone-boosting cholesterol and fat. And did I mention it’s delicious? But if you’re also like me, you don’t want to spend that much money on food. And if you’ve been paying attention to your grocery bill, the price of beef has gone up dramatically this year. I know a lot of guys who, when they hear the word “steak,” only think of strips, rib eyes, T-bones, and tenderloins; they think these high-end cuts constitute the entire universe of beef. Consequently, they deny themselves the enjoyment of regular steak because they think they can’t afford it. But what if I told you can enjoy a steak that tastes nearly identical to a rib eye but is half the cost? Well it’s true, my friend. In today’s post, I take you through the world of cheap(er) steak cuts. Sure, they’re not as tender as prime rib or t-bones, but if you can save yourself some money while enjoying a nice steak a few times a week, what’s a little more chewing in the grand scheme of things? To help me navigate the world of cheap steak cuts, I talked to a butcher named Waylon at my local Reasor’s grocery store in Jenks, OK. Waylon’s General Recommendation: Steaks from the Shoulder If you’re looking for affordable steak cuts, Waylon says to look for anything that says “chuck” or “shoulder” in it. The chuck, or shoulder, is a tougher piece of meat, but still has plenty of marbling to give it some flavor. Most of the specific cheap steak cuts I highlight below come from the chuck. 8 Delicious Steak Cuts for the Average Joe 1. Chuck Eye Steaks Waylon’s first specific recommendation was the chuck eye steak. I’ve heard it referred to as the “poor man’s ribeye.” It comes from the chuck of a cow and has a nice meat-to-fat balance similar to a rib eye, but for much less. Waylon says these are great for grilling. All meat gets tougher the longer you cook it, but that’s especially true with cheap meats that are already tougher to begin with. All the cuts I’ll mention here taste best on the rarer side. Cooked to red, juicy perfection, chuck eye steaks are my absolute favorite source of cheaper meat. 2. Flat Iron Steaks Like the chuck eye, the flat iron cut comes from the cow’s chuck or shoulder. It’s got a nice amount of marbling for added flavor. High-end restaurants have started to feature flat iron steaks, so demand might take this cut of meat out of the cheaper category. 3. Charcoal Steaks While the charcoal steak cut comes from the top of the cow’s shoulder, it’s the second-most tender cut on the animal. Like all the steak cuts from the shoulder, Waylon recommends cooking charcoal steaks rare to medium-rare to prevent the meat from getting too tough. Cook on high heat. Also, be sure to look out for the piece of gristle that runs through the middle. 4. Chuck Tenders Waylon said chuck tenders often get the short shrift because it doesn’t look like its much meat, but with this steak cut, looks are deceiving. Chuck tenders (aka mock tenders) look like a beef tenderloin, but are smaller and cheaper. Because it comes from the shoulder, it’s a tough cut of meat if you overcook it. If you want to make it a bit more tender, marinate before cooking. During the past few months, chuck tenders have become my go-to steak cut. They usually come in packages of three that each cost about $5-$6. I’ll grill up a big batch on Monday and eat them throughout the week. 5. Tri-Tip Waylon says if he’s having a big party and wants to serve steak, he’ll just buy a tri-tip and either grill it or slow cook it. The tri-tip is a triangular cut of beef that comes from the cow’s bottom sirloin. It’s a lean cut of beef. Consequently, you don’t get as much juicy, beefy flavor as you do with some of the other steaks on here. So you’ll want to add plenty of seasoning to punch up the taste. This is a great cut of steak to cook up for a dinner party and serve to guests. It’s also a great steak to cook on Sunday and use for your lunches throughout the week. Every morning just cut some slices for your Man Salad or steak sandwiches. 6. Eye Round Steak For steaks, Waylon steers people away from cuts that come from the round. They’re just too thick and tough. One exception he makes is the eye round steak. It’s tough and dry and usually braised or cooked in the slow cooker, but if you cook it rare or medium-rare, you can get away with grilling it. 7. Hanger Steak This cut comes from the cow’s belly. It “hangs” off the diaphragm, hence the name. Hanger steak has a nice beefy flavor and is&nbsp;usually the most tender piece of meat on the animal, though it does come with a long, inedible membrane that runs down the middle. It&#8217;s a hard cut to get a hold of because butchers sometimes&nbsp;keep it for themselves (which is why it&#8217;s also called &#8220;butcher&#8217;s steak&#8221;).&nbsp;So if you want to pick a hanger steak up, call around to local butcher shops and ask them to hold on to some for you. Cook it on high heat and don’t cook it more than medium-rare to avoid turning it into a piece of shoe leather. 8. Flap Steak Flap meat comes from the cow’s bottom sirloin. It’s a really thin cut of meat that has a nice beef flavor to it. Cook it medium-rare and cut it against the grain to minimize toughness. This was a favorite of mine to use in my testosterone Man Salads. What About Skirt and Flank Steak? Flank and skirt steak &#8212; both from the cow’s belly &#8212; used to be pretty affordable cuts of beef, but then they went and got all trendy and cool the past few years, which has greatly increased the price. I’ve seen flank steak go for $15 a pound. Sheesh. If you’re going to make fajitas or steak sandwiches, definitely go with flank or skirt steaks, but for everyday affairs, stick with the above. Well, there you go. Affordable&nbsp;steaks for the Avera