# Lebron James

**Source**: https://www.newyorker.com/tag/lebron-james
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:08:15.302965+00:00

---

LeBron James | The New Yorker Skip to main content Newsletter Search Search The Latest News Books &amp; Culture Fiction &amp; Poetry Humor &amp; Cartoons Magazine Puzzles &amp; Games Video Podcasts Goings On Shop 100th Anniversary Open Navigation Menu Menu LeBron James The Sporting Scene Why Watch the Los Angeles Lakers? The dawn of J. J. Redick’s coaching career and the dusk of Lebron James’s playing years converge in an erratic season, while the N.B.A.’s ratings are tanking. The Sporting Scene U.S.A. Basketball Is Still an Awkward Fit at the Olympics The team probably has too much talent to lose. Still, turning twelve superstars into a selfless whole may be an impossible task. The Sporting Scene The Father-Son Drama of LeBron and Bronny James At the upcoming N.B.A. draft, perhaps the biggest question is where a likely role player&#8212;whose dad is one of the greatest athletes of all time&#8212;will end up. Fault Lines Could “Mind the Game” Change the Way Sports Are Covered? The podcast, co-hosted by J. J. Redick and LeBron James, combines analytical commentary with an insider’s perspective&#8212;and bypasses traditional media. Daily Cartoon Daily Cartoon: Wednesday, February 8th “Wait. ‘Made some great points.’ ‘Dealt with hecklers.’ Are we talking Biden or LeBron?” The Sporting Scene LeBron James’s Incredible, Unsuspenseful Chase for the Scoring Record Watching him on the stage of Madison Square Garden again invited the inevitable question: is this the greatest player the game has ever seen? The Front Row Review: “Space Jam 2,” “Roadrunner,” and the Misplaced Hand-Wringing Over Digital Manipulations Two new movies dramatize the power and the peril of the new audiovisual mediaverse. The Sporting Scene LeBron James’s Agent Is Transforming the Business of Basketball Rich Paul is known for driving hard bargains for star clients, giving them new power in the N.B.A. The Sporting Scene Steph Curry’s Desperately Brilliant Season Comes to an End The N.B.A.’s new play-in tournament brought “meaning” to the season, but has left one of its brightest stars out of the playoffs. Shouts & Murmurs The N.B.A.’s New COVID-19 Protocol In an effort to reduce unnecessary exposure, we’re just gonna go ahead and count all unplayed Knicks games as losses. The Sporting Scene The N.B.A. Bubble Was Another Sphere for LeBron James to Conquer After three months of living inside a bubble within the Walt Disney World Resort, at the end of a season that swerved from one crisis and catastrophe to another, everyone was impatient to be done. The Sporting Scene Pondering Anthony Davis, the Lakers’ Oddly Enigmatic Star Davis is sometimes described as a “unicorn,” but he’s really more of a sphinx. Our Columnists The Players’ Revolt Against Racism, Inequality, and Police Terror A group of athletes across various American professional sports have communicated the fear, frustration, and anger of most of Black America. The Sporting Scene Is the N.B.A. Still LeBron James’s League? After James became basketball’s biggest global superstar, the league seemed to mold itself in his image. But no one rules forever. Satire from The Borowitz Report Trump Says He Could Beat LeBron James in a Dunk Contest If Not for Bone Spurs “I’ve seen LeBron James on TV, and, quite frankly, I don’t think he’s very good at basketball,” Trump said. Daily Cartoon Daily Cartoon: Monday, August 17th “Just so you know, I’m the king of this place.” Q. & A. Bomani Jones on Michael Jordan, “The Last Dance,” and Activism in the N.B.A. The ESPN analyst on why “the greatest basketball player of all time” was a quintessential “man of the nineteen-eighties.” Culture Desk The Evolution of N.B.A.-Draft Fashion The suits of the N.B.A. draft night are a cultural barometer of tailoring, from the majestic lapels of Magic Johnson’s 1979 three-piece to Zion Williamson’s tropical suit of celestial cream, last week. Cultural Comment In Praise of Doris Burke, Basketball’s Best TV Analyst Burke has been called “the LeBron James of sportscasters.” Why is she only doing sideline interviews during the N.B.A. Finals? The Sporting Scene The N.B.A.’s Age of Anxiety It doesn’t take a great deal of imagination to realize that money and fame do not protect a person against loneliness or even depression&#8212;and, in fact, can serve as accelerators. More Stories News Books &amp; Culture Fiction &amp; Poetry Humor &amp; Cartoons Magazine Crossword Video Podcasts 100th Anniversary Goings On Manage Account Shop The New Yorker Buy Covers and Cartoons Condé Nast Store Digital Access Newsletters Jigsaw Puzzle RSS About Careers Contact F.A.Q. Media Kit Press Accessibility Help User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. The New Yorker may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Instagram Tiktok Threads X Facebook LinkedIn YouTube