# George Lucas Star Wars Celebration

**Source**: https://www.polygon.com/2017/4/13/15288998/george-lucas-star-wars-celebration
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:55:32.940290+00:00

---

George Lucas reiterates Star Wars is for ‘12-year-olds,’ calls out ‘mean’ critics Menu Sign in Sign in now Guides Gaming Entertainment Close What To Play What to Watch Guides Submenu All Guides Pokémon Go Donkey Kong Bananza Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 Games Submenu All Gaming Tabletop Entertainment Submenu All Entertainment Anime Horror Sci-Fi Fantasy Videos Sign in Newsletter Join Our Content Team Home Contact Us Terms Privacy Copyright About Us Press Kit Fact Checking Policy Corrections Policy Ethics Policy Ownership Policy Owned &amp; Operated by Valnet Inc. Copyright &copy; 2025 www.polygon.com --> Menu Follow Followed Like More Action Sign in Sign in now Close We just can’t let the prequel trilogy go George Lucas reiterates Star Wars is for ‘12-year-olds,’ calls out ‘mean’ critics By&nbsp; Julia Alexander Published Apr 13, 2017 Follow Followed Share Facebook X LinkedIn Reddit Flipboard Copy link Email Like Link copied to clipboard Related Life after Game Pass for Xbox fans means more ads 1 day ago 10 years ago, Mario Maker made history. Now, you can&#039;t play it. 5 days ago Fans revolt against Xbox after years of price hikes and game delays 2 days ago Sign in to your Polygon account Kevin Winter/Getty Images Star Wars creator George Lucas took the stage at Star Wars Celebration today to remind people that the series has always been for children. Lucas told actor Warwick Davis, who was moderating the event’s opening panel, that Star Wars was always intended to be enjoyed by “12-year-olds.” He went on to admonish critics for “being mean” and talk about what Star Wars stands for in his mind. “Friendships, honestly, trust, doing the right thing, living on the right side and avoiding the dark side,” Lucas said. “Those are the things it was meant to do.” Lucas said that while certain fans and critics can be overly critical of the movies — with the prequel trilogy garnering overwhelmingly negative attention in particular — seeing children enjoy the movies that he’s created is a reminder of why he started to begin with. Lucas brought up a memory from shooting a scene from one of the prequel movies in Spain, and seeing the “thousands” of Star Wars fans line up to meet him. “There were all these tiny kids,” Lucas said. “They were all reaching their hands out, and they had no idea what was happening, but all they wanted to do was touch my hand. “That’s all I’ve ever wanted, and it reminds me why I continue to do it.” Star Wars Celebration runs today through April 16. Polygon will have ongoing coverage all weekend. Polygon Archives Follow Followed Like Share Facebook X LinkedIn Reddit Flipboard Copy link Email Close Recommended 9 hours ago Ghost of Yōtei&#039;s open world doesn&#039;t do its hero justice 1 day ago EA tackles Sims 4 save corruption: &quot;We&#039;ve committed to transparency&quot; 12 hours ago Critical Role campaign 4’s characters are a kaleidoscope of freaks — and I love them 10 hours ago Snoopy completely changed over Peanuts’ 50-year run — not always on purpose Most Popular You might still be able to get Xbox Game Pass’ day one games for less than $30 a month GTA 6 release date: What&#039;s the latest from Rockstar? The most unhinged KPop Demon Hunters Halloween costume is just $40 If you only watch one V/H/S horror short this year, this should be it Everybody is mad at Pokémon TCG Pocket right now 3 Game Pass games we&#039;re playing this weekend (Oct. 3-5) See More Trending Now Silent Hill f&#039;s first ending is the game&#039;s weakest — but stick with it Silent Hill f reminds me of FromSoft&#039;s forgotten J-horror masterpiece The Mighty Nein looks like a worthy spinoff of Vox Machina in first images Join Our Team About Us Editorial Ethics and Guidelines Community Guidelines Contact Us Follow Us Advertising Careers Terms Privacy Policies Polygon is part of the Valnet Publishing Group Copyright &copy; 2025 Valnet Inc.