# The Nets Nba Economics

**Source**: http://www.grantland.com/story/_/id/7021031/the-nets-nba-economics?view=print
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:54:56.871364+00:00

---

&raquo; The Nets and NBA Economics Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous The Week That Was ➤ Next Wedded Blitz! Jamie McCarthy/Getty Images Facebook Twitter Print NBA The Nets and NBA Economics David Stern would have you believe the Brooklyn-bound franchise embodies everything wrong with the league's finances. It's not true. by Malcolm Gladwell on October 10, 2011 T en years ago, a New York real estate developer named Bruce Ratner fell in love with a building site at the corner of Atlantic and Flatbush Avenues in Brooklyn. It was 22 acres, big by New York standards, and within walking distance of four of the most charming, recently gentrified neighborhoods in Brooklyn &#8212; Park Slope, Boerum Hill, Clinton Hill, and Fort Greene. A third of the site was above a railway yard, where the commuter trains from Long Island empty into Brooklyn, and that corner also happened to be where the 2, 3, 4, 5, D, N, R, B, Q, A, and C subway lines all magically converge. From Atlantic Yards &#8212; as it came to be known &#8212; almost all of midtown and downtown Manhattan, not to mention a huge swath of Long Island, was no more than a 20-minute train ride away. Ratner had found one of the choicest pieces of undeveloped real estate in the Northeast. But there was a problem. Only the portion of the site above the rail yard was vacant. The rest was occupied by an assortment of tenements, warehouses, and brownstones. To buy out each of those landlords and evict every one of their tenants would take years and millions of dollars, if it were possible at all. Ratner needed New York State to use its powers of &#8220;eminent domain&#8221; to condemn the existing buildings for him. But how could he do that? The most generous reading of what is possible under eminent domain came from the Supreme Court&#8217;s ruling in the Kelo v. New London case. There the court held that it was permissible to seize private property in the name of economic development. But Kelo involved a chronically depressed city clearing out a few houses so that Pfizer could expand a research and development facility. Brooklyn wasn&#8217;t New London. And Ratner wasn&#8217;t Pfizer: All he wanted was to build luxury apartment buildings. In any case, the Court&#8217;s opinion in Kelo was treacherous ground. Think about it: What the Court said was that the government can take your property from you and give it to someone else simply if it believes that someone else will make better use of it. The backlash to Kelo was such that many state legislatures passed laws making their condemnation procedures tougher, not easier. Ratner wanted no part of that controversy. He wanted an airtight condemnation, and for that it was far safer to rely on the traditional definition of eminent domain, which said that the state could only seize private property for a &#8220;public use.&#8221; And what does that mean? The best definition is from a famous opinion written by former Justice Sandra Day O&#8217;Connor: Our cases have generally identified three categories of takings that comply with the public use requirement. &#133; Two are relatively straightforward and uncontroversial. First, the sovereign may transfer private property to public ownership &#8212; such as for a road, a hospital, or a military base. See, e.g., Old Dominion Land Co. v. United States, 269 U. S. 55 (1925); Rindge Co. v. County of Los Angeles , 262 U. S. 700 (1923). Second, the sovereign may transfer private property to private parties, often common carriers, who make the property available for the public&#8217;s use &#8212; such as with a railroad, a public utility, or a stadium. A stadium . The italics are mine &#8212; or rather, they are Ratner&#8217;s. At a certain point, as he gazed longingly at the corner of Atlantic and Flatbush, a light bulb went off inside his head. And he bought the New Jersey Nets. E arlier this year, NBA commissioner David Stern was interviewed by Bloomberg News. Stern was expounding on his favorite theme &#8212; that the business of basketball was in economic peril and that the players needed to take a pay cut &#8212; when he was asked about the New Jersey Nets. Ratner had just sold the franchise to a wealthy Russian businessman after arranging to move the team to Brooklyn. &#8220;Is it a contradiction to say that the current model does not work,&#8221; Stern was asked, &#8220;and yet franchises are being bought for huge sums by billionaires like Mikhail Prokhorov?&#8221; &#8220;Stop there,&#8221; Stern replied. &#8220;&#133; the previous ownership lost several hundred million dollars on that transaction.&#8221; This is the argument that Stern has made again and again since the labor negotiations began. On Halloween, he and the owners will dress up like Oliver Twist and parade up and down Park Avenue, caps in hand, while their limousines idle discreetly on a side street. And at this point, even players seem like they believe him. If and when the lockout ends, they will almost certainly agree to take a smaller share of league revenues. But Stern&#8217;s success does not change how strange the NBA position is. There is first of all the hilarious assumption that owning a basketball franchise is a business &#8212; at least as that word is used outside of, say, the president&#8217;s mansion in Pyongyang. 1 But beyond that is a second, equally ridiculous assumption, which is that the economics of basketball teams are principally about basketball . As it turns out, they are not. B ruce Ratner&#8217;s original plan for the Atlantic Yards site called for 16 separate commercial and residential towers and a basketball arena, all designed by the superstar architect Frank Gehry. The development would be home to roughly 15,000 people, cost in excess of $4 billion, total more than eight million square feet, and make his company &#8212; by some calculations &#8212; as much as $1 billion in profit. To put that in perspective, the original Rockefeller Center &#8212; one of the grandest urban developments in American history &#8212; was seven million square feet. Ratner wanted to out-Rockefeller the Rockefellers. Ratner knew this would not be easy. The 14 acres he wanted to raze was a perfectly functional neighborhood, inhabited by taxpaying businesses and homeowners. He needed a political halo, and Ratner&#8217;s genius was in understanding how beautifully the Nets could serve that purpose. The minute basketball was involved, Brooklyn&#8217;s favorite son &#8212; Jay-Z &#8212; signed up as a part-owner and full-time booster. Brooklyn&#8217;s borough president began publicly fantasizing about what a professional sports team would mean for his community. The Mayor&#8217;s office, then actively pursuing an Olympic bid, loved the idea of a new arena in Brooklyn. Early on, another New York developer, Gary Barnett, made a competing play for the railway yard. Barnett&#8217;s offer was, in many ways, superior to Ratner&#8217;s. He didn&#8217;t want the extra 14 acres, so no land would have to be expropriated from private owners. He wasn&#8217;t going to plunk a small city down in the middle of an already crowded neighborhood. And he tripled the value of Ratner&#8217;s offer. Barnett lost. He never had a chance. He wanted to build apartments. Ratner was restoring the sporting glory lost when the Dodgers fled for Los Angeles. As Michael Rikon, one of the attorneys who sued to stop the project, ruefully concluded when Ratner&#8217;s victory was complete: &#8220;It is an aphorism in criminal law that a good prosecutor could get a grand jury to indict a ham sandwich. With regards to condemnations in New York, it can fairly be said that in New York a condemnor can condemn a Kasha Knish.&#8221; 2 Especially if the kasha knish is being eaten to make way for a professional basketball arena. Ratner has been vilified &#8212; both fairly and unfairly &#8212; by opponents of the Atlantic Yards project. But let&#8217;s be clear: What he did has nothing whatsoever to do with basketball . Ratner didn&#8217;t buy the Nets as a stand-alone commercial enterprise in the hopes that ticket sales and television revenue would exceed players&#8217; salaries and administration costs. Ratner was buying eminent domain insurance. Basketball also had very little to do with Ratner&#8217;s sale of the Nets. Ratner got hit by the recession. Fighting the court challenges to his project took longer than he thought. He became dangerously overextended. His shareholders got restless. He realized he had to dump the fancy Frank Gehry design for something more along the lines of a Kleenex box. Prokhorov helped Ratner out by buying a controlling interest in the Nets. But he also paid off some of Ratner&#8217;s debts, lent him $75 million, picked up some of his debt service, acquired a small stake in the arena, and bought an option on 20 percent of the entire Atlantic Yards project. This wasn&#8217;t a fire sale of a distressed basketball franchise. It was a general-purpose real estate bailout. Did Ratner even care that he lost the Nets? Once he won his eminent domain case, the team had served its purpose. He&#8217;s not a basketball fan. He&#8217;s a real estate developer. The asset he wanted to hang on to was the arena, and with good reason. According to Ratner, the Barclays Center (the naming right of which, by the way, earned him a cool $400 million) is going to bring in somewhere around $120 million in revenue a year. Operating costs will be $30 million. The mortgage comes to $50 million. That leaves $35 million in profit on Ratner&#8217;s $350 million up-front investment, for an annual return of 10 percent. 3 &#8220;That is pretty good out of the box,&#8221; Ratner said in a recent interview. &#8220;It will increase as time goes on.&#8221; Not to mention that the rental market in Brooklyn is heating up, the first of Ratner&#8217;s residential towe