# 11768144

**Source**: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/11768144/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:36:52.629137+00:00

---

Free- time activities in middle childhood: links with adjustment in early adolescence - PubMed This site needs JavaScript to work properly. Please enable it to take advantage of the complete set of features! Clipboard, Search History, and several other advanced features are temporarily unavailable. Skip to main page content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Log in Show account info Close Account Logged in as: username Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Access keys NCBI Homepage MyNCBI Homepage Main Content Main Navigation Search: Search Advanced Clipboard User Guide Save Email Send to Clipboard My Bibliography Collections Citation manager Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Save citation to file Format: Summary (text) PubMed PMID Abstract (text) CSV Create file Cancel Email citation Email address has not been verified. Go to My NCBI account settings to confirm your email and then refresh this page. To: Subject: Body: Format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) MeSH and other data Send email Cancel Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Add to My Bibliography My Bibliography Unable to load your delegates due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Your saved search Name of saved search: Search terms: Test search terms Would you like email updates of new search results? Saved Search Alert Radio Buttons Yes No Email: ( change ) Frequency: Monthly Weekly Daily Which day? The first Sunday The first Monday The first Tuesday The first Wednesday The first Thursday The first Friday The first Saturday The first day The first weekday Which day? Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Report format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) PubMed Send at most: 1 item 5 items 10 items 20 items 50 items 100 items 200 items Send even when there aren't any new results Optional text in email: Save Cancel Create a file for external citation management software Create file Cancel Your RSS Feed Name of RSS Feed: Number of items displayed: 5 10 15 20 50 100 Create RSS Cancel RSS Link Copy Full text links Wiley Full text links Actions Cite Collections Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Permalink Permalink Copy Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Page navigation Title &amp; authors Abstract Publication types MeSH terms Grants and funding LinkOut - more resources Title &amp; authors Abstract Publication types MeSH terms Grants and funding LinkOut - more resources Child Dev Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2001 Nov-Dec;72(6):1764-78. doi: 10.1111/1467-8624.00377. Free- time activities in middle childhood: links with adjustment in early adolescence S M McHale &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; A C Crouter ,&nbsp; C J Tucker Affiliations Expand Affiliation 1 Pennsylvania State University, University Park, 16802, USA. x2u@psu.edu PMID: 11768144 DOI: 10.1111/1467-8624.00377 Item in Clipboard Free- time activities in middle childhood: links with adjustment in early adolescence S M McHale &nbsp;et al. Child Dev . 2001 Nov-Dec . Show details Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Child Dev Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2001 Nov-Dec;72(6):1764-78. doi: 10.1111/1467-8624.00377. Authors S M McHale &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; A C Crouter ,&nbsp; C J Tucker Affiliation 1 Pennsylvania State University, University Park, 16802, USA. x2u@psu.edu PMID: 11768144 DOI: 10.1111/1467-8624.00377 Item in Clipboard Full text links Cite Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Abstract This study assessed links between free-time activities in middle childhood (hobbies, sports, toys and games, outdoor play, reading, television viewing, and hanging out) and school grades, conduct, and depression symptoms both concurrently and 2 years later, in early adolescence. It also explored two mechanisms that might underlie activity-adjustment links: whether the social contexts of children's activities mediate these links, child effects explain these connections, or both. Participants were 198 children (M = 10.9 years, SD = .54 years) in Year 1, and their parents. In home interviews in Years 1 and 3 of the study, mothers rated children's conduct problems, children reported on their depression symptoms, and information was collected on school grades from report cards. In seven evening phone interviews, children reported on the time they spent in free-time activities during the day of the call and their companions in each activity. Links were found between the nature of children's free-time activities and their adjustment. The social contexts of free-time activities explained activity-adjustment links to a limited degree; with respect to child effects, evidence also suggested that better adjusted children became more involved in adaptive activities over time. PubMed Disclaimer Publication types Research Support, U.S. Gov&#x27;t, P.H.S. Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search MeSH terms Adolescent Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Adolescent Behavior / psychology Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Child Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Female Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Follow-Up Studies Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Humans Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Leisure Activities* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Male Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Parents Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Social Adjustment* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Socioeconomic Factors Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Grants and funding R01-HD32336-02/HD/NICHD NIH HHS/United States LinkOut - more resources Full Text Sources Ovid Technologies, Inc. Wiley Miscellaneous NCI CPTAC Assay Portal Full text links [x] Wiley [x] Cite Copy Download .nbib .nbib Format: AMA APA MLA NLM Send To Clipboard Email Save My Bibliography Collections Citation Manager [x] NCBI Literature Resources MeSH PMC Bookshelf Disclaimer The PubMed wordmark and PubMed logo are registered trademarks of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Unauthorized use of these marks is strictly prohibited. Follow NCBI Twitter Facebook LinkedIn GitHub Connect with NLM Twitter SM-Facebook SM-Youtube National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike Bethesda, MD 20894 Web Policies FOIA HHS Vulnerability Disclosure Help Accessibility Careers NLM NIH HHS USA.gov