# Content

**Source**: http://www.thestranger.com/seattle/Content?oid=7989613&mode=print
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:31:25.743155+00:00

---

The Long Con - The Stranger The Stranger EverOut Portland Mercury Chicago Reader Savage Love Bold Type Tickets Support The Stranger Fund a free &amp; independent press Donate Now Slog Savage Love Slog AM/PM News Arts Music Weed Stranger Suggests Food & Drink Top Events Today and This Week Live Music &bull; Arts &bull; Food &bull; & More! Support The Stranger Masthead Ad Info & Rates Sell Tickets Jobs at The Stranger Contact Privacy Policy Terms of Use Takedown Policy Find The Stranger Near You Subscribe to The Stranger in Print Log In Sign Up All contents &copy; Noisy Creek, Inc. 1101 East Pike St. Suite 300, Seattle, WA 98122 🍨 Our Food Issue is Here! 🌮 News Arts and Culture Features May 4, 2011 at 4:00 am The Long Con Anatomy of a Two-Year Undercover Sting and What It Has to Do with Law Enforcement&#8217;s Habit of Wasting Large Amounts of Money on Investigating People for Their Social Habits and Political Beliefs Brendan Kiley As originally printed. PHOTO BY ANDY PIXEL B ecause this story has to start somewhere, let's begin on any given night in early 2009. It's probably drizzling, and a cluster of people is standing outside the wooden apartment building on the corner of 11th Avenue and Pike Street, the one with motel-style exterior hallways and severely chipped paint. A lightbulb above one door is glowing green, a signal that visitors are welcome. When the lightbulb glows yellow, visitors are supposed to come back later. When the lightbulb glows red, they are supposed to keep away. Sometimes when visitors enter the apartment, they're asked to hand over any weapons they might be carrying—hardly anybody ever is—and sometimes there's a cursory pat-down. Inside the apartment are a lot of artists, plus a military guy or two on a night away from the base. Some are sitting around a card table playing poker. Others are sitting on couches and chairs, smoking and drinking. They're all being watched, but only one of them knows it. There's Mia Brown, in the corner, who is into scuba diving and spends her days working with the homeless. There's Jake, a musician. There's Jimmy the Dwarf, an actor and model who works with a local circus troupe. There's Brady McGarry, who has devoted his free time over the years to political and environmental causes. There's DK Pan, a Butoh dancer, performance artist, and curator. There's Jaybird, a skinny kid in leather quietly trying to peddle small bags of cocaine. There's Thoren Honeycutt, who has a few priors for theft, including theft of a firearm. And there's Rick Wilson—tall, broad-shouldered, wearing a suit. This is Rick's apartment, called Rick's Cafe (un)American during Rick's after-hours parties. For a time, some members of this crowd threw these after-hours parties at a place called the Cthulhu Building, just three blocks uphill from Rick's. Later, some members of this crowd will throw after-hours parties at a place in Belltown called Cafe Corsair. Attendees often referred to them as speakeasies, although the people running them merely thought of them as private parties in private places. Court documents would later call them "underground illegal gambling enterprises (concurrent with illegal liquor sales)." A lot of people went to these parties—they were big events with bands and burlesque dancers. Guests were encouraged to dress up and usually did. Sometimes it seemed like half the city was there in suits and vintage dresses: artists, activists, politicians, cultural bigwigs, musicians, computer programmers, soldiers, criminals. A lot of these parties happened because Rick's good friend Bryan T. Owens had money and connections. Not everyone liked Bryan, but because he was Rick's good friend he was often around—drinking Maker's and Coke after-hours, playing poker, telling stories. He had a bald head and a goatee and a blustery bro-dude personality—one of the party regulars described him as a "mini–Fred Durst"—but he was a trust-fund baby and he was generous with his cash. One day, Brady McGarry showed up at the Belltown space. The day before had been a long, weird day for him, and he and Bryan got to talking. Brady had been helping stage a protest at the Weyerhaeuser headquarters in Federal Way—a "lockdown" some friends from California had come up for. "It was mostly a symbolic protest," Brady remembers. "We blocked an entrance for an hour or so, just long enough to make the papers." Brady had driven down in a car he'd borrowed from a friend, and on his way home, he got pulled over. "It was a state patrol officer, and he told me: 'I have a warrant for your arrest.' I said: 'Um, you haven't even asked for my ID—you don't know who I am yet.' Plus, I was driving my friend's car. It was weird." But the officer seemed to know exactly who Brady was and took him into custody. (This was not Brady's first time in jail. He had been hauled into custody a few times during his protest career. He also says it might have had something to do with some unpaid traffic tickets.) Brady bailed himself out for $1,500, which made him short on rent. "Man, that sucks ," Bryan said, according to Brady. "Cops fucking suck." Bryan offered to pay Brady's rent that month. After that, they started going to dinner together and became friends. Bryan kept pushing Brady toward more radical "real militant action," asked Brady to teach him how to make Molotov cocktails, and hinted that he wanted to "make explosives" and do some "property damage" at Weyerhaeuser or at CEOs' houses, Brady remembers. He wanted to talk about the Earth Liberation Front. Brady remembers telling Bryan to take it easy. "It weirded me out," Brady says. He gave Bryan some books to read and documentaries to watch. On July 11, 2008, Brady and Bryan drove to Tacoma to meet some "young, stinky, and disorganized" punk-rock protesters—Brady's description—at a meet and greet for people going to protest at the 2008 Republican National Convention. Bryan ended up buying plane tickets for Brady, DK Pan, and himself to get to Minneapolis–St. Paul for the convention. But on the day of the flight, shortly after they'd boarded the plane and just before taxiing, Bryan was escorted off the plane by the authorities. The reason wasn't immediately clear: He had a pot pipe on him or a warrant out or something. (Several people remember Bryan bragging that he had a record and had been arrested for political action.) So Brady and DK went to the convention without the guy who was supposed to be paying for everything. While they were there, Bryan wired them $400 for food and expenses. And it was Bryan who, after the Cafe (un)American and Cthulhu Building parties had run their course, pushed Rick and DK and Brady into renting a space in Belltown so they could throw more speakeasy parties. "At that point, everybody walked away—except Bryan," says Junior, another regular at the parties. "He kept saying, 'Let's do it again, let's do it again.'" Bryan said he had some family connection with Martin Selig's real-estate company and that he could get a cheap space in Belltown, down on Third Avenue and Battery Street—the space that came to be called Cafe Corsair. Bryan would sign the lease and put up the money so they could build out one section for parties and another section for DK's art group, called the Free Sheep Foundation. "Bryan said, 'I can pay for it as long as I get paid back,'" Junior remembers. "Rent, paint, locks, lumber, drywall, new plumbing—it all came out of Bryan's pocket." Junior shakes his head as he's remembering all this. Junior has met a lot of criminals in his life. Criminals who have double-crossed him, stabbed him, shot him—he shows me his scars, impressive burls of flesh—but he says he's never met a con artist like Bryan. "Bryan looked big and dumb, but he was a fucking grifter ," Junior concludes, half admiringly and half begrudgingly. "Dude lived parallel lives," he says, and he did it well enough to keep up with a "large, shrewd" roomful of people. Mia Brown, the scuba diver and DK's then girlfriend, remembers Bryan as a guy who "always ranted about how he hates cops" and who tried to talk an enlisted friend of hers—who was on his way to a tour in Afghanistan—into stealing weapons from Fort Lewis. But it wasn't until she visited Bryan at his apartment one night and found it nearly empty that she knew something was up. "When I went to the bathroom, there was nothing in there," she says. "You'd expect some soap or towels or something . I started asking how long he'd been living there, and he got all aggravated." After that incident at the apartment, Mia told DK to stop talking to Bryan. When DK stopped answering Bryan's calls, Bryan tried to wheedle his way into her life by talking about scuba diving. Then Mia mentioned that one of her current dive partners was in the Seattle Police Department (SPD). "And he avoided me forevermore," she says. This only ratcheted up her suspicions. Bryan's no-show act at the Republican National Convention struck her as odd. Bryan's agitation about starting up a new speakeasy and insisting that it turn a profit (when everyone in the group had been taking losses for the parties) struck her as odd. And the thing about Bryan asking a friend of hers to steal weapons from Fort Lewis struck her as odd and dangerous. Meanwhile, Bryan had been pushing Rick—and everyone in their social set—for years to help him buy ever-larger amounts of cocaine. Bryan started buying a gram here, a gram there. Then he tried to play on people's greed. "He's like, 'I can make you a millionaire,'" Rick remembers. "'I've got this inheritance, and you've got credibility with this underground economy of parties.' He said he would pay for the drugs and I would take no financial risk. I told him to go fuck himself. He kept pestering me. I did, to my eternal shame, help him out," Rick says. "I asked around to some people who asked around to some people who eventually gave him some." One night, Mia tried to tell Rick she had a funny feeling about B