# 17605536

**Source**: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17605536/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:53:53.749280+00:00

---

Toward dissemination of evidence-based family interventions: maintenance of community-based partnership recruitment results and associated factors - PubMed This site needs JavaScript to work properly. Please enable it to take advantage of the complete set of features! Clipboard, Search History, and several other advanced features are temporarily unavailable. Skip to main page content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Log in Show account info Close Account Logged in as: username Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Access keys NCBI Homepage MyNCBI Homepage Main Content Main Navigation Search: Search Advanced Clipboard User Guide Save Email Send to Clipboard My Bibliography Collections Citation manager Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Save citation to file Format: Summary (text) PubMed PMID Abstract (text) CSV Create file Cancel Email citation Email address has not been verified. Go to My NCBI account settings to confirm your email and then refresh this page. To: Subject: Body: Format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) MeSH and other data Send email Cancel Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Add to My Bibliography My Bibliography Unable to load your delegates due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Your saved search Name of saved search: Search terms: Test search terms Would you like email updates of new search results? Saved Search Alert Radio Buttons Yes No Email: ( change ) Frequency: Monthly Weekly Daily Which day? The first Sunday The first Monday The first Tuesday The first Wednesday The first Thursday The first Friday The first Saturday The first day The first weekday Which day? Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Report format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) PubMed Send at most: 1 item 5 items 10 items 20 items 50 items 100 items 200 items Send even when there aren't any new results Optional text in email: Save Cancel Create a file for external citation management software Create file Cancel Your RSS Feed Name of RSS Feed: Number of items displayed: 5 10 15 20 50 100 Create RSS Cancel RSS Link Copy Full text links American Psychological Association Free PMC article Full text links Actions Cite Collections Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Permalink Permalink Copy Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Page navigation Title &amp; authors Abstract References Publication types MeSH terms Grants and funding LinkOut - more resources Title &amp; authors Abstract References Publication types MeSH terms Grants and funding LinkOut - more resources Randomized Controlled Trial J Fam Psychol Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2007 Jun;21(2):137-46. doi: 10.1037/0893-3200.21.2.137. Toward dissemination of evidence-based family interventions: maintenance of community-based partnership recruitment results and associated factors Richard Spoth &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Scott Clair ,&nbsp; Mark Greenberg ,&nbsp; Cleve Redmond ,&nbsp; Chungyeol Shin Affiliations Expand Affiliation 1 Partnerships in Prevention Science Institute, Iowa State University, Ames, IA 50010, USA. rlspoth@iastate.edu PMID: 17605536 PMCID: PMC2848497 DOI: 10.1037/0893-3200.21.2.137 Item in Clipboard Randomized Controlled Trial Toward dissemination of evidence-based family interventions: maintenance of community-based partnership recruitment results and associated factors Richard Spoth &nbsp;et al. J Fam Psychol . 2007 Jun . Show details Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID J Fam Psychol Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2007 Jun;21(2):137-46. doi: 10.1037/0893-3200.21.2.137. Authors Richard Spoth &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Scott Clair ,&nbsp; Mark Greenberg ,&nbsp; Cleve Redmond ,&nbsp; Chungyeol Shin Affiliation 1 Partnerships in Prevention Science Institute, Iowa State University, Ames, IA 50010, USA. rlspoth@iastate.edu PMID: 17605536 PMCID: PMC2848497 DOI: 10.1037/0893-3200.21.2.137 Item in Clipboard Full text links Cite Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Abstract A major challenge in the dissemination of evidence-based family interventions (EBFIs) designed to reduce youth substance use and other problem behaviors is effective and sustainable community-based recruitment. This understudied topic is addressed by a preliminary study of 14 community-university partnership teams randomly assigned to an intervention condition in which teams attempted sustained implementation of EBFIs with two cohorts of middle school families. This report describes attendance rates of recruited families maintained over time and across both cohorts, along with exploratory analyses of factors associated with those rates. When compared with community-based recruitment rates in the literature, particularly for multisession interventions, relatively high rates were observed; they averaged 17% across cohorts. Community team functioning (e.g., production of quality team promotional materials) and technical assistance (TA) variables (e.g., effective collaboration with TA, frequency of TA requests) were associated with higher recruitment rates, even after controlling for community and school district contextual influences. Results support the community-university partnership model for recruitment that was implemented in the study. PubMed Disclaimer References Bauman KE, Ennett ST, Foshee VA, Pemberton M, Hicks K. Correlates of participation in a family-directed tobacco and alcohol prevention program for adolescents. Health Education and Behavior. 2001;28:440–461. - PubMed Butterfoss FD, Goodman RM, Wandersman A. Community coalitions for prevention and health promotion: Factors predicting satisfaction, participation, and planning. Health Education Quarterly. 1996;23(1):65–79. - PubMed Catalano RF, Berglund ML, Ryan JAM, Lonczak HC, Hawkins JD. Positive youth development in the United States: Research findings on evaluations of positive youth development programs. Report to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation and National Institute for Child Health and Human Services; 1998. Cohen DA, Linton KLP. Parent participation in adolescent drug abuse prevention program. Journal of Drug Education. 1995;25(2):159–169. - PubMed Cunningham CE, Boyle M, Offord D, Racine Y, Hundert J, Secord M, McDonald J. Tri-Ministry Study: Correlates of school-based parenting course utilization. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology. 2000;68:928–933. - PubMed Show all 47 references Publication types Multicenter Study Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Randomized Controlled Trial Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search MeSH terms Adolescent Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Child Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Child Behavior Disorders / prevention &amp; control* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Cohort Studies Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Community Mental Health Services* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Community-Institutional Relations* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Cooperative Behavior* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Evidence-Based Medicine* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Family Therapy* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Female Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Humans Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Information Dissemination* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Iowa Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Juvenile Delinquency / prevention &amp; control* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Male Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Patient Acceptance of Health Care Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Patient Care Team* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Patient Selection Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Pennsylvania Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Quality Indicators, Health Care Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Referral and Consultation Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Schools Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Substance-Related Disorders / prevention &amp; control* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Universities Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Grants and funding R01 DA013709/DA/NIDA NIH HHS/United States DA 013709/DA/NIDA NIH HHS/United States LinkOut - more resources Full Text Sources American Psychological Association Europe PubMed Central Ovid Technologies, Inc. PubMed Central Medical MedlinePlus Consumer Health Information MedlinePlus Health Information Full text links [x] American Psychological Association Free PMC article [x] Cite Copy Download .nbib .nbib Format: AMA APA MLA NLM Send To Clipboard Email Save My Bibliography Collections Citation Manager [x] NCBI Literature R