# Millennials Job Hopping Generation.Aspx)”

**Source**: https://www.gallup.com/workplace/231587/millennials-job-hopping-generation.aspx)”
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:13:01.290898+00:00

---

Millennials: The Job-Hopping Generation Notice: JavaScript is not enabled. Please Enable JavaScript Safely . skip to main content About Us Careers Contact Us Subscribe Workplace Advisory Our Expertise Employee Engagement & Experience Organizational Culture Leadership Development 2 Talent Identification & Hiring Customer Centricity Wellbeing 3 CliftonStrengths for Organizations AI Adoption Science of Teams View More Our Platform Gallup Access Platform Q12 Survey Employee Surveys CliftonStrengths About CliftonStrengths How Does CliftonStrengths Work? What Are the 34 Themes? What Are the 4 Domains? View More Reports Find the Right Report CliftonStrengths 34 CliftonStrengths Top 5 CliftonStrengths for Students View All Reports Coaching How to Become a Coach Courses for Coaches Find a Coach Quick Links Articles, Videos & More CliftonStrengths Insights Newsletter Podcast Leading With Strengths Research & Polling How We Help Clients Custom Survey Research Global Research U.S. Research Strategic Communications View More Our Research State of the Global Workplace Global Emotions World Happiness Global Leadership Global Safety Custom Research Partnerships Products & Insights Gallup Analytics Platform Gallup U.S. Pulse Public Data Sets Global Indicators Quick Links Latest News & Articles Polling Trends A-Z Our Research Impact Our Methodologies Federal Government Solutions Education Solutions Courses & Events Courses Gallup Global Strengths Coach Gallup Manager Program Engagement Champions View More Learning by Role Leaders & Managers HR Professionals Coaches Certification & Credits Gallup-Certified Strengths Coach Professional Credit Hours Quick Links Webinars & Events News & Insights 1 Gallup News Key findings and trends from 90+ years of public opinion polling. Workplace Insights Our latest analytics and advice on the key issues facing leaders. Global Indicators Employee Engagement Employee Retention & Attraction Leadership & Management Life Evaluation Index View More Newsletters Front Page CliftonStrengths Insights View More Quick Links Latest Reports & Perspectives Polling Trends A-Z Shop Sign in About Us Careers Contact Us Subscribe Gallup Workplace Advisory Our Expertise Employee Engagement & Experience Organizational Culture Leadership Development 2 Talent Identification & Hiring Customer Centricity Wellbeing 3 CliftonStrengths for Organizations AI Adoption Science of Teams View More Our Platform Gallup Access Platform Q12 Survey Employee Surveys CliftonStrengths About CliftonStrengths How Does CliftonStrengths Work? What Are the 34 Themes? What Are the 4 Domains? View More Reports Find the Right Report CliftonStrengths 34 CliftonStrengths Top 5 CliftonStrengths for Students View All Reports Coaching How to Become a Coach Courses for Coaches Find a Coach Quick Links Articles, Videos & More CliftonStrengths Insights Newsletter Podcast Leading With Strengths Research & Polling How We Help Clients Custom Survey Research Global Research U.S. Research Strategic Communications View More Our Research State of the Global Workplace Global Emotions World Happiness Global Leadership Global Safety Custom Research Partnerships Products & Insights Gallup Analytics Platform Gallup U.S. Pulse Public Data Sets Global Indicators Quick Links Latest News & Articles Polling Trends A-Z Our Research Impact Our Methodologies Federal Government Solutions Education Solutions Courses & Events Courses Gallup Global Strengths Coach Gallup Manager Program Engagement Champions View More Learning by Role Leaders & Managers HR Professionals Coaches Certification & Credits Gallup-Certified Strengths Coach Professional Credit Hours Quick Links Webinars & Events News & Insights 1 Gallup News Key findings and trends from 90+ years of public opinion polling. Workplace Insights Our latest analytics and advice on the key issues facing leaders. Global Indicators Employee Engagement Employee Retention & Attraction Leadership & Management Life Evaluation Index View More Newsletters Front Page CliftonStrengths Insights View More Quick Links Latest Reports & Perspectives Polling Trends A-Z Shop Sign in Search Workplace Toggle navigation Overview Services Employee Engagement Q 12 Survey Organizational Culture Leadership AI Adoption Customer Centricity Hiring Analytics Wellbeing Insights Contact Us Business Journal Millennials: The Job-Hopping Generation Share on LinkedIn Share on Twitter Share on Facebook Share via Email Print Share on LinkedIn Share on Twitter Share on Facebook Share via Email Print Business Journal Millennials: The Job-Hopping Generation by Amy Adkins Story Highlights Millennials most likely generation to switch jobs Six in 10 millennials are open to new job opportunities Millennials are the least engaged generation in the workplace Millennials have a reputation for job-hopping. Unattached to organizations and institutions, people from this generation -- born between 1980 and 1996 -- are said to move freely from company to company, more so than any other generation. &nbsp; The data support this. A recent Gallup report on the millennial generation reveals that 21% of millennials say they&#39;ve changed jobs within the past year, which is more than three times the number of non-millennials who report the same. Gallup estimates that millennial turnover costs the U.S. economy $30.5 billion annually. Millennials also show less willingness to stay in their current jobs. Half of millennials -- compared with 60% of non-millennials -- strongly agree that they plan to be working at their company one year from now. For businesses, this suggests that half of their millennial workforce doesn&#39;t see a future with them. Since many millennials don&#39;t plan on staying in their jobs, it makes sense that they are hunting for new positions . Gallup found that 60% of millennials say they are open to a different job opportunity -- 15 percentage points higher than the percentage of non-millennial workers who say the same. Millennials are also the most willing to act on better opportunities: 36% report that they will look for a job with a different organization in the next 12 months if the job market improves, compared with 21% of non-millennials who say the same. ###Embeddable### Millennials&#39; Engagement Lower Than That of Other Generations Why are millennials so likely to move around? There are many potential reasons, but one could be their low engagement in the workplace . Gallup has found that only 29% of millennials are engaged at work, meaning only about three in 10 are emotionally and behaviorally connected to their job and company. Another 16% of millennials are actively disengaged, meaning they are more or less out to do damage to their company. The majority of millennials (55%) are not engaged, leading all other generations in this category of worker engagement. Not engaging millennial workers is a big miss for organizations. The millennial workforce is predominantly &quot;checked out&quot; -- not putting energy or passion into their jobs. They are indifferent about work and show up just to put in their hours. It&#39;s possible that many millennials actually don&#39;t want to switch jobs, but their companies aren&#39;t giving them compelling reasons to stay. When millennials see what appears to be a better opportunity, they have every incentive to take it. While millennials can come across as wanting more and more, the reality is that they just want a job that feels worthwhile -- and they will keep looking until they find it. Attraction and Retention Strategies Matter Equally Millennials are consumers of the workplace, and they are willing to investigate and pursue positions with other companies. For leaders, the current challenge is twofold: They must understand how to attract the millennial workers who are looking to leave their current organizations, but they must also understand how to retain their existing millennial employees. Download Gallup&#39;s latest report, How Millennials Want to Work and Live , to get further insight into what millennials really want from a job, manager and company, and what organizations can do to become this generation&#39;s employer of choice. INDICATOR Employee Retention & Attraction This article includes point-in-time data. Want the latest data and trends on employee retention and attraction? Explore this workplace indicator here. Subscribe to the Front Page newsletter for insights on the world's most pressing topics. ( * ) Required Your Email Address is not valid. Please re-enter your Email Address. * Email Address * Country or Region Select One United States of America Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia (Plurinational State of) Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory (the) Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands (the) Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands (the) Colombia Comoros Congo (Kinshasa) Congo Brazzaville Cook Islands (the) Costa Rica Cote d&#39;Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic People&#39;s Republic of Korea Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (the) [Malvinas] Faroe Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories (the) Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See Honduras Hong Kong S.A.R. of China Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kaza