# Six Maps That Reveal Americas Expanding Racial Diversity

**Source**: https://kottke.org/19/09/six-maps-that-reveal-americas-expanding-racial-diversity
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:15:06.722534+00:00

---

Six Maps that Reveal America&#8217;s Expanding Racial Diversity KOTTKE DOT ORG KOTTKE DOT ORG MENU Member Login Home Membership Newsletter Goods Archive + Tags About/Contact dark mode light mode Advertise here with Carbon Ads Socials & More Newsletter RSS Feed Bluesky Mastodon This site is made possible by member support . 💞 Big thanks to Arcustech for hosting the site and offering amazing tech support. When you buy through links on kottke.org, I may earn an affiliate commission. Thanks for supporting the site! kottke.org. home of fine hypertext products since 1998. Beloved by 86.47% of the web. 🍔 &nbsp; 💀 &nbsp; 📸 &nbsp; 😭 &nbsp; 🕳️ &nbsp; 🤠 &nbsp; 🎬 &nbsp; 🥔 × close posted Sep 17 @ 05:24 PM by Jason Kottke &ensp;·&ensp; gift link Six Maps that Reveal America&#8217;s Expanding Racial Diversity Using 2020 census estimates, a series of six maps and the accompanying article from William H. Frey at the Brookings Institution show how the racial makeup on the United States is expected to have changed since the last census in 2010. Hispanics and Asian Americans are the fastest-growing racial minority groups nationally, increasing by 18.6% and 27.4%, respectively, from 2010 to 2018. There is also a growing dispersion of both groups to new destinations, which tend to lie further afield than the familiar large metro areas. In 1990, 39% of all U.S. Hispanics resided in just four metro areas: Los Angeles, New York, Miami, and Chicago. In 2018, 39% of U.S. Hispanics resided in seven metro areas, with Houston, Riverside, Calif., and Dallas added to the list (and each eclipsing Chicago in size). And beyond these, Hispanic growth is high in areas with smaller Hispanic settlements in all parts of the country. demographics maps USA William Frey Share