# 36198339

**Source**: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36198339/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:47:06.491011+00:00

---

Outcomes of a Single Center&#x27;s Initial Experience With the Penuma® Penile Implant - PubMed This site needs JavaScript to work properly. Please enable it to take advantage of the complete set of features! Clipboard, Search History, and several other advanced features are temporarily unavailable. Skip to main page content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Log in Show account info Close Account Logged in as: username Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Access keys NCBI Homepage MyNCBI Homepage Main Content Main Navigation Search: Search Advanced Clipboard User Guide Save Email Send to Clipboard My Bibliography Collections Citation manager Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Save citation to file Format: Summary (text) PubMed PMID Abstract (text) CSV Create file Cancel Email citation Email address has not been verified. Go to My NCBI account settings to confirm your email and then refresh this page. To: Subject: Body: Format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) MeSH and other data Send email Cancel Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Add to My Bibliography My Bibliography Unable to load your delegates due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Your saved search Name of saved search: Search terms: Test search terms Would you like email updates of new search results? Saved Search Alert Radio Buttons Yes No Email: ( change ) Frequency: Monthly Weekly Daily Which day? The first Sunday The first Monday The first Tuesday The first Wednesday The first Thursday The first Friday The first Saturday The first day The first weekday Which day? Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Report format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) PubMed Send at most: 1 item 5 items 10 items 20 items 50 items 100 items 200 items Send even when there aren't any new results Optional text in email: Save Cancel Create a file for external citation management software Create file Cancel Your RSS Feed Name of RSS Feed: Number of items displayed: 5 10 15 20 50 100 Create RSS Cancel RSS Link Copy Full text links Elsevier Science Full text links Actions Cite Collections Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Permalink Permalink Copy Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Page navigation Title &amp; authors Abstract Comment in MeSH terms LinkOut - more resources Title &amp; authors Abstract Comment in MeSH terms LinkOut - more resources Urology Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2023 Jan:171:236-243. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2022.07.066. Epub 2022 Oct 2. Outcomes of a Single Center&#x27;s Initial Experience With the Penuma® Penile Implant Alexandra R Siegal &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Ariel Zisman &nbsp; 2 ,&nbsp; Michaela Sljivich &nbsp; 2 ,&nbsp; Shirin Razdan &nbsp; 2 ,&nbsp; Robert J Valenzuela &nbsp; 2 Affiliations Expand Affiliations 1 The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, Department of Urology, New York, NY , USA. Electronic address: Alexandra.siegal@gmail.com. 2 The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, Department of Urology, New York, NY , USA. PMID: 36198339 DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2022.07.066 Item in Clipboard Outcomes of a Single Center&#x27;s Initial Experience With the Penuma® Penile Implant Alexandra R Siegal &nbsp;et al. Urology . 2023 Jan . Show details Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Urology Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2023 Jan:171:236-243. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2022.07.066. Epub 2022 Oct 2. Authors Alexandra R Siegal &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Ariel Zisman &nbsp; 2 ,&nbsp; Michaela Sljivich &nbsp; 2 ,&nbsp; Shirin Razdan &nbsp; 2 ,&nbsp; Robert J Valenzuela &nbsp; 2 Affiliations 1 The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, Department of Urology, New York, NY , USA. Electronic address: Alexandra.siegal@gmail.com. 2 The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, Department of Urology, New York, NY , USA. PMID: 36198339 DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2022.07.066 Item in Clipboard Full text links Cite Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Abstract Objective: To provide new data, techniques, and safety and efficacy outcomes in patients undergoing Penuma penile implant surgery at a large tertiary care center. Methods: We performed a retrospective analysis of men undergoing Penuma implants between November 2020 and January 2022 with a single surgeon at a tertiary hospital. Measurements of penile length were made both pre- and postoperatively. Adverse events including infection and unsatisfactory cosmetic outcomes requiring revision were recorded. We also provide detailed technique descriptions of Penuma implantation and revision. Outcomes include measurements of incidents of peri and post-operative adverse events and penile length and girth pre- and post-operatively. Results: 49 male patients underwent Penuma implant surgery. Mean age was 40.2 ± 8.9 years. Mean BMI was 28.2 ± 4.5. All but 2 patients were nonsmokers and only 2 had comorbidities (diabetes). Preoperative mean flaccid length was 8.1 ± 1.9 cm. Postoperative mean length was 12.3 ± 1.9 cm. Patients added an average of 4.9 ± 2.9 cm to their penile length, a 52% increase (P &lt; .01). Average follow up time was 6 months. Among the complications were 1 case of infection and 2 cases of erosion. There were 4 cases of persistent flaring of the Penuma; 3 required revision surgery, all with a good cosmetic outcome. Conclusion: The Penuma implant can be used to safely enhance flaccid penile length and girth in patients with retractile penis or other cosmetic deformities. Should complications occur, they are mainly cosmetic and can be easily corrected with low risk. Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. PubMed Disclaimer Comment in Editorial Comment. Erickson BA. Erickson BA. Urology. 2023 Jan;171:242. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2022.07.067. Urology. 2023. PMID: 36610778 No abstract available. MeSH terms Adult Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Humans Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Male Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Middle Aged Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Patient Satisfaction Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Penile Implantation* / adverse effects Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Penile Prosthesis* / adverse effects Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Penis / surgery Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Retrospective Studies Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search LinkOut - more resources Full Text Sources ClinicalKey Elsevier Science Full text links [x] Elsevier Science [x] Cite Copy Download .nbib .nbib Format: AMA APA MLA NLM Send To Clipboard Email Save My Bibliography Collections Citation Manager [x] NCBI Literature Resources MeSH PMC Bookshelf Disclaimer The PubMed wordmark and PubMed logo are registered trademarks of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Unauthorized use of these marks is strictly prohibited. Follow NCBI Twitter Facebook LinkedIn GitHub Connect with NLM Twitter SM-Facebook SM-Youtube National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike Bethesda, MD 20894 Web Policies FOIA HHS Vulnerability Disclosure Help Accessibility Careers NLM NIH HHS USA.gov