# Disney Plus Marvel Star Wars Interview Ricky Strauss Agnes Chu

**Source**: https://www.vanityfair.com/hollywood/2019/09/disney-plus-marvel-star-wars-interview-ricky-strauss-agnes-chu
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:27:09.641129+00:00

---

Meet the Brains Behind Disney+ | Vanity Fair Skip to main content Newsletters Menu Menu POLITICS HOLLYWOOD ROYALS STYLE CULTURE POLITICS HOLLYWOOD ROYALS STYLE CULTURE BUSINESS CELEBRITY VIDEO WHAT IS CINEMA? MORE NEWSLETTERS PODCASTS MAGAZINE ARCHIVE VF SHOP Search Search Sign In Q&A Meet the Brains Behind the Disney+ Content Flood Disney+ executives Ricky Strauss and Agnes Chu are tasked with stocking the platform to compete in the streaming wars. They talk Mandalorian, Marvel, nostalgia, and strategy. By Joy Press September 19, 2019 Ricky Strauss and Agnes Chu Photos from Getty Images. Save Story Save this story Save Story Save this story Disney always knew it would have to haul out the big guns for its initial salvo in the streaming wars, battling against Netflix as well as the soon-to-launch Apple TV+ , HBO Max , and NBCUniversal’s Peacock . For Disney+ execs Ricky Strauss and Agnes Chu, the strategy was pretty obvious: “leaning into the nostalgia.” That applies to everything from the near-century of animated Disney films to Marvel, Pixar, and Lucasfilm’s Star Wars, and became even more true after Disney’s Fox acquisition granted it access to Nat Geo and Fox favorites from The Simpsons to Home Alone. The streaming service, which launches November 12, has announced dozens of original series and movies being made expressly for Disney+. There will be Star Wars spin-off The Mandalorian , new takes on the Muppets and Monsters, Inc., reboots of Lizzie McGuire and High School Musical, unscripted series including The World According to Jeff Goldblum and The Imagineering Story, and a live-action version of Lady and the Tramp, with plenty more coming, including a raft of Marvel series . All those projects will sit on the Disney+ platform alongside a library of classic Disney and Fox movies and shows. Strauss, president of content and marketing for Disney+, and Chu, the senior vice president of content, have been tasked with creating a monster platform that can slay monster competitors like Netflix. Strauss says they are focusing on quality over numbers where originals are concerned: “Netflix has been around for years doing what they do. So yeah, we wouldn’t be competitive as far as quantity.” The duo talked to me about the Disney+ decision-making process and how their streaming content will bounce off of Disney’s movies and its legend. Vanity Fair: Reboots and prequels and spin-offs are an increasingly important strategy in the TV streaming world—especially for Disney. How are you going to be harnessing familiar characters and brands for Disney+? Ricky Strauss: What differentiates Disney+ from the other streamers is our catalog of brands, especially after the Fox acquisition. We have Nat Geo, Pixar, Marvel, Disney, and Lucasfilms/ Star Wars, and the I.P. that exists across all of those brands is going to be on the service for people to enjoy. We’re in development on original shows and original movies that we’re making exclusively for Disney+, so that when we launch on November 12, consumers will find both library and new original programming, both series and features. Agnes Chu: We’re leaning into the nostalgia. We’re leaning into the fact that many of our subscribers will be fans who love titles we have created in the past [and love] seeing new extensions or reimaginings or reboots of them. So in our first year, we’ll have High School Musical: The Musical: The Series, which is not a remake or a reboot. It’s actually a completely new way of expressing High School Musical, but it’ll be great for people who are nostalgic for the original three films and it’ll appeal to a new audience who may not have seen them. On the service they’ll also be able to watch the three films from a decade ago. Getting more into our characters can happen through reboots, or it can happen through unscripted programming like [the docuseries] Into the Unknown: The Making of Frozen 2 and a series called The Imagineering Story, an unscripted series that takes us behind the scenes of how our parks are created. So yes, there are reboots and remakes, but then there’s also wholly new characters and worlds. What’s the percentage of completely new originals versus stuff that bounces off of existing brands and characters? Chu: We haven’t been public about that mix. In our first year of launch, it makes sense from a business perspective to really lean into the I.P. that people already know. That has been a predominant focus for our first-year slate. But that is certainly not the percentage mix that we’re expecting for years to come. It should be a little bit more balanced in years to come. Are there risks in leaning on nostalgia? Isn’t there the potential to tarnish a legacy or spoil somebody’s cultural memory? Chu: We’re not making a large volume of things just to make them. Everything we do, we have a very clear focus that it needs to meet the standards that the originals set, and hopefully take it to another level on Disney+. So we’re pretty thoughtful about harnessing the nostalgia. Can you tell me a little bit about the process of deciding which properties you wanted to use on your initial Disney+ slate? Strauss: Monsters at Work is a good example. It’s a [spin-off of] Monsters, Inc. and Monsters University, which are two classic Pixar films. Chu: We had some great research from our social media team showcasing how much love and activity there continues to be on Monsters, Inc. and the Mike and Sully pages on Facebook and for Boo, the character. That was a really great signal to us that, even years after those two films came out, there was still a lot of love for them. Strauss: Bob Iger set up the company with this branded-content philosophy and strategy in mind. So, when we started exploring content for Disney+, Bob encouraged all of us, including our studio partners at Lucasfilm, for example, to do The Mandalorian, which is the first live-action Star Wars episodic series. It has the same level of quality as any other feature films do. Now, High School Musical: The Musical: The Series is very meta in its approach. That’s a good example of taking something that is Disney I.P. and expanding on the promise of it. But at the same time, we are doing Encore. Kristen Bell is the host of this reality series about a group of adults who have to go back to high school and perform the musical they did when they were in high school. There’s no Disney I.P. directly influencing that show, although they do put on Beauty and the Beast in one of the episodes. But it is sharing the DNA of what we stand for as a company. How much are studio heads like Kevin Feige and Kathleen Kennedy involved in deciding what’s going to be a streaming original versus, say, a theatrical release? Strauss: We’re trying to work together on the slate. So, for example, on the Marvel Cinematic Universe side, those characters from those Marvel movies will migrate directly off the screen onto the platform. So where Endgame left off with some of those characters, like Wanda and Vision or the Falcon and Winter Soldier, those are now going to be series exclusively on Disney+ that are episodic takes on what could have been a movie. But the theatrical team is still working on new I.P. as well as sequels to other franchises. And then Disney+ is going to get all those movies in the pay-one window exclusively after its home video window. That gives us a chance to develop programming around it. So, for example, on Episode IX [aka Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker ], that movie is going to be a big release this Christmas. By the time it goes on the Disney+ platform all those months later, we may come up with ideas to inform that release. Or in the case of Mandalorian and other upcoming Star Wars series, we’re going to examine characters that existed in the Star Wars mythology and maybe are not going to be on the big screen, but can exist on Disney+. So you’re going to have plotlines jumping between movies and television, made by the same teams? Chu: I think the Marvel Studios slate that Kevin Feige announced at Comic-Con and then also at D23 is a great example of that. The characters of the Falcon and the Winter Soldier will appear in an exclusive series on Disney+ in our first year, and those characters are coming immediately out of how we ended Avengers: Endgame. What happens in that series has implications on films that are to come in the future. So it`’s a really interesting experience for a Marvel fan or a general entertainment fan to go between the films in the theaters, to go to Disney+ to get more that then informs their theatrical experience. I was going to ask why you decided to have Falcon and Winter Soldier as the starting point for the MCU on Disney+. Strauss: Everything we are doing is informed by a collective groupthink around what makes the most sense for all of these different touchpoints. You’ve said that Disney+ won’t have the massive volume of original series as Netflix does. Strauss: Not at launch. We have a lot in development with our partners at Walt Disney Television Group and others. But Netflix has been around for years doing what they do. So yeah, we wouldn’t be competitive as far as quantity. The need for content in recent years has meant that TV has really opened up to a lot of previously marginalized voices, including women and people of color, and generally more experimentation. Do you think the increasing emphasis on franchises and I.P. is going to squeeze out those original voices? Chu: The Mandalorian is a great example already of how we are involving, crucially, a variety of voices behind the camera and in the writers room. Yes, Jon Favreau did write many of the episodes, but he also put together a group of five diverse filmmakers, and together they charted a course using the groundbreaking technology for the eight episodes of The Mandalorian. Even in our very first live-action series that will be on Disney+, I think [it] showcases just how committed we are to divers