# Tony Blair

**Source**: https://nymag.com/intelligencer/tags/tony-blair/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:39:36.658837+00:00

---

Tony Blair - Intelligencer Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Displaying all articles tagged: Tony Blair July 6, 2016 U.K. Report on Iraq: Friends Don’t Help Friends Launch Wars Built on Lies “I will be with you, whatever,” Tony Blair told George W. Bush about Iraq in 2002. The Chilcot Report argues that the “special relationship” does not require blind cooperation with bad ideas. By Eric Levitz Jan. 8, 2016 12 Takeaways From the Newly Released Conversations Between Clinton and Blair Including Bill Clinton’s candid thoughts on George W., Gerry Adams, and big brown bananas. By Eric Levitz a different kind of war on christmas Dec. 2, 2014 Tony Blair’s Terrifying Christmas Card Will Haunt Your Dreams Hide your kids. By Katie Zavadski the most important people in the world Feb. 6, 2014 Wendi Deng ‘Note’: Google CEO So Much Uglier Than Tony Blair Rupert Murdoch’s looks were not evaluated. By Joe Coscarelli wendi daaaaaang Feb. 5, 2014 Tony Blair Totally Hot, Says Wendi Deng “He has such good body.” By Joe Coscarelli scandal-stained wretches Dec. 1, 2013 Wendi Deng Allegedly Had a Crush on Tony Blair Or something. By Delia Paunescu the most important people in the world June 14, 2013 Tony Blair Is Not Currently Sleeping With Rupert Murdoch’s Wife, He Says Wendi Deng rumors swirl. By Joe Coscarelli scandal-stained wretches May 28, 2012 Tony Blair Heckled During Phone-Hacking Testimony “The power of [the British press] is indisputable,” he said. By Andre Tartar scandal-stained wretches May 12, 2012 Rebekah Brooks Name-Drops Three Prime Ministers at Phone-Hacking Inquiry She wasn’t such great pals with Gordon Brown, but did teach David Cameron the true meaning of “LOL.” By Andre Tartar scandal-stained wretches Feb. 22, 2012 Tony Blair’s Wife Suing News Corp. Buddies The former prime minister and his wife, Cherie, are close personal friends of the Murdochs. By Joe Coscarelli the most important people in the world Sept. 6, 2011 Tony Blair Is Godfather to Rupert Murdoch’s Daughter And yet somehow he went unnoticed at the ceremony. By Joe Coscarelli revolt like an egyptian May 16, 2011 Saif Qaddafi Mingled in London’s High Society Including Tony Blair! By Julie Gerstein creative non-fiction Sept. 9, 2010 Tony Blair Borrows a Scene From a Fictional Movie For His Non-Fictional Memoir Whoopsy daisy! By Nitasha Tiku protests Sept. 4, 2010 Tony Blair Confronted by Protests at Signing for His Bush-Defending Memoir Eggs were tossed. By Mike Vilensky israel June 20, 2010 Netanyahu: ‘Israel Plans to Ease Blockade of Gaza’ to Specified Items “There is a green light approval for all goods to enter into Gaza except for military items.” By Mike Vilensky gossipmonger Sept. 3, 2009 Stampede on the Sex and the City Set! Cynthia Nixon, thankfully, remains unharmed. By Katie Goldsmith international intrigue June 24, 2009 When Tony Blair Thinks of Prince Charles, Mushrooms Come to Mind That, and more highlights from the former prime minister’s Q&A with Graydon Carter. By Jada Yuan gossipmonger Mar. 19, 2009 Kanye Gets Busted, Sort Of The rapper attacked some paparazzi. Plus, the rest of this morning’s gossip. By Katie Goldsmith gossipmonger Sept. 22, 2008 Leona Almost Left Her Money to Dogs AND Poor Kids, But Then Just Settled on Dogs She cut out poor tots at the last minute! What an excuse to make a B-word pun! And Martha Stewart can’t afford her stylist anymore! That, and more, in our daily gossip roundup. By Tim Murphy it just happened Mar. 7, 2008 Former U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair to Teach at Yale University Tony Blair, fresh into his first year of retirement from helming the United Kingdom, will take up a position as a fellow at Yale in the fall. A press release from the university announces: Mr. Blair will lead a seminar at Yale and participate in a number of events around the campus. The course in which he will participate with Yale faculty will examine issues of faith and globalization. His efforts at Yale relate to the work of the Tony Blair Faith Foundation that he will be launching later this year. Blair will be a “Howland Distinguished Fellow,” a post once filled by Indira Ghandi. Blair’s son Euan is currently studying for a master’s degree in international relations at the school. In 2006, it was reported that Harvard, Princeton, and Yale all competed for Euan’s affections when he was choosing schools, and in the end he selected Yale, which gave him a full scholarship. A prescient move, it would now seem. company town Jan. 23, 2008 Hillary Clinton Is Going to Get So Busted by Anna Wintour MEDIA • Hillary Clinton pulled out of a Vogue shoot this past fall because she was afraid of looking too feminine, and editor Anna Wintour subsequently wrote an editor’s letter about how disappointed she was. Now, Hillary’s in Bazaar ’s February issue, wearing a miniskirt and platform heels! (That bears repeating: A miniskirt and platform heels .)* Anna’s going to be pissed . [WWD] • Sam Zell has ordered that the Tribune’s Internet content filters be removed. “I do not see how a member of the Fourth Estate, dedicated to protecting the First Amendment, can censor what its own employees and partners can see,” he writes. “You are now exposed to the dangers of YouTube and Facebook. Please use your best judgment.” Also, apparently if said judgment compels you to send internal communications to Romenesko, so be it. [Romenesko] • The WGA took two big demands off the table — unionization for animated movies and reality TV — and negotiations may now finally focus on paying writers for digital content. [LAT] company town Jan. 10, 2008 Hey, HR! Lauren Conrad Needs a New Magazine ‘Job’ FASHION • Stella McCartney just had baby number three: Beckett Robert Lee Willis. [WWD] • Mulberry’s new shoe line is set to debut on Valentine’s Day. [British Vogue] • The Hills girls will no longer “work” at Teen Vogue . [WWD] company town Oct. 26, 2007 Tony Blair Sells Out Rupert Murdoch MEDIA • Tony Blair sold his memoir for $9 million to Knopf, something of a surprise since Blair has long been tight with Murdoch, known for offering advances so big they resemble campaign donations through HarperCollins. [Media Mob/NYO] • A democratic member of the FCC requested an investigation of Murdoch’s Dow Jones deal, arguing the merger consolidates too many powerful outlets in one less than trustworthy hand. [B&C] • Bloggingheads, everyone’s favorite lo-fi insider-y political fight club, reached a content-sharing agreement with the Times . [HuffPo] gossipmonger Oct. 16, 2007 ‘Gossip Girl’ Star Chace Crawford Apparently Not Worried About His Truck At the memorial service for former movie critic Joel Siegel, ABC anchor Charles Gibson noted that the Jewish Siegel sent the best Christmas cards. Gossip Girl star Chace Crawford got cozy with a “rude and nasty” Carrie Underwood at Marquee and a party at Soho Grand (not “Chance” Crawford, as reported by “Page Six”). Vanessa and Donald Trump Jr. dined at Gemma and drank at the Rose Bar in the Gramercy Park Hotel. Cindy Adams claims that members of John Edwards’s camp are “profoundly worried” about the recent allegations that Edwards strayed on his wife. David Lauren and Lauren Bush arrived via motorcycle to the Domino Bazaar Saturday. it happened this week Sept. 21, 2007 Thinking Big Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s request to lay a wreath at ground zero was the unlikeliest wish in a week of ambitious schemes. Hillary Clinton took a second swing at universal health care, laying out a $110 billion program. Rudy Giuliani crossed the pond to London to rub shoulders with Margaret Thatcher, Tony Blair, and Gordon Brown, then suggested that Israel join nato. Dan Rather sued CBS for $70 million. it just happened June 27, 2007 Blair Departs, and Bush Throws Him a Bone So Tony Blair is now, officially, no longer Britain’s prime minister, having tendered his resignation to Queen Elizabeth II earlier today. He’s off, presumably, to become the Quartet’s Mideast peace negotiator, while Gordon Brown has been approved by the Queen as his replacement. For President Bush’s take on his great ally’s departure, we refer you to low in the AP news item: “Tony’s had a great run and history will judge him kindly,” Bush told Britain’s The Sun tabloid in remarks published Wednesday. “I’ve heard he’s been called Bush’s poodle. He’s bigger than that.” See, that’s real friendship. Bush thinks of Blair — excuse us: Tony — as something much bigger than a poodle. A golden retriever, perhaps. Maybe even his St. Bernard. Gordon Brown to Take Over From Blair in Britain [AP via NYT] gossipmonger Feb. 6, 2007 Judi Nathan Must Be Thrilled Former Giuliani spokeswoman Cristyne Lategano-Nicholas is back at his side for his presidential run. Unable to pick just one, Barbra Streisand donated money to Clinton, Obama, and Edwards. David Letterman asked Rosie O’Donnell and Donald Trump to appear in a Super Bowl spot with him, but they declined. Scarlett Johansson hooked up with Justin Timberlake — and won a $50k condo lease — while in Miami for the game. And also during the big game, Bud Light may have “borrowed” inspiration from a sketch-comedy troupe and Sierra Mist for two of its commercials. Lehman Brothers CEO Richard Fuld bought a $21 million fixer-upper on Park Avenue, which only requires $10 million more to fix it up. Like Us Follow Us Follow Follow About Intelligencer About New York Magazine Newsletters Help Contact Press Media Kit We’re Hiring Privacy Terms Ad Choices Accessibility Do not sell or share my personal data intelligencer is a Vox Media Network . &copy