# )***

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/4704621/2023/07/20/northwestern-football-hazing-traditions-allegations/)***
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:50:19.642394+00:00

---

How a hazing culture evolved at Northwestern’s Camp Kenosha: ‘There’s a significance to ritual’ - The Athletic NCAAF Teams Scores &amp; Schedule Standings Podcasts Until Saturday Newsletter Recruiting Odds Picks All-136 Ranking Latest Playoff Projections Quizzes Rivalry Rankings How a hazing culture evolved at Northwestern’s Camp Kenosha: ‘There’s a significance to ritual’ Kalyn Kahler and Brian Hamilton July 20, 2023 Updated Jan. 2, 2024 Share 508 Editor’s Note: This story is included in The Athletic’s Best of 2023. View the full list . Before Northwestern football players walked a little less than a mile downhill on a gravel path, before they arrived at a pair of tree-lined football fields for another long, hot day at Camp Kenosha, they stopped in a wrestling room with the mats rolled back and folding chairs lining the floor. On the walls, images of notable University of Wisconsin-Parkside grapplers were a whimsical reminder of the space’s usual purpose. But every August since 1992 it has served as a de facto locker room, taken over by a Big Ten team traveling an hour north from its Evanston, Ill., campus for a week of preseason practice. No distractions. No outsiders. Nothing but spartan rooms with window air conditioning units and the game. &nbsp; And, also, pull-up bars. More than 100 players would file into the wrestling room each morning, find their chair, open their equipment bag and begin to change. As they did, often enough, a chant began: Na-ked pull-ups. Clap, clap, clap-clap-clap . This was not encrypted code. Someone would be chosen to approach a bar, unclothed, and do pull-ups in front of the group in the name of team bonding. Those who obliged earned cheers loud enough to be heard through the wrestling room doors. Those who declined were razzed or booed before someone else was called to action. “Can you say no? You can, for sure,” one former Northwestern player, who requested anonymity to speak candidly about his experiences, says now. “Where does that leave you when you do?” After a six-month investigation by an outside firm hired by the university revealed “systematic” and “well-known” hazing within its football program — and after a whistleblower’s revelation of specifics , including simulated sex acts — Northwestern fired head coach and program icon Pat Fitzgerald on July 10 while implementing other program changes aimed at eliminating the practice. But it’s less about the weeds than the soil. The Athletic spoke to 21 players and personnel, from teams in the 1990s to the present, to determine how and when hazing became a nearly unavoidable part of the experience in the school’s football program. Fourteen requested anonymity to speak freely about their experience. What might have started as crude behavior during Fitzgerald’s All-American playing days from 1993-96 under head coach Gary Barnett grew increasingly toxic across subsequent coaching tenures, and no one in a position of authority seemed inspired to stop it. “I knew this day would come,” says a former Northwestern football player, who as a freshman in the 2010s got “ran on” — the player’s term for getting dry-humped by upperclassmen — during Fitzgerald’s tenure as head coach, which began in 2006. “If someone were to run an investigation on us, we are f—ed.” A tradition of off-campus preseason camps lives somewhere in the spine of college football. The most notorious was Bear Bryant’s 10-day camp in Junction, Texas, held months after his hire as Texas A&amp;M’s coach in 1954. Putting his players through practice in 100-degree heat without water breaks, Bryant’s intent was overt: Push the team to its limits and separate the keepers from the quitters. It nearly killed one participant; offensive lineman Billy Schroeder suffered a life-threatening heat stroke that prematurely ended his playing career. Off-campus training camp is not a ubiquitous practice seven decades later, but it’s also not yet entirely a relic of less discerning times. Since 1999, Cincinnati has spent an official week of practice at the Higher Ground Conference and Retreat Center across the border in Indiana. Wisconsin will visit the Wisconsin-Platteville campus for a week in August. And there was Camp Kenosha, the eponym for Northwestern’s traditional trek up I-94 and across the Wisconsin border for a week of August workouts. Started in 1992 by first-year head coach Barnett, the motivation behind it was no different from that of its predecessors: Give a team a change of scenery with zero distractions from season preparations, while staying close enough to campus to deal with injuries or emergencies. There were apartment-type rooms with bunk beds, position meetings in Wisconsin-Parkside classrooms, the wrestling room for changing and a small locker room down the hall for showers. There were four meals a day, football practices, and not a lot else. There are apocryphal tales of players calling taxis, trying to escape the doldrums and return to Evanston. “After a few days or a week or so, people were pretty downtrodden,” says former Northwestern linebacker Braden Jones, who played from 2001 to 2003. “They call it ‘Kenosha Face,’ where people will just sit there in their downtime and kind of stare at the floor just exhausted, head down.” But the program kept going back. “When you take (a team) off-site to a camp with no interaction, no women, sh-- is going to get weird,” says one former Northwestern player who was on the roster during the mid-2010s. “You are in Kenosha, you have to be off the grid the whole time, what do you think is going to happen? Young boys messing around and doing stuff.” The Athletic spoke to six teammates of Fitzgerald’s from the 1993-1996 Northwestern football teams. They recall freshmen standing up and singing the fight song, participating in a talent show and having their heads shaved. None of them recognized the specific allegations made by the whistleblower, or anything they would classify as hazing. “Nothing that was anything embarrassing or detrimental or emotionally damaging,” says a teammate of Fitzgerald's. Nor do they recall Fitzgerald treating teammates with disrespect. “Pat was a really straightforward guy,” the teammate says. “He would not have gone for hazing. Like, you could not have hazed him. He didn't mess around like that.” What did happen — “Dudes doing dude jokes,” former linebacker Anwawn Jones says — pushed boundaries. Such as the “flying squirrel,” in which a naked player would pull apart the skin of his scrotum to resemble wings. Or offensive linemen doing naked cartwheels around the locker room, or standing uncomfortably close to a teammate. Another teammate of Fitzgerald's doesn’t believe it was organized hazing, simply because upperclassmen weren’t forcing the behavior on anyone else. But they also weren’t asking for permission. “It was like an upperclassman truly just trying to make you uncomfortable,” the former teammate says. “They certainly accomplished that. Would I want my own kid to witness that? No. Did I consider that sexual harassment? For me, personally, no. It was somewhat funny to see.” Another player, a freshman when Fitzgerald was a senior in 1996, recalls a group of offensive linemen calling themselves “The Sisters.” According to this player, “The Sisters” were regularly nude in the locker room — “It was like, I don't even know what you look like with clothes on, you are naked all the time,” he says now. Fitzgerald’s former teammates say they were generally surprised by the reports of hazing at the school; they don’t recall any forced naked activities or simulated sex acts occurring during their time. But the freshman from 1996 sees a potential starting point in an evolution. “I’m sure these kids picked up from that tradition,” the player says. Three offensive linemen from this era contacted by The Athletic declined to be interviewed. A player from the late ’90s says that in Kenosha, the upperclassmen made a ton of “d--- jokes” to embarrass insecure freshmen. He recalls feeling uncomfortable on the long walk from his chair to the shower because a group of offensive linemen stood near the entrance to the showers, commenting on the size of each freshman who walked by. “You’re either big or small, or you can get a nickname,” he says. “‘Heyyy, so what do you do with that thing?’” After Barnett left for Colorado following the 1998 season, replaced by then-Miami (Ohio) head coach Randy Walker, it became apparent that the culture inside Northwestern’s program was not a coincidental series of quirks. By 2001, naked pull-ups were ingrained as a Kenosha changing room tradition, according to three players from that time. Some still viewed it as a lark, given that nobody was forced to participate. “It was weirdo fat guys on the team, doing weirdo fat guy sh--,” says Rico Lamitte (previously Tarver), who played receiver and safety for Northwestern from 2001-2005. But at some point early in Walker’s tenure, according to three players who were on the team at the time, a decidedly problematic tradition began: the loofah line. When practice ended in Kenosha, Lamitte remembers the offensive linemen would race back up the hill and into the showers, lather themselves with soap and line up at the only entrance to the showers. Four or five per side, in a space about the width of an average door frame. They would remain there and force underclassmen to squeeze past to get into the shower area. “It was absolutely disgusting,” Lamitte says. “Touching anybody — that was a hard red line that never should have been crossed ever.” The loofah line — which in later years became known as the “car wash” — continued into the later years of the Walker era, according to a player who was on those teams. That player describes it as a “joke” — he says the linemen would move out of the way if someone refused to nudge through — but Lamitte recalls some players pushing and punching the offensive linemen so they wouldn’t be touched. On the days