# Bird Watching With The Ravenmaster

**Source**: https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2018/10/29/bird-watching-with-the-ravenmaster
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:11:37.321091+00:00

---

Bird-Watching with the Ravenmaster | The New Yorker Skip to main content Newsletter Search Search The Latest News Books &amp; Culture Fiction &amp; Poetry Humor &amp; Cartoons Magazine Puzzles &amp; Games Video Podcasts Goings On Shop 100th Anniversary Open Navigation Menu Menu Birders Dept. Bird-Watching with the Ravenmaster The yeoman warder charged with caring for the ravens of the Tower of London hikes along the Hudson. By Sarah Larson October 22, 2018 Save this story Save this story Save this story Save this story Christopher Skaife Illustration by João Fazenda When he’s at work, at the Tower of London, Yeoman Warder Christopher Skaife typically wears a uniform featuring a royal-blue tabard with scarlet ornamentation, a brass-buckled belt, and a bonnet. (Formalwear involves stockings and a ruff.) Skaife lives at the Tower, too, with his wife, in a house with forty-foot walls and arrow slits for windows. Skaife is the Tower’s Ravenmaster—his new book, “ The Ravenmaster, ” just came out—and in that role he cares for its most famous current residents, Merlin (a.k.a. Merlina), Erin, Rocky, Jubilee II, Gripp II, Harris, and Poppy, and gives tours to some of the Tower’s three million annual visitors. Recently, while vacationing in Manhattan, Skaife, who is Beefeater-shaped, with a bristly beard, was incognito, dressed in a zippered jacket and cargo shorts. He has tattoos on his calves depicting ravens, as well as, he said, “the skulls of those who were executed on the Tower Green.” On a crisp Friday, Skaife met up with his friend Gabriel Willow, a trim man in a cap, who works with New York City Audubon, to embark on a raven quest. After a long absence, ravens have returned to the metro area: about six pairs nest in or around New York City. Willow and Skaife visited three potential hot spots—Pelham Bay Park, in the Bronx (mallards, cormorants, egrets; no ravens), far West Twenty-third Street, and Inwood Hill Park, at the northernmost tip of Manhattan. At West Twenty-third and the Hudson River, Skaife and Willow peered through binoculars. “I did see a raven this morning up in Central Park—a big flyby,” Willow said. “I heard cawing and calling, and a murder of crows swirled around, chasing a raven.” “Crows can be quite vicious, and quite territorial,” Skaife said. He has a Cockney accent—“fevvers” for “feathers,” and the like. “One of our ravens mimics crows,” he said: Merlina, one of “The Ravenmaster” ’s most entertaining characters. “When I let her out in the morning, sometimes she’ll make the crow sound, to attract crows to play with her. She shares food as well.” Willow asked what Tower ravens eat. “Mice, rats, day-old chicks, dog biscuits soaked in blood, and anything they can steal from the public,” Skaife replied. Some ravens mimic humans. “We had one raven once who said ‘Good morning’ to Vladimir Putin ,” Skaife went on. “He was quite taken aback.” They scanned the Hudson—blue jays, gulls, and monarch butterflies, but no ravens. They headed east, to catch a cab. At the corner of Eleventh Avenue, Willow looked up. “Turkey vultures!” he said. A construction worker in a hard hat was waiting to cross the street. He looked up, too. “Get out of here!” he shouted. “They fly around when someone’s dead, right?” “They may or may not see anything dead—they might just be moving through,” Willow said. “Sometimes bird-watching just happens ,” the construction worker said. Skaife sat in the front seat of the taxi to Inwood. “You’re wearing shorts?” the driver asked. His name was Mohammed Ali. “I come from England, and in England this is warm,” Skaife told him. They chatted, and Skaife mentioned living at the Tower of London. “That’s where you have seven ravens, right?” “Yes, and I’m—” “One of them is gone, do you know that?” “No, it’s not , because I’m their keeper! ” Skaife said, laughing. “That’s the fall of England, isn’t it?” Ali said. “If the ravens leave the Tower of London, it will crumble into dust and great harm will befall our kingdom,” Skaife said. (According to Skaife, this legend was invented around 1880, by the Tower itself. “Marketing,” he explained.) “So I’ve come over here to steal some of yours.” “Take as many as you want,” Ali said. “Ravens—those bastards never forget! In Bangladesh, every time one of them saw me it would dive on my head.” He asked about the Crown Jewels, also resident at the Tower. “Don’t you have our diamond?” he said. (The Koh-i-Noor, one of the largest cut diamonds in the world, was “ceded” to Queen Victoria in 1849.) “We kind of have it,” Skaife said. “My God, man, when are you going to return it?” Ali said. In the park, Willow pointed out mugwort and a pokeweed bush teeming with goldfinches. At a brackish inlet of the Harlem River, Skaife spotted a kestrel. They hiked into the woods, past a boulder commemorating the 1626 “purchase” of Manhattan from the Lenape, and up a paved incline, alongside the Hudson. Willow identified tufted titmice and yellow-rumped warblers, and Skaife talked about Brân the Blessed, whose head, according to legend, is buried beneath the Tower. On a high ridge overlooking Spuyten Duyvil, Willow raised his binoculars. “I have something that’s not a vulture,” he said. “Raven! Raven! Circling! Orange cloud, between the towers!” “Ah, yes, I see!” Skaife said. “Beeeeautiful.” He smiled, and watched the bird soar. “Enjoyin’ itself up there,” he said. Does he miss his own ravens when he’s away? “They are continually on my mind, all the time, even now,” he said. “It drives my wife insane.” ♦ Published in the print edition of the October 29, 2018 , issue, with the headline “Busman’s Holiday.” Sarah Larson , a staff writer, has been contributing to The New Yorker since 2007. More: Tower of London Bus Drivers Christopher Skaife Birds Animals Ravens London, England Britain "Ravenmaster" Birding Gabriel Willow New York City Audobon Read More Profiles The King’s Meal A Reporter at Large Operation Easter A crackdown on an illegal hunt for eggs. Video America’s Street-Ball Mecca At Rucker Park in Harlem, players hone their basketball talent in a legendary tournament. Down East Postcard The New York Historical Looks Down East for Its Facelift Along with a general rebrand, the Central Park West institution is getting clad in pink granite, found&#8212;and quarried by manly men&#8212;on a wild island in Maine. Locals Dept. Mahmoud Khalil, Back Home Cooking his mother’s maqluba recipe, the Palestinian activist describes his detention in Louisiana: losing fifteen pounds and a cleaning contest with pizza as a prize. Sidekick Dept. An Italian Geek in King Charles’s Court Federico Marchetti, a fashion entrepreneur, was a confidant of Giorgio Armani, but he’s stumped by whether it’s O.K. to wear a kilt around the king. Back to School Dept. N.Y.U.’s Dumpster-to-Dorm Boutique A group of students collected all the leather jackets, rice cookers, microwaves, and disco balls abandoned in last semester’s dorms to create the free Swap Shop. Backstage Dept. Jeanine Tesori, Young-Adult Whisperer The award-winning composer of “Fun Home” gave her Juilliard students a prompt for a song-writing assignment: “How do you view the world?” Then and Now Dept. Where the Waters Once Flowed A local photographer tracks down the ghosts of former springs and wells in New York City. Embodiment Dept. Anthony Roth Costanzo Finds His Diva The countertenor searches for the right look to conjure Maria Callas for his starring role in the new production of “Galas.” Critic’s Notebook Adebunmi Gbadebo and the Mysteries of Clay The aftereffect of a new ceramics show, “Watch Out for the Ghosts,” at the Nicola Vassell Gallery, is of feeling . . . pricked. Photo Booth Stephen Shore’s Precocious Adolescent Eye A new book titled “Early Work” reveals that the acclaimed American photographer barrelled into the medium fully formed. News Books &amp; Culture Fiction &amp; Poetry Humor &amp; Cartoons Magazine Crossword Video Podcasts 100th Anniversary Goings On Manage Account Shop The New Yorker Buy Covers and Cartoons Condé Nast Store Digital Access Newsletters Jigsaw Puzzle RSS About Careers Contact F.A.Q. Media Kit Press Accessibility Help User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. The New Yorker may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Instagram Tiktok Threads X Facebook LinkedIn YouTube