# Pitchforkmedia.Com

**Source**: https://web.archive.org/web/20010925012354/http://pitchforkmedia.com/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:44:33.066347+00:00

---

Pitchforkmedia.com SEARCH archive : A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z sdtk comp Server has the NIMDA virus so the site is slow. Techs are working on it. Review submissions are delayed until this is fixed. FEATURED REVIEW | SEPT 24 The Kingsbury Manx: Let You Down [Overcoat] by Joe Tangari Chapel Hill four-piece evokes autumn with lush orchestration and dense vocal harmonies. TODAY'S OTHER REVIEWS Chitlin' Fooks: Chitlin' Fooks Bettie Serveert's Carol van Dijk and Sukilove's Pascal Deweze embrace Nashville twang. The name annoys us, too. Überzone: Faith in the Future Astralwerks techno geek calls on Afrika Bambaataa, the Crystal Method and Lida Husik. Bleepy. Fluke: Progressive History X Those guys who did that "Atom Bomb" song get a retrospective, inflicting suffering upon a new generation. RECENT REVIEWS Friday, September 21st, 2001 .: Ween: God Ween Satan: The Oneness .: Various Artists: Tigerbeat6, Inc. .: The Ivory Coast: Clouds .: Rondelles: Shined Nickels &amp; Loose... Thursday, September 20th, 2001 .: Brian Eno: Drawn from Life .: Safety Scissors: Parts Water .: Volta Do Mar: Volta Do Mar EP .: Firebird Band: The Drive EP .: More reviews from the past 30 days... DAILY NEWS Mon/September 24th, 2001 .: Radiohead to release live album .: Fridge to embark on US tour .: Kid606 tours with Butthole Surfers .: The Rapture is nigh Fri/September 21st, 2001 .: Belle &amp; Sebastian line up new EP .: Handsome Family launch US tour .: Clem Snide write theme to NBC's "Ed" .: BMRC plans poker run across USA Pitchfork News Archive --&gt; PITCHFORK MP3 September 2001 Pitchfork introduces a monthly MP3 sampler to spotlight the latest music offered by our top sponsors. This month, check out new tracks by: Alsace Lorraine [Darla] Brian + Chris [Megalon] Hot Water Music [Epitaph] Joe Strummer &amp; the Mescaleros [Epitaph] No Use for a Name [Fat Wreck Chords] Real McKenzies [Honest Don's] Reubens Accomplice [Better Looking] Scared of Chaka [Hopeless] Tiger Army [Epitaph] TW Walsh [Truckstop/Atavistic] Victim's Family [Alternative Tentacles] LATEST FEATURE Interview: The Beta Band by Ryan Schreiber Beta Band frontman Steve Mason takes time out of touring the U.S. to discuss the band's latest album, Hot Shots II and talk shit about G.W. Bush. "Any kind of person with that mentality should be-- at least -- burned at the stake..." .: Features Archive --&gt; LATEST COLUMN Column: Resonant Frequency "Fuck Words of Wisdom" by Mark Richard-San Prefuse 73 and Nuno Canavarro prove voices distorted beyond verbal comprehension can be more affecting than lyrics. .: Columns Archive --&gt;