# The True Story Behind Mollys Game Is Wild

**Source**: https://www.vice.com/en_ca/article/j5v5gp/the-true-story-behind-mollys-game-is-wild
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:49:47.810013+00:00

---

The True Story Behind ‘Molly’s Game’ Is Wild + English Close VICE Editions English Bahasa Indonesia Czech Danish Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands Polish Portuguese Română Russian Srpski Swedish Ελληνικά عربي 日本語 한국어 Open Menu Close Menu Magazine TV News Life Tech Munchies Music Waypoint Shop Members Newsletters Instagram TikTok YouTube Google Discover Google Top Posts Video TV Shop Members Facebook Instagram TikTok Reddit YouTube Google Discover Google Top Posts Search Culture News Tech Munchies Drugs Entertainment Environment Extremism Identity Investigations Music Waypoint Photography Sex Travel Entertainment The True Story Behind ‘Molly’s Game’ Is Wild By Noel Ransome December 27, 2017, 12:24pm Share: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share using Native tools Share Copied to clipboard Follow Us On Discover Make Us Preferred In Top Stories Remember that crazy time when a hopeful Olympian-class skier named Molly Bloom received a debilitating back injury thanks to a lone stick in some snow? The same skier who years later would end up running an illegal, but high-profile gambling ring in LA? The same high-profile gambling ring that hosted celebs like Ben Affleck, Tobey Maguire and Leonardo DiCaprio? The same DiCaprio that acted in movie about the Irish mob &#8230;but has nothing to do with the actual Russian mob that beat Molly within inches of her life? Oh, and that same life that was nearly destroyed by the FBI that came rushing in to shut her shit down? Remember that time? I sure as hell didn’t, and can still barely believe it after having seen Molly’s Game . Come Christmas Day, this story will be immortalized for everyone else to question thanks to director and writer Aaron Sorkin. And yes, it’s pretty good, but the movie still left me with questions. In my attempt to understand this story that comes off as some drunkard&#8217;s fable, I spoke the woman herself, Molly Bloom. I needed the whole thought process behind this scary and insane ride. How has she grown since then? And is Tobey Maguire (aka Spiderman) still the same dick as Molly’s Game shows him to be? Videos by VICE Play video VICE: This film was very intimate and very truthful. Almost like a visual diary. What was it like to see those flawed parts of your life displayed so honestly? Molly Bloom: Aaron Sorkin wrote and directed an extraordinary film. A lot of what makes it so special is that he allowed my character to be me, to be flawed. He allowed for an honest and complex picture of what it’s like to just be a human being and make choices. I gotta say, there’s something very cathartic for me about first coming out with my book, and then telling on yourself and living through that. I kept a lot of the dirt to myself before the film, but after working eight months with Aaron, I really kinda came clean. Between the novel and working with Aaron, I’ve probably did 20 years worth of therapy (laughs). And you had to have some initial fears about the project before it came out. This was going to be all about you. Well it was I that pursued Aaron specifically because in writing the book, I had left a huge mess of my life and a big part of that was knowing that my mom had to put her house up just to help me with my legal bills. And my criminal attorney, much like in the film, personally vouched for me for $250,000 that I didn’t have and it saved my butt. So it wasn’t just my life I was trying to save, it was also the people that were important to me. When I took in the personal inventory after the wreckage I had caused, the story itself seemed like the most monetizable asset so that I could be closer to paying these people back. So here I was after writing this book, going around Hollywood asking anyone if they could get me a meeting with Aaron and they’re just laughing at me (laughs). I just wanted to try, so once we met, everything changed once he was on board. He fought hard for this story that wasn’t about a girl that falls in love. It didn’t have cliche themes. He just wanted to tell an honest story and put his career on the line for having us interact at all, because no one wanted to touch this because of the famous people involved. There was a fear in Hollywood. You could have ruined a lot of lives with what you knew. One of the things that seemed so telling was how much you were willing to fall on your own sword. And good people were telling you otherwise. Where was your resolve coming from? I made these choices. I made the choice to go into the world of underground poker. I profited from it, and these people enabled me to profit from it. When I met the consequences for those choices, the consequences including losing all of my money and facing jail time. And it really felt like, if I turned around and threw all these people under the bus, I would never have been able to get my integrity back and that would’ve been a life sentence. That didn’t compare to the life sentence of knowing that I made this really terrible choice and ruined lives. Throughout this whole thing, you had that moral fibre which is honestly weird given the stereotypes of illegal gambling. Like collecting debts for instance, you never resorted to violence. How did you wrestle with those potential decisions business-wise? Taking full responsibility and accountability was the secret here. I had to do my job properly. Sure, if I had figured out a way to have private investigators get information from banks, I could have found pretty much anything on anyone. So if I was doing my job, there would be no reason that I couldn’t collect. So when someone stiffed me, nine times out of 10, it was my fault. I ate it, I mean what was I going to do? I didn’t have any traditional resources, and I wasn’t a bank so I wasn’t going to intimidate anyone either (laughs). My main responsibility was in vetting these players and making sure they were capitalized, and that was the key to not getting stiffed. The very worst time I got screwed ended up costing me $250,000 and that really hurt. But I wrote the check, what are you gonna do? Full names were never mentioned too, despite the fact we know about people like Ben Affleck, Leonardo DiCaprio and Tobey Maguire participated in your gambling ring. Yeah. When I sat down to write a book I was like, how do I do this in a way that still tells a compelling story without doing too much harm. Most of the names were already in the public domain from the Bradley Ruderman ponzi scheme . I got rejected by every publisher except for one because they wanted the real dirt. They knew I had more, and of course I did. But I was like look, I’ll mention the names that have already been mentioned and I’ll give it colour, but I’m not going down that road where I tell things that would sell books but also hurt people in the process. Ben Affleck, real-life poker player. You really did have that dirt. I don’t generally hang with celebrities but you saw a lot of private sides to them. Did your view of that whole celebrity culture change from before to after this whole experience? Well there’s that first night when you walk into a game, and being in my early 20s from a small town, and seeing very famous people in the flesh, it’s jarring. It just feels weird. But it normalizes really quickly when you see that people are just people. And very quickly, the game was my startup in terms of building a business. Celebrities were assets to me. And yeah, maybe you and I don’t have this big fantasy about celebrities at this stage, but it matters. People want to sit at a table with them, be close to them, and this was a big draw to the game. The whole system took on a new meaning to me when I was looking at it through the lens of building a business. And we gotta talk about the instance of you being roughed up by a section of the Russian mob after you turned down an offer for protection. Most people would have left at that point. But you continued with the intent to eventually get out. Honestly, how far would you have gone if the FBI and such never stepped in? Wow&#8230;I think it would have been a really bad ending honestly. That was a really dark thing that happened during the darkest time of my life. I just think that the enemy within me was more formidable than the enemy without at the time because I kept going. I had very little regard for my safety or my life, and I was just like, no, I gotta run more games. Gotta collect more money. Who am I without this thing? I can’t go back to being a nobody. Those things eclipsed basic survival, and I had this really deep, dark awareness that my life was out of control. And as a final blow, there came the FBI&#8230;but maybe it was a good thing at the end of the day. So has your perspective on success or wealth changed since this experience? Oh my god, absolutely. When I was making the most money, at the top of my game, driving Bentleys and all that, I felt so existentially empty. All these ideas I had as a kid about making a lot of money—about being hyper successful and life being good. I now know that not to be true. And I’m not knocking success or ambition, that’ll always be a part of me, but I know for sure that I did it all wrong in my former life. I know for sure that you have to re-define power as power that comes from within. Success needs to be more comprehensive and attached to something with meaning. What I did was bold, I was damn good at it, and I was successful but none of it was important. It meant nothing. I was enabling people’s addictions and I felt lives come apart. All that external adulation came from growing up with two impressive brothers and a father that was really focused on that idea that I needed to build myself on the outside in. That I needed to seek applause or approval from the world. That’s a sure way to feel really miserable (laughs). So level with me. Is there any aspect of that life that you still miss? For a long time&#8230;I gr