# David Chase On The Sopranos Ending

**Source**: http://kottke.org/15/04/david-chase-on-the-sopranos-ending
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:51:49.195539+00:00

---

David Chase on The Sopranos ending KOTTKE DOT ORG KOTTKE DOT ORG MENU Member Login Home Membership Newsletter Goods Archive + Tags About/Contact dark mode light mode Advertise here with Carbon Ads Socials & More Newsletter RSS Feed Bluesky Mastodon This site is made possible by member support . 💞 Big thanks to Arcustech for hosting the site and offering amazing tech support. When you buy through links on kottke.org, I may earn an affiliate commission. Thanks for supporting the site! kottke.org. home of fine hypertext products since 1998. Beloved by 86.47% of the web. 🍔 &nbsp; 💀 &nbsp; 📸 &nbsp; 😭 &nbsp; 🕳️ &nbsp; 🤠 &nbsp; 🎬 &nbsp; 🥔 × close posted Apr 15 @ 11:30 AM by Jason Kottke &ensp;·&ensp; gift link David Chase on The Sopranos ending David Chase analyzes the final scene of The Sopranos in great detail for the Directors Guild of America&#8217;s quarterly magazine. It was my decision to direct the episode such that whenever Tony arrives someplace, he would see himself. He would get to the place and he would look and see where he was going. He had a conversation with his sister that went like this. And then he later had a conversation with Junior that went like this. I had him walk into his own POV every time. So the order of the shots would be Tony close-up, Tony POV, hold on the POV, and then Tony walks into the POV. And I shortened the POV every time. So that by the time he got to Holsten&#8217;s, he wasn&#8217;t even walking toward it anymore. He came in, he saw himself sitting at the table, and the next thing you knew he was at the table. Great read. Here&#8217;s the final scene to refresh your memory. David Chase The Sopranos TV Share