# Heres Your Ticket To Hertz Presidents Circle Without Delta Or United Status

**Source**: http://frequentmiler.boardingarea.com/2014/12/18/heres-your-ticket-to-hertz-presidents-circle-without-delta-or-united-status/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:08:14.246070+00:00

---

Here&rsquo;s your ticket to Hertz Five Star status, without Delta or United status back to top Facebook Instagram RSS Twitter Beginner&#8217;s Guide Best Credit Card Offers Best Offers Card Exploration Tool (Beta) All Credit Cards American Express Bank Of America Barclays Capital One Chase Citibank Discover TD Bank US Bank Wells Fargo Other Cards How-Tos &#038; Guides Podcasts Frequent Miler On The Air Frequent Miler “Ask Us Anything” Blog About Us Annual Team Challenges Contact Search Best Offers Beginners Subscribe Beginner&#8217;s Guide Best Credit Card Offers Best Offers Card Exploration Tool (Beta) All Credit Cards American Express Bank Of America Barclays Capital One Chase Citibank Discover TD Bank US Bank Wells Fargo Other Cards How-Tos &#038; Guides NOTICE: This post references card features that have changed, expired, or are not currently available Airlines American Airlines British Airways Delta Southwest United Hotels Hotel Reviews Marriott Hyatt Hilton IHG Best Rate Guarantees Points & Miles What Are Points Worth? Amex Membership Rewards Capital One “Miles” Chase Ultimate Rewards Citi ThankYou Rewards Bilt Rewards Current Transfer Bonuses Transfer Partner Master List Booking Awards Which Award Booking Tools is Best Best Awards by Destination Best Options for Domestic First Class Booking Partner Award Flights Cancelation & Change Fees CREDIT CARD SPEND Credit Card Spend Guide Best Rewards for Everyday Spend Best Category Bonuses Best Big Spend Bonuses Visa and MasterCard Gift Cards Pay Taxes via Credit Card Pay Bills via Credit Card with Plastiq Earn Miles for College PODCAST & YOUTUBE Frequent Miler on the Air Ask Us Anything, Live MORE Transferable Points Booking Awards Managing Miles Credit Card Bonuses Credit Card Spend Credit Card Benefits Stacking Deals More Ways to Save Start Here Check out our Beginner's Guide if you're just getting started... Read more Podcasts Frequent Miler On The Air Frequent Miler “Ask Us Anything” Blog About Us Annual Team Challenges Contact Subscribe Search... Travel Cheaper &amp; Better Here&rsquo;s your ticket to Hertz Five Star status, without Delta or United status By Greg The Frequent Miler - December 18, 2014 23 NOTICE: This post references card features that have changed, expired, or are not currently available UPDATE: As several readers pointed out, the original post was incorrect. Originally I wrote that you could get Hertz President’s Circle status using the methods described below. In reality, you will get Hertz Five Star status which is a level below President’s Circle… First United partnered up with Hertz, and now Delta has done the same .&nbsp; Both programs offer a way for elites to get elite status (Five Star or President’s Circle) with Hertz, for free. To qualify for President’s Circle with United status (starting Jan 1), you must have United Platinum status (or higher), or be a primary cardholder of either: MileagePlus Club or Presidential Plus Card.&nbsp; To qualify for Hertz &nbsp; Five Star status with, you must have United Silver or Gold status. To qualify for President’s Circle with Delta status (starting Jan 1), you must have Delta Platinum or Diamond status.&nbsp; To qualify for Hertz Five Star status you must have Delta Gold status. An easy path for everyone else If you don’t have high enough status with United or Delta to qualify for Hertz President’s Circle Five Star status, here’s a simple alternative: 1. Sign up for free elite status with Avis and/or National All you need is a World Elite MasterCard (like the BarclayCard Arrival Plus).&nbsp; Then, click the following links and sign up (hat tip: View from the Wing ): Avis Preferred Status National Emerald Club Executive Status By signing up through the Avis link you will get a coupon for a free two day rental! 2. Status match to Hertz President&#8217;s Circle Five Star Send an email requesting a status match to hertzstatusmatch@hertz.com .&nbsp; Include a scanned picture of your elite card with Avis or National, or simply take a screenshot of your Avis or National account.&nbsp; There are many recent examples on StatusMatcher.com showing that this works. Five Star Benefits Personally, I’m a big fan of National Executive status ( see why, here ), but if you’re going to rent from Hertz, you might as well have status.&nbsp; Here’s what Hertz says about Five Star status : One-car-class upgrades (subject to availability) 10% bonus on Hertz Gold Plus Rewards® Points 675 Rewards Points after every 15 qualifying rentals Plus, all Gold member benefits And a comparison of the different levels of status can be found here . Want to learn more about miles and points? Subscribe to email updates or check out our podcast on your favorite podcast platform. TAGS Car Rental Hertz Previous article Vanilla Reload cards gone by April 1. Here&rsquo;s the good part&hellip; Next article Amex gift card portal rewards may end Greg The Frequent Miler Greg is the owner, founder, and primary author of the Frequent Miler. He earns millions of points and miles each year, mostly without flying, and dedicates this blog to teaching others how to do the same. RELATED ARTICLES MORE FROM AUTHOR Hertz Amex Offers: Save up to 20% on car rentals Rental car loyalty programs guide: Shortcuts to elite status, earning and redeeming free days, and more Nick&#8217;s weekly JetBlue 25 for 25 update: 13 airports down Subscribe Notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments Label {} [+] Name* Email* &#916; Label {} [+] Name* Email* &#916; This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. 23 Comments newest oldest most voted Inline Feedbacks View all comments Getting top rental car status (for free!) - Points with a Crew 10 years ago [&#8230;] get complimentary Hertz Gold Plus status. Hertz is good about status matching as well &#8211; see this Frequent Miler post, so once you have your Avis or National top status, you can status match into Hertz Five Star [&#8230;] 0 Reply Xike 10 years ago I followed your Avis link and only got an Avis Preferred instead of First. And of course, Hertz would not match Five Star to Preferred. 0 Reply raul 10 years ago Received preferred avis status not first. I think post should be updated to reflect this unless anyone has been able to get first status. Anyone tried this and gotten first status instead of preferred? 0 Reply Greg The Frequent Miler Author Reply to&nbsp; raul 10 years ago Sorry, but isn&#8217;t that exactly what it says in this post? The link to Avis says &#8220;Avis Preferred Status&#8221; 0 Reply Hua 10 years ago No worries&#8230; PC isn&#8217;t that great anyhow LOL 0 Reply Greg The Frequent Miler Author 10 years ago Sorry everyone. Clearly I messed up. I&#8217;ve updated this post to indicate that you can use these methods to get Five Star status, not President Circle. 0 Reply FYI 10 years ago I regret I am unable to meet your request for an Upgrade to President Circle status. Per the status match program, Avis First service is comparable to the Hertz Five Star status. Hertz President Circle can only be matched when a customer is an Avis President or National Executive Elite member. 0 Reply Hua Reply to&nbsp; FYI 10 years ago I had a feeling this wasn&#8217;t going to work&#8230; Anyone who had Avis First (or National Executive) was only reporting matches to Five Star. 0 Reply Tom 10 years ago Thanks for the tip! I already had National Executive, so I sent a screen shot to Hertz where I was already a #1 Gold, and voila! 5 star is what Hertz is matching, but that&#8217;s ok. I can&#8217;t get the Avis status, so I&#8217;m happy. 5 star is better than nothing. 0 Reply italdesign 10 years ago Thanks man. Just signed up via the Avis link using the VS WEMC, the new account says Avis Preferred but no mention of First. Is that normal? It does say WEMC. 0 Reply Greg The Frequent Miler Author Reply to&nbsp; italdesign 10 years ago It should say Avis First somewhere 0 Reply Hua 10 years ago Looks like my comment is being filtered due to having URLs. I will repost without the links in hopes of getting past the filter. I think matches from Avis First or National Executive are unlikely to happen, and the reports on statusmatcher.com seem to indicate the same. There is one match from 12/02 of 2014 where the *table* says an Avis First member was matched to Hertz President’s Circle, but if you read the text, it says “from President’s Club to President’s circle”. The other matches show National Executive and Avis First members being matched to Hertz Five Star. As far as I can tell the only people reporting matches to President’s Circle are the higher-tier Executive Elites and President’s Club members. 0 Reply Hua 10 years ago I thought I posted this before but apparently it didn&#8217;t go through&#8230; I think matches from Avis First or National Executive are unlikely to happen, and the reports on statusmatcher.com seem to indicate the same. There is one match from 12/02 of 2014 where the *table* says an Avis First member was matched to Hertz President&#8217;s Circle, but if you read the text, it says &#8220;from President&#8217;s Club to President&#8217;s circle&#8221;: http://statusmatcher.com/report/51418 The other matches on statusmatcher.com show National Executive and Avis First members being matched to Hertz Five Star: &#8211; 11/11/14: National Executive to Five Star: http://statusmatcher.com/report/51326 &#8211; 02/25/14: National Executive to Five Star: http://statusmatcher.com/report/29337 &#8211; 09/10/13: Avis First to Five Star: http://statusmatcher.com/report/28111 &#8211; 08/06/13: Avis First to Five Star: http://statusmatcher.com/report/28110 &#8211; 08/06/13: Emerald Club to Five Star: http://statusmatcher.com/report/28113 As far as I can tell the only people reporting matches to President&#8217;s Circle are the higher-tier Executive Elites and President&#8217;s Club members. 0 Reply Hua Reply to&nbsp; Hua 10 years ago Whoops&#8230; &#8220;a