# Jonathan Tjarks)*.*

**Source**: https://www.theringer.com/2022/9/11/23347619/jonathan-tjarks)*.*
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:41:07.950576+00:00

---

Jonathan Tjarks, 1987-2022 - The Ringer Discover anything Discover anything Videos Podcasts The Latest The Latest Fantasy Football Rankings Fantasy Football Rankings NBA NBA NFL NFL TV TV Movies Movies MLB MLB The Ringer 107 The Ringer 107 Music Music Soccer Soccer Events Events The Streaming Guide The Streaming Guide Simmons Pod Simmons Pod Rewatchables Rewatchables Big Picture Big Picture Russillo Pod Russillo Pod The Watch The Watch Higher Learning Higher Learning House of R House of R The Town The Town Plain English Plain English By The Ringer Staff Sept. 11, 2022, 7:13 pm UTC • 1 min Uncategorized Uncategorized Jonathan Tjarks, 1987-2022 The Ringer has lost a beloved member of its community Courtesy the Tjarks family By The Ringer Staff Sept. 11, 2022, 7:13 pm UTC • 1 min The Ringer ’s beloved friend and colleague Jonathan Tjarks passed away on Saturday night. Jon is survived by his wife, Melissa, and his son, Jackson. He was one of the first people hired at The Ringer when we began the company, and was one of our most steadfast voices over the years. His loss is incalculable, and our thoughts are with Jon’s family during this time. If you want to help, we’ll direct you to this GoFundMe page , which directly assists the Tjarks family. We would also like to reshare Jon’s astonishing piece from March , in which he wrote with such clarity, humor, and wisdom about his cancer diagnosis, his family, and his future. Our futures are dimmer without him. Please keep his family in your thoughts. Related Related The Ringer Staff The Ringer Staff Keep Exploring Latest in Uncategorized Contact Masthead Shop Newsletter Yep, we have one too Archive We’ve been around since Brady was a QB Take Me There Terms of Use Privacy Cookies Accessibility © 2025 Spotify Instagram X