# Redbird Life Cycle Infographic

**Source**: http://frequentmiler.boardingarea.com/2014/10/18/redbird-life-cycle-infographic/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:08:09.180218+00:00

---

The REDbird Life-cycle [Infographic] back to top Facebook Instagram RSS Twitter Beginner&#8217;s Guide Best Credit Card Offers Best Offers Card Exploration Tool (Beta) All Credit Cards American Express Bank Of America Barclays Capital One Chase Citibank Discover TD Bank US Bank Wells Fargo Other Cards How-Tos &#038; Guides Podcasts Frequent Miler On The Air Frequent Miler “Ask Us Anything” Blog About Us Annual Team Challenges Contact Search Best Offers Beginners Subscribe Beginner&#8217;s Guide Best Credit Card Offers Best Offers Card Exploration Tool (Beta) All Credit Cards American Express Bank Of America Barclays Capital One Chase Citibank Discover TD Bank US Bank Wells Fargo Other Cards How-Tos &#038; Guides NOTICE: This post references card features that have changed, expired, or are not currently available Airlines American Airlines British Airways Delta Southwest United Hotels Hotel Reviews Marriott Hyatt Hilton IHG Best Rate Guarantees Points & Miles What Are Points Worth? Amex Membership Rewards Capital One “Miles” Chase Ultimate Rewards Citi ThankYou Rewards Bilt Rewards Current Transfer Bonuses Transfer Partner Master List Booking Awards Which Award Booking Tools is Best Best Awards by Destination Best Options for Domestic First Class Booking Partner Award Flights Cancelation & Change Fees CREDIT CARD SPEND Credit Card Spend Guide Best Rewards for Everyday Spend Best Category Bonuses Best Big Spend Bonuses Visa and MasterCard Gift Cards Pay Taxes via Credit Card Pay Bills via Credit Card with Plastiq Earn Miles for College PODCAST & YOUTUBE Frequent Miler on the Air Ask Us Anything, Live MORE Transferable Points Booking Awards Managing Miles Credit Card Bonuses Credit Card Spend Credit Card Benefits Stacking Deals More Ways to Save Start Here Check out our Beginner's Guide if you're just getting started... Read more Podcasts Frequent Miler On The Air Frequent Miler “Ask Us Anything” Blog About Us Annual Team Challenges Contact Subscribe Search... Credit Card Spend The REDbird Life-cycle [Infographic] By Greg The Frequent Miler - October 18, 2014 60 NOTICE: This post references card features that have changed, expired, or are not currently available Note: As of October 13, 2015, the Target REDcard (REDbird) can only be loaded with cash in-store at Target.&nbsp;Gift cards and/or debit cards no longer work to load REDcard. For more info, see: Here is the REDbird memo, &ldquo;Cash is the only tender guests can use&rdquo; As of&nbsp;May 6, 2015, Target no longer accepts credit cards for in-store REDbird reloads. For more information, please see&nbsp;&#8220; REDbird Post Memo Answers &#8220;, and &#8220; REDbird grounded. Now what? &#8220; REDbird, the new Target Prepaid REDcard, is a terrific new alternative to Bluebird and Serve.&nbsp; Like Bluebird and Serve, REDbird is a prepaid reloadable card and is a reasonable fee-free checking account alternative.&nbsp; In addition to no-fees, it offers 5% off all Target purchases and fee free shipping from Target.com.&nbsp; Best of all, it allows free credit debit card reloads at Target and free bill pay (see &ldquo; REDcard changes everything &rdquo;). REDbird is different, at different times One unusual feature of REDbird is that it works a bit differently depending upon which stage of its life cycle its in.&nbsp; When you first buy it, the card is little more than a gift card.&nbsp; Once you register it online, it gets additional capabilities.&nbsp; And, once you receive your permanent card in the mail, it can do even more.&nbsp; To help explain this, I teamed up with Travel Is Free to develop a fun infographic, shown below. Note that the ability to load REDbird with credit cards is an almost too good to be true benefit since it makes it incredibly easy to earn credit card rewards for free .&nbsp; So, no one will be surprised if Target someday takes away that capability.&nbsp; We don&rsquo;t know if that will happen within weeks or years, but it is likely to happen someday.&nbsp; UPDATE: It happened.&nbsp; See: REDbird grounded. Now what? See more cool stuff If you enjoyed this infographic and want to see more, see Travel is Free&#8217;s InfoGraphics page . Read more about REDbird: REDcard changes everything The complete guide to REDbird Also: The Target Prepaid REDcard The complete guide to Bluebird, REDcard, Serve, and SoftServe How to find REDbird How to buy REDbird for others, and how to use them at non participating stores Can’t register REDbird? Do this… REDbird technical issues The REDbird Life-cycle [Infographic] Want to learn more about miles and points? Subscribe to email updates or check out our podcast on your favorite podcast platform. TAGS REDbird REDcard Target Previous article Today only: up to 23 miles per dollar at eBags Next article REDbird advanced &#8211; Experiment results Greg The Frequent Miler Greg is the owner, founder, and primary author of the Frequent Miler. He earns millions of points and miles each year, mostly without flying, and dedicates this blog to teaching others how to do the same. RELATED ARTICLES MORE FROM AUTHOR Rove Miles promos: 1K miles + 10% for referrals, up to 5K miles for 1st hotel booking &#038; 5x on Target gift cards 10% off Target Gift Cards (today only) Target: $50 back on $50 spend with new Target Circle Debit or Reloadable Card Subscribe Notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments Label {} [+] Name* Email* &#916; Label {} [+] Name* Email* &#916; This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. 60 Comments newest oldest most voted Inline Feedbacks View all comments [9 Ways] How To Travel For Free | Travel Is Free 10 years ago [&#8230;] out Frequent Miler&#8217;s post on REDbird (and the InfoGraphic version), or his Complete Guide to Bluebird, Redcard and [&#8230;] 0 Reply Ryan 10 years ago I have been loading my RedCard here in TEXAS without any issues. The main issue I have had : my cards thinking this transaction is fraudulent. I have since fixed the issue &#8211; call up your card company and request the fraud alert to be raised to $1001. Trust me it works on Barclay, Chase, Discover, Citi and American Express &#8211; I have tried them all and haven&#8217;t had any issues yet. Another thing is most fraud alerts are sent via e-mail/text/phone call or instant notification thru their dedicated apps on your phone. If you get one you can approve it and then swipe again without fail. Happy rewards hunting everyone! I am currently getting 40k points a month! 2 RedCards using the Barclay Arrival Plus (2 points per $). If you have any questions feel free to ask. 0 Reply Ryan Reply to&nbsp; Ryan 10 years ago Sorry about this misinfo above, I have 2 cards and get 20k a month not 40k. 0 Reply Sherri 10 years ago A friend picked me up a temporary Redbird card and mailed it to me. Before registering online for a permanent card, do I understand correctly that I first need to go to a local Target store and load the temporary card? 0 Reply Jeff Reply to&nbsp; Sherri 10 years ago When your friend picked up your card for you, they should have loaded the card with at least $5 at the register per the instructions lined out by Frequentmiler. As long as that person didn&#8217;t just &#8220;pocket&#8221; the card and walk out with it without actually going through the steps at the register, you shouldn&#8217;t have to do anything special with it now at Target in order to register it correctly online. I&#8217;ve gotten cards for both my wife and myself and registering online is a breeze and totally unrelated to loading in-store, with the exception of the initial activation that should happen when the card is first obtained from the original Target (that would be &#8220;when your friend picked the card up for you&#8221;). 0 Reply Sherri Reply to&nbsp; Jeff 10 years ago Wow, Jeff, thanks for the quick reply. He&#8217;s travelling right now, so I&#8217;ll have to wait to hear back from him as to whether he activated it at the store&#8230;I am beginning to think he did not, since the card is still in the paper jacket and my guess is that they&#8217;d need to remove that to activate it. (sorry, newbie here). Thanks again. 0 Reply Jeff Reply to&nbsp; Sherri 10 years ago No problem, happy to help 🙂 Even though I guess there&#8217;s no real &#8220;value&#8221; to the card if you don&#8217;t load anything to it, I would still think it would be kind of awkward for your friend to just walk out of the store with it. Fortunately for you, being still in the jacket isn&#8217;t really an indication of whether or not your friend activated it. Mine sat here by my computer in the jacket (after I activated it in Oklahoma) for 6 weeks while I settled up and closed out my Bluebird account. They don&#8217;t have to pull it out to activate, so hopefully you&#8217;re good. One thing I WILL tell you &#8211; even though Targets are *all* supposed to be &#8220;trained&#8221; on reloading, my experience has been that Target employees range from wildly incompetent to the occasional &#8220;no problem&#8221;. I&#8217;ve also had one encounter with a very crabby employee who tried to tell me it was &#8220;against the rules&#8221; to load funds to a Target card (and he was at the Customer Service Desk!). So&#8230;be prepared to deal with misinformation and just be patient while they figure it out. And if you get a crabby jerk to deal with, don&#8217;t burn our thriving forest down to take down one bad tree&#8230;just go to another Target and remember that poor person has to see himself in the mirror every morning 🙂 0 Reply Justin 10 years ago How do I liquidate the money on the card? (other than paying bills and buyin stuff at Target)? 0 Reply Greg The Frequent Miler Author Reply to&nbsp; Justin 10 years ago Log into your account, link a bank account, withdraw money. Or use the bill pay function to pay bills like your mortgage, rent, credit card, etc. 0 Reply Alisa 10 years ago Does Redbird come with a routing an