# Record.Asp

**Source**: https://amhistory.si.edu/september11/collection/record.asp?ID=63
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:03:44.132260+00:00

---

September 11 | National Museum of American History Skip to main content Smithsonian museums are open today, and will remain open through Saturday, October 11. If the government shutdown continues past October 11, the Smithsonian will then close to the public. Smithsonian Explore Topics Latino History Food History Donate Language English Español National Museum of American History Visit Explore Collections Education Events Support About Search Breadcrumb Explore Topics September 11 September 11 An evolving legacy September 11 Hidden Stories, Hidden Voices NYC Latino 9-11 Collecting Initiative An evolving legacy After two-plus decades, the nation continues to feel the lasting effects of the terrorist attacks of September&nbsp;11,&nbsp;2001. As we mark the 20th anniversary of that day, the Smithsonian’s National Museum of American History launches a new initiative:&nbsp; 9-11: Hidden Stories, Hidden Voices . The outreach effort seeks to create a more robust national collection of objects and stories that include diverse experiences, not only recording and exploring the day and immediate aftermath of September&nbsp;11, but also the longer-lasting and varied effects on people’s lives. The collection will demonstrate the repercussions of decisions made during the intervening two decades and how they still affect our political, social, and economic discourse. 9-11: Hidden Stories, Hidden Voices &nbsp;is a five-year program spanning the 20th through 25th anniversaries of the attacks. During this time, the museum is committed to working with diverse communities and actively sharing their stories and the experiences of Americans in a post-September&nbsp;11 world. For the 20th anniversary, we look forward to collaborating with community partners to share stories through a series of public programs, soliciting a variety of narratives through our&nbsp;digital story-gathering tool&nbsp;and highlighting our continuing work within the New York City Latino community through our website. We commit to working hand-in-hand with our publics to document, record, interpret, and share the ways in which the September&nbsp;11 attacks have affected the world we live in today. We also commit to sharing the experiences of those who witnessed this tragedy in order to provide understanding for those who have grown up in a world shaped by these events. &nbsp; The National September 11 Collection Three months after the attacks of September 11, 2001, Congress officially charged the Smithsonian and the National Museum of American History with collecting and preserving artifacts that would tell the story of that day. The collections we present on this site represent a work in progress. Early collections embody the best efforts of staff across the National Museum of American History to document and preserve a wide range of stories about September 11. Recent collecting efforts have integrated a more collaborative community-based approach to find underrepresented and unknown stories. Each object, as material evidence of the attacks and their immediate aftermath, is a piece of a large and complex story. The collections will grow as we gain historical perspective and a greater understanding of the events of September 11. Explore the collection From the Director I came up knowing that my mom instinctively placed her hand on her pregnant midsection where I was growing when she learned of President John F. Kennedy’s assassination in 1963. She wept the tears of an Irish Catholic American who had placed such hope and faith in one of their own. One of my earliest memories comes from when I was four, and we heard over the AM radio in mom’s 1957 Plymouth Belvedere that the most Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. had been assassinated tragically, as do I remember the morning when I learned Robert F. Kennedy too had fallen to an assassin’s bullet. It was then 33 years later that in real time, from my mother’s sister’s house in Rhode Island, we experienced September 11, 2001. With two little boys watching Sesame Street upstairs, we took turns dashing downstairs, glued to the television watching the plane hit the second World Trade Center tower, listening to the radio, watching the towers fall, learning of the two other attacks, calling family who were themselves transfixed in awe and horror as they day’s event unfolded. Like my mother, and like so many generations before me when experiencing a paradigm-shifting tragedy, as long as I have memory I shall not forget that day. We at your National Museum of American History pledge that none of us shall forget that day. As we approach the 20th anniversary of September&nbsp;11, the museum is committed to working with a wide range of communities to actively expand the stories and experiences of Americans in a post-September&nbsp;11 world. We invite you to join us in our work to gather, preserve, and share the many accounts of the ways our world has changed since the September 11 attacks, so that we may collectively contextualize and understand a world forever altered by these tragic events. To all who lost loved ones and colleagues, to my museum colleagues who worked and continue to do the difficult work around that day—we owe our lasting empathy and compassion as we broaden the lens of understanding of that moment. Anthea M. Hartig, Ph.D. The Elizabeth MacMillan Director, National Museum of American History &nbsp; Stories Why did the Smithsonian collect a handwritten note from September 11, 2001? September 08, 2016 Collecting September 11: One curator’s story August 03, 2011 American dream turned nightmare September 11, 2019 More stories about September 11 Videos Come Through: September 11 May 29, 2024 Exhibitions September 11 - 2011 Remembrance and Reflection To mark the 10th anniversary of the September 11, 2001, attacks, the Museum created a special experience for visitors to view 50 objects from the three sites—New York City; the Pentagon; and Shanksville, Pennsylvania—as well as recent acquisitions related to how American lives have changed since then. September 11, 2011 September 11 Bearing Witness to History On September 11, 2002, the museum opened an exhibition to commemorate the first anniversary of the terrorist attacks on the United States. If you have a September 11 artifact that you would like to donate, please contact us at&nbsp; [email&#160;protected] &nbsp;or&nbsp;at 202-633-3423 to obtain the proper procedure for donating items to the collections. It is Smithsonian Institution policy not to accept unsolicited donations, so please do not send any items directly. National Museum of American History Facebook Instagram YouTube Hours &amp; Admission Open every day, except December 25, from 10:00&nbsp;a.m. to 5:30&nbsp;p.m. Admission is free and no tickets are required. Location &amp; Contact 1300 Constitution Ave NW, Washington, DC 20560 Contact Information Our mission is to empower people to create a just and compassionate future by exploring, preserving, and sharing the complexity of our past. Sign Up For Our Newsletter Donate Email powered by MailChimp ( Privacy Policy &amp; Terms of Use ) Press Center Shop Museum Store Smithsonian Institution Privacy Terms of Use Back to top