# justsecurity.org

**Source**: https://www.justsecurity.org/?p=77331
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:52:36.311465+00:00

---

The Weisselberg Indictment Is Not A “Fringe Benefits” Case Just Security &ndash; JustSecurity.org Skip to content Just Security Logo in opposite color link to homepage Masthead Support Newsletters Substack icon opens the Just Security page Follow us on BlueSky Bluesky icon opens the Just Security page Follow us on BlueSky Linkedin icon opens the Just Security page Follow us on Linkedin Threads icon opens the Just Security page Follow us on Threads Facebook icon opens the Just Security page Follow us on Facebook Instagram icon opens the Just Security Instagram page Follow us on Instagram YouTube icon opens the Just Security page Follow us on YouTube Icon for a menu opens the mobile menu Open Fly-Out Menu Key Topics Armed Conflict Civilian Harm Israel-Hamas War Russia-Ukraine Sudan Law of Armed Conflict/IHL Use of Force AI &amp; Emerging Technology Artificial Intelligence (AI) Cyber Social Media Platforms Climate Change Congress Courts &amp; Litigation Democracy &amp; Rule of Law Democratic Backsliding &amp; Solutions Elections Rule of Law Diplomacy Executive Branch Human Rights International Law International Criminal Law International Human Rights Law Law of Armed Conflict/IHL Use of Force Intelligence &amp; Surveillance Immigration Israel-Hamas War Local Voices Russia-Ukraine Terrorism &amp; Violent Extremism Counterterrorism Domestic Violent Extremism Series Resources Immigration Law: Syllabus Supplements Collection: Just Security’s Coverage of Trump Administration Executive Actions Litigation Tracker: Legal Challenges to Trump Administration Actions The Anti-Corruption Tracker: Mapping the Erosion of Oversight and Accountability Just Security’s Artificial Intelligence Archive Collection: Iran-Israel/United States Conflict Just Security’s Israel-Hamas War Archive Just Security’s Climate Archive Just Security’s Russia–Ukraine War Archive Russia’s Eliminationist Rhetoric Against Ukraine: A Collection Mapping State Reactions to the ICC Arrest Warrants for Netanyahu and Gallant Translations Trump Admin Litigation Tracker Podcasts About About Just Security Masthead Advisory Board Guest Authors Write for Us Work With Us Contact Just Security Logo Icon of search glass will submit search query &times; Search for: &times; Powered by Algolia Icon of search glass will submit search query Submit search query The Weisselberg Indictment Is Not A “Fringe Benefits” Case Grasping the Full Scope of the Alleged Criminal Scheme By Daniel Shaviro Published on July 4, 2021 In the days before the July 1, 2021 issuance of the Manhattan District Attorney’s Weisselberg-Trump Organization indictment , public anticipation was positively underwhelming. It would just be a fringe benefits case, we were told – meaning, a dispute, of a picayune sort that almost never yields criminal charges, regarding whether or not an employee’s use of, say, a company car or apartment yielded taxable income, in the face of admitted personal benefit but also with plausible claims of business purpose other than the purely compensatory. Everyone does it, we heard, and it shouldn’t be the basis for a criminal fraud charge. What’s more, this ostensibly would just be a New York State or City income tax issue, not federal, thus limiting the scale and monetary significance of the claimed wrongdoing. Then the indictment dropped, and it turns out that public expectations could scarcely have fallen further short than they were of the magnitude of what was actually being charged. Let me spell out the particulars under several headings: 1. This is no mere fringe benefits case . It is a straight-out fraud case, claiming that the defendants kept double books: phony ones to show the tax authorities, and accurate ones to be hidden from view. The question of whether a given company apartment or car might in theory (with appropriate supporting facts) have been an excludable fringe benefit turns out to be almost completely irrelevant. A better analogy to what is being charged here is the following: Suppose that your employer pays you monthly, through automatically deposited paychecks that end up being included on your annual W-2. But suppose that each month you could stop by the front office, request an envelope full of cash in unmarked bills, and have your W-2 reduced accordingly. So your true income would be the same as if you hadn’t stopped by, but you’d be reporting less salary. If your employer kept careful records of all the cash it gave you, and also still deducted it all, we would basically have this case. That is far different from simple failure to pay taxes on fringe benefits, which is how the indictment has been widely misunderstood, thanks in part to Trump’s defense lawyers’ laying the groundwork before the charges were made public on Thursday. 2. It is not just a state and local income tax fraud case. It is also – via New York State fraud, conspiracy, and grand larceny statutes – a federal income tax fraud case. The indictment’s first three and longest counts detail a “scheme to defraud” the federal Internal Revenue Service, including through a “conspiracy” with multiple “overt acts,” and the commission of “grand larceny.” In other words, just as the Manhattan DA could indict someone for committing such crimes (within its jurisdiction) against the likes of you or me, so here it has identified the IRS as the main victim of the defendants’ actions. Indeed, the word “federal” appears thirty times in the Manhattan DA’s 24-page charging document. Given the facts alleged, it is hard to fathom that the IRS – if it agrees that those facts are true – would not promptly indict the defendants for federal income tax fraud. Failing to bring charges would amount to saying that overt and deliberate tax cheating of the most brazen kind need not be addressed criminally. If a private individual, rather than the Manhattan DA had somehow gathered all of this information and reported it to the IRS, he or she would be in a great position to claim a whistleblower award. And while federal authorities often refrain from piling on, by bringing their own charges when state authorities are already prosecuting a case; the indictment here makes explicit that the fraud was, in the main, directed against the federal government itself. 3. If the Manhattan DA can prove the facts asserted, this is not a trivial case, or one that ordinarily would not be brought, or one that bespeaks political bias, or is just about pressuring a witness whom the DA wants to “turn.” It is unimaginable to me that any prosecutor would not bring these or similar charges under the asserted facts. If the case is proven, the DA will not have been criminalizing political disagreement, as critics complain. Rather, it will have been criminalizing crime – and not a moment too soon from a broader enforcement standpoint, given widespread concerns about plunging enforcement, not just against income tax fraud, but against white-collar crime more generally. * * * That’s the general overview. However, delving into the details can help to show why all this is so. A clear understanding is best conveyed by turning the indictment’s formal presentation of the charges into more of a straightforward narrative. The rest of this commentary presents the main elements of the story that the indictment tells. One should keep in mind, of course, that all this is just the Manhattan DA’s case. Crimes are not punished in American law unless they have either been confessed to, or proven beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law. For convenience, I will set forth the prosecutorial version of what happened without repeating (more than sporadically) that it all still needs to be proven. 4. The true economic deal alleged by the indictment – Weisselberg had a fixed economic deal with the Trump Corporation. He was to be paid a fixed amount – which, for the years 2011 through 2018, equaled $940,000 annually, comprised of $540,000 denominated as base salary and $400,000 denominated as an end-of-year bonus. Nothing else in the employment agreement and arrangements between the parties that the indictment discusses would change this fixed bottom line . Any supposed “fringe benefit” – and, as we will see, the term really does not fit well here – that the Trump Organization (through any of its entities) furnished to Weisselberg would be treated as compensation in the company’s internal records, and charged against his $940,000 receipt. Thus, for example, suppose the Organization paid him $50,000 in cash, either directly or through a payment to a third party supplier (including other Trump entities) of consumer benefits to him. In that case, all else equal, Weisselberg would get $890,000, rather than $940,000, with that lower amount being treated as compensation in issued W-2s and1099s, and by him on his own tax returns. But the Organization’s internal records would still show that he had received $940,000 of compensation, including this $50,000. 5. Fraudulent double bookkeeping – Implementing this scheme required having two inconsistent sets of records: (a) the fake ones for tax reporting that excluded a part of his compensation (under the parties’ financial deal and the company’s secret bookkeeping), and (b) the true accounting records that the company maintained privately. Experts on tax enforcement agree that keeping two sets of books, in this fashion, is &#8220;a red flag&#8221; and “a classic indication of an overt act of evasion,” often causing the government to have a “slam-dunk case.” 6. Additional overt acts to conceal the fraud – Even in the company’s own ledgers, as distinct from those that were disclosed to relevant tax authorities, Weisselberg took steps to conceal his receipt of benefits. Thus, he “directed a staff member in the accounting department to remove the notations ‘Per Allen Weisselberg’ from the entries in Donald J. Trump’s Detail General Ledger relating to tuition payments paid on Weisselberg’s behalf to his family members’ private s