# Michele Bachmanns Holy War 20110622

**Source**: http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/michele-bachmanns-holy-war-20110622?print=true
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:58:12.236750+00:00

---

Michele Bachmann&#039;s Holy War &times; &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo Politics Michele Bachmann&#8217;s Holy War Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Politics Michele Bachmann&#8217;s Holy War The Tea Party contender may seem like a goofball, but be warned: Her presidential campaign is no laughing matter By Matt Taibbi Matt Taibbi Contact Matt Taibbi on X Forgiving Student Debt Alone Won’t Fix the Crisis Trump’s Gone, So What’s Next for the Democrats? Big Pharma’s Covid-19 Profiteers View all posts by Matt Taibbi June 22, 2011 Illustration by Victor Juhasz Close your eyes, take a deep breath, and, as you consider the career and future presidential prospects of an incredible American phenomenon named Michele Bachmann, do one more thing. Don&#8217;t laugh. It may be the hardest thing you ever do, for Michele Bachmann is almost certainly the funniest thing that has ever happened to American presidential politics. Fans of obscure 1970s television may remember a short-lived children&#8217;s show called Far Out Space Nuts , in which a pair of dimwitted NASA repairmen, one of whom is played by Bob (Gilligan) Denver, accidentally send themselves into space by pressing &#8220;launch&#8221; instead of &#8220;lunch&#8221; inside a capsule they were fixing at Cape Canaveral. This plot device roughly approximates the political and cultural mechanism that is sending Michele Bachmann hurtling in the direction of the Oval Office. Bachmann is a religious zealot whose brain is a raging electrical storm of divine visions and paranoid delusions. She believes that the Chinese are plotting to replace the dollar bill, that light bulbs are killing our dogs and cats, and that God personally chose her to become both an IRS attorney who would spend years hounding taxpayers and a raging anti-tax Tea Party crusader against big government. She kicked off her unofficial presidential campaign in New Hampshire, by mistakenly declaring it the birthplace of the American Revolution. &#8220;It&#8217;s your state that fired the shot that was heard around the world!&#8221; she gushed. &#8220;You are the state of Lexington and Concord, you started the battle for liberty right here in your backyard.&#8221; Videos: Michele Bachmann&#8217;s Craziest Moments I said lunch, not launch! But don&#8217;t laugh. Don&#8217;t do it. And don&#8217;t look her in the eyes; don&#8217;t let her smile at you. Michele Bachmann, when she turns her head toward the cameras and brandishes her pearls and her ageless, unblemished neckline and her perfect suburban orthodontics in an attempt to reassure the unbeliever of her non-threateningness, is one of the scariest sights in the entire American cultural tableau. She&#8217;s trying to look like June Cleaver, but she actually looks like the T2 skeleton posing for a passport photo. You will want to laugh, but don&#8217;t, because the secret of Bachmann&#8217;s success is that every time you laugh at her, she gets stronger. Editor’s picks The 250 Greatest Albums of the 21st Century So Far The 100 Best TV Episodes of All Time The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century Matt Taibbi&#8217;s &#8216;The Truth About the Tea Party&#8217; In modern American politics, being the right kind of ignorant and entertainingly crazy is like having a big right hand in boxing; you&#8217;ve always got a puncher&#8217;s chance. And Bachmann is exactly the right kind of completely batshit crazy. Not medically crazy, not talking-to-herself-on-the-subway crazy, but grandiose crazy, late-stage Kim Jong-Il crazy &mdash; crazy in the sense that she&#8217;s living completely inside her own mind, frenetically pacing the hallways of a vast sand castle she&#8217;s built in there, unable to meaningfully communicate with the human beings on the other side of the moat, who are all presumed to be enemies. Bachmann&#8217;s story, to hear her tell it, is about a suburban homemaker who is chosen by God to become a politician who will restore faith and family values to public life and do battle with secular humanism. But by the time you&#8217;ve finished reviewing her record of lies and embellishments and contradictions, you&#8217;ll have no idea if she actually believes in her own divine inspiration, or whether it&#8217;s a big con job. Or maybe both are true &mdash; in which case this hard-charging challenger for the GOP nomination is a rare breed of political psychopath, equal parts crazed Divine Wind kamikaze-for-Jesus and calculating, six-faced Machiavellian prevaricator. Whatever she is, she&#8217;s no joke. Bachmann was born Michele Amble in Waterloo, Iowa, to a pair of lifelong Democrats, but grew up in tiny Anoka, Minnesota. By her teen years, her parents had divorced; her mother remarried and brought step-siblings into the home, creating a Brady Bunchian group of nine kids. One of Bachmann&#8217;s step-siblings, Helen LaFave, would later come out as a lesbian, a fact that Michele, who became famous opposing gay marriage, never mentions on the campaign trail. For the most part, though, Bachmann&#8217;s upbringing seems like pure Americana, a typical Midwestern girl who was &#8220;in a couple of beauty pageants&#8221; and &#8220;not overtly political,&#8221; according to her stepbrother Michael LaFave. Related Content Dave Chappelle Says &#039;It&#039;s Easier to Talk&#039; in Saudi Arabia Than the U.S. Watch Addison Rae Showcase &#039;Diet Pepsi&#039; on &#039;Fallon&#039; The Yardbirds Co-Founder Chris Dreja Dead at 79 Hear Taylor Swift, Sabrina Carpenter Join Forces on &#039;The Life of a Showgirl&#039; Young Michele found Jesus at age 16, not long before she went away to Winona State University and met a doltish, like-minded believer named Marcus Bachmann. After finishing college, the two committed young Christians moved to Oklahoma, where Michele entered one of the most ridiculous learning institutions in the Western Hemisphere, a sort of highway rest area with legal accreditation called the O.W. Coburn School of Law; Michele was a member of its inaugural class in 1979. Originally a division of Oral Roberts University, this august academy, dedicated to the teaching of &#8220;the law from a biblical worldview,&#8221; has gone through no fewer than three names &mdash; including the Christian Broadcasting Network School of Law. Those familiar with the darker chapters in George W. Bush&#8217;s presidency might recognize the school&#8217;s current name, the Regent University School of Law. Yes, this was the tiny educational outhouse that, despite being the 136th-ranked law school in the country, where 60 percent of graduates flunked the bar, produced a flood of entrants into the Bush Justice Department. Regent was unabashed in its desire that its graduates enter government and become &#8220;change agents&#8221; who would help bring the law more in line with &#8220;eternal principles of justice,&#8221; i.e., biblical morality. To that end, Bachmann was mentored by a crackpot Christian extremist professor named John Eidsmoe, a frequent contributor to John Birch Society publications who once opined that he could imagine Jesus carrying an M16 and who spent considerable space in one of his books musing about the feasibility of criminalizing blasphemy. Take the Bachmann-Palin Challenge: Can You Tell Them Apart? This background is significant considering Bachmann&#8217;s leadership role in the Tea Party, a movement ostensibly founded on ideas of limited government. Bachmann says she believes in a limited state, but she was educated in an extremist Christian tradition that rejects the entire notion of a separate, secular legal authority and views earthly law as an instrument for interpreting biblical values. As a legislator, she not only worked to impose a ban on gay marriage, she also endorsed a report that proposed banning anyone who &#8220;espoused or supported Shariah law&#8221; from immigrating to the U.S. (Bachmann seems so unduly obsessed with Shariah law that, after listening to her frequent pronouncements on the subject, one begins to wonder if her crazed antipathy isn&#8217;t born of professional jealousy.) This discrepancy may account for why some Tea Party leaders don&#8217;t buy Bachmann as a champion of small government. &#8220;Michele Bachmann is &mdash; what&#8217;s the old-school term? &mdash; a poser,&#8221; says Chris Littleton, an Ohio Tea Party leader troubled by her support of the Patriot Act and other big-government interventions. &#8220;Look at her record and see how &#8216;Tea Party&#8217; she really is.&#8221; When Bachmann finished her studies in Oklahoma, Marcus instructed her to do her postgraduate work in tax law &mdash; a command Michele took as divinely ordained. She would later profess to complete surprise at God&#8217;s choice for her field of study. &#8220;Tax law? I hate taxes,&#8221; she said. &#8220;Why should I go and do something like that?&#8221; Still, she sucked it up and did as she was told. &#8220;The Lord says: Be submissive, wives, you are to be submissive to your husbands.&#8221; Moving back to Minnesota, she and Marcus settled in Stillwater, a town of 18,000 near St. Paul, where they raised their five children and took in 23 foster kids. Stillwater is a Midwestern version of a Currier &amp; Ives set piece, complete with cozy homes, antique stores &mdash; and no black people. In short, the perfect launching pad for a political career built on Bachmann&#8217;s retro-Stepford image. Stillwater&#8217;s congressional district is the whitest district in Minnesota (95 percent) and one of the wealthiest in America (with a median income $16,000 above the na