# Csv Fingerprint Spot Errors In Your Data At A Glance

**Source**: http://flowingdata.com/2014/08/14/csv-fingerprint-spot-errors-in-your-data-at-a-glance/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:24:25.246953+00:00

---

CSV Fingerprint: Spot errors in your data at a glance &#8211; FlowingData Membership Books Projects Learning Newsletters Member Login CSV Fingerprint: Spot errors in your data at a glance August 14, 2014 Topic Apps &nbsp;/&nbsp; csv , missing data , Victor Powell --> You get your CSV file, snuggle under your blanket with a glass of fine wine, all ready for the perfect Saturday night. Then &mdash; what the heck &mdash; there&#8217;s a bunch of missing data and poorly formatted entries. Don&#8217;t let this happen to you. CSV Fingerprint by Victor Powell provides a simple, wideout view of your CSV file, color-coded for quick quality control . To make it easier to spot mistakes, I&#8217;ve made a &#8220;CSV Fingerprint&#8221; viewer (named after the &#8220;Fashion Fingerprints&#8221; from The New York Times&#8217;s &#8220;Front Row to Fashion Week&#8221; interactive ). The idea is to provide a birdseye view of the file without too much distracting detail. The idea is similar to Tufte&#8217;s Image Quilts &#8230;a qualitative view, as opposed to a rendering of the data in the file themselves. In this sense, the CSV Fingerprint is a sort of meta visualization. Try it with your own CSV data . Never let a subpar CSV file ruin your Saturday night again. FlowingData Delivered to Your Inbox Email Address Weekly Digest Send me a summary for the week. Related Fashion trends seen through Google searches Posted to Maps --> Fashion runway color palette Posted to Statistical Visualization --> &rarr; "> Fashion fingerprints &rarr; Posted to Visualization --> Get access to courses, tutorials, and more resources. Become a member &rarr; About Contact LinkedIn Instagram Bluesky RSS Copyright &copy; 2007-Present FlowingData. All rights reserved.