# Euphoria Cast Interview.Html

**Source**: https://www.thecut.com/article/euphoria-cast-interview.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:42:58.452074+00:00

---

‘Euphoria’ Cast Interview: The Women Make ‘Euphoria’ Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Style Self Culture Power Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission spring fashion The Women Make Euphoria The cast on playing teens forever on the brink of disaster. By Evan Ross Katz , a Cut contributor who covers celebrity and culture Portfolio by Micaiah Carter Feb. 14, 2022 Photo: Micaiah Carter save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Photo: Micaiah Carter Photo: Micaiah Carter There’s Euphoria , the television series, and there’s Euphoria -ness. The HBO show, about a group of self-destructive teens fumbling toward self-discovery, became an instant phenomenon when it premiered in the summer of 2019. TV dramas about troubled high-schoolers are nothing new, but Euphoria felt like it was. The characters deal with addiction, gender dysphoria, poverty, and rage, all of it spinning out in a hyperstylized universe. It’s a multisensory experience, full of saturated colors, bombastic needle drops, and a restless camera that whips among characters as they float from one bad decision to the next. There’s something strangely enthralling about the chaos. As a friend of mine says, some people put The Office on in the background; for others, Euphoria is that show. “It’s like we were chasing Euphoria, ” says Zendaya , who stars as the drug-addled teen Rue, when describing the feeling of resuming production on season two . “We were like, We need to be what we were in season one, and we were trying to find that spark. We weren’t saying it, but we were a little stressed.” The show, adapted from a 2012 Israeli series of the same name, follows Rue and the teens in her orbit: the perennially buttoned-up Lexi ( Maude Apatow ); Lexi’s older sister, the so-romantic-it-hurts Cassie ( Sydney Sweeney ); Cassie’s terrifyingly confident best friend, Maddy ( Alexa Demie ); Maddy’s on-again, off-again boyfriend, Nate ( Jacob Elordi ), a maniac in the body of an Abercrombie model; Kat ( Barbie Ferreira ), an acerbic goth turned entrepreneurial camgirl; and the soft-natured, battle-worn Jules ( Hunter Schafer ), who becomes a love interest for Rue and a lust interest for Nate and his father, Cal ( Eric Dane ). On Schafer: Rodarte Hand-Beaded White-and-Blue Floral Dress With Black Silk Draped Bodice, available at modaoperandi.com. Anita Ko Diamond Huggies With Round Diamond Drops, available at anitako.com. On Zendaya: Peter Do Black/White Flower Floral Tuxedo Oversize Blazer, White Handkerchief Blouse, and Black Deconstructed Maxi Skirt, available at select retailers. Moya 18-Karat Gold-Plated Ridged Hoop Earrings, available at moyajewellery.com. Hunter: Hair by Rena Calhoun; Makeup by Rob Rumsey. Zendaya: Hair by Kim Kimball. Photo: Micaiah Carter The Boston Herald once declared the original Gossip Girl “every parent’s nightmare.” The fear the show sparked in adults was rooted in the superficial things their kids might do or want. Euphoria has brought back the same sort of old-fashioned teen-show panic; it has become a byword for young girls flirting with danger. There has been abortion and self-mutilation, overdoses and child pornography, drug rings and carousel orgasms. (Creator Sam Levinson famously cut 80 penises from a locker-room shot in the show’s second episode.) So, of course, it has become appointment television for young adults. An entire TikTok subgenre has sprung up around teens attempting to dress like the characters, with their sparkly makeup looks and covetable wardrobes. “When you’re leaving for the bus but forget you go to Euphoria High School,” read the captions before the person walks off and reemerges Euphoria -ified . Prada Knitted Top and Skort, available at Prada boutiques and prada.com. Wolford Black Tights, available at wolfordshop.com. Jennifer Fisher Micro Samira Huggies, available at jenniferfisherjewelry.com. Anita Ko Diamond Curved Ring, available at anitako.com. Photo: Micaiah Carter We all just clicked and it felt like a family, and that’s rare, especially with a group of girls. Which is sad, but it is rare. &mdash; Alexa Demie Production on season two shut down for a year before resuming this past March. During the lull, the majority of the originally planned season was scrapped. “There are very few things that remain in the version you’re now seeing,” Zendaya says. According to her, this is a good outcome: “The things that didn’t make it definitely needed to die.” This year, everything is amped up; if you liked the messiness, there’s now even more of it. The season opener is a flashback in which the grandma (the fabulous Kathrine Narducci) of Rue’s drug dealer, Fezco ( Angus Cloud ), enters a strip club and interrupts a man’s blowjob to shoot him in both of his legs, as the camera zooms in on his erect penis. Screams meld as Billy Swan’s “Don’t Be Cruel” plays over the Tarantino-esque wreckage. Critics are mixed on the tenor of the show but never indifferent. It has been called “style without substance” by some, “masterful and discomfiting” by others. Its current season has split audiences more than ever (and brought in more viewers: 8.3 million tuned in for the season-two premiere, up from 3.3 million the previous season). In its review, Rolling Stone noted that some scenes elevate the series to one of the very best television has produced, while others are “so exasperating and self-indulgent that they can leave you questioning whether you liked the better parts at all.” Sometimes, the same scene conjures both reactions at once. Magda Butrym Long Leather Tailored Coat, available at magdabutrym.com. Sunnei Easy Curled Long-Sleeved Top, available at sunnei.it. Photo: Micaiah Carter/ If the plots can be far-fetched, it’s the stars who ground them, shading their story lines with levity and vulnerability. All six of the leading ladies give career-making performances, and indeed they have become “It” girls offscreen, with modeling contracts, development deals, and millions of social-media followers. Most of them were already familiar with being in the public eye by the time they signed on. Ferreira began her career as a model at the peak of the body-positive movement, doing campaigns for American Apparel, Givenchy, and Bulgari; Schafer modeled for Versace, Helmut Lang, and Maison Margiela (she is currently the face of Prada). Zendaya, Sweeney, and Apatow (the daughter of director Judd and actress Leslie Mann) all started acting during childhood. Demie alone, the most elusive of the bunch (her Wikipedia bio is nine sentences), broke out with Euphoria. “We all just clicked and it felt like a family, and that’s rare, especially with a group of girls,” Demie says. “Which is sad, but it is rare.” On Apatow (yellow): Hermès Embroidered Leather Coat, Embroidered Short Cropped Top, and Embroidered Leather Skirt, available at Hermès stores and hermes.com. Kwaidan Editions Leather Pointy-Toe Kitten-Heel Mule, available at SSENSE. On Sweeney: St. John Double-Breasted Micro-Tweed Jacket, Micro-Tweed Bra Top, and Short Micro-Tweed Skirt, available at stjohnknits.com. On Apatow: Proenza Schouler Black Bi-Stretch Crêpe Cutout Top, available at Proenza Schouler stores and proenzaschouler.com. Photo: Micaiah Carter. On Apatow (yellow): Hermès Embroidered Leather Coat, Embroidered Short Cropped Top, and Embroidered Leather Skirt, available at Hermès stores and herm... more On Apatow (yellow): Hermès Embroidered Leather Coat, Embroidered Short Cropped Top, and Embroidered Leather Skirt, available at Hermès stores and hermes.com. Kwaidan Editions Leather Pointy-Toe Kitten-Heel Mule, available at SSENSE. On Sweeney: St. John Double-Breasted Micro-Tweed Jacket, Micro-Tweed Bra Top, and Short Micro-Tweed Skirt, available at stjohnknits.com. On Apatow: Proenza Schouler Black Bi-Stretch Crêpe Cutout Top, available at Proenza Schouler stores and proenzaschouler.com. Photo: Micaiah Carter. Zendaya’s performance is particularly haunting. As Rue, she can be cruel one minute, painfully shy or uninhibitedly goofy the next, and it all feels like the same person. “She lives in me in a weird way,” Zendaya says. “I don’t have to go searching for her.” It’s a feeling she says she has never had with another character. “Even with the Spider-Man movies, I’ll talk to the director and ask, ‘Is that MJ-y enough?’ I try to find it again. With Rue, she’s just there.” In season two, Rue tries to convince herself she can be a functioning drug addict. “It clearly falls apart quite quickly,” Zendaya says. You don’t have to like her character, but the show only wo