# Beyond Meat Ipo Vegan Sustainable Food

**Source**: https://www.vox.com/future-perfect/2019/4/25/18514798/beyond-meat-ipo-vegan-sustainable-food
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:55:50.261206+00:00

---

Beyond Meat’s IPO: vegan meats are going mainstream | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo Beyond Meat is going public. Investors are betting on a new future for food. Free speech needs fearless journalism Free speech is endangered; unbiased and trustworthy news is elusive. In a time of noise, confusion, and spin, we’re committed to clarity, truth, and depth — even when it’s hard. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join now Future Perfect Beyond Meat is going public. Investors are betting on a new future for food. Plant-based meat products might fix our food system. by Kelsey Piper Apr 25, 2019, 7:20 PM UTC Share Gift Beyond Meat breakfast sausage. Beyond Meat Kelsey Piper is a contributing editor at Future Perfect, Vox’s effective altruism-inspired section on the world’s biggest challenges. She explores wide-ranging topics like climate change, artificial intelligence, vaccine development, and factory farms, and also writes the Future Perfect newsletter. Beyond Meat, the plant-based meat company, is going public next week. The company sells burgers that contain no meat, but taste like they do. Its stated goal is to fix our food system. Its initial public offering (IPO) is the latest sign that alt-meat is going mainstream &mdash; and that&rsquo;s a big deal. It&rsquo;s been a good few years for Beyond Meat. National chains including Del Taco , Carl&rsquo;s Jr., and T.G.I. Friday&rsquo;s have started carrying their products. They&rsquo;ve also found their way onto grocery store shelves at Whole Foods, Kroger , and Target . In total, Beyond Meat says its products are available in more than 35,000 outlets, from hotels and college campuses to grocery stores and sports stadiums. Sales have been growing fast &mdash; last year the company reported revenues of $ 87.9 million , up from $32.6 million in 2017. Now, the company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for an IPO, scheduled for next week. They&rsquo;ll sell shares in the company for between $19 and $21 per share, allowing them to raise $183 million for additional manufacturing facilities, research and development, and sales. If their stock sells at the high end of that, the company would be valued at $1.2 billion. They&rsquo;ll be listed on NASDAQ as BYND. Founded in 2009 by CEO Ethan Brown, the Los Angeles-based company&rsquo;s products first hit supermarket shelves in 2013. Its rapid rise &mdash; food is not an easy industry to break into &mdash; reflects intense consumer demand and investor interest in meat alternatives. The company has never been profitable, and lost $29 million in 2018, but its rapidly growing revenues made it a good bet to many investors &mdash; as did its positioning on the frontier of a transformation of our food system. &ldquo;Beyond Meat was the first company to really set its sights on creating meat from plants that could compete on the basis of the things that meat eaters like about meat,&rdquo; Bruce Friedrich of the Good Food Institute, which works on policy and investment surrounding meat alternatives, told me. &ldquo;Before Beyond Meat and Impossible Foods, there was really this sense that plant-based foods was for vegetarians. People like Ethan Brown said, &lsquo;No, we can make plant-based foods that meat eaters like just as much.&rsquo;&rdquo; Brown will soon have a billion-dollar company to prove it. And while it&rsquo;s the first plant-based meat company to go public, it looks likely that it won&rsquo;t be the last. The trend that brought Beyond Meat racing to its billion-dollar valuation and IPO are just getting started &mdash; and that has the potential to be game-changing, not just for the industry, but for the world. Plant-based meat alternatives are getting big There&rsquo;s a lot wrong with our food system . Producing meat by raising animals on factory farms produces tons of greenhouse gases, and many analysts think we can&rsquo;t tackle climate change without tackling the enormous emissions that go into agriculture . Animals in close quarters are fed low-dose antibiotics constantly so they don&rsquo;t make one another sick, which contributes to antibiotic resistance , a huge threat on the horizon for public health. And animals on factory farms are routinely subjected to intense cruelty and conditions that disgust the average American consumer. That&rsquo;s what inspired people to start working on meat alternatives &mdash; and it may be what&rsquo;s inspiring the consumer enthusiasm that has buoyed them in recent years. Products like veggie burgers, fake chicken , and soy and almond milk are growing in popularity and market share &mdash; and even better, they&rsquo;re getting tastier and harder to distinguish from animal products. New breakthroughs in food science have made it easier to imitate the flavor and texture of real meat. While early veggie burgers were almost exclusively purchased by vegetarians, Brown says that 93 percent of Beyond Meat customers buy regular meat too &mdash; suggesting the company has succeeded at making something that appeals to meat eaters. Related Ending the age of animal cruelty Beyond Meat was among the pioneers of this new generation of plant-based meat, which aimed to replace bean-based veggie burgers marketed mostly to vegans. Now, they&rsquo;ll be the first plant-based meat company to have an IPO. It&rsquo;s a remarkable success for the company. It&rsquo;s also remarkable because food companies rarely go public, Friedrich told me: &ldquo;The food industry is highly centralized, and most exits are mergers or acquisitions by large food conglomerates.&rdquo; Last year, there were rumors that industry giant (and Beyond Meat investor) Tyson Foods was considering buying the company. Beyond Meat stayed independent, though. A few months later, the company added the chief financial officers of Coca-Cola and of Twitter to their board , signaling that it was getting the expertise on-board that it needed to become a huge public company. The rest of the plant-based meat industry has been thriving too. Qdoba announced last week that it would be serving Beyond Meat competitor Impossible Foods. Earlier in April, Burger King launched the Impossible Whopper . Industry giants Tyson and Purdue are pursuing their own plant-based product lines. A few years ago, the Impossible Burger was available in a handful of restaurants &mdash; now it can be found in more than 5,000. &ldquo;There&rsquo;s a sense that there&rsquo;s a movement going on that&rsquo;s much bigger than any one company,&rdquo; Brown told Vox two weeks ago. The interesting thing about that movement is that plant-based meats don&rsquo;t have to displace all animal meats in order to make a big difference. Every burger replaced with a Beyond Burger has an impact on CO2 emissions, demand for factory farming, and demand for antibiotics. The more the plant-based meat industry grows, the more those impacts will be visible &mdash; and that might, in turn, itself fuel more interest in plant-based meats. Beyond Burger&rsquo;s team doesn&rsquo;t just believe they&rsquo;ve found a niche &mdash; they say they&rsquo;ve figured out the &ldquo;Future of Protein.&rdquo; Here&rsquo;s hoping they&rsquo;re right. Listen to this Tamar Haspel, a food-policy columnist at the Washington Post, joins Sean Rameswaram to discuss the rise &mdash; and potential impact &mdash; of the meatless meat movement. Sign up for the Future Perfect newsletter. Twice a week, you&rsquo;ll get a roundup of ideas and solutions for tackling our biggest challenges: improving public health, decreasing human and animal suffering, easing catastrophic risks, and &mdash; to put it simply &mdash; getting better at doing good. You’ve read 1 article in the last month Here at Vox, we&#x27;re unwavering in our commitment to covering the issues that matter most to you — threats to democracy, immigration, reproductive rights, the environment, and the rising polarization across this country. Our mission is to provide clear, accessible journalism that empowers you to stay informed and engaged in shaping our world. By becoming a Vox Member, you directly strengthen our ability to deliver in-depth, independent reporting that drives meaningful change. We rely on readers like you — join us. Swati Sharma Vox Editor-in-Chief Membership Monthly Annual One-time $5/month $10/month $25/month $50/month Other $50/year $100/year $150/year $200/year Other $25 $50 $100 $250 Other Join for $10/month We accept credit card, Apple Pay, and Google Pay. See More : Business &amp; Finance Culture Food Future Perfect Money More in this stream See all Yes, plant-based meat is better for the planet By Matthew Hayek and Jan Dutkiewicz It’s hard to make chickenless chicken delicious. Has Beyond Meat cracked the code? By Sigal Samuel Impossible Foods’ plant-based meat just got closer to the price of regular meat By Kelsey Piper Most Popular The chaos at the Pentagon, explained Podcast Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword Jane Goodall’s most radical message was not about saving the planet This is, objectively, the worst pasta shape The Supreme Court fight over whether gay and trans people can be “cured,” explained Future Perfect Explore the big, complicated problems the world faces and the most efficient ways to solve them. Sent twice a week. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is