# Kevin Mayer On Leaving Disney And Tiktok Joining Dazn Pay Tv Decline.Html

**Source**: https://www.cnbc.com/2021/03/17/kevin-mayer-on-leaving-disney-and-tiktok-joining-dazn-pay-tv-decline.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:54:16.536506+00:00

---

Kevin Mayer on leaving Disney and TikTok, joining DAZN, pay TV decline Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Cryptocurrency Futures &amp; Commodities Bonds Funds &amp; ETFs Business Economy Finance Health &amp; Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim&#x27;s Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown NEW! My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Stock Lists Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news &amp; videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech Kevin Mayer talks about his disappointing departures at Disney and TikTok, and the long decline of pay TV Published Wed, Mar 17 2021 1:51 PM EDT Updated Wed, Mar 17 2021 5:22 PM EDT Alex Sherman @in/alex-sherman @sherman4949 WATCH LIVE Key Points Kevin Mayer speaks about how he was disappointed when he didn&#x27;t get the Disney CEO job and how he got railroaded by the Trump administration when at TikTok. He discusses TikTok&#x27;s greatest hurdle to staying relevant and why his new venture, DAZN, is primed for global success. He also explains his SPAC strategy now that he&#x27;s seeking to invest in a consumer facing technology or media company. Chairman of Direct-to-Consumer &amp; International division of The Walt Disney Company Kevin Mayer took part today in the Disney+ Showcase at Disney’s D23 EXPO 2019 in Anaheim, Calif., August 23, 2019. Jesse Grant The last year in Kevin Mayer&#x27;s professional life wasn&#x27;t just a whirlwind, it was a global overview of the biggest stories in media and entertainment. Mayer started 2020 running Disney+, Disney &#x27;s flagship and wildly successful streaming service. But when Mayer wasn&#x27;t named Disney&#x27;s chief executive officer after Bob Iger stepped down, he left for a new role specifically developed for him: CEO of TikTok and chief operating officer of its Chinese parent company ByteDance. Surprisingly, he was only there for three months. The Trump administration&#x27;s attempt to force a TikTok U.S. sale led to his abrupt exit . By November, Mayer had joined billionaire Len Blavatnik&#x27;s investment firm Access Industries as an advisor. Just this month , he became chairman of one of Blavatnik&#x27;s investments, the sports streaming service DAZN. Mayer has also joined the SPAC game, advising on Forest Road&#x27;s acquisition of fitness subscription service Beachbody and now hunting for a new target with former colleague and ex-Disney CFO Tom Staggs. In an interview with CNBC this week, Mayer was candid about his exits at Disney and TikTok, describing what was going through his mind as he left both jobs. He revealed the &quot;secret sauce&quot; to both TikTok&#x27;s and DAZN&#x27;s future success. Here&#x27;s the full Q&amp;A: (This interview has been lightly edited for length and clarity.) Alex Sherman, CNBC: Let&#x27;s just quickly remind people what has happened in your life from a professional standpoint over the past year, and maybe then you can provide some context as to how this all happened. Kevin Mayer, DAZN Chairman: Sure. About a year ago, Disney announces Bob Chapek will be the new CEO , and Bob Iger is going to step down. A couple months later, you announce you&#x27;re leaving Disney to become the new CEO of TikTok and COO of ByteDance, TikTok&#x27;s Chinese parent company. This is a position that didn&#x27;t previously exist. Was it specifically made for you in mind? I believe so. As I recall, the recruiters were recruiting for the CEO role. And the more I got into getting to know the team at ByteDance, and given the experiences I&#x27;ve had, the role that I played at Disney, it became clear that it would be an interesting concept for me to have a dual role, because I think that everyone felt I could be quite helpful at the corporate level as well. So I believe it was a job that evolved during the discussions. So obviously, that job was an amazing opportunity. We&#x27;ll get into what happened there in a second. But first, I want to ask you about this, because I know people are curious and I&#x27;m curious. Did you think you were going to be the next Disney CEO? I was hoping I would be. I&#x27;m not sure hope and expectations are the same. It&#x27;s a nice job, CEO of Disney. Look, if you&#x27;d asked me that question five years ago, I would have said, no, I didn&#x27;t. I didn&#x27;t think I was headed towards the CEO of Disney. But given the confluence of events of Tom Staggs leaving , then there being a bit of a vacuum during the 21st Century Fox deal, which caused Bob Iger to stay a little longer... And the fact that I was able to launch Disney+ so effectively. I also launched ESPN+, and I was running Hulu, and I led the entire reconfiguration of the company into direct to consumer. Bob Iger and the board felt that I should run all of that. That was, I thought, intended to be a bit of a test run to see if I could be CEO. I&#x27;m not sure what I could have done there to prove myself more than I did. I think that Bob left earlier than he expected to. Why? Why did he leave earlier than he expected to? That&#x27;s a question for Bob Iger, not for me. That whole announcement seemed really rushed. Suddenly, he&#x27;s announcing &#x27;I&#x27;m going to step down effective immediately.&#x27; He&#x27;d previously said he was expecting to step down this year, in 2021. I don&#x27;t know if it caught you off guard, but it sounds like it did. I didn&#x27;t know that was coming at all. Look, my interpretation of it is that Bob Iger wanted to focus more on the creative side of things. He has a lot of affinity for that. And it just sort of escalated quickly. And he and the board of directors needed to make a call about who would be the next CEO. What I&#x27;ve heard is I needed a little bit more seasoning. I&#x27;d only been in that role for a couple of years, in an operating role. Before that I was chief strategy officer and a staff role, even though I had a lot of people working for me around the world and all that stuff. And I think that the timing of his ascension to being executive chairman, coupled with the fact that Bob Chapek had a lot of experience....Bob Chapek is a good guy, by the way. He&#x27;d worked throughout all of the different areas of Disney. He was in the studio, he was running consumer products, had been running the theme parks. It&#x27;s not a bad choice. So I can&#x27;t....someone wins and someone loses in that situation. And given the timing of it and in the immediacy of it, I think that people felt that he was the safer pair of hands at the moment. Did I want to be CEO? Of course I did. Who wouldn&#x27;t want to be CEO of the Walt Disney Company? It&#x27;s a great job. So that was the answer you were given? Simply that you needed a little more seasoning? Because people can go back and read it. I was public about it . I wrote at the time you should have gotten the CEO job because it only made sense to put the person who led the development of Disney+ in charge of the company. That was going to be the narrative to Wall Street, and it has been. And, that&#x27;s no knock on Bob Chapek. Yeah, look, I don&#x27;t feel like I should be in the place of explaining this. You really should ask Bob Iger or others who made the a decision, not me. Did I want to be CEO? Of course I did. Who wouldn&#x27;t want to be CEO of the Walt Disney Company? It&#x27;s a great job. All right. Let&#x27;s move to TikTok. You get the job and you&#x27;re leading what&#x27;s probably the biggest social media growth story since Facebook. I think it&#x27;s fair to say whenever the TikTok or ByteDance IPO is, it&#x27;s going to be valued at an absurd amount of money. You take that job in May. By August, you&#x27;re out of the job because the Trump administration seemed on the verge of forcing the sale of TikTok at the time, either to Microsoft or Oracle . So the news gets out this is happening, and you have no interest in running a watered down division of TikTok as a division of either of those companies. And your job as CEO of TikTok, if the deal happens, would no longer include the U.S., so that job is ruined too. So, you announce you&#x27;re stepping down. But then the sale never happens because the Chinese government gets involved at the last minute and nixes what was proposed. And then in the subsequent months, the Trump administration doesn&#x27;t really push hard for it. The election comes, he loses....yada, yada, yada. To date, TikTok hasn&#x27;t been sold. It continues to remain a part of ByteDance. So, that long-winded preface sets up my question. Do you feel screwed over by the Trump administration? Uh, yeah. Yes. That&#x27;s the short answer to it. There might have been reasons. [It&#x27;s] hard to determine exactly all the dynamics and the machinations of what they were thinking and why they did what they did. The Trump administration, of course, was known to do things on the fly and without a lot of thinking behind it. But it did look as if that was a serious ruling by the [Committee on Foreign Investments in the United States (CFIUS)] guys, that it had to be divested and it was going to be divested. The fact is, and I think you may have written about this, but it&#x27;s true, that the job that