# Steve Bannon

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/steve-bannon/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:57:08.686616+00:00

---

Steve Bannon - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: Steve Bannon free country June 29, 2025 MAGA’s Civil War Isn’t Over Trump’s bombing of Iran laid bare a deep factional split. Expect it to reappear soon. By Sam Adler-Bell screen time June 7, 2025 This Is What Happens Next in the Trump-vs.-Musk Feud The most obvious path forward — no matter how nasty the spectacle becomes — would be to do what Trump usually does. By John Herrman early and often Mar. 19, 2025 J.D. Vance Wants to Heal the MAGA Populist–Tech Bro Divide? Good Luck. Differences of opinion between “innovators” and “workers” in Trump’s coalition are much more widespread than the fight over H1-B visas. By Ed Kilgore early and often Feb. 13, 2025 What Anti-Musk Democrats Can Learn From Steve Bannon Bannon’s attacks on the world’s richest person are both effective and politically potent. By Ross Barkan trumpworld Nov. 18, 2024 Steve Bannon’s Second Term Within seven days, he got out of prison and helped win a presidential election. Now it’s time for war. By Andrew Rice locked up July 1, 2024 Steve Bannon Knows a Prison Stint Is Good for Business The MAGA influencer grandstanded outside the minimum-security prison on Monday while telling supporters he would throw away their letters. By Matt Stieb early and often June 25, 2024 Bob Good Tries Election-Denial Tactics on Trump’s Candidate The embattled House Freedom Caucus chairman is concocting conspiracy theories to undermine his apparent loss to John McGuire. By Ed Kilgore politics June 6, 2024 Steve Bannon May Spend Most of Election Season in Prison The ex-Trump adviser and conservative influencer was ordered to report to prison July 1. By Nia Prater crime Mar. 15, 2023 MAGA World’s Favorite Chinese Billionaire Charged With $1 Billion Fraud The mysterious businessman Guo Wengui has been funding operatives like Steve Bannon for years — and allegedly defrauding his investors. By Matt Stieb early and often Oct. 21, 2022 Steve Bannon Sentenced to Four Months in Jail A judge allowed him to appeal of his contempt of Congress conviction before serving his sentence though. By Matt Stieb early and often Sept. 8, 2022 Steve Bannon Is in Big Trouble in New York Donald Trump’s pardon could only do so much to shield his frenemy from legal exposure. By Benjamin Hart tremendous content Aug. 22, 2022 All the Juicy Gossip From Jared Kushner’s Book Breaking History , the forthcoming memoir from the former First Son-in-Law/top Trump adviser, is brimming with dirt, jabs, and score settling. By Margaret Hartmann early and often July 22, 2022 Steve Bannon Found Guilty of Contempt of Congress The longtime Trump adviser could now face up to two years in prison after refusing to provide documents and testimony to the January 6 committee. By Chas Danner the money game June 9, 2022 Crypto Billionaire’s Possible Senate Run May Blow Up His Tax Shelter Brock Pierce is still exploring a long-shot bid in Vermont. Opting in could undermine his Puerto Rico residency. By Kevin T. Dugan politics Nov. 26, 2021 Merrick Garland Gets Political, Whether He Likes It or Not Hated by the right and distrusted by the left, the attorney general is in a perilous position of his own making. By Ankush Khardori politics Nov. 12, 2021 Steve Bannon Indicted for Contempt The two charges came after Bannon refused to comply with a House subpoena in the investigation into the January 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol. By Nia Prater politics Oct. 21, 2021 House Holds Steve Bannon in Criminal Contempt for Refusing to Testify About 1/6 The Justice Department will decide whether to charge him over his refusal to testify in the Capitol riot investigation. By Nia Prater virginia gubernatorial election Oct. 14, 2021 Youngkin Dances Around Insurrection Flag Rally Held to Promote His Candidacy Bannon and Trump showing up to honor January 6 and Youngkin’s candidacy is not what the candidate needs to charm swing voters. By Ed Kilgore capitol riot Sept. 24, 2021 House 1/6 Committee Subpoenas Trump Advisers Including Steve Bannon Lawmakers are looking for records detailing how Trump acted and who he talked to during and before the Capitol riot. By Matt Stieb politics June 24, 2021 Why Republicans Want Voters to Panic About Critical Race Theory GOP complaints are largely based on myths, but they think scaring white middle-class parents is a winning electoral strategy. By Ed Kilgore trump administration Jan. 20, 2021 Who Did Trump Pardon on His Last Day As President? Steve Bannon, Lil Wayne, Elliott Broidy, and Kodak Black are among the most notable figures in Trump’s final clemency spree. By Charlotte Klein and Matt Stieb trump pardons Dec. 8, 2020 Everyone Trump Might Pardon Before He Leaves Office From his three eldest children to Tiger King ’s Joe Exotic, there are a number of people the president may try to pardon — including himself. By Charlotte Klein steve bannon Aug. 20, 2020 Steve Bannon Indicted Over Fraudulent Border-Wall Scheme He joins an illustrious list of once-close Trump advisers who have been hit with charges. By Benjamin Hart alternative media Jan. 19, 2020 Steve Bannon Wants to Save Trump — So He’s Launched a Podcast Instead of pulling the strings from Trump Tower or the West Wing, Bannon is now trying to steer GOP strategy from a D.C. basement. By Ben Jacobs first person Nov. 23, 2019 My Evening With Erik Prince and Steve Bannon I heard about a Young Republicans gathering in Manhattan where these two men would be speaking. So I bought a ticket. By James D. Walsh steve bannon May 7, 2019 Report: The Church Really Doesn’t Want Steve Bannon’s Alt-Right Academy in Italy A top cardinal warned Bannon not to set up his “gladiator school for culture warriors” in a 13th-century monastery. By Matt Stieb mueller time Apr. 18, 2019 Mueller Report Offers More Evidence That Erik Prince Lied to Congress He told a congressional committee that he met a Russian oligarch in the Seychelles by accident. That doesn’t seem to be true. By Sarah Jones donald trump Apr. 3, 2019 New Book Alleges Trump Doodles About ‘Sloppy Steve’ Bannon in Meetings In The Hill to Die On , Jake Sherman and Anna Palmer also claim that Trump considered nominating Merrick Garland to fill Kennedy’s Supreme Court seat. By Matt Stieb movie review Mar. 27, 2019 You Need to See the Steve Bannon Doc The Brink It’s the year’s most urgent documentary. By David Edelstein sundance 2019 Jan. 31, 2019 The Brink Is a Steve Bannon Movie That Doesn’t Give Him a Platform Bannon may bloviate and backslap all he wants, but The Brink ’s message is clear: his shit is weak. By Bilge Ebiri politics Jan. 30, 2019 Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s Right-Wing Fan Club Is Growing Steve Bannon and Ann Coulter are among the Trump fans who see something they like in the freshman congresswoman. By Adam K. Raymond fixations Nov. 5, 2018 I Think About This a Lot: A Tweet About Steve Bannon Getting the Death Penalty In a perverse way, it’s heartening — kookiness truly knows no political-party bounds. By Patrick Monahan work Sept. 6, 2018 I Refused to Write Steve Bannon’s Bio for The New Yorker Festival It’s the only time I’ve ever said no to a task at work. By Hilary Leichter twitter Sept. 3, 2018 New Yorker Fest Cancels Steve Bannon After Apatow, Mulaney, and Others Pull Out The growing list of cancellations has apparently forced the magazine’s hand. By Anne Victoria Clark revivals Aug. 16, 2018 Steve Bannon Launches Comeback Nobody Asked For He’s helming a new pro-Trump group and putting out a documentary aimed at making the midterms a referendum on Trump’s impeachment. By Margaret Hartmann 2008 Aug. 10, 2018 Steve Bannon on How 2008 Planted the Seed for the Trump Presidency “That lit a match, and the explosion was Trump.” By Noah Kulwin the national interest July 31, 2018 Trump’s Reelection Slogan, ‘Keep America Great,’ Belies How Much Trouble He’s In Trump ran on a series of extravagant promises that haven’t come true. By Jonathan Chait July 8, 2018 Bookstore Owner Calls Cops After Woman Accosts Steve Bannon A fellow patron called the former Trump adviser a “piece of trash.” By Benjamin Hart taxonomy June 13, 2018 What 22 Trump Staffers Looked Like in High School Who would have thought they’d one day work 