# Using United Expert Mode

**Source**: http://thepointsguy.com/2016/01/using-united-expert-mode/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:01:50.480686+00:00

---

How to use United&#x27;s &#x27;expert mode&#x27; - The Points Guy Skip to content Menu Go to Home Page Subscribe Advertiser disclosure Search The Points Guy Advertiser disclosure ADVERTISEMENT Guides United Airlines has an &#x27;expert mode:&#x27; Here&#x27;s how and why to use it Kyle Olsen Kyle Olsen Points and Miles Expert Kyle Olsen is the former points and miles reporter at TPG. He specializes in maximizing points and miles, elite status and credit cards so readers travel more comfortably and at a lower cost. May 14, 2023 • 6 min read Jump to section Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Copy URL Email The cards we feature here are from partners who compensate us when you are approved through our site, and this may impact how or where these products appear. We don’t cover all available credit cards, but our analysis, reviews, and opinions are entirely from our editorial team. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information. Editor&#x27;s Note This is a recurring post, regularly updated with the latest information. If you frequently fly United Airlines , want to upgrade your United flight or have elite status with United , you may benefit from the expert mode option on United&#x27;s website. United Airlines&#x27; expert mode lets you see available fare classes , including award and upgrade availability. This extra information can give you a whole new level of insight into your travel options and let you tailor your flights to your preferences — both of which can be helpful for a frequent traveler. In this guide, we&#x27;ll discuss what you need to know about United&#x27;s expert mode, how to turn on expert mode and how to maximize this valuable tool. Related: The best airline credit cards Fare class basics ZACH GRIFF/THE POINTS GUY United offers at least 35 fare classes you can see through expert mode if you&#x27;re on a three-cabin aircraft. Each fare class, which often correlates to the price of your ticket, has its own rules. Before you dive into expert mode, you&#x27;ll want to understand the different fare classes and what they can provide you. Otherwise, turning on United&#x27;s expert mode won&#x27;t be helpful. Here are a few key fare classes you&#x27;ll want to keep in mind: Upgrades PZ : Confirmed upgrades to business or first class using PlusPoints or miles. PN : Premier members are eligible for instant first-class upgrades on most domestic full-fare economy Y-class and B-class fares. Premier 1K members are also eligible for instant upgrades on most domestic routes when booking the M-class fare. Global Services customers are eligible for upgrades in nearly any fare class when PN space is available. RN : Confirmed upgrades to Premium Plus using PlusPoints or miles. Saver award tickets IN : Saver business or first-class awards for some elites and some cardholders. I : Saver business or first-class awards for all other customers and partner redemptions. XN : Saver economy awards for all elites and most credit cardholders. X : Saver economy awards for all other customers and partner redemptions. Everyday award tickets JN : Everyday business or first-class awards for some elites and some credit cardholders. ZN : Everyday business or first-class awards for all other customers. YN : Everyday economy awards for all elites and most credit cardholders. HN : Everyday economy awards for all other customers. Daily Newsletter Reward your inbox with the TPG Daily newsletter Join over 700,000 readers for breaking news, in-depth guides and exclusive deals from TPG’s experts Email address Sign up By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy . You may unsubscribe at any time. Revenue tickets Economy class : N, G, K, L, T, S, W, V, Q, H, U, E, M, B and Y. Premium Plus : R, N and O. Business class : P, Z, D, C and J. United&#x27;s expert mode is the best way to see these available fare classes. Now, let&#x27;s discuss how and why to use United&#x27;s expert mode. Related: Why Premium Plus and higher fare classes are the secret to United upgrades Turning on United expert mode To enable United expert mode, go to United.com and log in to your MileagePlus account. Navigate to your account homepage, select &quot;settings,&quot; and then &quot;special preferences &amp; accommodations.&quot; UNITED.COM Scroll down to &quot;date and time format preference.&quot; Tick the box next to &quot;enable expert mode.&quot; UNITED.COM Then, select &quot;Save.&quot; To access expert mode during a flight search, you must be logged in to your account. However, note that United has long had a pesky glitch that occasionally turns expert mode off. If this happens, you can usually turn it back on by repeating the above steps. Related: TPG&#x27;s Premier 1K staffers share their tips for getting United upgrades Using United expert mode Typically, you&#x27;ll search for PZ upgrade availability if you want to use PlusPoints or miles to get upgraded on United Airlines . If you want a same-day change, you might also use expert mode to show available fare classes on an earlier or later flight. However, United&#x27;s expert mode will only show available award classes if you search for paid tickets (as opposed to award tickets). For example, here&#x27;s a flight search from Boston to London. When the results appear, click the &quot;Details&quot; tab for a particular flight. Doing so will display all the fare classes if you&#x27;ve turned on expert mode. UNITED.COM Let&#x27;s start from the top: J7 means seven seats are currently for sale in business class. Since the J-fare is full-fare business class, United will release the most availability into that fare bucket. Of those seven seats, all seven are available in the C and D fare classes, while six are available in the Z and P fare classes. PZ5 means five business-class seats are available for upgrades using PlusPoints or miles. IN4 (for some elites and some cardholders) and I4 (for all other customers and partner redemptions) indicate that four business class seats can be booked using miles at saver rates. O9 suggests there are nine or more available seats in full-fare Premium Plus. Of those nine Premium Plus seats, you can book nine or more in the ON (dynamically priced award ticket), A and R fare classes. RN7 means United has released seven seats for confirmed upgrades to Premium Plus using PlusPoints or miles. As you may have guessed, Y9 through K9 means nine or more economy seats are available in these fare classes. G0 means there aren&#x27;t any deeply discounted G-fare seats on this flight. XN9 (for all elites and most credit cardholders) and X9 (for all other customers and partner redemptions) denote that nine or more economy seats can be booked using miles at saver rates. On this flight, you&#x27;ll notice that although the K, R and P fare classes are available, the flight is priced in the L, A and Z fare classes for economy, Premium Plus and business class, respectively. That&#x27;s because United has restrictions on some of its lower fare classes (i.e., you can&#x27;t book them as one-way tickets or within a certain number of days before departure). Related: United&#x27;s best kept elite status secret: How to earn PQP faster with partner flights Bottom line As its name suggests, United expert mode is a powerful tool for advanced users to view specific fare classes and availability. It can help you find award and upgradable tickets and help you determine if enough seats are available for your entire party. Remember, you can only use expert mode when logged in to your MileagePlus account and searching for paid tickets (not award tickets). Additional reporting by Eric Rosen. Featured image by ZACH GRIFF/THE POINTS GUY Editorial disclaimer: Opinions expressed here are the author’s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airline or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities. Maximize your travel Facebook Instagram YouTube Twitter TikTok Sign up for our daily newsletter for the latest news, deals and tips. Email address Subscribe By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy . You may unsubscribe at any time. Meet TPG About us TPG gives back Careers Contact us Site map Newsletters Legal Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Privacy policy Terms of use Cookie settings Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy Our Commitment to Transparency The Points Guy believes that credit cards can transform lives, helping you leverage everyday spending for cash back or travel experiences that might otherwise be out of reach. That’s why we publish a variety of editorial content and card comparisons: to help you find a great card to turn your goals into reality. When you choose to apply (and are approved) for a new credit card through our site, we may receive compensation from our partners, and this may impact how or where these products appear. While we don’t cover all available credit cards, our editorial team creates and maintains all of the analysis of these cards, and our content is not influenced nor subject to review by any credit card company, bank or partner prior to (or after) publication. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information. Copyright © 2025 The Points Guy, LLC. All rights reserved. A Red Ventures company.