# Police And Thieves On Tony Gilroys Andor

**Source**: https://lareviewofbooks.org/article/police-and-thieves-on-tony-gilroys-andor/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:55:50.535646+00:00

---

Police and Thieves: On Tony Gilroy’s “Andor” | Los Angeles Review of Books ⇨ Sign In Join Reviews Essays Interviews Quarterly Journal Podcasts Workshops Events Shop About Membership Donate Police and Thieves: On Tony Gilroy’s “Andor” Aaron Bady reviews Tony Gilroy’s “Andor,” streaming on Disney+. By Aaron Bady December 8, 2022 Dear Television SF Television THE PRIMAL SIN of Star Wars — or the thing that made it great, depending on your perspective — is its adolescent narcissism, from Lucas naming the protagonist after himself to creating the Force as an in-universe stand-in for his own desires. Why, after all, is the force so strong with Luke? You know the answer, and it has nothing to do with midi-chlorians: he’s the film’s most very special boy, not an ordinary kid at all, but a prince, a hero with a destiny, and his father’s only son. The Force is the effect of the camera and protagonism — a diegetic trace of extradiegetic will — fulfilling the child’s wish to be the center of the universe. It makes the universe his toy: Lucas created it, so the universe obeys Luke’s commands. The adolescent intensity of its self-regard is one reason you can mostly bracket off the franchise’s politics. When Lucas first made A New Hope , he claimed to have been thinking about Vietnam , and he described the movie — which he notably made instead of Apocalypse Now — as “a large technological empire going after a small group of freedom fighters.” And there’s no doubt that the geopolitics of his day seeped in: empires were falling in the 1960s and ’70s, and (just as the prequels would imply that George W. Bush did 9/11) a simplistic decolonial vibe suffuses the proceedings. Tatooine was filmed in the recently independent Tunisian town of Tataouine, after all, and the Galactic Empire has a British accent for a reason. But movies absorb their zeitgeist like sponges, which is a very different thing than saying that they have a coherent politics. These ones don’t: A New Hope is about controlling your phallus (“Luke, at that speed will you be able to pull out in time?”) and — after you orgasmically blow up the Death Star — getting a medal pinned on your chest by your sister-mother-wife. Empire Strikes Back has a more complex set of womb and castration anxieties — and introduces the theme of killing/supplanting your father — and the Ewoks of Return of the Jedi are the Việt Cộng only through the lens of Western self-regard. The Việt Cộng fought the Americans because the former were anticolonial communists, a popular peasant insurgency against imperialism (and not particularly “small”). The Ewoks fight the stormtroopers with rocks and spears because they like Leia and because the plot needs them to. Andor is different. Described as the grown-up star war , Star Wars at its most mature , and the one that isn’t really a star war at all , it is an adult show, and not just because Bix and Timm have sex in episode two. Do you even remember that that happened? Imagine, someone not only had sex in a star war, but it was also so normal as to be forgettable. A New Hope is about sex the way adolescence is, a tapestry of anticipation, selfish longing, and the certainty that this structurally absent thing will transform your life (transform everything ). But you have to be an adult to know that sex is just one part of love, and often not transformative at all. And for all his MacGuffinesque centrality to the plot, Andor is neither a narcissistic projection of his creator nor a stand-in for the audience. If Luke Skywalker was a mirror for his creator and his audience, wearing his heart on his sleeve, Cassian Andor is an opacity at the center of the plot, adopting a variety of names and faces, persistently denying any desire beyond escape. It’s a show about many things, but one of them is about not being the center of the universe, and the question of how to live in the world if you know that’s the case. The one thing an adolescent doesn’t know is that they will die, and Andor is a show made about a dead man, who died in 2016’s Rogue One: A Star Wars Story . And so, it’s a show about everything that will live after he dies. This is probably the part in any essay about Star Wars where the writer waxes nostalgic about how old they were when their dad took them to see Empire Strikes Back , about the toys they played with as a kid, or about the way it made them feel when they saw Leia in that golden bikini. I’m going to tell you, instead, that Andor premiered when my twins were four months old, and that might be why “sex is less important than the thing that survives after you die” is the most dad sentiment I’ve ever committed to words. And yet it probably matters that George Lucas was in his childless twenties when he made A New Hope , and that his nostalgia was as focused on his youth as it was when he made American Graffiti . It probably matters just as much that Tony Gilroy is a 66-year-old father of two. Let’s start at the beginning. What have our heroes been doing before their plots begin? Luke Skywalker (described in the script as “a farm boy with heroic aspirations who looks much younger than his eighteen years”) begins his story staring up into the sky, mentally pleasuring himself with the fantasy of doing what his father did, what his older and cooler male friend has done: becoming a pilot that shoots things and blows them up. Since he both wants to go to the Imperial Academy — where you become a stormtrooper — and he also wants to join the Rebel Alliance, it’s clear that “politics” is not what motivates him. It’s all just a hot-rodding means of leaving his family and getting out of town, in some vague sense of following in his pilot father’s footsteps. Andor begins, by contrast, the moment our protagonist goes into a brothel, looking for something other than sex: he is there to find his sister, and however happenstance this cause and effect may be, his murderous tussle with the “corpos” is a function of that choice, which sets in motion the rest of the show. But before he goes to a brothel and looks for something other than sex, before the show begins, what has he spent his life doing? In Rogue One , Andor claims to have been fighting the Empire since he was six, but the main thing we learn about his life before he became a show is that he has been having a bunch of sex. His ex, Bix, instantly assumes that the mark on his face was given him by a “jealous husband,” and Maarva throws a running tally of “all your women” — “Femmi, Karla, Sondreen […] some names I don’t even know!” — in his face, along with the complaint that he’s always out “ruining [his] health and reputation with friends of low character.” This is Cassian Andor, when he’s not the protagonist of a star war. Even his tragic backstory on Kenari — which he apparently likes to tell his lovers, to Maarva’s annoyance — is a mini-drama of having the hots for an older girl and losing his shit when she’s killed. And after the Aldhani heist, when he’s flush with cash and tries to leave the Rebellion, what does he do, and where does he go? Into the arms of some nameless woman on Miami planet . In short, if A New Hope imbues the Rebellion with libido, Andor ’s journey towards Rogue One begins when Andor looks for something other than sex. The corpos become hostile because he refuses to be a bro in the brothel with them: they initially welcome him with a homosocial bonhomie, but he rebuffs them and leaves. They resent him for that reason, and they hassle him for that reason, and he kills them and becomes a Rebel and steals the plans for the Death Star and, by extension, saves the galaxy, all for that reason. More importantly, perhaps, none of this is Cassian Andor’s destiny . He is a clear Luke parallel in more than a few structural ways: orphaned by the Empire, endowed with a missing sister, and mentored by an older man who brings him into the Rebellion. But when he does, finally, get plugged into Luthen’s revolutionary cell, he is precisely not there because he has something no one else has. He is there for “critical redundancy,” because, in a rebellion, a lot of rebels are going to get killed, and because no one is special and unique, you need more rebels to replace them when they are. If Luke Skywalker’s family made him special, it was his patriarchal heritage that made him of interest to the Emperor, his destiny to join or supplant or kill his father. But Andor is only of interest to the Empire because Dedra thinks he’s the key to finding Axis; Andor himself is so insignificant that when they really start looking for him, they don’t even realize that they already have him. Instead, family, for Andor, turns out to be the people you’ll come back for: his sister, Maarva, and Bix. It is made, not inherited. And if Andor is a star war “for adults,” I think this is what it means to say that. Growing up means putting sex in perspective, understanding it not as a narcissistic apotheosis devoutly to be wished (by a teenaged virgin masturbating to the idea of rebellion), but as just one of the glues that binds families together, forever. What, after all, is Bix to Andor? Their relationship is something permanent, something transcendent, even though the sex that began it is long over. Family will do, as a term; even sister, if we want (since there is nothing more Star Wars than being a little messy about sex with your sister). But family is the loyalty that makes people your family: you make it, and only then does it make you. It is, in that way, a lot like a revolution. Let’s ask that question, then: is this show “revolutionary”? Andor ’s disinterest in sex lets us clarify what this show isn’t, but that framing only gets us so far. The absence of John Williams is key to pinning down what makes this show feel so un–Star Warsy, but so is the presence of Nicholas Britell’s score . So, if this isn’t a star war structured by narcissism and libidinal fantasy, what kind of Grown-Up Show is it? Is it, for 