# Money Well Spent In Historical Context

**Source**: https://histphil.org/2018/09/24/money-well-spent-in-historical-context/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:47:40.155904+00:00

---

Money Well Spent in Historical Context | HistPhil HistPhil Search Menu Skip to content Home About HistPhil Contact Our Community&#8217;s Syllabi Money Well Spent (2nd Edition) Forum Money Well Spent in Historical&nbsp;Context Posted on September 24, 2018 by HistPhil Leave a comment Editors&#8217; Note : Continuing HistPhil&#8217;s forum on the second edition of Paul Brest and Hal Harvey&#8217;s Money Well Spent (2018) , David C. Hammack places the book&#8217;s first and second publications, respectively in 2008 and 2018, within a sweeping 300-year history of philanthropic manuals in the United States. With the 2008 publication of Money Well Spent: A Strategic Plan for Smart Philanthropy , Paul Brest (former Dean of Stanford Law School and president of the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation) and Hal Harvey (an advocate and foundation leader in the environmental field) joined the impressive list of writers whose notable service has conferred authority on manuals for philanthropic donors. (The selected list is provided at the end of this piece). This essay is a response to Maribel Morey’s request to put the book into the context of the relevant literature; hence it will refer to quite a few titles. Manuals for philanthropists appropriately begin with the understanding that some people have large means. “Get me to the rich man,” wrote Massachusetts sage Cotton Mather in 1710. But earlier manuals assumed that in the United States the rich man had to work through a larger group. They accepted Alexis deTocqueville’s famous celebration of collective action: “Wherever at the head of some new undertaking you see the government in France, or a man of rank in England, in the United States you will be sure to find an association.” Unlike its predecessors, Money Well Spent placed its greatest emphasis on the will of the individual donor, and made the donor personally responsible for making a very large difference in human affairs and for developing a “theory of change” to achieve that outcome. To accomplish these daunting tasks, the book insists, the donor should rely not on associations, institutions, or expertise, but on an independently developed “philanthropic strategy.” In their new edition Brest and Harvey refine but do not change their stance. The approach they champion, they write, has “taken root” in some “larger foundations” and “in the practice of an increasing number of high-net-worth individual philanthropists.” This and the fact that their own “knowledge has deepened” lead them to offer a second edition, an edition that reinforces their initial description of strategic philanthropy: “Strategic philanthropy” is synonymous with “result-oriented,” “outcome-oriented,” and “effective” philanthropy. It refers to philanthropy in which donors seek to achieve clearly defined goals, they and their grantees pursue evidence-based strategies for achieving those goals and both parties monitor progress toward outcomes in order to make appropriate course corrections and ultimately evaluate their success.” (second edition, p. 9). In advocating strategic philanthropy, Brest and Harvey departed in several ways from the long and still-vital tradition of the American “almoner,” the advisor who seeks to help potential donors do good rather than ill. Traditionally concerned with alms, or religious giving, in the twentieth century the almoner increasingly became a scientific or academic leader (John D. Rockefeller’s chief advisor, Frederick T. Gates, had religious training but increasingly focused on science; not a few current advisors lead religious communities). Authors of past philanthropic manuals had relied on long-established notions of charity, mercy, humility, selflessness, self-control, community, and mutuality. And they often emphasized giving through institutions, new, established or reformed. In its first edition, Money Well Spent emphasized self-discipline, but chiefly to shape individual initiative. It acknowledged the uses of institutions, but only in passing. As Brest and Harvey write in the second edition, they personally like the “warm feelings” that come from giving to organizations. But they do not see supporting institutions as a way to accomplish what they think ought to be the aim of philanthropy: “to change the world (second edition p. 20). Past authors had written for a general audience. Brest and Harvey, by contrast, chiefly address the tiny number of people who “inherit or amass the fortunes that make large-scale philanthropy possible” (second edition, p.7). They do note the existence of donors with limited means and, in passing, mention some ways for them to give. But they focus on American foundations whose assets exceed several hundred million dollars. The new edition affirms this emphasis at the outset by celebrating the philanthropies of several of the richest “tech” billionaires –Steve Jobs’ widow Laurene Powell Jobs, the Chan-Zuckerberg Initiative, Facebook-derived Good Ventures, and the effort of Bill Gates and Warren Buffett to persuade other exceptionally wealthy people to donate “a majority of their wealth” (second edition, p. 4). Though their examples emphasize certain kinds of giving, Brest and Harvey, unlike the authors of most earlier philanthropic manuals, stress their neutrality and devote almost no pages to recommending particular charitable purposes or particular communities. “Our goal,” they wrote in their first edition, was to help “make the world a better place according to your own lights. We do not presume to tell you either how much to give or what passions to pursue” (p. xiii). Yet their book’s reliance on notable Hewlett Foundation efforts – especially to confront climate change and other environmental problems, but also to improve community support for youth in two Northern California communities and to improve reproductive health – suggested priorities. Their thoughtful, though undocumented, accounts of these Hewlett initiatives are all the more welcome because despite its highly praised work the foundation has seen very few rigorous independent studies. Brest and Harvey first published Money Well Spent at a high point in the reputations of tech billionaires, when Moore’s Law was at the height of fame, after the first large-scale tech stock crash had done no more than weed out (large numbers of) weaker players. They emphasized philanthropic interventions into critical environmental, health, and civic challenges, like those they had directed at the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation. They clearly shared a widespread feeling that existing business, political, and nonprofit institutions were failing to address such challenges. In the face of these perceived failures and in the context of Silicon Valley’s celebration of heroic individual initiative, their focus understandably turned to the possibility that extraordinarily able and wealthy individuals might “make the world a better place.” A book that debuted at the beginning of the Great Recession of 2007-2009 and the subsequent decade of demoralizingly high unemployment appears in the very different cultural and political context of 2018. Piketty and Saez have risen to fame for measuring the great rise in inequality. Digital media are widely reviled for the political, financial, and social abuses they enable. Heavily promoted books critique Mark Zuckerberg’s Newark Public School initiative (Russakoff), the destructive role of “dark money” in American politics (Mayer), and the “charade” of elite philanthropy (Giridaharadas). In the perspective of ten years’ hindsight, Money Well Spent inevitably encounters new questions. We would not expect a book on how to use wealth to critique the sources of wealth. But previous philanthropy manuals sought to help donors both do useful things and respond effectively to contemporary religious and political critics. They warned against giving arrogantly and without adequate attention to relevant knowledge or respect for others. And they sought to show how even very big gifts could be made acceptable if directed through associations or institutions. Money Well Spent focuses instead on its distinctive advice to the richest donors. By departing earlier advice to work with others, it may well be asking philanthropists, tech and otherwise, to reach too far beyond their grasp. In its first edition, Money Well Spent offered a dozen and a half short, clear, engaging, and thoughtful chapters on their chief topics: selecting precisely defined, measurable goals; developing a personal “theory of change” based on “a valid understanding of how the world works;” finding grantees whose “activities are aligned with your own goals and strategies;” monitoring the performance of grantees and initiatives; measuring the “impact” of philanthropic actions precisely and over time; and taking into account ways of combining “social impact with the possibility of financial return” – using investments as well as grants and gifts (1 st edition p. 2). The authors noted the challenges throughout, and described the difficulties a new donor might encounter as she undertook to define and achieve her philanthropic purpose. They recounted learning gained by thinking hard about failed philanthropic efforts. Citing a strong statement by current Hewlett leader Larry Kramer (p. 126), they focused not on individual grants (as studies that rely on Foundation Center have been constrained to do) but on sustained efforts entailing diverse initiatives. As they noted, such efforts generally embrace competent, continuing, and open-ended research; multiple grants; periodic conferences; and collaboration among diverse funds and other actors. In a self-effacing acknowledgment of the privilege and the temptation that can distort a well-funded grantmaker’s self-understanding, Brest cited “a Yiddish proverb” – “With money in your pocket, you are wise and you are handsome, and you sing well too.” (p. 83). The most distinctive aspect of the first ed