# Why Do They Hate Us

**Source**: http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/04/23/why_do_they_hate_us?page=full
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:44:01.859175+00:00

---

Why Do They Hate Us? &#8211; Foreign Policy There appears to be a technical issue with your browser This issue is preventing our website from loading properly. Please review the following troubleshooting tips or contact us at [email&#160;protected] . Close Skip to navigation Skip to search Skip to main content Skip to footer Foreign Policy Get analysis and alerts more quickly in the mobile app. Install Show expanded website navigation Back to Foreign Policy Magazine home page Latest Regions Asia &amp; the Pacific China Middle East &amp; Africa Americas Europe Newsletters By submitting your email, you agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Use and to receive email correspondence from us. You may opt out at any time. Enter your email Sign Up Editors’ Picks Evening roundup with our editors’ favorite stories of the day World Brief Your guide to the most important world stories of the day China Brief The latest news, analysis, and data from the country each week Situation Report Weekly update on what’s driving U.S. national security policy FP Weekend A curation of our best book reviews, deep dives, and other reads Africa Brief Essential analysis of the stories shaping geopolitics on the continent South Asia Brief Weekly update on developments in India and its neighbors The Reading List Curated guides on geopolitics and current affairs Latin America Brief One-stop digest of politics, economics, and culture Southeast Asia Brief A weekly dispatch with news from the region’s 11 countries View All Newsletters FP Live Latest Trending: U.S. government shutdown Trump’s speech to generals Argentina bailout Website Search and Account Management Search Icon Search this website Search Search Preferences My FP Feed Saved Articles Newsletters Magazine Archive Subscription Settings FAQs Log Out Sign In Sign In Global intelligence for your team Global intelligence for your team SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Global intelligence for your team Global intelligence for your team Show expanded website navigation Feature: Why Do They Hate Us? Share icon Share Copy Link icon Copy Link Link copied to clipboard Email icon Email Facebook icon Facebook Bluesky icon Bluesky X icon X LinkedIn icon LinkedIn WhatsApp icon WhatsApp Reddit icon Reddit Save icon Save Create an FP account to save articles to read later. Sign Up ALREADY AN FP SUBSCRIBER? LOGIN Download icon PDF Downloadable PDFs are a benefit of an FP subscription. Subscribe Now ALREADY AN FP SUBSCRIBER? LOGIN Gift Copy Link icon Copy Link Link copied to clipboard Email icon Email WhatsApp icon WhatsApp Gifting articles is a subscriber benefit. Subscribe Now ALREADY AN FP SUBSCRIBER? LOGIN This article is an Insider exclusive. Contact us at [email&#160;protected] to learn about upgrade options, unlocking the ability to gift this article. Back to Foreign Policy Magazine home page Preferences My FP Feed Saved Articles Newsletters Magazine Archive Subscription Settings FAQs Log Out Sign In Sign In Global intelligence for your team Global intelligence for your team SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Global intelligence for your team Global intelligence for your team Latest Newsletters World Brief Editors’ Picks Africa Brief China Brief Latin America Brief South Asia Brief Southeast Asia Brief Situation Report The Reading List FP Weekend See All Topics Trump’s second term Shadow government War in Ukraine Crisis in the Middle East U.S. foreign policy Trade and economics U.S.-China competition Artificial intelligence Regions Asia &amp; the Pacific China Middle East &amp; Africa Americas Europe FP Live How Oct. 7 Changed the World October 7 Why Young Americans Are Swinging Right October 9 See All Podcasts Illustration with Adam Tooze headshot on a green background with the text Ones &amp; Tooze Ones and Tooze Illustration with a male spy headshot and the text I Spy I Spy FP Live podcast logo Foreign Policy Live See All Magazine Fall 2025 Issue Fall 2025 Issue Print Archive See All Collections The AI Arms Race The Trade Wars FP Analytics In-depth Special Reports Issue Briefs Power Maps and Interactive Microsites FP Simulations &amp; PeaceGames Synthesis Reports Insight Briefs &amp; Spotlights Graphics Database See All Events FP @ WHS October 12 From Plans to Action October 12 FP @ COP30 November 12 Where we'll be this year See All Search Search Icon Additional Navigation Bluesky icon Follow FP on Bluesky X icon Follow FP on X LinkedIn icon Follow FP on LinkedIn Instagram icon Follow FP on Instagram Facebook icon Follow FP on Facebook FP SOLUTIONS FP Analytics FP Events FP Studios Simulations and Peacegames Advertise with FP Country Reports Subscription Services Your FP Account Group Subscriptions Reprint Permissions FP Magazine Archive Buy Back Issues EDUCATION Graduate Education Guide FP for Education Institutional Access ABOUT FP Writer&#039;s Guidelines Meet the Staff Work at FP Contact FP Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Terms of Use Accessibility Bluesky icon Follow FP on Bluesky X icon Follow FP on X LinkedIn icon Follow FP on LinkedIn Instagram icon Follow FP on Instagram Facebook icon Follow FP on Facebook Foreign Policy Magazine is a division of Graham Holdings Company. All contents (c) 2025, Graham Digital Holding Company. All rights reserved. Foreign Policy, 655 15th St NW, Suite 300, Washington, DC, 20005. Powered by WordPress VIP This article was published more than 13 years ago Feature Why Do They Hate Us? The real war on women is in the Middle East. By Mona Eltahawy Reuters Reuters Economics Iran Afghanistan April 23, 2012, 3:05 AM In " Distant View of a Minaret ," the late and much-neglected Egyptian writer Alifa Rifaat begins her short story with a woman so unmoved by sex with her husband that as he focuses solely on his pleasure, she notices a spider web she must sweep off the ceiling and has time to ruminate on her husband's repeated refusal to prolong intercourse until she too climaxes, "as though purposely to deprive her." Just as her husband denies her an orgasm, the call to prayer interrupts his, and the man leaves. After washing up, she loses herself in prayer -- so much more satisfying that she can't wait until the next prayer -- and looks out onto the street from her balcony. She interrupts her reverie to make coffee dutifully for her husband to drink after his nap. Taking it to their bedroom to pour it in front of him as he prefers, she notices he is dead. She instructs their son to go and get a doctor. "She returned to the living room and poured out the coffee for herself. She was surprised at how calm she was," Rifaat writes . In a crisp three-and-a-half pages, Rifaat lays out a trifecta of sex, death, and religion, a bulldozer that crushes denial and defensiveness to get at the pulsating heart of misogyny in the Middle East. There is no sugarcoating it. They don't hate us because of our freedoms, as the tired, post-9/11 American cliché had it. We have no freedoms because they hate us, as this Arab woman so powerfully says. In &#8220; Distant View of a Minaret ,&#8221; the late and much-neglected Egyptian writer Alifa Rifaat begins her short story with a woman so unmoved by sex with her husband that as he focuses solely on his pleasure, she notices a spider web she must sweep off the ceiling and has time to ruminate on her husband&#8217;s repeated refusal to prolong intercourse until she too climaxes, &#8220;as though purposely to deprive her.&#8221; Just as her husband denies her an orgasm, the call to prayer interrupts his, and the man leaves. After washing up, she loses herself in prayer &#8212; so much more satisfying that she can&#8217;t wait until the next prayer &#8212; and looks out onto the street from her balcony. She interrupts her reverie to make coffee dutifully for her husband to drink after his nap. Taking it to their bedroom to pour it in front of him as he prefers, she notices he is dead. She instructs their son to go and get a doctor. &#8220;She returned to the living room and poured out the coffee for herself. She was surprised at how calm she was,&#8221; Rifaat writes . In a crisp three-and-a-half pages, Rifaat lays out a trifecta of sex, death, and religion, a bulldozer that crushes denial and defensiveness to get at the pulsating heart of misogyny in the Middle East. There is no sugarcoating it. They don&#8217;t hate us because of our freedoms, as the tired, post-9/11 American cliché had it. We have no freedoms because they hate us, as this Arab woman so powerfully says. Yes: They hate us. It must be said. Some may ask why I&#8217;m bringing this up now, at a time when the region has risen up, fueled not by the usual hatred of America and Israel but by a common demand for freedom. After all, shouldn&#8217;t everyone get basic rights first, before women demand special treatment? And what does gender, or for that matter, sex, have to do with the Arab Spring? But I&#8217;m not talking about sex hidden away in dark corners and closed bedrooms. An entire political and economic system &#8212; one that treats half of humanity like animals &#8212; must be destroyed along with the other more obvious tyrannies choking off the region from its future. Until the rage shifts from the oppressors in our presidential palaces to the oppressors on our streets and in our homes, our revolution has not even begun. So: Yes, women all over the world have problems; yes, the United States has yet to elect a female president; and yes, women continue to be objectified in many &#8220;Western&#8221; countries (I live in one of them). That&#8217;s where the conversation usually ends when you try to discuss why Arab societies hate women. But let&#8217;s put aside what the United States does or doesn&#8217;t do to women. Name me an Arab country, and I&#8217;ll recite a litany of abuses fueled by a toxic mix of culture and religion that few seem willing or able to disentangle lest they blaspheme or offend. When more than 90 percent of ever-married women in Egypt &#8212; including 