# White Gold Dress Blue Black What Color

**Source**: http://www.theverge.com/2015/2/26/8118825/white-gold-dress-blue-black-what-color
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:31:06.106642+00:00

---

This dress color war is the perfect way to end a wonderful day on the internet | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. This dress color war is the perfect way to end a wonderful day on the internet Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Web Close Web Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Web Entertainment Close Entertainment Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Entertainment Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech This dress color war is the perfect way to end a wonderful day on the internet by Rich McCormick Close Rich McCormick Last published Jun 23, 2017 Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Rich McCormick Via BuzzFeed Feb 27, 2015, 3:27 AM UTC Link Facebook Threads Truth is subjective. One plus one equals three, the sky is green and the grass is blue, there are five lights. The dress is white and gold. The dress is black and blue. The dress in question was posted on Tumblr earlier today by user swiked, who noted that her friends were unable to agree from a picture whether the frilly number was white and gold, or black and blue. They were, in swiked’s words, “freaking the fuck out.” Discussion quickly leapt to Twitter. Some users quickly made up their minds, their reality locked in place by their first viewing. it&rsquo;s blue and black bye &mdash; Elizabeth Lopatto (@mslopatto) February 27, 2015 Others saw the dress change in front of their eyes, from blue with black bands, to white with bands of gold. And some users, angry and confused by a world in which colors could change at will, invented elaborate explanations to cushion their mental falls. I am glad everybody mutually agreed to troll each other about the color of a dress. You are all wonderful liars. Now whatever I don't even. &mdash; Dieter Bohn (@backlon) February 27, 2015 The internet needed an explanation for The Dress. Buzzfeed collected the evidence , but it was inconclusive. Computerized color correction could prove that the garment was either bright white with gleaming gold bands, or dark blue with bands as black as midnight. It turned, instead, to the source of the nightmare &mdash; the dress itself. It found what appeared to be the same item on sale at Roman clothing, a body-hugging creation in a very distinctive dark blue. But still, the internet wasn’t sated. Other dresses could be dark blue, sure, but why was this cursed dress, born to be blue, appearing as white? So we did what we do when we need an answer to one of life’s mysteries &mdash; we consulted celebrities. But even our brightest minds were defeated by The Dress. I don't understand this odd dress debate and I feel like it's a trick somehow. I'm confused and scared. PS it's OBVIOUSLY BLUE AND BLACK &mdash; Taylor Swift (@taylorswift13) February 27, 2015 What color is that dress? I see white &amp; gold. Kanye sees black &amp; blue, who is color blind? &mdash; Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) February 27, 2015 If that's not White and Gold the universe is falling apart. Seriously what is happening???? &mdash; Anna Kendrick (@AnnaKendrick47) February 27, 2015 So we turned instead to our other gods: brands. Adobe tried to explain the situation; Sesame Street just mocked us. For those seeing #WhiteandGold in #TheDress ( http://t.co/pNG9tXu5pU ), @HopeTaylorPhoto ends the debate. pic.twitter.com/W7TwQJy13m &mdash; Adobe (@Adobe) February 27, 2015 Me think cookie is chocolate chip but @Elmo think it oatmeal raisin. We no can decide! Help! pic.twitter.com/KLKsqsl5ap &mdash; Cookie Monster (@MeCookieMonster) February 27, 2015 The Dress had transcended understanding on a meteoric rise to memehood, from garment to international rallying cry in a few short hours, on a day when escaped llamas and the FCC had already given the internet something to be cheerful about. do u ever feel like no one is really looking at u for who u really are pic.twitter.com/UnoIaiq0Ie &mdash; Ross Miller (@ohnorosco) February 27, 2015 Science explains that our eyes have more difficulty seeing blue light than warmer colors, and that low light situations can make us see things in different shades. Xkcd weighed in on the science side , with the comic below illustrating how the "different" colors people are seeing could be the result of a white-balance optical illusion. ( Xkcd ) Essentially, this is when our eyes are tricked by the context of what we're looking at &mdash; a similar thing is happening in the famous ' checker shadow illusion .' And if you don't believe the colors on the two dresses above are the same, try opening up the comic in an image editor of your choice and use the color picker. They. Are. Identical. However, what physics doesn’t explain is why on Earth the internet has reacted in such an overwhelming way to the color of a dress. Perhaps it’s to do with truth itself &mdash; if our eyes tell us something is blue when more than half of humanity sees it as white, how can we trust our understanding of existence? Or maybe, just maybe, The Dress is super-haunted or something. Updated February 27th 4:00AM ET: Added Xkcd comic. Follow topics and authors from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates. Rich McCormick Close Rich McCormick Last published Jun 23, 2017 Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Rich McCormick Entertainment Close Entertainment Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Entertainment Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech TL;DR Close TL;DR Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All TL;DR Web Close Web Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Web Most Popular Most Popular Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store Behold: The Lego Game Boy has already been modded to play games for real Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Satya Nadella appoints a new CEO to run Microsoft’s biggest businesses Everything is terrorism in Trump’s America The Verge Daily A free daily digest of the news that matters most. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Web US v. Google redux: all the news from the ad tech trial Why your outdoorsy friend suddenly has a gummy bear power bank How brands and creators are fighting for your attention — and your money Vimeo to be acquired by Bending Spoons for $1.38 billion The web has a new system for making AI companies pay up The Browser Company, maker of Arc and Dia, is being acquired US v. Google redux: all the news from the ad tech trial Verge Staff An hour ago Why your outdoorsy friend suddenly has a gummy bear power bank Elizabeth Lopatto Sep 18 How brands and creators are fighting for your attention — and your money Hank Green Sep 15 Vimeo to be acquired by Bending Spoons for $1.38 billion Emma Roth Sep 10 The web has a new system for making AI companies pay up Emma Roth Sep 10 The Browser Company, maker of Arc and Dia, is being acquired David Pierce Sep 4 Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories Oct 3 With a Friend like this, who needs enemies? Oct 3 I’ve fallen into Sora’s slippery slop Oct 3 I tried Amazon and Google’s new smart home gadgets, ask me anything! Oct 3 The quest for every Gap store playlist ever Oct 3 Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom Oct 3 Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved