# Newsletters

**Source**: https://slate.com/newsletters
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:31:44.724474+00:00

---

Choose your Slate newsletter subscriptions. Skip to the content Slate Shop Games Newsletters Sign In Account Activating this button will toggle the display of additional content Account Sign out Slate homepage News &amp; Politics Culture Technology Business Life Advice Podcasts Menu Open menu Close menu Menu News &amp; Politics Culture Technology Business Life Advice Podcasts Search Activating this button will toggle the display of additional content Light Dark Auto Subscribe Slate Shop Games Newsletters Sign in Account Sign out Slate homepage Account * Respect for Creatures Large and Small Submit search Enter query Activating this button will toggle the display of additional content Light Dark Auto Newsletters & Alerts Create an account or sign in for a better experience. Email Newsletters Choose the newsletters you want to read Select All The Slatest Slate’s best posts—smartly written updates on the most urgent, surprising, and unusual news, delivered to your inbox daily. Preview Dear Prudence Advice on manners and morals, delivered three times a week. The Surge Keep up with who’s surging each week, and who’s falling behind, in the struggle for political relevance, by senior politics writer Jim Newell. Delivered Saturdays. Preview Slate Games Give your brain a boost with Slate Games, featuring our daily quiz, crossword, and juicy new word game, Pears. Subscribe to get email alerts when each new edition publishes. Preview Culture We take culture seriously—without taking ourselves too seriously. The best of movies, TV, books, music, and more. Advice The latest sex, parenting, and money advice from our columnists delivered to your inbox three times a week. Slate&#x27;s Legal Brief Stay up to date on the Supreme Court and beyond with a weekly roundup of our latest jurisprudence desk articles and Amicus podcast episodes, sent every Tuesday. Slate Plus Digest Weekly editions of our curated roundup of stories to read on Slate and off, exclusively for members. Author Alerts Sign up to get emailed when your favorite authors publish new content Send me updates about Slate special offers. Save all newsletter and author alert preferences Close Are you sure you want to unsubscribe from all Slate newsletters and author alerts? You may still get essential communication from Slate about your subscription and payments. Unsubscribe Cancel Opt out This will opt you out of all non-essential Slate communication. Please enable JavaScript to view this page. About About Us Work With Us Contact Pitch Guidelines Send Us Tips Corrections Commenting Reprints Subscriptions Subscribe Group Subscriptions Sign In Account Subscription FAQs Podcast FAQs Newsletters Customer Support Advertising AdChoices Cookie Preferences The Slate Group logo Slate is published by The Slate Group, a Graham Holdings Company. Follow Us Facebook X Instagram YouTube RSS Feed User Agreement Privacy Policy All contents &copy; 2025 The Slate Group LLC. All rights reserved.