# Donald Trump Ketchup History

**Source**: https://www.washingtonian.com/2022/06/29/donald-trump-ketchup-history/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:50:48.874634+00:00

---

--> Donald Trump and Ketchup: A History - Washingtonian Sections News &amp; Politics Washingtonian Today Things to Do DC Welcome Guide This Week 100 Best Things to Do in DC Neighborhood Guides DC-Area Events Calender Washingtonian Events Food & Drink 100 Very Best Restaurants The Hot List Brunch New Restaurants Restaurant Finder Home &amp; Style Health Parenting Shopping Gift Guides Real Estate Top Realtors Listings We Love Rave Worthy Rentals Weddings Real Weddings Wedding Vendor Finder Submit Your Wedding Travel DC Welcome Guide Best Airbnbs Around DC 3 Days in DC Best of DC Doctors Apartment Rentals Dentists Financial Advisors Industry Leaders Lawyers Mortgage Pros Pet Care Private Schools Realtors Wedding Vendors Magazine Subscribe The 1965 Club Manage Subscription Current & Past Issues Features and Longreads Newsletters Newsstand Locations Reader Favorites 100 Very Best Restaurants DC-Area Events Calendar Brunch Neighborhoods Newsletters Directories Washingtonian Events Washington&rsquo;s Best Apartment Rentals DC Travel Guide Dentists Doctors Financial Advisers Health Experts Home Improvement Experts Industry Leaders Lawyers Mortgage Professionals Pet Care Private Schools Real Estate Agents Restaurants Retirement Communities Wedding Vendors Privacy Policy | &nbsp;Rss &copy; 2025 Washingtonian Media Inc. All Rights Reserved Skip to content Search Subscribe Menu Subscribe Reader Favorites 100 Very Best Restaurants DC-Area Events Calendar Brunch Neighborhoods Newsletters Directories Washingtonian Events More Subscribe Manage My Subscription Digital Edition Shop Contests About Us Advertising Contact Us Jobs Sections News &amp; Politics Food Things to Do Washingtonian Events Home &amp; Style Editors&#8217; Picks Events Calendar Health Longreads Parenting Real Estate Shopping Travel Weddings News &amp; Politics Washingtonian Today Things to Do DC Welcome Guide This Week 100 Best Things to Do in DC Neighborhood Guides DC-Area Events Calender Washingtonian Events Food & Drink 100 Very Best Restaurants The Hot List Brunch New Restaurants Restaurant Finder Home &amp; Style Health Parenting Shopping Gift Guides Real Estate Top Realtors Listings We Love Rave Worthy Rentals Weddings Real Weddings Wedding Vendor Finder Submit Your Wedding Travel DC Welcome Guide Best Airbnbs Around DC 3 Days in DC Best of DC Doctors Apartment Rentals Dentists Financial Advisors Industry Leaders Lawyers Mortgage Pros Pet Care Private Schools Realtors Wedding Vendors Magazine Subscribe The 1965 Club Manage Subscription Current & Past Issues Features and Longreads Newsletters Newsstand Locations 100 Very Best Restaurants DC-Area Events Calendar Brunch Neighborhoods Newsletters Directories Washingtonian Events --> Food &nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp; News &amp; Politics Donald Trump and Ketchup: A History The ex-President's preferred condiment, explained Written by Jessica Sidman | Published on June 29, 2022 Tweet Share Photo by Jeff Elkins There were so many revelations in Cassidy Hutchinson&#8217;s blockbuster testimony in the January 6 hearings Tuesday: Donald Trump allegedly grabbing the wheel of an SUV! Known guns in the crowd! But forgive this food editor if the image I can&#8217;t get out of my head is &#8220;ketchup dripping down the wall.&#8221; As the aide to former chief of staff Mark Meadows testified, Trump was so irate that then Attorney General Bill Barr gave an interview to the AP saying there was no widespread voter fraud that he threw his lunch at the wall, leaving behind a shattered porcelain plate and goopy red condiment. [su_youtube url=“https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jFYZkkPaM5A”] It&#8217;s no secret that the fast-food-loving ex-President&#8217;s condiment of choice is ketchup. (Perhaps lesser known: Trump may, possibly, be a distant relative of the Heinz family .) It&#8217;s been widely reported that Trump enjoyed ketchup with his well-done steaks. The tidbit originated from an anonymous server at Trump hotel steakhouse BLT Prime in an Independent Journal Review story that&#8217;s since been deleted . Badger Russell, another former server at BLT Prime, told Washingtonian in 2019 that this rumor was overblown. As far as Russell could tell, Trump ate the ketchup with his fries. Related Trump Hotel Employees Reveal What It Was Really Like Catering to the Right Wing Elite However Trump enjoyed the condiment, he certainly enjoyed it, and those around him did their best to accommodate his tastes. When Trump made his first presidential visit to Saudi Arabia in 2017, officials served him steak with a side of ketchup , alongside more traditional halal lamb and rice. And when Trump dined in the steakhouse of his own DC hotel, staff had very specific instructions on how to serve the ketchup. According to a &#8220;Standard Operating Procedure&#8221; document obtained by Washingtonian , the President&#8217;s server was to open mini glass bottles of Heinz in front of him, taking care to ensure he could hear the seal make the “pop” sound. (Other detailed instructions included a seven-step process , with photo illustrations, for pouring Diet Coke.) Trump wasn&#8217;t always so formal about his ketchup consumption, though. In 2017, Politico reported that the White House kitchen staff couldn&#8217;t adequately replicate a McDonald&#8217;s Quarter Pounder with cheese, so bodyguard and &#8220;Trump whisperer&#8221; Keith Schiller would fetch him the real deal with no pickles and extra ketchup. If we had to make an educated guess, it was probably a burger that Trump threw at the wall in his fury over the 2020 election—with extra ketchup, of course. More: BLT Steak Cassidy Hutchinson Donald Trump Jan. 6 committee ketchup steak Join the conversation! Share Tweet Jessica Sidman Food Editor Jessica Sidman covers the people and trends behind D.C.&#8217;s food and drink scene. Before joining Washingtonian in July 2016, she was Food Editor and Young &#038; Hungry columnist at Washington City Paper. She is a Colorado native and University of Pennsylvania grad. Most Popular in Food 1 Food and Drink Deals in the DC Area During the Shutdown 2 Moon Rabbit, Albi, and Dogon Named Among North America&#8217;s 50 Best Restaurants 3 9 Decadent French Brunch Spots Around DC 4 Where to Find Snow Day Food and Drink Specials Around DC 5 This Ambitious New DC Restaurant Draws From Mexico, Bulgaria, and Beyond Washingtonian Magazine October Issue: Most Powerful Women View Issue Subscribe Follow Us on Social We'll help you live your best #DCLIFE every day Follow Us on Social We'll help you live your best #DCLIFE every day Related How Protesters Got Into the DC Restaurant Where Trump Dined Donald Trump Dines at Joe&#8217;s Seafood Next to the White House Why Trump Should Not Dine Out in DC Trump Will Federalize DC Police and Deploy the National Guard More from Food DC&#8217;s Newest Omakase Counter Is Already Gunning for a Michelin Star Government Shutdown Is the Latest Blow to DC&#8217;s Beleaguered Restaurant Industry Food and Drink Deals in the DC Area During the Shutdown A Social Club With a Barbershop, Boutique, and Restaurant From Erik Bruner-Yang Arrives in Union Market This Ambitious New DC Restaurant Draws From Mexico, Bulgaria, and Beyond A TikTok-Ready Pan-Asian Restaurant and Karaoke Bar Is Opening in Union Market Take Our Restaurant Survey and You Could Win Dinner for Two Need a Last-Minute Wedding Venue? Book a Restaurant. &copy; 2025 Washingtonian Media Inc. All Rights Reserved. Washingtonian is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. Privacy Policy and Opt-Out &nbsp;Rss Get the best news, delivered weekly. By signing up, you agree to our terms . Subscribe Manage My Subscription Digital Edition Shop Contests About Us Advertising Contact Us Jobs Special Offer Get one year of the magazine and our January issue for $18! One year of Washingtonian and a free mug for $18! SIGN UP -->