# Prop 12

**Source**: https://www.thepigsite.com/news/2023/05/prop-12
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:21:08.688040+00:00

---

Prop 12 | The Pig Site About us Contact us Advertise with us Events Our Sites The Poultry Site The Pig Site The Cattle Site The Dairy Site The Beef Site El Sitio Avicola El Sitio Porcino Europe Europe Africa South America North America Asia Oceania Menu Home Disease Genetics &amp; reproduction Pig Welfare Husbandry Markets Processing Research &amp; innovation Knowledge Centre Europe Africa South America North America Asia Oceania About us Contact us Advertise with us Events Our Sites The Poultry Site The Pig Site The Cattle Site The Dairy Site The Beef Site El Sitio Avicola El Sitio Porcino Europe Africa South America North America Asia Oceania How can we help you? esc All Articles Sponsors Events Policy and regulation Government and regulatory Prop 12 Jim Long Pork Commentary 15 May 2023 3 minute read By: Jim Long North America Last week the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that California’s Proposition 12 can proceed. The law means in simple terms sows must be in gestation pens at 24 sq. ft. to have their fresh Pork sold in California. The ruling is not a win for a Pork Industry facing financial headwinds. There has already been sow barns built or renovated to meet the Prop 12 rules. Estimates range from 350 – 500,000 sow spaces. We don’t know if this will meet California’s Pork demand. One of the challenges of Prop 12 is not only the cost of building and equipment but the lower production results due to lower litter size, farrowing rates and the higher sow mortality. There are premiums being offered for Prop 12 pigs which are necessary to cover the increased production costs. In a selfish note. Genesus sows with a combination of structure and temperament have an edge versus competitors in pen gestation i.e., Prop 12 barns. Packer Demand This past week we had several conversations with producers telling us Packers were calling looking for hogs. This is a good sign of increased demand. One producer told us a Packer called they never do business with looking for hogs. My Father used to say, “Who’s calling whom.” He always equated it to a reflection of market direction. Corn We all can see corn prices have fallen, at the rate we are going down. Corn under $5 bushel will be happening. Lots of corn in Brazil, U.S. crop getting planted in timely manner with U.S. corn exports continuing to languish (-36% ytd.). Lower feed costs would be beneficial to the Pork Industry. Liquidation It appears to be a reality that major sow liquidation is underway. The low price of cull sows indicates their abundance. We expect in U.S. 300,000 sows will be gone. If correct decreasing U.S. hog production by about 6 million head a year. We expect liquidation in Canada of 50,000 sows or about 1 million pigs disappearing a year. All supportive for higher hog prices in fourth quarter into 2024. If Misery Loves Company Department Reports from China indicates 17 of the 21 listed public companies lost money in the first quarter due to pig production. Wens 2.7 billion RMB ($385 million). New Hope 1.7 billion RMB ($242 million). Muyuan 1.2 billion RMB ($171 million). Zhengbang 1.2 billion RMB ($171 million). The top three companies have losses of at least 400 RMB per head ($57 per head). Some of the main companies have announced plans to decrease production a combined 6 - 9 million pigs per year (similar to what we expect in USA). If we assume $57 is an average loss per head for the whole industry. China markets about 12 million hogs per week the loss would be $684 million per week. No doubt there is herd liquidation. The loses in China are due to the lower hog price driven by large volumes of ASF infected pigs dumped into market (all weights get sent). We expect sometime in June – July China’s price will move higher as fewer hogs come to market. China is the world’s largest importer of Pork. Less Pork in China will lead to more imports. Pork Demand We have been writing about our concern with Pork Demand and prices. A reader sent us the picture below of Ham in a Hy-Vee grocery store. 49¢ lb! Probably at 49¢ it is getting to Dog Food price. We have a real problem in this industry when we are using that as a benchmark. In our opinion one of the best brands in the U.S. Pork industry is Johnsonville. They make only sausages and only high-quality sausages. They sell for more than other sausages each and every day. They have advertised and developed a brand and backed it up with consistent and predictable quality. In stores Johnsonville sausage is $4.99 lb. - the ham was 49¢ lb? Johnsonville knows what matters BIG TASTE and they advertise to deliver the message. Johnsonville has got it. TASTE. When are we as an industry make the changes to mirror what Johnsonville has realized and profited from make a brand and product that consumers want and pay for. Our Partners dsm-firmenich Lallemand Lanxess Hamlet Protein Jim Long President - CEO at Genesus Genetics More from this author More News View all US pork exports to Mexico stay strong despite slowdown - USMEF Markets Imports and Exports Trade 2 October 2025 1 minute read Hog prices slide as CME December contract drops nearly 2¢ - CME Market Trends Markets and economics 2 October 2025 1 minute read Cattle futures steady amid tight supply, weaker cash trade Tyson settles pork lawsuit for $85 million Policy and regulation Government and regulatory Company News 2 October 2025 1 minute read Deal raises consumer recovery to $208 million total Our Partners dsm-firmenich Lallemand Lanxess Hamlet Protein Global Ag Media provides a knowledge sharing platform offering premium news, analysis and information resources for the global agriculture industry. Useful Links About us Contact our team Advertise with us Newsletter Terms &amp; Conditions Cookie &amp; Privacy Policy Events Subscribe to our newsletter Subscribe Sign up to our newsletter esc Email Address Country Country Brazil Canada India Indonesia Kenya Nigeria Philippines South Africa United Kingdom United States Afghanistan Åland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, The Democratic Republic of The Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote D'ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czechia Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and Mcdonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and The Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and The South Sandwich Islands Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Timor-leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Viet Nam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Postcode/Zip Code Company Industry Position Opt in to another list The Poultry Site The Beef Site The Dairy Site El Sitio Avicola El Sitio Porcino I would like to sign up to receive email updates from Global Ag Media Sign up to our regular newsletter and access news from across the Global AG Media network &copy; 2000 - 2025 - Global Ag Media. All Rights Reserved | No part of this site may be reproduced without permission. Our Sites The Poultry Site The Pig Site The Cattle Site The Dairy Site The Beef Site El Sitio Avicola El Sitio Porcino