# Taylor Swift Ticketmaster Lawsuit Eras Tour Presale

**Source**: https://www.latimes.com/entertainment-arts/music/story/2022-12-04/taylor-swift-ticketmaster-lawsuit-eras-tour-presale
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:06:09.106469+00:00

---

Taylor Swift fans sue Ticketmaster over Eras Tour pre-sale - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing &amp; Homelessness Politics Science &amp; Medicine World &amp; Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor &amp; Workplace Real Estate Technology and the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing &amp; Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate &amp; Environment Global Warming Water &amp; Drought Entertainment &amp; Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 best restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art &amp; Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health &amp; Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel &amp; Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World &amp; Nation Immigration &amp; the Border Israel-Hamas Mexico &amp; the Americas Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios Business • AI &amp; Tech • Banking &amp; Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Goods &amp; Retail • Healthcare &amp; Science • Law Dentists Decor &amp; Design Doctors &amp; Scientists Hot Property Live &amp; Well Orange County Pets The Hub: Rebuilding LA Travel Weddings &amp; Celebrations Newsletters Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Students &amp; Educators Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store L.A. Times Studios News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance &amp; Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? People on the Move Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Sections Tap to enable a layout that focuses on the article. Focus mode Show Search Search Query Submit Search Advertisement Music You better lawyer up, Ticketmaster: Taylor Swift fans file Eras Tour lawsuit Taylor Swift attends the 2022 American Music Awards in Los Angeles. (Jordan Strauss / Invision/AP) By Christi Carras Staff Writer&nbsp; Dec. 4, 2022 2:44 PM PT Share via Close extra sharing options Email Facebook X LinkedIn Threads Reddit WhatsApp Copy Link URL Copied! Print p]:text-cms-story-body-color-text clearfix mb-10 md:max-w-170 md:mx-auto" data-subscriber-content> It’s no secret that there is bad blood between Taylor Swift fans and Ticketmaster. Now the Swifties are officially taking legal action. According to Rolling Stone , 26 Taylor Swift fans from 13 states filed a lawsuit against the ticket vendor Friday in Los Angeles County. The complaint accuses Ticketmaster of violating the California Cartwright Act and the California Unfair Competition Law during last month’s “Verified Fan” pre-sale for Swift’s upcoming concert. The plaintiffs are seeking a civil fine of $2,500 per violation. Advertisement Obtained by Rolling Stone, the lawsuit alleges that Ticketmaster’s parent company (Live Nation Entertainment Inc.) engaged in fraud, price-fixing and antitrust-law violations while selling advance tickets to the pop superstar’s Eras Tour. The filing also accuses Ticketmaster of “intentionally and purposefully mislead[ing] ticket purchasers by allowing scalpers and bots access to TaylorSwiftTix presale.” Music Taylor Swift feels your pain: She likens fans’ Ticketmaster woes to ‘bear attacks’ Taylor Swift is making no excuses for Ticketmaster, which she said assured her team that it could handle the massive demand for tickets to her tour. Nov. 18, 2022 In the wake of the pre-sale fiasco, many accused Ticketmaster of unfairly monopolizing the ticket market — which allegedly forced “fans to buy more expensive tickets that Ticketmaster gets additional fees from every time the tickets are resold,” the lawsuit states. Ticketmaster has blamed unexpected and “unprecedented” demand for overwhelming its system and causing the Eras Tour to sell out prematurely. (The company ended up canceling its sale to the general public “due to extraordinarily high demands on ticketing systems and insufficient remaining ticket inventory to meet that demand.”) Advertisement But the fan lawsuit accused the company of “intentionally provid[ing] codes when it could not satisfy ticket demand” after “millions of fans waited up to eight hours and were unable to purchase tickets.” Music Will the government crack down on bots after Ticketmaster’s Taylor Swift meltdown? Congress is asking the Federal Trade Commission if it will enforce against bots after Ticketmaster blamed them for Taylor Swift ticket-sale disaster. Nov. 29, 2022 Disgruntled Swifties are not the only ones with an ax to grind against Ticketmaster. The Eras Tour debacle has also prompted the attorney general of Tennessee and even members of Congress to scrutinize the ticket industry in recent weeks. In a message to fans last month, Swift refused to “make excuses” for Ticketmaster after she and her team “asked them, multiple times, if they could handle this kind of demand and ... were assured they could.” Advertisement “It’s truly amazing that 2.4 million people got tickets, but it really pisses me off that a lot of them feel like they went through several bear attacks to get them,” the “Midnights” artist added. “We strive to make ticket buying as easy as possible for fans, but that hasn’t been the case for many people trying to buy tickets for Taylor Swift | The Eras Tour,” Ticketmaster said last month in a statement. “We want to apologize to Taylor and all of her fans – especially those who had a terrible experience trying to purchase tickets.” Ticketmaster did not immediately respond Sunday to The Times’ request for comment. Music More bad news for Swifties: Ticketmaster cancels Friday on-sale for Taylor’s Eras tour On Thursday, Ticketmaster released a statement meant to assuage fans shut out from purchasing Eras tickets. Next: a potential congressional investigation. Nov. 17, 2022 More to Read FTC sues Ticketmaster and Live Nation over concert ticket resale practices Sept. 18, 2025 FTC alleges group fraudulently flipped Taylor Swift seats on Ticketmaster Aug. 19, 2025 Live Nation settles lawsuit over claims it misled investors about legal risks March 24, 2025 Music Entertainment &amp; Arts The biggest entertainment stories Get our big stories about Hollywood, film, television, music, arts, culture and more right in your inbox as soon as they publish. By continuing, you agree to our Terms of Service and our Privacy Policy . Enter email address Agree &amp; Continue Christi Carras Former staff writer Christi Carras reported on the entertainment industry for the Los Angeles Times. She previously covered entertainment news for The Times after graduating from UCLA and working at Variety, the Hollywood Reporter and CNN Newsource. More From the Los Angeles Times Television Taylor Swift apparently has a lot to brag about with Travis Kelce (especially in bed) Music Future Ruins, Nine Inch Nails’ film-music festival, is canceled Music Before Taylor Swift rolled out ‘Father Figure,’ George Michael’s estate gave her props Oct. 3, 2025 Music ‘This is the record that properly represents us’: Inside AFI’s journey to its definitive album Oct. 3, 2025 Most Read in Music Music Taylor Swift’s ‘The Life of a Showgirl’ is an immaculate act of damage control Oct. 2, 2025 Music Mariah Carey and Michael Jackson did a duet, she says, but the world has to wait to hear to it Oct. 2, 2025 Music Hayley Williams says Morgan Wallen is the ‘racist country singer’ she refers to in her song Oct. 2, 2025 Music Neil Diamond celebrates 50 years of entertaining Aug. 13, 2017 Subscribers are Reading For Subscribers Almost no one is building new apartments in Los Angeles. Here’s why L.A. Affairs: He roots for Trump and the Dodgers. Could we stay married? UCLA donors question athletic director Martin Jarmond’s leadership, future viability How one man in East L.A. ended up with the world’s most famous feet He’s made the most incendiary movie of the year. But Paul Thomas Anderson remains an optimist Advertisement Latest Music Cannibal Corpse’s death metal keeps head banging into the mainstream, from ‘Ace Ventura’ to TikTok fame Oct. 3, 2025 How to have the best Sunday in L.A., according to Jenny Lewis Oct. 3, 2025 25 years later, Erykah Badu says ‘Mama’s Gun’ still guides her musical evolution Oct. 2, 2025 CBGB Festival stays true to its roots with a night of punk’s past, present and future Oct. 2, 2025 What perfection means to Lorde Oct. 2, 2025 Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Subscribe for unlimited access Site Map Follow Us X Instagram YouTube Facebook eNewspaper Find/Post Jobs Place an Ad Media Kit: Why the L. A. Times? MORE FROM THE L.A. TIMES Crossword Obituaries Recipes Guides L.A. Times Store About/Contact For the Record L.A. Times Careers Manage Subscription Reprints and Permissions Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information