# 14058 Cakey Fans Beware These Brownies Are Practically Fudge

**Source**: http://food52.com/blog/14058-cakey-fans-beware-these-brownies-are-practically-fudge
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:56:52.311622+00:00

---

Chocolate Buttermilk-Frosted Brownies Recipe This Week&#x27;s Mood: Dinner &amp; a Movie This Week&#x27;s Mood: Dinner &amp; a Movie Schoolhouse Dansk Search Shop New Best Sellers Exclusively at Food52 Featured Makers Kitchen Kitchen Utensils &amp; Tools Kitchen Storage &amp; Organization Countertop Organization Food Storage Kitchen Linens Cutting Boards Coffee &amp; Tea Accessories Knives Cookware Frying Pans &amp; Skillets Baking &amp; Roasting Pans Dutch Ovens &amp; Stock Pots Sauce &amp; Saute Pans Cookware Sets Tabletop Dinnerware Glassware Table Linens Flatware &amp; Serving Utensils Serveware Outdoor Entertaining Home Organization &amp; Storage Cleaning &amp; Laundry Bath Towels &amp; Accessories Vases &amp; Decorative Objects Clocks &amp; Lighting Candles &amp; Candle Holders Planters Shop All Recipes Popular Quick and Easy 5 Ingredients or Fewer Cocktails Appetizers Ingredients Chicken Steak Salmon Pasta Potato Rice Meals &amp; Dishes Breakfast Lunch Dinner Salad Sweet Treats Lifestyle Vegetarian Vegan Gluten-Free Alcohol-Free Drinks Tools &amp; Techniques One Pot Sheet Pan No Bake Grill Life Travel Hosting &amp; Entertainment Parenting Pets Kitchen Sink Crafts &amp; Hobbies Community View All Food Recipes How To &amp; Hacks Meal Planning Baking Trending &amp; Seasonal Drinks Community Hotline View All Home Style &amp; Design Cleaning &amp; Organizing Outdoors Renovation Home Tours View All Watch Shop All Shop New Best Sellers Exclusively at Food52 Featured Makers Kitchen Kitchen Utensils &amp; Tools Kitchen Storage &amp; Organization Countertop Organization Food Storage Kitchen Linens Cutting Boards Coffee &amp; Tea Accessories Knives Cookware Frying Pans &amp; Skillets Baking &amp; Roasting Pans Dutch Ovens &amp; Stock Pots Sauce &amp; Saute Pans Cookware Sets Tabletop Dinnerware Glassware Table Linens Flatware &amp; Serving Utensils Serveware Outdoor Entertaining Home Organization &amp; Storage Cleaning &amp; Laundry Bath Towels &amp; Accessories Vases &amp; Decorative Objects Clocks &amp; Lighting Candles &amp; Candle Holders Planters Shop all Shop Recipes All Recipes Popular Quick and Easy 5 Ingredients or Fewer Cocktails Appetizers Ingredients Chicken Steak Salmon Pasta Potato Rice Meals &amp; Dishes Breakfast Lunch Dinner Salad Sweet Treats Lifestyle Vegetarian Vegan Gluten-Free Alcohol-Free Drinks Tools &amp; Techniques One Pot Sheet Pan No Bake Grill Life All Life Travel Hosting &amp; Entertainment Parenting Pets Kitchen Sink Crafts &amp; Hobbies Community Shop all Life Food All Food Recipes How To &amp; Hacks Meal Planning Baking Trending &amp; Seasonal Drinks Community Hotline Shop all Food Home All Home Style &amp; Design Cleaning &amp; Organizing Outdoors Renovation Home Tours Shop all Home Watch Account 0 Items in your Cart Your shopping cart is empty. Continue Shopping Cakey Fans Beware: These Brownies are Practically Fudge Easy one-bowl brownies with a decadent, over-the-top twist. By Posie (Harwood) Brien Published On September 13, 2015 Posie Harwood , who finds the best back-of-the-box recipes in the grocery store, is taking one-bowl brownies to new (excessively frosted) heights. I&#x27;ve sampled a lot of brownies in my life. Personally, if I were to get philosophical about it, I like a brownie that teeters on the edge of fudge-like. It should just toe the line: A slight cakiness should keep it from being too dense. Rich but not too rich, it should freeze beautifully and make you the star of all potlucks and picnics and birthday parties, forever and always. This one-bowl recipe fits the bill exactly. It comes from the back of the Baker&#x27;s Chocolate box, and it could not be easier. You melt butter and chocolate together, then whisk in the rest of your ingredients. That&#x27;s it! You don&#x27;t have to temper chocolate, or clean multiple bowls, or worry about technique. The original recipe calls for nuts. I didn&#x27;t add them because, to be perfectly honest with you, I didn&#x27;t have any in my kitchen. If you&#x27;re into that sort of thing, you can toss a cup of chopped nuts into the batter. More: Are you a cakey or a fudgy person? If you want to get really wild, you could add chocolate chips. Should you? Probably not. We are going to add some frosting soon, and chocolate chips might push us into the territory of true excess. But if you think you can handle it, I trust you. Go forth and douse yourself with chocolate. The frosting is delicious. First, you melt butter, buttermilk, and cocoa powder in a saucepan. The buttermilk gives a subtle tang that helps to balance the intense sweetness of the frosting. Then, you transfer the warm mixture to a stand mixer (or large bowl with a hand mixer) and beat it with powdered sugar. If the frosting gives you any trouble, here&#x27;s some advice I gleaned from own mistakes: If your frosting is very thin and liquidy, try sticking the bowl in the refrigerator for 20 minutes to chill it. Colder frosting will whip into a lighter, fluffier texture. If it still looks too thin, add more confectioners&#x27; sugar. I suggest starting with 2 cups, but you might need up to 4 cups. Chocolate Buttermilk-Frosted Brownies Adapted from Baker&#x27;s Chocolate Makes one 9- by 13-inch pan For the brownies: 4 ounces unsweetened chocolate 3/4 cup butter 2 cups sugar 3 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 cup flour For the frosting: 1/4 cup butter 3 tablespoons buttermilk 3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 2 to 4 cups confectioners&#x27; sugar See the full recipe (and save and print it) here. Do you have a favorite back of the box recipe, or have you heard about a great one? Leave any suggestions in the comments, and I&#x27;ll try them out and share them here! Photos by Posie Harwood Our best tips for eating thoughtfully and living joyfully, right in your inbox. Subscribe Company About Us DEI Vision Press Jobs Affiliate Program Get Help Contact &amp; FAQ Gift Cards Advertising Inquiries Social Facebook Instagram Pinterest TikTok YouTube © 2025 Food52, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Code of Conduct Accessibility Policy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. When you visit our website, we collect and use personal information about you using cookies. You may opt out of selling, sharing, or disclosure of personal data for targeted advertising (called &quot;Do Not Sell or Share&quot; in California) by enabling the Global Privacy Control on a compatible browser. See our Privacy Policy for further information. Accept