# Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 1990 Movie Oral History

**Source**: https://www.theringer.com/movies/2020/3/31/21196871/teenage-mutant-ninja-turtles-1990-movie-oral-history
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:59:54.392260+00:00

---

Green Screen: The Oral History of ‘Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles’ - The Ringer Discover anything Discover anything Videos Podcasts The Latest The Latest Fantasy Football Rankings Fantasy Football Rankings NBA NBA NFL NFL TV TV Movies Movies MLB MLB The Ringer 107 The Ringer 107 Music Music Soccer Soccer Events Events The Streaming Guide The Streaming Guide Simmons Pod Simmons Pod Rewatchables Rewatchables Big Picture Big Picture Russillo Pod Russillo Pod The Watch The Watch Higher Learning Higher Learning House of R House of R The Town The Town Plain English Plain English By Alan Siegel March 31, 2020, 9:40 am UTC • 27 min Movies Green Screen: The Oral History of ‘Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles’ No one believed in a movie about four overgrown turtles who are trained in martial arts and named after Italian artists. Then it made more than $200 million, and launched a nationwide phenomenon. Movies Green Screen: The Oral History of ‘Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles’ No one believed in a movie about four overgrown turtles who are trained in martial arts and named after Italian artists. Then it made more than $200 million, and launched a nationwide phenomenon. Dan Evans By Alan Siegel March 31, 2020, 9:40 am UTC • 27 min On March 30, 1990, four anthropomorphic reptiles named Donatello, Leonardo, Michelangelo, and Raphael made their movie debut. By then, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles was a cultural phenomenon . Beginning in 1984 as an independent comic book, the Turtles had since grown into far more than that: multiple comics, an animated TV show, a Dungeons &amp; Dragons–esque role-playing game, and a bestselling toy line. But neither the existence nor the success of a live-action adaptation was preordained. It’s nearly impossible to fathom now, but there was a time when Hollywood did not stockpile pre-existing intellectual property. For a stretch, no one seemed to be interested in bringing franchise cocreators Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird’s brainchild to the big screen. Up until the late ’80s, the most serious interest Eastman and Laird had received was from B-movie king Roger Corman, who wanted to enlist comedians to play the title roles. “Sam Kinison, and Gallagher, and Billy Crystal, and Bobcat Goldthwait, wearing sort of green paint and shells and being the Turtle characters,” Eastman recalls. “It was a very hilarious treatment and concept.” Thankfully, that one never got made. But eventually, Hong Kong’s Golden Harvest did agree to finance TMNT . But the production was a quagmire: The budget was low, there was infighting among the filmmakers, the cutting-edge animatronics developed by Jim Henson’s Creature Shop to power the Turtle costumes often broke down, and the young cast’s tolerance for physical and mental exhaustion was tested daily. Still, a mixture of technical wizardry, a clever director who cut his teeth making classic music videos, and a group of indefatigable actors saved Ninja Turtles from being a typical kids’ schlockfest—and that translated at the box office. Besides the movie being far better than anything about amphibious superheroes named for Italian Renaissance artists had any right to be, it also became a massive hit, pulling in more than $200 million worldwide and grossing the fourth-most money out of any movie in 1990. “If you added up everything that could go wrong, it did go wrong,” says Tom Gray, then Golden Harvest’s head of production, “but the result of the baby was beautiful.” The story of the birth of one of the strangest, most unlikely blockbusters of the past 30 years naturally begins—somehow, though perhaps fittingly—in the late 1980s with the manager of the watermelon-smashing comedian Gallagher, Gary Propper , the late professional surfer turned event promoter who happened to come across an issue of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles at a tour stop in Detroit, Michigan . Part I: “Saved by a Butt Cheek” Kim Dawson (producer): Gary calls me and says, “I found this comic. I think we could make a feature out of it.” He started going on about this Turtle thing. And Gary notoriously smoked a lot of pot. I said, “Gary, you’ve been smoking too much, dude. I really don’t know what you’re talking about.” He said, “OK, I’m gonna overnight the thing.” Kevin Eastman ( Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles franchise cocreator): As you head into the end of ’88, the obvious evolution was a live-action movie. And we just had horrific grimaces thinking of movies that had somebody in a rubber suit. We were very concerned: “How do you pull off these extremely unique and visual characters in a way that could be believable?” Dawson: What Gary was going on about was, “You don’t need big names, because they’re in costumes. You just get funny guys to do the voices.” Eastman: In those days, 90 percent of everything that came into the studio , to Peter and myself, came through our agent, Mark Freedman . We were partners—a third, a third, and a third—in all things Turtles. Peter and I, of course, had final say in everything, but Mark was the one fielding and bringing ideas. Dawson: I called Mark and I said, “I’d like to option the live-action rights to make a feature film.” And so we negotiated. Eastman: I never met Kim in person. I talked to him once on the phone, I think. Dawson: About that same time, I was working with Bobby Herbeck, a stand-up comic. Bobby Herbeck (cowriter): Kim brought me the movie. Dawson: We’re pitching everyone we know. Everybody in the business: Jerry Weintraub ; independents and studios. Everybody goes, “OK, there’s two factors: Garbage Pail Kids , same idea—comic book heroes, ‘We’re gonna make ’em live action.’ Totally tanked. George Lucas’s Howard the Duck , same thing—totally tanked.” Herbeck: I was already doing another movie for Golden Harvest, which does Bruce Lee and Jackie Chan movies. Tom Gray (Golden Harvest head of production): He was working with me on a comedy that I commissioned him to write. Dawson: Bobby kept bugging him about the Turtles. Herbeck: He kept turning me down on the picture. He just said, “Finish the fuckin’ movie I’m paying you for.” He called it the “Ninjin Pinjin Turtles.” He said, “Don’t bug me with this Ninjin Pinjin Turtles shit, Herbs.” Gray: I’ll be honest with you, I didn’t think it would fly. Herbeck: And then one day it dawned on me that he had a 10-year-old and a 12-year-old at home. We went and had a drink after work and I said, “Tom, I promise I won’t bring it up again.” He said, “Here we go.” I said, “You’ve got two kids at home. Ask ’em.” Before I got back to Long Beach—he lived in Beverly Hills—on my Record A Call , he said, “Herbs. Babes.” Those two words meant you’ve closed the deal. “Get your buddy up here tomorrow morning and let’s talk about it.” Dawson: We’re having lunch and he’s going, “I don’t get it, I don’t get it.” Herbeck: Tom had all but said no and he slid out; he had one bun out of the booth. We were saved by a butt cheek. Dawson: I go, “You don’t have to hire famous actors. The actors are all gonna be scale actors, Tom.” And he goes, “Oh OK, lemme see.” Gray: I said, “You know something, this is really simple. We have all these great stuntmen in Hong Kong. And we just put four guys in rubber suits. Look, we can knock this out for three million bucks.” So I sent a memo, which I still have, to the boss, Raymond Chow , and I said, “Look, here’s how we put all this together.” And I sent him the concept. He said, “You know, I think we can do this.” From left to right: Donatello, Michelangelo, Leonardo, and Raphael New Line Cinema Part II: “Oh My God, That’s Insane.” Golden Harvest planned on making Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles , but how? The studio needed a director, a script, and a cost-effective way to design costumes that didn’t look too cartoonish. Simon Fields (producer): My longtime partner then, Steve Barron, we were making music videos and commercials. Gray: He had done “Billie Jean” and “Take on Me.” Fields: We were friendly with Anthony Minghella and he happened to be adapting a film called A Night in Bangkok for Golden Harvest. Steve Barron (director): While he was there, they mentioned that they had this comic book that they didn’t quite know what to do with or where to go with it and he suggested me as director. He put them on to me. Fields: Golden Harvest said, “We want to make a kung fu movie that’s like a couple of million dollars and here’s the idea.” We said, “Great, but we’d like to do something different.” We didn’t tell him exactly what we wanted to do. But we knew it wasn’t kung fu. Barron: I met with Peter and Kevin, and just said that I’d read their first graphic novel and I felt there were quite a few scenes, and a certain type of structure, that could work just straight out of that. Eastman: The original series Pete and I did, he had gone through it and sort of postmarked different beats and moments to the point where you can actually see some of those moments brought to life on the big screen. He used those when he was working with Brendan McCarthy as one of his main storyboard artists. Brendan McCarthy (storyboard artist): Steve Barron called me up and asked if I’d ever heard of something called Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles . I said I most certainly had, and that it was a huge sensation in the comics world. I thought he’d be perfect directing it. Fields: Eastman and Laird loved what we pitched them, which was completely different than the [script] written by Bobby Herbeck. And so I found another writer. Todd Langen (cowriter): The somewhat-panicked L.A.-based producers began making inquiries around town as to who they might hire—cheap—who could capture the comedic tone of a Turtles movie and do so very, very quickly. Barron: We went looking for writers and found Todd Langen, who was working on Wonder Years , and a good television writer. Had the good tone of reality and comedy. Langen: It’s all a blur, but I remember presenting a detailed outline of the movie, sequence by sequence, working from a hand-written, r