# Can A Machine Learn To Write For The New Yorker

**Source**: https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2019/10/14/can-a-machine-learn-to-write-for-the-new-yorker
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:48:28.694077+00:00

---

Can a Machine Learn to Write for The New Yorker? | The New Yorker Skip to main content Subscribe » A Reporter at Large october 14, 2019 issue Where will predictive text take us? Text by John Seabrook Illustration by Jun Cen --> Extraordinary advances in machine learning in recent years have resulted in A.I.s that can write for you. Illustration by Igor Bastidas At the end of every section in this article, you can read the text that an artificial intelligence predicted would come next. I glanced down at my left thumb, still resting on the Tab key. What have I done ? Had my computer become my co-writer? That&#8217;s one small step forward for artificial intelligence, but was it also one step backward for my own? The skin prickled on the back of my neck, an involuntary reaction to what roboticists call the &#8220;uncanny valley&#8221;&#8212;the space between flesh and blood and a too-human machine. For several days, I had been trying to ignore the suggestions made by Smart Compose, a feature that Google introduced, in May, 2018, to the one and a half billion people who use Gmail&#8212;roughly a fifth of the human population. Smart Compose suggests endings to your sentences as you type them. Based on the words you&#8217;ve written, and on the words that millions of Gmail users followed those words with, &#8220;predictive text&#8221; guesses where your thoughts are likely to go and, to save you time, wraps up the sentence for you, appending the A.I.&#8217;s suggestion, in gray letters, to the words you&#8217;ve just produced. Hit Tab, and you&#8217;ve saved yourself as many as twenty keystrokes&#8212;and, in my case, composed a sentence with an A.I. for the first time. Paul Lambert, who oversees Smart Compose for Google, told me that the idea for the product came in part from the writing of code&#8212;the language that software engineers use to program computers. Code contains long strings of identical sequences, so engineers rely on shortcuts, which they call &#8220;code completers.&#8221; Google thought that a similar technology could reduce the time spent writing e-mails for business users of its G Suite software, although it made the product available to the general public, too. A quarter of the average office worker&#8217;s day is now taken up with e-mail, according to a study by McKinsey . Smart Compose saves users altogether two billion keystrokes a week. One can opt out of Smart Compose easily enough, but I had chosen not to, even though it frequently distracted me. I was fascinated by the way the A.I. seemed to know what I was going to write. Perhaps because writing is my vocation, I am inclined to consider my sentences, even in a humble e-mail, in some way a personal expression of my original thought. It was therefore disconcerting how frequently the A.I. was able to accurately predict my intentions, often when I was in midsentence, or even earlier. Sometimes the machine seemed to have a better idea than I did. And yet until now I&#8217;d always finished my thought by typing the sentence to a full stop, as though I were defending humanity&#8217;s exclusive right to writing, an ability unique to our species. I will gladly let Google predict the fastest route from Brooklyn to Boston, but if I allowed its algorithms to navigate to the end of my sentences how long would it be before the machine started thinking for me? I had remained on the near shore of a digital Rubicon, represented by the Tab key. On the far shore, I imagined, was a strange new land where machines do the writing, and people communicate in emojis, the modern version of the pictographs and hieroglyphs from which our writing system emerged, five thousand years ago. True, I had sampled Smart Reply, a sister technology of Smart Compose that offers a menu of three automated responses to a sender&#8217;s e-mail, as suggested by its contents. &#8220;Got it!&#8221; I clicked, replying to detailed comments from my editor on an article I thought was finished. (I didn&#8217;t really get it, but that choice wasn&#8217;t on the menu.) I felt a little guilty right afterward, as though I&#8217;d replied with a form letter, or, worse, a fake personal note. A few days later, in response to a long e-mail from me, I received a &#8220;Got it!&#8221; from the editor. Really ? Along with almost everyone else who texts or tweets, with the possible exception of the President of the United States, I have long relied on spell-checkers and auto-correctors, which are limited applications of predictive text. I&#8217;m awful at spelling, as was my father; the inability to spell has a genetic link, according to multiple studies. Before spell-checkers, I used spelling rules I learned in elementary school (&#8220;&#160;&#8216;I&#8217; before &#8216;E&#8217; except after &#8216;C,&#8217;&#160;&#8221; but with fearful exceptions) and folksy mnemonics (&#8220;&#160;&#8216;cemetery&#8217;: all at &#8216;E&#8217;s&#8221;). Now that spell-checkers are ubiquitous in word-processing software, I&#8217;ve stopped even trying to spell anymore&#8212;I just get close enough to let the machine guess the word I&#8217;m struggling to form. Occasionally, I stump the A.I. But Smart Compose goes well beyond spell-checking. It isn&#8217;t correcting words I&#8217;ve already formed in my head; it&#8217;s coming up with them for me, by harnessing the predictive power of deep learning, a subset of machine learning. Machine learning is the sophisticated method of computing probabilities in large data sets, and it underlies virtually all the extraordinary A.I. advances of recent years, including those in navigation, image recognition, search, game playing, and autonomous vehicles. In this case, it&#8217;s making billions of lightning-fast probability calculations about word patterns from a year&#8217;s worth of e-mails sent from Gmail.com. (It does not include e-mails sent by G Suite customers.) &#8220;At any point in what you&#8217;re writing, we have a guess about what the next x number of words will be,&#8221; Lambert explained. To do that, the A.I. factors a number of different probability calculations into the &#8220;state&#8221; of the e-mail you&#8217;re in the middle of writing. &#8220;The state is informed by a number of things,&#8221; Lambert went on, &#8220;including everything you have written in that e-mail up until now, so every time you insert a new word the system updates the state and reprocesses the whole thing.&#8221; The day of the week you&#8217;re writing the e-mail is one of the things that inform the state. &#8220;So,&#8221; he said, &#8220;if you write &#8216;Have a&#8217; on a Friday, it&#8217;s much more likely to predict &#8216;good weekend&#8217; than if it&#8217;s on a Tuesday.&#8221; Although Smart Compose generally limits itself to predicting the next phrase or two, the A.I. could ramble on longer. The trade-off, Lambert noted, is accuracy. &#8220;The farther out from the original text we go, the less accurate the prediction.&#8221; Finally, I crossed my Rubicon. The sentence itself was a pedestrian affair. Typing an e-mail to my son, I began &#8220;I am p&#8212;&#8221; and was about to write &#8220;pleased&#8221; when predictive text suggested &#8220;proud of you.&#8221; I am proud of you. Wow, I don&#8217;t say that enough. And clearly Smart Compose thinks that&#8217;s what most fathers in my state say to their sons in e-mails. I hit Tab. No biggie. And yet, sitting there at the keyboard, I could feel the uncanny valley prickling my neck. It wasn&#8217;t that Smart Compose had guessed correctly where my thoughts were headed&#8212;in fact, it hadn&#8217;t. The creepy thing was that the machine was more thoughtful than I was. Read Predicted Text Generated by GPT-2 (including any quotes) By that I mean, it seemed to want to distinguish my feelings from my thoughts. To put it another way, Smart Compose seemed to want to know me. I n February, OpenAI, an artificial-intelligence company, announced that the release of the full version of its A.I. writer, called GPT-2&#8212;a kind of supercharged version of Smart Compose&#8212;would be delayed, because the machine was too good at writing. The announcement struck critics as a grandiose publicity stunt (on Twitter, the insults flew), but it was in keeping with the company&#8217;s somewhat paradoxical mission, which is both to advance research in artificial intelligence as rapidly as possible and to prepare for the potential threat posed by superintelligent machines that haven&#8217;t been taught to &#8220;love humanity,&#8221; as Greg Brockman, OpenAI&#8217;s chief technology officer, put it to me. OpenAI began in 2015, as a nonprofit founded by Brockman, formerly the C.T.O. of the payment startup Stripe; Elon Musk, of Tesla; Sam Altman, of Y Combinator; and Ilya Sutskever, who left Google Brain to become OpenAI&#8217;s chief scientist. The tech tycoons Peter Thiel and Reid Hoffman, among others, provided seed money. The founders&#8217; idea was to endow a nonprofit with the expertise and the resources to be competitive with private enterprise, while at the same time making its discoveries available as open source&#8212;so long as it was safe to do so&#8212;thus potentially heading off a situation where a few corporations reap the almost immeasurable rewards of a vast new world. As Brockman told me, a superintelligent machine would be of such immense value, with so much wealth accruing to any company that owned one, that it could &#8220;break capitalism&#8221; and potentially realign the world order. &#8220;We want to insure its benefits are distributed as widely as possible,&#8221; Brockman said. OpenAI&#8217;s projects to date include a gaming A.I. that earlier this year beat the world&#8217;s best human team at Dota 2, a multiplayer online strategy game. Open-world computer games offer A.I. designers almost infinite strategic possibilities, making them valuable testing grounds. The A.I. had mastered Dota&#160;2 by playi