# Baby Bulls Chicago Michael Jordan

**Source**: https://www.theringer.com/nba/2020/1/2/21043951/baby-bulls-chicago-michael-jordan
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:37:00.952360+00:00

---

Baby Boomers - The Ringer Discover anything Discover anything Videos Podcasts The Latest The Latest Fantasy Football Rankings Fantasy Football Rankings NBA NBA NFL NFL TV TV Movies Movies MLB MLB The Ringer 107 The Ringer 107 Music Music Soccer Soccer Events Events The Streaming Guide The Streaming Guide Simmons Pod Simmons Pod Rewatchables Rewatchables Big Picture Big Picture Russillo Pod Russillo Pod The Watch The Watch Higher Learning Higher Learning House of R House of R The Town The Town Plain English Plain English By Jake Malooley Jan. 2, 2020, 11:30 am UTC • 46 min NBA Baby Boomers The end of the Jordan dynasty gave way to six long years of suffering in Chicago. But in 2004-05, a group of young’uns and a defensive-minded coach overcame a preseason fight, an 0-9 start, and the loss of their offensive fulcrum to make it back to the postseason. This is the oral history of the Baby Bulls. NBA Baby Boomers The end of the Jordan dynasty gave way to six long years of suffering in Chicago. But in 2004-05, a group of young’uns and a defensive-minded coach overcame a preseason fight, an 0-9 start, and the loss of their offensive fulcrum to make it back to the postseason. This is the oral history of the Baby Bulls. Harrison Freeman By Jake Malooley Jan. 2, 2020, 11:30 am UTC • 46 min With hundreds of thousands of fans assembled in Chicago’s Grant Park on June 16, 1998, to celebrate the third title of a second three-peat, the end of that decade’s great NBA dynasty could no longer be denied. “This was our last dance, and it was a wonderful waltz,” Bulls head coach Phil Jackson said from the park’s band shell stage. “Thank you, all.” “It’s been a great run,” Scottie Pippen added. “Thank you for our last dance.” “Nobody knows if we’re going to be in Grant Park next year,” Michael Jordan said, with a bit more ambiguity. “No matter what happens, my heart, soul, and love will still be in the city of Chicago.” Chants of “One more year!” rose from the tearful crowd. But, of course, there would be no more. Jackson rode off into the sunset on a motorcycle to begin a yearlong sabbatical. On January 13, 1999, in the midst of the bitterly waged lockout , Jordan retired from the NBA for a second time. In the 10 days that followed, Bulls general manager Jerry Krause (widely blamed for the breakup) went about dismantling the dynasty and selling it for parts. Pippen went to Houston in a sign-and-trade. Dennis Rodman was released. Steve Kerr was sent to San Antonio, Luc Longley to Phoenix. Krause named Tim Floyd head coach. Holdovers like Ron Harper and Toni Kukoc marveled at the swiftness with which the Unstop-a-Bulls had become the Replace-a-Bulls—guys with names like Rusty LaRue and Kornél Dávid, the league’s first Hungarian player. Following the last dance, the Bulls organization suddenly found itself learning to walk again. The team would go on to compile the second-worst six-season record in NBA history: just 119 wins and a dismal 341 losses (including the lockout-shortened 1998-99 season). Along with all the losing came innumerable indignities. Scoring 49 points in an April 1999 game, a record low in the shot-clock era. Winning a franchise-worst 15 games in 2000-01. Suffering a 53-point beatdown in November 2001. Superstar free agents thumbing their noses at a once-proud franchise that had become the league laughingstock. But just as fans were giving up hope along with their season-ticket packages, there came a glimmer of promise: the so-called Baby Bulls of 2004-05. The story of that Cinderella season, during which the team ground out 47 wins to secure a first post-dynasty playoff berth, is a tale of redemption, the stuff of sports movie mythos: Through hard work and defensive grit, a no-nonsense coach (Scott Skiles) shepherded his dark-horse squad of precocious rookies (Ben Gordon, Luol Deng, Chris Duhon, Andrés Nocioni) and grizzled veterans (Antonio Davis, Adrian Griffin) back into contention, effectively exorcising the stubborn ghosts of recent futility. Along the way, the Bulls clawed back from an 0-9 start that tied the franchise-record worst, weathered clashes between Skiles and center Tyson Chandler, and pulled together after the late-season loss of scoring leader Eddy Curry, who was sidelined with a career-altering heart arrhythmia. Gordon asserted himself as the most clutch Bulls scorer since Michael Jordan, earning the nicknames Ben Jordan and Heir Gordon in addition to the NBA’s Sixth Man of the Year Award, the only rookie ever to receive the honor. That young team gave Chicago basketball fans an invaluable, if illusory, gift: a reason to believe that the Bulls would soon dance again. But 15 years later, the misbegotten Boylen Bulls now pitifully limp along on two left feet. And it’s the first-to-worst Warriors and their fans who are now getting a preview of the precipitous fall that will come for Golden State, as it has for every dynasty. This is the story of the Baby Bulls, as told by the coaches, the players, and others who lived it. Chapter 1: Post-Dynasty Misery K.C. Johnson ( Chicago Tribune Bulls beat reporter, 1996-97, 2000-05, 2006-19): After the dynasty broke up, the Bulls had the [second-]worst six-season stretch of losing in NBA history. Jack Silverstein (Chicago sports historian, author of the forthcoming 6 Rings: The Bulls, the City, and the Dynasty That Changed the Game ): The destruction of the dynasty was complete and devastating. Suddenly it was this completely different team. The uniforms were the same, but the experience was totally different. I didn’t think it was going to be as bad as it was. And I didn’t think it was going to go on as long as it did. Sam Smith ( Chicago Tribune sportswriter, 1979-2008): The first post-dynasty season, there were still remnants of the championship teams. Toni Kukoc and Ron Harper. [Assistant coach] Tex Winter. Initially there was hope, like “Who knows what’s ahead?” And the fans were still grateful for all the winning that had so recently occurred. Silverstein: All of a sudden the Bulls went from 62 wins to being 13-37 in the 1998-99 lockout season. In the ’98 Finals, the Bulls had held Utah to 54 points in one game, a record low for the shot clock era. And then the very next season, the Bulls go and break that record—but on the losing end—scoring just 49 points against Miami. Smith: The accumulation of losses grew embarrassing. Seventeen wins in ’99-00. Fifteen wins in ’00-01. Silverstein: You want to talk low points of being a Bulls fan in that era? We had four games in 2000 with John Starks in a Bulls uniform. Of all the indignities of that period, having to decide whether or not to root for John Starks for four games is up there. Johnson: In a 2001 game, the Bulls lost to Minnesota by 53 points. Afterward, Charles Oakley said, “We couldn’t beat a snappy junior high team with this group tonight.” The Bulls fined him $50,000 for that. Lawrence Funderburke (Bulls center, 2005): For years, when I was playing in Sacramento, you would see the Chicago Bulls on your schedule, and it was like, “Oh, it’s a guaranteed win.” Silverstein: Sometime in ’99, before I went off to college, I put my name on the Bulls’ season-ticket waitlist. The Bulls were just starting to get bad. My plan was that by the time my name would be up on the list, I’d be out of college, I’d have a job, I’d have money to afford the tickets, and the Bulls would be better. A year later, I get a call. It’s the Bulls’ season-ticket office: “We’re excited to tell you you’ve come to the top of the season-ticket waitlist.” I was like, “No! That’s not the plan!” People getting rid of their season tickets was a sign of how fast the bottom fell out. Johnson: After two or three losing seasons, a sense of frustration crept in. In 2000, general manager Jerry Krause had targeted big-name free agents: Tim Duncan, Tracy McGrady, Grant Hill, Eddie Jones—all of whom spurned the Bulls. They ended up instead with Ron Mercer. Silverstein: That was the big “uh-oh” moment—when it became clear that the Bulls could be losing for the long haul. After the first three seasons, I was reminded of the quote from Macbeth : “I am in blood Stepped in so far that, should I wade no more, Returning were as tedious as go o’er.” In other words, I’d gone this far with the post-dynasty Bulls, I might as well keep watching them lose. Among those of us who were still watching the team during that historic run of losing between ’99 and ’04, there was a strange bond. Johnson: The organization and the fan base and even some of the beat writers had become ... I don’t want to say numb to all the losing, but the losing just kind of became part of the Bulls. There was a lot of dysfunction around the team. I used to get to practice and go, “What’s going to happen today?” As a young, impressionable beat writer, I had great stuff to write about every day, but it was chaotic. Krause’s plan and philosophy always seemed to be changing and shifting, including drafting Elton Brand and then trading him pretty quickly for the draft rights to Tyson Chandler and rolling the dice with Chandler and Eddy Curry, two 7-footers who had come to the NBA straight out of high school. Tyson Chandler and Eddy Curry on the bench against the Golden State Warriors on November 17, 2004, in Oakland, California. Photo by Rocky Widner/NBAE via Getty Images Silverstein: When the Bulls got Tyson and Eddy, it was a big reset of the hope meter for Bulls fans. It felt like Krause taking his shot, looking for the next Scottie [Pippen] and Horace [Grant] in one night. Smith: Curry was an amazing athletic talent. The guy was like a gymnast, a 7-foot gymnast. Johnson: The frustration culminated with Floyd’s resignation under pressure on Christmas Eve 2001. [Former Bulls center] Bill Cartwright came in as head coach, and with him a surge of optimism. The team started to play a little better. Jamal Crawford provided some hope initially and there was excitement around the 2002 trade for