# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Continuity%20and%20Change%20in%20Family%20Relations&author=L%20Kramer&publication_year=2004&
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:54:31.674853+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.15 sec) My profile My library Lookup [BOOK] [B] Continuity and change in family relations: Theory, methods and empirical findings RD Conger , FO Lorenz, KAS Wickrama - 2004 - books.google.com RD Conger , FO Lorenz, KAS Wickrama 2004 • books.google.com The chapters in this volume were developed as a follow-up to the Summer Institute entitled&quot; Continuity and Change: Family Structure and Process&quot; conducted by the second Family Research Consortium. The goal of this book is to provide readers with a greater understanding of both the conceptual issues involved in the study of continuity and change in families, and also some of the methodological approaches that have been developed for investigating families over time. The chapters in this volume were developed as a follow-up to the Summer Institute entitled&quot; Continuity and Change: Family Structure and Process&quot; conducted by the second Family Research Consortium. The goal of this book is to provide readers with a greater understanding of both the conceptual issues involved in the study of continuity and change in families, and also some of the methodological approaches that have been developed for investigating families over time. books.google.com Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 48 Related articles All 3 versions Library Search Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help