# Sam Bankman Fried Ftx Bankruptcy What Happened.Html

**Source**: https://nymag.com/intelligencer/article/sam-bankman-fried-ftx-bankruptcy-what-happened.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:53:44.736171+00:00

---

What Happened to FTX? Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Politics Business Technology Ideas About Intelligencer Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Close Close Politics Business Technology Ideas About Intelligencer Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Search Search Close sbf: the virtue was the con What H-A-P-P-E-N-E-D? Sam Bankman-Fried pitched himself as a humanity-saving crypto genius. Then he spent other people’s money to save himself. By Lane Brown , a features writer for New York Magazine. &nbsp; He was previously the magazine’s culture editor and one of the original editors of Vulture. Nov. 19, 2022 Illustration: Zohar Lazar save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Illustration: Zohar Lazar Illustration: Zohar Lazar It’s possible that you don’t fully understand what Sam Bankman-Fried did or what transpired at his company, FTX. This may help. Explain it to me like I’m … 5 years old. A silly-haired wizard sold magic beans. The villagers loved it! Until they stopped believing in magic and demanded their money back, only to find out that the wizard had already spent it. Explain it to me like I’m … 10. A really smart guy owned a bank. He was also a terrible poker player. He used made-up money to buy his way into a high-stakes game and then he lost, so he paid his gambling tab by robbing his own bank. (Allegedly.) When his customers heard about his gambling losses, they stormed the bank to pull their money out, but there wasn’t enough in the vault to pay them all back. Explain it to me like I’m … a crypto newbie. Sam Bankman-Fried founded what he claimed were two separate companies: a hedge fund called Alameda Research and a cryptocurrency exchange called FTX. A crypto exchange is a website where users can buy and sell digital currencies. Another cool thing an exchange can do is create its own cryptocurrency, which is like printing money out of thin air. FTX’s currency was called FTT. Reportedly, the company printed lots of it, much of which got sent to Alameda (which turned out to be not so separate), making it seem like the fund was healthy. When FTX’s customers found out, they panicked and tried to withdraw their money. They were in for an even bigger surprise: It looked like Bankman-Fried had secretly shifted $10 billion of their funds to Alameda. On the Cover — Photo: Sasha Arutyunova Explain it to me like I’m … a crypto sophisticate. Alameda specialized in big bets on crypto companies. To finance those bets, SBF courted investors with promises of high returns and zero risk, which sounds dumb in retrospect but plenty of rich people believed it at the time. FTX was, until recently, the world’s fifth-largest exchange. It had its own token, FTT, which functioned like a loyalty program for customers, giving them perks like discounted transaction fees. But FTT was also bought and sold like a normal token, once trading for as much as $80. (Today, it’s around $1.50.) FTX minted tons of this highly valuable yet extremely imaginary money—there are currently about 300 million FTT tokens in circulation—and reportedly used it as collateral to take out loans for Alameda. This was dangerous because if the price of FTT fell below a certain level, it would leave Alameda unable to pay back its lenders. (When the entire crypto market slumped earlier this year, people were mystified to see FTX bail out several failing companies. SBF may have been trying to prevent those companies from selling their FTT at a discount.) In early November, CoinDesk reported that two-fifths of Alameda’s $14.6 billion balance sheet was held in FTT, sparking panic among FTX customers, who were aware that problems at Alameda could mean problems for the exchange. Changpeng Zhao (a.k.a. CZ), the CEO of rival exchange Binance, dumped 23 million FTT, sending its price into free fall. Twisting the knife, CZ announced a tentative deal to buy FTX, then abandoned it after finding too many holes in the company’s finances. One reason for those holes, according to Reuters: SBF had created a secret backdoor in FTX’s bookkeeping system that allowed him to move depositors’ money off the exchange to Alameda without alerting customers or most of his own employees. Oh, and another plot twist: Turns out SBF had given himself a $1 billion personal loan out of Alameda’s coffers. Explain it to me like I’m … into Shakespeare. “No, they cannot touch me for coining. I am the king himself.” King Lear, Act 4, Scene 6. Got it. Now explain … Where have the FTX depositors gone to panic? How did SBF convince West Africans crypto was their future? What kind of mess did SBF leave behind in the Bahamas? Wait, weren’t his parents law professors? Was Caroline Ellison a main character or the fall girl? Is effective altruism now defective? How much political power did SBF’s millions buy? Why didn’t more reporters see this coming? How did FTX end up at the Met Gala? Will SBF soon be wearing an orange jumpsuit? What does Sam Bankman-Fried have to say for himself? Thank you for subscribing and supporting our journalism . If you prefer to read in print, you can also find this article in the November 21, 2022, issue of New York Magazine. Want more stories like this one? Subscribe now to support our journalism and get unlimited access to our coverage. If you prefer to read in print, you can also find this article in the November 21, 2022, issue of New York Magazine. Tags: remove interruptions sam bankman-fried the money game ftx crypto cryptocurrency politics money new york magazine sbf: the virtue was the con More Show Comment What Happened to FTX? Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission. Sign In to Comment THE FEED 4:22 p.m. we&#x27;ll do it live we&#x27;ll do it live House, Senate Locked in a Shutdown Stalemate: Live Updates By Intelligencer Staff Trump shared a weird AI video starring him as the Grim Reaper as Congress continued informal talks. Welcome to day three. 4:02 p.m. early and often early and often The Other Demand Democrats Should Make During the Shutdown Fight By Ed Kilgore The real prize is winning the 2026 election, and there’s a Trump executive order standing in the way. 1:43 p.m. early and often early and often Trump Goes Over the Brink, Labels Democrats the Party of Satan By Ed Kilgore Aside from poisoning the atmosphere, Trump’s demonization of the opposition is a shout-out to the QAnon cult and “spiritual warriors.” Most Popular An Epic Courtroom Mismatch Is Looming in the Comey Case By Elie Honig The New Court Tactic Helping ICE Deport Immigrants By Mark Chiusano U.S. Colleges Are About to See a Big Decline in Applicants By Jeffrey Selingo The Spinal Surgeries That Didn’t Need to Happen By Paula Aceves The Dark Side Driving Pete Hegseth By Sarah Jones An Epic Courtroom Mismatch Is Looming in the Comey Case By Elie Honig The Dark Side Driving Pete Hegseth By Sarah Jones The Spinal Surgeries That Didn’t Need to Happen By Paula Aceves Why Did DHS Send a Russian Exile to Costa Rica? By Amelia Schonbek The Mamdani Effect By David Freedlander 12:00 p.m. the approval matrix the approval matrix The Approval Matrix: The Life of a One-Term Mayor Our guide to what’s highbrow, lowbrow, brilliant, and despicable. 11:50 a.m. early and often early and often Trump Regards Millions of Americans As Enemies of the People By Ed Kilgore His sudden zest for mass layoffs of federal employees is another sign that Trump’s vengeance tour is taking in more territory every day. 9:30 a.m. early and often early and often Democrats Must Decide What It Means to Win a Shutdown Fight By Ed Kilgore They aren’t going to get everything they’re demanding. But Democrats can show they’re willing to fight and rehearse a midterms message. 6:00 a.m. the law the law An Epic Courtroom Mismatch Is Looming in the Comey Case By Elie Honig A prosecutorial legend will be facing off against a (to put it kindly) fumbling beginner. 5:00 a.m. immigration immigration Why Did DHS Send a Russian Exile to Costa Rica? By Amelia Schonbek How Trump’s third-country removal strategy forced an asylum-seeking family to start over — in Monteverde. 10/2/2025 tremendous content tremendous content Why Did Melania Trump Share an AI Body-Double Video?: 4 Theories. By Margaret Hartmann Is the First Lady’s bizarre X post an ad for her troubled cryptocurrency or confirmation of “fake Melania”? 10/2/2025 politics politics Is the Trump Administration’s Shutdown Messaging Illegal? By Nia Prater Federal-agency websites and federal workers’ email messages blame Democrats for the shutdown in a possible violation of the Hatch Act. 10/2/2025 early and often early and often Trump’s 2024 Coalition Has Already Fallen Apart By Ed Kilgore Polls show Trump has lost the young, Black, and Latino supporters he attracted in 2024, leaving him with the same old white working-class base. 10/2/2025 crime crime Will Trump Pardon Diddy? What to Know Before the Sentencing. By Margaret Hartmann The president said a pardon would be “difficult,” but also called his former friend “half innocent.” 10/2/2025 early and often early and often It’s Hard to Fight McCarthyism When McCarthy Is President By Ed Kilgore Relaunching free-speech groups that fought the Red Scare is helpful. But last time, they ha