# Urban Sprawl

**Source**: https://www.britannica.com/explore/savingearth/urban-sprawl
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:55:02.380021+00:00

---

The Problem of Urban Sprawl | Saving Earth | Encyclopedia Britannica Problems Global Warming Water Crisis Pollution Biodiversity Loss Causes and Solutions 50 years 50 Year Progress Environmental Legislation International Cooperation Environmental Setbacks Quiz Biodiversity Loss Quiz Climate Change Quiz Climate Change: Fact or Fiction Quiz Ecosystems Quiz Take Action Everyday Environmental Tips Meet the Organizations Meet the Environmental Activists Podcast Advocacy Student Center > 100Women > Space Exploration > Student Center > 100Women > Space Exploration > Problems Causes and Solutions 50 years Quiz Take Action Podcast Advocacy Search Close Search Search: Submit Menu Global Warming is Real Global Warming Find out how global warming affects climate, and explore the different ways climate change is occurring. Learn the real facts The Biodiversity Loss Biodiversity Loss Nonhuman life on Earth is suffering. Explore the major threats to biodiversity. Learn about threatened species The Water Crisis Water Crisis Learn about the causes and effects of water scarcity at a global level, and about its strategies and solutions. Learn about water scarcity The Pollution Problem Pollution Pollution is one of the most serious yet easiest problems to overcome because it relies on human actions. Learn what is a pollutant Know the Causes Consumption Manufacturing Mass Production The Problem of Urban Sprawl Eutrophication Human Population Key Solution Sustainability Sustainability is the long-term viability of a community, set of social institutions, or societal practice. Learn More › Know the Solutions Pollution Control Recycling Ethical Consumerism Compost Extended Producer Responsibility Hazardous-Waste Management Environmental Engineering 50 Years of Progress 50 Year Progress While we have experienced environmental challenges, 50 years of progress has shown us what we can do when we pull together. Celebrate the news International cooperation International Cooperation Learn about global activism that have changed the ways we interact with our precious planet for the better. Learn More › Environmental Legislation Environmental Legislation The past 50 years encompass nearly all of the major milestones in U.S. environmental legislation. Learn More › Environmental Setbacks Environmental Setbacks Learn about the devastating environmental setbacks that have occurred over the last 50 years. Learn More › Petroleum Fact or Fiction Petroleum: Fact or Fiction Quiz Rev up your mental engines and get your juices pumping in this high-octane petroleum quiz. Start Your Quiz Groundwater Quiz Groundwater Quiz You may know all about what happens to water aboveground, but what do you know about groundwater? Test your knowledge with this quiz. Start the Quiz Biodiversity loss Biodiversity Loss Quiz Do you know about the threats facing nonhuman life on Earth? Take this quiz to test your knowledge. Start the Quiz Climate change Climate Change Quiz Which gases play an important role in climate change? Test your knowledge of this "hot" topic with this quiz. Learn More › Your Actions Everyday Environmental Tips Your actions as an informed consumer have great power, and consumer-driven change is already happening. Learn More › Activists Meet the Environmental Activists Who are some of the past and present voices in the fight to protect our planet? Learn More › Organizations Meet the Organizations Who are some of the past and present voices in the fight to protect our planet? Learn More › Postcards from the 6th Mass Extinction Postcards from the 6th Mass Extinction Britannica Earth Scientist John Rafferty examines Earth’s current episode of mass extinction Listen now Botanize Botanize Britannica botanist Melissa Petruzzello explores what keeps the world green… or not. Listen now On-This-Day Listen to the Stories of the Day Listen now The Problem of Urban Sprawl Biodiversity Loss Urban sprawl , also called sprawl or suburban sprawl , the rapid expansion of the geographic extent of cities and towns, often characterized by low-density residential housing, single-use zoning , and increased reliance on the private automobile for transportation. Urban sprawl is caused in part by the need to accommodate a rising urban population; however, in many metropolitan areas it results from a desire for increased living space and other residential amenities. Urban sprawl has been correlated with increased energy use, pollution , and traffic congestion and a decline in community distinctiveness and cohesiveness. In addition, by increasing the physical and environmental “footprints” of metropolitan areas, the phenomenon leads to the destruction of wildlife habitat and to the fragmentation of remaining natural areas. Urban sprawl has been correlated with increased energy use, pollution, and traffic congestion and a decline in community distinctiveness and cohesiveness. In addition, by increasing the physical and environmental “footprints” of metropolitan areas, the phenomenon leads to the destruction of wildlife habitat and to the fragmentation of remaining natural areas. During the period of economic prosperity in the United States following the end of World War II, increased manufacturing output and new federal loan programs allowed many American citizens to purchase single-family homes and private automobiles. At the same time, continued road-building projects, most notably the onset of the Interstate Highway System in 1956, and other infrastructure development made it possible to build homes on land that was previously inaccessible. Compared with land in the cities, suburban land was relatively inexpensive, and the homes constructed on this land afforded more space to their occupants than inner-city dwellings. Some citizens moved to the suburbs to enjoy a lifestyle that was ostensibly closer to nature; however, others moved to escape the congestion, crime, and noise of the city. Suburban residents retained a connection to the city through their automobiles. Over time this migration to the suburbs, along with rising local populations, led to substantial increases in the geographic extent, or spatial footprint, of metropolitan areas in the United States. According to the U.S. Bureau of the Census, the causes of urban sprawl are divided equally between local population increases and lifestyle choices. For example, between 1970 and 1990, metropolitan areas in the western United States (such as Las Vegas , Nevada, Seattle , Washington, and Salt Lake City , Utah) experienced massive influxes of new residents that contributed to increases in their individual spatial footprints. On the other hand, in the metropolitan areas of the eastern and central United States, relatively modest population growth was also accompanied by significant spatial growth. For example, the population of the metropolitan areas of Chicago , Illinois, Kansas City , Missouri, and Baltimore , Maryland, grew by 1 percent, 16 percent and 20 percent, respectively, between 1970 and 1990, but each area’s geographic extent grew by 24 percent, 55 percent, and 91 percent, respectively. The spatial footprints of major cities in the Midwest and the Northeast, such as Detroit , Michigan, and Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania, grew approximately 30 percent even as the cities experienced declines in population over the same period. For many years, urban sprawl was thought to be an exclusively American problem; however, this phenomenon is occurring in several other countries. According to data collected in 2002 by the European Environment Agency, the population of a subset of European countries increased by only 6 percent between 1980 and 2000; however, the spatial footprint of built-up areas within these countries increased by 20 percent. The spatial footprints of some metropolitan areas, such as Palermo , Italy, expanded significantly more from the mid-1950s to the late 1990s. Palermo’s population rose 50 percent but its spatial footprint increased 200 percent over the period. Aerial view of a suburban neighbourhood in Las Vegas, Nevada. Credit: ©iofoto/Shutterstock.com Worldwide, people are moving to cities. According to the United Nations Population Division, 29 percent of the world’s population lived in urban areas in 1950. By the late 2000s this figure had increased to about 49 percent. In developed countries this fraction was much higher. In the United States, for example, the urban population rose from roughly 64 percent in 1950 to about 81 percent in 2007. Similarly, Japan’s urban population increased from roughly 40 percent to about 66 percent over the same period. In contrast, less-affluent developing countries contain fewer urban residents. In India, for example, the urban population increased from 17 percent in 1950 to about 29 percent in 2007. Similarly, Egypt’s urban population rose from about 32 percent to approximately 43 percent over the same interval. Causes There are many factors that contribute to urban sprawl. As indicated by the statistics cited above, population increases alone do not account for increases in a metropolitan area’s urban extent. In many cases, urban sprawl has occurred in areas experiencing population declines, and some areas with rising populations experience little urban sprawl, especially in developing countries. Economic growth and globalization are often cited as the principal macroeconomic drivers of urban sprawl; however, increased affluence, attractive land and housing prices, and the desire for larger homes with more amenities (such as yards, household appliances, storage space, and privacy) play significant roles at the level of the individual. Many experts also believe that weak planning laws and single-use zoning also contribute to urban sprawl. The construction of houses, utilities, and roads in the suburbs, along with the delivery of resources to suburban residents and workers, are integral components of the gross national product of developed countries. Because much of 