# Francis Ford Coppola 50 Years After The Godfather

**Source**: https://www.gq.com/story/francis-ford-coppola-50-years-after-the-godfather
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:57:06.304066+00:00

---

Francis Ford Coppola’s $100 Million Bet | GQ Skip to main content STYLE SHOPPING CULTURE GROOMING WELLNESS GQ SPORTS THE GQ BOX VIDEOS Menu Menu Newsletters Menu Menu STYLE SHOPPING Expand New Arrivals Under $250 Office Style Editors&#x27; Wishlists Watches Sneakers On Sale Now All Shopping CULTURE GROOMING WELLNESS GQ SPORTS VIDEOS THE GQ BOX MORE MEN OF THE YEAR NEWSLETTERS Search Search Sign In Culture Francis Ford Coppola’s $100 Million Bet Fifty years after he gave us The Godfather, the iconic director is chasing his grandest project yet&#8212;and putting up over $100 million of his own money to prove his best work is still ahead of him. By Zach Baron Photography by Jim Goldberg February 17, 2022 Save Story Save this story Save Story Save this story This story was featured in The Must Read, a newsletter in which our editors recommend one can’t-miss story every weekday. Sign up here to get it in your inbox. Francis Ford Coppola lives—as he has in one way or another since directing 1972&#x27;s The Godfather —in splendor. Loosely held splendor: In the ensuing five decades, Coppola has filed for bankruptcy at least once and has been expelled from Hollywood more than once. But splendor nonetheless. His primary residence is in the Napa Valley, on the grounds of a once-great vineyard, Inglenook, that Coppola has spent the past 47 years making great again. There is a grand old château here, where the wine used to be made, and a state-of-the-art facility where wine is made now. There is a carriage house that holds a film-editing suite and Coppola&#x27;s personal film archive—shooting scripts for The Cotton Club and Jack and The Outsiders ; the written score for Bram Stoker&#x27;s Dracula ; research material for The Godfather Part III. There is a two-story guest barn on a mossy edge of the property, where his children often stay, and an old Victorian house built by a sea captain, where the Coppolas raised their family and where they still entertain, though they have since built themselves another house to live in. There are roaming gangs of wild turkeys among the trees and creeping vines and an outdoor fountain designed by Dean Tavoularis, the set designer of The Godfather. There is, in almost every corner of this place, something beautiful: a first edition of Leaves of Grass ; a painting by Akira Kurosawa or Robert De Niro Sr.; a photo of Coppola&#x27;s daughter, Sofia, embracing Coppola&#x27;s old friend George Lucas. Coppola, who is 82, moves between these various buildings in a Tesla or a Nissan Leaf that he drives at alarming speed, or on foot, bent over at the waist as if walking into a powerful wind. He has already told me that I&#x27;m too impressed with what he owns, what he&#x27;s had and lost and gained again. “That&#x27;s what you&#x27;re having trouble with, really,” he said. “You are meeting a guy who basically can tell you quite honestly my motive in doing what I did in my life was never to make a lot of money.” He grinned. “Ironically, I did what I wanted to do and I also made a lot of money.” A brief pause. “That&#x27;s a joke.” But he has made a lot of money: first in the film business and then, spectacularly, in the wine business. His second fortune has allowed him to spend most of his time here now, he said, reading things like the 18th-century Chinese novel Dream of the Red Chamber, one of the longest books ever written. “They spend their time inventing poetic names for things,” Coppola told me about the characters in the novel. “For example, if I were to say hello to you, I should have met you on the Steps of Friendly Greetings and greeted you there. And when I say goodbye to you, I should take you into the Pavilion of Parting. And it&#x27;s the sort of attitude of making everything in life beautiful and a ritual of a kind. And you can do it! I&#x27;ll say goodbye to you in the Pavilion of Parting—you&#x27;ll never forget it.” Coppola likes to describe himself as a “second-rate film director,” paraphrasing the composer Richard Strauss: “But I&#x27;m a first-rate second-rate film director.” In reality, of course, Coppola has directed more than one of the greatest movies ever made. Anyone who has worked on a film will tell you that luck plays a role, that it&#x27;s a collaborative medium, that art and commerce and dead-eyed executives and feckless actors all come together to make something beyond the director&#x27;s control, sometimes for better, often for worse. But Coppola, for a time, played by other rules entirely. After winning an Academy Award for the screenplay for 1970&#x27;s Patton, Coppola went on to make, consecutively, The Godfather (1972), The Conversation (1974), The Godfather Part II (1974), and Apocalypse Now (1979). To point out that Coppola won five Oscars by the time he was 36 is to understate what was going on at this time; better to just say that for a while he saw something like the face of God, and leave it at that. This year marks the 50th anniversary of The Godfather &#x27;s release. Nominally, this is why I&#x27;ve been invited here, to discuss the film and participate in what has become a familiar ritual for Coppola as past anniversaries have come and gone. But Coppola&#x27;s relationship to The Godfather is complicated. “That film ruined me,” he told me, “in the sense that it was so successful that everything I did was compared to it.” Coppola still has fascinating things to say about the movie and will do so in the course of our conversations. But what he&#x27;s really interested in talking about is something else. Something new. It is a film called Megalopolis, and Coppola has been trying to make it, intermittently, for more than 40 years. If I could summarize the plot for you in a concise way, I would, but I can&#x27;t, because Coppola can&#x27;t either. Ask him. “It&#x27;s very simple,” he&#x27;ll say. “The premise of Megalopolis ? Well, it&#x27;s basically… I would ask you a question, first of all: Do you know much about utopia?” The best I can do, after literally hours talking about it with him, is this: It&#x27;s a love story that is also a philosophical investigation of the nature of man; it&#x27;s set in New York, but a New York steeped in echoes of ancient Rome; its scale and ambition are vast enough that Coppola has estimated that it will cost $120 million to make. What he dreams about, he said, is creating something like It&#x27;s a Wonderful Life —a movie everyone goes to see, once a year, forever. “On New Year&#x27;s, instead of talking about the fact that you&#x27;re going to give up carbohydrates, I&#x27;d like this one question to be discussed, which is: Is the society we live in the only one available to us? And discuss it.” Somehow, Megalopolis will provoke exactly this discussion, Coppola hopes. Annually. You may be wondering at this point: What Hollywood studio, in the age of Marvel, will fund such a grand, ambitious, impossible-to-summarize project? How do executives at these companies react when he describes the film to them? “Same way they did,” Coppola answered, “when I had won five Oscars and was the hottest film director in town and walked in with Apocalypse Now and said, ‘I&#x27;d like to make this next.’ I own Apocalypse Now. Do you know why I own Apocalypse Now ? Because no one else wanted it. So imagine, if that was the case when I was 33 or whatever the age and I had won every award and had broken every record and still absolutely no one wanted to join me”—imagine how they&#x27;re reacting now, to present-day Francis Ford Coppola. But, he said, “I know that Megalopolis , the more personal I make it, and the more like a dream in me that I do it, the harder it will be to finance. And the longer it will earn money because people will be spending the next 50 years trying to think: What&#x27;s really in Megalopolis ? What is he saying? My God, what does that mean when that happens?” And so this is Coppola&#x27;s plan. He is going to take $120 million of his own fortune, at 82 years of age, and make the damn movie himself. Watch Now: Francis Ford Coppola Breaks Down His Most Iconic Films The first time we met, it was for lunch in the solarium of Coppola&#x27;s old home. I&#x27;d come over from the rambling house he&#x27;d invited me to stay in on a remote part of his property. This is Coppola&#x27;s way: a hospitality that is so total it feels like intimacy. And so I&#x27;d woken that morning to the sound of a creek roaring and watched the sun dawn sleepily above the grapevines Coppola spends much of his time these days obsessing over. Coppola arrived for lunch in a yellow shirt, an ascot, and a zip-up sweater, his hair rakishly pushed back. He removed from his pocket a pair of hearing aids—“I did a lot of research,” he said. “Eventually, I came up with the fact that the best hearing aid of all was the one that you could get from Costco”—but otherwise seemed almost frighteningly youthful. The willful stamina you see exhibited by Coppola in old documentaries like Hearts of Darkness or Filmmaker is still exactly what you see now: like he&#x27;s going to talk and talk and talk until everything makes sense and everyone gets in line. Coppola was noticeably thin, the result, he said, of a sustained stay a few years back at a place in North Carolina called the Duke Health &amp; Fitness Center. He scrutinized me carefully. “How old are you?” he asked. “Thirty-nine,” I told him. “Right. So, when I was your age, I was quite successful. But I was very overweight. So you are fortunate. Now, are you married?” “I am,” I told him. “So you&#x27;re lucky that you&#x27;re that trim,” he said, earnestly. Coppola told me that as part of preparing to make Megalopolis —and after seeing himself on TV during an episode of Anthony Bourdain&#x27;s show—he&#x27;d made a concerted effort to lose weight. “I realized that there are not a lot of 85-year-old, 300-pound men—not that I was ever that weight, but I was always in that vicinity—walking around. So I understood th