# Ozempic

**Source**: https://www.thecut.com/tags/ozempic/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:36:27.758254+00:00

---

Ozempic - The Cut Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Style Self Culture Power Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Displaying all articles tagged: Ozempic dating May 26, 2025 What It’s Really Like to Date on Ozempic “Men have the misconception that I don’t eat a lot because I’m putting on a demure act.” As told to Charlotte Lytton health Apr. 28, 2025 Wellness Influencer Janelle Rohner Says She Took GLP-1s She offered to refund followers who bought her $200 macro-tracking class. By Emily Leibert first person Jan. 7, 2025 My PMDD Ruled My Life. Then I Got on Zepbound. Since I started weight-loss drugs, my monthly cycle is no longer hellish. Doctors have no idea why. By Elisabeth Donnelly health Oct. 24, 2024 Ozempic Influencers’ Time Might Be Up The telehealth companies they work with may not be able to prescribe the off-brand drugs forever. By Lindsay Gellman health Sept. 27, 2024 The GLP-1 Supplement Boom Kourtney Kardashian’s brand Lemme isn’t the only one trying to market “natural” Ozempic. By Bindu Bansinath first person Sept. 13, 2024 In the Fitting Room Post-Ozempic Figuring out what to wear — and what to come to terms with — after the transformation from taking weight-loss drugs. By Samhita Mukhopadhyay style July 8, 2024 An “I Heart Ozempic” Top Debuts in Berlin A flashback to a time when graphic tees were controversial. By Chantal Fernandez health May 10, 2024 Oprah Is Ready to Atone In a new WeightWatchers special, she acknowledged that she’s been “a major contributor” to diet culture. By Erica Schwiegershausen first person May 8, 2024 So Was Body Positivity ‘All a Big Lie’? If we all want to be skinny again — and we have “miracle drugs” to get us there — can we still love ourselves at any size? By Samhita Mukhopadhyay culture May 1, 2024 Barbra Streisand Asked Melissa McCarthy If She’s on Ozempic Fans weren’t impressed. By Tariro Mzezewa and Olivia Craighead health Apr. 9, 2024 Do Weight-Loss Drugs Make Birth Control Less Effective? Patients have reported getting unexpectedly pregnant while taking drugs like Ozempic and Mounjaro. By Bindu Bansinath celebrity Mar. 31, 2024 Rebel Wilson Says She Took Ozempic “Someone like me could have a bottomless appetite for sweets, so I think those drugs can be good,” the actress said. By Emily Leibert celebrity Mar. 19, 2024 The Biggest Takeaways From Oprah’s Ozempic Special In her new special, Oprah gets candid about her experience using weight-loss drugs. By Olivia Craighead health Mar. 15, 2024 Oprah Left WeightWatchers to Avoid a ‘Conflict of Interest’ “I wanted to be able to talk about whatever I wanted to talk about.” By Tariro Mzezewa health Mar. 14, 2024 The Ozempic Pushers Some fat patients say doctors are pressuring them to take the miracle drug instead of listening to their immediate health concerns. By Angelina Chapin celebrity Mar. 7, 2024 Oprah Is Really Leaning Into Ozempic She’ll be hosting a prime-time special about weight-loss drugs later this month. By Olivia Craighead culture Mar. 5, 2024 Kate Winslet Just Learned What Ozempic Is And she thinks the injectable weight-loss drug sounds terrible. By Tariro Mzezewa celebrity Feb. 29, 2024 Oprah Is Breaking Up With WeightWatchers After nine years on the board, she announced she’s stepping down and donating her stock. By Olivia Craighead health Feb. 2, 2024 What to Know About the Lawsuits Over Ozempic Side Effects The drug’s manufacturer has been hit with a slew of lawsuits claiming it failed to warn patients about potentially life-threatening side effects. By Bindu Bansinath health Dec. 19, 2023 An American Girlhood in the Ozempic Era Parents, activists, and doctors are divided about giving children new weight-loss drugs. At age 13, Maggie Ervie became one of the first to take them. By Lisa Miller health Dec. 15, 2023 WeightWatchers Is Now Prescribing Ozempic For a fee, people will have access to clinicians who can prescribe weight-loss drugs. By Tariro Mzezewa celebrity Dec. 13, 2023 Oprah Says She’s Taking Weight-Loss Drugs She’s “done with the shaming” around medications like Ozempic. By Olivia Craighead health Nov. 28, 2023 What to Know About Zepbound The diabetes drug Mounjaro has now been approved for weight loss. By Bindu Bansinath ozempic Aug. 3, 2023 A Louisiana Woman Is Suing the Makers of Ozempic and Mounjaro Her lawsuit alleges she was throwing up so violently while on the drugs she lost teeth. By Bindu Bansinath health June 15, 2023 What to Know About Berberine The supplement TikTok influencers call “nature’s Ozempic” isn’t FDA-approved and its long-term effects are unclear. By Bindu Bansinath bravo Apr. 5, 2023 Dolores Catania Says She’s on the Mounjaro ‘Bandwagon’ The Real Housewives star claims “not one” of her castmates isn’t taking weight-loss drugs. By Tariro Mzezewa celebrity Mar. 20, 2023 Julia Fox Says She’s Not on Ozempic “There are diabetics that need it.” By Danielle Cohen health Mar. 7, 2023 WeightWatchers Is Getting In on the Ozempic Boom The company acquired telehealth provider Sequence, which prescribes weight-loss drugs, for $106 million. By Matthew Schneier first person Mar. 1, 2023 Mounjaro and Me Body positivity was my salvation from an anti-fat world. Then my doctor prescribed me an injectable weight-loss drug that upended everything. By Samhita Mukhopadhyay health Feb. 27, 2023 Life After Food? A diabetes miracle drug has become an off-label appetite suppressant, changing the definition of being thin and what it takes to get there. By Matthew Schneier ozempic Feb. 21, 2023 Meghan McCain Says She’s Being ‘Urged’ to Take Ozempic “I’m not taking it,” she writes in an op-ed for the Daily Mail. “I refuse.” By Tariro Mzezewa celebrities Feb. 16, 2023 Jackie Goldschneider Suggests Some Real Housewives Use Ozempic “I’m very very scared of what will happen if and when people have to go off this drug.” By Olivia Truffaut-Wong celebrity Feb. 9, 2023 Celebrities Keep Distancing Themselves From Ozempic The conversation around the drug reveals how deeply ingrained fatphobia still is. By Tariro Mzezewa celebrity Feb. 8, 2023 Lala Kent Is Not a Fan of the Ozempic Trend The Vanderpump Rules star wants Hollywood to “do better.” By Olivia Truffaut-Wong weight loss Jan. 25, 2023 Chelsea Handler Says She Didn’t Realize She Was on Ozempic “My anti-aging doctor just hands it out to anybody.” By Danielle Cohen celebrity Jan. 17, 2023 Kyle Richards Sets the Record Straight on Ozempic Rumors “I am NOT taking Ozempic. Never have.” By Olivia Truffaut-Wong health Nov. 15, 2022 You Might Go Through Hell for Your Post-Ozempic Body Patients describe constant nausea and vomiting. But doctors say everyone is asking for it. By Devin Tomb Style Self Culture Power Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us About The Cut About New York Magazine Newsletters Help Contact Press Media Kit We’re Hiring Privacy Terms Ad Choices Do Not Sell My Info Accessibility Do not sell or share my personal data The Cut is a Vox Media Network . &copy; 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All rights reserved.