# Inside Apple

**Source**: https://fortune.com/article/inside-apple/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:56:29.324152+00:00

---

How Apple Works: Inside the World&#x27;s Biggest Startup | Fortune Search Home News Fortune 500 Fortune Global 500 Fortune 500 Europe Fortune China 500 Fortune SEA 500 Great Place to Work Tech AI Innovation Cybersecurity Finance Personal Finance Real Estate Economy Investing Banking Crypto Leadership Success Future of Work Workplace Culture C-Suite CEO Initiative Lifestyle Arts &amp; Entertainment Travel &amp; Leisure Health Well Education Rankings Analytics Multimedia Live Media Magazine Newsletters Video Podcasts Home News Fortune 500 Fortune 500 Fortune Sea 500 Fortune 500 Europe Fortune Global 500 Fortune China 500 Great Place To Work Tech Tech Ai Innovation Cybersecurity Finance Finance Personal Finance Real Estate Economy Banking Investing Crypto Leadership Leadership Success Future Of Work Workplace Culture C-suite Ceo Initiative Lifestyle Lifestyle Arts &amp; Entertainment Travel &amp; Leisure Health Well Education Rankings Rankings Analytics Multimedia Multimedia Live Media Magazine Newsletters Video Podcasts Asia Europe Analytics Tech How Apple works: Inside the world’s biggest startup By Adam Lashinsky By Adam Lashinsky Illustration: ilovedust Apple doesn’t often fail, and when it does, it isn’t a pretty sight at 1 Infinite Loop. In the summer of 2008, when Apple (AAPL) launched the first version of its iPhone that worked on third-generation mobile networks, it also debuted MobileMe, an e-mail system that was supposed to provide the seamless synchronization features that corporate users love about their BlackBerry smartphones. MobileMe was a dud. Users complained about lost e-mails, and syncing was spotty at best. Though reviewers gushed over the new iPhone, they panned the MobileMe service. Steve Jobs doesn’t tolerate duds. Shortly after the launch event, he summoned the MobileMe team, gathering them in the Town Hall auditorium in Building 4 of Apple’s campus, the venue the company uses for intimate product unveilings for journalists. According to a participant in the meeting, Jobs walked in, clad in his trademark black mock turtleneck and blue jeans, clasped his hands together, and asked a simple question: “Can anyone tell me what MobileMe is supposed to do?” Having received a satisfactory answer, he continued, “So why the fuck doesn’t it do that?” For the next half-hour Jobs berated the group. “You’ve tarnished Apple’s reputation,” he told them. “You should hate each other for having let each other down.” The public humiliation particularly infuriated Jobs. Walt Mossberg, the influential Wall Street Journal gadget columnist, had panned MobileMe. “Mossberg, our friend, is no longer writing good things about us,” Jobs said. On the spot, Jobs named a new executive to run the group. For more on Apple , watch this Fortune video: Jobs’ handling of the MobileMe debacle offers a rare glimpse of how Apple really operates. To Apple’s legion of admirers, the company is like a tech version of Wonka’s factory, an enigmatic but enchanted place that produces wonderful items they can’t get enough of. That characterization is true, butApple also is a brutal and unforgiving place, where accountability is strictly enforced, decisions are swift, and communication is articulated clearly from the top. (After Jobs’ tirade, much of the MobileMe team disbanded, and those left behind eventually turned MobileMe into the service Jobs demanded.) Apple’s ruthless corporate culture is just one piece of a mystery that virtually every business executive in the world would love to understand: How doesApple do it? How does a company with more than 50,000 employees and with annual revenue approaching $100 billion grow 60% a year? How does it churn out hit after hit? Those are questions Apple has no desire to answer. This past January, when a Wall Street analyst asked Tim Cook, Apple’s low-key chief operating officer, how far out the company conducts long-term planning, Cook replied with an artful brushoff. “Well, that is a part of the magic ofApple,” he said. “And I don’t want to let anybody know our magic because I don’t want anybody copying it.” Click above to enlarge. Just because a magician doesn’t want to reveal his tricks doesn’t mean it’s impossible to figure them out. Fortune conducted dozens of interviews over several months with former Apple employees and others in the Apple orbit to try to explain the phenomenon of life inside Apple. Few agreed to speak on the record; the fear of retribution persists for years. Once they get talking, however, the former Apple-ites paint a picture of a company that time and again thumbs its nose at modern corporate conventions in ways that let it behave more like a cutting-edge startup than the consumer-electronics behemoth it is. Whether Apple’s startup ways are sustainable or the result of the sheer will of Steve Jobs is the great unknown in explaining how Apple works. Every conversation with insiders about Apple, even if it doesn’t start out being about Jobs, eventually comes around to him. The creative process at Apple is one of constantly preparing someone—be it one’s boss, one’s boss’s boss, or oneself—for a presentation to Jobs. He’s a corporate dictator who makes every critical decision—and oodles of seemingly noncritical calls too, from the design of the shuttle buses that ferry employees to and from San Francisco to what food will be served in the cafeteria. But just as Jobs sees everything going on at the company, he’s not blind to the fact that things will be radically different without him at the top. Jobs currently is on his third medical leave in seven years—he survived a rare form of pancreatic cancer and later received a liver transplant—and his absence has only fueled the fascination with him. Jobs is still heavily involved in Apple, of course. He personally took charge of Apple’s response to the recent Locationgate, for example, granting interviews to several news outlets to answer accusations that Apple is tracking the whereabouts of iPhone users. On a more strategic level, these days he’s especially focused on institutionalizing his ways of doing business. His mission: to turn the traits that people most closely associate with Jobs—the attention to detail, the secrecy, the constant feedback—into processes that can ensure Apple’s excellence far into the future. Apple CEO and co-founder Steve Jobs on March 2, 2012, emerged from a medical leave of absence to introduce the second generation of the iPad. Photograph by Kimihiro Hoshino — Getty Images So exalted is Steve Jobs that often he is compared, metaphorically at least, to Jesus Christ. (Exhibit A: Alan Deutschman’s revealing 11-year-old book, The Second Coming of Steve Jobs.) True to form, the shepherd to his Apple flock often teaches in parables. One such lesson could be called the “Difference Between the Janitor and the Vice President,” and it’s a sermon Jobs delivers every time an executive reaches the VP level. Jobs imagines his garbage regularly not being emptied in his office, and when he asks the janitor why, he gets an excuse: The locks have been changed, and the janitor doesn’t have a key. This is an acceptable excuse coming from someone who empties trash bins for a living. The janitor gets to explain why something went wrong. Senior people do not. “When you’re the janitor,” Jobs has repeatedly told incoming VPs, “reasons matter.” He continues: “Somewhere between the janitor and the CEO, reasons stop mattering.” That “Rubicon,” he has said, “is crossed when you become a VP.” (Apple has about 70 vice presidents out of more than 25,000 non-retail-store employees.) Jobs indoctrinates a culture of responsibility by hosting a series of weekly meetings that are the metronome that sets the beat for the entire company. On Mondays he meets with his executive management team to discuss results and strategy as well as to review nearly every important project in the company. On Wednesdays he holds a marketing and communications meeting. Simplicity breeds clarity, as Jobs himself explained in a 2008 interview with Fortune. “Every Monday we review the whole business,” he said. “We look at every single product under development. I put out an agenda. Eighty percent is the same as it was the last week, and we just walk down it every single week. We don’t have a lot of process at Apple, but that’s one of the few things we do just to all stay on the same page.” It’s one thing when the leader describes the process. It’s another thing altogether when the troops candidly parrot back the impact it has on them. “From a design perspective, having every junior- level designer getting direct executive-level feedback is killer,” says Andrew Borovsky, a former Apple designer who now runs 80/20, a New York design shop. “On a regular basis you either get positive feedback or are told to stop doing stupid shit.” Read More: Exclusive Q&amp;A — Apple CEO Tim Cook The accountability mindset extends down the ranks. At Apple there is never any confusion as to who is responsible for what. Internal Applespeak even has a name for it, the “DRI,” or directly responsible individual. Often the DRI’s name will appear on an agenda for a meeting, so everybody knows who is responsible. “Any effective meeting at Apple will have an action list,” says a former employee. “Next to each action item will be the DRI.” A common phrase heard around Apple when someone is trying to learn the right contact on a project: “Who’s the DRI on that?” Simplicity also is key to Apple’s organizational structure. The org chart (see next page) is deceptively straightforward, with none of the dotted-line or matrixed responsibilities popular elsewhere in the corporate world. There aren’t any committees at Apple, the concept of general management is frowned on, and only one person, the chief financial officer, has a “P&amp;L,” or responsibility for costs and expenses that lead to profits or losses. It’s a radical example of Apple’s different course: Most companies view the P&amp;L