# Seeing Things Richard Hawkinss Haunted Houses

**Source**: https://archive.nytimes.com/tmagazine.blogs.nytimes.com/2010/05/27/seeing-things-richard-hawkinss-haunted-houses/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:45:10.551001+00:00

---

Seeing Things | Richard Hawkins&apos;s Haunted Houses Go Back To Home Women&apos;s Fashion Men&apos;s Fashion Design Travel Food Culture Video Seeing Things | Richard Hawkins&#x2019;s Haunted Houses Culture , Design By Brooke Hodge May 27, 2010 9:30 am May 27, 2010 9:30 am Fredrik Nilsen &#x201C;The Last House&#x201D; is one of two new sculptures on view in Richard Hawkins&#x2019;s new show at Richard Telles Fine Art in Los Angeles. What do cute Japanese boys have to do with haunted houses? Related Read more Seeing Things columns Take a look at the artist Richard Hawkins&#x2019;s new show at Richard Telles Fine Art in Los Angeles. Hawkins, who works in a variety of media, including sculpture, painting and collage, has been making melancholy haunted house sculptures out of dollhouses since 2007. (His work will be the subject of an exhibition that opens October 22 at the Art Institute of Chicago .) Like the hobbyist who fastidiously attends to every detail of interior and exterior, Hawkins works obsessively on the exterior finishes and interior decorating, placing a miniature porcelain vase here, a little Chinese silk lantern there, and hanging tiny pieces of laundry to dry from tiny balconies. But rather than creating pristine replicas of period architecture, the artist makes his houses look decrepit and abandoned. Hawkins&#x2019;s earlier haunted house sculptures evoked a Paris bordello frequented by Proust and reflected the artist&#x2019;s interest in French decadence. This exhibition features two magnificent new sculptures. &#x201C;The Last House,&#x201D; which Hawkins said might be the last of his altered-dollhouse pieces, occupies the gallery&#x2019;s main room, along with a group of collages with the mysterious title &#x201C;Edogawa Ranpo.&#x201D; Fredrik Nilsen In Edogawa Ranpo #2, a collage by Richard Hawkins, fresh-faced Japanese hair-style models float like spectres in a derelict interior. It&#x2019;s in these collages that the cute boys make their appearance. Circular cutouts from contemporary Japanese hairstyle magazines float as if they are fresh-faced specters inside Hawkins&#x2019;s inky, derelict interiors. The title refers to the pseudonym of a Japanese mystery writer who was obsessed with Edgar Allan Poe and, when pronounced by Japanese speakers, sounds like Poe&#x2019;s name. Hawkins explains that he was thinking of something akin to a Japanese version of Scooby Doo, since some of Ranpo&#x2019;s mysteries feature characters called &#x201C;The Boy Detective Gang.&#x201D; Indeed, both &#x201C;The Last House&#x201D; and Hawkins&#x2019;s interiors seem to have more to do with pop culture and the dark humor of the Addams Family than the macabre decaying world of Baby Jane Hudson and her sister Blanche. Fredrik Nilsen A close look at Richard Hawkins&#x2019;s &#x201C;The Last House&#x201D; reveals the artist&#x2019;s obsessive attention to detail and his skill at faux finishes. Hawkins worked on &#x201C;The Last House&#x201D; as he would a collage or a painting: forming it, taking it apart, reconstructing it, hacking into it, shoring it up inside and then decorating it obsessively over the course of two years. Close inspection reveals a bricked-up window, weathered wood siding, rickety fences, patches of corrugated tin, and glimpses of lamps and furniture inside. Although he has an architect&#x2019;s eye for materials and construction, Hawkins thinks of himself more as a decorator or faux-finisher and said that the obsessively painted exteriors of his sculptures soaked up his tendency toward fussiness, so he could be looser in his paintings and drawings. The second sculpture, &#x201C;Dilapidarian Tower,&#x201D; is a tall, many-sided structure that evokes Hong Kong&#x2019;s traditional residential buildings. The artist, who is afraid of heights, is fascinated that Hong Kong residents live so high up in buildings and carelessly place their belongings on ledges and balconies 30 stories in the air. While &#x201C;The Last House&#x201D; takes us back in time, &#x201C;Dilapidarian Tower&#x201D; transports the viewer to a more exotic locale in real time. You can almost feel the corrugated tin rusting in the Hong Kong humidity. The exhibition is on view through June 19. Previous Post May 26, 2010 May 26, 2010 Asked &amp; Answered | Patricia Field Next Post May 27, 2010 May 27, 2010 Well Suited | Pret-a-Surf All NYTimes.com Blogs &#xBB; Previous Post Asked &amp; Answered | Patricia Field Next Post Well Suited | Pret-a-Surf NYTIMES.COM CONTACT US MEDIA KIT PRIVACY POLICY California Notice THE NEW YORK TIMES COMPANY The New York Times Style Magazine