# Donald Trump Is Putting America On Notice Again He Wont Accept A Loss

**Source**: https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2024-05-06/donald-trump-is-putting-america-on-notice-again-he-wont-accept-a-loss
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:45:18.571217+00:00

---

Column: Trump warns political violence may follow if he loses election - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing &amp; Homelessness Politics Science &amp; Medicine World &amp; Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor &amp; Workplace Real Estate Technology and the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing &amp; Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate &amp; Environment Global Warming Water &amp; Drought Entertainment &amp; Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 best restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art &amp; Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health &amp; Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel &amp; Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World &amp; Nation Immigration &amp; the Border Israel-Hamas Mexico &amp; the Americas Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios Business • AI &amp; Tech • Banking &amp; Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Goods &amp; Retail • Healthcare &amp; Science • Law Dentists Decor &amp; Design Doctors &amp; Scientists Hot Property Live &amp; Well Orange County Pets The Hub: Rebuilding LA Travel Weddings &amp; Celebrations Newsletters Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Students &amp; Educators Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store L.A. Times Studios News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance &amp; Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? People on the Move Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Sections Tap to enable a layout that focuses on the article. Focus mode Show Search Search Query Submit Search Trump wins National results California results L.A. County results View All Advertisement World &amp; Nation Donald Trump puts America on notice again: If he loses, he won’t go quietly Insurrectionists storm the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021, after then-President Trump urged them to march to the building where lawmakers were certifying Joe Biden’s election win. (Associated Press) By Doyle McManus Washington Columnist&nbsp; May 6, 2024 3 AM PT 102 Share via Close extra sharing options Email Facebook X LinkedIn Threads Reddit WhatsApp Copy Link URL Copied! Print p]:text-cms-story-body-color-text clearfix mb-10 md:max-w-170 md:mx-auto" data-dateline data-subscriber-content> WASHINGTON&nbsp;—&nbsp; Donald Trump has put America on notice: If he loses the presidential election, he reserves the right to encourage his followers to fight. When Time magazine asked Trump whether the election would end in political violence if he loses, the former president replied: “If we don’t win, you know, it depends. It always depends on the fairness of an election.” “If everything’s honest, I’ll gladly accept the results,” he later told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. “If it’s not, you have to fight for the right of the country.” Advertisement When Trump says “it depends,” here’s the problem: He has never competed in an election that he acknowledged as fair. Even when he won the presidential election of 2016, he claimed that Hillary Clinton and the Democrats rigged the count to deny him a popular-vote landslide, contending without evidence that millions of noncitizens had voted in California. The official inquiry he ordered up found no significant irregularities . In 2020, when he lost to President Biden by 7 million votes, Trump not only claimed the result was illegitimate; he worked for months to overturn it, demanding that state officials “find” thousands of new votes in his favor. When his court challenges failed, he summoned supporters to Washington and urged them to march on the Capitol . Advertisement “If you don’t fight like hell, you won’t have a country any more,” he told them. The mob responded by invading the building . He returned to that apocalyptic theme last week, when he told supporters in Wisconsin that if Biden wins a second term, “we won’t have a country left.” Politics Biden’s big move on marijuana: Will voters give him credit? The Biden administration soon will take a big step toward bringing federal policy on weed more in line with what the public says it prefers. May 4, 2024 “ Joe Biden is destroying our country,” Trump said at a rally. “The enemy from within is more dangerous than China and Russia. ... I actually think our country is not going to survive.” Voices Column: Joe Biden’s empathy was his superpower in 2020. Can he find it again in 2024? President Biden, in an election battle with Trump, touts the economy. Democratic strategists say the message is missing Biden’s big strength: empathy. April 15, 2024 It was as if he was priming his followers for extreme measures if he doesn’t prevail. And it was part of a long pattern. In January, he warned that if his four criminal indictments prevent him from winning, the result will be “bedlam in the country.” Advertisement “It’s the opening of a Pandora’s box,” he warned. In March, he posted a video on his social media account showing an image of Biden hog-tied like a prisoner. And for months he has extolled the defendants convicted of violent crimes in the Jan. 6, 2021, insurrection as “hostages,” promising to pardon many or all if he is reelected. “He’s telling us what his intentions are, as he did before Jan. 6,” Juliette Kayyem, a terrorism expert at Harvard University, said recently on PBS. “The language is the language of incitement. ... If he loses, we certainly know from what Trump has said — and we also know from what the FBI is telling us — that there are large groups and organizations that are preparing to continue the fight.” Voices Column: Trump has big plans for California if he wins a second term. Fasten your seatbelts Former President Trump is bashing California in his 2024 campaign; if he wins he wants to force it to change — on environment, immigration, LGBTQ issues and more. March 18, 2024 As matters stand in the presidential campaign , that kind of 2020-style crisis may not recur, since Trump stands a good chance of winning. The average of public opinion polls published by fivethirtyeight.com shows a dead heat in the national popular vote — but it shows Trump winning in all six of the most important swing states: Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Nevada, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. Trump used a day off from his New York criminal trial Wednesday to campaign in Michigan and Wisconsin, where he returned to his warnings about an unfair election process. Advertisement Voices Column: Trump’s hush-money criminal trial could be a cure for ‘Trump amnesia’ What if Trump’s hush-money criminal trial, with details on Stormy Daniels, Karen McDougal, the ‘Access Hollywood’ tape, is a cure for voters’ ‘Trump amnesia’? April 22, 2024 “The radical-left Democrats rigged the presidential election in 2020,” he claimed untruthfully yet again. “We’re not going to allow them to rig the presidential election in 2024. We won’t have a country left ... 2024 is our final battle.” For months, Biden has sought to remind voters that Trump, if reelected, would run roughshod over the norms of American government and politics. “ Democracy is on the ballot ,” the president often says. Voices Column: Trump wants to round up over a million undocumented migrants from California. Here’s how he might do it Trump’s California-born advisor says he would deploy troops to blue states to seize undocumented immigrants, send them to camps, then expel them. March 25, 2024 By reminding voters that he doesn’t accept the duty to recognize the result of an election he loses, Trump has paradoxically bolstered Biden’s case. For some voters, this election may come down to a choice between preserving democracy and hoping for a return of the low inflation of the Trump years. They may not find it an easy choice. A survey last year by the Public Religion Research Institute found that 38% of Americans believe the country needs “a leader who is willing to break some rules if that’s what it takes to set things right.” That substantial minority included 48% of Republicans. Advertisement When Time’s reporter asked Trump whether his rhetoric about overriding the Constitution and ruling as a “dictator for a day” might alienate voters, the former president disagreed. “I think a lot of people like it,” he said. Unfortunately, he’s right. Voices Column: Biden says America is ‘coming back.’ Trump says we’re ‘in hell.’ Are they talking about the same nation? Biden and Trump offer converging narratives about the country: one optimistic, one apocalyptic. That collision is the core of the 2024 election. March 11, 2024 Voices Column: Trump loves fossil fuels; California wants clean energy. Cue collision Trump’s aim to abandon clean energy would mean collisions with California over electric vehicles, emission standards and offshore drilling restrictions. March 31, 2024 More to Read Voices Calmes: The Big Lie is back and coming for A