# Bs Md Ci Cr Adnan Syed Charges Dropped 20221011 R43Q45Csdnhi3Abqygnhimqouq Story.Html

**Source**: https://www.baltimoresun.com/news/crime/bs-md-ci-cr-adnan-syed-charges-dropped-20221011-r43q45csdnhi3abqygnhimqouq-story.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:04:14.498302+00:00

---

Baltimore prosecutors drop charges against Adnan Syed, as last-ditch DNA tests exclude him &#8211; Baltimore Sun Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 68&deg;F Friday, October 3rd 2025 Baltimore Sun eNewspaper Home Page Subscriber Services Manage Subscription EZ Pay Vacation Stop Sun Insider eNewspaper Daily Sun Evening Edition Carroll County Times Capital Gazette The Aegis Advertise with Us Advertise Classified Homes Jobs Special Sections News News Latest Crime and Public Safety Education Elections Environment Health Lottery Marijuana Nation Politics Sun Investigates World Carroll County Times Carroll County Times eNewspaper Education High School Sports News Opinion Obituaries Submit News The Aegis The Aegis eNewspaper Aegis Opinion Aegis Sports Harford Magazine Local News Local News Maryland Anne Arundel County Baltimore City Baltimore County Carroll County Times Harford County &#8211; The Aegis Howard County Eastern Shore Sports Sports Baltimore Orioles Baltimore Ravens Olympics High School Sports College Sports Terps Horse Racing Business Business Autos Best Reviews Real Estate Top Workplaces Opinion Opinion Editorials Opinion Columnists Dan Rodricks Op-Ed Readers Respond Submit Letter to the Editor Submit Op-Ed News Obituaries News Obituaries Death Notices How to submit a death notice Things To Do Things To Do Arts Entertainment Events Food and Drink Home and Garden Horoscopes Fun and Games Movies Music Branded Content Paid Partner Content Advertising by Ascend Paid Content by Brandpoint Sign up for email newsletters Sign Up Baltimore prosecutors drop charges against&#8230; Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Subscribe Login Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Sign up for email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Login Search 68&deg;F Friday, October 3rd 2025 Baltimore Sun eNewspaper Crime and Public Safety eNewspaper Latest Headlines Sports News Obituaries Death Notices Things To Do Opinion Weather Don&#039;t miss: 📺 Watch FOX45 news 🇺🇸 Shutdown coverage 🍁 Maryland foliage forecast 🏆 Baltimore Sun&#8217;s Best 🚨 Search Baltimore crime data 🚔 Baltimore homicide map News Crime and Public Safety Baltimore prosecutors drop charges against Adnan Syed, as last-ditch DNA tests exclude him Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun Baltimore State's Attorney Marilyn Mosby announces that her office has dropped the charges against Adnan Syed in the 1999 killing of Hae Min Lee. At left is Becky Feldman, chief of the Sentencing Review Unit. Lloyd Fox/Baltimore Sun Adnan Syed leaves the courthouse after being released from prison. Show Caption Jerry Jackson/Baltimore Sun 1 of 2 Baltimore State&#039;s Attorney Marilyn Mosby announces that her office has dropped the charges against Adnan Syed in the 1999 killing of Hae Min Lee. At left is Becky Feldman, chief of the Sentencing Review Unit. Expand By Alex Mann and Lee O. Sanderlin | lsanderlin@baltsun.com | Baltimore Sun UPDATED: October 12, 2022 at 1:52 AM EDT Adnan Syed, whose legal saga rose to international renown because of the hit podcast &#8220;Serial,&#8221; is free. In an abrupt move Tuesday morning, Baltimore prosecutors dropped Syed&#8217;s criminal case stemming from the 1999 killing of Hae Min Lee. Syed&#8217;s conviction was overturned last month, but he remained charged with murder, kidnapping and robbery in Lee&#8217;s death while Baltimore State&#8217;s Attorney Marilyn Mosby&#8217;s office considered whether to try him again or to dismiss the case. Mosby said Tuesday afternoon that her decision to drop the charges against Syed was based on never-before-tested DNA from Lee&#8217;s shoes. The DNA test results, which Mosby&#8217;s office received Friday, showed DNA from four different people on the shoes. None of them are Syed, Mosby said. &#8220;Finally, Adnan Syed is able to live as a free man,&#8221; Syed&#8217;s attorney, Erica Suter, said in a statement. &#8220;The DNA results confirmed what we have already known and what underlies all of the current proceedings: that Adnan is innocent and lost 23 years of his life serving time for a crime he did not commit.&#8221; Suter, who is also the director of the Innocence Project Clinic at the University of Baltimore School of Law, participated alongside city prosecutors in a yearlong investigation. Together, the attorneys discovered two people they now consider alternative suspects in Lee&#8217;s death. Both suspects were known to the authorities all along, but at least one was not disclosed to Syed&#8217;s defense, they said. Mosby, who leaves office in January and is under the cloud of a federal indictment, said Syed&#8217;s exoneration is not about her legacy but about achieving justice. &#8220;As the administrator of the criminal justice system, it&#8217;s my duty to ensure that justice is not delayed, justice is never denied, but justice be done,&#8221; Mosby said. &#8220;Today, justice is done.&#8221; Baltimore State&#8217;s Attorney Marilyn Mosby announces that her office has dropped the charges against Adnan Syed in the 1999 killing of Hae Min Lee. At left is Becky Feldman, chief of the Sentencing Review Unit. Mosby on Tuesday reiterated her commitment to identifying and prosecuting Lee&#8217;s killer. Though she would not disclose any details about the ongoing investigation, Mosby said her office&#8217;s homicide division chief, Michael Dunty, is assigned to the case. &#8220;With regard to Mr. Syed, the case is finished,&#8221; Mosby said. The revelation of alternative suspects led Mosby&#8217;s office to move to vacate Syed&#8217;s conviction, with her prosecutors saying they&#8217;d lost faith in his guilty verdict. On Sept. 19, Baltimore Circuit Judge Melissa Phinn tossed out Syed&#8217;s conviction and set a 30-day deadline for Mosby&#8217;s office to decide what to do about Syed&#8217;s case. Mosby said last month that her decision on Syed&#8217;s case hinged on pending DNA testing being conducted on evidence of Lee&#8217;s killing. Before the last round of DNA tests in the case, the results of which were discussed for the first time Tuesday, the analysis of genetic matter collected during the investigation of Lee&#8217;s death had been largely inconclusive. At the request of Suter and Mosby&#8217;s prosecutors, several pieces of evidence were sent in March to a California lab for touch-DNA analysis, which seeks to test genetic matter left behind when someone comes into contact with something, and another type of test that aims to identify male profiles. Those analyses were not available around the time of her death. Mosby&#8217;s prosecutors conceded in court papers last month that the tests hadn&#8217;t yielded much, but they were hoping to analyze a few more pieces of evidence. Mosby said Tuesday those items were pantyhose, a skirt and shoes. Police found the clothing on Lee&#8217;s body, which had been exposed to the elements, but investigators recovered the shoes from her car, according to court documents. Only the black dress shoes, which were dusted for prints in 1999 but not analyzed further, had DNA on them, Mosby said. She declined to say whether the DNA samples from the shoes had been entered into law enforcement DNA databases. One of the alternative suspects in Lee&#8217;s death has a history of sexual abuse of men and is incarcerated in a federal facility after a string of assaults in the Washington, D.C. area, meaning his DNA profile is available for comparison. It&#8217;s not clear if the DNA of the second suspect is available for comparison. Mosby has said she would be prepared to formally certify Syed&#8217;s innocence, making him eligible to apply for wrongful conviction compensation from the state, if the DNA testing came back inconclusive or pointed to another suspect. It&#8217;s up to Syed and Suter to spearhead the process of certifying his innocence, Mosby said Tuesday. Suter said Tuesday she&#8217;d begin the process &#8220;as soon as possible.&#8221; If Syed&#8217;s innocence is certified, he will be eligible for significant financial benefits from the state for being wrongfully incarcerated for 23 years. Under the Walter Lomax Act, Syed would receive roughly $2.2 million for the years he served in prison &mdash; compensation determined by a formula using Maryland&#8217;s median household income and the specific number of days Syed was incarcerated. He also is entitled to free tuition and five years of health care and housing, according to state law. In September, Phinn scheduled a court date for Oct. 19, exactly a month after she tossed Syed&#8217;s guilty finding. The hearing in reception court Tuesday morning was not docketed in online court records. After Syed&#8217;s conviction was overturned, Lee&#8217;s family appealed , arguing Mosby&#8217;s office neglected to provide them adequate notice to attend the hearing. The family asked the Maryland Court of Special Appeals to pause the proceedings in Circuit Court while the court considered their appeal. Just last week, Maryland Attorney General Brian Frosh joined Lee&#8217;s family in asking the state&#8217;s intermediate appellate court to put a hold on Syed&#8217;s case in the trial court. After his office represented the state for Syed&#8217;s repeated appeals, Frosh has been critical of Mosby&#8217;s recent handling of the case. Frosh cast doubt on the basis that city prosecutors presented in support of overturning Syed&#8217;s conviction. It&#8217;s unclear what Tuesday&#8217;s development means for the family&#8217;s appeal, although Mosby declared the appellate matter &#8220;moot&#8221; in her remarks. &#8220;There&#8217;s no more appeal,&#8221; she said. Frosh declined to comment through a spokesperson. Attorney Steve Kelly, who represents the Lee family, criticized Mosby&#8217;s decision to dismiss the charges. &#8220;By r