# Print

**Source**: http://espn.go.com/espn/print?id=16597961
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:55:06.838196+00:00

---

ESPN.com - The man who just can't win: Sam Hinkie (finally) speaks ESPN.com: NBA [ Print without images ] Wednesday, June 29, 2016 Updated: June 30, 1:30 PM ET The man who just can't win: Sam Hinkie (finally) speaks By Jordan Brenner ESPN.com This story appears in ESPN The Magazine's July 18 Body Issue. Subscribe today! As Ben Simmons rose from his seat to begin his ceremonial march to the NBA, he tugged on a flat-brimmed 76ers cap. How Philadelphia ended up drafting Simmons on June 23 is a story three years in the making -- but one that's perhaps lost on the No. 1 pick. Two days earlier, the 6-foot-10 forward had posted an Instagram photo of his workout with the 76ers with the caption: "Trust the process." When later asked by a reporter if he understood the phrase's significance, he replied: "A little bit. I know it's been said around a lot of the Sixers community." The scores of Sixers fans who made the trek to Barclays Center on draft night fully understood the phrase's meaning, though. And as they cheered Simmons' selection, one fan thrust a homemade poster into the air. It read: Hinkie died for your sins. THREE MONTHS BEFORE the draft, and three weeks before he ended the NBA's most controversial experiment in team-building through corporate hara-kiri, Sam Hinkie sat in the food court of a Providence mall and plowed his way through a chalupa. It was the opening day of the NCAA tournament, and spectators had rushed straight from watching Yale upend Baylor to seek something resembling nourishment. On the street below, St. Patrick's Day revelers crawled from one pub to the next, clad in all manner of green. And there, just beyond the growing line at Taco Bell, sat the general manager of the Philadelphia 76ers, inconspicuous as ever. Hinkie had just begun working to change that image. In three years at the helm of the Sixers, he'd been only slightly less secretive than SEAL Team 6, closing himself off to such a degree that most reporters had stopped bothering to ask for interviews. But in early March, after weeks of discussions, Hinkie had agreed to allow ESPN The Magazine to join him on a scouting trip. It was the first of two on-the-record, hourslong conversations designed to shed light on the player evaluations behind his rebuilding plan. It was time, he sensed, to open up. ESPN The Magazine The Podcast Deputy editor Ty Wenger is joined by senior deputy editor Neely Lohmann, senior deputy photo editor Nancy Weisman and duathlete Chris Mosier to discuss Mosier's decision to pose for ESPN the Magazine's Body Issue and more. Listen &#187; The time, it turns out, was too late. Hinkie resigned as the Sixers' GM on April 6, penning a 13-page letter to the team's investors that inspired intense, contrasting reactions. The note, which was quickly leaked, became fodder for a last round of jokes from his detractors while also reading as a final salvo for the true believers in the three-year teardown now widely known as Hinkie's "Process." But if Hinkie knew he was on his way out in March, he had an odd way of showing it. His words from those interviews now read as blindly prophetic, like those of a man pondering his own death without knowing that it was imminent. "So many of my friends will tell me, 'Don't do that. Don't try that. It's going to end poorly. They'll run you out,'" Hinkie would later say. "And that's the reason to do it, because fear has been the motivating factor for way too many people for way too long. There's a huge agency problem in the whole business, particularly in my role: Keep the job ." A week after the second interview, the architect of the boldest rebuilding project in NBA history would be gone -- undone by the very realities he hoped would never apply in Philadelphia. But it's how he was undone that's most telling of all and suggests how leagues are prone to respond when forced to face truths about themselves. ON THE NIGHT of the 2016 NBA draft lottery, six weeks after Hinkie's resignation, there was no question how some Sixers fans still felt about Hinkie. In Philly's Xfinity Live, a massive sports bar/venue not 500 yards from Wells Fargo Center, hundreds of fans celebrated the announcement of the team's first No.&nbsp;1 pick since 1996. Search for the YouTube video and you'll see it, a throng of partisans, gleefully chanting: THANK you, HINkie-clap, clap, clap-clap-clap ... THANK you, HINkie-clap, clap, clap-clap-clap. What they were celebrating was Hinkie's parting gift to Philadelphia, three seasons in the wrapping. Joel Embiid, left, was Sam Hinkie's first selection in the 2014 draft. He has yet to play a game. He'd bet much of his future on an endless pursuit of star-level talent, a pipeline that runs almost exclusively through the top of the NBA draft. Over the past five seasons, more than 60 percent of the players who made an All-NBA team were top-five picks (and 76 percent came from the top 10). MORE TRUEHOOP PRESENTS Read more stories from TrueHoop's feature series TrueHoop Presents: &#8226; The Black Mamba's last dance &#8226; 'Tinderization' of the NBA &#8226; It's peanut butter jelly time! &#8226; Russell Westbrook's driving force &#8226; LeBron: The Sequel &#8226; The DeMarcus Cousins conundrum &#8226; Parsons, Cuban and the bromance &#8226; Tyler Johnson and the big bag of $$$ &#8226; Golden State's Draymond problem &#8226; Ref Bill Kennedy's time to shine &#8226; Pop's long route to Team USA &#8226; The lesson of Tim Duncan's career &#8226; Why NBA bigs struggle from the line &#8226; The NBA's scheduling problem &#8226; LeBron, Wade friendship divides NBA &#8226; How Nike lost Curry to Under Armour To get a shot at one of these premium players, then, a team must lose a lot of games. And the Sixers succeeded in that with ruthless efficiency: Their 47 wins in Hinkie's three seasons was the second-worst three-year stretch in NBA history. All part of the process, which is why he was a hero to those fans on draft night. In the minds of his critics, though, he failed on every level, and it was getting harder to ignore them. During his tenure in Philly, Hinkie had frequently confessed that he didn't mind being misunderstood and even embraced it. "I think to perfectly understand somebody is to predict their next move," he said. But in the final months of his tenure, Hinkie had begun to see the danger in allowing others to control the narrative of the franchise he ran. (There was also the little matter of the Sixers' having hired Jerry Colangelo in December as chairman of basketball operations. The barbarians were at the gate.) Hinkie, the story went, was impersonal and aloof -- high school valedictorian, Stanford Arjay Miller Scholar, Bain consultant, a nerd glued to a laptop, an MBA who treated players as commodities. Definitely not a "basketball guy." The perception of Hinkie had arguably reached a point where it was damaging the Sixers brand. During his time in Philly, he'd developed, for example, a reputation as a dogged negotiator. Knowing that he had unusual leverage -- Philly's unused cap space -- he would aim to extract as much blood as possible in deals. But an industry with only 29 other businesses necessitates dealing with the same people over and over again. "There has to be a level of understanding, a level of trust between teams," one former GM says. "I think Sam had a hard time opening up in that process. If you are trying to win the deal each time, that's fine, as long as the other side gets a win too. But if you are trying to kill them, then it makes it harder to work with them in the future." Adds one Western Conference executive: "Sam's a hard-nosed negotiator, which is intimidating to some people. There's a bit of 'what's behind the curtain?' with Sam. People don't know what his factors are. It's not as straightforward as 'I like that guy.'" Agents had their own concerns. Hinkie became known for drafting players in the second round and signing them to four-year partially guaranteed contracts. Without any leverage, agents were forced to accept those team-friendly terms, but they didn't have to like it. Those decisions had consequences: Agents and rival GMs were happy to turn Hinkie into the embodiment of every negative stereotype of the analytics movement. "I think Sam is a pure analytics guy," says David Falk, who gained fame in the late 1980s as Michael Jordan's agent and still represents a small list of clients. "I don't think they had enough pure basketball people. While there's a lot more utilization of analytics, it's like painting by the numbers. And you can't paint a masterpiece by the numbers." On this point, Hinkie is adamant: More than anything else, he loathes the idea that he was representing a movement. And so it was that a week before he would step down as GM, Hinkie found a seat at La Colombe, a spacious coffeehouse in the Fishtown section of Philadelphia, booted up his laptop and spent three hours breaking down even the most minor, subtle actions on the court, eager to demonstrate his basketball chops. His single goal, he said time and again, was to build a championship contender, not to prove to the world that a particular kind of thinking was superior: "It's the caricature everybody wants to talk about -- that all we have is a screen and we don't treat people like people. It is ridiculous. And the more we talk about it, the more others talk about it." &#8233;And talk about it they did. "We're in a competitive business," says one Western Conference exec. "I think a lot of people feared what Sam was doing: 'What if it works? It will become the new model.'" Adds the former GM, "There was a perception that Sam thought he was smarter than everyone else." IT'S HARD TO defend a man whose team is coming off a 10-win season. Philly actually won more games during each of the first two years of Hinkie's tenure. But progress is rarely linear. The 76ers now have Simmons as a potential franchise cornerstone. Joel Embiid, whom Hinkie drafted No. 3 in 2014, m