# Nft Beanie Baby Price Guide Bubble Princess Value

**Source**: https://www.vox.com/the-goods/22870250/nft-beanie-baby-price-guide-bubble-princess-value
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:49:10.859806+00:00

---

Beanie Baby value and what the bubble burst means for NFTs | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo After the Beanie Baby bubble burst Free speech needs fearless journalism Free speech is endangered; unbiased and trustworthy news is elusive. In a time of noise, confusion, and spin, we’re committed to clarity, truth, and depth — even when it’s hard. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join now Money After the Beanie Baby bubble burst What happens when the frenzy ends and the world doesn’t value your valuables? by Emily Stewart Illustrations by Alex Gilbeaux for Vox Jan 12, 2022, 11:00 AM UTC Share Gift Emily Stewart covered business and economics for Vox and wrote the newsletter The Big Squeeze, examining the ways ordinary people are being squeezed under capitalism. Before joining Vox, she worked for TheStreet. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s just so sad to see somebody spend so much money on something that isn&rsquo;t real.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s what Karen Boeker, counterfeit Beanie Baby expert, says motivates her work: separating the valuable Beanie Babies from the pretenders. Of course, the value of the real ones is debatable, too. Honestly, if you think about it too long, the entire concept of worth can fall apart. Boeker, 54, can&rsquo;t quite pinpoint why she&rsquo;s dedicated more than 25 years of her life to Beanie Babies. The frenzy around them faded long ago, as these types of things tend to do. Maybe she has an addictive personality. Maybe it&rsquo;s the thrill of the chase. Maybe it&rsquo;s just that they&rsquo;re cute. Whatever the case, she&rsquo;s kept at it. She sold Beanie Babies to pay for an emergency appendectomy about 20 years ago and, more recently, to help pay for her son&rsquo;s wedding. She&rsquo;s also one of three women behind a Beanie Baby pricing guide and a Facebook group for collectors with tens of thousands of members. Combined, they have several decades of Beanie experience. Their names, naturally, are Karen, Karen, and Becky. Boeker and Becky &mdash; Estenssoro &mdash; also run a Beanie Baby authentication service, True Blue Beans . Estenssoro used to do the authenticating alone, and Boeker joined in April 2021. They charge $5 per Beanie Baby for a sticker that says whether the toy is counterfeit; for $15, they&rsquo;ll put it in a tamper-resistant display case and tell you whether it&rsquo;s &ldquo;museum quality,&rdquo; &ldquo;mint condition,&rdquo; and even &ldquo;magnificent.&rdquo; &ldquo;You get all those adjectives in there,&rdquo; Boeker says. Their customers prefer that they don&rsquo;t give negative marks to the Beanies, but they have to be honest. &ldquo;If it&rsquo;s a dirty Beanie,&rdquo; they&rsquo;ll say so. When I ask what makes a Beanie Baby worth anything, her answer is frank: “It’s what people are willing to pay for it” At the height of Beanie Baby mania in the 1990s, plenty of people genuinely believed the toys might be the key to their retirement or their kids&rsquo; college tuition. Some people stole litters of them, and at least one person was reportedly killed in a Beanie-related dispute. Now, when cleaning out their basements or going through bins left behind by their grandparents, some people decide to check in &mdash; just in case &mdash; to see if they&rsquo;re sitting on a gold mine of &rsquo;90s relics. Most of the time, they aren&rsquo;t. &ldquo;I hate getting people&rsquo;s hopes up, because we&rsquo;re constantly crushing dreams,&rdquo; Boeker says. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t like that.&rdquo; It&rsquo;s not that Beanie Babies are worthless &mdash; collectors in the hobby are willing to pay quite a bit of money for the right ones. It&rsquo;s that the most coveted Beanie Babies today are the ones most people have never heard of. When I ask Boeker what makes a Beanie Baby worth anything, then or today, her answer is frank: &ldquo;It&rsquo;s what people are willing to pay for it.&rdquo; Why some people are willing to pay anything for it is harder to square. For most, it&rsquo;s unfathomable to imagine spending hundreds or thousands of dollars on a stuffed animal. Then again, it&rsquo;s also unfathomable to imagine how we value most things, from personal mementos to art to blunt-smoking digital apes . It&rsquo;s easy to look at the current financial landscape and recognize hints of Beanie Baby-like bubbles in, for example, NFTs . The interest in both of them has a bit of a je ne sais quoi element. But the same goes for all markets. Personal and objective worth are inevitably intertwined. There&rsquo;s an unavoidable human nature to value. The Beanie Baby craze swept the United States and much of the globe in the 1990s. The era was marked by the hunt for the Princess Diana bear, endless lines outside Hallmark stores in anticipation of new releases, people hoarding tiny stuffed toys with names like Quackers and Nip and Peanut in their living rooms and desperately protecting their tags. Boeker jokes she and her friends were &ldquo;feeding all the homeless in Houston&rdquo; after circling around McDonald&rsquo;s drive-throughs buying Happy Meals to secure the Teenie Beanies found inside. (They did, in fact, donate the food.) The world experienced a sort of collective delusion around the worth of what is, essentially, a fabric sack of beans. In hindsight, bubbles rarely make sense. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a flaw in the human character,&rdquo; says Jeremy Grantham, market historian and bubble expert. &ldquo;No one is immune, no matter how smart you are.&rdquo; Beanie Babies were the creation of Ty Warner, the elusive billionaire behind toy company Ty Inc., which he founded in 1986. He launched Beanie Babies in 1993, and initially, people didn&rsquo;t get it. &ldquo;At the beginning, nobody really wanted Beanie Babies,&rdquo; says Lina Trivedi, one of Ty&rsquo;s earliest employees. Consumers didn&rsquo;t seem to quite get them, and retailers didn&rsquo;t think they&rsquo;d fit the aesthetic of their stores. Then, she says, it felt like a switch flipped overnight. Beanie Babies took off in the suburbs of Chicago, where Ty&rsquo;s headquarters was located, and then fanned out. &ldquo;When you&rsquo;re in the midst of it, you don&rsquo;t really see the intensity escalating or whatever,&rdquo; Trivedi says, &ldquo;because you&rsquo;re in the vortex of it all.&rdquo; To the extent he could, Warner manufactured the craze around the items &mdash; the endeavor was, after all, to make money. Despite retailers&rsquo; and shoppers&rsquo; initial reservations, the Beanie Babies were indeed cute, and Warner&rsquo;s team attached names, poems, and birthdays to them to make them more personal. Most of the original ones were written by Trivedi. The toys were accessibly priced, and at the same time, Warner was able to pull supply strings to create a sense of scarcity around them. Warner would retire certain Beanies, upping the ante even more not only on the primary market but also on the secondary market, where prices of the $5 items soared into the hundreds and thousands of dollars. There&rsquo;s also an element of inexplicability to any fad. &ldquo;What sort of lights the fire, we just don&rsquo;t really know,&rdquo; says Colin Camerer, a behavioral economist at the California Institute of Technology. Sign up for The Big Squeeze newsletter Emily Stewart&rsquo;s column exposes the ways we&rsquo;re all being squeezed under capitalism. Sign up here. Maureen Laughead, a relatively early collector from Pennsylvania, recalled her daughters selling three politically themed Beanies &mdash; Righty, Lefty, and Libearty &mdash; to a local ice cream store in exchange for $1,000 and a Princess bear, which was released after Princess Diana&rsquo;s death in 1997. The Princess bear was the &ldquo;it&rdquo; Beanie of the era. &ldquo;If I tried to sell those three now, I&rsquo;m sure they&rsquo;re not worth anything,&rdquo; she says. At its most basic level, value is how much someone is willing to pay for something, given all the other stuff they could pay for instead. It&rsquo;s how much worth they ascribe to the thing based on what they feel they get out of it. But there are different ways of thinking about the concept. In Marxist terms, there&rsquo;s use value &mdash; the extent to which something fulfills a want or a need &mdash; and there&rsquo;s exchange value, the proportion to which it can be exchanged for something else. At the height of the Beanie Baby craze, the use and exchange value that people were ascribing to the stuffed animals became completely untethered. The market was completely distorted. &ldquo;It becomes a bubble when it disconnects from the value,&rdquo; Grantham says. &ldquo;Prices spiral up.&rdquo; An entire media ecosystem of Beanie Babies emerged, from early-stage blogs to magazines to trade shows. Estenssoro was one of the first avid collectors with her neighbor, Becky Phillips, in the Chicago suburbs. &ldquo;At first, we didn&rsquo;t know it was going to be this big old thing,&rdquo; Estenssoro says. Once the toys began to catch on, the pair began documenting them and building early collections, eventually launching the first Beanie Baby price guide. Beanie Babies were among the first big internet fervors, and their rise coincided with eBay&rsquo;s . In May 1997, eBay auctioned off $500 million worth of Beanie Babies, accounting for 6 percent of its total annual sales. When the platform went public in 1998, Beanie Babies accounted for 10 percent of total company sales. That same year, the New York Times Magazine chronicled the proliferation of Be