# Maximizing Amex Platinum In 2016

**Source**: http://thepointsguy.com/2016/01/maximizing-amex-platinum-in-2016/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:09:06.267680+00:00

---

How to maximize benefits with the Amex Platinum Card - The Points Guy Skip to content Menu Go to Home Page Subscribe Advertiser disclosure Search The Points Guy Advertiser disclosure ADVERTISEMENT Guides How to maximize benefits with the Amex Platinum Card Joseph Hostetler Joseph Hostetler Contributor Joseph Hostetler is a credit cards writer who also covers helpful miles and points tricks. He previously authored and edited for Million Mile Secrets. He most enjoys a vagabonding approach to travel and loves to share any tips he finds along the way to save both points and money. He generally gravitates toward more nature-oriented activities, like climbing the Haiku Stairs in Hawaii, hiking the Salkantay Trek to Machu Picchu, and swimming in Mexican cenotes. You can follow him on Instagram @johostetler. Favorite city: Jerusalem Where to next: Seattle Chris Nelson Chris Nelson Credit cards writer Chris Nelson is a credit cards writer for TPG. He specializes in budget travel, hotels, earning elite status through minimal spending and redeeming points for maximum value. also contributed to this story May 28, 2025 • 20 min read Jump to section Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Copy URL Email The cards we feature here are from partners who compensate us when you are approved through our site, and this may impact how or where these products appear. We don’t cover all available credit cards, but our analysis, reviews, and opinions are entirely from our editorial team. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information. Editor&#x27;s Note This is a recurring post, regularly updated with new information and offers. The Platinum Card® from American Express is among the best premium travel rewards cards available. Thanks to its generous benefits and its ability to earn valuable, transferable American Express Membership Rewards points , it can be well worth the annual fee of $895 (see rates and fees ) for many travelers. With the Amex Platinum, find out your offer and see if you are eligible to earn as high as 175,000 Membership Rewards Points after spending $8,000 on purchases within the first six months of cardmembership. Welcome offers vary and you may not be eligible for an offer. Beyond the welcome offer, the Amex Platinum&#x27;s ongoing perks, including numerous annual statement credits, can be even more valuable. Here&#x27;s a rundown of how to maximize the benefits of the Amex Platinum Card. Amex Platinum benefits overview Here&#x27;s a rundown of the Amex Platinum&#x27;s benefits: Earn 5 points per dollar spent on flights booked directly with airlines or with American Express Travel® (on up to $500,000 on these purchases per calendar year, then 1 point per dollar spent after) Earn 5 points per dollar spent on prepaid hotels booked with American Express Travel Annual Uber Cash of up to $200 ($15 in Uber Cash to use on eligible orders with Uber Eats and rides with Uber in the U.S. every month plus a $20 bonus in December, for U.S. services)* Up to a $120 statement credit that fully covers an Uber One auto-renewing $96 annual or $9.99 monthly membership* Annual airline fee statement credit of up to $200 per calendar year* Up to $600 back in statement credits each calendar year ($300 binnually) on prepaid Amex Fine Hotels + Resorts or The Hotel Collection bookings (the latter of which requires a minimum two-night stay) with American Express Travel when you pay with your Amex Platinum* Global Entry or TSA PreCheck application fee statement credit ($120 for Global Entry every 4 years or up to $85 for TSA PreCheck every 4½ years) Up to $209 in statement credits per calendar year on your Clear Plus membership (expedited security, subject to auto-renewal)* Up to $300 annual Equinox statement credit on select Equinox memberships when using your card (subject to auto-renewal)* Up to $155 annually in statement credits toward monthly Walmart+ membership fees ($12.95, plus applicable taxes, monthly; subject to auto-renewal; Plus Up excluded) Up to $100 per calendar year at Saks Fifth Avenue: Divvied up as one up to $50 statement credit from January to June and one up to $50 statement credit from July to December* Digital entertainment credit: Up to $25 in statement credits each month ($300 per calendar year) when you pay for eligible purchases with your card at one or more of the following providers: Disney+, The Disney+ Bundle, ESPN+, Hulu, Paramount+, Peacock, The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, YouTube Premium and YouTube TV* Airport lounge access , including Centurion Lounges and Studio locations worldwide* Gold elite status with Marriott and Hilton* Complimentary car rental elite status with Hertz Gold Plus Rewards**, Avis Preferred and National Car Rental Emerald Club Executive* Various travel and shopping protections Cruise Privileges Program International Airline Program American Express concierge service *Enrollment required for select benefits, terms apply. ** Enrollment in the Hertz Gold Plus Rewards Program is required. Let&#x27;s focus on the benefits with the potential highest value and how you can maximize them year after year. $200 in Uber Cash What it is: One of the more popular Amex Platinum perks is the annual Uber Cash of up to $200 in statement credits, allotted in $15 monthly increments except in December when you&#x27;ll get a $35 statement credit ($15 plus a $20 bonus) for U.S. services. For anyone who frequently uses the ride-hailing service or its food-delivery platform, it shouldn&#x27;t be hard to get the full $200 in value from this benefit. Daily Newsletter Reward your inbox with the TPG Daily newsletter Join over 700,000 readers for breaking news, in-depth guides and exclusive deals from TPG’s experts Email address Sign up By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy . You may unsubscribe at any time. Make sure you add your Amex Platinum to your Uber account, and the credit will automatically be applied to your first domestic ride or food order each month. You can also redeem with any Amex card so long as your Amex Platinum is on your account. BEETA ZAWRZEL/NURPHOTO GETTY IMAGES Tips for maximizing: Note that these credits are only valid for Uber rides and Uber Eats orders in the U.S. In order to use your Uber Cash, you need to pay with an eligible Amex card. These credits expire at the end of each month, so you won&#x27;t be able to roll over any unused credits. $120 Uber One credit What it is: With the Amex Platinum , you get up to a $120 statement credit that fully covers an Uber One $96 annual or $9.99 monthly membership. Enrollment is required. Tips for maximizing : Since the credit covers both the annual and monthly billed options, you can sign up for either, knowing that your Platinum card will offset the cost. Just note these memberships auto-renew if you do decide to cancel or downgrade your Platinum card at any stage. $200 airline fee credit What it is: With the Amex Platinum , you get up to $200 in statement credits toward incidental fees with one U.S. airline each calendar year. Enrollment is required. Compared to other cards that offer airline fee or travel credits , the Platinum card&#x27;s terms are limited. For instance, you must specify one eligible U.S. airline each year with which to use the benefit ahead of time, and the credit doesn&#x27;t cover airfare. Still, you can use your Platinum card to offset expenses ranging from luggage fees to seat selection, lounge access and more . Cover American Airlines Admirals Club airport lounge membership fees with the card&#x27;s up-to-$200 annual airline fee credit. CLINT HENDERSON/THE POINTS GUY Tips for maximizing: You&#x27;re technically limited to the airline you select for the entire calendar year, but reports indicate that you might be able to change your selection by contacting customer service (either on the phone or via online chat). Although Amex doesn&#x27;t explicitly list which charges are eligible for this credit, it excludes the following expenses: Airline tickets, upgrades, mileage and points purchases, mileage and points transfer fees, gift cards, duty-free purchases and award tickets are not considered incidental fees. So try to stick within the parameters to avoid any issues. $600 American Express Fine Hotels + Resorts credit What it is: Another benefit of this card is the ability to make bookings through Amex Fine Hotels + Resorts program, which is available to Amex Platinum , Business Platinum Card® from American Express and The Centurion Card from American Express cardholders. The information for the Centurion card has been collected independently by The Points Guy. The card details on this page have not been reviewed or provided by the card issuer. Amex FHR is essentially a travel portal that lets you book stays at a selection of luxury hotels and participating properties, with various benefits. These include complimentary room upgrades when available, noon check-in when available, 4 p.m. checkout, daily breakfast for two, an experience statement credit worth at least $100 and more. At select hotels in the Amex FHR program, you can also enjoy a free night on multi-night stays — usually the third, fourth or fifth night. Plus, you&#x27;ll get up to $600 annually in statement credits ($300 biannually) when you book a prepaid rate through Amex Fine Hotels + Resorts with American Express Travel . (This benefit can also be used for stays of at least two nights at properties in the not-quite-as-prestigious The Hotel Collection.) American Express Fine Hotels + Resorts stays include a $100 unique property amenity, such as a food and beverage credit. TOM WERNER/GETTY IMAGES Tips for maximizing: Booking through Amex FHR and paying with the American Express Platinum could make sense for a shorter stay at an eligible property, especially wi