# Democrats Will Learn All The Wrong Lessons From Brush With Bernie 20160609

**Source**: http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/democrats-will-learn-all-the-wrong-lessons-from-brush-with-bernie-20160609
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:56:24.042735+00:00

---

Democrats Will Learn All the Wrong Lessons From Brush With Bernie &times; &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo Politics Democrats Will Learn All the Wrong Lessons From Brush With Bernie Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Politics Democrats Will Learn All the Wrong Lessons From Brush With Bernie Instead of a reality check for the party, it'll be smugness redoubled By Matt Taibbi Matt Taibbi Contact Matt Taibbi on X Forgiving Student Debt Alone Won’t Fix the Crisis Trump’s Gone, So What’s Next for the Democrats? Big Pharma’s Covid-19 Profiteers View all posts by Matt Taibbi June 9, 2016 Bernie Sanders at a campaign rally in Santa Monica, California, Tuesday. Marcus Yam/Getty Years ago, over many beers in a D.C. bar, a congressional aide colorfully described the House of Representatives, where he worked. It&#8217;s &#8220;435 heads up 435 asses,&#8221; he said. I thought of that person yesterday, while reading the analyses of Hillary Clinton &#8216;s victories Tuesday night. The arrival of the first female presidential nominee was undoubtedly a huge moment in American history and something even the supporters of Bernie Sanders should recognize as significant and to be celebrated. But the Washington media&#8217;s assessment of how we got there was convoluted and self-deceiving. This was no ordinary primary race, not a contest between warring factions within the party establishment, &aacute; la Obama-Clinton in &#8217;08 or even Gore-Bradley in &#8217;00. This was a barely quelled revolt that ought to have sent shock waves up and down the party, especially since the Vote of No Confidence overwhelmingly came from the next generation of voters. Yet editorialists mostly drew the opposite conclusion. The classic example was James Hohmann&#8217;s piece in the Washington Post, titled, &#8220; Primary wins show Hillary Clinton needs the left less than pro-Sanders liberals think .&#8221; Hohmann&#8217;s thesis was that the &#8220;scope and scale&#8221; of Clinton&#8217;s wins Tuesday night meant mainstream Democrats could now safely return to their traditional We won, screw you posture of &#8220;minor concessions&#8221; toward the &#8220;liberal base.&#8221; Hohmann focused on the fact that with Bernie out of the way, Hillary now had a path to victory that would involve focusing on Trump&#8217;s negatives. Such a strategy won&#8217;t require much if any acquiescence toward the huge masses of Democratic voters who just tried to derail her candidacy. And not only is the primary scare over, but Clinton and the centrist Democrats in general are in better shape than ever. &#8220;Big picture,&#8221; Hohmann wrote, &#8220;Clinton is running a much better and more organized campaign than she did in 2008.&#8221;&nbsp;&nbsp; Editor’s picks The 250 Greatest Albums of the 21st Century So Far The 100 Best TV Episodes of All Time The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century Then there was Jonathan Capehart, also of the Post , whose &#8220; This is how Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump are the same person &#8221; piece describes Sanders as a &#8220;stubborn outsider&#8221; who &#8220;shares the same DNA&#8221; as Donald Trump. Capeheart snootily seethes that both men will ultimately pay a karmic price for not knowing their places. &#8220;In the battle of the outsider egos storming the political establishment, Trump succeeded where Sanders failed,&#8221; he wrote. &#8220;But the chaos unleashed by Trump&#8217;s victory could spell doom for the GOP all over the ballot in November. Pardon me while I dab that single tear trickling down my cheek.&#8221; If they had any brains, Beltway Dems and their clucky sycophants like Capeheart would not be celebrating this week. They ought to be horrified to their marrow that the all-powerful Democratic Party ended up having to dig in for a furious rally to stave off a quirky Vermont socialist almost completely lacking big-dollar donors or institutional support. Democrats Will Learn All the Wrong Lessons From Brush With Bernie , Page 1 of 3 Page 2 Sign Up In this article: Bernie Sanders, Democratic National Convention, Democrats, Election 2016, Hillary Clinton Politics Politics News More News ‘Swiftboating’ Is Beyond Dirty Politics Commentary By Michael Embrich ‘Hostage Taking’: Trump Is Hurting Americans to Force Dems to Cave on Shutdown Out of Office By Nikki McCann Ramirez Welcome to Portland, Where Trump's Fever Dream Is America's New Nightmare &#039;Life During Wartime&#039; By Tim Dickinson Dem Says Mike Johnson Is Delaying Her Swearing-In to Prevent Epstein Vote Meeting the Threshold By Nikki McCann Ramirez Jen Psaki on Kimmel, Kamala, and Trump’s ‘Incredibly Fragile Ego’ Q+A By Tim Dickinson Read more Sean Combs Sentenced to Over 4 Years in Prison Diddy Trial 2 hours ago Eric Dane Missed the 2025 Emmys Because of a Head Injury That Required Stitches Ouch 4 hours ago Taylor Swift, Young Miko, Mariah the Scientist and All the Songs You Need to Know Songs You Need To Know 5 hours ago The Backlash to Cardi B's Pregnancy Is Rooted in Old, Racist Ideas Commentary 5 hours ago Top stories newsletter A Cultural Force That Transcends Generations Enter your Email By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Go to PMC.com Most Popular J.K. Rowling Slams &#039;Ignorant&#039; Emma Watson as Their Rift Intensifies; Author Claims Watson Once Wrote Her a Note Expressing Sympathy Over Anti-Trans Backlash Bill Burr Defends Performing at Controversial Riyadh Comedy Festival: &quot;They&#039;re Just Like Us&quot; Insider Claims Nicole Kidman &amp; Keith Urban&#039;s Separation Is &#039;One-Sided&#039; Federal Judge Denies Motion to Dismiss by Kasseem ‘Swizz Beatz’ Dean in 1MDB Scandal Case You might also like Tonatiuh on ‘Kiss of the Spider Woman’ and How He Wants Hollywood to See Him: ‘I’m Not a Latin Actor. I’m a Great Actor’ 4 hours ago 19 Breast Cancer Products That Are Helpful for Patients &amp; Survivors 56 minutes ago ‘Anemone,’ ‘After the Hunt’ Shake Up New York Film Festival as ‘One Battle’ Heads Into Second Weekend — Screen Talk 3 hours ago NFL on Record Pace as TV/Streaming Windows Grow 8% to 20M Viewers 2 hours ago Rolling Stone Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture Staff Contact Advertise Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Use AdChoices PMC Entertainment California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Accessibility Policy on Anonymous Sources Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Newsletter Signup Enter Your Email Subscribe Got a Hot News Tip? We want to hear it. Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Rolling Stone is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 Rolling Stone, LLC. All rights reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Log In Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Music News Features Lists Album Reviews Live Reviews Artists You Need To Know Songs You Need To Know RS Country RS Latin Politics News Features Lists TV &amp; Movies News Features Lists Recaps Reviews Video &amp; Photos Photos Videos The Cover Musicians on Musicians RS LIVE Culture News Features Lists Creators RS Gaming RS Films RS Recommends Reviews RS Essentials RS Audio Awards Gift Guides Culture Council Subscription Icon Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Alerts &amp; Newsletters Email Address By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. ad