# Tucker Carlson

**Source**: https://nymag.com/intelligencer/tags/tucker-carlson/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:18:11.355365+00:00

---

Tucker Carlson - Intelligencer Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Displaying all articles tagged: Tucker Carlson free country June 29, 2025 MAGA’s Civil War Isn’t Over Trump’s bombing of Iran laid bare a deep factional split. Expect it to reappear soon. By Sam Adler-Bell gaffes June 18, 2025 Ted Cruz Admits to Tucker Carlson He Doesn’t Know How Many People Live in Iran The senator who wants a regime change in Iran doesn’t know how many people live there. By Matt Stieb strange cell fellows Mar. 10, 2025 Sam Bankman-Fried Says He Hangs Out With Diddy Every Day It’s good to have a friend. By Matt Stieb politics Jan. 22, 2025 The Biggest Moments from Eric Adams’s Strange Tucker Carlson Interview In a nearly 50-minute sit-down, the mayor railed against former president Joe Biden and said he was targeted for his criticism of the administration. By Nia Prater side shows Sept. 25, 2024 Tucker Carlson Is Touring America With Malevolent Kooks Bringing along all his most shady friends. By Matt Stieb the national interest Apr. 17, 2024 Conservatives Suddenly Realize Tucker Carlson Is a Lying Russia Dupe What changed? By Jonathan Chait the national interest Mar. 3, 2024 Henry Wallace, Tucker Carlson, and the Return of the Russia Dupe A new biography sheds light on a recurring temptation. By Jonathan Chait russia Feb. 15, 2024 Biden Picks Up Key Putin Endorsement In an interview, the Russian president talked U.S. politics and mocked Tucker Carlson for not asking him tough enough questions. By Matt Stieb chapters Sept. 20, 2023 How Rupert Murdoch Decided to Dump Tucker Carlson The 92-year-old media baron was fond of the Fox News host — but Donald Trump complicates everything. By Michael Wolff counterprogramming Aug. 23, 2023 The Craziest Moments From Trump’s Tucker Carlson Interview Instead of debating, Trump discussed Jeffrey Epstein, the Panama Canal, and Joe Biden’s health: “I think he looks terrible on the beach.” By Matt Stieb after fox Aug. 8, 2023 Peter Thiel Might Be Getting Into the Tucker Carlson Business Carlson’s post-Fox show might be getting some big-name investors, including the PayPal co-founder and Rebekah Mercer. By Matt Stieb early and often July 17, 2023 Iowa Evangelicals Flock to the Church of Tucker Carlson Conservative Evangelicals’ surrender to Donald Trump remains shocking. Their surrender to Tucker Carlson in Iowa shows it was no accident. By Ed Kilgore early and often July 15, 2023 Tucker Carlson Hijacks Christian Right Confab in Iowa Carlson’s domination of the stage was bad news for Pence, Hutchinson, and Scott, but good news for Ramaswamy, DeSantis, and maybe Trump. By Ed Kilgore early and often July 7, 2023 ‘Anarcho-Tyranny’ Is Just a Rationalization for Right-Wing Lawlessness A theory gaining ground on the right attempts to reconcile MAGA Republicans’ hostility to “deep state” elites with demands for “law and order.” By Ed Kilgore fox news June 12, 2023 The Tucker Carlson vs. Fox News Feud Is Getting Even Uglier The network has filed a cease-and-desist letter against its former host as he continues with his new show on Twitter. By Matt Stieb stop the presses May 12, 2023 When Fox News Turns on Its Own Tucker Carlson’s allies can’t believe this is happening to them. “We’ve always felt that there are spies on us in the building.” By Shawn McCreesh early and often May 9, 2023 Tucker Carlson Is Back The fired Fox News star announced a show on Twitter coming “soon.” By Matt Stieb media May 9, 2023 All the Texts Fox News Didn’t Want You to Read Court filings in the now-settled case brought by Dominion reveal messages from Rupert Murdoch, Tucker Carlson (now of Twitter), and others. By Intelligencer Staff not just tucker Apr. 28, 2023 This Week’s Media Massacre: A Roundup Networks pushed out top talent and companies from Disney to BuzzFeed imposed brutal layoffs in a dizzying series of cuts. By Matt Stieb liveblog Apr. 28, 2023 Why Did Fox News Fire Tucker Carlson? What We Know. The host’s misogyny is a leading theory for his sudden downfall. By Matt Stieb, Chas Danner, and Benjamin Hart fox news Apr. 27, 2023 Tucker Carlson Was Fired After Calling a Fox News Executive the C-Word A new report shows just how much the former network star hated his bosses — and reaffirms the level of misogyny thrown around at Fox News. By Matt Stieb the national interest Apr. 26, 2023 The Left-Wing Case for Tucker Carlson Is Wrong Denouncing capitalists and markets does not make you progressive. By Jonathan Chait early and often Apr. 25, 2023 Tucker Carlson for President? Not in 2024. Whatever the future holds for the fired Fox News host, he has no “lane” in a presidential competition featuring Donald Trump and Ron DeSantis. By Ed Kilgore the media Apr. 25, 2023 Which Tucker Carlson Succession Meme Is Right for You? Failing to signal that you’re in on the joke just isn’t an option. By Margaret Hartmann stop the presses Apr. 24, 2023 Tucker Carlson and Don Lemon’s Same-Day Demise Two cable-news divas finally get kicked to the curb. By Shawn McCreesh fox news Apr. 24, 2023 Fox News Could Be Just as Racist Without Tucker Carlson The host is gone, but his audience’s appetite for white-nationalist propaganda remains. By Eric Levitz fox news Apr. 24, 2023 Everything Tucker Carlson Said That Should Have Gotten Him Fired Already All the white nationalism, misogyny, and racism that Fox News ignored for years. By Matt Stieb the national interest Apr. 24, 2023 Tucker Carlson, Fake Populist and Genuine Racist A TV character who exploited the worst impulses of the American right. By Jonathan Chait early and often Mar. 16, 2023 DeSantis’s Ukraine Stance Could Blow Up His 2024 Strategy By going America First on Ukraine, the Florida governor is alienating the anti-Trump Republicans he needs to beat the former president. By Ed Kilgore exhibit a Mar. 16, 2023 Is Fox News Really Doomed? It certainly appears like they will lose a major lawsuit over election lies. By Ankush Khardori the national interest Mar. 14, 2023 Ron DeSantis Thrills Tucker Carlson by Taking Pro-Russian Stance The Florida governor calls Putin’s invasion a “territorial dispute.” By Jonathan Chait early and often Mar. 8, 2023 Donald Trump and Tucker Carlson Won’t Let Republicans Forget About January 6 Republican 2024 candidates would love to move on from the Capitol riot. But key MAGA figures keep trying to paper over it for their own purposes. By Ed Kilgore the national interest Feb. 17, 2023 Tucker Carlson Tried to Get Fox News Reporter Fired for Fact-Checking Trump Internal emails reveal the host’s motives for lying. By Jonathan Chait stop the presses Oct. 17, 2022 Is Trump Finally Too Boring to Reelect? Fox News wonders if it’s safe to have a crush on DeSantis now. By Shawn McCreesh early and often May 19, 2022 Tucker Carlson Used to Like Hunter Biden’s Nepotism Verified emails show that the Fox News host, who’s gone after Hunter for trading on his last name, asked him to write a recommendation for his son. By Matt Stieb the national interest May 16, 2022 Yes, Tucker Carlson Shares Blame for the Buffalo Supermarket Attack The white nationalist’s conservative allies mount an unconvincing defense. By Jonathan Chait the national interest May 2, 2022 Tucker Carlson Is a White Nationalist, and Conservatives Are Okay With It Conservatives circle the wagons around their popular racist host. By Jonathan Chait media Apr. 18, 2022 In Defense of Tucker Carlson Touting ‘Testicle Tanning’ Laugh if you want, but Tucker Carlson promoting “bromeopathic” ball treatments instead of his political ideas would be a boon for society. By Margaret Hartmann just asking questions Apr. 1, 2022 Kara Swisher: Disney’s CEO ‘Doesn’t Have Any Mistakes Left’ After a lukewarm response to Florida’s “Don’t Say Gay” law, the House of Mouse is being attacked from all sides. By Kevin T. Dugan 2022 midterms Mar. 18, 2022 J.D. Vance’s Apathy Toward Ukraine Is Backfiring The overcompensating Ohio Senate candidate has gone ultra-MAGA, but he may have ventured too far with his America First stance on Ukraine. By Ed Kilgore the national interest Feb. 10, 2022 Republicans Think Biden’s Plan to Return to Normal Is a Secret Plot The lockdowns were a Democratic scheme to gain power, and so is ending them. By Jonathan Chait the national interest Jan. 6, 2022 Ted Cruz Begs Carlson’s Forgiveness for Being Mean to Violent Insurrectionists Cruz traded one of his few remaining scraps of dignity for a kind word on Fox News on Thursday night. By Jonathan Chait conservatism Dec. 30, 2021 Why The View Is Struggling to Find a New Token Conservative The show wants a Republican cohost who represents the views of the GOP base and is not an illiberal conspiracist. Does such a person exist? By Eric Levitz the national interest Dec. 10, 2021 A ‘War on Christmas’ Story Who’s supposed to be waging this war? I have some idea. By Jonathan Chait the national interest Sept. 23, 2021 Tucker Carlson Blows Up Murdoch’s White Supremacy Denial on Air So much for “White replacement theory? No, no.” By Jonathan Chait foreign interests Aug. 17, 2021 The U.S. Should Take As Many Afghan Refugees As It Can It’s the only way to salvage America’s reputation after 20 years of war. By Sarah Jones the national interest Aug. 6, 2021 Carlson Tells Orbán the Only Threat to Hungarian Democracy Is Biden Tucker’s authoritarian dream future, on display in Hungary. By Jonathan Chait the national interest Aug. 4, 2021 Tucker Carlson Has Seen the Future, and It Is Fascist An important marker on the Republican road to authoritarianism. By Jonathan Chait conserva