# Designing For Disability

**Source**: https://thisismold.com/series/restaurant-labor/designing-for-disability
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:37:55.289236+00:00

---

Towards True Hospitality - MOLD :: Designing the Future of Food Skip to content Home page Open site menu Close site menu 01 Index 02 Calendar 03 Store 04 Field Meridians Profile Towards True Hospitality Aleem Syed's Food Truck breaks the "Cycle of Exclusion" by Designing for Disability Share Facebook Twitter Email 04.28.22 Words By Hiba Zubairi Restaurant Labor accessibility design for disability hospitality This story is part of our editorial series,&nbsp; Work in Progress &nbsp;on design and restaurant labor . There’s an irony in how inhospitable the hospitality industry can be to people with different abilities. From the lack of accommodation for disabled diners to the extreme constraints of professional kitchens, for those with differing abilities, the hospitality industry continues to perpetuate a cycle of exclusion. Breaking out of this cycle takes creativity and drive, qualities found simmering at the back of a Canadian food truck with a young man behind the wheel. Aleem Syed grew up in the suburbs around Toronto navigating cold winters, hot summers and perpetually driving up and down highway 401. In the soft valleys and bold lines of this frigid city, Aleem’s parents, hailing from Hyderabad, India, used food to carve out a corner of community and belonging for their four kids. “I think food is the most important part of my family’s life. Everything is centered around food,” Aleem reflects. His parents would invite aunts, uncles, cousins, friends, even friends of friends over to share a meal. “Everyone would always say, ‘I love coming to your house. Your mom makes the best food,’” Aleem recounts. One day, a family friend asked his parents, as a favor, to cater his daughter’s wedding. “That was the first catering that we did. It was for a thousand people. Mom told me she didn&#8217;t know what to do. But she banged it out and it was perfect. And it just took off. From that day onwards, week after week, my parents were catering. They were doing these gatherings out of the garage in my house.” Everyone in the family pitched in and got their hands dirty, becoming intimately acquainted with the ins and outs of a hospitality business as well as the integrity behind a great meal. The fervor which Aleem watched unfold as his parent’s business went from an out-of-the-garage one time favor to opening Toronto’s beloved Taj Banquet Hall, sparked his drive to become a chef.&nbsp; He took jobs in kitchens throughout highschool, attended the culinary institute of Le Cordon Bleu in Ottawa and worked successfully in fine dining at establishments such as New York’s BLT Prime and Toronto’s Canoe, Sopra Upper Lounge, Terra and Eagle’s Nest Golf Club.&nbsp; The trajectory of his life and professional career changed in 2008 when he became paralyzed from the waist down. “I understand when I see people with disabilities, not just physical, but also other disabilities, such as cancer and ailments like that, it all funnels through the same brain in the same way,” Aleem recounts. “People still have that feeling of feeling bad. Then you feel bad for yourself. So you don&#8217;t want to be somewhere because you&#8217;re not up to par in your world.”&nbsp; Very quickly, Aleem’s workspace became surreal and inaccessible to him. Yet his passion for cooking fuelled him to push the boundaries set for people with disabilities. Le Corbusier&#8217;s Modulor Man In a worldwide pandemic, this occurrence has become much more common. Especially within the hospitality industry which suffers from a longstanding aversion to inclusion. According to the World Bank, 15% of the global population suffers from a disability. Author Kat Holmes reframes this in her book Mismatch: How Inclusion Shapes Design . “To put it another way, there are over 6.4 billion people who are temporarily able bodied.” 1 She contextualizes this by explaining that as we age, we all gain and lose abilities. Abilities change through illness and injury, such as a broken arm or ongoing health problems from COVID-19. We’ve been sold an exclusionary myth of a “normal human being”.&nbsp; 1. Kat Holmes ,&nbsp; Mismatch : How Inclusion Shapes Design (2018), MIT Press Kat Holmes breaks this myth down through an example of 1940s air jets designed by the US Air Force. After measuring thousands of bodies, fighter jets were designed to fit the average pilot. After experiencing a high rate of crashes which could not be attributed to mechanical failure or pilot error, a study conducted by Gilbert Daniels found that of four thousand pilots observed not one pilot fit all ten dimensions of the jet. This led to the development of new design principles such as adjustable seats, belts and the positioning of controls. Understanding that all bodies are different allows us to better design our environments for the success of the collective rather than the expectations set on a single individual. This can be observed in the hospitality industry, more specifically the restaurant, its dining room and the kitchen. In the United States, an average commercial kitchen is around 1000 square feet. This size varies drastically depending on the number of patrons being served, type of operation and location of the establishment. Uniquely enough, the layout of a commercial kitchen, unlike any other commercial, institutional or public zoned space, is entirely up to the owner and operator of the restaurant. There are no ADA requirements and very little resource material on how to layout a kitchen beyond its culinary needs.&nbsp; The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) protects the rights of workers with disabilities and illnesses by stating reasonable accommodations must be made to an employee’s workplace or job duties to allow them to continue working, unless doing so would cause undue hardship to the employer. These accommodations must be decided and implemented through an interactive process between the employer and employee, which is often mediated by human resources for the sake of fairness. However, in the small and fast paced work environment of a commercial kitchen, there is rarely ever a human resources point of contact and the vacuum of inclusion is further widened through a rigid workplace ethic. In Mismatch , Holmes describes this process as the “cycle of exclusion,” where restaurant operators cite time limitations, an overwhelming workload and past precedents to layoff disabled staffers as the reason they cannot accommodate different abilities.&nbsp; Mismatch: How Inclusion Shapes Design The hospitality industry’s lack of inclusion compromised its operations severely over the last few years due to the global pandemic insofar as more workers became disabled and in need of accommodations. Older workers who were otherwise healthy yet had preexisting conditions began needing accommodations such as working from home. Employees with pandemic related mental disabilities required accommodations too. These scenarios required sensitivity and interactive solutions-based design on behalf of employers which under the stress of the pandemic, were hardly ever met.&nbsp; Interdependence allows designers to study human relationships and strengthen the way people bring their skills together to complement one another. Kat Holmes, Mismatch Holmes highlights our culture’s overemphasis on independence as a factor in limiting the success of a workplace in the hospitality industry which relies heavily on the wellbeing of the collective. People with disabilities often rely on assistive technology or human assistants to close the gaps in the implements of everyday life and a person’s abilities. In fact, all people are growing increasingly more dependent on technology. Interdependence allows designers to study human relationships and strengthen the way people bring their skills together to complement one another.&nbsp; Aleem believes that disabled people would bring richness and quality to a workplace for this very reason, “Every person I came across with a disability pushed themselves so hard. There’s limitations to everybody. Limitations to what someone with a disability can and cannot do but trust the person to tell you their limitations. They will know when they need a rest or need to pull the plug. Being able to work in those situations is not easy but you can give someone with a spinal injury a six-hour shift instead of a twelve-hour shift. You can have multiple disable people instead of one abled person. The quality you are going to get on that shift will be worth it.”&nbsp; When navigating life with different abilities, people are forced to consider their physical space in regards to their body in a more intimate and thorough way. This bodily awareness and sensitivity brings valuable insight and diversity to a work environment, especially one catered to serving others. However, people with disabilities are often considered liabilities and passed over for opportunities. Aleem believes this is due to a collective belief that disabled people are helpless and in need of assistance. This belief limits people with disabilities and minimizes their agency. “That’s the one thing that bothers me is that there are not that many people out there with disabilities working in the hospitality industry. A lot of these big establishments won’t give them any chances.” Chef Aleem Syed outside his food truck. Photo by Salman Rauf for MOLD. Highlighting his experience when he became paralyzed, Aleem speaks on the lack of support from the government in helping people with disabilities take control of their lives.&nbsp;&nbsp; “When I first became paralyzed, I had to go on the Ontario Disabilities Support Program (ODSP) for the first two years because my parent’s house needed to be wheelchair accessible and the only way you can apply for grants to have elevators, ramps or chair lifts installed is if you’re on ODSP. When I bought my food truck and my business started picking up, I was on TV for a cooking show and a case worker saw me. They co