# Stanford Football David Shaw

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/3929164/2022/11/28/stanford-football-david-shaw/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:08:16.677180+00:00

---

David Shaw’s end at Stanford: Lost identity and complacency derail a golden run - The Athletic NCAAF Teams Scores &amp; Schedule Standings Podcasts Until Saturday Newsletter Recruiting Odds Picks All-136 Ranking Latest Playoff Projections Quizzes Rivalry Rankings David Shaw’s end at Stanford: Lost identity and complacency derail a golden run Stewart Mandel Nov. 28, 2022 Share 290 At the end of his first summer conditioning period in July 2015, Stanford freshman running back Cameron Scarlett took his turn on one end of a 30-foot rope, desperately pulling hand over hand while a group of veteran players pulled back on the other end. He held on for 20 minutes, dropping it only after his teammates decided he’d put up a sufficient fight. Advertisement Taking the Rope, as the drill was called, was an annual rite of passage for Cardinal players. “It was the hardest thing I’ve ever done in my life, but once you did it, you felt so accomplished,” said Scarlett, now with the USFL’s Michigan Panthers. “That’s how Stanford got to the pinnacle. We pushed ourselves so hard in the offseason that the season was easy.” That fall, Stanford won its third Pac-12 championship in four years under head coach David Shaw. After taking over for Jim Harbaugh in 2011, Shaw led Stanford to heights never before seen in the program’s history: 11 wins in four of his first five seasons, the school’s first Rose Bowl win since the 1971-72 season and two Heisman Trophy runner-ups in Christian McCaffrey and Bryce Love. Along the way, Stanford popularized the phrases “Intellectual Brutality” and “Party in the Backfield” for the rough, rugged way the Cardinal won games. First under Harbaugh, then under Shaw, Stanford had a clear, successful identity. That feels like a long, long time ago now. On Saturday night, in a two-thirds empty Stanford Stadium, the Cardinal lost 35-26 to BYU to finish a second consecutive season 3-9. At his postgame news conference, Shaw nonchalantly told a smattering of reporters: “I just informed the team that I just coached my last game at Stanford.” He said he’d arrived at his decision only in the previous days. “This one phrase just kept coming to me: ‘It’s time.’” There was immediate speculation that Shaw was exiting before the school fired him, but The Athletic spoke with two top administrators in the days leading up to the BYU game and they insisted that the school’s all-time winningest coach was in no danger of being dismissed. Early last week, Shaw met with school president&nbsp; Marc Tessier-Lavigne and athletic director Bernard Muir about the future of the program. He came back from Thanksgiving and told them he’d decided to step down. Advertisement Stanford lost at least eight games in three of Shaw’s last four seasons, fielding one of the nation’s worst rushing offenses and a defense ranked in the 100s for four straight seasons. Former players and staffers described a gradual deterioration of the identity that once made the Cardinal so successful. There are valid questions as to whether any Stanford coach can be successful in college football’s new era of transfers and NIL. The entire university admits just 40-50 transfer students per year, and the administration is only now discussing how to help the football program adapt. But many within and around the program believe the bigger issue in recent years was Shaw’s complacency. “He doesn’t fire anyone, and everyone also thinks that they can’t get fired, so what you get is an environment (that is) the exact opposite of insanely competitive,” a former starting player said. “Then over time that becomes the norm, and you fall out of being the best.” In recent weeks, The Athletic spoke with 18 current and former Cardinal players, staff members and administrators about the factors underlying the program’s decline. Some were granted anonymity to speak freely about the state of the program and Shaw. “Coach Shaw is everything that’s right about football,” one former staff member said. “But football is not about being right. It’s about winning.” David Shaw’s record at Stanford: 96-54 in 12 seasons, with two Rose Bowl wins. (Photo: Michael Wade / Icon Sportswire via Getty) A small, elite private school in the heart of Silicon Valley, Stanford has long held its own in football. It produced stars like John Elway, Andrew Luck, McCaffrey, and only three schools — USC , Michigan and Ohio State — have been to more Rose Bowls. But in 2006, the program had bottomed out at 1-11. At that low point, athletic director Bob Bowlsby hired Harbaugh from the University of San Diego. By 2009 Harbaugh had Stanford ranked in the AP Top 25. Advertisement “Jim Harbaugh was very clear when we got there,” former director of performance Shannon Turley said. “We were going to build a bully. And that’s exactly what we did.” After routing Virginia Tech in the Orange Bowl to finish the 2010 season, Harbaugh left for the San Francisco 49ers. Bowlsby promoted Shaw, the team’s 38-year-old offensive coordinator and a Stanford alumnus. In contrast to the intense Harbaugh, Shaw was a mild-mannered and cerebral protege of two West Coast offense aficionados: his college coach, Bill Walsh, and former Oakland Raiders boss Jon Gruden. Numerous NFL teams pursued Shaw early in his tenure, but in December 2012 he signed a contract extension that nearly doubled his salary. He would later sign a deal in 2021 that made him the highest-paid coach in the Pac-12 at the time with a salary of $6.6 million. Those early Shaw teams carried on the “Intellectual Brutality” mantra, churning out NFL tight ends and offensive linemen like Coby Fleener, Zach Ertz and David DeCastro. Defensive coordinator Derek Mason produced dominant defenses. McCaffrey, the son of former Stanford star Ed McCaffrey, led Stanford to the Rose Bowl in 2015. Love, a year behind him, carried the Cardinal to the Pac-12 championship game in 2017. Those who came through the program around that time say the further Stanford got from Harbaugh, the more the program strayed from its physical identity. Mason left to become Vanderbilt’s head coach in 2014. Mike Bloomgren, Shaw’s offensive line coach for his first seven seasons and offensive coordinator from 2013-17, was named Rice’s head coach. In their stead, Shaw promoted his former quarterback Tavita Pritchard as offensive coordinator and former Harbaugh assistant Lance Anderson as defensive coordinator. The year after Bloomgren left, Stanford plummeted from 30th to 123rd nationally in yards per carry despite the presence of Love and three offensive linemen — Drew Dalman, Walker Little and Nate Herbig — who now play in the NFL. Last season, the Cardinal ranked 126th. “Bloomgren was the diesel behind the program,” said one former player. “Bloomgren was one of the best recruiters, he was one of the smartest offensive line coaches I’ve been around, including in the NFL, and he brought a certain swagger and confidence.” Advertisement In an interview last Friday, Shaw said he tailored the offense to the changing personnel post-McCaffrey and Love, reflecting their strengths at quarterback (K.J. Costello, Davis Mills) and receiver (J.J. Arcega-Whiteside, Trenton Irwin). “You can be as big and strong as powerful as you want,” said Shaw. “If you don’t have that guy behind you, you’re not going to rush for as many yards. I can’t say it more simply.” Defensively, Stanford ranked as high as No. 2 in the country in 2014, churning out NFL defenders like Solomon Thomas and Harrison Phillips. That pipeline dried up, and the Cardinal have fielded some of the nation’s worst defenses the past four years. Shaw, who called his own plays, never made sweeping changes. The son of a longtime college and NFL assistant, Willie Shaw, told The Athletic last spring he doesn’t believe in what his father calls “firings of convenience.” And Muir gave him wide autonomy. As recently as Nov. 18, the day before Stanford’s loss to rival California , Muir told The Athletic : “I’m going to let David evaluate the inner workings of his program, and I’ve got to evaluate how we support the program even further.” One key figure from Shaw’s program, however, did get fired — and some believe it changed the program for the worse. Taking the Rope was the brainchild of Turley, who Harbaugh brought with him from San Diego in 2007 to become the program’s then 29-year-old performance coach. Over the next 12 years, Turley would win two national strength coach of the year awards and become Stanford’s director of sports performance for all of the school’s 36 sports. In a 2014 Pac-12 Network feature on Turley, Shaw said, “I think our weight program has a 1:1 correlation with our success on the field.” “You could still feel a lot of the culture from Coach Harbaugh, and Coach Turley was the conduit who kept it all alive,” a former player said. “To this day I am still totally fearful of that man, but I would totally invite him to my wedding. I have so much respect for him.” Advertisement Much of Turley’s work took place outside the weight room. At least once a year, players had to do the Gator Run, in which the whole team pushed a John Deere Gator filled with weights on a lap around the stadium or practice fields. “He was a very hard-line accountability guy, and you understood you had to hold up to that standard or he’d let it be known you were failing the team,” said Dylan Boles, a defensive lineman who transferred to Northern Iowa in 2020. “He’d be comfortable calling you out in front of the guys.” By 2017, Turley’s approach was drawing scrutiny from school administrators. Taking the Rope was scaled back to a five-minute version due to complaints from players and parents and was eventually scrapped after at least one upperclassman passed out. “That drill had its time,” said Shaw. “Over time, that was one of those things that collectively we looked at and said, ‘We need to find another way to do this.’” Multiple former players noticed Turley’s increasing frustration at