# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Journal%20of%20the%20American%20Academy%20of%20Child%20&%20Adolescent%20Psychiatry&title=Family%20Processes%20and%20Adolescent%20Problem%20Behavior:%20Integrating%20Relationship%20Narratives%20into%20Understanding%20Development%20and%20Change&author=BM%20Bullock&author=TJ%20Dishion&volume=46&issue=3&publication_year=2007&pages=396-407&pmid=17314726&doi=10.1097/chi.0b013e31802d0b27&
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:30:17.103941+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.03 sec) My profile My library Lookup [PDF] academia.edu Family processes and adolescent problem behavior: Integrating relationship narratives into understanding development and change BM Bullock, TJ Dishion - Journal of the American Academy of Child &amp; …, 2007 - Elsevier BM Bullock, TJ Dishion Journal of the American Academy of Child &amp; Adolescent Psychiatry, 2007 • Elsevier OBJECTIVE: Mothers&#39; relational schemas (RSs) regarding their adolescents were assessed using the Family Affective Attitude Rating Scale for coding 5-minute speech samples. The internal consistency and validity of positive RS and negative RS scales were also evaluated. METHOD: Data were collected from a multiethnic subsample of early-starting antisocial (n= 20) and successful (n= 20) urban adolescents and their families, using direct observations of parent-adolescent interactions, 5-minute speech samples, and questionnaires. RESULTS … OBJECTIVE Mothers&#39; relational schemas (RSs) regarding their adolescents were assessed using the Family Affective Attitude Rating Scale for coding 5-minute speech samples. The internal consistency and validity of positive RS and negative RS scales were also evaluated. METHOD Data were collected from a multiethnic subsample of early-starting antisocial (n = 20) and successful (n = 20) urban adolescents and their families, using direct observations of parent-adolescent interactions, 5-minute speech samples, and questionnaires. RESULTS The negative RS and positive RS scales were internally consistent, correlated reliably with critical and positive dimensions of 5-minute speech samples expressed emotion and with observed parent-adolescent interactions, and discriminated between antisocial and successful adolescents. Negative RS accounted for unique variance in adolescent antisocial behavior when controlling for previous problem behavior and observed coercion. A significant interaction was also found between negative RS and observed parent-adolescent dynamics when escalations in adolescent problem behavior were added to the model. CONCLUSIONS RS narratives provided unique information in the prediction of adolescent antisocial behavior. RSs should be considered in the assessment of family dynamics and the design of interventions to prevent and treat adolescent behavior problems. Elsevier Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 77 Related articles All 11 versions Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help