# Spotify Design Home Music Podcasts Audiobooks App

**Source**: https://www.theverge.com/2023/3/8/23630821/spotify-design-home-music-podcasts-audiobooks-app?ref=wheresyoured.at),”
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:49:27.350199+00:00

---

Spotify’s new design turns your music and podcasts into a TikTok feed | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Spotify’s new design is part TikTok, part Instagram, and part YouTube Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Spotify Close Spotify Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Spotify Entertainment Close Entertainment Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Entertainment Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech Spotify’s new design is part TikTok, part Instagram, and part YouTube Spotify wants to be much more than a music player. So its app is turning into much more than a bunch of album covers. Spotify wants to be much more than a music player. So its app is turning into much more than a bunch of album covers. by David Pierce Close David Pierce Editor-at-Large Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by David Pierce Mar 8, 2023, 6:25 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads Spotify’s new homescreen design goes hard on full-screen images and video. Image: Spotify David Pierce Close David Pierce Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by David Pierce is editor-at-large and Vergecast co-host with over a decade of experience covering consumer tech. Previously, at Protocol, The Wall Street Journal, and Wired. Spotify is redesigning the core homescreen of its app, trying to make it easier for users to find new stuff to listen to &mdash; and watch. The new design goes heavy on imagery and vertical scrolling, turning your homescreen from a set of album covers into a feed that much more closely resembles TikTok and Instagram. As you scroll, Spotify is also hoping to make it easier to discover new things across the Spotify ecosystem. The new look, which Spotify just announced at its Stream On event , is clear evidence of the kind of company (and product) Spotify wants to be. Over the last few years, it has invested heavily into podcasts, audiobooks, live audio, and more, all in an attempt to be more than just a music app. The company also wants to be a home for creators: Spotify CEO Daniel Ek told The Verge in 2021 that he hoped to have more than 50 million &ldquo;audio creators&rdquo; on the platform. Spotify has also pushed for years to make video podcasts happen and is now largely watching as YouTube pulls it off. Put it all together, and that&rsquo;s a lot of things to shove into a single app called Spotify. Spotify has been on a seemingly relentless quest to nudge people toward content that&rsquo;s more differentiated and more profitable, which often meant making it harder to listen to music . That&rsquo;s why the app&rsquo;s new design seems to be in part meant to create more dedicated space for all those new kinds of content. Spotify has for years tried to find ways to put podcasts and music and everything else side by side but seems to be recognizing that the best answer is to give each thing more space to breathe. Podcast discovery in particular is crucial for Spotify to get right. Image: Spotify Going forward, when you open Spotify, you&rsquo;ll still see a bunch of album and playlist covers at the top. But underneath, you might see an autoplaying video podcast, which you can jump into with a tap. Or you might see a big, Instagram-style photo meant to tell you a little more about a playlist you might like. If you tap on “Music” or “Podcasts & Shows,” you’ll be taken into a vertically scrolling feed that looks more like Instagram Stories or TikTok At the top, if you tap on &ldquo;Music&rdquo; or &ldquo;Podcasts & Shows,&rdquo; you&rsquo;ll be taken into a vertically scrolling feed that looks a lot more like Instagram Stories or TikTok than the Spotify you&rsquo;re used to, dedicated to just that section of Spotify. You can flip through as many as you like, each one autoplaying to give you a sense of what it is, or tap on one to dive in and save or explore it further. There&rsquo;s an obvious tension in the design, between Spotify wanting to make the app a calmer and more navigable space while also trying to find new ways to entice people into new things. There&rsquo;s more autoplaying content than ever in the app now and lots of ways to quickly preview songs and playlists without hitting fully diving in. Full-screen vertical scrolling is everywhere now and is an obviously useful tool for discovery. Billions of users are used to swiping through a dozen things they don&rsquo;t like before landing on one they do. And in this new look, every song or playlist or podcast gets a momentary extra chance to grab you. Playlists have been Spotify&rsquo;s main &mdash; and, for all intents and purposes, only &mdash; source of discovery, but in the new design, there&rsquo;s a much greater emphasis on getting you into new things. That makes particular sense in podcasts, where Spotify desperately needs to find ways to recoup its huge investments in the space. Ek may have admitted he made a mistake in betting so big on new kinds of audio, and the company has scaled back its team in the space, but that doesn&rsquo;t mean he&rsquo;s slowing down. The other new thing you may notice in Spotify is more personalized AI. The Smart Shuffle feature, which temporarily adds tracks to your existing playlists, is supposedly an improvement on the &ldquo;just for you playlist&rdquo; idea Spotify has been working on for years &mdash; and don&rsquo;t forget DJ , the AI spinning records and hosting your own personal radio show. Spotify is the biggest player in music streaming but continues to want to own audio in an even bigger way. That&rsquo;s what the new design really shows: that Spotify is no longer a music app and shouldn&rsquo;t look like one &mdash; and, hopefully, not look like a mish-mash-y mess of content, either. Follow topics and authors from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates. David Pierce Close David Pierce Editor-at-Large Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by David Pierce Entertainment Close Entertainment Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Entertainment Spotify Close Spotify Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Spotify Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech Most Popular Most Popular Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store Behold: The Lego Game Boy has already been modded to play games for real Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Everything is terrorism in Trump’s America Satya Nadella appoints a new CEO to run Microsoft’s biggest businesses The Verge Daily A free daily digest of the news that matters most. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Spotify Music’s biggest labels are weeks away from major AI licensing deals Spotify now lets you exclude specific songs from your algorithm Spotify founder Daniel Ek is stepping down as CEO Spotify is finally taking steps to address its AI slop and clone problem Spotify is adding support for third-party DJ apps, again Spotify’s free users can finally play the songs they want Music’s biggest labels are weeks away from major AI licensing deals Robert Hart Oct 2 Spotify now lets you exclude specific songs from your algorithm Jess Weatherbed Oct 1 Spotify founder Daniel Ek is stepping down as CEO Jess Weatherbed Sep 30 Spotify is finally taking steps to address its AI slop and clone problem Elissa Welle Sep 25 Spotify is adding support for third-party DJ apps, again Terrence O&#x27;Brien Sep 24 Spotify’s free users can finally play the songs they want Jess Weatherbed Sep 15 Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories 2:00 PM UTC With a Friend like this, who needs enemies? 5:08 PM UTC I’ve fallen into Sora’s slippery slop 1:03 PM UTC I tried Amazon and Google’s new smart home gadgets, ask me anything! 3:06 PM UTC The quest for every Gap store playlist ever 4:52 PM UTC Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom 1:57 AM UTC Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy N