# Donald Trump Divorce Marriage Politics Men Women.Html

**Source**: https://slate.com/life/2025/03/donald-trump-divorce-marriage-politics-men-women.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:55:59.839800+00:00

---

Trump: I followed three women who wanted to leave their husbands over the election results. I can’t believe where they ended up. Skip to the content Slate Shop Games Newsletters Sign In Account Activating this button will toggle the display of additional content Account Sign out Slate homepage News &amp; Politics Culture Technology Business Life Advice Podcasts Menu Open menu Close menu Menu News &amp; Politics Culture Technology Business Life Advice Podcasts Search Activating this button will toggle the display of additional content Light Dark Auto Subscribe Slate Shop Games Newsletters Sign in Account Sign out Slate homepage Account * Respect for Creatures Large and Small Submit search Enter query Activating this button will toggle the display of additional content Light Dark Auto Illustrations by Natalie Matthews-Ramo Relationships The Women Who Wanted to Leave Their Husbands Over Politics This fall, I followed three women who had been thinking about divorce. What happened when Donald Trump won again? By Scaachi Koul March 04, 2025 5:40 AM Copy Link Share Share Comment Marriage is hardly a new invention. But leaving your husband is, relatively speaking. There’s one political party in particular that isn’t so happy with that development. During the 2024 election, vice presidential candidate J.D. Vance called no-fault divorce “one of the great tricks that I think the sexual revolution pulled on the American populace.” Donald Trump, famously a two-time ex-husband himself, remained mostly quiet on the subject, but for a lot of American women, it felt as if divorce were on the ballot that year. Divorced men, in particular, thought they had a renewed champion: In July 2024, a poll suggested that those men, far more than divorced women or even married men, would be voting for Trump . “Divorced Men Are Falling For Trump,” the Cut proclaimed by October . Meanwhile, on social media, women married to registered Republican men talked about their plans to cancel out their husbands’ votes. “I feel like he is voting against mine and our daughters (F7) best interest and her future,” one woman wrote on Reddit last summer. For a few glimmering moments in 2024, it seemed as if white women—Trump’s second-biggest voting bloc, who are often married to white men, his first-biggest voting bloc—were going to learn their lesson from 2016. They organized Zoom calls and raised millions upon millions for Kamala Harris’ campaign. But many seemed primed to use their personal lives as the ultimate political leverage: Moderate and Democratic women were considering divorcing their Trumpian husbands. Last year, divorce was being discussed as a means of resistance. Whispers on- and offline suggested that women across the country were finally fed up with their Trump-voting husbands, that a second Trump term would mean their marriages were beyond repair. But leaving is easier said than done, and it all seemed to hinge on what would happen in November. If Trump lost, would their marriages survive a woman in the White House for once? And if he won, could these women stay with the men who helped put him back in office? Advertisement In three parts of the country—Colorado, Pennsylvania, and California—three straight, working, married white women with Trump-backing husbands told me about how politics had infested their marriages. They had met and married their husbands long before Trump became a problem for them to manage personally. They all had children with these men. They moved cities and bought homes. Meanwhile, they all became the primary breadwinners in their family units. Then, they spent three election cycles trying to persuade their husbands not to vote for a man who threatened their bodily autonomy, their children’s futures, and the very (tattered) fabric of American democracy. From the depths of the election cycle in October all the way to Election Day and beyond, these women weighed their options: stay, or go. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Before the Election In October, 54-year-old Beth was a few weeks away from celebrating two decades married to her husband—that is, if they’d be able to make it to their anniversary in November. Advertisement When they met, as is true for a lot of now-unhappy couples, their relationship felt breezy. “I was already accustomed to dating men like that, the redneck vanilla guys. He was typical of the pool of eligibles that I fished in as a Midwestern gal,” she said about meeting him in the early aughts at a college alumni event. The two of them eventually wed and settled down in Colorado. “People are inclined to say, ‘You knew what you were getting.’ You don’t. I didn’t realize what I was getting into.” She’s had a divorce attorney on the line since 2016, though it hasn’t gone beyond a few preliminary phone calls. Beth had already muscled through a few rough years by election time. ( Beth is not her real name; all women in this story were granted pseudonyms to protect them from reprisals, and some small identifying details have been adjusted to ensure anonymity.) In July 2020, mid–COVID lockdown, she was diagnosed with advanced-stage bowel cancer. She went through treatment and has been cancer-free since 2021, but it weakened her body and her spirit and added extra strain on her marriage, which was already starting to turn. She called me from her office, where she works as a lawyer, to avoid her husband’s overhearing her malcontent. “The damage done from the treatment and the surgery is permanent,” she said. Advertisement Among its brutal impacts is that the chemotherapy has weakened her immune system. That made her husband’s refusal to get any of the several COVID-19 shots available to him all the more galling. “He became radicalized during the pandemic,” she said. “When I mentioned to a few people that he didn’t get it, people were really offended. Like, You’re getting treatment for cancer, and he won’t get vaccinated? ” Over time, she got pretty offended too. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement When their daughter turned 18, around the time vaccines became widely available in Colorado, the fight infected the rest of the family. Her husband didn’t want any of the kids to get a vaccination, but their daughter insisted on it. “I couldn’t have been prouder, the way she handled my husband,” Beth said in October, back when polling data still had Harris up by a point or two. “She really did a big fuck you . She wasn’t taking any shit from him.” Advertisement It’s been through her relationship with her daughter that Beth has started to see the value of filing for divorce after all this time. “She texted me that she would rather be dead than deal with another Trump presidency,” Beth said. “I thought, Wow, this is it .” She felt she needed to leave him, “if for no other reason than to stand up for my daughter, showing her that at some point, it comes down to your principles.” Her husband had every intention of voting for Trump again, no matter how many arguments he got into about it with his daughter, or his son, or his wife. For 30-year-old Annie , a veterinarian from the U.K. who had a baby earlier in the year with her 37-year-old husband, their conflicts were less about his politics and more about how much disregard he had for half the country. Not the half that votes for Democrats, but rather: women. Her husband’s views were often pretty liberal; the two of them agreed that the U.S. needed to stop giving Israel arms to bomb Palestinians—they were both hoping for an immediate ceasefire—and he also believed in accessible health care for all. But they kept having arguments about gender, and he just couldn’t get his head around voting for a woman. “I’m not sure I really picked up on the misogyny when we first met,” she said. “He wouldn’t think of himself as someone who doesn’t like women or thinks women are less than.” But Annie is an immigrant, living stateside in California as an immigrant, with paperwork tied to her husband. To leave him is to also leave the country, where her baby is a citizen. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement When Annie tried to make sense of her husband’s distaste for marginalized groups in power, she came back to his first union. Her husband was married once before, and Annie said he’s still angry at how his ex treated him during their marriage. “That’s probably some of the root cause; he almost expects women to hurt him in some way,” she said. Still, by October, she and her husband were quarreling over his criticisms of Harris’ gender and race. “He feels that elevating the rights of others, specifically people of color, erodes his rights,” she said. “That’s been a discussion around Harris as well, that maybe they picked her because she’s Black and she’s a woman.” Annie’s husband had long been more of a third-party voter; in 2024 he was decidedly on the fence about how to vote, toggling between Trump and a third-party candidate (though she couldn’t entirely remember which one). Advertisement Annie was also battling against her husband’s online habits, which consisted mostly of playing video games and watching others game on platforms like Twitch. “I think sometimes those people are a little misogynistic in the way they view the world, so he gets his talking points from that, rather than data-driven sources,” she said. That was bad enough for Annie to tolerate, but they also have an infant son, who isn’t yet paying attention to Dad’s words but will clue in soon enough. “I want my son to grow up to know he takes 50 percent of responsibility of everything in the home, in the relationship,” she said. “I won’t tolerate any kind of misogynistic viewpoints from him at all.” (Annie said that, despite his views, her husband is an equal parent in the home and is perfectly comfortable with her being the primary breadwinner.) Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement If Beth sounded defeated by the state of her marriage, and if Annie was anxiousl