# Bungalow Belt 37000369

**Source**: https://www.apartmenttherapy.com/bungalow-belt-37000369
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:02:54.461985+00:00

---

What Is Chicago&#x27;s &quot;Bungalow Belt&quot;? Here&#x27;s What to Know | Apartment Therapy Apartment Therapy The wordmark for the Apartment Therapy brand. Apartment Therapy tagline The Home You Love Starts Here Newsletters Browse Photos House Tours Mood Board Decorating Cleaning Organizing Home Projects Deals Real Estate Styles &amp; Trends There&#8217;s a Place Called the “Bungalow Belt,” And You&#8217;re Going to Want to Check It Out Jennifer Billock Jennifer Billock Jennifer Billock is an award-winning writer, bestselling author, and editor. She is currently dreaming of an around-the-world trip with her Boston terrier. Follow published Nov 13, 2021 Save Share We independently select these products&mdash;if you buy from one of our links, we may earn a commission. All prices were accurate at the time of publishing. See More Images Credit: Courtesy of Julie Busby, Compass Real Estate Along the outskirts of Chicago , wrapping around the city in an arc, there’s such a thing as the bungalow belt — a ring of bungalow homes built in the 1910s and 1920s. The Arts and Crafts-style houses all share the same unique features: brick construction; large leaded glass windows and oftentimes, art glass; one and a half stories above a full basement; a low-pitch hipped roof; a yard; and a large porch with steps descending to the street level. And that’s just on the outside. Inside, you’ll find beautiful millwork; built-ins; wood floors; formal dining rooms; and generally, three bedrooms with one or two bathrooms. “The bungalow belt links diverse neighborhoods,” explains Julie Busby , a broker with Compass Real Estate in Chicago. The belt starts on the south side, heads out to the west, and then curves up to the north. “It’s almost like an arc with it opening up toward the lake. Some of the neighborhoods that are well known for being in the bungalow belt are Portage Park, Belmont Cragin, Rogers Park, Marquette Park, Chatham, South Shore, Lincoln Square, and Irving Park,” she says. When you track it on a map , the bungalow belt is a pretty defined space enclosing more built-up and crowded areas, like downtown and the adjacent neighborhoods. And it makes sense — in the early 1900s, when these homes were built, the bungalow belt was on the very edge of the city. It was an affordable area at the time, Busby says. But many builders soon hit a rough patch, freezing bungalow construction into that arc pattern. “There was a rush in development in these affordable areas, and once the Depression hit, the development stopped,” Busby said. About 80,000 bungalows had been built around the edge of the city by that time. After the Depression, building styles had changed, leaving the belt intact. See More Images Credit: Courtesy of Julie Busby, Compass Real Estate Now, those bungalows are a prized purchase for many Chicago residents looking to keep the city vibe while having more space, a yard, and a lower price point. Busby says that for buyers today, about 80 percent are looking for a bungalow rather than a condo, two-flat, or three-flat. “The bungalow can tend to be at a starter price point for a single-family home buyer,” Busby says. “You get this prestigious architecture of a home, but it’s not necessarily unattainable price point-wise. You get more bang for your buck.” Buyers are loving the historic aspects of the homes right now, Busby says, like the windows, the wood floors, and the built-ins. Bungalows are selling quickly, with multiple offers on each one. If you buy a true historic bungalow that’s registered as such, you also get a tax freeze for eight years through the city. See More Images Credit: Courtesy of Julie Busby, Compass Real Estate When you move into a bungalow home, though, you aren’t just buying a piece of Chicago’s history. You’re also becoming part of Chicago’s culture — a lifestyle known for sitting on the porch and conversing with your neighbors. “We have clients who just bought a bungalow on the corner of the street,” Busby says. “So many of their neighbors stop outside and chit chat with them. Because the homes [and the buyers] all have commonality, because they all enjoy the historic features of the homes like the front porch, it makes it easier to sit outside and chat with your neighbor.” Filed in: architecture chicago styles &amp; trends More to Love from Apartment Therapy The home you love starts here The home you love starts here Apartment Therapy The wordmark for the Apartment Therapy brand. More From Us Our Team About Us Contact Site Map Follow along Newsletter Enjoy a daily dose of house tours, before &amp; afters, decorating hacks, and more. Email By subscribing, you acknowledge and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Apartment Therapy The logomark and logotype for the Apartment Therapy brand. Kitchn The logomark and logotype for the Kitchn brand. Cubby The logomark and logotype for the Cubby brand. Dorm Therapy The logomark for the Dorm Therapy brand. AT Media&#x27;s Family of Brands Apartment Therapy Media Logo for the corporate Apartment Therapy Media brand. About AT Media Jobs Partner with Us © 2025 Apartment Therapy, LLC / Terms of Use Privacy Policy EU and US State Data Subject Requests