# Openai Model Arrakis Dystopian Desert World Dune 2023 10

**Source**: https://www.businessinsider.com/openai-model-arrakis-dystopian-desert-world-dune-2023-10?ref=wheresyoured.at
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:40:06.303608+00:00

---

OpenAI Scrapped AI Model Named After Dystopian Hellscape in 'Dune': Report - Business Insider Business Insider Subscribe Newsletters Search Business Strategy Economy Finance Retail Advertising Careers Media Real Estate Small Business The Better Work Project Personal Finance Tech Science AI Enterprise Transportation Startups Innovation Markets Stocks Indices Commodities Crypto Currencies ETFs Lifestyle Entertainment Culture Travel Food Health Parenting Politics Military &amp; Defense Law Education Reviews Tech Streaming Tickets Home Kitchen Style Beauty Gifts Deals Video Big Business Food Wars So Expensive Still Standing Boot Camp Subscribe My account Log in Newsletters US edition Deutschland &amp; Österreich España Japan Polska TW 全球中文版 Get the app Tech OpenAI tried to develop an AI model named after a dystopian hellscape in &#x27;Dune,&#x27; but the project failed to land, report says By Hasan Chowdhury You&#x27;re currently following this author! Want to unfollow? Unsubscribe via the link in your email. Follow New Follow authors and never miss a story! Follow Hasan Chowdhury Every time Hasan publishes a story, you’ll get an alert straight to your inbox! Enter your email Sign up By clicking “Sign up”, you agree to receive emails from Business Insider. In addition, you accept Insider’s Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . Sam Altman, CEO of OpenAI, which reportedly tried to develop an AI model codenamed Arrakis. Sven Hoppe/picture alliance via Getty Images 2023-10-18T11:23:39Z Share Facebook Email X LinkedIn Reddit Bluesky WhatsApp Copy link lighning bolt icon An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt. Impact Link Save Saved Read in app Add us on This story is available exclusively to Business Insider subscribers. Become an Insider and start reading now. Have an account? Log in . OpenAI may have looked to a sci-fi dystopia to draw inspiration for a new AI model. The ChatGPT developer worked on an AI model codenamed Arrakis, The Information reported. Arrakis is the name of a desert planet from the sci-fi story&nbsp;"Dune." OpenAI reportedly scrapped the launch of an AI model named after the dystopian desert world of science-fiction epic "Dune" after it failed to meet expectations. After the launch of ChatGPT in November last year, OpenAI began work on a new model referred to internally as Arrakis, The Information reported. Arrakis is a reference to a hellish planet from Frank Herbert's "Dune" novel. It forms the central focal point of the story, with Arrakis being the only known source of the vital resource "spice" in the "Dune" universe. OpenAI began work on Arrakis alongside GPT-4, its latest AI model , to create a system that could power AI applications like ChatGPT much more cheaply, the Information report said. The company ended up scrapping it earlier this year after it struggled to meet expectations around efficiency, the report added. AI models that enable applications like ChatGPT are expensive and resource-intensive, requiring expensive compute power from cloud providers such as Microsoft, Amazon, and Google. Estimates have suggested that ChatGPT costs more than $700,000 per day to run . OpenAI struck a partnership with Microsoft in January, giving it access to the tech giant's Azure platform. The Information reported that "some executives at Microsoft" were left disappointed by the shortcomings of Arrakis. It highlights a rare setback for OpenAI after a year of rapid growth , thanks to ChatGPT. OpenAI CEO Sam Altman reportedly believes that his company is on course to generate $1.3 billion in revenue per year, up from just $28 million in 2022. Despite the surging growth, OpenAI faces several challenges ahead, as competitor Google prepares to release rival AI model Gemini , while an AI safety summit next month is likely to bring the company's technology under fresh scrutiny. OpenAI did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment outside regular working hours. Recommended video OpenAI Sam Altman ChatGPT More AI Microsoft Read next Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know HOME Subscribe This story is available exclusively to Business Insider subscribers. Become an Insider and start reading now. Have an account? Log in . Legal &amp; Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Privacy Policy Accessibility Code of Ethics Policy Reprints &amp; Permissions Disclaimer Advertising Policies Conflict of Interest Policy Commerce Policy Coupons Privacy Policy Coupons Terms Your Privacy Choices Company About Us Careers Advertise With Us Contact Us News Tips Company News Awards Masthead Other Sitemap Stock quotes by finanzen.net Corrections International Editions AT DE ES JP PL TW Copyright &copy; 2025 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . Jump to Main content Search Account