# Housing Underproduction

**Source**: https://upforgrowth.org/apply-the-vision/housing-underproduction/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:05:37.837288+00:00

---

Up For Growth | Housing Underproduction in Washington State (2018) - Up For Growth Our Bold Vision Apply the Vision Housing Underproduction™ in the U.S. Reports Housing Dashboard Policy Brief Library Learning &#038; Events Up for Growth Action Legislative Agenda Leadership Member Network Member Directory Become a Member About Us Who We Are News &#038; Insights Leadership Advisory Council Our Team Join Our Team Become a member Login --> Become a Member ROAD to Housing Act Achieves Milestone Vote Read More Congressional YIMBY Caucus Hosts Roundtable Read & Watch Unlock Housing: Introducing the Reducing Regulatory Barriers to Housing Act Read About The Bill Stay Informed Sign up to receive curated news clips, event announcements, Insights posts, and more. Email Address OUR APPROACH Unlock Housing: Introducing the Reducing Regulatory Barriers to Housing Act See the Framework BENEFITS Become a Member National Multifamily Housing Council President - Doug Bibby NMHC fully supports Up for Growth Action and its mission to advocate for solutions that will create more homes for people of all income levels. Comunidad Partners Principal and Managing Partner - Antonio Marquez Up For Growth Action’s singular voice is directed at federal policy that encourages the creation of affordable housing, breaks down systemic barriers, and bolsters the workforce. Center for Community Progress President and CEO - Dr. Akilah Watkins Up for Growth Action's pro-housing policies are positioned to drive national change that means a better life for people, families, and the communities they call home. Homeless and Housing Coalition of Kentucky, Inc. Executive Director - Adrienne Bush Up for Growth's focus on increasing housing and eliminating exclusion to opportunity through an integrated federal policy approach is critical to achieving our vision. Los Angeles Area Chamber of Commerce President and CEO - Maria Salinas What makes Up for Growth different is its stakeholder diversity. Their ability to collaborate is unparalleled and essential in helping to solve the housing crisis. Monarch Group Partner - Sarah Kruer Jager Up for Growth is uniquely positioned to meet this moment on housing with bold solutions that bridge the gap at all levels to achieve big housing policy wins we desperately need. Lafayette Square Vice President of Real Estate, Partnerships, and Impact - David Williams Up for Growth is pushing forward a bold agenda that is not only well-intentioned but poised to create the housing units needed to strengthen our communities. Request quick-turn policy analysis from our team of experts Discover, develop, and share new policy concepts within the network Gain access to members-only learning and event opportunities Quickly connect with other members working on similar issues Ask for help making your presentations more effective RESEARCH & Resources 2022 Housing Underproduction™ in the U.S. Up for Growth's flagship annual report detailing the state of Housing Underproduction in the U.S. Read more keyboard_arrow_right Housing Policy and Affordability Calculators The Housing Policy and Affordability Calculator is an interactive scenario-analysis tool that equips local governments with data to design and calibrate policies to increase the supply and reduce the cost of housing. Our calculators are developed in collaboration with multi-stakeholder local advisory committees and grounded in real estate market economics. Read more keyboard_arrow_right Housing Dashboard Find metro-level data about the state of Housing Underproduction where you live. Read more keyboard_arrow_right Policy Brief Library Get an evidence-based, data-driven look at specific, broadly applicable pro-housing policy questions by examining a real policy in terms of production impact, political feasibility, and equity. Read more keyboard_arrow_right NEWS AND INSIGHTS Latest Updates Analysis | September 17, 2025 High Housing Underproduction Regions Can Build Middle Income Housing If Policies Are Supportive MapCraft has conducted a unique analysis that assesses the economic feasibility of building different multi-unit housing typologies across the country at prices attainable to middle-income households (i.e., 80-120% AMI). They find that nearly 100 million residents live in places where building multi-unit housing, especially missing middle-scale housing, could be feasible at middle-income prices under a supportive policy environment. These findings indicate that there is tremendous market-driven potential for middle-income housing production, particularly missing middle-scale housing, in many U.S. communities, and indicate that zoning, land use reforms, and other policy changes that facilitate housing production could yield substantial results. Federal Policy | July 25, 2025 The ROAD to Housing Act of 2025: Official Press Release FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs announced a historic and bipartisan housing package. The ROAD to Housing Act of 2025 is the result of months of collaboration between Republican and Democrat committee staff, and multiple stakeholder groups. The bill includes items from Up For Growth [&hellip;] Federal Policy | July 23, 2025 Identifying Regulatory Barriers to Housing Supply Act: Official Press Release This critical legislation is designed to help state and local governments that are proactively exploring solutions for reforming regulatory barriers to housing, but need additional resources, data, and models to adequately address these challenges. View all Up for Growth forges policies and partnerships to achieve housing equity, eliminate systemic barriers, and create more homes. Apply the Vision Housing Underproduction Housing Dashboard Learning and Events Login Archives Sitemap Up for Growth Action Legislative Agenda Leadership Financial Information 2023 Financial Information 2022 State and local advocacy Federal UFGA UFGA Board of directors Legislative agenda Endorsement coalition Member Network Member Directory Become a Member Member network Become a member A Better Foundation TM Policy Analysis & Research About Us Who We Are Leadership Our Team Contact Us Financial Information 2023 Financial Information 2022 About Our team Join our team Board of directors Board of advisors © 2022 Up For Growth 1627 Eye Street NW, Suite 1130, Washington DC 20006 support@upforgrowth.org (202) 716-2064