# Why Airlines Are Terrible

**Source**: http://www.vox.com/new-money/2017/4/12/15247172/why-airlines-are-terrible
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:01:12.067074+00:00

---

Why flying in America keeps getting more miserable, explained | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo Why flying in America keeps getting more miserable, explained Free speech needs fearless journalism Free speech is endangered; unbiased and trustworthy news is elusive. In a time of noise, confusion, and spin, we’re committed to clarity, truth, and depth — even when it’s hard. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join now Explainers Why flying in America keeps getting more miserable, explained The 40-year rise and fall of airline competition. by Matthew Yglesias Apr 12, 2017, 12:30 PM UTC Share Gift Photo by Rick Kern/Getty Images for United Airlines After what amounts to a decades-long series of disasters, the American aviation industry is finally in a good place. Overcapacity and fare wars have been eliminated, redundant staff is gone, and with the economy improving, people are buying plane tickets again. Which is exactly how United Airlines found itself dragging an unwilling customer off an overbooked flight to Louisville, Kentucky, incurring a massive PR fiasco and reminding us that the industry is likely to bounce forever between exploitative and unprofitable. This particular case resonated with the public because it was unusual and egregious &mdash; a sumptuous blend of a moderately rare edge case doused with a hefty dose of poor judgment. But it also resonated because it felt, in many ways, not so unusual. Anyone who flies regularly has experienced the endless indignities of modern air travel &mdash; the security theater, the cramped seats, the delays, the missed flights, and all the rest. Making it particularly egregious is the reality that the crucial ingredient of consumer choice seems to be missing. Most of us have at one time or another sworn to ourselves that we will &ldquo;never&rdquo; again fly on one airline or another, only to discover that there are very few airlines one can switch to and that they all seem dismal in their own way. The airline industry, unfortunately, suffers from some serious business model flaws &mdash; most notably very high fixed costs in the form of buying and maintaining aircraft, and the problem that a half-empty flight is almost as expensive to operate as a full one. Most of us fondly remember a time in the not-so-distant past when the United States had many more airlines and much more vigorous competition between them. This was a true blessing for consumers, but it was genuinely unworkable economically &mdash; the consumer bounty was based on investors, bondholders, and unionized workers losing money. So we&rsquo;re now shifting into an uncomfortable era of consolidation, diminished competition, higher prices, more profits, and fewer choices. And even if choice were revived by future policymakers, experience suggests that travelers will choose lower prices over higher quality, leaving air travel a perennially frustrating experience. United suffered the downside of efficiency The practice of &ldquo;overbooking&rdquo; flights &mdash; selling more tickets than there are seats available &mdash; strikes almost everyone as mildly outrageous whenever it results in someone getting bumped. The economic case for it is, however, fairly ironclad. It&rsquo;s simply not that uncommon for a ticketed passenger to not show up for a flight due to illness or some external change of plans. Customers also value the opportunity to reschedule flights for less than the full price of buying a brand new ticket. Meanwhile, the profit-maximizing strategy for first-class seats is generally to price them so high that they don&rsquo;t sell out, and then offer a few lucky passengers free upgrades &mdash; immediately freeing up space in apparently overbooked economy cabins &mdash; as a privilege of their advanced frequent flier status. An airline could, of course, refuse to overbook as a matter of policy. This would result in flying planes that were substantially less full, on average, without meaningfully reducing operating costs. Ticket prices would need to be higher as a result. No airline has seen this as a winning strategy in the marketplace, and regulators haven&rsquo;t tried to impose it on them. The United flight in question turns out not to have been overbooked, merely full, but United realized it needed to move some crew to Louisville to operate subsequent flights. As aviation blogger Gary Leff writes , &ldquo;If the employees didn&rsquo;t get to Louisville, a whole plane load of passengers were going to be &lsquo;bumped&rsquo; when that flight was canceled, and likely other passengers on other flights using that aircraft would have their own important travel plans screwed up as well.&rdquo; In principle, of course, the crew could have simply made the four-hour drive, but airline personnel generally have unions and collective bargaining agreements that mandate minimum standards of treatment for crew members who need to be shuffled around. Kicking a few passengers off a full plane to move crew to Louisville is, for better or for worse, what an efficiently run airline looks like. They didn&rsquo;t have tons of spare crew members hanging around in a small airport like Louisville just ready to fill in at a moment&rsquo;s notice. And they didn&rsquo;t have tons of unsold seats on flights the crew members could take. The needs of the many customers who would otherwise have been stranded in Kentucky outweighed the needs of the few who were kicked off the flight to Chicago. The system, in a sense, was working as designed. The shocking video images of a noncompliant customer being forcibly dragged off a plane, his head injured and his face bloodied, reflected some longstanding problems with the Chicago police , but it also represented a collision between the logic of optimal management of airline resources and the needs of actual human beings. The rise and fall of deregulation Fifty years ago, air travel was very different. Most European countries featured a dominant, state-owned airline that provided air travel for a fee as a kind of public utility, like a city bus system or the postal service or modern-day Amtrak in the United States. America took a different route, relying on privately owned airlines but heavily regulating interstate travel via an agency known as the Civil Aeronautics Board. The board regulated which airlines were allowed to fly which routes and what fares they could set &mdash; in theory, ensuring that private for-profit companies served the public interest. In part, this consisted of forcing airlines to provide cross-subsidies. An airline would get access to a lucrative route, but would also have to agree to serve a less economically viable one on an unprofitable basis. These were the grand old days of air travel, when people dressed for flights and service was lavish. Fares were also very high &mdash; about double what you&rsquo;ll pay today on a per-mile basis . Mark Perry For constitutional reasons, the Civil Aeronautics Board&rsquo;s regulatory authority was limited to interstate air travel. Most important air routes cross state lines, but there are some key exceptions, including Los Angeles to San Francisco and many point-to-point routes in Texas. Airlines flying these unregulated skies generally offered much lower fares. Texas, in particular, came to be home to a low-cost airline, Southwest, that exclusively flew nonregulated flights and offered much lower fares than mainstream airlines. It didn&rsquo;t escape the notice of residents of big Northeastern cities that a Boston-Washington flight was much more expensive than an unregulated one from LA to San Francisco. In the late 1970s, the Carter administration &mdash; strongly backed by frequent critic Ted Kennedy, with then-staffer Stephen Breyer leading the charge &mdash; acted to rescind fare regulation nationwide and open up the spigots of competition. That created a spurt of airline startups and quasi-startups in the 1980s, most of which went bust quickly, as well as the demise of two important legacy carriers, Pan-Am and Eastern, who couldn&rsquo;t make it in the more competitive new environment. By the 1990s, there were seven transcontinental legacy carriers: US Air, Continental, TWA, Northwest, American, United, and Delta. These big seven competed with smaller regional carriers such as Hawaiian, Alaska Air Lines, and Midwest Express, along with low-cost upstarts like AirTran and the ever-growing Southwest. The &rsquo;90s were the global high-water mark for deregulatory impulses in general, and paired with generally cheap world oil prices and a generally strong US dollar, they were certainly a high point for airline deregulation as a success story. Deregulation had successfully unleashed the forces of competition on the industry, leading to lower fares and more consumer choice. It hadn&rsquo;t been a painless process, as the tumultuous &rsquo;80s involved some spectacular bankruptcies, and the arrangements were in some ways worse for the airlines&rsquo; unionized workers. But there were more routes flown and more planes in the sky, and more Americans were able to travel than ever before. The problem that emerged after the turn of the millennium was that this level of air service was only sustainable in the middle of an economic boom. Airlines were losing tons of money The 9/11 terrorist attacks, the small recession following the dot-com bust, the high commodity prices of the mid-aughts, and the large economic downturn of 2008 pushed the airline industry into a wave of financia