# Venice Film Festival 2025 Everything You Need To Know

**Source**: https://www.vanityfair.com/hollywood/story/venice-film-festival-2025-everything-you-need-to-know#intcid=_vanity-fair-hollywood-right-rail_577dfd13-c0a0-49b4-bdeb-0f55e4c56b01_popular4-2
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:25:17.019909+00:00

---

Venice Film Festival 2025: Everything You Need to Know | Vanity Fair Skip to main content Newsletters Menu Menu POLITICS HOLLYWOOD ROYALS STYLE CULTURE POLITICS HOLLYWOOD ROYALS STYLE CULTURE BUSINESS CELEBRITY VIDEO WHAT IS CINEMA? MORE NEWSLETTERS PODCASTS MAGAZINE ARCHIVE VF SHOP Search Search Sign In Venice Film Festival 2025 Venice Film Festival 2025: Everything You Need to Know From much-anticipated screenings to red carpets full of stars, the 82nd edition of the Venice Film Festival promises to be full of surprises. By Norine Raja August 22, 2025 US director and actress Olivia Wilde arrives by boat to the pier of the Excelsior Hotel on September 5, 2022 during the 79th Venice International Film Festival at Lido di Venezia in Venice. (Photo by Marco BERTORELLO / AFP) (Photo by MARCO BERTORELLO/AFP via Getty Images) MARCO BERTORELLO/Getty Images Save Story Save this story Save Story Save this story The Venice Film Festival 2025 boasts a dream line-up for cinephiles and lovers of glamour. Here&#x27;s an in-depth look at this not-to-be-missed event in the 7th art. When is the Venice Film Festival 2025? This year’s Venice International Film Festival will be held from August 27 to September 6 on the island of Lido. Who is the president of the jury? American director Alexander Payne , whose films include Sideways and Nebraska , will head the jury for its 82nd edition, succeeding Isabelle Huppert . “Although I share a filmmaker’s ambivalence about comparing films against one another, I revere the Venice Film Festival’s nearly 100-year history of loudly celebrating film as an art form. I couldn’t be more excited,” he said in a statement . He will be joined by other 7th art figures from around the world: filmmakers Stéphane Brizé , Maura Delpero , Cristian Mungiu, and Mohammad Rasoulof , as well as actresses Fernanda Torres and Zhao Tao . French director Julia Ducournau will serve as president of the Orizzonti international jury. What’s the opening film? After presenting his latest film, Parthenope , at the Cannes 2024 Festival, where he is a regular, Italian director Paolo Sorrentino returns to Italy. He will have the honor of opening Mostra 2025 with La Grazia , a film that reunites actor Toni Servillo with Anna Ferzetti . No details of the plot have been released except that it is a love story. The director’s last visit to the Lido was a successful one: in 2021, he won the Silver Lion (Grand Prix du Jury) for The Hand of God . Who will receive the Golden Lions? German director Werner Herzog will receive an honorary award for his impressive career spanning fiction ( Fitzcarraldo ) and documentary ( Grizzly Man ). A second Honorary Lion will be awarded to Kim Novak , the American actress seen in films by Billy Wilder (Kiss Me, Stupid ) and Alfred Hitchcock (Vertigo ), also highlighted at the Deauville 2025 Festival. What are the most anticipated films? The film festival will be packed with stars and prestigious directors this year. Event previews include Guillermo del Toro ’s Frankenstein with Oscar Isaac and Jacob Elordi, Yorgos Lanthimos ’s Bugonia with Emma Stone, Luca Guadagnino ’s After the Hunt with Julia Roberts , Noah Baumbach ’s Jay Kelly with George Clooney, and Jim Jarmusch ’s Father Mother Sister Brother with Cate Blanchett . The French will also be present, with François Ozon’s adaptation of Albert Camus ’ The Stranger, Valérie Donzelli ’s À pied d&#x27;œuvre with Bastien Bouillon and Virginie Ledoyen , and Olivier Assayas ’s latest feature, Le Mage du Kremlin . Out of competition, Jacques Audiard &#x27;s series adaptation of Un prophète , due soon on Canal+, and Cédric Jimenez ’s Chien51 , starring Adèle Exarchopoulos and Gilles Lelouch , will close the festival. Original story from Vanity Fair France . More Great Stories From Vanity Fair Zohran Mamdani and the Future of American Politics Meet Hollywood’s First AI-Generated “Actor” Inside the Battle for The Smithsonian How a Future COVID Could Be So Much Worse Charlie Kirk , Redeemed by the Media The 25 Best Movies to Watch on Netflix This October How Erika Kirk Rose to Power Dakota and Elle Fanning , Together at Last From the Archive: The Hollywood Secret Katharine Hepburn Helped Bury Norine Raja Norine Raja a intégré la rédaction de Vanity Fair en 2017, dont est elle est aujourd&#39;hui cheffe de rubrique culture. Elle a signé plusieurs portraits de couverture pour le magazine : Camille Cottin , Juliette Binoche , Natalie Portman , etc. Elle écrit aussi des articles pour le web, gère la couverture de festivals ... Read More Read More Style Vanity Fair France Is Launching a Literary Prize In collaboration with Netflix and Mediawan, Vanity Fair France has devised a new prize to honor the novels, graphic novels and works of non-fiction that will play perfectly onscreen. Movies The 25 Best Movies on Netflix to Watch in October 2025 From comedy classics to recent Oscar winners, these are the titles you don’t want to miss. Movies The 20 Best Movies on Hulu to Watch Right Now (October 2025) The best movies on Hulu are a cornucopia of classics, comedies, dramas, and more. Movies Vanity Fair and Four Seasons Celebrate TIFF’s 50th Anniversary Ethan Hawke, Felicity Jones, Joel Edgerton, Richard Linklater, Judd Apatow, and more partied at D|Bar in the Four Seasons Hotel Toronto. Movies Hamnet Wins People&#39;s Choice Award at The Toronto International Film Festival Chloe Zhao’s moving adaptation starring Jessie Buckley and Paul Mescal is now an Oscar best picture frontrunner. Hollywood Monica Bellucci Breaks Her Silence After Tim Burton Split: “He Will Always Have a Unique Place in My Heart” The actor and filmmaker announced in a joint statement that they were going their separate ways after three years of dating. Award Season Emmy Nominations 2025: See the Full List Here Here are all the nominees for the 2025 Emmy Awards, which will be held on September 14 at the Peacock Theater in Los Angeles. Television See All the Emmys 2025 Winners Here The Pitt, The Studio, and Adolescence take home the big awards in a night unusually full of surprises. Movies Stars Push for Empathy and Hope at Toronto Film Festival Tribute Awards “It is important to acknowledge the pain the world is feeling,” said Idris Elba, who was honored along with Channing Tatum, Guillermo del Toro, and Jodie Foster. Television Emmys 2025: See Our Predictions for Every Winner It’s going to be a good night for Severance, The Studio, and Adolescence. Movies The Devil Wears Prada 2 Is Looking for Extras in Italy The highly anticipated sequel has posted a casting call seeking stylish individuals over 30 to join Meryl Streep, Anne Hathaway, Emily Blunt, and Stanley Tucci. Movies Is Michael Caine Ending His Retirement for Vin Diesel? The 92-year-old actor is reportedly circling a role in a sequel to The Last Witch Hunter. Facebook X Instagram Pinterest YouTube Newsletters Subscribe Digital Edition Inside the Issue About Vanity Fair FAQ Contact VF Manage Account Advertising Careers User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Condé Nast Store VF Media Kit Accessibility Help © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vanity Fair may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Entertainment Select international site United States LargeChevron Italy Spain France