# Dimethylsulfoxide

**Source**: https://www.mskcc.org/cancer-care/integrative-medicine/herbs/dimethylsulfoxide
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:50:31.266601+00:00

---

Dimethylsulfoxide | Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Skip to main content Ready to start planning your care?&nbsp; Call us at 800-525-2225 to make an appointment. Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Sloan Kettering Institute Research Changing how the world understands and treats cancer Our scientists pursue every aspect of cancer research—from exploring the biology of genes and cells, to developing immune-based treatments, uncovering the causes of metastasis, and more. Programs &amp; Centers Sloan Kettering Institute Pursuing basic and translational research across 9 programs and 100+ labs Memorial Hospital research Focusing on clinical cancer research and population health Human Oncology &amp; Pathogenesis Program (HOPP) Bridging the lab and the clinic through translational research Collaborative research centers Fostering interdisciplinary collaborations between laboratory scientists and clinicians Extramural collaborations Partnering with other academic and research institutions Research at MSK Our research impact Research topics Core facilities &amp; resources Offering state-of-the-art resources for our researchers Find a researcher or lab Education &amp; training programs MSK Innovation MSK Commercialization Ecosystem Partnering, new ventures, and business accelerators Clinical Trial Innovation Incubating and implementing better ways to run clinical trials Our Innovation Story Showcasing key developments and achievements Education &amp; Training Training the next generation of clinicians and scientists Our highly-specialized educational programs shape leaders to be at the forefront of cancer care and research. For Healthcare Graduate medical education (GME) Medical student opportunities Continuing medical education (CME) Continuing nursing education (CNE) Academic departments &amp; divisions Explore all programs For Research Postdoctoral training Gerstner Sloan Kettering Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences PhD &amp; MD/PhD programs Explore all programs Careers MSK Direct Locations &amp; Language In the U.S. English Español Pусский Outside of the U.S. العَرَبِيَّة Deutsch English Español 한국어 עִבְרִית Italiano Portugês Pу́сский Türkçe 中文 Make an Appointment Back Make an Appointment We're here for you. Make an appointment New patient Current patient Speak to a care advisor Adults: 800-525-2225 Available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week Children & Teens: 833-MSK-KIDS Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. (Eastern time) Becoming A Patient Why choose MSK How to become a patient Insurance &amp; financial assistance Preparing for your first appointment Meet our doctors Explore our locations Learn About Cancer &amp; Treatment Back Learn About Cancer &amp; Treatment We treat every type of cancer, including the most important one: yours. With cancer, where you get treated first matters. From diagnosis to treatment, our experts provide the care and support you need, when you need it. Adults Cancers &amp; conditions Risk assessment &amp; screening Diagnosis &amp; treatment Clinical trials Children &amp; Teens Cancers &amp; conditions Diagnosis &amp; treatment Clinical trials Support, Services &amp; Programs For adults For children &amp; teens For caregivers Adolescents &amp; young adult (AYA) program Patient &amp; caregiver education library Cancer News &amp; Discoveries Read the latest Sign up for our newsletter For Physicians Back For Physicians Partner with us to treat your patient&rsquo;s cancer. Refer a patient CALL OUR DEDICATED CLINICIAN ACCESS NUMBER 646-677-7440 Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. (Eastern time) Clinical Resources Our doctors Physician relations Clinical updates &amp; insights Prediction tools Clinical trials Continuing medical education (CME) About Us Back About Us Our mission: Ending cancer for life. Memorial Sloan Kettering was founded in 1884, and today is a world leader in patient care, research, and educational programs. About Us Our mission, vision &amp; core values Leadership History Inclusion &amp; belonging Annual report Give to MSK For the Media Media inquiries Press Releases Newsroom Have Questions? Contact us Plan Your Visit Explore our locations Directions Visitor policy MSK MyChart Donate Now Sloan Kettering Institute Research Back Research Programs &amp; Centers Sloan Kettering Institute Pursuing basic and translational research across 9 programs and 100+ labs Memorial Hospital research Focusing on clinical cancer research and population health Human Oncology &amp; Pathogenesis Program (HOPP) Bridging the lab and the clinic through translational research Collaborative research centers Fostering interdisciplinary collaborations between laboratory scientists and clinicians Extramural collaborations Partnering with other academic and research institutions Research at MSK Our research impact Research topics Core facilities &amp; resources Offering state-of-the-art resources for our researchers Find a researcher or lab Education &amp; training programs MSK Innovation MSK Commercialization Ecosystem Partnering, new ventures, and business accelerators Clinical Trial Innovation Incubating and implementing better ways to run clinical trials Our Innovation Story Showcasing key developments and achievements Education &amp; Training Back Education &amp; Training For Healthcare Graduate medical education (GME) Medical student opportunities Continuing medical education (CME) Continuing nursing education (CNE) Academic departments &amp; divisions Explore all programs For Research Postdoctoral training Gerstner Sloan Kettering Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences PhD &amp; MD/PhD programs Explore all programs Careers MSK Direct Locations &amp; Language Back Locations &amp; Language In the U.S. English Español Pусский Outside of the U.S. العَرَبِيَّة Deutsch English Español 한국어 עִבְרִית Italiano Portugês Pу́сский Türkçe 中文 Search About Herbs Dimethylsulfoxide Purported Benefits, Side Effects & More Close Integrative Medicine More About Integrative Medicine Developing Your Personal Care Plan Integrative Medicine at Home Membership Program Therapies, Classes & Workshops Overview Individual Therapies Mind-Body Workshops About Herbs, Botanicals & Other Products Overview Search About Herbs Herbs, Botanicals &amp; Other Products: FAQs About Herbs App Email Us About Mind-Body Therapies Overview Music Therapy Our Research &amp; Clinical Trials Resources Overview Meditations Tai Chi Video Series Share Print Email Copy Copied! Share Disclaimer This Web site — Information About Herbs, Botanicals and Other Products — is for general health information only. This Web site is not to be used as a substitute for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment of any health condition or problem. Users of this Web site should not rely on information provided on this Web site for their own health problems. Any questions regarding your own health should be addressed to your own physician or other healthcare provider. Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center makes no warranties nor express or implied representations whatsoever regarding the accuracy, completeness, timeliness, comparative or controversial nature, or usefulness of any information contained or referenced on this Web site. Memorial Sloan Kettering does not assume any risk whatsoever for your use of this website or the information contained herein. Health-related information changes frequently and therefore information contained on this Web site may be outdated, incomplete or incorrect. Statements made about products have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. Use of this Web site does not create an expressed or implied physician-patient relationship. Memorial Sloan Kettering does not record specific website user information and does not contact users of this website. You are hereby advised to consult with a physician or other professional health-care provider prior to making any decisions, or undertaking any actions or not undertaking any actions related to any health care problem or issue you might have at any time, now or in the future. In using this website you agree that neither Memorial Sloan Kettering nor any other party is or will be liable or otherwise responsible for any decision made or any action taken or any action not taken due to your use of any information presented at this website. Jump to: For Patients &amp; Caregivers For Healthcare Professionals For Patients &amp; Caregivers Tell your healthcare providers about any dietary supplements you’re taking, such as herbs, vitamins, minerals, and natural or home remedies. This will help them manage your care and keep you safe. What is it? DMSO may help relieve pain but more studies are needed to confirm its safety and efficacy. There is no evidence that DMSO can treat cancer in humans. DMSO is a widely used chemical solvent. It is rapidly absorbed when applied to the skin, and has been shown to reduce pain and inflammation. DMSO is used as a prescription drug to treat inflammation and pain of the bladder. Small studies suggest that DMSO may help relieve peripheral neuropathy and post-thoracotomy pain. It has also been studied for its effects on painful bladder syndrome/interstitial cystitis, but definitive evidence is lacking. More research is also needed to determine its effects in patients with osteoarthritis. DMSO is approved for the treatment of interstitial cystitis, when administered intravesically. What are the potential uses and benefits? As a cancer treatment Some laboratory studies have shown that DMSO may slow down the progression of cancer; however, clinical studies have not been performed. To treat chemotherapy extravasations (chemotherapy that has leaked and become trapped in surrounding tissue) DMSO may be used to treat this condition in a hospital setting. To reduce pain Applying DMSO to the skin appears to reduce pain in humans. To treat arthritis and osteoarthritis A few studies show that application of DMSO to the skin reduces pain and inflammatio