# Gavin Newsom Arnold Schwarzenegger California Gerrymandering

**Source**: https://www.vanityfair.com/hollywood/story/gavin-newsom-arnold-schwarzenegger-california-gerrymandering#intcid=_vanity-fair-hollywood-right-rail_577dfd13-c0a0-49b4-bdeb-0f55e4c56b01_popular4-2
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:56:19.537906+00:00

---

Arnold Schwarzenegger Is Ready To Take On Gavin Newsom | Vanity Fair Skip to main content Newsletters Menu Menu POLITICS HOLLYWOOD ROYALS STYLE CULTURE POLITICS HOLLYWOOD ROYALS STYLE CULTURE BUSINESS CELEBRITY VIDEO WHAT IS CINEMA? MORE NEWSLETTERS PODCASTS MAGAZINE ARCHIVE VF SHOP Search Search Sign In Hasta La Vista, Baby Arnold Schwarzenegger Is Ready To Take On Gavin Newsom The Terminator star prepares to battle his gubernatorial successor over California&#39;s redistricting plans. By Eve Batey August 17, 2025 Past and present: Democrat Gavin Newsom and his Republican predecessor as California governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, have demonstrated an (unusual in these times) cross-party alliance on many issues. Gerrymandering isn&#39;t one of them. Robert Gauthier/Getty Images Save Story Save this story Save Story Save this story In these divided times , Californians of both stripes have been comforted by how readily its most recent Republican governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger , and current Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom have come together—especially when it came to standing up to (Republican, as if you didn’t know) President Donald Trump . But that Golden State alliance ended this week, after Newsom announced a plan to redistrict California in response to a Trump-inspired gerrymandering scheme in Texas . For months now, Trump’s team has been lobbying GOP lawmakers and governors to redraw state maps to ensure a Republican House majority in the 2026 midterm elections. In Indiana, for example, Trump asked Gov. Mike Braun to call for a special legislative session to redistrict the Hoosier state, even sending Vice President JD Vance to implore leaders to convene. Braun—who Trump relegated to the kids’ table during his star-studded inauguration—has yet to make a decision on the matter, but his counterpart in Texas, Greg Abbott , is all in on the plan, with a special redistricting session planned for this week that could net the GOP five more House seats. ICE agents march to LA's Edward R. Roybal Federal Building after a show of force outside Gov. Gavin Newsom's Thursday, Aug 14 press conference in support of a special election to redistrict California. Carlin Stiehl/Getty Images In response, Newsom announced his own redistricting proposal Thursday, saying via X that he will call a special election “to redraw our Congressional maps and defend fair representation.” At a press conference on Thursday to promote the November 4 vote, Newsom explained that redrawing California’s electoral map would generate five Democratic house seats, effectively negating any Texas gains. It’s a move that the state must make “in reaction to a president of the United States that called a sitting governor of the state of Texas and said ‘find me five seats,’” Newsom said. “I know they say don’t mess with Texas. Well, don’t mess with the great Golden State,” Newsom said, even as Trump appeared to do just that: Armed and masked ICE agents assembled just outside Newsom’s press event to promote the redistricting effort, a show of force that LA Mayor Karen Bass described as “completely unacceptable” and Newsom pointed to as proof that California’s redistricting is the only way forward. The ICE agents’ presence was “pretty sick and pathetic,” Newsom told reporters, describing it as everything one needs to know “about Donald Trump’s America.” That scene must have sent chills down the spine of Newsom’s fellow Californian, Arnold Schwarzenegger. The Terminator star, who had Newsom’s current job from November 17, 2003, to January 3, 2011, was born shortly after World War II to a member of the Nazi party—a group that, under Trump , has experienced a significant revival. “My father was, and so many other millions of men were, sucked into a hate system through lies and deceit. And so, we have seen where that leads,” Schwarzenegger said in a 2023 interview . THE WAY WE WERE: Then-California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and then-San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom joke around at Schwarzenegger's ceremony to sign the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 to reduce greenhouse emissions. Though the GOP has threatened to roll back the many of the protections promised in that act, Schwarzenegger remains a member of the Republican party. David Paul Morris/Getty Images The former governor was so disgusted by Trump that he endorsed Kamala Harris for president in 2024, saying the convicted felon “will divide, he will insult, he will find new ways to be more un-American than he already has been, and we, the people, will get nothing but more anger.” But in a somewhat cryptic Instagram post on Friday, Schwarzenegger suggested his willingness to oppose Trump only goes so far. In a photo taken at a gym, the former governor is seated at what appears to be an iso-lateral front lat pulldown machine, wearing a t-shirt that reads “F*** the politicians. Terminate gerrymandering.” Schwarzenegger’s chief of staff Daniel Ketchell tells Vanity Fair that the post was intended to communicate his distaste for any effort to redistrict, regardless of motive. “Governor Schwarzenegger has a 20 year history of battling gerrymandering, taking power from the politicians and returning it to the people where it belongs, and he believes gerrymandering is evil no matter who does it,” Ketchell said via email. “He still stands by the rule we learn in pre-school: two wrongs don’t make a right … He will continue to be on the side of the people and not politicians—from either party—on this issue.” It’s a stance that Newsom’s camp finds deeply disappointing. “We agree with the former governor on the urgent need for national independent redistricting,” Courtni Pugh , an advisor to the California redistricting campaign, tells Vanity Fair via written statement. “But [we] fundamentally disagree on this moment of crisis.” “Trump and his Texas cronies are trying to rig the 2026 election before a single person has voted,” Pugh continued. “This is a five alarm fire for our democracy.” It’s unclear how hard Schwarzenegger will fight Newsom, or what form that opposition will take. Speaking with the New York Times , Schwarzenegger says that he won’t be aligning himself with the GOP as he moves forward against the current governor’s plan. “He was kind enough to let me know what he’s up to and how he feels,” the FUBAR star says of Newsom. “I told him: ‘I totally get it. I understand it.’ I said, ‘There’s no effect on our relationship.’” But on this one issue, Schwarzenegger says, he must stand up to both his party and his state’s leader. “I hate the idea of the Republicans redrawing the district lines in Texas, as much as I hate what the Californians are trying to do,” he says. “But I’m thinking now about California, and about the people of California. I promised them that we are going to create a commission that would be independent of the politicians, and there will be an independent citizens’ commission drawing the lines. So I’m not going to go back on my promise. I’m going to fight for my promise.” More Great Stories From Vanity Fair The Legend of Zohran Inside the Battle for The Smithsonian Meet RFK Jr.’s “Attached at the Hip” HHS Deputy Why Prince William Has “No Time” for Prince Andrew The Mystery of the Missing Teen, Viral Singer, and Tesla Corpse Charlie Kirk , Redeemed by the Media The 25 Best Movies to Watch on Netflix This October How Erika Kirk Rose to Power Dakota and Elle Fanning , Together at Last The Florida Divorcée’s Guide to Murder From the Archive: The Hollywood Secret Katharine Hepburn Helped Bury Eve Batey Eve Batey is a regular contributor to Vanity Fair, where she covers the Hollywood and Vanities desks on the weekends and writes about the intersection of pop culture and true crime during the week. Previously, she was a deputy managing editor at the San Francisco Chronicle and the editor of ... Read More Read More Politics With Adams Out, Wealthy New Yorkers Are All-In on Cuomo (Who Is Polling Double Digits Behind Mamdani) Cuomo’s chance of winning is still looking like a long shot, but the rich are holding out hope. Politics The Clock Is Ticking on a Lose-Lose Government Shutdown “Democrats have been resolute that we need a real negotiation,” Chuck Schumer tells VF. Politics Alina Habba, Trump&#39;s Favorite Lawyer, Explains Herself The pugnacious lawyer talks to Vanity Fair about her series of high-profile assignments for President Donald Trump, and how she&#39;s hanging on to her job as US attorney for New Jersey, even amid threats from within MAGA News From Bernie Sanders to Theo Von: These Democratic Kingmakers Will Anoint the Next Obama The center of power is shifting from traditional party leaders to new faces in a motley Democratic diaspora. Politics Eric Adams Drops Out of the New York Mayor&#39;s Race New York Mayor Eric Adams will not seek a second term, he announced on Sunday. Politics Meet the Likely Next Targets of Trump’s Revenge Tour After pressuring the DOJ to charge former FBI director James Comey, the president has suggested that Christopher Wray and Adam Schiff may be next. Politics “This Is Going to Radicalize Millions of Americans”: Young MAGA Plots a Future After Charlie Kirk With increased security and hardened commitment, a generation of conservative activists promises to carry the torch passed by their leader’s assassination. Politics “The Kind of Event I Was Warning About&quot;: Charlie Kirk and Our Era of Political Violence As belligerent rhetoric takes over political discourse, experts raise alarms about the risk of further bloodshed. Politics Inside the Battle for The Smithsonian Donald Trump’s unprecedented measures to take control of The Smithsonian Institution have rattled staffers, enraged artists, and even put the future of its vast collection in doubt. Culture Our New Era of Political Theater From social media meltdowns to televised feuds with world leaders, Donald Trump’s never shied away from a performance. And as the country weathers MAGA’s 