# Dan Doctoroff Sidewalk Labs.Html

**Source**: https://www.curbed.com/article/dan-doctoroff-sidewalk-labs.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:31:50.852228+00:00

---

Dan Doctoroff, Sidewalk Labs CEO, Reckons With His Legacy Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Menu Close Close Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York About Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Menu Close Close Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York About Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Search Close Every product is independently selected by editors. Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission. city people What the Builder Built Under Mayor Bloomberg, Dan Doctoroff remade the city at top speed. Now, as New York is again mired in crisis, he faces his own. By Justin Davidson , New York Magazine’s architecture and classical-music critic &nbsp; since 2007 and was the recipient of the Pulitzer Prize for Criticism in 2002. Aug. 2, 2023 Photo: Platon save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Photo: Platon Photo: Platon This article was featured in One Great Story , New York’s reading recommendation newsletter. Sign up here to get it nightly. On the day I meet Dan Doctoroff , I walk across Manhattan from the Shed, which he created, to the East River Esplanade, which he planned; catch a ferry, which he launched; get off at the Long Island City waterfront, which he reclaimed from industrial neglect; and enter a café overlooking Hunters Point South Park , where he once envisioned an Olympic Village . Eventually, I leave him by Citi Bike , which he dreamed up. Those verbs are a shorthand, of course. He didn’t create, plan, launch, reclaim, envision, or dream up anything single-handedly. His role as deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding in the Bloomberg administration was to adopt ideas (some his, many not), convince others that they were feasible and good, then maneuver those fantasies into reality. Even so, it would be hard to spend a day moving around New York and not encounter at least one item on his long list of urban accomplishments. Every time someone sees a show at the Whitney , scans a brain in Columbia’s Greene Science Center, runs a mile at the Ocean Breeze Athletic Complex on Staten Island, buys a saw at the Home Depot in Bronx Terminal Market, watches the Mets play at Citi Field , commutes by subway to Hudson Yards , boards a ferry to Governors Island , or watches the sunset from Brooklyn Bridge Park , that person is animating parts of the city that once existed only as documents on Doctoroff’s desk. His stint in government lasted from 2002 to 2008, surely among the most consequential half-dozen years of any city builder’s term in New York history. He wasn’t, as some have claimed, the 21st-century Robert Moses ; he was Moses in a hurry. Doctoroff was a 43-year-old finance guy with abundant self-confidence but zero experience in public service when he stepped into the second-most-powerful job in city government on January 1, 2002. He quickly developed a reputation for relentlessness. “He was a hard-charging guy who thought nothing of calling your cell phone at 2 a.m.,” recalls the architect Vishaan Chakrabarti, who was the Manhattan director of city planning during the Bloomberg years. He also had a temper. “He’d blow up 15 minutes into any meeting.” He argued with opponents, cajoled skeptics, shouted at staff, and recruited supporters to his vision of a future New York, which seemed obvious and urgent to him but infinitely postponable to many. The enemy was inertia, a toxic substance that asphyxiates good ideas. “We set deadlines, and I pushed,” Doctoroff acknowledges. “I pushed aggressively. ” Few people in government knew that Doctoroff’s father was dying from ALS. A few years later, his uncle was diagnosed as well, and he died in 2010. Both men had inherited a genetic predisposition to it; at the time, Doctoroff declined to have himself tested for that mutation. Then, in October 2021, he himself was diagnosed. Doctoroff has now set a goal of raising $250 million for Target ALS, the research foundation he co-founded after his uncle’s diagnosis. “Nobody’s ever raised that much money for ALS before,” he says with obvious pride. Some symptoms of the disease are evident. The notoriously smooth talker enunciates more slowly than he used to, pauses for breath, and can walk only short distances with a brace on his right leg and hiking poles in his hands. He’s had to relearn his changing body, and when we leave the café, he pushes up from the table and propels himself to a waiting car like someone who has practiced a tricky maneuver until he knows he can nail it in public. He fends off pity with an anti-pathos shield of good cheer. Yet for someone who plotted out his own life and New York’s trajectory in multi-decade chunks, coping with a short time horizon has meant redefining the principle that shaped him: the future. “That was my dominant approach to life. I thought about it so much that I never enjoyed any accomplishment because I was on to the next thing.” New York was in crisis when Doctoroff took office, and it is again now. The post-COVID city is still struggling with a dormant midtown, plummeting tax revenue from commercial real estate, a flood of migrants who have overwhelmed the shelter system, a housing drought, a retreating tech sector, soaring rates of fatal overdoses, and a magma of rage that regularly bursts through the crust of civilized mutuality. When Eric Adams and Kathy Hochul needed a strategy for coping with that pileup, Doctoroff was tapped to help formulate it along with Richard Buery, CEO of the Robin Hood Foundation and deputy mayor under Bill de Blasio . The result was New New York, a detailed survey of where people still walk, work, and shop in pre-pandemic numbers (everywhere except midtown and lower Manhattan), plus a litany of wishful thinking and small-bore items. It’s an action plan that might turn into actual action if only Doctoroff were available to carry it out. The Doctoroff City: Of the dozens of projects that Dan Doctoroff started or championed, a few fizzled and some disappointed, but many more have proved essential: Brooklyn rezoned (2001–5), Barclays Center (2002–12), the High Line (2002–14), Brooklyn Bridge Park (2002–21), Governors Island (2003–present), Hudson Yards (2005–?), Citi Field and Yankee Stadium (2006–9), and Citi Bike (2007–present). Photo-Illustration: New York Magazine New York teems with smart, well-connected, civic-minded people with ideas for improving the city. Few of them, though, have Doctoroff’s talent for hurling himself at apparently immovable walls. For all the visionary talk, New York usually opts for the status quo until some crisis or other — a cholera epidemic, a terrorist attack, economic calamity — obliges it to adapt. Expediency rules. Doctoroff was different: From the time he turned his attention to the urban machine, nothing he did was easy. Consequently, he’s had plenty of experience of failure. When I ask what prompted him to keep taking the path of greatest resistance, he tells me he never thought to wonder about that until he went into therapy a few years ago: “I started remembering conversations that I wasn’t meant to hear between my parents, and my mother badgering my father about not being ambitious enough.” (She had exacting standards: Her husband was chief judge of the Michigan Court of Appeals.) “I realized that I didn’t want to disappoint my mother the way my father had. The major motivating force of my entire adult life, and I wasn’t even aware of it.” The other motivating force was what he saw happening to cities, especially Detroit during his childhood nearby. Ask Doctoroff about it, and he fleshes out that grim history not in vivid anecdotes but in his preferred language of numbers. “When I was born, there were 1.85 million people in Detroit. Today there’s maybe 650,000. New York, same thing. In one decade, we lost 800,000 people, services declined, the subway was eviscerated, crime spiked, and more people left. It took us 25 years to get those people back.” It took him a while to find his career groove. After Harvard and the University of Chicago Law School, Doctoroff drifted into a finance job to which he devoted more energy than heart. He got married; he and his wife of 40 years, Alisa, have three children. The moment that jolted him out of his lucrative rut has acquired the status of an origin myth. Though it eventually led to his most visible failure, he still relishes telling the story of how a friend dragged him to the 1994 World Cup semifinals between Bulgaria and Italy at the Meadowlands. “I had no interest in soccer or in either team, but I walked into the stadium and it was the most amazing event I’d ever seen,” he says. “I said to myself, Why has New York, the most international city in the world, never hosted the most international event in the world? The Olympics!” Doctoroff had no experience in international sports, urban management, transportation, event planning, or anything even tangentially related to the issue. But he did have money, connections, a sudden passion, and a limitless capacity for homework. While still working full time at the private-equity firm Oak Hill, he spent evenings and weekends learning everything he could about the Games, cities, real estate, 