# Kate Wagner Bio

**Source**: https://www.roadandtrack.com/author/228562/kate-wagner-bio/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:57:10.970558+00:00

---

Kate Wagner We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and other uses. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. Search About Us Join Now All Access R&amp;T Experiences Shop R&amp;T News Reviews Car Culture Exclusives Performance Car of the Year Contact Follow Newsletter Send Us a Tip Your Privacy Choices Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content News Reviews Culture Exclusives Gear Send Us a TIp Sign Up Join Now sign in Kate Wagner Kate Wagner is a cycling journalist whose work can be found in Bicycling, CyclingNews, ProCycling, and in her newsletter derailleur . connect: NASCAR, My Father, and Me It had been almost 17 years since my father and I had gone to the track together, a time spanning the misery of middle school to my becoming a writer, a time spanning the beginning of the decline in NASCAR viewership through the advent of its newest iteration in Chicago, a place that couldn’t be farther from the South if it tried. Jul 24, 2023 NASCAR Needed Its Chicago Street Race to be a Success. Then Came the Flood. NASCAR’s weekend in Chicago was an experiment: Can a street race bring a younger, more diverse crowd to an aging series? Can a country sport succeed in a city? Will the city itself rebel? Will the weather? Will this even feel like NASCAR? Jul 4, 2023 About Us New Cars News Press Room How We Test Cars Send Us a Tip Car Rankings Newsletter Contact Us Advertise Online Customer Service Gear and Accessories Subscribe Community Guidelines Media Kit A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2025 Hearst Autos, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights/Shine the Light DAA Industry Opt Out Terms of Use Site Map Your Privacy Choices: Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads