# 2306.13141

**Source**: https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.13141
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:56:01.722022+00:00

---

[2306.13141] On Hate Scaling Laws For Data-Swamps Skip to main content We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate &gt; cs &gt; arXiv:2306.13141 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About --> Computer Science > Computers and Society arXiv:2306.13141 (cs) [Submitted on 22 Jun 2023 ( v1 ), last revised 28 Jun 2023 (this version, v2)] Title: On Hate Scaling Laws For Data-Swamps Authors: Abeba Birhane , Vinay Prabhu , Sang Han , Vishnu Naresh Boddeti View a PDF of the paper titled On Hate Scaling Laws For Data-Swamps, by Abeba Birhane and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: `Scale the model, scale the data, scale the GPU-farms&#39; is the reigning sentiment in the world of generative AI today. While model scaling has been extensively studied, data scaling and its downstream impacts remain under explored. This is especially of critical importance in the context of visio-linguistic datasets whose main source is the World Wide Web, condensed and packaged as the CommonCrawl dump. This large scale data-dump, which is known to have numerous drawbacks, is repeatedly mined and serves as the data-motherlode for large generative models. In this paper, we: 1) investigate the effect of scaling datasets on hateful content through a comparative audit of the LAION-400M and LAION-2B-en, containing 400 million and 2 billion samples respectively, and 2) evaluate the downstream impact of scale on visio-linguistic models trained on these dataset variants by measuring racial bias of the models trained on them using the Chicago Face Dataset (CFD) as a probe. Our results show that 1) the presence of hateful content in datasets, when measured with a Hate Content Rate (HCR) metric on the inferences of the Pysentimiento hate-detection Natural Language Processing (NLP) model, increased by nearly $12\%$ and 2) societal biases and negative stereotypes were also exacerbated with scale on the models we evaluated. As scale increased, the tendency of the model to associate images of human faces with the `human being&#39; class over 7 other offensive classes reduced by half. Furthermore, for the Black female category, the tendency of the model to associate their faces with the `criminal&#39; class doubled, while quintupling for Black male faces. We present a qualitative and historical analysis of the model audit results, reflect on our findings and its implications for dataset curation practice, and close with a summary of our findings and potential future work to be done in this area. Subjects: Computers and Society (cs.CY) Cite as: arXiv:2306.13141 [cs.CY] &nbsp; (or arXiv:2306.13141v2 [cs.CY] for this version) &nbsp; https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2306.13141 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Abeba Birhane [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 22 Jun 2023 18:00:17 UTC (21,158 KB) [v2] Wed, 28 Jun 2023 18:00:50 UTC (6,035 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled On Hate Scaling Laws For Data-Swamps, by Abeba Birhane and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source Other Formats view license Current browse context: cs.CY &lt;&nbsp;prev &nbsp; | &nbsp; next&nbsp;&gt; new | recent | 2023-06 Change to browse by: cs References &amp; Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation &times; loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status Get status notifications via email or slack