# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Journal%20of%20Marriage%20and%20the%20Family&title=Step%20in%20or%20Stay%20out
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:15:08.819073+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.05 sec) My profile My library Lookup Step in or stay out? Parents&#39; roles in adolescent siblings&#39; relationships SM McHale , KA Updegraff , CJ Tucker … - Journal of Marriage …, 2000 - Wiley Online Library SM McHale , KA Updegraff , CJ Tucker , AC Crouter Journal of Marriage and Family, 2000 • Wiley Online Library We studied parents&#39; direct involvement in adolescent sibling relationships, including parents&#39; reactions to sibling conflict and their time spent in the company of the sibling dyad. Participants were 185 White, working‐and middle‐class families; firstborns averaged 15 and secondborns averaged 13.5 years of age. In separate home interviews mothers, fathers and both adolescents described their personal and family relationship qualities and experiences. In a series of 7 evening phone calls, family members reported on each day&#39;s activities … We studied parents&#39; direct involvement in adolescent sibling relationships, including parents&#39; reactions to sibling conflict and their time spent in the company of the sibling dyad. Participants were 185 White, working‐ and middle‐class families; firstborns averaged 15 and secondborns averaged 13.5 years of age. In separate home interviews mothers, fathers and both adolescents described their personal and family relationship qualities and experiences. In a series of 7 evening phone calls, family members reported on each day&#39;s activities including the time they spent and their companions in 63 daily activities (e.g., do dishes, play sports, talk on phone). Analyses revealed 3 general conflict reactions by parents: (a) noninvolvement (e.g., tell siblings to work out problem themselves); (b) intervene (e.g., step in and solve problem); and (c) coach (e.g., give advice about how to solve problem). We found mother‐father differences in conflict reactions and time spent with siblings; differences in parents&#39; direct involvement as a function of the gender constellation of the sibling dyad also were evident. Direct involvement was linked to sibling relationship qualities and explained variance beyond that accounted for by an index of indirect involvement, that is, parental warmth. Further, parents&#39; orientations toward autonomy were linked to the indices of involvement such that parents with stronger autonomy orientations were less involved, and parents&#39; orientations explained variance in their involvement beyond that explained by adolescent characteristics. Wiley Online Library Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 148 Related articles All 14 versions Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help