# Spreadsheet Assassins King

**Source**: https://thebaffler.com/latest/spreadsheet-assassins-king
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:39:16.192958+00:00

---

Spreadsheet Assassins | Matthew King localStorage.setItem('darkMode', val)), $watch('motionSafe', val => localStorage.setItem('motionSafe', val))" x-bind:class="(document.querySelector('.page-template-template-page-subscriptions') || document.querySelector('.page-template-template-page-gift-subscriptions') || document.querySelector('.page-template-template-page-special-book-offer') || document.querySelector('.page-template-template-page-summer-2024-bucket-hat')) ? { 'motion-off': motionSafe == '1' } : { 'dark': darkMode === 'dark' || (darkMode === 'system' && window.matchMedia('(prefers-color-scheme: dark)').matches), 'motion-off': motionSafe == '1' }" @keydown.cmd.k="openSearch = !openSearch; $nextTick(() => $refs.largeSearch.focus());" @keydown.ctrl.k="openSearch = !openSearch; $nextTick(() => $refs.largeSearch.focus());"> Skip to content Main Navigation Dark Mode Settings Light Mode Currently selected Dark Mode Currently selected System Settings Currently selected Subscribe Latest Current Issue Past Issues Events About Store Donate Account $refs.largeSearch.focus());" @keydown.esc="openSearch = false" x-bind:aria-expanded="openSearch" aria-controls="search"> Search Exit Search Press return to see results. cmd / ctrl + k to open and close. Subscribe Latest Current Issue Past Issues Events About Store Donate Account Dark Mode Settings Light Mode Currently selected Dark Mode Currently selected System Settings Currently selected Matthew King , &nbsp; June 5, 2024 Spreadsheet Assassins A short history of “software as a service” © Yuha Cho Word Factory W o r d F a c t o r y Today, nearly every consumer product is trying to wedge its way into our monthly bank statements. It’s not just the hundreds of streaming video services&nbsp;that have replaced the cable bundle. There are now subscriptions for toothbrushes, socks, underwear, shaving razors, lightbulbs, doorbells, Taco Bell, dog pee pads, New York Times games, and of course X (formerly known as Twitter). Luxury car makers BMW and Tesla have had the gall to consider charging customers monthly fees for access to features like heated seats. Soon, the day will come when an already satirical $300 “smart” toaster will require a $5/month ransom to keep its firmware operable. When every consumer product becomes a digital interface, even the things we own can be held hostage, or taken away. In recent years, software itself has undergone this phase change. Popular tools like Microsoft Word and Adobe Photoshop are no longer programs you buy but subscriptions you pay to access, increasingly through a web browser, monthly or annually, in perpetuity. While hardware companies still juice their sales with new product versions every few years, software is now one product, continuously updated. This booming sector is called “software-as-a-service,” or “SaaS,” as it’s affectionately known by its crass operators. Far beyond consumer applications, enterprise SaaS products have ensnared the digital plumbing of major industries and public infrastructures. Today, the category is worth over $3 trillion collectively and touted by Silicon Valley’s favorite venture capital blowhards as the most profitable business model in history. Why does everyone want to be in SaaS? One reason is that investors are addicted to it. Time and again, the public stock market values companies with “recurring” revenue many times higher than the volatility of one-time license or hardware sales. Over the past decade, SaaS has grown five-times faster than the average non-SaaS company, spawning a plethora of venture-backed, browser-based tools vying to organize all kinds of tedious business workflows. Their colonizing ambitions often hide behind cutesy names like Shopify (e-commerce), Snowflake (data cloud computing), Mailchimp (email automation), Toast (restaurant sales), MindBody (fitness studios), or OpenGov (local municipalities). Even with a small customer base, SaaS companies can print money for years, while doing little to improve their products. Investors also prize the SaaS model’s minimal upfront costs. While most companies require physical offices, factories, or raw materials to produce their product, a digital interface runs on a few human programmers and a monthly bill from Google or AWS, whose power-hungry, water-guzzling “cloud” data centers now have “a greater carbon footprint than the airline industry,” according to anthropologist Steven Gonzalez Monserrate. As a SaaS startup scales, sales and customer support staff pay for themselves, and the marginal cost to serve your one-thousandth versus one-millionth user is near-zero. The result? Some SaaS companies achieve gross profit margins of 75 to 90 percent, rivaling Windows in its monopolistic heyday. Even the reigning credit-card duopoly of Visa and Mastercard wield a mere 51 percent net margin. But this golden goose has finally stumbled in recent years. First, the pandemic tech bubble poured gobs of venture money into every possible remote-anything startup, flooding the market with an oversupply of vendors. Then came the “ SaaS crash ” of 2022, when cost-cutting enterprises realized they were paying more for software than health care, while 53 percent of SaaS licenses went unused. Now, the rise of AI-powered developer tools threaten to deliver 90 percent cheaper copycats of popular SaaS products. Business Insider dubbed it “ the final phase of software eating the world ,” invoking VC Marc Andreessen’s obnoxious catchphrase. In this case, software is eating itself—a kind of digital cannibalization—and it feels like a fitting conclusion. Because there’s also long been an open secret in SaaS: the value proposition behind many of these products is bafflingly thin. As one CEO of a content management platform recently put it: “The biggest incumbent in [business-to-business] SaaS is some spreadsheets and one additional headcount.” Or, another CEO of a customer success management platform : “Every SaaS application pitch ever (including ours): 1. Your data is in lots of places 2. So you use spreadsheets 3. We bring it all together 4. Profit.” Or, another CEO-turned-MAGA ghoul , who invests in dozens of whatever-management platforms: “Find a commonly used spreadsheet (eg cap tables) and turn it into a dashboard (eg Carta). Replace email attachments with workflows. Spreadsheets are the long tail of datasets that don’t have their own SaaS tool yet.” Why let a business-critical workflow exist in some generic document, easily shared across systems and possibly fulfilling every task requirement, when you could corral those actions into a gated domain, gussy up the UI to imply value or progress, and charge a monthly subscription for it? The ambitions of SaaS didn’t used to be so bloodless, or narrow-minded. Salesforce arguably launched the category in the early 2000s with its browser-based customer relationship management tool. The company’s “ End of Software ” campaign promised to empower knowledge workers with applications they could access from anywhere, and automation to replace time-consuming manual data entry. Less discussed was the Faustian bargain of moving your data and workflows into a proprietary system. “In the future, all software will be delivered in the cloud,” founder Marc Benioff said in an interview. “Businesses will be freed from buying infrastructure that goes out of date, depreciates in value, and requires a hefty investment to keep running. People will access all the services they need via the Web and have them upgraded without doing a thing.” For all this philosophical talk, the real cheat code in SaaS has always been a first-mover advantage. A platform like Salesforce touts itself as a “single source of truth” because it only succeeds if users treat it as such. (The common mantra on revenue teams goes, “If it’s not in Salesforce, it didn’t happen.”) Most SaaS management software is simply a way to keep people and tasks aligned; a seven-figure software license can do that, but so can a seven-cent Post-it note. More than the quality of any given code, the value of the largest SaaS companies is their locked-in network effects. Once a piece of software has entrenched itself in the bowels of corporate IT infrastructure, it’s a nightmare to dislodge. Imagine the switching costs to migrate millions of records, replace thousands of systems, navigate hundreds of data privacy approvals, and retrain every employee, while keeping a local government or hospital running. Consider the colleges and school districts terrorized for decades by a crappy EdTech software, courtesy of a regional sales rep and nephew of the head administrator. Even with a small customer base, SaaS companies can print money for years, while doing little to improve their products, often letting the core service and basic functionality degrade, like so many city landlords sitting on old buildings and prime real estate. Rent-seeking has become an explicit playbook for many shameless SaaS investors. Private equity shop Thoma Bravo has acquired over four hundred software companies, repeatedly mashing products together to amplify lock-in effects so it can slash costs and boost prices—before selling the ravaged Franken-platform to the highest bidder. Anti-monopolist author Matt Stoller has called Thoma Bravo the “bridge trolls of enterprise software,” and its recent forays into cybersecurity arguably caused the worst software hack in American history. After years of dismantling Solarwinds, a ubiquitous network management software, Thoma Bravo and Silver Lake dumped $286 million of shares in December 2020, the day before the company disclosed a staggering malware breach. The “Sunburst” cyberattack exposed data from California hospitals, the Department of the Treasury, the U.S. nuclear weapons agency, and dozens of other agencies and major companies. While the root cause is still under investigation, multiple lawsuits and reports describe a culture of cost-cutting and frequent security l