# Inside Socios Footballs New 200 Million Partner

**Source**: https://offthepitch.com/a/inside-socios-footballs-new-200-million-partner
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:20:53.551223+00:00

---

Inside Socios – football’s new $200 million partner | Off The Pitch Skip to main content Data Analytics Tools Player Salary Data Articles Search Search our extensive archive Data Analytics Tools Player Salary Data Articles Search Search our extensive archive Subscribe Subscribe Login 1 November 2021 - 3:32 PM Author James Corbett, Senior Correspondent Photo Alamy Inside Socios – football’s new $200 million partner The crypto-backed tradeable fan token has raised $200 million for the game’s overall economy since last year, with 34 club partnerships – and counting. Fan tokens have nevertheless raised concern about lack of crypto-regulation and “monetising” fan engagement, with West Ham dropping a Socios deal after supporter protests. Off The Pitch breaks down how clubs monetise their relationship with Socios and shows how €3.4 billion of tokens were traded in one 2 week period for a single club. In a separate exclusive interview, Socios CEO Alexandre Dreyfus responds to concerns. “It's all about education, education, education. It is how we can try to share our vision about what we believe is the next phase of fan engagement in the next five, 10 years. How clubs can embrace it or not.” In a global football economy battered by the effects of Covid, the emergence of Socios must seem at times like a magic pill. The company has, by its own account, conjured up $200 million in revenues payable to clubs since its inception three years ago.&nbsp; Arsenal, Barcelona, PSG and Manchester City are just some of the company’s 34 football partnerships and counting. Financially stricken giants of the game, like Inter Milan and Valencia, now carry Socios as shirt sponsors. Do you want to read this article? Get instant access by signing up for a 7-day free trial No credit card, no commitments, and it will expire automatically. You will receive a link that activates your trial in an email. I accept the terms and conditions of Off The Pitch Leave this field blank Already a member? Related articles Image “The question is very simple: Do you just want shares or likes from all those social media followers? Or do you want revenue?” “The question is very simple: Do you just want shares or likes from all those social media followers? Or do yo Image Interview: Real Betis find it hard to grow local commercial income – now they launch ambitious strategy in Asia and Mexico Interview: Real Betis find it hard to grow local commercial income – now they launch ambitious strategy in Asi Image Interview with Barcelona board member: &quot;Content is going to be the new core business of Barca&quot; New digital strategy aims to grow club’s brand to compete with entertainment companies beyond sport info@offthepitch.com Get access Subscribe About About Us Terms and conditions Cookie and privacy policy