# Kevin Esvelt Mitigating Catastrophic Biorisks

**Source**: https://www.effectivealtruism.org/articles/kevin-esvelt-mitigating-catastrophic-biorisks
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:24:37.867670+00:00

---

Kevin Esvelt: Mitigating catastrophic biorisks | Effective Altruism Learn Intro essay Videos, books, podcasts Online intro course EA Newsletter EA Handbook EA Forum Take action Courses Conferences Opportunities board FAQs Learn Intro essay Videos, books, podcasts Online intro course EA Newsletter EA Handbook EA Forum Take action Courses Conferences Opportunities board FAQs Articles Kevin Esvelt: Mitigating catastrophic biorisks Kevin Esvelt: Mitigating catastrophic biorisks In a world now painfully aware of pandemics, and with ever-increasing access to autonomous biological agents, how can we help channel society’s response to COVID-19 to minimize the risk of deliberate misuse? Using the challenge of securing DNA synthesis as an example, Kevin Esvelt outlines the key norms and incentives governing biotechnology, lays out potential strategies for reform, and suggests ways in which thoughtful individuals might safely and credibly discuss and mitigate biorisks without spreading information hazards. We’ve lightly edited Kevin’s talk for clarity. You can also watch it on YouTube and discuss it on the EA Forum . The Talk Sim Dhaliwal (Moderator): Hello, and welcome to this session on mitigating catastrophic biorisks with Professor Kevin Esvelt. Following a 15-minute talk by Professor Esvelt, we&#x27;ll move on to a live Q&amp;A session where he will respond to your questions. [...] It&#x27;s my pleasure to introduce our speaker for this session. Professor Kevin Esvelt leads the Sculpting Evolution Group at MIT. He helped pioneer the development of CRISPR genome editing and is best known for his invention of CRISPR-based gene drive systems, which can be used to edit the genomes of wild species. He has led efforts to ensure that all research in the field is open and community-guided, while calling for caution regarding autonomous biological agents that could be misused. Professor Esvelt&#x27;s laboratory broadly focuses on mitigating catastrophic biological risks by developing countermeasures, changing scientific norms to favor early-stage peer review, and applying cryptography to secure DNA synthesis without spreading information hazards. Here&#x27;s Professor Kevin Esvelt. Kevin: To those of us who seek to prevent the catastrophic misuse of biotechnology, the tragedy of COVID-19 has completely changed the landscape. Suddenly, the entire world is keenly aware of our profound vulnerability to pandemic agents. That does have an upside, because after a catastrophe, we always overreact. That means our job in the near term is to ensure that that reaction is channeled as effectively as possible to prevent future biological catastrophes. There are a few things we should definitely have two years from now: An early warning system in which we perform metagenomic sequencing of samples taken from sewage, waterways, and anonymous travelers all over the world. Sequencing all of the nucleic acids [from these sources] would establish a baseline, hopefully allowing us to detect any anomalies — anything new that&#x27;s increasing in frequency — in time to do something about it. That&#x27;s the highest priority. Protections that we can develop faster than a vaccine. For example, we might take the human protein receptor that mammalian viruses use to enter us and make decoy versions of all of them. These could serve as therapeutics in the event of a new pandemic agent that tries to use that receptor. Or, if delivered by gene therapy, these decoys could even protect us in advance, serving as the equivalent of a vaccine. If we did this for all viruses that rely on a protein receptor, we’d be protected from any agent in those viral families in advance. Dedicated resources for coordination. I would love to see the creation of an independent [oversight body] that’s the equivalent of the Federal Reserve. It could be narrowly focused on autonomous biological agents and have authority over other government agencies in that narrow area. Ideally, this group would also have an explicit mandate to cooperate with other nations, because we&#x27;re all in this together. The problem is that even though these three measures would broadly help mitigate natural pandemic agents that are viruses or engineered agents, that&#x27;s not going to be true of everything in our response. Many scientists are actively engaged in sharing methods that will accelerate the research response to COVID, for example, by making it easier to synthesize and edit variants of viruses. There are also many researchers looking at natural viruses. What are the zoonotic reservoirs? What is out there, and what exactly is it that causes a virus to jump species and spread effectively in a new one? The problem is in biotech. Our ability to engineer things is directly proportional to our understanding of how nature does it. Insofar as someone reveals what it is on a molecular level that allows a virus to jump species and spread in humans, it becomes that much easier to engineer it deliberately. Some people will say, “This is wildly implausible. We don&#x27;t know how to engineer autonomous agents that can spread on their own in the wild.” Well, if you happen to know otherwise, definitely don&#x27;t correct them. But you can point to a safe example. Eight years ago, no one had even imagined that a single researcher would be able to build a construct that could spread to impact an entire species. Then came CRISPR . I played a minor role in developing CRISPR, and shortly thereafter, wondered what would happen if, instead of just editing the genome of an organism, we actually encoded CRISPR next to the change we wanted to make. Then CRISPR would cut the wild-type version of the chromosome and copy itself and the alteration over, thereby ensuring that most of the offspring inherit the alteration in the CRISPR system. Genome editing would happen again in the reproductive cells of the next generation, thereby ensuring greater inheritance and causing this CRISPR-based gene drive system to spread through the whole population. This is likely to be one of our most effective tools when it comes to challenges such as eradicating malaria. But it&#x27;s also clear evidence that we can, in fact, build constructs that we believe will reliably spread to affect a species. It&#x27;s safe to talk about this because the CRISPR-based gene drive favors defense. It&#x27;s slow, it&#x27;s obvious, and it can be overwritten. That&#x27;s why we thought it was safe to tell the world about the technology in the first place, and I stand by that assessment. Although this technology is safe, viruses may well be another story — and that story must go untold. We already know that historical pandemic viral agents can be constructed from scratch. In fact, they seem to be accessible to pretty much anyone with the right skills: someone who knows the sequence for making something that could become a pandemic. Just about anyone can get the relevant DNA, because we don&#x27;t screen all DNA synthesis everywhere in the world for hazards. The real problem, of course, is that it only takes one person. Thankfully, very few people are in the grip of a sufficiently destructive and pathological ideology or mental illness that would cause them to consider deliberately building and releasing a pandemic agent. But again, it only takes one. We must reduce that risk as much as we can — especially since historical pandemic agents are not guaranteed to take off. If someone were to make 1918 influenza today, I would give it only a small chance of spreading to become anything approximating a new pandemic. We need to keep in mind that evolution is not trying to harm us. An engineered agent could plausibly be worse than anything that we&#x27;ve seen in nature, so we must do everything we can to prevent this sort of thing from happening. I am by no means saying that it is possible to do this today. Rather, we should assume that future advances will lead to technologies that enable us to build more harmful agents. If we see that day coming before any bad actor does, we could, in principle, get universal DNA synthesis screening working and deny widespread access to DNA. That would be effective. However, right now that would disclose what we&#x27;re screening for, which would enhance the credibility of these kinds of agents as bioweapons and actively encourage bad actors to make them. How can we avoid that? We somehow need to make all DNA synthesizers unable to produce potential bioweapons — without disclosing what we think might make a potential bioweapon. We need to do so in a way that&#x27;s adaptive, because we don&#x27;t know how to do it today, but we may learn how in the future. As we learn, and as any scientist spots a potential way of doing this, we need a way for them to enter that information into the system without [revealing] what it is. This challenge of securing DNA synthesis without spreading information hazards is really a microcosm of the broader challenge of preventing the catastrophic misuse of biotechnology. How do we do it without disclosing what it is that we&#x27;re afraid of? We need to keep in mind that it&#x27;s not just a technical problem. Even if we do come up with a technical solution that could prevent misuse, we also need to implement it in the real world, and that means we need to concern ourselves with incentives. Why don&#x27;t most companies screen DNA for hazards? Well, it&#x27;s expensive. Current screening methods create false positives that require human curation — an expense that most companies won’t take on. We need to fix that. There&#x27;s also a global challenge. Pandemics ignore borders. But DNA synthesis, for example, is done by companies throughout the world, and governments are presently in no position to talk to each other and deal with this shared problem. There&#x27;s a lack of trust. Then, there&#x27;s the challenge of scientific norms. All of us, without exception, deeply resent any kind of interf