# S11524 011 9637 7

**Source**: https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11524-011-9637-7
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:40:42.746780+00:00

---

Community Severance and Health: What Do We Actually Know? | Journal of Urban Health Skip to main content Log in Menu Find a journal Publish with us Track your research Search Cart Home Journal of Urban Health Article Community Severance and Health: What Do We Actually Know? Published: 07 January 2012 Volume 89 , pages 232–246, ( 2012 ) Cite this article Journal of Urban Health Aims and scope Submit manuscript Jennifer S. Mindell 1 &amp; Saffron Karlsen 1 2094 Accesses 80 Citations 82 Altmetric 10 Mentions Explore all metrics Abstract Community severance occurs where road traffic (speed or volume) inhibits access to goods, services, or people. Appleyard and Lintell’s seminal study of residents of three urban streets in San Francisco found an inverse relationship between traffic and social contacts. The extent of social networks predicts unhealthy behaviors, poor health, and mortality; high rather than low social integration is associated with reduced mortality, with an effect size of similar magnitude to stopping smoking. Although community severance diminishes social contacts, the implications of community severance for morbidity and mortality have not been empirically established. Based on a systematic literature search, we discuss what is actually known about community severance. There is empirical evidence that traffic speed and volume reduces physical activity, social contacts, children’s play, and access to goods and services. However, no studies have investigated mental or physical health outcomes in relation to community severance. While not designed specifically to do so, recent developments in road design may also ameliorate community severance. This is a preview of subscription content, log in via an institution to check access. Access this article Log in via an institution Subscribe and save Springer+ from $39.99 /Month Starting from 10 chapters or articles per month Access and download chapters and articles from more than 300k books and 2,500 journals Cancel anytime View plans Buy Now Buy article PDF USD 39.95 Price excludes VAT (USA) Tax calculation will be finalised during checkout. Instant access to the full article PDF. Institutional subscriptions FIGURE 1. Similar content being viewed by others Community Severance in Urban Africa Chapter © 2022 Definitions of Community for Individuals with Serious Mental Illnesses: Implications for Community Integration and Recovery Article 05 June 2020 The Design of Online Communities Devoted to Health and Better Living: Using Social Interaction Features to Foster Online Contributions Chapter © 2017 Explore related subjects Discover the latest articles, books and news in related subjects, suggested using machine learning. Community Well-Being Community Psychology Medical Sociology Sociology Social and Cultural Geography Social Neuroscience References Mindell JS, Watkins SJ, Cohen JM, eds. Health on the Move 2: Policies for Health Promoting Transport. The Policy Statement of the Transport and Health Study Group , 2nd edn. Stockport, England: Transport and Health Study Group; 2011. Appleyard D, Lintell M. The environmental quality of city streets: the residents’ viewpoint. Am Inst Plan J . 1972; 38(3): 84–101. Article Google Scholar Hannah J, Morton S, Watkins S. Health on the Move: Policies for Health Promoting Transport. The Policy Statement of the Transport and Health Study Group . Birmingham, England: Public Health Alliance; 1991. Google Scholar Wolff SP, Gillham CJ. Public health versus public policy? An appraisal of British urban transport policy. Public Health . 1991; 105(3): 217–228. Article PubMed CAS Google Scholar British Medical Association. Road Transport and Health . London, England: BMA; 1997. Google Scholar Mindell JS. Quantification of the Health Impacts of Air Pollution Reduction in Kensington &amp; Chelsea and Westminster [PhD thesis]. London, England: Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine, University of London; 2002. Egan M, Petticrew M, Ogilvie D, Hamilton V. New roads and human health: a systematic review. Am J Public Health . 2003; 93(9): 1463–1471. Article PubMed Google Scholar Hosking J, Macmillan A, Connor J, Bullen C, Ameratunga S. Organisational travel plans for improving health. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews . 2010;Issue 3: CD005575-doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD005575.pub3 . Thomson H, Jepson R, Hurley F, Douglas M. Assessing the unintended health impacts of road transport policies and interventions: translating research evidence for use in policy and practice. BMC Publ Health . 2008; 8(1): 339. Article Google Scholar McCarthy M, Ravelli RJ, Sinclair-Williams M. Health impact assessment of the 2012 London Olympic transport plans. Eur J Public Health . 2010; 20(6): 619–624. Article PubMed Google Scholar Watkiss P, Brand C, Hurley F, et al. Informing Transport Health Impact Assessment in London . London, England: NHS Executive London; 2000. Google Scholar Boesch H-J, Kahlmeier S, Sommer H, van Kempen E, Staatsen B, Racioppi F. Economic Valuation of Transport Related Health Effects. Review of Methods and Development of Practical Approaches, with a Special Focus on Children . Copenhagen, Denmark: World Health Organization Regional Office for Europe; 2008. Google Scholar Public Health Advisory Committee. Interactions between Transport and Health: the Impacts of Transport on Health. Background Paper . Auckland, New Zealand: National Health Committee; 2003. Google Scholar Berkman L, Syme SL. Social networks, host resistance, and mortality: a nine-year follow-up study of Alameda County residents. Am J Epidemiol . 1979; 109(2): 186–204. PubMed CAS Google Scholar Wingard DL, Berkman LF, Brand RJ. A multivariate analysis of health-related practices: a nine-year mortality follow-up of the Alameda County Study. Am J Epidemiol . 1982; 116(5): 765–775. PubMed CAS Google Scholar Brown B, Chiang CP. Drug and alcohol abuse among the elderly: is being alone the key? Int J Aging Hum Dev . 1983; 18(1): 1–12. Article PubMed Google Scholar Leavy RL. Social support and psychological disorder: a review. J Community Psychol . 1983; 11(1): 3–21. Article PubMed CAS Google Scholar Olstad R, Sexton H, Sogaard AJ. The Finnmark study. Social support, social network and mental distress in a prospective population study. Soc Psychiatr Psychiatr Epidemiol . 1999; 34(10): 519–525. Article CAS Google Scholar Dalgard OS. Neighorhood, social network, and development of mental disorders. Int J Family Psychiatr . 1985; 6(2): 167–176. Google Scholar Kaplan GA. Social contacts and ischaemic heart disease. Ann Clin Res . 1988; 20(1–2): 131–136. PubMed CAS Google Scholar Dalgard OS, Håheim LL. Psychosocial risk factors and mortality: a prospective study with special focus on social support, social participation, and locus of control in Norway. J Epidemiol Community Health . 1998; 52(8): 476–481. Article PubMed CAS Google Scholar Berkman LF. Assessing the physical health effects of social networks and social support. Annu Rev Public Health . 1984; 5: 413–432. Article PubMed CAS Google Scholar Welin L, Svärdsudd K, Ander-Peciva S, et al. Prospective study of social influences on mortality. Lancet . 1985; 1(8434): 915–918. Article PubMed CAS Google Scholar Liepmann KK. The Journey to Work . London, England: Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner &amp; Co. Ltd; 1944. Clark JM, Hutton BJ, Burnett N, Hathaway A, Harrison A. The Appraisal of Community Severance . Crowthorne, Berkshire: Transport Research Laboratory; 1991. Google Scholar Department of Transport. Manual of Environmental Appraisal . London, England: DoT; 1983. Google Scholar James E, Millington A, Tomlinson P. Understanding Community Severance Part 1: Views of Practitioners and Communities . Unpublished TRL Report produced for the Department for Transport ed. Crowthorne, Berkshire: TRL Limited; 2005. Roberts I, Stott R, on behalf of the Climate and Health Council Executive. Doctors and climate change. BMJ . 2010; 341: 1061–1062. Google Scholar Petticrew M. Systematic reviews in public health: old chestnuts and new challenges. Bull World Health Organ . 2009; 87(3): 163–163A. Article PubMed Google Scholar Grigg AO, Ford WG. Review of Some Effects of Major Roads on Urban Communities . TRRL Supplementary Report 778 ed. Crowthorne, Berkshire: Transport and Road Research Laboratory; 1983 Smith JD, Gurney A. Community Effects of Traffic Congestion: a Review of the London Assessment Study Data . Crowthorne, Berkshire: Transport Research Laboratory; 1992. Google Scholar Jones L. Putting transport on the social policy agenda. In: May M, Brunsdon E, Craig G, eds. Social Policy Review 8 . London, England: Social Policy Association; 1996: 247–264. Google Scholar Carp FM. Walking as a means of transportation for retired people. Gerontologist . 1971; 11(2): 104–111. Article PubMed CAS Google Scholar Hoxie RE, Rubenstein LZ. Are older pedestrians allowed enough time to cross intersections safely? J Am Geriatr Soc . 1994; 42(3): 241–244. PubMed CAS Google Scholar Langlois JA, Keyl PM, Guralnik JM, Foley DJ, Marottoli RA, Wallace RB. Characteristics of older pedestrians who have difficulty crossing the street. Am J Public Health . 1997; 87(3): 393–397. Article PubMed CAS Google Scholar Jones S, Kingham S, Briggs D. Kirklees Case Study . Huddersfield, England: Environment Unit, Kirklees Metropolitan Council; 1997. Google Scholar Litwin H. Social network type and health status in a national sample of elderly Israelis. Soc Sci Med . 1998; 46(4–5): 599–609. Article PubMed CAS Google Scholar Kaplan GA, Strawbridge WJ, Camacho TC, Cohen RD. Factors associated with change in physical functioning in the elderly: a six-year prospective study. J Aging Health . 1993; 5(1): 140–153. Article Google Scholar Llamas R, Pattison EM, Hurd G. Social networks: a link between psychiatric epidemiology and community mental health. Int J Fam Ther . 1981; 3(3): 180–192. Article Google Scholar Luke E, Norton W, Denbigh K. Medical and social factors asso