# Is The Sec Covering Up Wall Street Crimes 20110817

**Source**: http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/is-the-sec-covering-up-wall-street-crimes-20110817?print=true
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:48:48.179687+00:00

---

Is the SEC Covering Up Wall Street Crimes? &times; &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo Politics Is the SEC Covering Up Wall Street Crimes? Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Politics Is the SEC Covering Up Wall Street Crimes? Matt Taibbi: A whistle blower says the agency has illegally destroyed thousands of documents, letting financial crooks off the hook. By Matt Taibbi Matt Taibbi Contact Matt Taibbi on X Forgiving Student Debt Alone Won’t Fix the Crisis Trump’s Gone, So What’s Next for the Democrats? Big Pharma’s Covid-19 Profiteers View all posts by Matt Taibbi August 17, 2011 Pete Gardner/Getty Imagine a world in which a man who is repeatedly investigated for a string of serious crimes, but never prosecuted, has his slate wiped clean every time the cops fail to make a case. No more Lifetime channel specials where the murderer is unveiled after police stumble upon past intrigues in some old file &ndash; &#8220;Hey, chief, didja know this guy had two wives die falling down the stairs?&#8221; No more burglary sprees cracked when some sharp cop sees the same name pop up in one too many witness statements. This is a different world, one far friendlier to lawbreakers, where even the suspicion of wrongdoing gets wiped from the record. That, it now appears, is exactly how the Securities and Exchange Commission has been treating the Wall Street criminals who cratered the global economy a few years back. For the past two decades, according to a whistle-blower at the SEC who recently came forward to Congress, the agency has been systematically destroying records of its preliminary investigations once they are closed. By whitewashing the files of some of the nation&#8217;s worst financial criminals, the SEC has kept an entire generation of federal investigators in the dark about past inquiries into insider trading, fraud and market manipulation against companies like Goldman Sachs , Deutsche Bank and AIG. With a few strokes of the keyboard, the evidence gathered during thousands of investigations &ndash; &#8220;18,000 &#8230; including Madoff,&#8221; as one high-ranking SEC official put it during a panicked meeting about the destruction &ndash; has apparently disappeared forever into the wormhole of history. Under a deal the SEC worked out with the National Archives and Records Administration, all of the agency&#8217;s records &ndash; &#8220;including case files relating to preliminary investigations&#8221; &ndash; are supposed to be maintained for at least 25 years. But the SEC, using history-altering practices that for once actually deserve the overused and usually hysterical term &#8220;Orwellian,&#8221; devised an elaborate and possibly illegal system under which staffers were directed to dispose of the documents from any preliminary inquiry that did not receive approval from senior staff to become a full-blown, formal investigation. Amazingly, the wholesale destruction of the cases &ndash; known as MUIs, or &#8220;Matters Under Inquiry&#8221; &ndash; was not something done on the sly, in secret. The enforcement division of the SEC even spelled out the procedure in writing, on the commission&#8217;s internal website. &#8220;After you have closed a MUI that has not become an investigation,&#8221; the site advised staffers, &#8220;you should dispose of any documents obtained in connection with the MUI.&#8221; Editor’s picks The 250 Greatest Albums of the 21st Century So Far The 100 Best TV Episodes of All Time The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century Many of the destroyed files involved companies and individuals who would later play prominent roles in the economic meltdown of 2008. Two MUIs involving con artist Bernie Madoff vanished. So did a 2002 inquiry into financial fraud at Lehman Brothers , as well as a 2005 case of insider trading at the same soon-to-be-bankrupt bank. A 2009 preliminary investigation of insider trading by Goldman Sachs was deleted, along with records for at least three cases involving the infamous hedge fund SAC Capital. The widespread destruction of records was brought to the attention of Congress in July, when an SEC attorney named Darcy Flynn decided to blow the whistle. According to Flynn, who was responsible for helping to manage the commission&#8217;s records, the SEC has been destroying records of preliminary investigations since at least 1993. After he alerted NARA to the problem, Flynn reports, senior staff at the SEC scrambled to hide the commission&#8217;s improprieties. As a federally protected whistle-blower, Flynn is not permitted to speak to the press. But in evidence he presented to the SEC&#8217;s inspector general and three congressional committees earlier this summer, the 13-year veteran of the agency paints a startling picture of a federal police force that has effectively been conquered by the financial criminals it is charged with investigating. In at least one case, according to Flynn, investigators at the SEC found their desire to bring a case against an influential bank thwarted by senior officials in the enforcement division &ndash; whose director turned around and accepted a lucrative job from the very same bank they had been prevented from investigating. In another case, the agency farmed out its inquiry to a private law firm &ndash; one hired by the company under investigation. The outside firm, unsurprisingly, concluded that no further investigation of its client was necessary. To complete the bureaucratic laundering process, Flynn says, the SEC dropped the case and destroyed the files. Related Content Susan Collins Raked in Wall Street Cash Before Advancing Trump Tax Bill Right-Wing Leader Says Conservatives Need ‘Scalps’ of Woke Wall Street CEOs Elon Musk and His DOGE Bro Have Cashed In on Americans’ Retirement Savings Trump’s SEC Nominee Consulted for Wall Street, Big Oil, Crypto Interests Much has been made in recent months of the government&#8217;s glaring failure to police Wall Street; to date, federal and state prosecutors have yet to put a single senior Wall Street executive behind bars for any of the many well-documented crimes related to the financial crisis. Indeed, Flynn&#8217;s accusations dovetail with a recent series of damaging critiques of the SEC made by reporters, watchdog groups and members of Congress, all of which seem to indicate that top federal regulators spend more time lunching, schmoozing and job-interviewing with Wall Street crooks than they do catching them. As one former SEC staffer describes it, the agency is now filled with so many Wall Street hotshots from oft-investigated banks that it has been &#8220;infected with the Goldman mindset from within.&#8221; The destruction of records by the SEC, as outlined by Flynn, is something far more than an administrative accident or bureaucratic fuck-up. It&#8217;s a symptom of the agency&#8217;s terminal brain damage. Somewhere along the line, those at the SEC responsible for policing America&#8217;s banks fell and hit their head on a big pile of Wall Street&#8217;s money &ndash; a blow from which the agency has never recovered. &#8220;From what I&#8217;ve seen, it looks as if the SEC might have sanctioned some level of case-related document destruction,&#8221; says Sen. Chuck Grassley, the ranking Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee, whose staff has interviewed Flynn. &#8220;It doesn&#8217;t make sense that an agency responsible for investigations would want to get rid of potential evidence. If these charges are true, the agency needs to explain why it destroyed documents, how many documents it destroyed over what time frame and to what extent its actions were consistent with the law.&#8221; How did officials at the SEC wind up with a faithful veteran employee &ndash; a conservative, mid-level attorney described as a highly reluctant whistle-blower &ndash; spilling the agency&#8217;s most sordid secrets to Congress? In a way, they asked for it. On May 18th of this year, SEC enforcement director Robert Khuzami sent out a mass e-mail to the agency&#8217;s staff with the subject line &#8220;Lawyers Behaving Badly.&#8221; In it, Khuzami asked his subordinates to report any experiences they might have had where &#8220;the behavior of counsel representing clients in&#8230; investigations has been questionable.&#8221; Khuzami was asking staffers to recount any stories of outside counsel behaving unethically. But Flynn apparently thought his boss was looking for examples of lawyers &#8220;behaving badly&#8221; anywhere, including within the SEC. And he had a story to share he&#8217;d kept a lid on for years. &#8220;Mr. Khuzami may have gotten something more than he expected,&#8221; Flynn&#8217;s lawyer, a former SEC whistle-blower named Gary Aguirre, later explained to Congress. Flynn responded to Khuzami with a letter laying out one such example of misbehaving lawyers within the SEC. It involved a case from very early in Flynn&#8217;s career, back in 2000, when he was working with a group of investigators who thought they had a &#8220;slam-dunk&#8221; case against Deutsche Bank, the German financial giant. A few years earlier, Rolf Breuer, the bank&#8217;s CEO, had given an interview to Der Spiegel in which he denied that Deutsche was involved in &uuml;bernahmegespr&auml;che &ndash; takeover talks &ndash; to acquire a rival American firm, Bankers Trust. But the statement was apparently untrue &ndash; and it sent the stock of Bankers Trust tumbling, potentially lowering the price for the merger. Flynn and his fellow SEC investigators, suspecting that investors of Bankers Trust had been defrauded, opened a MUI on the cas