# Shining A Light On Shadow Prompting

**Source**: https://www.techpolicy.press/shining-a-light-on-shadow-prompting/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:51:53.825972+00:00

---

Shining a Light on “Shadow Prompting” | TechPolicy.Press Home Topics Policy Tracker Newsletter Podcast Projects Contributors About Donate Shining a Light on “Shadow Prompting” Eryk Salvaggio / Oct 19, 2023 Eryk Salvaggio is a Research Advisor for Emerging Technology at the Siegel Family Endowment . Shutterstock When you type a prompt into an AI image model, you might expect that what you type has a meaningful impact on what you get back. But we often fail to see the extent to which requests are modified on the back end by the designers of these systems. OpenAI’s DALL-E 3, announced this month, connects the image generation model to its Large Language Model, GPT-4. Rather than expanding capabilities through ever-expanding datasets, this linkage points to a new strategy for expanding capabilities: combining existing models. This is OpenAI’s experiment in deploying one system to refine and constrain what the other system can produce. But what is touted as a tool for safety and convenience of users has a dark side. OpenAI has acknowledged that what you prompt is only taken as a suggestion: your words are altered before they reach the model, with opaque editorial decisions employed to filter out problematic requests and obscure the model’s inherent biases. The practice should raise concerns for anyone concerned with transparency or user agency. We need openness about these decisions and how they are deployed — especially as AI is integrated more deeply into our newsrooms, social media, and other media infrastructure. It will also create friction for independent researchers seeking to understand OpenAI’s design choices, model biases, and vulnerabilities. Shadow Prompting On the surface, it makes sense to connect a powerful Large Language Model to an image generation model. For example, users won’t have to labor over prompts to generate detailed images. GPT-4 can extrapolate from minimal text suggestions, adding relevant details that increase realism or liveliness in the resulting images. OpenAI is also leaning into GPT-4 as a content moderation system, flagging problematic requests and shifting them to benign ones, oftentimes without the user’s awareness. Engineers of automated systems are always navigating a tension between variety and constraint. Users want variety: when autonomous systems are more lively and unpredictable, they can also be more engaging. Early systems lacked strong constraints in favor of this variety, giving them more flavor — for better or for worse. That “flavor” led to chatbots that urged journalists to leave their wives , amidst a long history of generating violent or hateful rhetoric. Constraint, on the other hand, is intended to limit unpredictability. A model trained exclusively on Papal legal documents (magistereum.ai) is less likely to create unpredictable content than a purely open model trained on Reddit and 4chan posts. As models are refined, their variety is reduced, leading many users to grow bored with them, or imagine that they are getting worse . We should keep this tension in mind when we read OpenAI’s system card for DALL-E 3. The system card tells us how designers chose to implement constraints related to its content moderation policies, and whatpriorities they achieved. Some of these are imposed without a user’s awareness. For example, DALL-E 3’s prompts are “translated” by GPT-4, making them more precise. It can also change a request considered offensive or problematic. And it’s not just through OpenAI. Any integration of the API can transform user requests by creating a system prompt – instructions, in plain English, that modify the user’s query. This isn’t new. In 2022, Thao Phan and Fabian Offert found evidence that DALL-E 2 inserted diversifying words into user prompts in order to debias images. For example, if prompting “doctor” generates only white men in lab coats from an unmediated dataset, then DALL-E 2 would add words like “black” or “woman” to the prompt in order to ensure diverse images come back to the user. This approach is now confirmed by the DALL-E 3 system card. OpenAI calls this “Prompt Transformation,” noting that “ChatGPT rewrites submitted text to facilitate prompting DALL-E 3 more effectively. This process also is used to ensure that prompts comply with our guidelines, including removing public figure names, grounding people with specific attributes, and writing branded objects in a generic way.” In other words, the user types a prompt to ChatGPT, which then modifies the request before passing it on to DALL-E 3. The prompt we type is, therefore, not completely connected to the image produced by the system. Another example relates to misinformation or propaganda. OpenAI will change the names of specific world leaders, such as Kim Jong Un, into the genericized “world leader,” intended to make misleading content harder to generate. There is a real tension at play here — on the one hand, it introduces significant friction to those who would use AI to generate images of US President Joe Biden or former President Donald Trump engaged in corrupt or embarrassing acts. On the other hand: the hidden modification of the user prompt is a unique exercise of power over well-meaning users, and can make it more challenging than ever to understand how to navigate or regulate these systems. Sometimes, the system refuses to generate the request, and it says so. Other times, it will secretly shift the prompt to less offensive or risky language. A precursor to this practice is the shadow ban, often used on social media platforms. Shadow bans allow censored actors to post, but block their content from being seen by the broader community. Shadow prompting , as I call it, allows users to prompt for content that goes beyond the model’s guidelines, but their prompt never makes it to the model and is not reflected in the output. Shadow banning has a social effect, in that it restricts communication and free expression of ideas. It can also be socially isolating. While shadow prompting without a user’s knowledge is unlikely to have a similar social effect, it is a novel area and demands some attention. And while this technique can flummox spammers and bad actors, it can also lead real users to feel frustration or paranoia — are they being censored? Why? The Center for Democracy and Technology’s Gabriel Nicholas’ report on shadow banning practices on social media platforms made several recommendations, which serve as a useful template for addressing shadow prompting: first, to disclose content moderation practices and when they are used; second, to use opaque content moderation practices sparingly; and, finally, to “enable further research into the effects of opaque content moderation techniques, including through transparency reporting and providing independent researchers with access to moderation data.” Disclosure When are shadow prompts being used for content moderation? At the moment, we only know general areas where it may be applied this way. It is not reserved for the most egregious cases — those are still refused outright. In many cases, shadow prompting is a benign or even helpful mechanism. For example, it will “silently modify” the names of living artists to a more genericized description of their style, creating an approximation of the artist’s work without tapping into direct mimicry. OpenAI suggests this will be tied to a block list containing the names of living artists who want to opt out of the system. Importantly, this doesn’t remove these artists from the training data — their style and images will still shape image outputs — but it would prevent blatant copycats. Other cases seem more obscure, and shadow prompting moves us away from transparency and explainability. For example, the instructions for DALL-E 3 are written in simple English : “Do not create any imagery that would be offensive.” Offensive to whom? How does the model decide what is offensive and what isn’t? While it’s helpful to know these systems are in place, a secret list of words that are transformed into polite euphemisms isn’t transparent. Our Content delivered to your inbox. Join our newsletter on issues and ideas at the intersection of tech &amp; democracy Subscribe Loading... Thank you! You have successfully joined our subscriber list. Users, policymakers and researchers need more insight into these systems. Important questions arise about who makes these language alterations, what drives those decisions, and which groups are safeguarded or overlooked. While I appreciate the efforts to mitigate biases in the model, we should not entrust companies with creating these lists without consulting independent experts and affected communities. More so when these approaches are adapted by a range of additional users or developers, who can fine-tune these systems in ways that increase complexity and risk . I’ve yet to see a commitment to tools or policies for soliciting feedback into these models. Use Opaque Practices Sparingly Shadow prompting also means that genuine users cannot discover real biases in the model, or any constraints imposed on the model to mitigate those biases. The notion of automating these audits through an LLM, or even applying automation to check against a human-generated list of protected features or descriptors, is challenging. Without clear insight into these lists, we are unable to measure its enforcement — or weigh in on what is enforced — until biased images begin to circulate, after the harm has been inflicted. As researchers Emily Bender and Timnit Gebru et al have noted before, human auditing for biases in LLMs is already a fraught position: Auditing an LM for biases requires an a priori understanding of what social categories might be salient. The works cited above generally start from US protected attributes such as race and gender (as understood within the US). But, of course, protected attributes aren’t the only identity characteristics that can be subject to bia