# Review The Variational Principles

**Source**: https://www.thepsmiths.com/p/review-the-variational-principles
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:37:03.211646+00:00

---

REVIEW: The Variational Principles of Mechanics, by Cornelius Lanczos Mr. and Mrs. Psmith’s Bookshelf Subscribe Sign in REVIEW: The Variational Principles of Mechanics, by Cornelius Lanczos John Psmith Oct 30, 2023 41 9 2 Share The Variational Principles of Mechanics , Cornelius Lanczos (University of Toronto Press, 1949). While sailing a little boat the other day, I thought of a new way to troll the Aristotelians. I love it when my hobbies converge like that, and if the second one sounds a little mean-spirited, well, remember that they deserve it. If humanity has learnt anything in the past few thousand years, it’s to be wary of playing language games with words signifying abstract concepts, and then telling yourself that you’ve discovered something about the things signified. The danger is most strikingly apparent for anything involving infinities, where all but the most extreme epistemic bomb-defusal approaches will quickly lead you to paradox and absurdity. 1 But it’s also true of a notion like causality, which turns out to be a good bit more slippery and subtle than the ancients gave it credit for. I don’t blame Aristotle for this, he didn’t know any better after all. He shared in that youthful exuberance and innocence that philosophy had when the world was still young. But his modern-day fans? They ought to know better. Anyway, there I was, zipping over the waves on a beam reach, when I came up with this syllogism: The cause of a sailboat’s motion is the wind. An effect cannot be greater than its cause. Therefore a sailboat cannot sail faster than the wind. Had I been close-hauled instead, the spray flying in my face, I might have gone with a modified version: The cause of a sailboat’s motion is the wind. An effect cannot act contrary to its cause. Therefore a sailboat cannot sail against the wind. If you aren’t a sailor, these arguments might sound plausible to you. I’m certain that to Aristotle’s contemporaries, who were limited in their sailing experience to square-rigged ships that ran before the wind with sails that caught the air like plastic shopping bags, they would have been very convincing indeed. Alas for the theory, a properly trimmed modern sailboat will merrily beat upwind, and given time and space to pick up speed can fly faster than the wind that powers it. So my syllogisms must contain a fallacy (can you figure out what it is?), 2 and philosophy is once again BTFO. This may seem like a silly example, but some of the science maximalists out there (guys like Lawrence Krauss) would tell you that it’s representative of nearly all encounters between philosophy and physics. The way these guys tell it, philosophy doesn’t even deserve to be called a mode of reasoning, because you don’t get anything out of it that you didn’t put in. All philosophical argumentation is like my failed argument about sailboats above, or like the adorably nonsensical reasoning that toddlers engage in, not so much hiding the ball as unable to see it. I don’t know anything about Kant , but I think in Kantian terms it amounts to denying that synthetic a priori judgements are possible. The only way to find out new things about the world is to go outside and look at it. To be clear, this is not my view, but I get where it’s coming from. The last five hundred years have been rough for philosophy in general and for Aristotle in particular. Time and again, philosophers have put together a theory of causation based on the previous revolution in physics, convinced themselves that they’re not just curve fitting, but actually in touch with deep universal principles, and then had to watch their beautiful new theory get blown up by the next revolution in physics. I imagine that’s disheartening, but the time it happened to Aristotle was especially traumatic to philosophy and society, and I need to explain why that was before I can explain why the book I’m reviewing today is so cool. Aristotelian science mattered far beyond ancient Greece: it dominated European and Arab thinking for over a thousand years. A key precept of Aristotle’s was that when trying to understand natural phenomena, final causes — the ends or the purposes toward which a phenomenon was directed — were the most fundamental answer to the question of “why” something happens. In particular, he argued that final causes held explanatory preeminence over efficient causes — the immediate or instantaneous source of an object’s motion. There are domains where this point of view makes intuitive sense. For example, if somebody asks you, “why is the dog running?” they will probably be satisfied with the answer “because it wants to eat its food,” but will look at you funny if you say “because its legs are propelling it via contact with the ground.” We understand that dogs are goal-directed beings, so the explanation via final causes, the goals or ends of its action, seem like a better, more complete explanation than an answer referring only to brute mechanics. The thing that sounds alien to modern ears is that Aristotle insists the same is true of simple material phenomena. 3 If you ask why a stone falls, Aristotle thinks that “because the force of gravity is pulling it down” is a worse answer than “because it’s made of earth and therefore wants to be with the earth.” Aristotle isn’t a pantheist, he doesn’t actually think the stone is alive and wants something, it’s more like the entire universe is a holistic and organic system that is meant to be a certain way, and that evolves towards the thing that it’s ultimately meant to be, and that the stone falling towards the earth brings it a tiny step closer to that ultimate destiny. This is not generally the way people think today. In fact, it wasn’t the way people thought in ancient Greece either! Aristotle had many detractors who thought applying final causes to brute physical phenomena was ridiculous. But they lost, and Aristotle won, and his way of thinking dominated European thought for millennia. That all changed, finally, when Newton demonstrated that the motion of an object was totally and completely determined by the forces acting on it. An Aristotelian might protest (and they did, and there are still a few cranks who do) that Newton’s contribution didn’t really add anything to the essential picture, all he offered was a more precise accounting of the efficient causes of an object’s motion. But this objection fails to grapple with the magnitude of the revolution that had happened. A pre-Newtonian account of efficient causes was essentially qualitative — people knew that the force imparted to a rock by your hand was what propelled it, and they knew that if you threw it harder, it went further, but that was it. What Newton offered was a precise computation that given some information about the force of the throw and the weight of the rock, told you exactly where it would land. But if those data were sufficient to tell you exactly where it would land, what need was there for anything else in the explanatory account? Suddenly those final causes look totally vestigial. You can say everything there is to say about the rock’s motion without taking them into account, and so Occam’s razor slices them away. I’m a cynic about scientific progress and believe that mere correctness is no guarantee of a new theory’s triumph. But what made Newtonian physics unstoppable was the unprecedented degree of control over nature that it offered to its adherents. If knowing the forces on a rock allows you to predict exactly where it will land, then you will be able to aim your cannon much more accurately. Elegance and correctness are no guarantee of scientific triumph, but when believing the new theory imparts massive economic and military advantages, then there’s a good chance it will win. And so Newtonian mechanics swept everything before it, Aristotelian physics was dethroned from its multi-thousand year reign, and our picture of the universe completely changed. It really did change completely. Before Newton’s revolution, people pictured the cosmos as a vast machine with a purpose, or at least a destination. The pieces of that machine had their own purposes, their own goals and destinies, and by evolving towards those destinies they aided and were aided by everything else. If you read my review of Needham’s Science in Traditional China , this is no doubt highly reminiscent of what he describes as an “organicist conception in which every phenomenon was connected with every other according to a hierarchical order.” Newtonian mechanics turns this picture inside-out. It’s not just that it’s suddenly possible to think of the cosmos as a totally mechanistic collection of particles bouncing around according to brute arithmetic laws; what’s more shocking is that that picture notionally contains all the information you need to predict the entire future history of the universe. 4 What’s scary and disruptive about this hyper-reductionist metaphysics is that it works so well that everything else — free will, divine intent, final causes, all of it — suddenly looks vestigial and begins to melt away. Charles Taylor wrote a very long book about “disenchantment,” which is the secularizing process that made people stop thinking of the universe as being full of ghosts and demons and miracles and purposes, and start thinking of it as a collection of self-contained particles bouncing off each other. But he curiously underemphasizes the extent to which it was a scientific revolution that made that whole process intellectually plausible. We all know how that story ends — with quantum mechanics, Gödelian incompleteness, and the rest of it all filling the universe with ghosts again . But even the quantum universe and the relativistic universe are just elaborations on Newton’s “System of the World” and abide by its basic philosophical premise: that the universe is like a big computer that takes its current state, applies certain rules, and produces a next state. In fact 