# 2022 23 Tv Season Ratings Cbs Fox 1235500790

**Source**: https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/tv/tv-news/2022-23-tv-season-ratings-cbs-fox-1235500790/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:06:50.722828+00:00

---

2022-23 TV Season Ratings: CBS and Fox Lead Network Race Skip to main content Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to expand search form Got a tip? The Hollywood Reporter homepage Newsletters Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up site categories News Film TV Music Awards Lifestyle Business International Video Charts Lists Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Menu Click to expand search form The Hollywood Reporter homepage Read Next: The Hollywood Insider&#8217;s Guide to Santa Fe, Capital of Tamalewood Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up Live Feed Home TV TV News CBS and Fox Share 2022-23 Ratings Title as On-Air Viewing Continues to Slip The Super Bowl helps Fox to a victory among adults 18-49, while CBS runs its total-viewer winning streak to 15 seasons. By Rick Porter Plus Icon Rick Porter Television Business Editor rickporter Follow Sign Up More Stories by Rick Streaming Ratings: ‘The Paper,’ ‘NCIS: Tony and Ziva’ Debut on Charts Netflix’s ‘Age of Innocence’ Limited Series Rounds Out Cast Nielsen Kicks Off Big Data Era With Revamped Weekly Ratings Reports View All May 25, 2023 11:11am Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Sean Murray in 'NCIS' and Patrick Mahomes in Super Bowl LVII Courtesy of CBS; Gregory Shamus/Getty Images Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Logo text CBS is marking its 15th consecutive season as the most watched broadcast network, and Fox claimed the 2022-23 season among adults 18-49. Each of the seven top broadcasters, however, lost some on-air audience amid the ongoing shift from linear to streaming viewing. CBS finished the September-to-May season, which officially wrapped Wednesday night, with a primetime average of 5.96 million viewers. NBC finished second, about 700,000 viewers off the lead, with 5.27 million, followed by Fox (4.45 million) and ABC (4.14 million). Univision came in at 1.28 million viewers, Telemundo at 937,000, and The CW at 548,000. Related Stories TV New England Patriots vs. Buffalo Bills: How to Watch &#039;Sunday Night Football&#039; Without Cable TV Streaming Ratings: &#039;The Paper,&#039; &#039;NCIS: Tony and Ziva&#039; Debut on Charts Fox led the key ad-sales demographic of adults 18-49 with a 1.0 rating &mdash; equal to about 1.3 million people in that age range &mdash; thanks in no small part to having the Super Bowl in February. NBC, last season&#8217;s leader in the demo, finished second with a 0.9. CBS (0.7) edged out ABC (0.6) for third place. Univision (0.4), Telemundo (0.3) and The CW (0.1) followed. According to Nielsen, overall TV usage in primetime was down by about 9 percent compared to the 2021-22 season . Three networks &mdash;&nbsp;ABC, CBS and Fox &mdash;&nbsp;came in under that: Fox recorded the smallest decline, 1 percent, while ABC dipped by just 2 percent and CBS was off by about 5 percent. Telemundo fell by 6 percent vs. last season, while NBC (-13 percent), Univision (-14 percent) and The CW (-17 percent) all dropped by double digits. NBC also had the biggest loss among adults 18-49, falling three tenths of a point season to season. That&#8217;s not a huge surprise, however, as the network had both the Super Bowl and the Winter Olympics to boost its ratings in 2021-22. ABC, CBS, Fox and Univision all lost a tenth of a point from last season, and Telemundo and The CW were flat. NBC&#8217;s Sunday Night Football is once again the most watched (18.09 million viewers) and highest rated (4.83 rating among adults 18-49) show on broadcast TV (not including streaming). NCIS (9.87 million viewers over seven days, pending figures for its final two episodes) has the biggest total audience for non-sports programs on the network, and Survivor (1.05 rating) leads everything but the NFL in adults 18-49. Read More About: ABC cbs Fox NBC TV Ratings THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe Sign Up More from The Hollywood Reporter Live Feed Grace Van Patten Says Everything Is Out in the Open After Amanda Knox Finale, Teases &#8216;Tell Me Lies&#8217; Grey&#039;s Anatomy Eric Dane Explains Why He Was Absent at Emmys Despite Planned ‘Grey’s Anatomy’s’ Tribute The Comeback Lisa Kudrow&#8217;s ‘The Comeback’ Final Season Adds John Early, Abbi Jacobson Live Feed ‘Scrubs’ Revival Adds Vanessa Bayer, Joel Kim Booster to Cast Live Feed &#8216;Chicago Fire&#8217; Boss, Star Christian Stolte Unpack Season 14 Premiere&#8217;s Repercussions Sunday Night Football New England Patriots vs. Buffalo Bills: How to Watch &#8216;Sunday Night Football&#8217; Without Cable Essential Reads TV Premiere Dates 2025: The Complete Guide By Rick Porter &#8216;The Office&#8217; Turns 20: An Oral History of Season 1 From the Writers Who Shaped It By Rick Porter The 10 Best Medical Shows of All Time, Ranked By Daniel Fienberg Logo text WEEKLY NEWSLETTER Inside the business of TV with breaking news, expert analysis and showrunner interviews Email Address Subscribe Today Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter SEE MY OPTIONS Sign Up PMC Logo Most Popular Insider Claims Nicole Kidman &amp; Keith Urban's Separation Is 'One-Sided' Federal Judge Denies Motion to Dismiss by Kasseem ‘Swizz Beatz’ Dean in 1MDB Scandal Case NHL Franchise Valuations Ranking List: From Maple Leafs to Blue Jackets Audio Of Cardi B Going Off Over Ice Spice Surfaces Online: "I'mma Beat Her A**" You may also like NFL on Record Pace as TV/Streaming Windows Grow 8% to 20M Viewers 4 hours ago Nate Berkus Designed This $23 Million Turnkey Penthouse in New York’s Hudson Yards 2 days ago Sean “Diddy” Combs Sentenced To Just Over 4 Years In Prison On Prostitution Conviction 4 hours ago 50 Cent Celebrates Getting a Shout-Out From Taylor Swift on ‘The Life of a Showgirl’: ‘I’m Low Key a Swiftie Over Here’ 7 hours ago Subscriber Support Get the Magazine Customer Service Back Issues The Hollywood Reporter About Us Careers Contact Us Accessibility Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Follow Us Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram LinkedIn LinkedIn Threads Threads TikTok TikTok X X YouTube YouTube Newsletter Sign Up Sign Up Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip Sign Up Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Close the menu The Hollywood Reporter homepage Log In News Expand news menu Latest News Culture &amp; Politics LA Wildfires Obituaries LA/Local THR Investigates Film Expand film menu News Features Reviews Box Office Heat Vision TV Expand tv menu News Features Reviews Ratings Live Feed Heat Vision The Fien Print Music Expand music menu Music News Music Industry News Music Features Film and TV Music News Grammys K-Pop Country Music Awards Expand awards menu News Awards Chatter Podcast Feinberg Forecast Behind The Screen The Race THR Presents Oscar Season Hub Lifestyle Expand lifestyle menu Person of Interest News Style Shopping Arts Real Estate Rambling Reporter Business Expand business menu THR, Esq Report Features Unions / Labor Film / TV Tax Credits Signings / Representation THR Charts Expand thr-charts menu Weekly Streaming Ratings Chart Weekly Broadcast Ratings Chart Weekend Box Office Chart Weekly Broadway Grosses Chart More Essentials Expand more-essentials menu International News Video THR Podcasts Featured Voices Subscribe to Logo text Follow Us Follow THR on Facebook Follow THR on Instagram Follow THR on LinkedIn Follow THR on Threads Follow THR on TikTok Follow THR on X Follow THR on YouTube Alerts &amp; Newsletters Your Email Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. optional screen reader About Us Careers Contact Us Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. ad