# The Radical Crusade Of Mike Pence 192733

**Source**: https://www.rollingstone.com/feature/the-radical-crusade-of-mike-pence-192733/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:54:05.582086+00:00

---

The Radical Crusade of Mike Pence &times; &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo Politics The Radical Crusade of Mike Pence Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Politics The Radical Crusade of Mike Pence He's trampled on the rights of women, LGBTQ folks and the poor. Then there's the incompetence. Meet, quite possibly, the next president By Stephen Rodrick Stephen Rodrick Contact Stephen Rodrick by Email Fake Armies of the Night: Trump Unleashes Show and Awe on Washington You May Be Asking Yourself How Did Dan Bongino Get Here Greg Gutfeld Wants to Know Who the Asshole Is View all posts by Stephen Rodrick Illustration by Daniel Adel January 23, 2017 T he optics were good. About 100 Carrier factory workers in Indianapolis sat in folding chairs awaiting President-elect Donald Trump , who had announced, via Twitter,&nbsp; he&#8217;d saved their jobs. Well, not all their jobs &ndash; 730 were saved while another 550 were heading to Mexico &ndash; but that was a small detail. (Trump also kept saying he had saved air-conditioning jobs, though the factory makes furnaces.) After a while, a silver-haired man resembling the guy on top of a wedding cake strode to the podium. &#8220;It is great to be back home again in Indiana,&#8221; said Mike Pence in the stentorian voice honed during a seven-year career in talk radio, where he described himself as &#8220;Rush Limbaugh on decaf.&#8221; &#8220;The state of Indiana is very proud. We are a proud manufacturing state. We are home to low taxes, sensible regulations, great schools and roads, and the best workforce in America.&#8221; His voice grew somber as he talked about the day last winter when Carrier announced it was moving more than 1,000 jobs to Mexico. &#8220;We met with the leaders of the company back in March, and try as we might to&nbsp; make the Indiana case, it was clear that the die was cast,&#8221; Pence said. &#8220;The simple truth was that policies coming out of our nation&#8217;s capital were literally driving jobs out of this country.&#8221; Much like the distortions and obfuscations that Pence used while defending Trump during the vice-presidential debate, this wasn&#8217;t remotely true: Carrier was moving the jobs because it could pay Mexican workers $6 an hour. Critics say Carrier was now staying because it likely feared its $5 billion in federal contracts could be in peril under a vengeful Trump regime. Oh, yeah, and then Pence kicked in $7 million&nbsp; in state tax breaks. Even Sarah Palin decried it as &#8220;crony capitalism.&#8221; Pence introduced the man of the hour: &#8220;It is my high honor and distinct privilege to introduce to you a man of action, a man of his word, and the president-elect of the United States of America, Donald Trump.&#8221; Editor’s picks The 250 Greatest Albums of the 21st Century So Far The 100 Best TV Episodes of All Time The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century Then a strange thing happened; well, not that strange, since it was Donald Trump. He spoke of his huge victory, and then admitted that his constant campaign talk of saving Carrier jobs had been bullshit. It was not until he saw a Carrier worker talking about Trump saving his job on television that the president-elect decided to act. &#8220;And then they played my statement, and I said, &#8216;Carrier will never leave,'&#8221; said Trump with a rich man&#8217;s version of a laugh. The media began tweeting furiously. The president-elect had just admitted he&#8217;d spaced on a major campaign promise and had only been reminded by a chance encounter on the nightly news! But one man didn&#8217;t bat an eyelash. That was Mike Pence. Resplendent in dark suit and striped tie, he remained ramrod-straight, a proud smile frozen on his face. Ten days later, dozens of Carrier workers and family members gathered at Mount Olive Ministries church in west Indianapolis as an icy rain pissed down outside. They lit candles and said prayers for the hundreds of jobs that were not being saved. Sitting in a pew was Chuck Jones, the local United Steel Workers president. He tried to muffle his smoker&#8217;s cough and bowed his head. Jones, a gruff man with neat gray hair and a mustache, had become a folk hero since the Carrier spectacle, when Trump attacked him on Twitter for having the audacity to question the jobs Trump didn&#8217;t save. But tonight, Jones&#8217; wrath was for Pence. I grabbed Jones coming in from a smoke break and asked about Pence&#8217;s role in the Carrier deal. Related Notre Dame Students Walk Out During Mike Pence&#039;s Commencement Speech How Impeaching Trump Would Work &#8220;He did absolutely nothing,&#8221; said Jones. I reminded Jones that he had met with Pence in March. Jones smiled a sad smile. &#8220;Let me tell you about that,&#8221; he said. In March, Pence met with Carrier&#8217;s parent company&#8217;s executives. Jones was there at the Statehouse with some union members carrying &#8220;Keep It Made in America&#8221; signs. As the cameras rolled, Pence invited him back for a meeting. Pence blamed the factory loss on Washington regulation, and Jones blamed it on corporate greed. &#8220;Why haven&#8217;t you responded to our request for a meeting?&#8221; asked Jones. &#8220;I never got one,&#8221; responded Pence. When Jones got back to the union hall, he looked up the letter he sent requesting a meeting and saw that someone in the governor&#8217;s office had signed for it. He communicated that back to Pence&#8217;s team. They promised a follow-up meeting. It never happened. (Pence declined to comment for this story.) &#8220;I know he doesn&#8217;t like unions,&#8221; said Jones. &#8220;But this isn&#8217;t about unions &ndash; it&#8217;s about human beings losing their livelihoods.&#8221; Jones wanted to head back into the service, but he had a parting shot: &#8220;You let Joe Schmo open up a tire shop and hire two people, Pence was knocking people down to get in front of the cameras taking credit for it.&#8221; He shrugged his shoulders. &#8220;But for us, he did nothing.&#8221; During my travels across the self-proclaimed Crossroads of America, I learned that Mike Pence had once paid his mortgage with campaign funds, dragged his feet during an HIV epidemic and a lead-poisoning outbreak, signed an anti-gay-rights bill that nearly cost Indiana millions of dollars, lost his mind on national TV with George Stephanopoulos, and turned away Syrian refugees in an unconstitutional ploy laughed out of federal court. And he ended his gubernatorial term unpopular enough that his re-election bid in a Republican state seemed dicey at best. Pence is the nation&#8217;s 48th vice president. Nine vice presidents have assumed the presidency as a result of death or resignation. That&#8217;s a 19 percent ascendancy rate. Between Trump&#8217;s trigger-happy Twitter persona, the ethical nightmare of his business empire, his KFC addiction and possible entanglements with Vladimir Putin, I&#8217;d say the chances for Mike Pence are more than 50-50. So what do we know about Pence? The governor benefited greatly from the wall-to-wall &#8220;Trump is a crazy monkey throwing feces&#8221; media coverage during the fall campaign, in that his record was under covered, but it&#8217;s out there and suggests that his impact as vice president will screw African-Americans, women , the poor and any other square peg in round America. His concerns for the parts of Indiana outside his comfort zone toggled between disinterest and disdain. And here&#8217;s the frightening thing: Unlike his boss, Mike Pence has an actual ideology. Pence proclaimed at the 2016 GOP convention that &#8220;I am a Christian, a conservative and a Republican, in that order.&#8221; However, his actual record &ndash; including turning down up to $80 million in federal pre-K funding &ndash; is the antithesis of Jesus&#8217; &#8220;whatever you do for one of the least of my brothers, you do for me&#8221; theology. Here&#8217;s a quick story. While Mike Pence was governor, his relationship with the Democratic minority in the legislature was crap. Some one on his staff suggested having the Democratic leaders over to the governor&#8217;s mansion for dinner. The table was set for 20, but there were only around seven in attendance. One unlucky legislator stuck next to Pence tried to make conversation, but found even at dinner she couldn&#8217;t shift Pence off his talking points. Gov. Pence shouted to his wife, Karen, his closest adviser, at the other end of the table. &#8220;Mother, Mother, who prepared our meal this evening?&#8221; The legislators looked at one another, speaking with their eyes: He just called his wife &#8220;Mother.&#8221; Maybe it was a joke, the legislator reasoned. But a few minutes later, Pence shouted again. &#8220;Mother, Mother, whose china are we eating on?&#8221; Mother Pence went on a long discourse about where the china was from. A little later, the legislators stumbled out, wondering what was weirder: Pence&#8217;s inability to make conversation, or calling his wife &#8220;Mother&#8221; in the second decade of the 21st century. Pence was raised in the Sixties as a nice Irish-Catholic boy in Columbus, Indiana, a quiet bedroom community where, Pence likes to say, he &#8220;grew up with a cornfield&#8221; in his backyard. He was named after his grandfather, who emigrated from Ireland and became a Chicago bus driver. Mike was one of six children, and his dad ran a chain of gas stations. An astute altar boy, Pence genuinely seemed to want to serve his community. The local paper tells a story of Pence befriending two kids with muscular