# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Behind%20Closed%20Doors:%20Violence%20in%20the%20American%20Family&author=SK%20Steinmetz&author=MA%20Straus&author=RJ%20Gelles&publication_year=1981&
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:57:42.275321+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.02 sec) My profile My library Lookup [BOOK] [B] Behind closed doors: Violence in the American family MA Straus , RJ Gelles , SK Steinmetz - 2017 - taylorfrancis.com MA Straus , RJ Gelles , SK Steinmetz 2017 • taylorfrancis.com The marriage license as a hitting license, child abuse, sibling war is the powerful message of&quot; Behind Closed Doors&quot;. The book is grounded in the unprecedented national survey of the extent, patterns, and causes of violence in the American family. Based on a seven-year study of over 2,000 families, the authors provide landmark insights into this phenomenon of violence and what causes Americans to inflict it on their family members. The authors explore the relationship between spousal abuse and child abuse as well as abuse between … The marriage license as a hitting license, child abuse, sibling war is the powerful message of &quot;Behind Closed Doors&quot;. The book is grounded in the unprecedented national survey of the extent, patterns, and causes of violence in the American family. Based on a seven-year study of over 2,000 families, the authors provide landmark insights into this phenomenon of violence and what causes Americans to inflict it on their family members. The authors explore the relationship between spousal abuse and child abuse as well as abuse between siblings, violence by children against their parents, and the causes and effects of verbal abuse. Taken together, their analysis provides a vivid picture of how violence is woven into the fabric of family life and why the hallmark of family life is both love and violence. This is a comprehensive, highly readable account of interest to both the professional and the lay-person on an important topic, which concerns the social well-being of us all. taylorfrancis.com Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 7943 Related articles All 6 versions Library Search View as HTML Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help