# Is Tiktok Breaking Young Voters Brains

**Source**: https://www.vox.com/353689/is-tiktok-breaking-young-voters-brains
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:43:28.759417+00:00

---

TikTok politics, Gen Z, and a grand national experiment | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo Is TikTok breaking young voters’ brains? Free speech needs fearless journalism Free speech is endangered; unbiased and trustworthy news is elusive. In a time of noise, confusion, and spin, we’re committed to clarity, truth, and depth — even when it’s hard. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join now Technology / Social Media / TikTok Is TikTok breaking young voters’ brains? TikTok has made itself into a hub for Gen Z political expression. But as Zoomers change politics, how is the app changing them? by Christian Paz Updated Jun 5, 2024, 1:00 PM UTC Share Gift Lina Müller for Vox Christian Paz is a correspondent at Vox, where he covers the Democratic Party. He joined Vox in 2022 after reporting on national and international politics for the Atlantic’s politics, global, and ideas teams, including the role of Latino voters in the 2020 election. I don’t remember looking for anything in particular when I opened TikTok one February evening. What I do remember was one video that dared me to examine my digital diet. “Check your TikTok screen time,” user @katherout challenged me. “Then check how many hours last week you actually hung out with your friends. It should not be similar ... It’s very possible that you spend more time with people you don’t know on TikTok and YouTube , than people you do know in real life.” And so I checked. At my peak, I was using TikTok — a social media platform famous for user-uploaded short-form videos — for a little over 10 hours a week. In the same week, I’d spent around 11 hours hanging out with friends. My experience is not unusual. For many Americans, Tiktok has become one of the great time sucks of the era, a perpetual engagement machine with an algorithm that knows how to keep you glued. That superpower — Tiktok’s ability to keep us watching and watching and watching — is something that has experts, pundits, and politicians worried. Today, tens of millions of young people say that they’re getting their news from TikTok . What exactly are they seeing, and how is that affecting what they believe? TikTok counts some 150 million Americans among its monthly users, many of them young people who spend hours a day scrolling. Yet, because of the app’s rapid rise and relative newness, we know very little about how all that TikTok time is affecting its users’ politics and the politics of our country as a whole. Is it driving further polarization and spreading more low-quality information ? Is it driving nihilism and apathy ? Or is all of this an overblown moral panic, the product of older generations seeing something sinister about “kids these days” mixed with a dash of xenophobia thanks to the app’s Chinese owners? TikTok itself says it’s a boon to our politics. The company argues its platform is a vehicle for informing, entertaining, and building community, saying it tries to balance its users’ demand for debate and discussion with the goal of connecting people and “not caus[ing] division.” “During elections, we focus on protecting the integrity of our platform to maintain a creative, safe, and positive place for people to enjoy a diverse range of content,” a spokesperson for the company told me. Much of the US government, however, sees it differently. President Biden last month signed legislation that would force ByteDance, the Chinese company that owns TikTok, to sell the app by January 19 , 2025, (with a possible 90-day extension) or shut it down. TikTok’s bipartisan critics mainly object to the app on national security grounds, fearing what a company cozy with the Chinese Communist Party would do with millions of Americans’ data. But they have also raised concerns about its effects on our politics. “[The] thing I think is probably the biggest concern, which is that most people are getting their news from TikTok under the age of 30 and therefore it could be an instrument of propaganda and disinformation going forward. Those are the concerns that are specific to TikTok,” now-former Wisconsin Rep. Mike Gallagher told tech journalist Kara Swisher in December . Normally, when caught between corporate spokespeople and politicians, comfort — or at least some shreds of truth — can be found in consulting the experts. But when it comes to TikTok and politics, consulting the experts leads to an uncertain place. Studies have repeatedly suggested that using TikTok does have a significant impact on one’s political views. But when it comes to fears of the app contributing to a more polarized, less informed discourse among the nation’s youngest voters, there’s still too much we don’t know. The app, and the studies of it, are simply too young for researchers to draw conclusive answers. We have unwittingly found ourselves in the midst of a grand political experiment. Not all social media is the same. TikTok is a different beast. What separates TikTok from other social media apps is its explosive growth — and how quickly it happened. The app launched in 2017 and merged with the lip-syncing app Musical.ly in 2018, but 2020 was the year it really took off. That year saw a pandemic-fueled surge from about 40 million monthly users at the start of the year to more than 100 million users by August. Today, its user count is up to 150 million, according to the most recent figures that TikTok has publicly shared . Though Instagram , YouTube, and Facebook still boast more adult users, TikTok is closing the gap, growing swiftly while its rivals’ growth is largely stagnant, according to a 2023 Pew Research Center study of how quickly TikTok’s user base had grown . And people who use TikTok tend to use it a lot. The app is notorious for how addictive it can be, especially for younger users. Researchers at Baylor University found that TikTok users , compared to other platforms, are prone to fall into addictive habits with the short-video TikTok style. The Baylor researchers discovered that something like 24 percent of TikTok users in their study could be diagnosed as having an addiction to the app. Similarly, more than half of teens in Pew’s survey of teenage social media behavior say they use TikTok daily ; 17 percent say they’re on it “almost constantly.” And in those endless scroll sessions, young people are consuming political content: About a third of adults under the age of 30 are now regularly getting their news from TikTok specifically. What does TikTok’s political content look like? Neither widespread, addictive social media, nor young people using social media is new. Before it was a haven for boomers and AI art, Facebook was a college-students-only platform. And TikTok isn’t the first platform to host an influx of political commentary (as anyone who’s had their YouTube or Twitter recommendations flooded with Jordan Peterson or Ben Shapiro takes can attest). So what’s different about politics on TikTok? The answer lies in the short-form video nature of all content on the platform and the powerful, mysterious algorithm that delivers those videos in a fine-tuned way that keeps users hooked and emotionally invested. The content on the app is highly emotional, vibes-based, and usually presented through another average person sharing their experiences, not usually from professional news accounts or reliable sources. “Much of the political expression we find on TikTok is humoristic or cynical, colorful, often over-the-top, and infused with popular culture references. It is deeply emotional, ranging from roaring laughter to rolling tears,” write researchers Ioana Literat and Neta Kligler-Vilenchik in a 2023 paper on TikTok and youthful political expression . “It is often profoundly personal, framing political issues through young people’s personal experience and worldviews,” the pair write. “In other words, it is anything but serious, detached, and rational. However, that does not make it any less meaningful. Quick rants and bursts of commentary from a person looking at you through your phone make analysis and discussions feel genuine, intimate, and real, even if the content of what they are saying is misleading or not entirely factual. And the platform’s design makes political spaces different from the algorithm or feeds of other social media. Much of the engagement on the app happens on the individualized For You page, a hub for videos the algorithm suggests for a user. Once you engage a video, the For You page algorithm responds by showing you similar content from like-minded individuals or accounts. The app keeps tracking your interactions to see what is getting you to respond or stay on the platform, and these kinds of videos draw more engagement through comments and “stitches” (the app function that lets a user include a snippet of an original video and add commentary on top to make their own clip), drawing even more emotional reactions and adding to the sense that other people are feeling exactly the way you are. Facebook’s comments section used to elicit the same kind of responses and debates; some viral Twitter takes still do — though you generally choose to participate in those conversations. TikTok’s political and social discourse, meanwhile, can feel at once secluded and totalizing. That creates an echo chamber: a sense of shared community or identity dealing with the same frustrations or worries you might have and insulating you from views outside that sphere. The case for TikTok To be a young, politically aware TikTok user might feel like a losing battle. After all, t