# Kaitlyn Tiffany

**Source**: https://www.theatlantic.com/author/kaitlyn-tiffany/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:44:11.282313+00:00

---

Kaitlyn Tiffany, The Atlantic Skip to content Site Navigation The Atlantic Popular Latest Newsletters Sections Politics Ideas Fiction Technology Science Photo Economy Culture Planet Global Books AI Watchdog Health Education Projects Features Family Events Washington Week Progress National Security Explore The Atlantic Archive Play The Atlantic Games Listen to Podcasts and Articles The Print Edition Latest Issue Past Issues Give a Gift Search The Atlantic Quick Links Audio Crossword Puzzle Magazine Archive Your Subscription Popular Latest Newsletters Sign In Subscribe Kaitlyn Tiffany Follow Kaitlyn Tiffany is a staff writer at The Atlantic and the author of Everything I Need I Get From You: How Fangirls Created the Internet as We Know It . She is the co-author of On Nobody Famous: Guesting, Gossiping, Gallivanting . Before joining The Atlantic in 2019, Kaitlyn was a reporter for Vox ’s consumer-culture vertical, The Goods. At The Atlantic , she writes about internet culture and technology. Latest AI’s Emerging Teen-Health Crisis OpenAI CEO Sam Altman promises that parental controls and age verification are coming to ChatGPT—though the announcement is scant on specifics. Kaitlyn Tiffany and Matteo Wong September 18, 2025 Illustration by The Atlantic What Women’s Baseball Will Look Like At the tryouts for the first professional women’s baseball league in the U.S. in more than 70 years Kaitlyn Tiffany August 27, 2025 Jess Rapfogel / Getty The Culture War Over Nothing Is anyone actually mad about sorority-rush dances? Kaitlyn Tiffany August 15, 2025 Photo-illustration by Ben Kothe / The Atlantic. Sources: Sean Rayford / Getty; RichVintage / Getty. The Epstein ‘Client List’ Will Never Go Away How can you prove the absence of a secret file? Kaitlyn Tiffany August 7, 2025 Illustration by Akshita Chandra / The Atlantic. Sources: Saul Loeb / AFP / Getty; JoeLena / Getty. Conspiracy Theorists Are Turning on the President MAGA influencers are furious that Trump’s FBI says no more Jeffrey Epstein secrets are forthcoming. Kaitlyn Tiffany July 10, 2025 Photo-illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Sezeryadigar / Getty; Rick Friedman / Corbis / Getty Why Would the Trump Family Want to Run a Phone Company? The latest celebrity branding craze might be budget cellular plans. Kaitlyn Tiffany June 18, 2025 Illustration by The Atlantic Why Are There So Many ‘Alternative Devices’ All of a Sudden? The dream of a phone without problems Kaitlyn Tiffany May 17, 2025 Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Getty. We’re Back to the Actually Internet Fact-checking is out, “Community Notes” are in. Kaitlyn Tiffany May 5, 2025 Illustration by Matteo Giuseppe Pani / The Atlantic Who Reads Entire Lawsuits for Fun? Celebrity legal disputes are juicier than gossip, less stressful than true crime, and unavoidable on social media. Kaitlyn Tiffany April 22, 2025 Illustration by The Atlantic. Sources: Chris Saucedo / Getty; Nathan Congleton / NBC / Getty; Court Listener. One Simple Hack to Ruin Your Easter The price of eggs has some online creators suggesting that potatoes are a suitable alternative. Please believe me, they are wrong. Kaitlyn Tiffany April 16, 2025 Photograph by Sarah Anne Ward for The Atlantic The Atlantic Daily Get our guide to the day’s biggest news and ideas, delivered to your inbox every weekday and Sunday mornings. See more newsletters Email Address Sign Up Your newsletter subscriptions are subject to The Atlantic&#x27;s Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions . Ideas That Matter Subscribe and support more than 160 years of independent journalism. Subscribe Popular Links About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Reprints &amp; Permissions Podcasts Radio Atlantic Good on Paper The David Frum Show How to Age Up Autocracy in America Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Atlantic Editions Newsletters Follow facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin flipboard About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Reprints &amp; Permissions Podcasts Radio Atlantic Good on Paper The David Frum Show How to Age Up Autocracy in America Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Atlantic Editions Newsletters Follow facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin flipboard Site Information Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices privacy-options Advertising Guidelines Terms &amp; Conditions Terms of Sale Responsible Disclosure Site Map TheAtlantic.com © 2025 The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply