# 16402876

**Source**: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16402876/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:52:51.666936+00:00

---

Sibling effects on substance use in adolescence: social contagion and genetic relatedness - PubMed This site needs JavaScript to work properly. Please enable it to take advantage of the complete set of features! Clipboard, Search History, and several other advanced features are temporarily unavailable. Skip to main page content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Log in Show account info Close Account Logged in as: username Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Access keys NCBI Homepage MyNCBI Homepage Main Content Main Navigation Search: Search Advanced Clipboard User Guide Save Email Send to Clipboard My Bibliography Collections Citation manager Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Save citation to file Format: Summary (text) PubMed PMID Abstract (text) CSV Create file Cancel Email citation Email address has not been verified. Go to My NCBI account settings to confirm your email and then refresh this page. To: Subject: Body: Format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) MeSH and other data Send email Cancel Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Add to My Bibliography My Bibliography Unable to load your delegates due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Your saved search Name of saved search: Search terms: Test search terms Would you like email updates of new search results? Saved Search Alert Radio Buttons Yes No Email: ( change ) Frequency: Monthly Weekly Daily Which day? The first Sunday The first Monday The first Tuesday The first Wednesday The first Thursday The first Friday The first Saturday The first day The first weekday Which day? Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Report format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) PubMed Send at most: 1 item 5 items 10 items 20 items 50 items 100 items 200 items Send even when there aren't any new results Optional text in email: Save Cancel Create a file for external citation management software Create file Cancel Your RSS Feed Name of RSS Feed: Number of items displayed: 5 10 15 20 50 100 Create RSS Cancel RSS Link Copy Full text links American Psychological Association Full text links Actions Cite Collections Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Permalink Permalink Copy Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Page navigation Title &amp; authors Abstract Publication types MeSH terms Grants and funding LinkOut - more resources Title &amp; authors Abstract Publication types MeSH terms Grants and funding LinkOut - more resources J Fam Psychol Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2005 Dec;19(4):611-8. doi: 10.1037/0893-3200.19.4.611. Sibling effects on substance use in adolescence: social contagion and genetic relatedness Richard Rende &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Cheryl Slomkowski ,&nbsp; Elizabeth Lloyd-Richardson ,&nbsp; Raymond Niaura Affiliations Expand Affiliation 1 Centers for Behavioral &amp; Preventive Medicine, Brown Medical School, Providence, RI 02906, USA. richard_rende@brown.edu PMID: 16402876 DOI: 10.1037/0893-3200.19.4.611 Item in Clipboard Sibling effects on substance use in adolescence: social contagion and genetic relatedness Richard Rende &nbsp;et al. J Fam Psychol . 2005 Dec . Show details Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID J Fam Psychol Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2005 Dec;19(4):611-8. doi: 10.1037/0893-3200.19.4.611. Authors Richard Rende &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Cheryl Slomkowski ,&nbsp; Elizabeth Lloyd-Richardson ,&nbsp; Raymond Niaura Affiliation 1 Centers for Behavioral &amp; Preventive Medicine, Brown Medical School, Providence, RI 02906, USA. richard_rende@brown.edu PMID: 16402876 DOI: 10.1037/0893-3200.19.4.611 Item in Clipboard Full text links Cite Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Abstract Prior research on sibling contagion for substance use has not attended to individual differences in the sibling relationship that may be influenced by genetic similarity. The authors utilizing data on a sample of twin and nontwin siblings participating in the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health (Add Health). Although monozygotic twins had the highest levels of sibling contact and mutual friendships, the pattern of results for other sibling types were not consistent with genetic models, and biometric analysis indicated that shared environmental factors influenced these sibling relationship features. Application of DeFries-Fulker regression models provided evidence that sibling contact and mutual friendships represent a source of social contagion for adolescent smoking and drinking independent of genetic relatedness. The results are interpreted using a social contagion framework and contrasted with other competing models such as those focused on the equal environments assumption and niche selection. Copyright 2006 APA, all rights reserved). PubMed Disclaimer Publication types Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search MeSH terms Adolescent Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Adolescent Behavior / psychology* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Alcohol Drinking / genetics* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Alcohol Drinking / psychology* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Female Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Friends / psychology Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Humans Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Longitudinal Studies Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Male Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Sibling Relations Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Siblings / psychology* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Smoking / genetics* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Smoking / psychology* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Social Behavior Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Social Environment* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Twins / psychology Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Grants and funding MH01559/MH/NIMH NIH HHS/United States P01-HD31921/HD/NICHD NIH HHS/United States P50 CA84719/CA/NCI NIH HHS/United States LinkOut - more resources Full Text Sources American Psychological Association Ovid Technologies, Inc. Medical MedlinePlus Health Information Full text links [x] American Psychological Association [x] Cite Copy Download .nbib .nbib Format: AMA APA MLA NLM Send To Clipboard Email Save My Bibliography Collections Citation Manager [x] NCBI Literature Resources MeSH PMC Bookshelf Disclaimer The PubMed wordmark and PubMed logo are registered trademarks of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Unauthorized use of these marks is strictly prohibited. Follow NCBI Twitter Facebook LinkedIn GitHub Connect with NLM Twitter SM-Facebook SM-Youtube National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike Bethesda, MD 20894 Web Policies FOIA HHS Vulnerability Disclosure Help Accessibility Careers NLM NIH HHS USA.gov