# 2024 03 25.Html

**Source**: https://nymag.com/magazine/toc/2024-03-25.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:10:55.806764+00:00

---

New York Magazine: March 25, 2024 Issue Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Issue Contents Browse Issues by Year 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Table of Contents March 25, 2024 Cover Story Mechanisms of Control Andrew Huberman is one of the most popular podcasters in the world. But can he be trusted? By Kerry Howley On the Cover: Andrew Huberman in one of his own YouTube videos. Photograph by Devin Oktar Yalkin for New York Magazine. Support more than 50 years of award-winning journalism. Subscribe to Magazine Give a Gift features Jeff Zucker’s Fleet Street Misadventure What happened when the former CNN boss tried to buy a British broadsheet. By Michael Wolff The Eric Adams Smash-and-Grab Frank Carone has reaped a fortune from his role as the mayor’s right hand. By David Freedlander Intelligencer The National Interest What’s driving Trump’s insurrection-themed campaign? Neighborhood News Pete Davidson and Colin Jost’s ferry is actually happening. Encounter Hanif Abdurraqib, the poet and essayist making meaning out of basketball. Streetscape The entrepreneur trying to extinguish e-bike battery fires. Departments ‘New York’ Crossword Matt Gaffney’s latest puzzle. Comments: Week of March 25, 2024 Readers sound off on Andrea Long Chu’s moral case for letting trans kids change their ­bodies and a group of squatters in a Beverly Hills mansion. The Approval Matrix: Week of March 25, 2024 Our deliberately oversimplified guide to who falls where on our taste hierarchies. On the Cover of New York: Kerry Howley on Andrew Huberman Kerry Howley profiles one of the world’s most popular podcasters and how he exerts control. Strategist Best in Class A light-maximizing shower curtain. Best Bets Phillip Lim’s clogs, do-better jeans, and an electric lunch box. Compulsive Shopping An array of playing cards. The Look Book Gets up against the glass at a Rangers game. Design Hunting Two architects’ Carroll Gardens tree house. The Restaurant Review Corima has potential. And excellent tortillas. Underground Gourmet Where to eat in Brooklyn’s Little Uzbekistan. Openings At Lola’s, Suzanne Cupps isn’t interested in trends. The Fashion Pages The Women Who Run Harlem Major cultural institutions in the neighborhood are changing and more relevant than ever. Now, dressed in the season’s finest. The Culture Pages Not Your Average Heartthrob Nicholas Galitzine casts a spell on every segment of society. Good One: Ramy Youssef The stand-up on how he made messy feelings funny in his new special. How New York Comedians Are Joking About Israel-Palestine “It makes you miss those easier-to-swallow debates, like trans women playing sports.” What to See and What to Skip at the Whitney Biennial For better and worse, the exhibition is a snapshot of contemporary art. Percival Everett Can’t Be Pinned Down The novelist continues to defy expectations. The Theater Review An Enemy of the People translates Ibsen both pleasurably and profoundly. The Album Review In Eternal Sunshine, Ariana Grande recontextualizes the past. The TV Review 3 Body Problem benefits from its commitment to small-screen adaptation. Latest Issues Browse Other Issues Here » September 22, 2025 September 8, 2025 The September Issue of the Cut August 25, 2025 August 11, 2025 July 28, 2025 To buy previous issues, go to our New York magazine store . Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us About New York Magazine Newsletters Help Contact Press Media Kit We’re Hiring Privacy Terms Ad Choices Accessibility Do not sell or share my personal data New York is a Vox Media Network . &copy; 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All rights reserved.