# This Is The Best Ever Photo Of Pluto Tomorrows Will Be Much Better

**Source**: http://kottke.org/15/07/this-is-the-best-ever-photo-of-pluto-tomorrows-will-be-much-better
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:54:37.158585+00:00

---

This is the best-ever photo of Pluto. Tomorrow&#8217;s will be MUCH better. KOTTKE DOT ORG KOTTKE DOT ORG MENU Member Login Home Membership Newsletter Goods Archive + Tags About/Contact dark mode light mode Advertise here with Carbon Ads Socials & More Newsletter RSS Feed Bluesky Mastodon This site is made possible by member support . 💞 Big thanks to Arcustech for hosting the site and offering amazing tech support. When you buy through links on kottke.org, I may earn an affiliate commission. Thanks for supporting the site! kottke.org. home of fine hypertext products since 1998. Beloved by 86.47% of the web. 🍔 &nbsp; 💀 &nbsp; 📸 &nbsp; 😭 &nbsp; 🕳️ &nbsp; 🤠 &nbsp; 🎬 &nbsp; 🥔 × close posted Jul 14 @ 11:57 AM by Jason Kottke &ensp;·&ensp; gift link This is the best-ever photo of Pluto. Tomorrow&#8217;s will be MUCH better. This morning, the New Horizons probe zinged safely 1 past Pluto. Before it did, it transmitted the best photo we&#8217;ve seen of Pluto so far&#8230;the last one we&#8217;ll get before we get the really good stuff . Look at this : The probe&#8217;s &#8220;I&#8217;m OK!&#8221; message will reach Earth around 9pm ET tonight and we&#8217;ll start seeing photos from the flyby Wednesday afternoon&#8230;there&#8217;s a NASA press conference scheduled for 3pm ET on July 15. So exciting! Update: The photo above is also the best full-disk image of Pluto that we will get&#8230;the rest will be close-ups and such. So that&#8217;s the official Pluto portrait from now on, folks. Well, hopefully. The probe is due to transmit a &#8220;I&#8217;m OK!&#8221; message back to Earth later today (at around 9pm ET). *fingers crossed* ↩ astronomy NASA New Horizons Pluto science solar system space Share