# Americans Are Less Likely Than Before Covid 19 To Want To Live In Cities More Likely To Prefer Suburbs

**Source**: https://www.pewresearch.org/social-trends/2021/12/16/americans-are-less-likely-than-before-covid-19-to-want-to-live-in-cities-more-likely-to-prefer-suburbs/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:01:48.904172+00:00

---

Americans Are Less Likely Than Before COVID-19 To Want To Live in Cities| Pew Research Center Numbers, Facts and Trends Shaping Your World Newsletters Press My Account Donate Contacted By Us? Read our research on: Artificial Intelligence Middle East Donald Trump Search Research Topics Topics Politics &amp; Policy International Affairs Immigration &amp; Migration Race &amp; Ethnicity Religion Age &amp; Generations Gender &amp; LGBTQ Family &amp; Relationships Economy &amp; Work Science Internet &amp; Technology News Habits &amp; Media Methodological Research Full Topic List Regions &amp; Countries Asia &#038; the Pacific Europe &#038; Russia Latin America Middle East &#038; North Africa North America Sub-Saharan Africa Multiple Regions / Worldwide Formats Feature Fact Sheet Video Data Essay Publications Our Methods Short Reads Tools &amp; Datasets Experts About Us Research Topics Publications Short Reads Tools &amp; Datasets About Pew Research Center Newsletters Press My Account Contacted By Us? Search Read Our Research On: Artificial Intelligence Middle East Donald Trump Home Research Topics Science Science Issues Medicine &amp; Health COVID-19 &amp; Science Report | December 16, 2021 X Facebook Threads LinkedIn WhatsApp Share Americans Are Less Likely Than Before COVID-19 To Want To Live in Cities, More Likely To Prefer Suburbs Nearly half say the pandemic has driven people in their community apart By Kim Parker , Juliana Menasce Horowitz and Rachel Minkin Table of Contents Table of Contents Americans Are Less Likely Than Before COVID-19 To Want To Live in Cities, More Likely To Prefer Suburbs Acknowledgments Methodology How we did this Pew Research Center conducted this study to understand Americans’ views and preferences for where they live and the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak on their local communities. For this analysis, we surveyed 9,676 U.S. adults in October 2021. Everyone who took part is a member of Pew Research Center’s American Trends Panel (ATP), an online survey panel that is recruited through national, random sampling of residential addresses. This way nearly all U.S. adults have a chance of selection. The survey is weighted to be representative of the U.S. adult population by gender, race, ethnicity, partisan affiliation, education and other categories. Read more about the&nbsp; ATP’s methodology . See here to read more about the&nbsp; questions&nbsp;used for this report and the report’s&nbsp; methodology . Terminology References to White, Black and Asian adults include only those who are not Hispanic and identify as only one race. Hispanics are of any race. All references to party affiliation include those who lean toward that party. Republicans include those who identify as Republicans and those who say they lean toward the Republican Party. Democrats include those who identify as Democrats and those who say they lean toward the Democratic Party. References to college graduates or people with a college degree comprise those with a bachelor’s degree or more. “Some college” includes those with an associate degree and those who attended college but did not obtain a degree. “Middle income” is defined here as two-thirds to double the median annual family income for panelists on the American Trends Panel. “Lower income” falls below that range; “upper income” falls above it.&nbsp;See the methodology for more details. References to respondents who live in urban, suburban or rural communities are based on respondents’ answer to the following question: “How would you describe the community where you currently live? (1) urban, (2) suburban, (3) rural.” Throughout the report, the terms “urban” and “city” are used interchangeably. In the early days of the&nbsp; coronavirus outbreak , some wondered if city living&nbsp; would lose its appeal , especially as remote work gave people more freedom to&nbsp; choose where to live . About a year and a half into the pandemic, there is some evidence that Americans are less likely now than they were before to want to live in urban areas – and more likely to want to live in the suburbs, according to a new Pew Research Center survey.&nbsp; About one-in-five U.S. adults now express a preference for living in a city, down from about a quarter in 2018. The share of Americans who would like to live in the suburbs has increased from 42% to 46% during this time, while preference for rural areas is virtually unchanged. 1 Related: &nbsp; In 2020, fewer Americans moved, exodus from cities slowed Regardless of where they live, nearly half of Americans (47% overall) say the pandemic has divided their communities; relatively few (13%) say it has brought people together. And many see a long road to recovery, with about one-in-five saying life in their community will never get back to the way it was before the coronavirus outbreak. Across community types, about a quarter or more say the health and economic impacts of the pandemic remain major problems where they live, but the effects are felt most acutely in cities. More than four-in-ten urban residents (45%) say the economic impact of the outbreak is a major problem in their community, and 37% say the same about the health impact of COVID-19. By&nbsp;comparison, 31% of those in the suburbs and 33% of rural dwellers say the economic impact of the pandemic is a major problem in their local area, and about a quarter each say the health impact is a major issue.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; There are also racial, ethnic and income differences in these assessments. Black and Hispanic Americans are more likely than White or Asian Americans to say the pandemic’s economic impact is a major problem where they live, and Black adults are more likely than other racial or ethnic groups to say this about the health impact. 2 Lower-income adults are also more likely than those with middle and upper incomes to say the health and economic impact of the pandemic are major problems in their local communities. 3 The pandemic isn’t the only issue Americans are facing in their local communities. About half of U.S. adults (49%) say the availability of affordable housing is a major problem where they live, up 10 percentage points from 2018. At the same time, concern over drug addiction and the availability of jobs has waned. Some 35% now say drug addiction is a major problem in their community, down from 42% in 2018. And 18% say jobs are a major problem, down from 31%. About one-in-five say crime, the quality of K-12 schools and racism are major problems where they live – all relatively unchanged from 2018. With the exception of availability of jobs, urban residents are more likely than those in the suburbs or in rural areas to say each of the issues included in the survey is a major problem in their local community.&nbsp; The nationally representative survey of 9,676 U.S. adults was conducted Oct. 18-24, 2021, before news of the omicron variant, using the Center’s&nbsp; American Trends Panel . 4 Among the other key findings:&nbsp; More than a third of U.S. adults (36%) say it will take over two years for their local community to return to how it was before the coronavirus outbreak or that their community will never get back to normal.&nbsp; An even higher share (39%) say this about the economy in their local community, including 14% who say their local economy will never come back. When asked about their own lives, about a third of adults say it will take more than two years for their life to return to how it was before the pandemic or that it will never be the same again (12% and 20%, respectively).&nbsp; At least half of Americans say there is a mix of views on vaccines, masks and COVID-19 restrictions in their local community.&nbsp; To the extent that there is more uniformity in views, 30% say most people in their community think getting a COVID-19 vaccine is important, while 12% say most people think this is not important or shouldn’t be done. On mask wearing, 23% say most people in their community think wearing a mask in stores and other businesses is important, while about the same share (22%) say most don’t think it’s important or think it shouldn’t be done. When it comes to restrictions on public activities, 13% say most people where they live think it’s important to have tight restrictions, while twice as many say most people in their community don’t think this is important or think it shouldn’t be done. These views differ substantially across community types, with rural adults less likely than those who live in urban and suburban areas to say most people in their community think these things are important. State and local governments receive higher ratings than the federal government for their handling of the coronavirus outbreak, but no level of government is seen as doing an excellent or good job by a majority of Americans. &nbsp;About four-in-ten give their state (38%) and local (39%) government a positive rating, while just 29% think the federal government is doing an excellent or good job responding to the pandemic (a 39% plurality say the federal government is doing a poor or very poor job, while 32% say it is average). Republicans are particularly negative in their views of how the federal government has handled the pandemic, with 65% saying it has done a poor or very poor job, compared with 18% of Democrats who say the same. About three-quarters of Americans (77%) say the pandemic has divided people in the country as a whole.&nbsp; Just 8% say the pandemic has brought people in the U.S. together and 13% say it hasn’t made much difference. Republicans and Republican leaners are more likely than Democrats and those who lean Democratic to say the pandemic has driven people apart – both in the country and in their local communities. But at least three-quarters in both parties say this about people in the U.S., and more than four-in-ten say it about people in their community.&nbsp; For the most part, what Americans are looking for in a communit