# Numbers Game

**Source**: https://fiftytwo.in/story/numbers-game/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:59:31.683449+00:00

---

Numbers Game Week Sixty Eight Season Two About Blog Subscribe Home About Blog Subscribe Numbers Game Big data already changed the way cricket was being watched. Now, machine learning is transforming the way it’s played. himanish ganjoo 28 May 22 Season Two Subscribe to our newsletter Weekly updates with new Fifty Two stories This is a story about cricket, but it starts at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In 2016, Muhammad Jehangir Amjad, originally from Rawalpindi, Pakistan, was in the fourth year of his PhD in operations research. His doctoral work involved using a statistical method called “synthetic control” to predict the “normal” progression of a series of data. One of its everyday applications is in retail sales. Let’s assume a mobile phone store in Delhi decides to implement a discount policy. Call it an “intervention.” One way to estimate how this would affect sales would be to investigate a counterfactual: what was the likely outcome if the store had gone on conducting business as usual? In this instance, the data set might comprise historic sales numbers from 50 other mobile phone stores in Delhi, ones that have not offered a discount. These numbers, fed into the model, comprise the “learning,” which is then used to predict the “usual” sales trajectory of the store. These were the scenarios Amjad was playing around with. He was also playing cricket. It’s how he was coping with working on an advanced degree at one of the world’s most competitive universities, and a tragic personal loss. He revitalised the MIT Cricket Club and played all over the American Northeast. “If it wasn’t for the club and the team,” he told me, “I might not even have stayed on to finish the PhD.” (He bowled pace like his hero Wasim Akram.) Devavrat Shah, Amjad’s graduate advisor, was naturally supportive of his inclination towards cricket. As the two South Asians bonded over finding a reliable stream to watch live cricket in America, their conversations took an academic turn. They concluded that predicting the path of a cricket innings could be somewhat similar to predicting sales. That’s how Amjad’s research went in a new direction. He began applying his techniques to answer a question that cricket watchers are habitually obsessed with: where does the innings go from here? The extent of number-crunching in cricket was once limited to calculating averages and strike rates, and predicting innings scores based on the current run rate. These are pen-and-paper calculations that can be sped up by computers. But over the past 15 years or so, advanced mathematical models like Amjad’s haven’t just accelerated what was already on the cards; they’ve transformed the way cricket is watched and analysed. They form the algorithmic basis for “machines” which then automatically “learn” patterns which are too complex to express using equations. Take the projections of the final innings score on TV broadcasts, which rely on simple calculations using the current rate of scoring in an innings. They don’t consider factors like changing weather conditions, the quality of opposition players or historic innings totals at a particular ground. Machine learning models can account for all these and more, having been trained with mountains of data from past matches. You don’t have to spell out the relationship between a swinging pitch and a low-scoring innings. The machine learns that for itself. The coming of 20-over cricket took these high-level models beyond score prediction. With its narrower margins of error and big money riding on player auctions, the short-format game added an inquiry that went beyond “Who’s winning?” Now, there was also the question of “How to win?” Players, coaches and corporate houses were interested in the answer. Machine learning may still be a hot phrase for many ordinary fans. But in the world of cricket, it’s already serious business—and it is challenging the game’s long-established traditions. Conventional cricket wisdom, for example, dictates that batters play it safe in the middle overs of a T20 innings, preserving their wicket for a late surge in the slog overs. But advanced machine learning models can now tell you exactly how much this can reduce a team’s winning chances. The data approach has even begun to influence Test cricket, historically the format most resistant to change. Teams use machine learning models to identify chinks in their own batter’s armour. The same analyses, when applied to opposition batters, informs bowlers where to pitch the ball to have the best chance of taking a wicket. Amjad’s Interventions N othing escapes the machine. Imagine a one-day match has reached the 30-over point. The batting team is getting ready for a final push of run-scoring. How much will they end up making? The answer is not straightforward. Jehangir Amjad’s model will not only predict the final score, but also chart exactly how the innings will progress. Like his model, Amjad’s own path in the world of research was not linear. “Cricket was never the plan,” he told me. But when he thought he was onto something with his predictive model, he got in touch with Vishal Misra, then a professor of computer science at Columbia University. Misra also co-founded Cricinfo, the world’s biggest cricket website, in the 1990s. He shared the cricketing insights that helped Amjad adapt his model for cricket statistics. Any cricket-watcher will tell you that games turn on the number of wickets that the batting side has in hand. Wickets and overs jointly form the “resources” available to a batting side. (The Duckworth-Lewis-Stern (DLS) system, which the International Cricket Council uses to revise targets in rain-affected games, recognises this joint dependence of the score on both wickets left and overs remaining. But the DLS is still a pen-and-paper model.) Amjad, along with Misra, Devavrat Shah and Dennis Shen developed a new avatar of the synthetic control model: multi-dimensional robust synthetic control. Synthetic control could only consider one variable—runs—to predict the future of an innings; the multidimensional version could account for both wickets and runs. “Before celebrating, I checked and double- and triple-checked my code. Just to see if there was anything in it that had caused a bug.” Jehangir Amjad Misra’s cricket connections provided the key to the “learning” that would fuel their new model: data from 4700 ODI matches. Runs and wickets counted as sequential data, balls bowled would represent “time” through which the score progressed, the “intervention” would be something like inclement weather. The counterfactual question: if you stopped an innings right now, how would the trajectory of run-scoring proceed? Let’s go back to the match we were watching at the 30-over mark. Amjad’s method first considers the vast tranche of data, choosing only the innings which are “similar” in terms of the wickets lost at the 30-over point. It then attempts to learn exactly how similar the current innings is to all the innings in the chosen set. This “similarity” is not abstract: a weight is assigned to each match in the set using something called least squares regression. The model expresses the degree of similarity in percentage. It shows, for instance, that the current game is two percent like that match from 1996 and four percent like one that took place a couple of months ago. It then predicts the trajectory of the final 20 overs of the current game by combining the trajectories of the final 20 overs of all such similar matches. It’s an approach that automatically factors in the effect of a variety of externalities. A match being played in swinging conditions, for instance, is likely to feature a low rate of scoring at the start of the innings. The algorithm will automatically find similar matches, assigning them more weight in the final say. One of the first matches on which Amjad tested his model was the quarterfinal clash between India and Australia at the 2011 Cricket World Cup. The “intervention” he used was a hypothetical stoppage in the Australia innings at the 40-over point. Amjad was astounded by how closely the model’s prediction matched reality. “But before celebrating, I checked and double- and triple-checked my code,” he told me. “Just to see if there was anything in it that had caused a bug.” Frames of Reference “ Who’s winning?” Sambit Bal, editor-in-chief of ESPNcricinfo, and his team were often faced with this question during the website’s live commentary of limited-overs games. Bal wanted to improve the quality of conversation among both casual fan groups and the website’s own journalists and experts. The ESPNcricinfo team’s focus was the T20 format: they knew that conventional metrics couldn’t capture the complexity of T20. In Test matches, a simple counting of scores is enough to tell you who is in the driver’s seat. Direct comparisons of runs and wickets can convey a fair idea about the best and worst performers. In T20, however, the value of runs and wickets changes throughout the game. This boils down to the fact that teams use their batting resources differently in different phases. A run scored off a ball in the first over is about par, but the same outcome in the final over doesn’t reflect well on the batting team. “We’ve always felt that conventional stats like averages, economy rates and strike rates didn’t adequately capture the essence of 20-over cricket,” S. Rajesh, senior stats editor at ESPNcricinfo, told me. In November 2018, ESPNcricinfo collaborated with Gyan Data, a firm based out of the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, to develop a system for internal use called SmartStats.”We wanted metrics that would take into account match situation, pressure, quality of opposition, pitch conditions, quality of wickets taken.” The goal of SmartStats is to provide a frame of reference for each performance. “For instance, why was a three-wicket haul greater than a five-for?” Rajesh said. “The idea i