# How Patrick Soon Shiong Made His Fortune Before Buying The La Times

**Source**: https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2021/11/01/how-patrick-soon-shiong-made-his-fortune-before-buying-the-la-times
**Extracted**: 2025-10-02T22:12:46.568539+00:00

---

How Patrick Soon-Shiong Made His Fortune Before Buying the L.A. Times | The New Yorker Skip to main content Newsletter Search Search The Latest News Books &amp; Culture Fiction &amp; Poetry Humor &amp; Cartoons Magazine Puzzles &amp; Games Video Podcasts Goings On Shop 100th Anniversary Open Navigation Menu Menu Profiles How Patrick Soon-Shiong Made His Fortune Before Buying the L.A. Times The billionaire doctor has become one of Los Angeles’s most prominent civic leaders, after a boundary-pushing ascent in medicine. By Stephen Witt October 25, 2021 Facebook X Email Print Save Story Soon-Shiong likes to present himself as an accidental tycoon. But his success has been accompanied by numerous lawsuits. Photograph by Nikola Tamindzic for The New Yorker Save this story Save this story Save this story Save this story In the mid-nineteen-eighties, Lee Iacocca, the celebrated executive who had run both Chrysler and Ford, visited the Los Angeles laboratory of Patrick Soon-Shiong, a surgeon at U.C.L.A. Iacocca’s first wife had died of Type 1 diabetes a few years earlier; he was searching for a cure. Soon-Shiong, who was in his thirties, specialized in pancreas transplant, a risky treatment reserved for severe diabetics. Soon-Shiong was a skilled surgeon who had trained under organ-transplant pioneers, but he’d grown unhappy with the procedure: pancreas transplants carried a high risk of organ rejection, and he didn’t feel that the outcomes were worth the danger. He wanted to shut down U.C.L.A.’s pancreas-transplant program and embark on a new line of research. Instead of replacing the entire pancreas, Soon-Shiong would replace only the insulin-producing islet cells inside it. Soon-Shiong set up a laboratory at the Veterans Affairs hospital in West L.A. There, working with a staff of three, he began sourcing islet cells from pigs and human cadavers. “The lab was primitive,” Iacocca’s daughter Kate Hentz told me. Hentz had toured many such research facilities with her father; Soon-Shiong, she sensed, was a maverick. She and her father were impressed. “Patrick is just brilliant,” Hentz said. Soon-Shiong was extraordinarily charismatic; he was fit and trim, wore rimless glasses, and had a long shag haircut. He was Chinese by ancestry and South African by birth, and he spoke with a soft Anglo-South African accent. He could talk for hours about medicine and the human body, then switch to history, or business, or literature. Soon-Shiong’s wife, Michele B. Chan, was an actress who’d played a marine biologist on a Canadian TV show; the couple lived in a modest bungalow in Brentwood. “Their house was just adorable,” Hentz said. “You could feel they had all these little creative touches, without being overboard.” Among those touches were his-and-hers doorframes, cut into silhouettes of their profiles. Iacocca agreed to fund Soon-Shiong’s research, and also encouraged him to commercialize his work. Soon-Shiong was hesitant. “He was really excited about what he was doing, but kind of quiet about it,” Hentz said. “He was modest. He was humble.” Iacocca won him over. “Lee Iacocca, O.K.? I bring him into my little lab in the V.A. He sits me down and says, ‘Patrick, you’ll never survive academia,’ ” Soon-Shiong told me this summer. “I never had any intention of going into business. I wanted to be the chairman of the department of surgery.” Today, at sixty-nine, Patrick Soon-Shiong is worth at least eight billion dollars. He has been called the richest man in Los Angeles; he is one of the richest doctors in the world. He has taken four companies public and runs a medical-research initiative with a thousand employees and a half-dozen state-of-the-art laboratories. He is seeking a cure for cancer and developing his own COVID -19 vaccine. He owns a portion of the Los Angeles Lakers , and in 2018 he bought the Los Angeles Times . The bungalow is now his guesthouse; over time, he has acquired twelve adjacent parcels of land and built a sprawling complex. The centerpiece is an underground basketball court, constructed according to N.B.A. regulations, beneath his living room. The court is illuminated by natural light, based on a design on which Soon-Shiong holds three patents. He hosts pickup games there; Kobe Bryant sometimes played. Soon-Shiong likes to present himself as an accidental billionaire. “I would like to be remembered, primarily, as a physician-scientist,” he said. His manner is gentle, and maybe a little paternal; talking with him, you get the sense that he just knows better than you do. He is patient and kind, never pushy, and he listens carefully. But, in the mid-nineties, after funding his research, Hentz told me, Iacocca grew concerned. Soon-Shiong’s relationship with U.C.L.A. seemed strained, and the Iacoccas were given little information about their funds. Eventually, Iacocca pulled out. By then, Soon-Shiong had stepped down as a full-time faculty member. “It was a little odd, our exit, to say the least,” Hentz said. “Things weren’t totally clear for us.” “One day, all these stainless-steel straws and reusable baggies will be yours.” Cartoon by Amy Hwang Copy link to cartoon Copy link to cartoon Link copied Shop Shop Few figures in modern medicine have inspired as much controversy as Soon-Shiong. “He gets very enthusiastic, and sometimes he might exaggerate,” Hentz said. “He can embellish a little.” Outcomes for his diabetes treatment were disappointing, and one case ended tragically. While pursuing this therapy, he also began researching chemotherapy. At the center of his fortune is a cancer treatment that costs more than a hundred times as much as another drug, available as a generic, that is prescribed for some of the same conditions. Soon-Shiong has been repeatedly accused of financial misrepresentation, self-dealing, price gouging, and fraud. He has been sued by former investors and business partners; he has been sued by other doctors; he has been sued by his own brother, twice; he has been sued by Cher. Nevertheless, in recent years, Soon-Shiong has emerged as one of Los Angeles’s most prominent civic leaders. He paid five hundred million dollars for the L.A. Times , along with its sister paper, the San Diego Union-Tribune —double what Jeff Bezos spent to buy the Washington Post , which had three times the number of subscribers. Hoping to turn the Times into a multimedia platform, Soon-Shiong appointed Norman Pearlstine, who had run Time Inc.’s editorial operations, as executive editor. “He made the acquisition with very little due diligence, because he thought that it had to be easier than curing cancer,” Pearlstine told me. “I’m not sure whether he still believes that.” The Times ’ newsroom had been shrinking for years; Soon-Shiong halted the layoffs, and invested more than a hundred million dollars in infrastructure and staff. He invested in video content, podcasting, and the company’s mobile presence. He relocated the offices from downtown Los Angeles to the suburb of El Segundo. His wife took over the design of the space, which would include an enormous test kitchen, intended to support the company’s expanded food coverage. Then COVID hit. “We would speak several times a week, occasionally several times a day, until March of 2020,” Pearlstine said. “We had far less communication from that time on.” Pearlstine was gone by the end of the year, and the new office remains unfinished—a company spokesperson told me that the test kitchen is “ninety per cent done.” Kevin Merida, who succeeded Pearlstine at the Times , started his job in June, but didn’t meet Soon-Shiong in person until September; reporters, Soon-Shiong said, hadn’t been inside the Times building in more than a year. He takes COVID as seriously as anyone I’ve encountered. He rarely leaves his compound, and refused to meet with me in person. His P.R. rep hasn’t been in the same room with him since March, 2020. I asked Merida how frequently he talks to Soon-Shiong. “We don’t have a cadence,” he said. Employees at Soon-Shiong’s other businesses told me that he is focussed on developing his COVID vaccine, which is in clinical trials in South Africa, the intended pilot market. Soon-Shiong told me that he had been vaccinated, but, when I asked him which vaccine he’d received, he said, “I can’t tell you that.” When I persisted, he implied that, while waiting for the South African trials to be completed, he’d used his experimental vaccine on himself. My first conversation with Soon-Shiong took place this summer, over Zoom. He was indeed brilliant, charismatic, and enthusiastic, although I wouldn’t call him modest. Our conversations were wide-ranging and at times difficult to follow; he answered my first question with a five-minute monologue on protein interactions, the Large Hadron Collider , climate change, Kobe Bryant’s Achilles tendon, the extinction of the dinosaurs, and the history of the human race. When a concept got technical, he would pull up a digital whiteboard, diagramming networks of cells, proteins, and computers. Soon-Shiong traces his expository nature to childhood. “To me, as a kid, everything was a circle—there’s no beginning and no end,” he said. “And what I mean by that, as a systems engineer, is really looking at integrating—connecting dots.” His parents, who were ethnically Hakka, moved to South Africa after the Japanese invasion of China. His father ran two small grocery stores while his mother brought up ten kids. At home, Soon-Shiong said, he spoke Hakka Chinese and English, with a smattering of Afrikaans and Xhosa. His family lived in the nonwhite section of Port Elizabeth, in the Eastern Cape. “Surrounding me was a battery factory, a car-tire factory, a meat factory, and the ocean,” he said. “I would play with Black kids, what were called ‘Coloured’ kids, and Indian kids. There weren’t a lot of white kids.” He was sent to a school for Chinese students, run by the Anglican Church. “My science teacher was a priest who fought in World Wa