# 20230731 The Great Resignation Is Over What Does That Mean

**Source**: https://www.bbc.com/worklife/article/20230731-the-great-resignation-is-over-what-does-that-mean
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:39:17.766289+00:00

---

The Great Resignation is &#x27;over&#x27; Skip to content Watch Live British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US &amp; Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science &amp; Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film &amp; TV Music Art &amp; Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean &amp; Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture &amp; Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList To the Ends of The Earth Earth Natural Wonders Weather &amp; Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcast Categories Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Watch Live The Great Resignation is &#x27;over&#x27;. What does that mean? 2 August 2023 Share Save Kate Morgan Features correspondent Share Save A years-long period of record-high quits rocked the workforce in ways we couldn&#x27;t have imagined. But the mass exodus is done, say experts. Since the Covid-19 pandemic took hold in 2020, millions of workers have left their jobs. In the US, 47 million people quit in 2021, and 50 million more in 2022, according to data from the US Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). The continued exodus was so significant that in May 2021, Anthony Klotz, then-associate professor of management at Texas A&amp;M University, coined the term ‘Great Resignation’ to put a name to the trend. The Great Resignation was unprecedented – and particularly striking against a backdrop of incredible global uncertainty. Now, however, economists say it’s over. May 2023 numbers from the BLS’s Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey ( JOLTS ) suggest quits have slowed, normalising to pre-pandemic figures. “Looking at the overall resignation numbers, and seeing they’re back to 2019 levels, I think we can say it’s over. It&#x27;s not just a simple start-and-stop, of course, but it does seem that we&#x27;re at the tail of it,” says Klotz, now a professor of management at University College London’s School of Management. One explanation for the changing US resignation numbers, he says, is the impact of the current economic instability on the labour market – something workers quitting throughout the pandemic didn’t grapple with. “Even if you want to quit your job, you look out at the market [now] and think, ‘maybe I shouldn’t’,” he says. “The economy has slowed down, there&#x27;s layoffs in the headlines, warnings in the headlines that AI is going to take all of our jobs – it all makes people think twice before they quit a job.” The falling resignation statistics make sense says California-based Julia Pollak, chief economist at jobs site ZipRecruiter. Many of the people who made a big, one-time career decision are now settled in a new role that they’re holding onto. From internal summits at ZipRecruiter, and economic data the company has analysed, Pollak says many people shifted from less desirable industries to more sought-after ones – a phenomenon some have described as a ‘Great Reshuffle’. “For example, people who might have been cashiers before, were like, ‘wait a second, I can be a call centre representative from my couch, with my dog at my feet and a TV in the background’. That led to a lot of movement, but it was a one time jump.” Getty Images Job satisfaction is higher than it’s been in nearly four decades particularly among workers who quit one job for a better one during the pandemic (Credit: Getty Images) Some people have also stopped quitting, says Klotz, simply because they have less reason to. “Work for millions of people has gotten better over the last two years,” he says. “Many jobs are more flexible than they were two years ago, in many jobs pay is much fairer than it was pre-pandemic, and in many cases, benefits have been improved. Companies have taken employee wellbeing more seriously over the last couple of years, and invested much more in making their workplaces more inclusive and diverse.” Some of these changes can be chalked up to companies trying to stem attrition, says Pollak. And there’s evidence to suggest it’s worked. “We&#x27;re hearing a lot of anecdotal evidence from companies that turnover is normalising,” she says. “They&#x27;re just having a much easier time holding on to workers.” In fact, job satisfaction is now higher than it’s been in nearly four decades, according to survey data from the Conference Board, a non-profit think tank that has tracked job satisfaction since 1987. In a late 2022 survey of nearly 2,000 US workers, more than 60% reported being content with their jobs , and some of the most satisfied are those who quit one job for a better one during the pandemic. “Broadly speaking, employees are actually happier than ever,” says Klotz. “The economy can&#x27;t explain that as much as the reality that, because of the last couple of years, employers have had to get better. Now you have people who are saying, I&#x27;m not quitting my job because my job is actually pretty good.” But although the big picture shows the Great Resignation may be winding down in general, some industries are still feeling the sting of mass quitting, especially in certain sectors. “Healthcare, manufacturing, construction – resignation rates in those industries are well above 2019 levels ,” says Klotz. “When you say the Great Resignation is over, there’s probably going to be people who are leading healthcare or manufacturing organisations who are still really struggling to find workers or with high turnover.” But a worsening economy might start to lower resignation rates in those industries, too: historically , fewer people quit during economic dips . Both economists say they’re willing to call the Great Resignation officially over, but Klotz cautions that people will continue quitting in high numbers, relative to pre-pandemic years. “I think it’s important to keep in mind that the resignation rate is still at about the level it was in 2019. Pandemic aside, resignations in 2019 were the highest in the 20 years the Bureau of Labor Statistics has been recording it.” He adds: “I&#x27;d say what comes next is just an unsettled labour market.” How we work Features Watch Taylor Swift shows off engagement ring The popstar describes the proposal to Travis Kelce that broke the internet. 3 hrs ago Film &amp; TV Leonardo DiCaprio reveals the films he can&#x27;t stop watching From Goodfellas to Bicycle Thieves, the actor shares the timeless titles he’s watched across decades. 7 hrs ago Film &amp; TV World-renowned wildlife photographer against the algorithm Tech Now meets British wildlife photographer Tim Flach facing new challenges from AI mimicking his images. 14 hrs ago Tech Now Futtitinni: The Sicilian life advice you need to know about The expression &#x27;futtitinni&#x27; runs deep in the Sicilian culture and helps the locals not sweat the small stuff. 2 days ago Culture &amp; Experiences When Matthew McConaughey said &#x27;no&#x27; to a $14.5m offer The actor talks about his challenging transition from rom coms to more serious roles. 2 days ago Film &amp; TV The birthplace of the alphabet in ancient Egypt In 1905, archaeologists in Egypt found mysterious inscriptions carved into the walls of a 4,000-year-old mine. 3 days ago Humans The secret behind the nature videos that calm millions Discover how a Pacific Northwest creator crafts serene viral clips that attract huge audiences worldwide. 4 days ago Natural wonders Rome builds for the future without disturbing ancient past The Travel Show explores how Rome is planning for ambitious modernisation whilst preserving its ancient roots. 5 days ago The Travel Show How a failed dream turned into the UN headquarters A former slaughterhouse district played a surprising role in shaping the United Nations’ permanent home. 25 Sep 2025 Hidden Histories Washi: The Japanese paper crafted to last 1,000 years Ancient documents made with washi, the hand-crafted Japanese paper, are proof of its remarkable longevity. 24 Sep 2025 Travel How close are we to predicting wildfires with tech? Canadian start-ups design new tools to forecast wildfires, aiming to prevent disasters before they start. 23 Sep 2025 Tech Now Markets expect Fed to cut interest rates - 22 Sep 2025 Financial markets are expecting the US Federal Reserve to accelerate the cutting of interest rates. 22 Sep 2025 Opening Bell Meeting Mischief the &#x27;Mermaid&#x27; of Cornwall The mysterious &#x27;mermaid&#x27; of Cornwall helps to educate future generations about cleaner oceans. 22 Sep 2025 The Travel Show The fascinating history of the QR code QR codes are used in so many areas of our lives. Tech Now explains the story behind their creation. 19 Sep 2025 Tech Now Olivia Colman reveals her dinner party trick The actress surprises fellow The Roses castmember Benedict Cumberbatch with her physical stunt. 18 Sep 2025 Film &amp; TV Fed widely expected to cut interest rates - 17 Sep 2025 Laura Cooper says the Federal Reserve is expected to cut interest rates by a quarter of one percent. 17 Sep 2025 Opening Bell Kokiriko: Japan&#x27;s oldest folk song and dance Passed down through generations in Gokayama, the Japanese tradition of Kokiriko honours the cycle of life. 17 Sep 2025 Travel The Greek island holding the secret to a long life A resident of the Greek island of Ikaria, known as the island of immortals, shares her tips for longevity. 16 Sep 2025 The SpeciaList Level up work, life, and creativity with BBC Maestro Level up 