# Pentagon Military Takeover Chicago Trump Baltimore 1235414502

**Source**: https://www.rollingstone.com/politics/politics-news/pentagon-military-takeover-chicago-trump-baltimore-1235414502/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:29:16.256508+00:00

---

Pentagon Planning Military Takeover of Chicago as Trump Eyes Baltimore &times; &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo Politics Pentagon Has Been Planning Military Takeover of Chicago for Weeks as Trump Threatens Baltimore Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Show of Force Pentagon Has Been Planning Military Takeover of Chicago for Weeks as Trump Threatens Baltimore The president has threatened to send the military to Democrat-led cities. A plan for Chicago has been in the works for weeks, according to The Washington Post By Peter Wade Peter Wade Contact Peter Wade by Email Eric Adams Drops Out of New York City Mayoral Race Charlie Kirk Memorial Showcases the Union of Trump, Republicans, and Conservative Christianity Schumer Refuses to Say Why He Hasn’t Endorsed Mamdani View all posts by Peter Wade August 24, 2025 Donald Trump on Air Force One on Aug. 15 Andrew Caballero-Reynolds/Getty Images The Pentagon has been planning to send the military to Chicago for weeks, The Washington Post reported . The deployment would be part of Donald Trump &#8216;s show of force against Democrat-run cities. The military&#8217;s actions in Chicago could then be a blueprint for rolling out similar occupations in other cities, officials told the paper. Military leaders have considered multiple plans of action for Chicago, including sending thousands of National Guard troops in September. They have also considered sending active-duty troops to Chicago, although that outcome is less likely, sources told the Post . Meanwhile, Trump today threatened to send the military to Baltimore to &#8220;clean up&#8221; crime. &ldquo;I will send in the &lsquo;troops,&rsquo; which is being done in nearby Washington, D.C. , and quickly clean up the Crime,&#8221; Trump said in a Truth Social post this morning. Maryland Gov. Wes Moore, who invited Trump to &ldquo;come walk the streets with us,&rdquo; responded to Trump&#8217;s post by writing on X, formerly Twitter: &#8220;President Bone Spurs will do anything to get out of walking &mdash; even if that means spouting off more lies about the progress we&rsquo;re making on public safety in Maryland. Hey Donald, we can get you a golf cart if that makes things easier. Just let my team know.&#8221; Trump already this summer has sent troops to intimidate and harass urban residents in Washington, D.C., under the guise of cracking down on crime rates that Trump has claimed are skyrocketing when, in reality, violent crime in the district is not only low but declining. In June, Trump sent troops to Los Angeles to quell protests against his administration&#8217;s broad immigration sweeps that have sent thousands to immigrant detention facilities in the U.S. and deported others, including sending deported immigrants to inhumane detention centers abroad. Cities where local officials refuse to cooperate with federal immigration authorities &mdash; so-called &#8220;sanctuary cities&#8221; &mdash; are high on Trump&#8217;s list of places to target. &ldquo;Chicago&rsquo;s a mess. You have an incompetent mayor. Grossly incompetent,&rdquo; Trump said Friday. &#8220;And we&rsquo;ll straighten that one out probably next. That&rsquo;ll be our next one after this. And it won&rsquo;t even be tough.&#8221; Editor’s picks The 250 Greatest Albums of the 21st Century So Far The 100 Best TV Episodes of All Time The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century Illinois Gov. JB Pritzker on Saturday blasted Trump&#8217;s domestic use of the military as &ldquo;an authoritarian power grab of major cities.&rdquo; &ldquo;After using Los Angeles and Washington, D.C., as his testing ground for authoritarian overreach, Trump is now openly flirting with the idea of taking over other states and cities,&rdquo; Pritzker said on Friday. &ldquo;Trump&rsquo;s goal is to incite fear in our communities and destabilize existing public safety efforts &mdash; all to create a justification to further abuse his power.&rdquo; Pritzker added Saturday, after the Post&#8217;s story published, that his state received &ldquo;no requests or outreach from the federal government asking if we need assistance, and we have made no requests for federal intervention.&rdquo; He continued, saying that &ldquo;no emergency that warrants the president of the United States federalizing the Illinois National Guard, deploying the National Guard from other states, or sending active duty military within our own borders.&rdquo; Chicago Mayor Brandon Johnson, also a Democrat, expressed strong opposition to Trump&#8217;s plans, saying Friday, &ldquo;We have grave concerns about the impact of any unlawful deployment of National Guard troops to the city of Chicago. The problem with the president&rsquo;s approach is that it is uncoordinated, uncalled for, and unsound.&rdquo; Johnson additionally pointed out that in the past year, the city has seen more than a 30 percent decline in homicides, a 35 percent decrease in robberies, and a nearly 40 percent drop in shootings. Related Content ‘Hostage Taking’: Trump Is Hurting Americans to Force Dems to Cave on Shutdown Trump Adviser Says ICE Will Be at Bad Bunny’s Super Bowl Halftime Show Amid MAGA Meltdown Kennedy Center Union Demands Investigation After Conservative Group Heckled Yasmin Williams Welcome to Portland, Where Trump&#039;s Fever Dream Is America&#039;s New Nightmare Baltimore, similarly, has seen declining crime rates. According to the Baltimore Police Department, homicides in Baltimore have decreased 22 percent from last year. Moore, appearing today on Face the Nation, called Trump&#8217;s domestic military actions in D.C. as &#8220;not sustainable,&#8221; &#8220;deeply disrespectful&#8221; to the National Guard, and &#8220;unconstitutional.&#8221; Trending Stories Taylor Swift Conquers Her Biggest Stage Ever on ‘The Life of a Showgirl’ Hayley Williams Confirms Morgan Wallen Is the ‘Racist Country Singer’ She Sings About Taylor Swift’s ‘The Life of a Showgirl’ Is Officially Here He Grew Obsessed With an AI Chatbot. Then He Vanished in the Ozarks Maryland governor Wes Moore ( @GovWesMoore ) told “Face the Nation’s” @margbrennan about his opposition to President Trump’s deployment of thousands of National Guardsmen and federal agents to patrol D.C. streets, calling the move “not sustainable,” “unconstitutional” and “deeply… pic.twitter.com/UX7uQ6uwSn &mdash; Face The Nation (@FaceTheNation) August 24, 2025 &#8220;There is a multitude of reasons that I am against this, and I will not authorize the Maryland National Guard to be utilized for this,&#8221; Moore added. He called Trump&#8217;s threats &#8220;purely performative, without actually focusing on these communities and these neighborhoods who believe that progress is possible.&#8221; In this article: Donald Trump, J.B. Pritzker, JB Pritzker Politics Politics News More News ‘Swiftboating’ Is Beyond Dirty Politics Commentary By Michael Embrich ‘Hostage Taking’: Trump Is Hurting Americans to Force Dems to Cave on Shutdown Out of Office By Nikki McCann Ramirez Welcome to Portland, Where Trump's Fever Dream Is America's New Nightmare &#039;Life During Wartime&#039; By Tim Dickinson Dem Says Mike Johnson Is Delaying Her Swearing-In to Prevent Epstein Vote Meeting the Threshold By Nikki McCann Ramirez Jen Psaki on Kimmel, Kamala, and Trump’s ‘Incredibly Fragile Ego’ Q+A By Tim Dickinson Read more A Peek Behind the Curtain: Inside Taylor Swift's Glitzy 'Official Release Party of a Showgirl' Release Party 13 minutes ago Abbey Road Music Photography Awards Unveil 2025 Winners Best Moments 15 minutes ago Trent Reznor And Atticus Ross’ Future Ruins Fest Cancelled Over 'Logistical Challenges' Called Off 1 hour ago Sean Combs Sentenced to Over 4 Years in Prison Diddy Trial 4 hours ago Top stories newsletter A Cultural Force That Transcends Generations Enter your Email By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Go to PMC.com Most Popular J.K. Rowling Slams &#039;Ignorant&#039; Emma Watson as Their Rift Intensifies; Author Claims Watson Once Wrote Her a Note Expressing Sympathy Over Anti-Trans Backlash Bill Burr Defends Performing at Controversial Riyadh Comedy Festival: &quot;They&#039;re Just Like Us&quot; Insider Claims Nicole Kidman &amp; Keith Urban&#039;s Separation Is &#039;One-Sided&#039; Federal Judge Denies Motion to Dismiss by Kasseem ‘Swizz Beatz’ Dean in 1MDB Scandal Case You might also like ‘Taylor Swift: The Official Release Party of a Showgirl’ Review: Taylor Swift Introduces the 12 Tracks From ‘The Life of a Showgirl.’ But Only One of Them Is Great 3 hours ago 19 Breast Cancer Products That Are Helpful for Patients &amp; Survivors 2 hours ago ‘Anemone,’ ‘After the Hunt’ Shake Up New York Film Festival as ‘One Battle’ Heads Into Second Weekend — Screen Talk 1 hour ago NFL on Record Pace as TV/Streaming Windows Grow 8% to 20M Viewers 27 minutes ago Rolling Stone Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture Staff Contact Advertise Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Use AdChoices PMC Entertainment California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Accessibility Policy on Anonymous Sources Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Newsletter Signup Enter Your Email Subscribe Got a Hot News Tip? We want to hear it. Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Rolling Stone is a part of Penske Media Corporation.