# 20054 2014 Forest Hills Drive

**Source**: https://pitchfork.com/reviews/albums/20054-2014-forest-hills-drive/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:49:14.182140+00:00

---

J. Cole: 2014 Forest Hills Drive Album Review | Pitchfork Skip to main content Open Navigation Menu Menu Newsletter Search Search News Reviews Best New Music Features Lists Columns Video Open Navigation Menu Menu Newsletter Search Search Albums 2014 Forest Hills Drive J. Cole 2014 6.9 By Craig Jenkins Genre: Rap Label: Columbia / Roc Nation / Dreamville Reviewed: December 11, 2014 With his third album, the North Carolina rapper J. Cole is certain he’s made his classic; he’ll tell you as much partway through the 15-minute credit roll “Note to Self.” In its quest to canonize, the record eschews both singles and guests: It’s a bold move, and, where it floats, it soars, but it flops gloriously when it doesn’t. Save Story Save this story Save Story Save this story J. Cole is a student of hip-hop, the kind who moves to New York to stalk Jay-Z for an opportunity to rap for him, peppers his lyrics with nods to the greats, and pens an apology to Nas when his biggest single comes across as too poppy. Cole is aware of the structure and pace of good rap albums and anxious to apply them to his own music. For his third record, 2014 Forest Hills Drive , he channels the nostalgic self-mythology of Jay-Z’s Black Album . The cover is shot at his childhood home as Eminem did on The Marshall Mathers LP . The tracklist swaps s’s for z’s (“Wet Dreamz,” “A Tale of 2 Citiez,” “Love Yourz”) like 2Pac ’s All Eyez on Me . With 2014 , Cole is certain he’s made his classic; he’ll tell you as much partway through the 15-minute credit roll “Note to Self,” which apes Kanye West ’s joyous, candid College Dropout closer “ Last Call .” Problem is, Cole hasn’t earned it yet. J. Cole is a workmanlike MC, a good-natured populist grappling with the ridiculousness of sudden celebrity. He makes passable albums with memorable singles. He’s great at synthesizing everyman relationship woes into terse pop nuggets. He works well with guests; his collaborations with Drake , Missy Elliott , and TLC are highlights in his growing body of work, and he gets along so well with Kendrick Lamar that the duo is rumored to have clandestinely recorded an EP together. In its quest to canonize Cole, 2014 Forest Hills Drive eschews both singles and guests. It’s a block of Cole raps and Cole hooks served mostly over Cole beats. Bold move, and, where it floats, it soars, but it flops gloriously when it doesn’t. The laughable wordplay fails of mixtapes albums past (“My money like a senior, watch it graduate,” “Cole heating up like that leftover lasagna”) are thankfully absent, but Cole isn’t yet sharp enough of a storyteller to carry a full album on his own. “Wet Dreamz” recounts his first time having sex in lurid detail, from lying to a girl about his prowess to looking at porn for pointers to finding out the girl’s been lying, too. It’s relatable, but hardly the kind of story you want to hear more than once. “No Role Modelz” parlays a suspicion about a hookup being a gold digger into a tirade about Black women lacking respectable public figures, crudely suggesting that “she’s shallow, but the pussy deep.” (For all the talk of Cole’s enlightenment he’s a perfect brute when it comes to women, and “No Role Modelz” is something of a tacit admission.) 2014 Forest Hills Drive often plays at a depth it never delivers. Still, ceding an entire hour to a rapper who works best in short bursts works better here than anyone could’ve expected. “03’ Adolescence” flips the classic rags-to-riches narrative inside out as Cole starts to reminisce about how hard he had it growing up only to get a chin check from a friend whose future isn’t half as bright. “G.O.M.D.,” “Fire Squad,” and “A Tale of 2 Citiez” all flash Cole’s technical excellence, while “Intro,” “Apparently,” and “St. Tropez” emote through his gruff singing voice. The production here is never less than delightful; Cole’s own beats run coyly referential samples through milky instrumental embellishments. “Wet Dreamz” is an adept “ Impeach the President ” flip, and “St. Tropez” reimagines Mobb Deep ’s “ Give Up the Goods (Just Step) ” as sedate, orchestral R&amp;B. 2014 Forest Hills Drive is Cole planting himself in the pantheon of rap greats, a volley to the spike of Kendrick Lamar’s “ Control ” verse. He gets more than a little ahead of himself, though, claiming to be better than Slick Rick , LL Cool J , Rakim , and Big Daddy Kane on “January 28th.” Kane and Rakim’s flows were tighter; LL’s swagger is inimitable; and Rick’s stories surge with a purpose nothing in J. Cole’s canon can muster. This self-aggrandizing pageantry is a ultimately bad look on a guy who earns his keep speaking to the struggles of the common man, and these songs work best when they’re not busy telling you how good they think they are. 2014 Forest Hills Drive is a decent album selling itself as great. It wraps itself in the garments of a classic, but you can see that the tailoring is off. All products featured on Pitchfork are independently selected by our editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission. J. Cole: 2014 Forest Hills Drive $45 at Rough Trade $38 at Amazon $40 at Target Most Read Reviews Through the Wall Rochelle Jordan The Art of Loving Olivia Dean Vie Doja Cat More Reviews for J. Cole Might Delete Later The Off-Season KOD 4 Your Eyez Only Born Sinner Cole World: The Sideline Story Friday Night Lights More Reviews From Pitchfork Breach Twenty One Pilots Supreme Clientele 2 Ghostface Killah Let’s Meet at Junes dolo2000 no scope crushed Kissom Xexa 8 Tips for Full Catastrophe Living Asher White Hell Is an Airport Liquid Mike Vie Doja Cat TRON: Ares (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack) Nine Inch Nails HEARTS SOLD SEPARATELY Mariah the Scientist BRONTO The Hidden Cameras Here for It All Mariah Carey The most trusted voice in music Instagram X Facebook YouTube Tiktok Video Lists &amp; Guides Podcast Masthead RSS Pitchfork Music Festival Chicago Pitchfork Music Festival London Pitchfork Music Festival Paris Pitchfork Music Festival CDMX All Events User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Newsletter RSS Feeds Contact Accessibility Help Advertising © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Pitchfork may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Entertainment