# How Your Favorite Baseball Team Blows Its Money

**Source**: http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/how-your-favorite-baseball-team-blows-its-money/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:05:27.844839+00:00

---

How Your Favorite Baseball Team Blows Its Money | FiveThirtyEight Skip to main content FiveThirtyEight Search Search ABC News Menu How Your Favorite Baseball Team Blows Its Money Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Politics Sports Science Podcasts Video Interactives ABC News This is an archived site and is no longer being updated. New 538 articles can be found at www.abcnews.com/538. How Your Favorite Baseball Team Blows Its Money FiveThirtyEight Published Jul. 8, 2015 For an article on FiveThirtyEight today, Mike Lopez and Noah Davis charted the relationship between spending and win percentage for every baseball season since 1985. They found that the relationship between money and winning in baseball is as strong now as it’s been any time in the free-agency era. Below you’ll see that relationship for each team in the majors. Each season is one dot in the figure, and the colored line is a smoothed curve fit through the points. Essentially, the higher the curve, the more the team’s money was well-spent. The gray line is an aggregation of all the data points across the entire league, and that line shows a pattern: More money generally means more wins. Read more: Don’t Be Fooled By Baseball’s Small-Budget Success Stories » Michael Lopez is an assistant professor of statistics at Skidmore College. @StatsbyLopez Allison McCann is a former visual journalist for FiveThirtyEight. @atmccann Filed under MLB (797 posts) Baseball (375) Get more FiveThirtyEight Store Twitter Facebook Data RSS Follow @FiveThirtyEight About Us Jobs Masthead Pitch FiveThirtyEight Advertise With Us About Nielsen Measurement Powered by WordPress VIP Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Your US State Privacy Rights Children's Online Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads &copy; 2025 ABC News Internet Ventures. All rights reserved. Close Additional Information Terms of Use and Privacy Policy and Safety Information/ Your California Privacy Rights / Children's Online Privacy Policy are applicable to you. © 2025 ABC News Internet Ventures. All rights reserved. Interest-Based Ads . Cookie Policy .