# Romanian Organized Crime Groups Atm Ebt Fraud San Diego

**Source**: https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/news/courts/story/2023-07-04/romanian-organized-crime-groups-atm-ebt-fraud-san-diego
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:31:51.560913+00:00

---

Pallets of Red Bull and drained EBT accounts: Romanian crime groups plunder public benefits in San Diego &#8211; San Diego Union-Tribune Skip to content All Sections 71&deg;F Friday, October 3rd 2025 e-Edition Home Page About Us About Us Our Journalism Community Advisory Board Contact the Newsroom eNewspaper The San Diego Union-Tribune Carmel Valley News Del Mar Times Encinitas Advocate La Jolla Light PB Monthly Point Loma OB Monthly Poway News Chieftain Ramona Sentinel Rancho Bernardo News Rancho Santa Fe Review Solana Beach Sun Columnists Nick Canepa Lisa Deaderick Tom Krasovic Bryce Miller Michael Smolens News Local News Border &amp; Baja California Crime and Public Safety Courts Education Environment Health Immigration Local Politics Military National Politics National News Politics Science Transportation Watchdog World News Local News San Diego County San Diego North County East County South County Handpicked by Locals Business Business Biotech Growth &amp; Development Economy Energy Real Estate Restaurants, Food and Drink Technology Tourism Best Reviews Opinion Opinion Community Voices Commentary Editorials Letters to the Editor Editorial Board Sports Sports SDSU Aztecs San Diego Padres San Diego FC San Diego Wave FC High School Sports Chargers/Rams Toreros San Diego Gulls Golf Fantasy Sports Things to do Things to do Amusement Parks Arts Books Casinos Recipes Home and Garden Movies Music and Concerts Restaurants, Food and Drink Theater Travel TV and Streaming UT Store Weather U-T En Español Del Mar Times Encinitas Advocate La Jolla Light Pacific San Diego PB Monthly Point Loma OB Monthly Pomerado News Rancho Santa Fe Review Ramona Sentinel U-T Community Press Del Mar Times Encinitas Advocate La Jolla Light PB Monthly Point Loma OB Monthly Pomerado News Ramona Sentinel Rancho Santa Fe Review Pacific San Diego Together San Diego Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Comics and Games Subscriber Services Manage Subscription EZ Pay Vacation Stop Delivery Issue Sponsored Content Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint The T.E.A. Advertise with Us Get the latest news in your inbox! Sign Up News | Pallets of Red Bull and drained EBT accounts:&#8230; Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Subscribe Login Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Get the latest news in your inbox! Sign Up Subscribe Login Search 71&deg;F Friday, October 3rd 2025 e-Edition News News Trending: 🏠 S.D. home prices fall 🌮 Top taco spots 👻 Weekend things to do 💧 Shortage of rain 🛒 Digital-only coupon ban News Pallets of Red Bull and drained EBT accounts: Romanian crime groups plunder public benefits in San Diego Romanian crime rings have a long history of stealing credit and debit card information. Now they&#8217;re targeting those receiving food stamps and unemployment in San Diego Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Los Angeles Times TARZANA CA FEBRUARY 2, 2023 - LAPD and federal officers make an arrested Thursday morning, Feb. 2, 2023 for alleged EBT fraud at a US Bank ATM in Tarzana. Victims had reported their EBT cards had been drained of funds at the ATM near the first of every month. (Rebecca Ellis / Los Angeles Times) Los Angeles County District Attorney&#039;s Office Cash and cloned card seized as part of a September law enforcement operation targeting ATM thieves. Law enforcement said they made 16 arrests in around 15 minutes. Show Caption Los Angeles Times 1 of 2 TARZANA CA FEBRUARY 2, 2023 - LAPD and federal officers make an arrested Thursday morning, Feb. 2, 2023 for alleged EBT fraud at a US Bank ATM in Tarzana. Victims had reported their EBT cards had been drained of funds at the ATM near the first of every month. (Rebecca Ellis / Los Angeles Times) Expand By Alex Riggins | alex.riggins@sduniontribune.com | The San Diego Union-Tribune UPDATED: July 6, 2023 at 12:39 AM PDT The bulk purchases of Red Bull and Monster Energy drinks were huge. Within about two months late last year, the same small group had spent $305,270 buying pallets of the caffeinated drinks at grocery stores in downtown San Diego and Riverside. The transactions were large enough that members of the group had to make special arrangements with store managers ahead of time and pick up the drinks in the Smart &amp; Final loading docks. They presumably resold the drinks at a profit &#8212; and the profit would be high since the money didn&#8217;t even come out of their own pockets. Instead, the purchases were made with money pilfered from low-income public benefits recipients. Last week, a member of the group pleaded guilty in San Diego federal court to one count related to the scheme. Beatrice Mihai, a 25-year-old Romanian citizen who lived in Anaheim, admitted in her plea agreement that she and her co-conspirators stole and misused the Electronic Benefit Transfer funds intended for nearly 175 victims in California, New York, Florida and Rhode Island. The energy drink plot was just one piece of a larger system of thefts and frauds operated by Romanian organized crime groups that have hit Southern California particularly hard. Dating back at least a decade and a half, Romanian crime rings spread across the world have installed card skimmers on ATMs and card readers inside businesses, giving them the ability to clone the debit and credit cards of unwitting victims. More recently, Romanian organized crime groups have plundered taxpayer-funded programs for low-income Californians, targeting those swiping state-issued cards loaded with EBT and unemployment benefits. Investigators believe those accounts are being targeted because the state-issued benefit cards are more vulnerable because they lack the chips embedded on most bank-issued cards. The theft has become a huge problem. In the six months between last August and January, thieves using compromised EBT accounts stole close to $39 million from benefit recipients across California, according to recently unsealed federal search warrants citing figures provided by the California Department of Social Services. About $2.3 million of that total was stolen from ATMs in San Diego County, and about $2.9 million was stolen from San Diego County residents. The Los Angeles Times recently reported that the statewide loss from such thefts spiked from $3.2 million in the last six months of 2021 to $51.9 million for all of 2022. That figure jumped again to $31.6 million in the first three months of this year &#8212; setting a pace for $126.4 million for the entirety of 2023. Law enforcement authorities believe Romanian organized crime groups are responsible for most of that loss. In recent months, federal authorities &#8212; including the FBI, the Secret Service and U.S. attorney&#8217;s offices in San Diego and Los Angeles &#8212; have arrested or indicted dozens of suspected members of Romanian organized crime groups. The relationships and connections between the suspects and defendants is not always clear, with some appearing to be part of well-organized cells, and others appearing to have looser associations. Investigators wrote in search warrants that the crimes were committed by &#8220;what appear to be one or more criminal enterprises.&#8221; Romanian card skimming Like Mexican drug cartels or Nigerian romance scammers, Romanian organized crime groups have found a niche skimming ATMs and in-store card readers. This dates to at least 2009, but likely long before that, when Romanian police busted a group that had reportedly been stealing debit and credit card information in Italy, France, Switzerland and the U.S. In 2020, the Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project published a wide-ranging investigation into a longtime Mexican-based Romanian group it dubbed the Riviera Maya gang, which apparently stole hundreds of millions of dollars through a card-skimming operation based in Cancun and is believed to still be active. The scheme targets the millions of tourists who visit the region each year as they pull cash from their accounts. On a near-weekly basis, news reports from across the U.S. &#8212; citing police records, prosecutors, court evidence and news releases &#8212; demonstrate the links between Romanian groups and ATM skimming operations . Such groups based in California have ramped up their targeting of EBT and unemployment cards as of last year. Though it may seem to victims like they&#8217;ve been hacked virtually, since their accounts are drained almost as soon as the state deposits their benefits, the perpetrators of the crimes have to physically install the card skimmers, usually known as an overlay skimmer. They do this by installing a counterfeit faceplate over the top of a legitimate card reader. When victims swipe their cards, the information is read by both the legitimate card reader and the skimmer, which stores the information. The skimmed data is then re-encoded onto &#8220;cloned&#8221; cards the thieves can then use to manually withdraw money from an ATM. Or they can spend the funds at a store, like Mihai and the others who purchased the energy drinks. That gives investigators two opportunities to intercept the bandits, with the easiest option being to catch them making unauthorized withdrawals at ATMs. These typically happen the first few days of a month, when the state usually disperses food stamps and unemployment assistance. That&#8217;s what happened last month, when federal investigators staked out several ATMs across San Diego County on the first two mornings of June. They arrested five men &#8