# gss.norc.org

**Source**: https://gss.norc.org/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:14:28.995536+00:00

---

GSS Skip to main content Errata About Data Documentation Media For Survey Participants 50th Anniversary Errata Errata GSS Data Explorer Contact The 2024 GSS Cross-section data are&amp;nbsp;&lt;a href=\&#34;/content/norc/us/en/gss/get-the-data.html\&#34;>now available&lt;/a>.&amp;nbsp;This data features questions related to the 2024 election, perceptions of national identity, how we navigate today’s digital society, and mental health stigma.&amp;nbsp;We encourage users to review the &lt;a href=\&#34;/content/norc/us/en/gss/get-documentation.html\&#34;>documentation&lt;/a> and&amp;nbsp;consider the potential impact of the experiments and data collection approach on the survey estimates.&lt;/p>\r\n&#34;}}" id="text-bbaf9819d0" class="cmp-text"> The 2024 GSS Cross-section data are now available . This data features questions related to the 2024 election, perceptions of national identity, how we navigate today’s digital society, and mental health stigma. We encourage users to review the documentation and consider the potential impact of the experiments and data collection approach on the survey estimates. ❮&lt;/button>&lt;", "nextArrow":"&lt;button aria-label=&#39;go to next slide&#39; class=&#39;next-navigation&#39;>❯&lt;/button>&lt;"}'> The General Social Survey The 2024 GSS Cross-section data, featuring a multi-mode design, is now available . These data, collected between April and December of 2024, include historically repeated measures and new data related to digital societies, national identity and citizenship, and mental health stigma. Several data collection and survey design experiments continue from earlier years. Find out more GSS 50th Anniversary Celebrating 50 years! Since 1972, NORC’s General Social Survey has been one of the nation’s most rigorous and widely used sources of data on the attitudes, behaviors, and attributes of the American public. Find out more GSS 50th Anniversary Celebrating 50 years! Since 1972, NORC’s General Social Survey has been one of the nation’s most rigorous and widely used sources of data on the attitudes, behaviors, and attributes of the American public. Find out more New 2024 Data New 2024 GSS Cross-Sectional Data Now Available The 2024 cross-sectional data, along with the cumulative cross-sectional file for the General Social Survey (GSS), is now available in SAS, Stata, and SPSS formats. GET THE DATA GSS Data Explorer GSS Data Explorer, from NORC at the University of Chicago, makes it easier than ever to use the data collected by the GSS. You can find and analyze the GSS data you need, save datasets, or generate custom extracts to analyze in your own statistical program. Start Exploring For Journalists The GSS is one of the most influential studies in the social sciences, and is frequently referenced in leading publications, including the New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, and the Associated Press. Turn to us for advice on how to use the research and access to experts who can help you analyze GSS data to answer your key questions.&lt;/p>\r\n&#34;}}" id="text-a219043e92" class="cmp-text"> The GSS is one of the most influential studies in the social sciences, and is frequently referenced in leading publications, including the New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, and the Associated Press. Turn to us for advice on how to use the research and access to experts who can help you analyze GSS data to answer your key questions. GSS Media Room Announcements The 2024 General Social Survey (GSS) cross-sectional data, along with the cumulative cross-sectional file, is now available in SAS, Stata, and SPSS formats. Read More | May 22, 2025 ​The 2022 cross-sectional data, along with the cumulative cross-sectional file for the General Social Survey (GSS), is now available in SAS and Stata formats. Read More | May 17, 2023 GSS partnered with ANES to reinterview participants in the GSS 2016-2020 panel a third time, after the 2020 election. That interview consisted of the ANES post-election questions. The GSS dataset is available as part of the GSS 2016-2020 Panel (release 1a, April 2022). Users can visit electionstudies.org for ANES data. Read More | April 18, 2022 View All Quick Links \r\n&lt;li>&lt;a href=\&#34;/content/norc/us/en/gss/get-the-data.html\&#34;>​​​​​​​​GSS Data Set&lt;/a>&lt;/li>\r\n&lt;li>&lt;a href=\&#34;/content/norc/us/en/gss/get-documentation.html\&#34;>GSS Documentation&lt;/a>&lt;/li>\r\n&lt;li>&lt;a href=\&#34;/content/norc/us/en/gss/get-documentation/questionnaires.html\&#34;>GSS Questionnaires&lt;/a>&amp;nbsp;&lt;/li>\r\n&lt;li>&lt;a href=\&#34;/content/norc/us/en/gss/get-documentation.html#documentation-newsletter\&#34;>GSS Newsletters&lt;/a>&lt;/li>\r\n&lt;li>&lt;a href=\&#34;/content/norc/us/en/gss/get-documentation/bibliography.html\&#34;>​​​​GSS Bibliography&lt;/a>&lt;/li>\r\n&lt;li>&lt;a href=\&#34;/content/norc/us/en/gss/faq.html\&#34;>GSS FAQs&lt;/a>&amp;nbsp;&lt;/li>\r\n&lt;li>GSS Reports&lt;ul>\r\n&lt;li>&lt;a href=\&#34;/content/norc/us/en/gss/get-documentation/crossnational-reports.html\&#34;>Cross-National Reports&lt;/a>&lt;/li>\r\n&lt;li>&lt;a href=\&#34;/content/norc/us/en/gss/get-documentation/methodological-reports.html\&#34;>Methodological Reports&lt;/a>&lt;/li>\r\n&lt;li>&lt;a href=\&#34;/content/norc/us/en/gss/get-documentation/project-reports.html\&#34;>Project Reports&lt;/a>&lt;/li>\r\n&lt;li>&lt;a href=\&#34;/content/norc/us/en/gss/get-documentation/social-change-reports.html\&#34;>Social Change Reports&lt;/a>&lt;/li>\r\n&lt;li>&lt;a href=\&#34;/content/norc/us/en/gss/get-documentation/topical-reports.html\&#34;>Topical Reports&lt;/a>&lt;/li>\r\n&lt;/ul>\r\n&lt;/li>\r\n&lt;li>&lt;a href=\&#34;/content/norc/us/en/gss/videos.html\&#34;>GSS Video Series&lt;/a>&lt;/li>\r\n&lt;li>&lt;a href=\&#34;http://www.issp.org/\&#34; target=\&#34;_blank\&#34; rel=\&#34;noopener noreferrer\&#34;>ISSP&lt;/a>&lt;/li>\r\n&lt;li>&lt;a href=\&#34;https://gssdataexplorer.norc.org/\&#34; target=\&#34;_blank\&#34; rel=\&#34;noopener noreferrer\&#34;>GSS Data Explorer&lt;/a>&lt;/li>\r\n&lt;li>&lt;a href=\&#34;/content/norc/us/en/gss/quality-of-worklife.html\&#34;>Quality of Working Life&lt;/a>&lt;/li>\r\n&lt;/ul>\r\n&#34;}}" id="text-7d48ea16fd" class="cmp-text"> ​​​​​​​​GSS Data Set GSS Documentation GSS Questionnaires GSS Newsletters ​​​​GSS Bibliography GSS FAQs GSS Reports Cross-National Reports Methodological Reports Project Reports Social Change Reports Topical Reports GSS Video Series ISSP GSS Data Explorer Quality of Working Life Been Asked to Participate? ​​​​Has NORC contacted you to participate in the General Social Survey? If so, be sure to check out our Survey Participants page to learn more about the GSS, how your responses will be used and why your voice matters!&lt;/p>\r\n&#34;}}" id="text-12091b9ff2" class="cmp-text"> ​​​​Has NORC contacted you to participate in the General Social Survey? If so, be sure to check out our Survey Participants page to learn more about the GSS, how your responses will be used and why your voice matters! Respond to the GSS GSS in the News Advisory: General Social Survey Has Created Social Media Archive, a New Source for Public Opinion Data ​NORC at the University of Chicago is giving social scientists and other researchers an easy way to fold social media conversations into their research projects with the launch of its General Social Media Archive. The Archive complements NORC’s long-running, highly influential General Social Survey (GSS). NORC.org | December 14, 2022 U.S. Why This Economic Boom Can’t Lift America’s Spirits That explains why consumers say they feel as bad as they did in the financial-crisis year of 2009, a recent Gallup poll showed. For the first time, Americans who say they are &#34;not too happy&#34; outnumber those who say they&#39;re &#34;very happy,&#34; according to a survey from the nonprofit group NORC at the University of Chicago. The Wall Street Journal | February 22, 2022 Still Feeling Pandemic Miserable? There Are Ways to Dig Out Twenty-four percent of Americans reported they were “not too happy” in life in 2021, up from 13% in 2018, according to the General Social Survey, a sociological survey conducted by research organization NORC at the University of Chicago. The share of those who said they were “very happy” declined to 19% from 31% over the same period. The Wall Street Journal | February 01, 2022 View More GSS News Articles 55 East Monroe St,&amp;nbsp;Chicago, IL 60603&lt;/p>\r\n&lt;p>&amp;nbsp;&lt;/p>\r\n&lt;p>&lt;a href=\&#34;mailto:GSS@norc.org\&#34;>GSS@norc.org&lt;/a>&lt;/p>\r\n&#34;}}" id="text-e61822a6f6" class="cmp-text"> 55 East Monroe St, Chicago, IL 60603 GSS&#64;norc.org Supported by&lt;/p>\r\n&#34;}}" id="text-880237a515" class="cmp-text"> Supported by \r\n&lt;li>&lt;a href=\&#34;/content/norc/us/en/gss/faq.html\&#34;>FAQ&lt;/a>&lt;/li>\r\n&lt;li>&lt;a href=\&#34;/content/norc/us/en/gss/terms-and-conditions.html\&#34;>Terms and Conditions&lt;/a>&lt;/li>\r\n&lt;li>&lt;a href=\&#34;https://www.norc.org/privacy.html\&#34; target=\&#34;_blank\&#34;>Privacy&lt;/a>&lt;/li>\r\n&lt;li>&lt;a href=\&#34;/content/norc/us/en/gss/contact.html\&#34;>Contact&lt;/a>&lt;/li>\r\n&lt;/ul>\r\n&#34;}}" id="text-8e6f17528c" class="cmp-text"> FAQ Terms and Conditions Privacy Contact © Copyright 2025 NORC at the University of Chicago