# Lamborghini Miura Wind Tunnel Supercar Aerodynamics

**Source**: https://www.roadandtrack.com/car-culture/a46355319/lamborghini-miura-wind-tunnel-supercar-aerodynamics/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:04:05.366406+00:00

---

We Put a Lamborghini Miura in a Wind Tunnel to See How Far Supercar Aero Has Come We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and other uses. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. Search About Us Join Now All Access R&amp;T Experiences Shop R&amp;T News Reviews Car Culture Exclusives Performance Car of the Year Contact Follow Newsletter Send Us a Tip Your Privacy Choices Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content News Reviews Culture Exclusives Gear Send Us a TIp Sign Up Join Now sign in Car Culture We Put a Lamborghini Miura in a Wind Tunnel to See How Far Supercar Aero Has Come We Put a Lamborghini Miura in a Wind Tunnel to See How Far Supercar Aero Has Come How much have supercar aerodynamics changed? We put a Lamborghini Miura and a new Pininfarina Battista EV in a wind tunnel to find out. By Jethro Bovingdon Published: Feb 22, 2024 Save Article Mattia Balsamini How far have supercar aerodynamics progressed in the past half-century? There’s only one way to find out. The Winds of Change Blew Through Sant’agata Bolognese in 1965 Lamborghini was in its formative years. Gorgeous 350 GTs—conceived and realized to spite Enzo Ferrari in the Old Man’s favored front-engine V-12 configuration—were birthed in the chaotic factory, the sounds of hammering and the fizz and crackle of welding torches often subsumed by completed GTs being coaxed into life. The rich noise was already echoing far and wide. But soon this tiny operation and its naive and fearless young engineering team would shock the world and inspire a new breed of high-performance mid-engine road cars. They called their radical wonder Miura. The people would come to bestow upon it a different title: supercar. This story originally appeared in Volume 21 of Road &amp; Track. Mattia Balsamini Nothing looks more legitimately sciencey than a panel packed with dials, buttons, and colored lights. The as-yet-unnamed Miura’s rolling chassis, developed by Giampaolo Dallara and cradling a transverse Giotto Bizzarrini–designed V-12, debuted at Salone dell’Automobile di Torino in November 1965. Dallara was on the cusp of his 29th birthday. Bizzarrini, who’d developed the Ferrari 250 GTO, was the veteran of the group but still just 39. That chassis was compact, ingenious, and deeply exotic, as it sat on Borrani wire wheels covered in Pirelli Cinturato HS rubber and had ceramic-coated exhausts jutting out of four exits. In ’66, clothed in stunningly beautiful lines penned by 27-year-old Marcello Gandini for Bertone, the Miura arrived at the Geneva Auto Salon. Hysteria ensued. Mattia Balsamini Does anyone still drive a Miura fast enough for its aero­dynamic shortcomings to reveal themselves? Nearly 60 years later, Gandini’s masterpiece still has the power to remove the intellect of grown adults and reduce them to hunched figures making odd groans. There’s a language barrier between myself and the staff at Pininfarina S.p.A.’s wind tunnel, but our mutual appreciation for the finest work ever to emerge from their greatest rival design house is crystal clear. It is truly spectacular to behold. More From Vol 21 Air This Is Air However, today isn’t about appreciation but rather myth and legend—perhaps reinforcing them, maybe exploding them with data. It’s about revealing the secrets of the Miura’s shape in a purely scientific sense. As far as Lamborghini knows, the world’s first supercar has never been in a wind tunnel. Ever. It was born when aerodynamics were determined by trial and error, beauty took priority, and pen strokes were translated into clay and metal without a computer in sight. The contrast between this evocative but sometimes calamitous approach could hardly be more stark with today’s practices. Even front-wheel-drive hot hatches now burst onto the scene with peak-downforce figures. Supercars? They are sculpted on computational fluid dynamics (CFD) programs from day one. Nothing is left to chance. Mattia Balsamini The ability to present industrial infrastructure artfully is something of an Italian specialty. Wind tunnels have become critical to meeting ever- increasing demands for automotive efficiency. Here, in Pininfarina S.p.A.’s wind tunnel—which, remarkably, celebrated its 50th birthday in 2022—we’ll see that play out live, first with the Miura and then the Pininfarina Battista Anniversario, an EV hypercar boasting almost five times the power and designed and developed here for Automobili Pininfarina. (Yes, the legendary engineering and design house is a completely different entity from the new car company. Confusing, but true.) It’s an unlikely pairing, but funnily enough, the Anniversario’s $2.4 million asking price is probably pretty similar to what you’d pay for an immaculate Miura SV just like this one. Chassis number 5092 is one of the last SVs of the 150 produced, and it was delivered to the Paris distributor in early 1973. Like all SVs, it is much changed from the standard P400, with a stiffer chassis, more power, wider rear wheel arches to accommodate a five-inch-wider rear track, bigger air intakes, and a longer and lower hood. Even without the aid of a wind tunnel, the team hoped to reduce the notorious “light” feeling at high speed. Tales of cars taking off over 160 mph had become folklore. Road &amp; Track published its road test of the original P400 in May 1968 and wasn’t quite so sensationalist. The brave, perhaps foolhardy editors reached 167.2 mph with the air filters removed and found the car to feel very light and susceptible to crosswinds above 130 mph. Even so, they concluded, “the car feels as if it should be driven at least 100 mph out on the road.” Mattia Balsamini Like all modern supercars, the Battista was created in the wind tunnel and by the computers that simulate it. Technicians can rotate a car within the Pininfarina Wind Tunnel to test cars in a variety of wind directions. Oh, how I’d love to concur. But the Miura’s wheels won’t turn under their own power today. Nor will we spin them for these tests. However, the belt beneath the Miura and Battista will move in conjunction with wind speed and act as the road. The Pininfarina engineers will measure drag, lift, and downforce at wind speeds starting at 62 mph and building in regular intervals to 87 mph. The tests will be repeated at 5-degree yaw angles in either direction to see whether the center of pressure and loads change in corners. For the Miura, they will repeat the tests with the headlights raised to see just how disastrous the pop-up design is for aerodynamic efficiency. There’s a real buzz in the control room as the fan starts and the floor hisses beneath the Miura. Although this facility has been continuously upgraded over the years, there’s a sort of Cold War nuclear-submarine vibe. You enter the room from below, pushing through heavy metal doors to break the air seal, then past the huge chains and mechanics of the tunnel itself. It could almost be a test day back in the Seventies to validate the SV’s modifications and corroborate the seat-of-the-pants findings of test driver Bob Wallace. Gradually, the pace picks up, and the results populate a spreadsheet. Mattia Balsamini Science and artistry combine forces within Pininfarina’s wind tunnel, where the company appears to have captured a nascent star. First, it’s important to note that all drag ­co­­efficients are independent of frontal area, density, and velocity. This allows Pininfarina S.p.A. to evaluate the aerodynamic properties of a shape rather than an object. For example, a motorbike has a higher drag coefficient than a semi truck. However, the drag force of the semi is higher due to its scale. For reference, the lowest drag coefficient for any road car on sale today is the Lucid Air at 0.20; the streamliner hypercar McLaren Speedtail’s is 0.28, and a BMW X5 ­xDrive45e’s is 0.32. The Miura shows a pretty consistent 0.38 Cd across its speed range. Although that sounds high compared with a super-slippery EV, it’s broadly in line with a new supercar. Furthermore, as the Miura is tiny by today’s standards and incredibly low, the frontal area is small (1.69 square meters) and creates less drag force than a modern car with a similar drag coefficient. So far, so good. Mattia Balsamini The wind tunnel also reveals a general pattern that the Miura produces more lift on the front axle than the rear. In some respects, this is a good thing. It means the car will tend toward a stable understeer balance as speeds increase. Nobody except Max Verstappen really wants a super-pointy car above 100 mph, after all. However, the amount of lift produced by the Miura is significant. Downforce? Forget about it. At 90 mph, the front axle has 87.1 pounds of lift and the rear 39.9 pounds. By 150 mph, that’s risen to 241.8 pounds at the front and 110.9 pounds at the rear. Lamborghini claimed the SV could reach 186 mph upon its launch in 1971. Perhaps it could, assuming the driver didn’t back off at 180 mph, at which point the front axle has 347.9 pounds of lift and the rear 159.6 pounds. As the Miura’s velocity increases, the net load on both axles will decrease. Since tire grip (friction) is proportional to the normal force on the tire at the contact patch, the Miura’s ability to put down power and change direction will also decrease with increasing velocity. Consider that the Miura weighs a claimed 2745 pounds and that its tires were developed in the Sixties. Now imagine a high-speed autostrada journey in the rain. Mattia Balsamini Active aerodynamic systems have been a game changer for supercar makers. Pininfarina’s wind tunnel has a turntable system, and adding 5 degrees and then 10 degrees of yaw in either direction exacerbates these trends. Not only does the amount of generated lift increase, but the proportion between front and rear lift moves even farther forward. Essentially, a Miura on a sweeping corner generates more lift than on