# 00000191 6C3C D5F6 Abf9 Eebc53900000

**Source**: https://www.haaretz.com/israel-news/2024-08-19/ty-article/.premium/bereaved-families-are-livid-after-netanyahu-names-likud-ally-to-head-oct-7-memorial/00000191-6c3c-d5f6-abf9-eebc53900000
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:56:33.205969+00:00

---

Bereaved Families Are Livid After Netanyahu Names Likud Ally to Head Oct. 7 Memorial - Israel News o Navigation Account Details Haaretz - back to home page Search Accessibility Current section Israel News &#x27;For the Government, Everything Is a Show&#x27; Bereaved Families Are Livid After Netanyahu Names Likud Ally to Head Oct. 7 Memorial Relatives accuse the government of staging a ceremony to cover up its failures. Nili Bar Sinai, whose husband Yotam was killed in Be&#x27;eri, claims the no-audience event reflects a &#x27;cowardly government&#x27; afraid of public backlash Gift this article Share to Facebook Share to X Print article Article printing is available to subscribers only Print in a simple, ad-free format Subscribe Comments: Save Zen Reading Zen reading is available to subscribers only Ad-free and in a comfortable reading format Subscribe Haaretz, Eden Solomon, Bar Peleg and Liza Rozovsky August 19, 2024 Families whose loved ones were murdered on October 7 expressed anger over the choice of Transportation Minister Miri Regev to head ceremonies marking the massacre's one-year anniversary, which will be broadcast live but without an audience on location. Loading... Click the alert icon to follow topics: Israeli politics Benjamin Netanyahu Hamas hostages October 7 Comments Loading... In the News In the News: Israel at War Live Updates Cease-fire Deal Netanyahu-UN Israeli Cycling Team Israeli Hostages Israelis Dead Two Years Post-massacre, I Look Back in Disbelief. I, Too, Missed the October 8 Surprise Haaretz Cartoon The Truth Trump Must Finally Acknowledge: Nothing About Netanyahu Is in Good Faith The New Shin Bet Chief Must Serve Israel, Not Netanyahu Palestine Is Alive in Europe Learn How to Optimize Your Home Solar System Paid by Sela Infrastructures LTD ICYMI &#x27;I Saw the Bodies of Children&#x27;: Moral Injury and Mental Strain Breaking IDF Soldiers Israeli Fathers Return From Gaza, but Can&#x27;t Find Their Way Back to Their Children Israel Has Seen Extremists in High Office. But Nothing Like Netanyahu&#x27;s Shin Bet Pick Opinion Opinion Turkey Could Be Next in Israel&#x27;s Cross-hairs After Qatar. The Consequences? Catastrophic &#x27;The Most Fortunate Unfortunates&#x27; &#x27;The Most Fortunate Unfortunates&#x27; This Forgotten Jewish Orphanage in the American South Raised &#x27;Fortunate Unfortunates&#x27; Why I, an Arab Writer, Hesitate to Compare Gaza to the Holocaust Trending Now Trending Now Trending Now Trending Now Trending Now ICYMI &#x27;I Saw the Bodies of Children&#x27;: Moral Injury and Mental Strain Breaking IDF Soldiers Tom Levinson I Escaped to a Greek Nudist Paradise, Only to Discover That Israelis Are Hated There, Too Dani Bar On Israeli Fathers Return From Gaza, but Can&#x27;t Find Their Way Back to Their Children Netanel Gamss &#x27;If 1948 Was a War of Independence, the Current War Could Be the One That Ends Israel&#x27; Nirit Anderman Israel Has Seen Extremists in High Office. But Nothing Like Netanyahu&#x27;s Shin Bet Pick Hilo Glazer Turkey Could Be Next in Israel&#x27;s Cross-hairs After Qatar. The Consequences? Catastrophic Sinan Ciddi This Forgotten Jewish Orphanage in the American South Raised &#x27;Fortunate Unfortunates&#x27; Rachel Fink Why I, an Arab Writer, Hesitate to Compare Gaza to the Holocaust R.F. Georgy &#x27;Soon No Liberal Will Be Able to Live in Israel. The IDF Has Already Fallen to Messianism&#x27; Ayelett Shani U.S. Firm, Eastern European Drivers, Israeli Link: Who&#x27;s Behind Getting Aid Into Gaza Bar Peleg Thousands of Israelis Marched to Gaza – Not to Free It, but to Renew Jewish Settlement Eden Solomon The Nightmare Scenario for the Day After the AG&#x27;s Dismissal Is Already Here Ido Baum After the Missiles: Is Haifa on the Path to Becoming Israel&#x27;s Next Tel Aviv? Naama Riba Concentration Camp, Illegal Orders and War Crimes: Israel&#x27;s Madmen Have a Grim New Plan Dahlia Scheindlin Would You Like a Killing Field in Gaza With Your Overpriced, Israeli-cool Pita? Etan Nechin &#x27;Dirty Zionist, We Won&#x27;t Listen to the Song Because of You&#x27; Ben Shalev 500 Missiles, 200 Interceptors, $1.5 Billion: Behind Iran&#x27;s Attacks on Israel Avi Scharf Israeli Mothers Allowed Their Children to Be Sacrificed for Generations. No Longer Emilia Perroni RSS Facebook Twitter instagram Haaretz on Android Haaretz on iOS Download App Subscribe Newsletters Terms Contact Us My Cookies Advertise Accessibility Report an issue Accessibility manifest Subscribe Contact us Terms and conditions Privacy policy Cancellation of digital subscriptions Editorial Newsletters Accessibility Advertise on Haaretz.com About Haaretz Jobs Load More News Israel News U.S. News Middle East Jewish World World News Tech News Business Life and Culture Archaeology Life Science Sports Culture Books Travel in Israel Television Food Sports Converting to Judaism Columnists and Opinion Chemi Shalev Allison Kaplan Sommer Anshel Pfeffer David Rosenberg Opinion Haaretz Editorial Haaretz Cartoon Letters to the Editor Special Coverage Haaretz Hebrew and TheMarker וורדעל מדויקת גוגל כביש 1 חטיפה בגרמניה שמות החטופים מבצע השפעה סדרות מומלצות סרטים חדשים בקולנוע מפלס הכנרת יהודה משי זהב הסכתוס - פודקאסט לילדים Partnerships Haaretz Labels Home for Sale in Israel Haaretz.com, the online English edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, gives you breaking news, analyses and opinions about Israel, the Middle East and the Jewish World. © Haaretz Daily Newspaper Ltd. All Rights Reserved Israeli politics Benjamin Netanyahu Hamas hostages October 7 Your Perspective Belongs Here Want to reply? Subscribe to join the conversation SUBSCRIBE Already signed up? Log in Display Name * Remember nickname Enter the commenter display name Comment By adding a comment, I agree to this site&#x27;s terms and conditions Submit