# White Evangelicals Attitudes Refugees

**Source**: https://www.vox.com/identities/2018/5/29/17405704/white-evangelicals-attitudes-refugees
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:36:21.613882+00:00

---

68% of white evangelicals think America shouldn’t house refugees | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo 68% of white evangelicals think America shouldn’t house refugees Free speech needs fearless journalism Free speech is endangered; unbiased and trustworthy news is elusive. In a time of noise, confusion, and spin, we’re committed to clarity, truth, and depth — even when it’s hard. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join now Life / Religion 68% of white evangelicals think America shouldn’t house refugees A recent Pew poll reveals increasing American polarization on attitudes to refugees. by Tara Isabella Burton May 29, 2018, 7:00 PM UTC Share Gift David McNew/Getty Images White evangelical Protestants are the most likely religious group to say that the United States has no responsibility to open its borders to refugees, according to a recent poll. The study, which was conducted by Pew, found that 68 percent of white evangelicals believed that the United States &ldquo;does not have a responsibility&rdquo; to house refugees, while just 25 percent believes that it does. This is higher than the American national average: 51 percent of Americans overall believe the United States does have a responsibility to allow in refugees, while just 43 percent believe it does not. The perspective of white evangelical Protestants on the refugee crisis is particularly striking because it&rsquo;s relatively unusual among Christian religious groups. For example, 43 percent of white mainline Protestants believe that America has a responsibility to house refugees, as do 50 percent of Catholics and 63 percent of black Protestants. The highest level of support from any group cited in the study was from those who identified as religiously unaffiliated, of whom a full 65 percent support American housing of refugees. The numbers are also remarkable because they reflect a more general trend on the part of white evangelical Christians to depart from the national average when it comes to social issues. White evangelicals are increasingly echoing the GOP party platform even as other groups, including Christian groups, diverge from it. Such a conflation means that white evangelical Christians, already historically a major part of President Trump&rsquo;s base (let&rsquo;s not forget that 81 percent of them voted for him in 2016), are now becoming all but synonymous with it. As Trump&rsquo;s policies become increasingly designed to appeal to that base (as, for example, with his recent move of the American Embassy to Jerusalem), it&rsquo;s likewise increasingly clear that the relationship between the two is symbiotic. And the line between white evangelical theology and GOP party platform is all but disappearing. See More : Life Religion Most Popular The chaos at the Pentagon, explained Podcast Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword Jane Goodall’s most radical message was not about saving the planet This is, objectively, the worst pasta shape The Supreme Court fight over whether gay and trans people can be “cured,” explained Today, Explained Understand the world with a daily explainer, plus the most compelling stories of the day. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Religion The Supreme Court fight over whether gay and trans people can be “cured,” explained MAGA’s first martyr Obsessing about being a good person can backfire. There’s a better way. This is what happens when ChatGPT tries to write scripture How Christianity conquered the Hot 100 The spiritual life calls out to me. But is it self-indulgent? Politics Oct 2 Politics Oct 2 The Supreme Court fight over whether gay and trans people can be “cured,” explained A new Supreme Court case could make therapists immune from regulation. By Ian Millhiser Politics Sep 24 Politics Sep 24 MAGA’s first martyr The killing of Charlie Kirk could turn the movement into a faith that outlives Donald Trump. By Katherine Kelaidis Future Perfect Sep 14 Future Perfect Sep 14 Obsessing about being a good person can backfire. There’s a better way. ﻿The paradox of moral perfectionism — and how to escape it. By Sigal Samuel Future Perfect Aug 11 Future Perfect Aug 11 This is what happens when ChatGPT tries to write scripture AI wrote a sacred text for Buddhists — and it exceeded expectations. Can it write a good Bible? By Sigal Samuel Culture Jul 8 Culture Jul 8 How Christianity conquered the Hot 100 From Alex Warren to Jelly Roll, a new wave of faith-adjacent pop is finding God in laundromats and dive bars. By Aja Romano Future Perfect Jul 7 Future Perfect Jul 7 The spiritual life calls out to me. But is it self-indulgent? When the world is on fire, meditation feels selfish. But it can help you do good better.﻿ By Sigal Samuel Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Vox Vox logo Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok About us Our staff Ethics &amp; Guidelines How we make money Contact us How to pitch Vox Newsletters Privacy Notice Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Settings Licensing Accessibility Platform Status Careers © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved