# Opinion

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/opinion/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:51:12.741873+00:00

---

Opinion News - Results, Fixtures, Scores, Stats, and Rumors - The Athletic Opinion Opinion Cathy Engelbert is not the WNBA's future. Soon, the commish may not even be its present Pressure is building on the commissioner as players launch criticisms and the CBA deadline nears. Marcus Thompson II 2 Why hasn't Shedeur Sanders moved up Browns' depth chart? The non-answers speak volumes Zac Jackson 30 After Guardians' season ended, nobody wanted to say goodbye. It was time to process things Jason Lloyd 66 ESPN needs to take on tense topics in WNBA Finals coverage Richard Deitsch 24 The Red Sox, who fell well short of perfection, didn't have nearly enough to beat Yankees Steve Buckley 142 Advertisement More Stories Yankees will need Aaron Judge to be his giant self against Toronto The Yankees beat Boston without any long balls from their top four home run hitters. They'll need their franchise player against Toronto. Ian O&#x27;Connor 46 In latest Red Sox-Yankees chapter, Alex Cora and Aaron Boone’s decisions flip the narrative The margins between good and bad managerial moves in the postseason often are thin, with outcomes heavily influencing opinions. Ken Rosenthal 149 What we learned from NFL RedZone cult hero Scott Hanson on 'The Sports Gossip Show' Hanson (who understands gossip's value) is built for his job. There's a special talent to focusing on multiple screens and news all at once. Madeline Hill and Charlotte Wilder Europe is just better at Ryder Cups. That’s not changing anytime soon You do not win 6 of 8 and 9 of the last 12 without institutional advantages that your opponent will not or cannot match. Hugh Kellenberger 124 Advertisement Where do Red Sox lay blame for Game 2 loss? Start with forgetting how to play baseball There was optimism the Red Sox had found their happy place in terms of playing a cleaner brand of baseball. But now it's back to school. Steve Buckley 191 The Yankees fought for Aaron Boone … that should count for something Boone outcoached Alex Cora in Game 2, and pushed the right buttons with his pitchers and with Jazz Chisholm, whom he had benched in Game 1. Ian O&#x27;Connor 112 With Browns' offensive flaws, naming Dillon Gabriel the starter had to happen Perfection is not the goal for Gabriel as he takes over as the starter. But Cleveland needs an offensive spark, however it can get it. Zac Jackson 69 Rocco Baldelli's final act as fired Twins manager is shielding the front office Baldelli took the fall for back-to-back ugly seasons, but what does that solve if the Twins' ownership and front office remain unchanged? Aaron Gleeman 200 Red Sox, Garrett Crochet make some noise in Game 1 victory over Yankees After his stellar playoff debut, Crochet received lots of handshakes and attaboys from teammates — and a 10-second hug from Lucas Giolito. Steve Buckley 32 Yankees had better not dare lose to the Red Sox again Manager Aaron Boone paid dearly for not staying with Max Fried in the seventh and inserting Luke Weaver. Now, the Yanks must win (or else). Ian O&#x27;Connor 261 Advertisement NHL stars like Kirill Kaprizov are making historic money. Is it the best way to win? Can teams really allocate that much more of their cap to fewer players, squeezing the lower part of the roster? James Mirtle 157 What does A.J. Brown want? Making sense of the Eagles WR's cryptic tweet The receiver has had limited production in three of the Eagles’ first four games. It would make sense if Brown wants better production. Zach Berman 81 It's Red Sox-Yankees rivalry renewed. If history is our guidepost, it'll be exciting In the old days, these teams didn't need no stinkin' playoffs to get all nasty with each other. Then came the expanded playoffs. Steve Buckley 65 The Ryder Cup is the best. But it could be even better An absurd rule should be the last thing ripped up and thrown in the trash before everyone says goodbye to Bethpage Black. Ian O&#x27;Connor 651 Arkansas running it back with Bobby Petrino seems ludicrous. For now, it's a trial There will be good candidates interested in the Arkansas job. So why consider a retread who was fired from the role amid scandal? Seth Emerson 111 No longer paper tigers, the AL East champion Blue Jays finally put it all together After a 74-win last-place season in 2024, the Blue Jays overcame a series of challenges to finish with the AL's best record. Ken Rosenthal 111 Advertisement Penn State faces Groundhog Day as Oregon, Alabama ace tests: College football Week 5 takeaways Plus: Why is Alabama Kirby Smart's kryptonite, LSU's offensive struggles and Trinidad Chambliss and Ole Miss's path to the CFP. Stewart Mandel 439 Scottie Scheffler has a Ryder Cup problem Since Scheffler became an undisputed world No. 1 and a linchpin, he’s 0-6-2 in the Ryder Cup. Brody Miller 115 The U.S. needs a Ryder Cup miracle. It only has itself to blame for that Through two days, from the playing to the coaching to the jeering from the fans, this American effort has been a complete embarrassment. Ian O&#x27;Connor 618 Lynx coach Cheryl Reeve's suspension was warranted ... but many of her points are valid Many coaches and executives have voiced displeasure about the way the WNBA is officiated. But Reeve's behavior deserved a punishment. Ben Pickman 101 See More National Boxing Bundesliga Champions League Championship College Football College Sports Copa America Copa del Rey Cricket Culture Cycling Europa League European Championship FA Cup Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Basketball Fantasy Football Fantasy Hockey Fantasy Premier League FIFA Club World Cup FIFA Men&#x27;s World Cup FIFA Women&#x27;s World Cup Formula 1 Gaming Global Sports Golf International Football La Liga League Cup League One League Two Memorabilia &amp; Collectibles Men&#x27;s College Basketball Mixed Martial Arts MLB MLS Motorsports NASCAR NBA NFL NHL NWSL Olympics Opinion Peak Premier League Sailing Scottish Premiership Serie A Soccer Sports Betting Sports Business Tennis Top Sports News WNBA Women&#x27;s College Basketball Women&#x27;s Euros Women&#x27;s Hockey Women&#x27;s Soccer The Athletic Ink Podcasts Headlines US Arizona Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Buffalo Carolina Chicago Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Dallas Denver Detroit Houston Indiana Jacksonville Kansas City Las Vegas Los Angeles Memphis Miami Minnesota Nashville New Orleans New York Oklahoma Oregon Orlando Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento San Antonio San Diego Seattle St. Louis Tampa Bay Utah Washington DC Wisconsin Canada Calgary Edmonton Montreal Ottawa Toronto Vancouver Winnipeg Partners Collectibles by eBay Odds by BetMGM Streaming by Fubo Tickets by StubHub Subscribe Start Subscription Group Subscriptions HQ About Us Careers Code of Conduct Editorial Guidelines Business Inquiries Press Inquiries Support FAQ Forgot Password? Contact Us Terms of Service Newsletters The Pulse The Bounce The Windup Prime Tire Full Time Until Saturday Scoop City The Athletic FC MoneyCall Red Light © 2025 The Athletic Media Company, A New York Times Company Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Support RSS Sitemap