# A Changing Consumer Definition Of Quality

**Source**: https://dougshapiro.substack.com/i/141171288/a-changing-consumer-definition-of-quality
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:05:11.363092+00:00

---

The Year(s) Ahead in Media - Fragmentation Subscribe Sign in The Year(s) Ahead in Media - Fragmentation Falling Barriers, a Shifting Definition of Quality and the Splintering of Attention Doug Shapiro Feb 01, 2024 38 4 6 Share DALL-E 3, prompt: “a pane of glass shattering in a million pieces” Note: This is the first post of a four-part series. Around this time of year, a lot of people publish their top predictions for the media industry for the coming year. As a bit of counter-programming, in this series I lay out a framework for value formation in the media industry over the next five-10 years. The media business is noisy, but here I try to focus on what is enduring. I explore four trends: fragmentation (the splintering of attention); disintermediation (the declining bargaining power of traditional intermediaries); concentration (the role of networks in concentrating both power and attention); and virtualization (the blurring distinction between the physical and the virtual). In 2024, the media industry will fixate on many topics: potential consolidation or change of ownership among Paramount, WarnerBros. Discovery and NBCU; the health of the overall ad market and continued divergence between traditional and digital; whether there’s another shoe to drop after the Microsoft-Activision deal; the resolution (or lack thereof) of succession planning and activist pressure at Disney; whether early buyers will still be using their Apple Vision Pros three months later; the rate of pay TV subscriber and linear ratings declines; the weakness of U.S. box office and whether it will ever show hope of reapproaching pre-pandemic levels; streaming video churn and profitability; whether growth will re-accelerate in the gaming market; regulatory and legal pressure on Alphabet, Apple and Meta; whatever Taylor does; Netflix’s continued forays into sports and gaming; the outcome of the NBA rights renewal and fate of local sports rights; the implications of Amazon entering the CTV ad market; the outcome of UMG/TikTok negotiations; what show/movie/album/game will be a surprise hit or flop; the fate of local news; industry-wide layoffs; and the blistering pace of advancements in GenAI, among many, many others. All of these examples are manifestations of these four structural trends. They are tectonic in the most faithful sense of the metaphor—mostly unnoticeable day-to-day, but powerful, far reaching and (probably) unstoppable. Collectively, they make up the backdrop of operating in the media business today. Tl:dr: Media is mature because time spent with media is so high (in the U.S., more than half of non-sleeping time). Since time isn’t growing, overall value isn’t growing either. The key question is how it will be distributed. The goal of this series is to establish a framework (ambitiously, a sort of “theory of everything”) for thinking about how value flows along the media industry value chain over time between creators, traditional intermediaries, new intermediaries and consumers. It comprises four tectonic trends: fragmentation, disintermediation, concentration and virtualization. All these trends started with digitization. It was the Big Bang moment for modern media because it created a universal language for information goods and paved the way for universal innovations. This post examines the first trend, fragmentation. Fragmentation is occurring for two reasons: systematically declining barriers at each step of the content development process (production, marketing, distribution and monetization) have led to a near-infinite amount of content; and the very introduction of that content is changing consumers’ definition of quality. An empirical look at fragmentation shows that while there is not much shift in time spent between media formats (video, audio, gaming, etc.), there is significant fragmentation happening within each format. GenAI will accelerate this trend by making high production values more accessible even for the most demanding content formats, like premium video and AAA games. Value flows to scarce resources. As content becomes infinite, a few things become relatively scarce: attention; hits; first-party data; curation; community and fandom; IP and brands; marketing prowess; and IRL experiences. In the next post, we’ll examine the second trend, disintermediation. Thanks for reading The Mediator by Doug Shapiro! Subscribe for free to receive new posts and support my work. Subscribe The Most Important Questions in Media Pertain to Shifts in Economic Value The main question I’m trying to answer is how economic value will shift along the media value chain long term. Why Economic Value? Every constituency of a business (investors, employees, suppliers, customers, regulators) may have a different definition of value because they value different things. By “value creation,” I mean the economic value a company generates, the difference between the money it brings in and the money that goes out. Regardless of one’s definition, everyone with even a passing interest in a business, industry or value chain should pay attention to changes in economic value creation. Those changes have real world consequences, they are self-perpetuating and economic value is the primary motivation for management actions. Changes in economic value have real world consequences, they are self-perpetuating and preserving or growing economic value is the primary motivation for management actions. Changes in expectations for economic value have real-world consequences. In the court of public opinion, the most commonly agreed-upon barometer of whether a company is winning or losing is its stock price performance or, if private, the progression of its private market valuations. Both are based on perceptions about changes in economic value creation. For a company, when expectations for economic value growth increase, good things happen: shareholders are thrilled; salaries and stock-based compensation go up; employee morale is great and it’s easy to attract talent; funding is plentiful; customers, suppliers and partners are more willing to risk their time, money, attention or reputation; management whole-heartedly invests in the future, both internally and externally (through M&amp;A); companies are more likely to engage in prosocial behavior (acting ethically, adhering to regulations, funding socially beneficial projects); and CEOs are lionized or deified in the press. When economic value consistently falls short of expectations or, worse, starts to shrink, it can get bad. Companies often take draconian measures to reduce costs, including cutting perks and salaries and conducting layoffs; they are more likely to cut corners with regulatory compliance, quality control and ethics; board members, who probably joined when times were good and were happy to go along for the ride, realize the reputational risk of being aboard a sinking ship and become much more active overseeing (and second guessing) management; the company also becomes either risk averse, tamping down investment, or risk seeking by pursuing desperate acquisitions; morale is horrible and it becomes very difficult to attract and retain top talent; customers, suppliers and potential partners are more leery of committing resources or incurring reputational risk; funding dries up and/or becomes increasingly costly; shareholders are out for blood; heads may roll at the top; the company may fall prey to activist investors fomenting for change or hostile acquirers; it may sell off pieces or the whole company from a position of weakness; and CEOs are vilified in the press, sometimes in a very personal way. In the absolute worst cases, they make a limited series about you, starring Jared Leto . These changes are self-perpetuating. As implied by the above, increases in economic value spark a virtuous circle and decreases devolve into a vicious one. The latter especially; it is very difficult to reverse course once things start spinning the wrong direction. Management’s top priority is to grow or at least preserve value. It follows that CEOs’ and boards’ top priority is to increase or at least preserve the value of their companies, for both the benefits of the organization and their own personal gains (which don’t always align). Almost all significant management actions can be understood and predicted through this lens. In Media, Shift Happens Companies increase their economic value when the pie is growing or they take a bigger share of the pie (or both). For media overall, the pie is no longer growing. As mentioned, the aggregate economic value of the media industry (like all industries) is the difference between the money that comes in (revenue) and the money that goes out (costs). Revenue is a function of two things: units (how much time people spend consuming media) and price (which is, in turn, a function of what they are willing to pay for those experiences and the competitive dynamic). The fundamental problem is time spent. Everyone already consumes media, and a lot of it. As shown in Figure 1, according to consulting firm Activate, in the U.S., the average adult spends 13 hours per day with media, out of a 32 hour day (owing to multitasking). That’s 40% of total time and more than half of non-sleeping time. There is very little room for time spent with media to increase. Figure 1. U.S. Adults Spend a Lot of Time with Media Source: Activate analysis, Activate 2023 Consumer Technology &amp; Media Research Study (n = 4,023), Company filings, Comscore, Conviva, data.ai, eMarketer, Gallup, GWI, Interactive Advertising Bureau, Music Biz, National Sleep Foundation, Newzoo, Nielsen, NPD Group, Omdia, Pew Research Center, PricewaterhouseCoopers, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, YouGov. Another source for media time spent is eMarketer. It categorizes time spent differently, by device, not by activity, but it comes up with remarkably similar aggregate time spent, also a little more than 13 hours per day 