# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Journal%20of%20Child%20Psychology%20&%20Psychiatry%20&%20Allied%20Disciplines&title=Siblings,%20parents,%20and%20partners:%20Family%20relationships%20within%20a%20longitudinal%20community%20study&author=J%20Dunn&author=K%20Deater-Deckard&author=K%20Pickering&author=J%20Golding&volume=40&issue=7&publication_year=1999&pages=1025-1037&pmid=10576533&
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:35:55.966054+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.03 sec) My profile My library Lookup Siblings, parents, and partners: Family relationships within a longitudinal community study J Dunn, K Deater-Deckard , K Pickering… - The Journal of Child …, 1999 - cambridge.org J Dunn, K Deater-Deckard , K Pickering, J Golding, ALSPAC Study Team The Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry and Allied Disciplines, 1999 • cambridge.org Links between sibling relationships, mother–partner, and parent–child relationships were studied in a longitudinal community sample of 3681 sibling pairs. Individual differences in sibling relationship quality were related to mother–partner affection and hostility assessed 4 years earlier, to contemporary parent–child negativity, and to indices of social adversity. Evidence for both direct and indirect pathways (via parent–child relations) linking mother– partner and sibling relations were found. Comparisons of prediction for non-stepfamilies and … Links between sibling relationships, mother–partner, and parent–child relationships were studied in a longitudinal community sample of 3681 sibling pairs. Individual differences in sibling relationship quality were related to mother–partner affection and hostility assessed 4 years earlier, to contemporary parent–child negativity, and to indices of social adversity. Evidence for both direct and indirect pathways (via parent–child relations) linking mother–partner and sibling relations were found. Comparisons of prediction for non-stepfamilies and stepfather families showed similarities in patterns of association, but also differences: In stepfather families, mother–partner hostility was unrelated to parent–child negativity and sibling relationship quality. Both positivity and negativity towards young siblings decreased with the age of older siblings, and older sisters were more positive than older brothers. Cambridge University Press Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 217 Related articles All 10 versions Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help