# Majority Of Nfl Player Brains In Study Had Cte

**Source**: http://www.theverge.com/2014/9/30/6876131/majority-of-nfl-player-brains-in-study-had-cte
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:17:01.296365+00:00

---

76 of 79 deceased NFL players’ brains had evidence of degenerative disease | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. 76 of 79 deceased NFL players’ brains had evidence of degenerative disease Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Science Close Science Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Science 76 of 79 deceased NFL players’ brains had evidence of degenerative disease Majority of football players who submitted their brains to Department of Veterans Affairs’ study had chronic traumatic encephalopathy Majority of football players who submitted their brains to Department of Veterans Affairs’ study had chronic traumatic encephalopathy by Rich McCormick Close Rich McCormick Last published Jun 23, 2017 Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Rich McCormick Source PBS Frontline Oct 1, 2014, 2:48 AM UTC Link Facebook Threads If you buy something from a Verge link, Vox Media may earn a commission. See our ethics statement. Alexey Stiop / Shutterstock.com New data from the United States’ largest repository of human brain samples has shown that an overwhelming majority of NFL players who submitted their brains for analysis after their death suffered from chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE). The Department of Veterans Affairs’ brain repository, based in Massachusetts, found that 76 of 79 former pro players had evidence of the condition, which can be caused by repeated head trauma. The brains were submitted for study after death The findings came as part of a wider study in which the department examined the brains of 128 deceased football players who had played the game at professional, semi-professional, college, or high school level. It found that even in the brains of those that had played at lower standards, the rate of CTE was high &mdash; of the 128 players, 101 tested positive for the disease. The brain condition is caused when blows to the head cause the production of tau, a protein that manifests as dense tangles around the brain’s normal cells and blood vessels. The degenerative condition can cause depression and fits of rage among its sufferers, and confusion, memory loss, and dementia later in life. The Department of Veterans Affairs’ findings come from a weighted testing group &mdash; the experiments were conducted on brains donated to the brain repository by players and families who suspected the presence of the condition &mdash; but neuropathologist Dr. Ann McKee, who directs the brain bank, says that there’s a correlation between playing football and developing CTE . “Playing football, and the higher the level you play football and the longer you play football, the higher your risk.” CTE can cause depression, fits of rage, and dementia The NFL is currently responding to a lawsuit brought against it by more than 4,500 ex-players. The new Department of Veterans Affairs’ report comes two weeks before an October 14th deadline at which thousands of NFL retirees have to decide whether to agree to the league’s proposed settlement. Frontline says the ex-players have accused the league of hiding links between football and CTE, but these findings could help address “a key sticking point” in negotiations now that the league has acknowledged long-term concussion effects . Data filed in a federal court this month shows the NFL actually “expects nearly a third of all retired players to develop a long-term cognitive problem, such as Alzheimer’s disease or dementia, as a result of football.” Recent advances in medical science have allowed doctors to preliminarily detect CTE while the sufferer is still alive, but Frontline says the condition can currently only be conclusively detected after death. Autopsies on a number of high-profile NFL players have shown that they were suffering from CTE, which might have influenced their behaviour. Chris Henry, a wide receiver for the Cincinatti Bengals, was found to have evidence of the condition in his brain when he died at 26. Henry’s once-promising career was blighted by arrests for assault and drug use before he died from injuries sustained a car crash in 2009. Earlier this week, ESPN reported that ex-Kansas City Chiefs linebacker Jovan Belcher, who shot and killed his girlfriend before turning his gun on himself in the Chiefs’ parking lot last year, was suffering from CTE when he died. Mike Webster, the Steelers center whose autopsy in 2002 kickstarted the investigation into degenerative brain diseases in football players, died homeless and living in a truck . Retired NFL players have been offered a settlement by the league Other players who suspected they might be left permanently suffering from the after-effects of repeated blows to the head committed suicide in such a way that their brains could be left to science. Dave Duerson and Junior Seau, both top-level defensive players who spent a decade or more in the NFL, shot themselves in the chest so their brains could be studied after death, in the hopes of helping others avoid or manage CTE. Follow topics and authors from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates. Rich McCormick Close Rich McCormick Last published Jun 23, 2017 Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Rich McCormick Science Close Science Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Science Most Popular Most Popular Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store Behold: The Lego Game Boy has already been modded to play games for real Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Everything is terrorism in Trump’s America Satya Nadella appoints a new CEO to run Microsoft’s biggest businesses The Verge Daily A free daily digest of the news that matters most. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Science Trump’s solution for high drug prices is a discount portal called TrumpRx US government takes equity stake in one of the world’s largest lithium mines Allowing more tailpipe pollution means higher fuel costs for Americans Oura adds colorful ceramic rings and charging case to lineup All hail the new Fat Bear Champion Trump posts, then pulls bizarre AI video promoting MedBed conspiracy Trump’s solution for high drug prices is a discount portal called TrumpRx Emma Roth Oct 1 US government takes equity stake in one of the world’s largest lithium mines Justine Calma Oct 1 Allowing more tailpipe pollution means higher fuel costs for Americans Justine Calma Oct 1 Oura adds colorful ceramic rings and charging case to lineup Victoria Song Oct 1 All hail the new Fat Bear Champion Justine Calma Oct 1 Trump posts, then pulls bizarre AI video promoting MedBed conspiracy Terrence O&#x27;Brien Sep 28 Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories 2:00 PM UTC With a Friend like this, who needs enemies? 5:08 PM UTC I’ve fallen into Sora’s slippery slop 1:03 PM UTC I tried Amazon and Google’s new smart home gadgets, ask me anything! 3:06 PM UTC The quest for every Gap store playlist ever 4:52 PM UTC Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom 1:57 AM UTC Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved