# Wework Book Review Billion Dollar Loser Rise Fall Adam Neumann

**Source**: https://newrepublic.com/article/160299/wework-book-review-billion-dollar-loser-rise-fall-adam-neumann
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:16:21.261788+00:00

---

How WeWork Got Away With Spectacular Failure | The New Republic Skip Navigation The New Republic The New Republic LATEST BREAKING NEWS POLITICS CLIMATE CULTURE MAGAZINE NEWSLETTERS PODCASTS VIDEO The New Republic The New Republic Magazine How WeWork Got Away With Spectacular Failure The co-working company may have been doomed from the start. That didn’t matter. J.C. Pan / November 24, 2020 ILLUSTRATION BY HUNTER FRENCH Over the summer, with the pandemic death toll well on its way to 200,000 and the economy in ruins, WeWork founder Adam Neumann—cut loose from the company the year before with a gargantuan golden parachute— sold a house in Westchester for over $3 million. That property (a sprawling five-bedroom colonial with a pool, tennis court, and outdoor kitchen) was far from the most expensive luxury home he owned. Even amid a once-in-a-generation economic collapse, Neumann’s personal net worth was estimated at $750 million. WeWork itself, meanwhile, wasn’t quite so solvent. The company had laid off nearly 6,000 employees in the preceding months and was being sued by former tenants who claimed that they were still being charged for rent even after New York City had ordered nonessential businesses to close. Billion Dollar Loser: The Epic Rise and Spectacular Fall of Adam Neumann and WeWork by Reeves Wiedeman Buy on Bookshop Little, Brown, 352 pp., $28.00 WeWork, the ill-fated co-working start-up “unicorn” that rose to prominence in the financial boom years after the Great Recession, is today most famous for two things: its swift collapse from a staggering peak valuation of $47 billion, and the outlandish behavior of founder and CEO Adam Neumann and his wife, Rebekah, who, among other roles, held the sinecure of “strategic thought partner” at the company. Neumann’s penchant for the excesses of start-up culture and his dubious business acumen have fixated the financial press for years, but the most astonishing part of the WeWork saga, of course, is how little any of it mattered in the end. Neumann and his investors squandered billions of dollars with few consequences for themselves other than some reputational damage (or free publicity, depending on your perspective). While the WeWork story has emerged in various bits and pieces over the years, Billion Dollar Loser , a new book by journalist Reeves Wiedeman, assembles a definitive chronology of a company doomed not by one bad business strategy—or even Neumann’s outsize ego—but by the rot of a postrecession economy that nurtured a certain flavor of investor-class mania. Particularly after the 2020 Covid pandemic and a new economic recession, WeWork’s nightmarish if relatively short-lived reign hints at what one future nihilistic phase of capitalism could look like if market-fueled economic inequality is allowed to continue to grow unchecked. WeWork began as a far more modest co-working space called Green Desk, which was premised on a kind of low-grade disaster capitalism shrouded in millennial aesthetics and the language of eco-consciousness and community. In 2008, Adam Neumann and his business partner, Miguel McKelvey, rented an empty floor of a Brooklyn building and divided it into glass-enclosed cubicles for rent, hoping to attract the business of creatives displaced by the financial crash. The plan worked: “Everyone who had been fired from their jobs came,” McKelvey told Wiedeman. “Everyone who didn’t want to be at home because they were depressed.” Neumann and McKelvey then began looking to replicate the success of the Green Desk model in Manhattan and San Francisco, where, as Wiedeman writes, “the tech world was rushing to replace Wall Street as the heart of American business ambition.” Within two years, Neumann and McKelvey had sold their shares of Green Desk to the building’s landlord and opened a new co-working space in SoHo—the very first WeWork. Though the WeWork brand would eventually become synonymous with co-working office rentals, several other companies were also launching or expanding co-working setups. One firm, Regus, had even attempted the experiment a decade earlier, only to find itself facing bankruptcy when the dot-com bubble burst and office tenants canceled their monthly memberships. This flaw in the co-working business model—that is, holding long-term leases on expensive office spaces while offering short-term cubicle rentals to freelancers—hadn’t been resolved by the time Neumann and Mc­Kelvey opened WeWork, nor did they have any solutions of their own. But WeWork quickly took off, thanks to Neumann’s preternatural ability to charm flush investors and those same investors’ slavering to find the next Uber or Amazon. From there, the company sprouted new and costly tentacles. Neumann, in thrall to the Silicon Valley boom, was soon preoccupied with the idea of turning WeWork into a tech giant, and experimented with a LinkedIn-style app for WeWork members that never quite took off. Before that tech component had gotten off the ground, he also started unfurling plans to launch WeLive—a dormitory-style co-living arrangement where two strangers could share a furnished studio apartment—and WeGrow, a private school run by his wife, Rebekah. (The school, which charged up to $42,000 in tuition, opened in 2018 and closed the following year .) All the while, WeWork itself was “blitzscaling”—acquiring office spaces in multiple cities at a clip so furious it all but ensured they would never be filled—thanks to a massive infusion of $8 billion from SoftBank, which would become the company’s largest (and most notorious) investor. In retrospect, Neumann’s knack for amassing billions of dollars in venture capital with no viable business model was one of the greatest scams of the twenty-first century. Though the well-documented megalomania of Adam and Rebekah Neumann is now largely recognized as the stuff of nightmares, it worked wonders on investors with too much cash on their hands. The Neumanns—Kabbalah devotees whose social circle included celebrities (Ashton Kutcher) and celebrity villains (Jared Kushner)—famously injected the hand-waving language of New Age communitarianism into their business operations. Neumann once mused that he envisioned WeWork as a “capitalist kibbutz.” As numerous reports on the company’s culture have noted, he traipsed barefoot around the office, frat-boyishly cajoling others around him to join him in tequila shots or smoking weed; Rebekah once fired someone whose “energy” she deemed off. In order to impress investors, Neumann arranged for showy displays of start-up libertinism to take place in the office at a moment’s notice: “Community managers became experts at throwing impromptu parties that could be ‘activated’ in the precise ninety-second window Jamie Dimon or Bruce Dunlevie walked through a WeWork common area with Adam,” Wiedeman writes. If it was all largely a swindle, its most prominent victims were the ultra-wealthy. The most enthusiastic of the self-satisfied WeWork backers was SoftBank founder Masayoshi Son, who, as Wiedeman tells it, was just as legitimately off the rails as Neumann, in whom he unsurprisingly saw a protégé of sorts. (Son, who has compared himself to Jesus and has one of the largest Twitter followings in Japan, once asked his followers to tweet the saddest thing that had happened in their lives, then mystifyingly pledged that SoftBank would somehow “strive to comfort people in their sorrow.”) Son had made a fortune investing early in Alibaba, China’s version of Amazon, among other ventures, and for a few days in 2000 before the market crashed, he claims, he surpassed Bill Gates as the richest man in the world. A person who prided himself on his intuition, he signed on as WeWork’s largest investor in 2017, after a mere 12-minute tour of the company’s headquarters and a brief car ride with Neumann. It’s little wonder, then, that Son and other investors had ignored how disastrous WeWork’s business strategy and internal operations were—none of them had bothered to plumb past Neumann’s bloviating assurances. Meanwhile, even as money was rolling in, Neumann clung to a bizarre and unsustainable business model in which he penny-pinched on certain expenses (he directed staff to “Manage the Nickel,” or find small ways to save the company money, like turning off lights at night) while bleeding money elsewhere (buying, for instance, a $60 million private jet). The cumulative effect was, unsurprisingly, wide-scale burnout among employees and high turnover, to which Neumann was largely unsympathetic. When a group of employees asked for raises, Wiedeman writes, “Adam complained that he didn’t think he was getting what he paid for as it stood. He told one employee he could save money by getting a roommate.” Neumann thwarted a group of WeWork janitors’ efforts to unionize, and when one pointed out that he was a billionaire, he replied, “That has nothing to do with this.” Just as WeWork successfully milked a stable of venture capitalists drunk on a tech-fueled bull market, Neumann’s terrible treatment of his employees was likewise enabled by the postrecession environment. When I first read accounts of the company’s office culture, I wondered why some of WeWork’s employees had stayed so long. (Were a few days of letting loose at the company’s notoriously hedonistic summer retreat really enough to make up for the punishingly long hours, below-market pay, and sexual harassment they endured during the rest of the year?) But then I remembered that, just as WeWork was getting off the ground in 2010, I myself was working for free as an unpaid intern at a small feminist book publisher (while, on my days off from there, paying bills by helping a rich Upper East Sider organize his office). WeWork, like so many other companies, benefited from an exploitable white-collar workforce made up of a cohort that had graduated into the height of a recession and was subsequently eager to prove themselves and find any kind of upward mo