# La Fi Ct Disney Iger Contract 20170323 Story.Html

**Source**: https://www.latimes.com/business/hollywood/la-fi-ct-disney-iger-contract-20170323-story.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:36:57.322350+00:00

---

Disney CEO Robert Iger extends his contract as search for a successor continues - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing &amp; Homelessness Politics Science &amp; Medicine World &amp; Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor &amp; Workplace Real Estate Technology and the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing &amp; Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate &amp; Environment Global Warming Water &amp; Drought Entertainment &amp; Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 best restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art &amp; Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health &amp; Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel &amp; Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World &amp; Nation Immigration &amp; the Border Israel-Hamas Mexico &amp; the Americas Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios Business • AI &amp; Tech • Banking &amp; Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Goods &amp; Retail • Healthcare &amp; Science • Law Dentists Decor &amp; Design Doctors &amp; Scientists Hot Property Live &amp; Well Orange County Pets The Hub: Rebuilding LA Travel Weddings &amp; Celebrations Newsletters Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Students &amp; Educators Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store L.A. Times Studios News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance &amp; Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? People on the Move Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Sections Tap to enable a layout that focuses on the article. Focus mode Show Search Search Query Submit Search Advertisement Hollywood Inc. Disney CEO Robert Iger extends his contract as search for a successor continues Disney chief Robert Iger, shown in 2015, has a new deal with the company that lasts until July 2, 2019. (Ricardo DeAratanha / Los Angeles Times) By&nbsp; Daniel Miller Staff Writer Follow March 23, 2017 8:43 AM PT Share via Close extra sharing options Email Facebook X LinkedIn Threads Reddit WhatsApp Copy Link URL Copied! Print p]:text-cms-story-body-color-text clearfix mb-10 md:max-w-170 md:mx-auto" data-subscriber-content> Walt Disney Co. Chairman and Chief Executive Robert Iger has extended his contract by one year, underscoring the challenges the company’s board of directors has faced in finding a successor to lead Hollywood’s iconic entertainment giant. Iger, 66, previously was expected to leave the company at the end of June 2018. His new deal ends July 2, 2019. The extension, Iger’s third since he became CEO in 2005, had been widely expected. It gives Disney’s board more time to search for a successor — a process that has been closely watched by investors who’ve expressed concern over the apparent lack of progress on the issue. With few obvious internal candidates, the board seems increasingly likely to look outside Disney for its next CEO. Replacing Iger will not be a simple task: the company has enjoyed an extended run of success under Iger, and seen its stock price more than quadruple on his watch. Advertisement In an appearance just hours after the contract news was announced Thursday, Iger said he was “serious this time around” about this being his last extension, and acknowledged the complexities of finding his successor. “Succession is a complicated thing and we felt, meaning the board and I, [that] we could use more time to not only to spend on succession but to create a better transition so we mutually agreed to add another year,” Iger said at the SCALE technology and entertainment conference, which was hosted by the USC Marshall and Annenberg schools. He was interviewed by his wife, Willow Bay, the incoming dean of the USC Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism. Wall Street did not react strongly to Iger’s new pact — shares of Disney rose 16 cents to $112.24 — possibly because the extension was considered a fait accompli among investors. But analysts were nevertheless happy about the decision. “Investors will be pretty pleased with this,” said analyst Robin Diedrich of Edward Jones Research. “Shareholders — and we — would agree that he is doing a pretty good job, so it is nice to see that this is confirmed that he will stay on.” Advertisement Disney has been transformed by three multibillion-dollar acquisitions orchestrated by Iger: Pixar Animation Studios in 2006, Marvel Entertainment in 2009 and Lucasfilm in 2012. Those deals have provided the company with lucrative franchises such as “Star Wars” and “The Avengers,” which have been pumped through its diverse array of businesses. Burbank-based Disney’s stock is up nearly 8% this year. Until February, Iger had been firm in saying he would leave Disney when his contract expired in 2018. But during a conference call with analysts last month he said that he was “open” to extending his deal — if the board deemed that the best course of action. Disney has no mandatory retirement age for the CEO role, though board members have to retire after they turn 74. “It is obvious that the company and its shareholders will be best served by [Iger’s] continued leadership as the board conducts the robust process of identifying a successor and ensuring a smooth transition,” Orin C. Smith, independent lead director of the board, said in a statement. Advertisement Thomas Staggs, Iger’s former heir apparent, left Disney’s No. 2 post last year. Staggs’ departure, which came after Disney’s board privately expressed a lack of confidence in him, threw Disney’s carefully orchestrated succession plans into question. Replacing Iger will be tough in part because of the job description. Disney has a unique culture and far-flung businesses — including superhero movies and cruise ships — that any future CEO would have to fully grasp. The company’s next leader would inherit a largely different set of challenges from those Iger has tackled. In particular, major changes are afoot in the television industry. Disney’s cable television business has been hurt by cord-cutting and the slimmed-down TV packages offered by service providers. ESPN, the crown jewel of Disney’s TV unit, has lost more than 9 million subscribers since 2013, according to Nielsen data, and this month it confirmed plans to lay off a number of on-air personalities . Recently, Disney has made moves designed to strengthen its media operation, including a $1-billion investment last year in video streaming company BamTech. “You probably need someone who is more new-media oriented, so it probably needs to be somebody outside the company,” Michael Alpert, portfolio manager at Stralem &amp; Co., which owns 269,000 shares of Disney, said this month. Advertisement “It’s not just the cable business, theme parks business anymore,” he said. “Somebody has to have a grip on that.” Disney’s board has said very little publicly about its effort to find a replacement for Iger. When Staggs’ departure was announced last year, the board said in a statement that it would “broaden the scope of its succession planning process to identify and evaluate a robust slate of candidates for consideration.” With Staggs now gone, Diedrich said “the alternatives at this point are not clear.” She noted that “investors are not comfortable with uncertainty” — although it appears unavoidable in this situation. “It does seem that with the change from Staggs ... that maybe there is more of an appetite for an external candidate,” Diedrich said. “But I wouldn’t rule out an internal candidate either.” Even before Staggs’ departure, succession planning at Disney has been rocky at times. The company endured a protracted handoff from former CEO Michael Eisner to Iger in 2005. Under terms of his contract extension, Iger’s compensation will be determined using the same formulation as before. In fiscal 2016, Iger’s total compensation was $43.9 million. His new pact calls for him to receive a $5-million bonus if he remains CEO until July 2019. Advertisement As part of the extension, Iger will remain as a consultant to Disney for three years after his CEO term ends. During the consulting period, he will receive $2 million for each of the first two years, and $1 million in the final year. Times staff writer Paresh Dave contributed to this report . daniel.miller@latimes.com @DanielNMiller ALSO Disney investors hope CEO Bob Iger stays longer How Robert Iger’s ‘fearless’ deal-making transformed Disney Why Disney could have to go outside the Mouse House for a new CEO UPDATES: 3:50 p.m .: This article was updated with additional reaction from analysts. 11:30 a.m.: This article was updated with additional background, Wall Street reaction and a comment from Disney board independent lead director Orin C. Smith. 9:20 a.m.: This article was updated with analysis of the challenges that replacing Iger presents and that the next CEO will face. 9:05 a.m.: This 