# Troye Sivan

**Source**: https://www.rollingstone.com/t/troye-sivan/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:58:01.226792+00:00

---

Troye Sivan &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Troye Sivan Laurent Koffel/Gamma-Rapho via Getty Images Troye Sivan Troye Sivan Mellet is Grammy Award-nominated pop singer and songwriter born on June 5, 1995 in Johannesburg, South Africa. Raised in Perth, Australia, from the age of 2, Sivan launched his music career online. In 2007, he began uploading covers of popular releases from Celine Dion, Britney Spears, Amy Winehouse, and more to his YouTube channel. His first original project, the June Haverly EP, was released in 2012. But it wasn’t his music that initially propelled Sivan to stardom.&nbsp; Sivan is regarded as one of the most popular social media stars of the early 2010s. In 2011, he shared a video to his channel titled “Introductions,” kicking off an era of comedy and lifestyle uploads that overlapped with a boom in online fandom. His positioning in the space functioned as an extension of his brief parlays into acting, including a role as young James Howlett in the 2009 film X-Men Origins: Wolverine. Sivan frequently shared collaborations with other popular YouTubers of the times, from Zoella and Caspar Lee to Marcus Butler and Tyler Oakley. Sivan grew his YouTube channel in tandem with his music career. In between comedic sketches, Q&amp;As, and challenges, he continued covering releases from other artists, like One Direction, 5 Seconds of Summer, and Ed Sheeran. He also shared original content with a twist, penning year-end reviews like “The 2013 Song” and perfectly summing up early 2010s internet culture on songs like “We’re My OTP” and “The Fault in Our Stars,” based on the film and novel.&nbsp; Hopeful about where his career was heading, Sivan got ahead of any future executive control of his artistic identity early. On Aug. 7, 2013, he posted the video “Coming Out,” telling his audience of more than 500,000 subscribers: “On August 7, 2010, I told my family that I am gay. And on August 7, 2013, I want you guys to know that I’m gay.” One year later, he released his first major-label EP, TRXYE, via Universal Music Australia and EMI Music Australia. His debut album Blue Neighbourhood followed in December 2015 via Capitol Records. The record explored themes of coming-of-age in suburbia as well as falling in and out of love as a young queer man. Sivan cut even deeper on his sophomore release Bloom , which arrived in 2018 featuring a collaboration with Ariana Grande and raw narratives of his sexual encounters.&nbsp; Five years passed in between the release of Bloom and its successor Something to Give Each Other (2023). During that time, Sivan expanded his filmography with roles in Boy Erased (2018) and Three Months (2022). In 2020, he made a brief musical return on In a Dream, a 7-track EP inspired by moments of self-reflection and the demise of a years-long relationship. With Something to Give Each Other , he returned with the hunger of a musician vying for a top-spot in pop’s pantheon. The album’s lead single, “Rush,” earned him his first-ever Grammy Award nominations for Best Music Video and Best Pop Dance Recording.&nbsp;— Larisha Paul First Name Troye Last Name Sivan Date of Birth June 5, 1995 Place of Birth Johannesburg, South Africa Notable Work Music: June Haverly EP (2012); TRXYE EP (2014); Blue Neighbourhood (2015); Bloom (2018); In a Dream EP (2020); Something to Give Each Other (2023) Acting: X-Men Origins: Wolverine (2009); Boy Erased (2018); Three Months (2022) Troye Sivan Guitarricadelafuente Reunites With Troye Sivan for 'Midsummer Pipe Dream' "In many ways, 'Pipe Dream' picks up where 'In My Room' left off," says the Spanish artist Back Together By Tomás Mier Ariana Grande Reaches Even Deeper on 'Eternal Sunshine Deluxe: Brighter Days Ahead' Expanded edition of the pop superstar's excellent 2024 album adds new songs that hit as hard as anything on the original ALBUM REVIEW By Rob Sheffield Dua Lipa, Troye Sivan Get 'Physical' on Unearthed 'Future Nostalgia' Remix "It always felt like it needed an occasion and this feels like it’s the perfect time," Dua Lipa shared about timing the release to the fifth anniversary of Future Nostalgia You Know I Got You By Larisha Paul Top stories newsletter A Cultural Force That Transcends Generations Enter your Email By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. See Dua Lipa Bring Out Troye Sivan to Perform 'Rush' at Melbourne Concert Singer continues trend of covering "a local artist" on Down Under tour, this time with a little help &#039;saturday night banger&#039; By Daniel Kreps Jennifer Lopez, Troye Sivan to Headline 2025 WorldPride Music Festival in D.C. Tinashe, Rita Ora, Kim Petras, Marina, and Grimes are also scheduled to perform Rollin’ With LGBT By Tomás Mier Troye Sivan Reveals Dating Turn-Ons and Hook-Up Habits in New Grindr Campaign Filmed backstage on tour, the intimate, conversational-style clip was inspired by Madonna's 1991 documentary, 'Truth or Dare' TAP OR BLOCK By Tim Chan A Timothee Chalamet-As-Troye Sivan T-Shirt Pops Up Online, Ahead of Actor's 'SNL' Hosting Gig The fan-made tee features an image of Chalamet playing Sivan from a 2023 episode of 'Saturday Night Live' SOMETHING TO GIVE EACH OTHER By Tim Chan Charli XCX Announces Troye Sivan Will Join Her for Primavera Sound The musicians will bring back their Sweat Tour at the annual festival in Barcelona next year Brat Summer Pt. 2 By Emily Zemler Watch Kesha Join Charli XCX for 'Spring Breakers' at Los Angeles Show The pair also performed “Tik Tok” with Troye Sivan, and partied together at Spotify’s Sweat Tour after party Cool Collab By Emily Zemler and Tomás Mier Charli XCX Keeps the Brat Revolution Rolling With 'Brat And It’s Completely Different But Also Still Brat' With stars like Lorde, Billie Eilish, and Ariana Grande on board, her new remix LP is a kick-ass party record in its own right ALBUM REVIEW By Rob Sheffield Read More Top stories newsletter A Cultural Force That Transcends Generations Enter your Email By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Go to PMC.com Most Popular J.K. Rowling Slams &#039;Ignorant&#039; Emma Watson as Their Rift Intensifies; Author Claims Watson Once Wrote Her a Note Expressing Sympathy Over Anti-Trans Backlash Bill Burr Defends Performing at Controversial Riyadh Comedy Festival: &quot;They&#039;re Just Like Us&quot; Insider Claims Nicole Kidman &amp; Keith Urban&#039;s Separation Is &#039;One-Sided&#039; Federal Judge Denies Motion to Dismiss by Kasseem ‘Swizz Beatz’ Dean in 1MDB Scandal Case You might also like ‘Good Boy’ Review: Telling a Ghost Story From a Dog’s POV, Ben Leonberg Teaches an Old Genre Some Nifty New Tricks 6 hours ago 19 Breast Cancer Products That Are Helpful for Patients &amp; Survivors 3 hours ago ‘Anemone,’ ‘After the Hunt’ Shake Up New York Film Festival as ‘One Battle’ Heads Into Second Weekend — Screen Talk 32 minutes ago NFL on Record Pace as TV/Streaming Windows Grow 8% to 20M Viewers 2 minutes ago Rolling Stone Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture Staff Contact Advertise Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Use AdChoices PMC Entertainment California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Accessibility Policy on Anonymous Sources Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Newsletter Signup Enter Your Email Subscribe Got a Hot News Tip? We want to hear it. Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Rolling Stone is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 Rolling Stone, LLC. All rights reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Log In Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Music News Features Lists Album Reviews Live Reviews Artists You Need To Know Songs You Need To Know RS Country RS Latin Politics News Features Lists TV &amp; Movies News Features Lists Recaps Reviews Video &amp; Photos Photos Videos The Cover Musicians on Musicians RS LIVE Culture News Features Lists Creators RS Gaming RS Films RS Recommends Reviews RS Essentials RS Audio Awards Gift Guides Culture Council Subscription Icon Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Alerts &amp; Newsletters Email Address By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. ad