# How To Present To Your Ceo

**Source**: https://newsletter.weskao.com/p/how-to-present-to-your-ceo
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:23:07.087140+00:00

---

How to present to your CEO - Wes Kao&#x27;s Newsletter Wes Kao's Newsletter Subscribe Sign in Start here How to present to your CEO Be prepared to move fast, encourage them to interrupt you, and more Wes Kao Jan 10, 2024 113 12 11 Share Image: Pixabay 👋 Hey, it’s Wes . Welcome to my weekly newsletter where I share frameworks for becoming a sharper marketer, founder, and builder. If you’re not a subscriber yet, here’s what you missed this month: Read your writing in a robot voice Anger management made me a better leader Why brands should prioritize commerce over art Subscribe to get access to these posts, and all future posts. Subscribe Today, we’re talking about how to prepare for and run a meeting when you present to your CEO (or busy executives). We’ll cover: Be prepared to move fast. Encourage them to interrupt you. Get right to the meat. Have supporting documents ready. Bring an agenda. Remind them where you left off. Take advantage while you have their attention. Show a draft or mock-up. Be specific about where you’re blocked. Know your numbers. Fewer status updates. More next steps or discussions. Aim for a good decision, not necessarily your exact recommendation. Let’s dive in. Read time : 11 minutes Meetings with CEOs and executives can go in any direction. Like doctors with bad handwriting, executives are notorious for zooming in on one detail or unexpectedly changing the topic. This is rightfully stressful for their teams, especially if you went in with one idea, and within five minutes, they’re asking you about something else. One day, you’ll be asked to present to an executive in your company. This is a useful skill to develop and a highly visible opportunity to shine. Here’s how. 1. Be prepared to move fast. Your executive is probably straightforward and their brain moves fast. Frame the conversation upfront and be direct with what you need. Are you looking for feedback? Sharing an FYI update? Getting their sign-off? Be explicit upfront because it will help them get oriented on how to absorb everything else you’re about to tell them. Moving fast does not mean talking quickly with an urgent tone —this will only create unnecessary anxiety. Moving fast means being organized, direct, and clear. There may be times when you’ll be shocked at how direct your CEO is with you. They might say, “Why do you need this?” or “This doesn’t look good enough to ship.” Their directness is a sign that they trust you enough to speak in shorthand—and they likely speak even more directly with senior folks on the team. Obviously, there are many different kinds of CEOs. But most move faster than average and tend to be impatient creatures. If you’ve worked with this type of CEO before, you know the kind of speed I’m talking about. It takes a bit of an adjustment period to calibrate to their speed and to keep up. Being mentally prepared to move fast is half the battle. ⛑️ If you want to dramatically improve your ability to present to your CEO and senior executives, check out my intensive 2-day course: Executive Communication &amp; Influence for Senior ICs and Managers . You’ll learn alongside mid-career operators from Netflix, Stripe, Uber, Shopify, Meta, Amazon, Figma, Anthropic, etc. Over 1,200 tech operators have taken the course and are already growing their influence. → Save your spot in the upcoming cohort 2. Encourage them to interrupt you. Early in my career, I would prepare 3-5 minute presentations and was surprised when the executive I was presenting to got the point in 30 seconds. Now, on the other side, I often wish I could interrupt folks presenting to me because I “got the joke” a while ago, but feel like a jerk interrupting them. I originally wrote this as “give execs permission to interrupt you,” but decided to go a step further. You should actually encourage them to interrupt you because: They already want to—nay, they are itching to. If they hold back, they’ll be distracted for everything else you’re saying. It makes the best use of limited time to skip parts you both already know. Your goal is to get a shared understanding—not to deliver your full monologue. Let’s say you prepared a 15-slide Keynote deck. By slide three, they say, “Agreed. What do you need from me to move forward?” Don’t insist on going through the rest of the deck. (Yes, even if the graph on the last slide is a banger.) Be glad that you were more prepared than you needed to be. You achieved your purpose: you got their buy-in. Take the win and keep it moving. More on this topic here . Subscribe 3. Get right to the meat. Getting to the point doesn’t mean talking fast with a sense of panic. It means doing a bit of preparation, so you’re not processing out loud in a real-time stream-of-conscious. When you say your punchline upfront, you will instantly seem more competent and organized. So keep the backstory short , and skip the lengthy play-by-play of how you got to where you are (unless you’re asked about it). Before : “Well this happened, then this other thing, and here’s the process of what I did for that, oh yeah this thing but that’s not important, this important thing that’s completely buried, and then this other thing.” After : “Here’s a few sentences about the situation. Here’s the important thing I wanted to discuss.” The idea of BLUF (Bottom Line Up Front) originated in the military to ensure communication was as direct as possible. Here’s an example of a Slack message. Notice how my recommendation is upfront, then the context is below. Getting right to the meat doesn’t mean jumping in without framing what you’re about to talk about and why. It means giving an appropriate level of context (as a very general rule of thumb, aim for a few minutes, but probably not 20 minutes without a break). If you don’t give any context, your CEO will be confused, frustrated, and will need to ask a bunch of questions to even understand what you’re talking about. That’s equally time consuming and unproductive as giving too much context. See item #6 on reminding where you left off. I’m writing another newsletter purely on how to give the right amount of context, so stay tuned. 4. Have supporting documents ready. Have any supporting docs, spreadsheets, Notion pages, etc ready in case your CEO has questions about where you got your numbers. You might not need it, but it’s better to have it at your fingertips than to fumble around saying, “Wait, I know where that doc is, hold on…hold on… [silence] Oh, it’s here. Wait, no, never mind. I’ll get back to you on that.” Ask yourself: What supporting docs might I need? What do I reference that they might want to know more about? Open those tabs on your browser in advance, so you can easily screen share or look up a data point if needed. 5. Bring an agenda. Ideally, share an agenda or a few notes of what you want to discuss in advance. If you really want to stand out, share a pre-read document before the meeting. This takes obvious preparation, and it’s harder to hide poor ideas in writing, so it doubly shows that you have your act together. Even if you don’t have a written agenda, you should bring notes for yourself on your discussion points. Do you ever look at a note you made to yourself and think, wtf does this mean? You’d forgotten the context. This has happened to me many times, and it’s super annoying. You don’t have time to decipher what your notes mean when you’re in a fast-paced or high-stakes meeting. Confusing: “Budget meeting” Better: “Budget meeting - Get approval for doubling FB spend from $1k/day to $2k/day because X reason.” Adding an extra line of context in my notes has saved me so much mental load. With a slightly more detailed note, you give yourself the ability to easily context-switch and stay fluid. 6. Remind them where you left off. Your CEO is in back-to-back meetings all day, which means they are context-switching constantly. They just got off a call that ran long. They’re here now. What do you do? To kick-off, share 1-2 sentences on why you’re meeting and remind them where you last left off. This is helpful because, I kid you not, sometimes you’ll start a meeting and your CEO will say, “Wait, why are we even doing this?” This can be slightly terrifying to hear if you just spent the past two weeks on a project because your CEO agreed it was a good idea the last time you spoke. Bad : [Jumps straight into the topic] Good : “The last time we spoke about this two weeks ago, you said we should do X because Y. I agreed that made sense, so we did that, and today I want to share what we came up with, get your feedback, and share our plans for what’s next.” 7. Take full advantage while you have their attention. You might have access to your CEO once a month or less. Get items approved in a batch because you’ll be able to run for longer without them becoming a bottleneck. Have the immediate next step ready. Better yet—have the next few steps ready to get their approval while you have their attention. In general, it’s useful to think a few steps ahead anyway for your own benefit. Ask yourself: When I’m done with this, then what? Then what after that? After that? In a similar thread, you might want to have a few backup topics in case you finish your main topics early. If it was hard to get on the executive’s calendar, use the time they’ve already blocked off for you. For example, I’ve had team members say, “Since we have 10 minutes left and we’re already here, I’d like to share my screen and run X by you to get your initial thoughts. Is that cool?” And my answer is almost always “Sure, let’s do it.” 8. Show a draft or mock-up. This one is important. I’ll proactively tell folks I work with to bring drafts or mock-ups because meetings are so much more productive with them. It’s much easier for most people to give feedback when they have something in front of them, even if it’s a “shitty first draft” (per Anne Lamott). The goal is to capture the general spirit of what you’re trying to do and spark a