# Dennis Kucinich

**Source**: https://nymag.com/intelligencer/tags/dennis-kucinich/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:08:30.976620+00:00

---

Dennis Kucinich - Intelligencer Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Displaying all articles tagged: Dennis Kucinich vision 2020 Dec. 23, 2019 Gabbard Wins Coveted Endorsement From Dennis ‘Kingmaker’ Kucinich America’s most influential former mayor of Cleveland says Gabbard is the antiwar candidate. He is wrong. By Eric Levitz May 9, 2018 Favorites Win Nearly Everywhere on First Big Primary Night of 2018 With the exception of a GOP House member losing in North Carolina, upsets were few and far between in a four-state primary night. By Ed Kilgore May 7, 2018 What to Watch on 2018’s First Super Tuesday of Primaries Wild who’s-the-Trumpiest GOP Senate races in Indiana and West Virginia and a Democratic gubernatorial fight in Ohio are the big events. By Ed Kilgore Feb. 22, 2018 Berniecrats Endorse Kucinich, Bernie Keeps His Distance If Sanders’s supporters go one way and he goes another in a key 2018 race, what does that say about 2020? By Ed Kilgore Jan. 30, 2018 The Eternal Recurrence of Dennis Kucinich, Candidate for Office Yes, he’s back. In this incarnation he’s a Fox Democrat running for governor of Ohio. By Ed Kilgore burn notice Aug. 29, 2014 Dennis Kucinich’s Burning Man Name Is ‘Charge’ But he needs to dress the part. Will someone please get him a banana hammock? By Kevin Roose que syria syria Sept. 18, 2013 Assad Calls the United States the ‘Greatest Country in the World’ In an interview with Dennis Kucinich. By Margaret Hartmann cable news news Jan. 16, 2013 Fox News Has a New Funny Little Token Liberal to Push Around Dennis Kucinich. By Joe Coscarelli goofballs Mar. 7, 2012 So Long, Representative Dennis Kucinich The longtime Cleveland rep lost last night. By Noreen Malone the kuce Oct. 26, 2011 Will It Be Dennis Kucinich vs. Joe the Plumber in the OH-9 Congressional Race? Cage match. By Noreen Malone revolt like an egyptian June 29, 2011 What, Exactly, Is Dennis Kucinich Doing in Syria? It’s his second trip to meet with Assad in the past five years. By Noreen Malone menaces May 3, 2011 Basically Every State Begging Dennis Kucinich to Move There He might run for reelection in a new state. By Dan Amira menaces Jan. 28, 2011 How Biting an Olive Pit Resulted in Two Years of Agony for Dennis Kucinich A warning for us all. By Dan Amira menaces Jan. 26, 2011 An Olive Pit Basically Destroyed Dennis Kucinich’s Life The olive pit he bit down upon in the congressional cafeteria left him with “permanent dental and oral injuries.” By Dan Amira early and often Aug. 13, 2010 ‘Professional Left’ Will Settle for Obama in 2012 Despite their frustration, nobody is stepping up to challenge Obama. By Dan Amira health carnage Mar. 17, 2010 Ultimately, Dennis Kucinich Was Helpless to Resist the Charms of President Obama The Ohio progressive changes his health-care vote after a visit from the president. By Dan Amira health carnage Mar. 15, 2010 President Obama Asks Democrats to Get Some Courage Obama was back in campaign mode today in a final push for health-care votes. By Dan Amira the greatest depression Oct. 2, 2008 Bailoutmania So. The Big Bailout. The Rescue. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. (That’s what we are calling it now you know). It’s been not even three weeks since we first heard of this thing, and we have all aged years. So much has happened! By Jessica Pressler early and often Aug. 27, 2008 Best Speech of Hillary Clinton’s Career Caps Genuinely Exciting DNC Night On day two of their convention, Democrats finally got some red meat. By Peter Keating early and often Jan. 23, 2008 Which Candidates Should Worry About the Actors Who Endorsed Them? A Graphical Guide As the primary season approaches its climax, each voter is faced with a choice: Is it better to back a candidate based upon the opportunistic ramblings of cable-news talking heads or the endorsement of the voter’s favorite actor? Folks who filter their beliefs through those of a television or movie personality risk surrendering their stake in actual issues. Then again, they’re secure in the knowledge that they’re for the same guy as the Fresh Prince. Who are these actors, and how might they help — or potentially destroy — the campaigns that are so carefully conducted by their buddies? Glad you asked! — Dan Amira early and often Dec. 5, 2007 Worst Prez-Candidate Profile You’ll Read All Year — We Hope! New York’s cynical presidential contenders might be floundering, but hey, have you heard that Dennis Kucinich has a hot wife? The Washington Post thinks you haven’t. Witness “The Love Song of Dennis J. Kucinich,” an annoyingly “voicey” feature on the candidate’s martial bliss. (“No Wonder the Candidate Saw a UFO. He’s Been Up There on Cloud Nine.”) The narrative’s the same as it’s always been: He’s a troll, she looks like Natasha McElhone with a tongue stud, and the marriage works because they’re both New Age weirdos. The Post even opens with that old chestnut about how Kucinich has “already won,” which might have been authored by the candidate himself, but still, as we’ve mentioned before, makes us feel weird when the papers run with it: There’s something awfully locker-room about it, this notion of a filly as a consolation prize. Or, rather, something out of Mad Men . “He is short, at 5-7,” we’re informed for the thousandth time in that retro-swinish cadence, “And she is — wow, she just keeps on going.” Like Us Follow Us Follow Follow About Intelligencer About New York Magazine Newsletters Help Contact Press Media Kit We’re Hiring Privacy Terms Ad Choices Accessibility Do not sell or share my personal data intelligencer is a Vox Media Network . &copy; 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All rights reserved.