# Keep Calm Carry On And Wait A3B

**Source**: https://andrewsullivan.substack.com/p/keep-calm-carry-on-and-wait-a3b
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:39:07.967762+00:00

---

Keep Calm, Carry On ... And Wait - by Andrew Sullivan The Weekly Dish Subscribe Sign in Keep Calm, Carry On ... And Wait Some thoughts on how to grapple with Trump 2.0 Andrew Sullivan Jan 31, 2025 23 Share Viral memes from the 2016 election and the 2024 election “It’s so sad to watch our new Government slowly dismantling all the Freedoms we have been fighting for and WON over the years,” tweeted Madonna, summing up much of the vibe in deep-blue America this week. She didn’t specify which freedoms, of course, but no one will mind. Her point was, to many, an obvious one: this democratically elected president is doing exactly what he said he’d do. And that is the end of democracy! For ten years now, the resistance has echoed Madonna, and opposed Trump as a fascist, racist, un-American harbinger of democratic collapse. That ended up as Kamala Harris’ final argument in 2024. And in 2025 … it’s exactly the same! The DNC tweets that Trump is “Rolling back 60 years of progress on civil rights.” Top Dems are bringing in psychologists to cope with Trump’s “authoritarian behavior.” Turn on MSNBC — and it is forever 2017. Nicolle Wallace and Joy Reid are still trotting out Hitler comparisons — though this time, on Holocaust Remembrance Day . Trump is still putting non-whites in cages — though this time, it’s federal workers . Get the Dish free every Friday And new polling shows that Kamala is still the front-runner for the nomination next time around. If she balks, why not Dukakis? He’s only 91. A spring chicken by Dem standards. Meanwhile, the DNC hopefuls are backing a truly vital reform : a pledge “to appoint more than one transgender person to an at-large seat, and that the pick reflects the diversity of the trans community.” Not just trans but BIPOC trans! And a host at the DNC forum, Jonathan Capehart, is blaming racism and misogyny for Kamala’s loss — and everyone on stage agrees. All I can say is that this is undeniably good news for Trump. He knows how to beat Democrats at this game, and he will continue to do so. By opposing him furiously on everything — especially immigration and DEI — the Democrats will deepen the ditch they are already flailing about in. This week, New York Magazine published a cover-story about a party hosted by a black Trumpite , neglected to mention him, cropped the cover-photo to exclude several black faces, and then ran a headline about the “cruelty” of white Trump supporters. It’s an exhausted, racist trope — but Brooklyn hipsters love it. And who doesn’t want a national party that primarily appeals to Brooklyn hipsters? It’s worked so well so far! But if I were the Dems, I’d be less interested in the views of urban, Gaza-obsessed nonbinaries than those of your average American voter of any race . And the polling thus far suggests they like Trump’s immigration policies, still hate hiring on the basis of identity, and want less intervention abroad. In a NYT poll , 71 percent of Americans (including 54 percent of Dems) align with Trump on pushing back against sex reassignment for children; and 79 percent (including 67 percent of Dems) support him on preventing biological men competing with women in sports. That’s a mandate of sorts. But Americans also strongly oppose pardoning violent J6 criminals , deporting those who came here as children , and prosecuting political opponents (73 percent oppose this, including 58 percent of Republicans). Americans want a leaner government, but if Trump brings chaos, they’ll rebel. They’re nervous about tariffs, and entitlements. In other words, if you calm down, support him on those issues where he is popular, and oppose him on those issues he isn’t, you might regain some traction by 2026. Above all: do not make this a binary choice. If you do, Trump wins. Make it multiple choice, and he loses half the time. Focus on where Trump is vulnerable. Yes, on egregious violations of the law, or incompetence, call him out immediately. That’s how the spending freeze was unfrozen; that’s why Grassley and Durbin are already telling Trump to obey the law on his firing of Inspectors General. Judges are mobilizing . And this is how it is supposed to work. The Founders understood that the energetic executive they wanted could also over-reach. The Congress and courts were their solution. This is not the end of democracy. It’s just a testing period. So take a breath. Part of the shock and awe of Trump’s first weeks was designed to disorient, and provoke the kind of breathless response we’ve seen. If we’ve learned anything this past decade (it appears the Dems and the MSM still haven’t), we shouldn’t oblige him. As Carville says , let Trump knock himself out. Wait until inflation rises with tariffs, until the Bannon-Broligarch battle gets hot, until Bondi makes a mistake. You get the picture. Of course, I understand why emotions are high. But I also recall how emotions can cloud judgment, prevent effective opposition, and degenerate into mindless social media hysteria. It happened to all of us eight years ago — including me at times — and it failed. Time to change tack. Time to make distinctions. I’m sure I’ll screw up along the way, but, with your help, I’m going to chart a more discriminating and strategic path here on out. Let’s hope the Democrats get the message. (Note to readers: This is an excerpt of The Weekly Dish. If you’re already a paid subscriber, click here to read the full version. This week’s issue also includes: my critical take on JD Vance’s distortion of Christ’s message of love; my talk with Sebastian Junger on near-death experiences, including his own; a ton of reader dissents over my second look at Trump and his EOs; eight notable quotes from the week in news, including two Yglesias Awards; 19 pieces on Substack we recommend on a variety of topics; a Mental Health Break of the great Kyle Dunnigan aping RFK Jr; a sparkling view of Bellevue at night; and, of course, the results of the View From Your Window contest — with a new challenge. Subscribe for the full Dish experience!) From a new paid subscriber: It’s so hard to know “where to sit” with politics these days, and I feel like I’ve been brainwashed by the NYTimes and MSNBC. I despise Trump as a person, yet I am strongly in favor of his return to sanity on DEI and gender ideology. Your views on the woke-authoritarian takeover of gay and lesbian rights by queer theory activists is so enlightening! I’ve been living in a left-wing fog. From a re-subscriber: I just wanted to send a note thanking you for another year of intelligent, brave, and funny conversations and essays. I’m always excited when I open the Weekly Dish or find out who is on the podcast this week, and I’m looking forward to another year in this community. Support the Dish for less than $1/week Vance On Jesus’ Support for Mass Deportations JD Vance, a man not known for intellectual humility, has begun to instruct the Pope on Catholicism. It’s what new converts do. On Fox News, he gave what he called a Christian defense of mass deportations and strong borders. Money quote: There’s this old-school [idea] — and I think it’s a very Christian concept, by the way — that you love your family, and then you love your neighbor, and then you love your community, and then you love your fellow citizens in your own country, and then after that, you can focus and prioritize the rest of the world. A lot of the far left has completely inverted that. First off, as a political matter, Vance makes a decent point. It does makes sense for leaders of a country to concern themselves with citizens of that country before anyone else. But is this a Christian concept? Not so much. (Read the rest of that piece here , for paid subscribers) New On The Dishcast: Sebastian Junger Sebastian is an author, journalist, and war correspondent. He’s been a contributing editor to Vanity Fair and a special correspondent at ABC News, and his debut documentary, Restrepo , was nominated for an Oscar. He’s the author of many bestsellers, including The Perfect Storm , War , Tribe , and Freedom . His latest: In My Time of Dying : How I Came Face to Face with the Idea of an Afterlife . It’s a fascinating account of his own brush with death — and how it changed his understanding of the universe and its mysteries. Listen to the episode here . There you can find two clips of our convo — on the universal features of near-death experiences, and the mysteries of quantum physics. That link also takes you to commentary on our episode with John Gray over the state of liberalism in the West. We also air a bunch of dissents over my views on Trump’s executive orders, namely the trans and DEI ones. We also hear from a few readers personally impacted by Trump’s freeze on foreign aid, and I respond at length throughout. Browse the Dishcast archive for an episode you might enjoy (the first 102 are free in their entirety — subscribe to get everything else). Coming up: Jon Rauch on the tribalism of white evangelicals, Ross Douthat on the supernatural, Evan Wolfson on the history of marriage equality, Yoni Appelbaum on how America stopped building things, Chris Caldwell on political upheaval in Europe, Nick Denton on the evolution of new media, and the great and powerful Mike White, of White Lotus fame. Please send any guest recs, dissents, and other comments to dish@andrewsullivan.com . Support the ad-free pod! Dissents Of The Week: Trump Engagement Syndrome A reader responds to my latest column : I’ve had plenty of criticisms over your columns before, but I have never been so fervently repulsed by your writing as I was when I read how “exhilarated” you felt over a supposed “return to sanity” on, among other things, immigration. I will put aside the DEI issue (I don’t like most DEI but I think a blanket ban is unwise) and the transqueer debate (I largely agree with you but I also think that transgender people have good reason to fear a second Trump term). It is Trump’s actions on immigration, and your 