# Northwestern Lloyd Yates Lawsuit Hazing

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/4717174/2023/07/24/northwestern-lloyd-yates-lawsuit-hazing/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:51:11.963875+00:00

---

Former Northwestern QB Lloyd Yates files lawsuit alleging hazing in football program - The Athletic NCAAF Teams Scores &amp; Schedule Standings Podcasts Until Saturday Newsletter Recruiting Odds Picks All-136 Ranking Latest Playoff Projections Quizzes Rivalry Rankings Former Northwestern QB Lloyd Yates files lawsuit alleging hazing in football program By Kalyn Kahler July 24, 2023 Updated Nov. 3, 2023 Share 139 Content warning: This story addresses allegations of sexual abuse and may be difficult to read and emotionally upsetting. CHICAGO — Former Northwestern quarterback Lloyd Yates became the first named plaintiff to file a lawsuit alleging hazing in the Northwestern football program Wednesday. Yates’ lawsuit alleges “a culture of violent, intimidating, sexualized abuse and hazing and extreme mental abuse resulting in degradation, humiliation, embarrassment.” Advertisement It is the fourth lawsuit filed by a former Northwestern football player against the university since coach Pat Fitzgerald was fired on July 10 . Yates was on the Northwestern team from 2015 to 2017. The other three lawsuits were filed by unnamed players who played from 2018 to 2022. Yates’ lawsuit included several new allegations of Northwestern football coaches ’ involvement in hazing and included quotes from four other former Northwestern football players: Warren Miles Long, Simba Short and two unnamed players. The lawsuit alleges that two Northwestern football assistant coaches were also “ran,” the alleged hazing ritual where a group of Northwestern football players took turns forcefully dry-humping a victim. “During a training session during the fall of 2015 or spring of 2016, a strength and conditioning coach was ‘ran’ by members of the football team, on the field, in front of the entire team and coaching staff,” the lawsuit states. Attorney Margaret Battersby Black, one of Yates’ representatives, declined to comment on the identity of the assistant coaches who were “ran” and their employment status at Northwestern. Northwestern spokesperson Jon Yates wrote in a statement to&nbsp; The Athletic&nbsp; that the university “is working to ensure we have in place appropriate accountability” for its athletic department. “We will engage an outside firm to evaluate the sufficiency of our accountability mechanism, and to detect threats to the welfare of our student-athletes.” The lawsuit cited USA Today’s report that associate head coach Matt MacPherson witnessed the naked pull-ups and other forms of hazing and made several references to opportunities that coaches or football staff had to observe the locker room activities, including while collecting dirty laundry or handling equipment, helping injured players, or collecting players for meetings or other activities. Advertisement “Frequently, after a night of hazing at Camp Kenosha, the coaching staff would comment and scold the players that they had been too loud the night before,” the lawsuit says. The suit also alleges that strength and conditioning coaches organized another form of freshmen hazing: the “bellyflop contest,” which took place in the pool at Kenosha. The consequence for losing the contest was getting “ran” and players who refused to participate also were threatened with a “running.” GO DEEPER ‘There’s a significance to ritual’: How a hazing culture evolved at Northwestern’s Camp Kenosha The lawsuit says upperclassmen told freshmen football players about the “running” during offseason player-led workouts. “These unsupervised workouts would be another opportunity for bullying and intimidation to ensure that the new players did not speak up about the cruel activities that they were about to endure,” the lawsuit says. The lawsuit says that one unnamed player, John Doe 1, made it clear to his teammates that he was not going to participate in the “running.” “As a result,” the lawsuit says, “he was put on the top of the ‘list,’ a mental and sometimes physical list of players who needed to be targeted for a running.” The lawsuit says the group of players who “ran” the freshman players were called “the Shrek Squad” and would play the siren from the movie “The Purge” to signal that they were making their way through the dorms at Camp Kenosha to find freshmen to “run.” The Shrek Squad wore “masks common to horror movies, or animal masks. They would dress with either no shirts or shirts with holes cut out over their nipples. Some would wear thongs,” the lawsuit alleges. The lawsuit says freshmen football players were told to keep their doors unlocked because upperclassmen would be coming to “run” them. “Many freshman Wildcats left their doors open and took their ‘runnings’ without a fight, believing it was better to give in early than live in constant fear,” the lawsuit says. Advertisement Per the lawsuit, John Doe 1 was a minor when he went to Camp Kenosha in August 2015. The suit says that five or six upperclassmen “dragged him” out of his dorm room and into the common area, where he was surrounded by 50 teammates. Then, per the suit, one of the seniors turned on a megaphone and announced that “on this day” John Doe 1, was getting ran, “acting and gesturing as if it was a moment of historical significance for the team.” The suit says that the second unnamed player, John Doe 2, remembers being told if he wanted to avoid being “ran” he had to “sell out” the location of his own freshmen teammates to the upperclassmen to get “ran.” The lawsuit also describes an alleged hazing incident from 2015, that Simba Short and John Doe 2 witnessed, and that Yates heard about. The suit says 10 to 15 Northwestern football players carried one freshman player, “who was perceived as overly confident by the upperclassmen,” into the showers naked. The players then dunked him upside down into an ice bath and “ran” him while he was naked and upside down with his head underwater. When the incident was over, the suit says the freshman player struggled to breathe. The lawsuit also referenced several other alleged hazing traditions within the Northwestern football program. The “car wash,” where upperclassmen lined up naked in a gauntlet at the entrance to the showers and new players were “forced to walk penis to penis or penis to butt with the players in the line” through the gauntlet and touch the bodies of the upperclassmen on their way through. The “trading block,” where the entire team and coaching staff took turns “trading” insults, and “Bus 2”, where upperclassmen riding on the team’s second bus while traveling with the team, forced other players on the bus to tell “highly personal stories on the bus’s announcement system, including stories of their sexual exploits.” The lawsuit says that team nutritionists were aware of the Gatorade Shake challenge, where upperclassmen stole protein shakes from the refrigerators and forced other players to drink as many as they could in a certain amount of time. The lawsuit says the nutritionists attempted to “block off refrigerators” to prevent players from getting too many shakes for this purpose. There are no former Northwestern players identified as the players doing the “running” in the lawsuit. “We were all victims,” Yates told reporters. “I want to make that clear. No matter what role. If you were being hazed or on the perpetrating side, it was a culture that you had to find a position within. And for some guys, that’s where their identity was. But they are just as much victims as us.” Advertisement Attorney Ben Crump said that he will be filing more lawsuits on behalf of the other former Northwestern football players mentioned in Yates’ suit. “This is college sports’ ‘Me Too’ movement,” Crump said. “We hope to provide awareness and support to victims in the eradication of physical, psychological and sexual hazing in college sports.” Required reading Investigation from&nbsp; The Athletic:&nbsp; How a hazing culture evolved at Northwestern’s Camp Kenosha A timeline of accusations, investigation, findings within athletics department Former Northwestern football players: Hazing culture normalized, coaches took part ACC commissioner Jim Phillips named a defendant in second Northwestern lawsuit, lawyers say Mandel: The bitter end of the Pat Fitzgerald era isn’t the close of Northwestern’s problems (Photo: Tony Ding / AP Photo) Oct 3, 2025 Connections: Sports Edition Spot the pattern. Connect the terms Find the hidden link between sports terms Play today&#x27;s puzzle Tagged To: College Football Northwestern Wildcats National Boxing Bundesliga Champions League Championship College Football College Sports Copa America Copa del Rey Cricket Culture Cycling Europa League European Championship FA Cup Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Basketball Fantasy Football Fantasy Hockey Fantasy Premier League FIFA Club World Cup FIFA Men&#x27;s World Cup FIFA Women&#x27;s World Cup Formula 1 Gaming Global Sports Golf International Football La Liga League Cup League One League Two Memorabilia &amp; Collectibles Men&#x27;s College Basketball Mixed Martial Arts MLB MLS Motorsports NASCAR NBA NFL NHL NWSL Olympics Opinion Peak Premier League Sailing Scottish Premiership Serie A Soccer Sports Betting Sports Business Tennis Top Sports News WNBA Women&#x27;s College Basketball Women&#x27;s Euros Women&#x27;s Hockey Women&#x27;s Soccer The Athletic Ink Podcasts Headlines US Arizona Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Buffalo Carolina Chicago Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Dallas Denver Detroit Houston Indiana Jacksonville Kansas City Las Vegas Los Angeles Memphis Miami Minnesota Nashville New Orleans New York Oklahoma Oregon Orlando Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento San Antonio San Diego Seattle St. Louis Tampa Bay Utah Washington DC Wisconsin Canada Calgary Edmonton Montreal Ottawa Toronto Vancouver Winnipeg Partners Collectibles by eBay Odds by BetMGM Streaming by Fubo Tickets by StubHub Subscribe Start Subscription Group Subscriptions HQ About Us Careers Code of Conduct Editorial Guidelines Business Inqu