# Surviving October 7Th We Will Dance Again Review An Unflinching Moving Account Of Hamas Attack

**Source**: https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2024/sep/26/surviving-october-7th-we-will-dance-again-review-an-unflinching-moving-account-of-hamas-attack
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:34:35.654698+00:00

---

Surviving October 7th: We Will Dance Again review – an unflinching, moving account of Hamas’ attack | Television & radio | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art &amp; design TV &amp; radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love &amp; sex Home &amp; garden Health &amp; fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Film Books Music Art &amp; design TV &amp; radio Stage Classical Games A fog of unreality … a DJ plays while rockets fall at the Nova music festival, 7 October 2023. Photograph: Avi Medina/BBC/Sipur/Bitachon365/MGM View image in fullscreen A fog of unreality … a DJ plays while rockets fall at the Nova music festival, 7 October 2023. Photograph: Avi Medina/BBC/Sipur/Bitachon365/MGM TV review Television &amp; radio This article is more than 1 year old Review Surviving October 7th: We Will Dance Again review – an unflinching, moving account of Hamas’ attack This article is more than 1 year old This visceral film about the massacre at the Israeli Nova music festival is a nightmarish look at what the victims went through. At points it’s like a disaster movie Rachel Aroesti Thu 26 Sep 2024 17.30 EDT Last modified on Thu 26 Sep 2024 17.32 EDT Share W hen the rockets began raining down over the Gaza-Israel border on 7 October 2023, some revellers at the nearby Nova music festival thought they were fireworks. Even when it became clear that they were missiles, many attenders weren’t particularly alarmed. Some were used to the rockets and felt they still had time to pack up their tents before driving home. But once they got in their cars, traffic was at a standstill – Hamas militants had blocked the road out of the site. Increasingly frightened, some began to document their journeys on their phones. This film, from the Israeli director Yariv Moser, uses those videos – in combination with Hamas body camera footage – to recount the subsequent attack and frenzied survival mission of the festival-goers. In many cases, there is no need to imagine what they witnessed that day; much of it has been preserved first-hand in harrowingly visceral detail. Yet despite the bracing actuality of this footage, a fog of unreality hangs over Surviving October 7th: We Will Dance Again. It focuses exclusively on those who attended the festival, just one of the locations Hamas targeted on that day (364 festival attenders were murdered, approximately one-third of the total Israeli casualties). One survivor describes his experiences as “like seeing a horror movie with your own eyes”. Another is reminded of the merciless executions in Squid Game . Somebody else recognises a type of gun used by Hamas – a kalashnikov – from video games. Those fleeing struggled to accept what was happening; one man explains that he recorded the scene on his phone because he couldn’t believe his own eyes. For its victims, 7 October felt like nightmarish fiction incarnate. Taking cues from this, the documentary unfolds much like a disaster movie. The first part sets the scene, painting a picture of Nova – a hedonistic trance festival – as a bastion of peace. Interviewees recall their worries about skipping Shabbat dinner and hopes for eventual dancefloor transcendence. But this supposedly archetypal example of youthful abandon immediately jars. Like traditional raves, Nova’s location was released just hours before it started. It turned out to be only three miles (5km) from the border – so close that the Gaza-Israel barrier was visible from the festival site. One woman recalls a friend worrying that rockets might hit them. In an effort to escape, some attenders hid in the small bomb shelters that line the roads. From an outsider’s perspective, it already seems like a war zone. Soon, the documentary takes on the breathless, nauseating propulsion of a horror film. Some people hide from gun-toting terrorists; one young woman passes out inside the airless fridge where she cowers for hours. A man in a shelter is forced to throw back the live grenades militants have hurled inside. Others drive or run. In every case, the odds are so stacked against these unarmed civilians that escape seems beyond the realms of possibility. One woman who was being shot at while crouching behind an open car door thought she must be dead, as she felt no pain; she couldn’t believe she had not been hit. That the Israeli authorities didn’t come to their aid for so long – we are told the first police reinforcements arrived six hours after the rocket fire started – was similarly surreal. Such was the silence from the police and the army that one woman thought they no longer existed – that Hamas had conquered Israel. This delayed response is not explained. In fact, there are countless things that the film opts not to discuss. The footage we see – while graphic and extremely disturbing – does not convey all the dimensions of the atrocity that occurred that day. Of course, the horror has only proliferated in the year since. There is barely any mention of the Israeli government’s reaction to the 7 October attacks – in fact, the film provides almost no context about the conflict in the region. Some may consider this a problematic omission, but the documentary’s focus is very clear: it tells the story of these Israeli citizens – utterly defenceless in the face of Hamas’ indiscriminate onslaught – and it does so unflinchingly, exhaustively and movingly. skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to What&#x27;s On Free weekly newsletter Get the best TV reviews, news and features in your inbox every Monday Enter your email address Sign up Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain information about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. If you do not have an account, we will create a guest account for you on theguardian.com to send you this newsletter. You can complete full registration at any time. For more information about how we use your data see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion Although Surviving October 7th’s middle section recalls a found-footage dystopian drama, its conclusion is more disturbing than any you will find in mainstream fiction. Survivors convey a newfound ambivalence towards life itself, a feeling that set in during the interminable hours of the attack. We are told that some who escaped have since killed themselves. One man explains that his former self ceased to exist on that day, that he must attempt to begin again as a different person. Another says her son is the only reason she is still alive. The subtitle – We Will Dance Again – is optimistic, but this film makes it abundantly clear that even a shred of hope is hard to find. Surviving October 7th: We Will Dance Again aired on BBC Two and is available on BBC iPlayer Explore more on these topics Television &amp; radio TV review Israel-Gaza war Television Gaza reviews Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed Film Books Music Art &amp; design TV &amp; radio Stage Classical Games News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints &amp; corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms &amp; conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work for us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2025 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)