# Meta Content Moderation Mistakes Nick Clegg

**Source**: https://www.theverge.com/2024/12/3/24311513/meta-content-moderation-mistakes-nick-clegg?ref=wheresyoured.at
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:48:25.812747+00:00

---

Meta says it’s mistakenly removing too many posts | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Meta says it’s mistakenly moderating too much Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Meta Close Meta Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Meta AI Close AI Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All AI Policy Close Policy Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Policy Meta says it’s mistakenly moderating too much ‘Too often, harmless content gets taken down, or restricted, and too many people get penalized unfairly,’ says the company’s president. ‘Too often, harmless content gets taken down, or restricted, and too many people get penalized unfairly,’ says the company’s president. by Alex Heath Close Alex Heath Sources author, Verge contributor Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Alex Heath Dec 3, 2024, 1:00 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads Illustration: Nick Barclay / The Verge Alex Heath Close Alex Heath Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Alex Heath is a contributing writer and author of the Sources newsletter. Meta is mistakenly removing too much content across its apps, according to a top executive. Nick Clegg, Meta&rsquo;s president of global affairs, told reporters on Monday that the company&rsquo;s moderation &ldquo;error rates are still too high&rdquo; and pledged to &ldquo;improve the precision and accuracy with which we act on our rules.&rdquo; &ldquo;We know that when enforcing our policies, our error rates are still too high, which gets in the way of the free expression that we set out to enable,&rdquo; Clegg said during a press call I attended. &ldquo;Too often, harmless content gets taken down, or restricted, and too many people get penalized unfairly.&rdquo; He said the company regrets aggressively removing posts about the covid-19 pandemic. CEO Mark Zuckerberg recently told the Republican-led House Judiciary Committee the decision was influenced by pressure from the Biden administration. &ldquo;We had very stringent rules removing very large volumes of content through the pandemic,&rdquo; Clegg said. &ldquo;No one during the pandemic knew how the pandemic was going to unfold, so this really is wisdom in hindsight. But with that hindsight, we feel that we overdid it a bit. We&rsquo;re acutely aware because users quite rightly raised their voice and complained that we sometimes over-enforce and we make mistakes and we remove or restrict innocuous or innocent content.&rdquo; Related Meta is pushing for the government to use its AI Meta drops restrictions on Trump’s Facebook and Instagram accounts Instagram and Threads will stop recommending political content Clegg&rsquo;s comments suggest that, after years of ramping up to what is now billions of dollars in annual spend on moderation, Meta&rsquo;s automated systems have become too ham-fisted. Examples of &ldquo;moderation failures&rdquo; were recently trending on Threads, which has been plagued with takedown errors in recent months. The company publicly apologized after its systems suppressed photos of President-elect Donald Trump surviving an attempted assassination. And its own Oversight Board recently warned ahead of the US presidential election that its moderation errors risk the &ldquo;excessive removal of political speech.&rdquo; Meta has yet to make any major known changes to its content rules since the election, though it sounds like big changes could be coming. Clegg referred to the rules as &ldquo;a sort of living, breathing document&rdquo; during the call with reporters. Clegg referred to the rules as “a sort of living, breathing document” When I asked him about Zuckerberg&rsquo;s dinner with Trump last week and if Meta still planned to resist government pressure to moderate, as Zuckerberg told the House Judiciary Committee , Clegg sidestepped the question. &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t give you a running commentary on conversations I was not part of,&rdquo; he said of Zuckerberg&rsquo;s recent dinner with Trump. &ldquo;The administration is still being assembled and the inauguration has not happened, so the conversations at this stage are clearly fairly high level. Mark is very keen to play an active role in the debates that any administration needs to have about maintaining America&rsquo;s leadership in the technological sphere, which, of course, is tremendously important given all the geostrategic uncertainties around the world and particularly the pivotal role that AI will play in that scenario.&rdquo; Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Follow topics and authors from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates. Alex Heath Close Alex Heath Sources author, Verge contributor Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Alex Heath AI Close AI Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All AI Meta Close Meta Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Meta Policy Close Policy Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Policy Politics Close Politics Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Politics Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech More in this stream See all Trump announces new tech policy picks for his second term Wes Davis Dec 23, 2024 Jeff Bezos is dining with Donald Trump. Wes Davis Dec 8, 2024 David Sacks is Trump’s AI and crypto ‘czar’ Jay Peters and Alex Heath Dec 6, 2024 Most Popular Most Popular Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store Behold: The Lego Game Boy has already been modded to play games for real Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Everything is terrorism in Trump’s America Satya Nadella appoints a new CEO to run Microsoft’s biggest businesses The Verge Daily A free daily digest of the news that matters most. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Meta Threads adds communities to put your interests front and center The smart glasses race is really on now Apple sidelines lighter Vision Pro to prioritize smart glasses Instagram tests opening right onto Reels Adam Mosseri’s ‘we’re totally not spying on you’ video is raising a lot of questions Meta will soon use your AI chats to personalize your feeds Threads adds communities to put your interests front and center Emma Roth Oct 2 The smart glasses race is really on now Jay Peters Oct 2 Apple sidelines lighter Vision Pro to prioritize smart glasses Jay Peters Oct 1 Instagram tests opening right onto Reels Jay Peters Oct 1 Adam Mosseri’s ‘we’re totally not spying on you’ video is raising a lot of questions Jay Peters Oct 1 Meta will soon use your AI chats to personalize your feeds Emma Roth Oct 1 Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories 2:00 PM UTC With a Friend like this, who needs enemies? 5:08 PM UTC I’ve fallen into Sora’s slippery slop 1:03 PM UTC I tried Amazon and Google’s new smart home gadgets, ask me anything! 3:06 PM UTC The quest for every Gap store playlist ever 4:52 PM UTC Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom 1:57 AM UTC Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved