# How The Grey Album Re Invented The Remix 740E7C9F2631

**Source**: https://medium.com/cuepoint/how-the-grey-album-re-invented-the-remix-740e7c9f2631#.dwqguyfu8
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:48:08.592056+00:00

---

How ‘The Grey Album’ Re-Invented the Remix | by Gino Sorcinelli | Micro-Chop | Medium Sitemap Open in app Sign up Sign in Medium Logo Write Search Sign up Sign in Micro-Chop · Dissecting beatmaking, DJing, music production, rapping, and sampling. Press enter or click to view image in full size How ‘The Grey Album’ Re-Invented the Remix Danger Mouse’s 2004 Jay Z / Beatles mashup was a breakthrough for sampling, genre-bending, and DIY remix albums. Gino Sorcinelli 15 min read · Sep 13, 2016 -- 6 Listen Share In a recent article calling for the end of terrible mashup albums, Noisey writer Daisy Jones said , “Let’s euthanize mash-up culture and burn it in a kiln so only its ashes remain.” While Jones’ stance is perhaps a bit extreme, this angst sums up the emotional state of many listeners who suffer from remix and mashup fatigue. The once-novel concept of taking two disparate artists or albums and mixing them together has been beaten to death to a point that even when done well, it is now often approached with a high degree of skepticism. Modern listeners may feel jaded towards new mashup releases, but not too long ago the mashup was a still a fresh concept. The origins of mashups span back to the early days of hip-hop DJing, taking form in bootleg party records, mixtape blends and megamixes by folks like Double Dee and Steinski. You can hear the foundation of mashups in Dr. Dre’s 86 In The Mix , Ron G’s Michael Jackson blends , DJ Spinbad Rocks The Casbah: 80s Megamix Vol. One and countless mixtapes where DJs blended disparate genres with rap. When Z-Trip and DJ P made their Uneasy Listening Vol. 1 mixtape in 2001—pairing classic pop and rock songs with rap acapellas and instrumentals—it brought a newfound awareness to genre-bending remix projects. The self-produced, underground mix CD made the year-end favorite lists of Entertainment Weekly, Los Angeles Times, New York Times, Rolling Stone , Spin , and URB. These ambitious creative efforts set the stage for Brian “Danger Mouse” Burton to release The Grey Album in 2004—a high-concept mashup of Jay-Z’s vocals from The Black Album and beats made from samples of music from The Beatles’ “White Album.” It would have a cascading effect on the music industry, not only blurring the lines between genres, but also writing the blueprint for every future do-it-yourself Internet remixer to follow. To understand how Burton , better known as Danger Mouse, went from releasing The Grey Album to producing albums for Beck, Broken Bells, The Black Keys, and U2, it is important to look at the early years of his career. Before composing The Grey Album , DJ Danger Mouse was making CDR mixtapes with the British cartoon character of the same name featured on the artwork. These early mixtapes included mashups using Nas vocals and Portishead beats—not as refined as his current work, but an indication that a project like The Grey Album was not far away. Take a closer look and you will also see he was remixing a certain Liverpool band on his Promo Vol. 2 tape in 1999. “That was the first time I ever mixed The Beatles,” Danger Mouse later explained in a short video interview . While his initial attraction to reworking The Beatles had been formed, the creation of The Grey Album was still a few years away. Early on, his choice remixes were pressed on vinyl and sold at various ‘mom and pop’ record shops alongside his mixtapes. In 2003, he transitioned from mixtape DJ to official album producer with the release of Ghetto Pop Life , his collaborative effort with rapper Gemini The Gifted One. Although Danger Mouse produced beats for his own mixtapes, his production for Gemini was his earliest official album work. “The first three beats I did, I stuck ’em on a CD, and Gem rhymed on all of them,” he said in an interview with Lawrence Billups . “They’re the ones that got me the deal at the record label (Lex Records).” Press enter or click to view image in full size Danger Mouse &amp; Gemini The Gifted One in 2003 But with the Internet still relatively new in 2003, independent artists had far fewer options for making direct connections with fans and catching the eye of the press. DM &amp; Gemini — as they were called at the time — were fortunate to have writer Adrienne Acosta in their corner, who later would help in various aspects of promotion at Danger Mouse’s label, Lex Records. Acosta’s recollection of their initial meeting made it sound like a doomed partnership. Danger Mouse, who had never spoken to Acosta before, said, “Before I sit down and have a conversation with you, I need you to tell me your top five favorite albums. I really can’t communicate with people that I’m not on the same level with.” As luck would have it, they shared a common three: Portishead’s self-titled sophomore LP, Isaac Hayes’ Hot Buttered Soul, and Sparklehorse’s It’s A Wonderful Life . Although their partnership may have seemed inauspicious at first, Acosta’s efforts in promoting Ghetto Pop Life paid off. The fledgling indie hip-hop album received strong reviews from the likes of The Independent , Pitchfork , and XLR8R. “Along with Outkast’s double-header, Speakerboxxx / The Love Below , Ghetto Pop Life is this year’s most engrossing hip-hop record,” wrote The Independent. In addition to the much-welcomed critical acclaim, it was during the recording process for Ghetto Pop Life that Danger Mouse would hone his meticulous ear and obsessive willingness to scour records for usable bits and pieces. When breaking down the process of constructing “The Only One,” which ended up becoming the album’s most recognizable track, Danger Mouse explained that he used three different samples to construct the record’s signature guitar sounds while trying out 30 different records to find the perfect vocal sample for the intro and hook. It was this level of dedication to finding the perfect fit that would inform his production process for The Grey Album . T wo months after the release of Danger Mouse and Gemini’s debut, Jay Z dropped The Black Album , which he had dubbed as his final LP, creating a fervor around the project. Always a marketing genius, Jay figured out another way to increase the hype surrounding his “retirement” effort by taking note of what his peers were doing. In previous years, Nas had experimented with putting out the full album acapellas — the isolated vocals only, with no beats or music behind them — for his albums Stillmatic and God’s Son. This gave aspiring producers a chance to remix his work and, by extension, further spread his lyrics to new fans. Press enter or click to view image in full size Jay followed suit and released a full-length acapella version of The Black Album to radio DJs on a promotional-only basis. Producers clamored to get a copy so that they could have a chance to rework Jay’s vocals, with folks like 9th Wonder and Kev Brown doing remixes of the entire album. “Danger Mouse called us and was like, ‘Please save me two copies of the Black Album acapella vinyl,’” says Cuepoint’s Mike Pizzo, who ran online record retailer HipHopSite.Com at the time. Once his copies arrived, Danger Mouse wasted no time in sharing his idea for The Grey Album with Acosta, who continued to be a trusted confidante after playing a critical role in helping Ghetto Pop Life find its audience. “That morning when I went to work, he was like, ‘Sit down, we need to talk, I have this brilliant idea!’” Acosta recalls. “I’d never seen him get that excited.” According to Acosta, the moment that The Black Album acapellas arrived, he said, “I’m going to be in my room, don’t expect to see me.” Burton affirmed this apparent level of hyper-focus in MTV interview after The Grey Album ’s release. “I was obsessed with the whole project, that’s all I was trying to do,” he said. “Once I got into it, I didn’t think about anything but finishing it.” Press enter or click to view image in full size The obsessive, repetitive listening that Danger Mouse utilized when composing Ghetto Pop Life would serve him well in his endless replaying of The White Album . MTV’s Corey Moss reported, “he scoured all 30 songs on The White Album, listening for every strike of a drum or cymbal when other instruments or voices were not in the mix.” He then used all of the isolated sounds he collected to produce original instrumentals to pair with Jay Z’s vocals. Danger Mouse’s tireless dedication to only using one album for his sample sources is impressive. Even the drums were composed of “ every possible Ringo Starr part from The White Album .” While the art of sampling was already a few decades old in 2004, only using one album for your sample sources to compose an entirely new album was generally unheard of. A project this intense may have taken some months to complete, true to his earlier conversation with Acosta, but Danger Mouse completed The Grey Album in just a few days after working nonstop. “He came out of his room and he looked horrible,” laughs Acosta. “He was like, ‘Check it out and tell me what you think.’” Acosta, Burton, and his roommate sat down to listen to the album and in an instant they knew they had something special on their hands. Press enter or click to view image in full size A photo of an original copy of ‘The Grey Album’ on CD, proudly ripped and uploaded to the internet by “GCP.” Pizzo’s camp, who hadn’t spoken to Danger Mouse since they sent the Black Album acapellas, was contacted as soon as The Grey Album was completed. The album went on sale on CD a short time later. “The night that we actually posted it on HipHopSite.com for sale, it sold out immediately,” says Pizzo. “The next day we got the cease and desist letter. We were like, ‘well, there’s no more anyway, soooo...’ Once MTV reported that EMI had sent a cease and desist letter out, it made the project so much bigger.” The cease and desist letter didn’t come as a complete surprise to Danger Mouse. “I never once thought for a second it would get cleared,” he said in an interview 