# A:1014753232153

**Source**: https://doi.org/10.1023/a:1014753232153
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:36:30.462759+00:00

---

Sibling Collusion and Problem Behavior in Early Adolescence: Toward a Process Model for Family Mutuality | Research on Child and Adolescent Psychopathology Skip to main content Log in Menu Find a journal Publish with us Track your research Search Cart Home Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology Article Sibling Collusion and Problem Behavior in Early Adolescence: Toward a Process Model for Family Mutuality Published: April 2002 Volume 30 , pages 143–153, ( 2002 ) Cite this article Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology Aims and scope Submit manuscript Bernadette Marie Bullock 1 &amp; Thomas J. Dishion 1 631 Accesses 94 Citations Explore all metrics Abstract Sibling collusion is a process by which siblings form coalitions that promote deviance and undermine parenting. Collusive sibling processes were identified and measured using macro ratings of videotaped family interactions. Hypotheses were tested on a multiethnic sample of urban youth, with a target child identified as either “high risk” ( n = 26) or “normative” ( n = 26), and their families. Siblings in families with a high-risk target child showed reliably higher rates of collusion than those in families with a normative target child. Sibling collusion also accounted for variance in problem behavior after controlling for involvement with deviant peers. Findings suggest that deviant conduct forms a common ground among siblings, potentially amplifying risk of mutuality in problem behavior during early adolescence. These data also indicate that attention to sibling relationship processes is relevant to family interventions designed to mitigate the development of behavior problems. This is a preview of subscription content, log in via an institution to check access. Access this article Log in via an institution Subscribe and save Springer+ from $39.99 /Month Starting from 10 chapters or articles per month Access and download chapters and articles from more than 300k books and 2,500 journals Cancel anytime View plans Buy Now Buy article PDF USD 39.95 Price excludes VAT (USA) Tax calculation will be finalised during checkout. Instant access to the full article PDF. Institutional subscriptions Similar content being viewed by others Relationship between sibling bullying, family functioning, and problem solving: A structural equation modeling Article 06 November 2021 Exploring Family Obligation as a Buffer Between Parental Differential Treatment and Sibling Hostility Article Open access 15 March 2024 Close Relationships Despite the Challenges: Sibling Relationships and Autism Article Open access 11 June 2024 Explore related subjects Discover the latest articles, books and news in related subjects, suggested using machine learning. Child and Adolescence Psychology Developmental Psychology Inbreeding Prosocial Behavior Social Structure Social Behavior REFERENCES Abramovitch, P., Carter, C., Pepler, D. J., &amp; Stanhope, L. (1986). Sibling and peer interaction: A final follow-up and a comparison. Child Development , 57, 217–229. Google Scholar Achenbach, T. M. (1991). Manual for the Child Behavior Checklist/4–18 and 1991 profile . Burlington: University of Vermont, Department of Psychology. Google Scholar Arnold, J. E., Levine, A. G., &amp; Patterson, G. R. (1975). Changes in sibling behavior following family intervention. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology , 43, 683–688. Google Scholar Brook, J. S., Whiteman, M., Gordon, A. S., &amp; Brenden, C. (1983). Older brother's influence on young sibling's drug use. Journal of Psychology , 114, 83–90. Google Scholar Brownfield, D., &amp; Sorenson, A. M. (1994). Sibship size and sibling delinquency. Deviant Behavior , 15, 45–61. Google Scholar Bullock, B. M., &amp; Dishion, T. J. (1999). Sibling Interaction Ratings . Unpublished coding instrument. (Available from Child and Family Center, University of Oregon, 195 West 12th Avenue, Eugene, OR 97401–3408) Bullock, B. M., &amp; Dishion, T. J. (2001, April). Sibling collusion, parenting, and peers: Toward unraveling a multidirectional process. In E. A. Stormshak &amp; B. M. Bullock (Chairs), Sibling relationships as a context for the development of risk . Paper presented at the biennial meeting of the Society for Research in Child Development, Minneapolis, MN. Capaldi, D. M., &amp; Patterson, G. R. (1991). Relation of parental transitions to boys' adjustment problems: I. A linear hypothesis. II. Mothers at risk for transitions and unskilled parenting. Developmental Psychology , 27, 489–504. Google Scholar Chamberlain, P., Patterson, G. R., Reid, J. B., Kavanagh, K., &amp; Forgatch, M. S. (1984). Observation of client resistance. Behavior Therapy , 15, 144–155. Google Scholar Crouter, A. C., McHale, S. M., &amp; Perry-Jenkins, M. (1990). Parental monitoring and perceptions of children's school performance and conduct in dual-and single-earner families. Developmental Psychology , 26, 649–657. Google Scholar Dadds, M. R., Sanders, M. R., Morrison, M., &amp; Rebgetz, M. (1992). Childhood depression and conduct disorder: II. An analysis of family interaction patterns in the home. Journal of Abnormative Psychology , 101, 505–513. Google Scholar Dishion, T. J., Andrews, D. W., Kavanagh, K., &amp; Soberman, L. H. (1996). Preventive interventions for high-risk youth: The Adolescent Transitions Program. In B. McMahon &amp; R. D. Peters (Eds.), Childhood disorders, substance abuse and delinquency: Prevention and early intervention approaches (pp. 184–214). Newbury Park, CA: Sage. Google Scholar Dishion, T. J., Capaldi, D., Spracklen, K. M., &amp; Li, F. (1995). Peer ecology of male adolescent drug use. Development and Psychopathology , 7, 803–824. Google Scholar Dishion, T. J., Eddy, M., Haas, E., Li, F., &amp; Spracklen, K. (1997). Friendships and violent behavior during adolescence. Social Development , 6, 207–223. Google Scholar Dishion, T. J., &amp; Kavanagh, K. (2000). An ecological approach to family intervention for adolescent substance use. In W. De Mey, E. Moens, K. Van Leeuwen, &amp; L. Verhofstadt-Denève (Eds.), Prevention of antisocial behavior: Starting at (pre-) conception? Tendencies in care and family support (pp. 137–154). Brussels, Belgium: University of Ghent. Google Scholar Dishion, T. J., &amp; Kavanagh, K. (in press). Adolescent problem behavior: An intervention and assessment sourcebook for working with families in schools . New York: Guilford. Dishion, T. J., &amp; McMahon, R. J. (1998). Parental monitoring and the prevention of child and adolescent problem behavior: A conceptual and empirical formulation. Clinical Child and Family Psychology Review , 1, 61–75. Google Scholar Dishion, T. J., &amp; Patterson, G. R. (1993). Antisocial behavior: Using a multiple gating strategy. In M. I. Singer, L. T. Singer, &amp; T. M. Anglin (Eds.), Handbook for screening adolescents at psychosocial risk (pp. 375–399). New York: Lexington Books. Google Scholar Dishion, T. J., Patterson, G. R., Stoolmiller, M., &amp; Skinner, M. L. (1991). Family, school, and behavioral antecedents to early adolescent involvement with antisocial peers. Developmental Psychology , 27, 172–180. Google Scholar Dishion, T. J., Spracklen, K. M., Andrews, D. W., &amp; Patterson, G. R. (1996). Deviancy training in male adolescent friendships. Behavior Therapy , 27, 373–390. Google Scholar Elliott, D., Huizinga, D., &amp; Ageton, S. (1985). Explaining delinquency and drug use . Beverly Hills, CA: Sage. Google Scholar Forgatch, M. S. (1984). A two-stage analysis of family problem solving: Global and microsocial . Unpublished doctoral dissertation, University of Oregon, Eugene. Forgatch, M., Fetrow, B., &amp; Lathrop, M. (1984). Coder Impressions . Unpublished instrument. (Available from Oregon Social Learning Center, 160 East 4th Avenue, Eugene, OR 97401–2426) Forgatch, M. S., &amp; Patterson, G. R. (1989). Parents and adolescents living together: Vol. II. Family problem-solving . Eugene, OR: Castalia. Google Scholar Henggeler, S. W., Schoenwald, S. K., Borduin, C. M., Rowland, M. D., &amp; Cunningham, P. B. (1998). Multisystemic treatment of antisocial behavior in children and adolescents . New York: Guilford. Google Scholar Horne, A. M. (1981). Aggressive behavior in normative and deviant members of intact versus mother-only families. Journal of Abnormative Child Psychology , 9 (2), 283–290. Google Scholar Lewin, L. M., Hops, H., Davis, B., &amp; Dishion, T. J. (1993). Multimethod comparison of similarity in school adjustment of siblings and unrelated children. Developmental Psychology , 29, 963–969. Google Scholar Loeber, R., &amp; Dishion, T.J. (1983). Early predictors of male delinquency: A review. Psychological Bulletin , 94, 68–99. Google Scholar Loeber, R., &amp; Dishion, T. J. (1987). Antisocial and delinquent youth: Methods for their early identification. In J. D. Burchard &amp; S. N. Burchard (Eds.), Prevention of delinquent behavior (Vol. 10, pp. 75–89). Newbury Park, CA: Sage. Google Scholar McKillip, J., Johnson, J. E., &amp; Petzel, T. P. (1973). Patterns and correlates of drug use among urban high school students. Journal of Drug Education , 3, 1–12. Google Scholar Minuchin, P. (1985). Families and individual development: Provocations from the field of family therapy. Child Development , 52, 289–302. Google Scholar Oregon Social Learning Center. (1984). Child Interview . Unpublished instrument. (Available from Oregon Social Learning Center, 160 East 4th Avenue, Eugene, OR 97401–2426) Patterson, G. R. (1982). A social learning approach: III. Coercive family process . Eugene, OR: Castalia. Google Scholar Patterson, G. R. (1984). Siblings: Fellow travelers in a coercive system. In R. J. Blanchard &amp; D. C. Blanchard (Eds.), Advances in the study of aggression (Vol. 1, pp. 173–215). New York: Academic Press. Google Scholar Patterson, G. R. (1986). The contribution of siblings to training for fighting: A microsocial analysis. In D. Olweus, J. Block, &amp; M. Radke-Yarrow (Eds.), Development