# Why Isnt Wall Street In Jail 20110216

**Source**: http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/why-isnt-wall-street-in-jail-20110216?print=true
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:38:45.381558+00:00

---

Why Isn&#039;t Wall Street in Jail? &times; &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo Politics Why Isn&#8217;t Wall Street in Jail? Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Politics Why Isn&#8217;t Wall Street in Jail? Financial crooks brought down the world's economy — but the feds are doing more to protect them than to prosecute them By Matt Taibbi Matt Taibbi Contact Matt Taibbi on X Forgiving Student Debt Alone Won’t Fix the Crisis Trump’s Gone, So What’s Next for the Democrats? Big Pharma’s Covid-19 Profiteers View all posts by Matt Taibbi February 16, 2011 Illustration by Victor Juhasz O ver drinks at a bar on a dreary, snowy night in Washington this past month, a former Senate investigator laughed as he polished off his beer. &#8220;Everything&#8217;s fucked up, and nobody goes to jail,&#8221; he said. &#8220;That&#8217;s your whole story right there. Hell, you don&#8217;t even have to write the rest of it. Just write that.&#8221; I put down my notebook. &#8220;Just that?&#8221; &#8220;That&#8217;s right,&#8221; he said, signaling to the waitress for the check. &#8220;Everything&#8217;s fucked up, and nobody goes to jail. You can end the piece right there.&#8221; Nobody goes to jail. This is the mantra of the financial-crisis era, one that saw virtually every major bank and financial company on Wall Street embroiled in obscene criminal scandals that impoverished millions and collectively destroyed hundreds of billions, in fact, trillions of dollars of the world&#8217;s wealth &mdash; and nobody went to jail. Nobody, that is, except Bernie Madoff , a flamboyant and pathological celebrity con artist, whose victims happened to be other rich and famous people. This article appears in the March 3, 2011 issue of Rolling Stone. The issue is available now on newsstands and will appear in the online archive February 18. The rest of them, all of them, got off. Not a single executive who ran the companies that cooked up and cashed in on the phony financial boom &mdash; an industrywide scam that involved the mass sale of mismarked, fraudulent mortgage-backed securities &mdash; has ever been convicted. Their names by now are familiar to even the most casual Middle American news consumer: companies like AIG, Goldman Sachs , Lehman Brothers , JP Morgan Chase, Bank of America and Morgan Stanley. Most of these firms were directly involved in elaborate fraud and theft. Lehman Brothers hid billions in loans from its investors. Bank of America lied about billions in bonuses. Goldman Sachs failed to tell clients how it put together the born-to-lose toxic mortgage deals it was selling. What&#8217;s more, many of these companies had corporate chieftains whose actions cost investors billions &mdash; from AIG derivatives chief Joe Cassano, who assured investors they would not lose even &#8220;one dollar&#8221; just months before his unit imploded, to the $263 million in compensation that former Lehman chief Dick &#8220;The Gorilla&#8221; Fuld conveniently failed to disclose. Yet not one of them has faced time behind bars. Editor’s picks The 250 Greatest Albums of the 21st Century So Far The 100 Best TV Episodes of All Time The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century Invasion of the Home Snatchers Instead, federal regulators and prosecutors have let the banks and finance companies that tried to burn the world economy to the ground get off with carefully orchestrated settlements &mdash; whitewash jobs that involve the firms paying pathetically small fines without even being required to admit wrongdoing. To add insult to injury, the people who actually committed the crimes almost never pay the fines themselves; banks caught defrauding their shareholders often use shareholder money to foot the tab of justice. &#8220;If the allegations in these settlements are true,&#8221; says Jed Rakoff, a federal judge in the Southern District of New York, &#8220;it&#8217;s management buying its way off cheap, from the pockets of their victims.&#8221; Taibblog: Commentary on politics and the economy by Matt Taibbi To understand the significance of this, one has to think carefully about the efficacy of fines as a punishment for a defendant pool that includes the richest people on earth &mdash; people who simply get their companies to pay their fines for them. Conversely, one has to consider the powerful deterrent to further wrongdoing that the state is missing by not introducing this particular class of people to the experience of incarceration. &#8220;You put Lloyd Blankfein in pound-me-in-the-ass prison for one six-month term, and all this bullshit would stop, all over Wall Street,&#8221; says a former congressional aide. &#8220;That&#8217;s all it would take. Just once.&#8221; But that hasn&#8217;t happened. Because the entire system set up to monitor and regulate Wall Street is fucked up. Just ask the people who tried to do the right thing. Wall Street&#8217;s Naked Swindle H ere&#8217;s how regulation of Wall Street is supposed to work. To begin with, there&#8217;s a semigigantic list of public and quasi-public agencies ostensibly keeping their eyes on the economy, a dense alphabet soup of banking, insurance, S&amp;L, securities and commodities regulators like the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), as well as supposedly &#8220;self-regulating organizations&#8221; like the New York Stock Exchange. All of these outfits, by law, can at least begin the process of catching and investigating financial criminals, though none of them has prosecutorial power. Related Content Susan Collins Raked in Wall Street Cash Before Advancing Trump Tax Bill Right-Wing Leader Says Conservatives Need ‘Scalps’ of Woke Wall Street CEOs Elon Musk and His DOGE Bro Have Cashed In on Americans’ Retirement Savings Inside Trump and Musk’s War on the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau The major federal agency on the Wall Street beat is the Securities and Exchange Commission. The SEC watches for violations like insider trading, and also deals with so-called &#8220;disclosure violations&#8221; &mdash; i.e., making sure that all the financial information that publicly traded companies are required to make public actually jibes with reality. But the SEC doesn&#8217;t have prosecutorial power either, so in practice, when it looks like someone needs to go to jail, they refer the case to the Justice Department. And since the vast majority of crimes in the financial services industry take place in Lower Manhattan, cases referred by the SEC often end up in the U.S. Attorney&#8217;s Office for the Southern District of New York. Thus, the two top cops on Wall Street are generally considered to be that U.S. attorney &mdash; a job that has been held by thunderous prosecutorial personae like Robert Morgenthau and Rudy Giuliani &mdash; and the SEC&#8217;s director of enforcement. The relationship between the SEC and the DOJ is necessarily close, even symbiotic. Since financial crime-fighting requires a high degree of financial expertise &mdash; and since the typical drug-and-terrorism-obsessed FBI agent can&#8217;t balance his own checkbook, let alone tell a synthetic CDO from a credit default swap &mdash; the Justice Department ends up leaning heavily on the SEC&#8217;s army of 1,100 number-crunching investigators to make their cases. In theory, it&#8217;s a well-oiled, tag-team affair: Billionaire Wall Street Asshole commits fraud, the NYSE catches on and tips off the SEC, the SEC works the case and delivers it to Justice, and Justice perp-walks the Asshole out of Nobu, into a Crown Victoria and off to 36 months of push-ups, license-plate making and Salisbury steak. That&#8217;s the way it&#8217;s supposed to work. But a veritable mountain of evidence indicates that when it comes to Wall Street, the justice system not only sucks at punishing financial criminals, it has actually evolved into a highly effective mechanism for protecting financial criminals. This institutional reality has absolutely nothing to do with politics or ideology &mdash; it takes place no matter who&#8217;s in office or which party&#8217;s in power. To understand how the machinery functions, you have to start back at least a decade ago, as case after case of financial malfeasance was pursued too slowly or not at all, fumbled by a government bureaucracy that too often is on a first-name basis with its targets. Indeed, the shocking pattern of nonenforcement with regard to Wall Street is so deeply ingrained in Washington that it raises a profound and difficult question about the very nature of our society: whether we have created a class of people whose misdeeds are no longer perceived as crimes, almost no matter what those misdeeds are. The SEC and the Justice Department have evolved into a bizarre species of social surgeon serving this nonjailable class, expert not at administering punishment and justice, but at finding and removing criminal responsibility from the bodies of the accused. The systematic lack of regulation has left even the country&#8217;s top regulators frustrated. Lynn Turner, a former chief accountant for the SEC, laughs darkly at the idea that the criminal justice system is broken when it comes to Wall Street. &#8220;I think you&#8217;ve got a wrong assumption &mdash; that we even have a law-enforcement agency when it comes to Wall Street,&#8221; he says. In the hierarchy of the SEC, the chief accountant plays a major role in working to pursue misleading and phony financial disclosures. Turner held the post a decad