# It Took Lapd 23 Years To Identify Police Detective As Culprit In Fatal Love Triangle

**Source**: https://www.latimes.com/california/story/2025-05-15/it-took-lapd-23-years-to-identify-police-detective-as-culprit-in-fatal-love-triangle
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:51:04.153548+00:00

---

It took LAPD 23 years to ID one of their own as culprit in fatal love triangle - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing &amp; Homelessness Politics Science &amp; Medicine World &amp; Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor &amp; Workplace Real Estate Technology and the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing &amp; Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate &amp; Environment Global Warming Water &amp; Drought Entertainment &amp; Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 best restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art &amp; Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health &amp; Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel &amp; Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World &amp; Nation Immigration &amp; the Border Israel-Hamas Mexico &amp; the Americas Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios Business • AI &amp; Tech • Banking &amp; Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Goods &amp; Retail • Healthcare &amp; Science • Law Dentists Decor &amp; Design Doctors &amp; Scientists Hot Property Live &amp; Well Orange County Pets The Hub: Rebuilding LA Travel Weddings &amp; Celebrations Newsletters Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Students &amp; Educators Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store L.A. Times Studios News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance &amp; Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? People on the Move Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Sections Show Search Search Query Submit Search Advertisement California It took LAPD 23 years to identify one of their own as the culprit in this fatal love triangle Los Angeles Police Det. Stephanie Lazarus appears at her 2009 arraignment in the murder of Sherri Rasmussen. (Mark Boster / Los Angeles Times) By&nbsp; Christopher Goffard Staff Writer Follow May 15, 2025 3 AM PT 42 Share via Close extra sharing options Email Facebook X LinkedIn Threads Reddit WhatsApp Copy Link URL Copied! Print p]:text-cms-story-body-color-text clearfix max-w-170 mt-7.5 mb-10 mx-auto" data-dropcap-image data-subscriber-content> When Sherri Rasmussen was found dead in her Van Nuys townhome in February 1986, bludgeoned badly and shot three times, detectives called it a burglary gone bad — a disastrously mistaken conclusion that did not budge for decades. Rasmussen was 29, newly married and a popular nursing director at Glendale Adventist Medical Center. Her new husband, John Ruetten, came to the marriage with some dangerous baggage: an emotionally volatile ex-lover who was not over him. This was Stephanie Lazarus, a 25-year-old patrol officer with the Los Angeles Police Department, and in retrospect, the grounds for suspecting her seem obvious. She had appeared at the victim’s workplace to harass her, and Rasmussen had expressed fear that she was being stalked. Sherri Rasmussen was 29 and newly married when she was found fatally bludgeoned and shot in her Van Nuys townhome in 1986. (Rasmussen family) What’s more, the bullets found in the body were the kind the LAPD issued to officers, and weeks after the murder, Lazarus reported that her backup gun, a snub-nosed .38 Smith &amp; Wesson revolver, had been stolen from her car. In this series, Christopher Goffard revisits old crimes in Los Angeles and beyond, from the famous to the forgotten, the consequential to the obscure, diving into archives and the memories of those who were there. Read the stories But for years she was not questioned as a suspect. Exactly why it took the LAPD 23 years to arrest Lazarus — who by then had started a family and risen to a high-profile detective position — has never been answered. “I don’t know that we’ll ever know the true answer of what went wrong,” said Connie Rasmussen, 71, one of the victim’s sisters. She remembers that her mother, who managed the family’s dental office in Arizona, kept the original detective’s business card on her desk and called relentlessly for updates. Advertisement When she thinks about the details of the murder, the evidence of personal hatred seems clear, as well as evidence of criminal sophistication. Her sister was smashed over the head with a vase. She was shot three times at close range, with a blanket wrapped around the gun to deaden the sound. As the case languished, her father wrote a letter to then-LAPD Chief Daryl Gates, pleading for his intervention. But the agency brushed off the family. Detectives kept insisting the crime fit the pattern of a residential burglary, not a love triangle. Stereo equipment had been stacked near the stairway, as if thieves had been interrupted in their work. And two armed robbers struck another house nearby soon after. Maybe it was investigative tunnel vision. Maybe it was the workload surrounding the crush of murders in mid-1980s Los Angeles. Maybe it was cognitive bias against the possibility it could be one of their own. Maybe, Rasmussen’s sister still wonders, someone inside the LAPD helped Lazarus along the way. “I believe so,” Connie Rasmussen said. “There’s no way I could prove it, but yes, I do.” No evidence has emerged to support a deliberate cover-up. The Rasmussen family sued the department, hoping the litigation would bring answers. A judge threw the case out, on statute-of-limitations grounds. Rasmussen’s parents lived long enough to see Lazarus arrested and convicted, but died without knowing why it took a quarter-century. Defense attorney Mark Overland, left, and Stephanie Lazarus sit in Superior Court just before Lazarus is found guilty of first-degree murder in the 1986 killing of Sherri Rasmussen. (Brian van der Brug / Los Angeles Times) While the case moldered and the family grieved, Stephanie Lazarus kept her badge and her secret. She built a solid if undistinguished career at the LAPD. Prosecutors would describe her as a C-plus cop. Advertisement She promoted the DARE anti-drug program, an initiative dear to the chief. She became a detective with the art theft detail, which gave her a high public profile. She appeared in photo ops with the brass. She bantered with reporters. She went on “Family Feud.” She married another cop and adopted a girl. By the early 2000s, detectives were diving into cold cases, but the trace evidence from the Rasmussen slaying had mysteriously vanished from the coroner’s office. Whether Lazarus stole it has never been proven, but she would have had access. And as a detective at the Van Nuys office for a time, she also would have had access to the case file, the so-called murder book. If you have information on old crimes, famous, once-famous or obscure, contact christopher.goffard@latimes.com “It’s really hard to know what could be missing, if it’s already gone,” said Matthew McGough, who wrote a 595-page account of the case called “The Lazarus Files.” The case might have gone unsolved, save for a single piece of evidence. A saliva sample from a bite on Rasmussen’s forearm was stored separately, in a freezer at the coroner’s office. In 2005, DNA tests that had been impossible decades earlier showed that it had come from a woman, undermining the two-man burglary theory. “Am I on ‘Candid Camera’ or something?” Stephanie Lazarus, shown in a frame grab from her interrogation, asked investigators. (Los Angeles Police Department) But the LAPD failed to move aggressively on the new information, and four more years passed before a Van Nuys detective asked the obvious question: Did the victim have any female enemies? This led to Lazarus, whose DNA matched the saliva sample. When she arrived at work downtown in early June 2009, detectives used a ruse to lure Lazarus to the jail facility downstairs, where she would be unarmed. At first, Lazarus told investigators she couldn’t recall whether she had ever met Rasmussen, but her memory soon recovered. “I may have talked to her once or twice, or more,” she said. She bristled when it became clear that she was a suspect in the murder. “You’re accusing me of this? ... Am I on ‘Candid Camera’ or something? This is insane.” She continued to deny her guilt at her 2012 trial, where jurors saw a letter she had written to the mother of Rasmussen’s husband, a man she met in college who had become an obsession. She was devastated by his engagement, she wrote. She did not understand why he had chosen another woman. John Ruetten, the husband of murder victim Sherri Rasmussen, gives his victim impact statement during the sentencing of Stephanie Lazarus. (Gary Friedman / Los Angeles Times) “I’m truly in love with John,” Lazarus had written. “This year has torn me up.” When Ruetten himself testified, he described a relationship of obvious asymmetry. He and Lazarus had become friends at UCLA, he said, and over the years they had slept together, but he did not consider her a girlfriend. He said he had slept with her after his 