# Big Calculator How Texas Instruments Monopolized Math Class 67Ee165045Dc

**Source**: https://gen.medium.com/big-calculator-how-texas-instruments-monopolized-math-class-67ee165045dc
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:47:41.045509+00:00

---

Big Calculator: How Texas Instruments Monopolized Math Class | by Maya Kosoff | GEN Sitemap Open in app Sign up Sign in Medium Logo Write Search Sign up Sign in GEN · A former publication from Medium about politics, power, and culture. Currently inactive and not taking submissions. Illustrations: Quick Honey Member-only story Big Calculator: How Texas Instruments Monopolized Math Class These $100 calculators have been required in classrooms for more than 20 years, as students and teachers still struggle to afford them Maya Kosoff 13 min read · Nov 25, 2019 -- 65 Share T his fall, Stephen Thompson began his first year of teaching Algebra 2 and college prep classes to 11th and 12th graders at a public high school in northwest Baltimore. On top of the typical stress of any first-year teaching experience, Thompson realized that along with other out-of-pocket classroom expenses, he would have to buy a pricey piece of classroom equipment: graphing calculators. Specifically, Texas Instruments graphing calculators. “The students, for the most part, don’t have calculators,” he told me in October. “On a typical day, a lot of students don’t even have a pencil. It’s up to the teacher to provide that stuff. The expectation is that we will have TI-83 calculators — that’s just what the curriculum demands.” Planned obsolescence is deeply ingrained with most tech companies. Apple introduces a new, sleeker iPhone every year, with improved features, different sizes, more power, and more pixels. But Texas Instruments graphing calculators used by high school students 10 or 20 years ago are essentially the same ones students use today. Bulky and black, with… -- -- 65 Published in GEN 100K followers · Last published Apr 19, 2022 A former publication from Medium about politics, power, and culture. Currently inactive and not taking submissions. Written by Maya Kosoff 53K followers · 536 following i’m a freelance writer and editor. you can also read me in places like the new york times and vanity fair. Responses ( 65 ) See all responses Help Status About Careers Press Blog Privacy Rules Terms Text to speech