# 17435 The Beefy Korean Barbecue Classic That S Surprisingly Easy To Make At Home

**Source**: https://food52.com/blog/17435-the-beefy-korean-barbecue-classic-that-s-surprisingly-easy-to-make-at-home
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:39:22.491671+00:00

---

Korean Bulgogi Recipe from Insa This Week&#x27;s Mood: Dinner &amp; a Movie This Week&#x27;s Mood: Dinner &amp; a Movie Schoolhouse Dansk Search Shop New Best Sellers Exclusively at Food52 Featured Makers Kitchen Kitchen Utensils &amp; Tools Kitchen Storage &amp; Organization Countertop Organization Food Storage Kitchen Linens Cutting Boards Coffee &amp; Tea Accessories Knives Cookware Frying Pans &amp; Skillets Baking &amp; Roasting Pans Dutch Ovens &amp; Stock Pots Sauce &amp; Saute Pans Cookware Sets Tabletop Dinnerware Glassware Table Linens Flatware &amp; Serving Utensils Serveware Outdoor Entertaining Home Organization &amp; Storage Cleaning &amp; Laundry Bath Towels &amp; Accessories Vases &amp; Decorative Objects Clocks &amp; Lighting Candles &amp; Candle Holders Planters Shop All Recipes Popular Quick and Easy 5 Ingredients or Fewer Cocktails Appetizers Ingredients Chicken Steak Salmon Pasta Potato Rice Meals &amp; Dishes Breakfast Lunch Dinner Salad Sweet Treats Lifestyle Vegetarian Vegan Gluten-Free Alcohol-Free Drinks Tools &amp; Techniques One Pot Sheet Pan No Bake Grill Life Travel Hosting &amp; Entertainment Parenting Pets Kitchen Sink Crafts &amp; Hobbies Community View All Food Recipes How To &amp; Hacks Meal Planning Baking Trending &amp; Seasonal Drinks Community Hotline View All Home Style &amp; Design Cleaning &amp; Organizing Outdoors Renovation Home Tours View All Watch Shop All Shop New Best Sellers Exclusively at Food52 Featured Makers Kitchen Kitchen Utensils &amp; Tools Kitchen Storage &amp; Organization Countertop Organization Food Storage Kitchen Linens Cutting Boards Coffee &amp; Tea Accessories Knives Cookware Frying Pans &amp; Skillets Baking &amp; Roasting Pans Dutch Ovens &amp; Stock Pots Sauce &amp; Saute Pans Cookware Sets Tabletop Dinnerware Glassware Table Linens Flatware &amp; Serving Utensils Serveware Outdoor Entertaining Home Organization &amp; Storage Cleaning &amp; Laundry Bath Towels &amp; Accessories Vases &amp; Decorative Objects Clocks &amp; Lighting Candles &amp; Candle Holders Planters Shop all Shop Recipes All Recipes Popular Quick and Easy 5 Ingredients or Fewer Cocktails Appetizers Ingredients Chicken Steak Salmon Pasta Potato Rice Meals &amp; Dishes Breakfast Lunch Dinner Salad Sweet Treats Lifestyle Vegetarian Vegan Gluten-Free Alcohol-Free Drinks Tools &amp; Techniques One Pot Sheet Pan No Bake Grill Life All Life Travel Hosting &amp; Entertainment Parenting Pets Kitchen Sink Crafts &amp; Hobbies Community Shop all Life Food All Food Recipes How To &amp; Hacks Meal Planning Baking Trending &amp; Seasonal Drinks Community Hotline Shop all Food Home All Home Style &amp; Design Cleaning &amp; Organizing Outdoors Renovation Home Tours Shop all Home Watch Account 0 Items in your Cart Your shopping cart is empty. Continue Shopping The Beefy Korean Barbecue Classic That&#x27;s Surprisingly Easy to Make at Home You say fire beef, Koreans say bulgogi By Samantha Weiss Hills Published On August 27, 2016 We&#x27;re always looking for tips on how to add something global to our meals, so we teamed up with the Beef Checkoff to share a favorite Korean preparation of beef—bulgogi. Walk the streets of the west mid-30s in Manhattan and you&#x27;ll pass rows and rows of Korean restaurants and markets and food courts, lit up and stretching from the ground floor toward the sky. It&#x27;s Koreatown you&#x27;ve arrived in, where every storefront you pass smells strongly and looks wonderfully of all the good stuff: roaring grills covered in meat, sour-sweet kimchi , bowls of rice cakes and bibimbap , and platters of squid and shrimp. It&#x27;s one of those places where you can lose yourself in culture without having to hitch a flight, a special perk to the cities in which these enclaves exist. One of the most ubiquitous dishes you&#x27;d encounter is bulgogi , or fire beef, sliced thinly and sometimes grilled on the tabletop grill you&#x27;ll find at Korean restaurants. Bulgogi is, as Deuki Hong and Matt Rodbard put it in the cookbook Koreatown , &quot;the workhorse of Korean barbecue.&quot; You&#x27;ll often see this spicy steak in recipes made with Ribeye, Sirloin, or Flat Iron because of how well these cuts take to marinating. Featured Video See all Food52 videos In many Koreatown restaurants, you&#x27;ll commonly grill your own bulgogi among friends and family on a stove in a tabletop—but at Insa , a cavernous Korean barbecue spot located not in Koreatown but on a sleepy street in Gowanus, Brooklyn, the bulgogi is grilled Flatiron steak that&#x27;s been marinated in soy, explains Michael Stokes, the Chef de Cuisine. Insa&#x27;s cooks prepare their bulgogi in the kitchen because it can easily get too dry on the table. &quot;We usually cook it that way...if there is any excess marinade, you can add that to the pan three-quarters of the way through cooking,&quot; Michael explains. &quot;A splash of water at the end can also help.&quot; He adds that you shouldn&#x27;t be aiming for &quot;caramelization&quot; on the meat when you cook it, though. Bulgogi is sometimes served alongside banchan (Korean for side dish), and maybe lettuce to wrap it all up and eat in a bite or two. Banchan itself has a fascinating and intertwined history with Korean cuisine—an essential in everyday Korean cooking. Altogether, it can add up to an impressive feast for a group, one that should be completed with a lot of beer and a little soju (a clear Korean spirit). We teamed up with the Beef Checkoff to share recipes, tips, and videos all season long, showing you how to prep and cook beef at home like you&#x27;ve been doing it forever. Our best tips for eating thoughtfully and living joyfully, right in your inbox. Subscribe Company About Us DEI Vision Press Jobs Affiliate Program Get Help Contact &amp; FAQ Gift Cards Advertising Inquiries Social Facebook Instagram Pinterest TikTok YouTube © 2025 Food52, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Code of Conduct Accessibility Policy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. When you visit our website, we collect and use personal information about you using cookies. You may opt out of selling, sharing, or disclosure of personal data for targeted advertising (called &quot;Do Not Sell or Share&quot; in California) by enabling the Global Privacy Control on a compatible browser. See our Privacy Policy for further information. Accept