# Around The World Three Years

**Source**: http://kottke.org/15/08/around-the-world-three-years
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:50:50.151924+00:00

---

Around the world in three years KOTTKE DOT ORG KOTTKE DOT ORG MENU Member Login Home Membership Newsletter Goods Archive + Tags About/Contact dark mode light mode Advertise here with Carbon Ads Socials & More Newsletter RSS Feed Bluesky Mastodon This site is made possible by member support . 💞 Big thanks to Arcustech for hosting the site and offering amazing tech support. When you buy through links on kottke.org, I may earn an affiliate commission. Thanks for supporting the site! kottke.org. home of fine hypertext products since 1998. Beloved by 86.47% of the web. 🍔 &nbsp; 💀 &nbsp; 📸 &nbsp; 😭 &nbsp; 🕳️ &nbsp; 🤠 &nbsp; 🎬 &nbsp; 🥔 × close posted Aug 3 @ 11:32 AM by Jason Kottke &ensp;·&ensp; gift link Around the world in three years Walter Chang saved up, quit his job, travelled around the world for three years , and made this video. I went to South America and trekked through Patagonia. In Zimbabwe, hippos, lions, and elephants roamed through our camping ground. When I got to South Korea, my relatives treated me as one of their own, despite having last seen them 18 years prior. It was in China, the third country of my trip, when I realized that what I was doing wasn&#8217;t totally crazy. I had already met a multitude of other backpackers taking extended trips ranging from several months to four years. Young people from abroad were prioritizing travel over hurrying into careers. This video makes me happy. And sad&#8230;I am clearly not grabbing enough tiger by the tail in life currently. Chang is doing a Kickstarter campaign for a book of photos from the trip. photography travel video Walter Chang Share