# 12002395

**Source**: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/12002395/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:41:19.731622+00:00

---

Sibling collusion and problem behavior in early adolescence: toward a process model for family mutuality - PubMed This site needs JavaScript to work properly. Please enable it to take advantage of the complete set of features! Clipboard, Search History, and several other advanced features are temporarily unavailable. Skip to main page content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Log in Show account info Close Account Logged in as: username Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Access keys NCBI Homepage MyNCBI Homepage Main Content Main Navigation Search: Search Advanced Clipboard User Guide Save Email Send to Clipboard My Bibliography Collections Citation manager Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Save citation to file Format: Summary (text) PubMed PMID Abstract (text) CSV Create file Cancel Email citation Email address has not been verified. Go to My NCBI account settings to confirm your email and then refresh this page. To: Subject: Body: Format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) MeSH and other data Send email Cancel Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Add to My Bibliography My Bibliography Unable to load your delegates due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Your saved search Name of saved search: Search terms: Test search terms Would you like email updates of new search results? Saved Search Alert Radio Buttons Yes No Email: ( change ) Frequency: Monthly Weekly Daily Which day? The first Sunday The first Monday The first Tuesday The first Wednesday The first Thursday The first Friday The first Saturday The first day The first weekday Which day? Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Report format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) PubMed Send at most: 1 item 5 items 10 items 20 items 50 items 100 items 200 items Send even when there aren't any new results Optional text in email: Save Cancel Create a file for external citation management software Create file Cancel Your RSS Feed Name of RSS Feed: Number of items displayed: 5 10 15 20 50 100 Create RSS Cancel RSS Link Copy Actions Cite Collections Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Permalink Permalink Copy Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Page navigation Title &amp; authors Abstract References Publication types MeSH terms Grants and funding LinkOut - more resources Title &amp; authors Abstract References Publication types MeSH terms Grants and funding LinkOut - more resources J Abnorm Child Psychol Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2002 Apr;30(2):143-53. doi: 10.1023/a:1014753232153. Sibling collusion and problem behavior in early adolescence: toward a process model for family mutuality Bernadette Marie Bullock &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Thomas J Dishion Affiliations Expand Affiliation 1 Department of Psychology, University of Oregon Child and Family Center, Eugene 97401, USA. bullock@darkwing.uoregon.edu PMID: 12002395 DOI: 10.1023/a:1014753232153 Item in Clipboard Sibling collusion and problem behavior in early adolescence: toward a process model for family mutuality Bernadette Marie Bullock &nbsp;et al. J Abnorm Child Psychol . 2002 Apr . Show details Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID J Abnorm Child Psychol Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2002 Apr;30(2):143-53. doi: 10.1023/a:1014753232153. Authors Bernadette Marie Bullock &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Thomas J Dishion Affiliation 1 Department of Psychology, University of Oregon Child and Family Center, Eugene 97401, USA. bullock@darkwing.uoregon.edu PMID: 12002395 DOI: 10.1023/a:1014753232153 Item in Clipboard Cite Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Abstract Sibling collusion is a process by which siblings form coalitions that promote deviance and undermine parenting. Collusive sibling processes were identified and measured using macro ratings of videotaped family interactions. Hypotheses were tested on a multiethnic sample of urban youth, with a target child identified as either "high risk" (n = 26) or "normative" (n = 26), and their families. Siblings in families with a high-risk target child showed reliably higher rates of collusion than those in families with a normative target child. Sibling collusion also accounted for variance in problem behavior after controlling for involvement with deviant peers. Findings suggest that deviant conduct forms a common ground among siblings, potentially amplifying risk of mutuality in problem behavior during early adolescence. These data also indicate that attention to sibling relationship processes is relevant to family interventions designed to mitigate the development of behavior problems. PubMed Disclaimer References J Consult Clin Psychol. 1975 Oct;43(5):683-8 - PubMed J Consult Clin Psychol. 1993 Dec;61(6):911-9 - PubMed Child Dev. 1992 Feb;63(1):59-67 - PubMed J Abnorm Child Psychol. 1981 Jun;9(2):283-90 - PubMed Child Dev. 1985 Apr;56(2):289-302 - PubMed Show all 9 references Publication types Research Support, U.S. Gov&#x27;t, P.H.S. Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search MeSH terms Adolescent Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Adolescent Behavior / psychology Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Child Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Communication Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Family / psychology* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Humans Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Interpersonal Relations Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Mental Disorders / diagnosis Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Mental Disorders / epidemiology Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Mental Disorders / psychology* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Parenting Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Psychology, Adolescent Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Sibling Relations* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Socialization Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Surveys and Questionnaires Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Grants and funding 5-T32-MH20012/MH/NIMH NIH HHS/United States DA07031/DA/NIDA NIH HHS/United States LinkOut - more resources Full Text Sources Ovid Technologies, Inc. Medical MedlinePlus Health Information [x] Cite Copy Download .nbib .nbib Format: AMA APA MLA NLM Send To Clipboard Email Save My Bibliography Collections Citation Manager [x] NCBI Literature Resources MeSH PMC Bookshelf Disclaimer The PubMed wordmark and PubMed logo are registered trademarks of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Unauthorized use of these marks is strictly prohibited. Follow NCBI Twitter Facebook LinkedIn GitHub Connect with NLM Twitter SM-Facebook SM-Youtube National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike Bethesda, MD 20894 Web Policies FOIA HHS Vulnerability Disclosure Help Accessibility Careers NLM NIH HHS USA.gov