# The Do Nothing Strategy

**Source**: http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/09/22/the_do_nothing_strategy?page=full
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:34:33.040678+00:00

---

The Do-Nothing Strategy &#8211; Foreign Policy There appears to be a technical issue with your browser This issue is preventing our website from loading properly. Please review the following troubleshooting tips or contact us at [email&#160;protected] . Close Skip to navigation Skip to search Skip to main content Skip to footer Foreign Policy Get analysis and alerts more quickly in the mobile app. Install Show expanded website navigation Back to Foreign Policy Magazine home page Latest Regions Asia &amp; the Pacific China Middle East &amp; Africa Americas Europe Newsletters By submitting your email, you agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Use and to receive email correspondence from us. You may opt out at any time. Enter your email Sign Up Editors’ Picks Evening roundup with our editors’ favorite stories of the day World Brief Your guide to the most important world stories of the day China Brief The latest news, analysis, and data from the country each week Situation Report Weekly update on what’s driving U.S. national security policy FP Weekend A curation of our best book reviews, deep dives, and other reads Africa Brief Essential analysis of the stories shaping geopolitics on the continent South Asia Brief Weekly update on developments in India and its neighbors The Reading List Curated guides on geopolitics and current affairs Latin America Brief One-stop digest of politics, economics, and culture Southeast Asia Brief A weekly dispatch with news from the region’s 11 countries View All Newsletters FP Live Latest Trending: U.S. government shutdown Trump’s speech to generals Argentina bailout Website Search and Account Management Search Icon Search this website Search Search Preferences My FP Feed Saved Articles Newsletters Magazine Archive Subscription Settings FAQs Log Out Sign In Sign In Global intelligence for your team Global intelligence for your team SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Global intelligence for your team Global intelligence for your team Show expanded website navigation Argument: The Do-Nothing Strategy Share icon Share Copy Link icon Copy Link Link copied to clipboard Email icon Email Facebook icon Facebook Bluesky icon Bluesky X icon X LinkedIn icon LinkedIn WhatsApp icon WhatsApp Reddit icon Reddit Save icon Save Create an FP account to save articles to read later. Sign Up ALREADY AN FP SUBSCRIBER? LOGIN Download icon PDF Downloadable PDFs are a benefit of an FP subscription. Subscribe Now ALREADY AN FP SUBSCRIBER? LOGIN Gift Copy Link icon Copy Link Link copied to clipboard Email icon Email WhatsApp icon WhatsApp Gifting articles is a subscriber benefit. Subscribe Now ALREADY AN FP SUBSCRIBER? LOGIN This article is an Insider exclusive. Contact us at [email&#160;protected] to learn about upgrade options, unlocking the ability to gift this article. Back to Foreign Policy Magazine home page Preferences My FP Feed Saved Articles Newsletters Magazine Archive Subscription Settings FAQs Log Out Sign In Sign In Global intelligence for your team Global intelligence for your team SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Global intelligence for your team Global intelligence for your team Latest Newsletters World Brief Editors’ Picks Africa Brief China Brief Latin America Brief South Asia Brief Southeast Asia Brief Situation Report The Reading List FP Weekend See All Topics Trump’s second term Shadow government War in Ukraine Crisis in the Middle East U.S. foreign policy Trade and economics U.S.-China competition Artificial intelligence Regions Asia &amp; the Pacific China Middle East &amp; Africa Americas Europe FP Live How Oct. 7 Changed the World October 7 Why Young Americans Are Swinging Right October 9 See All Podcasts Illustration with Adam Tooze headshot on a green background with the text Ones &amp; Tooze Ones and Tooze Illustration with a male spy headshot and the text I Spy I Spy FP Live podcast logo Foreign Policy Live See All Magazine Fall 2025 Issue Fall 2025 Issue Print Archive See All Collections The AI Arms Race The Trade Wars FP Analytics In-depth Special Reports Issue Briefs Power Maps and Interactive Microsites FP Simulations &amp; PeaceGames Synthesis Reports Insight Briefs &amp; Spotlights Graphics Database See All Events FP @ WHS October 12 From Plans to Action October 12 FP @ COP30 November 12 Where we'll be this year See All Search Search Icon Additional Navigation Bluesky icon Follow FP on Bluesky X icon Follow FP on X LinkedIn icon Follow FP on LinkedIn Instagram icon Follow FP on Instagram Facebook icon Follow FP on Facebook FP SOLUTIONS FP Analytics FP Events FP Studios Simulations and Peacegames Advertise with FP Country Reports Subscription Services Your FP Account Group Subscriptions Reprint Permissions FP Magazine Archive Buy Back Issues EDUCATION Graduate Education Guide FP for Education Institutional Access ABOUT FP Writer&#039;s Guidelines Meet the Staff Work at FP Contact FP Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Terms of Use Accessibility Bluesky icon Follow FP on Bluesky X icon Follow FP on X LinkedIn icon Follow FP on LinkedIn Instagram icon Follow FP on Instagram Facebook icon Follow FP on Facebook Foreign Policy Magazine is a division of Graham Holdings Company. All contents (c) 2025, Graham Digital Holding Company. All rights reserved. Foreign Policy, 655 15th St NW, Suite 300, Washington, DC, 20005. Powered by WordPress VIP This article was published more than 14 years ago Argument An expert’s point of view on a current event. The Do-Nothing Strategy It&#039;s time for Obama to realize that with the 2012 elections in the offing, expending any effort on a Middle East peace process is a losing battle. By Aaron David Miller , a senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. fp-placeholder-social-share-3-2 U.S. Foreign Policy Economics Middle East and North Africa September 22, 2011, 11:31 PM Governing is about choosing. And a much-diminished American president has made his choice. Israeli-Palestinian peacemaking isn't and shouldn't be Barack Obama's top priority. Getting reelected is. And that means carefully husbanding his eroding political currency and expending it on matters domestic and economic. Despite all the kerfuffle at the United Nations this week, the last thing he needs to do is pick an unproductive fight with Israel or the Republicans on an Israeli-Palestinian peace process that has been dead for some time now. The &quot;sky is falling&quot; crowd bemoaning the loss of American influence on the peace process ought to stop whining. There's no deal now that anyone can broker. The president is right to protect his political flanks. This isn't cheap or dirty politics; it's smart. If Palestinian Authority (PA) President Mahmoud Abbas forces a vote on U.N. membership in the Security Council this week or next month, Obama should veto it and sleep well that night. Governing is about choosing. And a much-diminished American president has made his choice. Israeli-Palestinian peacemaking isn&#8217;t and shouldn&#8217;t be Barack Obama&#8217;s top priority. Getting reelected is. And that means carefully husbanding his eroding political currency and expending it on matters domestic and economic. Despite all the kerfuffle at the United Nations this week, the last thing he needs to do is pick an unproductive fight with Israel or the Republicans on an Israeli-Palestinian peace process that has been dead for some time now. The &quot;sky is falling&quot; crowd bemoaning the loss of American influence on the peace process ought to stop whining. There&#8217;s no deal now that anyone can broker. The president is right to protect his political flanks. This isn&#8217;t cheap or dirty politics; it&#8217;s smart. If Palestinian Authority (PA) President Mahmoud Abbas forces a vote on U.N. membership in the Security Council this week or next month, Obama should veto it and sleep well that night. Let&#8217;s get the easy stuff out of the way. First, Palestinians deserve an independent state living in peace and security alongside Israel. They&#8217;ve suffered enough; their cause is just and compelling. Abbas is a good man who has eschewed violence and together with his prime minister, Salam Fayyad, has begun to create the infrastructure and institutions of statehood. The Palestinians&#8217; desire to change the paradigm by shifting from an arena where they have limited influence (bilateral negotiations with Israel) to the international arena where they have more is as understandable as it is unwise. Indeed, nothing that will happen in New York this week or next that will bring Palestinians any closer to realizing real statehood; it could, in fact, take them farther away. Second, we can blame everything on Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu from morning to night &#8212; but it would be an unfair and dishonest analysis. There&#8217;s no doubt that Israeli settlement activity and inflexible positions on Jerusalem, borders, refugees, and security have made this Israeli government a tough and often recalcitrant partner in the peace process. Still, the last time I looked, this Israeli government is a legitimate result of political and coalition realities in a democratic polity; and, I might add, with 32 governments since independence (the average length being 1.8 years) it&#8217;s also proving pretty durable. To put the entire blame for the current impasse on Netanyahu just doesn&#8217;t add up. The gaps on the core issues, particularly the identity issues &#8212; Jerusalem and refugees &#8212; have been unbridgeable for more than a decade now &#8212; in Ehud Barak&#8217;s negotiations with Yasir Arafat back in 2000 and Ehud Olmert&#8217;s with Abbas in 2010. Furthermore, the current Palestinian polity is more Humpty Dumpty than an authoritative, cohesive political partner. A significant part of it (Hamas) sits in Gaza and competes with the one that sits in Ramallah &#8212; not just over seats in a parliament, but on the basic issue of where and what Palestine should be.