# Blink 182 Tour Dates Tom Delonge Mark Hoppus Travis Barker

**Source**: https://www.latimes.com/entertainment-arts/story/2022-10-11/blink-182-tour-dates-tom-delonge-mark-hoppus-travis-barker
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:10:33.425761+00:00

---

Blink-182 tour dates: DeLonge, Hoppus and Barker reunite - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing &amp; Homelessness Politics Science &amp; Medicine World &amp; Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor &amp; Workplace Real Estate Technology and the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing &amp; Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate &amp; Environment Global Warming Water &amp; Drought Entertainment &amp; Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 best restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art &amp; Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health &amp; Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel &amp; Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World &amp; Nation Immigration &amp; the Border Israel-Hamas Mexico &amp; the Americas Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios Business • AI &amp; Tech • Banking &amp; Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Goods &amp; Retail • Healthcare &amp; Science • Law Dentists Decor &amp; Design Doctors &amp; Scientists Hot Property Live &amp; Well Orange County Pets The Hub: Rebuilding LA Travel Weddings &amp; Celebrations Newsletters Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Students &amp; Educators Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store L.A. Times Studios News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance &amp; Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? People on the Move Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Sections Tap to enable a layout that focuses on the article. Focus mode Show Search Search Query Submit Search Advertisement Entertainment &amp; Arts Tom DeLonge reunites with Mark Hoppus and Travis Barker for Blink-182 world tour Mark Hoppus, left, Tom DeLonge and Travis Barker of Blink-182 are going on tour in 2023 and 2024. (Live Nation) By Christi Carras Staff Writer&nbsp; Oct. 11, 2022 9:29 AM PT Share via Close extra sharing options Email Facebook X LinkedIn Threads Reddit WhatsApp Copy Link URL Copied! Print p]:text-cms-story-body-color-text clearfix mb-10 md:max-w-170 md:mx-auto" data-subscriber-content> You’ll be at their show. Blink-182 is back. On Tuesday, the rock band announced that original members Tom DeLonge, Mark Hoppus and Travis Barker are reuniting for a world tour, a new album and a new song, “Edging,” coming out Friday. This will mark the first time the trio has performed and created new music together since DeLonge left the band in 2015. To celebrate its comeback, the group released a video teasing its forthcoming single and encouraging fans to check the Blink-182 website for tour dates. The band will play Los Angeles’ Banc of California Stadium on June 16 before traveling to San Diego (June 20), San Jose (June 22) and Sacramento (June 23). Television Travis Barker says he’s much better after ‘life threatening’ bout with pancreatitis Travis Barker, the drummer for Blink 182, says he was hospitalized after complications from an endoscopy. July 2, 2022 The “All the Small Things” hitmakers are also set to visit several other cities across the United States, as well as locations in Mexico, Canada, South America, Europe and Australia. Advertisement Blink-182’s imminent return comes after multiple band members recently recovered from severe health issues. In June 2021, Hoppus revealed that he had been diagnosed with cancer. By September 2021, the 50-year-old bassist and vocalist was cancer-free after battling Stage 4 diffuse large B-cell lymphoma . In June 2022, Barker was hospitalized for a “life-threatening” case of pancreatitis triggered by an endoscopy gone wrong. By early July, the 46-year-old drummer was feeling “much better” and “so grateful” for the treatment he received. Music ‘Today is an amazing day’: Blink-182 rocker Mark Hoppus celebrates being cancer-free Blink-182 musician Mark Hoppus announced Wednesday that he is cancer-free after several months of chemotherapy treatments. Sept. 29, 2021 Fans have long awaited a Blink-182 reunion since the band’s messy breakup in 2015. What was originally described by Hoppus as a “friendly divorce” eventually spiraled into something less cordial when Hoppus and Barker blasted DeLonge as “ungrateful and disingenuous” upon his exit. Advertisement In a lengthy statement addressing the fallout at the time, lead singer and guitarist DeLonge claimed he “never planned on quitting” but ultimately found it “hard ... to commit” to a band suffering from “years of ill will.” Seven years later, it appears the group has patched things up — for now, at least. In addition to performing a series of individual concerts throughout 2023 and 2024, the band is also slated to headline Lollapalooza music festivals in Chile, Argentina and Brazil opposite Billie Eilish, Drake, Lil Nas X, Tame Impala and Rosalía. Tickets for the Blink-182 world tour go on sale Monday at 10 a.m. Pacific. More to Read Paul McCartney announces new U.S. arena tour, his first since 2022 July 10, 2025 Linkin Park’s massive 2025 tour taps Queens of the Stone Age for Dodger Stadium show Nov. 14, 2024 AC/DC’s Power Up tour, its first U.S. run in nine years, will stop at the Rose Bowl Dec. 2, 2024 Entertainment &amp; Arts The biggest entertainment stories Get our big stories about Hollywood, film, television, music, arts, culture and more right in your inbox as soon as they publish. By continuing, you agree to our Terms of Service and our Privacy Policy . Enter email address Agree &amp; Continue Christi Carras Former staff writer Christi Carras reported on the entertainment industry for the Los Angeles Times. She previously covered entertainment news for The Times after graduating from UCLA and working at Variety, the Hollywood Reporter and CNN Newsource. More From the Los Angeles Times Review Daniel Day-Lewis returns in ‘Anemone,’ a flimsy vehicle that can’t contain his gale-force intensity Television Taylor Swift apparently has a lot to brag about with Travis Kelce (especially in bed) Review Marc Maron, doomy as ever, comes to richer life in the doc ‘Are We Good?’ Music Future Ruins, Nine Inch Nails’ film-music festival, is canceled Most Read in Entertainment &amp; Arts Hollywood Inc. Here comes Bari Weiss. What does it mean for CBS News? Oct. 3, 2025 Television Who was Ed Gein, the serial killer in Netflix’s ‘Monster’ Season 3? Oct. 3, 2025 Hollywood Inc. Google lays off dozens of workers in Sunnyvale Music Taylor Swift’s ‘The Life of a Showgirl’ is an immaculate act of damage control Oct. 2, 2025 Subscribers are Reading For Subscribers Almost no one is building new apartments in Los Angeles. Here’s why L.A. Affairs: He roots for Trump and the Dodgers. Could we stay married? UCLA donors question athletic director Martin Jarmond’s leadership, future viability How one man in East L.A. ended up with the world’s most famous feet UCLA chancellor ready to stand firm against Trump demands, unless they’re ‘valid’ Advertisement Latest Entertainment &amp; Arts Tyrese Gibson booked on animal cruelty charge after his dogs killed a neighbor’s pet Before Taylor Swift rolled out ‘Father Figure,’ George Michael’s estate gave her props Oct. 3, 2025 She’s used to finding laughs in catastrophe. But Rose Byrne is only now going to the edge Oct. 3, 2025 ‘This is the record that properly represents us’: Inside AFI’s journey to its definitive album Oct. 3, 2025 Cannibal Corpse’s death metal keeps head banging into the mainstream, from ‘Ace Ventura’ to TikTok fame Oct. 3, 2025 Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Subscribe for unlimited access Site Map Follow Us X Instagram YouTube Facebook eNewspaper Find/Post Jobs Place an Ad Media Kit: Why the L. A. Times? MORE FROM THE L.A. TIMES Crossword Obituaries Recipes Guides L.A. Times Store About/Contact For the Record L.A. Times Careers Manage Subscription Reprints and Permissions Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information