# Recommendations

**Source**: https://andrewsullivan.substack.com/recommendations
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:16:45.554725+00:00

---

Substacks recommended by The Weekly Dish The Weekly Dish Subscribe Sign in Home Notes Archive Leaderboard About Recommended by The Weekly Dish Sean Illing Subscribe Dad, Veteran, Author, “The Paradox of Democracy,” Host of The Gray Area. 👉 https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-gray-area-with-sean-illing/id1081584611 Matthew Vines Subscribe Hardball with Chris Matthews Subscribe Hardball is a show about politics, formerly on MSNBC, now exclusively on Substack, and it's going to be a little different. Executive Functions By Jack Goldsmith Subscribe Bob Bauer and Jack Goldsmith, two former senior government lawyers from different political backgrounds and administrations, decode the presidential power issues and controversies of the day. Quillette’s Substack Subscribe For the courageously curious Niall Ferguson's Time Machine Subscribe Niall Ferguson's Time Machine applies historical perspective to contemporary problems in economics and politics, because the further back you look, the further ahead you can see. FRESH HELL Tina Brown's Diary By Tina Brown Subscribe Tina Brown's observations, rants, news obsessions, and human exchanges. The American Saga By Zaid Jilani Subscribe News and views covering America's story from a decidedly anti-partisan perspective. Bill Maher Subscribe Here you’ll get access to never-before-seen exclusive content, and this is a place where we can connect and chat. Cleese Products By John Cleese Subscribe May contain traces of irony. Politics War Room with James Carville &amp; Al Hunt By Politics War Room With James Carville &amp; Al Hunt Subscribe Join James Carville and Al Hunt in the fight for the soul of the nation. Ayaan Hirsi Ali By Restoration Subscribe Decades ago, I escaped the Islamic world and came to the West. Many don't know how good the West is, or how fragile. I fight for the restoration of what made the West great. Compact’s Substack By Compact Magazine Subscribe Compact Magazine's Substack The Queer Majority Subscribe Why LGBT Moderates Must Lead Discourse By The Mercatus Center Subscribe Where Ideas Meet. Subscribe now to receive your free digital copy of Discourse's Abundance Agenda print edition. Hazard Ratio: Benjamin Ryan Subscribe Independent health and science journalist Benjamin Ryan's Substack focuses on pediatric gender medicine in particular. Expression By theFIREorg Subscribe The stories that shape free speech in America, brought to you by the Foundation for Individual Rights and Expression (FIRE). The Poetry of Reality with Richard Dawkins Subscribe The Poetry of Reality Page is hosted by world renowned evolutionary biologist and best-selling author, Professor Richard Dawkins, celebrated by intellectuals and scientists everywhere for his honest critique of religion and his push for critical thinking. Sanity Clause By Joe Klein Subscribe As the Marx Brothers said, there ain't no sanity clause--but these are my latest thoughts about politics, policy, culture, books and other stuff. Christopher F. Rufo Subscribe Leading the fight against the left-wing ideological regime. Lee Fang Subscribe Investigations and observations about the public interest. Silver Bulletin By Nate Silver Subscribe Essays and analysis about elections, media, sports, poker, and all the other things I care about. Distilled By Michael Thomas Subscribe Deeply researched stories about climate change Political News Items By John Ellis Subscribe Politics. Foreign and Domestic. The Take (by Jon Miltimore) By Jon Miltimore Subscribe Movies, literature, liberty, and making sense of our clown world Drezner’s World By Daniel W. Drezner Subscribe A bunch of unedited stuff about international relations, American politics, political economy, the marketplace of ideas, and popular culture written by this Drezner guy The Unspeakeasy with Meghan Daum By The Unspeakable with Meghan Daum Subscribe Home of The Unspeakeasy Podcast and The Unspeakeasy Live, a weekly livestream on Thursday at 3 pm ET featuring nuanced AF conversations with guests, friends and audience members. Plus new writing and updates from Meghan Daum. Unsafe By Ann Coulter Subscribe Politics, Media, Crime - the full Ann News Network (A.N.N.) Notes from the Middleground By Damon Linker Subscribe Analysis and criticism of the antiliberal right, social-justice progressivism, and cultural topics The Fifth Column (A Podcast) Subscribe Your weekly rhetorical assault on the news cycle, the people who make it, and occasionally ourselves. Rob Henderson's Newsletter Subscribe Human nature, psychology, social class, luxury beliefs, and more. Of Boys and Men By Richard V Reeves Subscribe rising to the challenges faced by the modern male Konstantin Kisin Subscribe Politically Non-Binary Opinions on Culture, Politics and Comedy The Scroll Subscribe We read the Internet all day so you don't have to. Very Serious By Josh Barro Subscribe Josh Barro's newsletter about politics, the economy and culture. Copyranter Two Point Zero By Mark Duffy Subscribe Best Ad Critic In The World™, which is akin to being the best hockey team in Paraguay, but there it is. My hockey wrist shot is harder/more accurate than yours. Also a copywriter with 30+ years experience. I've won lots of awards. Who gives a flying puck. The Debatable Land By Alex Massie Subscribe Politics, culture, and history from Scotland, the UK and beyond Blocked and Reported By Jesse Singal Subscribe A Podcast About Internet Controversies Sam Harris Subscribe Sam Harris is the author of five NYT bestsellers, host of the Making Sense podcast, and creator of the Waking Up app. Journal of Free Black Thought Subscribe Black viewpoint diversity Slack Tide by Matt Labash By Matt Labash Subscribe Taking life as it comes, not necessarily in that order I Might Be Wrong By Jeff Maurer Subscribe Comedy, politics, and swearing in pretty much equal amounts. The Microdose Subscribe An independent journalism newsletter supported by the U.C. Berkeley Center for the Science of Psychedelics TaraElla's Political Theory of Everything By TaraElla Post Subscribe Observations and philosophy for a (libertarian-ish) moderate politics. buttonslives By Christina Buttons Subscribe Critical reporting on the evidence base behind biological explanations for transgender identity, gender-transition treatments, and psychiatric models—seeking a better path forward for mental health. PLURIBUS By Pluribus Subscribe Providing original commentary and aggregating the best work on the illiberal impulses that threaten freedom and social cohesion. The Upheaval By N.S. Lyons (The Upheaval) Subscribe Exploring the shared upheavals of our era, including technological and cultural change, the ideological revolution consuming the West, the rise of China, and the crisis of liberalism. Wrong Side of History By Ed West Subscribe It's Ed West's sub stack The Honest Broker By Ted Gioia Subscribe A trustworthy guide to music, books, arts, media &amp; culture by Ted Gioia Freddie deBoer Subscribe cool but rude © 2025 Andrew Sullivan and Chris Bodenner Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice Start writing Get the app Substack is the home for great culture This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts