# Cost Of As Las Vegas Stadium Could Grow To 2B Owner Fisher Says 3390257

**Source**: https://www.reviewjournal.com/sports/athletics/cost-of-as-las-vegas-stadium-could-grow-to-2b-owner-fisher-says-3390257/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:01:06.337708+00:00

---

A’s Las Vegas ballpark cost could near $2 billion, owner Fisher says | Athletics | Sports VIEW E-EDITION 99&cent; for 6 mos Support local journalism. Only 99&cent; for 6 months MANAGE ACTIVATE SIGN IN Hi SIGN OUT 85°F News Local Sports Business Neon Things to do Opinion Crime Obits 85°F Windy Las Vegas, NV Home Latest Headlines Neon Kats Dining Out Outdoors Bars Nightlife Music Arts &#038; Culture Free Family Friendly goguide Nevada&#8217;s Black Book Top 100 Restaurants &#8211; 2025 Paying the Price 7@7 video Israel at War Local Traffic Las Vegas Weather East Valley Henderson Las Vegas Downtown Nevada North Las Vegas Southwest Summerlin/Centennial Hills The Strip Remembering Oct. 1, 2017 Local Columns Bob Morris Deborah Wall Natalie Burt Sports College Sports Chaos Raiders News Golden Knights Athletics UNLV UNLV Football UNLV Basketball Nevada Preps Betting Sports Betting 101 Las Vegas Sportsbooks Formula 1 Aces Sports Columns Ed Graney Todd Dewey Adam Hill Poker On TV/Radio MMA and UFC Golf Business Casinos &amp; Gaming Energy Housing Tourism Entrepreneurs Real Estate News Business Press Sheldon Adelson (1933-2021) News Education Politics and Government 2025 NV Legislature Nevada Clark County Las Vegas Environment Civil Courts Nation and World Science and Technology News Columns Road Warrior Military Investigations What Are They Hiding? Remembering Jeff German Dangerous Driving Police Accountability Alpine Fire Crime Courts Homicides Robberies Shootings Homicide Tracker Faces of Death Row Opinion Editorials Letters Opinion Columns Debra J. Saunders Michael Ramirez cartoons Victor Joecks Richard A. Epstein Victor Davis Hanson Drawing Board Life Comics Puzzles Health Home and Garden Travel Live Well RJ Magazine Videos Podcasts RJ Awards Obituaries Today&#8217;s Obituaries Submit an obit Autos Auto News Dealer News Classifieds Place a Classified Ad Homes Provided Content New Homes Real Estate Millions Real Estate News Classifieds Place a Classified Ad Jobs Internships Classifieds Service Directory Transportation Merchandise Legal Information Real Estate Classifieds Garage Sales Pets Rentals FAQ Place a Classified Ad Contests and Promotions Best of Las Vegas Contests TV Guide Partnered Content Business Nevada State Bank Verizon Business Education Touro University Entertainment Food La Bonita Health P3 Health Partners Home and Garden Live Well Local Vegas Roots City of Las Vegas Find My Forever Foster A Leader Furever Friends KINROSS Gold Star Student Palms Experiential Suites Prairie Fire Star Nursery Real Estate Ignite Funding IS Luxury &#8211; Discover Deluxe Desert IS Luxury &#8211; Mastering Modern Luxury Retail D&#038;R Diamonds Travel Black Desert Resort Travel Nevada Subscriptions Newsletters Contact Us Advertise with Us Home &gt;&gt; Sports &gt;&gt; Athletics Athletics Cost of A’s Las Vegas stadium could grow to $2B, owner Fisher says The budget of the Athletics&#8217; Las Vegas ballpark project could approach the $2 billion mark, according to team owner John Fisher. Dignitaries, from left, Nevada Assembly Speaker Steve Yeager, Rep. Dina Titus, A&#x2019;s President Marc Badain, Major League Baseball Commissioner Manfred, A&#x2019;s owner John Fisher, Nevada Gov. Joe Lombardo, Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority President and CEO Steve Hill and , Clark County Commissioner Jim Gibson break ground during ceremony for the Athletics $1.75 billion Strip ballpark at the site of the former Tropicana Las Vegas Monday, June 23, 2025. (K.M. Cannon/Las Vegas Review-Journal) Baseball great Rollie Fingers, left, and his son Sam Fingers visit with A’s owner John Fisher during a groundbreaking ceremony for the Athletics $1.75 billion Strip ballpark at the site of the former Tropicana Las Vegas Monday, June 23, 2025. (K.M. Cannon/Las Vegas Review-Journal) Nevada Gov. Joe Lombardo, from left, Major League Baseball Commissioner Manfred, A&#x2019;s owner John Fisher and Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority President and CEO Steve Hill watch a video during a groundbreaking ceremony for the Athletics $1.75 billion Strip ballpark at the site of the former Tropicana Las Vegas Monday, June 23, 2025. (K.M. Cannon/Las Vegas Review-Journal) More Stories A’s file for building permits worth over $520M worth of work Athletics general manager receives a new contract for next season Bally’s unveils hotel, entertainment complex to be built around A’s Las Vegas ballpark A’s Las Vegas ballpark development agreement set for potential October vote By Mick Akers / Las Vegas Review-Journal June 27, 2025 - 3:25 pm &nbsp; Updated June 27, 2025 - 3:38 pm The cost of the Athletics&#8217; Las Vegas ballpark project could approach the $2 billion mark, according to team owner John Fisher. Following the A&#8217;s groundbreaking ceremony Monday in Las Vegas , Fisher addressed the latest projected cost of the team&#8217;s planned 33,000-fan capacity stadium and if pending steel tariffs could affect the price. Fisher didn&#8217;t reveal the exact number of the latest budgeted amount that the stadium will cost to construct, but said it was &#8220;thereabouts&#8221; around the $2 billion mark. &#8220;Sadly, prices for big construction projects always seem to go up, and we have our budget meetings and actually at the last one it came down a little bit; like a real little bit. I was like, &#8216;This is something to be celebrated,&#8217;&#8221; Fisher said. Tariff impacts The impacts, if any, of pending tariffs set to be levied on imported goods into the U.S., including steel, remain to be seen. The biggest potential cost impact to the stadium project is related to imported steel from Japan, where President Donald Trump is increasing steel tariffs from 25 percent to 50 percent. The tariff situation has been changing over the last few months, so it is unclear how the steel tariff could change as the year progresses. Fisher said that it&#8217;s tough to fully estimate what the impact of tariffs will be on the project, as the situation is fluid and dependent on when materials are ordered and ultimately brought into the U.S. for the project. &#8220;Because remember, the tariffs apply to the materials when they arrive in the United States,&#8221; Fisher said. &#8220;So, we&#8217;ve had to make our best estimates as to what tariff costs will be. But we&#8217;ve accounted for all of that in our budgets.&#8221; The official budget of the ballpark sits at $1.75 billion, which increased from $1.5 billion in December. The ballpark&#8217;s construction is set to be paid for by a combination of $1.4 billion from the Fisher family and $350 million of the available up to $380 million in public funding by way of the state and Clark County. As it stands, the Fishers plan to take about a $300 million construction loan from Goldman Sachs and U.S. Bank and contribute a $1.1 billion equity contribution. Any price increase above the $1.75 billion mark would also fall on the Fisher family. Investor search The A&#8217;s are actively pursuing bringing in investors to contribute a total of up to $550 million to the stadium project, in exchange for minority stakes in the MLB team. Any investments made would offset some of the Fisher family&#8217;s stake in the project. &#8220;We have the ability to finance this all ourselves,&#8221; Fisher said. &#8220;When we were talking to fellow (MLB team) owners and the commissioner (Rob Manfred), it was important to me that we have this opportunity to bring in local investors and other investors, as we&#8217;ve seen with teams all over the county. You have these sometimes consortiums of investors who&#8217;ve brought a lot of value.&#8221; Fisher highlighted other Bay Area teams, the NBA&#8217;s Golden State Warriors and MLB&#8217;s San Francisco Giants, as pro sports teams which have several investors in their franchises. &#8220;For us, having outside investors &#8230; especially local investors, is something that would make the A&#8217;s an even stronger brand,&#8221; Fisher said. The team already has a &#8220;number&#8221; of commitments from potential investors, Fisher said, but none were ready to be officially announced. Staunch supporter Downtown hotel magnate Derek Stevens, who owns Circa, the D Las Vegas and the Golden Gate and who also once owned the Triple-A Las Vegas 51s (now the Aviators) from 2008 to 2013, has been a staunch supporter of the A&#8217;s ever since they started researching the area in 2021. Stevens executed a partnership with the A&#8217;s this season as they play in Sacramento, with the Circa Homestand Giveaway promotion, where a fan from each A&#8217;s homestand will win a free two-night trip to Circa, valued at $3,500. When questioned if he planned to further his relationship with the A&#8217;s as 2028 approaches, Stevens said to expect more to come. &#8220;We&#8217;re up here right now cooking up a lot of schemes,&#8221; Stevens told the Las Vegas Review-Journal on Monday. &#8220;Absolutely (more to come). This is just a test period. We&#8217;re going to be cooking up a lot of different ideas.&#8221; Contact Mick Akers at makers@reviewjournal.com or 702-387-2920. Follow @mickakers on X. Posted on: Athletics , Baseball , Sports Tagged: Las Vegas A's ballpark , mc-sports MOST READ Sponsored By One Nevada Credit Union LISTEN TO THE TOP FIVE HERE Story continues after advertisement Story continues after advertisement Story continues after advertisement Story continues after advertisement Story continues after advertisement Don't miss the big stories. Like us on Facebook. THE LATEST &nbsp; A’s file for building permits worth over $520M worth of work By Mick Akers / RJ October 1, 2025 - 1:00 pm October 1, 2025 - 1:12 pm The Athletics applied for two building permits last week totaling $523 million in work on their under-construction Las Vegas ballpark. Athletics general manager receives a new contract for next season By Janie McCauley The Associated Press September 30, 2025 - 1:57 pm September 30, 2025 -