# 9781732265141

**Source**: https://web.tertulia.com/book/9781732265141?affiliate=atl-347
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:47:02.892795+00:00

---

The Revolt of the Public and the Crisis of Authority in the New Millenium, by Martin Gurri | Tertulia Sign Up Log In Sign Up Log In New Arrivals Fiction Historical Fiction Crime &amp; Thrillers Mystery Science-Fiction Fantasy Poetry Romance Children’s Books Young Adult Non-Fiction Biographies &amp; Memoirs History Current Affairs Tech &amp; Science Business Self-Development Travel The Arts Food &amp; Wine Religion &amp; Spirituality Sports Humor Belletrist Book Club Children’s Books Lists Blog Gift Cards My Lists Games About &amp; Help About Tertulia Membership &amp; Co-Ownership Shipping &amp; Delivery Orders &amp; Payments Contact Support Send App Feedback Follow us Download the app Sign up Log In 0 0 New! Websites for Authors New Arrivals Fiction Historical Fiction Crime &amp; Thrillers Mystery Science-Fiction Fantasy Poetry Romance Children’s Books Young Adult All Fiction Non-Fiction Biographies &amp; Memoirs History Current Affairs Tech &amp; Science Business Self-Development Travel The Arts Food &amp; Wine Religion &amp; Spirituality Sports Humor All Non-Fiction Belletrist News &amp; Features Lists Blog Membership Sign up Log In 0 0 The co-op bookstore for avid readers The Revolt of the Public and the Crisis of Authority in the New Millenium Martin Gurri Hardcover Regular price $35.00 With free membership trial Learn more $ 17 . 50 50% off your first book + Free shipping Add to Cart In Stock – Ships within one business day Do you recommend this book? Yes! No Join the co-op and get: 50% off your first book Free shipping Up to 20% off most books Only $NaN/year after your undefined Learn more How insurgencies--enabled by digital devices and a vast information sphere--have mobilized millions of ordinary people around the world. In the words of economist and scholar Arnold Kling, Martin Gurri saw it coming. Technology has categorically reversed the information balance of power between the public and the elites who manage the great hierarchical institutions of the industrial age: government, political parties, the media. The Revolt of the Public tells the story of how insurgencies, enabled by digital devices and a vast information sphere, have mobilized millions of ordinary people around the world. Originally published in 2014, The Revolt of the Public is now available in an updated edition, which includes an extensive analysis of Donald Trump's improbable rise to the presidency and the electoral triumphs of Brexit. The book concludes with a speculative look forward, pondering whether the current elite class can bring about a reformation of the democratic process and whether new organizing principles, adapted to a digital world, can arise out of the present political turbulence. Book Details Publisher : Stripe Press Publish Date : Dec 4th, 2018 Pages : 448 Language : English Edition : undefined - undefined Dimensions : 9.30in - 6.30in - 1.20in - 1.90lb EAN : 9781732265141 Categories : • Political Freedom • Political Process - Media &amp; Internet • Civics &amp; Citizenship About the Author Gurri, Martin: - Martin Gurri is a geopolitical analyst and student of new media and information effects. He spent many years working in the corner of the CIA dedicated to the analysis of open media. From that privileged perch, he watched the global information landscape undergo a transformation so radical as to seem unprecedented in the history of our species. After leaving government, Gurri focused his research on the motive forces powering this transformation. The result of this labor is The Revolt of the Public and the Crisis of Authority in the New Millennium , first published in digital form in 2014 and republished in 2018. He lives in Virginia. Praise for this book "All over the world, elite institutions from governments to media to academia are losing their authority and monopoly control of information to dynamic amateurs and the broader public. This book, until now only in samizdat (and Kindle) form, has been my No. 1 handout for the last several years to anyone seeking to understand this unfolding shift in power from hierarchies to networks in the age of the internet." --Marc Andreessen, cofounder, Netscape and Andreessen Horowitz "We are in an open war between publics with passionate and untutored interests and elites who believe they have the right to guide those publics. Gurri asks the essential question: Can liberal representative democracy survive the rise of the public?" --Roger Berkowitz, founder and academic director of the Hannah Arendt Center, professor of politics and human rights at Bard College Fiction Non-Fiction New Arrivals Gift Cards Games Belletrist Book Club About Tertulia Membership Shipping &amp; Delivery Orders &amp; Payments Contact Support Websites for Authors New! Follow us Download the app © Tertulia Terms of Use Privacy Policy Version 1.9.9.410