# Northwestern Football Racism Hazing

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/5028039/2023/11/03/northwestern-football-racism-hazing/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:59:17.315537+00:00

---

Former Northwestern football players say Black athletes subjected to racial abuse - The Athletic NCAAF Teams Scores &amp; Schedule Standings Podcasts Until Saturday Newsletter Recruiting Odds Picks All-136 Ranking Latest Playoff Projections Quizzes Rivalry Rankings Former Northwestern football players say Black athletes subjected to racial abuse By The Athletic Staff Nov. 3, 2023 Share 144 Black players on Northwestern ’s football team were subjected to racial abuse and punished for their appearances while their White teammates were not, two former Northwestern football players said during a news conference Friday in Chicago. “Northwestern not only treated players of color differently than our White teammates, but they tried to conform us in our appearance to resemble our White teammates, or what Northwestern would consider ‘The Wildcat Way,'” Noah Herron, a former NFL running back who played for Northwestern from 2000 to 2004, said. Advertisement Herron said that while White teammates were allowed to have long hair or style it in a variety of ways, he and fellow Black teammates were told they had to either cut or restyle their hair while on the team. He also said he witnessed Black teammates who were physically punished in such a severe manner at the Alamo Bowl that it was referred to on the team as “The Christmas Massacre.” “The head coach told two White position coaches that if these two Black players were able to walk off the field after their punishment, that they themselves would be fired,” Herron said. “The physical punishment was so severe that one of my brothers (teammates), a grown man, defecated himself and needed to be carried off the field. “That was the culture, and sadly, I’ve talked to more recent players, individuals who play nearly two decades after me, and the toxic culture has not changed.” Herron spoke along with Rico Lamitte, who played at Northwestern from 2001 to 2005. They were accompanied by attorneys from Chicago firm Salvi, Schostok &amp; Pritchard and co-counsel Stinar Law. The firms represent more than 50 former Northwestern athletes alleging misconduct and have filed seven civil lawsuits among the more than 20 suits against the university, attorney Patrick Salvi Jr. said. Herron and Lamitte are not among the plaintiffs in the lawsuits. Lamitte said he experienced racism from coaches while on the football team, adding that Northwestern’s lack of concern for Black athletes was made apparent to him when former Northwestern safety Rashidi Wheeler died a few feet away from him during a conditioning drill in 2001. Wheeler collapsed on the field and died of bronchial asthma, the Cook County (Ill.) coroner’s office determined . “The way the whole incident was mishandled, and the team was never given closure or space to properly heal. That set the tone for what I would experience over the next four and a half years of my life,” Lamitte said. Advertisement “Me and my fellow teammates of color were teased, humiliated, threatened, hazed and abused because we resisted conforming to that ‘Wildcat Way,’ which is coded White culture,” Lamitte said. “Coaches, trainers and staff told us that we needed to change the way we dressed, acted (and) styled our hair.” Lamitte said that as a freshman he was told he would not play unless he cut his hair, and if he didn’t cut it himself, “coaches would instruct upperclassmen to hold me down and shave it at or before Camp Kenosha.” “I ended up cutting it myself to avoid humiliation and embarrassment but witnessed several teammates, some with years of dreadlocks and cornrows, stripped of their identities in front of their peers,” Lamitte said. Lamitte also said he was subjected to “insensitive, racially undertoned activities,” such as a watermelon eating contest at the end of Camp Kenosha. He said the contest was deemed a “bonding event” each year, with each position group picking a player to represent them in the competition. “There were jokes tossed back and forth about how racist it was,” Lamitte said. He also said he witnessed Northwestern’s head coach while he was with the program make a racist comment about the team’s Asian kicker. Lamitte did not identify the coach by name, but he played under Randy Walker. “Racism at Northwestern must end,” Herron said. “Racism in all sports must end. Those that have enabled or participated in this conduct need to be held accountable.” Northwestern began an investigation into football hazing in late 2022, following an anonymous whistleblower’s complaint. On July 7, the school released a vague executive summary and suspended football coach Pat Fitzgerald for two weeks without pay, along with new guidelines in the program. Following The Daily Northwestern’s publication of allegations the next day and growing public backlash, Northwestern president Michael Schill fired Fitzgerald three days later. The school also fired baseball coach Jim Foster on July 13 over abusive behavior. Advertisement Last month, Fitzgerald filed a lawsuit against the university over his firing, alleging he and the school had orally agreed that his suspension would be his only punishment for the hazing allegations. Fitzgerald’s complaint seeks more than $130 million in compensatory damages, along with additional punitive damages. Herron, Lamitte and Salvi said they are seeking accountability and cultural change at Northwestern. “Color and culture should be accepted and celebrated,” Lamitte said. “Northwestern created, enabled and tolerated a toxic culture of sexualized hazing and racial discrimination. Northwestern’s culture must be exposed. They must be held accountable and the culture must change.” Required reading What’s going on at Northwestern? A timeline of accusations, investigation, findings within athletics department How a hazing culture evolved at Northwestern’s Camp Kenosha: ‘There’s a significance to ritual’ (Photo: Tony Ding / AP) Oct 3, 2025 Connections: Sports Edition Spot the pattern. Connect the terms Find the hidden link between sports terms Play today&#x27;s puzzle Tagged To: College Football Northwestern Wildcats National Boxing Bundesliga Champions League Championship College Football College Sports Copa America Copa del Rey Cricket Culture Cycling Europa League European Championship FA Cup Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Basketball Fantasy Football Fantasy Hockey Fantasy Premier League FIFA Club World Cup FIFA Men&#x27;s World Cup FIFA Women&#x27;s World Cup Formula 1 Gaming Global Sports Golf International Football La Liga League Cup League One League Two Memorabilia &amp; Collectibles Men&#x27;s College Basketball Mixed Martial Arts MLB MLS Motorsports NASCAR NBA NFL NHL NWSL Olympics Opinion Peak Premier League Sailing Scottish Premiership Serie A Soccer Sports Betting Sports Business Tennis Top Sports News WNBA Women&#x27;s College Basketball Women&#x27;s Euros Women&#x27;s Hockey Women&#x27;s Soccer The Athletic Ink Podcasts Headlines US Arizona Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Buffalo Carolina Chicago Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Dallas Denver Detroit Houston Indiana Jacksonville Kansas City Las Vegas Los Angeles Memphis Miami Minnesota Nashville New Orleans New York Oklahoma Oregon Orlando Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento San Antonio San Diego Seattle St. Louis Tampa Bay Utah Washington DC Wisconsin Canada Calgary Edmonton Montreal Ottawa Toronto Vancouver Winnipeg Partners Collectibles by eBay Odds by BetMGM Streaming by Fubo Tickets by StubHub Subscribe Start Subscription Group Subscriptions HQ About Us Careers Code of Conduct Editorial Guidelines Business Inquiries Press Inquiries Support FAQ Forgot Password? Contact Us Terms of Service Newsletters The Pulse The Bounce The Windup Prime Tire Full Time Until Saturday Scoop City The Athletic FC MoneyCall Red Light © 2025 The Athletic Media Company, A New York Times Company Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Support Sitemap