# Bob Iger Thrive Capital Venture Partner Josh Kushner 1235117552

**Source**: https://deadline.com/2022/09/bob-iger-thrive-capital-venture-partner-josh-kushner-1235117552/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:06:10.439118+00:00

---

Bob Iger Joins Thrive Capital As Venture Partner Skip to main content Open Mega Menu Got A Tip? deadline-logo-svg Deadline Follow Us: site categories TV Film Awards Awards Hub Digital Issues Box Office Biz International Politics Theater Reviews Obits Video Events Contenders Television: Docs+Unscripted+Variety Television Film: Nominees Film: Documentary Film: International Film: Los Angeles Film: London Sound &amp; Screen Television Film Other For The Love Of Docs Visual Effects + Screen Festivals North America Sundance Toronto Telluride SXSW Tribeca Europe Venice Cannes Zurich Berlin/EFM Middle East Red Sea Asia Tokyo Insider News Alerts Menu deadline-logo-svg Deadline Read Next: CNN Live News Stream Being Pulled From HBO Max As Network Prepares To Launch New Streaming Channels Got A Tip? Tip Us Dismiss News Banner Breaking News Sean &quot;Diddy&quot; Combs Sentenced To Four-Plus Years In Prison Read the full story Home Business News Bob Iger Joins Josh Kushner&#8217;s VC Firm Thrive Capital By Jill Goldsmith Jill Goldsmith Co-Business Editor More Stories By Jill Free Press&#8217; Bari Weiss Poised To Take Top Role At CBS News WNBA, Versant&#8217;s USA Network Set Expanded Rights Deal Through 2036 Disney Sends Cease And Desist Letter To Character.ai For Copyright Infringement As Studios Move To Protect IP View All September 13, 2022 9:00am 2 Comments Services to share this page. Share on Facebook Post Share to Flipboard Email Show more sharing options Share on LinkedIn Pin it Submit to Reddit Post to Tumblr Share on WhatsApp Print This Page Bob Iger GI Wondering about Bob Iger &#8216;s next move? Here&#8217;s one. The former longtime Walt Disney chief is joining Thrive Capital as a venture partner, bringing &#8220;his experience and expertise to bear in mentoring our founders as they build iconic companies spanning multiple industries, including healthcare, consumer technology, financial services, enterprise software, and more,&#8221; the firm said in a blog post today. Thrive is the venture capital and investment film of Josh Kushner (brother of Jared Kushner). Full post: We are honored to announce that Bob Iger, former Executive Chairman, Chairman, and CEO of The Walt Disney Company, is joining Thrive as a Venture Partner. Bob is widely recognized as one of the most visionary, innovative, and successful CEOs in history, and epitomizes daring leadership. Related Stories Legal Nirvana &#039;Nevermind&#039; Album Cover Child Porn Lawsuit Dismissed For The Final Time - Update Executives Kimmel Corporate Fallout Continues: Irate Shareholders Have Nothing Yet From Disney About Suspension; Legal Threat Looms With Tuesday Expiration Date For Documents Bob will bring his experience and expertise to bear in mentoring our founders as they build iconic companies spanning multiple industries, including healthcare, consumer technology, financial services, enterprise software, and more. Today&rsquo;s complex and dynamic times require bold leadership, and we can think of no one better suited than him to mentor Thrive companies as they forge new ground. Watch on Deadline During his tenure as CEO from 2005 to 2020, Bob led Disney through years of growth and transformation as well as periods of difficulty and crisis. Most notably, he oversaw the acquisitions of Pixar, Marvel, Lucasfilm, and 21st Century Fox; the landmark opening of Disney&rsquo;s first theme park and resort in mainland China, Shanghai Disney Resort; the release of a number of record-setting films; and the launch of the Disney-owned streaming services ESPN+ in 2018 and Disney+ in 2019. Bob&rsquo;s visionary leadership and commitment to excellence were reflected in Disney&rsquo;s strong position in the industry and long-standing reputation as one of the most successful and admired media and entertainment companies in the world. &ldquo;I look forward to working with the extraordinarily talented team at Thrive as they strive to build and nurture companies that will be future industry leaders across key sectors,&rdquo; said Bob Iger. &ldquo;I have long believed that by harnessing and advancing technology we can transform businesses and ultimately change our world for the better, and this is exactly what Thrive intends to do and I&rsquo;m excited to join them in this important endeavor.&rdquo; We are thrilled Bob is joining our team at Thrive, and we&rsquo;re grateful to benefit from his extraordinary experience, expertise, and perspective.&#8221; MORE Must Read Stories Hide Articles &#8216;Taylor Swift: Showgirl&#8217; Eyes $30M Debut As &#8216;Smashing Machine&#8217; Taps Out Jason Bateman In Talks To Direct Universal Feature Take Of John Grisham&#8217;s &#8216;The Partner&#8217; Feds Consider Minting $1 Trump Coin For America&#8217;s 250th Birthday Adam Driver &amp; Anne Hathaway Lead &#8216;Alone At Dawn&#8217; For Ron Howard, Amazon MGM Read More About: Bob Iger Breaking News Walt Disney 2 Comments Subscribe to Deadline Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Sign Up 2 Comments Anonymous on September 13, 2022 10:46 am Why isn&#8217;t he just golfing? Let it go. Anonymous on September 13, 2022 9:13 am Thrive sounds like another Kushner scam. Can the feds just start investigating them now for fraud? Sidebar Trending on Deadline 1 &#039;Taylor Swift: Showgirl&#039; Struts $29M-$31M, &#039;The Smashing Machine&#039; Hits The Mat With $6M-$7M, &#039;One Battle After Another&#039; Heads To $100M WW - Box Office 2 Sean Combs Gets Four Years Behind Bars In Sex-Trafficking Case; Appeal Expected Quickly 3 Dave Chappelle On Saudi Arabia: &quot;It&#039;s Easier To Talk Here Than It Is In America&quot; 4 Trump Now &quot;Seriously Considering&quot; Pardon For Sean Combs Ahead Of Sentencing; White House Officially Says Nothing 5 Adam Driver &amp; Anne Hathaway To Star In Military Drama &#039;Alone At Dawn&#039; From Ron Howard And Amazon MGM Studios 6 Tyler Perry&#039;s &#039;Sistas&#039; Sets Season 9 Return Date At BET, Unveils Midseason Trailer 7 &#039;Smashing Machine&#039; Grapples $850K &amp; &#039;Avatar: Way Of Water&#039; Reissue $350K In Previews Before Taylor Swift Storm Begins - Box Office 8 Jason Bateman In Talks To Direct Universal Feature Take Of John Grisham&#039;s &#039;The Partner&#039; With Tom Holland, Rideback &amp; Aggregate Producing 9 All Of Taylor Swift&#039;s &#039;Life Of A Showgirl&#039; Album Covers &amp; Images 10 Sean &quot;Diddy&quot; Combs Looking At 6 Years Behind Bars, Judge Indicates As Sentencing Hearing In Sex-Trafficking Trial Continues deadline-logo-svg Deadline Signup for Breaking News Alerts &amp; Newsletters Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Latest Business News Treasury Department Considers Minting $1 Trump Coin Free Press&#039; Bari Weiss Poised To Take Top Role At CBS News R&amp;CPMK To Undergo Revamp As Part Of Parent IPG&#039;s Cost-Savings Plan For Structure Streamlining Thomas Haden Church Signs With Paradigm Marketplace Newswire Deadline About Us Advertise Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility AdChoices California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Sitemap TV Film Awards Box Office Business International Connect with Us Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks Have a Tip? We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Send Us a Tip Stay in the Know Sign up for our breaking news alerts Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. PMC Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Site Close the menu deadline-logo-svg Account Expand the sub-menu Manage Account Log Out TV Expand the sub-menu Castings Ratings Late-Night Primetime Pilot Panic Film Expand the sub-menu Festivals Reviews Castings Acquisitions Documentary Awards Expand the sub-menu Awards Hub Emmys Oscars Tonys Box Office Expand the sub-menu International B.O. Specialty B.O. Broadway B.O. Business Expand the sub-menu Politics Legal Executives Agencies International Expand the sub-menu Festivals Film TV International Insider Video Expand the sub-menu Trailers The Actor's Side Behind The Lens The Process More Expand the sub-menu Obituaries Theater Music Podcasts Insider Follow Us Alerts &amp; Newsletters Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertise About Us Give us feedback Leave us a tip Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. ad