# Athletics Refusal Embrace Sacramento Backfiring 20381874.Php

**Source**: https://www.sfgate.com/athletics/article/athletics-refusal-embrace-sacramento-backfiring-20381874.php
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:56:03.290870+00:00

---

The A&#x27;s refusal to embrace Sacramento is backfiring SF Gate Logo Hearst Newspapers Logo Skip to main content CA MINI CROSSWORD Home Newsletters Classifieds Standards &amp; Practices Advertise With Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use Ad Choices Your Privacy Choices About SFGATE Careers Contact SFGATE News Bay Area California Wildfires Education North Coast Politics Weather Sports 49ers Giants A&#x27;s Warriors Bay Area SF History Travel California Parks Central Coast Disneyland Hawaii Monterey-Carmel Tahoe Wine Country Food + Drink Culture Tech Los Angeles California National Parks Cannabis Real Estate New Homes (Virtual) Open Homes Luxury Rentals Place a Real Estate Ad Neighborhood Guides Home &amp; Garden Movers Obits Obituaries Place an Obituary Best Of Shopping Puzzles Sponsor Content StoryStudio Senior Living Sponsor Content: Business SF Gate Logo CA MINI CROSSWORD Sports | Athletics &#x27;The owner&#x27;s a piece of s—t&#x27;: The A&#x27;s refusal to embrace Sacramento is backfiring John Fisher&#x27;s A&#x27;s might end up scorning 2 California cities before the Las Vegas move The Athletics play the Minnesota Twins at Sutter Health Park in West Sacramento, Calif., on Wednesday, June 4, 2025. Charles Russo/SFGATE By Gabe Fernandez , Sports Reporter June 22, 2025 WEST SACRAMENTO — The first thing the Athletics did to mark their move to Sacramento was erase the city. Just 10 days into last offseason, the ballclub’s public relations department released “Brand Transition Guidelines” for the temporary layover in Sacramento. “When referring to the team name, use only ‘Athletics,’” the release read . “You may use ‘A’s’ on second reference. ATH is the approved designation for the Athletics.” They were no longer the Oakland A’s, but they also wouldn’t become the Sacramento A’s. And months later, it might be affecting attendance at games these major league squatters play in the state’s capital. Advertisement Article continues below this ad “What the A’s haven’t done is give people a reason to come to the games,” Leon Hunt, a Rocklin resident, told SFGATE during the A’s June 4 game against the Minnesota Twins. “Let’s start with the Sacramento thing. They didn’t embrace Sacramento. So there’s a lot of people out there, I think, that are saying, ‘Hey, if you’re not gonna embrace me, why should I embrace you?’” T-shirts on sale in Old Sacramento at Pro Image Sports show both Oakland and Sacramento sides of the team’s identity. Charles Russo/SFGATE Longtime A's fans, left to right, Sue Hunt, Leon Hunt, Kristen Galaudet and Nick Galaudet attend a game against the Minnesota Twins at Sutter Health Park in Sacramento, Calif., on Wednesday, June 4, 2025. Charles Russo/SFGATE The A’s are scheduled for a three-year stay ( at minimum ) in town after ditching their East Bay home in a move that devastated any baseball fan with a heart. The organization told the New York Times in March that going by just the team nickname was “the most respectful” option. Advertisement Article continues below this ad While fans and pundits alike can debate the validity of that sentiment, there’s no debating that this rejection has downstream consequences. Rebecca Edgar, a season ticket holder from Carmichael, a Sacramento suburb, told SFGATE at the June 4 game that there are still people who don’t know about the A’s moving to Sacramento and that she has to be the one to inform them they’ll be in town for the next three to four years. The dismal attendance numbers indicate she’s probably not the only one who’s had to do some guerrilla marketing on behalf of the team. Considering there’s a noticeable lack of Sacramento pride in and around the ballpark, perhaps it’s not residents’ fault they’re unaware. Not only is the city not present in the team name, but it’s also hardly present in the stadium, with the only noticeable mention of “Sacramento” being on top of the home dugout. For a while, that was the only reference to the state capital at all, beyond an occasional flash of the Sacramento-themed sleeve patch — the Tower Bridge in A’s colors — between innings on the big screen. That patch is on one sleeve of the Athletics’ jerseys, and a Vegas patch is on the other. That same image is also on the outfield wall in yet another reminder to Sacramentans that the A’s have their hearts and minds set elsewhere. The sun sets on Sutter Health Park and the Tower Bridge in West Sacramento, Calif., on Wednesday, June 4, 2025. Charles Russo/SFGATE Fans enter Sutter Health Park in Sacramento, Calif., on Wednesday, June 4, 2025. Charles Russo/SFGATE It stands in contrast to parts of the 916. Banners on light posts around West Sacramento streets read, “The baseball side of the river,” and “Every day is game day,” in reference to the team and the Triple-A River Cats. A local sports apparel shop close to the stadium put up a sign welcoming the Athletics to town, and other establishments nearby went as far as renaming some menu items after the A’s. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Despite the prevailing sentiment at the reverse boycott , at the Opening Day boycott and at the Coliseum’s final game — “f—k John Fisher,” essentially — there are still some fans who stuck with the Athletics after their move east. They’ve perhaps been the quickest to notice the A’s shirking of Sacramento. Josh Saluda, a 20-year-old lifelong A’s fan, summed up the sentiment that several other A’s fans shared with SFGATE: Yes, they were pissed off at Fisher, the team owner, for taking the franchise away from Oakland, but when the A’s landed in Sacramento, they realized they still wanted to see their favorite team up close before the move to Vegas. And they couldn’t ignore Fisher’s disrespect of his new host city. BEST OF SFGATE History | Why a wealthy banker blasted a huge hole in a Bay Area cliff Local | There&#x27;s a mansion hidden directly under the Bay Bridge Culture | Inside the Bay Area’s cult-like obsession with Beanie Babies Local | The world&#x27;s last lost tourist thought Maine was San Francisco Get SFGATE&#x27;s top stories sent to your inbox by signing up for The Daily newsletter here. “To me that is a huge insult to the city of Sacramento because they accepted the A’s with open arms, and to not even use the name, even for just three years — you’re using their city, the least you can do for them is use the city’s name,” said Saluda, who was starting “Let’s go Oakland!” chants as early as the first inning. Saluda, a student at San Jose State University who was raised in the East Bay, admitted he contemplated becoming a San Francisco Giants fan but couldn’t stomach it. He’d rather make the drive to Sacramento than switch allegiances, he said, which makes the team’s disinterest sting even more. “You took away the A’s, the only thing left of Oakland’s heart, and now you’re just called the Athletics? That’s messed up.” Advertisement Article continues below this ad Athletics left-hander Jeffrey Springs pitches against the Minnesota Twins at Sutter Health Park in West Sacramento, Calif., on Wednesday, June 4, 2025. Charles Russo/SFGATE James Ferraro from Elk Grove, Calif., shows off his custom A's jersey at Sutter Health Park, in Sacramento, Calif., on June 4, 2025. Charles Russo/SFGATE “It’s bulls—t,” said Tim, a 25-year-old lifelong fan who declined to provide his last name. “I mean, they’re selling merch in the colors of the A’s that just say Sacramento, but it can’t say A’s after. I think it’s the most overtly capitalist thing to be like, here’s this team that’s so appreciated and loved by so many people, but let’s just turn it into the most corporate thing ever.” It’s bad enough that A’s fans are feeling burned by the team (again), but even fans from visiting teams have started to notice this detachment from the city, which is more problematic. After all, part of the financial appeal of a Las Vegas franchise is that it’s geared toward visiting tourists who come to Sin City to see their favorite team square off against the home side. It’s probably not a good sign when those potential visitors start to notice issues with how the organization is handling its temporary home. Ryan Murphy, an 18-year-old recent high school graduate and Giants fan, couldn’t quite understand why the Athletics haven’t embraced Sacramento with more than just a cosmetic acknowledgment. Advertisement Article continues below this ad “I mean, they are wearing the patch on the sleeve, so they’re at least embracing that a little bit,” he said on June 4. “But it’s not like they’re here for like half a season. They’re going to be here for three years. So the fact that they’re not rocking Sacramento at all I do think is a little strange.” “I think if they’re playing here for three years, they do have an opportunity to embrace that Sacramento name,” Terry Green, a Twins fan, and Department of Public Health employee, attending the June 4 matchup, told SFGATE. “Sacramento’s the capital of California. Why not be proud of that? Why not be proud of bringing your team to Sacramento, and showing off your state pride by being in the capital?” Fans watch the Athletics play the Minnesota Twins from the lawn inside Sutter Health Park in West Sacramento, Calif., on Wednesday, June 4, 2025. Charles Russo/SFGATE An Athletics fan returns to his seat after purchasing two beers at Sutter Health Park in West Sacramento, Calif., in Wednesday, June 4, 2025. Charles Russo/SFGATE There are, of course, fans who lean closer to what could arguably be described as Fisher’s ideal sentiment: indifference. Michael Lohr, a 46-year-old fan from Sacramento, told SFGATE it’d be “better” if the city were in the team name, but he gets that the team doesn’t want to create confusion with its branding. Michael Katches, a 30-year-old from Roseville, said he was “just stoked that the A’s are in Sac.” Jennifer Gutierrez, a 67-year-old retiree from Stockton, said the feeling of attending an MLB game at Sutter Health Park was “weird” and “strange,