# Mindgeek Executives Testify Before Ethics Committee Over Allegations Of Illegal Content On Pornhub 1.5296887

**Source**: https://montreal.ctvnews.ca/mindgeek-executives-testify-before-ethics-committee-over-allegations-of-illegal-content-on-pornhub-1.5296887?cache=kmdeuabt&src=sdkpreparse
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:03:02.460727+00:00

---

Montreal News – Local Breaking, Weather and Traffic – CTV News Montreal Skip to main content Sections Local CTV News App Trump&#x27;s Tariffs Watch In Pictures Live CTV News Now Sign In Sign In Download Our App Atlantic Nova Scotia New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Newfoundland and Labrador Barrie Calgary Lethbridge Edmonton Kitchener Guelph London Montreal Northern Ontario Sudbury North Bay Sault Ste. Marie Timmins Ottawa Kingston Brockville Pembroke Regina Yorkton Saskatoon Prince Albert Toronto Watch Weather Peel Hamilton Durham York Halton Niagara Queen&#x27;s Park Toronto City Hall In Pictures Vancouver Vancouver Island Windsor Winnipeg Shopping Trends Wildfires Canada Local Spotlight Royal Family Politics Nanos Power Play Question Period Federal Election 2025 World Russia-Ukraine War Israel-Hamas War America Votes CTV News Now Watch CTV National News Captured on Camera Politics Lifestyle Consumer Health Entertainment Technology Autos Environment Live In Pictures Trump&#x27;s Tariffs Business Inflation Real Estate Autos Health Entertainment Lifestyle Climate &amp; Environment Sci-Tech Sports Opinion Highly Engaged Contact Us Stox Newsletters CP24 Opens in new window BNN Bloomberg Opens in new window Montreal Weather About Us Contact Us What&#x27;s On Climate Black History Month Language Inukjuak Asian Heritage Month Quebec Federal Election News 2025 Summer in Montreal Entertainment Contests - TO DELETE Contests Montreal election 2025 Photos Montreal Watch Crime Beat Quebec Politics Health Sports ADVERTISEMENT Pro-Palestinian, pro-Israel groups skeptical about Hamas response to Trump’s Gaza peace plan Hamas’ response to President Donald Trump’s peace plan for Gaza is being watched closely and with much skepticism by pro-Palestinian and pro-Israel groups in Montreal. STM and union still at an ‘impasse’ as second strike nears its end, negotiations to continue Montreal’s public transit authority (STM) says the latest round of negotiations with the union representing maintenance workers was unfruitful. Quebec LNG proposal not of ‘national interest’ at this point, says federal minister Federal Energy Minister Tim Hodgson says it’s too early to say whether a liquefied natural gas facility pitched in Quebec is of national interest. Most Montrealers undecided with municipal elections under a month away Montreal residents will have a month to decide who they want to see as their next mayor, but not everyone has made up their mind. Two dead, including seven-year-old child, after serious collision near Montreal Police say a seven-year-old child and a man in his 30s are dead after a serious collision involving a tractor trailer southwest of Montreal. 6-year-old finds crack pipe in schoolyard near Montreal safe drug consumption site A mother is speaking out after she says her six-year-old son picked up a crack pipe in his schoolyard near a safe drug consumption site in Montreal&#x27;s St-Henri borough. Montreal-area home sales up 11% in September from last year Quebec’s real estate board says Montreal-area home sales rose 11 per cent in September from a year earlier. More rides on Montreal cycling network leading to ‘bike jams’ We’ve heard about traffic jams on our highways and downtown streets, but how about on our bike paths? Many Montreal cyclists have to deal with “bike jams,” too. A bit of summer weather heading for Montreal this weekend It will feel like summer is lingering as we head into the weekend. SAAQclic: Former executive annoyed by auditor general’s findings A former SAP executive said he was “annoyed” by the Quebec Auditor General’s (VGQ) conclusions regarding the advantage the German software company allegedly had prior to the call for tenders for the digital transformation of the Quebec auto insurance board (Société de l’assurance automobile du Québec - SAAQ). What’s On in Montreal for Oct. 2, 2025 Swifties have a lot to celebrate this weekend, and there are a few ways to mark the release of her new album, “The Life of a Showgirl.” Here are the Montreal-area weekend road closures Those driving in and around Montreal should be aware of closures, including the Ile-aux Tourtes Bridge, due to planned construction projects. How to make sure you’re registered to vote in Montreal’s 2025 municipal election Montrealers head to the polls for the next municipal election on Sunday, Nov. 2, 2025, and election officials are urging residents to verify that they’re on the voters’ list before key deadlines. Here’s how to make sure you can cast your ballot. Landlords suing Montreal after dangerous building forced tenants out The owners of a building on Parc Avenue whose tenants were evacuated and couldn’t return home for months are suing the City of Montreal and the owner of the building next door, which had to be demolished for safety reasons. Laval Starbucks shooting: Burned car found by police possibly related to attack Quebec provincial police say a burnt-out vehicle found in a northeastern Montreal parking lot could be linked to Wednesday’s fatal shooting at a Starbucks north of the city. Montreal Chinatown groups oppose proposed social housing project A collection of organizations in Montreal’s historic Chinatown neighbourhood says a proposed social housing project needs to be reconsidered. See more ADVERTISEMENT CTV News App Contact Us FAQ Newsletters Team Twitter feed ©2025 BellMedia All Rights Reserved Accessibility &amp; Feedback BCE Accessibility Opens in new window About BellMedia Bell Privacy Policy Opens in new window Terms &amp; Conditions Opens in new window Political Ad Registry Opens in new window Other Brands CP24 Opens in new window BNN Bloomberg Opens in new window TSN.ca Opens in new window Autres Marques Noovo.info Opens in new window Noovomoi.ca Opens in new window RDS.ca Opens in new window