# Gisele Bundchen

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/gisele-bundchen/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:57:47.704013+00:00

---

Gisele Bundchen - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: Gisele Bundchen celebrity Sept. 9, 2025 Now We Know Why Ivanka Trump Missed the U.S. Open She was busy hanging out on a yacht with Gisele Bündchen. By Olivia Craighead mother’s day May 12, 2025 How the Celebs Celebrated Mother’s Day Gisele Bündchen shared the first photo of her new baby, and Hailey Bieber got a mariachi band. By Emily Leibert celebrity May 7, 2025 Tom Brady Says Roast Was ‘Tough’ on His Kids He felt “a stake through the heart” when his kids shared their reaction with him. By Olivia Craighead super bowl Feb. 10, 2025 Why Would Tom Brady’s Watch Cost So Much? “Kim, there’s people that are dying.” By Danya Issawi exes Feb. 7, 2025 Actually, Tom Brady Is Totally Chill About Gisele’s New Baby He’s reposting Instagram quotes about “the secret to being loved.” By Emily Leibert celebrity Feb. 5, 2025 Gisele’s New Baby Is Here The supermodel has given birth to a third child — her first with her jujitsu-instructor boyfriend. By Elizabeth Gulino pregnancy Dec. 5, 2024 Gisele Is Glowing on Her Babymoon She and Joaquim Valente spent the week kissing on the beach in Costa Rica. By Emily Leibert celebrity relationships Oct. 29, 2024 A Complete Timeline of Gisele Dating Her Jujitsu Instructor Now that Gisele Bündchen and Joaquim Valente are expecting their first child, let’s take a look back at how we got here. By Olivia Craighead celebrity Oct. 29, 2024 Somebody Check on Tom Brady He’s posting through Gisele Bündchen’s pregnancy news. By Danielle Cohen and i’m getting older too Oct. 29, 2024 Yeah, Tom Brady Is Going Through It But who among us hasn’t listened to the Chicks’ cover of “Landslide” at a moment like this? By Justin Curto pregnancy announcements Oct. 28, 2024 Gisele Bündchen Is Pregnant The supermodel is expecting her third child, her first with jujitsu instructor Joaquim Valente. By Olivia Craighead celebrity June 17, 2024 Is Gisele Still Dating Her Jujitsu Instructor? After rumors of a split, the supermodel and her kids were spotted spending Father’s Day with her boyfriend, Joaquim Valente. By Emily Leibert celebrity May 14, 2024 Tom Brady Is Trying to ‘Be a Better Parent’ Post-Roast The former quarterback says he didn’t like how much the Netflix special “affected” his kids. By Emily Leibert celebrity May 12, 2024 Tom Brady Praised for Bare Minimum After a cringe-inducing Netflix roast, fans are celebrating the footballer for posting photos of the mothers of his children to Instagram. By Emily Leibert culture May 7, 2024 Gisele Wasn’t Impressed With the Tom Brady Roast A source claims she was “deeply disappointed” by the endless jokes about their divorce. By Tariro Mzezewa celebrity May 6, 2024 The Most Awkward Moments From Tom Brady’s Roast The roast was three hours long, and at least one of those hours was just Gisele jokes. By Olivia Craighead celebrity Mar. 31, 2024 Gisele Bündchen Must Really Love Jujitsu The supermodel was spotted yet again with her rumored boyfriend and jujitsu instructor in Miami. By Emily Leibert celebrity Mar. 25, 2024 Gisele Denies Cheating on Tom Brady “That is a lie,” she told the New York Times . By Olivia Craighead celebrity Mar. 22, 2024 Gisele Says Changing Her Diet Cured Her Depression Who needs therapy when you can just cut out sugar? By Olivia Craighead celebrity Mar. 6, 2024 Gisele Bündchen Is Feeling ‘So Blessed’ Post-Divorce The supermodel shared a few details about her “new season.” By Emily Leibert celebrity Feb. 26, 2024 It Really Seems Like Gisele Is Dating Her Jujitsu Instructor Rumor has it she and Joaquim Valente are going strong, and Tom Brady is adjusting to their new romance. By Danielle Cohen celebrity Jan. 17, 2024 Gisele Has a Status Smoothie Now, Too Erewhon’s hottest new offering is … Giselderberry? By Emily Leibert met gala 2023 May 1, 2023 Gisele Bündchen: Still Doing Great She floated into the Met Gala in an angelic Chanel couture gown. By Danielle Cohen fact check Mar. 22, 2023 Actually Gisele Loves Football She says she did not make Tom Brady choose between her and his other spouse, quarterbacking. By Claire Lampen celebrity Mar. 15, 2023 Gisele Bündchen and Her Jujitsu Instructor Are in Costa Rica Again Meanwhile, Tom Brady is adjusting to retirement. By Olivia Truffaut-Wong celebrity Feb. 28, 2023 Is This Really Tom Brady’s Plan to Win Gisele Back? The former quarterback is reportedly considering….comedy? By Tariro Mzezewa romance Feb. 15, 2023 Both of Gisele’s Valentines Are Cuter Than Tom Brady And I bet neither of them asked her to watch the Super Bowl. By Claire Lampen is this flirting? Feb. 6, 2023 Divorced Dad Experiments With Thirst Traps A newly retired Tom Brady is posting mirror selfies. By Claire Lampen please clap Feb. 2, 2023 Gisele Stays Winning She wishes her newly retired ex the best of luck in all his future endeavors [prayer-hands emoji]. By Claire Lampen finally Feb. 1, 2023 Do I Feel Sad for Tom Brady Now? Having lost everything to football, the quarterback is finally retiring for real. By Claire Lampen culture Dec. 21, 2022 Tom Brady’s Christmas Plans Sure Sound Bleak He apparently plans to spend the holiday alone in a hotel room. By Tariro Mzezewa yikes Nov. 17, 2022 Gisele Bündchen and Tom Brady Named in Crypto Lawsuit A class-action suit has been filed against FTX and its celebrity ambassadors. By Olivia Truffaut-Wong oh? Nov. 14, 2022 Gisele Went to Costa Rica With Her Jujitsu Instructor On what I can only hope is a flirty vacation. By Danielle Cohen divorce rumors Nov. 1, 2022 Gisele Bündchen and Tom Brady Are Officially Over Speaking on his podcast, Brady called the split “very amicable.” By Olivia Truffaut-Wong typical Oct. 24, 2022 Tom Brady Is Buddies With Ron DeSantis? It appears the quarterback is texting through his rumored breakup. By Claire Lampen cut opinion pages Oct. 13, 2022 Good for Gisele The enemy of my enemy (Tom Brady) is also my friend. By Claire Lampen good job Sept. 20, 2022 Tom Brady Endorses a Shorter Workweek The quarterback will be taking one extra day of rest per week. By Olivia Truffaut-Wong celebrity Feb. 2, 2022 Anti-Vaxx Celebrities Are Still Coming Out of the Woodwork To think it all started with Nicki Minaj’s cousin’s friend’s balls. By Danielle Cohen new faces of things Sept. 27, 2019 Gisele Bündchen’s Face Has a New Job The supermodel and her good skin are teaming up with Dior Beauty. By Erica Smith gallery Jan. 31, 2019 See the Fashion Campaigns for Spring 2019 From Gucci, Chloé, Saint Laurent, Raf Simons, and more. By Andrew Nguyen the cut opinion pages Jan. 29, 2019 Put Gisele in the Game A modest proposal. By Madeleine Aggeler model behavior Oct. 2, 2018 Gisele Bündchen Believes Avocados Belong in Pie Would you eat her version of dessert? By Emilia Petrarca mental health Sept. 26, 2018 Gisele Bündchen Says She Contemplated Suicide After Suffering Panic Attacks “The idea swept over me then: Maybe it will be easier if I just jump.” By Sarah Nechamkin heavenly bodies May 7, 2018 The Best (and Worst) Met Gala Beauty Looks What kind of lipstick pairs well with a halo? By Kathleen Hou the chain gang Mar. 28, 2018 New Dunkin’ Donuts Running Shoes Will Help You Unleash Your Inner Boston Wicked. By Chris Crowley book deals Mar. 21, 2018 Gisele Bündchen Is Writing a Book on How to Live Like Gisele Bündchen The way to live a meaningful life without nightshade vegetables. By Sarah Spellings Feb. 7, 2018 The 12 Most Memorable Moments From Olympic Opening Ceremonies From Russia’s stadium cards to the gleaming Tongan flag-bearer. By Brian Moylan you know what i heard Feb. 6, 2018 Everything We Know About Kylie Jenner’s New Baby And more pressing questions in this week’s celebrity gossip column. By Allie Jones sports Feb. 5, 2018 Here’s How Gisele Handled the Stress of the Super Bowl Relatable. By Lisa Ryan spring 2018 campaigns Dec. 18, 2017 ’90s Supermodels Pose for Versace’s New Campaign Naomi Campbell and Christy Turlington show ‘em how it’s done. By Emilia Petrarca Load More Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us About New York Magazine Newsletters Help Contact Press Media Kit We’re Hiring Privacy Terms Ad Choices Accessibility Do not sell or share my personal data New York is a Vox M