# Corporate Campaigns Affect 9 To 120 Years Of Chicken Life Per Dollar Spent

**Source**: https://rethinkpriorities.org/publications/corporate-campaigns-affect-9-to-120-years-of-chicken-life-per-dollar-spent
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:16:02.326744+00:00

---

Corporate campaigns affect 9 to 120 years of chicken life per dollar spent &#x2d; Rethink Priorities Corporate campaigns affect 9 to 120 years of chicken life per dollar spent &#x2d; Rethink Priorities Skip to content Newsletter Research Database Donate Search Search for: Research Areas Services Use Our Work Impact Announcements About Us Jobs Animal Welfare Identifying the most effective ways to reduce animal suffering, improve welfare standards, and influence positive change for trillions of animals worldwide. Learn more Surveys and Data Analysis Conducting polls, experiments, and focus groups and analyzing data to help organizations and policymakers tackle critical issues in AI, animal welfare, global health, and beyond. Learn more Global Health & Development Enhancing global well-being by uncovering neglected problems and promising solutions in health, international development, and climate change. Learn more Worldview Investigations Turning complex philosophical and empirical challenges into actionable insights for better philanthropic decisions. Learn more Research Database Explore our database of essential research on animal welfare, global catastrophic risks, global health, international development, and cause prioritization. Learn more Consulting Services Customized consulting services designed to assist organizations with strategic decision-making, impact analysis, and operational efficiency. Learn more Special Projects Accelerate impactful initiatives with comprehensive support services that enable organizations to focus on their core mission and scale efficiently. Learn more We can help Interested in learning more or have a project that you think might be a good fit for our program? Let us know Donors and Philanthropists Maximize the impact of your giving by identifying and supporting the most effective opportunities for global change. Learn more Researchers and Academics We collaborate to advance high-impact, data-driven research on global challenges, offering insights across fields like animal welfare, global health, and climate change. Learn more Journalists A resource for anyone writing about or researching our organization, our teams, and our work. Learn more Nonprofit Organizations and Foundations Tailored research and consulting services to help maximize the effectiveness and impact of their philanthropic initiatives. Learn more Policymakers Make data-driven policy decisions using our team’s research and expertise. Learn more Broadening our moral circles: Understanding welfare capacities Donors committed to making a difference need strong evidence and empirical methods to make informed decisions about how to allocate resources. Should you donate to progra... Read more Uniting for impact: Improving farmed animal welfare across the EU Legislative changes within the European Union have the power to... Read more Improving outcomes: Shifting funding to more cost-effective options Our Global Health and Development Department has helped to redirect... Read more Uncovering neglected issues: Advancing shrimp welfare In 2019, the suffering of farmed shrimp was largely unnoticed.... Read more Our Research Areas Animal Welfare Global Health &#038; Development Surveys and Data Analysis Worldview Investigations Our Services Consulting services Special project We can help Use Our Work Donors and Philanthropists Researchers and Academics Journalists Nonprofit Organizations and Foundations Policymakers Impact Broadening Our Moral Circles Uniting For Impact Improving Outcomes Uncovering Neglected Issues Announcements About us facebook linkedin twitter_x Animal Welfare Farmed Animal Welfare August, 09 2019 Corporate campaigns affect 9 to 120 years of chicken life per dollar spent Saulius Simcikas Read On The EA Forum Share with LinkedIn X (Twitter) Facebook E-mail Or share with link https://rethinkpriorities.org/research-area/corporate-campaigns-affect-9-to-120-years-of-chicken-life-per-dollar-spent/ Table of contents Share Summary In this article, I estimate how many chickens will be affected by corporate cage-free [1] and broiler welfare [2] commitments won by all charities, in all countries, during all the years between 2005 and the end of 2018. According to my estimate, for every dollar spent, 9 to 120 years of chicken life will be affected. However, the estimate doesn&rsquo;t take into account indirect effects which could be more important. The estimate is summarized in the table below. [3] In the table, everything is expressed in my subjective 90% confidence intervals . Numbers in parentheses are means. _M_ stands for million , and _B_ stands for billion . The full estimation can be seen in the Guesstimate model . Numbers in the table may not add up because of the way Guesstimate works. In addition to direct costs on corporate campaigns, the cost estimate includes the costs of undercover investigations about the living conditions of chickens, relevant research, and all administrative expenses associated with these activities. It doesn&rsquo;t include the costs of legislative campaigns and future costs of ensuring compliance to commitments that are already made. Consequently, predictions of follow-through rates assume that the spending on ensuring compliance will not be substantial. There are many ways this cost-effectiveness could be misleading. For example: I only estimate direct short term effects. Indirect effects on chicken and egg consumption, wild animal welfare, public opinion on farm animal issues, and long-term future could be more important. This is cost-effectiveness of past campaigns. Cost-effectiveness in the future might be different because companies could learn how to deal with animal advocates, it might be done in different countries, or for different asks. This is not an estimate of what an additional donated dollar would achieve, as I do not discuss room for more funding and there is a high variance in cost-effectiveness within the spending associated with corporate campaigns. In the first appendix , I show that even under very pessimistic assumptions, fighting for welfare reforms has affected more than one chicken-year per dollar spent In the second appendix , I discuss how the involvement of volunteers slightly skews this cost-effectiveness estimate. In short, volunteer time is a cost that is not accounted for. In the third appendix , I review previous cost-effectiveness estimates of corporate campaigns by Capriati (2018) , Bollard (2016) , Dickens (2016) , and Animal Charity Evaluators. In the fourth appendix , I explain why I chose to estimate the cost-effectiveness of campaigns in all countries, during all the years between 2005 and the end of 2018, rather than focusing on a specific charity or year, despite the fact that very few commitments were won before 2013. In short, all efforts are interrelated. Efforts in one year can lead to victories in later years, and a single commitment can be influenced by multiple charities working in multiple countries. This article is a project of Rethink Priorities . It contains a lot of details but I tried to make it easy to skim. The section I recommend reading the most is Ways this estimate could be misleading . The number of chickens that should be affected According to unpublished estimates by Lewis Bollard from the Open Philanthropy Project (OpenPhil), commitments that were made before the end of 2018 should affect at least: ~243 million egg-laying hens in the U.S. ~135.6 million hens in other countries [4] ~512 million broilers (meat chickens) in the U.S. He arrived at these figures by estimating numbers of animals used by many of the companies that made commitments. Estimates are very approximate because in most cases the number of animals used by a company was unavailable. [5] Also, many commitments were not included in the estimates, which suggest that the total number of animals who should be affected is higher. Bollard&rsquo;s estimates include: 309 out of over 413 cage-free commitments in the U.S. 163 out of over 1060 cage-free commitments in other countries. 51 out of over 107 U.S. broiler commitments Total numbers of commitments here are taken from Chicken Watch . Note that some commitments can be very small (e.g., a single restaurant or a hotel). Most of the bigger commitments are included. Based on this information, Bollard also gave his subjective 90% confidence intervals of numbers of animals used every year by companies that made commitments: 210&ndash;270 million hens used by companies that made cage-free commitments in the U.S. The confidence interval is relatively narrow, partly because USDA has independently arrived at similar estimates, probably using a similar methodology. According to a 2018 USDA report , 230 companies that pledged to go cage-free in the U.S. together use about 225 million hens every year, which is nearly 70% of the U.S. flock 100&ndash;300 million hens used by companies that made cage-free commitments in other countries. 200&ndash;800 million broilers used by companies that made broiler commitments in the U.S. Complications with the estimate of the number of broilers In some cases, the number of broilers affected by commitments was calculated by dividing the weight of chicken meat used by companies by the average meat weight per chicken (~2 kg). However, this might underestimate the number of chickens affected if a committed company uses only a part of a chicken (e.g., only wings). [6] In those cases, we might want to divide the weight of chicken meat used by the restaurant by the average weight of chicken wings, rather than the weight of all edible chicken parts. This would result in a higher estimate of broilers affected. On the other hand, this might cause an overlap between different commitments. Same higher welfare broilers might be used to supply two companies that use different body parts. Nevertheless, because of this consideration, I increase the upper bound of U.S. broilers that should be af