# Apple Intelligence

**Source**: https://www.apple.com/apple-intelligence/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:20:03.534306+00:00

---

Apple Intelligence - Apple Apple Store Mac iPad iPhone Watch Vision AirPods TV &amp; Home Entertainment Accessories Support 0 + Apple&nbsp;Intelligence Local Nav Open Menu Local Nav Close Menu Overview OS Apple&nbsp;Intelligence AI for the rest of us. Built into your iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple&nbsp;Vision&nbsp;Pro * to help you write, express yourself, and get things done effortlessly. ** Designed with groundbreaking privacy at every step. Communication More connection. Less noise. Apple&nbsp;Intelligence simplifies your everyday communication and helps you stay focused. Communicate across languages with Live&nbsp;Translation. Strike just the right tone with Writing&nbsp;Tools. And minimize distractions with prioritized notifications. Pause Play Replay Explore new features for communication, writing, and&nbsp;focus. Turn on Live&nbsp;Translation to automatically translate texts in Messages, 1 display live translated captions in FaceTime, and get spoken translations for calls in the Phone&nbsp;app. 2 Transform how you communicate using intelligent Writing&nbsp;Tools that can proofread your text, rewrite different versions until the tone and wording are just right, and summarize selected text with a tap. Writing&nbsp;Tools are available nearly everywhere you write, including third-party apps. Get the short version of lengthy voicemails, record and summarize Notes and calls, and summarize an email in Mail with a tap. Use a Smart Reply in Mail to quickly draft an email response with all the right details. Apple Intelligence can identify questions you were asked in an email and offer relevant selections to include in your response. With a few taps you’re ready to send a reply with key questions answered. Reduce Interruptions is a Focus that highlights notifications that might need immediate attention. Priority notifications appear at the top of the stack and are summarized, so you can see what matters most at a glance. Priority messages in Mail elevate time-sensitive messages to the top of your inbox — like an invitation that has a deadline today or a check-in reminder for your flight this afternoon. Images Delightful images created just for you. Create fun, original images with Image&nbsp;Playground right in your apps or its own dedicated app. You can try out styles like animation, illustration, and sketch and discover additional ChatGPT styles. Turn a rough sketch into a related image that complements your notes with Image&nbsp;Wand. Craft a custom memory movie in the Photos app. And make images inspired by your friends using&nbsp;Genmoji. 3 Create expressive images, unique Genmoji, and custom memory movies. Remove distractions in your photos with the Clean Up tool in the Photos app. Apple Intelligence identifies background objects so you can remove them with a tap and perfect your shot — while staying true to the original image. 4 Produce fun, original images with Image&nbsp;Playground right in your apps. Try out styles like animation, illustration, and sketch, and discover additional ChatGPT styles. Have even more control when making images inspired by family and friends using&nbsp;Genmoji. 3 Image Wand can transform your rough sketch into a related image in the Notes app. Use your finger or Apple Pencil to draw a circle around your sketch, and Image Wand will analyze the content around it to produce a complementary visual. You can even circle an empty space, and Image Wand will use the surrounding context to create a picture. Create a custom memory movie of the story you want to see, right in Photos. Enter a description, and Apple Intelligence finds the best photos and videos that match. It then crafts a storyline with unique chapters based on themes it identifies and arranges your photos into a movie with its own narrative arc. Search for photos and videos in the Photos app simply by describing what you’re looking for. Apple Intelligence can even find a particular moment in a video clip that fits your search description and take you right to it. Visual intelligence Let your iPhone take it all in. Learn more about what’s in front of you, whether you‘re out and about or using your iPhone. Instantly turn a poster into a Calendar event. Summarize what you’re viewing. Ask questions, like recipe ideas for what’s in your fridge. And search seamlessly across your favorite apps, like finding where to buy a cool outfit you see online. 5 Pause Play Replay Productivity Get more done. More effortlessly. Siri can assist you in everyday moments to get tasks done. You can speak or type to Siri whenever you need it. It can help you learn something new about your Apple products, and can tap into ChatGPT’s broad world knowledge when appropriate. Plus, Apple&nbsp;Intelligence comes to the Shortcuts app to accelerate your&nbsp;workflows. Explore a more helpful Siri, motivation during workouts, and tools for work and&nbsp;school. With a double tap on the bottom of your iPhone or iPad screen, you can type to Siri from anywhere in the system when you don’t want to speak out loud. Tap into the expansive product knowledge Siri has about your devices’ features and settings. You can ask questions when you’re learning how to do something new on your iPhone, iPad, and Mac, and Siri can give you step-by-step directions in a flash. Go the extra mile with Workout&nbsp;Buddy and its personalized pep talks in the style and tone of Apple&nbsp;Fitness+&nbsp;trainers. 6 Accelerate your workflows by creating powerful Shortcuts using Apple&nbsp;Intelligence models, as well as features like Writing&nbsp;Tools to summarize text and Image&nbsp;Playground to create images. Apple&nbsp;Intelligence empowers Siri with onscreen awareness , so it can understand and take action with things on your screen. If a friend texts you their new address, you can say “Add this address to their contact card,” and Siri will take care of it. This feature is in development and will be available with a future software&nbsp;update. Awareness of your personal context enables Siri to help you in ways that are unique to you. Can’t remember if a friend shared that recipe with you in a note, a text, or an email? Need your passport number while booking a flight? Siri can use its knowledge of the information on your device to help find what you’re looking for, without compromising your privacy. This feature is in development and will be available with a future software&nbsp;update. Seamlessly take action in and across apps with Siri. You can make a request like “Send the email I drafted to April and Lilly” and Siri knows which email you’re referencing and which app it’s in. And Siri can take actions across apps, so after you ask Siri to enhance a photo for you by saying “Make this photo pop,” you can ask Siri to drop it in a specific note in the Notes app — without lifting a finger. This feature is in development and will be available with a future software&nbsp;update. Great powers come with great privacy. Apple Intelligence is designed to protect your privacy at every step. It’s integrated into the core of your iPhone, iPad, and Mac through on-device processing. So it’s aware of your personal information without collecting your personal information. And with groundbreaking Private Cloud Compute, Apple Intelligence can draw on larger server-based models, running on Apple&nbsp;silicon, to handle more complex requests for you while protecting your privacy. Private Cloud Compute Your data is never stored Used only for your requests Verifiable privacy promise ChatGPT, seamlessly integrated. With ChatGPT from OpenAI integrated into Siri, Writing&nbsp;Tools, visual&nbsp;intelligence, Image&nbsp;Playground, and Shortcuts, you get even more expertise when it might be helpful for you — no need to jump between tools. You control when ChatGPT is used and will be asked before any of your information is shared. Anyone can access ChatGPT for free, without creating an account. ChatGPT subscribers can connect accounts to access paid features within these experiences. Experience Apple&nbsp;Intelligence. Find the right iPhone, iPad, or Mac for you. iPhone iPad Laptops Desktops New iPhone 17 Pro Innovative design for ultimate performance and battery&nbsp;life. Learn more Buy New iPhone Air The thinnest iPhone ever. With the power of pro inside. Learn more Buy New iPhone 17 Even more delightful. Even more durable. Learn more Buy iPhone 16 Amazing performance. Durable design. Learn more Buy iPhone 16e Everything you love. Including the price. Learn more Buy iPad Pro The ultimate iPad experience with the most advanced technology. Learn more Buy iPad Air Serious performance in a thin and light design. Learn more Buy iPad mini The full iPad experience in an ultraportable design. Learn more Buy MacBook Air 13”&nbsp;and&nbsp;15” M4 chip Strikingly thin and fast so you can work, play, or create anywhere. Learn more Buy MacBook Pro 14”&nbsp;and&nbsp;16” M4, M4 Pro, or M4 Max chip The most advanced Mac laptops for demanding workflows. Learn more Buy iMac M4 chip A stunning all‑in‑one desktop for creativity and productivity. Learn more Buy Mac mini M4 or M4 Pro chip The mini-est, most affordable Mac with mighty performance. Learn more Buy Mac Studio M4 Max or M3 Ultra chip Powerful performance and extensive connectivity for pro workflows. Learn more Buy Mac Pro M2 Ultra chip A pro workstation with PCIe expansion for demanding workflows. Learn more Buy Apple&nbsp;Intelligence is compatible with these devices. iPhone&nbsp;17 A19 iPhone&nbsp;17&nbsp;Pro A19 Pro iPhone&nbsp;17&nbsp;Pro&nbsp;Max A19 Pro iPhone&nbsp;Air A19 Pro iPhone&nbsp;16e A18 iPhone&nbsp;16 A18 iPhone&nbsp;16&nbsp;Plus A18 iPhone&nbsp;16&nbsp;Pro&nbsp;Max A18 Pro iPhone&nbsp;16&nbsp;Pro A18 Pro iPhone&nbsp;15&nbsp;Pro&nbsp;Max A17 Pro iPhone&nbsp;15&nbsp;Pro A17 Pro iPad&nbsp;Pro M1 and later iPad&nbsp;Air M1 and later iPad&nbsp;mini A17 Pro MacBook&nbsp;Air M1 and later MacBook&nbsp;Pro M1 and later iMac M1&nbsp;and&nbsp;later Mac&nbsp;min