# American Politics Peak Polarization

**Source**: https://www.vox.com/polyarchy/2016/3/24/11298808/american-politics-peak-polarization
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:50:09.998885+00:00

---

American politics has reached peak polarization | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo American politics has reached peak polarization Free speech needs fearless journalism Free speech is endangered; unbiased and trustworthy news is elusive. In a time of noise, confusion, and spin, we’re committed to clarity, truth, and depth — even when it’s hard. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join now Politics / Polyarchy American politics has reached peak polarization by Lee Drutman Mar 24, 2016, 8:20 PM UTC Share Gift Protesters are removed from the Tampa Convention Center as Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks to supporters during a town hall meeting on March 14, 2016, at in Tampa, Florida. Brian Blanco/Getty Images Lee Drutman is the author of Breaking the Two-Party Doom Loop: The Case for Multiparty Democracy in America. He is a senior fellow at the think tank New America, a lecturer at Johns Hopkins University, and the co-host of the podcast Politics in Question. For a long time in American politics, we’ve been trapped in a cycle of ever-escalating political polarization. As measured by voting patterns in the US Congress , the two parties have pulled apart to distances we’ve never seen before . As measured by consistent partisan positioning among voters , the split in the electorate has reached a historic level of divisiveness. But this is about to end. We’ve now hit peak polarization. The forces that have fueled the widening gap between the two political parties are now fueling fights within the two political parties, fights that will lead to new coalitions in American politics, eventually realigning the two parties . A new era of American politics is about to emerge. The tautological reason polarization has increased in American politics is that over the past four decades, conflict in American politics has increasingly operated along a single dimension: Republican versus Democrat. A large number of issues that were once nonpartisan or non-ideological have become partisan issues . Almost every policy has now been swept into the maw of partisan jockeying , leaving almost no space for the cross-partisan cooperation our political system relies on to function. In order for congressional polarization to persist, both parties have to maintain tight enough discipline over their members and the political agenda to ensure consistent party voting. And in order for public polarization to persist, parties have to maintain tight enough message discipline among their elites to ensure that their voters only hear one main message. This is breaking down. Republicans are now in open warfare between Trump supporters and #NeverTrumpers. Democrats are far less divided, but internal rifts between their “establishment” (Hillary Clinton) and “insurgent” (Bernie Sanders) wings are also real and likely lasting. This conflict is emerging on issues of international trade, on questions of corporate (especially Wall Street) power, and in growing anger over money in politics and corruption generally . In short, parties are increasingly divided on a growing range of issues that pit their less-educated, lower-income voters who feel left behind by the current political-economic system against their better-educated, higher-income voter who don’t want to mess too much with the status quo. These conflicts are not going away anytime soon. This moment is the culmination of four interconnected but ultimately unsustainable trends that have turbocharged polarization over the last two decades: The unusually close competition for control over Congress The increasing importance of money in politics The tendency of both parties to privilege their donors over their voters The increasing narrative of anger and corruption that puts all the blame for everything that’s gone wrong in America on the other party Close competition fueled partisan nastiness and increased the demand for campaign money. The demand for campaign money made the parties more dependent on wealthy donors, which made them less responsive to their voters. This lack of responsiveness provided plenty of evidence for corruption and the felt sense that politics was broken, which fueled anger. Both parties attempted to channel this anger against the other party to distract from their own failures and contradictions and win elections by rendering the other party toxic. This exacerbated the sense that politics was broken and corrupt. These trends created contradictions, and now these contradictions have created openings. Ambitious candidates who could get past their parties’ campaign finance gatekeepers had a lot of angry and left-behind voters eager for their message. And this is precisely what Sanders and especially Donald Trump have accomplished. Now there is no going back. How we got to peak polarization These are big claims. So let’s flesh this story out a little more, this time with expanded detail. The story could go all the way back to the decisive election of 1932, when Democrats became the dominant party in American politics for a generation, holding together a big-tent New Deal coalition that included Southern pro-segregationists with Northern urban progressives. But it was an uneasy alliance that could only last as long as civil rights legislation was bottled up. Then in 1964, the Democrats decidedly became the party of civil rights. And as Lyndon Johnson allegedly acknowledged upon signing the 1964 Civil Rights Act, the Democrats “have lost the South for a generation.” Democrats had controlled the South ever since Republican-led Reconstruction (since Republicans were the party of Lincoln and of Reconstruction). But as Republicans came to be the party better aligned with the South on issues of race, conservative Republicans replaced conservative Democrats in Southern House and Senate seats, starting in the 1980s. By 1995, when Republicans won the House for the first time in 40 years, this transition was mostly complete. By 2011, it was absolute and total. As this all happened, the ideological center of the Republican Party moved to the South, fusing social and economic conservatism. Northern liberal Republicans were marginalized and soon endangered. Democrats, meanwhile, lost their Southern, conservative wing, and the ideological center of the Democratic Party moved to the coasts and big cities, fusing social and economic liberalism. Former US Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images) As the parties became less internally diverse, individual members of Congress delegated more power to their party leaders. After all, they all now basically agreed on the issues. And they wanted leaders who could punish disloyal dissenters and control the agenda . So when Newt Gingrich took over the speakership in 1995, he centralized power in the position in a way it had not been centralized since 1910. In the 1990s, American politics entered a somewhat unusual period of remarkably close two-party competition for control of the House and the Senate. (Frances Lee) This, as political scientist Frances Lee explains , has been the catalyst for a very nasty brand of partisan fighting. ”Competition fuels party conflict by raising the political stakes of every policy dispute. When control of national institutions hangs in the balance, no party wants to grant political legitimacy to its opposition by voting for the measures it champions. After all, how can a party wage an effective campaign after supporting or collaborating with its opposition on public policy? Instead, parties in a competitive environment will want to amplify the differences voters perceive between themselves and their opposition. They will continually strive to give voters an answer to the key question: “Why should you support us instead of them?” Even when the parties do not disagree in substantive terms, they still have political motivations to actively seek and find reasons to oppose one another. In an environment as closely competitive as the present, even small political advantages can be decisive in winning or losing institutional majorities.” This seems exactly right to me, and there’s lots of evidence to prove it . But not only has this close competition fueled partisanship by turning legislating into zero-sum trench warfare, it has also turbocharged the fundraising dimension of political campaigning. Parties are campaigning harder than ever to win over those swing seats, and this has meant raising ever-expanding sums of money . And in order to raise this money, both parties have had to lean more and more on their wealthiest donors . But relying on these wealthy donors created a problem for both parties. On many issues, particularly economic issues, wealthy elites hold separate opinions from most voters . Major Republican donors generally want fiscal austerity, and particularly a rolled-back welfare state. They also tend to be much more pro-immigration and pro&ndash;free trade than Republican voters, and not particularly worried about social issues. But schemes like privatizing Social Security and voucherizing Medicare have never been all that popular with actual Republican voters. And as the middle classes’ wages have stagnated, especially for those without college degrees, and the share of foreign-born residents in the US has reached levels not seen since the 1920s (it hit 13.9 percent in 2015 ), the voting constituency for anti-immigration populism has grown considerably. Democratic donors are somewhat more economically liberal. But they are not abo