# 05

**Source**: https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/toc/2022/05/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:48:04.900251+00:00

---

May 2022 Issue - The Atlantic Skip to content Site Navigation The Atlantic Popular Latest Newsletters Sections Politics Ideas Fiction Technology Science Photo Economy Culture Planet Global Books AI Watchdog Health Education Projects Features Family Events Washington Week Progress National Security Explore The Atlantic Archive Play The Atlantic Games Listen to Podcasts and Articles The Print Edition Latest Issue Past Issues Give a Gift Search The Atlantic Quick Links Audio Crossword Puzzle Magazine Archive Your Subscription Popular Latest Newsletters Sign In Subscribe May 2022 All Issues Latest Issue Search the Atlantic In This Issue Preparing for the end of Roe , Europe’s ex-royals, tour guides to a tragedy, and how social media shattered society. Plus Winslow Homer, the myth of the liberal world order, a new history of WWII, ending mom guilt, the price of privacy, and more. Cover Story Photo illustration by Oliver Munday. Source: Deborah Spronk / EyeEm / Getty The Future of Abortion in a Post- Roe America Inside the covert network preparing to circumvent restrictions Jessica Bruder Get the digital edition of this issue. Subscribers can access PDF versions of every issue in The Atlantic archive. When you subscribe, you’ll not only enjoy all of The Atlantic’s writing, past and present; you’ll also be supporting a bright future for our journalism. Subscribe Already a subscriber? Sign In Features Nate Palmer for The Atlantic Burying a Burning The killing of three civil-rights workers in Neshoba County, Mississippi, in 1964 changed America. But today, if you want to know what happened here, you need to know who to ask. Ko Bragg Jelka von Langen for The Atlantic Among Europe’s Ex-Royals What do the descendants of dethroned monarchs have to offer the continent in the 21st century? Helen Lewis Illustration by Nicolás Ortega. Source: &quot;Belshazzar’s Feast,&quot; John Martin, 1820. Why the Past 10 Years of American Life Have Been Uniquely Stupid It’s not just a phase. Jonathan Haidt Winslow Homer* The Melville of American Painting In a new exhibit, Winslow Homer, once seen as the oracle of the nation’s innocence, is recast as a poet of conflict. Susan Tallman Dispatches Oliver Munday There Is No Liberal World Order Unless democracies defend themselves, the forces of autocracy will destroy them. Anne Applebaum Katie Martin The End of Mom Guilt Why a mother’s ambition is good for her family Lara Bazelon Chauncey Hare Under the Fluorescent Lights Chauncey Hare captured the drudgery of office life in order to protest it. Hannah Giorgis Culture &amp; Critics Paul Spella Have We Lost Patience for Prestige TV? Better Call Saul is dazzling, and frustrating. Spencer Kornhaber Illustration by John Whitlock* A New History of World War II A new book argues that the conflict was a battle for empire. Daniel Immerwahr Dadu Shin Sex for Art’s Sake Elif Batuman’s curious experiment in fiction Jennifer Wilson Rodrigo Corral The Price of Privacy Who gets to keep a secret in a hyperconnected world? Sarah E. Igo Departments Katie Martin The Commons: The Satisfaction Trap Readers respond to our March 2022 cover story and more. Tim Lahan An Ode to Hotel Rooms The smells, the sounds, the bodywash James Parker Poetry Gabriela Pesqueira Oral History Elisa Gabbert Latest Issues October 2025 September 2025 August 2025 July 2025 June 2025 May 2025 April 2025 March 2025 February 2025 January 2025 December 2024 November 2024 Scroll → The Atlantic Daily Get our guide to the day’s biggest news and ideas, delivered to your inbox every weekday and Sunday mornings. See more newsletters Email Address Sign Up Your newsletter subscriptions are subject to The Atlantic&#x27;s Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions . Ideas That Matter Subscribe and support more than 160 years of independent journalism. Subscribe Popular Links About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Reprints &amp; Permissions Podcasts Radio Atlantic Good on Paper The David Frum Show How to Age Up Autocracy in America Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Atlantic Editions Newsletters Follow facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin flipboard About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Reprints &amp; Permissions Podcasts Radio Atlantic Good on Paper The David Frum Show How to Age Up Autocracy in America Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Atlantic Editions Newsletters Follow facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin flipboard Site Information Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices privacy-options Advertising Guidelines Terms &amp; Conditions Terms of Sale Responsible Disclosure Site Map TheAtlantic.com © 2025 The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply