# Zeke Faux Number Go Up Book Excerpt.Html

**Source**: https://nymag.com/intelligencer/article/zeke-faux-number-go-up-book-excerpt.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:42:23.589025+00:00

---

With SBF, Gisele, and Michael Lewis at Peak of Crypto Craze Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Politics Business Technology Ideas About Intelligencer Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Close Close Politics Business Technology Ideas About Intelligencer Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Search Search Close the money game That’s What I Call Ponzinomics With Sam Bankman-Fried, Gisele, and a credulous Michael Lewis at the zenith of crypto hype. By Zeke Faux Sept. 6, 2023 save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Sam Bankman-Fried and Gisele Bündchen. Photo: Joe Schildhorn/BFA.com Sam Bankman-Fried and Gisele Bündchen. Photo: Joe Schildhorn/BFA.com Three years ago, nobody knew who you were. And now you’re sit­ting on the cover of magazines. And you’re a gazillionaire. And your business is, like, one of the fastest-growing businesses in the history of the planet.” Sam Bankman-Fried giggled and nodded nervously, shaking his messy crown of curly hair, as the writer Michael Lewis lavished him with praise. They were onstage at a resort in the Bahamas for a conference put on by the 30-year-old billionaire to celebrate the success of his crypto exchange, FTX . It was April 2022, and pretty much everyone who mattered in the world of virtual currencies had flown in for the occasion — plus Bill Clinton , Katy Perry , and Tom Brady for good measure. Bankman-Fried was dressed slovenly as usual, in gray shorts and a gray FTX T-shirt. Lewis looked like a prep-school headmaster, wearing a blue blazer with peak lapels and a white button-down with blue accents, his floppy hair parted perfectly to the side. The way he was talking about Bankman-Fried, he sounded as if he were presenting a prize to his star pupil. “You’re breaking land-speed records,” Lewis said. “And I don’t think people are really noticing what’s happened, just how dramatic the revolution has become.” I’d heard that Bankman-Fried was going to be the subject of Lewis’s next book. But the author’s questions were so fawning they seemed inappropriate for a journalist. Listening from the packed auditorium, I started to question whether Lewis was really writing a work of nonfiction or if FTX had paid him to appear. (Lewis later told me that he was there as a reporter and that he was not compensated.) I’d come to the Bahamas because I was about a year into an investigation of the crypto world. I wanted to understand why the prices of bitcoin and hundreds of lesser coins — with ridiculous names like dogecoin , solana , polkadot, and Smooth Love Potion — were going up and up. Crypto boosters claimed they were in the vanguard of a revolution that would democratize finance and create generational wealth for those who believed. The roar of the rising prices drowned out the skeptics. Incomprehensible jargon became inescapable. Blockchain. DeFi. Web3. The metaverse. What these terms meant was beside the point. Newspapers, TV, and social media bombarded readers with stories of regular people who invested and got rich virtually overnight. Crypto seemed like a giant slot machine that had been rigged to pay out almost every time. Hundreds of millions of people around the world gave in to the temptation to pull the lever. Everybody knew somebody who’d hit it big. And the more people who bought in, the higher prices rose. By the time of the conference in the Bahamas, the total market value of all of crypto was $2 trillion. From the beginning, I had thought that crypto was pretty dumb. And it turned out to be even dumber than I imagined. There was no mass movement to actually use crypto in the real world. The crypto apps hyped as the future of finance and art barely worked. As I crisscrossed the globe, from El Salvador to Switzerland to the Philippines, all I saw were scams, fraud, and half-baked schemes. By the end, I’d find myself in Cambodia, investigating how crypto fueled a vast human-trafficking scheme run by Chinese gangsters. I’d grown up reading Lewis’s books, including Liar’s Poker and The Big Short , and when he and Bankman-Fried first came onstage, I was excited to hear insights from the guy who taught me how Wall Street blew up the world economy with collateralized debt obligations. Instead, Lewis said he knew next to nothing about cryptocurrency. But he seemed quite confident that it was great. He went on to opine that, con­trary to popular opinion, crypto was not well suited for crime. Lewis pos­ited that U.S. regulators were hostile to the industry because they’d been brainwashed or bought off by established Wall Street banks. I wondered if he somehow hadn’t heard about the countless crypto scams, but the thought seemed preposterous. “You look at the existing financial system, then you look at what’s been built outside the existing financial system by crypto, and the crypto version is better,” Lewis said. Bankman-Fried’s other turns onstage at the conference were similarly mindless. He stumbled through an interview with the former British prime minister Tony Blair and Clinton, who at one point extended a fatherly hand of support. He exchanged banalities about charity with Gisele Bündchen , with whom he’d posed for an FTX ad campaign that ran in Vogue and GQ , and platitudes about leadership with her husband, Tom Brady. “Does it ever get boring to win so much?” a moderator asked. “I get a little desensitized,” Bankman-Fried said. “I never get tired of winning,” Brady said. It was depressing to see that many people whom I had admired had been co-opted by Bankman-Fried to promote crypto gambling. I’d later learn Brady and Bündchen were paid about $50 million in stock for their en­dorsements. Clin­ton was reportedly paid at least $250,000 to appear at the conference. The crowd there lacked the quasi-religious fervor I’d seen at more plebeian crypto gatherings. Instead, the attendees fell into three groups. There were the venture capitalists, who’d gotten in early, watched the tokens they bought climb to ludicrous heights, and now believed they could pre­dict the future. There were the founders of crypto start-ups, who’d raised so many millions of dollars that they seemed to believe their own far-fetched pitches about creating the next generation of finance. Then there were the programmers, who were so caught up with their clever ideas about new things to do inside the crypto world that they never paused to think about whether the technology did anything useful. At a party for a project called Degenerate Trash Pandas, I asked one coder if crypto would ever be helpful for regular people. “Why is it that you think that is important?” he said to me, in total sincerity. “I really would like to know.” In the press room, I saw Kevin O’Leary — the Shark Tank judge who goes by “Mr. Wonderful” — polishing his already shiny dome with an electric razor as he prepared to go on TV. (He was paid $15 million to endorse FTX.) And I spotted a man from New York I’d investigated years earlier. He sometimes went by the alias “Jim Stark,” though his real name was Andrew Masanto, and he’d been accused in three law­suits filed by angry consumers of involvement with a “plant stem cell” miracle hair-loss cure. (He has denied the connection.) After I awk­wardly reintroduced myself, he told me he was building a “Web3 so­cial platform” and that he had helped create a popular cryptocurrency. I looked up its market value and saw it was almost $4 billion. “There’s a lot of legitimacy behind the technology,” he said. Adapted from Number Go Up: Inside Crypto’s Wild Rise and Staggering Fall , by Zeke Faux. Photo: Crown Currency Before I got to the Bahamas, I’d thought the conference’s attendees might be chastened by the recent failure of a high-profile crypto app called Axie Infinity . It was a Pokémon -ish mobile game in which players bought creatures with virtual currency and battled to win tokens called Smooth Love Potions. Amazingly, crypto boosters had promoted this as a potential replacement for actual jobs. Hundreds of thousands of people in poor countries had gotten sucked in, even taking out loans to play, before the unsustainable bubble had unsurprisingly collapsed. Making matters worse, in March 2022, a month before the conference, North Korean hackers broke into a sort of crypto exchange affiliated with Axie Infinity and made off with $600 million worth of crypto. The heist helped Kim Jong Un pay for test launches of ballistic missiles, according to U.S. officials. Instead of providing a new way for poor people to earn cash, Axie Infinity funneled their savings to a dictator’s weapons program. But instead of any reflection on what happened, all I heard was hype. Through FTX’s press representatives, I arranged a string of inter­views with attendees. One was with John Wu, the president of Ava Labs, which ran a popular blockchain called Avalanche and had recently been valued at $5 billion. If anyone at the conference was going to be sober-minded, I imagined it would be him. Wu was 51, and his résumé included Cornell Univer­sity, Harvard Business School, and a stint at the giant hedge fund Tiger Global. But when we sat down, Wu and a colleague bragged to me about a Zelda -like play-to-earn game on their blockchain that had attracted 40,000 users in less t