# Nvidia Reportedly Halts Production On Its H20 Ai Chips

**Source**: https://techcrunch.com/2025/08/22/nvidia-reportedly-halts-production-on-its-h20-ai-chips/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:16:59.599913+00:00

---

Nvidia reportedly halts production on its H20 AI chips | TechCrunch TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps Disrupt 2025 Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech &amp; Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government &amp; Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media &amp; Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Crunchboard Contact Us In Brief Posted: 9:53 AM PDT · August 22, 2025 Image Credits: Akio Kon/Bloomberg / Getty Images Rebecca Szkutak Nvidia reportedly halts production on its H20 AI chips Beijing may have thrown a wrench into Nvidia&#8217;s plans on making a comeback in China&#8217;s AI market. Nvidia has instructed its component suppliers to stop production related to its H20 AI chip , according to The Information. The production halt comes after Beijing reportedly warned Chinese companies against using these chips because of potential security issues and fears of backdoors that would give the U.S. access to sensitive data. China&#8217;s government is urging companies to use domestic chips instead, The Information reported. This comes a month after companies including Nvidia were given the green light to start selling its AI chips designed for China&#8217;s market. An Nvidia spokesperson sent TechCrunch the following statement, &#8220;We constantly manage our supply chain to address market conditions. Cybersecurity is critically important to us. NVIDIA does not have &#8216;backdoors&#8217; in our chips that would give anyone a remote way to access or control them. The market can use the H20 with confidence.&#8221; We&#8217;re always looking to evolve, and by providing some insight into your perspective and feedback into TechCrunch and our coverage and events, you can help us! Fill out&nbsp; this survey &nbsp;to let us know how we&#8217;re doing and get the chance to win a prize in return! Topics AI , AI chips , Enterprise , In Brief , nvidia , semiconductor October 27-29, 2025 San Francisco ONE-WEEK BUNDLE FLASH SALE Founder Bundle Offer: Land your investor and sharpen your pitch. Save 15% when you bring 4-9 founders. Investors Bundle Offer: Discover your next breakout startup. Save 20% when you bring 4-9 investors. Bundle offer ends October 3. Register Now Newsletters See More Subscribe for the industry’s biggest tech news TechCrunch Daily News Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. TechCrunch Mobility TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. Startups Weekly Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. StrictlyVC Provides movers and shakers with the info they need to start their day. No newsletters selected. Subscribe By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . Related AI California’s new AI safety law shows regulation and innovation don’t have to clash Rebecca Bellan 2 days ago AI The billion-dollar infrastructure deals powering the AI boom Russell Brandom Sep 28, 2025 AI What’s behind the massive AI data center headlines? Maxwell Zeff Sep 26, 2025 Latest in AI Apps OpenAI&#8217;s Sora soars to No. 1 on the US App Store Sarah Perez 50 seconds ago Startups AI slop, government stops, and startup uncertainty Theresa Loconsolo Anthony Ha Kirsten Korosec Maxwell Zeff 51 minutes ago TechCrunch Disrupt 2025 The clock is ticking: Savings of up to 20% on group passes end tonight for TechCrunch Disrupt 2025 TechCrunch Events 3 hours ago X LinkedIn Facebook Instagram youTube Mastodon Threads Bluesky TechCrunch Staff Contact Us Advertise Crunchboard Jobs Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy RSS Terms of Use Code of Conduct H1-B Visa GPT Pulse Grok Steph Curry TechCrunch Disrupt Tech Layoffs ChatGPT © 2025 TechCrunch Media LLC.