# Nyc Sex Parties.Html

**Source**: https://www.thecut.com/2021/11/nyc-sex-parties.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:51:38.083792+00:00

---

NYC Sex Parties Are Better Than Ever Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Style Self Culture Power Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission nightlife The Sex Parties Really Are Better Than Ever Optimists predicted a horny free-for-all post-lockdown. They were right. By Avery Stone , a freelance writer who covers culture, lifestyle, and entertainment. &nbsp; She has worked as an editor at Penske Media and Dotdash Meredith and has written for The Hollywood Reporter, ESPN, The Wall Street Journal, Bustle, Nylon, Vice, Eater, and more. Nov. 18, 2021 This article was featured in One Great Story , New York’ s reading recommendation newsletter. Sign up here to get it nightly. save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Photo: Courtesy of The Wink This article was featured in One Great Story , New York’ s reading recommendation newsletter. Sign up here to get it nightly. Photo: Courtesy of The Wink On a Saturday night in August, in a cavernous basement in Bushwick, Brooklyn, about 60 people milled around under a ceiling covered in cherry-red twinkly lights. Some clutched Solo cups. Many wore costumes: There was a young woman with fairy wings, a devil-angel duo, a trio draped in ivy. Lining the periphery of the room were beds — mattresses on the floor with dark-gray sheets — on which, in a matter of hours, many of these people would be having sex. The basement — and the rest of the three-floor brick townhome above it — was owned by Hacienda , which functions both as a live-in community and an organizer of sex parties and educational workshops. The party that evening, Fucked-Up Fairytale, was slated to start in earnest in a half hour. Eventually, there would be about 175 partygoers, but this smaller group arrived early — showing identification and proof of COVID-19 vaccination at the door, first — for orientation and a consent workshop, which Hacienda requires for guests who are new to sex parties, new to Hacienda parties, or both. Leading the orientation was Rene Bolanos , the company’s event producer. His chest was bare and completely smooth, but beyond that, he wore fox ears, paw mittens, and a rainbow tail that wagged as he wobbled across the mattresses to facilitate a series of consent-focused exercises. At one point, he explained that there were safe-sex stations throughout the venue, all of which included items like condoms, dental dams, lube, wipes, and hand sanitizer — the last of which Hacienda didn’t offer before the pandemic. “One time, I confused the hand sanitizer with lube,” Bolanos said, laughing and shaking his head, “and accidentally put hand sanitizer in my partner’s pussy.” The crowd gasped, then giggled. “Sign of the times,” I heard myself say. For the first year-plus of the pandemic, indoor parties of nearly 200 people seemed like a distant memory for many New Yorkers, not to mention indoor sex parties of that size — although smaller gatherings, as well as Zoom sex parties , happened in perpetuity. But, in the spring, as more and more New Yorkers became fully vaccinated, hot vax summer seemed imminent. An April study done by the Kinsey Institute (in partnership with Cosmopolitan and Esquire ) seemed to confirm this: Of the 2,000 respondents, 46 percent percent said they were engaging in more sexual experimentation, while 19 percent said they were more inclined to pursue an open relationship in the future. (Monogamy had a moment, too; 52 percent of single respondents said that a committed relationship is what they wanted next.) And then, hot vax summer seemed like it was over before it had really begun. After a frenzied spring, people burned out on socializing and small talk. As the Delta variant spread, New Yorkers of all stripes had to reassess their risk of catching the disease, even if they were fully vaccinated. But there was at least one place, it seemed, where that feeling of uninhibited joy, of celebrating togetherness after a long period of isolation, raged on: at sex parties. Over the course of the summer and early fall, I attended four different New York–based sex parties: one in June, one in August, one in September, and one in October. None of the parties allowed phones. Two of the four parties required proof of vaccination; the other two allowed a negative COVID test. Party guests and employees told me that people seemed hungrier to attend — and, once they were there, to explore — than ever. Several also observed an unprecedented influx of newbies — a trend that dovetails with the Kinsey study, in which nearly half of respondents were interested in investigating their sexuality in a more intentional way. There was at least one place where that feeling of uninhibited joy, of celebrating togetherness after a long period of isolation, raged on. SNCTM — a private members’ club that hosts sex parties in New York, as well as Los Angeles, Miami, Moscow, and Kyiv — was one party that saw a particularly robust increase in applications from people who were new to sex parties. Robert, the company’s managing director, told me over the phone that the club saw applications from twice as many first-timers as before the pandemic. (Additionally, a representative from Killing Kittens — a members-only sex party that’s headquartered in the United Kingdom but holds events in New York — reported that since the start of the pandemic, its New York membership has grown by 25 percent, and the U.S. traffic to its website and accompanying app has increased by 300 percent.) For single men, annual memberships at SNCTM start at $10,000 ; women, once accepted by the club, can attend for free. (By comparison, annual memberships at Hacienda, in Bushwick, are priced at $120 .) In June, I attended a SNCTM masquerade party at a three-floor penthouse in Soho. At the time, SNCTM required proof of vaccination or a negative COVID test, but when a friend and I arrived at the party, a host confiscated our phones for the evening without checking our testing or vaccination status. The company’s guest coordinator, whom I’ll call Kelly, greeted us shortly after that, standing in the center of a living room where, hours later, hired performers in animal masks would have sex live in front of guests. When we told her we were first-timers, she calmly directed us to fellow newbies in the room — including two of her friends who had road-tripped from Boston for the occasion. In the crowd at SNCTM, women outnumbered men, though it was often difficult to parse who was a guest and who was hired by the company as a waiter or a performer — as well as how guests were supposed to interact with employees. During the performance, my friend and I sat on the floor and watched two women perform oral sex on a naked man; all three were hired by the company. Seated on a chair next to me, a dominatrix with a sleek, blonde bob — who was also hired by the company and who I later saw whipping a man tied to a Saint Andrew’s cross — heckled the male performer by name. “He’s not even hard ,” she hissed to her friend, cackling. The man then began gyrating on the floor, inched over to me, licked the back of my bare knee, then leaned in so we were face to face. I shook my head. He backed away and began making out with a woman nearby. One couple who attended that same SNCTM party — a man and a woman, both cis — later told me their post-pandemic sex party experiences have been especially transformative, in part because of a refreshing influx of new faces. “We go to these parties quite often,” the man told me. “Previously, it wasn’t super-repetitive but was somewhat repetitive,” he said, referring to the crowd. “We love meeting new people — and now we get to.” Kelly, the guest coordinator, also said that many of the first-time applicants had just navigated major life changes. When she joined the company in late 2019 — as a recent college graduate, she’d applied on a whim by emailing the info-at address on the SNCTM website — she started out doing back-end work like organizing member data. By spring 2021, she had moved to Los Angeles and switched to a client-facing role, interviewing prospective new female guests. When she began working through the backlog of “hundreds” of applicants, she noticed that “a good amount” of women had gone through a breakup from a long-term relationship, had gotten divorced, or had switched careers during COVID. “For relationships and exploring sexuality, and exploring different careers and different life paths — I think it was just the breaking point for a lot of women out there,” she told me. Photo: Courtesy of Hacienda “When a situa