# The End Of The End Of History

**Source**: https://foreignpolicy.com/2016/11/15/the-end-of-the-end-of-history/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:56:58.612673+00:00

---

The End of the End of History &#8211; Foreign Policy There appears to be a technical issue with your browser This issue is preventing our website from loading properly. Please review the following troubleshooting tips or contact us at [email&#160;protected] . Close Skip to navigation Skip to search Skip to main content Skip to footer Foreign Policy Get analysis and alerts more quickly in the mobile app. Install Show expanded website navigation Back to Foreign Policy Magazine home page Latest Regions Asia &amp; the Pacific China Middle East &amp; Africa Americas Europe Newsletters By submitting your email, you agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Use and to receive email correspondence from us. You may opt out at any time. Enter your email Sign Up Editors’ Picks Evening roundup with our editors’ favorite stories of the day World Brief Your guide to the most important world stories of the day China Brief The latest news, analysis, and data from the country each week Situation Report Weekly update on what’s driving U.S. national security policy FP Weekend A curation of our best book reviews, deep dives, and other reads Africa Brief Essential analysis of the stories shaping geopolitics on the continent South Asia Brief Weekly update on developments in India and its neighbors The Reading List Curated guides on geopolitics and current affairs Latin America Brief One-stop digest of politics, economics, and culture Southeast Asia Brief A weekly dispatch with news from the region’s 11 countries View All Newsletters FP Live Latest Trending: U.S. government shutdown Trump’s speech to generals Argentina bailout Website Search and Account Management Search Icon Search this website Search Search Preferences My FP Feed Saved Articles Newsletters Magazine Archive Subscription Settings FAQs Log Out Sign In Sign In Global intelligence for your team Global intelligence for your team SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Global intelligence for your team Global intelligence for your team Show expanded website navigation Argument: The End of the End of History Share icon Share Copy Link icon Copy Link Link copied to clipboard Email icon Email Facebook icon Facebook Bluesky icon Bluesky X icon X LinkedIn icon LinkedIn WhatsApp icon WhatsApp Reddit icon Reddit Save icon Save Create an FP account to save articles to read later. Sign Up ALREADY AN FP SUBSCRIBER? LOGIN Download icon PDF Downloadable PDFs are a benefit of an FP subscription. Subscribe Now ALREADY AN FP SUBSCRIBER? LOGIN Gift Copy Link icon Copy Link Link copied to clipboard Email icon Email WhatsApp icon WhatsApp Gifting articles is a subscriber benefit. Subscribe Now ALREADY AN FP SUBSCRIBER? LOGIN This article is an Insider exclusive. Contact us at [email&#160;protected] to learn about upgrade options, unlocking the ability to gift this article. Back to Foreign Policy Magazine home page Preferences My FP Feed Saved Articles Newsletters Magazine Archive Subscription Settings FAQs Log Out Sign In Sign In Global intelligence for your team Global intelligence for your team SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Global intelligence for your team Global intelligence for your team Latest Newsletters World Brief Editors’ Picks Africa Brief China Brief Latin America Brief South Asia Brief Southeast Asia Brief Situation Report The Reading List FP Weekend See All Topics Trump’s second term Shadow government War in Ukraine Crisis in the Middle East U.S. foreign policy Trade and economics U.S.-China competition Artificial intelligence Regions Asia &amp; the Pacific China Middle East &amp; Africa Americas Europe FP Live How Oct. 7 Changed the World October 7 Why Young Americans Are Swinging Right October 9 See All Podcasts Illustration with Adam Tooze headshot on a green background with the text Ones &amp; Tooze Ones and Tooze Illustration with a male spy headshot and the text I Spy I Spy FP Live podcast logo Foreign Policy Live See All Magazine Fall 2025 Issue Fall 2025 Issue Print Archive See All Collections The AI Arms Race The Trade Wars FP Analytics In-depth Special Reports Issue Briefs Power Maps and Interactive Microsites FP Simulations &amp; PeaceGames Synthesis Reports Insight Briefs &amp; Spotlights Graphics Database See All Events FP @ WHS October 12 From Plans to Action October 12 FP @ COP30 November 12 Where we'll be this year See All Search Search Icon Additional Navigation Bluesky icon Follow FP on Bluesky X icon Follow FP on X LinkedIn icon Follow FP on LinkedIn Instagram icon Follow FP on Instagram Facebook icon Follow FP on Facebook FP SOLUTIONS FP Analytics FP Events FP Studios Simulations and Peacegames Advertise with FP Country Reports Subscription Services Your FP Account Group Subscriptions Reprint Permissions FP Magazine Archive Buy Back Issues EDUCATION Graduate Education Guide FP for Education Institutional Access ABOUT FP Writer&#039;s Guidelines Meet the Staff Work at FP Contact FP Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Terms of Use Accessibility Bluesky icon Follow FP on Bluesky X icon Follow FP on X LinkedIn icon Follow FP on LinkedIn Instagram icon Follow FP on Instagram Facebook icon Follow FP on Facebook Foreign Policy Magazine is a division of Graham Holdings Company. All contents (c) 2025, Graham Digital Holding Company. All rights reserved. Foreign Policy, 655 15th St NW, Suite 300, Washington, DC, 20005. Powered by WordPress VIP This article was published more than 8 years ago Argument An expert’s point of view on a current event. The End of the End of History Donald Trump has restored American politics to its default setting — a fight over identity, morality, and religion. By Shadi Hamid , a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a research professor of Islamic studies at Fuller Seminary. fp-placeholder-social-share-3-2 November 15, 2016, 4:38 PM For the first time in our history, Americans have elected an “illiberal democrat” as president. That doesn’t mean the United States will become an illiberal democracy — where democratically elected leaders fundamentally erode the rights and freedoms we associate with the classical liberal tradition — anytime soon. But it does mean we could become one. As a minority and a Muslim, the result of this election is distressing — and perhaps the most frightening event I’ve experienced in my own country. That said, there is something admirable in the idea that democratic outcomes will be respected even when people you hate (or people that hate you) come to power. I’ve studied “existential” elections in the Middle East, where there is simply too much at stake for the losers of elections to accept that the victors have, in fact, won. For the first time in our history, Americans have elected an “illiberal democrat” as president. That doesn’t mean the United States will become an illiberal democracy — where democratically elected leaders fundamentally erode the rights and freedoms we associate with the classical liberal tradition — anytime soon. But it does mean we could become one. As a minority and a Muslim, the result of this election is distressing — and perhaps the most frightening event I’ve experienced in my own country. That said, there is something admirable in the idea that democratic outcomes will be respected even when people you hate (or people that hate you) come to power. I’ve studied “existential” elections in the Middle East, where there is simply too much at stake for the losers of elections to accept that the victors have, in fact, won. I was nervous about Donald Trump. But I also recognized that he was an unusually compelling candidate in an age when they are few and far between. I remember the first time I heard him give a long, rambling, ad-libbed speech at a raucous rally. It’s not just that I couldn’t look away; I didn’t want to. Trump was funny, charismatic, and vaguely charming but also quite obviously petty and vindictive. His rallies were more like faith-based festivals. This wasn’t politics as an end — it was politics as a means to something else, although I wasn’t quite sure what. But I did know that I had seen it before. It’s almost unfair to compare Trump to the democratically elected Islamists that I normally study, since Trump’s open disrespect not just for liberal norms, but democratic ones as well, has been so unabashed. In his infamous statement during the final presidential debate, Trump refused to commit himself to democratic outcomes if his opponent won. Mainstream Islamist groups that participate in elections — whatever we think their true intentions are — have rarely gone this far. The differences between ethno-nationalist parties, such as Trump’s new Republicans, and religious parties are of course numerous, which makes the similarities all the more glaring. There is the same sense of victimization, real and imagined, at the hands of an entrenched elite, coupled with an acute sense of loss. In both cases, the leader of the movement is seen as the embodiment of the national will, representing “the people.” The overlap between Trumpism and Islamism is no coincidence. In my book Islamic Exceptionalism , which discusses Islam’s tensions with liberalism and liberal democracy, I argue that some public role for religion is necessary in religiously conservative societies. Religion, unlike secular nationalism or socialism, can provide a common language and a kind of asabiyya — a 14th-century Arabic term coined by the historian Ibn Khaldun meaning roughly “group consciousness.” Asabiyya was needed to bind states together, providing cohesion and shared purpose. In less religious or “post-Christian” societies, a mainstream Christianity is no longer capable of providing the necessary group identity. But that doesn’t mean other ideas won’t fill the vacuum. In other words, be careful what you wish for: An America where religion plays less of a role isn’t necessarily a better one, if what replaces religion is white nativism. Whether it’s nativism, European-style ethno-nationalism, or, in the case of