# 1867 Elite Capture

**Source**: https://www.haymarketbooks.org/books/1867-elite-capture
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:19:15.309829+00:00

---

Elite Capture | HaymarketBooks.org Join the Haymarket Book Club to take 50% off Everything! Books for changing the world About Authors Books Blog Events Book Club Gift Cards Donate Cart (0) Free shipping on US orders over $25 Log In Sign Up 40% Off Haymarket Books for Latinx Liberation - 12 days left Black History Month 2025 in Britain and Ireland! - 28 days left Join the Haymarket Book Club to take 50% off Everything! Elite Capture How the Powerful Took Over Identity Politics (And Everything Else) by Olúfẹ́mi O. Táíwò Paperback , 168 pages ISBN: 9781642596885 May 2022 $16.95 $13.56 20% off With free bundled ebook Ebook, 150 pages ISBN: 9781642597141 Read on any device May 2022 $9.99 $5.99 40% off Hardback , 150 pages ISBN: 9781642597356 May 2022 $45.00 $40.50 10% off With free bundled ebook “Identity politics” is everywhere, polarizing discourse from the campaign trail to the classroom and amplifying antagonisms in the media, both online and off. But the compulsively referenced phrase bears little resemblance to the concept as first introduced by the radical Black feminist Combahee River Collective. While the Collective articulated a political viewpoint grounded in their own position as Black lesbians with the explicit aim of building solidarity across lines of difference, identity politics is now frequently weaponized as a means of closing ranks around ever-narrower conceptions of group interests. But the trouble, Olúfẹ́mi O. Táíwò deftly argues, is not with identity politics itself. Through a substantive engagement with the global Black radical tradition and a critical understanding of racial capitalism, Táíwò identifies the process by which a radical concept can be stripped of its political substance and liberatory potential by becoming the victim of elite capture—deployed by political, social, and economic elites in the service of their own interests. Táíwò’s crucial intervention both elucidates this complex process and helps us move beyond a binary of “class” vs. “race.” By rejecting elitist identity politics in favor of a constructive politics of radical solidarity, he advances the possibility of organizing across our differences in the urgent struggle for a better world. Reviews “Olúfémi Táíwò is a thinker on fire. He not only calls out empire for shrouding its bloodied hands in the cloth of magical thinking but calls on all of us to do the same. Elite capture, after all, is about turning oppression and its cure into a (neo)liberal commodity exchange where identities become capitalism’s latest currency rather than the grounds for revolutionary transformation. The lesson is clear: only when we think for ourselves and act with each other, together in deep, dynamic, and difficult solidarity, can we begin to remake the world.” —Robin D. G. Kelley, author of Freedom Dreams: The Black Radical Imagination “Among the churn of books on ‘wokeness’ and ‘political correctness,’ philosopher Olúfẹ́mi O. Táíwò’s Elite Capture clearly stands out. With calm, clarity, erudition, and authority, Táíwò walks the reader through the morass, deftly explicating the distinction between substantive and worthy critique and weaponized backlash. Understanding the culture wars is essential to US politics right now, and no one has done it better than Táíwò in this book.” —Jason Stanley, author of How Fascism Works “With global breath, clarity and precision, Olúfẹ́mi O. Táíwò dissects the causes and consequences of elite capture and charts an alternative constructive politics for our time. The result is an erudite yet accessible book that draws widely on the rich traditions of black and anticolonial political thought.” —Adom Getachew, author of Worldmaking after Empire: The Rise and Fall of Self-Determination Related blog posts View all related posts Elite Capture: How The Powerful Took Over Identity Politics (& Everything Else) Join Ol&uacute;fẹ́mi O. T&aacute;&iacute;w&ograve; and Robin D.G. Kelley for a conversation about the politics of solidarity in the fight against racial capitalism. Continue Reading By Haymarket Books / May 9 2022 Other books by Olúfẹ́mi O. Táíwò Reconsidering Reparations by Olúfẹ́mi O. Táíwò What Is The State For? by Olúfẹ́mi O. Táíwò Other books of interest Detroit: I Do Mind Dying by Dan Georgakas and Marvin Surkin Freedom Is a Constant Struggle by Angela Y. Davis How We Get Free Edited by Keeanga-Yamahtta Taylor A People's Guide to Capitalism by Hadas Thier Abolition. Feminism. Now. by Angela Y. Davis , Gina Dent , et al. Border and Rule by Harsha Walia From #BlackLivesMatter to Black Liberation (Expanded Second Edition) by Keeanga-Yamahtta Taylor We Do This 'Til We Free Us by Mariame Kaba Class Struggle Unionism by Joe Burns Community as Rebellion by Lorgia García Peña About Authors Books Blog Events Book Club Gift Cards Donate Sign up for our email newsletter FOLLOW US: