# Singapore Police Bust Major Ring Smuggling Nvidia Gpus To China Based Deepseek Report

**Source**: https://www.tomshardware.com/tech-industry/artificial-intelligence/singapore-police-bust-major-ring-smuggling-nvidia-gpus-to-china-based-deepseek-report
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:56:23.451399+00:00

---

Singapore police bust major ring smuggling Nvidia GPUs to China-based DeepSeek: Report | Tom's Hardware Skip to main content Open menu Close main menu Tom's Hardware US Edition UK US Australia Canada RSS Sign in View Profile Sign out Search Search Tom's Hardware Best Picks CPUs GPUs SSDs News Laptops Premium Coupons More Newsletter Reviews PC Components PC Building Motherboards Cases Cooling Power Supplies RAM Desktops 3D Printers Peripherals Monitors Windows 11 Gaming Overclocking About Us Forums Trending Intel+Nvidia Borderlands 4 Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9 RTX 5090 Inside Panther Lake-H Don't miss these GPU Drivers Two Chinese nationals arrested in the U.S. over GPU smuggling worth 'tens of millions of dollars' Artificial Intelligence Chinese companies allegedly smuggled in $1bn worth of Nvidia AI chips in the last three months, despite increasing export controls GPUs US reportedly plans to curb sales of AI GPUs to Malaysia and Thailand to prevent smuggling to China GPUs Underground China repair shops thrive servicing illicit Nvidia GPUs banned by export restrictions GPUs China plans 39 AI data centers with 115,000 restricted Nvidia Hopper GPUs Tech Industry China accuses Nvidia of anti-monopoly law violations, raising prospect of heavy fines Artificial Intelligence Nvidia: 'We don't install secret tracking devices in our products' GPUs China raises security concerns over Nvidia's H20 Chips GPUs Nvidia seeks extra 300,000 H20 GPUs to meet China's surging AI demand GPUs $568 million of GPUs allegedly misused for crypto mining caught in tax evasion and money laundering probe GPUs Nvidia reportedly preparing RTX 6000D for Chinese market to comply with U.S. export controls Semiconductors Two TSMC employees arrested, face up to 12 years in jail, $3 million fine over alleged attempt to leak 2nm chip development details GPUs Nvidia and AMD reportedly sharing 15% of their China GPU revenue in exchange for export licenses Tech Industry U.S. semiconductor design company fined $140 million over China dealings GPUs Nvidia's China-exclusive RTX 6000D reportedly gets lukewarm reception in China due to hobbled performance Tech Industry Artificial Intelligence Singapore police bust major ring smuggling Nvidia GPUs to China-based DeepSeek: Report News By Anton Shilov published 28 February 2025 The suspects could face up to 20 years in prison. Comments (4) When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here&rsquo;s how it works . (Image credit: Nvidia) Singapore Police Force have charged three men with fraud in a case involving allegedly illegal re-export of Nvidia GPUs to Chinese AI company DeepSeek, bypassing U.S. trade restrictions, reports ChannelNewsAsia . The police and customs authorities raided 22 locations, arrested nine individuals, and seized documents and electronic records, reports Reuters . When Singapore suddenly became Nvidia's second largest geographical source of revenue in 2024, many suspected that this happened because Nvidia's GPUs were illegally re-exported from Singapore to China . Nvidia denied all accusations saying that billing locations do not represent actual destination of GPUs. Still, the U.S. Commerce Department started investigation whether DeepSeek has acquired restricted American GPUs to train its AI models. "Customers use Singapore to centralize invoicing while our products are almost always shipped elsewhere," a statement by Nvidia reads. "Shipments to Singapore were less than 2% of fiscal year 2025 total revenue." You may like Two Chinese nationals arrested in the U.S. over GPU smuggling worth 'tens of millions of dollars' Chinese companies allegedly smuggled in $1bn worth of Nvidia AI chips in the last three months, despite increasing export controls US reportedly plans to curb sales of AI GPUs to Malaysia and Thailand to prevent smuggling to China (Image credit: Nvidia) However, it looks like the problem with smuggling high-performance Nvidia GPUs from Singapore to China exists and intermediaries in Singapore helped smuggle Nvidia GPUs for AI and HPC to China in violation of U.S. export laws. The accused include Singaporeans Aaron Woon Guo Jie, 41, and Alan Wei Zhaolun, 49. Prosecutors allege that in 2024, they conspired to deceive a server supplier by falsely claiming the equipment would not be resold to unauthorized parties. A third suspect, Li Ming, 51, a Chinese national, faces separate charges related to a similar scheme in 2023. Authorities claim he misrepresented the intended recipient of hardware, stating it was meant for a Singapore-based company, Luxuriate Your Life. If convicted, the suspects could face up to 20 years in prison, fines, or both. Authorities have not disclosed details about other arrested individuals or whether additional charges will be filed. While the arrests clearly indicate the involvement of Singapore-based groups in smuggling restricted high-performance Nvidia GPUs to China, the extent of their operations are yet to be determined. Companies like DeepSeek need tens of thousands of Nvidia Hopper GPUs (H100, H20, H800) to train its large-language models. However, smaller research institutions run smaller clusters containing tens or hundreds of such processors. Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware Newsletter Get Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. Last week Singapore's government emphasized that while it is not legally bound to enforce unilateral export restrictions imposed by other nations, it expects businesses operating within its borders to comply with such regulations where applicable. Authorities have reiterated that the country does not tolerate attempts to exploit its trade networks to circumvent international controls. TOPICS Nvidia Nvidia Blackwell DeepSeek See all comments (4) Anton Shilov Social Links Navigation Contributing Writer Anton Shilov is a contributing writer at Tom&rsquo;s Hardware. Over the past couple of decades, he has covered everything from CPUs and GPUs to supercomputers and from modern process technologies and latest fab tools to high-tech industry trends. Read more Two Chinese nationals arrested in the U.S. over GPU smuggling worth 'tens of millions of dollars' &nbsp; &nbsp; Chinese companies allegedly smuggled in $1bn worth of Nvidia AI chips in the last three months, despite increasing export controls &nbsp; &nbsp; US reportedly plans to curb sales of AI GPUs to Malaysia and Thailand to prevent smuggling to China &nbsp; &nbsp; Underground China repair shops thrive servicing illicit Nvidia GPUs banned by export restrictions &nbsp; &nbsp; China plans 39 AI data centers with 115,000 restricted Nvidia Hopper GPUs &nbsp; &nbsp; China accuses Nvidia of anti-monopoly law violations, raising prospect of heavy fines &nbsp; &nbsp; Latest in Artificial Intelligence Microsoft inks $33 billion in deals with 'neoclouds' like Nebius, CoreWeave &mdash; Nebius deal alone secures 100,000 Nvidia GB300 chips for internal use &nbsp; &nbsp; U.S. Commerce Sec. Lutnick says American AI dominates DeepSeek, thanks Trump for AI Action Plan &nbsp; &nbsp; AI-generated security camera feed shows Sam Altman getting busted stealing GPUs from Target &nbsp; &nbsp; Meta reportedly buying RISC-V AI GPU firm Rivos &nbsp; &nbsp; Huawei-powered mini-PC debuts with Huawei AI chip and 192GB of memory &nbsp; &nbsp; Microsoft adds Grok 4 to Azure AI Foundry following cautious trials &nbsp; &nbsp; Latest in News ASRock issues longer warranty amid failing CPU controversy &mdash; but only in Japan &nbsp; &nbsp; Phison CEO claims NAND shortage could last a staggering 10 years &nbsp; &nbsp; Nvidia's 16-pin time bomb could be defused by this $95 gadget &nbsp; &nbsp; Harvard researchers hail quantum computing breakthrough with a machine that can run for two hours &nbsp; &nbsp; Lego Game Boy turns into an actual Game Boy that can play real catridges, modder packs in a whole custom PCB &nbsp; &nbsp; Monstrous SSD cooling solution strapped to iPhone 17 Pro Max delivers unparalleled performance &nbsp; &nbsp; 4 Comments Comment from the forums Misgar "If convicted, the suspects could face up to 20 years in prison, fines, or both." That's longer than you get for murder in some jurisdictions. https://www.flamingotravels.co.in/blog/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/Singapore-chewing-gum.jpg Reply 3en88 Humiliation after humiliation for the CCP regime. Already setting the theme for China's next century. Reply phead128 China is swimming in smuggled H100s, they have enough to last a long time. With the complete bust of GPT 4.5 exposing the diminishing return on more compute, China should have enough Nvidia chips for a long time. Reply djfktrlx Any source that those GPUs are for DeepSeek? I have read the origin post from CNA and it did not mention that. Reply View All 4 Comments Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . Terms and conditions Contact Future's experts Privacy policy Cookies policy Accessibility Statement Advertise with us About us Coupons Careers &copy; Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036.