# letgrow.org

**Source**: https://letgrow.org/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:21:30.916687+00:00

---

Let Grow - When Adults Step Back, Kids Step Up. Schools The Let Grow Experience Let Grow Play Club Think for Yourself Scholarship 2025 Independence Therapy Have Lenore Skenazy Speak Parents Four Weeks to a Let Grow Kid Guide Let Grow and “The Anxious Generation” Independence Kit—The Experience Home Version Let Grow Kid License Facts &#038; Research Communities State Laws Let Grow Legislative Toolkit State Policies And Updates Shamed or Investigated? Blog About Donate Leading the Movement for Childhood Independence Let Grow champions childhood, helping kids build confidence, resilience, and self-reliance through independent play and real life experiences. We are making it easy, normal, and legal to encourage independence in kids. Through our free resources, tools, and programs like the Let Grow Experience and Let Grow Play Clubs, we’re helping families and schools empower our next generations. Join Now Donate How you can Help Change American Childhood School Programs Want students to start doing and thinking more on their own? We’ve got independence-boosting projects, curricula and contests for kids K-12, and courses for teachers, too. Many are free! Let Grow Experience Let Grow Play Club Think for Yourself Scholarship Learn More Advocacy &amp; Legislation Kids have the right to some independence, and parents have the right to give it to them— without getting arrested. Here’s how we’re shifting the legal landscape, and how you can help. Advocacy Toolkit Map of U.S. Neglect Laws Model Legislation Get Involved Parents &amp; Families Get started with free resources for parents and families. When you join Let Grow, you get access to our library of articles and popular printables. Let us help you with raising independent kids! Let Grow Project and Independence Kit Family Resources Join Our Facebook Group Get Started Leading The Movement Celebrating Let Grow&#039;s Success in Fostering Independence for Kids 8 States Have Passed Let Grow's Reasonable Childhood Independence Laws! Now I can send my kids outside to play without worrying I&#8217;ll get arrested. Kelly Longhorn, Texas I just love Let Grow &#8212; you&#8217;ve created something wonderful and so necessary. My son and I just signed the Pledge of Independence. Tracy Gillett, Vancouver Over 1,000 families have taken the Let Grow Pledge! Take the Pledge My 4-year-old cooked dinner for the family the other night (pancakes, eggs, sausage) and she was PROUD. Please keep the positive rhetoric going, I will keep learning from you AND my children! Parent, Social Media You Need to See the documentary about Let Grow! See the Preview I can now make the decisions that are best for my children and not live in fear I am being judged and could be arrested. Utah Mom Mica Hauley, The New York Times I nudge him a little bit past his comfort zone every chance I get because he needs to know that I trust him to handle the situation — so he can trust himself. Parent of a special needs child Many kids don’t get the social interaction they need to develop into empowered adults. Play Club is an intentional way for us to provide that for our students. Elementary School Teacher, Central, South Carolina My husband and I have learned how to actually teach our kids to be independent. Whereas in the past we were giving them everything. Andrea Methvin, Elementary Teacher &amp; Mom Tools for Parents, Schools, and Communities to Boost Childhood Independence Families Take immediate action in your home and neighborhood. Family Pledge You and your child can pledge to Let Grow and get 10 Weeks of Actions to get there. Books Let Grow is in great company-find books by our founders, supporters, and friends. State Laws Parents know when kids are ready for some freedom, but you should know your state&#8217;s laws. Resources Browse our collections of great stuff like research, reading lists, and a documentary. Join Let Grow Join Let Grow to build independence and promote free play in your own family and neighborhood. No login required, no cost for our materials, and we won&#8217;t try to sell you anything. We&#8217;ll email you (please check spam if you don&#8217;t get an immediate notice in your inbox) the Family Editions of The Let Grow Experience for building independence and the Parent Play Club Guide. Then enjoy our blogs, updates, newsletters, and more! &quot; * &quot; indicates required fields Email Address- Required * Your Name- First and Last Required * First Last Your Location City State / Province / Region ZIP / Postal Code Country Afghanistan Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cabo Verde Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, Democratic Republic of the Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czechia Côte d&#039;Ivoire Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Eswatini Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea, Democratic People&#039;s Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People&#039;s Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Macedonia Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine, State of Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Réunion Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Sweden Switzerland Syria Arab Republic Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania, the United Republic of Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Türkiye US Minor Outlying Islands Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Viet Nam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Åland Islands We ask for your location to track the reach and impact of our programs. These are all free thanks to generous donors, and they ask for data like "how many people in what states have asked for this kit." We are also working on new community and neighborhood groups and Play Clubs, so knowing where like-minded people live will assist our development. &#916; What People Are Viewing Now News &amp; Mentions &quot;Kids Are Built to Learn -- They Just Need Some Free Time to Discover Interests&quot; &quot;America&#039;s Worst Mom&quot; on Epoch Times TV: &quot;You&#039;re making them fragile by telling them they&#039;re fragile&quot; &quot;It Started Here!&quot; New York Sun on the origins of the Free-Range Kids Movement and Laws All News &amp; Mentions Books &amp; Resources Everyday Vitality The Coddling Of The American Mind Free To Learn All Books &amp; Resources Video &amp; Webinars Fighting Childhood Anxiety with Independence Nuts &amp; Bolts of Play Club from Someone Who&#039;s Done it Someone Called 911 Because My Kids Were Outside! All Video &amp; Webinars Follow Us: Featured Post By Guest Author Read Time: 4 minutes Let Kids Learn About Money in Real Time – Starting Now! At Let Grow we love to see kids doing more on their own: making breakfast, walking the dog, riding their bikes... But there's an issue we haven’t focused on much:... Keep Reading Visit Library Share On: Let Grow Schools Across The Country Get Involved Join Us Start letting go and letting grow. Here&#8217;s how. Learn More Donate Support our initiatives, research, and outreach. Learn More Volunteer Share your stories, time, ideas or skills. Learn More Questions Or Comments? Email us at Info@LetGrow.org . We would love to hear from you! Contact Us Useful Links Technical Support Careers at Let Grow Blog Donate In the News Resources Independence Therapy Crime Stats Facebook Group Legislative Toolkit Let Grow Annual Report Myth-Busting Programs The Let Grow Experience Let Grow Play Club Independence Therapy Have Lenore Skenazy Speak Get our Newsletter &quot; * &quot; indicates required fields Email * &#916; Terms of Use Privacy Policy 228 Park Ave S. #77212 New York, NY 10003 &copy; Copyright 2025 Let Grow, a 501(c)(3) non-profit EIN 82-2643800 Already registered? Login Now Schools The Let Grow Experience Let Grow Play Club Independence Therapy Think for Yourself Scholarship 2025 Have Lenore Skenazy Speak Parents Four Weeks to a Let Grow Kid Guide Let Grow and “The Anxious Generation” Independence Kit—The Experience Home Version Let Grow Kid License Facts &#038; Research Communities State Laws Let Grow Le