# 10519461

**Source**: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/10519461/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:14:47.627779+00:00

---

Peer and adolescent substance use among 6th-9th graders: latent growth analyses of influence versus selection mechanisms - PubMed This site needs JavaScript to work properly. Please enable it to take advantage of the complete set of features! Clipboard, Search History, and several other advanced features are temporarily unavailable. Skip to main page content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Log in Show account info Close Account Logged in as: username Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Access keys NCBI Homepage MyNCBI Homepage Main Content Main Navigation Search: Search Advanced Clipboard User Guide Save Email Send to Clipboard My Bibliography Collections Citation manager Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Save citation to file Format: Summary (text) PubMed PMID Abstract (text) CSV Create file Cancel Email citation Email address has not been verified. Go to My NCBI account settings to confirm your email and then refresh this page. To: Subject: Body: Format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) MeSH and other data Send email Cancel Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Add to My Bibliography My Bibliography Unable to load your delegates due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Your saved search Name of saved search: Search terms: Test search terms Would you like email updates of new search results? Saved Search Alert Radio Buttons Yes No Email: ( change ) Frequency: Monthly Weekly Daily Which day? The first Sunday The first Monday The first Tuesday The first Wednesday The first Thursday The first Friday The first Saturday The first day The first weekday Which day? Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Report format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) PubMed Send at most: 1 item 5 items 10 items 20 items 50 items 100 items 200 items Send even when there aren't any new results Optional text in email: Save Cancel Create a file for external citation management software Create file Cancel Your RSS Feed Name of RSS Feed: Number of items displayed: 5 10 15 20 50 100 Create RSS Cancel RSS Link Copy Full text links American Psychological Association Full text links Actions Cite Collections Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Permalink Permalink Copy Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Page navigation Title &amp; authors Abstract Publication types MeSH terms Grants and funding LinkOut - more resources Title &amp; authors Abstract Publication types MeSH terms Grants and funding LinkOut - more resources Health Psychol Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 1999 Sep;18(5):453-63. doi: 10.1037//0278-6133.18.5.453. Peer and adolescent substance use among 6th-9th graders: latent growth analyses of influence versus selection mechanisms T A Wills &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; S D Cleary Affiliations Expand Affiliation 1 Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology and the Department of Epidemiology and Social Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Yeshiva University, Bronx, New York 10461, USA. wills@aecom.yu.edu PMID: 10519461 DOI: 10.1037//0278-6133.18.5.453 Item in Clipboard Peer and adolescent substance use among 6th-9th graders: latent growth analyses of influence versus selection mechanisms T A Wills &nbsp;et al. Health Psychol . 1999 Sep . Show details Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Health Psychol Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 1999 Sep;18(5):453-63. doi: 10.1037//0278-6133.18.5.453. Authors T A Wills &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; S D Cleary Affiliation 1 Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology and the Department of Epidemiology and Social Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Yeshiva University, Bronx, New York 10461, USA. wills@aecom.yu.edu PMID: 10519461 DOI: 10.1037//0278-6133.18.5.453 Item in Clipboard Full text links Cite Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Abstract This study analyzed peer-influence versus peer-selection mechanisms in adolescent tobacco, alcohol, and marijuana use. Participants were surveyed 3 times, with 1-year intervals, about peers' substance use and their own use; Sample 1 had 1,190 participants (initial mean age = 12.4 years), Sample 2 had 1,277 participants (initial mean age = 11.5 years). Latent growth analyses that were based on composite scores indicated that initial peer use was positively related to rate of change in adolescent use, supporting the influence mechanism; there was little evidence for a selection mechanism. Difficult temperament, poor self-control, and deviance-prone attitudes were related to initial levels for both peer and adolescent use. It is concluded that peer influence is the primary mechanism during middle adolescence. Temperament-related attributes may be predisposing to early experimentation and deviant-peer affiliations. PubMed Disclaimer Publication types Research Support, U.S. Gov&#x27;t, P.H.S. Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search MeSH terms Adolescent Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Adolescent Behavior / psychology* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Age Factors Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Child Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Choice Behavior* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Female Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Humans Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Latency Period, Psychological Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Male Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Peer Group* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Psychology, Adolescent Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Social Conformity Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Students / psychology* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Substance-Related Disorders / psychology* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Surveys and Questionnaires Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Temperament / physiology Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Grants and funding R01 DA012623/DA/NIDA NIH HHS/United States K02-DA00252/DA/NIDA NIH HHS/United States R01-DA05950/DA/NIDA NIH HHS/United States R01-DA08880/DA/NIDA NIH HHS/United States LinkOut - more resources Full Text Sources American Psychological Association Ovid Technologies, Inc. Medical MedlinePlus Consumer Health Information MedlinePlus Health Information Full text links [x] American Psychological Association [x] Cite Copy Download .nbib .nbib Format: AMA APA MLA NLM Send To Clipboard Email Save My Bibliography Collections Citation Manager [x] NCBI Literature Resources MeSH PMC Bookshelf Disclaimer The PubMed wordmark and PubMed logo are registered trademarks of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Unauthorized use of these marks is strictly prohibited. Follow NCBI Twitter Facebook LinkedIn GitHub Connect with NLM Twitter SM-Facebook SM-Youtube National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike Bethesda, MD 20894 Web Policies FOIA HHS Vulnerability Disclosure Help Accessibility Careers NLM NIH HHS USA.gov