# Jaguar Must Die To Be Born Again Ev Plan

**Source**: https://www.roadandtrack.com/news/a46879750/jaguar-must-die-to-be-born-again-ev-plan/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:51:24.037996+00:00

---

Jaguar Must Die to Be Born Again We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and other uses. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. Search About Us Join Now All Access R&amp;T Experiences Shop R&amp;T News Reviews Car Culture Exclusives Performance Car of the Year Contact Follow Newsletter Send Us a Tip Your Privacy Choices Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content News Reviews Culture Exclusives Gear Send Us a TIp Sign Up Join Now sign in News Jaguar Must Die to Be Born Again Jaguar Must Die to Be Born Again Jaguar had plans for a new EV XJ, but stepped away after most of the development work had been done at a nine-figure cost. Now, again, the entire existing range is to be replaced by much more expensive EVs. By Mike Duff Published: Feb 28, 2024 9:55 AM EST Save Article View Photos KGP Photography Jaguar gets to have its name first in Jaguar Land Rover, but in almost every other regard the English brand has long since been the minority partner to its SUV-making sibling. Last year JLR announced it was going to split Land Rover into three separate divisions for the purposes of sales and marketing – Defender, Discovery, and Range Rover. It's a decision that would seem to send Jaguar even further down the corporate pecking order. In sales terms, the difference is stark. In the year ending last March, Jaguar sold just under 43,000 cars globally, while the combined Land Rover brands managed nearly 280,000. In the U.S. the gap is even greater in percentage terms, with 8000 Jaguars finding homes compared to 66,000 Land Rovers. On those numbers, Jaguar sits third out of four in Jaguar’s ‘House of Brands’, only outselling Discovery in the States. Volumes have declined catastrophically since 2017 when Jaguar moved 179,000 cars around the world, nearly 40,000 of which came here. KGP Photography But even more radical change is on the way. Back in 2021, JLR announced that Jaguar would become an EV-only brand by 2025, with a range sitting on an all-new platform unrelated to the one underpinning the existing i-Pace EV. And for that to happen the entire existing range is set to die. At the moment five cars are still on sale in the U.S. – the XF sedan, E-Pace and F-Pace crossovers, F-Type roadster and coupe and the electric I-Pace. R&amp;T recently got to sit down with Joe Eberhardt, JLR’s North American President and CEO, and got him to talk us through that process. Related Story It's the Jaguar I-Pace's Time Eberhardt says the F-Pace represents the majority of ongoing volume, with the F-Type still selling well – despite the fact production ended last year. XF, E-Pace and I-Pace are already “very small” according to Eberhardt. “The majority of our products cease production in June, but they will be on sale for a much longer time,” he said, “we will have a production schedule that enables us to have a continuous supply of vehicles until the new cars come … We’re trying to time it so we have enough volume to take us through to the launch of the new product and have a clean handover. Whether it will be as perfectly planned as that, we’ll see – maybe we’ll sell out more quickly, or maybe it will take a little longer to sell through the current inventory. But the plan is to sunset the current product portfolio and then launch the new ones.” View Photos KGP Photography Jaguar is planning to launch three models on an all-new platform dubbed JEA (Jaguar Electric Architecture.) The first will be a four-seat GT that the company promises we will see later this year, and which will be reaching buyers in 2025. So far Jaguar has issued a single teaser rendering and said that the new model will have a range of up to 430 miles (presumably under the European WLTP testing methodology) and a base price of over $100,000. It will also be the most powerful Jaguar road car of all time, meaning a power output north of 575 hp. Confusingly, Jaguar got most of the way to creating something very similar before, with a fully electric XJ that was cancelled in 2021, after most of the development work had been done at a nine-figure cost. The official reason for that decision from JLR’s then-CEO Thierry Bolloré was that the XJ “did not fit with our vision for the reimagined brand.” The new car will be completely unrelated to the canned one, with styling that has been created under the direction of JLR’s Chief Creative Officer – and long-time Land Rover design boss – Gerry McGovern. Making Jaguars more expensive and ditching the existing range also threatens to reduce production numbers even further. According to a Autocar, total Jaguar production could be as low as 50,000 globally across the three models. View Photos KGP Photography “Obviously we don’t want to leave anybody behind, especially since the brand has such a history,” says Eberhardt, “but there does come a point where you just need to focus on the future. It may not be a brand for everybody, and that’s by design … I can’t tell you exactly what percentage of current Jaguar owners we will leave behind, but clearly given the positioning of the brand and the vehicles we will lose some clients along the way. It’s a difficult decision to make, but brands need to be focused and to decide what their purpose is. We just knew that we didn’t want to be another volume luxury brand, that is not something that aligns with the Jaguar philosophy. The number of Jaguar dealers in the States has already started to fall, Eberhardt saying that more than 40 have already voluntarily surrendered their franchises. Future plans are that all will be integrated with the Land Rover franchises selling the other three ranges. “We will probably have between 120 and 130 that have all four brands, and then a smaller number – between 50 and 70 – that only have Defender, Discovery and Range Rover,” says Eberhardt. Against wider trends, Jaguar won’t be offering direct sales in the U.S, with Eberhardt confirming that the new generation of cars will be sold exclusively through dealers. But anybody wanting one of the final combustion-powered Jaguars, or to spend less than six figures on one of the brand’s cars, definitely should not delay acting on the dream. Mike Duff Director of Reviews After starting in radio, Mike Duff broke into writing about cars more than 25 years ago. Since then he has reviewed several thousand, working for major outlets on both sides of the Atlantic. In the U.K. he held senior staff positions with CAR, Autocar and evo, and in the U.S. he wrote for MPH and Autoweek before becoming Car and Driver’s European Editor for ten years. Being a Brit means he also understands most of the rules of cricket Spotlight Defender D7X-R Wants to Conquer the Desert For One Driver, 72 Hours of Racing Is No Big Deal The Ferrari F80 Is a Silent Killer Tested: 2026 Chevrolet Silverado EV Trail Boss Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Alpine Wins 6 Hours of Fuji, WEC's 100th Race Is Tail of the Dragon Worth the Hype? The Rise of Ferrari’s New Young Talents The 2026 Toyota GR Corolla Is Much Stiffer Pearley: Where's My Fox-Body Mustang GTD? Best Luxury Sports Cars for 2025 and 2026 Why McLaren Insists Piastri’s Baku GP Was a 'One-Off' The Bentley Bentayga Is an Ultra-Lux Tow Barge Advertisement - Continue Reading Below About Us New Cars News Press Room How We Test Cars Send Us a Tip Car Rankings Newsletter Contact Us Advertise Online Customer Service Gear and Accessories Subscribe Community Guidelines Media Kit A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2025 Hearst Autos, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights/Shine the Light DAA Industry Opt Out Terms of Use Site Map Your Privacy Choices: Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads