# Article Mindgeeks Business Practices Under Srutiny As Political Pressure

**Source**: https://www.theglobeandmail.com/business/article-mindgeeks-business-practices-under-srutiny-as-political-pressure/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:52:17.037180+00:00

---

Lifting the veil of secrecy on MindGeek’s online pornography empire - The Globe and Mail Skip to main content Search Newsletters Watchlist Home Watchlist For You Canada World Business Investing Personal Finance Opinion Politics Sports Life Culture Drive Real Estate Latest in Subscribe Digital access Digital + home delivery Lifting the veil of secrecy on MindGeek’s online pornography empire Lifting the veil of secrecy on MindGeek’s online pornography empire Montreal-based MindGeek is one of the largest porn companies in the world — and yet much of the company is shrouded in mystery. Now, as it fends off accusations that it knowingly monetized child sexual abuse material on Pornhub, its two top executives face an ethics committee hearing in their first-ever appearance in a public setting. Joe Castaldo Published February 4, 2021 This article was published more than 4 years ago. Some information may no longer be current. Open this photo in gallery: Left: man in the photo who is a podcaster from Norway. Right: MindGeek CEO Feras Antoon. Supplied Share Save for later Please log in to bookmark this story. Log In Create Free Account Searching online for Feras Antoon, the CEO of adult entertainment conglomerate MindGeek, turns up a curious website called Feras Antoon Reports. For the past few years, someone by that name has written dozens of articles about business, technology and, for some reason, weight-loss tips for women. His biography tells us Mr. Antoon is a “master in strategic planning,” an expert in search engine optimization and the “Gandalf” of his field. The bio never specifies what, exactly, Mr. Antoon does, but there is a black-and-white headshot of this corporate Gandalf, a square-jawed, steely-eyed man in a sharp suit. The picture is a freely available stock photo, in fact, and the man depicted is a Norwegian podcaster whose name is not Feras Antoon. Pornhub’s parent company MindGeek facing proposed class-action lawsuit While MindGeek did not answer a question about whether Mr. Antoon had the site created, it does resemble the sort of search-engine-optimized vapour conjured by reputation management firms, something the head of a pornography empire that guards its privacy might find useful. MindGeek, which operates from Montreal, is one of the largest porn companies in the world, with some US$460-million in revenue and 1,800 employees globally. One of a handful of companies that upended the adult industry by unleashing a wave of free content across the internet, it has long sought to obscure its corporate identity – while heavily promoting a broad suite of sites that includes Pornhub, YouPorn and many more. Its reach now extends into many areas of the business. MindGeek runs free sites and subscriber-based ones, a platform for performers to sell videos, an adult video game subsidiary, a VPN product so users can browse anonymously and an extensive advertising network. But now the veil of secrecy over MindGeek is ending. In December, it struggled to fend off accusations it allowed child sexual abuse material and other non-consensual videos to be posted on Pornhub. Mastercard and Visa then suspended the use of their cards on the site, with Mastercard citing an internal review that found “unlawful content.” Political pressure is building, too. The House of Commons Standing Committee on Access to Information, Privacy and Ethics is holding hearings into platforms such as Pornhub. On Monday, the committee heard from Serena Fleites, 19, who had a video of her at 13 years old uploaded to the site. Ms. Fleites, who previously told her story to The New York Times, said it took weeks for the company to remove the video after she requested it be taken down. Afterward, the video was repeatedly uploaded to the site, forcing her to prove her identity all over again to have it deleted. The mental trauma caused her to attempt suicide, she said. “You are dealing with a rogue company,” Ms. Fleites’s lawyer, Michael Bowe, told the committee. “It, in fact, knowingly commercialized and monetized this type of content.” MindGeek has denied these allegations. On Friday, Mr. Antoon and MindGeek COO David Tassillo will testify before the committee, their first ever appearance in a public setting. For years, MindGeek seemed untouchable, even as its scale stoked worries in the industry. “Hardly anyone would speak out against MindGeek, because that’s how they made their money,” said Allie Eve Knox, an adult content creator in Texas. Interviews with 15 former employees from across MindGeek, along with a review of court filings and corporate records, reveal a company that was bent on dominating the industry from the start. MindGeek favoured amassing a huge library of content, even as employees had concerns with its moderation policies. The Globe is not any identifying former employees as they fear retribution from the company. MindGeek was an early operator of so-called tube sites, styled after YouTube, that allowed anyone to upload content and viewers to watch for free. Producers of professional adult content are subject to laws to ensure performers are of legal age and every act is consensual, but the issue is considerably more fraught on a website where anyone can upload explicit material. The tube model, however, is cheap, efficient and lucrative. Even so, MindGeek is not immune to financial pressures. Its insatiable appetite for growth meant it had to take on a massive amount of debt that still carries an unusually high interest rate. And to pay it off, the company needs an endless supply of content. Mr. Antoon, 46, isn’t one to settle for small things, either. He’s currently building a sprawling mansion in the north end of Montreal, and records show he and his wife own two other large properties in Quebec, including a compound in the Laurentians. Around Montreal, he drives a bright yellow Lamborghini Urus bearing a vanity licence plate, according to people familiar with the matter who spoke on the condition they not be identified. The licence plate nods to his CEO status. Mr. Antoon is an early employee of MindGeek’s predecessor, joining in 2008, along with Mr. Tassillo, 43. (Mr. Antoon is also the brother-in-law of one of the original founders.) Former employees said the two make a slightly odd pair. Mr. Antoon is gregarious, even charismatic, while Mr. Tassillo is more reserved. But there is another important figure most MindGeek employees have never seen or even heard about: an Austrian named Bernd Bergmair (also spelled Bernard Bergemar), who has listed China as his country of residence in corporate records. One former employee who met him only knew his first name. The company they oversee is a pornographic multinational. MindGeek is registered in Luxembourg and maintains a small office there, but is primarily run from Montreal in a generic six-storey glass-sheathed building. Aside from Pornhub, it owns other popular free and subscriber-based adult sites, such as Brazzers and Reality Kings. Pornhub alone receives an average of 130 million visits a day, and regularly ranks among the most visited websites in the world. MindGeek’s operations extend beyond content. It runs an ad network called TrafficJunky across its properties, and serves up 4.6 billion ad impressions every day. A recent tagline for TrafficJunky asks: “Your customers are on Pornhub, so why aren’t you?” Working at MindGeek, which employs more than 1,000 people in Canada alone, can be a strange experience. Many former employees compared it to a typical tech company – there are programmers, designers and business analysts. Others described it as an insular place, and likened it to an alternate reality. One arriving at the office for the first time was puzzled to find no desk phone. “Who are you going to call?” the former employee was told. It has a bizarre approach to public relations, too. Try searching for any of its spokespeople and executives quoted in mainstream publications over the years. There are no social media accounts or any mentions of them aside from articles about MindGeek. An oft-quoted Pornhub vice-president goes by the name of Corey Price, for example, but it’s not clear he exists. There is, however, a vice-president named Corey Urman involved with Pornhub. (He, too, is on the witness list for Friday’s ethics committee.) A person with knowledge of the matter said public relations staff routinely used fake names when dealing with journalists. MindGeek’s spokesperson wrote the company encourages pseudonyms in some public-facing correspondence. “This is necessary because some of our personnel and their families have been victimized by threats of violence and internet-based harm,” the spokesperson wrote from a Gmail address. (He refused to say whether he was using a pseudonym.) Over the years, it’s received some money from the province. The Quebec government provided MindGeek with subsidies totalling about $189,215 from 2011 to 2018 to support tech-related jobs and boost the use of French in the workplace, a spokesperson for the Labour Ministry said. MindGeek also received about $7,330 in 2018 under a provincial program encouraging individuals and companies to use electric vehicles. MindGeek’s origins can be traced back to the late 1990s, when a teenager in Brussels named Fabian Thylmann logged on to a forum for trading passwords used to access adult sites. A self-taught programmer, he started offering his services to fledgling porn sites after connecting with others through the forum. He later co-founded a company that made software to track affiliate marketing campaigns for the adult industry, but eventually left. In the 2000s, pay sites were starting to struggle against a growing wave of free online porn. Mr. Thylmann swooped in to buy out floundering pay sites and realized he needed a hub to properly expand. Eventually, he settled on a company in Montreal called Mansef. Founded by some Concordia University grads, Mansef already had 200 employees, 