# Anthony Fauci

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/anthony-fauci/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:45:49.454773+00:00

---

Anthony Fauci - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: Anthony Fauci american affairs Mar. 12, 2025 What Were the Worst Avoidable Mistakes in America’s COVID Response? Five years later, they look pretty stark. By Ross Barkan coronavirus June 3, 2024 Republicans Grill Anthony Fauci on COVID Origins: Key Moments The retired White House adviser came to Congress to get yelled at one more time. By Matt Stieb the national interest May 2, 2023 Where Is the Republican Soul-searching for Getting COVID Wrong? Fauci is at least answering some hard questions. By Jonathan Chait the inside game Apr. 13, 2022 ‘I Mean, We Need More Money’: An Exit Interview With the COVID Czar Jeff Zients on funding gaps, misinformation, and the future of the virus. By Gabriel Debenedetti war on christmas Nov. 4, 2021 Why Christmas 2021 Is Already Ruined Holiday hysteria is off to an early start and there’s no shortage of things to blame, from the supply-chain crisis to Dr. Fauci to climate change. By Margaret Hartmann halloween Oct. 10, 2021 Fauci Endorses Return of Trick-or-Treating “Go out there and enjoy Halloween,” he advised parents. By Chas Danner trailer mix Oct. 4, 2021 Fauci Documentary Trailer: Don’t Shoot the Messenger “When COVID hit, he became this target.” By Zoe Haylock covid-19 vaccine July 26, 2021 Sarah Huckabee Sanders Deploys Big Lie to Boost Vaccinations The gubernatorial candidate is encouraging Arkansans to get their “Trump vaccine” and blaming the left for sowing distrust of the COVID jab. By Ed Kilgore covid-19 vaccine July 21, 2021 What If Republicans Were Anti-Lockdown, Anti-Mask, and Pro-Vaxx? Tommy Tuberville suggests the best way to erode vaccine hesitancy is to give Trump credit for those shots in the arm. That may be sad but true. By Ed Kilgore covid-19 May 26, 2021 Biden Joins the COVID Lab-Leak-Theory Debate The president says that U.S. intelligence is considering the theory and he wants them to push harder to answer where the coronavirus originated. By Chas Danner covid-19 May 19, 2021 Fauci: People Are ‘Misinterpreting’ New Mask Guidance The CDC’s decision to rescind almost all masking and distancing recommendations for the fully vaccinated has sparked confusion. By Paola Rosa-Aquino snl May 16, 2021 Dr. Fauci and the CDC Players Present ‘No More Masks’ in SNL Cold Open The new rules about mask usage are confusing, but they’re here to help, king. By Halle Kiefer johnson &amp; johnson Apr. 18, 2021 Fauci: Johnson & Johnson Shot Could Return on Friday With Warning Label The public-health official anticipated that the single-dose vaccine would return with either a warning or a restriction on what ages could receive it. By Matt Stieb vision 2020 Nov. 2, 2020 Trump Closes Campaign With Bold Anti-Democracy, Pro-Violence Message The president apparently believes he can win over moderates by vowing to fire Fauci, subvert democracy, and promote political violence. By Eric Levitz the national interest Nov. 2, 2020 Trump Says He Will Fire Dr. Anthony Fauci After the Election Trump couldn’t keep his plan secret another three days. By Jonathan Chait the national interest Oct. 20, 2020 Why Trump Ended the Task Force and Put a Kook in Charge of the Coronavirus The last two GOP administrations have self-immolated by ignoring experts. By Jonathan Chait covid-19 Oct. 19, 2020 Trump Publicly Attacks Dr. Fauci as Third Wave of Pandemic Begins As COVID-19 cases surge and his reelection campaign implodes, the president has decided to go after the nation’s top infectious disease expert. By Chas Danner white house outbreak Oct. 11, 2020 Trump Brags About His COVID-19 Immunity, Feuds With Fauci He’s heralding the “protective glow” of his immunity, but antibodies can’t shield him from the political consequences of his incompetence. By Chas Danner coronavirus Oct. 11, 2020 Dr. Fauci Would Like to Be Excluded From This Narrative Seems like Fauci can, in fact, imagine someone doing more about the coronavirus than Trump has. By Claire Lampen the media July 25, 2020 Sinclair Pulls Segment Sharing Anti-Fauci COVID-19 Conspiracy Theory The company defended its right to share the baseless conspiracy theory on dozens of local TV stations, but eventually caved amid the blowback. By Chas Danner fauci hive July 21, 2020 Has Your Mom Sent You This Yet? A TikTok video at the intersection of salient boomer interests. By Bridget Read republicans July 21, 2020 House Freedom Caucus Members Go After Liz Cheney for Defending Fauci It’s a sign of the times that hard-core conservative Cheney is under attack for insufficient loyalty to Trump. By Ed Kilgore coronavirus July 15, 2020 White House Issues Mild Rebuke of Peter Navarro After Anti-Fauci Op-ed It would be easier to believe the White House’s criticism of Navarro if he was the only one ripping Fauci. By Adam K. Raymond coronavirus July 12, 2020 Trump Administration Transitions From Ignoring to Undermining Anthony Fauci For the last month, the White House has disregarded the NIAID head. But over the weekend, the administration began to bad-mouth their own expert. By Matt Stieb coronavirus July 10, 2020 When (and How) Sports Are Returning Amid the COVID-19 Pandemic In the next few weeks, the MLB, NBA, and NHL will start playing again — but they’ll look wildly different. By Adam K. Raymond trump campaign June 20, 2020 Trump’s Tulsa Rally Is Still Happening, Pandemic and Reason Be Damned The president’s top coronavirus advisers couldn’t stop it, a legal challenge failed, and his campaign still believes it will Make Trump Great Again. By Chas Danner just asking questions June 10, 2020 Lessons From the ACT UP Era, for Today’s Protesters “We talked about safer sex in the ’80s, and now we have to talk about safer living.” By Irin Carmon coronavirus May 12, 2020 Scenes From a Bizarre Senate Hearing on Coronavirus Come for Dr. Anthony Fauci’s testimony, stay for Tim Kaine’s train-robber look, Lamar Alexander’s dog, and a peek at Bernie Sanders’s home office. By Adam K. Raymond coronavirus May 11, 2020 Everything We Know About the White House Coronavirus Outbreak Two staffers have tested positive, and several officials are under self-quarantine, now that the virus has arrived at the White House. By Adam K. Raymond coronavirus May 10, 2020 Pence Self-Isolates for Just 3 Days After Coronavirus Breach in the White House While Fauci will quarantine for the recommended two weeks, Pence is self-isolating for just three days following the White House’s coronavirus breach. By Matt Stieb coronavirus May 10, 2020 Dr. Fauci Has Entered ‘Modified Quarantine’ The immunologist will isolate for two weeks after coming into “low risk” contact with an infected White House staffer. By Claire Lampen the national interest May 7, 2020 White House: CDC Coronavirus Guidelines ‘Would Never See the Light of Day’ The administration buries its public-health advisers. By Jonathan Chait coronavirus May 7, 2020 The FDA Has Approved a Coronavirus Vaccine for Phase Two Trial The company says it could start phase three this summer and bring a vaccine to market by early 2021. By Adam K. Raymond coronavirus Apr. 26, 2020 Trump to Sideline Fauci and Birx in Coming Weeks: Report The benching of the top public-health experts is an indicator of Trump’s reported pivot to an economic message in his press briefings. By Matt Stieb coronavirus Apr. 13, 2020 Trump Boosts Tweet Calling for Anthony Fauci to Be Fired The doctor said fewer people would have died with earlier social distancing. That’s obvious, and to Trump, potential grounds for dismissal. By Adam K. Raymond coronavirus Apr. 12, 2020 Dr. Fauci: U.S. Economy Could Open ‘in Some Ways’ in May The NIAID director expressed a “cautious optimism” that some areas of the country could ease social distancing beginning next month. By Matt Stieb coronavirus Apr. 9, 2020 Dr. Fauci: Curve Is ‘Beginning’ to Flatten, Projected Death Toll Dropping The infectious-disease expert said there are “glimmers of hope” and that social distancing is working. By Adam K. Raymond the national interest Apr. 6, 2020 Why Trump Is Overruling Scientists to Pursue His Pet Coronavirus Drug President heeds Rudy Giuliani, Peter Navarro, and Fox News personalities over medical experts. By Jonathan 