# World Us Canada 53954673

**Source**: https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-53954673
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:55:54.616548+00:00

---

TikTok stars charged over partying in LA during pandemic Skip to content Watch Live British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US &amp; Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science &amp; Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film &amp; TV Music Art &amp; Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean &amp; Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture &amp; Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList To the Ends of The Earth Earth Natural Wonders Weather &amp; Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcast Categories Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Watch Live TikTok stars charged over partying in LA during pandemic 28 August 2020 Share Save Share Save Getty Images Bryce Hall and Blake Gray hosted huge parties in Los Angeles Los Angeles officials have charged two TikTok stars for holding large house parties in breach of coronavirus restrictions. Bryce Hall and Blake Gray, who have millions of followers on the popular social media platform, have faced mounting criticism for hosting parties during the pandemic. City Attorney Mike Feuer described the events as &quot;incredibly irresponsible&quot;. If found guilty, they face fines of up to $2,000 (£1,500) and a year in jail. Earlier this month authorities cut off water and electricity to a Hollywood Hills mansion being rented by the pair and another &quot;influencer&quot;. LA shuts off water and power to party houses TikTok boss quits as Trump&#x27;s ban looms Can this California prison save itself from Covid-19? On Friday they were charged with violating Los Angeles County&#x27;s safer-at-home order and a city law that prohibits large, noisy parties. At a news conference, Mr Feuer said that house parties were potential &quot;super-spreader events&quot; for the coronavirus. &quot;If you have a combined 19 million followers on TikTok, in the middle of a public health crisis you should be modelling great behaviour, best practices for all of us rather than brazenly violating the law and then posting videos about it, as we allege happened here,&quot; he told reporters. According to the Los Angeles Times, the pair hosted parties at rented properties on 8 and 14 August that both ended up being attended by police. The event on 14 August was to celebrate Mr Hall&#x27;s 21st birthday. Footage posted online showed dozens of young partygoers crowded together in one room. Earlier this month, LA Mayor Eric Garcetti said house parties had become &quot;nightclubs in the hills&quot;. Getty Images Authorities are clamping down on large parties in the Hollywood Hills California is the US state worst affected by Covid-19 with more than 683,000 cases and more than 12,000 deaths. Los Angeles county continues to report the highest number of infections in the state - 237,000 as of Friday. Representatives of the two men have not responded to the charges, according to the LA Times. However, Mr Hall recently told TMZ that he regretted his behaviour and that officials had been justified in cutting off power to his house. &quot;I deserved it. Now I&#x27;m just facing the consequences,&quot; he said. LA to shut off water and power to party houses California reimposes restrictions amid virus spike British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use Subscription Terms About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info BBC.com Help &amp; FAQs Content Index Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.