# Got Coronavirus You May Get Surprise Medical Bill Too N1187966

**Source**: https://www.nbcnews.com/health/health-care/got-coronavirus-you-may-get-surprise-medical-bill-too-n1187966
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:01:09.313477+00:00

---

Got coronavirus? You may get a surprise medical bill, too IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. Skip to Content NBC News Logo U.S. News Politics World Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut Sports Business Health Culture Prime Day Deals Tipline Science Share & Save&nbsp;&mdash; My News Manage Profile Email Preferences Sign Out Search Search Profile &nbsp;My News Sign Out &nbsp;Sign In Create your free profile Sections U.S. News Politics World Business Sports Investigations Culture &amp; Trends Health Science Tech Weather Video Features Photos NBC Select NBC Asian America NBC BLK NBC Latino NBC OUT Local New York Los Angeles Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Philadelphia Washington, D.C. Boston Bay Area South Florida San Diego Connecticut tv Today Nightly News Meet the Press Dateline Featured NBC News Now Nightly Films Stay Tuned Special Features Newsletters Podcasts Listen Now More From NBC NBC.COM NBCU Academy Peacock NEXT STEPS FOR VETS NBC News Site Map Help Follow NBC News news Alerts There are no new alerts at this time Search Search Facebook Twitter Email SMS Print Whatsapp Reddit Pocket Flipboard Pinterest Linkedin Latest Stories U.S. News Politics World Sports Business Health Culture Prime Day Deals Tipline Science Coronavirus Got coronavirus? You may get a surprise medical bill, too Doctors and hospitals must navigate dozens of insurance plans. Now amid COVID-19 those plans are changing, and doctors and hospitals struggle to keep up. Medical workers take in patients outside a special coronavirus intake area at a medical center in Brooklyn, N.Y., on April 14, 2020. Spencer Platt / Getty Images April 22, 2020, 5:00 AM EDT By Lisa Riordan Seville and Andrew W. Lehren Christopher Hoffman had the telltale symptoms: a dry cough, trouble breathing and a missing sense of smell. In early March, before the coronavirus shut the country down, the 25-year-old New Yorker went to urgent care, where he was diagnosed with pneumonia. "Because I didn't have a fever, they didn't think to test me for COVID-19," Hoffman said. A week later, he was in the hospital on an IV. He recovered, but his battle with what he is certain was COVID-19 left him with more than $3,800 in out-of-pocket expenses and no clue exactly how much his insurer will cover — a common refrain in the age of the coronavirus. "I'm going to have to duke it out with my insurance company," said Hoffman, who was never formally diagnosed with the disease and got sick before many measures to cut the cost of catching it were in effect. Full coverage of the coronavirus outbreak The government and insurance companies have vowed to pick up much of the tab for coronavirus testing and treatment. But insurance experts, doctors and health care economists told NBC News that because of the fragmented nature of the U.S. health care system, they're already seeing holes in this impromptu safety net. Even in normal times, they say, doctors and hospitals have to navigate dozens of health care plans, public and private. Now all those plans are changing their policies to address the coronavirus, and the providers — the ones who compute the cost of your care — struggle to keep up, leading to surprise bills even after promises that costs would be waived. The experts caution that it is still early in the outbreak and that the government and the insurers are adjusting their responses daily, but they've already seen gaps in coverage that fit into a few broad categories. Here are five things they say to watch out for in your medical bills: If, like Hoffman, you were infected early in the pandemic, you may find yourself scrambling to prove your illnesses was virus-related. Insurers may still not cover all the costs that accompany testing, even if they waive the costs of the tests themselves. Others infected later in the pandemic still can't get tested and may not be able to prove they had the coronavirus. Insurance doesn't always cover the cost of experimental or unapproved drugs and procedures. Despite federal assurances, if you're uninsured you may still be billed for testing and treatment. Tests that aren't free On March 18, President Donald Trump signed legislation requiring private insurers to waive testing costs. State authorities have also stepped in, although the measures vary from state to state. But that doesn't mean insurers are covering all the costs related to testing. Evan S.'s wife is a nurse at a hospital in the Washington, D.C., area. Amy, whose last name is being withheld because of concern for her job, started showing symptoms March 11. Two days later, she had a sore throat, a cough and chest pain. Evan S. received a $190 bill after his wife Amy, a nurse, went to a clinic to be tested for COVID-19 in March 2020. Courtesy of Evan S. Test results took more than two weeks. Amy came up negative. Not long after came the bill, which NBC News reviewed. The family is being charged $190 for the clinic visit, plus flu and strep tests run before Amy was tested for COVID-19. Because Amy was tested on March 16, two days before Congress passed legislation requiring that the cost of testing be waived, the family may get a bill for the coronavirus test, too, the insurer said. "We've been promised that the costs for testing and treatment are going to be covered," Evan said. "Now I've got a $200 bill." Front-line workers elsewhere have also received big bills for tests. A nursing home employee in Washington state is among a handful of people who have filed complaints with state authorities saying that despite promises to cover testing, they're still getting charged. The complaint, filed by the woman's daughter-in-law, said the woman worked at a nursing home with 30 confirmed COVID-19 cases. But when she went to get tested, her insurance covered just $7.15 of the $578.87 bill, according to the complaint, submitted to the state Office of the Insurance Commissioner on March 3. "This is shameful," the complaint said. "She's called a hero wherever she goes, but her insurance can't take care of more of this bill." Virus patients face massive hospital bills 06:08 A month and a half later, doctors and policymakers are now worried about the thousands who, because of a continued shortage of tests, almost surely contracted the virus but may not be able to prove it to insurers. "I'm routinely sending half of the patients who have COVID symptoms home without a test," Dr. Rob Davidson, a Michigan emergency room physician who heads the Committee to Protect Medicare, which advocates for Medicare expansion. "They still have X-rays and labs, and yet they still don't have a positive test. Are they going to pay for those people?" Take Tylenol and pray Some of the current treatments for the coronavirus are experimental, like the hydroxychloroquine the president has touted to much controversy. But consumers are finding that experimental measures aren't necessarily covered by insurance — even when they're cleared by the Food and Drug Administration. Anne Bakjian, 40, of Georgia spent two weeks in the hospital with COVID-19, fighting for each breath. She needed more oxygen, and doctors warned that a ventilator could come next. Doctors initially gave her Tylenol and told her to "pray," she said. A week later, they put her on hydroxychloroquine. Bakjian's eyes turned yellow and her vision became distorted, she said, but after two days, her lungs opened up. The hospital sent her home March 30 with a prescription for eight hydroxychloroquine pills. Related News News This state rejected Medicaid expansion. Its uninsured residents now stare down a pandemic. Weeks later, she received a statement indicating that her insurer, Peach State Health Plan, the Medicaid program for low-income Georgia residents, hadn't paid her $48,000 hospital bill. A representative for Peach State told her that the care wouldn't be covered because it hadn't been pre-approved, Bakjian said. After calls from Bakjian and NBC News, the hospital told NBC News that Peach State had cleared the bill. But Bakjian and her family still paid $700 for the eight hydroxychloroquine pills. The FDA had issued emergency approval to use the drug for COVID-19, and Bakjian had trouble finding pills, which generally cost a small fraction of the price. Friends started a GoFundMe campaign to pay the cost, something that hundreds of patients across the country have done to help cover bills linked to COVID-19. "If you're on Medicaid, you don't have that kind of money," Bakjian said. Peach State didn't respond to a request for comment. 'This should alleviate any concern' More than 28 million people lacked health insurance of any kind, government or private, in the most recent tally, and that total has surely grown as millions have lost their jobs during the pandemic. The federal government's message has been that for the uninsured, treatment will be covered. "Hospitals and health care providers treating uninsured coronavirus patients will be reimbursed by the federal government," Trump said during a White House briefing April 3. "This should alleviate any concern uninsured Americans may have about seeking the coronavirus treatment." The federal government has allocated $1 billion to test the uninsured, and it has announced plans to use part of the $100 billion slated for health care providers in the coronavirus response legislation known as the CARES Act to reimburse hospitals for the costs of treating the uninsured. But snags continue to emerge. A woman interviewed by NBC San Diego received a bill for nearly $1,500 for a coronavirus test. The hospital told the station that while federal legislation made tests free, it didn't cover the uninsured. The head of Carbon Health, a startup promoting rapid testing in the San Francisco Bay Area, also argued that health care providers should be allowed to charge the uninsured. "The supplies a