# Northwestern Lawsuit Hazing Jim Phillips

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/4703620/2023/07/19/northwestern-lawsuit-hazing-jim-phillips/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:06:12.419161+00:00

---

ACC commissioner Jim Phillips named a defendant in second Northwestern lawsuit, lawyers say - The Athletic NCAAF Teams Scores &amp; Schedule Standings Podcasts Until Saturday Newsletter Recruiting Odds Picks All-136 Ranking Latest Playoff Projections Quizzes Rivalry Rankings ACC commissioner Jim Phillips named a defendant in second Northwestern lawsuit, lawyers say By Chris Vannini July 19, 2023 Updated July 21, 2023 Share 72 Lawyers representing an unnamed former Northwestern player suing school officials said Wednesday they will file another lawsuit on behalf of a second player, adding ACC commissioner Jim Phillips as a defendant. The lawyers also said they discovered more allegations of misconduct in the school’s softball and volleyball programs, on top of known allegations in the football, baseball and cheerleading programs. Advertisement Phillips served as Northwestern ’s athletic director from 2008 to 2021. Both lawsuits also list the school itself, president Michael Schill, former president Morton Schapiro, the board of trustees, current athletic director Derrick Gragg and former football coach Pat Fitzgerald as defendants. Attorneys Patrick Salvi II and Parker Stinar officially filed the lawsuit Friday. Salvi and Stinar held a news conference in Chicago on Wednesday morning to discuss the cases. It came one hour before another news conference, also in Chicago, led by civil rights attorney Ben Crump and others representing other former Northwestern football players considering taking legal action. “It’s not just one coach,” Stinar said. “It’s an athletic department, possibly a president, that allowed this to go on for years and failed to take appropriate action to protect young individuals from traumatic events in their life.” The news conference and both initial filings were light on new specifics, relying on what is already public through the school’s releases and reporting by The Daily Northwestern and other outlets, but the lawyers said more allegations continue to come forward. Stinar added that their clients have told them football coaches had knowledge of hazing incidents within the school. GO DEEPER A timeline of the football controversy at Northwestern The lawyers also referred to a “serious hazing incident” in the volleyball program that may have led to the cancellation of a game, but they did not share more details. Volleyball coach Shane Davis received a multiyear contract extension in 2021. “(It) thus far seems to have been swept under the rug,” Salvi said of the volleyball situation. “We know from discussions we’ve had with people that have come forward about programs in the softball program. Then there’s the baseball program. We haven’t spoken with anybody in the program, but Coach (Jim) Foster was fired for creating a toxic culture. Yet again, the details are not being released. That also speaks volumes.” Advertisement A Northwestern spokesperson said the university “does not comment on pending litigation.” In a letter to the Northwestern community Tuesday, Schill announced two new external reviews of the athletic program. Both will be made public. Northwestern began an investigation into football hazing in late 2022, following an anonymous whistleblower’s complaint. On July 7, the school released a vague executive summary and Fitzgerald was suspended for two weeks without pay , along with new guidelines in the program. Following The Daily Northwestern’s publication of specific allegations the next day and growing public backlash, Schill fired Fitzgerald three days later . Fitzgerald has indicated potential legal action against the school. The school fired Foster on July 13 over abusive behavior . Salvi and Stinar demanded the school release the full six-month investigation into football hazing and said they want to look into the relationship between Northwestern and the ArentFox Schiff law firm that conducted the investigation. It all made clear that legal action involving Northwestern is only just beginning. “Facts are coming out at a very fast pace,” Stinar said, “and we’re learning about the widespread and institutional problems that existed within Northwestern.” Statement from ACC Commissioner Jim Phillips on being named a defendant in NW lawsuits: “Any allegation that I ever condoned or tolerated inappropriate conduct against student-athletes is absolutely false. I will vigorously defend myself against any suggestion to the contrary.” pic.twitter.com/XgD2mrUhe0 — Chris Vannini (@ChrisVannini) July 20, 2023 Required reading Investigation from The Athletic: How a hazing culture evolved at Northwestern’s Camp Kenosha Northwestern after Pat Fitzgerald: Wildcats coaching job pluses, minuses and candidates Mandel: The bitter end of the Pat Fitzgerald era isn’t the close of Northwestern’s problems Greenberg: Pat Fitzgerald, the winningest coach in Northwestern history, lost in the end Fixing Northwestern’s culture is paramount, but program will struggle on the field now (Photo: Jim Dedmon / USA Today) Oct 3, 2025 Connections: Sports Edition Spot the pattern. Connect the terms Find the hidden link between sports terms Play today&#x27;s puzzle Tagged To: College Football Northwestern Wildcats Chris Vannini has covered national college football issues and the coaching carousel for The Athletic since 2017. A co-winner of the FWAA's Beat Writer of the Year Award in 2018, he previously was managing editor of CoachingSearch.com. Follow Chris on Twitter @ ChrisVannini National Boxing Bundesliga Champions League Championship College Football College Sports Copa America Copa del Rey Cricket Culture Cycling Europa League European Championship FA Cup Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Basketball Fantasy Football Fantasy Hockey Fantasy Premier League FIFA Club World Cup FIFA Men&#x27;s World Cup FIFA Women&#x27;s World Cup Formula 1 Gaming Global Sports Golf International Football La Liga League Cup League One League Two Memorabilia &amp; Collectibles Men&#x27;s College Basketball Mixed Martial Arts MLB MLS Motorsports NASCAR NBA NFL NHL NWSL Olympics Opinion Peak Premier League Sailing Scottish Premiership Serie A Soccer Sports Betting Sports Business Tennis Top Sports News WNBA Women&#x27;s College Basketball Women&#x27;s Euros Women&#x27;s Hockey Women&#x27;s Soccer The Athletic Ink Podcasts Headlines US Arizona Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Buffalo Carolina Chicago Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Dallas Denver Detroit Houston Indiana Jacksonville Kansas City Las Vegas Los Angeles Memphis Miami Minnesota Nashville New Orleans New York Oklahoma Oregon Orlando Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento San Antonio San Diego Seattle St. Louis Tampa Bay Utah Washington DC Wisconsin Canada Calgary Edmonton Montreal Ottawa Toronto Vancouver Winnipeg Partners Collectibles by eBay Odds by BetMGM Streaming by Fubo Tickets by StubHub Subscribe Start Subscription Group Subscriptions HQ About Us Careers Code of Conduct Editorial Guidelines Business Inquiries Press Inquiries Support FAQ Forgot Password? Contact Us Terms of Service Newsletters The Pulse The Bounce The Windup Prime Tire Full Time Until Saturday Scoop City The Athletic FC MoneyCall Red Light © 2025 The Athletic Media Company, A New York Times Company Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Support Sitemap