# The Anti Snarf Manifesto

**Source**: https://www.buzzfeed.com/jonah/the-anti-snarf-manifesto
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:04:04.687685+00:00

---

The Anti-SNARF Manifesto Skip To Content BuzzFeed Homepage Sign In BuzzFeed Quizzes Shopping Trending News Celebrity Buzz Chat Arcade Quizzes Shopping Trending News Celebrity Buzz Chat Arcade Browse links Newsletters The best of the internet, delivered straight to your inbox! Pop Culture TV &amp; Movies Celebrity Best of the Internet Animals Music Rewind Books LGBTQ Quizzes &amp; Games Arcade NEW! Latest Trending Food Love Trivia Quiz Party Showdown Shopping Latest Home Fashion Tech Beauty &amp; Personal Care Pets Sports &amp; Fitness Video Latest Cocoa Butter Mom In Progress Worth It Unsolved Multiplayer Pero Like Lifestyle Tasty Style Travel Goodful: Wellness Nifty: DIY Parents Food Weddings Sex And Love Community Make a Quiz or Post! Featured Posts Leaderboard From Our Partners Safe Haven Back to School Prep College Curation About About Us Advertise Investor Relations Jobs Edition US UK Australia Canada Deutschland India Japan Latam US residents can opt out of &quot;sales&quot; of personal data. Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Privacy Settings Privacy Settings © 2025 BuzzFeed, Inc Press RSS Privacy Consent Preferences User Terms Accessibility Statement Ad Choices Help Contact Sitemap BuzzFeed Tasty Search, watch, and cook every single Tasty recipe and video ever — all in one place! BuzzFeed Goodful Self care and ideas to help you live a healthier, happier life. HuffPost News, Politics, Culture, Life, Entertainment, and more. Stories that matter to you. BuzzFeed Quizzes Shopping Trending News Celebrity Buzz Chat Arcade Quizzes Shopping Trending News Celebrity Buzz Chat Arcade Buzz · Posted on Feb 11, 2025 Subscribe to BuzzFeed Daily Newsletter Caret Down The Anti-SNARF Manifesto Big tech destroyed the internet. What's next? by Jonah Peretti BuzzFeed Founder &amp; CEO Facebook Pinterest Link Most anxieties about the future are really about the present. We worry about a future where AI takes away our human agency, devalues our labor, and creates social discord. But that world is already here and our meaning, purpose, and agency has already been undermined by Artificial Intelligence technologies.&nbsp; In the US, this began with the launch of TikTok. In 2017, I met with ByteDance founder Zhang Yiming before he created TikTok. He explained to me that he wanted to launch an app in the US, but he needed a source of video content. I asked what kind of content and he said it didn’t matter, he just needed tens of thousands of videos each day. He explained that Chinese universities produce more Deep Learning PhDs each year than the total number employed in every Silicon Valley company combined. He explained that this talent allowed him to make his AI so good that the content didn’t matter. He just needed raw tonnage of content so the AI could create a personalized experience and get the flywheel going. He subsequently bought Musical.ly, evolved it into TikTok by adding advanced AI, and the rest is history.&nbsp; Similar to Zhang Yiming, Mark Zuckerberg doesn’t care very much about the content on his platforms and is much more interested in technology and AI. As TikTok exploded in popularity, Meta did everything it could to achieve parity with ByteDance. They went all in on the same kind of deep learning AI that powers TikTok. Meta had to rebuild their data centers by racking billions of dollars worth of GPUs, years before the current Gen AI mania. These efforts have gotten Meta very close to parity with ByteDance and successfully slowed the growth of TikTok. But this shift also meant that employees working at Meta no longer knew why content was being recommended by their algorithms. The deep learning approach leveraging massively parallel computation made the metrics go up, but the teams at Meta didn’t know why one piece of content was winning over another because the decisions were being made inside the deep learning black box.&nbsp; The judgement of the deep learning AIs became more important than the judgement of employees working at these tech companies. TikTok was successful launching in countries where the team building the apps did not even speak the local language or have any understanding of the content that was getting distributed. Meta employees who used to be involved in shaping content policy have effectively been replaced by AI, undermining their sense of purpose as human judgement becomes less important in designing these systems. More recently, Zuckerberg has said he will start using AI agents as “mid-level engineers.” Having a job at Meta is beginning to feel like being a UBI recipient, where you are lucky to be a citizen that gets some trickle down compensation from the value-creating AIs.&nbsp; But the bigger loss of human agency comes from the billions of people that use these apps. These deep learning AIs are designed to maximize the time we all spend on these apps. While you are reading this memo, you are probably jonesing to switch over to Instagram or TikTok. It turns out when an app company doesn't care about content and asks an AI to maximize usage the result is a service that incentivizes content that maximizes addictiveness. The type of content that gets created and recommended is not the best content, but the content that elicits the most compulsive and predictable response from the human brain. When the platforms don’t care about content and ask the AI to maximize usage, the content evolves into what I call “SNARF.”&nbsp; The Rise of SNARF SNARF stands for S takes/ N ovelty/ A nger/ R etention/ F ear. SNARF is the kind of content that evolves when a platform asks an AI to maximize usage. Content creators need to please the AI algorithms or they become irrelevant. Millions of creators make SNARF content to stay in the feed and earn a living.&nbsp; We are all familiar with this kind of content, especially those of us who are chronically online. Content creators exaggerate stakes to make their content urgent and existential. They manufacture novelty and spin their content as unprecedented and unique. They manipulate anger to drive engagement via outrage. They hack retention by withholding information and promising a payoff at the end of a video. And they provoke fear to make people focus with urgency on their content. Every piece of content faces ruthless Darwinian competition so only SNARF has the ability to be successful, even if it is inaccurate, hateful, fake, ethically dubious, and intellectually suspect.&nbsp; This dynamic is causing many different types of content to evolve into versions of the same thing. Once you understand this you can see how much of our society, culture, and politics are downstream from big tech’s global SNARF machines. The political ideas that break through, from both Democrats and Republicans, need to be shaped into SNARF to spread. Through this lens, MAGA and “woke” are the same thing! They both are versions of political ideas that spread through raw negative emotion, outrage, and novelty. The news stories and journalism that break through aren’t the most important stories, but rather the stories that can be shaped into SNARF. This is why it seems like every election, every new technology, every global conflict has the potential to end our way of life, destroy democracy, or set off a global apocalypse! It is not a coincidence that no matter what the message is, it always takes the same form, namely memetically optimized media that maximizes stakes and novelty , provokes anger , drives retention , and instills fear . The result is an endless stream of addictive content that leaves everyone feeling depressed, scared, and dissatisfied.&nbsp; Back in 2018, I explained this dynamic to Facebook’s head of NewsFeed, warning him that when BuzzFeed creates “meaningful content, it doesn’t get rewarded…the content that is working isn’t our best content” and I explained that the “entire digital media industry is faced with this dilemma. Do you make negative and polarizing content to win on Facebook? Or do you make positive social content and see your business and traffic decline?” Leaked quotes from my email were read before Congress by Facebook whistleblower Frances Haugen, but the problem got worse, not better. As I explained earlier, competition from TikTok made all the major US social platforms double down on SNARF.&nbsp; It was hard for platforms to resist because SNARF is highly addictive and makes engagement metrics and revenue go up. Addictive behavior is the most predictable type of consumer behavior and the easiest to exploit for profits. Meta has more than quadrupled its market capitalization since I sent my warning in 2018 and is now worth over $1.7 trillion. I’m sure Zuckerberg is happy he didn’t take my advice. And now that Trump is in power, a candidate who masterfully used SNARF to win the election, there is tremendous pressure for all platforms to allow the free flow of SNARF content. Every major platform is capitulating to Trump, saying they will end “censorship” which is an euphemistic way of saying they will let politically charged bullshit and conspiracy theories run wild on their platforms. For the foreseeable future, SNARF will continue to be the most ubiquitous form of media, shaping the way business, politics, and media work. Growing Discontent But there is some hope, despite the growing revenue and usage of the big social media platforms. We are beginning to see the first cracks that suggest there might be an opportunity to fight back. A recent study by the National Bureau of Economic Research found that the majority of respondents would prefer to live in a world where TikTok and Instagram did not exist! There was generally a feeling of being compelled to use these projects because of FOMO, social pressure, and addiction. A large portion of users said they would pay money for TikTok and Instagram to not exist, suggesting these products have negative utility for many people. This challenges traditional economics which posits that cons