# La Fi Ct Disney Iger Extends Contract 20171214 Story.Html

**Source**: https://www.latimes.com/business/hollywood/la-fi-ct-disney-iger-extends-contract-20171214-story.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:13:59.042291+00:00

---

Disney extends CEO Bob Iger&#x27;s contract through 2021 - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing &amp; Homelessness Politics Science &amp; Medicine World &amp; Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor &amp; Workplace Real Estate Technology and the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing &amp; Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate &amp; Environment Global Warming Water &amp; Drought Entertainment &amp; Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 best restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art &amp; Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health &amp; Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel &amp; Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World &amp; Nation Immigration &amp; the Border Israel-Hamas Mexico &amp; the Americas Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios Business • AI &amp; Tech • Banking &amp; Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Goods &amp; Retail • Healthcare &amp; Science • Law Dentists Decor &amp; Design Doctors &amp; Scientists Hot Property Live &amp; Well Orange County Pets The Hub: Rebuilding LA Travel Weddings &amp; Celebrations Newsletters Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Students &amp; Educators Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store L.A. Times Studios News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance &amp; Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? People on the Move Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Sections Tap to enable a layout that focuses on the article. Focus mode Show Search Search Query Submit Search Advertisement Hollywood Inc. Disney extends CEO Bob Iger’s contract through 2021 Disney CEO Bob Iger stands alongside Mickey Mouse. (Drew Angerer / Getty Images) By&nbsp; Meg James &nbsp;and&nbsp; Ryan Faughnder Dec. 14, 2017 5:36 AM PT Share via Close extra sharing options Email Facebook X LinkedIn Threads Reddit WhatsApp Copy Link URL Copied! Print p]:text-cms-story-body-color-text clearfix mb-10 md:max-w-170 md:mx-auto" data-subscriber-content> Walt Disney Co. said Thursday it has extended the contract of Chairman and Chief Executive Bob Iger through December 2021, locking in a 16-year run leading the Burbank entertainment juggernaut. The move, which had been expected, came as Disney announced its $52.4-billion deal to buy much of 21st Century Fox’s media assets. It appears to rule out a presidential bid by Iger — at least for 2020 — which some observers had been anticipating. For the record: 8:15 a.m. Dec. 14, 2017 An earlier version of this article stated that with a contract extension, Bob Iger locked in a 26-year run leading Walt Disney Co. The extension would bring Iger to a 16-year run. An extended tenure for Iger was expected in order to give the company stability as it integrates Fox’s assets. Given the lengthy regulatory review the deal is sure to face, it will take 12 to 18 months to close, the company said. Advertisement “It’s good for certainty around how the company will be managed through the integration and immediately beyond it,” said Brian Wieser, a media analyst at Pivotal Research. Disney said Iger was staying “at the request of both 21st Century Fox and the Disney board of directors.” “When considering this strategic acquisition, it was important to the board that Bob remain as chairman and CEO through 2021 to provide the vision and proven leadership required to successfully complete and integrate such a massive, complex undertaking,” said Orin C. Smith, lead independent director of the Disney board. Advertisement “We share the belief of our counterparts at 21st Century Fox that extending his tenure is in the best interests of our company and our shareholders, and will be critical to Disney’s ability to effectively drive long-term value from this extraordinary acquisition,” Smith said. Iger’s tenure has been a boon for Disney investors. The company’s overall stock-market value, now at $163 billion, has surged 256% since Iger became CEO, more than double the 117% increase in the benchmark Standard &amp; Poor’s 500 index during that span. Iger would be well compensated for his efforts. Under the terms of his new contract, he stands to receive more than $100 million in stock grants, based on Disney’s current share price. Advertisement His annual base salary will increase to $3 million at the beginning of 2018, up 20% from his prior deal, according to a regulatory filing. That will rise to $3.5 million once the Fox transaction closes. The company has set a target bonus of $20 million for Iger, plus $25 million in stock. His previous target bonus was $12 million, but his actual payout has easily exceeded that because of the company’s performance. Last year Iger’s cash bonus was $20 million. His total compensation during the company’s most recent fiscal year was $43.9 million, including $17.3 million in stock and options. If regulators approve the deal, Disney would take over the prolific 20th Century Fox movie and television studio, Fox’s 22 regional sports channels, cable entertainment brands FX and National Geographic, and Fox’s portfolio of international operations, including a fast-growing pay-TV service in India. Iger had been set to vacate his post at the end of June 2016, but in 2014 his contract was extended two years. In March, it was extended again — through July 2, 2019 — to give Disney more time to search for a successor. Few internal candidates for the post have emerged, and it seemed increasingly likely the company would look for an outside candidate. The Fox deal could introduce a new pool of potential candidates for the top job, perhaps even James Murdoch, Rupert Murdoch’s ambitious younger son. However, Disney has not offered the younger Murdoch a place in its empire yet. Any candidate would have big shoes to fill. Iger has already orchestrated three multibillion-dollar acquisitions that have transformed Disney, not including Fox: Pixar Animation Studios in 2006, Marvel Entertainment in 2009 and Lucasfilm in 2012. Advertisement A contract extension gives Disney’s board time to figure out a succession plan for Iger, Wieser said. “It buys them time,” Wieser said. “I don’t think they were satisfied that they had a successor inside of Disney, so there’s time either to find outside talent or to assess if James Murdoch or someone from the Fox organization is an appropriate successor.” Times Staff Writer James Peltz contributed to this report meg.james@latimes.com Twitter: @MegJamesLAT ryan.faughnder@latimes.com Twitter: @rfaughnder ALSO Massive Disney-Fox deal expected to get close antitrust scrutiny Here’s what Disney is acquiring in its blockbuster deal with 21st Century Fox How key Fox executives could fare after sale to Disney UPDATES: 12:50 p.m. : This post has been updated to include additional analyst comments. This article was originally published at 5:30 a.m. More to Read Disney parks boss Josh D’Amaro touts Mouse House bona fides as succession chatter rages May 14, 2025 Succession, recession and DEI talk. What to expect from Disney’s annual meeting March 19, 2025 Disney CEO Bob Iger’s pay package for 2024 jumps to $41 million Jan. 23, 2025 Hollywood Inc. Inside the business of entertainment The Wide Shot brings you news, analysis and insights on everything from streaming wars to production — and what it all means for the future. By continuing, you agree to our Terms of Service and our Privacy Policy . Enter email address Agree &amp; Continue Meg James Follow Us X Email Meg James is a senior entertainment industry writer for the Los Angeles Times. She was the lead reporter for The Times’ coverage of the deadly “Rust” shooting on a New Mexico film set in 2021, work recognized by the Pulitzer Prize board as a finalist in breaking news. A member of the Company Town team for two decades, James specializes in covering television, corporate media and investigative projects. She previously wrote for the Miami Herald and the Palm Beach Post. A native of Wyoming, she is a graduate of the University of Colorado and Columbia University. Ryan Faughnder Follow Us X Ryan Faughnder is a former senior editor with the Los Angeles Times’ Hollywood Inc. team, which covers the business of entertainment. He also launched and wrote the entertainment industry newsletter The Wide Shot . A San Diego native, he earned a master’s degree in journalism from USC and a bachelor’s in English from UC Santa Barbara. Before joining The Times in 2013, he wrote for the Los Angeles Business Journal and Bloomberg News. Faughnder was previously a film business reporter for Company Town and was part of the team that was a 2022 Pulitzer Prize finalist for coverage of the “Rust” set shooting. More From the Los Angeles Times Hollywood Inc. Here comes Bari Weiss. What does it mean for CBS News? Oct. 3, 2025 Hollywood Inc. NBCUniversal, You