# Logic Explainability And The Future Of Understanding

**Source**: http://blog.stephenwolfram.com/2018/11/logic-explainability-and-the-future-of-understanding/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:52:15.239437+00:00

---

Logic, Explainability and the Future of Understanding&mdash;Stephen Wolfram Writings &equiv; Stephen Wolfram Writings ABOUT WRITINGS PUBLICATIONS MEDIA SCRAPBOOK CONTACT Recent | Categories Artificial Intelligence Big Picture Biology Companies &amp; Business Computational Science Computational Thinking Data Science Education Future Perspectives Historical Perspectives Language &amp; Communication Life &amp; Times Life Science Mathematica Mathematics Multicomputation New Kind of Science New Technology Personal Analytics Philosophy Physics Ruliology Software Design Wolfram|Alpha Wolfram Language Other | &times; Contents Top A Discovery about Basic Logic The History Why It Matters The Mechanics of Proof Why Is It So Hard? What’s the Point of a Proof? Generating Understandability The Nature of Explainability The Concept of Concepts The Problem of Education The Progress of Mathematics The Logic Proof and the Automation of Abstraction What Can One Understand? The Future of Knowledge The Future of Understanding Logic, Explainability and the Future of Understanding Logic, Explainability and the Future of Understanding November 6, 2018 For further developments, see wolframscience.com/metamathematics A Discovery about Basic Logic Logic is a foundation for many things. But what are the foundations of logic itself? In symbolic logic, one introduces symbols like p and q to stand for statements (or “propositions”) like “this is an interesting essay”. Then one has certain “rules of logic”, like that, for any p and any q , NOT ( p &nbsp; AND &nbsp; q ) is the same as ( NOT &nbsp; p )&nbsp; OR &nbsp;( NOT &nbsp; q ). But where do these “rules of logic” come from? Well, logic is a formal system. And, like Euclid’s geometry, it can be built on axioms. But what are the axioms? We might start with things like p &nbsp; AND &nbsp; q = q &nbsp; AND &nbsp; p , or NOT &nbsp; NOT &nbsp; p = p . But how many axioms does one need? And how simple can they be? It was a nagging question for a long time. But at 8:31pm on Saturday, January 29, 2000, out on my computer screen popped a single axiom. I had already shown there couldn’t be anything simpler, but I soon established that this one little axiom was enough to generate all of logic: &amp;#10005 ((p·q)·r)·(p·((p·r)·p))==r But how did I know it was correct? Well, because I had a computer prove it. And here’s the proof, as I printed it in 4-point type in A New Kind of Science (and it’s now available in the Wolfram Data Repository ): With the latest version of the Wolfram Language , anyone can now generate this proof in under a minute. And given this proof, it’s straightforward to verify each step. But why is the result true? What’s the explanation? That’s the same kind of question that’s increasingly being asked about all sorts of computational systems, and all sorts of applications of machine learning and AI. Yes, we can see what happens. But can we understand it? I think this is ultimately a deep question&#8212;that’s actually critical to the future of science and technology, and in fact to the future of our whole intellectual development. But before we talk more about this, let’s talk about logic, and about the axiom I found for it. The History Logic as a formal discipline basically originated with Aristotle in the 4th century BC. As part of his lifelong effort to catalog things (animals, causes, etc.), Aristotle cataloged valid forms of arguments, and created symbolic templates for them which basically provided the main content of logic for two thousand years. By the 1400s, however, algebra had been invented, and with it came cleaner symbolic representations of things. But it was not until 1847 that George Boole finally formulated logic in the same kind of way as algebra, with logical operations like AND and OR being thought of as operating according to algebra-like rules . Within a few years, people were explicitly writing down axiom systems for logic. A typical example was: &#10005; and[p,q]==and[q,p],or[p,q]==or[q,p],and[p,or[q,not[q]]]==p,or[p,and[q,not[q]]]==p,and[p,or[q,r]]==or[and[p,q],and[p,r]],or[p,and[q,r]]==and[or[p,q],or[p,r]]} But does logic really need AND and OR and NOT ? After the first decade of the 1900s several people had discovered that actually the single operation that we now call NAND is enough, with for example p &nbsp; OR &nbsp; q being computed as ( p &nbsp; NAND &nbsp; p )&nbsp; NAND &nbsp;( q &nbsp; NAND &nbsp; q ). (The &#8220;functional completeness&#8221; of NAND could have remained forever a curiosity but for the development of semiconductor technology&#8212;which implements all the billions of logic operations in a modern microprocessor with combinations of transistors that perform none other than NAND or the related function NOR .) But, OK, so what do the axioms of logic (or “Boolean algebra”) look like in terms of NAND ? Here’s the first known version of them, from Henry Sheffer in 1913 (here dot · stands for NAND ): &#10005; {(p\[CenterDot]p)\[CenterDot](p\[CenterDot]p)==p,p\[CenterDot](q\[CenterDot](q\[CenterDot]q))==p\[CenterDot]p,(p\[CenterDot](q\[CenterDot]r))\[CenterDot](p\[CenterDot](q\[CenterDot]r))==((q\[CenterDot]q)\[CenterDot]p)\[CenterDot]((r\[CenterDot]r)\[CenterDot]p)} Back in 1910 Whitehead and Russell’s Principia Mathematica had popularized the idea that perhaps all of mathematics could be derived from logic. And particularly with this in mind, there was significant interest in seeing just how simple the axioms for logic could be. Some of the most notable work on this was done in Lviv and Warsaw (then both part of Poland), particularly by Jan Łukasiewicz (who, as a side effect of his work, invented in 1920 parenthesis-free Łukasiewicz or &#8220;Polish&#8221; notation ). In 1944, at the age of 66, Łukasiewicz fled from the approaching Soviets &#8212;and in 1947 ended up in Ireland. Meanwhile, the Irish-born Carew Meredith , who had been educated at Winchester and Cambridge, and had become a mathematics coach in Cambridge, had been forced by his pacifism to go back to Ireland in 1939. And in 1947, Meredith went to lectures by Łukasiewicz in Dublin, which inspired him to begin a search for simple axioms, which would occupy most of the rest of his life. Already by 1949, Meredith found the two-axiom system : &#10005; {(p\[CenterDot](q\[CenterDot]r))\[CenterDot](p\[CenterDot](q\[CenterDot]r))==((r\[CenterDot]p)\[CenterDot]p)\[CenterDot]((q\[CenterDot]p)\[CenterDot]p),(p\[CenterDot]p)\[CenterDot](q\[CenterDot]p)==p} After nearly 20 years of work, he had succeeded by 1967 in simplifying this to : &#10005; {p\[CenterDot](q\[CenterDot](p\[CenterDot]r))==((r\[CenterDot]q)\[CenterDot]q)\[CenterDot]p,(p\[CenterDot]p)\[CenterDot](q\[CenterDot]p)==p} But could it get any simpler? Meredith had been picking away for years trying to see how a NAND could be removed here or there. But after 1967 he apparently didn’t get any further (he died in 1976), though in 1969 he did find the three-axiom system : &#10005; {p\[CenterDot](q\[CenterDot](p\[CenterDot]r))==p\[CenterDot](q\[CenterDot](q\[CenterDot]r)),(p\[CenterDot]p)\[CenterDot](q\[CenterDot]p)==p,p\[CenterDot]q==q\[CenterDot]p} I actually didn’t know about Meredith’s work when I started exploring axiom systems for logic. I’d gotten into the subject as part of trying to understand what kinds of behavior simple rules could produce. Back in the early 1980s I’d made the surprising discovery that even cellular automata with some of the simplest possible rules&#8212;like my favorite rule 30 &#8212;could generate behavior of great complexity. And having spent the 1990s basically trying to figure out just how general this phenomenon was, I eventually wanted to see how it might apply to mathematics. It’s an immediate observation that in mathematics one’s basically starting from axioms (say for arithmetic, or geometry, or logic), and then trying to prove a whole collection of sophisticated theorems from them. But just how simple can the axioms be? Well, that was what I wanted to discover in 1999. And as my first example, I decided to look at logic (or, equivalently, Boolean algebra). Contrary to what I would ever have expected beforehand, my experience with cellular automata , Turing machines , and many other kinds of systems&#8212;including even partial differential equations &#8212;was that one could just start enumerating the simplest possible cases, and after not too long one would start seeing interesting things. But could one “discover logic” this way? Well, there was only one way to tell. And in late 1999 I set things up to start exploring what amounts to the space of all possible axiom systems&#8212;starting with the simplest ones. In a sense any axiom system provides a set of constraints, say on p &middot; q . It doesn&#8217;t say what p &middot; q &#8220;is&#8221;; it just gives properties that p &middot; q must satisfy (like, for example, it could say that p &middot; q = q &middot; p ). Then the question is whether from these properties one can derive all the theorems of logic that hold when p &middot; q is Nand [ p ,&nbsp; q ] : no more and no less. There&#8217;s a direct way to test some of this. Just take the axiom system, and see what explicit forms of p &middot; q satisfy the axioms if p and q can, say, be True or False . If the axiom system were just p &middot; q = q &middot; p then, yes, p &middot; q could be Nand [ p ,&nbsp; q ] &#8212;but it doesn&#8217;t have to be. It could also be And [ p ,&nbsp; q ] or Equal [ p ,&nbsp; q ] &#8212;or lots of other things which won&#8217;t satisfy the same theorems as the NAND function in logic. But by the time one gets to the axiom system {(( p &middot; p ) &middot; q ) &middot; ( q &middot; p ) = q } one&#8217;s reached the point where Nand [ p ,&nbsp; q ] (and the basically equivalent Nor [ p ,&nbsp; q ] ) are the only &#8220;models&#8221; of p &middot; q that work&#8212;at least assuming p and q have only two possible values. So is this then an axiom syst