# False Claims And Propaganda Why Ubers Narratives Are Wrong But Successful

**Source**: https://www.promarket.org/2019/11/27/false-claims-and-propaganda-why-ubers-narratives-are-wrong-but-successful/?ref=wheresyoured.at
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:23:14.193861+00:00

---

False Claims and Propaganda: Why Uber’s Narratives Are Wrong But Successful - ProMarket Facebook Twitter Youtube Topics Capture The Chicago School Culture &amp; Society The Digital Economy Economic History The Equitable Economy The Green Economy The Information Economy International Economics The Role of the State About ProMarket Mentions Search Topics Capture The Chicago School Culture &amp; Society The Digital Economy Economic History The Equitable Economy The Green Economy The Information Economy International Economics The Role of the State About ProMarket Mentions Insights shaping the future of capitalism. ProMarket Insights shaping the future of capitalism type here... Search Topics Capture The Chicago School Culture &amp; Society The Digital Economy Economic History The Equitable Economy The Green Economy The Information Economy International Economics The Role of the State About ProMarket Mentions Antitrust and Competition Media Regulatory Capture Rent seeking False Claims and Propaganda: Why Uber’s Narratives Are Wrong But Successful By Hubert Horan November 27, 2019 Share Facebook Twitter Email A January 2015 demonstration in Portland, Oregon in favor of applying taxi regulations to ride-sharing apps. Photo by Aaron Parecki [CC BY 2.0], via Wikimedia Commons Hubert Horan Over his long career, Hubert Horan has worked on many of the most critical issues in the field of transportation economics, including the impact of regulation and mergers on industry efficiency, and the impacts of consolidation and other industry structural changes on consumer welfare. Mr. Horan graduated from Wesleyan University in 1976 with a B.A. degree and Honors in Economics. In 1980 he graduated from Yale University’s School of Management with an MPPM (MBA) degree. He is currently based in Phoenix, Arizona. Popular This Week Germany’s CumEx and CumCum Financial Scandals Reveal How Democratic Institutions Fail Plumbers, Populists, and the Role of Public Opinion in Antitrust Economic Concentration and Its Dual Threats to Democracy How To Stop the Scourge of Corporate Pardons Uber’s narratives reduce everything to emotive battles between good and evil. If Uber’s success is inevitable, and resistance is futile, no one needs to waste time examining any actual economic or financial data. Part one of this series documented Uber’s uncompetitive economics, its inability to earn sustainable profits in competitive markets, and its explicit pursuit of quasi-monopoly industry dominance. This second part will address the question of why a company that has lost over $20 billion and was always explicitly pursuing artificial market power enabled by quasi-monopoly industry dominance is still widely seen as a successful, highly innovative company that has created huge welfare benefits for passengers and cities. Uber has always pursued growth and dominance using political techniques that proved successful in partisan political settings. In the second part of this series, I will describe the most important of those political techniques: Uber’s successful program for manufacturing and promulgating PR narratives. These narratives worked in conjunction with Uber’s massive predatory subsidies (which allowed it to bulldoze more efficient competitors) and its monomaniacal growth-at-all-costs culture and created an image of unstoppable power. Detailed discussion and documentation for most of the material in this series can be found in my 2017 Transportation Law Journal paper and my recent American Affairs Journal article. Uber’s Narratives Were Wrong But The Media Ignored the Economic Evidence Uber’s narratives were consistently wrong, but since the media totally ignored the economic evidence that would have refuted them, they dominated public discussion for years. Narrative construction and promulgation may be Uber’s greatest competitive strengths. Examples of Uber’s many unjustified (or blatantly false) claims include: Uber grew because consumers freely chose its superior service in open, competitive markets (ignore the massive subsidies that grossly distorted market price signals). Uber’s powerful technology can overwhelm incumbents in any market, anywhere (ignore the fact that the technology has never affected competition in any other industry, and Uber’s dismal failure in markets like China, where incumbents were not fragmented and poorly capitalized). Existing taxi service problems were caused by regulations and corrupt regulators desperate to block Uber’s innovation and job creation in order to protect the “evil taxi cartel” (there was no taxi industry cartel; Uber wanted people to believe the innocent victims in this battle were the Silicon Valley billionaires pursuing global industry dominance). Existing laws can’t be applied to Uber, because “ride-sharing” is a totally new “sharing industry” with totally different economics (ignore the fact that the cost structures of Uber and Yellow Cab have the exact same components and nothing in Uber’s model is being shared). Just like other tech companies, our startup losses will quickly become big profits and we (Uber) will eventually grow to the point where we displace car ownership and public transport (please ignore our actual costs, lack of scale economies, and actual profits and losses). Labor laws can’t protect our drivers because we are a software company, not a transportation company, and drivers aren’t important to our business (ignore the fact that Uber hasn’t “sold” software to anyone that wasn’t working for it). We’ll become profitable when driverless cars allow us to eliminate the cost of drivers (ignore the fact that cars without steering wheels may never become widely available, will be much more expensive than today’s cars for many years, and that Uber has no potential to dominate this industry). Uber’s Narratives Were Copied From a 1990s Campaign Against Taxi Regulations Uber was less efficient than Yellow Cab and could not produce positive cash flow, much less sustainable profits. Its communication program needed to generate widespread enthusiastic public support while completely diverting attention from its losses and subsidies. It needed to convince people that all of the taxi industry’s problems had been caused by regulations, and that the combination of Uber’s cutting-edge technological innovations and regulatory disobedience had solved them, thus generating massive benefits for passengers, drivers, and cities. Uber’s origin story rests with an extensive 1990s political program conducted by pro-corporate and libertarian think tanks funded by Charles and David Koch. This program was not advocating more liberal taxi regulations, but the same total elimination of any form of public oversight over taxis, including safety and licensing, that Uber later pursued. All of Uber’s original PR narratives were taken from this campaign on an almost copy/paste basis. The &#8217;90s campaign narratives, repeated across dozens of publications, framed the elimination of taxi oversight as a heroic battle for progress, innovation, and economic freedom that would enable thousands of struggling immigrant entrepreneurs whose desire to drive taxis had been blocked by the “cab cartel” and the corrupt regulators beholden to it. A laissez-faire taxi industry would produce lower fares, reduce wait times, improve service in poorly served neighborhoods, and increase driver jobs and wages. None of these assertions were backed by any objective evidence or analysis. The &#8217;90s campaign was designed to create a one-sided debate, with arguments from its well-organized and well-financed supporters overwhelming any counterarguments that the fragmented taxi industry could prepare. The goals of this campaign were not achieved, because it had no local grassroots support and because local officials recognized that the risks of adopting radical changes to longstanding taxi regulations could not be justified by future benefits that were purely hypothetical. Uber substituted “technology innovators” into the hero’s role originally occupied by “struggling immigrant entrepreneurs,” but otherwise used the same heroic us-versus-them framing, the same promises of magical gains, and the same demonization of the “evil cab cartel” and corrupt regulators that Uber’s investors needed to vanquish. Uber’s multi-billion dollar investment base effectively weaponized the laissez-faire claims from the 1990s and ensured that its messaging would totally dominate media coverage. Uber won public opinion because its massive subsidies created the false appearance that its technology and regulatory disobedience had actually generated huge public benefits, and its monomaniacal culture intimidated the few journalists and politicians who tried to raise doubts. A prototype of Uber&#8217;s autonomous car in San Francisco. Photo by Dllu [ CC BY-SA 4.0 ] The Propaganda That Created an “Alternate Reality Bubble” Uber’s narratives (like the earlier Koch-sponsored laissez-faire claims) fit classic definitions of propaganda , including “deliberate, systematic attempts to shape perceptions, manipulate cognition, and direct behavior in ways that block interactive discussion,” and “a massive orchestration of attractive conclusions packaged to conceal their actual purpose and lack of sound supporting evidence.” Instead of inviting discussion of alternative approaches to improve taxi service and finances based on objective industry data, Uber’s narratives reduce everything to emotive battles between good and evil. Uber’s narratives demanded people take sides in a black-and-white moral struggle between heroic innovators and corrupt regulators where compromise was impossible. Once people take sides in an us-versus-them political battle—out of ideological sympathy or because they want to be on the side likely to win—they tend to block out new information that might force them to recognize they’d been duped. Uber’s propaganda converted a battle that should have been