# Weight Loss Ozempic Semaglutide Hollywood 1235361465

**Source**: https://variety.com/2022/film/actors/weight-loss-ozempic-semaglutide-hollywood-1235361465/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:50:30.779567+00:00

---

Meet Hollywood's Pricey New Weight Loss Drug Meet Hollywood&#039;s Pricey New Weight Loss Drug Plus Icon Film Plus Icon TV Plus Icon What To Watch Plus Icon Music Plus Icon Docs Plus Icon Digital &amp; Gaming Plus Icon Global Plus Icon Awards Circuit Plus Icon Video Plus Icon What To Hear Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Got a Tip? Newsletters Switch edition between U.S. Edition Asia Edition Global Edition U.S. Asia Global Variety Login Account Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Login Open Drodpwon Menu Account Open Drodpwon Menu Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Variety Plus Icon Read Next: Tonatiuh on ‘Kiss of the Spider Woman’ and How He Wants Hollywood to See Him: ‘I’m Not a Latin Actor. I’m a Great Actor’ Login Account Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Login Open Drodpwon Menu Account Open Drodpwon Menu Variety Digital Variety Archives VIP+ Welcome Manage Account View Variety Archives Variety Digital Login Subscribe Log Out Home Film Actors Sep 21, 2022 11:38am PT Hollywood&#8217;s Secret New Weight Loss Drug, Revealed: The Hype and Hazards of Ozempic By Matt Donnelly Plus Icon Matt Donnelly Senior Film Writer @MattDonnelly Latest Verve Signs ‘The Perfect Neighbor’ Producer Message Pictures 3 hours ago SAG-AFTRA President Sean Astin Says Union Will Address AI Actress Tilly Norwood With Agents and Continue Fight for AI Compensation 2 days ago Leonardo DiCaprio Says &#8216;Little Kids&#8217; Tell Him &#8216;I Loved &#8220;Wolf of Wall Street&#8221;&#8216;: &#8216;Like, How Old Are You?&#8217; 1 week ago See All Trsakaoe - stock.adobe.com Last week&rsquo;s Emmy awards saw big winners gush with gratitude over their agents, managers, and audiences, but there was one notable benefactor to many stars that went unthanked: the injectable drug semaglutide, whose brand name is Ozempic. The drug is an insulin regulator for diabetics, made by the Danish pharma juggernaut Novo Nordisk, whose primary side effect is dramatic weight loss. It has saturated the industry in recent months, helping the beautiful and wealthy shed extra pounds in the never-ending Los Angeles pastime of optimizing appearances.&nbsp;Hollywood nutritionist Matt Mahowald tells&nbsp; Variety &nbsp;that the chief benefits of the injections are &ldquo;moderating and pulling back insulin&nbsp;secretion, and slowing down your stomach from emptying. It promotes satiation from food.&rdquo; Related Stories How Hours of Unedited &#039;To Catch a Predator&#039; Footage Shaped &#039;Predators,&#039; a Doc That Connects Chris Hansen to America&#039;s True Crime Addiction &#039;The Last Dive&#039; Director Talks Manta Rays, Writing Documentaries and Camden International Film Festival One top powerbroker told&nbsp; Variety &nbsp;that half of her call sheet last week was full of friends and clients wanting to discuss the risks of Ozempic, which has claimed devotees from every corner of the industry. Moguls, reality starlets, veteran film producers and, of course, actors are quietly singing the drug&rsquo;s praises on Signal, the encrypted messaging app mostly used for confidential conversations. Hair, makeup and styling teams for celebrities have come to accept the injections as part of grooming rituals ahead of major events. In a matter of months, it has become the worst kept secret in Hollywood &ndash; especially given that its most enthusiastic users are not diabetic and do not require the drug. It is currently being supplied by doctors and nutritionists, though rumor has it you can also score the drug at medical spas in Arizona. Naturally, it ain&rsquo;t cheap.&nbsp; Popular on Variety &#8220;It&#8217;s easily going to be $1,200 to $1,500 per month. If you go out and buy an Ozempic pen from a pharmacist, that&#8217;s what you&rsquo;re getting charged,&rdquo; Mahowald adds. The feverish response from industry types, however, has created headaches at the major insurance companies.&nbsp; &ldquo;It&rsquo;s become a huge problem, everyone jumping on this bandwagon. The insurance companies are refusing to cover this for anyone&nbsp;who is not diabetic. It&rsquo;s led to panic. Pharmacies have units on back order through December,&rdquo; adds Mahowald.&nbsp; More concerning, according to numerous reports, is that an overwhelming demand is leaving those who need the injections grappling with a reduced supply. A second version of semaglutide called Wegovy, which specifically targets obesity, is also making the rounds and seems to be scarcely available. The drug made international headlines three months ago after going viral on TikTok, as the trend #MyOzempicJourney showcased eye-popping transformations (the Guardian reported the #Ozempic hashtag had been viewed 74 million times on the platform). Earlier this month, Town and Country wrote a dispatch claiming the medicine was the talk of coastal dinner parties. Glamour magazine followed suit. &#8220;Obesity is an epidemic,&#8221; cautioned Dr. Zhaoping Li, chief of clinical nutrition at the David Geffen School of Medicine at&nbsp;UCLA. &#8220;The issue is that this is one of the tools in our box, it is not the end-all. The longest study done on these injections was conducted over less than two years. A lot of questions have not been answered.&#8221; Dr. Li added that the maximum weight loss exhibited in most patients is 15% of body mass, bringing us back to the awful truth that the resourceful people of Hollywood are loathe to hear: &#8220;It comes down to lifestyle. Activity, eating right, and stress management.&#8221; Like any miracle weight loss drug, there is skepticism about long-term use. In addition to a leaner figure, a notable side effect is &ldquo;gastrointestinal phenomena &mdash; bloating, constipation, diarrhea,&rdquo; according to Town and Country.&nbsp; When asked about this unpleasant risk, one talent publicist put it bluntly: &ldquo;Who cares? Everyone who works in this business has IBS, anyway.&rdquo;&nbsp; Read More About: Emmys Jump to Comments More from Variety Michael B. Jordan to Receive Outstanding Performer Award at Santa Barbara Film Festival Jane Goodall’s Final Interview Revealed on First Episode of Netflix&#8217;s &#8216;Famous Last Words&#8217; &#8216;I Know Exactly Who I Am&#8217;: Wednesday’s Karly Hartzman on ‘Bleeds’ and Why ‘There’s No Such Thing as Selling Out Anymore’ &#8216;KPop Demon Hunters,&#8217; &#8216;Wicked&#8217; Among Projects Featured at 2025 View Conference Lego&#8217;s New 9,000-Piece &#8216;Star Wars&#8217; Death Star Set Features Emperor Palpatine’s Throne Room, Princess Leia’s Detention Cell and More Pop Band LANY Celebrates Upcoming Album ‘Soft’ With Luxe Lola Blankets Collab JavaScript is required to load the comments. Loading comments... Most Popular Dave Chappelle Jokes &#8216;It&#8217;s Easier to Talk&#8217; in Saudi Arabia &#8216;Than It Is in America&#8217; While Performing at Riyadh Comedy&hellip; With &#8216;The Life of a Showgirl,&#8217; Taylor Swift Has Made Such a Contagiously Joyful Record, Even Her Score-Settling Detours Sound Sunny: Album&hellip; SAG-AFTRA President Sean Astin Says Union Will Address AI Actress Tilly Norwood With Agents and Continue Fight for AI Compensation Taraji P. Henson Joins Tyler Perry&#8217;s &#8216;Why Did I Get Married Again?&#8217; as Original Cast Returns for Netflix Sequel George Michael Estate Thanks Taylor Swift for Incorporating &#8216;Father Figure&#8217; into &#8216;The Life of a Showgirl&#8217;: &#8216;We Had No Hesitation in Agreeing to This&hellip; Taylor Swift&#039;s Best &#039;Life of a Showgirl&#039; Lyrics: A Song-by-Song Guide to the Most Quotable Lines From &#039;Father Figure,&#8217; &#8216;Actually Romantic,&#8217; &#8216;Ruin the&hellip; &#8216;Scrubs&#8217; Reboot Adds 9 to Cast, Vanessa Bayer and Joel Kim Booster Join With Robert Maschio and Phill Lewis Returning (EXCLUSIVE) &#8216;KPop Demon Hunters&#8217; Breaks Another Netflix Record With 15 Straight Weeks on Top 10 Taylor Swift and Charli xcx Feud Rumors Explode Over &#8216;Actually Romantic&#8217; Song. How Did We Get Here? FCC Chairman Brendan Carr to Testify Before Senate Committee About His Role in Jimmy Kimmel Suspension Must Read TV COVER | How Charlie Hunnam Became the Serial Killer From Hell for &#8216;Monster&#8217; By Andrew Wallenstein 3 days Music Diddy Sentenced to Four Years in Prison Music Taylor Swift Has Made a Contagiously Joyful Record With &#8216;The Life of a Showgirl&#8217; Film &#8216;One Battle After Another,&#8217; With Its Thriller Vision of Authoritarianism, Is the Rare Movie That Could Rule the Cultural Conversation Film &#8216;Kill Bill: The Whole Bloody Affair&#8217; Sets First Ever Theatrical Release for December, With 70mm and 35mm Presentations Sign Up for Variety Newsletters Your Email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Variety Confidential A Variety and iHeartRadio Podcast More From Our Brands Rolling Stone Sean Combs Sentenced to Over 4 Years in Prison Robb Report Michael Feinstein’s Revamped 1930s Home Above L.A.’s Sunset Strip Can Be Yours for $4 Million Sportico NFL on Record Pace as TV/Streaming Windows Grow 8% to 20M Viewers Variety About Us Advertise Media Kit Careers Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Magazine Customer Service Back Issues Subscribe Help More Newsletters Archives Even