# 1468

**Source**: http://xkcd.com/1468/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:18:01.871586+00:00

---

xkcd: Worrying Archive What If? About Feed &bull; Email TW &bull; FB &bull; IG -Books- What If? 2 WI? &bull; TE &bull; HT A webcomic of romance, sarcasm, math, and language. Special 10th anniversary edition of WHAT IF? —revised and annotated with brand-new illustrations and answers to important questions you never thought to ask—out now. Order it here ! Worrying |&lt; &lt; Prev Random Next &gt; &gt;| |&lt; &lt; Prev Random Next &gt; &gt;| Permanent link to this comic: https://xkcd.com/1468/ Image URL (for hotlinking/embedding): https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/worrying.png ((There&#39;s a 2D chart.)) ((The vertical axis reads:)) not very worried &lt;-- ... in real life --&gt; very worried ((The chart itself includes the following items:)) &lt;---------------- Chest wound --------------&gt; * ... on your right side * ... on your left side * Getting knocked out by a punch * &quot;We need to talk.&quot; * Persistent cough * Parking ticket * Breaking news * Spilling a drink on your shirt * Nosebleed ((The horizontal axis reads:)) not very worried &lt;-- ... in movies --&gt; very worried {{Title text: If the breaking news is about an event at a hospital or a lab, move it all the way over to the right.}} --> RSS Feed - Atom Feed - Email Comics I enjoy: Three Word Phrase , SMBC , Dinosaur Comics , Oglaf (nsfw), A Softer World , Buttersafe , Perry Bible Fellowship , Questionable Content , Buttercup Festival , Homestuck , Junior Scientist Power Hour Other things: Tips on technology and government , Climate FAQ , Katharine Hayhoe xkcd.com is best viewed with Netscape Navigator 4.0 or below on a Pentium 3&plusmn;1 emulated in Javascript on an Apple IIGS at a screen resolution of 1024x1. Please enable your ad blockers, disable high-heat drying, and remove your device from Airplane Mode and set it to Boat Mode. For security reasons, please leave caps lock on while browsing. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 2.5 License . This means you're free to copy and share these comics (but not to sell them). More details .