# The Trump Administrations Big Intel Investment Comes From Already Awarded Grants

**Source**: https://techcrunch.com/2025/08/23/the-trump-administrations-big-intel-investment-comes-from-already-awarded-grants/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:19:15.450395+00:00

---

The Trump administration&#039;s big Intel investment comes from already awarded grants | TechCrunch TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps Disrupt 2025 Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech &amp; Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government &amp; Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media &amp; Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Crunchboard Contact Us Image Credits: Intel Corporation Government &amp; Policy The Trump administration&#8217;s big Intel investment comes from already awarded grants Anthony Ha 9:07 AM PDT · August 23, 2025 Intel officially announced an agreement with President Donald Trump’s administration on Friday afternoon, following Trump’s statement that the government would be taking a 10% stake in the struggling chipmaker. While Intel says the government is making an “$8.9 billion investment in Intel common stock,” the administration does not appear to be committing new funds. Instead, it’s simply making good on what Intel described as “grants previously awarded, but not yet paid, to Intel.” Specifically, the $8.9 billion is supposed to come from $5.7 billion awarded but not paid to Intel under the Biden administration’s CHIPS Act, as well as $3.2 billion also awarded by the Biden administration through the Secure Enclave program. In a post on his social network Truth Social , Trump wrote, “The United States paid nothing for these shares.” Nonetheless, he described this as “a great Deal for America and, also, a great Deal for INTEL.” Trump has been critical of the CHIPS Act, calling it a “horrible, horrible thing” and telling House Speaker Mike Johnson to “get rid” of it. In a regulatory filing in June, Intel said that while it had already received $2.2 billion in CHIPS Act funding, it had subsequently requested an additional $850 million in reimbursement that the government had not yet paid. According to The New York Times , some bankers and lawyers believe the CHIPS Act may not allow the government to convert its grants to equity, opening this deal to potential legal challenges. In addition to his targeting of the CHIPS Act, earlier this month Trump also accused Intel CEO Lip-Bu Tan of conflicts of interest and said he should “resign immediately.” The president was more positive about Tan on Friday, saying on Truth Social that he “negotiated this deal with Lip-Bu Tan, the Highly Respected Chief Executive Officer of the Company.” Techcrunch event Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss the 20th anniversary of TechCrunch, and a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. San Francisco | October 27-29, 2025 REGISTER NOW For his part, Tan said in a statement that the company is “grateful for the confidence the President and the Administration have placed in Intel, and we look forward to working to advance U.S. technology and manufacturing leadership.” Intel’s announcement also says the government’s investment will be “passive,” with no board seats or other governance and information rights. Topics Chips Act , Donald Trump , Government &amp; Policy , Hardware , Intel , Lip-bu Tan Anthony Ha Anthony Ha is TechCrunch&#8217;s weekend editor. Previously, he worked as a tech reporter at Adweek, a senior editor at VentureBeat, a local government reporter at the Hollister Free Lance, and vice president of content at a VC firm. He lives in New York City. View Bio October 27-29, 2025 San Francisco ONE-WEEK BUNDLE FLASH SALE Founder Bundle Offer: Land your investor and sharpen your pitch. Save 15% when you bring 4-9 founders. Investors Bundle Offer: Discover your next breakout startup. Save 20% when you bring 4-9 investors. Bundle offer ends October 3. Register Now Most Popular A new a16z report looks at which AI companies startups are actually paying for Dominic-Madori Davis Salesforce launches enterprise vibe-coding product, Agentforce Vibes Rebecca Szkutak AI recruiter Alex raises $17M to automate initial job interviews Marina Temkin Vibe-coding startup Anything nabs a $100M valuation after hitting $2M ARR in its first two weeks Marina Temkin The AI services transformation may be harder than VCs think Connie Loizos Famed roboticist says humanoid robot bubble is doomed to burst Connie Loizos Spotify to label AI music, filter spam and more in AI policy change Sarah Perez Loading the next article Error loading the next article X LinkedIn Facebook Instagram youTube Mastodon Threads Bluesky TechCrunch Staff Contact Us Advertise Crunchboard Jobs Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy RSS Terms of Use Code of Conduct H1-B Visa GPT Pulse Grok Steph Curry TechCrunch Disrupt Tech Layoffs ChatGPT © 2025 TechCrunch Media LLC.