# 1308.0850

**Source**: https://arxiv.org/abs/1308.0850
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:21:31.109424+00:00

---

[1308.0850] Generating Sequences With Recurrent Neural Networks Skip to main content We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate &gt; cs &gt; arXiv:1308.0850 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About --> Computer Science > Neural and Evolutionary Computing arXiv:1308.0850 (cs) [Submitted on 4 Aug 2013 ( v1 ), last revised 5 Jun 2014 (this version, v5)] Title: Generating Sequences With Recurrent Neural Networks Authors: Alex Graves View a PDF of the paper titled Generating Sequences With Recurrent Neural Networks, by Alex Graves View PDF Abstract: This paper shows how Long Short-term Memory recurrent neural networks can be used to generate complex sequences with long-range structure, simply by predicting one data point at a time. The approach is demonstrated for text (where the data are discrete) and online handwriting (where the data are real-valued). It is then extended to handwriting synthesis by allowing the network to condition its predictions on a text sequence. The resulting system is able to generate highly realistic cursive handwriting in a wide variety of styles. Comments: Thanks to Peng Liu and Sergey Zyrianov for various corrections Subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE) ; Computation and Language (cs.CL) Cite as: arXiv:1308.0850 [cs.NE] &nbsp; (or arXiv:1308.0850v5 [cs.NE] for this version) &nbsp; https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1308.0850 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Alex Graves [ view email ] [v1] Sun, 4 Aug 2013 21:04:36 UTC (3,854 KB) [v2] Sun, 11 Aug 2013 21:20:24 UTC (3,854 KB) [v3] Fri, 21 Feb 2014 17:51:54 UTC (3,854 KB) [v4] Wed, 2 Apr 2014 16:22:09 UTC (3,854 KB) [v5] Thu, 5 Jun 2014 16:04:02 UTC (3,887 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Generating Sequences With Recurrent Neural Networks, by Alex Graves View PDF TeX Source Other Formats view license Current browse context: cs.NE &lt;&nbsp;prev &nbsp; | &nbsp; next&nbsp;&gt; new | recent | 2013-08 Change to browse by: cs cs.CL References &amp; Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar 4 blog links ( what is this? ) DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Alex Graves a export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation &times; loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status Get status notifications via email or slack