# Joe Rogan

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/joe-rogan/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:09:08.308229+00:00

---

Joe Rogan - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: Joe Rogan donald trump Aug. 6, 2025 Trump Team May Go to Joe Rogan to End Epstein Fallout The president’s brain trust reportedly wants Deputy Attorney General Todd Blanche to appear on Rogan’s podcast to try and fix the crisis. By Matt Stieb american affairs May 1, 2025 ‘Dark Woke’ Is Cringey At best, the Democrats’ new catchphrase feels like a cheap trick. By Ross Barkan men Apr. 1, 2025 The White Lotus , the Manosphere, and a World Without Women The show suggests the contemporary heterosexual male has arrived at some pretty interesting existential places. By Ryu Spaeth vedic technology Mar. 7, 2025 Every Boy I Know Is Obsessed With ‘Pipe Rock Theory’ Conner O’Malley understands these freaks better than anyone else. By Rebecca Jennings the money game Feb. 5, 2025 A Very Crypto Mystery The crypto industry claims it was quietly deprived of access to banks by the Biden administration. Can Republicans find proof? By Jen Wieczner the discourse Jan. 15, 2025 What Mark Zuckerberg Gets Right About Fact-Checking and Content Moderation Even if he’s acting for the wrong reasons. By Ross Barkan podcasts Dec. 19, 2024 What If the ‘Liberal Joe Rogan’ Is … Kylie Kelce? The new hit podcaster’s views “aggressively lean” left. By Justin Curto best of 2024 Dec. 4, 2024 The 10 Moments That Defined Podcasting in 2024 This year demonstrated how huge a role podcasts play in American culture, for better or worse. By Nicholas Quah one nation under wings Nov. 27, 2024 Why Kamala Harris Didn’t Go on Hot Ones or Joe Rogan One was a denial, one was a scheduling issue. By Bethy Squires hot mic Nov. 6, 2024 How Podcasts Became the New Battleground State If Democrats want to win future presidential elections, they need to start bro-ing out. By Nicholas Quah the podcast election Oct. 29, 2024 Joe Rogan Won’t Leave His House to Interview Kamala Harris The perils of having a home-studio empire. By Matt Stieb wimping out Oct. 26, 2024 Joe Rogan Talked to Trump for 3 Hours and Didn’t Mention Jeffrey Epstein Once Trump’s former friend Jeffrey Epstein is one of the podcast host’s great obsessions, but somehow it didn’t come up. By Matt Stieb bros Oct. 22, 2024 Donald Trump Is Finally Going on Joe Rogan Trump is reportedly heading to Austin on Friday to tape an episode of the country’s most popular podcast. Will Harris do the same? By Matt Stieb comedy review Aug. 5, 2024 Joe Rogan Plays an Unconvincing Fool His first live Netflix comedy special is as exhausting as it is lazy. By Kathryn VanArendonk cheat sheet June 18, 2024 The Most Influential Podcasters Right Now From the “just asking questions” guys to internet hip-hop radio. By Nicholas Quah big returns Mar. 22, 2024 Joni Mitchell and Neil Young Make Their Way Back to Spotify Two years ago, the two artists removed their music catalogues from the platform. What changed? By Alejandra Gularte the industry Feb. 7, 2024 Spotify’s New Joe Rogan Deal Brings the Company Full Circle After years of splurging and expanding, the audio platform’s podcast strategy has backtracked. By Nicholas Quah screen time Jan. 15, 2024 Celebrities Already Live in AI Hell You’re probably next. By John Herrman politics July 11, 2023 Jack White Isn’t Happy With Celebs Chatting Up Donald Trump He calls out stars who were spotted talking to Trump during the UFC 290 fight in Las Vegas. By Alejandra Gularte screen time July 6, 2023 The Nowhere Election It’ll be every voter, and bot, for themselves. By John Herrman joe rogan experience Apr. 23, 2022 Well, Joe Rogan Says Controversy Actually Boosted His Spotify Subscribers So there’s that. By Jennifer Zhan 1.5x speed Feb. 10, 2022 Science Vs Does Joe Rogan (and 5 More Podcasts Worth Trying This Week) Including your next favorite mystery series. By Nicholas Quah apologies Feb. 7, 2022 Joe Rogan Says N-Word Supercut Is “Taken Out of Context” “Whenever you’re in a situation where you have to say ‘I’m not racist,’ you fucked up.” By Alejandra Gularte yikes Feb. 6, 2022 Dwayne Johnson Walks Back Joe Rogan Support After N-Word Controversy “Learning moment for me.” By Charu Sinha the industry Feb. 4, 2022 Like It or Not, Joe Rogan Is Spotify’s Future The fate of the company’s grand vision lies with the controversial figure. By Nicholas Quah controversy Feb. 3, 2022 A Running List of Artist Responses to the Spotify-Rogan Controversy It started, obviously, with Neil Young. By Nicholas Quah just asking questions Feb. 1, 2022 The Spotify Spin Kara Swisher says to focus less on Joe Rogan and more on the company paying him. By James D. Walsh business Jan. 31, 2022 The Spotify Backlash Never Had a Chance What Joe Rogan’s critics don’t realize about the juggernaut. By Kevin T. Dugan too little too late Jan. 30, 2022 Spotify to Add Content Warnings to Podcasts Discussing COVID-19 Joe Rogan squinted into his cellphone in response Sunday. By Charu Sinha spotify Jan. 28, 2022 Joni Mitchell Will Take Her Music Off Spotify ‘in Solidarity’ With Neil Young “Irresponsible people are spreading lies that are costing people their lives.” By Jennifer Zhan choices Jan. 28, 2022 Neil Young Says Spotify Can Have His Music or Joe Rogan’s Vaccine Misinformation After his music was removed, he wrote that leaving Spotify’s “shitty” sound quality behind was an added bonus. By Jennifer Zhan podcasts Dec. 3, 2021 The Tim, Jeremy, and Rajat Experience Through a special episode of Heidecker’s podcast, the trio perfectly capture The Joe Rogan Experience ’s hollow core. By Chloe Lizotte joe rogan experience Sept. 1, 2021 Joe Rogan Tests Positive for COVID-19 Joe Rogan revealed on social media that he has tested positive for COVID-19 after doing a series of comedy shows in Florida. By Alejandra Gularte hot pod July 6, 2021 Apple Podcasts Continues to Be Plagued by Technical Issues What do its growing instabilities mean for the broader podcast ecosystem? By Nicholas Quah coronavirus Apr. 29, 2021 Joe Rogan Wants to Clarify His Vaccine Comments: ‘I’m Not an Anti-Vaxx Person’ “I’m not a doctor. I’m a fucking moron.” By Halle Kiefer not so funny business Jan. 21, 2021 Dave Chappelle Tests Positive for COVID-19, Cancels Texas Shows Two days before testing positive, Chappelle was pictured with Joe Rogan, Grimes, and Elon Musk in Austin, TX. By Chris Murphy hot pod Dec. 15, 2020 Coronavirus, Consolidation, and Collective Bargaining: The Year in Podcasting Looking back at an incredibly busy 2020. By Nicholas Quah hot pod Nov. 3, 2020 Should Spotify Be Responsible for What Joe Rogan Does? A look at the publisher vs. platform debate. By Nicholas Quah kanye 2020 Oct. 24, 2020 Kanye West Tells Joe Rogan ‘My Calling Is to Be the Leader of the Free World’ He is also building a soundstage in Atlanta. By Rebecca Alter hot pod Sept. 22, 2020 Joe Rogan Is Already a Headache for Spotify The partnership is off to a rocky start. By Nicholas Quah parenting Sept. 2, 2020 Miley Cyrus Tells Joe Rogan Why Bringing a Baby on a Dirt Bike Is a Bad Idea “A tree had fallen, and he ducked, I didn’t, and I hit my head on the tree. It was bad.” By Rebecca Alter pivot May 22, 2020 Why Did Spotify Pay So Much for Joe Rogan’s Podcast? Kara Swisher and Scott Galloway discuss the big money to be found in a relatively niche medium. By Intelligencer Staff podcasts May 19, 2020 Joe Rogan’s Podcast Is Moving to Spotify The Joe Rogan Experience will be exclusive to the service later this year. By Nicholas Quah podcasts Mar. 20, 2020 The Coronavirus Podcasts Have Arrived Are they any good? By Nicholas Quah podcasts Mar. 18, 2020 13 Election Podcasts for Every Type of Listener Our critic’s guide to the ever-expanding world of politics podcasts. By Nicholas Quah vision 2020 Jan. 28, 2020 The Democratic Party Should Want Joe Rogan’s Vote Democrats can’t protect marginalized groups unless they win elections. And they can’t win elections without the support of unenlightened voters. By Eric Levitz vision 2020 Jan. 24, 2020 Bernie Sanders Is Campaigning on Joe Rogan’s Endorsement The contrarian podcast host said he would vote for Bernie, calling his political consistency a “powerful structure to operate from.” By Matt Stieb an investigation Nov. 1, 2019 Excuse Me, How Is Joe Rogan Related