# Jonathan Haidt

**Source**: https://www.theatlantic.com/author/jonathan-haidt/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:43:03.236564+00:00

---

Jonathan Haidt, The Atlantic Skip to content Site Navigation The Atlantic Popular Latest Newsletters Sections Politics Ideas Fiction Technology Science Photo Economy Culture Planet Global Books AI Watchdog Health Education Projects Features Family Events Washington Week Progress National Security Explore The Atlantic Archive Play The Atlantic Games Listen to Podcasts and Articles The Print Edition Latest Issue Past Issues Give a Gift Search The Atlantic Quick Links Audio Crossword Puzzle Magazine Archive Your Subscription Popular Latest Newsletters Sign In Subscribe Jonathan Haidt Jonathan Haidt is a social psychologist at NYU Stern School of Business and the author of The Anxious Generation . He writes at the After Babel Substack and is a co-founder of Let Grow . Latest What Kids Told Us About How to Get Them Off Their Phones Children who were raised on screens need more freedom out in the real world. Lenore Skenazy , Zach Rausch , and Jonathan Haidt August 4, 2025 Bettmann / Getty Social-Media Companies’ Worst Argument Why are tech leaders so adamant about pushing their creations on other people’s kids, while protecting their own? Zach Rausch , Jonathan Haidt , and Lennon Torres September 12, 2024 Illustration by Akshita Chandra / The Atlantic End the Phone-Based Childhood Now The environment in which kids grow up today is hostile to human development. Jonathan Haidt March 13, 2024 Maggie Shannon for The Atlantic Get Phones Out of Schools Now They impede learning, stunt relationships, and lessen belonging. They should be banned. Jonathan Haidt June 6, 2023 Jonas Roosens / ANP/ Redux AI Is About to Make Social Media (Much) More Toxic We must prepare now. Jonathan Haidt and Eric Schmidt May 5, 2023 Illustration by Twisha Patni Yes, Social Media Really Is Undermining Democracy Despite what Meta has to say. Jonathan Haidt July 28, 2022 Katie Martin / The Atlantic; Getty Why the Past 10 Years of American Life Have Been Uniquely Stupid It’s not just a phase. Jonathan Haidt April 11, 2022 Illustration by Nicolás Ortega. Source: "Belshazzar’s Feast," John Martin, 1820. The Dangerous Experiment on Teen Girls The preponderance of the evidence suggests that social media is causing real damage to adolescents. Jonathan Haidt November 21, 2021 Getty; The Atlantic The Dark Psychology of Social Networks Why it feels like everything is going haywire Jonathan Haidt and Tobias Rose-Stockwell November 12, 2019 Mark Pernice Trump Breaks a Taboo—and Pays the Price The past week brought violent conflict over symbols and values held sacred—and an act of sacrilege. Jonathan Haidt August 21, 2017 Jonathan Ernst / Reuters The Atlantic Daily Get our guide to the day’s biggest news and ideas, delivered to your inbox every weekday and Sunday mornings. See more newsletters Email Address Sign Up Your newsletter subscriptions are subject to The Atlantic&#x27;s Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions . Ideas That Matter Subscribe and support more than 160 years of independent journalism. Subscribe Popular Links About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Reprints &amp; Permissions Podcasts Radio Atlantic Good on Paper The David Frum Show How to Age Up Autocracy in America Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Atlantic Editions Newsletters Follow facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin flipboard About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Reprints &amp; Permissions Podcasts Radio Atlantic Good on Paper The David Frum Show How to Age Up Autocracy in America Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Atlantic Editions Newsletters Follow facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin flipboard Site Information Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices privacy-options Advertising Guidelines Terms &amp; Conditions Terms of Sale Responsible Disclosure Site Map TheAtlantic.com © 2025 The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply