# S41598 020 78724 1

**Source**: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-020-78724-1
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:00:05.605342+00:00

---

Poor oral hygiene and dental caries predict high mortality rate in hemodialysis: a 3-year cohort study | Scientific Reports Skip to main content Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript. Advertisement View all journals Search Log in Explore content About the journal Publish with us Sign up for alerts RSS feed nature scientific reports articles article Poor oral hygiene and dental caries predict high mortality rate in hemodialysis: a 3-year cohort study Download PDF Download PDF Article Open access Published: 14 December 2020 Poor oral hygiene and dental caries predict high mortality rate in hemodialysis: a 3-year cohort study Koji Mizutani 1 na1 , Risako Mikami 1 na1 , Tomohito Gohda 2 , Hiromichi Gotoh 3 , Norio Aoyama 4 , Takanori Matsuura 1 , Daisuke Kido 1 , Kohei Takeda 1 , Yuichi Izumi 1 , 5 , Yoshiyuki Sasaki 6 &amp; … Takanori Iwata 1 Show authors Scientific Reports volume 10 , Article number: 21872 ( 2020 ) Cite this article 6323 Accesses 26 Citations 8 Altmetric Metrics details Subjects Health care Nephrology Risk factors Abstract The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of oral hygiene, periodontal diseases, and dental caries on all-cause mortality in hemodialysis. This prospective cohort study included 266 patients with end-stage renal disease who were undergoing hemodialysis. Medical interviews, blood biochemical tests, and comprehensive dental examinations including periodontal pocket examination on all teeth and dental plaque accumulation by debris index-simplified (DI-S), were performed. Survival rates were assessed at a 3-year follow-up. Overall, 207 patients were included in the longitudinal analysis, and 38 subjects died during the follow-up period. Cox proportional hazards analysis of the multivariate model demonstrated that the highest tertile of DI-S had a significantly higher risk of all-cause mortality than the lowest two tertiles after adjustment for age, sex, smoking habit, body mass index, diabetes, prior cardiovascular disease, hemodialysis vintage, high sensitivity C-reactive protein, albumin, and number of remaining teeth (hazard ratio, 3.04; 95% confidence interval, 1.50–6.17; p = 0.002). Moreover, the number of decayed teeth significantly increased the hazard ratio to 1.21 (95% confidence interval, 1.06.1.37; p = 0.003). This study suggests that accumulated dental plaque and untreated decay, but not periodontal disease, may be independently associated with all-cause mortality in patients undergoing hemodialysis. Similar content being viewed by others Periodontal health intervention for oral health-related outcomes in older type 2 diabetes patients: a randomized controlled trial in a Chinese tertiary hospital Article Open access 31 July 2025 Preventive dental care reduces risk of cardiovascular disease and pneumonia in hemodialysis population: a nationwide claims database analysis Article Open access 29 May 2024 An evaluation of preventative education in primary care relating to patients' risk status for caries, periodontal disease, oral cancer, and tooth wear along with their respective risk factors Article 04 July 2022 Introduction Hemodialysis (HD) is initiated in end-stage renal disease. These patients show a high crude mortality rate of more than 20% 1 due to the high risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD), susceptibility to infection, or immune system degradation. Many factors such as age, presence of diabetes mellitus (DM), history of cardiovascular events, and elevated high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) were reported as risk factors for mortality 2 . Periodontitis is an inflammatory and infectious disease caused by dental plaque. Periodontitis has demonstrated a high degree of evidence of a relationship with non-communicable diseases such as heart diseases 3 , 4 , and DM 5 , 6 via elevated oxidative stress 7 . The association of periodontitis with chronic kidney disease (CKD) was revealed by an epidemiological investigation 8 and a recent systematic review and meta-analysis 9 . Several studies have reported that periodontitis may affect the survival rate of patients undergoing HD 10 , 11 , 12 , while a large-scale longitudinal study reported that periodontitis was not associated with an increased risk of early death in adults treated with HD 13 . Whether periodontal disease affects the mortality rate of HD patients remains controversial. Currently available reports are limited, and the findings of these reports are inconsistent between investigations. It is known that both periodontitis and dental caries are common in CKD patients 14 . Especially in patients undergoing HD, the number of caries and filled teeth is significantly higher than that in healthy individuals 15 . The cause is considered to be a decrease in salivary outflow 16 and a low frequency of preventative dental care in dialysis patients 17 , 18 . Impaired masticatory efficiency, oral disease, and subsequent loss of teeth may affect nutrition intake. This may be related to inflammation and malnutrition, which represents a potential modifiable risk factor for cardiovascular disease and mortality. To more accurately analyze the causal relationship between survival rates and periodontal disease or dental caries, biofilm accumulation on the teeth should be evaluated. It has been reported that oral hygiene behaviors, such as frequency of brushing and use of dental floss, affected the mortality of HD patients 19 . One previous study investigated the impact of oral health parameters, including plaque deposition, on the survival rate of HD patients and reported that they were not significant mortality predictors after adjusting for confounders 20 . However, to our knowledge, careful analysis of the impact of dental parameters on the mortality rate of patients undergoing HD has not yet been performed. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate whether dental markers are associated with mortality in HD patients after adjusting for confounding factors and previously reported risk factors. The design of this study was formulated as follows: 1. participants: hemodialysis patients; 2. exposure factors: high oral plaque accumulation, untreated teeth and periodontal disease; 3. comparison: low oral plaque accumulation, treated caries and periodontal health; 4. outcomes: mortality. Results Study participants A total of 266 patients were assessed for eligibility; eleven enrolled subjects were excluded due to a lack of blood examination data on the day of the dental examination. At the end of the 3-year follow-up, 255 subjects were assessed; 52 subjects had died (20.4%), while others including 11 subjects who were transferred to other hospitals (4 subjects were received kidney transplants) were alive. To assess the impact of dental plaque and periodontal disease, subjects who did not have simplified debris index (DI-S) subjected teeth (n = 48, including 39 with edentulous jaw) were excluded. Finally, 207 patients (38 patients were deceased) were included in the longitudinal analysis (Fig. 1 ). The baseline characteristics are shown in Table 1 . The mean ± standard deviation (SD) age of the study population was 65.9 ± 12.1 years and 135 (65.2%) patients were men. The median dialysis vintage was 64 months. A total of 101 (48.8%) patients had diabetes, and the mean duration of diabetes was 19.0 ± 9.3 years. The mean number of remaining, decayed, and filled teeth was 19.9 ± 7.1, 1.1 ± 2.0, and 8.3 ± 5.3, respectively. The mean DI-S score was 0.99 ± 0.76. The number of patients with healthy, mild, moderate, or severe periodontal disease status was 13 (6.3%), 67 (32.4%), 82 (39.6%), and 45 (21.7%), respectively. Figure 1 Flow diagram of the subject enrollment process. Full size image Table 1 Baseline characteristics of subjects stratified according to outcome. Full size table During the 3-year follow-up period, 38 subjects died (18.4%). Details of the survivors and non-survivors stratified according to outcome are summarized in Table 1 . Comparing the two groups, patients in the non-survivor group were older and more likely to have had a history of CVD and a higher serum hsCRP level. Body mass index (BMI) and serum albumin levels were significantly lower in the non-survivor group than in the survivor group. The number of remaining teeth and filled teeth were significantly lower; and the number of decayed teeth was significantly higher in the non-survivor group than in the survivor group. Oral hygiene habits, such as brushing frequency and use of interdental cleaning tools, were significantly worse in the non-survivor group than in the survivor group. The median DI-S was approximately twofold higher in the non-survivor group than in the survivor group ( p &lt; 0.001). Association of dental health status with outcome To determine the impact of dental markers on the temporal pattern of the occurrence of all-cause mortality, we plotted the overall survival for all-cause mortality according to the follow-up period. For patients in the highest tertile of DI-S, the overall survival for all-cause mortality steeply decreased at a constant rate from the start of the observation (Fig. 2 a). In categorical variables of the number of remaining teeth and filled teeth, not decayed teeth, significant differences were detected using the log-rank test for equality of survivor function, although clinical covariates showed an association with risk for all-cause mortality (Fig. 2 b, c, and d). Overall survival for all-cause mortality according to the frequency of tooth brushing per day showed significant differences (Fig. 2 e), but not the use of interdental cleaning tools (Fig. 2 f). In contrast, overall survival for all-cause mortality according 