# Unspoken Power Dynamics Of Calendly

**Source**: https://newsletter.weskao.com/p/unspoken-power-dynamics-of-calendly
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:34:35.110836+00:00

---

The unspoken power dynamics of Calendly Wes Kao's Newsletter Subscribe Sign in The unspoken power dynamics of Calendly &quot;You're asking me for a favor, and you want me to schedule around you? GTFO.” Wes Kao Dec 13, 2023 106 15 14 Share Image: Facebook 👋 Hey, it’s Wes . Welcome to my weekly newsletter where I share frameworks for becoming a sharper marketer, builder, and founder. If you’re not a subscriber yet, here’s what you missed: Are your standards too low? In defense of raising the bar Question behind the question When giving feedback, aim for behavior change Subscribe to get access to these posts, and all future posts. Subscribe In this week’s newsletter, we’ll cover how to send a Calendly link without seeming entitled. This might seem minor or tactical, but power dynamics exist in your daily work and being aware of them will make you a savvier operator. Enjoy. Read time : 12 minutes Imagine you’re a 22-year-old founder cold emailing Marc Andreessen to say, “I want to meet you. Pick a time from my Calendly.” Imagine you’re a salesperson sending mass DMs to busy managers to say, “I’m spamming you, but my convenience takes precedence.” Imagine being a candidate reaching out to a hiring manager to say, “I want to pick your brain for free, but we should prioritize my schedule.” Obviously, this sounds absurd. And yet exchanges like these happen every day. Every day, good people accidentally shoot themselves in the foot because they sound entitled asking people to schedule around them. So here’s a question: How do you use Calendly without seeming like a pompous jerk who thinks their time is more important? Why this matters I’ve heard folks say they want to use a calendaring tool, but are worried it will be awkward. In the past few years, there’s been debate (including this viral tweet ) about whether calendar links are a power move. Here’s my take: If you're making an appointment at the doctor's office, of course you'd expect an automated appointment system. But if you're pitching to customers or investors, you might rightfully feel self-conscious asking them to choose a time that fits your schedule. This might seem minor, but it’s important because: Power dynamics exist. Scheduling is simply one expression of power dynamics. If you brush it off here, you’re likely missing it in other instances that are more significant. Multiple times a day, dozens of your employees are pitching, emailing, and DMing with folks outside your company. If you’re not aware of how they’re perceived, they could be turning off customers without even knowing it. If you’re a small organization, you don’t have many levers—your words are one of the few levers for shooting your shot. If you’re a larger organization, you want to be mindful of your brand as you scale. Some companies seem warm and human, whereas others seem sterile, bureaucratic, and cold. The way you come across for seemingly small things—like scheduling a meeting—impacts the way you’re viewed by others. They are tacit clues that indicate your finesse , self-awareness, and level of judgment. I wrote an internal-only version of this post in 2021 when calendaring links were less popular than they are now. I shared it with my team to teach employees about power dynamics in writing. Even though Calendly is more widely accepted now, this is a good way to explain underlying power dynamics that occur in daily communication. Thanks for reading Wes Kao's Newsletter! Join 22,000+ other marketers, founders, and builders and subscribe here: Subscribe Power dynamics exist. Ignore them at your own peril. When you ask your recipient to pick around your schedule, you’re implicitly asserting a power dynamic. Traditionally, the less powerful person accommodates the more powerful person. You might be trying to be proactive and efficient by sending a calendar link, but this action has the side effect of implicitly asserting you’re more powerful. This is why people can feel put off. They might not be able to articulate this, but it’s because you’re breaking a norm. Therefore, you need to counterbalance by sounding friendlier—the extra warmth signals that you’re coming from a good place and not trying to dominate. If it’s not your intent to seem demanding, it's even more important to avoid giving the wrong impression. For example: Before : “Let’s schedule a call. Here's my availability.” After (if you’re close in power) : “I'd love to schedule a call. Would any of these times work for you?” After (if there’s a big differential in power) : &quot;I'd love to schedule a call. Would you want to take a look and see if any of these times work for you?” Phrases like “for the sake of ease,” “do you mind,” “would you want to,” “take a look,” and ending on “you” all sound friendlier. I recommend phrasing as a question when possible because it’s more polite than a command sentence structure. If you read your writing in a robot voice , you’ll see how command sentence structures inherently sound, well, commanding. The “ after” versions are slightly longer, and that's intentional. I'm not optimizing for being concise at any cost—I'm optimizing for getting a yes. If it takes a few extra words to sound self-aware and humble, I'm doing that. Some of the wording might sound almost too warm in isolation. But given the context that you are asking folks to pick around YOUR schedule, you need to counterbalance by being a bit nicer about it. Offer to pick from their Calendly If you want to be conservative, the safest bet is to offer to pick from the other person’s Calendly because it’s clearly centered around them. This is what I do in 90% of situations if I’m asking for the meeting. I’ll say: “Do you have a Calendly? Happy to pick from that, or I can send over a few times is that’s easier.” For example, here’s a note I sent via Twitter DM recently: There are situations when you’re scheduling a bunch of similar meetings (for example, customer calls), and the power dynamic is a bit more even. In that case, it might be more acceptable to share your Calendly first. If you want to be conservative though, you can break your ask into two parts: Should I send over my Calendly if that’s easier for you? Happy to pick from your calendar too so let me know. This works because you’re getting their buy-in first, then sending your calendar link. Breaking an ask into two parts is helpful in other situations, too, and is generally an underutilized tactic. For example, I try to do this when asking for advice. Instead of sending a long email or text, I’ll first ask, “Can I get your advice on something?” If they say yes, I’ll send more information. This feels more respectful of the person’s bandwidth, and gives them a chance to reply before you off-load onto them. If you think doing this in two steps is inefficient or creates more work for your recipient, it doesn’t really. Not all emails are created equal. Most people reply very quickly to emails when they know what they want to do. If they get your note, they’ll “sure, send it over.” More importantly, who cares about efficiency is the person feels miffed? The goal is to get a yes . If an extra email increases the chances your recipient feels goodwill toward you, keep your eyes on the prize. Anatomy of a respectful ask The script below looks simple, but I want to dissect why it work so you see the levers at play: After : “I'd love to schedule a call. Do you mind taking a look to see if any of these times might work for you? Please let me know if you have other dates in mind. Happy to schedule around what's best for you.” After, shorter option : “I'd love to schedule a call. Do you want to see if any of these times work for you? Happy to pick from your Calendly if that’s easier for you.” Within a few short sentences, I’ve shown that I’m happy to schedule around the other person: “I’d love to schedule a call” is friendly and enthusiastic. It shows good faith. “Do you mind” is slightly wordier than “could you,” but we’re not optimizing for being concise at any cost. We’re optimizing for a positive reaction from our recipient. “Do you mind” sounds self-aware and humble. The “might” in “might work for you” is stylistic. You could go without it, but I like adding it because it comes across a bit warmer. “Happy” and “you” are good words to start and end with because the eye is naturally drawn to the first and last words of a sentence. “What’s best/most convenient/easiest for you” emphasizes prioritizing your recipient. Overall, the note comes across as respectful and conversational because we stuffed it with positive keywords that pop when you skim. A note like this works for many types of interactions, including with folks outside your team where you want to put your best foot forward. The outcome is the recipient feels seen and heard—and more likely to actually pick a time from your calendar. Subscribe If you’re asking for a meeting, err on the side of being polite When people are too curt with their Calendly links, sometimes I have a visceral reaction of, “Really? I'm doing a favor taking this meeting. Why am I scheduling around you?” You don't want your prospective customers to come away with this negative reaction. Most people won’t admit to thinking this because it makes them appear petty, but it doesn’t make the reaction any less real. Recognizing this is even more important if the other person thinks they are more powerful. An abrupt note will feel more jarring for them, whereas someone less powerful would assume they should schedule around you anyway. This isn’t about whether power dynamics exist. They do. It’s about how they come into play in moments you might not realize, and the repercussions if you misread. People want to feel respected. We don’t like when people (especially people in no position to make demands) demand things of us. There’s a lot of upside to erring on the side of being more polite. There’s a lot of downside to misreading a situation and coming across as ent