# Connect

**Source**: https://www.meta.com/connect/?srsltid=AfmBOoq5nzz9Qy9AAjIs7_eOhdcW7xMmnfN40nqjdY_LzvWgvzf6ZpD8
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:44:43.952021+00:00

---

Meta Connect 2025: News &amp; Updates from Meta’s Conference | Meta Store AI glasses Meta Quest Apps and games Explore Meta Support AI glasses Meta Quest Apps and games Explore Meta Support Meta Store Ray-Ban Meta glasses Oakley Meta glasses Meta Ray-Ban Display Compare glasses Meta Quest Accessories Apps and games Meta Quest gift cards Refurbished Meta Quest 3 Refurbished Meta Quest 3S Refurbished Ray-Ban Meta glasses More from Ray-Ban Meta Quest: Play now. Pay later. Meta Warranty Plus Meta for Work Meta for Education Meta Quest referrals Education discount Blog Store support and legal Meta Help Center Order status Returns Find a product demo Authorized retailers Legal Terms of sale Meta Quest safety center Community Creators Developers Businesses Non-profits Download SDKs Made for Meta partner program VR for Good Our actions Data and privacy Responsible business practices Elections About us About Meta Careers Media gallery Brand resources For investors Newsroom Site terms and policies Community standards Privacy policy Terms Cookie policy App support Facebook Help Center Messenger Help Center Instagram Help Center WhatsApp Help Center Workplace Help Center Meta Verified Meta Store Ray-Ban Meta glasses Oakley Meta glasses Meta Ray-Ban Display Compare glasses Meta Quest Accessories Apps and games Meta Quest gift cards Refurbished Meta Quest 3 Refurbished Meta Quest 3S Refurbished Ray-Ban Meta glasses More from Ray-Ban Meta Quest: Play now. Pay later. Meta Warranty Plus Meta for Work Meta for Education Meta Quest referrals Education discount Blog Store support and legal Meta Help Center Order status Returns Find a product demo Authorized retailers Legal Terms of sale Meta Quest safety center Community Creators Developers Businesses Non-profits Download SDKs Made for Meta partner program VR for Good Our actions Data and privacy Responsible business practices Elections About us About Meta Careers Media gallery Brand resources For investors Newsroom Site terms and policies Community standards Privacy policy Terms Cookie policy App support Facebook Help Center Messenger Help Center Instagram Help Center WhatsApp Help Center Workplace Help Center Meta Verified Meta Store Ray-Ban Meta glasses Oakley Meta glasses Meta Ray-Ban Display Compare glasses Meta Quest Accessories Apps and games Meta Quest gift cards Refurbished Meta Quest 3 Refurbished Meta Quest 3S Refurbished Ray-Ban Meta glasses More from Ray-Ban Meta Quest: Play now. Pay later. Meta Warranty Plus Meta for Work Meta for Education Meta Quest referrals Education discount Blog Store support and legal Meta Help Center Order status Returns Find a product demo Authorized retailers Legal Terms of sale Meta Quest safety center Community Creators Developers Businesses Non-profits Download SDKs Made for Meta partner program VR for Good Our actions Data and privacy Responsible business practices Elections About us About Meta Careers Media gallery Brand resources For investors Newsroom Site terms and policies Community standards Privacy policy Terms Cookie policy App support Facebook Help Center Messenger Help Center Instagram Help Center WhatsApp Help Center Workplace Help Center Meta Verified Meta Store Ray-Ban Meta glasses Oakley Meta glasses Meta Ray-Ban Display Compare glasses Meta Quest Accessories Apps and games Meta Quest gift cards Refurbished Meta Quest 3 Refurbished Meta Quest 3S Refurbished Ray-Ban Meta glasses More from Ray-Ban Meta Quest: Play now. Pay later. Meta Warranty Plus Meta for Work Meta for Education Meta Quest referrals Education discount Blog Store support and legal Meta Help Center Order status Returns Find a product demo Authorized retailers Legal Terms of sale Meta Quest safety center Community Creators Developers Businesses Non-profits Download SDKs Made for Meta partner program VR for Good Our actions Data and privacy Responsible business practices Elections About us About Meta Careers Media gallery Brand resources For investors Newsroom Site terms and policies Community standards Privacy policy Terms Cookie policy App support Facebook Help Center Messenger Help Center Instagram Help Center WhatsApp Help Center Workplace Help Center Meta Verified English (US) META QUEST Parents : Important guidance &amp; safety warnings for children’s use here . *Batman: Arkham Shadow is rated Teen with violence, mild blood and language. Offer valid on Qualifying Products purchased from September 25, 2024 through December 31, 2026. Terms apply . AI GLASSES Certain Meta AI features only in select countries and languages. Please check local availability. Software updates required for optimum performance. OPTIONAL FINANCING Optional financing is available through third party providers, is subject to an eligibility check by the lender, lender terms, and may not be available everywhere or on all products. See https://www.meta.com/legal/financing-offers/ for additional details. ‡0% APR financing with Affirm is not available for limited edition and pre-order items, and may not be available on all devices or accessories. ©2025 Meta. Home Sessions FAQ Connect 2025 Sessions FAQ Watch the Connect Keynote Ray-Ban Meta Shop Ray-Ban Meta Shop Ray-Ban Meta Shop Oakley Meta Vanguard Pre-order Meta Ray-Ban Display Learn more The replay is live. Watch the Connect Keynote Watch the developer sessions The replay is live. Watch the Connect Keynote Watch the developer sessions Creating the future of human connection At this year’s Connect, we explored our latest innovations in AI glasses, metaverse technologies and beyond. Watch the replay on demand and see everything we covered. Creating the future of human connection At this year’s Connect, we explored our latest innovations in AI glasses, metaverse technologies and beyond. Watch the replay on demand and see everything we covered. Creating the future of human connection At this year’s Connect, we explored our latest innovations in AI glasses, metaverse technologies and beyond. Watch the replay on demand and see everything we covered. Watch the Connect Keynote Watch the developer sessions Creating the future of human connection At this year’s Connect, we explored our latest innovations in AI glasses, metaverse technologies and beyond. Watch the replay on demand and see everything we covered. Creating the future of human connection At this year’s Connect, we explored our latest innovations in AI glasses, metaverse technologies and beyond. Watch the replay on demand and see everything we covered. Creating the future of human connection At this year’s Connect, we explored our latest innovations in AI glasses, metaverse technologies and beyond. Watch the replay on demand and see everything we covered. Watch the Connect Keynote Watch the developer sessions Watch the Connect Keynote Expand your world with these products. Meet the new Ray-Ban Meta Meet the new Ray-Ban Meta Discover the #1 selling AI glasses—now with new colors and new tech to love. Learn more Shop Ray-Ban Meta Oakley Meta Vanguard Push your limits Push your limits Take your performance to the next level with AI glasses built for action. Learn more Shop Oakley Meta HSTN Game. Changer. Game. Changer. Fifty years of design meets the new era of tech. Learn more Shop Meta Ray-Ban Display Look forward Look forward AI glasses with a private in-lens display you control with a few simple motions. Learn more Schedule demo Meta Quest Meta Quest brings the magic of mixed reality Meta Quest brings the magic of mixed reality Get instant access to 25+ games for 3 months when you buy a Meta Quest headset. Get instant access to 25+ games for 3 months when you buy a Meta Quest headset. Shop Meta Quest Shop apps and games Explore AI at Meta Explore AI at Meta From AI products that unlock creativity and inspiration to innovative AI research that&#x27;s pushing the boundaries of what&#x27;s possible, come learn about all the AI advances Meta is building to empower everyone. From AI products that unlock creativity and inspiration to innovative AI research that&#x27;s pushing the boundaries of what&#x27;s possible, come learn about all the AI advances Meta is building to empower everyone. Learn more Experience Connect 2025 Experience Connect 2025 Watch the Connect Keynote Watch the developer sessions