# Terms Of Use

**Source**: https://www.voxmedia.com/legal/terms-of-use
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:16:00.988086+00:00

---

Terms of Use - Vox Media Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes mobile Vox Media homepage Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media main menu Company Networks Enterprises Advertising News Careers Contact More Company Guidelines &amp; Policies Diversity &amp; Inclusion Corporate Citizenship Networks Curbed The Cut The Dodo Eater Grub Street Intelligencer New York Magazine NowThis PS Punch SB Nation The Strategist Thrillist The Verge Vox Vulture Enterprises Chorus Coral Vox Media Studios Vox Media Podcast Network Epic Advertising Concert Vox Creative The Explainer Studio Podcasts Media Kit New York Magazine Editorial Calendar New York Magazine Print Advertising Specs The Cut Print Advertising Specs News Vox Media News In The Press Vox Product Blog Careers Career Openings Fellowships Contact ✕ Terms of Use Updated and Effective as of October 26, 2023 Welcome to the Internet sites (“Sites”), applications and services provided by Vox Media, LLC (collectively, the “Services”). These Terms of Use govern your access and use of the Services provided by Vox Media, LLC, and any of its subsidiaries, affiliates, brands and entities that it controls, including Curbed, Eater, Grub Street, New York Magazine, Polygon, POPSUGAR, Recode, SB Nation, Select All, The Cut, The Daily Intelligencer, The Dodo, The Strategist, The Verge, Thrillist, Vox, Vulture, and other affiliated sites and applications (collectively “we,” “us,” or “our”). Please read these Terms carefully before accessing or using the Services. By joining, or each time you access and use the Services, you signify that you have read and understand, and agree to be bound by, these Terms. You represent and warrant that you are an individual of legal age to form a binding contract (or if not, you’ve received your parent’s or guardian’s permission to use the Services and have gotten your parent or guardian to agree to these Terms on your behalf). If you do not agree to these terms, you are not permitted to use the Services. These Terms have the same force and effect as an agreement in writing. If you wish to contact us in writing, have a complaint or are required to give us notice in writing, you can send this to us here or by post to Vox Media, LLC, 1701 Rhode Island Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036. If we have to contact you or give you notice in writing, we will do so by email or post to any (email) address you provide to us. Important Notices: The key terms you should consider are the limitations on liability contained in the sections titled Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitations of Liability, and a class action waiver and resolution of disputes by arbitration in the section titled Arbitration Agreement . Your access to and use of the Services is also governed by our Privacy Notice located at Privacy Notice ; and Cookie Policy located at Cookie Policy . We recommend that you print a copy of these Terms and the Privacy Notice for your future reference. ARBITRATION NOTICE AND CLASS ACTION WAIVER: EXCEPT FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF DISPUTES DESCRIBED IN THE ARBITRATION AGREEMENT SECTION BELOW, YOU AGREE THAT DISPUTES UNDER THESE TERMS WILL BE RESOLVED BY BINDING, INDIVIDUAL ARBITRATION AND YOU WAIVE YOUR RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE IN A CLASS ACTION LAWSUIT OR CLASS-WIDE ARBITRATION. Your Responsibilities You are responsible for obtaining and maintaining at your own cost all equipment and services needed for access to and use of the Services. When you register with us and each time you access the Services, you may be providing certain information about yourself. You agree that we may use any information that we obtain about you in accordance with the provisions of our Privacy Notice and that you have no ownership or proprietary interest in your account other than as set out in these Terms. If you elect to register with us, you agree to: (a) provide true, accurate, current, and complete information as prompted by the registration form; and (b) maintain and update such information to keep it true, accurate, current, and complete at all times. If any information you provide is or becomes untrue, inaccurate, or incomplete, we have the right to terminate your access to and use of your account and the Services. In addition, you agree not to use the Services to: (a) violate any local, state, national, or international law or regulation; (b) transmit any material that is abusive, harassing, tortious, defamatory, vulgar, pornographic, obscene, libelous, invasive of another's privacy, hateful, or racially, ethnically, or otherwise objectionable; (c) transmit any unsolicited or unauthorized advertising, promotional materials, junk mail, spam, chain letters, pyramid schemes, or any other form of solicitation; (d) transmit any material that contains adware, malware, spyware, software viruses, or any other computer code, files, or programs designed to interrupt, destroy, or limit the functionality of any computer software or hardware or telecommunications equipment; (e) stalk, harass, or harm another individual, including revealing the real name of any fellow user that has chosen to use an alias on the Services; (f) impersonate any person or entity, or otherwise misrepresent your affiliation with a person or entity; (g) use any "robot," "spider," "rover," "scraper" or any other data-mining technology or automatic or manual process to monitor, cache, frame, mask, extract data from, copy or distribute any data from the Services, our network or databases; (h) use any features of the Services for anything other than their intended purpose; (i) interfere with or disrupt the Services or servers or our networks, or disobey any requirements, procedures, policies, or regulations of networks connected to the Services; or (j) assist, permit or encourage any person to perform any of the activities described above. Membership and Participation on the Sites You must be thirteen (13) years of age or older to participate in any activities or services offered on our Sites and/or be a member and receive membership benefits, and you must be eighteen (18) years of age or older to participate in our A-List Invitations and other certain specified engagements. You may not have to be a member to participate in certain contests, sweepstakes and/or special events; however, you must meet the designated minimum age requirements (for example, twenty-one (21) years of age or older) for the specific event. We will establish specific rules and terms for participation in each contest, sweepstakes and/or special event and will post this information on our Sites. We will not knowingly collect personal information from visitors under sixteen (16) years of age for these activities. Upon discovery of the participation of a person under sixteen (16) years of age in such activities, his/her registration or participation will be canceled immediately and all personal information will be deleted from our files. Registration with the Sites is required in order to access certain services, including, without limitation, saving of favorite restaurants and fashion looks, user ratings, listing reviews and blog and article comment posting. Your registration information will be handled by us in accordance with our Privacy Notice , which you should review prior to registering with us. You may be required to select a password and member name for membership registration. You are responsible for maintaining the confidentiality of your password and any membership account information. You agree to immediately notify us of any unauthorized use of your password or other membership account information and further agree to indemnify and hold the Sites, their parents, affiliates, subsidiaries, operational providers and partners harmless for any improper or illegal use of your password. We encourage you to keep us informed about any changes in your membership, personal contact and email information. You may change or update certain information in your membership file by using the controls on your profile page. You may disable your profile by contacting us . If your email address is canceled, becomes inactive or inaccessible for an extended period of time, we may cancel your membership and delete all or part of your membership profile, to the extent allowed by law and in accordance with our security measures. We also reserve the right to cancel your membership or prohibit your participation in any or all of the Sites’ activities if you violate any provision of this Agreement or our Privacy Notice . User Submissions and Interactive Areas We may provide interactive activities for the Sites’ communities such as chat rooms, article and blog comment posting areas, reader photo upload, reader ratings and reviews, saving favorite restaurants or fashion looks, bulletin boards (also known as message boards), SMS text messaging and mobile alerts (collectively, “Interactive Areas”) for the enjoyment of our visitors. You must be thirteen (13) years of age or older to participate in the Sites’ Interactive Areas. General members of the Sites’ online communities may have the opportunity to register for participation in the Interactive Areas when they first apply for membership and may be required to select a member name and password for the Interactive Areas. Interactive Areas not conducted, operated and/or managed by the Sites may require a different registration process. Any User Submissions or postings by visitors to certain parts of the Sites, including, without limitation, Interactive Areas, will be public and posted in public areas on our Sites. The Sites, their parents, partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, members, directors, officers, employees and any contract or operational providers that conduct, operate and/or manage the Sites’ Interactive Areas will not be responsible for the action of any visitors or third parties with respect to any information, materials or content posted, uploaded or transmitted in these Interactive Areas. We do not claim ownership of any inf