# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Developmental%20psychology&title=The%20quality%20of%20sibling%20relationships%20and%20the%20development%20of%20social%20competence%20and%20behavioral%20control%20in%20aggressive%20children&author=EA%20Stormshak&author=CJ%20Bellanti&author=KL%20Bierman&volume=32&issue=1&publication_year=1996&pages=79-89&
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:12:01.422943+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.02 sec) My profile My library Lookup [PDF] academia.edu The quality of sibling relationships and the development of social competence and behavioral control in aggressive children. EA Stormshak , CJ Bellanti… - Developmental …, 1996 - psycnet.apa.org EA Stormshak , CJ Bellanti, KL Bierman Developmental psychology, 1996 • psycnet.apa.org To understand the relations between sibling interactions and the social adjustment of children with behavior problems, 53 aggressive 1st-and 2nd-grade children, their mothers, and their siblings were interviewed about positive and negative aspects of the sibling relationship. When conflict and warmth were considered together, 3 types of sibling dyads emerged: conflictual (high levels of conflict, low levels of warmth), involved (moderate levels of conflict and warmth), and supportive (low levels of conflict, high levels of warmth). On most … Abstract To understand the relations between sibling interactions and the social adjustment of children with behavior problems, 53 aggressive 1st-and 2nd-grade children, their mothers, and their siblings were interviewed about positive and negative aspects of the sibling relationship. When conflict and warmth were considered together, 3 types of sibling dyads emerged: conflictual (high levels of conflict, low levels of warmth), involved (moderate levels of conflict and warmth), and supportive (low levels of conflict, high levels of warmth). On most measures of social adjustment at school, children in involved sibling relationships showed better adjustment than did children in conflictual relationships. Results are discussed in terms of a developmental model for at-risk children in which some sibling relationships may foster the development of social skills in addition to providing emotional support, which may enhance adjustment at school. American Psychological Association Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 451 Related articles All 14 versions Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help