# What Its Like To Be A Real Estate Agent To Dcs Super Rich

**Source**: https://www.washingtonian.com/2017/04/02/what-its-like-to-be-a-real-estate-agent-to-dcs-super-rich/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:11:00.276956+00:00

---

--> What It’s Like to be a Real-Estate Agent to DC’s Super Rich - Washingtonian Sections News &amp; Politics Washingtonian Today Things to Do DC Welcome Guide This Week 100 Best Things to Do in DC Neighborhood Guides DC-Area Events Calender Washingtonian Events Food & Drink 100 Very Best Restaurants The Hot List Brunch New Restaurants Restaurant Finder Home &amp; Style Health Parenting Shopping Gift Guides Real Estate Top Realtors Listings We Love Rave Worthy Rentals Weddings Real Weddings Wedding Vendor Finder Submit Your Wedding Travel DC Welcome Guide Best Airbnbs Around DC 3 Days in DC Best of DC Doctors Apartment Rentals Dentists Financial Advisors Industry Leaders Lawyers Mortgage Pros Pet Care Private Schools Realtors Wedding Vendors Magazine Subscribe The 1965 Club Manage Subscription Current & Past Issues Features and Longreads Newsletters Newsstand Locations Reader Favorites 100 Very Best Restaurants DC-Area Events Calendar Brunch Neighborhoods Newsletters Directories Washingtonian Events Washington&rsquo;s Best Apartment Rentals DC Travel Guide Dentists Doctors Financial Advisers Health Experts Home Improvement Experts Industry Leaders Lawyers Mortgage Professionals Pet Care Private Schools Real Estate Agents Restaurants Retirement Communities Wedding Vendors Privacy Policy | &nbsp;Rss &copy; 2025 Washingtonian Media Inc. All Rights Reserved Skip to content Search Subscribe Menu Subscribe Reader Favorites 100 Very Best Restaurants DC-Area Events Calendar Brunch Neighborhoods Newsletters Directories Washingtonian Events More Subscribe Manage My Subscription Digital Edition Shop Contests About Us Advertising Contact Us Jobs Sections News &amp; Politics Food Things to Do Washingtonian Events Home &amp; Style Editors&#8217; Picks Events Calendar Health Longreads Parenting Real Estate Shopping Travel Weddings News &amp; Politics Washingtonian Today Things to Do DC Welcome Guide This Week 100 Best Things to Do in DC Neighborhood Guides DC-Area Events Calender Washingtonian Events Food & Drink 100 Very Best Restaurants The Hot List Brunch New Restaurants Restaurant Finder Home &amp; Style Health Parenting Shopping Gift Guides Real Estate Top Realtors Listings We Love Rave Worthy Rentals Weddings Real Weddings Wedding Vendor Finder Submit Your Wedding Travel DC Welcome Guide Best Airbnbs Around DC 3 Days in DC Best of DC Doctors Apartment Rentals Dentists Financial Advisors Industry Leaders Lawyers Mortgage Pros Pet Care Private Schools Realtors Wedding Vendors Magazine Subscribe The 1965 Club Manage Subscription Current & Past Issues Features and Longreads Newsletters Newsstand Locations 100 Very Best Restaurants DC-Area Events Calendar Brunch Neighborhoods Newsletters Directories Washingtonian Events --> Real Estate What It&#8217;s Like to be a Real-Estate Agent to DC&#8217;s Super Rich Written by Cathy Alter | Published on April 2, 2017 Nancy Taylor Bubes sold more than $174 million worth of homes last year—more than any other agent in Washington. Tweet Share The bricked-and-columned behemoth at 3017 N Street, Northwest, is nothing close to turnkey. Known as the Kennedy house for the period when the widowed Jackie lived there, it last belonged to her friend Yolande Fox , Miss America 1951, who bought it in 1975. An 8,196-square-foot mansion trapped in amber, it retains a butler’s pantry, a creaky back stairway up to the maid’s quarters, and, according to the sales brochure, a kitchen “rumored to have the same cabinetry and colors that the first lady installed in 1964.” Listed last June for $9.95 million, it is an upper fixer-upper. But look past the well-trodden carpeting and scuffed hardwood and there’s a faded glory channeling old Hollywood—walls of celadon silk, murals of midcentury silver-screen stars, a wet bar on the second-floor landing—relics, likely, of Fox’s days as the wife of a Universal Pictures executive. When she died last year, she was remembered as “the last of the Georgetown grandes dames.” The home is currently in the hands of another grande dame, Washington Fine Properties super-agent Nancy Taylor Bubes . At 62, she rules the high-end markets of Georgetown, Kalorama, and Massachusetts Avenue Heights with a Bluetooth and a Rolodex rivaling that of any of the bigwig lobbyists in town. She’s the top-selling real-estate agent by sales volume in DC. According to the Wall Street Journal /Real Trends, she ranked 34th in the country in 2016, with more than $174 million in sales. Over that year, she sold more than 70 homes, ranging from $365,000 to $9.1 million. For those who traffic in the tippy-top-dollar properties that might attract a billionaire cabinet secretary, it&#8217;s an excellent time to be a real-estate agent. The Kennedy house, though, has been tough to move. So one day last fall, the price having dropped to $8.995 million and a 3-percent commission of $250,000-plus at stake, Bubes turned on the hustle. At an open house, she sat in the cavernous living room with her aged-to-perfection Louis Vuitton Neverfull. “Oh my God, oh my God, oh my God,” she says by way of greeting when her iPhone rings. “I was just thinking about you!” On the other end is Dolly Fox , Yolande’s only child, calling from New York. After issuing a string of four-letter words that would have made Jackie O blush and a mock threat about Fox taking her “effing pink diamond ring” to the grave instead of handing it over to the bill collectors, Bubes determines that Fox is freaking out about how much the upcoming estate sale might net. Fox also reveals she’s coming to Washington soon and doesn’t want to spend the night alone in the house. “You’re too funny! I love it!” Bubes tells her. “I’ll bring my pillow and we’ll have a slumber party!” She hangs up when a guy in sweatpants arrives with someone who either is an agent or is pretending to be one to see where Jackie Kennedy slept. Bubes isn’t quite sure herself but takes them around anyway, making sure they see the cupola and letting them ride the elevator. She’s pretty certain they won’t make an offer. “But you never know,” she says. “I’ve learned to never underestimate a man in sweatpants.” With a steady increase DC home prices over the past seven years, according to Bright MLS, Washington&#8217;s multiple listing service, and the arrival of a new administration, it’s a pretty excellent time to be a real-estate agent in Washington. It’s even more excellent if you traffic in the tippy-top-dollar properties with infinity pools and internet-of-things automation that might attract a newly confirmed billionaire Cabinet secretary or other deep-pocketed transplants. These are Nancy Taylor Bubes’s people. Which is sort of remarkable, considering that Bubes is the most un-Washington of Washingtonians. Totally unedited, resembling a more Hermès version of Kathie Lee Gifford, Bubes has a la-di-dah air that’s at odds with the popular notion of high-end agents as chilly sophisticates or imperious majordomos—and even more at odds with the serious-minded bigwigs who seem to have her on speed dial. Yet her loopy vibe is a magnet. As Capitol Hill agent Tom Faison, a 25-year industry veteran, puts it: “She’s zany like a fox.” And as word of one satisfied customer makes its way around the village, one R Street rowhouse bought turns into another Water Street condo sold. “It’s so simple,” Faison says. “She made one deal and did it well. Those people broadcast their good deal because everybody loves to talk about real estate at any dinner party in Georgetown.” Bubes did a deal at a party once. Her friend Melissa Overmyer met a prospective buyer for the P Street house she owned with her husband, Dale, an architect, at one Georgetown soirée. Bubes was at another. “I start getting one text after another from Melissa, saying she has sold her house and that they are agreeing to all the terms on a cocktail napkin,” when in comes a photo of Melissa and the new buyer with said napkin, which read, “$2.9MM . . . No contingency, cash offer.” The following day, Dale Overmyer remembers, “Nancy said, ‘You are going to honor your cocktail napkin. A deal’s a deal.’ ” Bubes had the listing for the 8,200-square-foot &#8220;Kennedy House,&#8221; where Jackie lived after JFK&#8217;s assassination. Walk into the George Town Club with Bubes and she’s helloing all over the room. Every July, she and her seven-person staff plant 1,600 American flags in Georgetown front yards, her business card attached. Every Halloween, her corner-lot Victorian turns into a haunted house with animatronic mummies and monsters, a creepy fortuneteller right out of a penny arcade, and ghostly noises emanating from the bushes. The whole neighborhood is there rubbernecking while Bubes, her ginger-blond hair poking out of an oversize witch’s hat, mans a popcorn station or hands out candy bars. Bubes has occupied the 5,000-square-footer at 31st and Q for 18 years, only the second she’s owned in the neighborhood. (She also has homes in Palm Beach and Rehoboth.) “I’m a Taurus,” she says. “I get very settled.” But she’ll know before you do when you’re ready for a refresh and what might suit. “She knows everybody in town and every house in town,” says Mary Louise Kelly , a novelist and NPR’s national-security correspondent. “When one comes open, she’ll run into someone she knows and say, ‘Maybe you should think about moving.’ Suddenly in a week, you’re buying a house.” Kelly and her husband did. They were living in Italy temporarily, not really looking to leave their permanent residence on O Street, but suddenly a gray Victorian on Q with a white lattice portico and that rarest of finds in Georgetown—parking—appeared. They saw the house on a quick trip to DC, had no financing in place, made an offer. “My husband, Nick, was on crutches and couldn’t walk,” says Kelly. “He was literally crawling up and down the stairs on all fours.” Bubes had no trouble unloading the O Street property they left behind. She knew a couple on R who wanted to d