# Phone Skype Interview Tips

**Source**: http://www.artofmanliness.com/2017/05/17/phone-skype-interview-tips/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:10:11.951094+00:00

---

How to Ace Your Next Phone or Skype Interview | The Art of Manliness How to Ace Your Next Phone or Skype Interview | The Art of Manliness Menu random podcast Get Style Clothing Accessories Facial Hair Ties Get Strong Fitness Health Program Review Get Social Family Fatherhood Relationships Social Skills Get Skilled How To Manly Know-How Outdoor/Survival Podcast Books Random Find more of the Art of Manliness: Instagram Feedly Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Clothing Accessories Facial Hair Ties A Man’s Guide to the Rugby Shirt 5 Ways to Wear an OCBD With Style Men Don&#8217;t Dress Like Boys How to Wear a White T-Shirt With Style The Dos and Don&#8217;ts of Applying Cologne Did Commandos Go Commando? A Man&#8217;s Guide to Fragrance: How to Choose and Wear Cologne My Go-To Sunglasses for Summer How to Trim Your Eyebrows Your No-Nonsense Guide to Choosing the Right Beard Style How to Grow a Beard: The One and True Guide Beard Oil FAQs: Answering All Your Pressing Beardly Questions Skill of the Week: Tie a Full Windsor Necktie Knot How to Tie a Tie Skill of the Week: Put a Dimple in Your Tie Skill of the Week: Tie a Scarf 5 Different Ways Browse all Get Style Fitness Health Program Review What My Workout Has Looked Like Lately Podcast #1,086: Build Muscle Without the B.S. — A Straightforward Guide to Size and Strength How to Turn Treading Water Into a Legit Workout Skill of the Week: Effectively Traverse the Monkey Bars Skill of the Week: Tape a Sprained Ankle Podcast #1,084: Overdiagnosed — How Our Obsession with Medical Testing and Labels Is Making Us Sicker A Man’s Guide to Blood Pressure: What It Is, Why It Matters, and How to Keep It in Check Podcast #1,076: The Microbiome Master Key — How 100 Trillion Bacteria Influence Your Weight, Mood, and All-Around Health The Insanely Difficult Standards of History&#8217;s Hardest P.E. Program Which Fitness Program Is Right for You? A Review of the MovNat Workshop Strengthen Your Tribe: A Report on the Atomic Athlete Vanguard Browse all Get Strong Family Fatherhood Relationships Social Skills A Back-to-School Game Plan for Dads Podcast #1,056: The 80/80 Marriage — A New Model for a Happier, Stronger Relationship Podcast #1,039: What&#8217;s Behind the Rise of Parent-Child Estrangement? Take the D Word Off the Table Podcast #1,085: The Preparation — An Adventure-Driven, Skill-Building Alternative to College for Young Men Podcast #1,072: Men Don&#8217;t Run in the Rain — And 7 Other Essential Lessons for Being a Man The Dad Instinct: How Fathers Prepare Kids for the Wider World The 4 Parenting Styles (And Which One Is Best) The Yearly Marriage Checkup Podcast #1,068: Building Tribe — How to Create and Sustain Communities of Men Podcast #1,060: No, There Isn&#8217;t a Loneliness Epidemic (And That May Be an Even Bigger Problem) Podcast #1,058: The Science of Porn: Myths, Facts, and Overlooked Issues Podcast #1,087: Why You Need the Good Stress of Socializing Podcast #1,070: How to Have the Manners and Charm of a Proper English Gentleman How to Flirt Like It&#8217;s 1995 Podcast #1,052: Stop Saying Um (And Fix the Other Vocal Tics That Are Sabotaging Your Speaking) Browse all Get Social How To Manly Know-How Outdoor/Survival How to Crack a Whip Skill of the Week: Sharpen a Pocket Knife How to Drive a Tank How to Do a Brush Pass Like a Cold War Spy Skill of the Week: Heel-And-Toe Shift Skill of the Week: Make a Rope Swing (And Fly Like Tarzan) Skill of the Week: Jump From a Height Into Water How to Use a Multimeter Skill of the Week: Cross a Piranha-Infested River Skill of the Week: Fire a Flare Gun Skill of the Week: Open a Coconut (With or Without Tools) Podcast #1,078: From Plane Crashes to Terrorist Attacks — Who Survives, and Why Browse all Get Skilled in: Career , Career &amp; Wealth Jeremy Anderberg &bull; May 17, 2017 &bull; Last updated: September 25, 2021 How to Ace Your Next Phone or Skype Interview Before you ever get the chance to extol your virtues to a potential employer during an in-person interview, it’s likely you’ll have first answered some questions over the phone or via Skype (or other video software). It’s easier for all parties, especially for the first round when you’re really just trying to feel each other out. It can be easy to be less prepared for these types of interviews &#8212; they just don’t feel like they carry the same weight as meeting someone face-to-face. But taking a lax approach would be a mistake. In many ways, this first impression is more important, because it’s just that &#8212; a company’s first impression of the kind of employee you’d be. You’ll never make it deeper into the hiring process if you’re stopped at the gate. In general, you want to prepare for these interviews just as you would the in-person variety: go into it knowing how to tell your career story in just a couple minutes, explain unconventional aspects of your resume, answer behavioral questions &#8212; that sort of thing. To get you started, here are a few articles we’ve done about job interviews: How to Control a Job Interview 10 Questions to Ask in a Job Interview How to Ace a Job Interview How to Prepare for and Rock a Behavioral Job Interview How to Talk About Your Unconventional Background Be sure to read up on those, as I’m not going to cover all the general basics of interviews below. Rather, while I’ll take you through some classic interview tips, they’ll be focused specifically on the context of handling a phone and/or video conversation. Tips That Apply to Both Phone &amp; Skype Interviews Choose a Quiet, Reliable Location Stick to your house for phone and Skype interviews. Don’t try to do it at a coffee shop; that’ll annoy both the interviewer (background noise can make it hard to hear you), and the other coffee shop patrons as well. Plus, you just aren’t in control of your environment. The crashing sound of someone spilling a drink nearby can throw you off your game. Of course you want to choose a place with reliable cell service and/or internet. If your home office is in the basement, but you don’t get good cell service down there, head upstairs. For a phone call, your parked car can even work great (so long as you aren’t in a parking garage, where cell service is always spotty). If you know there’s a corner of the house where the wifi is spotty, best not to head there for your video chat. And if your own abode doesn’t work, ask a friend or family member if you can steal a room for 30-60 minutes. Of course, don’t do the interview at your workplace, and especially not on company time! There are additional location considerations when video chatting, which I’ll cover in more detail below. Dress &amp; Groom Appropriately This is obvious if it’s a video interview &#8212; you can’t look like a schlub in front of an interviewer. On the phone, though, you might be tempted to rock some sweats and not bother with combing your hair. I don’t recommend that. Rather, whether the interview is on the phone or over video, dress and groom just as you would if it was an in-person meeting . It gets you in the right mindset for the position you want to hold. If you go through the routine of getting ready for an interview, you’ll jump into things as if you were right in the interviewer&#8217;s office. That time spent getting ready even serves to allow you to rehearse things in your mind versus sitting on the couch watching TV right up until it’s time for the interview. Your head just won’t be in the game in the same way. So shower, shave, and even for a phone interview, throw on a decent outfit. For a video chat, you’ll want to dress one notch up from the position you&#8217;re applying for, which often means donning&nbsp;a shirt and tie or a&nbsp;suit. (And no, don’t wear a nice top while in your underwear; what happens when you unexpectedly need to get up to grab something?) Be On Time For an in-person interview, showing up 15 minutes early is on-time. You don’t want to be flying in the doors right when the interview is supposed to start. For phone or Skype interviews, the rules are a little different. While you don’t want to call 15 minutes early, you should be at your desk and ready to go at least that much time in advance. Check your cell service, internet connection, etc. You also want just a few minutes to get in the right mindset, look over your resume and cover letter one last time, have a sip of water, etc. Also be sure you’ve nailed down details of who’s calling who. You don’t want your potential employer waiting for 10 minutes just because you were supposed to dial in to a conference line and you’ve been sitting there staring at your phone. Speak Clearly and Enunciate While you want to do these things in person too, they’re even more important with a phone or video interview. Speak a little more loudly than you normally would, a little more slowly, and really focus on enunciating your words. You know how it goes on the phone or over Skype &#8212; even with the best connections things are easily muddled or missed and an “I’m sorry, what was that?” is almost inevitable. Reduce those awkward exchanges as much as possible. Hone in On Non-Verbal Cues Much of conversation happens through our body language &#8212; the gestures we make, facial expressions, even minor shifts in how we’re sitting. Those are obviously entirely absent in phone calls, and harder to read in video interviews. So you really have to pay extra attention to things like tone of voice and subtle changes in inflection to know when to chime in with an answer, or even just to give an affirmative “Sure” or “Yeah, that makes sense” to show that you’re listening attentively. Better, in my opinion, to speak up a little too much versus sitting silently for too long and letting the interviewer wonder if you’re paying attention. In general, you do this simply by practicing. When on the phone wit