# Wilco Star Wars Free Download

**Source**: http://www.theverge.com/2015/7/16/8984033/wilco-star-wars-free-download
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:36:03.112396+00:00

---

Wilco is giving away a free album to its fans, and it’s called Star Wars | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Wilco is giving away a free album to its fans, and it’s called Star Wars Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Entertainment Close Entertainment Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Entertainment Music Close Music Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Music Wilco is giving away a free album to its fans, and it’s called Star Wars Your dad is going to be really excited Your dad is going to be really excited by Casey Newton Close Casey Newton Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Casey Newton Source Wilcoworld | Via Dwight Silverman Jul 16, 2015, 11:48 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads Casey Newton Close Casey Newton Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Casey Newton is the editor of the Platformer newsletter and cohost of the Hard Fork podcast. Wilco has taken all manner of strange turns in its 21 years, from alt-country stalwarts to noise-pop progressivists to its current incarnation as dad-rock standard bearers. Today the band took one of its strangest and most delightful twists to date, dropping a free full-length album on its fans called Star Wars . Downloading it requires offering an email address, which signs you up for the band’s mailing list. The 11-track, 33-minute record, whose cover is represented by a painting of a white cat, finds the band picking up more or less where it left off with 2011’s The Whole Love , which is to say rootsy, feel-good, backyard barbecue jams with just a hint of the “American Radiohead” weirdness that made 2002’s Yankee Hotel Foxtrot an enduring classic of the young century. At first listen, the record does not appear to have anything in common with the film version / cinematic universe of Star Wars , besides maybe having very good SEO. Anyway, that’s what you should tell your dad when you text him to say that Wilco has a new album out and it’s called Star Wars and has a cat on it. Offer to help him downloading it onto his iPhone. You’ll make an old man very happy. Star Wars: a new @Wilco album featuring 11 original songs is available now. Free download at http://t.co/EyYF9u6lJt pic.twitter.com/Ava3EcXEnd &mdash; ANTI Records (@AntiRecords) July 16, 2015 Update, July 17th, 10:32AM ET: Wilco has also made the entire album available to stream on YouTube. Follow topics and authors from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates. Casey Newton Close Casey Newton Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Casey Newton Entertainment Close Entertainment Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Entertainment Music Close Music Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Music Most Popular Most Popular Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store Behold: The Lego Game Boy has already been modded to play games for real Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Everything is terrorism in Trump’s America Satya Nadella appoints a new CEO to run Microsoft’s biggest businesses The Verge Daily A free daily digest of the news that matters most. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Entertainment Sony shrinks PS5 Slim storage in the US, too The quest for every Gap store playlist ever NBCUniversal’s new YouTube TV deal covers YouTube, Peacock, and a new sports network Redbox’s next product may be piracy lawsuits Elon Musk is leading a pressure campaign to make Netflix un-woke Welcome to the Xbox $360 era Sony shrinks PS5 Slim storage in the US, too Jay Peters 3:39 PM UTC The quest for every Gap store playlist ever Mia Sato 3:06 PM UTC NBCUniversal’s new YouTube TV deal covers YouTube, Peacock, and a new sports network Richard Lawler Oct 2 Redbox’s next product may be piracy lawsuits Janko Roettgers Oct 2 Elon Musk is leading a pressure campaign to make Netflix un-woke Emma Roth Oct 2 Welcome to the Xbox $360 era Tom Warren Oct 2 Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories 2:00 PM UTC With a Friend like this, who needs enemies? 5:08 PM UTC I’ve fallen into Sora’s slippery slop 1:03 PM UTC I tried Amazon and Google’s new smart home gadgets, ask me anything! 3:06 PM UTC The quest for every Gap store playlist ever 4:52 PM UTC Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom 1:57 AM UTC Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved