# Wyndham 45000 Points

**Source**: http://thepointsguy.com/2015/05/wyndham-45000-points/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:40:06.884291+00:00

---

Wyndham Rewards guide to earning, redeeming and elite status - The Points Guy Skip to content Menu Go to Home Page Subscribe Advertiser disclosure Search The Points Guy Advertiser disclosure ADVERTISEMENT Guides Wyndham Rewards: Guide to earning, redeeming and elite status Andrew Kunesh Andrew Kunesh Contributor Andrew is a former senior editor at The Points Guy. He's been a miles and points fanatic since 2014 and previously wrote for Upgraded Points and Credit Karma. Outside of the travel world, Andrew is a technology enthusiast, craft coffee aficionado and — despite now living in NYC — a Chicagoan at heart. Katie Genter Katie Genter Lead writer Katie Genter is a digital nomad who has traveled full time since June 2017. She writes and edits stories about points and miles, and loyalty programs, often letting her personal experiences color these stories. also contributed to this story Dec. 08, 2024 • 15 min read Jump to section Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Copy URL Email The cards we feature here are from partners who compensate us when you are approved through our site, and this may impact how or where these products appear. We don’t cover all available credit cards, but our analysis, reviews, and opinions are entirely from our editorial team. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information. Editor&#x27;s Note This is a recurring post, regularly updated with new information. Wyndham Rewards is one of the lesser-known hotel loyalty programs , especially when compared to major players like Marriott Bonvoy and World of Hyatt . But that doesn&#x27;t mean the program isn&#x27;t worth your time, especially since you can transfer several types of credit card rewards to Wyndham Rewards. So, here&#x27;s what you need to know about the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program. What is Wyndham Rewards? Wyndham Rewards is the loyalty program for Wyndham Hotels &amp; Resorts, which claims to be the &quot;world&#x27;s largest and most diverse hotel company,&quot; with over 9,000 hotels across 24 brands in 95 countries. TRYP BY WYNDHAM NEW YORK CITY TIMES SQUARE / MIDTOWN/FACEBOOK Wyndham includes budget-friendly brands like Howard Johnson, Super 8, Days Inn and Travelodge, as well as higher-end brands like Wyndham Grand, Esplendor Boutique Hotels and Registry Collection Hotels. Despite its sizable worldwide footprint, Wyndham Rewards keeps a pretty low profile, and it doesn&#x27;t offer as many elite benefits as other programs. However, earning Wyndham points is easy, and the program maintains a three-tier award chart. Related: Which credit card should you use for Wyndham stays? Elite status Wyndham Rewards offers four member tiers that offer varying benefits. You&#x27;ll progress to higher tiers as you complete qualifying nights at Wyndham Hotels &amp; Resorts properties each calendar year. Once you earn Wyndham status, you&#x27;ll keep it through the end of the calendar year after you earned it. Remember that nights booked through third-party sites, including online travel agencies, don&#x27;t count toward elite night qualification. Wyndham Blue status All Wyndham Rewards members start at the Blue membership tier, and there aren&#x27;t any requirements you must meet to maintain this tier. Blue members can get free Wi-Fi, roll over qualifying nights to the next calendar year and access discounted room rates. Daily Newsletter Reward your inbox with the TPG Daily newsletter Join over 700,000 readers for breaking news, in-depth guides and exclusive deals from TPG’s experts Email address Sign up By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy . You may unsubscribe at any time. VIVA RESORTS BY WYNDHAM/FACEBOOK Wyndham Gold status Wyndham Rewards members earn Gold status after completing five qualifying nights in a calendar year. In addition to the perks offered to Blue members, Gold members get their preferred room choice, 10% bonus points on stays and late checkout (based on availability). SOFIE DELAUW/GETTY IMAGES Wyndham Platinum status Earning Wyndham Platinum status requires just 15 qualifying nights per calendar year. In addition to the perks offered to Gold members, Platinum members get 15% bonus points on stays and early check-in (based on availability). Platinum members can also enjoy rental car upgrades through Avis and Budget and a status match to Caesars Rewards each February. Related: Caesars Rewards ends card-earned Wyndham status match: How I&#x27;ll still enjoy discounted stays at Atlantis Paradise Island Wyndham Diamond status After staying 40 nights per calendar year, Wyndham members earn top-tier Diamond elite status. In addition to the perks offered to Platinum members, Wyndham Diamond members get 20% bonus points on stays, suite upgrades (upon request and subject to availability), a complimentary snack or beverage when staying at select hotel brands, and the ability to give Gold status to a family member or friend once per calendar year. Related: I don&#x27;t gamble, but I used a casino status match to get a cheap cruise How to earn Wyndham points There are a few different ways you can earn Wyndham points , and one of the most obvious is by staying at Wyndham Hotels &amp; Resorts properties. But here&#x27;s a look at the best ways to earn Wyndham points. Earn Wyndham points on stays As with almost all hotel programs, you&#x27;ll earn points when staying at Wyndham properties based on your spending and status in the Wyndham Rewards program. However, unlike with most hotel loyalty programs, you&#x27;ll usually only earn points on the room rate. Sadly, you usually won&#x27;t earn points on taxes, fees and incidentals you charge to your room. You&#x27;ll earn 10 points per dollar spent — or 1,000 points per stay, whichever is greater — at most Wyndham Hotels &amp; Resorts properties. The one exception is the WaterWalk Extended Stay by Wyndham brand, where you&#x27;ll earn 5 points per dollar when you stay in furnished suites and no points when you stay in other accommodation types. Viva Azteca by Wyndham, A Trademark All Inclusive Resort in Mexico. KATIE GENTER/THE POINTS GUY Wyndham members with status earn a percentage bonus on their base earnings from qualifying Wyndham stays. Specifically, Gold members get a 10% bonus, Platinum members get a 15% bonus and Diamond members get a 20% bonus. Wyndham Rewards occasionally offers promotions that let you earn bonus points on stays. So keep an eye out for Wyndham promotions and register even if you aren&#x27;t sure you&#x27;ll have any qualifying stays during the promotion period. Finally, remember that bookings through third-party online travel agencies usually aren&#x27;t qualifying. So, book your Wyndham stays on the Wyndham website or app to earn points and use your elite status benefits. Earn points with cobranded Wyndham credit cards Wyndham Rewards offers three cobranded credit cards. To earn Wyndham points on everyday purchases, look at the three Wyndham credit cards and assess which is best for your spending habits. Wyndham Rewards Earner® Card : 5 points per dollar spent on eligible purchases made at hotels by Wyndham as well as on qualifying gas purchases, 2 points per dollar spent on eligible dining and grocery store purchases (excluding Target and Walmart), and 1 point per dollar spent on all other purchases (excluding Wyndham Vacation Club down payments) Wyndham Rewards Earner® Plus Card : 6 points per dollar spent on eligible purchases made at hotels by Wyndham as well as on qualifying gas purchases, 4 points per dollar spent on eligible dining and grocery store purchases (excluding Target and Walmart), and 1 point per dollar spent on all other purchases (excluding Wyndham Vacation Club down payments) Wyndham Rewards Earner® Business Card : 8 points per dollar spent on eligible purchases made at hotels by Wyndham as well as on qualifying gas purchases; 5 points per dollar spent on eligible marketing, advertising and utilities purchases; and 1 point per dollar spent on all other purchases (excluding Wyndham Vacation Club down payments) The information for the Wyndham Rewards Earner Card, Wyndham Rewards Earner Plus Card and Wyndham Rewards Earner Business Card has been collected independently by The Points Guy. The card details on this page have not been reviewed or provided by the card issuer. MASKOT/GETTY IMAGES These cards are great for earning Wyndham points, especially if you spend a lot at Wyndham Hotels &amp; Resorts properties and on qualifying gas purchases. The Earner card gives Gold status, the Earner Plus card gives Platinum status and the Earner Business card gives top-tier Diamond status as a cardmember perk. Holders of these three cards can enjoy free nights faster due to a 10% reduction in the number of points they must redeem for free night awards. Specifically, this means free night awards that would normally cost 7,500 points only cost cardmembers 6,750 points. Free night awards that normally cost 15,000 points only cost cardmembers 13,500 points, and free night awards that normally cost 30,000 points only cost cardmembers 27,000 points. WYNDHAMREWARDS.COM The Earner Plus card gives cardmembers 7,500 bonus points each anniversary year, and the Earner Business card gives cardmembers 15,000 bonus points each anniversary year. You&#x27;ll get these bonus points once you pay the renewal fee, but the value of these points should be more than the fee. As such, keeping these Wyndham cards in your wallet for the long term is easy. Related: Which Wyndham Rewards credit card is right for you? Transfer Capital One miles or Citi ThankYou points to Wyndham Rewards You can transfer Capital One miles to Wyndham Rewards at a 1:1 ratio. This means that 1,000 Capital One miles can become 1,000 Wyndham Rewards points. MOMO PRODUCTIONS/GETTY IMAGES You can also transfer Citi