# Spacex Starship Second Flight Explosion Cause

**Source**: https://www.space.com/spacex-starship-second-flight-explosion-cause?ref=wheresyoured.at
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:44:14.174169+00:00

---

'If it had had a payload, it would have made it to orbit.' Elon Musk reveals cause of Starship explosion (video) | Space Skip to main content Open menu Space Sign up to our newsletter Newsletter RSS Sign in View Profile Sign out Search Search Space Space Exploration Launches &amp; Spacecraft Private spaceflight Human spaceflight SpaceX Blue Origin Virgin Galactic United Launch Alliance Search for Life Exoplanets SETI Aliens Missions International Space Station Space Shuttle Apollo Artemis Voyager Asteroid &amp; Comet Missions Mars rovers New Horizons Parker Solar Probe Satellites Astronomy Solar System The Sun Asteroids Mars Comets Mercury Jupiter Saturn Pluto Venus Dwarf Planets Neptune Uranus The Moon Moon Phases The Earth Live 4K video from space Climate Change Weather The Universe Stars Black Holes Dark Universe Galaxies Deep Space James Webb Space Telescope Hubble Space Telescope Stargazing Skywatching Kit Telescopes Cameras Astrophotography Eclipses Lunar Eclipses Solar Eclipses Entertainment Space Movies &amp; Shows Star Trek Star Wars Space Games Space Toys &amp; Lego Space Books Tech &amp; Science Technology Drones Aerospace Science Particle Physics Astrophysics Videos More Subscribe to our Newsletters About Us Web Notifications home Space Exploration View Space Exploration Launches &amp; Spacecraft View Launches &amp; Spacecraft Private spaceflight Human spaceflight SpaceX Blue Origin Virgin Galactic United Launch Alliance Search for Life View Search for Life Exoplanets SETI Aliens Missions View Missions International Space Station Space Shuttle Apollo Artemis Voyager Asteroid &amp; Comet Missions Mars rovers New Horizons Parker Solar Probe Satellites Astronomy View Astronomy Solar System View Solar System The Sun Asteroids Mars Comets Mercury Jupiter Saturn Pluto Venus Dwarf Planets Neptune Uranus The Moon View The Moon Moon Phases The Earth View The Earth Live 4K video from space Climate Change Weather The Universe View The Universe Stars Black Holes Dark Universe Galaxies Deep Space View Deep Space James Webb Space Telescope Hubble Space Telescope Stargazing View Stargazing Skywatching Kit View Skywatching Kit Telescopes Cameras Astrophotography Eclipses View Eclipses Lunar Eclipses Solar Eclipses Entertainment View Entertainment Space Movies &amp; Shows View Space Movies &amp; Shows Star Trek Star Wars Space Games Space Toys &amp; Lego Space Books Tech &amp; Science Technology View Technology Drones Aerospace Science View Science Particle Physics Astrophysics Videos More Subscribe to our Newsletters About Us Web Notifications Trending Next Full Moon Aurora Forecast Live 4K Sen video from space! Night sky tonight! Space Calendar Best Binoculars Best Telescopes Lego Star Wars deals Best Drones Solar System Planets Best Star Projectors Don't miss these Launches &amp; Spacecraft Starship Mars rocket met 'every major objective' on epic Flight 10 test launch, SpaceX says Launches &amp; Spacecraft Starship brings the heat in fiery Flight 10 launch video from SpaceX Launches &amp; Spacecraft Watch a burnt and battered Starship splash down in Indian Ocean to wrap up historic Flight 10 (video, photos) Private Spaceflight SpaceX completes investigation into recent Starship failures, clears the way for Flight 10 Launches &amp; Spacecraft SpaceX scrubs crucial Starship Flight 10 launch again, this time due to weather Launches &amp; Spacecraft SpaceX calls off critical Starship Flight 10 test launch due to 'issue with ground systems' Private Spaceflight SpaceX's giant Starship Mars rocket nails critical 10th test flight in stunning comeback (video) Launches &amp; Spacecraft Firefly Aerospace's Alpha rocket explodes during preflight test Launches &amp; Spacecraft SpaceX Starship Flight 10 launch: Live updates Launches &amp; Spacecraft SpaceX fires up Starship spacecraft ahead of 11th test flight (video) Launches &amp; Spacecraft SpaceX will launch next Starship flight in 'about 3 weeks,' Elon Musk says Launches &amp; Spacecraft SpaceX fires up Starship spacecraft ahead of 10th test flight (video, photos) Launches &amp; Spacecraft SpaceX targeting Oct. 13 for next Starship megarocket launch Launches &amp; Spacecraft What's next for SpaceX's Starship Mars rocket after Flight 10 success? Launches &amp; Spacecraft SpaceX test fires next Super Heavy booster for Starship's 11th upcoming launch (video) Space Exploration Private Spaceflight 'If it had had a payload, it would have made it to orbit.' Elon Musk reveals cause of Starship explosion (video) News By Mike Wall published 16 January 2024 SpaceX's 2nd Starship test flight exploded 8 minutes after liftoff, but Elon Musk says it could have been very different. When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here&rsquo;s how it works . SpaceX's huge Starship rocket launches on its second-ever test flight, on Nov. 18, 2023. (Image credit: SpaceX) SpaceX's giant Starship rocket apparently performed better on its second-ever test flight than its explosive end would suggest. The mission launched from SpaceX's Starbase site in South Texas on Nov. 18 of last year . It ended about eight minutes after liftoff, when Starship's upper-stage spacecraft (called, somewhat confusingly, Starship), detonated high in the Texas sky. But the vehicle was performing quite well until that point,&nbsp;and likely would have continued on that successful path had it been a normal, operational flight, according to SpaceX founder and CEO Elon Musk . You may like Starship Mars rocket met 'every major objective' on epic Flight 10 test launch, SpaceX says Starship brings the heat in fiery Flight 10 launch video from SpaceX Watch a burnt and battered Starship splash down in Indian Ocean to wrap up historic Flight 10 (video, photos) "So, Flight 2 actually almost made it to orbit," Musk said in a recent company update, which SpaceX posted on X on Jan. 12. The explosion was caused by a venting of liquid oxygen, he added &mdash; and there was liquid oxygen left to vent only because Starship wasn't hauling any satellites that day. "We normally wouldn't have that liquid oxygen if we had a payload," Musk said in the update, which he gave at Starbase to a crowd of SpaceX employees. "So, ironically, if it had had a payload, it would have reached orbit." Related: &nbsp; See stunning photos and video of Starship's 2nd launch SpaceX is developing Starship to help humanity settle Mars and achieve other bold exploration feats. The vehicle consists of a first-stage booster called Super Heavy and the Starship upper stage, which is about 165 feet (50 meters) tall. Both of these elements are designed to be fully and rapidly reusable. Get the Space.com Newsletter Breaking space news, the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching events and more! Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. SpaceX has launched two Starship test flights to date, both of them from Starbase. The first, which lifted off on April 20 of last year , ended about four minutes into flight with a controlled detonation. SpaceX ordered that explosion because Starship suffered several serious problems, most notably the failure of its two stages to separate. The Nov. 18 flight went much more smoothly, as Musk noted, giving him optimism for future missions. "I think we've got a really good shot of reaching orbit with Flight 3, and then a rapid cadence to achieve full and rapid reusability," he said in the recent update. SpaceX plans to launch Flight 3 next month , provided the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration issues a license in time. (The FAA is currently overseeing an investigation into what happened on Flight 2.) You may like Starship Mars rocket met 'every major objective' on epic Flight 10 test launch, SpaceX says Starship brings the heat in fiery Flight 10 launch video from SpaceX Watch a burnt and battered Starship splash down in Indian Ocean to wrap up historic Flight 10 (video, photos) Musk hopes this anticipated rapid development leads to an operational capability soon; he said SpaceX aims to start launching its big, next-generation Starlink internet satellites aboard Starship by the end of the year. NASA wants to see Starship get up and running soon as well; the agency selected the vehicle to be the first crewed lander for its Artemis program of moon exploration. Starship will put astronauts down on the lunar surface for the first time on the Artemis 3 mission, which is currently targeted to launch in September 2026 . RELATED STORIES: &#8202;&mdash; &#8202; Starship and Super Heavy: SpaceX's Mars-colonizing transportation system &mdash; &#8202; See stunning photos and video of Starship's 2nd launch &mdash; SpaceX: Facts about Elon Musk's private spaceflight company Starship is already the biggest and most powerful rocket ever built. It stands about 400 feet (122 meters) tall and generates 16.7 million pounds of thrust at liftoff &mdash; nearly twice as much thrust as NASA's&nbsp; Space Launch System &nbsp;megarocket, a core part of the Artemis program. But the current Starship is just a prototype. The final, operational version will be even bigger, Musk said in the recent update. SpaceX is working on "a sort of a Version 2 ship that will be more reliable, better performance, [with better] endurance," he said. "We've got a Version 3 ship design that will stretch, that will be even taller &mdash; probably end up being, I don't know, 140 meters [459 feet] before it's all said and done, maybe 150 [492 feet] in the end, in length." "So, it'll be even taller than it currently is," Musk added with a chuckle. Editor's note: This story was corrected at 8:50 a.m. ET on Jan. 17 to state that Starship produces 16.7 million pounds, not tons, of thrust at liftoff. Join our Space Forums to keep talking space on the late