# Bill Barnwell Week 15 Nfl

**Source**: http://www.grantland.com/story/_/id/10145592/bill-barnwell-week-15-nfl
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:25:16.638284+00:00

---

&raquo; Just Another Day in Dallas Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous Happy Trails to Mr. Football ➤ Next Shut It Down Tom Pennington/Getty Images Facebook Twitter Print NFL Just Another Day in Dallas Who gets the blame for this Cowboys collapse? Plus, all the notable news from Week 15 in the NFL. by Bill Barnwell on December 16, 2013 I t&#8217;s the sequel that only Packers fans, Eagles fans, and Cowboys masochists could have wanted: Tony Romo Screws Things Up at the End XXVII. Sequels always need to go bigger and badder to top the previous edition, though, and while Romo only threw one pick in Dallas&#8217;s heartbreaking loss to Denver in Week 5, he upped the ante by throwing two interceptions in the fourth quarter of Dallas&#8217;s stunning loss at home to Green Bay on Sunday afternoon. It&#8217;s a loss that leaves Cowboys fans reeling, not only by its nature, but by the fact that the Eagles had lost earlier in the day; a Cowboys win could have put Dallas in the driver&#8217;s seat to win the NFC East. Now, the Cowboys will need to win out or spend January on the golf course for the fifth time in six seasons. Even by Cowboys standards, this game was a case of defeat being snatched from the jaws of victory. Dallas had a 23-point lead at halftime; since 1990, teams with a lead between 21 and 24 points at halftime were a combined 277-12 (.958). 1 Dallas allowed a touchdown quickly after halftime, but it still had a 96 percent chance of winning the contest with five minutes to go and managed to blow the game so badly that Matt Flynn actually got to take snaps in the victory formation. Oh, did I mention that Matt Flynn — cut by the Raiders and Bills already this year — was the guy who led this comeback? There are three parties that get blamed for every late Cowboys failure, and it&#8217;s no different this time around. Let&#8217;s review their relative culpability. 1. It&#8217;s Tony Romo&#8217;s fault. Nobody&#8217;s going to enjoy the &#8220;Is Tony Romo clutch?&#8221; debate, so let&#8217;s just skip past that for now. Briefly, though, let&#8217;s run a table and talk about the whole &#8220;Tony Romo can&#8217;t win in December and January&#8221; thing. These are Romo&#8217;s numbers, split by month, over the course of his career. The win-loss records are his records as a starter and include both Romo&#8217;s regular-season and playoff performance. The only game that&#8217;s not included in his win-loss record is a December loss to the Eagles when Romo threw two passes before injuring his hand. Month Record Win% Cmp Att Cmp% Yds Yds/Att TD INT September 16-8 66.7% 546 842 64.8% 6,866 8.2 43 18 October 10-15 40.0% 574 895 64.1% 6,809 7.6 48 36 November 24-5 82.8% 643 971 66.2% 7,918 8.2 64 18 Dec/Jan 13-20 39.4% 737 1,171 62.9% 8,543 7.3 54 30 The problem in believing that there&#8217;s something seriously wrong with Romo in December and January isn&#8217;t that he plays worse in those months or that the Cowboys don&#8217;t win as frequently at the end of the year. He does play a bit worse and they don&#8217;t win as frequently. The problem is that Romo is just as bad in October as he is in December and January. His winning percentage is basically identical and he throws interceptions more frequently in October than he does in December and January. So, if you really believe that there&#8217;s something wrong with Romo at the end of the year, that there&#8217;s some flaw that only comes out when he&#8217;s playing the pressure-filled games at the end of the season, you have to simultaneously explain why he&#8217;s just as bad in October. Can he not handle the pressure of being spooked by ghouls and goblins? Is Cowboys Stadium haunted? Or maybe — just maybe — players&#8217; abilities don&#8217;t change by virtue of the Gregorian calendar? 2 OK. Now that we&#8217;ve cleared that up, it&#8217;s hard to argue that Romo isn&#8217;t at least partly responsible for what happened to the Cowboys on Sunday. Romo ripped the Packers secondary apart during the first half, going 16-of-27 for 250 yards with a touchdown. Things fell apart in the fourth quarter. The Cowboys got three possessions and Romo threw interceptions on two of them, with a third questionably wiped off the board before Romo drove his team down the field for a touchdown. The critical moment that really swung the game was Romo&#8217;s first pick that stood, which came with the Packers down 36-31 and 2:58 left in the game. It is the Romo interception that we would put in a time capsule if we wanted future species to know what the Romocoaster was like. The play starts with a moment of sheer, undeniable brilliance from Romo, as he manages to elude unblocked commercial pitchman/occasional football enthusiast Clay Matthews to keep the play alive. Immediately after doing so, though, Romo&#8217;s improvisational skills tell him to fire a ball into a window that is no longer open, and when he leaves the throw behind Miles Austin, Sam Shields is able to pick the pass off. It&#8217;s a surprise that Romo threw the ball at all; the play was primarily designed to be a run. Jason Garrett alluded to it after the game, and it was misinterpreted afterward in some circles as Romo audibling out of a run play into a pass, but Grantland&#8217;s Chris Brown noted in the moment that the play was designed as a packaged play with multiple options. Watch the video again. The Cowboys&#8217; offensive linemen block like it&#8217;s a run play. Had Romo even had the time to hand it off to DeMarco Murray, Matthews would have swallowed him whole with the backside pursuit. You&#8217;ll also note that every single member of the Packers honors the run-action and heads for the developing point of attack. There&#8217;s no safety helping Shields on that play. If Romo leads Austin, there&#8217;s nobody standing between Austin and the end zone. Romo read the defense properly and was right to think pass. He did an incredible job of eluding Matthews. The slant that Austin was designed to run as the second option on the packaged play had come and gone by the time Romo escaped Matthews&#8217;s clutches, though, and Romo threw it like it was still there. That&#8217;s where the mistake came in. Romo&#8217;s second interception is mostly on Cole Beasley. I don&#8217;t love the decision to throw a two-yard out to the sticks on second-and-1, and I don&#8217;t think Romo realized that Tramon Williams wasn&#8217;t going to sink any deeper, but Beasley freezes in the middle of his route. That just can&#8217;t happen. Beasley took the blame afterward , saying as much. If he completes his route, the pass is either complete or incomplete, but it&#8217;s really difficult for the throw to be intercepted. On the first drive of the fourth quarter, before all that went down, Romo also had a pass ruled to be intercepted on the field before being overturned on replay. I actually didn&#8217;t think there was enough evidence on replay for that ruling to be reversed. That being said, it came on a Romo pass that hit Jason Witten in the hands. I&#8217;ve seen plenty of arguments that the Cowboys shouldn&#8217;t have been throwing the ball at all in those situations. So, then … 2. It&#8217;s Jason Garrett&#8217;s fault. I&#8217;m not buying this one. The Garrett argument says the Cowboys were having success running the ball — with Murray averaging seven yards per carry at one point — and so the Cowboys needed to continue to run the ball to kill clock and pick up, presumably, seven yards every time they wanted. It&#8217;s a lot more complicated than that. For one, as you can see with the interception on the packaged play, play calling isn&#8217;t quite as simple as calling a run play or a pass play these days. Offenses are designed to take advantage of what the defense leaves available, and with the Cowboys having success running the football and the Packers desperately trying to get the ball back down by multiple scores in the second half, what do you think they were setting out to stop? There&#8217;s little sense in running the ball for the sake of running the ball if there are eight men in the box and you have Dez Bryant and Witten at receiver. Furthermore, were the Cowboys really better off running the football? In the second half, they had a total of five possessions. Two were the aforementioned short drives that ended in interceptions. The first was a 13-play drive that took 6:30 off the clock with seven passes and five runs, the latter totaling 16 yards. It produced a 50-yard field goal. The second was a three-and-out with two incomplete passes and a sack that lasted 63 seconds. And the third drive lasted 4:43, with two runs for a total of 20 yards. Romo went 6-for-7 for 50 yards, ending with a touchdown pass to Bryant. Clearly, nobody&#8217;s criticizing the Cowboys for throwing the ball too much that drive. So, then, are we really going to blame Garrett for not calling a running play on what became a three-and-out with his team up 29-17 and 16 minutes to go? On that drive, an open Murray dropped a high-percentage pass on first down, Romo missed James Hanna on second down, and he took a sack (which did keep the clock moving, coincidentally) on third down. And with that much time left, you&#8217;re not trying to burn clock for the sake of burning clock; you&#8217;re trying to score. I consider myself an expert in finding things that Garrett has done wrong, and, I&#8217;m sorry, this just isn&#8217;t registering for me as a primary cause of this loss. 3. It&#8217;s the defense&#8217;s fault. Romo made a bad throw. Garrett could have called for an extra run play or two. Not unreasonable. What about the guys who allowed an offense run by Matt freaking Flynn to score 34 points in the second half? Green Bay scored on each of its five meaningful possessions in the second half, two of which started with excellent field 