# Billnavclient.Xhtml

**Source**: https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=202320240AB309
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:36:59.714330+00:00

---

Bill Text - AB-309 The Social Housing Act. skip to content home accessibility FAQ feedback sitemap login x Quick Search: Bill Number Bill Keyword Home Bill Information California Law Publications Other Resources My Subscriptions My Favorites Bill Information &gt;&gt; Bill Search &gt;&gt; Text Bill Text Bill Information PDF2 Bill PDF | Add To My Favorites | Version: 09/18/23 - Enrolled 09/01/23 - Amended Senate 07/13/23 - Amended Senate 05/01/23 - Amended Assembly 04/03/23 - Amended Assembly 01/26/23 - Introduced AB-309 The Social Housing Act. (2023-2024) Text &gt;&gt; Votes &gt;&gt; History &gt;&gt; Bill Analysis &gt;&gt; Today's Law As Amended &gt;&gt; Compare Versions &gt;&gt; Status &gt;&gt; Comments To Author &gt;&gt; Add To My Favorites &gt;&gt; SHARE THIS: Date Published: 09/18/2023 09:00 PM AB309:v94#DOCUMENT Bill Start Enrolled September 18, 2023 Passed IN Senate September 14, 2023 Passed IN Assembly September 14, 2023 Amended IN Senate September 01, 2023 Amended IN Senate July 13, 2023 Amended IN Assembly May 01, 2023 Amended IN Assembly April 03, 2023 CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 2023–2024 REGULAR SESSION Assembly Bill No. 309 Introduced by Assembly Members Lee, Wendy Carrillo, and Kalra (Coauthors: Assembly Members Bennett, Haney, Jackson, McCarty, Ting, Ward, and Rendon) (Coauthors: Senators Allen, Menjivar, Smallwood-Cuevas, and Wiener) January 26, 2023 An act to add Title 6.91 (commencing with Section 64900) to the Government Code, relating to housing. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGEST AB 309, Lee. The Social Housing Act. Existing law establishes the Department of General Services to provide centralized services, including, but not limited to, planning, acquisition, construction and maintenance of state buildings and property. Existing law authorizes the Director of General Services, with the consent of the state agency concerned, to lease state-owned real property when the Director of General Services deems that leasing serves a beneficial public purpose limited to the development of housing. This bill would enact the Social Housing Act and would create, in the Department of General Services, the Social Housing Program, the mission of which would be to ensure that qualified social housing developments are produced on leased state property to help address the housing crisis, as specified. The bill would authorize the program to identify and develop up to 3 qualified social housing projects, as specified, with the intent to use the results to inform public policy related to developing an independent public entity to develop statewide qualified social housing. The bill would require the program to solicit bids to develop qualified social housing units, and prioritize bids that demonstrate long-term revenue neutrality or a cost rent model, as those terms are defined. The bill would require the program to employ 2 different leasing models, the rental model and the ownership model, as specified, in creating social housing. The bill would prohibit a city or county from denying a social housing development authorized under the program. The bill would authorize a city or county to propose objective design review standards, as specified, and authorize a city or county to propose modifications to mitigate any specific, adverse impacts on public health or safety, as specified. Digest Key Vote: MAJORITY Appropriation: NO Fiscal Committee: YES Local Program: NO Bill Text The people of the State of California do enact as follows: SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following: (a) The housing crisis has reached unprecedented and unacceptable proportions in the State of California, where more than two in five households spend greater than 30 percent of their income on housing and more than one in five households spend greater than 50 percent of their income on housing. (b) The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development defines cost-burdened families as those who pay more than 30 percent of their income for housing and may have difficulty affording necessities such as food, clothing, transportation, and medical care. Severe rent burden is defined as paying more than 50 percent of one’s income on rent. (c) Housing burden creates severe financial, physical, and emotional impacts on households. (d) The affordable housing crisis has imposed a significant toll on the California economy, as overpriced rents depress the California gross domestic product by approximately 2 percent and more than 600,000 people leave the state annually in search of lower rent. (e) Current efforts, while laudable, have proven insufficient in resolving the state’s affordable housing crisis, since 97 percent of cities and counties have been unable to meet the regional housing needs assessment targets for very low income, low-income, and moderate-income housing. (f) With such a great failure to meet the housing needs of California residents, the state has a duty to act and help localities by financing publicly owned, affordable housing built sustainably, based on the widely successful Vienna and Singapore models and many other successful models of mixed-income rental and ownership housing. (g) It is the intent of the Legislature to establish the Social Housing Program to offer the necessary social housing to increase housing production and acquisition in all jurisdictions throughout the state, which will inform the future establishment of an independent public entity to develop, own, and maintain social housing in California. The Legislature intends the program to be the first step in creating social housing in California. Social housing is publicly owned, mixed-income housing, removed from market forces and speculation, and built with the express aim of housing people equitably and affordably. Under public control and oversight, social housing is sustainable and remains affordable in perpetuity. (h) It is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this title to set an ambitious goal for creating social housing, through both new production and preservation of existing units, and to establish the means for achieving that goal. (i) It is further the intent of the Legislature for the Social Housing Program to ensure that no Californian pays more than 30 percent of their income on housing by the year 2050. SEC. 2. Title 6.91 (commencing with Section 64900) is added to the Government Code, to read: TITLE 6.91. THE SOCIAL HOUSING ACT PART 1. General Provisions CHAPTER 1. Title 64900. This title shall be known, and may be cited, as the Social Housing Act. CHAPTER 2. Definitions 64901. Unless the context demands otherwise, the definitions provided by this chapter shall apply to this title. 64902. “Cost rent” means a system in which the rent of a dwelling is calculated on the cost of providing for and maintaining the dwelling, only allowing for limited or no proceeds. 64903. “Revenue neutrality” means a system in which all monetary expenditures that result from the development and operation of social housing owned are returned through rents, payments on leasehold mortgages, or other subsidies, to further the maintenance and development of more social housing units. 64904. “Social housing” means housing with the following characteristics: (a) (1) The housing units or the land on which housing units are built is owned by a government entity. (2) Housing developed or authorized by a public entity that may be owned by the public entity. (b) If the housing unit is in a social housing development, the development contains housing units that accommodate a mix of household income ranges that may include extremely low income, very low income, low income, moderate income, and above moderate income. (c) Residents of housing units are afforded, at a minimum, all protections granted to tenants with tenancies in private property under Section 1946.2 of the Civil Code, including protection against termination without just cause or for any discriminatory, retaliatory, or other arbitrary reason, and shall be afforded due process prior to being subject to eviction procedures, in addition to other protections provided by this title. (d) The housing units or the land on which housing units are built that are owned by a public entity shall be protected for the duration of their useful life from being sold or transferred to a private entity to prevent the privatization of social housing. (e) Residents of the housing units have the right to participate directly and meaningfully in decisionmaking affecting the operation and management of their housing units. PART 2. Social Housing Program CHAPTER 1. Definitions 64910. Unless the context demands otherwise, the definitions provided by this chapter shall apply to this part. 64911. “Social Housing Program” or “program” means the program under the Department of General Services that facilitates the creation of social housing pursuant to this part. 64912. “Cost rent” means a system in which the rent of a dwelling is calculated on the cost of providing for and maintaining the dwelling, only allowing for limited or no proceeds. 64913. “Qualified social housing” means social housing with the following characteristics: (a) The housing units are on state property leased pursuant to Section 14671.2. (b) The land on which the social housing is developed or authorized by the program is owned by the Department of General Services and managed by a private entity. 64914. “Revenue neutrality” means a system in which all monetary expenditures that result from the development and operation of social housing owned by the program are returned to the program through rents, payments on leasehold mortgages, or other subsidies, to further the maintenance and development of more social housing units. CHAPTER 2. Creation 64915. (a) The Social Housing Program is hereby created in the Department of General Services. (b) The core mission of the program shall be to ensure that social housing developments are produced on state prope