# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Developmental%20Psychology&title=Family,%20school,%20and%20behavioral%20antecedents%20to%20early%20adolescent%20involvement%20with%20antisocial%20peers&author=TJ%20Dishion&author=GR%20Patterson&author=M%20Stoolmiller&author=ML%20Skinner&volume=27&issue=1&publication_year=1991&pages=172-180&
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:35:34.862506+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.04 sec) My profile My library Lookup [PDF] researchgate.net Family, school, and behavioral antecedents to early adolescent involvement with antisocial peers. TJ Dishion , GR Patterson , M Stoolmiller… - Developmental …, 1991 - psycnet.apa.org TJ Dishion , GR Patterson , M Stoolmiller, ML Skinner Developmental psychology, 1991 • psycnet.apa.org This study focuses on the prediction of early adolescent involvement with antisocial peers from boys&#39; experiences in school, family, and behavior at age 10 yrs. 206 boys and their families were assessed at school, interviewed, observed in the home, and then followed up at age 12 yrs. Poor parental discipline and monitoring practices, peer rejection, and academic failure at age 10 yrs were prognostic of involvement with antisocial peers at age 12 yrs. Considerable continuity was also found between the boys&#39; antisocial behavior and … Abstract This study focuses on the prediction of early adolescent involvement with antisocial peers from boys&#39; experiences in school, family, and behavior at age 10 yrs. 206 boys and their families were assessed at school, interviewed, observed in the home, and then followed up at age 12 yrs. Poor parental discipline and monitoring practices, peer rejection, and academic failure at age 10 yrs were prognostic of involvement with antisocial peers at age 12 yrs. Considerable continuity was also found between the boys&#39; antisocial behavior and contact with antisocial peers at age 10 yrs. After controlling for such continuity, only academic failure and peer rejection remained as significant predictors. These data indicate a need to study the ecological context of deviant peer networks in middle childhood.(PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2016 APA, all rights reserved) American Psychological Association Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 1896 Related articles All 11 versions Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help