# Technology

**Source**: https://www.bbc.com/news/technology
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:51:52.498401+00:00

---

BBC Innovation | Technology, Health, Environment, AI Skip to content Watch Live British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Technology Science &amp; Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US &amp; Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science &amp; Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film &amp; TV Music Art &amp; Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean &amp; Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture &amp; Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList To the Ends of The Earth Earth Natural Wonders Weather &amp; Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcast Categories Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Watch Live Innovation Should you turn to AI for advice on love? More people are turning to AI for help with their relationships, but is that a good idea? 1 day ago How real-time translation could transform travel Apple&#x27;s new live translation feature is a boon for travellers, but over-reliance on AI translation could make us rethink how, and why, we learn languages. 13 hrs ago Travel Sign up to Tech Decoded Decode the biggest developments in global technology, in your inbox every Monday and Friday. Dame Jane Goodall revolutionised our understanding of our closest primate cousins The conservationist, who died aged 91 on Wednesday, challenged how we relate to the natural world. 2 days ago Science &amp; Environment Xbox Game Pass price increase angers players Is the subscription service once called &quot;the best deal in gaming&quot; still great value for players? 2 days ago Newsbeat How real-time translation could transform travel Apple&#x27;s new live translation feature is a boon for travellers, but over-reliance on AI translation could make us rethink how, and why, we learn languages. 13 hrs ago Travel Ghost of Yōtei: PlayStation puts blockbusters back on the menu Sony&#x27;s latest PlayStation blockbuster is a long-awaited return to its trusted single-player formula. 15 hrs ago Newsbeat World-renowned wildlife photographer against the algorithm Tech Now meets British wildlife photographer Tim Flach facing new challenges from AI mimicking his images. 16 hrs ago Tech Now The &#x27;clock&#x27; that starts ticking when life ends When something dies, a telltale radioactive signal ticks like a natural clock. Discovering it helped us solve all sorts of natural mysteries. 2 days ago Future Sign up to Tech Decoded Decode the biggest developments in global technology, in your inbox every Monday and Friday. Artificial Intelligence Startup creates technology to fight cyber attacks FarX combines voice and facial recognition with artificial intelligence to add extra protection. Musk becomes world&#x27;s first half-trillionaire The rise has been driven by a sharp increase in the value of his electric car company Tesla. Emily Blunt among Hollywood stars outraged over &#x27;AI actor&#x27; Tilly Norwood The AI actress is apparently in talks with Hollywood talent agencies to represent her on the big screen. Health Decoded Do you need to drink electrolytes to stay hydrated? Electrolyte-packed drinks are said to optimise health and hydration. But do we really need them? 7 August 2025 Share Explore More The health benefits of drinking matcha tea 24 Jul 2025 Health Decoded Why walking backwards can be good for your health 10 Jul 2025 Health Decoded The hidden calories we consume without knowing 26 Jun 2025 Health Decoded Simple tips for cutting back on ultra-processed foods 12 Jun 2025 Health Decoded An immersive therapy that can improve your sleep 29 May 2025 Health Decoded Eight simple steps to help you live longer 15 May 2025 Health Decoded How your &#x27;second brain&#x27; changes the way you think 1 May 2025 Health Decoded Why you might be younger than you think you are 16 Apr 2025 Health Decoded The &#x27;healthier&#x27; sweetener that could replace sugar 3 Apr 2025 Health Decoded A powerful way to improve your fitness 20 Mar 2025 Health Decoded Why drinking coffee can benefit your health 6 Mar 2025 Health Decoded How to change your personality traits with intention 20 Feb 2025 Health Decoded How you can think yourself well 6 Feb 2025 Health Decoded Why being a &#x27;loner&#x27; could be good for you 23 Jan 2025 Health Decoded An eating habit that helps you maintain a healthy weight 9 Jan 2025 Health Decoded A simple practice that is good for stress 19 Dec 2024 Health Decoded How immersion in nature can make you feel calmer 5 Dec 2024 Health Decoded The benefits of being a &#x27;weekend warrior&#x27; 21 Nov 2024 Health Decoded Why friendships are key to living longer 7 Nov 2024 Health Decoded How to reset your brain with your breath 10 Oct 2024 Health Decoded The vegetable that can protect you from cancer 26 Sep 2024 Health Decoded A simple and tasty way to reduce wrinkles and keep your skin healthy 12 Sep 2024 Health Decoded Why improving your nutrition will help you think better 29 Aug 2024 Health Decoded The surprising benefits of self-soothing touch 15 Aug 2024 Health Decoded How your gut microbes shape your health 25 Jul 2024 Health Decoded Is cold water swimming good for you? 12 Jul 2024 Science &amp; Health Why women &#x27;need less exercise than men&#x27; 28 Jun 2024 Science &amp; Health How &#x27;tapping therapy&#x27; can help calm your mind 14 Jun 2024 Health Decoded Can this mineral help reduce anxiety? 1 Jun 2024 Science &amp; Health Features A lone figure in an eerie London lockdown In September 2020, rising Covid-19 cases plunged London into another lockdown. One photographer roamed the city&#x27;s financial district amid an eerie emptiness. See more The forgotten first king of England In his lifetime, the first king of England was renowned throughout Europe. But over the centuries, he has been sidelined by history. 5 days ago Future How to future-proof your knees Our knees are arguably one of our most important joints, but also one of the most poorly looked after. Science tells us putting in some work now pays dividends later. 7 days ago Future The truth about caffeine and scary dreams Some people report experiencing more vivid dreams within days of reducing their caffeine intake. What&#x27;s going on? 20 Sep 2025 Future What it&#x27;s like to fly an 80-year-old WW2 bomber The Commemorative Air Force in the US flies the only two airworthy Boeing B-29s, the most expensive weapon of World War Two. One pilot tells the BBC what it feels like to fly them. 19 Sep 2025 Future The ancient origins of today&#x27;s personality types First suggested in ancient Greece, the four &#x27;humours&#x27; personality types have shaped how we view ourselves for thousands of years – and still look oddly familiar today. 17 Sep 2025 Future How to future-proof your knees Our knees are arguably one of our most important joints, but also one of the most poorly looked after. Science tells us putting in some work now pays dividends later. 7 days ago Future What happens when you feel no fear? A small number of people have a rare condition that means they&#x27;re not scared of anything. How do they live a life without fear? 25 Sep 2025 Future The 3,000-year-old story hidden in the @ sign In Taiwan they call @ &quot;little mouse&quot;. It&#x27;s &quot;strudel&quot; in Hebrew, &quot;dog&quot; in Russian and &quot;monkey&#x27;s tail&quot; in Dutch. The @ sign is a mirror, and its story goes back thousands of years. 24 Sep 2025 Future Should you shower in the morning or the evening? Some people prefer to shower in the morning, others in the evening. Who is doing it the right way? 21 Sep 2025 Future The truth about caffeine and scary dreams Some people report experiencing more vivid dreams within days of reducing their caffeine intake. What&#x27;s going on? 20 Sep 2025 Future Watch The race to predict wildfires before they ignite We go behind the scenes with innovators building cutting-edge tools to forecast and fight wildfires. 23 Sep 2025 Tech Now The fascinating history of the QR code QR codes are used in so many areas of our lives. Tech Now explains the story behind their creation. 19 Sep 2025 Tech Now Tallulah Metcalfe&#x27;s four tips for dealing with online trolls Influencer Tallulah Metcalfe took part in the BBC Teen Summit in Bradford, and gave us her best tips. 16 Sep 2025 Technology Three tips on how to use your phone less Dr Kaitlyn Regehr has this advice to help you stop looking at your phone and go on a digital detox. 16 Sep 2025 Technology How space-based solar power can fuel our Earth Tech Now explores how space innovation could help solve the Earth&#x27;s energy challenges. 11 Sep 2025 Tech Now Why the US is going back to the moon after 50 years Katty Kay interviews Eileen Collins on Artemis, diversity in space, and how lunar missions prepare us for Mars. 7 Sep 2025 Science &amp; Health The aquatic drone cleaning up waterways Tech Now visits a startup in the Netherlands tackling marine pollution with an autonomous robot that gobbles up waste. 5 Sep 2025 Tech Now How tech is helping the world’s most endangered species Tech Now gets up close to black rhinos at a new conservation centre in the UK. 29 Aug 2025 Tech Now Is this how AI might eliminate humanity? A new research paper predicts AI autonomy by 2027 could lead to human extinction within a decade. 22 Aug 2025 Tech Now The best-case scenario for AI in schools Amid fears about the use of AI in classrooms, Americ