# For Most Us Workers Real Wages Have Barely Budged For Decades

**Source**: https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2018/08/07/for-most-us-workers-real-wages-have-barely-budged-for-decades/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:05:53.091842+00:00

---

For most Americans, real wages have barely budged for decades | Pew Research Center Numbers, Facts and Trends Shaping Your World Newsletters Press My Account Donate Contacted By Us? Read our research on: Artificial Intelligence Middle East Donald Trump Search Research Topics Topics Politics &amp; Policy International Affairs Immigration &amp; Migration Race &amp; Ethnicity Religion Age &amp; Generations Gender &amp; LGBTQ Family &amp; Relationships Economy &amp; Work Science Internet &amp; Technology News Habits &amp; Media Methodological Research Full Topic List Regions &amp; Countries Asia &#038; the Pacific Europe &#038; Russia Latin America Middle East &#038; North Africa North America Sub-Saharan Africa Multiple Regions / Worldwide Formats Feature Fact Sheet Video Data Essay Publications Our Methods Short Reads Tools &amp; Datasets Experts About Us Research Topics Publications Short Reads Tools &amp; Datasets About Pew Research Center Newsletters Press My Account Contacted By Us? Search Read Our Research On: Artificial Intelligence Middle East Donald Trump Home Research Topics Economy &amp; Work Income, Wealth &amp; Poverty Economic Inequality Short Reads | August 7, 2018 X Facebook Threads LinkedIn WhatsApp Share For most U.S. workers, real wages have barely budged in decades By Drew DeSilver On the face of it, these should be heady times for American workers. U.S. unemployment is as low as it&#8217;s been in nearly two decades (3.9% as of July) and the nation&#8217;s private-sector employers have been adding jobs for 101 straight months – 19.5 million since the Great Recession-related cuts finally abated in early 2010, and 1.5 million just since the beginning of the year. But despite the strong labor market, wage growth has lagged economists&#8217; expectations . In fact, despite some ups and downs over the past several decades, today&#8217;s real average wage (that is, the wage after accounting for inflation) has about the same purchasing power it did 40 years ago. And what wage gains there have been have mostly flowed to the highest-paid tier of workers. The disconnect between the job market and workers&#8217; paychecks has fueled much of the recent activism in states and cities around raising minimum wages , and it also has become a factor in at least some of this year&#8217;s congressional campaigns . Average hourly earnings for non-management private-sector workers in July were $22.65, up 3 cents from June and 2.7% above the average wage from a year earlier, according to data from the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. That&#8217;s in line with average wage growth over the past five years: Year-over-year growth has mostly ranged between 2% and 3% since the beginning of 2013. But in the years just before the 2007-08 financial collapse, average hourly earnings often increased by around 4% year-over-year. And during the high-inflation years of the 1970s and early 1980s, average wages commonly jumped 7%, 8% or even 9% year-over-year. After adjusting for inflation, however, today&#8217;s average hourly wage has just about the same purchasing power it did in 1978, following a long slide in the 1980s and early 1990s and bumpy, inconsistent growth since then. In fact, in real terms average hourly earnings peaked more than 45 years ago: The $4.03-an-hour rate recorded in January 1973 had the same purchasing power that $23.68 would today. A similar measure – the &#8220; usual weekly earnings &#8221; of employed, full-time wage and salary workers – tells much the same story, albeit over a shorter time period. In seasonally adjusted current dollars, median usual weekly earnings rose from $232 in the first quarter of 1979 (when the data series began) to $879 in the second quarter of this year, which might sound like a lot. But in real, inflation-adjusted terms, the median has barely budged over that period: That $232 in 1979 had the same purchasing power as $840 in today&#8217;s dollars. Meanwhile, wage gains have gone largely to the highest earners. Since 2000, usual weekly wages have risen 3% (in real terms) among workers in the lowest tenth of the earnings distribution and 4.3% among the lowest quarter. But among people in the top tenth of the distribution, real wages have risen a cumulative 15.7%, to $2,112 a week – nearly five times the usual weekly earnings of the bottom tenth ($426). Cash money isn&#8217;t the only way workers are compensated, of course – health insurance, retirement-account contributions, tuition reimbursement, transit subsidies and other benefits all can be part of the package. But wages and salaries are the biggest ( about 70% , according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics) and most visible component of employee compensation. Wage stagnation has been a subject of much economic analysis and commentary , though perhaps predictably there&#8217;s little agreement about what&#8217;s causing it (or, indeed, whether the BLS data adequately capture what&#8217;s going on). One theory is that rising benefit costs – particularly employer-provided health insurance – may be constraining employers&#8217; ability or willingness to raise cash wages. According to BLS-generated compensation cost indices , total benefit costs for all civilian workers have risen an inflation-adjusted 22.5% since 2001 (when the data series began), versus 5.3% for wage and salary costs. Other factors that have been suggested include the continuing decline of labor unions ; lagging educational attainment relative to other countries; noncompete clauses and other restrictions on job-switching; a large pool of potential workers who are outside the formally defined labor force , neither employed nor seeking work; and broad employment declines in manufacturing and production sectors and a consequent shift toward job growth in low-wage industries. Sluggish and uneven wage growth has been cited as a key factor behind widening income inequality in the United States. A recent Pew Research Center report , based on an analysis of household income data from the Census Bureau, found that in 2016 Americans in the top tenth of the income distribution earned 8.7 times as much as Americans in the bottom tenth ($109,578 versus $12,523). In 1970, when the analysis period began, the top tenth earned 6.9 times as much as the bottom tenth ($63,512 versus $9,212). Note: This is an update to a post originally published Oct. 9, 2014. Topics Business &amp; Workplace Economic Conditions Economic Inequality Income &amp; Wages Share This Link: X Facebook Threads LinkedIn WhatsApp Share Drew DeSilver is a senior writer at Pew Research Center . Related short reads Feb 12, 2025 A look at Black-owned businesses in the U.S. short reads Jan 13, 2025 Many remote workers say they’d be likely to leave their job if they could no longer work from home report Dec 10, 2024 Most Americans Feel Good About Their Job Security but Not Their Pay short reads Nov 19, 2024 Views of DEI have become slightly more negative among U.S. workers short reads Apr 22, 2024 A look at small businesses in the U.S. TOPICS Business &amp; Workplace Economic Conditions Economic Inequality Income &amp; Wages Most Popular 1 Congress has long struggled to pass spending bills on time 2 Americans view Trump, Vance and congressional leaders in both parties more negatively than positively 3 Teens, Social Media and Mental Health 4 Americans increasingly see legal sports betting as a bad thing for society and sports 5 1 in 5 Americans now regularly get news on TikTok, up sharply from 2020 901 E St. NW, Suite 300 Washington,&nbsp;DC&nbsp;20004 USA (+1) 202-419-4300&nbsp;|&nbsp;Main (+1) 202-857-8562&nbsp;|&nbsp;Fax (+1) 202-419-4372&nbsp;|&nbsp; Media Inquiries Research Topics Politics &amp; Policy International Affairs Immigration &amp; Migration Race &amp; Ethnicity Religion Age &amp; Generations Gender &amp; LGBTQ Family &amp; Relationships Economy &amp; Work Science Internet &amp; Technology News Habits &amp; Media Methodological Research Follow Us Email Newsletters YouTube Instagram Facebook LinkedIn X Bluesky Threads RSS Feed ABOUT PEW RESEARCH CENTER &nbsp;Pew Research Center is a nonpartisan, nonadvocacy fact tank that informs the public about the issues, attitudes and trends shaping the world. It does not take policy positions. The Center conducts public opinion polling, demographic research, computational social science research and other data-driven research. Pew Research Center is a subsidiary of The Pew Charitable Trusts , its primary funder. © 2025 Pew Research Center About Terms &amp; Conditions Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Feedback Careers Contact Us Privacy Notice We use cookies and other technologies to help improve your experience; some are necssary for the site to work, and some are optional. Lean more in our privacy policy . Essential Cookies These cookies are required for the website to function and cannot be switched off. Analytics Cookies These cookies are used to collect information about how you use our website. Marketing Cookies These cookies are used to track your activity and show you personalized content. Preferences These cookies allow the website to remember choices you make. Accept All Cookies Accept only necessary cookies Cookie Settings Save Preferences