# 24071 How To Cook Chicken Thighs In A Pan

**Source**: https://food52.com/blog/24071-how-to-cook-chicken-thighs-in-a-pan
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:48:20.607670+00:00

---

How to Cook Chicken in a Pan - Best Cast Iron Skillet Chicken Recipe This Week&#x27;s Mood: Dinner &amp; a Movie This Week&#x27;s Mood: Dinner &amp; a Movie Schoolhouse Dansk Search Shop New Best Sellers Exclusively at Food52 Featured Makers Kitchen Kitchen Utensils &amp; Tools Kitchen Storage &amp; Organization Countertop Organization Food Storage Kitchen Linens Cutting Boards Coffee &amp; Tea Accessories Knives Cookware Frying Pans &amp; Skillets Baking &amp; Roasting Pans Dutch Ovens &amp; Stock Pots Sauce &amp; Saute Pans Cookware Sets Tabletop Dinnerware Glassware Table Linens Flatware &amp; Serving Utensils Serveware Outdoor Entertaining Home Organization &amp; Storage Cleaning &amp; Laundry Bath Towels &amp; Accessories Vases &amp; Decorative Objects Clocks &amp; Lighting Candles &amp; Candle Holders Planters Shop All Recipes Popular Quick and Easy 5 Ingredients or Fewer Cocktails Appetizers Ingredients Chicken Steak Salmon Pasta Potato Rice Meals &amp; Dishes Breakfast Lunch Dinner Salad Sweet Treats Lifestyle Vegetarian Vegan Gluten-Free Alcohol-Free Drinks Tools &amp; Techniques One Pot Sheet Pan No Bake Grill Life Travel Hosting &amp; Entertainment Parenting Pets Kitchen Sink Crafts &amp; Hobbies Community View All Food Recipes How To &amp; Hacks Meal Planning Baking Trending &amp; Seasonal Drinks Community Hotline View All Home Style &amp; Design Cleaning &amp; Organizing Outdoors Renovation Home Tours View All Watch Shop All Shop New Best Sellers Exclusively at Food52 Featured Makers Kitchen Kitchen Utensils &amp; Tools Kitchen Storage &amp; Organization Countertop Organization Food Storage Kitchen Linens Cutting Boards Coffee &amp; Tea Accessories Knives Cookware Frying Pans &amp; Skillets Baking &amp; Roasting Pans Dutch Ovens &amp; Stock Pots Sauce &amp; Saute Pans Cookware Sets Tabletop Dinnerware Glassware Table Linens Flatware &amp; Serving Utensils Serveware Outdoor Entertaining Home Organization &amp; Storage Cleaning &amp; Laundry Bath Towels &amp; Accessories Vases &amp; Decorative Objects Clocks &amp; Lighting Candles &amp; Candle Holders Planters Shop all Shop Recipes All Recipes Popular Quick and Easy 5 Ingredients or Fewer Cocktails Appetizers Ingredients Chicken Steak Salmon Pasta Potato Rice Meals &amp; Dishes Breakfast Lunch Dinner Salad Sweet Treats Lifestyle Vegetarian Vegan Gluten-Free Alcohol-Free Drinks Tools &amp; Techniques One Pot Sheet Pan No Bake Grill Life All Life Travel Hosting &amp; Entertainment Parenting Pets Kitchen Sink Crafts &amp; Hobbies Community Shop all Life Food All Food Recipes How To &amp; Hacks Meal Planning Baking Trending &amp; Seasonal Drinks Community Hotline Shop all Food Home All Home Style &amp; Design Cleaning &amp; Organizing Outdoors Renovation Home Tours Shop all Home Watch Account 0 Items in your Cart Your shopping cart is empty. Continue Shopping The Crispy Skillet Chicken I Could Eat Every Single Night With asparagus, bacon, and schmaltz-fried potatoes. By Emma Laperruque Published On April 23, 2019 Photo by Ty Mecham You can cook chicken thighs a million and one ways, but there’s one method I turn to over and over: a cast-iron skillet and surprisingly low heat. I first learned this Genius technique from my co-worker Kristen Miglore, who learned it from Melissa Hamilton and Christopher Hirsheimer. Basically, you salt-and-pepper the thighs, place them in a pan over medium heat, and leave them alone. Fast-forward 15 to 30 minutes later and the skin is as crispy as a potato chip. Flip, cook a little longer, and you’ve got the best chicken thighs of your life. The obvious follow-up question is: What do you serve them with? But the better question is: What do you do with all that rendered chicken fat? I’m supposed to tell you to put it in a jar and keep it in the fridge for future sautéed vegetables. But any time I do this myself, I forget about said jar, and end up asking my husband three weeks later, “What is this?” (I don’t know.) “Can I throw it out?” (Uh, sure.) And into the trash it goes. Using the chicken fat immediately not only avoids this unfortunate fate, but ties the whole dish together. Such was the idea behind this weeknight favorite of mine: Featured Video See all Food52 videos Instead of using olive oil to pan-fry the croutons and sautée the kale: chicken fat to the rescue! I love how that rich flavor connects the components—and, you know, the fact that you get to reuse the same pan is pretty cool, too. This recipe is just like that, but make it spring. Instead of wintry kale, we have plucky asparagus. And instead of torn bread, there are tiny potatoes. Bacon joins the party because bacon is delicious. Bacon also gives us another flavorful fat to play around with. Think of it like a rendered fat relay (what, like your high school didn’t have those?). Cook the chicken thighs, then smash-fry the potatoes in that chicken fat. Cook the bacon , then sauté the asparagus in that bacon fat. (Psst: Blanching both the potatoes and asparagus beforehand not only gives them a head start, but seasons them throughout with salt.) If this all sounds very rich, it’s not—thanks to garlic, red pepper flakes, lemon juice, and Dijon mustard. These assertive players keep the whole dish feeling bright and sprightly, just like I want all my spring dinners to be. More from Food52 Our 52 Most Popular Products of All Time Why We Love the Dansk Pitcher Our 5 Best Skewer Recipes 13 Essentials for Setting a Farmhouse-Inspired Table What&#x27;s your favorite way to cook chicken thighs? Tell in the comments! Our best tips for eating thoughtfully and living joyfully, right in your inbox. Subscribe Company About Us DEI Vision Press Jobs Affiliate Program Get Help Contact &amp; FAQ Gift Cards Advertising Inquiries Social Facebook Instagram Pinterest TikTok YouTube © 2025 Food52, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Code of Conduct Accessibility Policy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. When you visit our website, we collect and use personal information about you using cookies. You may opt out of selling, sharing, or disclosure of personal data for targeted advertising (called &quot;Do Not Sell or Share&quot; in California) by enabling the Global Privacy Control on a compatible browser. See our Privacy Policy for further information. Accept