# Employment And Hiring By Job Zone

**Source**: https://www.adpresearch.com/employment-and-hiring-by-job-zone/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:56:18.688379+00:00

---

Finding a job has gotten harder, especially for jobs that require a bachelor&#039;s degree - ADP Research Search Menu Close Topics All Topics Employee Experience Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Pay Resilience The Definitive Series Workforce Reports National Employment Report (NER) Jobs Report Pay Insights Today at Work Today at Work &#8211; 2025 Issue 2 All Issues Data Lab Main Street Macro Media Events About Topics All Topics Employee Experience Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Pay Resilience The Definitive Series Workforce Reports National Employment Report (NER) Jobs Report Pay Insights Today at Work Today at Work - 2025 Issue 2 All Issues Data Lab Main Street Macro Media Events About Search Search for: Data Lab / Finding a job has gotten harder, especially for jobs that require a bachelor&#8217;s degree Hiring Development Employment Finding a job has gotten harder, especially for jobs that require a bachelor&#8217;s degree July 19, 2024 by Ben Hanowell Share this Since 2019, hiring rates among workers aged 20 to 29 have grown more slowly for jobs that require a bachelor&#8217;s degree or equivalent training and experience than for jobs with other requirements. That finding , which we published in June, suggests that recent college graduates will have to search harder than they did a few years ago for jobs that align with their education. Does that same challenge extend to the entire labor market? To address this question, we re-ran our previous analysis to include all workers regardless of age. We looked at data representing more than 16 million people at more than 31,000 U.S. employers from January 2019 through May 2024 1 Precisely 16,449,458 people at 31,389 employers. To reduce the effect of changes over time in the ADP client base, we required employers to be in the sample for the full study period. . First, a review of definitions How we measure a job’s typical education requirements Payroll data doesn’t tell us the educational attainment of workers. To fill that gap, we map job titles to the Department of Labor’s Occupational Information Network (O*NET) Job Zones , which measure the education, experience, and training that jobs require. 2 ADP uses a proprietary algorithm to map the job titles that employers enter into O*NET-SOC (Standard Occupational Classification) codes, which O*NET categorizes by Job Zone. Occupations fall into one of five Job Zones, each with its own typical education requirements. Job Zone Job Zone name Typical education requirement 1 Little or no preparation Might require a high school diploma or GED 2 Some preparation Usually require a high school diploma 3 Medium preparation Require a vocational school or associate&#8217;s degree 4 Considerable preparation Most require a bachelor&#8217;s degree 5 Extensive preparation Most require graduate school How we measure employment growth We measured the change in monthly employment growth each month by dividing the number of jobs within each Job Zone by their level in January 2019. How we measure the pace of hiring We counted the number of people hired into each Job Zone each month. We divided the number of these hires by employment in the same Job Zone and month. The result gives us the rate that employers grew their headcount in each Job Zone. We present the result as a percentage, which gives the rate per 100 people employed that month. In a slight departure from our June analysis of younger workers, we compare trends in hiring rates by looking at their monthly annual percent change. The June analysis looked instead at a hiring rate index constructed much like we do for employment. We made this change because the hiring rate index is strongly seasonal, making comparisons across job types and age groups more difficult. For jobs requiring bachelor&#8217;s degrees, employment grew faster since 2019, but hiring has fallen more since mid-2022 For both workers age 20 to 29 and the total labor market, hiring rates for jobs that typically require a bachelor&#8217;s degree have shown the steepest annual declines since mid-2022. In fact, hiring rate trends for both groups follow similar paths across all job requirement categories, with some notable differences. First, hiring rates from mid-2021 to mid-2022 increased more slowly for younger workers But how can employment grow faster for jobs that require college degrees while their hiring rates are shrinking? Remember: employment grows at a rate equal to the difference between hiring and turnover rates. As hiring rates fell for jobs that require college degrees, turnover rates fell even more. For jobs without advanced degree requirements, turnover rates fell more slowly by comparison to hiring rates, leading to slower growth in that sector of the labor market. Thank you! We look forward to staying connected and sharing our latest research and discoveries about the world of work. Continue browsing research Stay Connected We will send you an email with our latest research and discoveries about the world of work as they are published. Enter your email and be the first to learn what we've discovered. Please complete all fields. Enter a valid email address Role/Function CEO/COO CHRO HR Director/Manager HR Business Partner Chief Talent Officer Talent Director/Manager People Data Analyst Data Scientist HRIS Director/Administrator Professor/Scientist Team Leader Business Leader Individual Contributor Other Country Afghanistan Åland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, The Democratic Republic of The Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote D'ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and Mcdonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and The Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and The South Sandwich Islands Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Timor-leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Viet Nam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe I accept to receive emails about the Research Institute news. Please accept this condition By clicking the button below, you acknowledge that you have read our Privacy Statement and agree to our Terms of Use . &nbsp; &nbsp; Stay Connected Your privacy is assured. Thank you! We look forward to staying connected and sharing our latest research and discoveries about the world of work. Continue browsing research Stay up to date with Today at Work Please complete all fields. Enter a valid email address Role/Function CEO/COO CHRO HR Director/Manager HR Business Partner Chief Talent Officer Talent Director/Manager People Data Analyst Data Scientist HRIS Director/Administrator Professor/Scientist Team Leader Business Leader Individual Contributor Other Country Afghanistan Åland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, The Democratic Republic of The Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote D'ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories