# Kobe Bryant Bobby Mcilvaine Upper Dublin Lower Merion September 11 20200409.Html

**Source**: https://www.inquirer.com/sports/kobe-bryant-bobby-mcilvaine-upper-dublin-lower-merion-september-11-20200409.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:14:07.030801+00:00

---

How Kobe Bryant’s death brought Bobby McIlvaine — an athlete, a scholar, the friend I should’ve known better — back to life | Mike Sielski Skip to content Friday, October 3, 2025 Today&#x27;s Paper | Inquirer Food Fest Sign In / Sign Up Sign in SUBSCRIBE Special offer Keep reading by creating a free account or signing in. Sign in/Sign up Subscribe Support local news Sign out Gameday Central Eagles Phillies Sixers Flyers Union Colleges Columnists High School The Score Advertisement Opinion Gift this article! Link Icon Copy gift link Facebook Logo Gift via Facebook X Gift via X Email Gift via Email Link copied to clipboard Share Icon Link Icon Copy link Facebook Logo Share on Facebook X Share on X Email Share via Email Link copied to clipboard How Kobe Bryant’s death brought Bobby McIlvaine — an athlete, a scholar, the friend I should’ve known better — back to life | Mike Sielski In January, Inquirer columnist Mike Sielski received a video of Kobe Bryant's second game at Lower Merion High School. He posted it on Facebook. What followed was a miracle. Bobby McIlvaine was Upper Dublin&#x27;s starting shooting guard in 1992-93. The team won just three games, but he scored 16 points in the Flying Cardinals&#x27; second game, against Kobe Bryant and Lower Merion. Read more Photo by Mike Sielski by Mike Sielski | Columnist Published April 9, 2020, 5:00 a.m. ET On the day after Kobe Bryant died, a friend and high school classmate of mine sent me an email that carried the force of a punch I couldn’t see coming. “Thought you’d find this interesting,” Ben Relles wrote. Embedded in the message was a link to a 36-second video. I clicked on the link, then gasped. On the right side of the video’s split-screen shot was Kobe, wearing a charcoal scoop-neck sweater, sitting at an expansive cherry desk, riveted to flickering images on a laptop. He was in the executive offices of YouTube, where Ben was working to find original content for the platform. Kobe had gone to the company’s Southern California headquarters in January 2018 to pitch a show based on Wizenard , a series of children’s books he had created that combined the themes of sports, fantasy, and magic. As it turned out, YouTube wasn’t funding children’s programming at the time and didn’t buy the show, but “it was genuinely one of the most impressive pitches I’ve heard,” Ben said. “He was incredibly passionate about the idea and clearly hands-on in every aspect of it.” Advertisement On the video’s left side were the images that had grabbed Kobe’s attention: footage of a high school basketball game from 1992, Lower Merion vs. my alma mater, Upper Dublin. Ben and I were seniors then. He was a backup forward on the team. I was an editor of the student newspaper and lacked the skills and athleticism to play organized ball beyond intramurals. Kobe Bryant was a freshman at Lower Merion. It was the second game of his high school career. In those 36 seconds, an Upper Dublin player close to the camera, the No. 24 gigantic on the back of his red jersey, whipped a crosscourt pass to a teammate, Ari Greis, who caught the ball on the right wing, used a left-handed dribble to surge past Kobe, and banked in a floater from the lane. A family friend of Ben’s had filmed the game, and Ben, having kept the tape all these years and knowing he would be sitting down with Kobe, had converted the recording to a digital file. Then, once the YouTube meeting had ended, Ben had played the footage on the laptop, and one of his coworkers had taken care to capture Kobe’s reaction to it. There it all was, in cosmic juxtaposition. You could watch Kobe, as a 39-year-old, watch himself, as a 14-year-old, in real time. “That is hilarious,” he said. “Great defense, Kob. … That’s horrible defense. … You can replay that all f---ing day. … Oh. My. God. … Nawwwww! … That’s funny. … We only won four games that year.” Memory is a gift often hidden away within a box locked tight, and that game film was the gliding, turning key, allowing Kobe access to sights, sounds, places, and people made tactile and intimate again, allowing me the same. I posted the link on my Facebook page immediately. I posted it because Kobe was in it, but mostly because someone else was, too. A brain who could play ball God, look at him. You wouldn’t know it from that clip, from that pass that set up Kobe’s moment of embarrassment, but Bobby McIlvaine came to kill you on the basketball court. He was all bones and acute angles and stiletto elbows. He wasn’t dirty, but he let you know he was there. It was great if he was on your team, provided you played as hard as he did, but it was a b---- if he wasn’t or you didn’t. When I met him, in ninth grade, he was as close to a fully formed adult as a 14-year-old kid could be. His parents were special-education teachers, and in retrospect, it’s clear how much his milieu shaped him. His father, Bob, had been a star running back at Springfield High School in Montgomery County, but the family bloodline didn’t account completely for Bobby’s rabid desire to win; something deeper seemed to drive him. He had been so competitive as a boy that Bob would cut short their one-on-one battles at the playground court down the street from the McIlvaines’ home in Oreland. Bobby was that intense, that much of a pain: Even his sports-hero dad had to walk away sometimes. During a backyard football game, his brother, Jeff, three years younger, might end up shoved face down into an ice puddle or tackled headfirst into the concrete stairs if he dared to beat Bobby for a touchdown. His mother, Helen, had grown up in Chester, watching her town decay throughout the 1950s and ’60s amid redlining, riots, and block-busting. Through her, Bobby developed a less parochial, more empathetic view of the world, a recognition that his life and experiences in middle-class suburbia were not everyone’s. At a high school as diverse as Upper Dublin, where one’s group of friends could include white kids, black kids, Korean kids, Chinese kids, Eastern Indian kids, Protestant kids, Jewish kids, and Catholic kids (like Bobby and me), his upbringing and perspective enabled him to be comfortable among the jocks and the brains and everyone in between. He played varsity basketball and soccer, was one of the two top-ranked male students in our class, and aspired to become an author. He could speak with equal knowledge and insight about Charles Barkley and Geoffrey Chaucer. Rumor was, he already had begun writing a novel. We were friends, though not particularly close. His competitiveness seemed cut with an edgy perfectionism — the insecurity found in every teenager cranked up to a higher level because Bobby expected more from himself than most teenagers do. That insecurity, to me, could manifest itself as arrogance — in my senior yearbook, Bobby scribbled in black ink a single word big enough to take up an entire page, COCKY — and it kept me at arm’s length. Still, it was impossible not to respect his intelligence, his ambition, his achievements, and not to seek or hope for his respect in return. He was someone against whom I measured myself, even in those aspects of our lives where I knew I couldn’t keep up with him. Basketball was one. He was taller, stronger, more diligent about the sport’s fundamentals. He taught himself what he regarded as the single proper way to shoot a jump shot — keep your body ramrod straight, snap your wrist at the apex of your rise — and was so zealous about his technique that he insisted his friends follow it themselves. Once, during a pickup game, I hit a couple of long jumpers, and he whispered to me as we ran down the court, You’re playing well, Siel. Two conflicting reactions smacked me at once: Wow, it’s cool that Bobby, of all people, would say that and Who the hell does he think he is? My coach? My dad? Maybe he believed he had earned the right to say it. Maybe, in our stratified little social order, he had. On Dec. 7, 1992, as part of its high school boys’ basketball preview package, The Inquirer published a pair of brief articles, one about Upper Dublin, one about Lower Merion. Both teams were green and were expected to struggle, but two players represented slivers of hope. In the Upper Dublin story, correspondent Joe Fite wrote: “Any one of 11 players … could end up starting, with senior Bob McIlvaine the only player with perhaps a better shot than most of grabbing one of the starting slots.” In the Lower Merion story, correspondent Jeremy Treatman wrote: “Remember this name: Kobe Bryant.” The following week, the teams squared off in the consolation game of a four-team tournament at Lower Merion. Kobe scored 19 points in a 74-57 victory, and in the video, his recall of that season was perfect: The Aces won just three more times, finishing 4-20. Somehow, the 1992-93 Upper Dublin Flying Cardinals were worse. They won three games all season, though Jeff Huddleston regarded them as one of his most enjoyable teams during his 25-year tenure as the school’s head coach. “Nobody ever came late to practice,” he said. “I never had any worries with them, and Bobby was a great part of that team, a silent leader. He could shoot the ball, and in the huddle, he would look at me intently for what I was going to say. He would almost be shaking, excitedly shaking. He couldn’t wait to get going.” The game against Lower Merion was one of Bobby’s best of the season. He scored 16 points, hitting two three-pointers, and after he began his freshman year at Princeton University, in the fall of 1993, the game grew into a family legend for the McIlvaines, a fond remember-when as Kobe, over time, became Kobe . Jeff scissored the box score out of The Inquirer and kept it. Bob had attended the game, had watched it from beginning to end, but he was unaware that someone had been recording it, and he himself took no photos and didn’t document the game in any manner. There were no smartphones then, of course, and the family didn’t own a video c