# Tamir Rice Killed Police Theaster Gates Black Artist Gazebo

**Source**: https://www.theguardian.com/cities/2019/nov/22/tamir-rice-killed-police-theaster-gates-black-artist-gazebo
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:21:07.469862+00:00

---

'My duty as a black man': the artist preserving gazebo where police killed Tamir Rice | Cities | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 3 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art &amp; design TV &amp; radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love &amp; sex Home &amp; garden Health &amp; fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us Theaster Gates. Black Madonna at the Kunstmuseum Basel, June 2018. Photograph: Julian Salinas View image in fullscreen Theaster Gates. Black Madonna at the Kunstmuseum Basel, June 2018. Photograph: Julian Salinas Cities This article is more than 5 years old &#x27;My duty as a black man&#x27;: the artist preserving gazebo where police killed Tamir Rice This article is more than 5 years old Visual artist Theaster Gates collects neglected black cultural objects in the hopes of preserving and displaying complicated history of race in America André Wheeler Fri 22 Nov 2019 04.00 EST Last modified on Wed 16 Sep 2020 10.35 EDT Share T hree years ago, the Chicago visual artist Theaster Gates acquired the gazebo 12-year-old Tamir Rice was shot and killed under by a police officer. The object, which Gates describes as “sacred”, has become the centerpiece of a garden, flowers blooming around the site of pain and tragedy. Gates is quick to say he does not want the gazebo. That it belongs in Cleveland, Ohio, where Tamir lived and died. But the city was set on removing the object – now symbolic of the scores of young, unarmed black men killed by our police force – from Cleveland’s Cudell Recreation Center. “Caring for this gazebo felt like my duty as a black man,” Gates said. “But it should not be in Chicago. It’s in Chicago, in some ways, because of the anxiety that mounts when bad things happen [somewhere].” Gates stepped in after Samaria Rice, Tamir’s mother, reached out to him personally. Over the years, Samaria and Theaster have developed a special bond. Especially as Samaria has worked with numerous black artists to honor her son’s legacy, with the Tamir Rice Afrocentric Cultural Center currently in development. “There were no propagandists on the line with us or a film crew,” Gates says of him and Samaria transporting the gazebo from Cleveland to his studio space in Chicago. “For the two years the gazebo sat in my studio, there was no major art reporters coming to my studio. Because I didn’t ask anyone. We were just trying to be diligent with the hurt that Samaria experienced when she lost her son.” View image in fullscreen Tomiko Shine holds up a poster of Tamir Rice during a protest in Washington in 2014. Photograph: Jose Luis Magana/AP Collecting neglected black cultural objects is a chief focus of Gates’s artistic practice. He has curated vintage issues of black-centric magazines Ebony and Jet and archived racist “negrobilia” , all in the hopes of preserving and displaying the complicated history of race in America. Gates said: “The objects I’ve accumulated, I usually have them because someone called me and said, ‘Hey, I need some help.’ In some cases, I’m just a temporary steward and [providing] safekeeping until they find a better home.” Gates spoke to the Guardian from Cleveland, where on Wednesday he appeared at an event centered around arts and activism and linked to the fifth anniversary of Tamir’s death, with other artists including EJ Hill , Michael Rakowitz and Cleveland-based Amanda D King , who runs Shooting Without Bullets , a youth arts collective. Tamir’s death has left a permanent mark on the city of Cleveland. After a three-year investigation and numerous protests, the officer who fatally shot Tamir was fired by the Cleveland police department – but never faced charges. Tamir’s family received $6m from the city in a 2016 settlement. In the wake of Tamir’s death, artists across the nation – from Ava DuVernay to Michael Rakowitz – have explored his politicized death in their works. When I ask Gates what, if anything, has changed for black people since Tamir’s death, the artist is surprisingly positive. View image in fullscreen The gazebo at Cudell Recreation Center where Tamir Rice was killed by a police officer in 2014. Photograph: Jillian Steinhauer He highlights two exciting occasions: “The lynching memorial by Bryan Stevenson in Alabama – which is a tangible piece of black history in a place of extremely conservative power. And in Chicago, we have our first black, female, queer leader [Lori Lightfoot], who is asking very hard questions of the police. There are people on the ground who believe everyone has the right to citizenship and humanity. And we’re working and fighting to make that real.” The artist is hoping to begin talks with Cleveland city officials about returning the gazebo “to where it belongs”. From our conversation, Gates seems to envision a city-sanctioned and -funded memorial. “I want to believe that the city is open to it,” he said. “I believe Samaria has the right to ask the city to receive this sacred space.” Tamir Rice’s murder strikes a deep chord with Gates, myself, and every other black man in America because we intimately understand how his death could have been ours. Gates has his own collection of close-calls with police officers. He was 14 and playing a game of football with his friends when a police officer, who assumed a black kid running fast must be up to no good, stopped Gates and raised a gun to his head. “I knew that if I said the wrong thing that I could die,” Gates recollected. “What do I have in common with Tamir? I’m black and I’m a threat.” Samaria Rice and her supporters are seeking funding for the creation of the Tamir Rice Afrocentric Cultural Centre , which will be to “provide arts, cultural, educational, and civic programs for youth ages 10-19 that celebrate the history and culture of people of African descent in Cleveland”. City champions project launching next week On Monday 25 November the Guardian-US and Guardian Cities is launching a new series called City Champions, which will report on inspiring people, groups and grassroots initiatives that are transforming lives for the better in cities in the US. The first installment in the series will focus on Cleveland, Ohio , and will highlight community-based projects that are offering potential solutions to systemic issues including inequality, structural racism, infant mortality and lead poisoning. For the project, the Guardian has also commissioned art works that are now on display on six billboards in the city, which seek to visualise some of the complex social justice issues affecting lives and communities. This public art project is in partnership with For Freedoms, a national collective of artists who worked with Amanda King and other local artists – Robert Banks, Matt Chasney, Amber N Ford and Noelle Richard – as well as young people from King’s art collective, Shooting Without Bullets. Explore more on these topics Cities Tamir Rice Cleveland Ohio US policing Theaster Gates features Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints &amp; corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms &amp; conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work for us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2025 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)