# Hillary Clinton

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/hillary-clinton/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:17:47.915204+00:00

---

Hillary Clinton - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: Hillary Clinton early and often Mar. 25, 2025 If Hillary’s Emails Were Disqualifying, So Is Team Trump’s Group Chat They could admit the screwup and move on. Instead, they’re doubling down on attacking the press. By Ed Kilgore organizational politics Jan. 17, 2025 The Free-Speech War Inside the ACLU When should a core value change? By Jordan Heller apartment hunting Jan. 15, 2025 Are Kamala and Doug Really Moving to West 61st Street? We’ll believe it when we see it. By Christopher Bonanos celebrity Nov. 26, 2024 The Clintons Had an Awesome Time at the Eras Tour “I get it now,” Bill Clinton told Kelly Ripa. By Olivia Craighead early and often Nov. 5, 2024 The Resurrection of Donald Trump An unlikely comeback nears its terrifying apex. By Ed Kilgore oscar futures Nov. 2, 2024 What Happens at the Oscars If Hillary Wins in 2016? This election eve, take a trip into the mirror universe where another Clinton’s in the White House. By Nate Jones early and often Oct. 11, 2024 Democrats Fear Jill Stein Will Spoil Everything Again The non-major-party vote is likely to be small this year, but as 2016 showed, every vote matters in battleground states. By Ed Kilgore power Oct. 4, 2024 25 Famous Female Leaders on Power Politicians, CEOs, and activists on what it means to lead. By Brooke LaMantia and Julie Ma early and often Oct. 3, 2024 Trump Is the Only Presidential-Election Loser Who Denied Being a Loser J.D. Vance claims Democrats, especially Hillary Clinton, have denied defeat as well. But actually, Trump stands alone in refusing to concede. By Ed Kilgore dnc Aug. 20, 2024 AOC and Hillary Clinton Bring Down the House Political and generational differences seemed to evaporate on the DNC stage as they passed the torch to Kamala Harris. By Laura Bassett kamala harris July 25, 2024 A Woman Can Win Kamala Harris could succeed where Hillary Clinton failed. By Sarah Jones tremendous content June 3, 2024 Trump Denies Saying ‘Lock Her Up,’ So Ignore All This Video Proof He claimed “I didn’t say ‘Lock her up,’” in a Fox News interview, so we’re all going to have to forget about his famous catchphrase. By Margaret Hartmann a truly terrific new york listing Apr. 8, 2024 The Clintons and Carl Bernstein Schmoozed Here Publisher Stephen Rubin’s living room has 17-foot-high ceilings and a lot of built-in shelves. By Adriane Quinlan the inside game Mar. 4, 2024 The Return of the Clintons Bill talks economics with Biden. Hillary gives pointers to Harris. The former First Couple is as deep in politics as they have been since Trump won. By Gabriel Debenedetti screen time Feb. 15, 2024 Joe Biden’s TikTok Troubles The president has problems with young voters that won’t be solved by posting more. By John Herrman i’m with ger(wig) Jan. 24, 2024 Hillary Clinton Pokémon-Goes-Off on Barbie Snubs Everyone needs to Greta grip! By Rebecca Alter trump indictment June 13, 2023 The DOJ Tried to Give Trump a Pass. He Wouldn’t Take It. The government gave the ex-president a chance to get away with willfully retaining classified documents. He refused to take it. By Eric Levitz poo crime Mar. 21, 2023 What Crappened by Hillary Rodham Clinton? There were “two human turds in the aisle” near her and Chelsea Clinton at Broadway’s Some Like It Hot. By Rebecca Alter whodunnit Mar. 21, 2023 Who Is the Broadway Pooper? Two turds reportedly appeared in the aisle — near Hillary Clinton — during a recent performance of Some Like It Hot . By Claire Lampen obits Mar. 23, 2022 Madeleine Albright Has Died The first woman to serve as U.S. Secretary of State died on Wednesday at 84. By Danielle Cohen politics Mar. 18, 2022 Bernie Sanders Camp Eyes Ro Khanna 2024 Bid If Biden Doesn’t Run Biden says he’ll seek a second term, but key progressives are encouraging Representative Ro Khanna to prepare for a presidential run just in case. By Ed Kilgore politics Mar. 16, 2022 Hillary Clinton and Eric Adams Bond Over Bubble Baths She can “attest to his own personal swagger.” By Nia Prater book excerpt Mar. 1, 2022 The Wild True Story of Stan Lee and the Dot-Com Disaster In the late ’90s, the Marvel legend decided to strike out on his own — with an alleged con man as his business partner. By Abraham Riesman take it to the bank Jan. 12, 2022 Hillary Clinton Is Definitely Running in 2024* *Correction: Hillary Clinton is not really running in 2024. By Benjamin Hart so close Dec. 8, 2021 Well, Now We Know What Hillary’s Acceptance Speech Would Have Been And, yes, it’s depressing. By Olivia Truffaut-Wong 2016 will never end Dec. 8, 2021 Hillary Clinton Announces MasterClass in Losing to Donald Trump The once-future president is reduced to shilling self-help videos. By Sarah Jones the body politic Dec. 2, 2021 The Betrayal of Roe Decades of neglect and cowardice have brought this country to the precipice. By Rebecca Traister politics Nov. 3, 2021 The Hillary Playbook Does Not Work Democrats need to start thinking about the future, not run against Donald Trump, if they wish to win. By Sarah Jones encounter Nov. 2, 2021 Huma Abedin Is Ready to Tell You Who She Is Throughout a public career and an even more public marriage, the political confidante has remained an enigma, until now. By Lisa Miller fact vs fiction Nov. 1, 2021 Fact-Checking Impeachment ’s ‘Stand by Your Man’ An expert analysis of the enduring details (and jokes) that came out of Clinton’s grand jury testimony, and that “vast right-wing conspiracy” thing. By Scott Tobias 9/11: 20 years later Sept. 6, 2021 What 9/11 Did to the Democratic Party To this day, Democrats struggle with the fear of looking weak. By Ed Kilgore politics July 15, 2021 Democrats Can’t Win the Culture War With Silence Changing the subject to poll-tested economic policy issues has never dispelled Republican cultural smears in the past. It won’t now, either. By Ed Kilgore vision 2020 June 30, 2021 New Data Shows How Biden Won, Where Trump Gained in 2020 A Pew analysis shows that Biden’s suburban boom was real, the gender gap shrank, and Trump’s boost among Latinos was larger than previously known. By Ed Kilgore capitol riot June 24, 2021 Pelosi Announces Select Committee to Investigate Capitol Riot Since Senate Republicans killed an independent commission, Democrats will convene their own panel to investigate the events of January 6. By Ed Kilgore borat May 27, 2021 Hillary Clinton Reveals She Doesn’t Drink Blood, Actually Debunking Borat attempts to put this conspiracy theory to rest, at least for Jim and Jerry. By Anne Victoria Clark obituaries May 26, 2021 John Warner Was the Glamorous Republican Heretic of the Senate The late senator figured he’d only be remembered for his marriage to Elizabeth Taylor, but it should be for his struggle against extremism in the GOP. By Ed Kilgore casting Mar. 4, 2021 Edie Falco to Play Hillary Clinton in Impeachment: American Crime Story She joins a cast that includes Clive Owen as President Clinton and Beanie Feldstein as Monica Lewinksy. By Chris Murphy obits Mar. 2, 2021 From Fighting Racism to Playing the Power Game, Vernon Jordan Was Hard to Beat He was the living link between the civil-rights movement and political and corporate elites for decades. By Ed Kilgore books Feb. 23, 2021 Hillary Clinton Retiring to Mystery Books, Co-Writing With Louise Penny State of Terror is out October 12. By Justin Curto the body politic Jan. 22, 2021 America Is Back, Indeed With Biden, we’ve restored our country’s favorite tradition: basic, middling, white patriarchy. By Rebecca Traister vision 2020 Dec. 4, 2020 Trump Bashed New York City, But He Did Better There in 2020 The president may hate his hometown and renounced his residency, but he won more votes across the Big Apple than he did four years ago. By Ed Kilgore vision 2020 Dec. 3, 2020 Biden’s Vote Lead Over Trump Now More than 7 Million He’s blown-away his old boss Barack Obama’s performance, which was the best for a Democratic presidential candidate since LBJ. By Ed Kilgore vision 2020 Nov. 13, 2020 The End Is Here: Last Two States Called in the Presidential Election Team Trump may rage perpetually, but with Georgia falling to Biden and North Carolina to the president, the real-life elect