# Katrina Vanden Heuvel

**Source**: https://www.thenation.com/authors/katrina-vanden-heuvel/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:26:22.144938+00:00

---

Katrina vanden Heuvel | The Nation --> Log In Email * Password * Remember Me Forgot Your Password? Log In New to The Nation ? Subscribe Print subscriber? Activate your online access Skip to content Skip to footer Magazine Newsletters Subscribe Log In Search Subscribe Donate Magazine Latest Archive Podcasts Newsletters Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts The Nation About Events Contact Us Advertise Current Issue Katrina vanden Heuvel Editor and Publisher @KatrinaNation Katrina vanden Heuvel is editor and publisher of The Nation , America’s leading source of progressive politics and culture. An expert on international affairs and US politics, she is an award-winning columnist and frequent contributor to The Guardian . Vanden Heuvel is the author of several books, including The Change I Believe In: Fighting for Progress in The Age of Obama , and co-author (with Stephen F. Cohen) of Voices of Glasnost: Interviews with Gorbachev’s Reformers . The Trump Regime Intensifies Its War on Activism—but Dissent Is Always Possible The Trump Regime Intensifies Its War on Activism—but Dissent Is Always Possible The president is presiding over suppression unseen in the US for decades. Sep 29, 2025 / Katrina vanden Heuvel Will the US Continue to Aid, Abet, and Arm Genocide in Gaza? Will the US Continue to Aid, Abet, and Arm Genocide in Gaza? Every leader should move now to end our complicity. Sep 15, 2025 / Katrina vanden Heuvel Ad Policy Democrats Have No More Excuses on Gaza Democrats Have No More Excuses on Gaza The American people want their leaders to stop supporting Netanyahu’s murderous inhumanity. Sep 11, 2025 / Katrina vanden Heuvel , John Nichols for The Nation What Was the Cracker Barrel Skirmish Really About? (Hint: Distracting From Real Crises Facing the Heartland.) What Was the Cracker Barrel Skirmish Really About? (Hint: Distracting From Real Crises Facing the Heartland.) Trump is repaying rural voters’ loyalty by shafting them. Sep 9, 2025 / Katrina vanden Heuvel What the Democrats Can Learn From Gavin Newsom’s Trump Mockery What the Democrats Can Learn From Gavin Newsom’s Trump Mockery As Democrats sharpen their online game, Gavin Newsom’s Trump-style jabs reveal both the risks and rewards of fighting fire with fire in an attention economy built for bluster. Sep 3, 2025 / Katrina vanden Heuvel In Trump’s America, Vaccination Rates are Declining and Measles Is Spreading In Trump’s America, Vaccination Rates are Declining and Measles Is Spreading Trump and RFK Jr. have made every effort to undermine one of the major civilizing advances of the 20th century—our public health infrastructure Aug 13, 2025 / Katrina vanden Heuvel “The Nation” Interviews Zohran Mamdani “The Nation” Interviews Zohran Mamdani New York's Democratic mayoral nominee shares his views on the city's affordability crisis, the new media landscape—and how Democrats need to stand up for what they believe. Aug 12, 2025 / Feature / Katrina vanden Heuvel and John Nichols A New Report Exposes How Major American Corporations Have Been All Too Eager to Aid Israeli’s Atrocities in Gaza A New Report Exposes How Major American Corporations Have Been All Too Eager to Aid Israeli’s Atrocities in Gaza It also reveals our nation’s now undeniable complicity in what has been described as the worst humanitarian crisis of the 21st century. Jul 29, 2025 / Katrina vanden Heuvel Bezos Does Venice Bezos Does Venice Back in New York City, Mamdani’s win shows even billionaires don’t always get what they want. Jul 1, 2025 / Katrina vanden Heuvel New York City Might Elect a Truly Progressive Mayor—Thanks to Ranked-Choice Voting New York City Might Elect a Truly Progressive Mayor—Thanks to Ranked-Choice Voting Mamdani’s campaign deserves credit for offering a clear, inspiring, progressive message. But ranked-choice voting is also helping to make him competitive. Jun 19, 2025 / Katrina vanden Heuvel Go to archive page 1 1 Go to archive page 2 2 Go to archive page 3 3 &hellip; Go to archive page 225 225 Go to next archive page Next Ad Policy Ad Policy Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts OppArt Poetry Letters Magazine Current Issue Masthead Archive Subscription Services Reprints More About Us Contact Us Advertise Nation Events Nation Shop Nation Travels Nation Podcasts Newsletters Follow Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube RSS Founded by abolitionists in 1865, The Nation has long believed that independent journalism has the capacity to bring about a more democratic and equitable world. Donate Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility Statement Help Careers Nation Fund Privacy Manager x