# Path Malaria Vaccines January 2022

**Source**: https://www.givewell.org/research/grants/PATH-malaria-vaccines-January-2022
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:45:49.781407+00:00

---

PATH — RTS,S Malaria Vaccines in Pilot Comparison Areas (January 2022) | GiveWell Jump to Navigation Donate Enter search terms here. This search returns results from both GiveWell's main site and from the GiveWell Blog. Search form Search Main menu Top Charities Our Top Charities Our Giving Funds Top Charities Fund All Grants Fund Unrestricted Fund List of Grants USAID Our Response &amp; How to Help Podcasts on Foreign Aid Cuts Forecasts on Future Funding Research How Much Does It Cost to Save a Life? Research Overview Research on Programs Our Criteria Cost-Effectiveness Analyses How We Produce Impact Estimates Our Mistakes About About GiveWell Our People Information About Donating General FAQ Values Official Records Jobs Contact Us What Others Are Saying Stay Updated Blog Ways to Give Donor Portal Login Tax Deductibility of Donations Overview of Giving Options Credit Card Check Wire Transfer ACH (Automatic Clearing House) Cryptocurrency Securities/Stock PayPal Wills and Bequests Qualified Charitable Distributions Donor Advised Fund (DAF) Donate to GiveWell UK PATH — RTS,S Malaria Vaccines in Pilot Comparison Areas (January 2022) Facebook Twitter >Email Note: This page summarizes the rationale behind a GiveWell Incubation Grant to PATH. PATH staff reviewed this page prior to publication. Summary In January 2022, GiveWell recommended a grant of approximately $5 million to PATH to support ministries of health in Ghana, Kenya, and Malawi in the implementation of the RTS,S malaria vaccine through the end of 2023. 1 This grant will support technical assistance activities and costs related to expansion of malaria vaccination in pilot areas that have not yet received the vaccine, in the context of the ongoing malaria vaccine pilot program; costs covered will include shipment of GlaxoSmithKline’s (GSK) donated vaccine doses and procurement of injection supplies. The primary reasons we are recommending this grant are: We believe that financing this opportunity will speed up implementation of RTS,S in the areas covered by the grant by approximately one year compared to what would have happened otherwise, thereby reducing malaria illness and death among vaccinated children. We believe the activities funded by the grant could be similarly cost-effective to Malaria Consortium’s seasonal malaria chemoprevention (SMC) program, a GiveWell top charity . We believe this grant will have somewhat smaller effects on clinical malaria for a slightly larger cost-per-child when compared to the effect and costs of SMC in areas where it is implemented. However, we believe that this grant could be similarly cost-effective to SMC because of the leveraging of donated vaccine doses and Gavi funds toward future vaccine doses, and a low likelihood that the grant would be funged. (This comparison is made to assess the cost-effectiveness of the grant opportunity against a similar program that GiveWell has done significant research on, not to identify which program would be more cost-effective for use in the pilot comparison areas. SMC is only recommended for use in areas with highly seasonal transmission of malaria; as such, SMC would not be recommended for use in the majority of the pilot areas.) We think it is likely that the activities funded by this grant will be implemented successfully. The partners that will collaborate under this grant (the ministries of health in Ghana, Kenya, and Malawi, PATH, WHO, UNICEF, and GSK) have been undertaking activities very similar to those funded by this grant in different areas within the same countries since 2019. Thus, we believe that the partners have the relevant relationships and expertise to successfully complete this work. Our primary reservations include: It is possible that the COVID-19 pandemic will cause delays such that implementation is not speeded up as much as we estimate. If it takes longer than expected for Gavi to begin funding vaccines for these areas, PATH may require additional funding for implementation to continue after the grant period. It is possible that this grant could cause delays in securing Gavi support for implementation in Kenya, Malawi, and Ghana by relieving pressure to cover the pilot comparison areas. This grant was funded by Open Philanthropy. GiveWell spoke with staff members from PATH about updates regarding this grant on September 6, 2022 , and March 28, 2023 . Published: April 2022 Table of Contents Summary The organization The intervention Does it work? The grant Budget The case for the grant Funding gap and implementation timelines Cost-effectiveness Risks and reservations Plans for follow up Internal forecasts Our process Sources Table of Contents 1) Summary 2) The organization 3) The intervention 3.1) Does it work? 4) The grant 4.1) Budget 5) The case for the grant 5.1) Funding gap and implementation timelines 5.2) Cost-effectiveness 6) Risks and reservations 7) Plans for follow up 8) Internal forecasts 9) Our process 10) Sources The organization PATH is a global non-profit launched in 1977 which works in a number of health areas, including malaria, with the goal of promoting health equity. 2 GiveWell coordinated with PATH’s Center for Vaccine Innovation and Access in our investigation of this grant. In September 2021 , GiveWell recommended a $120,000 grant to PATH to scope opportunities for implementing intermittent preventive treatment in infants (IPTi) for malaria. The intervention The RTS,S/AS01 (RTS,S) malaria vaccine protects children against P. falciparum , the most deadly malaria parasite globally, and the most prevalent in Africa. In October 2021, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued a recommendation for the widespread use of the RTS,S vaccine among children in sub-Saharan Africa and in other regions with moderate to high P. falciparum malaria transmission. 3 Since 2019, RTS,S has been implemented through routine childhood immunization systems in selected areas of Ghana, Kenya, and Malawi through the Malaria Vaccine Implementation Programme (MVIP). 4 Does it work? We have not published a program review on RTS,S vaccination for malaria, but we have reviewed WHO’s evidence report on RTS,S as well as the results of phase 3 clinical trials. 5 Phase 3 clinical trials found that among children 6 receiving a four-dose schedule of the RTS,S/AS01 vaccine, malaria cases were reduced by 36.3% over four years (trials followed the children for a median of 48 months); among children receiving a three-dose schedule, malaria cases were reduced by 28.3%. 7 The WHO’s evidence report on RTS,S found that it “has an acceptable safety profile, and its introduction results in a significant reduction in severe malaria, an acceptable surrogate indicator for the likely impact on mortality,” though we have not investigated these estimates beyond reading the report. 8 WHO and partners have identified several areas for operational and other research, including work to identify how best to deliver RTS,S/AS01 seasonally or the impacts of RTS,S used in conjunction with intermittent preventive treatment of malaria for infants. 9 In our cost-effectiveness analysis, we assume that 70% of children would receive a full four-dose schedule and 30% would receive only three doses. 10 This assumption is based on preliminary coverage estimates from the pilot areas. 11 After factoring in these dose coverage estimates, adjusting for internal and external validity, and making a simplifying assumption of constant effects over time, we estimate that a four-dose schedule of RTS,S reduces malaria cases an average of about 31% annually, for four years. 12 The grant GiveWell is recommending a grant of approximately $5 million from Open Philanthropy to PATH for the implementation of the RTS,S malaria vaccine through the end of 2023 in portions of three countries. The target areas are those areas of Ghana, Kenya, and Malawi which were used as comparison areas during operational pilots of the vaccine. 13 We estimate that this grant will speed up implementation of RTS,S by enabling use of the vaccine in these areas approximately one year earlier compared to the counterfactual. The grant will build on work begun during the Malaria Vaccine Implementation Programme by the ministries of health in Ghana, Kenya, and Malawi, the WHO, PATH and other partners. 14 We expect activities to include: 15 Planning, at the national and subnational levels, for introduction of the vaccine Training health care workers on vaccine use Forecasting and provision of required vaccine doses and safe injection supplies Coordination with GSK, the producer of RTS,S Public communication and social mobilization activities Budget The budget for the grant is $4,998,769, broken down as follows: 16 $2,415,458 to support in-country activities, especially trainings $1,811,571 for PATH and WHO in-country technical support, including staff costs $386,280 for vaccine-related supplies and shipping and handling costs for donated doses 17 $385,459 for global support, including global staff costs The case for the grant We are recommending this grant for the following primary reasons: We believe that financing this opportunity will speed up implementation of RTS,S in the areas covered by the grant by approximately one year compared to what would have happened otherwise, thereby reducing malaria illness and death among vaccinated children. (See more below. ) We believe the activities funded by the grant will be cost-effective. (See more below. ) We think it is likely that the activities funded by this grant will be implemented successfully. The Ministries of Health of Ghana, Kenya and Malawi, PATH, and WHO have recently completed very similar work in different areas within the same countries that are targeted by this grant. Thus, we believe that the partners have the relevant relationships and expertise to carry out this work. Funding gap and implementation timelines We estimate that without this grant, Gavi-supported implementation of the RTS,