# Jack Dorsey Web3 Criticism A16Z Ownership Venture Capital Twitter

**Source**: https://www.theverge.com/2021/12/21/22848162/jack-dorsey-web3-criticism-a16z-ownership-venture-capital-twitter
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:11:07.357901+00:00

---

Jack Dorsey says VCs really own Web3 (and Web3 boosters are mad) | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Jack Dorsey says VCs really own Web3 (and Web3 boosters are pretty mad about it) Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech News Close News Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All News Creators Close Creators Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Creators Jack Dorsey says VCs really own Web3 (and Web3 boosters are pretty mad about it) “You’re a fund ... not Gandhi” “You’re a fund ... not Gandhi” by Jacob Kastrenakes Close Jacob Kastrenakes Executive Editor Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Jacob Kastrenakes Dec 21, 2021, 7:00 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads Jacob Kastrenakes Close Jacob Kastrenakes Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Jacob Kastrenakes is The Verge’s executive editor. He has covered tech, policy, and online creators for over a decade. &ldquo;Habanero&rdquo; Jack Dorsey did some spicy tweets last night. The Twitter founder and Block CEO tweeted out some thoughts on crypto and &ldquo;Web3&rdquo; that managed to exasperate some of the idea&rsquo;s biggest boosters. This wasn&rsquo;t the kind of Web3 criticism we&rsquo;ve seen time and again &mdash; Dorsey didn&rsquo;t come at them with a &ldquo;right-clicker mentality&rdquo; or anything so trivial. Instead, Dorsey went for the metaphorical jugular: he said users don&rsquo;t actually own Web3, which is a movement that prides itself on decentralization and community. In reality, Dorsey said, it&rsquo;s big venture capital firms like Andreessen Horowitz, which has dedicated more than $3 billion to investments in the space (and has made investments in several dozen crypto companies, including OpenSea and CryptoKitties / NBA Top Shot creator Dapper Labs), that will control these new web systems. This was basically a double whammy in terms of Web3 criticism, even if his tweet might be entirely unintelligible to people who are fortunate enough to not be following the daily Web3 arguments on Twitter. To break it down: Web3 acolytes say blockchains and cryptocurrency systems will allow users to “own” the next generation of connected games, apps, and services instead of giving up all the power — and profit — to “Web 2.0” giants like Google, Facebook, Amazon, and Microsoft. That might mean owning a voting share in the next big social network (yes, this is a thing you can already do) or owning a digital item in some upcoming game, which you could then transfer to another game or resell to another player. The belief is that this will revolutionize the internet again by letting everyone — and not just big companies — earn money and have control over the things they do online. So for Dorsey to say that you don’t really “own” anything in Web3 is to argue that the entire promise of Web3 is a lie. And by pointing a finger at Andreessen Horowitz, Dorsey both hit some of the biggest companies in the space and would seem to dismiss Chris Dixon, a partner at Andreessen Horowitz who tweets incessantly about how great Web3 is and has become one of the movement’s leading voices. No, wait, he’s definitely dismissing Chris Dixon: Later, Elon tossed an alley-oop, which Jack promptly used to dunk on Andreesen Horowitz &mdash; which is also known as a16z &mdash; once again: Dorsey also criticized The Wall Street Journal for using him as a leading example in a story about Web3 fans trying to revolutionize the internet . &ldquo;I have nothing to do with web3,&rdquo; he wrote, adding that the Journal used his name for clicks. Seriously! (Sidenote: it is very funny for the co-founder and former CEO of Twitter to complain about clickbait headlines.) Anyway, it is true that Dorsey is a big blockchain and crypto fan &mdash; his current Twitter bio is just &ldquo;#bitcoin,&rdquo; he renamed Square to Block, he started work on a decentralized alternative to Twitter inside of Twitter &mdash; but he clearly sees a difference between Web3 and Bitcoin. And Dorsey&rsquo;s criticisms here are fair and something Web3 creators need to contend with. Any system that creates haves and have-nots on the web is going to centralize power in certain people and groups, whether that&rsquo;s early movers or people who already have plenty of power (money) under more traditional systems. Just look at NFTs: if you were lucky enough to buy into Ethereum early, you could spend a bunch to buy a Bored Ape; with your Bored Ape, you could get early access to buy an Adidas NFT; now you can resell your Adidas NFT for 3x the mint price, adding more money to your bank account entirely because... power is being centralized toward the already powerful people in the space. As for Bitcoin, which has a different kind of ownership structure ? Dorsey is a lot more bullish. Update: Dorsey&rsquo;s trolling continued on Tuesday with the quote tweet of a deeply embarrassing political cartoon that basically makes his point even more succinctly. His mentions continue to be filled with upset Web3 fans. Follow topics and authors from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates. Jacob Kastrenakes Close Jacob Kastrenakes Executive Editor Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Jacob Kastrenakes Creators Close Creators Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Creators Crypto Close Crypto Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Crypto News Close News Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All News NFTs Close NFTs Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All NFTs Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech Twitter - X Close Twitter - X Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Twitter - X Web Close Web Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Web Most Popular Most Popular Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store Everything is terrorism in Trump’s America Behold: The Lego Game Boy has already been modded to play games for real Satya Nadella appoints a new CEO to run Microsoft’s biggest businesses Perplexity’s Comet browser is now available to everyone for free The Verge Daily A free daily digest of the news that matters most. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Tech Sony shrinks PS5 Slim storage in the US, too Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads A bundle with Amazon’s biggest smart display and a stand just got its biggest discount The quest for every Gap store playlist ever The real price of a free TV I tried Amazon and Google’s new smart home gadgets, ask me anything! Sony shrinks PS5 Slim storage in the US, too Jay Peters 3:39 PM UTC Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Tom Warren 3:18 PM UTC A bundle with Amazon’s biggest smart display and a stand just got its biggest discount Brandt Ranj 3:15 PM UTC The quest for every Gap store playlist ever Mia Sato 3:06 PM UTC The real price of a free TV David Pierce 1:33 PM UTC I tried Amazon and Google’s new smart home gadgets, ask me anything! Jennifer Pattison Tuohy 1:03 PM UTC Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories 2:00 PM UTC With a Friend like this, who needs enemies? Two hours ago I’ve fallen into Sora’s slippery slop 1:03 PM UTC I tried Amazon and Google’s new smart home gadgets, ask me anything! 3:06 PM UTC The quest for every Gap store playlist ever Two hours ago Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom 1:57 AM UTC Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved