# Projection Lab

**Source**: https://www.madfientist.com/go/projection-lab/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:15:15.011848+00:00

---

ProjectionLab - Modern Financial &amp; Retirement Planning Tools Projection Lab Features Pricing Advisors Employers Resources Sign in Try for free Build Financial Plans You Love. Simulate your financial future and chart a course toward your best life. Start planning Plan with nuance ProjectionLab captures the important details in life that other retirement calculators miss. You'll find it easy and intuitive to build simple but rich financial plans that truly represent you, your loved ones, and the paths you choose. Define the milestones that matter to you Plan for financial independence and other goals Gauge your chance of success Reduce anxiety around your finances Get started Visualize your whole life Build a living model of your whole life's finances and discover the spectrum of possible outcomes. Identify trade-offs, backtest against historical data, and experiment with different investment strategies, account types, contribution orders, drawdown options, and portfolio blends over time. Drill into each simulated year in detail Analyze estimated taxes, cash-flow, drawdown, and more Figure out how to live life on your terms Get started Keep your accounts secure ProjectionLab has no link to your real financial accounts and gives you control of how your data is stored. Data persistence options include: Cloud sync via Google Firebase Or use browser localStorage only Or import/export data manually to flat files Get started New to ProjectionLab? Check out these links and resources Chance of Success Gauge your chance of success with Monte Carlo simulations. Cash Flow Analyze cash flow with Sankey diagrams. Tax Analytics Review detailed tax estimates and analytics. Pricing Review pricing and choose the plan that&#39;s right for you. 💼 Advisors Explore the Pro version for financial advisors. Financial Wellness Share ProjectionLab as a benefit for your employees. Video Walkthrough Learn about ProjectionLab with our Getting Started video. Blog Read the latest posts, updates, and articles. Financial Terms ProjectionLab&#39;s glossary of financial terms. Track your progress over time Journal and visualize your actual progress over time and compare against your initial projections. Get started Test international scenarios Choose your display currency and try out our growing list of international tax presets and account types, including Canada , the United Kingdom , Australia , Germany , the Netherlands , and more. Get started Free retirement planning Run ad-hoc retirement projections for free. To save your data between sessions and unlock premium features like data persistence, tax estimation, and advanced visualizations, upgrade to Premium. Get started 🏝️ Plan for early retirement 🤑 Cash-flow visualization ✂️ Tax planning and analytics 👩🏻‍💼 Model going part-time ✈️ Take time off for travel 🔒 No link to your accounts 📈 Historical backtesting 🏘️ Model rental income 🔢 More than a retirement calculator 🏡 Plan for buying a home 🔥 Calculate when you can FIRE 🏦 Roth conversions 💵 72t (SEPP) distributions ❤️ Get started for free 🌍 International scenarios ✂️ Tax estimation 🏠 Better to rent vs own? ⏰ Time to Financial Independence 🏝️ Plan for early retirement 🤑 Cash-flow visualization ✂️ Tax planning and analytics 👩🏻‍💼 Model going part-time ✈️ Take time off for travel 🔒 No link to your accounts 📈 Historical backtesting 🏘️ Model rental income 🔢 More than a retirement calculator 🏡 Plan for buying a home 🔥 Calculate when you can FIRE 🏦 Roth conversions 💵 72t (SEPP) distributions ❤️ Get started for free 🌍 International scenarios ✂️ Tax estimation 🏠 Better to rent vs own? ⏰ Time to Financial Independence ✅ Privacy-friendly 🤑 Sankey diagrams ❤️ You are not the product 👨‍💻 Developer support 💼 Pro version for advisors 🧭 Monte carlo simulations 💰 Project your future net worth ✂️ See your effective tax brackets 💹 Track your progress 🦢 Model black swan events 💱 Choose your currency 🌍 International account types 📁 Control where your data is saved 💑 Plan as a couple 📉 Test against market volatility 💳 Monthly, Annual, or Lifetime pricing 🎓 How fast to pay off student loans? 🚙 Model buying X every Y years 📊 Create custom plots ✅ Privacy-friendly 🤑 Sankey diagrams ❤️ You are not the product 👨‍💻 Developer support 💼 Pro version for advisors 🧭 Monte carlo simulations 💰 Project your future net worth ✂️ See your effective tax brackets 💹 Track your progress 🦢 Model black swan events 💱 Choose your currency 🌍 International account types 📁 Control where your data is saved 💑 Plan as a couple 📉 Test against market volatility 💳 Monthly, Annual, or Lifetime pricing 🎓 How fast to pay off student loans? 🚙 Model buying X every Y years 📊 Create custom plots Designed for Everyone What People are Saying Physician on FIRE @PhysicianOnFIRE ProjectionLab is a powerful tool that can help you visualize your investments, expenses, and more over time under all sorts of different scenarios. It's like Personal Capital's Retirement Planner on anabolic steroids! Samantha S. Nonprofit Communications Director ProjectionLab is an important part of my financial toolkit that helps me understand where I'm at and where I want to go. While there is a lot in life outside my control, ProjectionLab helps me make informed decisions that bring me closer to financial freedom. The level of detail and variety of variables is impressive and fun for those of us who really like to dig into the numbers. Jackie Scholl ProjectionLab has empowered me to plan my future! I can write down how much I expect to earn and spend, and what big purchases and moves I expect to make in the future, and then ProjectionLab allows me to play with hundreds of possible futures to answer critical questions like "when should I retire?" and "how much will it cost to move to a higher-tax state?" Tip: multi-condition milestones are great for creating complex decision trees to represent how you would react to different market conditions. king_ollo u/king_ollo Great tool from a solo founder/developer - exciting potential, too. James Tribbitt Financial Coach ProjectionLab is the perfect tool for both beginners and advanced users who want to see the big picture of their future finances. It's so intuitive and quick to set up! Aaron N. Financial Analyst This was a game-changer for me. Ever since I started using ProjectionLab, I have been more focused on saving money, investing, and paying down debt. Retiring early is finally looking realistic for me. Christian Hammerschmidt Easy to use, nice pre-sets even for international users, active development and great community on Discord. Jon Moore @TheJMoore If you don't already use ProjectionLab and you care about personal finance, it's time to start! Hands down my favorite app that I use. Easy. Mr. Money Mustache @mrmoneymustache Just wanted to highlight an excellent new-ish FIRE / finance plannning tool, by the talented Kyle Nolan. I have no affiliation to the project, but it's rare to see something so well-made by an indie developer. Lemme know your thoughts! Philip Taylor, CPA @ptmoney Did a refresh (25+ hrs of research) of our list of the Best Retirement Calculators around today. New to the list... ProjectionLab. Xavier LV @xavierelv ProjectionLab is so intuitive, powerful, AND pretty. No-brainer sub IMO. 👏 Jack VP of Operations I'm a huge fan of ProjectionLab and it's become the tool I regularly use to plan, test, and visualize my financial plan. I love that I don't need to connect any financial accounts and how easy it is to jump in and get started modeling out various scenarios. The slick, fast and modern interface has increased my confidence in being able to plan and forecast better over the long term. Danish Brooklyn, NY I work in the industry and absolutely love the fact that ProjectionLab doesn't ask to link accounts! Ikhsan Rahardian Dublin City, Ireland Stellar and can't complain. Ashley Antkowiak Entrepreneur and investor I've used projection lab for about a year and absolutely love it. It makes me feel completely in control of not just my day-to-day finances, but also retirement, large purchases, and things like figuring out whether I'm saving too much vs investing, etc. The cash flow priorities module is my favorite thing, and such a powerful tool! I've used it many times to play with the consequence of paying off debt early vs investing more, spending vs saving leftover income and so much more. Thank you for creating this incredible program! I hope to use it for years to come. Shawn Sansom ProjectionLab is already a strong offering as a personal financial modeling tool, and the feature set continues to grow. The future looks bright for PL! RobBerger.com Rob Berger &amp; Kevin Mercadante On balance, ProjectionLab is an excellent tool to help you reach your financial independence or retirement goal. Jose Chatelet Amazing way to visualize and plan your finances, love that it also has tax settings for other countries besides the USA Ankush Software Engineer ProjectionLab has helped me reduce my anxiety around my finances! I love how it helps me evaluate multiple scenarios, so I can more confidently make decisions like buying vs renting or working a more demanding job vs one with a better work/life balance. Hugues Data Scientist ProjectionLab is the tool to finally take control over my financial life. It's given me the ability to think long term and play out different scenarios of how my financial life could unfold. James Bernsen I have been using ProjectionLab for about two years now, and it is the most feature-comprehensive financial planning tool I have ever used. It provides a complete picture of my future financial outlook and gives me confidence in my ability to (one day) retire successfully. The Mad Fientist Brandon Ganch ProjectionLab is the most beautiful financial planning tool I've ever seen. And, it was created specifically for people pursuing FIRE, so it's also the most-useful planning tool I've found for FI! The FI Show @TheFIShowGuys The most robust fina