# Disney Hulu Hard Bundle Bob Chapek D23

**Source**: https://www.theverge.com/2022/9/12/23349569/disney-hulu-hard-bundle-bob-chapek-d23
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:24:01.208109+00:00

---

Disney’s CEO teases a ‘hard bundle’ of Disney Plus and Hulu | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Disney’s CEO teases a ‘hard bundle’ of Disney Plus and Hulu Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Entertainment Close Entertainment Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Entertainment News Close News Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All News Streaming Close Streaming Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Streaming Disney’s CEO teases a ‘hard bundle’ of Disney Plus and Hulu The current ‘soft bundle’ is so confusing they have an ad campaign to explain it The current ‘soft bundle’ is so confusing they have an ad campaign to explain it by Alex Cranz Close Alex Cranz Last published Oct 17, 2024 Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Alex Cranz Sep 12, 2022, 8:33 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge Alex Cranz Close Alex Cranz Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Alex Cranz is a tech editor, her work has also appeared in Gizmodo, the WSJ, and Wired. A &ldquo;hard bundle&rdquo; of Disney Plus and Hulu could be coming in the next few years if Disney CEO Bob Chapek has anything to say about it. Chapek spoke with the Los Angeles Times during Disney&rsquo;s big fan event, D23 , this past weekend. It was one of the first times he&rsquo;s spoken about the company and the myriad of controversies it has reckoned with over the last two years. Most of what he said was very neutral, but then they got onto the conversation of the future of Hulu, the streaming giant currently co-owned by Comcast, and Chapek showed his cards... just a little. Disney is currently on the hook to buy out Comcast&rsquo;s stake in Hulu as early as 2024. The two companies are haggling over what Hulu is actually worth &mdash; with Comcast claiming it could be valued as high as $70 billion . (The deal as it stands has Hulu valued at around $27.5 billion.) Related Everything Marvel and Lucasfilm related announced at D23 The biggest announcements and trailers from Disney and Marvel’s games showcase When Hulu is finally fully under Disney&rsquo;s control, there are a lot of questions about what will happen to the service. Will all its content get shuttled over to Disney Plus? Or will Disney Plus content move to Hulu? Or will the two continue to just exist in this weird and super confusing state? Chapek was very careful in his interview not to show his hand, telling the Times that he&rsquo;d only entertain the question once Disney bought out Comcast&rsquo;s stake. He offered a few solutions for the eventual future. One was aping the European version of Disney Plus that has all the Disney content alongside more adult fare like The Bear and The Handmaiden&rsquo;s Tale . Another option was the &ldquo;hard bundle,&rdquo; which is a truly fascinating way to refer to &ldquo;merging the apps together into one app,&rdquo; which is the 2023 plan for Discovery Plus and HBO Max . Finally, there&rsquo;s the &ldquo;soft bundle&rdquo; the company currently offers. the consumer essentially dictates everything But ultimately, &ldquo;the consumer essentially dictates everything,&rdquo; Chapek told the Times . And according to Chapek, consumers want &ldquo;a frictionless experience,&rdquo; and it sure sounds like that experience mimics the &ldquo;hard bundle.&rdquo; Image: Disney And it makes sense! The current bundle is not sustainable. The Hulu with Live TV bundle nets you Hulu and Hulu Live TV and ESPN Plus and Disney Plus, and I don&rsquo;t think a single person &mdash; apart from streaming media nerds &mdash; would know that you get all of those things from that one bundle. Disney and Hulu are trying to educate the public with the somehow more confusing &ldquo;Hulu+++&rdquo; advertisement campaign that acknowledges the confusion created by the bundle and then just... triples down. Yet, no weird ad campaign or crummy name can solve the problem of a bundle as well as just... an app that handles everything &mdash; even if it means your kids might ask you to watch The Bear after the third screening of Encanto that day. Follow topics and authors from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates. Alex Cranz Close Alex Cranz Last published Oct 17, 2024 Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Alex Cranz Disney Close Disney Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Disney Entertainment Close Entertainment Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Entertainment Hulu Close Hulu Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Hulu News Close News Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All News Streaming Close Streaming Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Streaming Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech Most Popular Most Popular Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store Behold: The Lego Game Boy has already been modded to play games for real Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Satya Nadella appoints a new CEO to run Microsoft’s biggest businesses Everything is terrorism in Trump’s America The Verge Daily A free daily digest of the news that matters most. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Entertainment Hori’s new Switch 2 controller lets you deactivate its home and screenshot buttons Sony shrinks PS5 Slim storage in the US, too The quest for every Gap store playlist ever NBCUniversal’s new YouTube TV deal covers YouTube, Peacock, and a new sports network Redbox’s next product may be piracy lawsuits Elon Musk is leading a pressure campaign to make Netflix un-woke Hori’s new Switch 2 controller lets you deactivate its home and screenshot buttons Andrew Liszewski Oct 3 Sony shrinks PS5 Slim storage in the US, too Jay Peters Oct 3 The quest for every Gap store playlist ever Mia Sato Oct 3 NBCUniversal’s new YouTube TV deal covers YouTube, Peacock, and a new sports network Richard Lawler Oct 2 Redbox’s next product may be piracy lawsuits Janko Roettgers Oct 2 Elon Musk is leading a pressure campaign to make Netflix un-woke Emma Roth Oct 2 Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories Oct 3 With a Friend like this, who needs enemies? Oct 3 I’ve fallen into Sora’s slippery slop Oct 3 I tried Amazon and Google’s new smart home gadgets, ask me anything! Oct 3 The quest for every Gap store playlist ever Oct 3 Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom Oct 3 Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved