# How Political Violence Came To The Pelosi House

**Source**: https://www.newyorker.com/news/the-political-scene/how-political-violence-came-to-the-pelosi-house
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:53:33.337488+00:00

---

How Political Violence Came to the Pelosi House | The New Yorker Skip to main content Newsletter Search Search The Latest News Books &amp; Culture Fiction &amp; Poetry Humor &amp; Cartoons Magazine Puzzles &amp; Games Video Podcasts Goings On Shop 100th Anniversary Open Navigation Menu Menu The Political Scene How Political Violence Came to the Pelosi House The case of David DePape is not just a cautionary tale of right-wing conspiracies&#8212;it’s further evidence that the Republican Party has failed to police itself. By Benjamin Wallace-Wells November 2, 2022 House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and her husband, Paul, on Capitol Hill in 2019. Photograph by Zach Gibson / Getty Save this story Save this story Save this story Save this story The criminal complaint filed against David DePape in the Northern District of California this week, for allegedly breaking into Nancy Pelosi ’s home in order to kidnap her and, when she wasn’t there, using a hammer to assault her eighty-two-year-old husband, Paul, is a piece of detective work, both in content and in tone. In a heated, private confrontation between two protagonists, emotions can intervene and memories blur, especially in circumstances like this: the incident took place before two-thirty in the morning on the week preceding Halloween, so, when Paul Pelosi was awakened by a strange man demanding to know where his wife was, he might have been confused about whether he was talking to a trained political assassin, a run-of-the-mill crazy person, or a figment of a nightmare. F.B.I. Special Agent Stephanie Minor found corroborating details to stabilize the narrative: what an emergency dispatcher heard, what police officers saw, what was stored in the garage where DePape lived in Richmond, what a nearby private security guard, on duty in the early hours of the morning at a nearby home, glimpsed. Fortunately, the two protagonists agreed on just about every detail. Paul Pelosi gave his version while riding to the hospital in an ambulance and DePape allegedly gave his after being Mirandized. According to their overlapping accounts, Pelosi had been sleeping alone and, per DePape, “appeared surprised” to find an intruder in his bedroom, urging him to wake up. (DePape had entered the house after shattering a glass door with a hammer.) DePape told Pelosi he wanted to speak with “Nancy.” The Speaker, Paul Pelosi said, was travelling, and would be gone for a few days, and he asked why DePape wanted to speak with her. DePape reportedly said that he wanted to “tie Pelosi up,” and took zip ties out of his backpack. Paul Pelosi attempted to go to another part of the house, but DePape stopped him; eventually Pelosi persuaded the intruder to let him into a bathroom where, at 2:23 A.M. , he managed to call 911. Officers arrived minutes later, according to their account, and (once the door had been opened) found Pelosi and DePape, both holding on to the same hammer. Pelosi greeted them, and when the officers asked what was going on DePape said that “everything was good.” The officers asked the two men to drop the hammer; instead, DePape swung it at Pelosi, striking him in the head and knocking him out. As for the motive, Special Agent Minor quotes DePape, who sounds eager to explain himself. He viewed Nancy Pelosi, he told officers, as “the leader of the pack of lies told by Democrats.” His plans were to hold Speaker Pelosi hostage and talk to her; if she told “the truth,” she would be let go; if she did not, he planned to break her knee caps, “which would show other members of Congress there were consequences to actions.” According to Minor’s summation of DePape’s statements, “much like the American founding fathers with the British, he was fighting against tyranny without the option of surrender.” The special agent did not record what lies DePape believed Pelosi might tell, or what he thought the Democrats would do differently if they saw that her knee caps had been broken, or what his broader political beliefs and influences were. This information was beyond her scope, and perhaps unknowable. The threat of violence is not always the most urgent problem in politics, but it is the one that has the potential to make all the others irrelevant. So, to watch politics closely during the past few years has been like being a half-awake security guard, with one eye on the monitor of the camera feed from the back gate. In the two days between the first news reports about the attack at the Pelosis’ home and the more definitive version that came with Special Agent Minor’s criminal complaint, conservatives reacted in several ways. Mitch McConnell and Ted Cruz clearly denounced the attack and expressed sympathy with the Pelosi family; Glenn Youngkin made light of it at a campaign event; Donald Trump, Jr., and Elon Musk (who may or may not be a conservative) spread a baseless theory that DePape was a sex worker hired by Paul Pelosi, and that the “attack” was a rendezvous gone wrong; Tucker Carlson and Rand Paul used the news to raise their preëxisting complaints about the media’s alleged partisan bias in covering such events and to gripe that the F.B.I. took Democratic complaints more seriously than Republican ones. Among the press itself, the main reaction was to notice the echoes in DePape’s language of Republican partisan invective against Democrats and Pelosi, which has been especially intense in the aftermath of the January 6th assault on the Capitol , and to suggest that Republicans should denounce not just the hammer attack in Pacific Heights but also challenges to the integrity of elections. During an on-air interview, CNN’s Dana Bash pressed Senator Rick Scott of Florida on this, but he was willing to condemn only the attack itself, and not the atmosphere of hostility and conspiracy that preceded it. Republicans and their supporters have vilified Pelosi more pointedly than just about any other figure in recent political memory. “Her face—sometimes adorned with devil’s horns or a swastika—was plastered on signs at all the national rallies that led up to the Jan. 6 storming of the Capitol,” the Washington Post recently observed . Intruders wandering the Capitol’s halls during the insurrection yelled , “Where are you, Nancy?” Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene, according to a video obtained by CNN, told a crowd that Pelosi is a “traitor to our country” and suggested she could be executed. “It’s a crime punishable by death,” Greene said. “That’s what treason is.” But the attack on Pelosi’s husband shared certain superficial details with another recent attempted act of political violence. Nicholas Roske, a twenty-six-year-old California man, was arrested in June outside the house of Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh, carrying a backpack filled with zip ties, pepper spray, and a Glock handgun with two magazines. Roske had been researching assassination and related topics for months, and had texted his sister shortly before his arrest and told her that he planned to kill Kavanaugh. (Roske has denied the attempted-murder charge.) Raising Roske’s case in the context of DePape’s doesn’t mean that Democrats and Republicans are equally responsible for bringing the country closer to the possibility of political violence. Republicans, who continue to promote lies about the legitimacy of a fair election, told by a leader whose followers tried to overthrow it by force, bear more responsibility. But it is one piece of evidence among many that suggests that political destabilization is a dynamic process, in which acts and threats of violence build on one another and that the electoral system, which produced this bad situation, probably won’t be able to fix it. Joe Biden won the 2020 election with a campaign that focussed often on the idea that Donald Trump had been encouraging extremists and threatening democracy. Biden said often that he had decided to run after watching the murderous far-right rally at Charlottesville in 2017, and seeing Trump’s refusal to condemn the white supremacists who marched there. This was surely a matter of conviction for him. But his campaign also reflected something he said: that there was surely a majority of voters in the United States, including some Republicans, who were disgusted by Trump’s threats to elections and civil order and would join in condemning it. Biden has returned to this theme in this year’s midterm elections, perhaps most sharply in a speech on September 1st, which was officially titled “Remarks by President Biden on the Continued Battle for the Soul of the Nation.” “Donald Trump and the MAGA Republicans represent an extremism that threatens the very foundations of our Republic,” Biden said. “Now, I want to be very clear up front: not every Republican, not even the majority of Republicans, are MAGA Republicans. Not every Republican embraces their extreme ideology. I know, because I’ve been able to work with these mainstream Republicans.” This was a sincerely held idea, or maybe an aspiration dressed up as an idea. But it was also an electoral pitch, which has become one of the most consistent themes of Biden’s Presidency. Very briefly, in the immediate aftermath of the January 6th attacks, it seemed as if much of the Republican Party might actually break with Trump and denounce his extremism. McConnell, Kevin McCarthy, and even the Trump loyalist Lindsey Graham denounced the attacks and said the President bore responsibility. McConnell initially helped lead the push to impeach the President. But in the end only seven Republican senators out of fifty—McConnel not among them—voted to convict Trump. Soon, McCarthy visited the ex-President at Mar-a-Lago, symbolically affirming that the Republican Party still followed Trump, and later that year refused to join the Democrats on the January 6th Commission, isolating the Committee’s Republican members (Liz Cheney and Adam Kinzinger) from the Party and insuring it would be a partisan endeavor. The evidence from the