# 86888 Happy Christmas Director Joe Swanberg On The Financial Life Of The Independent Filmmaker

**Source**: http://filmmakermagazine.com/86888-happy-christmas-director-joe-swanberg-on-the-financial-life-of-the-independent-filmmaker/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:44:39.253325+00:00

---

--> Happy Christmas Director Joe Swanberg on the Financial Life of the Independent Filmmaker &#x2d; Filmmaker MagazineFilmmaker Magazine Filmmaker Click here to read our fall issue, featuring the annual 25 New Faces of Independent Film list and more... Log Out Log In Filmmaking All Directing Screenwriting Cinematography Production Post-Production Financing Distribution Transmedia Columns All Current Columns: Focal Point Shutter Angles Back to One Continue Watching The Week In Cameras Notes on Real Life Persona Project Industry Beat Extra Curricular Editor's Blog Archived Columns: Blue Velvet Project Things DPs Don't Talk About Time and Tempo Microbudget Conversation True Crit Into the Splice Culture Hacker Lady Vengeance Shooting With John H2N Pick of the Week This is Where You Work Festivals &amp; Events Sundance SXSW All Festivals &amp; Events Interviews All Directors Actors Screenwriters Cinematographers Editors Producers 25 New Faces Newsletter Videos Latest Issue Twitter Facebook RSS thegotham.org Filmmaker Magazine Gotham Awards 25 New Faces Newsletter Log Out Log in Join The Gotham View Print Magazines Subscribe Renew Filmmaking Columns Festivals &amp; Events Interviews Videos Current Issue 25 New Faces Newsletter Subscribe Advertise Support Issue Archive Privacy policy View Print Magazines Filmmaker magazine is a publication of The Gotham. Back to selection Happy Christmas Director Joe Swanberg on the Financial Life of the Independent Filmmaker Melanie Lynskey and Joe Swanberg in Happy Christmas by Esther B. Robinson in Filmmaking on Jul 25, 2014 DGA , Drinking Buddies , Hannah Takes the Stairs , Happy Christmas , IFC , Joe Swanberg , Nights and Weekends , WGA &#8220;Transparency benefits everybody.&#8221; That&#8217;s Joe Swanberg, whose recommended Happy Christmas opens today, talking about distribution dealmaking, but he might just as well have been talking about all aspects of his career and financial life. Indeed, Swanberg is nothing but transparent in this long interview with producer, director and ArtHome founder Esther Robinson focused specifically on making a living as a writer/director — precisely the subject most directors won&#8217;t issue a comment on. The interview was conducted for Robinson&#8217;s current piece in the new print edition of Filmmaker , &#8220;Still on the Job,&#8221; in which she revisits several directors featured in an article five years earlier on filmmakers and their second jobs. Just a few sentences of what&#8217;s below appear in that article, but Swanberg had so much more to say that we transcribed, edited and are running their conversation in full. Below Swanberg talks about he and wife Kris Swanberg having a son and buying a house as well as the cash flow provided by his back catalog, paying down his credit card debt, joining the WGA and DGA, why he sometimes prefers to sell a film before its festival premiere, and much more. Not everyone can be as prolific as Swanberg, but I think any filmmaker can learn something from this conversation. I can&#8217;t recommend it more highly, and I thank Joe for being so open with this at times personal information. &#8212; SM Filmmaker: So, since my piece on filmmakers and their second jobs five years ago, what has your life been like? How has it changed? The biggest change, obviously, is that you and your wife Kris now have a son. Swanberg: It’s just been constant moviemaking, and it’s been very hard. There’s something about having a little kid that makes you [more] aware of time passing in a certain kind of way. And a lot of that [filmmaking] was motivated by the uncertainty of life. When Kris was pregnant and we didn’t have any money, it was easy to work because we both were so unsure about what was going to happen. It was like, “I might as well go make another and another and another because who knows what next year’s going to look like.” Now there’s just a little more sense of what next year’s going to look like. Everything’s less uncertain now. Filmmaker: Talk to me about how you have put your economic life together. Is it different than it was in 2009? Swanberg: Well, 2010 was the big shift. We found out Kris was pregnant in February of 2010, and I made six features that year. My feeling was, okay, I will shoot a lot of stuff right now, and then, when the baby is born, I’ll just stay at home and edit. 2011 was crazy because I was trying to put those six movies out into the world. I sold Uncle Kent and Autoerotic to IFC, and that was the first time in the 10 years that Kris and I have been out of film school that we ever had any money. Usually I would sell a movie and put the proceeds either back into the next movie or live off of it until I could get the next thing going. Selling two [films] in the same year meant that we were living off of one of them, and then [with the money from the other], we decided to make a down payment on a house. We were like, “This is never going to happen again, so we should just do it, even though we can’t really afford it.” And so, we bought a house in the summer of 2011, and, financially, that’s been the big project. Then, in 2011, I still made a lot of stuff. I did a movie called All the Lights in the Sky , and then I went to Atlanta and did 24 Exposures . I was still living the same way I always had, cobbling together a month-to-month existence, but, in the meantime, I started to make money on movies that have been out there [for several years]. They’ve reached their second life: Netflix licenses, the Sundance Channel, DVDs, international VOD. There are these tiny accumulations so that every six months, when IFC does their accounting, I get a check for a few thousand dollars. And that income didn’t exist when we last talked. Filmmaker: How many films are contributing to these few thousand dollars? Swanberg: There are probably seven films out there with distribution that are recouping. They’re not each bringing in a few thousand dollars — it’s a few thousand dollars total. And the reason I’m getting a few thousand dollars every six months is because I paid for those old movies. I am the investor. Now, those movies only cost, like, a few thousand dollars [each], so it wasn’t a major expense. But when the movies show up on French Netflix, if there is a $600 license, I get that $600 license, which gets shared with whoever else has creative points. Filmmaker: So, for you, there’s a financial cushion provided by the volume of your work, the fact that you have made so many films. It was stressful at first but now it’s paying back. Swanberg: Yeah. Filmmaker: There is a sort of aggregated income flow. $200 here, $200 there; you get income from seven films and that’s a mortgage payment. Swanberg: Exactly. It turned out to be a necessary cushion. That money showing up was often what we needed to get by that next month. It’s unfathomable to imagine any other industry where the lag time between when you do the work and when you get paid for the work is three, four, six or 18 months, you know what I mean? It’s just crazy how when you’re on the filmmaking side, how un-urgent it all seems. It&#8217;s like, often, I know money is coming, but I have no idea when to expect it. Filmmaker: Or even how much. Swanberg: Or even how much. But it’s sort of like, “Okay, cool, that movie did well. But will I get that money six months from now? Will I get it a year from now? How much will it be?” The last couple of years have been this weird experience of always playing catch-up, always being a year behind whatever work I did. Filmmaker: Your model seems to have changed with Drinking Buddies . Swanberg: With Drinking Buddies , which I shot in the summer of 2012, I [got paid] to make the movie. I haven’t made any [additional] money from Drinking Buddies , and I probably won’t. But what it’s changed for my career has been huge. Because of that, I directed an episode of the HBO show Looking , which was great. I did a movie called Happy Christmas , where I worked with some of the same actors. So, the residual effects of Drinking Buddies have been really helpful in getting Kris and I to a place where we feel neutral. I still don’t feel like I’m making money, but 2013 was the first year where I felt like I wasn’t going further into debt. Filmmaker: From the outside, you seem like a huge success. But the idea that even with all that success you’re just getting to neutral is intense. Swanberg: It’s totally intense. For Kris and I, our dream right now is just to get out of debt &#8212; the hundreds of dollars a month in credit card debt from movies that I put on a credit card years ago. And that doesn’t even start to tackle student loans and stuff like that. Our family debt is $80,000 or $90,000. If we got to a point where we were at zero, that would feel like a major accomplishment. And then, actually making money, I don’t know how people do that. That’s this other thing. Filmmaker: Do you feel like having a house has shifted anything besides your financial picture? Has it been nice to own? Swanberg: Definitely. It’s huge peace of mind to know that not only is our mortgage going towards equity but also that, if for some reason, we couldn’t handle it, we could sell the house because it’s something of value. It’s not like the credit card debt, a monthly expense that just evaporates into the ether. The house feels like something that is for our family and that we can build upon. Filmmaker: Do you guys both work out of the house? Swanberg: Yeah, we both do. Filmmaker: Well, the good thing about attacking the debt is that you’re sort of acclimated to a lower income level. When you finish paying off the debt, you can shift that money over to savings. That’s one of the strategies I teach at ArtHome — to just stay at that level. Don’t ever adjust to income, just move it into savings because income fluctuations can be so intense. Swanberg: I think about that all the time. It’s been an amazing couple of years. I’m now actually gett