# Israel Benjamin Netanyahu Plan Northern Gaza Palestinian Civilians Hamas

**Source**: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/sep/23/israel-benjamin-netanyahu-plan-northern-gaza-palestinian-civilians-hamas
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:58:49.350458+00:00

---

Benjamin Netanyahu considering mass clearance of northern Gaza | Israel-Gaza war | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art &amp; design TV &amp; radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love &amp; sex Home &amp; garden Health &amp; fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Palestinians walk through a market in the Jabalia refugee camp. Between 300,000 and 500,000 people are living in northern Gaza, the UN says. Photograph: Xinhua/Rex/Shutterstock View image in fullscreen Palestinians walk through a market in the Jabalia refugee camp. Between 300,000 and 500,000 people are living in northern Gaza, the UN says. Photograph: Xinhua/Rex/Shutterstock Israel-Gaza war This article is more than 1 year old Benjamin Netanyahu considering mass clearance of northern Gaza This article is more than 1 year old Plan calls for Palestinian civilians to be forced out and Hamas militants put under siege in ‘closed military zone’ Lorenzo Tondo in Jerusalem Mon 23 Sep 2024 16.44 EDT First published on Mon 23 Sep 2024 10.38 EDT Share Benjamin Netanyahu is considering a plan to force Palestinian civilians out of northern Gaza and put Hamas militants who remain in the area under siege in order to force the release of hostages. The plan, published by retired military commanders and floated by some parliament members this month, calls for the area to be declared “a closed military zone” after civilians have been told to leave. The Likud MP Avichai Boaron said the plan was ‘‘currently being evaluated by the government”. “According to the plan, the IDF will evacuate all the civilians who are in the north of Gaza, from the border to the Gaza River,” Boaron told the Guardian. ‘‘And after they will evacuate, the IDF will assume that only the terrorists will remain. When the civilians population has left, you can find and kill all the terrorists without harming the civilians.” The Israeli national broadcaster, Kan, quoted the Israeli prime minister as saying the blueprint “makes sense” and that it was “one of the plans being considered”. An Israeli official quoted by CNN confirmed the veracity of the quote but said: “Seeing it positively does not mean adopting it.” According to the UN, between 300,000 and 500,000 Palestinians, most of them displaced, are living in the northern part of Gaza. The retired Israel Defense Forces major general Giora Eiland, a former IDF strategist and a previous head of Israel’s national security council, explained the main steps of the plan in a video published two weeks ago . “The reality today in Gaza is that [the Hamas leader Yahya] Sinwar is really not stressed,” he said in the video. “The right thing to do is to inform the approximately 300,000 residents who remained in the northern Gaza Strip, citizen residents, of the following: not that we are suggesting you leave the northern Gaza Strip; we are ordering you to leave the northern Gaza Strip. Seven people killed in Israeli airstrike on Gaza City school shelter Read more “In a week, the entire territory of the northern Gaza Strip will become military territory. And this military territory, as far as we are concerned, no supplies will enter it. That is why 5,000 terrorists who are in this situation, they can either surrender or starve.” Most of Gaza’s population has been displaced. An estimated 1 million people – half the population – are crammed into a designated humanitarian zone that comprises less than 15% of the territory and is lacking essential infrastructure and services, according to the UN. Humanitarian access to northern Gaza is especially difficult, it has said. The plan does not tackle the question of what would happen to Palestinian civilians who are unable or unwilling to leave, or how it will help with releasing the hostages. ‘‘I hope this plan will help release the hostages,’’ says Boaron, who had collected signatures for the plan at the Knesset. ‘‘But it will definitely help to defeat Hamas.’’ Prof Eyal Zisser, the vice-rector of Tel Aviv University and an expert on Lebanon and Arab-Israeli relations, said Netanyahu had so far refrained from detailing what his vision or plan was for the “day after” in Gaza or when the war would end. “Since there is no chance in the near future for a deal or a ceasefire, this means that the current situation will continue as it is – limited military operations by Israel in the Gaza Strip, but not full occupation,” Zisser said. “The fear in the Israeli army is that such a thing allows Hamas to restore its military capabilities and its ability to control the population, since a vacuum has been created which Hamas exploits. That is the reason behind the idea that some of the generals have had that in practice Israel will control and establish a kind of military government in the Gaza Strip.” Explore more on these topics Israel-Gaza war Israel Benjamin Netanyahu Palestine Hamas Middle East and north Africa news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints &amp; corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms &amp; conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work for us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2025 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)