# Alila Ventana Big Sur Goes All Inclusive

**Source**: https://thepointsguy.com/news/alila-ventana-big-sur-goes-all-inclusive/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-02T22:15:15.736732+00:00

---

Alila Ventana Big Sur goes all-inclusive - The Points Guy Skip to content Menu Go to Home Page Subscribe Advertiser disclosure Search The Points Guy Advertiser disclosure ADVERTISEMENT News Alila Ventana Big Sur goes all-inclusive Ariana Arghandewal Ariana Arghandewal Former points and miles editor Ariana has been writing about points and miles for almost a decade. She previously served as editor at FlyerTalk, Frugal Travel Guy and NerdWallet while running her own travel blog, PointChaser. June 13, 2020 • 5 min read Alila Ventana Big Sur goes all-inclusive Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Copy URL Email The cards we feature here are from partners who compensate us when you are approved through our site, and this may impact how or where these products appear. We don’t cover all available credit cards, but our analysis, reviews, and opinions are entirely from our editorial team. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information. Update: Some offers mentioned below are no longer available. View the current offers here . When it comes to hotel chains, we can all agree on one thing: Hyatt does all-inclusives right. Whether it&#x27;s the family-friendly Ziva properties , adult-only Zilara or high-end Miraval resorts, Hyatt takes the all-inclusive experience up a notch with great food and on-site entertainment options. Hyatt recently added another great property to its all-inclusive portfolio: The Alila Ventana Big Sur, reports One Mile at a Time . For more TPG news delivered each morning to your inbox, sign up for our daily newsletter . Bixby Bridge, Big Sur. (Photo by Dave Lastovskiy via Unsplash) This hotel has been part of the World of Hyatt program since 2019 and bookable for 30,000 points per night. The property has been closed since March due to the COVID-19 crisis but is set to reopen on July 15, 2020. When it does, the nightly rate (including award redemptions) will include meals, snacks, select activities and chauffeur service within a three-mile radius. Here&#x27;s a complete list of what&#x27;s included : Dining in-room (all meals), poolside (lunch), or at The Sur House (breakfast and dinner) — which has a new seating plan and is reserved exclusively for resort guests. Snacks to take on outings, along with complimentary reusable water bottles. Access to the resort&#x27;s Signature Experiences such as yoga, meditation, Tai Chi, and daily hikes. The Ventana Big Sur picnic program. Access to indoor and outdoor fitness studios. Chauffeur service within a three-mile radius. Access to private, reservation-only indoor and outdoor wellness studios. The Excursion Outpost, which offers complimentary items for use on picnics, hikes, etc. New outdoor lounging across the grounds. This is a pretty generous list of offerings, especially considering how expensive staying at this property can be. Room rates regularly go for over $1,000 per night, while the award redemption rate is 30,000 points per night. Not having to worry about paying for meals and activities beyond that is even more of an incentive to stay at this resort. Related: 11 all-inclusive beach resorts you can book with points Earning enough Hyatt points for a free night Ventana Big Sur&#x27;s Vista Hot Tub Suite. (Photo courtesy Alila Hotels) If a stay at the Alila Ventana Big Sur sounds like a perfect post-pandemic retreat, you&#x27;ll be glad to know you don&#x27;t need to shell out thousands of dollars for the privilege. This property is a terrific use of 30,000 Hyatt points, which aren&#x27;t too difficult to come by. You can transfer points at a 1:1 ratio from a card like the Chase Sapphire Preferred Card, which currently offers a 60,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 in the first three months from account opening. Daily Newsletter Reward your inbox with the TPG Daily newsletter Join over 700,000 readers for breaking news, in-depth guides and exclusive deals from TPG’s experts Email address Sign up By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy . You may unsubscribe at any time. The World of Hyatt Credit Card is another great alternative if you want a card with Hyatt-specific perks like elite status. The card comes with 25,000 bonus points after you spend $3,000 on purchases in the first three months of account opening. Plus another 25,000 points after $6,000 in total spending within the first six months. The card includes automatic Discoverist status, which gets you perks like 10% bonus points, M life Pearl status, free premium internet, space-available room upgrades, 2 p.m. checkout and more. If you want to earn higher status, you&#x27;ll also get five qualifying nights toward elite status, plus two credits for every $5,000 spent on the card. Through June 30, this number is elevated to three credits for every $5,000 spent . World of Hyatt cardholders earn 4x points at Hyatt hotels and 2x points on restaurants, direct airline ticket purchases, local transit and fitness club/gym memberships. The card&#x27;s $95 annual fee can be easily offset with the annual free night certificate , valid at any Category 1-4 Hyatt hotel. You&#x27;ll get an additional certificate for charging $15,000 on the card every cardmember anniversary. Overall, it&#x27;s a very rewarding card and worth considering if you&#x27;re aiming for a high-end Hyatt redemption like the Ventana Big Sur. Related: Hyatt offering 10,000 points for expiring free night certificates Bottom line One of the best ways to get value out of Hyatt points is to use them at high-end properties like the Ventana Big Sur. However, high-end redemptions often come with high ticket prices for on-site amenities and meals. The Ventana Big Sur&#x27;s new status as an all-inclusive property helps solve this conundrum. I for one look forward to making the 1.5-hour drive up to Big Sur, once it&#x27;s safe to do so, to check out the new offerings for myself. Editorial disclaimer: Opinions expressed here are the author’s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airline or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Maximize your travel Facebook Instagram YouTube Twitter TikTok Sign up for our daily newsletter for the latest news, deals and tips. Email address Subscribe By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy . You may unsubscribe at any time. Meet TPG About us TPG gives back Careers Contact us Site map Newsletters Legal Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Privacy policy Terms of use Cookie settings Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy Our Commitment to Transparency The Points Guy believes that credit cards can transform lives, helping you leverage everyday spending for cash back or travel experiences that might otherwise be out of reach. That’s why we publish a variety of editorial content and card comparisons: to help you find a great card to turn your goals into reality. When you choose to apply (and are approved) for a new credit card through our site, we may receive compensation from our partners, and this may impact how or where these products appear. While we don’t cover all available credit cards, our editorial team creates and maintains all of the analysis of these cards, and our content is not influenced nor subject to review by any credit card company, bank or partner prior to (or after) publication. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information. Copyright © 2025 The Points Guy, LLC. All rights reserved. A Red Ventures company.