# The Question Of Ryan Tannehill

**Source**: http://grantland.com/features/the-question-of-ryan-tannehill/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:52:38.730205+00:00

---

&raquo; The Question of Ryan Tannehill Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous Three Steps to Better Music Biopics ➤ Next Fifteen Years Later: Tom Cruise and ‘Magnolia’ Facebook Twitter Print NFL The Question of Ryan Tannehill With two years of starts under his belt, you'd think we'd have the Dolphins QB figured out. We don't. by Bill Barnwell on August 6, 2014 B y the end of a quarterback&#8217;s second season as his team&#8217;s starter, his broader future has usually become pretty clear. We can&#8217;t predict every little odd bounce he&#8217;ll take along the way, of course, but after two full seasons (or something close), most quarterbacks fit comfortably into one of two buckets: problem or solution. Those are descriptors with a whole lot of room to work with, but in evaluating young quarterbacks, they&#8217;re usually useful enough. Here are the passers since 2000 who have started 25 games or more within their first two seasons of being drafted: Passer Debut Picked (Round-Overall) Team Games Started After Year 2 In Hindsight David Carr 2002 1-1 Texans 27 problem problem Joey Harrington 2002 1-3 Lions 28 problem problem Kyle Boller 2003 1-19 Ravens 25 problem problem Byron Leftwich 2003 1-7 Jaguars 27 solution problem Ben Roethlisberger 2004 1-11 Steelers 25 solution solution Vince Young 2006 1-3 Titans 28 problem problem Matt Ryan 2008 1-3 Falcons 30 solution solution Joe Flacco 2008 1-18 Ravens 32 solution solution Josh Freeman 2009 1-17 Buccaneers 25 solution problem Mark Sanchez 2009 1-5 Jets 31 problem problem Sam Bradford 2010 1-1 Rams 26 problem problem Christian Ponder 2011 1-12 Vikings 26 problem problem Cam Newton 2011 1-1 Panthers 32 solution solution Andy Dalton 2011 2-35 Bengals 32 ??? ??? Robert Griffin 2012 1-2 Washington 28 ??? ??? Russell Wilson 2012 3-75 Seahawks 32 solution ??? Ryan Tannehill 2012 1-8 Dolphins 32 ??? ??? Andrew Luck 2012 1-1 Colts 32 solution ??? It&#8217;s arbitrary, of course, but there&#8217;s something to be learned here. Byron Leftwich and Josh Freeman were the only passers who looked to be above-average quarterbacks after their first two seasons before then failing to justify a long-term contract. I suppose there might have been some hope for Mark Sanchez after the Jets led him to two AFC Championship Games in his first two seasons, but that was coming from people who worship at the bizarre intersectional altar of the Jets and quarterback wins. As we get closer to the present, of course, while it seems to be a sure thing that the likes of Andrew Luck and Russell Wilson will be superstars for years to come, my conscience and the fear of inflicting some variant of the #jonahhex mean I&#8217;m leaving their future status as question marks for now. Click here for more from our 2014 NFL preview. The three passers whose fates are still up in the air &#8212; both in the short term and the long term &#8212; are Andy Dalton, Robert Griffin, and Ryan Tannehill. I covered Dalton&#8217;s issues Monday , mere hours before the Bengals signed him to a six-year contract extension . With Griffin, the real question is injury; very few doubt that he has the skills to be a franchise quarterback. Tannehill, on the other hand? I feel like we know less about where he is and what his future looks like after 32 starts than just about any other young passer in recent memory. 1 As I wrote in the Trade Value column , I think it&#8217;s safe to say Tannehill isn&#8217;t an obvious bust in the way somebody like Blaine Gabbert was going to be a failure after two pro seasons (and, in Gabbert&#8217;s case, 24 starts), but it&#8217;s also very unclear whether he&#8217;s somebody in whom the Dolphins are going to want to invest as their franchise quarterback in two years. Owing to the hazing controversy that engulfed the Dolphins last season, he is &#8212; perhaps unfairly &#8212; an enigma. To get a better idea of Tannehill&#8217;s status heading into 2014, I took a run through his 2013 season on NFL Game Rewind. Consider this his two-year progress report. More than anything else, it was Tannehill&#8217;s head that had to make the biggest leap coming from Texas A&amp;M to the pros. That&#8217;s not because Tannehill&#8217;s an unintelligent person &#8212; he carried a 3.6 GPA in biology through his first three years at Texas A&amp;M &#8212; but because he was such an inexperienced quarterback. Remember that Tannehill moved to wide receiver during his freshman year at A&amp;M and didn&#8217;t become a full-time quarterback until halfway through his junior campaign; he finished his college career having thrown just 774 passes under head coach Mike Sherman, who would become Tannehill&#8217;s offensive coordinator during his first two seasons in Miami. Obviously, nobody doubted Tannehill&#8217;s athleticism, and he had played in a West Coast offense under Sherman, which translated to the professional level, but there were questions as to whether he would be able to avoid the mental challenges that invariably pop up at that level. After watching all of Tannehill&#8217;s passes from last season, it&#8217;s pretty clear he still has some questions to answer. Like many young quarterbacks, he&#8217;s inconsistent from week to week in terms of how he reads the field and the mistakes he makes in doing so, although the extremes with Tannehill seem to be a little higher than they are with, say, a Russell Wilson. That likely owes something to Tannehill being stuck behind the league&#8217;s worst offensive line last season, as he was sacked a league-high 58 times and knocked down, per the newly released Football Outsiders Almanac 2014 , 101 times. Only Luck and Matt Ryan hit the turf more frequently than Tannehill. It&#8217;s not difficult to imagine Tannehill being more concerned with staying in one piece behind a rapidly disintegrating pocket than with scanning the field and making plays. It was basically like Gravity at times last year, with Tannehill out there like Sandra Bullock hanging on to the space station for dear life. That would make right tackle Tyson Clabo space debris : I would tell my mom I didn&#8217;t want to play football anymore if that happened to me. That was in Week 7. You would figure that Tannehill would have gotten worse as the season went along because Jonathan Martin and Richie Incognito were both gone during the second half, but in watching the Dolphins offense, the line was far more at fault for sacks during the first half of the campaign than during the second half. As Ron Jaworski noted while ranking Tannehill as the league&#8217;s 23rd-best quarterback heading into 2014 , Tannehill seems to get stuck at times on his reads and holds on to the ball longer than he should in the hopes of making plays. That became more and more obvious as the season went along, although it&#8217;s clearly an issue for Tannehill on a regular basis. Watch Tannehill get entranced by a pick play that never develops in Week 5: Here, in the Jets&#8217; lone sack of Tannehill in Week 13, he doesn&#8217;t proceed quickly enough through his progressions and ends up never making it to his open checkdown: And again in the fourth quarter of Week 15 against the Patriots, where Tannehill seems to just lock up at the end of his drop: With a better line, maybe Tannehill gets more time at the end of his drop to cycle through his options and make a safe throw, but he obviously didn&#8217;t have that going for him with Miami last season. And when the pressure does get on him, Tannehill is basically useless. FOA 2014 notes that Tannehill averaged 6.9 yards per dropback and posted a 34.5 percent DVOA on plays in which he wasn&#8217;t pressured. When Tannehill was pressured, though, he produced an average of just 1.1 yards per play, and his DVOA on those plays was a horrific -119.9 percent. That&#8217;s a difference of, yes, 154.4 percentage points, the fifth-largest gap in the league. 2 It will be interesting to see how the new dynamic in Miami influences Tannehill&#8217;s play in this area in 2014. With center Mike Pouncey undergoing hip surgery that will cost him at least part of the regular season, Miami will start five new offensive linemen in Week 1, including big-ticket free agent Branden Albert ($25 million guaranteed) at left tackle and first-round pick Ja&#8217;Wuan James at right tackle. They will surely have some continuity issues and make mental mistakes, but on a talent level, they can&#8217;t possibly be worse than last year&#8217;s starting five. While Pouncey, Incognito, and departed guard John Jerry were made out to be execrable human beings in the Ted Wells report , Clabo was arguably the worst pass-blocker in football last season. 3 Stats LLC credits him with 9.5 sacks allowed last season , and that&#8217;s a very generous interpretation, from what I saw. Perhaps more importantly, though, Tannehill will be playing in a new offensive scheme that&#8217;s designed to make the game simpler and get the ball out of his hands faster. The Dolphins fired Sherman, in whom Tannehill reportedly lost faith by the end of 2013 , replacing him with Eagles quarterbacks coach Bill Lazor, who has both a wide-reaching background and the experience of working underneath Chip Kelly in Philadelphia&#8217;s devastating offense last season. And now &#8230; a word from Chris B. Brown Ryan Tannehill enters his make-or-break third season with a new offense coordinated by Bill Lazor, a promising but relatively unknown coach. Joe Philbin let his friend Mike Sherman go and brought in Lazor, who has coached with Joe Gibbs, Mike Holmgren, and, most recently, as the quarterbacks coach in Philadelphia under Chip Kelly. Miami is hoping Lazor can do for Tannehill what he did for Eagles quarterback Nick Foles, who went from an iffy rookie year in 2012 to a sparkling 27-2 touchdown-to-interception ratio and a league-high passer rating in 2013. 