# trustbasedphilanthropy.org

**Source**: https://www.trustbasedphilanthropy.org/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:01:06.787411+00:00

---

Trust-Based Philanthropy --> 0 Skip to Content what is tbp? overview 6 practices take our quiz about us what we do team faqs impact report tools guides &amp; how-to's templates &amp; samples videos &amp; recordings publications research &amp; reports blog events get involved sign the pledge getting started peer exchange newsletter request a speaker contact us Open Menu Close Menu what is tbp? overview 6 practices take our quiz about us what we do team faqs impact report tools guides &amp; how-to's templates &amp; samples videos &amp; recordings publications research &amp; reports blog events get involved sign the pledge getting started peer exchange newsletter request a speaker contact us Open Menu Close Menu Folder: what is tbp? Back overview 6 practices take our quiz Folder: about us Back what we do team faqs impact report Folder: tools Back guides &amp; how-to's templates &amp; samples videos &amp; recordings publications research &amp; reports blog events Folder: get involved Back sign the pledge getting started peer exchange newsletter request a speaker contact us Funders, now is the time to show up for nonprofits, mobilize money, and nurture possibility. Why now? What is trust-based philanthropy? The trust-based philanthropy movement is fundamentally reimagining the role funders can have in building a more just and equitable society. This movement is creating a sector in which there is mutual accountability between funders and nonprofits, and where philanthropic systems and structures reflect the needs and dreams of communities. Ultimately, we believe philanthropy will be more strategic, rewarding, and impactful when funders approach their relationships with nonprofits from a place of trust and collaboration rather than compliance and control. Join the movement Already on your trust-based journey? Go deeper. New to trust-based philanthropy? Start here . 6 Practices of Trust-Based Grantmaking&nbsp; For many funders, the six grantmaking practices are a tangible way to start putting trust-based values into action. While a fully trust-based approach encompasses four key dimensions , the six practices guide shares insights and practical recommendations on how to implement trust-based grantmaking practices. Give Multi-Year, Unrestricted Funding Long-term flexible funding allows organizations to allocate resources where they are most needed, making room for innovation, emergence, and impact. Read More → Do the Homework It is the funder's responsibility to get to know the issues and organizations in their funding landscape, saving nonprofits time in the early stages of the vetting process. Read More → Simplify &amp; Streamline Paperwork Nonprofits spend an inordinate amount of time on reports and applications. A more relational approach saves time and helps funders gain a deeper understanding of the work. Read More → Be Transparent &amp; Responsive When funders model transparency, power awareness, and vulnerability, it helps build relationships rooted in trust and mutual accountability. Read More → Solicit &amp; Act on Feedback A foundation’s work will be inherently more successful if it is informed by the expertise and experience of grantee partners and communities. Read More → Offer Support Beyond the Check Funders have more to offer than dollars alone. Responsive, adaptive, non-monetary support bolsters leadership, capacity, and organizational health. Read More → Read Our Blog Our blog is a place for reimagining philanthropy, and our collective role in it. Read updates from the Trust-Based Philanthropy Project and hear from grantmakers and nonprofits as they share their lessons, questions, and aha-moments along their power-shifting journeys. blog Aug 7, 2025 Using Your Voice and Influence to Complement Your Grantmaking Aug 7, 2025 Aug 7, 2025 Aug 6, 2025 Leadership in a time of crisis: Why The California Endowment is doubling its payout rate to 10% Aug 6, 2025 Aug 6, 2025 May 9, 2025 Building Toward, For, and Beyond This Moment May 9, 2025 May 9, 2025 Mar 26, 2025 Sign the Philanthropic Commitment for Trust-Based Action Mar 26, 2025 Mar 26, 2025 Dec 5, 2024 Funders, Can Nonprofits Count on You Amid Growing Threats? Dec 5, 2024 Dec 5, 2024 Dec 2, 2024 Learning Out Loud: Insights From our 2024 Grantmaker Survey Dec 2, 2024 Dec 2, 2024 Nov 15, 2024 Brenda Solórzano on Building a Trust-Based Organization: Reflections on 7 ½ years at Headwaters Foundation Nov 15, 2024 Nov 15, 2024 Oct 25, 2024 In the Right Hands: A New Documentary on Trust-Based Philanthropy Oct 25, 2024 Oct 25, 2024 Sep 11, 2024 A New Chapter for the TBP Movement Sep 11, 2024 Sep 11, 2024 Aug 28, 2024 A Field Initiative Built on Trust Aug 28, 2024 Aug 28, 2024 Jul 1, 2024 Liberating Nonprofits: A Black, Woman Fundraiser's Perspective Jul 1, 2024 Jul 1, 2024 Jun 12, 2024 Here’s Why Trust Goes Deeper Than Unrestricted Funding Jun 12, 2024 Jun 12, 2024 May 24, 2024 The Helping Industry’s Role in Alleviating Power Imbalances&nbsp; May 24, 2024 May 24, 2024 Apr 30, 2024 There Is a Trust Gap in Philanthropy. Donors Can Help Close It. Apr 30, 2024 Apr 30, 2024 Apr 30, 2024 How Can A Trust-Based Approach Be Applied to Impact-First Investing? Apr 30, 2024 Apr 30, 2024 Apr 18, 2024 Why We Welcome Critique About Trust-Based Philanthropy&nbsp; Apr 18, 2024 Apr 18, 2024 About Us The Trust-Based Philanthropy Project is a funder-to-funder advocacy initiative to make equitable grantmaking and community accountability the standard of practice for effective philanthropy. We are fiscally sponsored by Social and Environmental Entrepreneurs, a registered 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. Donate Sign Up for News &amp; Updates Subscribe below to receive occasional news and updates from the Trust-Based Philanthropy Project. Sign Up