# Exclusive The Harris Campaign On What Went Wrong

**Source**: https://crooked.com/podcast/exclusive-the-harris-campaign-on-what-went-wrong/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:50:47.238457+00:00

---

Exclusive: The Harris Campaign On What Went Wrong | Crooked Media skip to main content Crooked Con: New Venue, More Tickets, More Guests! Learn More Crooked Con: New Venue, More Tickets, More Guests! Learn More Podcasts All News &#038; Politics Entertainment &#038; Culture Limited Series Subscriber Series Daily News Newsletters Crooked Media Reads Shop Merch Coffee Friends of the Pod Events About Team Network Careers Vote Save America Friends of the Pod How To: Unlock Ad-Free How To: Join Crooked&#8217;s Discord Podcasts All News &#038; Politics Entertainment &#038; Culture Limited Series Subscriber Series Daily News Newsletters Crooked Media Reads Shop Merch Coffee Friends of the Pod Events About Team Network Careers Vote Save America Friends of the Pod How To: Unlock Ad-Free How To: Join Crooked&#8217;s Discord Popular Searches Pod Save America Voting Rights Video Hysteria Filters Filters Content Types Tags Authors --> Apply Results November 26, 2024 Pod Save America Exclusive: The Harris Campaign On What Went Wrong Share Apple Podcasts Spotify Stitcher Share This Podcast FaceBook Icon FaceBook Icon Choose A Platform To Share On Pod Save America 1026 Episodes Listen Tune In RSS Spotify YouTube Pocket Casts YouTube Music Amazon Music Apple Podcasts In This Episode In this candid interview, the leaders of the Harris-Walz Campaign speak for the first time about the challenges they faced and why they made the decisions they did. Dan sits down with Jen O&#8217;Malley Dillon, David Plouffe, Quentin Fulks, and Stephanie Cutter to talk about the campaign&#8217;s roadmap, their approach to nontraditional media outlets like Joe Rogan, the voters they most needed to win over, why they fell short in the end, and what Democrats should do differently next time. &nbsp; For a closed-captioned version of this episode, click here . For a transcript of this episode, please email transcripts@crooked.com and include the name of the podcast. &nbsp; Watch full interview here . &nbsp; Full Transcript: Dan Pfeiffer: Welcome to Pod Save America. I&#8217;m Dan Pfeiffer. We have a special show for you today. I am here in Washington, D. C., where I&#8217;m about to sit down with the leadership of the Harris-Walz campaign for their first interview about what happened in the election. Last week, Michael Tyler, who&#8217;s the communications director for the campaign, called me and said that they were ready to speak and that they wanted to have that conversation on Pod Save America. This is the first time that any of them have done an interview since the election. They don&#8217;t pretend to have all the answers here. There&#8217;s way more to cover than we could possibly cover in one podcast. This is the beginning of a conversation about understanding what happened in 2024 and learning the lessons that Democrats are going to need going forward. Here in Washington with me are Harris-Walz campaign manager Jen O’Malley Dillion, Quentin Fulks, who&#8217;s the deputy campaign manager, and oversaw paid advertising, Stephanie Cutter, who oversaw messaging and communications, and joining by Zoom is David Plouffe, who consulted on all of it. Jen, Quentin, Stephanie, David, thanks for joining us. Thank you for doing this. Very much appreciate you having this conversation with us here on Pod Save America. Just to level set, Jen, and I&#8217;ll start with you: How did you feel going into Election Day? And at what point did you have a sense that things were beginning to break Trump&#8217;s way? Was there a county result? Something about the turnout? Like, was there a moment when you sort of understood that– how it was going to end? Jen O&#8217;Malley Dillon: Well, I, the truth is that we really thought this was a very close race. We talked about the entire time we saw it as a margin of error race, almost the entire time the vice president was in the race. And we knew we had to have strong turnout on Election Day. We saw early vote really, uh, ending strong for us and saw, you know, the types of voters we wanted to see turnout. But, you know, we expected this to be close. We also expected that Florida was going to come in a bit redder. Virginia we knew was tracking to being, you know, that we were going to be ahead, but that we would be ahead by less than we were in 2020. So we were expecting to see that when we saw that. We also did anticipate that the night would go relatively long because some of these states would take longer to come in. But I think it was, you know, really after polls closed, there was nothing that we saw throughout the day. There was nothing that we saw that told us there was overwhelming turnout or anything out of complete expectations on Trump&#8217;s side. But it really took us into the hours of, you know, polls closing for us to know for sure that things were not tightening. They were tight, but they weren&#8217;t tightening in the direction we needed them to be. Dan Pfeiffer: And is that just because Trump&#8217;s turnout was so high? Jen O&#8217;Malley Dillon: Well, honestly, I think, um, I think it&#8217;s a little bit mixed. I mean, we saw certainly Trump turnout high in early vote. We really believe that to be mode shifting and that&#8217;s what I think it was. I think we also saw turnout was as expected in rural areas, like we didn&#8217;t see anything that said, you know, like maybe we saw in ’16 or even in ’20 that he had more turnout than we had anticipated, and our analytics really was quite close, much closer than it had been in ’20 and in ’16. But I do think we saw some lighter turnout in some of the areas we had hoped, but difference of a point here or there, which obviously in a close race makes a huge difference. And then I think we saw a little bit of a drop in support in a few areas for us. So that ultimately, I think, is why we weren&#8217;t able to, to close the gap. It wasn&#8217;t so much that what we were seeing in the battlegrounds was out of expectation or that he had some hidden turnout we hadn&#8217;t picked up on. Dan Pfeiffer: David, when you say it was a margin of error race you needed high turnout, what did your polls tell you where the race was heading into election day? David Plouffe: Well, Dan, you and I talked prior to the election, and just to rewind, I think when Kamala Harris became the nominee she was behind, we kind of, you know, climbed back. And even post debate, you know, we still had ourselves down, you know, in the battleground states, but very close. And so I think by the end it was a jump ball race, and I think we needed some things to break our way. Maybe Trump&#8217;s Election Day turnout would underperform. Our election day turnout would, you know either be at level or over perform and, you know, we&#8217;d win more of the people who decided in the last three or four days. I think our data and the New York Times data and other public data suggested we did have some progress with undecideds at late October. So it was a dead heat race. But, you know, at the end of the day, you know, the political atmosphere was pretty brutal and that&#8217;s not an excuse. You had right track, wrong track, I think 28-72, about 70 percent of the country saying they were angry and dissatisfied. You had Trump&#8217;s approval rating on his first term frustratingly high, 48 to 51, depending on the state. Obviously, the incumbent president&#8217;s approval rating around 38 to 41, depending on the state. And you know, I think the economy and inflation is still driving a lot of votes. So I think given that we had a challenging political environment, the fact that we got the race to dead heat was positive, but boy, it was slow moving. And I think we were focused on seven states. You know, that&#8217;s our windshield into the world, the battleground states. But, you know, what we saw on election day was, you know, New Jersey and California and Connecticut and New York, massive shifts. So I think where Kamala Harris campaigned, we were able to keep the tide down a little bit, but it ended up being a pretty strong, you know, tailwind for Donald Trump. And I think it&#8217;s worth reminding everybody we saw in ’22, even though that was a pretty decent democratic year, we saw these shifts, we saw them in ’20, we saw them in ’16. You know, Trump, specifically, but Republicans generally improving their vote share amongst non-college voters, particularly non-college voters of color. And this was a surprising race because Kamala Harris actually did, I think, better with senior voters than I think a lot of people would have thought. So, margin of error race where we inherited a deficit, we got it to even, but the thing never moved. So, to Jen&#8217;s point, I think we were, you know, we were hopeful. I don&#8217;t know how optimistic we were, but we thought, okay, this is tied, and if a couple things break our way, and listen, I&#8217;m naive in this way, I just thought at the end of the day, particularly because Trump did not close well, I thought, and I thought Kamala Harris closed well, Trump was reminding people some of the things they don&#8217;t like about him. That that might give us what we needed. But at the end of the day, I think the political atmosphere, the desire for change, all those fundamentals that you&#8217;ve spent a lot of time talking about, really presented huge challenges for us. So, you know, we got, we got there, but we didn&#8217;t get the breaks we needed on election day. Dan Pfeiffer: How deep was the hole that she had to climb out of? David Plouffe: Well, Dan, I mean, I think, listen, there was the Biden-Trump 1.0, which is obviously pretty catastrophic in terms of where the race stood. When we got in, my recollection is some of that snapped back, but you know, we were behind. I mean, I think it surprised people because there was these public polls that came out in late September, early October, showing us with leads that we never saw. You know, I mean, it was just basically a race t