# Chinese Startup Biren Details Br100 Gpu

**Source**: https://www.hpcwire.com/2022/08/22/chinese-startup-biren-details-br100-gpu/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:00:41.931530+00:00

---

Chinese Startup Biren Details BR100 GPU Search the site Go Tabor Network: BigDATAwire AIwire HPCwire Japan QCwire HPC & AI Wall Street TPC25 Toggle navigation Search the site Go Since 1987 - Covering the Fastest Computers in the World and the People Who Run Them Since 1987 - Covering the Fastest Computers in the World and the People Who Run Them Home Topics Applications Cloud Developer Tools Interconnects Middleware Networks Processors Quantum Storage Systems Visualization Sectors Academia &amp; Research Entertainment Financial Services Government Life Sciences Manufacturing Oil &amp; Gas Retail QCwire Home QCwire Subscribe Exascale Specials 35 HPC Legends Class of 2025 Class of 2024 HPC Executive Videos LIVEwire Interviews SC 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 ISC 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 People to Watch 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Readers&#8217; Choice Awards 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 HPC + AI Wall Street 2018 2009 2008 Advanced Scale Forum Resource Library Podcast Events Events Advanced Scale Forum HPC + AI Wall Street 2022 Digital Event Series Job Bank About About HPCwire Organizations and Affiliations HPCwire Editorial Submissions Subscribe HPCwire Custom Reprints Contact Us Subscribe Chinese Startup Biren Details BR100 GPU By Oliver Peckham August 22, 2022 Amid the high-performance GPU turf tussle between AMD and Nvidia (and soon, Intel), a new, China-based player is emerging: Biren Technology, founded in 2019 and headquartered in Shanghai. At Hot Chips 34 , Biren co-founder and president Lingjie Xu and Biren CTO Mike Hong took the (virtual) stage to detail the company’s inaugural product: the Biren BR100 general-purpose GPU (GPGPU). “It is my honor to present our first-generation compute product: BR100,” Xu said. “BR100 is dedicated to addressing the challenges of AI training and inference in the datacenter, with augmented goals of increasing productivity and reducing overall cost of ownership.” Image courtesy of Biren. At 1074mm2, the 77 billion-transistor, dual-die Biren BR100 (pictured in the header) will be manufactured on TSMC’s 7nm process and capable of 256 FP32 teraflops. The die-to-die interconnect provides 896GB/s bandwidth. The BR100 comes with up to 64GB of HBM2E memory (across four stacks) and can manage up to 2.3TB/s in external I/O bandwidth among its octuple BLink connections. All of this adds up to a max TDP of 550W and a targeted clock frequency of 1GHz. Given the BR100’s targeted use cases, the point of comparison was no surprise: Nvidia’s A100 GPU, which has become the de facto reference point in the widening field of accelerators. The BR100’s peak teraflops, of course, compare extraordinarily favorably to the A100 — 19.5 for the A100, 256 for the BR100 (“one of the fastest GPUs in the world,” Xu said). Beyond the flops, Xu said they had seen promising results on workloads and benchmarks. “Compared with the Nvidia A100, at the current stage, we see an average of 2.6(×) speedup over a broad range of benchmarks across different domains, including computer vision, natural language processing and conversational AI,” he said. “Performance will continue to go up in the coming months as we keep optimizing hardware and software.” Image courtesy of Biren. “We had two design goals for the BR100,” Hong said. “The first: it needs to reach one petaflops horsepower. The second: it should be a GPGPU, not a pure AI accelerator.” With that, let’s return to flops for a moment: the BR100 supports FP32, BF16, FP16, INT32, INT16 and other formats — but there are two additional points of note: first, the BR100 does not support FP64 (&#8220;We decided to dedicate chip area to our targeted markets and use cases,” Xu commented); second, the BR100 does support a new 24-bit data type called TP32+. And, with 1024 teraflops of performance at BF16, it looks like the BR100 fits Biren’s bill of “one petaflops horsepower.” The BR100 will also come in another flavor: the BR104, a single-die variant designed for use in PCIe cards. Xu said that Biren is also working with manufacturers to build reference cluster designs. The chip itself has already been tested on real silicon. What&#8217;s more: “We already submitted to the latest round of MLPerf inference, and you should be able to see our results in two or three weeks,&#8221; Xu said. (Biren a member of MLCommons.) Image courtesy of Biren Biren Technology jointly released the 8-way Hearten OAM server in partnership with Inspur. The companies expect to begin sampling the hardware in the fourth quarter of this year. Devices will ship with Biren&#8217;s own software platform and programming model, called BIRENSUPA. &#8220;Developers who are familiar with (Nvidia&#8217;s) CUDA can easily write code for SUPA,&#8221; said Hong. Supported AI frameworks include PyTorch, TensorFlow and PaddlePaddle. The company also provides the OpenCL compiler. The dual-die BR100 appears as one GPU to the software layer. As of its Series B funding round, Biren has raised more than 5 billion CNY (~$730 million USD). BR100 leverages 7nm chiplet design with TSMC&#8217;s CoWoS packaging. Image courtesy Biren. &nbsp; Topics: AI , Hardware , Processors , Systems Tags: A100 , Biren , BR100 , GPGPU , GPU , Hot Chips , Nvidia Leading Solution Providers Off The Wire Industry Headlines October 3, 2025 TX-GAIN Supercomputer Expands Generative AI and Research Capabilities at MIT Quantum Learning Lab Launches to Train New Mexico’s Quantum Future SuperX Launches Latest XN9160-B300 AI Server, Blackwell Ultra Delivers 50% More Compute Over Blackwell Fujitsu Expands Strategic Collaboration with NVIDIA to Deliver Full-Stack AI Infrastructure EeroQ Advances Electron-on-Helium Quantum Platform with 1 Kelvin Results PEAK:AIO Secures Over $6.8M in Seed Round Funding Quantum Machines Announces Adaptive Quantum Circuits 2025, Nov. 12-14 Researchers Use Fugaku Supercomputer to Model Dynamic Dark Energy Scenarios October 2, 2025 PPPL: New AI Enhances the View Inside Fusion Energy Systems SiPearl Announces Launch of Athena1 Processor Tabor Communications Appoints New Editorial Director, Promotes Staff SUNY Chancellor Announces Inaugural Class of the SUNY AI for the Public Good Fellow Huawei Unveils Fully Upgraded Xinghe Intelligent Network Offerings for Europe, Boosting Industry Intelligence Giga Computing Launches Portfolio of Servers Powered by AmpereOne M Fluid Flow Simulation on Frontier Earns Gordon Bell Finalist Selection Nokia Announces Successful End-to-End Ultra Ethernet Test Across Data Center Switch Family Odra Quantum Computing School Debuts in Poland with Intensive Training and Hackathon VDURA Powers One of the World’s Largest Defense GPU Installations EuroHPC User Days 2025 Awards: Celebrating Innovation in European Supercomputing QuantWare Delivers Tenor QPU to Power Italy&#8217;s Largest Quantum Computer More Off The Wire &times; Off The Wire Industry Headlines More Off The Wire Subscribe to HPCwire's Weekly Update! Be the most informed person in the room! Stay ahead of the tech trends with industry updates delivered to you every week! The Latest Editor’s Picks Most Popular --> Google Quantum AI Brings Atlantic Quantum into Its Team October 3, 2025 Google Quantum AI has announced that Atlantic Quantum is joining Google. The MIT spin-out, founded in 2022, has been developing modular superconducting qubit hardware that integrates qubits and control electronics within Read more&hellip; Inside MIT&#8217;s New AI Platform for Scientific Discovery October 3, 2025 AI-powered tools have become more common in scientific research and development, especially for predicting outcomes or suggesting possible experiments using datasets. However, most of these systems only work with limited Read more&hellip; Government Supercomputing Labs Are Still Open, For Now October 2, 2025 As the nation enters the second day of the US government shutdown, employees at the national laboratories continue to work and supercomputers will continue to run. But how long will the labs stay open? That’s not clear Read more&hellip; Accelerating the Path to Practical Quantum Applications With AI October 2, 2025 Over the past few years, the convergence of artificial intelligence (AI) and quantum computing has shifted from speculative rhetoric to tangible research and early commercial deployment. Today, professionals in high-perf Read more&hellip; Photonic Switches Promise to Keep GPUs Fed, Cool October 1, 2025 As the AI revolution continues to unfold, the capability to move data as quickly as possible into GPUs without driving up the power consumption--and thus the heat generation--has emerged as a major impediment to progress Read more&hellip; The Fast and the FuriosaAI: Korean Chip Startup Takes Aim at Nvidia GPUs with Tensor Contraction Architecture September 30, 2025 Nvidia has no shortage of competitors these days. One of them is FuriosaAI, a South Korean chip startup that is gaining attention with its unique Tensor Contraction Processor (TCP) semiconductor architecture that underli Read more&hellip; Inside MIT&#8217;s New AI Platform for Scientific Discovery October 3, 2025 AI-powered tools have become more common in scientific research and development, especially for predicting outcomes or suggesting possible experiments using dat Read more&hellip; Accelerating the Path to Practical Quantum Applications With AI October 2, 2025 Over the past few years, the convergence of artificial intelligence (AI) and quantum computing has shifted from speculative rhetoric to tangible research and ea Read more&hellip; Photonic Switches Promise to Keep GPUs Fed, Cool October 1, 2025 As the AI revolution continues to unfold, the capability to move data as quickly as possible into GPUs without driving up the power consumption--and thus th