# Sarah Jessica Parker And Just Like That Haters 1235410341

**Source**: https://www.rollingstone.com/tv-movies/tv-movie-news/sarah-jessica-parker-and-just-like-that-haters-1235410341/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:13:15.007989+00:00

---

Sarah Jessica Parker Isn&#039;t Bothered by &#039;And Just Like That&#039; Haters &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo TV &amp; Movies Sarah Jessica Parker Isn&#8217;t Bothered by &#8216;And Just Like That&#8217; Haters: &#8216;I Don’t Really Care&#8217; Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Whatever Sarah Jessica Parker Isn&#8217;t Bothered by &#8216;And Just Like That&#8217; Haters: &#8216;I Don’t Really Care&#8217; "The reason I don’t care is because it has been so enormously successful, and the connections it has made with audiences have been very meaningful," she said By Emily Zemler Emily Zemler Dave Chappelle Says &#8216;It&#8217;s Easier to Talk&#8217; in Saudi Arabia Than the U.S. Watch Addison Rae Showcase &#8216;Diet Pepsi&#8217; on &#8216;Fallon&#8217; The Yardbirds Co-Founder Chris Dreja Dead at 79 View all posts by Emily Zemler August 18, 2025 Sarah Jessica Parker Marc Piasecki/WireImage Sarah Jessica Parker hasn&#8217;t given the haters of her series And Just Like That much thought. The actress, who played Carrie Bradshaw in Sex and the City and its more recent sequel, reflected on the perception of the show in a new interview with The New York Times . Responding to whether she was aware of how often And Just Like That was described by fans as a &#8220;hate watch,&#8221; Parker said, &#8220;I don&rsquo;t think I have the constitution to have spent a lot of time thinking about that. We always worked incredibly hard to tell stories that were interesting or real. I guess I don&rsquo;t really care. And the reason I don&rsquo;t care is because it has been so enormously successful, and the connections it has made with audiences have been very meaningful.&#8221; And Just Like That reunited the original cast of Sex and the City , minus Kim Cattrall, in 2021. It became HBO Max&rsquo;s most-watched series debut upon release, however the viewership fell over the course of the three seasons . It came to an end last week after showrunner Michael Patrick King announced it would not return for a fourth year. Parker said she was confident in where the story concluded. Asked &#8220;Why end the show now?,&#8221; she replied, &#8220;Because that&rsquo;s where the story ended. We could have gone on doing coffee shops. There&rsquo;s a million ways to do it that are easy and familiar and fun, but feel exploitative to us. We felt this was the honorable thing to do. It&rsquo;s very easy to stay. It&rsquo;s where we&rsquo;re all happy. But you have to be principled when you make these very difficult, agonizing decisions because there&rsquo;s a lot of people who are affected.&#8221; Trending Stories Taylor Swift Conquers Her Biggest Stage Ever on ‘The Life of a Showgirl’ Hayley Williams Confirms Morgan Wallen Is the ‘Racist Country Singer’ She Sings About Taylor Swift’s ‘The Life of a Showgirl’ Is Officially Here He Grew Obsessed With an AI Chatbot. Then He Vanished in the Ozarks Parker previously told People she doesn&#8217;t pay attention to the online discourse about the show. &#8220;I don&#8217;t have the constitution for that, because I think you&#8217;re going to perhaps read things or hear things that don&#8217;t always feel great,&#8221; she said. &#8220;When you&#8217;re part of a community, people are going to have a lot of feelings. And it doesn&#8217;t mean that a feeling can&#8217;t change, it&#8217;s a reaction. We want very much for people to have all those feelings, and it&#8217;s not for us to police or try to correct them. So I&#8217;m a very inexperienced troller or&nbsp;a sneaker around-er, because I think that conversation is better left not in any way witnessed or babysat by me.&#8221; Rolling Stone wrote of the And Just Like That finale, &#8220;It was not an easy happily-ever-after. But it was still a triumph. After 27 years of watching Carrie Bradshaw go through relationship after relationship, ending up not alone, but on her own, it felt like a detente, an uneasy peace with the world of heteronormative relationships&#8230; Carrie gave us so much, but never perfection. And I thank her for that.&#8221; In this article: and just like that, HBO, Sarah Jessica Parker, Sex and the City TV &amp; Movies TV &amp; Movies News More News Jane Goodall Talks Life, Death, Putting Trump on a Spaceship in 'Famous Last Words' Interview Final Statement By Jon Blistein Who Wants to See Cillian Murphy Have a Nervous Breakdown? Movie Review By David Fear How Did a Documentary on George Orwell Become the Scariest Movie of 2025? Movie Review By David Fear Bill Burr Defends Riyadh Comedy Fest Performance, Details ‘Mind-Blowing’ Experience ‘Just Like Us’ By Charisma Madarang ‘Hero for the Planet’: Leonardo DiCaprio Writes Tribute to ‘Dear Friend’ Jane Goodall ‘Carry the Torch’ By Charisma Madarang Read more Trent Reznor And Atticus Ross’ Future Ruins Fest Cancelled Over 'Logistical Challenges' Called Off 45 minutes ago Sean Combs Sentenced to Over 4 Years in Prison Diddy Trial 3 hours ago Tomorrow X Together on Their New Era, Contract Renewal, and What the Future Holds Exclusive 5 hours ago Eric Dane Missed the 2025 Emmys Because of a Head Injury That Required Stitches Ouch 5 hours ago Top stories newsletter A Cultural Force That Transcends Generations Enter your Email By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Go to PMC.com Most Popular J.K. Rowling Slams &#039;Ignorant&#039; Emma Watson as Their Rift Intensifies; Author Claims Watson Once Wrote Her a Note Expressing Sympathy Over Anti-Trans Backlash Bill Burr Defends Performing at Controversial Riyadh Comedy Festival: &quot;They&#039;re Just Like Us&quot; Insider Claims Nicole Kidman &amp; Keith Urban&#039;s Separation Is &#039;One-Sided&#039; Federal Judge Denies Motion to Dismiss by Kasseem ‘Swizz Beatz’ Dean in 1MDB Scandal Case You might also like ‘Taylor Swift: The Official Release Party of a Showgirl’ Review: Taylor Swift Introduces the 12 Music Videos From ‘The Life of a Showgirl.’ But Only One of Them Is Great 3 hours ago 19 Breast Cancer Products That Are Helpful for Patients &amp; Survivors 2 hours ago ‘Anemone,’ ‘After the Hunt’ Shake Up New York Film Festival as ‘One Battle’ Heads Into Second Weekend — Screen Talk 1 hour ago NFL on Record Pace as TV/Streaming Windows Grow 8% to 20M Viewers 43 minutes ago Rolling Stone Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture Staff Contact Advertise Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Use AdChoices PMC Entertainment California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Accessibility Policy on Anonymous Sources Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Newsletter Signup Enter Your Email Subscribe Got a Hot News Tip? We want to hear it. Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Rolling Stone is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 Rolling Stone, LLC. All rights reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Log In Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Music News Features Lists Album Reviews Live Reviews Artists You Need To Know Songs You Need To Know RS Country RS Latin Politics News Features Lists TV &amp; Movies News Features Lists Recaps Reviews Video &amp; Photos Photos Videos The Cover Musicians on Musicians RS LIVE Culture News Features Lists Creators RS Gaming RS Films RS Recommends Reviews RS Essentials RS Audio Awards Gift Guides Culture Council Subscription Icon Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Alerts &amp; Newsletters Email Address By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. ad