# Ultimate Guide Chase Ultimate Rewards

**Source**: https://thepointsguy.com/guide/ultimate-guide-chase-ultimate-rewards/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:07:51.633721+00:00

---

Chase Ultimate Rewards points: How to redeem for maximum value - The Points Guy Skip to content Menu Go to Home Page Subscribe Advertiser disclosure Search The Points Guy Advertiser disclosure ADVERTISEMENT Guides Chase Ultimate Rewards points: How to redeem for maximum value Richard Kerr Richard Kerr Contributor Richard Kerr is a veteran naval officer and founder of the Award Travel 101 Facebook community. He’s one of the foremost experts in points and miles strategy, featured in Forbes, US News, Money Magazine, Kiplinger Personal Finance and presented at #SXSW 2017. Richard has visited over 45 countries, lived in England and Japan, and spends his spare time dissecting loyalty program award charts to maximize the value of points and miles. Richard holds a BBA in International Business and has his wife and two small children in tow for his travels as often as possible. Ben Smithson Ben Smithson Senior writer Ben Smithson is a travel loyalty expert based in London. also contributed to this story June 23, 2025 • 9 min read Jump to section Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Copy URL Email The cards we feature here are from partners who compensate us when you are approved through our site, and this may impact how or where these products appear. We don’t cover all available credit cards, but our analysis, reviews, and opinions are entirely from our editorial team. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information. You can never have too many Chase Ultimate Rewards points. This transferable rewards currency gives you access to some of the best hotel and airline transfer partners; therefore, it maintains its place as one of the most valuable to have in your wallet. TPG values Ultimate Rewards points at 2.05 cents each, per our June 2025 valuations , which is what you should aim for when redeeming your points to help you maximize your rewards. However, you can also use your points to book car rentals, hotels and flights in the easy-to-use Chase Travel℠ portal when using certain Chase credit cards . As such, learning how to redeem your Chase Ultimate Rewards points for maximum value is essential if you want to maximize your hard-earned points. How can I redeem Chase Ultimate Rewards points? If you want to maximize your Ultimate Rewards points, usually the most lucrative option is to transfer them to one of Chase&#x27;s 11 airline or three hotel partners. Whether you want to save money on an economy fare, a first-class flight or a luxury hotel, you can use your points to travel the world and cut the cost by thousands of dollars. If you don&#x27;t want to transfer your points to airline and hotel partners, you can use your rewards for virtually any kind of travel booking — flights, hotels, cruises, tours and rental cars — via Chase Travel. If you have an eligible Sapphire or Ink card, with the new Points Boost redemption acceleration, your points can be worth up to 2 cents apiece. This is an excellent redemption option for folks who don&#x27;t want to deal with potentially complex award program rules. You can also use your points for nontravel redemptions, such as on Amazon purchases, gift cards or statement credits. However, this will typically yield you between 0.8 and 1 cent per point in value. So, to get the most value out of your Chase points, here are the best ways to redeem your rewards. What are the most valuable ways to redeem Chase Ultimate Rewards points? ERIC ROSEN/THE POINTS GUY Transferring your Chase points to a travel partner is often the best way to get the most value out of them. Here are some of TPG&#x27;s favorite ways to redeem Ultimate Rewards points with airline and hotel transfer partners. Daily Newsletter Reward your inbox with the TPG Daily newsletter Join over 700,000 readers for breaking news, in-depth guides and exclusive deals from TPG’s experts Email address Sign up By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy . You may unsubscribe at any time. Virgin Atlantic Flying Club Transfer your Chase points to the Virgin Atlantic Flying Club program. Though the airline recently switched to dynamic pricing for redemptions , a benefit of this change is that if you&#x27;re flexible and willing to travel on off-peak dates, you can book one-way saver seats to the United Kingdom starting at: 6,000 points in economy 10,500 points in premium economy 29,000 points in business class Make sure to look for the red &quot;Saver&quot; tag when searching for the lowest prices, or you can also use Virgin Atlantic&#x27;s reward seat checker to find the cheapest saver fares across multiple dates. Related: Bringing the fun back to flying: Virgin Atlantic A350 Upper Class review United MileagePlus Flights within the U.S. on United Airlines start at just 5,000 United MileagePlus miles on shorter routes, such as from San Francisco International Airport (SFO) to San Diego International Airport (SAN). With fees and taxes as low as $5.60 per flight, this is a great way to save money on your next domestic flight. ZACH GRIFF/THE POINTS GUY Air France-KLM Flying Blue If you want to fly to Europe beyond the U.K., consider Air France-KLM Flying Blue . While the program prices most of its awards dynamically, Flying Blue has standardized saver-level pricing for one-way flights between the U.S. and Europe. Award fares start at: 25,000 miles in economy 40,000 miles in premium economy 60,000 miles in business class Remember that these rates are only for the lowest saver-level seats, which are limited. Booking business class from the U.S. to anywhere in Europe for 60,000 Flying Blue miles is a great deal, so if you find this price on dates that work for you, jump on it. Plus, the program offers monthly award deals , making it possible to spend even fewer miles to fly internationally. Additionally, you could extend your trip and spend a few days in Paris or Amsterdam using the free Flying Blue stopover program . This is a great way to visit another city without paying additional miles or cash. To book Flying Blue stopovers, you&#x27;ll need to call Flying Blue at 800-375-8723. Singapore KrisFlyer Singapore Airlines has several benefits as a potential destination for your transferred Ultimate Rewards points. First, Singapore Airlines is one of the best airlines in the sky, with tremendous service and luxurious onboard products and experiences. The carrier&#x27;s long-haul premium products are typically available mostly through the Singapore KrisFlyer program, not through its Star Alliance partners. Second, Singapore KrisFlyer offers great value, with reasonable award charts, low fuel surcharges, routing rules that allow stopovers and the ability to combine multiple partners in one award. Finally, the online award booking tool is intuitive and easy to use, though be aware that transfers typically are not instantaneous. One of the best uses of KrisFlyer miles is booking a saver fare on the world&#x27;s longest business-class flight from New York&#x27;s John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) to Singapore Changi Airport (SIN) for just 111,500 miles. This is a great price for almost 20 hours of comfort. Related: 19 thoughts for 19 hours on the world&#x27;s longest flight from New York to Singapore ZACH GRIFF/THE POINTS GUY World of Hyatt One of the best ways to use Ultimate Rewards points is to transfer them to World of Hyatt . Hyatt points are generally worth more than Marriott Bonvoy and IHG One Rewards points, so Hyatt is often your best hotel transfer partner within Chase Ultimate Rewards. World of Hyatt prices most stays using a fixed award chart , dividing properties into Category 1 through 8 and dates into peak, off-peak and standard award nights. Category 1 properties on off-peak dates are 3,500 points per night, while Category 8 properties on peak dates cost 45,000 points per night. Properties in Categories 1-5, in particular, can offer some fantastic awards. For example, the Thompson Hollywood in California costs between 17,000 and 23,000 points per night, the Grand Hyatt Athens in Greece costs between 9,000 and 15,000 points and the Hyatt Regency JFK Airport at Resorts World New York costs between 12,000 and 18,000 points per night. You can also get substantial value from higher-tier hotels. For example, redeeming 45,000 points per night at the ski-out Park Hyatt Beaver Creek Resort and Spa in Colorado during peak ski season can help you save a ton of money since a room starts at around $1,400 per night. By transferring your Chase points to World of Hyatt to book a stay at this resort, you&#x27;d yield a redemption value of over 3 cents per point. Other notable World of Hyatt redemption properties include the Park Hyatt St. Kitts Christophe Harbour and the Park Hyatt Maldives Hadahaa , which cost between 25,000 and 35,000 points per night. Both of these luxury properties routinely sell for over $1,000 a night, so this is a great redemption option. Related: 23 best Hyatt hotels in the world Best cards to earn Chase Ultimate Rewards points Here are the best ways to earn Ultimate Rewards points with Chase credit cards: Chase Sapphire Reserve® (see rates and fees ): Earn 125,000 bonus points after spending $6,000 on purchases in the first three months from account opening. Chase Sapphire Reserve for Business℠ (see rates and fees ): Earn 200,000 bonus points after spending $30,000 in the first six months from account opening. Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card (see rates and fees ): Earn 75,000 bonus points after you spend $5,000 on purchases in the first three months from account opening. Ink Business Preferred® Credit Card : Earn 90,000 bonus points after spending $8,000 on purchases in the first three months from account opening. Chase Freedom Flex® (see rates and fees ): Earn a $200 bonus after spending $500 on purchases in the first three months fr