# David Solomon

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/david-solomon/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:43:25.136227+00:00

---

David Solomon - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: David Solomon the money game Aug. 11, 2023 Is David Solomon Too Big a Jerk to Run Goldman Sachs? Inside a banking mutiny. By Jen Wieczner the money game Mar. 22, 2022 What Do Metallica, Doja Cat, and the CEO of Goldman Sachs All Have in Common? DJ David Solomon will be showcasing his skills for the masses at this summer’s Lolla. By Kevin T. Dugan the festival circuit Mar. 22, 2022 Is David Solomon the First Investment-Bank CEO to Play Lollapalooza? Vulture investigates. By Justin Curto today in djs Feb. 27, 2018 The Hippest Party in Williamsburg This Weekend Had a Goldman Sachs Exec As a DJ DJ D-Sol (Goldman Sachs co-president David Solomon) continues to spin. By Lisa Ryan side hustles July 14, 2017 Turns Out the President of Goldman Sachs Is Also a DJ The new Model/DJ is Goldman Sachs Exec/DJ. By Gabriella Paiella white men with money June 27, 2011 The Head of Goldman Will Always Be Bald At least, that was our takeaway from the rumor that David Solomon could be next in line for the gig. By Noreen Malone Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us About New York Magazine Newsletters Help Contact Press Media Kit We’re Hiring Privacy Terms Ad Choices Accessibility Do not sell or share my personal data New York is a Vox Media Network . &copy; 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All rights reserved.