# Microsoft Openai Partnership Extension Ai

**Source**: https://www.theverge.com/2023/1/23/23567448/microsoft-openai-partnership-extension-ai?ref=wheresyoured.at
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:25:17.805096+00:00

---

Microsoft extends OpenAI partnership in a ‘multibillion dollar investment’ | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Microsoft extends OpenAI partnership in a ‘multibillion dollar investment’ Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Microsoft Close Microsoft Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Microsoft News Close News Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All News Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech Microsoft extends OpenAI partnership in a ‘multibillion dollar investment’ Microsoft says it has invested billions into OpenAI in a multiyear deal that will see the software giant become OpenAI’s exclusive cloud provider. Microsoft says it has invested billions into OpenAI in a multiyear deal that will see the software giant become OpenAI’s exclusive cloud provider. by Tom Warren Close Tom Warren Senior Editor Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Tom Warren Jan 23, 2023, 2:14 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads Image: Microsoft Tom Warren Close Tom Warren Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Tom Warren is a senior editor and author of Notepad , who has been covering all things Microsoft, PC, and tech for over 20 years. Microsoft says it&rsquo;s extending its long-term partnership with OpenAI through a new &ldquo;multiyear, multibillion dollar investment.&rdquo; The investment comes just weeks after Microsoft was rumored to be investing $10 billion into OpenAI, the creators of popular AI tools like ChatGPT and DALL-E 2. &ldquo;We formed our partnership with OpenAI around a shared ambition to responsibly advance cutting-edge AI research and democratize AI as a new technology platform,&rdquo; says Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella. &ldquo;In this next phase of our partnership, developers and organizations across industries will have access to the best AI infrastructure, models, and toolchain with Azure to build and run their applications.&rdquo; The deal will see Microsoft increase its investments in the development and deployment of supercomputing systems to assist OpenAI&rsquo;s research. The key part of the deal means that Microsoft is the exclusive cloud partner for OpenAI, and Microsoft&rsquo;s cloud services will power all OpenAI workloads across products, API services, and research. Related Microsoft is giving businesses access to OpenAI’s powerful AI language model GPT-3 Microsoft to challenge Google by integrating ChatGPT with Bing search Microsoft is looking at OpenAI’s GPT for Word, Outlook, and PowerPoint Microsoft launches Azure OpenAI service with ChatGPT coming soon Microsoft is also planning to deploy OpenAI&rsquo;s models across a variety of consumer and enterprise products. Microsoft is rumored to be preparing to challenge Google with ChatGPT integration into Bing search results, and the company is reportedly looking at integrating some language AI technology into its Word, PowerPoint, and Outlook apps. Microsoft isn&rsquo;t disclosing exactly how much it has invested in OpenAI, but the company has been looking to use its close relationship to further commercialize its Azure OpenAI service . Microsoft started rolling out this service last week, and it includes a number of AI models made by OpenAI including GPT-3.5, Codex, and DALL-E. It&rsquo;s designed for businesses to make use of OpenAI&rsquo;s models by essentially packaging up GPT-3.5 with the scaling you&rsquo;d expect from Azure and management and data handling additions. Rumors of this deal suggested Microsoft may receive 75 percent of OpenAI&rsquo;s profits until it secures its investment return and a 49 percent stake in the company. OpenAI says it remains a capped-profit company after this deal, allowing it to continue to raise capital with checks and balances in place. &ldquo; The past three years of our partnership have been great,&rdquo; says OpenAI CEO Sam Altman. &ldquo;Microsoft shares our values and we are excited to continue our independent research and work toward creating advanced AI that benefits everyone.&rdquo; Microsoft purchased an exclusive license to the underlying technology behind GPT-3 in 2020 after investing $1 billion in OpenAI in 2019 . It has built a close relationship with OpenAI and is also planning to add an AI text-to-image model to Bing powered by OpenAI&rsquo;s DALL-E 2. Follow topics and authors from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates. Tom Warren Close Tom Warren Senior Editor Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Tom Warren Microsoft Close Microsoft Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Microsoft News Close News Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All News Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech More in this stream See all New YouTube AI tools help creators give viewers what they want Mia Sato Sep 16 Making ChatGPT less annoying. Robert Hart Sep 16 AI chatbots can help perfect a phishing scam, despite being trained not to. Elissa Welle Sep 15 Most Popular Most Popular Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store Everything is terrorism in Trump’s America Behold: The Lego Game Boy has already been modded to play games for real Satya Nadella appoints a new CEO to run Microsoft’s biggest businesses Perplexity’s Comet browser is now available to everyone for free The Verge Daily A free daily digest of the news that matters most. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Microsoft Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads It’s your last chance to snag the Xbox Series S and X at its current price before they rise tomorrow Welcome to the Xbox $360 era Microsoft’s Windows XP Crocs are here Microsoft’s new Office icons are more curvy and colorful Microsoft 365 Premium bundles Office and AI for the same price as ChatGPT Plus Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Tom Warren 3:18 PM UTC It’s your last chance to snag the Xbox Series S and X at its current price before they rise tomorrow Sheena Vasani Oct 2 Welcome to the Xbox $360 era Tom Warren Oct 2 Microsoft’s Windows XP Crocs are here Emma Roth Oct 1 Microsoft’s new Office icons are more curvy and colorful Tom Warren Oct 1 Microsoft 365 Premium bundles Office and AI for the same price as ChatGPT Plus Tom Warren Oct 1 Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories 2:00 PM UTC With a Friend like this, who needs enemies? Two hours ago I’ve fallen into Sora’s slippery slop 1:03 PM UTC I tried Amazon and Google’s new smart home gadgets, ask me anything! 3:06 PM UTC The quest for every Gap store playlist ever Oct 2 Everything is terrorism in Trump’s America 1:57 AM UTC Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved