# The Case For Gpt 3.Html

**Source**: https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2020/07/the-case-for-gpt-3.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-02T22:12:09.699182+00:00

---

The case for GPT-3 - Marginal REVOLUTION Toggle navigation About Marginal Revolution Categories Date Archives Our Books Our Textbook: Modern Principles of Economics Marginal Revolution University Search Search Thank-you! You've been successfully added to the Marginal Revolution email subscription list. The case for GPT-3 by&nbsp;&nbsp; Tyler Cowen July 22, 2020 at 12:29 am That is the topic of my latest Bloomberg column , here is one excerpt: As a very rough description, think of GPT-3 as giving computers a facility with words that they have had with numbers for a long time, and with images since about 2012. The core of GPT-3, which is a creation of OpenAI, an artificial intelligence company based in San Francisco, is a general language model designed to perform autofill. It is trained on uncategorized internet writings, and basically guesses what text ought to come next from any starting point. That may sound unglamorous, but a language model built for guessing with 175 billion parameters — 10 times more than previous competitors — is surprisingly powerful. The eventual uses of GPT-3 are hard to predict, but it is easy to see the potential. GPT-3 can converse at a conceptual level, translate language, answer email, perform (some) programming tasks , help with medical diagnoses and, perhaps someday, serve as a therapist. It can write poetry, dialogue and stories with a surprising degree of sophistication, and it is generally good at common sense — a typical failing for many automated response systems. You can even ask it questions about God. Imagine a Siri-like voice-activated assistant that actually did your intended bidding. It also has the potential to outperform Google for many search queries, which could give rise to a highly profitable company. GPT-3 does not try to pass the Turing test by being indistinguishable from a human in its responses. Rather, it is built for generality and depth, even though that means it will serve up bad answers to many queries, at least in its current state. As a general philosophical principle, it accepts that being weird sometimes is a necessary part of being smart. In any case, like so many other technologies, GPT-3 has the potential to rapidly improve. There is much more at the link. 69 Comments Facebook Twitter RSS Feed print Comments Sort by Top Sort by Recent Sort by Controversial Comments for this post are closed Marginal Revolution University See Courses Learn more about Mercatus Center Fellowships Learn More Subscribe via Email Enter your email address to subscribe to updates. Email Address Subscribe RSS Feed Contact Us Alex Tabarrok Email Alex Follow @atabarrok Tyler Cowen Email Tyler Follow @tylercowen Webmaster Report an issue Blogs We Like Interesting People & Sites Our Web Pages Alex Tabarrok's Home Page Alex's TED talk, how ideas trump crises Conversations with Tyler FDAReview.org Tyler Cowen's Personal Web Page Tyler's ethnic dining guide Apply to Emergent Ventures Books Modern Principles of Economics Tyler Cowen & Alexander Tabarrok Marginal Revolution 2025 About Marginal Revolution Categories Date Archives Our Books Our Textbook: Modern Principles of Economics Marginal Revolution University Facebook Twitter RSS Feed Marginal Revolution University See Courses Search Search Privacy Policy Marginal Revolution 2025