# Us Public Investment.Html

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/17/magazine/us-public-investment.html
**Extracted**: 2025-09-30T20:04:35.885068+00:00

---

Longer Commutes, Shorter Lives: The Costs of Not Investing in America - The New York Times Trump Administration live Updates Sept. 30, 2025, 3:56 p.m. ET H1-B Visas Gathering of Military Officers Assault on Free Speech Tariff Tracker Trump and Epstein Approval Rating You have a preview view of this article while we are checking your access. When we have confirmed access, the full article content will load. Credit... Photo illustration by Chantal Jahchan Skip to content Skip to site index Longer Commutes, Shorter Lives: The Costs of Not Investing in America For decades, spending on the future put the nation ahead of all others. What would it take to revive that spirit? Credit... Photo illustration by Chantal Jahchan Supported by SKIP ADVERTISEMENT Share full article 1k By David Leonhardt Oct. 17, 2023 Every morning in 21st-century America, thousands of people wake up and prepare to take a cross-country trip. Some are traveling for business. Others are visiting family or going on vacations. Whether they are leaving from New York or Los Angeles, Atlanta or Seattle, their trips have a lot in common. They leave their homes several hours before their plane is scheduled to depart. Many sit in traffic on their way to the airport. Once they arrive, they park their cars and make their way through the terminal, waiting in a security line, taking off their shoes, removing laptops and liquids from their bags. When they finally get to the gate, they often wait again because their flight is delayed. The flight itself typically lasts about six hours heading west, and the travelers then need to find ground transportation to their destination. Door to door, cross-country journeys often last 10 or even 12 hours. In the sweep of human history, these trips remain a marvel of ingenuity. For centuries, long-distance travel required weeks or months and could be dangerous. Today, somebody can eat breakfast on one end of the continental United States and dinner on the other. If you narrow the focus to recent decades, however, you will notice another striking fact about these trips: Almost none of the progress has occurred in the past half-century. A cross-country trip today typically takes more time than it did in the 1970s. The same is true of many trips within a region or a metropolitan area. Compare this stagnation with the progress of the previous century. The first transcontinental railroad was completed in 1869, and passenger trains ran on its route days later, revolutionizing a journey that had taken months. People could suddenly cross the country in a week. Next came commercial flight. In the 1930s, an airplane could beat a train across the country by hopscotching from city to city. Finally, the jet age arrived: The first regularly scheduled nonstop transcontinental flight occurred on Jan. 25, 1959, from Los Angeles to New York, on a new long-range Boeing jet, the 707. The poet Carl Sandburg was among the passengers on the return American Airlines flight that first day. “You look out of the window at the waves of dark and light clouds looking like ocean shorelines,” he wrote about the trip , “and you feel as if you are floating away in this pleasantly moving room, like the basket hanging from the balloon you saw with a visiting circus when you were a boy.” Sandburg was born in 1878, when crossing the country took almost a week. His cross-country flight took five and a half hours. We are having trouble retrieving the article content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings. Thank you for your patience while we verify access. If you are in Reader mode please exit and log into your Times account, or subscribe for all of The Times. Thank you for your patience while we verify access. Already a subscriber? Log in . Want all of The Times? Subscribe . Related Content Advertisement SKIP ADVERTISEMENT Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2025 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Accessibility Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Canada International Help Subscriptions Manage Privacy Preferences