# The State Of American Friendship Change Challenges And Loss

**Source**: https://www.americansurveycenter.org/research/the-state-of-american-friendship-change-challenges-and-loss/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:13:11.297368+00:00

---

The State of American Friendship: Change, Challenges, and Loss - The Survey Center on American Life About About Us Center History Center Staff Opportunities Research All Research Survey Reports Commentary Short Reads Interactives Dating Dealbreakers American Interactives American Storylines News and Events In the News Press Inquiries Media Appearances Data Archive Download Our Data Search Questions June 8, 2021 The State of American Friendship: Change, Challenges, and Loss Findings from the May 2021 American Perspectives Survey Daniel A. Cox Coming out of a once-in-a-generation global pandemic, Americans appear more attuned than ever to the importance of friendship. However, despite renewed interest in the topic of friendship in popular culture and the news media, signs suggest that the role of friends in American social life is experiencing a pronounced decline. The May 2021 American Perspectives Survey finds that Americans report having fewer close friendships than they once did, talking to their friends less often, and relying less on their friends for personal support.&nbsp; The COVID-19 pandemic is the most obvious culprit in the national friendship decline, but broader structural forces may be playing a more important role. First, Americans are marrying later than ever and are more geographically mobile than in the past—two trends that are strongly associated with increasing rates of self-reported social isolation and feelings of loneliness. [1] &nbsp;Second, American parents are spending twice as much time with their children compared to previous generations, crowding out other types of relationships, including friendships. [2] &nbsp;Finally, Americans are working longer hours and&nbsp;traveling more&nbsp;for work, which may come at the cost of maintaining and developing friendships. [3] &nbsp;In fact, perhaps reflecting its central place in the hierarchy of American social life, Americans are now more likely to make friends at work than any other way—including at school, in their neighborhood, at their place of worship, or even through existing friends.&nbsp; But the news is not universally negative. The survey paints a more complex and perhaps more fluid picture of American friendships. Roughly half of Americans report having lost touch with at least one friend during the pandemic. But, surprisingly, nearly as many Americans report having made a new friend over this same period. Many Americans report having activity friendships or situational friends—people they see at certain times or places—and most Americans have a best friend, even if it’s fewer than in the past. Personal Pandemic Challenges Most Americans report having faced significant personal challenges over the past 12 months. More than one in five (22 percent) Americans say the past 12 months have been much more difficult for them than usual. Nearly half (46 percent) say it was somewhat more difficult. About only one in three (32 percent) Americans say the past 12 months were not especially difficult for them—at least no more than usual.&nbsp; Women report having had a more challenging time than men did. More than one in four (27 percent) women say the past 12 months have been much more difficult than usual, compared to 17 percent of men. Middle-aged men (age 50–64), in particular, report having a significantly easier time than other Americans did. Only 14 percent of middle-aged men report that the past 12 months have been much more difficult than a typical year has, while 43 percent say it was not any different than usual. The financial devastation wrought by the COVID-19 pandemic has been well-documented, but less widely reported is the emotional toll many Americans faced as a result of quarantine requirements and self-imposed social isolation. Nearly half (47 percent) of Americans report having lost touch with at least a few friends over the past 12 months. Nearly one in 10 (9 percent) Americans report having lost touch with most of their friends. Young women appear to have been more affected than most were. Nearly six in 10 (59 percent) report having lost touch with at least a few friends, and 16 percent say they are no longer in regular contact with most of their friends. Pandemic Friendship Despite prolonged periods of social isolation and quarantine that characterized much of American life over the past year, nearly half (46 percent) of Americans report having made a new friend within the past 12 months. Nearly one-third (30 percent) of the public say they have made a new friend in the past one to four years. Notably, 22 percent of Americans say it has been at least five years since they last made a new friend. There are stark and predictable generational divisions in how frequently Americans are developing new friendships. A majority (56 percent) of young adults—including roughly similar numbers of young men (54 percent) and young women (58 percent)—say they have made a new friend in the past 12 months. Seniors are considerably less likely to have made a new friend during that period, with only 41 percent reporting they had done so. Nearly one-third (31 percent) of seniors say it has been at least five years since they developed a new friendship. Of the many ways Americans make friends and the many places friendships develop, the workplace is the most common. A majority (54 percent) of Americans with close friends say they met a close friend at their or their spouse’s workplace. Less than half (47 percent) report making a close friend at school—either one they currently attend or one they previously attended. Forty percent of Americans say they made a close friend through their existing network of friends. About one in three (35 percent) Americans have made a close friend in their neighborhood, and about one in five made a close friend at their place of worship (21 percent) or a club or organization they belong to (19 percent). Ten percent of Americans—and 16 percent of adults with children living at home—say they developed a close friend through their child’s school. Only 8 percent of Americans report having made a close friend online. Who Do Americans Rely on for Personal Support? Overall, more than half (53 percent) of Americans say that the first person they talk to when they have a personal problem is their spouse or partner. Sixteen percent of the public say they go to a friend first when confronting a personal issue, and 10 percent say they rely on their parents. Roughly the same amount (9 percent) say they turn to a sibling or other family member. Five percent of Americans say they first reach out to their children when dealing with a personal issue.&nbsp; Fewer Americans appear to be relying on friends for personal support than they have in the past. A survey conducted by Gallup in 1990 found that more than one-quarter (26 percent) of Americans said their friend was the first person they would turn to when they had a personal problem. [4] Young adults and singles are unique to the extent that they rely on friends for emotional and personal support. One in four (25 percent) young people (age 18–29) say they typically talk to a friend first when they have a personal problem. Young women are slightly more likely than young men are to rely on friends for support (29 percent vs. 22 percent).&nbsp; With the average age of first marriages rising steadily and fewer Americans turning to friends for support, parents have stepped in to fill the gap. Young men are now more likely to rely on their parents for personal support than other people in their life. Thirty-six percent of young men say their parents are the first people they reach out to when facing a personal problem. Roughly one in four (24 percent) young women say their parents are their first call.&nbsp; The number of young men relying on their parents for personal support has more than doubled over the past several decades. In 1990, only 17 percent of young men and an identical number of young women reported that their parents were the first people they talked to when confronting a personal problem. Close to half (45 percent) of young men said they turned to their friends first. One reason young men are more likely to seek out their parents for support may have to do with their living situation. More than half (52 percent) of young men are currently living with their parents, compared to 44 percent of young women. Young adults who live with their parents are twice as likely to rely on their parents for support than those with other living arrangements. There is an even larger gender gap between unmarried men and women. Nearly four in 10 (39 percent) single unmarried women say they usually talk to a friend when facing a personal problem, compared to 30 percent of unmarried men [5] . Again, unmarried men are significantly more likely than women are to say they rely on their parents for help when dealing with a personal issue (39 percent vs. 26 percent). Gender differences are also apparent among married Americans. Married men are significantly more likely than married women are to say the first person they talk to when they have a problem is their spouse. Eighty-five percent of married men, compared to 72 percent of married women, say they turn to their spouse when they have a personal problem. How Many Close Friends Do Americans Have? Many Americans do not have a large number of close friends. Close to half (49 percent) of Americans report having three or fewer. More than one-third (36 percent) of Americans report having several close friends—between four and nine. Thirteen percent of Americans say they have 10 or more close friends, which is roughly the same proportion of the public that has no close friends (12 percent). [6] The number of close friendships Americans have appears to have declined considerably over the past several decades. In 1990, less than one-third (27 percent) said they had three or fewer close friends, while about as many (33 percent) reported having 1