# La Oe Kelton Pony For All 20170929 Story.Html

**Source**: https://www.latimes.com/opinion/op-ed/la-oe-kelton-pony-for-all-20170929-story.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:19:19.935755+00:00

---

Contributor: Congress can give every American a pony (if it breeds enough ponies) - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing &amp; Homelessness Politics Science &amp; Medicine World &amp; Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor &amp; Workplace Real Estate Technology and the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing &amp; Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate &amp; Environment Global Warming Water &amp; Drought Entertainment &amp; Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 best restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art &amp; Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health &amp; Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel &amp; Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World &amp; Nation Immigration &amp; the Border Israel-Hamas Mexico &amp; the Americas Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios Business • AI &amp; Tech • Banking &amp; Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Goods &amp; Retail • Healthcare &amp; Science • Law Dentists Decor &amp; Design Doctors &amp; Scientists Hot Property Live &amp; Well Orange County Pets The Hub: Rebuilding LA Travel Weddings &amp; Celebrations Newsletters Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Students &amp; Educators Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store L.A. Times Studios News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance &amp; Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? People on the Move Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Sections Tap to enable a layout that focuses on the article. Focus mode Show Search Search Query Submit Search Advertisement Voices Stephanie Kelton Congress can give every American a pony (if it breeds enough ponies) Spectators take photographs of Chincoteague ponies in Chincoteague, Va. on July 30, 2014. (Jay Diem / Associated Press) By&nbsp; Stephanie Kelton Sept. 29, 2017 4 AM PT Share via Close extra sharing options Email Facebook X LinkedIn Threads Reddit WhatsApp Copy Link URL Copied! Print p]:text-cms-story-body-color-text clearfix mb-10 md:max-w-170 md:mx-auto" data-subscriber-content> In 1860, Abraham Lincoln’s campaign slogan was “Vote Yourself a Farm.” In 1900, William McKinley promised “A Full Dinner Plate.” And in 1928, Herbert Hoover won a landslide victory pledging “A Chicken in Every Pot and a Car in Every Garage.” A free farm, a full belly and a shiny new car. Today’s Republicans would cringe at the thought of such rhetoric from their party’s nominees. As Ronald Reagan taught, the government is your problem, not the solution to your problems. Democrats might blanch too, but for different reasons. They still believe in the power of government to solve problems, but they’ve absorbed the idea that everything must be “paid for.” Their 2016 nominee is a case in point. In her new book, Hillary Clinton mocks Sen. Bernie Sanders’ populist agenda. For the record: 11:25 a.m. Oct. 2, 2017 Due to a problem with how the Times’ publishing software represented the author’s math equation, it required an extra set of parentheses to read correctly, now added. BERNIE: I think America should get a pony. HILLARY: How will you pay for the pony? You might find Clinton’s question intuitively reasonable. If you promise to fight for big things, then you should draw a detailed road map to the treasure chest that will fund them all. After all, the money has to come from somewhere. Advertisement Are you telling me that the government can just make money appear out of nowhere, like magic? Absolutely. But what if I told you that your intuition was all wrong? What if it turned out that the government really could give everyone a pony — and a chicken and car? That is, so long as we could breed enough ponies and chickens and manufacture enough cars. The cars and the food have to come from somewhere; the money is conjured out of thin air, more or less. Let me explain. In school, you were probably taught the order of operations, or PEMDAS: Parentheses, Exponents, Multiplication, Division, Addition, Subtraction. That mnemonic helps you handle tricky equations like this one: Advertisement (3^7 — 2 (150+136)) / (5^5 — 17 x 100).* When Clinton asks where the money will come from, she’s ordering the government’s fiscal operations like so: 1. Government collects money from us in the form of taxes (T) 2. Government figures out how much it wants to spend and then borrows any additional money it needs (B) 3. Government spends the money it has collected (S) Since none of us learned any differently, most of us accept the idea that taxes and borrowing precede spending – TABS. And because the government has to “find the money” before it can spend in this sequence, everyone wants to know who’s picking up the tab. Advertisement There’s just one catch. The big secret in Washington is that the federal government abandoned TABS back when it dropped the gold standard. Here’s how things really work: 1. Congress approves the spending and the money gets spent (S) 2. Government collects some of that money in the form of taxes (T) 3. If 1 &gt; 2, Treasury allows the difference to be swapped for government bonds (B) In other words, the government spends money and then collects some money back as people pay their taxes and buy bonds. Spending precedes taxing and borrowing – STAB. It takes votes and vocal interest groups, not tax revenue, to start the ball rolling. If you need proof that STAB is the law of the land, look no further than the Senate’s recent $700-billion defense authorization. Without raising a dime from the rest of us, the Senate quietly approved an $80-billion annual increase, or more than enough money to make 4-year public colleges and universities tuition-free. And just where did the government get the money to do that? It authorized it into existence. Whoa, cowboy! Are you telling me that the government can just make money appear out of nowhere, like magic? Absolutely. Congress has special powers: It’s the patent-holder on the U.S. dollar. No one else is legally allowed to create it. This means that Congress can always afford the pony because it can always create the money to pay for it. Now, that doesn’t mean the government can buy absolutely anything it wants in absolutely any quantity at absolutely any speed. (Say, a pony for each of the 320 million men, women and children in the United States, by tomorrow.) That’s because our economy has internal limits. If the government tries to buy too much of something, it will drive up prices as the economy struggles to keep up with the demand. Inflation can spiral out of control. There are plenty of ways for the government to get a handle on inflation, though. For example, it can take money out of the economy through taxation. Clinton’s pony was a metaphor for the big-ticket items on Sanders’ agenda. Namely, tuition-free college and Medicare for all. Putting a fiscal twist on Nancy Reagan’s famous catchphrase, Clinton scoffed at the price tag and warned voters to Just Say Neigh. But Americans still like Sanders’ ideas: 63% support free tuition and 66% support Medicare for all. To make these policies work, all we have to do is produce enough hospitals, doctors, nurses, universities and teachers. Just imagine how high those poll numbers would climb if everyone understood how easy it would be for Congress to pony up. Advertisement Stephanie Kelton is a professor of public policy and economics at SUNY Stony Brook. She served as chief economist on the U.S. Senate Budget Committee in 2015 and was an economic advisor to the Bernie Sanders 2016 presidential campaign. *The solution to her math problem is 1615/1425 or, in letters, PO/NY. Follow the Opinion section on Twitter @latimesopinion or Facebook ALSO Nikki Sixx: Take it from a former addict, a lot more could be done to end the opioid crisis Republicans and the rule of law? Save us from the sanctimony The NBA is turning its players into running, jumping billboards More to Read Voices Granderson: College is expensive. And important. That’s why America has subsidized it for 246 years Aug. 29, 2025 Voices Granderson: Trimming the fat from the federal budget shouldn’t hurt the most vulnerable this much March 14, 2025 Voices Contributor: Americans are sick of federal waste. Republicans should take the hint April 17, 2025 Opinion Voices Contributors A cure for the common opinion Get thought-provoking perspectives with our weekly newsletter. By continuing, you agree to our Terms of Service and our Privacy Policy . Enter email address Agree &amp; Continue More From the Los Angeles Times Voices Contributor: Blame both parties for America’s reckless accumulation of debt Oct. 3, 2025 Voices Contributor: Congress’ Democrats are wildly unprepared to face down Trump Oct. 3, 2025 Voices Contributor: I’m an intersex professor. Am I supposed to lie by teaching ‘only ma