# Pagliacci

**Source**: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pagliacci
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:17:00.239116+00:00

---

Pagliacci - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Origin and disputes 2 Composition 3 Performance history 4 Roles 5 Synopsis Toggle Synopsis subsection 5.1 Prologue 5.2 Act 1 5.3 Act 2 5.3.1 Assignment of the final line 6 Orchestration 7 Recordings and other media 8 References in popular culture 9 See also 10 Notes 11 References Toggle References subsection 11.1 Sources 12 Further reading 13 External links Toggle the table of contents Pagliacci 42 languages Azərbaycanca Български Català Čeština Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Galego 한국어 Հայերեն Hrvatski Italiano עברית ქართული Lëtzebuergesch Magyar Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Română Русский Shqip Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Opera by Ruggero Leoncavallo For other uses, see Pagliacci (disambiguation) . Pagliacci Opera by Ruggero Leoncavallo Cover of first piano/vocal score, published in 1892 Librettist Ruggero Leoncavallo Language Italian Premiere 21&#160;May&#160;1892 &#160;( 1892-05-21 ) Teatro Dal Verme , Milan Pagliacci ( Italian pronunciation: &#91;paʎˈʎattʃi&#93; ; literal translation, 'Clowns') &#91; a &#93; is an Italian opera in a prologue and two acts, with music and libretto by Ruggero Leoncavallo . The opera tells the tale of Canio, actor and leader of a commedia dell'arte theatrical company, who murders his wife Nedda and her lover Silvio on stage during a performance. Canio portays on stage the character of Pagliaccio ( Pierrot ), while Nedda portays Pierrot's unfaithful lover Columbina . Pagliacci premiered at the Teatro Dal Verme in Milan on 21 May 1892, conducted by Arturo Toscanini , with Adelina Stehle as Nedda, Fiorello Giraud as Canio, Victor Maurel as Tonio, and Mario Ancona as Silvio. Soon after its Italian premiere, the opera played in London (with Nellie Melba as Nedda) and in New York (on 15 June 1893, with Agostino Montegriffo as Canio). Pagliacci is the best-known of Leoncavallo's ten operas and remains a staple of the repertoire. &#91; 1 &#93; Pagliacci is often staged with Cavalleria rusticana by Pietro Mascagni , a double bill known colloquially as "Cav/Pag". Origin and disputes [ edit ] Leoncavallo was a little-known composer when Pietro Mascagni 's Cavalleria rusticana premiered around 1890. After seeing Mascagni's success, Leoncavallo decided to write an opera in response: one act composed in the verismo style. Leoncavallo based the story of Pagliacci on an incident from his childhood: &#91; 2 &#93; the 1865 murder of a Leoncavallo family servant, Gaetano Scavello, killed by Gaetano D'Alessandro, with his brother Luigi acting as accomplice. The incident stemmed from a series of perceived romantic entanglements involving Scavello, Luigi D'Alessandro, and a village girl with whom both men were infatuated. &#91; 3 &#93; Leoncavallo's father, a judge, presided as magistrate over the criminal investigation. &#91; 4 &#93; Leoncavallo originally titled his story Il pagliaccio ( The Clown ). The baritone Victor Maurel , who was cast as the first Tonio, requested that Leoncavallo change the title from the singular Il pagliaccio to the plural I Pagliacci , to broaden dramatic interest from Canio alone to include Tonio (his own role). &#91; 5 &#93; The French author Catulle Mendès sued Leoncavallo for plagiarism after learning of the plot of Leoncavallo's libretto from an 1894 French translation. Mendès thought it resembled his 1887 play La Femme de Tabarin ("Tabarin's Wife"), which was structured as a play-within-the-play and featured a clown murdering his wife. Leoncavallo pleaded ignorance of Mendès's play. &#91; 2 &#93; Later, there were counter-accusations that Mendès's play resembled Don Manuel Tamayo y Baus 's Un Drama Nuevo (1867). Mendès dropped his lawsuit. Scholar Matteo Sansone has suggested that Leoncavallo had ample opportunity to be exposed to new French art and musical works while living in Paris from 1882 to 1888, including potentially Mendès's play, another version of La femme de Tabarin by Paul Ferrier, and Tabarin , an opera composed by Émile Pessard that was based on Ferrier's play. &#91; 6 &#93; Composition [ edit ] The opening Prologue was written for Maurel "as an afterthought", as Leoncavallo said in a conversation with the critic and singing teacher Herman Klein during his visit to London for the UK premiere in 1893: he wrote it "as an inducement to a clever, but rather egotistical baritone to sing the part of Tonio, who felt it wasn't important enough for an artist of his distinction. Perhaps he was right. Anyhow I thought the matter over and hit upon the idea that a prologue, sung before the curtain by one of the humblest characters, would prove something of a novelty and by no means out of place. Being, as you know, my own librettist, I quickly wrote the words and sketched the music. My baritone was delighted, both with the notion and the result, and I am bound to add that it proved one of the most striking features of the opera when I brought it out at the Dal Verme, Milan, just a year ago." &#91; 7 &#93; Towards the end of the prologue, singers often interpolate a high A♭ and a high G, although these do not appear in the original full score. &#91; 8 &#93; In an Australian newspaper article in December 1893, the baritone Guigliemo Caruson, who had already sung the part in Genoa earlier that year &#91; 9 &#93; said that "whilst rehearsing under Signor Leoncavallo's immediate direction, the composer gave his consent to the interpolation remarking that it was very effective, but that he would not add it to the score as he did not wish to force the note upon voices it did not suit." &#91; 10 &#93; Performance history [ edit ] Pagliacci received mixed critical reviews after its world premiere, but was instantly successful with the public &#91; 11 &#93; and has remained so ever since. The UK premiere of Pagliacci took place at the Royal Opera House , Covent Garden , under the management of Sir Augustus Harris in London on 19 May 1893, supervised by the composer. Nellie Melba sang Nedda, with Fernando De Lucia as Canio and Mario Ancona as Tonio, M. Bonnard (Beppe) and Richard Green (Silvio). The conductor was Luigi Mancinelli . &#91; 7 &#93; The US premiere followed a month later at the Grand Opera House in New York City on 15 June 1893, conducted by Gustav Hinrichs , with Selma Kronold (Nedda), American tenor Agostino Montegriffo (Canio), and Giuseppe Campanari (Tonio). &#91; 12 &#93; &#91; 13 &#93; The 'old' Metropolitan Opera House first staged the work on 11 December as a double-bill with Orfeo ed Euridice , with the same cast as the London premiere with Melba in the role of Nedda, De Lucia as Canio, and Ancona as Tonio. &#91; 14 &#93; &#91; 15 &#93; The Met again staged Pagliacci as a double-bill with the same cast and conductor, this time followed by Cavalleria rusticana on 22 December 1893 with Emma Calvé as Santuzza, conducted by Enrico Bevignani . &#91; 16 &#93; &#91; 17 &#93; The two operas have since been frequently performed in this double-bill, a pairing referred to in the operatic world colloquially as "Cav and Pag". The Belgian premiere (in a French translation) took place on 14 February 1895 ( Valentine's Day ) at the Theatre de la Monnaie , Brussels, with Cécile Simonnet as Nedda, conducted by Philippe Flon . &#91; 18 &#93; In 1902, the opera received its French premiere at the Paris Opera , with legendary tenor Jean de Reszke as Canio in what would be his last public performance, as he would later retire from the stage to focus on teaching and to spend more time with his family. &#91; 19 &#93; &#91; 20 &#93; Pagliacci was produced alone in Washington National Opera 's November 1997 production by Franco Zeffirelli . &#91; 21 &#93; The re-organised New York City Opera presented Pagliacci in 2016 on a double bill with Rachmaninoff's Aleko . &#91; 22 &#93; Roles [ edit ] French baritone Victor Maurel , creator of the role of Tonio Roles in the opera and in the commedia dell'arte, voice types, premiere cast Role Role in Commedia dell'arte Voice type Premiere cast, 21 May 1892 Conductor: Arturo Toscanini Canio, head of the troupe Pagliaccio ( Pierrot ), Colombina's husband tenor Fiorello Giraud Nedda, Canio's wife, in love with Silvio Colombina , Pagliaccio's wife, in love with Arlecchino soprano Adelina Stehle Tonio, actor with physical deformity Taddeo, Colombina's servant baritone Victor Maurel Beppe (Peppe &#91; b &#93; ), actor Arlecchino , Colombina's lover tenor Francesco Daddi Silvio, Nedda's lover baritone Mario Ancona Chorus of villagers Synopsis [ edit ] Place: Calabria , near Montalto , on the Feast of the Assumption Time: between 1865 and 1870 Prologue [ edit ] During the orchestral introduction, Tonio, dressed as his commedia dell'arte character Taddeo, pokes his head through the curtain, advances, and addresses the audience. &#91; 23 &#93; ("Si può?... Si può?... Signore! Signori! ... Un nido di memorie"). He reminds the audience that actors have feelings too, and that the show is about real people. Tonio returns behi