# 60Percent Of Teens Want To Launch Businesses Instead Of Working Regular Jobs.Html

**Source**: https://www.cnbc.com/2022/03/03/60percent-of-teens-want-to-launch-businesses-instead-of-working-regular-jobs.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:16:42.681306+00:00

---

60% of teens want to launch businesses instead of working regular jobs Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Cryptocurrency Futures &amp; Commodities Bonds Funds &amp; ETFs Business Economy Finance Health &amp; Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim&#x27;s Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown NEW! My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Stock Lists Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news &amp; videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu College Voices Advisory Board Retirement Guide Side hustle guide Money 101 newsletter Invest in You: Ready. Set. Grow. 60% of teens want to launch their own businesses instead of working regular jobs Published Thu, Mar 3 2022 1:09 PM EST Carmen Reinicke @csreinicke WATCH LIVE Morsa Images | DigitalVision | Getty Images Today&#x27;s teens are thinking differently about their future employment, and many have decided they don&#x27;t want to work for anyone else. About 60% of teenagers are more interested in someday starting their own business instead of working a traditional job, according to a March 1 survey from Junior Achievement USA. The survey of 1,000 teens aged 13 to 17 was conducted online Dec. 16 to 22 by Wakefield Research. Nearly 2 in 5 teens surveyed said their inspiration for entrepreneurship mostly comes from social media influencers and celebrities. The survey also found that 45% of teens want to learn the ropes from current business owners and 37% would be interested in programs at or after school teaching entrepreneurship. More from Invest in You: Want to buy a new home? How to set yourself up for success What to know before filing business taxes for the first time 66% of employers plan to address pay equity this year, survey finds &quot;I think that&#x27;s very encouraging — it&#x27;s not just a whim or a flight of fancy,&quot; said Ed Grocholski, chief marketing officer of Junior Achievement USA. &quot;They literally are interested in delving deeper and learning how to do this the right way.&quot; Teaching high school students about business To encourage entrepreneurship, Junior Achievement offers programs that teach teens about owning and running a business, including the JA Company Program Pop-up. The Company Program Pop-up is geared towards middle and high school students and helps them start thinking about planning and launching business ventures. Juan Cruz, a teacher at Lawrence High School in Lawrence, Massachusetts, has taught the program in class for a few years. He&#x27;s seen first-hand how it engages students and shows them a viable career path regardless if they&#x27;re going to college or not. &quot;This class shows them there are other opportunities where you can be just as successful,&quot; said Cruz. Before taking Mr. Cruz&#x27;s class, high school sophomore Milleana Santiago didn&#x27;t know anything about entrepreneurship. Juan Cruz, left, and his student Milleana Santiago, right, discuss entrepreneurship and their school&#x27;s recent pop-up shop. CNBC &quot;I didn&#x27;t even know what entrepreneurship was before coming to this program,&quot; said Santiago, adding that she also had a narrow view of business in general. In class she&#x27;s learned that all businesses start with one thing — a good idea. &quot;I didn&#x27;t know it could be as simple as thinking of a problem and thinking of different solutions and ways to make a profit off of that,&quot; she said. This year, the class put together their own small pop-up shop and students were responsible for marketing and selling items to their high school classmates. Santiago designed a Lawrence High School key chain and has even considered making a &quot;Jibbitz&quot; charm so that students could wear it on their Crocs shoes, a popular accessory at the high school. When students see profits, Mr. Cruz also uses it as a moment to teach them some money management basics, such as saving a portion or reinvesting it to grow your business or better yourself. watch now VIDEO 3:54 03:54 Five challenges every entrepreneur faces when starting a company Invest in You: Ready. Set. Grow. The class has shaped Santiago&#x27;s future goals. She plans to at least minor in business at a four-year college and would like to start a company in the future that helps kids. &quot;I knew that one day I wanted something that I could call my own and run, but as a side hustle,&quot; she said, adding that she didn&#x27;t know how to make that happen. &quot;Now I see how that&#x27;s actually possible,&quot; she said. SIGN UP: Money 101 is an 8-week learning course to financial freedom, delivered weekly to your inbox . For the Spanish version Dinero 101, click here . CHECK OUT : The &#x27;old convention&#x27; for saving in retirement won&#x27;t work anymore, expert says: Here&#x27;s how to shift your strategy with Acorns+CNBC Disclosure: NBCUniversal and Comcast Ventures are investors in Acorns . More In Invest in You: Ready. Set. Grow. Should you be worried about your money, your bank or the U.S. banking system? Experts weigh in Jessica Dickler Why you should buy everything with credit cards — provided you meet 1 condition Emily Lorsch Missing tax forms will &#x27;definitely&#x27; delay your refund, expert warns. How to know which ones you need Kate Dore, CFP®, EA Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing &amp; Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance CNBC on Peacock Join the CNBC Panel Supply Chain Values Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Ad Choices Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Privacy Policy CA Notice Terms of Service © 2025 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by