# Las Vegas Grand Prix Too Rich For F1S Blood

**Source**: https://web.archive.org/web/20240301170542/https://www.roadandtrack.com/car-culture/a46190397/las-vegas-grand-prix-too-rich-for-f1s-blood/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:19:58.712564+00:00

---

Sneaking, Spying, and Prying at the Las Vegas Grand Prix Search About Us Join Now All Access R&amp;T Experiences Shop R&amp;T News Reviews Car Culture Exclusives Performance Car of the Year Contact Follow Newsletter Your Privacy Choices Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content News Reviews Culture Exclusives Gear Join Now sign in Car Culture Sneaking, Spying, and Prying at the Las Vegas Grand Prix Sneaking, Spying, and Prying at the Las Vegas Grand Prix Getting inside the race so expensive, so lavish, that even Las Vegas blanched at the odds, even if it means hiding behind the Blue Man Group. By Zoë Bernard Published: Dec 22, 2023 Save Article ANP WEDNESDAY: MEDIA TOUR The weariest group of tourists heading in the direction of the Las Vegas strip on a bright, warm November morning is a pack of reporters on a minibus, tasked with covering the Formula One Las Vegas Grand Prix . Either everyone is hungover or phenomenally jet-lagged, because no one–absolutely no one–is talking. It is 10 a.m., and we are on a press tour to observe the track. Related Story F1's Las Vegas Grand Prix Is Too Big To Fail I am here, too, to cover Formula One. My main interest in writing about the race has to do with the fact that it’s in Las Vegas, which is where I’m from, and which has inspired such incredible ire among locals that my Las Vegas friends, upon learning that I was writing about the race, withdrew in disgust, as though the pure existence of such an assignment was de facto endorsement. As I’m eager to get some kind of handle on the dynamics of the event itself, I attempt to strike up a conversation with the man seated directly behind me. He is extremely German, with a thin mustache, and long, stringy blonde hair. Through relentless, unsought quizzing, I learn that he’s covered many Formula One races and that he is not particularly impressed by this one. “So, who do you think will win?” I ask. Over the rim of his tiny yellow glasses, he looks at me, and yawns. “It doesn’t matter who wins,” he says. “It’s about the lights and shit.” We disembark from the mini-bus and are led through an assortment of branded structures. A T-Mobile experience booth. A Heineken hospitality room. At each branded structure, someone representing the structure’s brand speaks at length about how amazing the brand finds the opportunity to host their brand here, at the Las Vegas Grand Prix. The words “incredible” and “unique” are getting a lot of mileage out on the empty track this morning. Denise Truscello - Formula 1 // Getty Images We are a tough crowd, and the face of the thin, pretty, blonde woman tasked as our handler is made up in an expression of frozen anxiety. Because the track is huge, there’s a lot of walking. Our blonde handler jokes that next year, she will give the reporters a fleet of Segways. No one laughs, everyone obviously thinking: we deserve Segways! We are led through multiple security gates, along shortcuts through perilous construction zones. The reporters are grumbling. “It’s not like this at the Superbowl,” a Bloomberg reporter tells me. “At the Superbowl, they give you food and water.” We have been visiting branded structures for nearly two hours. An associate of the blonde German shouts that he needs water. “How much longer can this take?” he asks. He is having a small meltdown and his friend, the guy with the tiny yellow glasses, is visibly appalled. “ Calm down! ” he hisses. “We have tequila on the roof!” our handler says. Her voice is hard and bright. No one smiles. Mark Thompson // Getty Images THURSDAY: PRACTICE The night of the first practice session, I watch a man take photos of his girlfriend in front of the track. The couple arrived late, missing not only the first few minutes of the cars leaving the pit, but the commentator’s announcement that the practice was canceled indefinitely after Carlos Sainz’s Ferrari ripped open an exposed manhole cover. The girlfriend is gorgeous. She is wearing metallic purple pants, a tight bodice top, and has a practiced, dictatorial air as she coaxes what are surely Annie Leibovitiz-worthy shots from her pliant boyfriend. Neither of them seem to notice the empty track. Nor do they appear to notice people’s glum expressions as they file out of the stands. This photoshoot goes on for about ten minutes, the boyfriend’s eager-to-please smile never once wavering as the girlfriend instructs him to hold the camera “just a bit higher. No, honey–now it’s too high!” All in, this documentary project lasts about three minutes longer than the event which they are ostensibly here to attend. They look happy enough, anyways. “Disastrous” is a strong word with which to describe F1’s opening night in Las Vegas, but, when considering that the four-hour event lasted only seven minutes, and that this abrupt cancellation sparked the ire of a lot of angry ticket holders, and that these ticket holders, in turn, filed a class action lawsuit seeking $30,000 in damages, it may be appropriate. Clive Mason // Getty Images What would normally be an inauspicious start for a new F1 Grand Prix is compounded by the fact that this is no ordinary Grand Prix. Of all the races, this is the race that F1, or that is, Liberty Media, F1’s new owner, needs to be successful. Unlike other F1 races which are typically sponsored by the city that hosts them (making these cities extremely convenient scapegoats in the event that anything goes wrong) F1 is fronting the $500 million price tag for the Las Vegas race. It’s a bold but calculated bet: That a sport, long popular with Europeans but greedy for new audiences, will catch on not only in Las Vegas, but all of America. Outside the stands, people are milling around, unsure of what to do. Three women, their botoxed lips thickly articulated beneath heavy makeup and smelling strongly of sweet liquor are complaining. “This isn’t even a race. They’re just practicing !” The tallest of them spits out in disgust. “We should ask for refunds.” There’s a lot of people like this here, people who lack a basic understanding not only of the sport itself but the event to which they bought tickets to attend. These people have come not to see Formula One, but to partake in a spectacle that’s been billed as Baz Luhrman-level-extravagant. That they have been lured here under false pretenses to witness the racing equivalent of the Red Sox training in Fenway Park (extremely boring, unless you’re a hardcore fan) is no fault of their own. Mark Thompson // Getty Images Afterall, these are the very people F1 hoped to draw to the Las Vegas Grand Prix in the first place: people who know nothing about F1 but buy tickets anyway because of F1’s association to things considered extremely sexy like hot guys, fast cars, money, and Rolex watches. America, so far, has proved fertile ground in which to cultivate new F1 fans. This is mostly owed to Drive To Survive , a soapy, behind-the-scenes episodic Netflix documentary which gives viewers an insider's perspective of F1’s champagne-soaked world. From the European perspective, the crucial difference between American audiences and their European counterparts is this: while Europeans keenly appreciate the more subtle enjoyments of life such as Osetra caviar or Swiss watches, Americans are drawn, like proverbial moths, to loud music, bright lights, and colorful costumes. In short, a big, gaudy show. The Europeans are not not wrong about this. Denise Truscello - Formula 1 // Getty Images Now, having rounded up a lot of people on the seductive but ultimately nebulous promise of unparalleled luxury and glamor, F1 has delivered roughly seven-minutes of racecars whisking past at speeds that, according to the woman confiding loudly in her boyfriend behind me, “don’t really seem all that fast when you get up close.” Despite these grievances, the crowd overall seems in good-ish spirits, imprudently optimistic that whatever is going on with the track will be fixed in short order. Loud music booms from a speaker. People are lining up for another round of $10 Heinekens. A crowd gathers around a massive screen erected in the middle of the asphalt. On it, Steve Aoki is bouncing up and down, long black hair whipping to a DJ track. The zoom out reveals that Steve Aoki is playing on the section of the track that’s located directly behind the screen amid a blaze of LED spotlights. Wait a minute, Steve Aoki is playing right now? Live? A surprise performance? My thought process, as I climb the stairs to the stadium goes something like this: Wow, I really underestimated F1. They’ve had Steve Aoki on standby this whole time in case there was an issue with the track! F1’s whole thing so far seems to be about wildly overpromising and then spectacularly under-delivering, so this organizational foresight seems out of character. I reach the stadium. No Steve Aoki in sight. No stage either. The stands are empty save for a couple of diehard spectators freezing their asses on metal benches. With nothing to spectate upon, they look cold and kind of sad. “Where’s the show?” I ask a white-jacketed attendant. “What show?” “There’s this display of Steve Aoki performing outside. Where is that?” “Oh, that’s footage from the opening ceremony last night,” says the guy, who, in his second day on the job, seems to have already fielded more than his fair share of complaints from angry ticket holders. “They had this super short performance. People were pissed. Paid more than a hundred a pop just to see the thing. Then it turns out to be shorter than my lunch break.” Rudy Carezzevoli // Getty Images The main distinction between an F1 city race and a stadium-style sporting event is that at a football game or tennis match, the game’s action takes place on a contained field or court. This means that the people seated courtside are seeing roughly the same thing as the people up in the nosebleeds, albeit at closer range. Among the crowd, this elicits a sense of solidarity, a unity imbued by the mutuality of expe