# Robert F. Kennedy Jr.

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/robert-f.-kennedy-jr./
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:11:37.829295+00:00

---

Robert F Kennedy Jr - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: Robert F. Kennedy Jr. roundup Sept. 26, 2025 Why Trump’s Tylenol-Autism Presser Was a Disaster The president tried to pass off ill-informed feelings as sound medical advice. Here, some of the most compelling pushback. By Chas Danner health Sept. 23, 2025 Thinking About Getting a COVID Booster This Fall? Get ready for a hot mess. By Andrea González-Ramírez and Erica Schwiegershausen we’ll do it live Sept. 22, 2025 Trump’s Rambling Press Conference About Tylenol and Autism: What Happpened The president’s bizarre briefing included a lot of misinformation and questionable medical advice. Here’s our account. By Intelligencer Staff we’ll do it live Sept. 17, 2025 Ex-CDC Director Testifies on RFK Jr., Ouster, and Upheaval: What Happened Susan Monarez and Debra Houry testified about Robert F. Kennedy Jr.’s efforts to upend U.S. vaccine policy. Here’s what happened. By Intelligencer Staff roundup Sept. 10, 2025 Has RFK Jr. Finally Gone Too Far? His war on vaccines has provoked intense backlash, but that doesn’t mean it will be his downfall, or at least not yet. By Chas Danner health Sept. 5, 2025 Mold, Mold Everywhere The number of Americans claiming they suffer from toxic-mold exposure keeps growing — and so does the list of their symptoms. By Jessica Lucas we’ll do it live Sept. 4, 2025 RFK Jr. Battles Senators at Tense Hearing: What Happened Members of the Senate Finance Committee grilled the HHS secretary as Kennedy remained defiant on his firing of the CDC director. By Intelligencer Staff politics Sept. 2, 2025 Bill Cassidy Keeps Doing His Weird RFK Jr. Dance The Republican senator, key to RFK Jr.’s HHS confirmation, argued vaccines with a Senate colleague but stopped short of criticizing Kennedy. By Nia Prater politics Aug. 29, 2025 Key Republican Almost Annoyed Enough at RFK Jr. to Act Senator Bill Cassidy, the key vote on Kennedy’s confirmation, issued a vague call for oversight amid chaos at the CDC. By Nia Prater what happened Aug. 27, 2025 CDC Director Ousted, Top Officials Resign After Vaccine Standoff With RFK Jr. Susan Monarez had reportedly fought back against Kennedy’s efforts to upend vaccine policy. Now the CDC is falling apart. By Intelligencer Staff what we know Aug. 27, 2025 What to Know About the FDA’s New COVID Vaccine Restrictions A new round of COVID vaccines has been approved, but with significant new limitations. By Chas Danner dynasties Aug. 25, 2025 Keeping Up With the Kennedys What this sprawling political dynasty is doing now. By Paula Aceves family business Aug. 18, 2025 Chris Pratt and RFK Jr. ‘Got Along Well’ “He’s funny … I love him.” By Alejandra Gularte early and often Aug. 12, 2025 CDC Shooting Not the Kind of Crime Trump Cares About The beating of “Big Balls” Coristine led Trump to take over D.C. Yet he has said nothing about a murderous rampage at the CDC’s Atlanta headquarters. By Ed Kilgore maha Aug. 10, 2025 How the New Atheists Joined the MAHA War on Science A new anthology showcases the intellectual failures of a diminishing brand. By Sarah Jones health Aug. 7, 2025 RFK Jr. Cancels mRNA-Vaccine Funding and the Blowback Is Swift While anti-vaxxers are thrilled, experts warn that defunding mRNA development takes away our already-proven best weapon against future pandemics. By Nia Prater and Chas Danner politics Aug. 4, 2025 RFK Jr. Says His Wife Fills His ‘Empty Spaces’ Happy anniversary to them. By Olivia Craighead the power trip July 10, 2025 The New Gold Rush for MAGA Lobbyists “I haven’t even had time to make it to the golf course since November,” said one lobbyist. By Ben Terris social studies July 9, 2025 Why Calling RFK Jr. ‘Anti-Science’ Misses the Real Point Battling over truth, facts, and evidence doesn’t work in a post-expertise world. By Rachael Bedard just asking questions June 16, 2025 ‘We Are Less Safe, Plain and Simple’ Former CDC director Tom Frieden explains the damage RFK Jr. and the Trump administration are doing to public health. By Benjamin Hart plagued June 9, 2025 What’s Going On With Trump and RFK Jr.’s New COVID-Vaccine Policies? RFK Jr. has fired every scientist on the CDC’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. By Chas Danner health June 4, 2025 Will Kids Still Be Able to Get COVID Shots? Unpacking the CDC’s confusing new vaccine guidance. By Erica Schwiegershausen health May 30, 2025 RFK Jr. Did Raw-Milk Shooters in the White House He was joined by podcaster and anti-toilet-paper advocate Paul Saladino. By E.J. Dickson politics May 30, 2025 Did RFK Jr.’s Crew Use AI to Write Error-Filled MAHA Report? MAHA’s big report on chronic disease in children cites studies and articles by authors who say they don’t exist. By Nia Prater power May 15, 2025 A Ben & Jerry’s Founder Interrupted RFK Jr.’s Senate Hearing Ben Cohen criticized Congress for funding Israel’s war in Gaza while proposing cuts to Medicaid. By Erica Schwiegershausen politics May 14, 2025 Don’t Ask RFK Jr. for Medical Advice “I don’t think people should be taking medical advice from me,” the HHS secretary said after being asked about his vaccine views. By Nia Prater what is maha? May 8, 2025 The Siblings With RFK Jr.’s Ear Meet best-selling authors Calley and Casey Means. By E.J. Dickson early and often Apr. 29, 2025 Trump Is Bad for Your Health Care, But Health Care Is Bad for Trump His agenda depends on Medicaid cuts, which could prompt a 2017-like backlash. By Ed Kilgore clapbacks Apr. 23, 2025 Love on the Spectrum Stars ‘Disgusted’ by RFK Jr.’s Comments on Autism Autistic people will never go on dates? Tell it to Love on the Spectrum . By Bethy Squires early and often Apr. 18, 2025 DOGE Tells HHS Not to Pay Its Bills The health agency’s legally required payments are being disrupted in a show of DOGE’s enduring power. By Ed Kilgore health Apr. 17, 2025 RFK Jr. Keeps Spewing Lies About Autism This week, he claimed children with autism will “never pay taxes” or “hold a job.” By Erica Schwiegershausen politics Apr. 7, 2025 RFK Jr. Plugs Measles Vaccine, Along With Dubious Treatments The HHS secretary posted more inconsistent measles messaging after attending the funeral of the second child to die in the Texas outbreak. By Nia Prater health Mar. 7, 2025 Justice for Seed Oils A new study found that people who consume more plant-based oils have a lower risk of death. By Erica Schwiegershausen early and often Feb. 13, 2025 RFK Jr.’s Extremely Improbable Rise to HHS Secretary Last year, Trump called Kennedy the most “radical left” presidential candidate. Now he’s been confirmed to his Cabinet. By Ed Kilgore trump 2.0 Feb. 13, 2025 RFK Jr. Is Officially in Charge of the Country’s Health The anti-vaccine conspiracy theorist is about to be the head of the Department of Health and Human Services. By Olivia Craighead politics Feb. 4, 2025 Key Republican Falls in Line Behind RFK Jr. Kennedy’s HHS nomination advanced to the full Senate after Republican senator Bill Cassidy, a potential swing vote, voted in his favor. By Nia Prater politics Jan. 31, 2025 Did RFK Jr. Really Pop a Zyn During His Confirmation Hearing? Tucker Carlson’s nicotine-pouch company would like to set the record straight. By Olivia Craighead trump 2.0 Jan. 30, 2025 What We Actually Learned From RFK Jr.’s Confirmation Hearing Kennedy spelled out his MAHA vision over a grueling two-day period — and it is bleak . By E.J. Dickson we’ll do it live Jan. 30, 2025 Trump Cabinet Confirmation Hearings: Live Updates Lawmakers are set to grill Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., Tulsi Gabbard and Kash Patel, three of Trump’s most controversial Cabinet nominees. By Intelligencer Staff early and often Jan. 29, 2025 A Weird Confirmation Hearing Even for RFK Jr. Botched answers and baby onesies. By Ben Jacobs robert f. kennedy jr. Jan. 29, 2025 Cheryl Hines Has Gone Full MAGA Wife She sat front and center at RFK Jr.’s first day of confirmation hearings. By Danielle Cohen we’ll do it live Jan. 29, 2025 Dems Grill RFK Jr. on Vaccines, Abortion in Testy Hearing President Trump’s pick for Health and Human Services secretary was confronted with his history of vaccine skepticism and other views. By Intelligencer Staff trump 2.0 Jan. 29, 2025 Sorry, RFK Jr. Used to P