# Why Dogecoin Is Forcing People To Take It Seriously.Html

**Source**: https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2021/04/why-dogecoin-is-forcing-people-to-take-it-seriously.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:55:24.644905+00:00

---

Why Dogecoin Is Forcing People to Take It Seriously Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Politics Business Technology Ideas About Intelligencer Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Close Close Politics Business Technology Ideas About Intelligencer Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Search Search Close cryptocurrencies Why Dogecoin, the Joke Crypto, Is Forcing People to Take It Seriously By Jen Wieczner , New York features writer who covers Wall Street, business, and crypto Apr. 17, 2021 save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Illustration: Intelligencer On Thursday night, just before 10 p.m., I got a text from a friend: “Yo, what is going on with dogecoin?” he wrote. “But like do I sell now? This shit makes no sense.” He was, of course, talking about dogecoin, the cryptocurrency created as a joke in 2013 — a satire of sorts, based on the Shiba Inu meme, parodying the slew of bitcoin-copycat currencies that were flooding the market (and are sometimes called “shitcoins”). And he was referencing dogecoin’s gravity-defying price, which started the year at about half-a-penny per coin, rose to a whole nickel during late January and early February’s GameStop mania — propelled in part by Tesla CEO Elon Musk’s encouraging tweets — and this week multiplied several times over. By Thursday night, dogecoin was worth a bona fide quarter; by Friday morning, it was up to nearly a half-dollar. Dogecoin, now trading a bit under 30 cents, has surged over 300 percent in the past week, according to coinmarketcap.com, with no explanation in sight. I kind of thought my friend was joking too: After all, you probably don’t invest in a parody because you’re banking on the returns, but because you bought it as a lottery ticket. How much could he possibly have in dogecoin that would make a difference whether he held or sold? He sent back a screenshot of his Robinhood portfolio, showing more than $30,000 in dogecoin, a return of 521 percent since he’d bought in at a little more than four cents a piece. “But this is a serious number for a meme coin haha,” he wrote. And therein lies the doge dilemma: what started as a joke has now, through no virtue of its own, reached Wall Street–like proportions of the kind that require some degree of seriousness. With a total market value of around $40 billion, dogecoin is worth roughly as much as the Ford Motor Company. No matter that dogecoin’s founders designed it to be devoid of value, omitting a cap on the amount of new dogecoin that can be made (a supply limit characteristic of more respected cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin). The cryptocurrency has confounded its own blueprint, upending its creators’ assumptions that just because something shouldn’t be valuable, it won’t be. Dogecoin has become an emblem of the new school of meme investing, the trend that has helped drive up the stocks of GameStop and other nostalgic brands like AMC. Together they’ve flipped the traditional concept of value on its head: Forget any sort of reasoning about what makes a sound investment; today, anything can be worth something if enough people say it is. It worked for GameStop, and it’s working for doge. Photo: Screencap/Twitter Doges just wanna have fun &mdash; Cameron Winklevoss (@cameron) April 16, 2021 In the end, my friend sold half his dogecoin late Thursday night; by Friday morning, as the cryptocurrency went up nearly another 50 percent, he was calling that decision a “huge mistake.” Then again, it wasn’t clear he would have been able to sell at the high anyway; amid the doge craziness, Robinhood — one of the only mainstream brokerages offering dogecoin trading, as Coinbase does not — was experiencing a crypto-trading outage shortly after 10 a.m. Friday. We’re currently experiencing issues with crypto trading due to unprecedented volumes and are working to resolve them as soon as possible. For the latest, please check our status page https://t.co/hS5J5eu1GV &mdash; Robinhood (@RobinhoodApp) April 16, 2021 I asked him, why all the concern over how much money he made on dogecoin? Did he really go into this with high expectations? He’d had a bit of cash to play with, he explained, and so he employed what some people have called the YOLO trade : “Very likely I lose money,” he thought in the beginning, at the end of January. But there was also an element of “gambling” fun in the back of his mind: “This could ‘go to the moon’ and I make 3-4x my money” in a year’s time, he told me. In the end, he did even better, faster — taking away a moral that logically maybe shouldn’t be possible, and yet, is. On Saturday morning, he put $2,000 more into dogecoin. Sign Up for the Intelligencer Newsletter Daily news about the politics, business, and technology shaping our world. Email This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Vox Media, LLC Terms and Privacy Notice By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice and to receive email correspondence from us. Tags: cryptocurrencies dogecoin business finance Show Comment Why Dogecoin Is Forcing People to Take It Seriously Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission. Sign In to Comment THE FEED 4:22 p.m. we&#x27;ll do it live we&#x27;ll do it live House, Senate Locked in a Shutdown Stalemate: Live Updates By Intelligencer Staff Trump shared a weird AI video starring him as the Grim Reaper as Congress continued informal talks. Welcome to day three. 4:02 p.m. early and often early and often The Other Demand Democrats Should Make During the Shutdown Fight By Ed Kilgore The real prize is winning the 2026 election, and there’s a Trump executive order standing in the way. 1:43 p.m. early and often early and often Trump Goes Over the Brink, Labels Democrats the Party of Satan By Ed Kilgore Aside from poisoning the atmosphere, Trump’s demonization of the opposition is a shout-out to the QAnon cult and “spiritual warriors.” Most Popular An Epic Courtroom Mismatch Is Looming in the Comey Case By Elie Honig The New Court Tactic Helping ICE Deport Immigrants By Mark Chiusano U.S. Colleges Are About to See a Big Decline in Applicants By Jeffrey Selingo The Spinal Surgeries That Didn’t Need to Happen By Paula Aceves The Dark Side Driving Pete Hegseth By Sarah Jones An Epic Courtroom Mismatch Is Looming in the Comey Case By Elie Honig The Dark Side Driving Pete Hegseth By Sarah Jones The Spinal Surgeries That Didn’t Need to Happen By Paula Aceves Why Did DHS Send a Russian Exile to Costa Rica? By Amelia Schonbek The Mamdani Effect By David Freedlander 12:00 p.m. the approval matrix the approval matrix The Approval Matrix: The Life of a One-Term Mayor Our guide to what’s highbrow, lowbrow, brilliant, and despicable. 11:50 a.m. early and often early and often Trump Regards Millions of Americans As Enemies of the People By Ed Kilgore His sudden zest for mass layoffs of federal employees is another sign that Trump’s vengeance tour is taking in more territory every day. 9:30 a.m. early and often early and often Democrats Must Decide What It Means to Win a Shutdown Fight By Ed Kilgore They aren’t going to get everything they’re demanding. But Democrats can show they’re willing to fight and rehearse a midterms message. 6:00 a.m. the law the law An Epic Courtroom Mismatch Is Looming in the Comey Case By Elie Honig A prosecutorial legend will be facing off against a (to put it kindly) fumbling beginner. 5:00 a.m. immigration immigration Why Did DHS Send a Russian Exile to Costa Rica? By Amelia Schonbek How Trump’s third-country removal strategy forced an asylum-seeking family to start over — in Monteverde. 10/2/2025 tremendous content tremendous content Why Did Melania Trump Share an AI Body-Double Video?: 4 Theories. By Margaret Hartmann Is the First Lady’s bizarre X post an ad for her troubled cryptocurrency or confirmation of “fake Melania”? 10/2/2025 politics politics Is the Trump Administration’s Shutdown Messaging Illegal? By Nia Prater Federal-agency websites and federal workers’ email messages blame Democrats for the shutdown in a possible violation of the Hatch Act. 10/2/2025 early and often early and often Trump’s 2024 Coalition Has Already Fallen Apart By Ed Kilgore Polls show Trump has lost the young, Black, and Latino supporters he attracted in 2024, leaving him with the same old white working-class base. 10/2/2025 crime crime Will Trump Pardon Diddy? What to Know Before the Sentencing. By Margaret Hartmann The president said a pardon would be “difficult,” but also called his former friend “half innocent.” 10/2/2025 early and often early and often It’s Hard to Fight McCarthyism When McCarthy Is President By Ed Kilgore Relaunching free-speech groups that fought the Red Scare is helpful. But last time, they had the White House as an ally, not an enemy. 10/2/2025 politics politics Ex-Staffer Claims Romance With Adams in Book, Odd AI Video By Nia Prater It hasn’t been the mayor’s greatest week. 10/2/2025 just asking questions just asking questions The Dark Side Driving Pete Hegseth By Sarah Jones It’s easy to make fun of his speech to generals, but it revealed deep, disturbing insecurities. 10/2/2025 the city politic the city politic The Mamdani Effect By David Fre