# ),”

**Source**: https://buzzmachine.com/2009/05/31/the-embeddable-newspaper/),”
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:15:12.342158+00:00

---

The embeddable newspaper — BuzzMachine BuzzMachine The media pundit&#039;s pundit. Written by NYC insider Jeff Jarvis, BuzzMachine covers news, media, journalism, and politics. The embeddable newspaper May 31, 2009 embeddable , google , newarchitecture , newspapers , wwgd About a week ago, I met with Tristan Harris, founder of Apture , which enables sites to create rich link boxes that display media of all sorts. As we talked, it occurred to me that he had something else in his hands, something I&#8217;d talked with the Guardian about over time: the ability to make a newspaper embeddable. That is, imagine if any content in a paper or news site could be shared on this blog via YouTube-like players that could display not just video but also text, photos, audio, graphics, anything. Imagine if, rather than having to cut-and-paste a quote from a news story, I could quote it here in a box that also delivered the context of the entire story, along with the source&#8217;s branding, links, and even advertising. I&#8217;ve argued that newspapers need to think distributed , that they need to go to where the readers are rather than expecting them to be attracted to news sites like magnets; this is a key lesson of What Would Google Do? . And then I saw Google Web Elements , which lets me embed content like this: It&#8217;s a start. Gillian Reagan in the NY Observer says that perhaps this is a way for newspapers to get distribution and branding from Google; PaidContent agrees . But I hope for something broader, something any site (even BuzzMachine) could implement to make itself embeddable without having to go through Google&#8217;s funnel. That&#8217;s what I think Apture might be able to do. The Guardian, NY Times, NPR, and BBC are on the right road, of course, with their APIs, which enable other sites to embed their content and enables the news organizations to, in the words of the Guardian, weave themselves into the fabric of the web. Daylife (where I&#8217;m a partner) also has an API. But the limitation of an API is that it needs developers and that means time. A toolset such as Elements (or Daylife&#8217;s new Select) enables mortals such as me to embed content or create pages. Note well that this is the opposite of locking content behind pay walls. Becoming embeddable is a way for a site to act like Google and go with the flow of the internet, to be distributed by its readers, to take its content and branding and advertising out into the web. Share this: Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Click to share on Mastodon (Opens in new window) Mastodon Click to share on Threads (Opens in new window) Threads Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Like this: Like Loading... 16 Comments Paul Armstrong says: May 31, 2009 at 3:16 PM Deffo a step in the right direction! Loading... Johan Lange says: May 31, 2009 at 4:11 PM I think we&#8217;ll be prepared to pay for certain content to present and use on our freelance site &#8211; we then use some of the paper brand. Maybe a way to go! Loading... Cody Brown says: May 31, 2009 at 5:03 PM The problem is making it fit. As a publisher who has a blog that covers NYU, I&#8217;d be interested in doing something like, embedding news about Greenwich Village, but I&#8217;d want to make it matches the look of my website and label it in such a way so we don&#8217;t get burned when something on the feed turns out to not be true. Loading... Michel Levy-Provencal says: May 31, 2009 at 5:30 PM We try to do yhis at France 24 with what we call &#8220;Web Widget&#8221;. http://www.france24.com/en/widgetinstall What do you think about it? Loading... Bob Wyman says: May 31, 2009 at 7:46 PM Why limit embedding to just links and ledes? Why not embed full content? For instance, if I start a site that does exquisite coverage of Upper West Side New York news why shouldn&#8217;t I be able to build out a &#8220;full news experience&#8221; by embedding technical news from TechCrunch, international news from the New York Times, Pharma industry news from startup pharma news bureau in New Jersey, etc&#8230; The paper analog for content embedding would be what the &#8220;News Syndicates&#8221; have done for years for columnists, regular features, comics, etc. I should be able to build up my own &#8220;complete news experience&#8221; with a unique curatorial focus, voice, perspective, quality level, etc. by combining in-house content with embedded content from partners. (Of course, embedding would include advertising to allow revenue generation, etc.) bob wyman Loading... Maha Atal says: May 31, 2009 at 8:24 PM Actually, Jeff, the New York Times is already negotiating something with Google to have their articles appear in Reader that way. Keller said so in an interview about a month ago, I believe with the Observer. Loading... Shan Freeman Cousrouf says: May 31, 2009 at 11:20 PM Just a note. The content shows up fine in my browser, but I get a big blank space in my feed reader (Feedreader 3.14). Seems like it&#8217;s always something. Any one have the same experience in their reader? Loading... Janne says: June 1, 2009 at 5:34 AM Yes, same here. Embedded stuff becomes blank space in my reader. I use NewsGator. Loading... Eric R. Olson says: June 1, 2009 at 7:57 AM That makes perfect sense to me and I would extend the concept to individual articles. Imagine if you are an independent journalist, publish a story and it becomes a hit. If the article is embeddable, you retain control over your work and the more places it is embedded, the more advertising you can sell against it. Loading... RateBrain says: June 1, 2009 at 10:51 AM This is certainly the future of the web. You make a great point about APIs and the development time needed. Copy/paste (or even drag/drop) is the way to make it easy for ALL publishers. We plan on using some of the Elements stuff on our RateBrain site soon. Cheers Loading... Derek Pilling says: June 1, 2009 at 4:23 PM This take truly unique and compelling to make the economics work for the publisher. Unfortunately, most papers don&#8217;t have that kind of content, they are principally distribution businesses as opposed to unique content creators. Unfortunately, their primary distribution mechanism; print; is dying a slow but certain death. As the death spiral becomes steeper, you see them cutting back on editorial staff, making their content less and less compelling, as opposed to more compelling. Tough spot. Loading... Michel Levy-Provencal says: June 1, 2009 at 9:00 PM Thanks for this answer. You&#8217;re right. We really have to think about it and integrate more informations in the new version of F24 widget&#8230; Loading... Can Sar says: June 1, 2009 at 10:23 PM I couldn&#8217;t agree more that reusing and recombining small chunks of existing content to tell better and richer stories will be a huge part of the future of news but I&#8217;ve always focused on multimedia and structured data instead of news in particular. A really great read. Can Sar CTO, Apture Loading... David Cohn says: June 3, 2009 at 1:21 AM An interview with Tristan: http://newsinnovation.com/2009/01/07/never-quit-and-be-honest-with-yourself/ Loading... Berufsunfähigkeitsversicherung vergleichen says: January 23, 2012 at 12:42 PM But wanna comment on couple of common points, The site style is perfect, the content material material is actually excellent : D. 57067 Loading... If you want to know more about transmission repairs, you can find out more information at Comfort Auto Repair Portland says: February 10, 2012 at 4:12 AM Its remarkable what supplementing can do for your body and your weight lifting goals! 989483 Loading... by Jeff Jarvis About Me Email Me Rules of Engagement Search Archives Select Month September 2025 &nbsp;(1) August 2025 &nbsp;(1) July 2025 &nbsp;(2) February 2025 &nbsp;(1) January 2025 &nbsp;(2) November 2024 &nbsp;(2) October 2024 &nbsp;(1) September 2024 &nbsp;(3) August 2024 &nbsp;(4) July 2024 &nbsp;(3) June 2024 &nbsp;(3) May 2024 &nbsp;(2) April 2024 &nbsp;(2) March 2024 &nbsp;(1) February 2024 &nbsp;(1) January 2024 &nbsp;(5) November 2023 &nbsp;(1) September 2023 &nbsp;(4) August 2023 &nbsp;(1) June 2023 &nbsp;(2) May 2023 &nbsp;(1) April 2023 &nbsp;(1) February 2023 &nbsp;(1) December 2022 &nbsp;(2) November 2022 &nbsp;(3) October 2022 &nbsp;(2) September 2022 &nbsp;(2) August 2022 &nbsp;(1) June 2022 &nbsp;(1) May 2022 &nbsp;(1) April 2022 &nbsp;(1) March 2022 &nbsp;(1) February 2022 &nbsp;(1) January 2022 &nbsp;(2) December 2021 &nbsp;(2) October 2021 &nbsp;(2) September 2021 &nbsp;(1) July 2021 &nbsp;(1) May 2021 &nbsp;(1) March 2021 &nbsp;(1) February 2021 &nbsp;(3) January 2021 &nbsp;(4) December 2020 &nbsp;(1) October 2020 &nbsp;(3) September 2020 &nbsp;(2) August 2020 &nbsp;(3) June 2020 &nbsp;(5) May 2020 &nbsp;(2) April 2020 &nbsp;(2) March 2020 &nbsp;(3) February 2020 &nbsp;(1) January 2020 &nbsp;(2) December 2019 &nbsp;(2) November 2019 &nbsp;(2) October 2019 &nbsp;(1) September 2019 &nbsp;(3) August 2019 &nbsp;(3) July 2019 &nbsp;(1) June 2019 &nbsp;(1) May 2019 &nbsp;(1) April 2019 &nbsp;(2) March 2019 &nbsp;(1) February 2019 &nbsp;(2) January 2019 &nbsp;(5) December 2018 &nbsp;(2) August 2018 &nbsp;(2) July 2018 &nbsp;(2) June 2018 &nbsp;(1) May 2018 &nbsp;(1) April 2018 &nbsp;(2) March 2018 &nbsp;(3) January 2018 &nbsp;(2) December 2017 &nbsp;(2) October 2017 &nbsp;(1) June 2017 &nbsp;(1) May 2017 &nbsp;(1) April 2017 &nbsp;(2) March 2017 &nbsp;(1) February 2017 &nbsp;(1) December 2016 &nbsp;(1) November 2016 &nbsp;(1) October 2016 &nbsp;(2) September 2016 &nbsp;(6) August 2016 &nbsp;(6) June 2016 &nbsp;(2) April 2016 &nbsp;(1) March 2016 &nbsp;(1) February 2016 &nbsp;(1) October 2015 &nbsp;(3) September 2015 &nbsp;(4) August 2015 &nbsp;(5) July 2015 &nbsp;(4) May 2015 &nbsp;(7) April 20