# Go Making Of Doug Liman John August Sarah Polley Katie Holmes No Doubt

**Source**: https://www.theringer.com/movies/2019/3/29/18283794/go-making-of-doug-liman-john-august-sarah-polley-katie-holmes-no-doubt
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:41:23.005640+00:00

---

Don’t Let It ‘Go’ Away: The Frantic, Furious Making of a Cult Movie Classic - The Ringer Discover anything Discover anything Videos Podcasts The Latest The Latest Fantasy Football Rankings Fantasy Football Rankings NBA NBA NFL NFL TV TV Movies Movies MLB MLB The Ringer 107 The Ringer 107 Music Music Soccer Soccer Events Events The Streaming Guide The Streaming Guide Simmons Pod Simmons Pod Rewatchables Rewatchables Big Picture Big Picture Russillo Pod Russillo Pod The Watch The Watch Higher Learning Higher Learning House of R House of R The Town The Town Plain English Plain English By Eric Ducker March 29, 2019, 10:30 am UTC • 21 min Movies Don’t Let It ‘Go’ Away: The Frantic, Furious Making of a Cult Movie Classic How one wild night in L.A. was captured by one wild production, headed up by an unpredictable auteur, a hungry screenwriter, and a cast of about-to-be superstars Movies Don’t Let It ‘Go’ Away: The Frantic, Furious Making of a Cult Movie Classic How one wild night in L.A. was captured by one wild production, headed up by an unpredictable auteur, a hungry screenwriter, and a cast of about-to-be superstars Leonardo Santamaria By Eric Ducker March 29, 2019, 10:30 am UTC • 21 min Doug Liman had a decision to make. Getting In , the movie he’d directed right after getting out of USC film school, had gone straight to video. But then 1996 brought his indie sensation, Swingers . Made for only $250,000, it followed the lives of crying and carousing unknown actors in Los Angeles. Its release attached a scotch-powered jetpack to the careers of Vince Vaughn and Jon Favreau. Swingers earned $4.55 million at the box office, though it found an even greater audience once it hit the home video market. It’s had such a deep cultural impact that 23 years later, jag-offs are still yelling “Vegas, baby!” when their planes touch down at McCarran. So what was Liman going to do next? To the delight of his representation, major film studios were offering him comedies with budgets in the low $20 millions. He was heading toward Heartbreakers , a film about a mother-daughter conwoman team written by the guys behind Liar Liar and The Little Rascals . Then one day, when Liman was leaving his Manhattan apartment, he heard his phone ringing as he stood in the hallway waiting for the elevator. He was hoping it was a girl, but it turned out to be the producer Mickey Liddell, pitching him to direct a movie called Go . The film told three interlocking stories, each tied to an ecstacy deal initiated in the checkout line of a cruddy Hollywood supermarket. It featured crackling dialogue, a Christmas-themed rave, closeted soap opera stars, a car chase on the Vegas strip, Beverly Hills, 90210 jokes, iodine poisoning, a tantric threesome, and a telepathic cat named Huxley. Even before the phone call, Liman felt like Heartbreakers was too easy, that it was too much money for a comedy. Go had a proposed budget around one-fifth of what he’d spend on Heartbreakers . His agent cautioned that if Liman did another indie and things went down in flames, he wouldn’t get the opportunity to work with a major studio again. On the other hand, if he completed Heartbreakers now, regardless of how well it did, his career would be set. Unlike other marquee indie directors of the era, Liman wasn’t a writer, so he wasn’t generating his own material. It was the ethos driving Go ’s script that convinced him to pick the project. “I had a charmed youth in that I did a lot of crazy things and no one ever got hurt,” Liman says. “I had this belief that you have a get-out-of-jail-free card when you’re 18. And I recognize there’s a lot of white privilege connected to that get-out-of-jail-free card now that I wasn’t as sensitive to at the time because I only knew my own experience.” “What I saw in Go was a story that was celebrating: Do crazy shit while you’re young,” he continues. “You can get away with it when you’re young.” When you talk to people who’ve worked with Liman, they’ll describe him as “a character and a half” or “an interesting cat.” What they mean is that he’s a weirdo who makes preposterous choices that should result in failure but often end in success. Looking at Go now, 20 years after it was released in April 1999, you can see a convergence of several film trends of that era. There’s the absorption of the creators of 1990s indie cinema into the mainstream moviemaking landscape. There’s a new generation of bright young actors ready to make the leap from teenage fare to more adult material. There’s Quentin Tarantino’s cinematic quirks becoming modern conventions. Yet throughout the making of Go , there was moment after moment that should have led to disaster. Still, things managed to work out. Sort of. Go wasn’t an abject financial disaster, but it was far from a hit. It’s not quite a cult classic, but over the years it’s built a contingent of dedicated fans. Assistants squealed when I told them which film I wanted to interview their bosses about. Lauded careers were launched off of it. Over the two ensuing decades, the amount of success that’s come to the people involved in the film—from the actors, to the crew, to the studio executives who got involved—is incredible. Liman has made other films that have grossed far more money, like Mr. &amp; Mrs. Smith and The Bourne Identity . Some of his work is more beloved by film devotees, like Swingers and Edge of Tomorrow . Still, Liman considers Go his best film. “We’re so trained toward short-term rewards that the true success of a movie has to be evaluated in 10 or 20 years after it comes out, and so, if you ask how I feel about how [ Go ] was received from where I sit today, I couldn’t be more proud of it and it couldn’t have been received better,” Liman says. “I do like films, like Mr. &amp; Mrs. Smith , where you do get some huge opening weekend, but if I had to trade one or the other, it lasting and being something that people will watch today is something that is more important to me.” There’s a scrappiness to Go that could only have been generated by a group of people who, much like the movie’s characters, often found themselves in situations where they were in over their heads. As the film’s editor, Stephen Mirrione, says, “One of the things I like about [ Go ] is it’s a movie about idiots that’s made by a bunch of goofballs, a bunch of knuckleheads.” Doug Liman Columbia/TriStar Sitting inside his home in L.A.’s Hancock Park neighborhood, screenwriter John August repeats one of his maxims: “My favorite genre of movie is movies that get made.” His filmography includes Big Fish , the Charlie’s Angels adaptation from 2000, the Charlie and the Chocolate Factory remake, and the forthcoming live-action Aladdin . But back in 1998, when he was nearing the end of his 20s, nothing August wrote had made it to the screen. He’d been hired to adapt How to Eat Fried Worms for Ron Howard at Imagine Entertainment and A Wrinkle in Time for Dimension/Miramax, neither of which was anywhere close to being made. “I was really fortunate to be getting those jobs,” he says, “but I was only being considered for movies involving gnomes, elves, dwarves, and Christmas.” To expand the type of offers he was getting, he returned to a script for a short film called X that he wrote while enrolled in USC’s graduate film program. X is basically the first segment in Go . It tracks a young supermarket worker on the verge of eviction named Ronna who gets caught up in an ecstacy deal and ends up lying in a ditch outside a rave. In his head, August had already built out more of a backstory for Adam and Zack, the two guys who come into the grocery store looking to score, and Simon, Ronna’s English coworker who usually deals to them. For Go he created two more segments that focused on these characters and increased the connections among all three parts. There had been movies that had broken up the narrative and told related stories from different perspectives before—most famously Akira Kurosawa’s Rashomon and Jim Jarmusch’s Mystery Train —but those were the type of movies mostly taught at film school or shown at sticky-floored repertory theaters. Then 1994 brought Quentin Tarantino’s Pulp Fiction , which managed to popularize the concept. “The idea of restarting your movie was fine; it wasn’t just an experimental art-film kind of thing,” August explains of Pulp Fiction ’s impact. “It was a thing that people could have said, ‘Oh, it’s like that.’ The ‘Oh, it’s like that’ has sort of been a blessing and a curse. It made it possible to make [ Go ], but also made it really easy to dismiss the film or to dismiss that gimmick as ‘ Pulp Fiction did it first.’” (It might not help that along with the pop-culture-peppered dialogue, Go also features two Tarantino-style trunk shots .) When August began taking meetings for Go , the big studios were still buying spec scripts. But the real motivation was to show them what he was capable of. Because of its tonal shifts, Go could be read as an action movie, a comedy, a thriller, or whatever sample they needed it to be. Executives would tell August they loved his script, but they couldn’t make it. Instead they gave him dialogue-polishing work or offered him other gigs that didn’t involve gnomes. Then Banner Entertainment, a small production company, decided it wanted to put together Go as an independent feature with a $3.5 million budget, and it would bring August on as a coproducer who would be on set every day. Liman was always at the top of the list for director. “Doug, to this day, doesn’t take ‘no’ for anything, and it’s probably his strongest quality as a director,” says August. “He wasn’t scared of anything in the script.” To assemble the large ensemble, they brought on Joseph Middleton, a casting director who was still diversifying his résumé. No one was attached to the film, so Middleton had a blank slate when filling out the roles. He had seen Taye Diggs in a production of Rent , so he had Liman fly out