# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Health%20Psychology&title=Peer%20and%20adolescent%20substance%20use%20among%206th%E2%80%939th%20graders:%20Latent%20growth%20analyses%20of%20influence%20versus%20selection%20mechanisms&author=TA%20Wills&author=SD%20Cleary&volume=18&publication_year=1999&pages=453-463&pmid=10519461&doi=10.1037//0278-6133.18.5.453&
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:29:12.043178+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.04 sec) My profile My library Lookup Peer and adolescent substance use among 6th–9th Graders: Latent growth analyses of influence versus selection mechanisms. TA Wills, SD Cleary - Health psychology, 1999 - psycnet.apa.org TA Wills, SD Cleary Health psychology, 1999 • psycnet.apa.org This study analyzed peer-influence versus peer-selection mechanisms in adolescent tobacco, alcohol, and marijuana use. Participants were surveyed 3 times, with 1-year intervals, about peers&#39; substance use and their own use; Sample 1 had 1,190 participants (initial mean age= 12.4 years), Sample 2 had 1,277 participants (initial mean age= 11.5 years). Latent growth analyses that were based on composite scores indicated that initial peer use was positively related to rate of change in adolescent use, supporting the influence … Abstract This study analyzed peer-influence versus peer-selection mechanisms in adolescent tobacco, alcohol, and marijuana use. Participants were surveyed 3 times, with 1-year intervals, about peers&#39; substance use and their own use; Sample 1 had 1,190 participants (initial mean age= 12.4 years), Sample 2 had 1,277 participants (initial mean age= 11.5 years). Latent growth analyses that were based on composite scores indicated that initial peer use was positively related to rate of change in adolescent use, supporting the influence mechanism; there was little evidence for a selection mechanism. Difficult temperament, poor self-control, and deviance-prone attitudes were related to initial levels for both peer and adolescent use. It is concluded that peer influence is the primary mechanism during middle adolescence. Temperament-related attributes may be predisposing to early experimentation and deviant-peer affiliations. American Psychological Association Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 345 Related articles All 7 versions Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help