# Ai Skeptics Gary Marcus Curve Conference

**Source**: https://www.platformer.news/ai-skeptics-gary-marcus-curve-conference/?ref=wheresyoured.at
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:01:45.143062+00:00

---

The phony comforts of AI skepticism Home About Ethics Sign in Subscribe AI The phony comforts of AI skepticism It’s fun to say that artificial intelligence is fake and sucks — but evidence is mounting that it’s real and dangerous Casey Newton Dec 5, 2024 — 15 min read (Igor Omilae / Unsplash) I. At the end of last month, I attended an inaugural conference in Berkeley named the Curve . The idea was to bring together engineers at big tech companies, independent safety researchers, academics, nonprofit leaders, and people who have worked in government to discuss the biggest questions of the day in artificial intelligence: Does AI pose an existential threat? How should we weigh the risks and benefits of open weights? When, if ever, should AI be regulated? How? Should AI development be slowed down or accelerated? Should AI be handled as an issue of national security? When should we expect AGI? If the idea was to produce thoughtful collisions between e/accs and decels, the Curve came up a bit short: the conference was long on existential dread, and I don’t think I heard anyone say that AI development should speed up.&nbsp; If it felt a bit one-sided, though, I still found the conference to be highly useful. Aside from all the things I learned about the state of AI development and the various efforts to align it with human interests, my biggest takeaway is that there is an enormous disconnect between external critics of AI, who post about it on social networks and in their newsletters, and internal critics of AI — people who work on it directly, either for companies like OpenAI or Anthropic or researchers who study it.&nbsp; At the moment, no one knows for sure whether the large language models that are now under development will achieve superintelligence and transform the world. And in that uncertainty, two primary camps of criticism have emerged.&nbsp; The first camp, which I associate with the external critics, holds that AI is fake and sucks . The second camp, which I associate more with the internal critics, believes that AI is real and dangerous . Today I want to lay out why I believe AI is real and dangerous. II. Last year, when I asked you how you wanted me to cover AI , you told me to avoid making predictions about what would happen, and focus more on the day-to-day developments that signal what’s actually happening. (You also told me to be specific with my terms. With that in mind, when I say “AI” in this piece, I’m talking about generative AI and the LLMs that power them — the technology that underpins ChatGPT, Gemini, Claude, and all the rest.)&nbsp; I took this as an invitation to investigate whether generative AI is real — that is, a genuine innovation that will likely sustain a large and profitable industry.&nbsp;&nbsp; One way you can demonstrate that AI is real is by looking at how many people use it. ChatGPT, the most popular generative AI product on the market, said this week that it has 300 million weekly users , already making it one of the largest consumer products on the internet. Another way you can demonstrate that AI is real is by looking at where tech giants are spending their money. It’s true that tech companies (and the venture capitalists that back them) often make mistakes; VCs expect to have more failures than they have successes. Occasionally, they get an entire sector wrong — see the excess of enthusiasm for cleantech in the 2000s , or the crypto blow-up of the past few years. In aggregate , though, and on average, they’re usually right. It’s not impossible that the tech industry’s planned quarter-trillion dollars of spending on infrastructure to support AI next year will never pay off. But it is a signal that they have already seen something real.&nbsp; The most persuasive way you can demonstrate the reality of AI, though, is to describe how it is already being used today. Not in speculative sci-fi scenarios, but in everyday offices and laboratories and schoolrooms. And not in the ways that you already know — cheating on homework, drawing bad art, polluting the web — but in ones that feel surprising and new. With that in mind, here are some things that AI has done in 2024.&nbsp; Cut customer losses from scams in half through proactive detection, according to the Bank of Australia .&nbsp; Preserved some of the 200 endangered Indigenous languages spoken in North America . Accelerated drug discovery, offering the possibility of breakthrough protections against antibiotic resistance .&nbsp; Detected the presence of tuberculosis by listening to a patient’s voice . Reproduced an ALS patient’s lost voice . Enabled persecuted Venezuelan journalists to resume delivering the news via digital avatars .&nbsp; Pieced together fragments of the epic of Gilgamesh, one of the world’s oldest texts .&nbsp; Caused hundreds of thousands of people to develop intimate relationships with chatbots . Created engaging and surprisingly natural-sounding podcasts out of PDFs .&nbsp; Created poetry that participants in a study say they preferred to human-written poetry in a blind test . (This may be because people prefer bad art to good art , but still.) &nbsp;I collect stories like these ones in a file, and the file usually grows by one or two items a week. It has grown faster the longer that the year has gone on. And it is the stories here that, more than anything else, have led me to conclude that:&nbsp; AI is going to transform human life, potentially quite radically;&nbsp; Those transformations will introduce the potential for great benefits, and great harm.&nbsp; We should criticize and be skeptical of technology companies for a lot of reasons, but chief among those reasons is that they might actually succeed in what they are trying to build . III. Not everyone is as convinced as I am. There is another school of belief here — AI is fake and sucks — and it goes something like this.&nbsp; Large language models built with transformers are not technically capable of creating superintelligence, because they are predictive in nature and do not understand concepts in the way that human beings do. Efforts to improve LLMs by increasing their model size, the amount of data they are trained on, and the computing power that goes into them have begun to see diminishing returns .&nbsp;&nbsp; These limits are permanent, due to the inherent flaws of the approach, and AI companies might never find a way around them.&nbsp; Silicon Valley will therefore probably never recoup its investment on AI, because creating it has been too expensive, and the products will never be good enough for most people to pay for them. There is a fourth, rarely stated conclusion to be drawn from the above, which goes something like: Therefore, superintelligence is unlikely to arrive any time soon, if ever. LLMs are a Silicon Valley folly like so many others, and will soon go the way of NFTs and DAOs .&nbsp; This is a view that I have come to associate with Gary Marcus. Marcus, a professor emeritus of psychology and neural science at New York University, sold a machine learning company to Uber in 2016. More recently, he has gained prominence by telling anyone who will listen that AI is “ wildly overhyped ,” and “ will soon flame out .” (A year previously he had said “the whole generative AI field, at least at current valuations, could come to a fairly swift end.”) Marcus is committed enough to his beliefs that, if you write about the scaling laws potentially hitting a wall and do not cite his earlier predictions on this point, he will send you an email about it. At least, he did to me.&nbsp; Marcus doesn’t say that AI is fake and sucks , exactly. But his arguments are extremely useful to those who believe that AI is fake and sucks, because they give it academic credentials and a sheen of empirical rigor. And that has made him worth reading for me as I attempt to come to my own understanding of AI.&nbsp; Marcus also sat for an interview with the Wall Street Journal this week in which he made his case against the current generative AI models. I agree with much of it, including that AI needs a dedicated regulator. (And one who is not David Sacks .) I also agree, as Marcus has written on his blog , that “we still really cannot guarantee that any given system will be honest, harmless, or helpful, rather than sycophantic, dishonest, toxic or biased.” The thing is, while we can’t guarantee that any individual response from a chatbot will be honest or helpful, it’s inarguable that they are much more honest and more helpful today than they were two years ago. It’s also inarguable that hundreds of millions of people are already using them, and that millions are paying to use them. The truth is that there are no guarantees in tech. Does Google guarantee that its search engine is honest, helpful, and harmless? Does X guarantee that its posts are? Does Facebook guarantee that its network is?&nbsp; Most people know these systems are flawed, and adjust their expectations and usage accordingly. The “AI is fake and sucks” crowd is hyper-fixated on the things it can’t do — count the number of r’s in strawberry , figure out that the Onion was joking when it told us to eat rocks — and weirdly uninterested in the things it can. And that’s a problem, because just as these systems are more honest and helpful than they have ever been, they are also causing greater harm. And to name a real harm, already happening today, I offer the chief security officer of Amazon, CJ Moses, who had this to say about how generative AI is being used in efforts to disrupt critical infrastructure in an interview with the Wall Street Journal last month : We’re seeing billions of attempts coming our way. On average, we’re seeing 750 million attempts per day. Previously, we’d see about 100 million hits per day, and that number has grown to 750 million over six or seven months. This is the ongoing blind spot of the “AI is fake and sucks” crowd. This is the problem with telling people over and ov