# Libratus Ai Poker Winner

**Source**: https://www.engadget.com/2017/02/10/libratus-ai-poker-winner/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:36:44.656633+00:00

---

How an AI took down four world-class poker pros Sign in Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Trending : Kindle Scribe Colorsoft hands-on This Game Pass hack defers new price hike Shark&#x27;s latest &#x27;vacuum&#x27; is for your face Apple removes ICEBlock from App Store October Prime Day: Best early deals How an AI took down four world-class poker pros 20 days. 120,000 hands. One decisive victory. Chris Velazco Senior Editor, Mobile Chris Velazco Senior Editor, Mobile Updated Fri, February 10, 2017 at 8:25 PM UTC 14 min read Add Engadget on Google &quot;That was anticlimactic,&quot; Jason Les said with a smirk, getting up from his seat. Unlike nearly everyone else in Pittsburgh&#39;s Rivers Casino, Les had just played his last few hands against an artificially intelligent opponent on a computer screen. After his fellow players -- Daniel McAulay next to him and Jimmy Chou and Dong Kim in an office upstairs -- eventually did the same, they started to commiserate. The consensus: That AI was one hell of a player. The four of them had spent the last 20 days playing 120,000 hands of heads-up, no-limit Texas Hold&#39;em against an artificial intelligence called Libratus created by researchers at Carnegie Mellon University. At stake: a total pot of $200,000 and, on some level, the pride of the human race. A similar scene had unfolded two years prior when Les, Kim and two other players decisively laid the smackdown on another AI called Claudico. The players hoped to put on a repeat performance, finish up the event January 30th, and ride the rush of endorphins until they got home and resumed their usual games of online poker. The fight wasn&#39;t even close . All told, Libratus won by more than 1.7 million (virtual) dollars, and — just like that — the second Brains vs. AI competition came to a close. To understand what these players were up against and what makes Libratus work, let&#39;s go back to a time before all hope of victory was lost. Men vs. machine For the four men playing against Libratus, victory didn&#39;t always seem impossible. The AI was in the lead from the get-go, building an impressive streak of wins for the first three days. Then came the counter-attack. Day four saw the gap narrow $40,000, and a string of successes on day six brought the humans to within $50,000 of the lead. Jason Les and Daniel McAulay in the final stretch of the competition. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement &quot;In the start here, we lost the first day,&quot; Les explained. &quot;Whatever -- not a big deal. And then we were losing, but then we fought back up to nearly equal. We were feeling really confident! We know how to play, we&#39;re going to be able to win.&quot; On the night after the sixth day of competition, the humans did what they did every other night: sift through the Libratus hand data provided to them by CMU in hopes of devising a winning strategy. With spirits high after a big day, they decided on a seemingly crazy strategy: three-betting on every hand that came along. Three-betting, for the uninitiated, is poker slang for reraising on a hand. When you decide to play a hand in a situation like this, paying the blinds is the first bet. If you&#39;re confident in your cards, you raise — that&#39;s the second bet. Generally, when you reraise — the third bet — you&#39;re pretty sure you&#39;ve got the exchange in the bag. Based on their understanding of Libratus&#39; play style, the humans thought they could knock if off balance by playing this aggressively for a while. It backfired. &quot;We applied this crazy strategy we would never do online,&quot; Kim explained. &quot;Basically, we reraised all of our hands. All of us went in, like, &#39;Let&#39;s just try this, let&#39;s go crazy.&#39;&quot; Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement &quot;We had a reason to believe that specific size-three-bet was going to work well against the AI,&quot; Les added. &quot;We just fired off all day doing that.&quot; Les and Kim concede that they just got unlucky, too, but either way: Libratus was unfazed by their plan and started demolishing them. &quot;It just kept improving every single day, and we started going backwards and backwards,&quot; Les said. In fairness, the humans weren&#39;t playing with their usual setups. The four competitors are almost exclusively online poker pros, and when duking it out at virtual tables at home, they always have their HUDs handy. These heads-up displays are filled with stats and probabilities that help online players make the best moves. Their absence here in Pittsburgh was noticeable. &quot;Without the HUD, without the numbers, you don&#39;t know if you&#39;re being paranoid or not,&quot; Daniel McAulay said, leaning back in his chair after winning a hand. &quot;Is it folding less? We were never sure. We would always say the same thing to each other: &#39;Just play it out until we get home and we&#39;d see the sample of hands and then we&#39;ll change the plan. But that cost us a lot of money. A lot of money.&quot; Those losses would only continue to mount. Building the beast One of the men responsible for the players&#39; anguish can usually be found in his ninth-floor office, overlooking Carnegie Mellon University&#39;s snow-flecked quad. Professor Tuomas Sandholm might live a second life as a startup entrepreneur, but he has spent years trying to perfect the algorithms that make Libratus such a potent player. It wasn&#39;t out of any particular love for the game -- Sandholm admits he&#39;s no poker pro -- but he was fascinated by the thought of complex computer systems that make decisions better than we can. That fixation led him to co-create Claudico (the earlier AI that the humans trounced) with pHD student Noam Brown , and it led the two of them to try again with Libratus. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement To think of Libratus as just a poker-playing champ is to sorely underestimate it. Instead, Sandholm says, it&#39;s a more general set of algorithms meant to tackle any information-imperfect situation. Confused? Don&#39;t be. Broadly speaking, the term just describes any situation in which two or more parties don&#39;t have the same information. Something unlike, say, chess, where the entirety of the game&#39;s world is splayed out on the board in front of players. Those players can figure out exactly what&#39;s going on and, assuming they have decent memories, draw on their understanding of the events that led them there. This is a perfect information game. No-limit Texas Hold&#39;em is different. You don&#39;t know which cards your opponent has, your opponent doesn&#39;t know which cards you have, and those minutes playing a hand to its conclusion are spent trying to make the smartest moves possible with a shortage of intel. And unlike the limit variant, where there&#39;s a cap on how big your bets can be, no-limit gives you the freedom to bet whatever you want. There&#39;s so much information a person — or an AI — can infer about an opponent&#39;s strategy based on their bets that it&#39;s no wonder researchers have been trying to crack the game. &quot;Heads-up, no-limit Texas Hold&#39;em poker has emerged as the leading benchmark for measuring the quality of these general purpose algorithms in the AI community,&quot; Sandholm told me. With that in mind, Sandholm and Brown jointly built Libratus from three major components. The first is an algorithm that devises overall strategies based on Nash equilibria. In other words, Libratus spent a total of 15 million computing hours chewing on the rules of the game before the competition, finding rational ways to act when both players are making the best possible moves with the information available. Thanks to a new logic model developed by the two researchers to minimize Libratus&#39; &quot;regret,&quot; the AI could solve larger abstractions of the game faster and with higher accuracy than before. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement The second is what Sandholm calls the end-game solver. This is the part that players actually faced during their 20 days of combat. Unsurprisingly, too, this is where Sandholm says most innovative breakthroughs have happened. Essentially, this allowed Libratus to cook up an approach based on the first two cards it was dealt, and modify that approach based on its opponent&#39;s actions and the river and flop that are dealt. Sandholm says Libratus was also designed to keep tabs on how safe its options are. Let&#39;s say a human player screws up and loses $372. That money is viewed as a gift of sorts, so the AI can freely lose up to $372 and still remain ahead. &quot;That gives us more flexibility for optimizing our strategies while still being safe,&quot; Sandholm explained. We&#39;ll get to the last key component a little later. In any case, the sheer number of complex calculations meant Libratus couldn&#39;t run on the desktop in Sandholm&#39;s office. If nothing else, the human players can take solace in the fact that it took a supercomputer and millions of computing hours to beat them. If you thought Go was tough to wrap your head around, consider the complexity of no-limit Texas Hold&#39;em: When you&#39;re dealt into a game, the hands you&#39;re dealt and the communal cards that appear are one possibility of 10^160. &quot;That&#39;s one followed by 160 zeroes,&quot; said Sandholm. &quot;That&#39;s more than the number of atoms in the universe. You cannot just brute-force your way through it.&quot; Still, it takes some degree of brute force to build as close to optimal a strategy as possible. That&#39;s where &quot;Bridges&quot; comes in. If Libratus is the brain of the operation, Bridges -- a supercomputer made of hundreds of nodes in the basement of the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center -- is most definitely the brawn. Advertisement Advertisement &quot;Libratus is running on about 600 nodes at Bridges, out of 846 total compute nodes,&quot; said Nick Nystrom , senior director of 