# Contemplating The Uselessness Of Ai Ethics

**Source**: https://www.techpolicy.press/contemplating-the-uselessness-of-ai-ethics/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:25:25.181829+00:00

---

Contemplating the &quot;Uselessness&quot; of AI Ethics | TechPolicy.Press Home Topics Policy Tracker Newsletter Podcast Projects Contributors About Donate Contemplating the &quot;Uselessness&quot; of AI Ethics Justin Hendrix / Sep 27, 2022 Audio of this conversation is available via your favorite podcast service. A couple of weeks ago, Mark Hansen , Director of the Brown Institute for Media Innovation and a professor at Columbia Journalism School, with whom I have collaborated and taught with over the years, came across a paper titled “ The uselessness of AI Ethics ” in the online edition of the journal AI and Ethics . Its author, Luke Munn , a media studies scholar based in New Zealand, points to over 80 lists of artificial intelligence ethical principles produced by governments, corporations, research groups and professional societies. In his paper, he expresses concern that most of these ethics statements deal in vague terms and often lack any mechanism for enforcement. But in critiquing attempts at defining an ethical code for AI, Munn is not suggesting we let technology develop in an ethical vacuum. On the contrary, he wants us to think more deeply about the potential problems before deploying AI. Munn wants us to examine the existing systems of oppression into which AI technology is deployed — a concept referred to as “AI justice”. He also wants us to avoid vague terms and instead focus more narrowly on accountability, and on better defined notions of accuracy and auditing of AI. Luke Munn’s paper is part of a growing movement that sees the problems with AI less in purely computational terms, but instead as an area of social science. Ruha Benjamin, Timnit Gebru, Joy Buolamwini, Catherine D&#x27;Ignazio, Lauren Klein and others look to historical and social contexts to ground their work, and provide tangible examples of the complexities of auditing AI deployments. For this episode of the podcast, I turned the mic over to Mark Hansen, who spoke with Luke Munn about his ideas and how they connect to this broader movement. What follows is a lightly edited transcript of the discussion. Mark Hansen: Luke, thank you for speaking to us today. So in terms of the flow of this, I thought we might anchor it around the flow of your paper. But maybe to start, I was looking at your Twitter feed-- because that&#x27;s what one does these days. And I noticed you started tweeting out short videos of technical keywords that would be important to a new scholar in critical media studies. So maybe we can start our conversation with a definition. So your articles on AI ethics-- how do you define AI for the purpose of this discussion? What technologies are you considering, or is it just about any degree of computation, is that fair game? Is there something fundamentally hard about collecting data and wedging computation and social or political or even cultural contexts? So what-- to you-- is AI for the purpose of this talk? Luke Munn: Yeah, I mean, AI is a really broad term with lots of different definitions people give. Actually, in the video series, I talk about AI first as a research field that emerges from computer science, data science, and so on. In the mid fifties around there, and then develops over the decades into different schools and things like that. I think that&#x27;s quite a concrete way to think about it, about where it comes from. And then I also talk about AI as a set of techniques, so that in certain architectures, the Perceptron, the neural net, certain techniques like back propagation and so on that are really central to a lot of what machine learning is trying to do or does often. So even if we had these different schools, deep neural networks versus other architectures, a lot of them use the same kinds of techniques and architectures and models and things. So that&#x27;s one way to cluster AI and think about it. And I think some of the other definitions that people use get into quite debatable territory around what is intelligence, what is agency, how is it different from other forms of computational thinking, decision making? So in some ways, it&#x27;s quite useful to keep it quite concrete and also not to go into those territories in some ways. Mark Hansen: No, I agree. I think things get murky if we start to... Because fundamentally I feel like some of the things that we&#x27;re going to talk about are definitional problems that come from collecting data, making categories, doing the sorts of things that one has to do when one is translating lived experience into some data, and then the inevitable consequences of computation on that and what that means, whether we call it AI or not. In writing about AI ethics, you look at the moral principles that people have created that are meant to act as guardrails almost, for applications of AI. But before we get into the effectiveness of the guardrails, can you tell me why we need them in the first place? What&#x27;s at stake? What things can go wrong? Luke Munn: So broadly AI is a powerful set of technologies and they are novel in some ways. And so that means that they introduce new capabilities. We can do new things with AI, and as AI technologies then get spun out into all these different sectors, different areas of work, things like welfare, things like the justice system, things like healthcare. Then they do have really concrete effects on people&#x27;s lives and livelihoods. And so they can benefit lives, but also cause suffering. And so there&#x27;s real stakes here when we talk about AI technologies. And so that&#x27;s why we need to think about, yeah sure, their potential, but also their problems. And how do we critically examine those problems? How do we mitigate some of the issues that come with them? How do we put some guardrails or safeguards in place? And so is that especially those who are already vulnerable, already marginalized don&#x27;t get hurt further by these new technologies. Mark Hansen: So one of the things you do in the paper is to... There are collections of AI standards. And I was a little surprised, I think at some point you quoted over 80 different publications or standards sets, which I thought was a little bit surprising. So there&#x27;s no shortage of lists of ethical standards for AI, but you&#x27;re critical of the enterprise. So what makes specifying an ethical code for AI so difficult and how do existing standards fall short of providing protection against some of the things that you talked about? Luke Munn: Yeah, I mean, there&#x27;s just this deluge really of AI ethical principles that have sprung up over the last few years and in the paper, unless all the ones that are on a national level, as well as industry bodies, like IEEE and then tech company led efforts like a Google and Facebook and so on. And even the Vatican has their ethical AI principles. So I think that&#x27;s being one of the defacto turns to this issue of, okay, AI has a potential to cause problems. So how do we handle that? Well, let&#x27;s just come up with some ethical principles, this seven points, seven values that we can put on a website somewhere. And already we can see that that&#x27;s insufficient. It&#x27;s not enough just to talk about these high minded principles that are quite vague and practice things like fairness and transparency and benefit to do humanity and things. So in the paper, it goes into the issues with these principles, which we can dig into maybe in a bit more detail, but in broad terms, the idea here is that these principles, they&#x27;re vague, on the one hand they don&#x27;t come with enforcement so that you can put them on your website or your company press releases and things like that, but they&#x27;re not actually enforceable. And they&#x27;re often quite nebulous in terms of what these terms mean. And so there&#x27;s this disconnect between principles. On the one hand it&#x27;s high minded principles and the actual production and development of AI systems. And these two things don&#x27;t really talk to each other in many cases. And so you get AI production continuing on as usual. Well, AI ethics is left on the sidelines. Mark Hansen: You make the point that, I think the term you use is &#x27;meaningless,&#x27; in the sense that there are pretty vague terms that are used and that it&#x27;s possible for a corporate entity or, without even going to corporations, that just someone deploying AI can pick and choose their definitions as they&#x27;d like, because things like fairness or sustainability or something like that, have a lot of different meanings. And so it provides us with a capacity to thread the needle in different ways. Luke Munn: I mean, these terms, they&#x27;re just really contested terms. And even outside of AI and tech discourse, they&#x27;ve had this really long history of what does a particular term mean? Like privacy, for instance. Privacy is notoriously difficult to define and even privacy scholars talk about it as an umbrella term, which contains lots of different definitions, contested definitions, incompatible definitions about what privacy means. And so when we start to just list these principles, no one&#x27;s going to disagree with them. They sound great in practice, but again, they&#x27;re very vague and broad and they&#x27;re very difficult then to translate into something more specific, more concrete. And then in some ways it&#x27;s a great benefit to corporations who are then able to massage the meanings of these words, these definitions, to be whatever they want them to be, to line up with already existing corporate principles or business values, business logics, and so on. And I think that&#x27;s really a problem because we have these things like being beneficial to humanity, but who are we talking about? We talking about humanity, even when we think about the history of, we look at race and cultural studies and so on, and it&#x27;s clear, humanity is not this monolithic thing, but some humans h