# Which Republican Senators Are Most Likely To Fight Trump

**Source**: http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/which-republican-senators-are-most-likely-to-fight-trump/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:15:07.646543+00:00

---

Which Republican Senators Are Most Likely To Fight Trump? | FiveThirtyEight Skip to main content FiveThirtyEight Search Search ABC News Menu Which Republican Senators Are Most Likely To Fight Trump? Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Politics Sports Science Podcasts Video Interactives ABC News This is an archived site and is no longer being updated. New 538 articles can be found at www.abcnews.com/538. Nov. 21, 2016 , at 6:29 AM Which Republican Senators Are Most Likely To Fight Trump? And which Democrats are most likely to work with him? By Nate Silver Filed under Congress Getty Images Out of the rubble of the Nov. 8 election, Democrats managed to pick up two U.S. Senate seats from Republicans — in Illinois and New Hampshire — while holding on to all of their own . It was an underwhelming performance given how many chances Democrats had to gain seats all over the map. Still, Donald Trump will begin his presidential term with Republicans holding only a narrow Senate majority: either 51-49 or (more likely) 52-48, depending on the results of Louisiana’s runoff election on Dec. 10. That means defections of just two to three Republican senators could block Trump from confirming his cabinet, making successful Supreme Court appointments, or passing new pieces of legislation. But how many anti-Trump Republicans can we really expect in the Senate, especially given that all but three Republican senators come from states that voted for him? And with the daunting Senate map that Democrats face in 2018 — with several red-state Democrats up for re-election — how many of their own senators might join with Trump on key votes? Until the Senate convenes on Jan. 3, the best we can do is make educated guesses about the coalitions that will line up around Trump. But there are a few obvious factors that will presumably correlate with support for his agenda: Issue alignment: Senators whose policy positions are more aligned with Trump’s will be more likely to support him. Personal support: Senators who endorsed Trump — and there were a lot of gradations of endorsements and non-endorsements — will be more likely to support him. Electoral incentive: The better Trump performed in a senator’s state, the more likely the senator will be to support Trump, other factors held equal, especially if the senator is up for re-election in 2018. I came up with a quick way to measure each of these qualities on a 1-to-5 scale, where 5 implies a higher likelihood of supporting Trump. Although the calculation for the first factor, issue alignment, is fairly involved, this is not meant to be a terribly precise exercise. Instead, we just want to get a rough sense for how many potential Republican defectors or Democratic supporters there might be for Trump on contentious votes. Not to be overlooked: How easy or challenging it will be for Trump to gather the 60 votes necessary to overcome potential Democratic filibusters, a tactic that probably won’t be going away anytime soon. Here’s a brief description of how I calculated the score for each factor: Issue alignment. Trump was an unusual Republican nominee in that he didn’t have down-the-line conservative views, instead mixing extremely conservative stances on issues such as immigration with surprisingly moderate (or even leftist) ones on other issues such as trade — with a lot of improvisation (and inconsistency) along the way. Therefore, the usual statistical methods that rate members of Congress on a one-dimensional, liberal-conservative scale may not be the best way to predict compatibility with Trump. Instead, I used data from OnTheIssues.org , which tracks candidates’ positions within 20 policy areas based on their public statements and voting history. The site rates candidates’ positions on a 10-point scale from -5 to +5 — for instance, on immigration, -5 represents a conservative stance (start deporting people) whereas +5 is a liberal one (amnesty for immigrants who entered the country illegally). We can calculate each senator’s similarity to Trump in the aggregate over these various issues. 1 For each issue, I measured the distance between each senator’s stance and Trump’s position on the 10-point scale. 2 Then I squared the result, which punishes larger differences of opinion as compared to smaller ones, and weighted each issue based on how often Trump talks about it 3 — so immigration matters more than school choice, for instance. This calculation resulted in a weighted, root-mean-squared distance (RMSD) from Trump, where lower numbers meant more similarity to him. REPUBLICANS DEMOCRATS SENATOR STATE SCORE SENATOR STATE SCORE 1 Perdue GA 2.6 37 Heitkamp ND 4.1 2 Scott SC 3.1 — Campbell* LA 4.7 3 Risch ID 3.4 52 Warner VA 4.8 4 Sasse NE 3.4 54 Donnelly IN 5.3 5 Tillis NC 3.4 55 Manchin WV 5.3 6 Cassidy LA 3.5 56 McCaskill MO 5.7 7 Shelby AL 3.6 58 Hassan NH 5.8 8 Enzi WY 3.6 59 Merkley OR 5.9 9 Sullivan AK 3.6 60 Tester MT 5.9 10 Gardner CO 3.6 61 Klobuchar MN 6.1 12 Johnson WI 3.6 62 Shaheen NH 6.1 12 Alexander TN 3.6 63 Schatz HI 6.1 13 Young IN 3.6 64 King ME 6.1 14 Barrasso WY 3.6 65 Casey PA 6.2 15 Cruz TX 3.7 66 Carper DE 6.3 16 Rubio FL 3.7 67 Booker NJ 6.4 17 Ernst IA 3.8 68 Stabenow MI 6.4 18 Toomey PA 3.8 69 Kaine VA 6.4 19 Daines MT 3.8 70 Coons DE 6.5 20 Inhofe OK 3.8 71 Heinrich NM 6.5 21 Fischer NE 3.8 72 Cortez Masto NV 6.6 22 Graham SC 3.8 73 Blumenthal CT 6.6 23 Burr NC 3.9 74 Wyden OR 6.7 24 Hoeven ND 3.9 75 Murphy CT 6.7 25 Crapo ID 3.9 76 Peters MI 6.8 26 Sessions AL 3.9 77 Gillibrand NY 6.8 27 Cochran MS 3.9 78 Feinstein CA 6.9 28 Flake AZ 4.0 79 Harris CA 7.0 29 Capito WV 4.1 80 Bennet CO 7.0 30 Corker TN 4.1 81 Nelson FL 7.0 31 Isakson GA 4.1 82 Brown OH 7.0 32 Cotton AR 4.1 83 Menendez NJ 7.1 33 Thune SD 4.1 84 Sanders VT 7.1 34 Cornyn TX 4.1 85 Leahy VT 7.1 35 Boozman AR 4.1 86 Durbin IL 7.1 36 Lankford OK 4.1 87 Reed RI 7.2 38 Wicker MS 4.2 88 Schumer NY 7.2 39 Hatch UT 4.2 89 Franken MN 7.2 40 Lee UT 4.2 90 Hirono HI 7.2 41 Moran KS 4.3 91 Warren MA 7.2 42 McConnell KY 4.3 92 Whitehouse RI 7.3 43 Grassley IA 4.4 93 Udall NM 7.3 44 Roberts KS 4.4 94 Markey MA 7.4 45 Heller NV 4.5 95 Cardin MD 7.4 46 Kennedy* LA 4.5 96 Duckworth IL 7.5 47 Blunt MO 4.6 97 Baldwin WI 7.5 48 Rounds SD 4.6 98 Van Hollen MD 7.5 49 Murkowski AK 4.7 99 Cantwell WA 7.6 50 Portman OH 4.8 100 Murray WA 7.7 51 Paul KY 4.8 53 McCain AZ 5.0 57 Collins ME 5.8 Which senators are most similar to Trump? *Either Campbell or Kennedy will be elected in the Louisiana runoff on Dec. 10. Source: ontheissues.org Because of Trump’s unorthodox stances, no senator is a carbon copy of him. (Perhaps that will change once Trump has been in office four years and reshapes the party in his image.) The closest, according to our similarity score, is Sen. David Perdue of Georgia, who like Trump was a wealthy businessman before running for office. And in general, senators who were first elected during the tea party era from 2010 onward are more similar to Trump than those who have held longer tenures in office. The former group includes some senators, such as Ben Sasse of Nebraska, who have publicly feuded with Trump . Their beefs with Trump may have less to do with differences over policy and more about his style of leadership and fitness for office. By contrast, a few Republican senators really don’t have much in common with Trump, policywise. Sen. Susan Collins of Maine, especially, has more differences with Trump than similarities. Arizona Sen. John McCain and Trump may both be “mavericks,” but not in a way that will necessarily be compatible with one another. Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul’s libertarian-ish views are a bad mix for Trump’s populist ones. And moderate, pro-free-market Republicans such as Ohio Sen. Rob Portman may find themselves at odds with Trump on issues such as trade. Among Democrats, Trump has some commonalities with moderate, populist Democrats such as North Dakota Sen. Heidi Heitkamp, Indiana Sen. Joe Donnelly and West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin. Heitkamp, in particular, rates as being closer to Trump on the issues than many Republicans. Several of these Democrats also happen to be up for re-election in 2018 in states that Trump won by wide margins (more about that in a moment). Meanwhile, the least similar senators to Trump are Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell of Washington, liberal Democrats who (unlike many of their liberal compatriots) support free trade . (Note: for easier comparison with the other metrics, I translated the RMSD scores to a 5-point scale, where 5 indicates more similarity to Trump. You can find that calculation in the footnotes. 4 ) Personal support. I also rated the senators on a 5-point scale based on whether, when and how they endorsed Trump. (The primary sources are Daniel Nichanian’s spreadsheet and FiveThirtyEight’s own endorsement tracker from the primaries). The rating scale is as follows, ranging from least supportive of Trump to the most. 1 point — endorsed Hillary Clinton. All current and newly elected Democratic senators fall into this category, except for Foster Campbell, the Democrats’ candidate in the Louisiana runoff, who didn’t endorse either Clinton or Trump . 2 points — endorsed Evan McMullin or Gary Johnson . This category applies only to Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who endorsed and then voted for McMullin . 3 points — didn’t endorse Trump or anyone else. Several Republicans, such as Collins , fall into this category, including some like McCain who unendorsed Trump after the “Access Hollywood” tape surfaced. 3.5 points — ambiguous on Trump . Sen. Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia called on Trump to “re-examine his candidacy” after the “Access Hollywood” tape, but never formally unendorsed him, nor did she ever reaffirm her original endorsement. 4 points — wavered, then endorsed Trump . These candidates eventually endorsed Trump by Election Day, but either unendorsed him at some point during the campaign before re-endorsing him , endorsed one of his o