# Brooklyn Bridge Park

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/brooklyn-bridge-park/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:49:10.202948+00:00

---

Brooklyn Bridge Park - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: Brooklyn Bridge Park street view July 3, 2024 What Did Brooklyn Bridge Park Get So Right? Nearly 20 years after we broke ground, it’s more impressive than ever. By Justin Davidson getting around July 11, 2023 So Is the BQE Going to Collapse? Talking to the former chief engineer of the DOT about highway nightmare scenarios and the long, long road to a real fix. By Clio Chang public art watch June 14, 2022 What a Wood Boat and a Concrete Chaise Reveal About the African Diaspora A sculpture exhibition at Brooklyn Bridge Park explores modern Black identity. By Diana Budds urban planning July 16, 2015 When Will de Blasio See the Light on Parks? The mayor is ignoring one of the most cost-effective ways of easing New Yorkers’ lives, irrespective of income. By Justin Davidson Concession Time Sept. 25, 2013 Brooklyn’s Pier 5 Food Concession Seeks New Operator Submissions are due on November 18. By Hugh Merwin name game Mar. 13, 2013 Park Group Won’t Make Brooklyn Meadow a Photographer’s Memorial Conservancy cancels naming contest after Chris Hondros becomes the frontrunner. By Adam Martin things that are expensive Jan. 10, 2013 Velodrome Priced Out of Brooklyn Bridge Park Even rich philanthropists can’t quite afford the neighborhood. By Adam Martin Coming Soon Oct. 22, 2012 Two More Restaurants Headed to Brooklyn Bridge Park A smokehouse for the “smokestack” building? By Hugh Merwin The Great Outdoors May 20, 2011 Bark Hot Dogs Comes to Brooklyn Bridge Park Terrace A 200-seat outdoor café serving Sixpoint beers. By Daniel Maurer Openings Nov. 29, 2010 Brooklyn Bridge Park Seeks Trendy Operator for Pier 6 Restaurant Who will “capture the diversity and originality of Brooklyn’s local fare”? By Daniel Maurer Empire Building Aug. 3, 2010 Lobster Tales: Red Hook Lobster Pound, Luke’s, and Ditch Plains Expand More seating, a new concession stand, and a new fryer at three favorites. By Daniel Maurer Openings July 13, 2010 Ditch Plains Surfs Into Former BarBao Space Marc Murphy will open an Upper West Side outpost of his beachy eatery in the fall. By Daniel Maurer neighborhood news July 1, 2010 Nanny State Removes Playground Skin Scalders Creativity and innovation are stifled yet again. By Dan Amira Openings June 24, 2010 Brooklyn Bridge Park Vendors Prepare for July Opening Get a legal drink at Brooklyn Bridge Wine Bar or an ice-cream cone from Blue Marble. By Alex Van Buren The Great Outdoors June 2, 2010 Rolling by the Rivers: Red Hook Lobster Pound and Ed’s Lobster Bar Set Up The Red Hook Lobster Pound finds a location near Brooklyn Bridge Park after all. By Daniel Maurer Openings May 7, 2010 Ed’s Carts Lobster Rolls to World Financial Center Soft-shell crab sandwiches by the marina! By Daniel Maurer Neighborhood Watch May 6, 2010 Free Gelato at Grom; Dollar Oysters at Bobo Plus: Tequila shots for moms at Rodeo Bar in Gramercy, and a lecture on stir-fry at the Museum of Chinese in America in Soho, all in our daily roundup of neighborhood news. The Great Outdoors May 6, 2010 Brooklyn Bridge Park Concessions Announced: Calexico, Ditch Plains, and More Lobster rolls and tacos are coming to Brooklyn Bridge Park this summer. By Daniel Maurer The Great Outdoors Apr. 9, 2010 Red Hook Lobster Pound Hopes to Net Brooklyn Bridge Park Deal A first look at the lobster cart. By Daniel Maurer terror domes Apr. 8, 2010 Hot Steel Playground Domes Get Even More Treacherous Now children are burning themselves AND falling. By Dan Amira neighborhood news Apr. 7, 2010 Brooklyn Parents Whine About Scalding-Hot Steel Playground New York just can’t please anyone with its playgrounds these days. By Dan Amira Rumor Mill Mar. 22, 2010 About Those Shake Shack Brooklyn Rumors … Will the Shack be bringing burgers to the former Thomas Beisl space? By Daniel Maurer Neighborhood Watch Mar. 17, 2010 Ceol’s Menu Gets a New-Chef Revamp; Barrio Hosts Taco-Eating Contest Plus: U.K. Beer Night at Jimmy’s No. 43, and another Chipotle opens, in our daily roundup of neighborhood food news. By Sam Dangremond and Stefanie Roberts Mediavore Mar. 16, 2010 Soda Tax Probably Dead; A Wine Bar for Brooklyn Bridge Park Plus: Continental charges for food, and no relief from the tomato shortage, all in our morning news roundup. By Leila Cohan-Miccio Parks and Recreation Mar. 5, 2010 What Vendors Should Be in Brooklyn Bridge Park? There’s room for two food carts and two restaurants, says the city. By Aileen Gallagher Openings Jan. 14, 2010 Brooklyn Gets Waterfront Dining Who will want to open a restaurant in Brooklyn Bridge Park? By Daniel Maurer Aug. 13, 2009 Brooklyn Bridge Park Gets ‘Grand Staircase’ Amphitheater Steps And they&#8217;re pre-graffitied, so take that, punks. By Chris Rovzar At the Market June 10, 2009 Brooklyn Flea Settles Under the Bridge on Sunday With lobster rolls and Stumptown coffee in tow! By Alexandra Vallis Change of Address Apr. 28, 2009 Brooklyn Flea: Under the Bridge The outdoor market is moving to Brooklyn Bridge Park. By Daniel Maurer neighborhood watch Dec. 15, 2008 Brooklyn Bridge Park Construction Finally Starts Today Short-term benefits might include a Greenmarket and an ice-skating rink. By Tim Murphy NewsFeed Aug. 27, 2008 Parkside Boozing: Pier 1 Stays Open, Philanthropic Wine at McCarren Rice’s pop-up café near the Brooklyn Bridge will stay open another month. By Daniel Maurer neighborhood watch Mar. 10, 2008 Brooklyn Bridge Park May Be Bad for the Fishes Brooklyn Heights: In addition to being way over budget, long-planned Brooklyn Bridge Park may damage marine life with its expected rowing and kayaking facilities, says state enviro-honchos. [Brownstoner] Chelsea: Work has been stopped on “car-chitect” (he-he) Annabelle Selldorf’s much-hyped condo tower that allows folks to take their car right up to their own sky-high garages. “The pillars forming the exterior walls are misaligned,” says a city buildings-department flack. “This could be characterized as a structural deficiency.” Gee, you really think so? [Curbed] Coney Island: In the era of whole hoods going bank branch and condo, don’t you just want to smack someone for grumping that the historic Child’s Restaurant building will become a roller rink this summer? Come on, Grumpums, that’s cool! [NYDN] vu. Dec. 31, 2007 Celebrities Hot for One Brooklyn Bridge Park What is it with One Brooklyn Bridge Park? A tipster says three celebrities are checking out the luxe 449-unit condo project, whose former incarnation was headquarters for the decidedly un-luxe Watchtower , a magazine published by the Jehovah’s Witness. Model Bridget Hall was recently spotted at the building, presumably for a tour, as has another catwalker, now turned reality-TV-and-talk-show host Tyra Banks. Hilary Swank is said to be interested in the property, too, and is apparently expected for a look-see soon. According to the Brooklyn Eagle , the building’s transformation has piqued such interest that its waiting list of potential buyers was 3000 strong earlier this year. Real-estate doyenne Elizabeth Stribling bought two units there, and now her posh brokerage firm, Stribling & Associates, helps market the project. — S. Jhoanna Robledo Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us About New York Magazine Newsletters Help Contact Press Media Kit We’re Hiring Privacy Terms Ad Choices Accessibility Do not sell or share my personal data New York is a Vox Media Network . &copy; 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All rights reserved.