# Northeast Corridor.Html

**Source**: https://www.amtrak.com/about-amtrak/northeast-corridor.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:20:56.358072+00:00

---

Amtrak&#039;s New Era of Rail Skip to content Fleet Infrastructure Stations Service Hamburger Toggle Menu Amtrak's New Era of Rail Investing in fleet, infrastructure, stations and service expansion to double ridership to 66 million by 2040. Americans Want More Trains. Amtrak Delivers. Amtrak is meeting record demand, all while delivering mega construction projects, upgrading fleet, and serving more places with state partners. With strong federal support from the Trump-Vance Administration, Amtrak can continue investments in American infrastructure and jobs, strengthen the economy, and make America a world leader in rail once again. Featured Projects Chicago Hub Improvement Program Transforming Amtrak's hub for Long Distance and Midwest Service Amtrak Airo New intercity passenger rail trains, manufactured in California and North Carolina. B&amp;P Tunnel Replacement Program Replacing the 150-year-old B&amp;P Tunnel in Baltimore, with two new high-capacity tunnel tubes for Amtrak and MARC trains. Amtrak is America's Railroad Amtrak operates over 40 routes, serving over 520 communities in 46 states, the District of Columbia, and 3 Canadian provinces. Record Ridership and Revenue 32.8 Million Customer Trips $3.6 Billion Operating Revenue View Amtrak's FY24 Highlights Click above to view project map and fact sheet. Rail Investment Drives American Manufacturing and Innovation Amtrak is a powerful economic engine &#8211; not just in the communities we serve, but for the entire nation. $10 Billion in Private Contracts Awarded Buy America 99% Domestic Procurement X-twitter Linkedin ©2024 National Railroad Passenger Corporation Cookie Policy | Privacy Policy View larger map