# Attention.Html

**Source**: https://nlp.seas.harvard.edu/2018/04/03/attention.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:25:49.360978+00:00

---

The Annotated Transformer --> Members Code Publications Contact Us The Annotated Transformer Apr 3, 2018 ———————- There is now a new version of this blog post updated for modern PyTorch. ———————- from IPython.display import Image Image ( filename = 'images/aiayn.png' ) The Transformer from “Attention is All You Need” has been on a lot of people’s minds over the last year. Besides producing major improvements in translation quality, it provides a new architecture for many other NLP tasks. The paper itself is very clearly written, but the conventional wisdom has been that it is quite difficult to implement correctly. In this post I present an “annotated” version of the paper in the form of a line-by-line implementation. I have reordered and deleted some sections from the original paper and added comments throughout. This document itself is a working notebook, and should be a completely usable implementation. In total there are 400 lines of library code which can process 27,000 tokens per second on 4 GPUs. To follow along you will first need to install PyTorch . The complete notebook is also available on github or on Google Colab with free GPUs. Note this is merely a starting point for researchers and interested developers. The code here is based heavily on our OpenNMT packages. (If helpful feel free to cite .) For other full-sevice implementations of the model check-out Tensor2Tensor (tensorflow) and Sockeye (mxnet). Alexander Rush ( @harvardnlp or srush@seas.harvard.edu), with help from Vincent Nguyen and Guillaume Klein Prelims # !pip install http://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu80/torch-0.3.0.post4-cp36-cp36m-linux_x86_64.whl numpy matplotlib spacy torchtext seaborn import numpy as np import torch import torch.nn as nn import torch.nn.functional as F import math , copy , time from torch.autograd import Variable import matplotlib.pyplot as plt import seaborn seaborn . set_context ( context = "talk" ) % matplotlib inline Table of Contents Prelims Background Model Architecture Encoder and Decoder Stacks Encoder Decoder Attention Applications of Attention in our Model Position-wise Feed-Forward Networks Embeddings and Softmax Positional Encoding Full Model Training Batches and Masking Training Loop Training Data and Batching Hardware and Schedule Optimizer Regularization Label Smoothing A First Example Synthetic Data Loss Computation Greedy Decoding A Real World Example Data Loading Iterators Multi-GPU Training Training the System Additional Components: BPE, Search, Averaging Results Attention Visualization Conclusion My comments are blockquoted. The main text is all from the paper itself. Background The goal of reducing sequential computation also forms the foundation of the Extended Neural GPU, ByteNet and ConvS2S, all of which use convolutional neural networks as basic building block, computing hidden representations in parallel for all input and output positions. In these models, the number of operations required to relate signals from two arbitrary input or output positions grows in the distance between positions, linearly for ConvS2S and logarithmically for ByteNet. This makes it more difficult to learn dependencies between distant positions. In the Transformer this is reduced to a constant number of operations, albeit at the cost of reduced effective resolution due to averaging attention-weighted positions, an effect we counteract with Multi-Head Attention. Self-attention, sometimes called intra-attention is an attention mechanism relating different positions of a single sequence in order to compute a representation of the sequence. Self-attention has been used successfully in a variety of tasks including reading comprehension, abstractive summarization, textual entailment and learning task-independent sentence representations. End- to-end memory networks are based on a recurrent attention mechanism instead of sequencealigned recurrence and have been shown to perform well on simple- language question answering and language modeling tasks. To the best of our knowledge, however, the Transformer is the first transduction model relying entirely on self-attention to compute representations of its input and output without using sequence aligned RNNs or convolution. Model Architecture Most competitive neural sequence transduction models have an encoder-decoder structure (cite) . Here, the encoder maps an input sequence of symbol representations $(x_1, …, x_n)$ to a sequence of continuous representations $\mathbf{z} = (z_1, …, z_n)$. Given $\mathbf{z}$, the decoder then generates an output sequence $(y_1,…,y_m)$ of symbols one element at a time. At each step the model is auto-regressive (cite) , consuming the previously generated symbols as additional input when generating the next. class EncoderDecoder ( nn . Module ): """ A standard Encoder-Decoder architecture. Base for this and many other models. """ def __init__ ( self , encoder , decoder , src_embed , tgt_embed , generator ): super ( EncoderDecoder , self ). __init__ () self . encoder = encoder self . decoder = decoder self . src_embed = src_embed self . tgt_embed = tgt_embed self . generator = generator def forward ( self , src , tgt , src_mask , tgt_mask ): "Take in and process masked src and target sequences." return self . decode ( self . encode ( src , src_mask ), src_mask , tgt , tgt_mask ) def encode ( self , src , src_mask ): return self . encoder ( self . src_embed ( src ), src_mask ) def decode ( self , memory , src_mask , tgt , tgt_mask ): return self . decoder ( self . tgt_embed ( tgt ), memory , src_mask , tgt_mask ) class Generator ( nn . Module ): "Define standard linear + softmax generation step." def __init__ ( self , d_model , vocab ): super ( Generator , self ). __init__ () self . proj = nn . Linear ( d_model , vocab ) def forward ( self , x ): return F . log_softmax ( self . proj ( x ), dim =- 1 ) The Transformer follows this overall architecture using stacked self-attention and point-wise, fully connected layers for both the encoder and decoder, shown in the left and right halves of Figure 1, respectively. Image ( filename = 'images/ModalNet-21.png' ) Encoder and Decoder Stacks Encoder The encoder is composed of a stack of $N=6$ identical layers. def clones ( module , N ): "Produce N identical layers." return nn . ModuleList ([ copy . deepcopy ( module ) for _ in range ( N )]) class Encoder ( nn . Module ): "Core encoder is a stack of N layers" def __init__ ( self , layer , N ): super ( Encoder , self ). __init__ () self . layers = clones ( layer , N ) self . norm = LayerNorm ( layer . size ) def forward ( self , x , mask ): "Pass the input (and mask) through each layer in turn." for layer in self . layers : x = layer ( x , mask ) return self . norm ( x ) We employ a residual connection (cite) around each of the two sub-layers, followed by layer normalization (cite) . class LayerNorm ( nn . Module ): "Construct a layernorm module (See citation for details)." def __init__ ( self , features , eps = 1e-6 ): super ( LayerNorm , self ). __init__ () self . a_2 = nn . Parameter ( torch . ones ( features )) self . b_2 = nn . Parameter ( torch . zeros ( features )) self . eps = eps def forward ( self , x ): mean = x . mean ( - 1 , keepdim = True ) std = x . std ( - 1 , keepdim = True ) return self . a_2 * ( x - mean ) / ( std + self . eps ) + self . b_2 That is, the output of each sub-layer is $\mathrm{LayerNorm}(x + \mathrm{Sublayer}(x))$, where $\mathrm{Sublayer}(x)$ is the function implemented by the sub-layer itself. We apply dropout (cite) to the output of each sub-layer, before it is added to the sub-layer input and normalized. To facilitate these residual connections, all sub-layers in the model, as well as the embedding layers, produce outputs of dimension $d_{\text{model}}=512$. class SublayerConnection ( nn . Module ): """ A residual connection followed by a layer norm. Note for code simplicity the norm is first as opposed to last. """ def __init__ ( self , size , dropout ): super ( SublayerConnection , self ). __init__ () self . norm = LayerNorm ( size ) self . dropout = nn . Dropout ( dropout ) def forward ( self , x , sublayer ): "Apply residual connection to any sublayer with the same size." return x + self . dropout ( sublayer ( self . norm ( x ))) Each layer has two sub-layers. The first is a multi-head self-attention mechanism, and the second is a simple, position-wise fully connected feed- forward network. class EncoderLayer ( nn . Module ): "Encoder is made up of self-attn and feed forward (defined below)" def __init__ ( self , size , self_attn , feed_forward , dropout ): super ( EncoderLayer , self ). __init__ () self . self_attn = self_attn self . feed_forward = feed_forward self . sublayer = clones ( SublayerConnection ( size , dropout ), 2 ) self . size = size def forward ( self , x , mask ): "Follow Figure 1 (left) for connections." x = self . sublayer [ 0 ]( x , lambda x : self . self_attn ( x , x , x , mask )) return self . sublayer [ 1 ]( x , self . feed_forward ) Decoder The decoder is also composed of a stack of $N=6$ identical layers. class Decoder ( nn . Module ): "Generic N layer decoder with masking." def __init__ ( self , layer , N ): super ( Decoder , self ). __init__ () self . layers = clones ( layer , N ) self . norm = LayerNorm ( layer . size ) def forward ( self , x , memory , src_mask , tgt_mask ): for layer in self . layers : x = layer ( x , memory , src_mask , tgt_mask ) return self . norm ( x ) In addition to the two sub-layers in each encoder layer, the decoder inserts a third sub-layer, which performs multi-head attention over the output of the encoder stack. Similar to the encoder, we employ residual connections around each of the sub-layers, followed by layer normalization. class DecoderLayer ( nn . Module ): "Decoder is made of self-attn, src-attn, and feed forward (defined below)" def __init__ ( self , size , self_attn , src_attn , feed_forward , dropout ): super ( DecoderLayer , self ). __init__ () 