# What If George Lucas Directed Apocalypse Now

**Source**: https://collider.com/what-if-george-lucas-directed-apocalypse-now/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:50:38.740911+00:00

---

George Lucas Was Originally Supposed to Direct Apocalypse Now Menu Sign in Sign in now Close Movies Submenu Movie News Movie Features TV Submenu TV News TV Features Streaming Guides Submenu Netflix Amazon Disney+ Max Hulu Apple TV+ Lists Reality TV Reviews Interviews Trailers Videos Threads Got A Pitch? Sign in Newsletter Join Our Content Team Home About Us Contact Us Ownership Policy Terms Ethics Policy Privacy Copyright Fact Checking Policy Corrections Policy Owned &amp; Operated by Valnet Inc. Copyright &copy; 2025 collider.com --> Menu Follow Followed Like More Action Sign in Sign in now Got A Pitch? Videos Threads 2025 Movie Releases Screenings What to Watch Originals Reviews Close George Lucas Was Originally Supposed to Direct Apocalypse Now By&nbsp; Matthew Mosley Published Aug 10, 2022 Matthew is a features writer for Collider currently based in Manchester. In his spare time he likes to read, write, obsess over Batman and complain about his Wordle score. Sign in to your Collider account follow Follow followed Followed Like Like Log in Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents: Try something different: Show me the facts Explain it like I’m 5 Give me a lighthearted recap In the upper echelons of cinema, there exists a prestigious group of films so highly regarded by critics that to find even the tiniest amount of fault with them is enough to be expelled from their elite circles forever. Citizen Kane , Vertigo , The Godfather , 2001: A Space Odyssey &hellip; all films that have received such levels of acclaim it is now taken as given that anyone interested in cinema will refer to them as masterpieces with zero hesitation. Of course, both of those statements are a little hyperbolic, but there&rsquo;s no denying that their place in the history books is so firmly established at this point that it might as well have been decided by Socrates himself. Another film in this esteemed tier is Apocalypse Now , Francis Ford Coppola &rsquo;s psychological epic that is now commonly regarded as the greatest Vietnam War film ever made. Its story (a recontextualized version of the classic 1899 novella Heart of Darkness ) follows Captain Benjamin Willard ( Martin Sheen ) as he is sent on a perilous journey to assassinate the rogue Colonel Walter Kurtz ( Marlon Brando ), all of which serves as the backdrop for Coppola to ruminate on the nature of war and the conflict between good and evil. It&rsquo;s one of the most studied and analyzed films ever made, a staple on greatest films of all time lists, and served as the perfect closer to Coppola&rsquo;s astonishing body of work in the 1970s. Even after forty-three years, its reputation continues to grow, and given the copious amounts of material written about the film since its release, one can&rsquo;t help but wonder what else there is left to discuss. There is a curious piece of trivia related to its turbulent journey to the big screen, and not one related to its chaotic year-long shoot that has since become the stuff of film infamy (as covered in the excellent documentary Hearts of Darkness ). Rather it pertains to the original choice of director, none other than outsider maverick turned Hollywood mogul George Lucas . While Coppola was always involved in a producer capacity, and had personally hired John Milius to write the script after working with him on The Rain People , Lucas had been the intended choice for director throughout much of its development . He worked on the project for four years, juggling it alongside early scripts for American Graffiti and Star Wars . However, it soon became clear that his schedule would not accommodate another experimental behemoth that would forever change the landscape of cinema, leading to Coppola taking over the project. By the time Apocalypse Now was released in 1979, Lucas&rsquo;s name ranked amongst the most recognizable in the industry, with the pending release of The Empire Strikes Back ready to solidify him as one of the most powerful, too. How different cinema would have been had he opted to stick with the grim bloodshed of the Vietnam War is a question no one can answer, but speculating about his version of Apocalypse Now is a much easier task. It&rsquo;s impossible to know if he would have achieved the unthinkable and made a better film than Coppola, but as with every film Lucas is attached to, there&rsquo;s no doubt it would have made for an interesting experience. But first, a little backstory. The late 1960s was a time of much change for American cinema. The first graduates of film schools were beginning to make their mark on the industry, and with it, they were bringing a new style of filmmaking influenced by the diverse range of global cinema. Their desire to experiment with the medium put them at odds with the Hollywood establishment, who had enjoyed decades of unopposed power thanks to the supremacy of the studio system. While films like Bonnie and Clyde and Easy Rider had signaled a change in the way Hollywood operated, progress was not happening quick enough for some. Enter Coppola and Lucas, who decided to break away from the corporate web of Los Angeles in 1969 to form American Zoetrope , a production company that aimed to breathe new life into the industry. Both were graduates of the University of Southern California, and both had already collaborated the previous year when Lucas had directed a behind-the-scenes documentary about Coppola&rsquo;s The Rain People , making further collaborations between the two a no-brainer. Over the next few years the two formed a close partnership, with Coppola serving as producer on Lucas&rsquo;s debut feature THX 1138 and American Graffiti . While Lucas would gradually lessen his involvement with American Zoetrope as he focused on his own production company Lucasfilm, his time there helped pave the way for some of the greatest and most influential films of their era, while also marking his first step on the journey to Hollywood stardom. His involvement with Apocalypse Now came about during this period, with John Milius approaching Lucas about directing his script in 1969. While Coppola would make numerous revisions to the script when he eventually took control of the project (most notably with a completely reworked ending), Milius&rsquo; draft largely adhered to the structure seen in the final film, making Lucas&rsquo; proposed version a fascinatingly unique way of telling the same story. Coppola&rsquo;s work on Apocalypse Now is some of the most famous in cinematic history, and gave Willard&rsquo;s journey the appearance of taking place in a psychedelic fever dream punctuated by a hallucinatory haze of burning palm trees and constant rainfall. Lucas, in stark contrast, had intended to take a minimalistic touch with the material , favoring a style of filmmaking called cin&eacute;ma v&eacute;rit&eacute;. It&rsquo;s a technique Lucas had previously employed in his early student films, weaponizing its stripped-back approach that removes artifice from the equation to give the impression that what the viewer is seeing is the stone-cold truth. Nothing more, nothing less. Anything resembling embellishment or Hollywood gloss is stamped out with an iron fist, allowing filmmakers to cut to the heart of their story. It&rsquo;s commonplace in documentaries, but considerably less so in narrative films (especially ones with the scope of Apocalypse Now ), but that wasn&rsquo;t about to stop Lucas from trying. RELATED: Brian De Palma Sets the Record Straight on That First &lsquo;Star Wars&rsquo; Screening: &ldquo;I Did Make a Joke About The Force&rdquo; The idea of shooting Apocalypse Now in a pseudo-documentary style, utilizing 16mm cameras in an entirely handheld format that evokes the feel of a newsreel rather than a film, is a prospect that raised many eyebrows, not least because the Vietnam War was still ongoing while all of this was being discussed. Lucas had originally intended to begin filming in 1971 following the completion of THX 1138 , and had already enlisted his close friend and producing partner Gary Kurtz to scout locations. While Lucas planned to shoot most of the film in the Philippines, he also wanted to dispatch a second unit to Vietnam to capture footage of the actual war which would be intercut with the rest of the film. If his intention was to drag his audience kicking and screaming into the horrors of one of the 20th century&rsquo;s most bloody conflicts, there is little doubt this approach would have achieved that. Thinking about his decision conjures images of The Green Berets , a film released only a few years prior that stared the ultimate icon of American cinema himself, John Wayne . Its attempt to simplify the complexities of the most defining issue to face America since the Second World War into a story that was little more than a retread of the &quot;cowboys vs Indians&quot; trope (something that had long since fallen out of fashion) led to it being laughed out of movie theaters by critics, with its blind loyalty to American patriotism gravely misjudging the mood of the country. However, its subsequent success at the box office and lack of competition in the Vietnam War subgenre led to it becoming the most notable film on the subject for some time, a fact that no doubt influenced Lucas&rsquo; approach to Apocalypse Now . His desire to adapt Milius&rsquo; script in a way that would make the audience forget they were even watching a film, providing a faithful representation of the conflict that avoided boiling things down to just &lsquo;America good, Viet Cong bad,&rsquo; feels like a deliberate reaction to The Green Berets . Cin&eacute;ma v&eacute;rit&eacute;&rsquo;s sole concern is to the truth, a notion that The Green Berets ignored, and by presenting Apocalypse Now in a pared-down style that lacked the clich&eacute;s of a typical war film, Lucas would have been able to avoid the pitfalls that Wayne&rsquo;s film fell into. Even Coppola&rsquo;s version,