# rabiachaudry.com

**Source**: https://rabiachaudry.com/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:08:12.017419+00:00

---

Rabia Chaudry | Rabia Chaudry Home About Books Fatty Fatty Boom Boom Adnan’s Story Podcasts Speaking Free Adnan Contact Select Page Attorney, Advocate, Author Meet Rabia Rabia Chaudry is an attorney, advocate, and author of the New York Times bestselling book Adnan’s Story and Executive Producer of a four-part HBO documentary series The Case Against Adnan Syed . Rabia is also co-producer and co-host of the podcasts; The Mystery Hour , The 45th , The Hidden Djinn , Nighty Night , and Undisclosed . Follow Rabia on Twitter Follow Rabia on Instagram Attorney, Advocate, Author Meet Rabia Rabia Chaudry is an attorney, advocate, and author of the New York Times bestselling book Adnan’s Story and Executive Producer of a four-part HBO documentary series The Case Against Adnan Syed . Rabia is also co-producer and co-host of the podcasts; The 45th , The Hidden Djinn , Nighty Night , and Undisclosed . Follow Rabia Follow Rabia Fatty Fatty Boom Boom: A Memoir of Food, Fat, and Family by Rabia Chaudry A warm, intimate memoir about food, body image, and growing up in a loving but sometimes oppressively concerned Pakistani immigrant family. Chaudry&#8217;s memoir offers readers a relatable and powerful voice on the controversial topic of body image, one that dispenses with the politics and gets to what every woman who has ever struggled with weight will relate to. Learn More Book Tour Pre-Order Fatty Fatty Boom Boom Where to Buy There are multiple places you can pre-order your copy of Fatty Fatty Boom Boom. Add it to your next Amazon order or support your local independent book store. Amazon Target BAM! Barnes and Noble Indie Bound Bookshop.org Fatty&nbsp;Fatty Boom&nbsp;Boom: A Memoir of Food, Fat, and Family by Rabia Chaudry A warm, intimate memoir about food, body image, and growing up in a loving but sometimes oppressively concerned Pakistani immigrant family. Chaudry&#8217;s memoir offers readers a relatable and powerful voice on the controversial topic of body image, one that dispenses with the politics and gets to what every woman who has ever struggled with weight will relate to. Learn More Book Tour Pre-Order Fatty Fatty Boom Boom Where to Buy There are multiple places you can pre-order your copy of Fatty Fatty Boom Boom. Add it to your next Amazon order or support your local independent book store. Amazon Target BAM! Barnes and Noble Indie Bound Bookshop.org Chai Recipe Rabia's Custom Chai Blend Directions (makes one cup) – One Fatty Fatty Boom Boom special blend teabag – 1/2 cup water – 1/2 cup whole milk I only buy my tea from Pakistani or Indian grocers because nothing in the regular supermarket tastes as rich and flavorful as teas imported from back home, though Tetley comes close. My favorite brand is called Vital Tea, but Tea India and Tapal Danedar are also pretty damn good. But for my very special readers I made a very special blend – the Fatty Fatty Boom Boom aromatic tea blend. Combine the water and milk bring to a boil. Lower to a low simmer, add sugar to taste and one teabag, and let simmer for five minutes. Strain and serve piping hot, preferably in a beautiful teacup with a delicate saucer. Enjoy! Rabia Music From A Memoir Rabia’s Playlist Science tells us that music doesn&#8217;t just help us retrieve memories, it also helps us create new ones. Join Rabia on a musical tour through her memoir, Fatty Fatty Boom Boom. Each chapter playlist will reveal audio inspiration from a lifetime of memories. Listen while you read, or just because. Listen on Spotify Podcasts Truth Over Injustice Rabia is also co-producer and co-host of podcasts; The 45th, The Hidden Djinn, Nighty Night, and Undisclosed. With over 400 million downloads, Undisclosed is the largest wrongful conviction podcast in the world and has helped exonerate a dozen defendants. Learn More Learn More Rabia’s New Memoir Fatty Fatty Boom Boom: A Memoir of Food, Fat, and Family A warm, intimate memoir about food, body image, and growing up in a loving but sometimes oppressively concerned Pakistani immigrant family. Order Now NYT Bestseller Adnan’s Story: The Search for Truth and Justice After Serial Serial did not tell the whole story. Rabia presents new key evidence that dismantles the State&#8217;s case: a potential new suspect, forensics, and documentation withheld by the State that destroys the cell phone evidence and she shows how fans of Serial joined a crowd-sourced investigation into a case riddled with errors and strange twists. Listen Now Catch Up Undisclosed With over 360 million downloads, Undisclosed is the biggest wrongful conviction podcast in the world, and has helped exonerate a dozen defendants, and find new evidence to get most of their defendants back in court. four-part HBO documentary series The Case Against Adnan Syed Four-part documentary series from Executive Producer Rabia Chaudry and Oscar ® -nominated director Amy Berg that explores the 1999 murder of 18-year-old Hae Min Lee and the subsequent conviction of her ex-boyfriend Adnan Syed – a case brought to global attention by the hugely popular &#8220;Serial&#8221; podcast. WATCH NOW ON HBO MAX four-part HBO documentary series The Case Against Adnan Syed Four-part documentary series from Executive Producer Rabia Chaudry and Oscar ® -nominated director Amy Berg that explores the 1999 murder of 18-year-old Hae Min Lee and the subsequent conviction of her ex-boyfriend Adnan Syed – a case brought to global attention by the hugely popular &#8220;Serial&#8221; podcast. WATCH NOW ON HBO MAX Purchase Free Adnan Merch Buy a Shirt, Do Some Good. You&#8217;d look good in a #wefreedadnan sweatshirt. All items are hand printed by a family-owned business in Mount Vernon, Iowa. Best Apparel Ever Adnan Syed Case Update #WeFreedAdnan After decades of proclaiming his innocence and a podcast series dedicated to his case, Mr. Syed won a reversal of his murder conviction &#8230; Read the Full Article © COPYRIGHT 2024 | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED