# September 2025

**Source**: https://www.thenation.com/issue/september-2025/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:07:27.096503+00:00

---

September 2025 Issue | The Nation --> Log In Email * Password * Remember Me Forgot Your Password? Log In New to The Nation ? Subscribe Print subscriber? Activate your online access Skip to content Skip to footer Magazine Newsletters Subscribe Log In Search Subscribe Donate Magazine Latest Archive Podcasts Newsletters Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts The Nation About Events Contact Us Advertise Current Issue Print Magazine September 2025 Issue Cover art by: Tim O’Brien Purchase Current Issue or Login to Download the PDF of this Issue Download the PDF of this Issue Editorial It’s Our Turn to Build a New System of Care We have the chance to shape the future by building a system of care that leaves no one behind.&nbsp; Ai-jen Poo for The Nation Democrats Keep Misreading the Working Class Many in the party see workers as drifting rightward. But new data show they’re more progressive than ever on economic issues—if Democrats are willing to meet them there. Bhaskar Sunkara Why We Must Release the Epstein Files We need justice for the survivors of his predations, and we need to restore public trust in our institutions. Rep. Ro Khanna Mamdani’s Victory Over Fear New York's political establishment threw the whole post-9/11 playbook against the Democratic nominee for mayor, and came up empty. Spencer Ackerman What History Tells Us About the Rise of Fiorello La Guardia Zohran Mamdani’s favorite mayor was nobody's idea of a shoo-in—until he became inevitable. Richard Kreitner “We’re Creating Miscarriages With Medicine”: Abortion Lessons From Sweden In Sweden, abortion pills are used to terminate pregnancies through 22 weeks gestation, compared to just 10 weeks in the United States. Cecilia Nowell Andréa Becker on the Politics of Hysterectomy A conversation with the medical sociologist about her new book, Get It Out , and the perils of considering abortion, hysterectomy, and gender-affirming care as separate issues. Sara Franklin Iranian Women Don’t Need Saving Israel and the United States say that their attacks on Iran are for the benefit of its women. Iranian feminists couldn’t disagree more. Duaa e Zahra Shah Column MAGA Conservatives Are Terrified of the Future Trump and his followers don’t just want to halt progress. They want to turn back the clock. Chris Lehmann On the Power of Small Acts of Noncompliance At a moment when large-scale resistance can feel futile, there are other ways to oppose, engage, and fight back. Elie Mystal Washington’s Dangerous China Consensus Fantasies of national unity drive the bipartisan push for a new cold war. Jeet Heer Republicans Look to Rename the Kennedy Center Opera House After Melania Trump Calvin Trillin Feature “The Nation” Interviews Zohran Mamdani New York's Democratic mayoral nominee shares his views on the city's affordability crisis, the new media landscape—and how Democrats need to stand up for what they believe. Katrina vanden Heuvel and John Nichols We Left Gaza. But Our Pain Came With Us. Palestinians who escaped the horrors of Gaza face a new trauma: the dislocation of exile from our homeland. Mohammed R. Mhawish When Hospitals Act Like ICE These patients needed long-term care. Instead, the hospitals pushed for them to be deported . Liset Cruz Is Amtrak the End of the Line for US Public Transit? The railroad once represented the American dream of expansion—and exploitation. But is train travel becoming a thing of the past? Julian Epp The Bookstores Bridging Divides in Israel People of goodwill on either side of the horror find unity in the search for a good read. Eric Orner Eric Foner’s Personal History Reflecting on his decades-long career, the historian considers what his field of study owes to the public. Eric Foner Letitia James, New York’s Badass AG The state’s attorney general, Letitia James, has emerged as a North Star in the chaos of the second Trump administration. Joan Walsh Books &amp; the Arts Red Scares, Past and Present What are the parallels between the rise of McCarthyism in the 1950s and today? David Cole Catherine Lacey’s Missed Connections In her most personal work, The Möbius Book , Lacey uses a devastating moment of heartbreak to ruminate on the messy intersections between life and writing. Alana Pockros Mark Twain’s Many Lives A new biography depicts the different sides of the American author. Adam Hochschild The Art and Genius of Lorna Simpson A new exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art tracks what has changed and what has remained the same in the artist’s work. Rachel Hunter Himes Die-off Off Vancouver Sally Ball The Revolutionary Politics of “Andor” The latest addition to the Star Wars series offers an intricate tale of radicalization and its costs. Jorge Cotte Imposter Ghazal for Forugh Mandana Chaffa Recent Issues See All "swipe left below to view more recent issues" Swipe → October 2025 July/August 2025 June 2025 May 2025 April 2025 March 2025 See All Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts OppArt Poetry Letters Magazine Current Issue Masthead Archive Subscription Services Reprints More About Us Contact Us Advertise Nation Events Nation Shop Nation Travels Nation Podcasts Newsletters Follow Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube RSS Founded by abolitionists in 1865, The Nation has long believed that independent journalism has the capacity to bring about a more democratic and equitable world. Donate Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility Statement Help Careers Nation Fund Privacy Manager x