# Lucid Sues Texas Over Direct Sales Ban

**Source**: https://cleantechnica.com/2022/11/08/lucid-sues-texas-over-direct-sales-ban/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:09:25.925464+00:00

---

Lucid Sues Texas Over Direct Sales Ban - CleanTechnica Skip to content Clean Energy Solar Energy Wind Energy Energy Storage Geothermal Energy Smart Grid Energy Efficiency Electric Vehicles All EV News &#038; Analysis EV Sales EV Total Cost of Ownership EV Reviews Tesla Model 3 Long-Term Review Tesla Model Y Long-Term Review Tesla Model S Long-Term Review Chevy Bolt EUV Long-Term Review All Reviews BYD News Tesla News Exclusives CleanTechnica Analysis CleanTechnica Reviews CleanTechnica Reports &#038; Guides CleanTechnica.TV (YouTube) CleanTech Talk (Podcast) Series Pages Electric Vehicle Charging EV Fleet Charging How to Charge An EV At Home Fast Home EV Charging Battery Powered EV Charging Aftermarket Tesla Accessories Best Tesla Accessories Home Efficiency Microgrids Explained Vanadium Flow Batteries Demystified Home Solar &#8212; Simplified Climate Resilience Prize Sustainable Innovation About Connect With CleanTechnica Testimonials: Why Readers Love CleanTechnica Contact CleanTechnica Support CleanTechnica Advertise With CleanTechnica Our Team Editorial Ethics Terms of Use Mission &#038; Vision Invest Privacy Policy RSS Syndicate Our Content Lucid Sues Texas Over Direct Sales Ban November 8, 2022 3 years ago Steve Hanley 0 Comments Support CleanTechnica's work through a Substack subscription or on Stripe . Franchise dealer groups may be the second most powerful political force in America, second only to MAGA election deniers. According to Bloomberg , Lucid Group has filed suit in the US District Court for the Western District of Texas (Austin division) claiming the state&#8217;s rules on auto dealerships are a form &#8220;economic protectionism.&#8221; Monique Johnston, the director of the Motor Vehicle Division at the Texas Department of Motor Vehicles is named as the defendant in the suit As with many other electric vehicle startups, the Newark, California-based company markets its vehicles online and through a network of stores that it owns. According to InsideEVs , Lucid argues that its direct sales and in-house and after sales services are so intertwined that using an independent franchised dealer would not be economically viable and would harm the business. &#8220;That tight and fast feedback loop, and the benefits it brings to Lucid&#8217;s customers, would be impossible with third-party dealers interposed between Lucid and consumers,&#8221; according to the plaintiff&#8217;s statement seen by Bloomberg . Tesla has been embroiled in similar legal skirmishes in several states. After more than three years of litigation against the state of Michigan, the parties came to an agreement that allows Tesla vehicles to be sold and serviced in that state. Yet, despite choosing Texas to be Tesla&#8217;s new corporate headquarters, it still has not won permission to sell its vehicles directly to consumers in the Lone Star State. Lucid, which is 60% owned by the Saudi Sovereign Wealth Fund, is struggling to establish itself in the marketplace. While it says it booked orders for 37,000 cars in the second quarter, it only built 2,282 cars and delivered just 1,398 in the third quarter of this year. Its Lucid Air sells for more than $100,000 but the upcoming Air Pure costs &#8220;only&#8221; $87,400 and is scheduled to launch next week. To meet its 2022 goals, it must produce at least 2.300 vehicles in the fourth quarter, which is rapidly approaching the mid-way point. The Takeaway Dealer franchise laws came into effect more than 70 years ago as a response to gross abuses by manufacturers, who could withhold inventory from dealers who annoyed the home office. In some cases, a manufacturer would award a franchise to a different dealer next door or across the street. The original dealer would often be driven out of business as a result. But like all good ideas, it grew into a monster that eats its own tail. Dealer groups now have enormous power over manufacturers and have cemented their position by donating generously and often to local and state politicians. It is checkbook democracy and its leaves many customers holding the short end of the stick. The loser in all this is the buying public, who get slapped around all the time by dealers with little recourse. The ultimate factor in all this should be the Interstate Commerce Clause of the federal constitution, which makes federal law pre-eminent over state law, but there is little appetite for enforcing its provisions by federal courts these days in order to avoid revolts by the states. Nevertheless, state franchise dealer laws fatten dealers&#8217; profits while providing very few benefits to consumers. United Airlines doesn&#8217;t buy 787 Dreamliners through airplane dealers. They deal directly with manufacturers. Amazon sells over a million items online every day without using dealers. Online sales have taken off this century with no apparent negative impacts on consumers. In fact, feedback from customers makes sellers especially keen to keep their satisfaction ratings high. That&#8217;s where the competition between sellers comes in. Dealer franchise laws are an anachronism left over from an earlier time. Today, their primary purpose is to fatten the bottom line of dealers. It&#8217;s time for them to be struck down. Maybe Lucid will strike the blow that destroys this archaic, anti-competitive business model. And not a moment too soon. Power to consumers. Right on! Sign up for CleanTechnica's Weekly Substack for Zach and Scott's in-depth analyses and high level summaries , sign up for our daily newsletter , and follow us on Google News ! Advertisement Have a tip for CleanTechnica? Want to advertise? Want to suggest a guest for our CleanTech Talk podcast? Contact us here . Sign up for our daily newsletter for 15 new cleantech stories a day . Or sign up for our weekly one on top stories of the week if daily is too frequent. CleanTechnica uses affiliate links. See our policy here . CleanTechnica's Comment Policy Share this story! Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Steve Hanley Steve writes about the interface between technology and sustainability from his home in Florida or anywhere else The Force may lead him. He is proud to be "woke" and embraces the wisdom of Socrates , who said "The secret to change is to focus all of your energy not on fighting the old but on building the new." He also believes that weak leaders push everyone else down while strong leaders lift everyone else up. You can follow him on Substack at https://stevehanley.substack.com/ and LinkedIn but not on Fakebook or any social media platforms controlled by narcissistic yahoos. Steve Hanley has 6390 posts and counting. See all posts by Steve Hanley Support independent cleantech journalism by donating directly to CleanTechnica ! ADVERTISEMENTS Advertise with CleanTechnica to get your company in front of millions of monthly readers. CleanTechnica TV ADVERTISEMENT CleanTechnica Podcasts ADVERTISEMENTS &nbsp; NEW! Newswire Corner! CleanTechnica Newsletter SHOP CLEANTECHNICA ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT The content produced by this site is for entertainment purposes only. Opinions and comments published on this site may not be sanctioned by and do not necessarily represent the views of CleanTechnica , its owners, sponsors, affiliates, or subsidiaries. CleanTechnica may earn a commission on purchases. &nbsp; Copyright © 2025 CleanTechnica, all rights reserved.