# 16075192

**Source**: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16075192/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:51:43.437425+00:00

---

Parent recruitment and retention in a universal prevention program for child behavior and emotional problems: barriers to research and program participation - PubMed This site needs JavaScript to work properly. Please enable it to take advantage of the complete set of features! Clipboard, Search History, and several other advanced features are temporarily unavailable. Skip to main page content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Log in Show account info Close Account Logged in as: username Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Access keys NCBI Homepage MyNCBI Homepage Main Content Main Navigation Search: Search Advanced Clipboard User Guide Save Email Send to Clipboard My Bibliography Collections Citation manager Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Save citation to file Format: Summary (text) PubMed PMID Abstract (text) CSV Create file Cancel Email citation Email address has not been verified. Go to My NCBI account settings to confirm your email and then refresh this page. To: Subject: Body: Format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) MeSH and other data Send email Cancel Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Add to My Bibliography My Bibliography Unable to load your delegates due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Your saved search Name of saved search: Search terms: Test search terms Would you like email updates of new search results? Saved Search Alert Radio Buttons Yes No Email: ( change ) Frequency: Monthly Weekly Daily Which day? The first Sunday The first Monday The first Tuesday The first Wednesday The first Thursday The first Friday The first Saturday The first day The first weekday Which day? Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Report format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) PubMed Send at most: 1 item 5 items 10 items 20 items 50 items 100 items 200 items Send even when there aren't any new results Optional text in email: Save Cancel Create a file for external citation management software Create file Cancel Your RSS Feed Name of RSS Feed: Number of items displayed: 5 10 15 20 50 100 Create RSS Cancel RSS Link Copy Full text links Springer Full text links Actions Cite Collections Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Permalink Permalink Copy Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Page navigation Title &amp; authors Abstract References Publication types MeSH terms LinkOut - more resources Title &amp; authors Abstract References Publication types MeSH terms LinkOut - more resources Randomized Controlled Trial Prev Sci Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2005 Dec;6(4):275-86. doi: 10.1007/s11121-005-0006-1. Parent recruitment and retention in a universal prevention program for child behavior and emotional problems: barriers to research and program participation Nina Heinrichs &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Heike Bertram ,&nbsp; Annett Kuschel ,&nbsp; Kurt Hahlweg Affiliations Expand Affiliation 1 Department of Clinical Psychology, Psychotherapy and Assessment, Technical University of Braunschweig, Spielmannstr. 12a, 38106 Braunschweig, Germany. n.heinrichs@tu-bs.de PMID: 16075192 DOI: 10.1007/s11121-005-0006-1 Item in Clipboard Randomized Controlled Trial Parent recruitment and retention in a universal prevention program for child behavior and emotional problems: barriers to research and program participation Nina Heinrichs &nbsp;et al. Prev Sci . 2005 Dec . Show details Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Prev Sci Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2005 Dec;6(4):275-86. doi: 10.1007/s11121-005-0006-1. Authors Nina Heinrichs &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Heike Bertram ,&nbsp; Annett Kuschel ,&nbsp; Kurt Hahlweg Affiliation 1 Department of Clinical Psychology, Psychotherapy and Assessment, Technical University of Braunschweig, Spielmannstr. 12a, 38106 Braunschweig, Germany. n.heinrichs@tu-bs.de PMID: 16075192 DOI: 10.1007/s11121-005-0006-1 Item in Clipboard Full text links Cite Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Abstract Despite the potential of parent training as a prevention and behavioral family intervention strategy, there are a number of important issues related to implementation (e.g., recruitment and retention of families). This paper presents recruitment and retention data from families enrolling in a randomized controlled universal prevention trial for child behavior problems conducted in Germany. The recruitment rate averaged 31% (general project participation), with families of lower socioeconomic status (SES) participating at a lower rate. Project-declining families most often reported intrusion of privacy as their primary concern. In contrast, once parents were enrolled in the project, participation among those randomized to the parent training group averaged 77% (program/intervention participation); non-participation was mostly due to logistical issues. Parents accepting the offer of parent training were more likely to report child behavior problems than did declining parents. Although parents from more disadvantaged areas had a lower overall level of participation in the project once recruited, parents with children having higher levels of behavior problems indeed were more likely to participate in the intervention. Different recruitment methods may be required to engage high-risk families from socioeconomically disadvantaged areas to further improve community-level impact on child mental health. PubMed Disclaimer References Int Q Community Health Educ. 1992 Jan 1;13(4):365-88 - PubMed Drug Alcohol Depend. 2004 Feb 7;73(2):149-58 - PubMed J Consult Clin Psychol. 1999 Oct;67(5):631-47 - PubMed J Am Acad Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 1998 Jul;37(7):686-94 - PubMed Clin Child Fam Psychol Rev. 2002 Mar;5(1):21-55 - PubMed Show all 29 references Publication types Randomized Controlled Trial Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov&#x27;t Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search MeSH terms Adult Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Affective Symptoms / prevention &amp; control* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Child Behavior Disorders / prevention &amp; control* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Child, Preschool Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Data Collection Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Germany Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Humans Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Middle Aged Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Parents / education* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Program Development* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Research Subjects* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Social Class Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Surveys and Questionnaires Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search LinkOut - more resources Full Text Sources Ovid Technologies, Inc. Springer Medical MedlinePlus Health Information Full text links [x] Springer [x] Cite Copy Download .nbib .nbib Format: AMA APA MLA NLM Send To Clipboard Email Save My Bibliography Collections Citation Manager [x] NCBI Literature Resources MeSH PMC Bookshelf Disclaimer The PubMed wordmark and PubMed logo are registered trademarks of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Unauthorized use of these marks is strictly prohibited. Follow NCBI Twitter Facebook LinkedIn GitHub Connect with NLM Twitter SM-Facebook SM-Youtube National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike Bethesda, MD 20894 Web Policies FOIA HHS Vulnerability Disclosure Help Accessibility Careers NLM NIH HHS USA.gov