# Chatgpt Food Restaurants Los Angeles Ai

**Source**: https://www.latimes.com/food/story/2023-04-24/chatgpt-food-restaurants-los-angeles-ai
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:12:17.884043+00:00

---

I asked ChatGPT for restaurant recommendations in Los Angeles - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing &amp; Homelessness Politics Science &amp; Medicine World &amp; Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor &amp; Workplace Real Estate Technology and the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing &amp; Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate &amp; Environment Global Warming Water &amp; Drought Entertainment &amp; Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 best restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art &amp; Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health &amp; Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel &amp; Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World &amp; Nation Immigration &amp; the Border Israel-Hamas Mexico &amp; the Americas Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios Business • AI &amp; Tech • Banking &amp; Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Goods &amp; Retail • Healthcare &amp; Science • Law Dentists Decor &amp; Design Doctors &amp; Scientists Hot Property Live &amp; Well Orange County Pets The Hub: Rebuilding LA Travel Weddings &amp; Celebrations Newsletters Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Students &amp; Educators Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store L.A. Times Studios News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance &amp; Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? People on the Move Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Sections Tap to enable a layout that focuses on the article. Focus mode Show Search Search Query Submit Search Advertisement Food I asked ChatGPT to tell me where to eat for a week. Worst idea ever? In-N-Out Burger in Baldwin Park. (Robert Gauthier / Los Angeles Times; photo illustration by Li Anne Liew / Los Angeles Times) By&nbsp; Jenn Harris Columnist Follow April 24, 2023 6:30 AM PT Share via Close extra sharing options Email Facebook X LinkedIn Threads Reddit WhatsApp Copy Link URL Copied! Print p]:text-cms-story-body-color-text clearfix mb-10 md:max-w-170 md:mx-auto" data-subscriber-content> When you think of the restaurants that best represent Los Angeles, which ones come to mind? With the world fixated on ChatGPT , the OpenAI-designed chatbot capable of writing term papers, music and everything in between, I thought I’d ask it where and what to eat for a week. I sat with the chatbot, typed in that I was hungry, then asked where I should eat in Los Angeles. “Los Angeles has a great variety of restaurants to choose from, depending on what you’re in the mood for. Here are some suggestions,” offered the bot. “Remember to check the restaurant’s menu and reviews beforehand to ensure that they have options that you’ll enjoy and meet your dietary needs.” Food For Subscribers These are the 101 best restaurants in Los Angeles of 2022 If you’re searching for the essential food of L.A., let our critic’s 2022 restaurant list be your guide. Find the best vegetarian, Italian, Mexican and more. Dec. 6, 2022 The artificial intelligence proceeded to recommend In-N-Out Burger , Grand Central Market , Urth Caffé, Roscoe’s House of Chicken n’ Waffles , Canter’s Deli and the Apple Pan . Advertisement It’s as if the bot understood the question as “What are the most well-known or searched-for restaurants in Los Angeles?” and proceeded to answer with destinations most tourists would associate with the city. It was a short list that ignored a wide swath of cuisines and neighborhoods. No tacos, Chinese, Thai, Ethiopian, Vietnamese, Japanese or anything beyond sandwiches and fried chicken. I also asked the bot what to order at each destination. None of the restaurants or dishes were foreign to me, but I revisited them all, looking for a taste of Los Angeles through the eyes, or I should say screen, of a soulless, tastebud-less chatbot. This week, I let AI be my guide. Worst idea ever? Double Double at In-N-Out Burger I’ve always believed that you can tell a lot about a person from their In-N-Out Burger order. But a chatbot? (Jenn Harris / Los Angeles Times) Advertisement Let’s get one thing out of the way. I grew up in Southern California. All of my high school polo shirts and AYSO soccer jerseys are stained with In-N-Out spread. I will always think In-N-Out Burger is better than Shake Shack , Five Guys and any other fast food burger restaurant . There’s no convincing me and thousands of Angelenos otherwise. The burger chain has opened locations in multiple other states and cities, but I’m convinced this particular amalgamation of meat, cheese, bun, spread and sunshine tastes better here in Los Angeles. This is one thing ChatGPT seems to understand. In-N-Out Burger is the first restaurant it suggested in the city. And the Double Double is the first suggested dish. Food In-N-Out is a better place to work than Apple, according to employees The powers of an In-N-Out Double Double burger are strong. Dec. 30, 2014 I order mine Animal style, add raw onions, no tomato, with an extra pack of spread on the side. I squeeze the spread onto my tray, then pour in some of my favorite chile crisp or Sriracha brought from home. Then I use a French fry (well done, of course) to apply a clump of my concoction to each bite of burger. Advertisement I’ve always believed that you can tell a lot about a person from their In-N-Out Burger order. And I like to read them like tarot cards. In mine, I see a bright future, mild anxiety and OCD, onion breath, an uncertain love life and a stained shirt. The Fairfax from Eggslut at Grand Central Market The Fairfax sandwich from Eggslut: To be honest, I’d forgotten how good it was. (Jenn Harris / Los Angeles Times) I had to ask ChatGPT a few additional questions before I arrived at Eggslut . The food-truck-turned-counter is not my first choice when visiting Grand Central Market. With pupusas, Filipino rice bowls, Fat &amp; Flour pie and carnitas, it’s difficult to choose a favorite. But Eggslut is the one stall with a perpetual line, where you can count on half the people waiting being tourists with expensive cameras around their necks. I suspect the search-engine power of this particular egg-centric restaurant is strong. It was the first answer when I asked ChatGPT where I should eat in the market. And when I asked what to order, I was told the Fairfax. If you sit at the counter, you can watch the cooks prepare your sandwich. It appears simple enough. A lightly toasted brioche bun smeared with Sriracha mayo, creamy scrambled eggs with chives piled on in a dome, a slice of cheddar cheese that melts like American and a tiny dollop of caramelized onions. I remember waiting in line for the sandwich when the counter first opened nearly a decade ago, then taking it for granted as locations opened in Venice, West Hollywood, Glendale and Las Vegas. Food Why eating at L.A. malls is way, way better than ever A decade ago you did not go to the mall to eat. June 21, 2018 To be honest, I’d forgotten how good it was. The bread is soft and buttery, more cushion than bun. The eggs are pure lushness but not heavy, leavened by the chives, the sweetness of the onions and just a trace of heat from the mayo. I spent most of my time eating wondering how I could have forgotten the sandwich. And then it was gone. Advertisement Avocado toast at Urth Caffé Avocado toast from Urth Caffé on Melrose Avenue. (Jenn Harris / Los Angeles Times) Avocado toast most likely was invented in Australia , but over the years, the dish has become synonymous with Los Angeles, with our assumed perpetual sunshine and penchant for superfood smoothies. And Urth Caffé, the self-described “European-style cafe,” is at least partly to blame for the association. I have not been to an Urth Caffé in probably a decade. They are usually too crowded, the line too long, the patio too much of a scene and the cramped dining room too full of people on laptops. ChatGPT didn’t specify which location to visit, so I went with the one on Melrose Avenue. This restaurant may serve the most L.A. version of avocado toast , likely prompting ChatGPT to offer it as the first suggested food item at the restaurant. The avocado is smashed into a rough mash and spread onto “sprouted ancient grain bread.” It’s sprinkled with crumbles of “almond cheese” and then garnished with micro cilantro and olive oil. Yes, you can make it gluten-free. It tastes like bland guacamole on toast. I prefer my avocados as actual guacamole with chips, sliced and layered onto a BLT or on a taco. But I’m in the minority, and I don’t think avocado toast is going anywhere anytime soon. Order the avocado toast if you must, but I find the pastry case, packed with oversized muffins, sticky buns, scones and croissants, more appealing. The best thing I’ve tried is the Nutella Girella bun (heads up, ChatGPT!). It’s a squat, circular, buttery croi