# Enshittification Macquarie Dictionary Word Of The Year Explained

**Source**: https://theguardian.com/science/2024/nov/26/enshittification-macquarie-dictionary-word-of-the-year-explained?ref=wheresyoured.at#:~:text=Doctorow%20wrote%20that%20this%20decay,It's%20demoralizing
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:12:12.975158+00:00

---

‘What many of us feel’: why ‘enshittification’ is Macquarie Dictionary’s word of the year | Language | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 2 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art &amp; design TV &amp; radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love &amp; sex Home &amp; garden Health &amp; fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us US news US politics World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness The Macquarie Dictionary said ‘enshittification’ captured what many felt was happening to their lives. Illustration: Rob Dobi/Getty Images View image in fullscreen The Macquarie Dictionary said ‘enshittification’ captured what many felt was happening to their lives. Illustration: Rob Dobi/Getty Images Language This article is more than 10 months old ‘What many of us feel’: why ‘enshittification’ is Macquarie Dictionary’s word of the year This article is more than 10 months old The committee’s honourable mentions went to ‘right to disconnect’ and ‘rawdogging’ Tory Shepherd Mon 25 Nov 2024 20.36 EST Last modified on Tue 26 Nov 2024 04.59 EST Share “W e’re all living through the enshittocene, a great enshittening, in which the services that matter to us, that we rely on, are turning into giant piles of shit,” author Cory Doctorow said earlier this year. In 2022, Doctorow coined the word “enshittification” , which has just been crowned Macquarie Dictionary’s word of the year. The dictionary defined the word as follows. “The gradual deterioration of a service or product brought about by a reduction in the quality of service provided, especially of an online platform, and as a consequence of profit-seeking.” Social media users, if they don’t know the word, will viscerally understand the concept, the way trolls and extremists and bullshitters and the criminally vacuous have overtaken the platforms. Sign up for Guardian Australia’s breaking news email Think Twitter, a once useful and often fun microblogging site twisted by a tech bro into X, a post-truth swamp. Or Facebook, where you’re now more likely to be presented with crocheted arseless chaps from Shein than a humblebrag from a dear friend. Or Instagram, where cute dog videos once reigned. Now, yet another unfathomable algorithm serves up a diet of tradwives , gym bros and uwu girls . The dictionary’s committee described enshittification as “a very basic Anglo-Saxon term wrapped in affixes which elevate it to being almost formal; almost respectable”. Without those affixes – if one were to say, for example, merely that X has got a bit shit – the deliberate degradation of the platform is erased. View image in fullscreen Macquarie Dictionary. Photograph: AAP With those affixes, the impression is conveyed of the platform owners tampering with their own product until the bad stuff, like guano on a rock, eclipses the original form. Doctorow wrote that this decay was a three-stage process. “First, platforms are good to their users; then they abuse their users to make things better for their business customers; finally, they abuse those business customers to claw back all the value for themselves,” he wrote. “It’s frustrating. It’s demoralizing. It’s even terrifying.” The Macquarie Dictionary committee’s honourable mentions went to “right to disconnect”, and “rawdogging”. But enshittification not only won their vote, it took out the people’s choice award. “This word captures what many of us feel is happening to the world and to so many aspects of our lives at the moment,” the committee said. Doctorow himself is surprisingly optimistic about where this could all end up. Action on competition to prevent market dominance, regulation on things such as digital privacy, more power for users to decide how they use platforms, and tackling the exploitation of workers could reverse the process, he wrote, because “everyone has a stake in disenshittification”. Big tech can’t be fixed, he argues, but maybe it can be destroyed . He adds a fourth stage to the tech platforms’ scatological journey from being good to users, to abusing them in favour of their customers, to abusing their customers to serve themselves. “Then they die,” he wrote. Explore more on these topics Language features Share Reuse this content Comments ( … ) Sign in or create your Guardian account to join the discussion Most viewed Most viewed US news US politics World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints &amp; corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms &amp; conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work for us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2025 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)