# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Intersubjective%20communication%20and%20emotion%20in%20early%20ontogeny.%20Studies%20in%20emotion%20and%20social%20interaction,%202nd%20series&author=J%20Dunn&publication_year=1998&
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:51:03.285245+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.13 sec) My profile My library Lookup [BOOK] [B] Intersubjective communication and emotion in early ontogeny S Bråten - 1998 - books.google.com S Bråten 1998 • books.google.com The concept of intersubjectivity, explicit or implicit, has emerged as a common denominator in approaches to interpersonal engagements in early infancy and children&#39;s understanding of others&#39; thought and emotion. This 1999 book brings together the most senior international figures in psychology, psychopathology, sociology and primatology to address the key question of the role of intersubjectivity in early ontogeny. Together, they offer an interesting perspective on child development, learning and communication and highlight important … The concept of intersubjectivity, explicit or implicit, has emerged as a common denominator in approaches to interpersonal engagements in early infancy and children&#39;s understanding of others&#39; thought and emotion. This 1999 book brings together the most senior international figures in psychology, psychopathology, sociology and primatology to address the key question of the role of intersubjectivity in early ontogeny. Together, they offer an interesting perspective on child development, learning and communication and highlight important comparisons with processes in autistic development and in infant ape development. The book is divided into four parts, focusing on intersubjective attunement in human infancy; companionship and emotional responsiveness in early childhood; imitation, emotion and understanding in primate communication; and intersubjective attunement and emotion in language learning and language use. It is an invaluable resource for researchers in emotion and communication across the social and behavioural sciences. books.google.com Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 637 Related articles All 4 versions Library Search Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help