# Cheyenne Roundtree

**Source**: https://www.rollingstone.com/author/cheyenne-roundtree/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:31:06.261185+00:00

---

Cheyenne Roundtree &#8211; Rolling Stone &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Cheyenne Roundtree Entertainment Reporter X email Cheyenne Roundtree is an Entertainment Investigations Reporter at Rolling Stone, covering film and television, music and pop culture. Got a tip? Send to croundtree@rollingstone.com. He Stole George Jones’ Widow’s Heart. Then He Allegedly Stole Her Millions Nancy Jones thought real estate investor Kirk West was a silver lining following the country legend’s death. A decade later, he faces a civil lawsuit and criminal charges for allegedly stealing from the widow Exclusive By Cheyenne Roundtree Judge Explains Dismissal of ‘Making the Band’ Member’s Sean Combs Lawsuit A judge dismissed the majority of claims Sara Rivers filed against music mogul last week Courts and Crime By Cheyenne Roundtree Florence and the Machine Drop Spellbinding ‘Everybody Scream’ Video The song is the lead single for the band’s sixth studio album, Everybody Scream , out Oct. 31 Spooky Season By Cheyenne Roundtree Top stories newsletter A Cultural Force That Transcends Generations Enter your Email By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. ‘The Morning Show’ Returns With More Cover-Ups and Scheming in New Season 4 Trailer The Apple TV+ series starring Jennifer Aniston and Reese Witherspoon will premiere on Sept. 17 ‘WHO CAN YOU TRUST?’ By Cheyenne Roundtree Judas Priest's Rob Halford ‘Curled Up In a Ball And Bawled’ After Ozzy Osbourne’s Death Black Sabbath singer Ozzy Osbourne died of a heart attack aged 76 on July 22 &#039;STILL GRIEVING&#039; By Cheyenne Roundtree Judge Slashes Sara Rivers' Lawsuit Against Sean Combs The Making the Band 2 contestant accused Combs of cornering her in a studio and groping her breast Courts and Crime By Nancy Dillon and Cheyenne Roundtree Sean Combs Wants to Counsel Abusers. His Accusers Object “How are you going to counsel someone else when you haven't done the work on yourself? This is manipulation at its best,” one source tells Rolling Stone &quot;Mockery&quot; By Cheyenne Roundtree and Nancy Dillon ‘Chimp Crazy’ Star Tonia Haddix Sentenced to 46 Months in Prison Over Faking Ape’s Death It's unclear if Tonia Haddix will face fines or charges for the recent discovery that she was stowing another chimp in her basement Courts and Crime By Cheyenne Roundtree ‘The Office’ Spinoff ‘The Paper’ Follows Struggling Midwest Newsroom in Trailer The new show, which premieres on Sept. 4 on Peacock, follows a new editor-in-chief’s ambitions to revitalize a sleepy Midwest town’s struggling newspaper Familiar Faces By Cheyenne Roundtree A Puppy-Killing Kristi Noem and ‘Dora the Explorer’ Raids: ‘South Park’ Savages Trump Admin’s ICE Policies The Comedy Central show also depicts Vice President J.D. Vance as Trump’s miniature sidekick, offering to rub baby oil on Satan Mini J.D. Vance By Cheyenne Roundtree Read More Top stories newsletter A Cultural Force That Transcends Generations Enter your Email By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Go to PMC.com Most Popular J.K. Rowling Slams &#039;Ignorant&#039; Emma Watson as Their Rift Intensifies; Author Claims Watson Once Wrote Her a Note Expressing Sympathy Over Anti-Trans Backlash Bill Burr Defends Performing at Controversial Riyadh Comedy Festival: &quot;They&#039;re Just Like Us&quot; Insider Claims Nicole Kidman &amp; Keith Urban&#039;s Separation Is &#039;One-Sided&#039; Federal Judge Denies Motion to Dismiss by Kasseem ‘Swizz Beatz’ Dean in 1MDB Scandal Case You might also like ‘Taylor Swift: The Official Release Party of a Showgirl’ Review: Taylor Swift Introduces the 12 Music Videos From ‘The Life of a Showgirl.’ But Only One of Them Is Great 4 hours ago 19 Breast Cancer Products That Are Helpful for Patients &amp; Survivors 2 hours ago ‘Anemone,’ ‘After the Hunt’ Shake Up New York Film Festival as ‘One Battle’ Heads Into Second Weekend — Screen Talk 1 hour ago NFL on Record Pace as TV/Streaming Windows Grow 8% to 20M Viewers 55 minutes ago Rolling Stone Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture Staff Contact Advertise Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Use AdChoices PMC Entertainment California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Accessibility Policy on Anonymous Sources Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Newsletter Signup Enter Your Email Subscribe Got a Hot News Tip? We want to hear it. Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Rolling Stone is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 Rolling Stone, LLC. All rights reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Log In Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Music News Features Lists Album Reviews Live Reviews Artists You Need To Know Songs You Need To Know RS Country RS Latin Politics News Features Lists TV &amp; Movies News Features Lists Recaps Reviews Video &amp; Photos Photos Videos The Cover Musicians on Musicians RS LIVE Culture News Features Lists Creators RS Gaming RS Films RS Recommends Reviews RS Essentials RS Audio Awards Gift Guides Culture Council Subscription Icon Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Alerts &amp; Newsletters Email Address By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. ad