# Article

**Source**: https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0098605
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:51:54.457847+00:00

---

The Functional and Palaeoecological Implications of Tooth Morphology and Wear for the Megaherbivorous Dinosaurs from the Dinosaur Park Formation (Upper Campanian) of Alberta, Canada | PLOS One Skip to main content Advertisement PLOS One Publish Submissions Getting Started Submission Guidelines Figures Tables Supporting Information LaTeX What We Publish Preprints Revising Your Manuscript Submit Now Calls for Papers Policies Best Practices in Research Reporting Human Subjects Research Animal Research Competing Interests Disclosure of Funding Sources Licenses and Copyright Data Availability Complementary Research Materials, Software and Code Sharing Ethical Publishing Practice Authorship Corrections, Expressions of Concern, and Retractions Manuscript Review and Publication Criteria for Publication Editorial and Peer Review Process Editor Center Resources for Editors Guidelines for Reviewers Accepted Manuscripts Comments Submit Your Manuscript Discover a faster, simpler path to publishing in a high-quality journal. PLOS ONE promises fair, rigorous peer review, broad scope, and wide readership – a perfect fit for your research every time. Learn More Submit Now About Why Publish with PLOS ONE Journal Information Staff Editors Editorial Board Section Editors Advisory Groups Find and Read Articles Publishing Information Publication Fees Press and Media Contact Browse Search Search advanced search Browse Subject Areas ? Click through the PLOS taxonomy to find articles in your field. For more information about PLOS Subject Areas, click here . Loading metrics Open Access Peer-reviewed Research Article The Functional and Palaeoecological Implications of Tooth Morphology and Wear for the Megaherbivorous Dinosaurs from the Dinosaur Park Formation (Upper Campanian) of Alberta, Canada Jordan C. Mallon , * E-mail: jmallon@mus-nature.ca Current address: Palaeobiology, Canadian Museum of Nature, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada Affiliation Department of Biological Sciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada &#x02A2F; Jason S. Anderson Affiliation Department of Comparative Biology & Experimental Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada &#x02A2F; The Functional and Palaeoecological Implications of Tooth Morphology and Wear for the Megaherbivorous Dinosaurs from the Dinosaur Park Formation (Upper Campanian) of Alberta, Canada Jordan C. Mallon,&nbsp; Jason S. Anderson x Published: June 11, 2014 https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0098605 Article Authors Metrics Comments Media Coverage Reader Comments Figures Figures Abstract Megaherbivorous dinosaurs were exceptionally diverse on the Late Cretaceous island continent of Laramidia, and a growing body of evidence suggests that this diversity was facilitated by dietary niche partitioning. We test this hypothesis using the fossil megaherbivore assemblage from the Dinosaur Park Formation (upper Campanian) of Alberta as a model. Comparative tooth morphology and wear, including the first use of quantitative dental microwear analysis in the context of Cretaceous palaeosynecology, are used to infer the mechanical properties of the foods these dinosaurs consumed. The phylliform teeth of ankylosaurs were poorly adapted for habitually processing high-fibre plant matter. Nevertheless, ankylosaur diets were likely more varied than traditionally assumed: the relatively large, bladed teeth of nodosaurids would have been better adapted to processing a tougher, more fibrous diet than the smaller, cusp-like teeth of ankylosaurids. Ankylosaur microwear is characterized by a preponderance of pits and scratches, akin to modern mixed feeders, but offers no support for interspecific dietary differences. The shearing tooth batteries of ceratopsids are much better adapted to high-fibre herbivory, attested by their scratch-dominated microwear signature. There is tentative microwear evidence to suggest differences in the feeding habits of centrosaurines and chasmosaurines, but statistical support is not significant. The tooth batteries of hadrosaurids were capable of both shearing and crushing functions, suggestive of a broad dietary range. Their microwear signal overlaps broadly with that of ankylosaurs, and suggests possible dietary differences between hadrosaurines and lambeosaurines. Tooth wear evidence further indicates that all forms considered here exhibited some degree of masticatory propaliny. Our findings reveal that tooth morphology and wear exhibit different, but complimentary, dietary signals that combine to support the hypothesis of dietary niche partitioning. The inferred mechanical and dietary patterns appear constant over the 1.5 Myr timespan of the Dinosaur Park Formation megaherbivore chronofauna, despite continual species turnover. Citation: Mallon JC, Anderson JS (2014) The Functional and Palaeoecological Implications of Tooth Morphology and Wear for the Megaherbivorous Dinosaurs from the Dinosaur Park Formation (Upper Campanian) of Alberta, Canada. PLoS ONE 9(6): e98605. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0098605 Editor: Andrew A. Farke, Raymond M. Alf Museum of Paleontology, United States of America Received: December 19, 2013; Accepted: April 30, 2014; Published: June 11, 2014 Copyright: © 2014 Mallon and Anderson. This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited. Funding: Funding to JCM was provided by an NSERC Alexander Graham Bell Canada Graduate Scholarship, Alberta Innovates Technology Futures graduate student scholarship, Queen Elizabeth II Graduate Scholarship, and Jurassic Foundation grant. Funding to JSA was provided by an NSERC Discovery grant. The funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript. Competing interests: The authors have declared that no competing interests exist. Introduction Megaherbivores (herbivorous species whose adults weigh &gt;1,000 kg) exert a strong influence on the structure and population dynamics of their respective ecosystems via their dominating foraging habits [1] . As such, megaherbivore ecology is a subject of ongoing interest, particularly in light of the unique adaptive mode shared by these animals [2] . Sinclair [3] and colleagues [4] have suggested that, unlike smaller forms, mammalian megaherbivores are limited by dietary resources, rather than predation. Among the evidences for this hypothesis is a demonstration of competitive niche displacement between sympatric megaherbivores [5] . Megaherbivorous dinosaurs were particularly diverse on the Late Cretaceous island continent of Laramidia (sensu Archibald [6] ), leading some to speculate that their enduring coexistence was facilitated by dietary niche partitioning imposed by competition for limited resources [7] – [9] . If true, this would suggest common evolutionary and ecological constraints operating in two otherwise very disparate groups. Recent work has sought to examine the question of dietary niche partitioning among Laramidian megaherbivores, using the fossil assemblage of the upper Campanian Dinosaur Park Formation (DPF) of Alberta as a model [10] – [14] . The present study continues in this vein, with insight provided by an examination of unworn tooth morphology, dental macrowear and microwear, which reflect the internal mechanical properties and external physical attributes of the foods that the teeth break down over different time scales [15] . Unworn (preformed) tooth morphology reflects the long-term adaptation of teeth over geological time [16] – [18] . Worn tooth morphology, as visible to the naked eye (macrowear), reflects the influence of food properties on tooth shape over ecological time, which spans the majority of an individual's lifetime [15] , [19] . Finally, microscopic tooth wear patterns (microwear) form over a relatively short period of time, spanning just weeks to months [20] . Tooth wear can also provide crucial insight into the jaw mechanics employed to rend different food types [21] – [27] . Thus, these three aspects of tooth maturation provide different, but complementary, information regarding feeding ecology, and are therefore considered here in tandem. With these considerations in mind, we predict that, on the hypothesis of limiting food resources, sympatric megaherbivorous dinosaur species should exhibit differences in tooth morphology and wear that reflect dietary niche partitioning. Institutional abbreviations AMNH, American Museum of Natural History, New York; CMN, Canadian Museum of Nature, Ottawa; FMNH, Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago; NHMUK, Natural History Museum, London; ROM, Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto; TMM, Texas Memorial Museum, Austin; TMP, Royal Tyrrell Museum of Palaeontology, Drumheller, Alberta; UALVP, University of Alberta Laboratory of Vertebrate Palaeontology, Edmonton; USNM, National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D. C.; YPM, Yale Peabody Museum, New Haven. Materials and Methods This study generally focuses on the description of intact dentitions associated with skulls to maximize taxonomic resolution. No permits were required for the described study, which complied with all relevant regulations. The total dataset comprised 76 specimens spanning 16 megaherbivorous dinosaur species from the clades Ankylosauria, Ceratopsidae, and Hadrosauridae, all from the DPF ( Table S1 ). Due to a lack of intact ankylosaur dentitions, we also studied numerous isolated teeth attributable to this taxon to understand the variation present therein. We examined gross tooth morphology and macrowear with the occasional aid of a hand lens and light microscopy to elucidate such details as the nature of the enamel-dentine transition and the presence of secondary enamel ridges. Descriptions of vertebrate dentitions have traditionally been plagued by a lack of stand