# The Miseducation Of Kara Swisher Ongweso

**Source**: https://thebaffler.com/latest/the-miseducation-of-kara-swisher-ongweso?ref=wheresyoured.at
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:56:05.983747+00:00

---

The Miseducation of Kara Swisher | Edward Ongweso Jr. localStorage.setItem('darkMode', val)), $watch('motionSafe', val => localStorage.setItem('motionSafe', val))" x-bind:class="(document.querySelector('.page-template-template-page-subscriptions') || document.querySelector('.page-template-template-page-gift-subscriptions') || document.querySelector('.page-template-template-page-special-book-offer') || document.querySelector('.page-template-template-page-summer-2024-bucket-hat')) ? { 'motion-off': motionSafe == '1' } : { 'dark': darkMode === 'dark' || (darkMode === 'system' && window.matchMedia('(prefers-color-scheme: dark)').matches), 'motion-off': motionSafe == '1' }" @keydown.cmd.k="openSearch = !openSearch; $nextTick(() => $refs.largeSearch.focus());" @keydown.ctrl.k="openSearch = !openSearch; $nextTick(() => $refs.largeSearch.focus());"> Skip to content Main Navigation Dark Mode Settings Light Mode Currently selected Dark Mode Currently selected System Settings Currently selected Subscribe Latest Current Issue Past Issues Events About Store Donate Account $refs.largeSearch.focus());" @keydown.esc="openSearch = false" x-bind:aria-expanded="openSearch" aria-controls="search"> Search Exit Search Press return to see results. cmd / ctrl + k to open and close. Subscribe Latest Current Issue Past Issues Events About Store Donate Account Dark Mode Settings Light Mode Currently selected Dark Mode Currently selected System Settings Currently selected Edward Ongweso Jr. , &nbsp; March 29, 2024 The Miseducation of Kara Swisher Soul-searching with the tech “journalist” The Baffler Word Factory W o r d F a c t o r y Burn Book: A Tech Love Story by Kara Swisher. Simon &amp; Schuster, 320 pages. 2024. Silicon Valley was supposed to be “different,” or so veteran tech journalist Kara Swisher wanted to believe. Facebook was going to bring people together, in the process strengthening our communities, our democracies, our world; Google was going to deliver the vast stores of human knowledge to our fingertips; Tesla was going to save us from fossil fuel-driven ecological collapse, etc., etc. For years, Swisher held onto a dogged faith in these companies and their “gauzy credo to change the world” for the better. But then, in 2016, Silicon Valley “went off the rails.” Swisher dates this cataclysm to December 10, 2016, when the heads of the most powerful tech companies—including Amazon, Tesla, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft, and Alphabet, Google’s parent company—were “summoned to tromp into Manhattan’s Trump Tower and meet the man who had unexpectedly just been elected president and was the antithesis of all they supposedly represented.” Swisher was aghast. Two days later, she published a furious column at Recode , shaken that “the people in charge of inventing the future” would meet with someone as reprehensible as Trump given his “numskull attacks” on “what is pretty much the United States’ most important, innovative and future-forward business sector.” Though she’d been covering the industry for decades in the likes of the New York Times , Washington Post , and the Wall Street Journal , Swisher could not understand how our enlightened stewards of innovation would capitulate so quickly to an authoritarian-in-waiting. “Welcome to the brave new world,” she concluded. “Yeah, you can say it: Fuckfuckfuck.” This apparent about-face of Silicon Valley prompted Swisher to undertake some agonized soul-searching, the results of which have been published as Burn Book: A Tech Love Story , a tortured and tortuous memoir that, in remixing swaths of past reporting and commentary, as well as regurgitating tales she’s told ad nauseam, tries to answer two burning questions: How did Silicon Valley end up in that room with Trump? And, more importantly, how did a tech journalist as good and uncompromising as Kara Swisher fail to anticipate this turn to the dark side? The long and short of it is that Swisher is not a good journalist—or, framed more generously, that she thrived in an industry with remarkably low standards for which we are still paying the price. For decades, tech journalism and criticism has primarily consisted of glowing gadget reviews, laudatory profiles, and reprinted press releases, all of it colored by Silicon Valley’s self-aggrandizing vision of itself as a laboratory of a brighter future. This is largely identical to what Swisher admits to having believed up until 2016: When I started covering the nascent sector in the 1990s, I had truly believed in tech’s ability to transform the world, to solve problems that had plagued us for centuries and allow us to finally see our commonality over all our differences. My belief that everything that can be digitized would be digitized turned out to be true. The Internet, which others had mocked, had become nothing short of miraculous. Sam Harnett’s 2020 paper “Words Matter: How Tech Media Helped Write Gig Companies Into Existence” remains one of the best accounts of how swaths of the media enthusiastically generated on-demand propaganda for the tech industry, directly setting the stage for these firms to exploit, codify, and expand legal loopholes that largely exempted them from regulation as they raided their users for data and generated billions in revenue. Such intellectual acquiescence would, as Harnett writes, “pave the way for a handful of companies that represent a tiny fraction of the economy to have an outsized impact on law, mainstream corporate practices, and the way we think about work.” This is a compelling narrative only if you ignore every available fact. Few writers have been as instrumental to this process as Swisher. In Burn Book , she tries to atone for her decades of boosterism by adopting a slightly more critical posture, but the analysis, such as it is, has no bite because Swisher still, at her core, fundamentally believes in Silicon Valley. Take Uber. Swisher interviewed Uber’s then CEO Travis Kalanick in 2014 for her Code conference, pitching him a series of softball questions while giving him plenty of space to rattle on about the “political campaign” he was locked in against “some asshole named Taxi” that only made Uber look dirty. During the interview, Swisher dismissed Uber’s critics as “people who love to hate it” because they failed to understand the magic: “To me it’s a fascinating situation that’s going on. They’ve expected perfection now. There’s all these driver incidents which happen in taxis but don’t get reported.” A decade later, in Burn Book , Swisher is forthright about Uber’s rancid internal culture: the company not only systematically covered up sexual harassment in its offices but also sexual assault in its cars . One executive even went so far as to obtain medical files of a woman who was reportedly raped by an Uber driver because the company did not believe her. Such troubles, Swisher concludes, are directly attributable to “white male homogeneity” not just at Uber but across the tech industry. In Burn Book , Kalanick—once the subject of an approving, Swisher-penned Vanity Fair profile—is now “the ever-uglier face of tech,” a man who adopted a “dehumanizing attitude” toward everyone he worked with. This sort of move—rewriting history to suggest she has always been critical of various firms or trends in Silicon Valley—is employed consistently throughout the book as part of a desperate effort to catch up with the critical consensus. The real problem, Swisher argues, is that there exists a group of people at the top whose lived experience precludes them from anticipating problems with their workplace culture, harms caused by their product, and solutions to said problems. She reflects on this at length: A truism began to form in my brain about the lack of women and people of color in the leadership ranks of tech: The innovators and executives ignored issues of safety not because they were necessarily awful, but because they had never felt unsafe a day in their lives. Their personal experience informed the development of unfettered platforms. And, in turn, this inability to understand the consequences of their inventions began to curdle the sunny optimism of tech that had illuminated the sector. This is a compelling narrative only if you ignore every available fact. Before 2017—when everything appeared to go wrong for Uber because of numerous sexual harassment and assault scandals, privacy violations, IP theft, and a video of Kalanick exploding on a driver complaining about pay cuts—critical coverage of the ride-hail app had been relatively limited. To achieve its market share, Uber broke laws, generated in-house academic research affirming its own narrative , leveraged political connections to rewrite labor laws or otherwise exempt itself from them, and convinced journalists to view its growth as progressive, not parasitic . This meant that when a laundry list of horrible abuses came to light, journalists who had spent years regurgitating narratives about Uber’s innovative potential and disruption of “Big Taxi” were incapable of connecting the dots between Uber’s core business model, its drivers’ working conditions, and its toxic internal culture. It is hard to imagine how making Uber more diverse and “inclusive” would’ve done anything to alter its core issue: a business model so destructive and extractive that it could only claim to turn a profit after losing $33 billion, eviscerating the existing taxi industry, achieving near market dominance, and undermining existing labor laws. Indeed, Uber could not pay drivers below minimum wage, charge as high of a price as it desired, flood the streets with cars as it liked, and avoid providing health care or unemployment insurance to drivers unless the law was on its side. In fact, Uber’s top lawyer—Tony West, a Black man—has been the public face of Uber’s campaign against laws that would force the company to pay livable wages to its largely Black and brown workforce. In Swisher’s memoir, this all goes curio