# Revenge Of The Simple How George W Bush Gave Rise To Trump 20160301

**Source**: http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/revenge-of-the-simple-how-george-w-bush-gave-rise-to-trump-20160301
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:55:49.802612+00:00

---

Revenge of the Simple: How George W. Bush Gave Rise to Trump &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo Politics Revenge of the Simple: How George W. Bush Gave Rise to Trump Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Politics Revenge of the Simple: How George W. Bush Gave Rise to Trump Bush was just an appetizer — Trump would be the main course By Matt Taibbi Matt Taibbi Contact Matt Taibbi on X Forgiving Student Debt Alone Won’t Fix the Crisis Trump’s Gone, So What’s Next for the Democrats? Big Pharma’s Covid-19 Profiteers View all posts by Matt Taibbi March 1, 2016 To hear GOP insiders tell it , Doomsday is here. If Donald Trump scores huge on tonight and seizes control of the nomination in the Super Tuesday primaries, it will mark the beginning of the end of the Republican Party, and perhaps the presidency. But Trump isn&rsquo;t the beginning of the end. George W. Bush was. The amazing anti-miracle of the Bush presidency is what makes today&rsquo;s nightmare possible. People forget what an extraordinary thing it was that Bush was president. Dubya wasn&rsquo;t merely ignorant when compared with other politicians or other famous people. No, he would have stood out as dumb in just about any setting. If you could somehow run simulations where Bush was repeatedly shipwrecked on a desert island with 20 other adults chosen at random, he would be the last person listened to by the group every single time. He knew absolutely nothing about anything. He wouldn&rsquo;t have been able to make fire, find water, build shelter or raise morale. It would have taken him days to get over the shock of no room service. Bush went to the best schools but was totally ignorant of history, philosophy, science, geography, languages and the arts. Asked by a child in South Carolina in 1999 what his favorite book had been growing up, Bush replied , &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t remember any specific books.&rdquo; Bush showed no interest in learning and angrily rejected the idea that a president ought to be able to think his way through problems. As Mark Crispin Miller wrote in The Bush Dyslexicon , Bush&rsquo;s main rhetorical tool was the tautology &mdash; i.e., saying the same thing, only twice . &ldquo;It&rsquo;s very important for folks to understand that when there&rsquo;s more trade, there&rsquo;s more commerce&rdquo; was a classic Bush formulation. &ldquo;Our nation must come together to unite&rdquo; was another. One of my favorites was: &ldquo;I understand that the unrest in the Middle East creates unrest throughout the region.&rdquo; Academics and political junkies alike giddily compiled these &ldquo;Bushisms&rdquo; along with others that were funny for different reasons (&ldquo;I&rsquo;m doing what I think what&rsquo;s wrong,&rdquo; for instance). Editor’s picks The 250 Greatest Albums of the 21st Century So Far The 100 Best TV Episodes of All Time The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century But Bush&rsquo;s tautologies weren&rsquo;t gaffes or verbal slips. They just represented the limits of his reasoning powers: A = A. There are educational apps that use groups of images to teach two-year-olds to recognize that an orange is like an orange while a banana is a banana. Bush was stalled at that developmental moment. And we elected him president. Bush&rsquo;s eight years were like the reigns of a thousand overwhelmed congenital monarchs from centuries past. While the prince rode horses, romped with governesses and blew the national treasure on britches or hedge-mazes, the state was run by Svengalis and Rasputins who dealt with what Bush once derisively described as &ldquo;what&rsquo;s happening in the world.&rdquo;&nbsp; In Bush&rsquo;s case he had Karl &ldquo;Turd Blossom&rdquo; Rove thinking out the problem of how to get re-elected, while Dick &ldquo;Vice&rdquo; Cheney, Donald &ldquo;Rummy&rdquo; Rumsfeld and Andrew &ldquo;Tangent Man&rdquo; Card took care of the day-to-day affairs of the country (part of Card&rsquo;s responsibilities involved telling Bush what was in the newspapers he refused to read). Revenge of the Simple: How George W. Bush Gave Rise to Trump , Page 1 of 3 Page 2 Sign Up In this article: Donald Trump, Election 2016, George W. Bush Politics Politics News More News ‘Swiftboating’ Is Beyond Dirty Politics Commentary By Michael Embrich ‘Hostage Taking’: Trump Is Hurting Americans to Force Dems to Cave on Shutdown Out of Office By Nikki McCann Ramirez Welcome to Portland, Where Trump's Fever Dream Is America's New Nightmare &#039;Life During Wartime&#039; By Tim Dickinson Dem Says Mike Johnson Is Delaying Her Swearing-In to Prevent Epstein Vote Meeting the Threshold By Nikki McCann Ramirez Jen Psaki on Kimmel, Kamala, and Trump’s ‘Incredibly Fragile Ego’ Q+A By Tim Dickinson Read more Trent Reznor And Atticus Ross’ Future Ruins Fest Cancelled Over 'Logistical Challenges' Called Off 28 minutes ago Sean Combs Sentenced to Over 4 Years in Prison Diddy Trial 3 hours ago Tomorrow X Together on Their New Era, Contract Renewal, and What the Future Holds Exclusive 5 hours ago Eric Dane Missed the 2025 Emmys Because of a Head Injury That Required Stitches Ouch 5 hours ago Top stories newsletter A Cultural Force That Transcends Generations Enter your Email By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Go to PMC.com Most Popular J.K. Rowling Slams &#039;Ignorant&#039; Emma Watson as Their Rift Intensifies; Author Claims Watson Once Wrote Her a Note Expressing Sympathy Over Anti-Trans Backlash Bill Burr Defends Performing at Controversial Riyadh Comedy Festival: &quot;They&#039;re Just Like Us&quot; Insider Claims Nicole Kidman &amp; Keith Urban&#039;s Separation Is &#039;One-Sided&#039; Federal Judge Denies Motion to Dismiss by Kasseem ‘Swizz Beatz’ Dean in 1MDB Scandal Case You might also like ‘Taylor Swift: The Official Release Party of a Showgirl’ Review: Taylor Swift Introduces the 12 Music Videos From ‘The Life of a Showgirl.’ But Only One of Them Is Great 4 hours ago 19 Breast Cancer Products That Are Helpful for Patients &amp; Survivors 2 hours ago ‘Anemone,’ ‘After the Hunt’ Shake Up New York Film Festival as ‘One Battle’ Heads Into Second Weekend — Screen Talk 2 hours ago NFL on Record Pace as TV/Streaming Windows Grow 8% to 20M Viewers 1 hour ago Rolling Stone Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture Staff Contact Advertise Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Use AdChoices PMC Entertainment California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Accessibility Policy on Anonymous Sources Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Newsletter Signup Enter Your Email Subscribe Got a Hot News Tip? We want to hear it. Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Rolling Stone is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 Rolling Stone, LLC. All rights reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Log In Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Music News Features Lists Album Reviews Live Reviews Artists You Need To Know Songs You Need To Know RS Country RS Latin Politics News Features Lists TV &amp; Movies News Features Lists Recaps Reviews Video &amp; Photos Photos Videos The Cover Musicians on Musicians RS LIVE Culture News Features Lists Creators RS Gaming RS Films RS Recommends Reviews RS Essentials RS Audio Awards Gift Guides Culture Council Subscription Icon Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Alerts &amp; Newsletters Email Address By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. ad