# Music Journalism Cant Afford A Hollowed Out Pitchfork

**Source**: https://defector.com/music-journalism-cant-afford-a-hollowed-out-pitchfork
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:04:04.362887+00:00

---

Music Journalism Can&#x27;t Afford A Hollowed-Out Pitchfork | Defector Skip to Content Subscribe Log In Menu Search Search Crosswords NFL NBA NHL WNBA Soccer Podcasts Arts And Culture Politics Science About Us Send Us A Tip (News) Send Us A Tip ($) Merch Shop How To Pitch Defector Defector Freelancer Policies Crossword Submission Guidelines Books By Defectors Defector Hall of Fame Masthead Log In Subscribe Defector Twitch Defector Bluesky Subscribe to skip ads Advertisement Journalismism Music Journalism Can’t Afford A Hollowed-Out Pitchfork By Israel Daramola 11:05 AM EST on January 18, 2024 Share on Bluesky Share on Reddit Share on WhatsApp Share on Email 413 Comments As first reported by Semafor&#x27;s Maxwell Tani , Condé Nast announced yesterday that it is moving Pitchfork&#x27;s editorial operations under the GQ brand banner. In a note to employees announcing the move, Condé executive Anna Wintour described it as &quot;the best path for the brand so that our coverage of music can continue to thrive within the company.&quot; Whatever that means! Notable in Wintour&#x27;s statement was a line about Pitchfork employees leaving the company. Pitchfork Editor-in-Chief Puja Patel (Disclosure: I worked with Patel at Spin , and many of my Defector colleagues worked with her at Deadspin) will not be making the transition to GQ , nor will many of her colleagues, some of whom announced their layoffs on Twitter. The features department is gone. Executive Editor Amy Phillips, who worked at Pitchfork for nearly two decades, is gone . So many of the writers and editors , who spent every day working to make Pitchfork what it is, are gone. Beyond gutting Pitchfork&#x27;s staff, it&#x27;s not clear what exactly being brought under the auspices of GQ will mean for the publication. But it feels safe to assume that it will become a smaller, dimmer version of what it was before it became the latest victim of the ongoing implosion of music journalism. This is a corner of the media industry that has been hit particularly hard by consolidation and downsizing. When I was laid off from Spin in 2018, I was part of a downsizing of a collection of music brands including Vibe and Billboard . The idea was that the brands these publications represented still had value, but that the journalism they produced didn&#x27;t, and therefore the sites would be better off as little more than engines for listicles and veiled ad copy . Stereogum ended up having to go the indie route, and now more or less runs off reader support. Meanwhile, throughout the industry, features and reporting and music reviews have taken a backseat as companies push for more social media and video content. What has filled the vacuum left behind by actual music criticism is a loose collection of YouTubers and influencers who feed slop to their younger audiences, and fan communities that engage with music solely through their obsession with a particular pop act. This has all helped produce a mass of music fans who don&#x27;t understand the value of criticism and outright detest being told the things they like might suck. Even worse, it has helped destroy what scant opportunities remain for obscure or up-and-coming musicians to find an audience. It&#x27;s harder than ever to make it big without a cosign from Drake or Taylor Swift, and stuffing one of the few music publications left that swam against all these currents into GQ &#x27;s stuffy environs isn&#x27;t going to help things. Pitchfork, particularly after being acquired by Condé Nast, tried and usually succeeded at marrying its indie-snob cultural output with the demands of becoming a global music brand that carried a valued stamp of approval/disapproval. The Sunday Review championed a lot of forgotten about or under-discussed classics, and kept certain artists and bands in the cultural conversation. One of the best pieces of music writing published last year was Pitchfork&#x27;s long exposé on the Milwaukee rap scene . They covered the fascinating relationships that develop between music fans building community on Discord , explored the new frontiers of AI in music , and wrote honestly about Travis Scott&#x27;s culpability in the disaster at Astroworld . Plenty of people found reasons to criticize Pitchfork over the years—speaking as a former contributor, readers got way too hung up on those damn scores—but the site unquestionably earned its status as the last remaining major music blog of importance. To see a publication like that, which owes its cultural cachet to the people who produced so much good work for it over the years, gutted and then tossed aside by some executives who are trying to overthink their way toward a few more percentage points of revenue, is extremely depressing. Whatever the new GQ -infused version of Pitchfork plans to be, it will have to go about its business without the resources and structures that previously allowed it to shine a light on the kinds of artists and subjects nobody else cares to cover. It is hard not to see this development as a true indicator that we&#x27;re nearing the endpoint of robust, meaningful music criticism as a concept. The idea that music journalism has no value is one of the most pervasive thoughts circulating among the suits who control the industry. What those people continue to deprive us of is smart, varied music coverage produced by actual journalists, most of whom now find themselves being squeezed out of an industry that only rewards slavish devotion to the biggest pop stars, or a constant courting of drama, gossip, and violence that is only tangentially related to music. If there&#x27;s a better future for music journalism to come, it will perhaps spring from the re-emergence of small-batch music blogs and more localized coverage. But what we&#x27;re left with now is a corporatized wasteland, and fewer publications than ever equipped to write about music with all the rigor and passion it deserves. Recommended Capital The Future Of E-Commerce Is A Product Whose Name Is A Boilerplate AI-Generated Apology 294 Comments David Roth January 12, 2024 Subscribe to skip ads Advertisement If you liked this blog, please share it! Your referrals help Defector reach new readers, and those new readers always get a few free blogs before encountering our paywall. Share on Bluesky Share on Reddit Share on WhatsApp Share on Email Israel Daramola @ izdaramola @ izdaramola.bsky.social Staff Writer. New York-based culture writer and the internet's number one boy. Read More: conde nast , gq , layoffs , media is a dirty business , pitchfork Stay in touch Sign up for our free newsletter Email Sign up More from Defector Politics Treasury Department Has Plans To Mint Dollar Coin Featuring Donald Trump’s Likeness 226 Comments Chris Thompson October 3, 2025 Arts And Culture Grim Visions Emerge From The Riyadh Comedy Festival 301 Comments Giri Nathan October 3, 2025 The Defector Crewneck Sweatshirt Is Back In Stock Bad news: It&#x27;s getting colder. Good news: The best way to cover your forearms has returned. The critically acclaimed Defector crewneck sweatshirt has been restocked in all sizes. Now&#x27;s the time to get one of our most popular items, printed with union labor in the USA. College Football Does Anyone Know Which Teams Are Any Good? 64 Comments Israel Daramola and Ray Ratto October 3, 2025 Politics Israel Breaks International Law So That It Can Continue To Starve Gaza 115 Comments Patrick Redford October 3, 2025 This Is So Stupid Name A 28-Year-Old 234 Comments Dylan Fugel October 3, 2025 MLB Now You Know About Cam Schlittler 150 Comments Barry Petchesky October 3, 2025 See all posts Subscribe to skip ads Advertisement Close This is Defector, a new sports blog and media company. We made this place together, we own it together, we run it together. Without access, without favor, without discretion, and without interference. Stay in touch Sign up for our free newsletter Email Sign up Defector Twitch Defector Bluesky The last good website. Send Us A Tip Advertise With Us Support and General Questions Press Inquiries Hall of Fame Masthead Privacy Notice Terms of Use © Copyright 2025 Made in partnership with Lede