# Tt0072926

**Source**: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0072926/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:48:25.765436+00:00

---

The Eiger Sanction (1975) - IMDb Menu Movies Release calendar Top 250 movies Most popular movies Browse movies by genre Top box office Showtimes &amp; tickets Movie news India movie spotlight TV shows What&#x27;s on TV &amp; streaming Top 250 TV shows Most popular TV shows Browse TV shows by genre TV news Watch What to watch Latest trailers IMDb Originals IMDb Picks IMDb Spotlight Family entertainment guide IMDb Podcasts Awards &amp; events Oscars Scary Good Horror Halloween Family Fun New York Film Festival Hispanic Heritage Month STARmeter Awards Awards Central Festival Central All events Celebs Born today Most popular celebs Celebrity news Community Help center Contributor zone Polls For industry professionals Language English (United States) Language Fully supported English (United States) Partially supported Français (Canada) Français (France) Deutsch (Deutschland) हिंदी (भारत) Italiano (Italia) Português (Brasil) Español (España) Español (México) All All Watchlist Sign in EN Fully supported English (United States) Partially supported Français (Canada) Français (France) Deutsch (Deutschland) हिंदी (भारत) Italiano (Italia) Português (Brasil) Español (España) Español (México) Use app Cast &amp; crew User reviews Trivia FAQ IMDbPro All topics The Eiger Sanction 1975 R 2h 9m IMDb RATING 6.4 / 10 24K YOUR RATING Rate Play trailer 2:41 1 Video 65 Photos Conspiracy Thriller Spy Action Crime Thriller Classical art professor and collector Dr. Jonathan Hemlock, who doubles as a professional assassin, is coerced out of retirement to avenge the murder of an old friend. Classical art professor and collector Dr. Jonathan Hemlock, who doubles as a professional assassin, is coerced out of retirement to avenge the murder of an old friend. Classical art professor and collector Dr. Jonathan Hemlock, who doubles as a professional assassin, is coerced out of retirement to avenge the murder of an old friend. Director Clint Eastwood Writers Hal Dresner Warren Murphy Rod Whitaker Stars Clint Eastwood George Kennedy Vonetta McGee See production info at IMDbPro IMDb RATING 6.4 / 10 24K YOUR RATING Rate Director Clint Eastwood Writers Hal Dresner Warren Murphy Rod Whitaker Stars Clint Eastwood George Kennedy Vonetta McGee Add to Watchlist Added by 17.0K users 154 User reviews 51 Critic reviews 61 Metascore See production info at IMDbPro Awards 1 nomination total Videos 1 Trailer 2:41 The Eiger Sanction Photos 65 Add photo + 57 Top cast 20 Edit Clint Eastwood Jonathan Hemlock George Kennedy Ben Bowman Vonetta McGee Jemima Brown Jack Cassidy Miles Mellough Heidi Brühl Mrs. Montaigne (as Heidi Bruhl) Thayer David Dragon Reiner Schöne Freytag (as Reiner Schoene) Michael Grimm Meyer Jean-Pierre Bernard Montaigne Brenda Venus George Gregory Walcott Pope Candice Rialson Art Student Elaine Shore Miss Cerberus Dan Howard Dewayne Jack Kosslyn Reporter Walter Kraus Kruger Frank Redmond Wormwood Siegfried Wallach Hotel Manager Director Clint Eastwood Writers Hal Dresner Warren Murphy Rod Whitaker All cast &amp; crew Production, box office &amp; more at IMDbPro User reviews 154 Review 6.4 24K 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Featured reviews bogdanovich Another &quot;forgotten&quot; Eastwood that deserves more attention As a die-hard Clint Eastwood fan you&#39;ve probably seen this spy/action/thriller already, but for those who only now discover the work of this great director/actor, check it out - it&#39;s well worth it. This film was made in the mid-seventies and it shows in every frame. The decidedly non-political correctness in the scenes with the obviously gay guy, portrayed by Jack Cassidy (whose lapdog is appropriately named &quot;faggot&quot; and has a hilarious scene humping Eastwood&#39;s leg); with the Indian girl (Eastwoods laconic snarl &quot;Screw Marlon Brando&quot; is unforgettable); with the &quot;black chick&quot; (says Eastwood to the Afro-American actress Vonetta McGee) might turn off some of today&#39;s viewers or bring the film on the map for viewers who have grown up with Rap Music and consider the occasional four-letter word in &quot;8 Mile&quot; already daring. The story itself is not really important (a classic spy/action thriller with a twist) but the camera direction is superb and Eastwood&#39;s well-known love for Jazz music seaps through occasionally. Today&#39;s movies are called movies for a reason - they are no longer &quot;films&quot; (like this one), where time is taken to tell a story and explore it in its own leisure fashion. cavinfool Beautiful location photography Shot on location in the Alps and Zion National Park, the cinematography is first class. This is great large-screen fare. While not without their hokey apects, the many climbing scenes and story are much more realistic than those of &quot;K2&quot;, &quot;Clifhanger&quot;, or God-help-us &quot;Vertical Limit&quot;. The spy part of the story certainly has some plot holes, and I purchased a copy of &quot;The Eiger Sanction&quot; by Trevanian just to get some of them straightened out, and got quite a surprise. The movie is much, much more faithful to the original book than the vast majority of Hollywood adaptations. Those holes in the story - well, they&#39;re right there in the book, too. Practically the only significant differences between the two are the relationship between Johathon and Wormwood, the final status of Johnathon and Jemima&#39;s relationship, and the fact that C2 is - in the novel - so totally inept as an intelligence organization as to be completely unbeliveable, this is somewhat glossed over in the movie. Frankly the differences in all three situations are argueably done better in the movie. 8 dylan-ransom Great film I absolutely love this movie. The only reason I cannot give it a 9 or 10 is because the premise is just a bit too unbelievable. Eastwood is a stud for doing his own stunts. The climbing sequences had a few minor errors, but all considered, the most accurate movie adaptation of climbing with the possible exception of &quot;Storm and Sorrow&quot;. I felt like I was there with the climbers, cold and scared and forced to continue. The dialogue on the mountain is &quot;rock&quot; solid. If you&#39;re looking for a well-developed action flick with a dash of spy stuff, watch this movie. Eastwood has done so many great movies that it&#39;s hard to rank this one- it&#39;s not his best, but it is wonderful. 7 filmbuff-31 Overlooked Eastwood gem! This movie is highly unusual and possibly even unique in Clint Eastwood&#39;s career, either as actor or director. In &quot;The Eiger Sanction&quot; he plays Dr. Jonathan Hemlock, a character completely unlike any other he has played. Dr. Hemlock is, in fact, the very antithesis of the typical Eastwood character. Although he hides a secret past, Hemlock displays a highly cultured knowledge of fine art and jazz in both his professional and personal life. He possesses as highly refined a taste for beautiful women as he does for the most beautiful works of art. Eastwood is both a philosopher and a lover in this film. He is also a humorist. But there are no glib one-liners here. In fact, this one film probably contains more dialogue for Eastwood than he has done for any other character he has played in his career. Eastwood is the quintessential strong, silent type. As anyone knows who has seen him as a gunfighter hero, whether in the Old West or in the big city. In &quot;The Eiger Sanction,&quot; he is a different kind of gun- fighter. His character is not drawn on the swift, total retribution exacted by the Man with No Name. Instead, it is drawn on the suave, debonair charm of James Bond. Jonathan Hemlock possesses the same cultural refinement and cosmopolitanism that the Bond character does. In fact, Hemlock and Bond are at work and at home in the same element: international espionage. I suspect this is why the casual fan of Clint Eastwood typically detests this movie. Clint Eastwood appears to be miscast. But I&#39;d say he pulls it off admirably, showing the viewer a side of himself which is rarely seen and exhibiting his versatility as an actor. The story itself is better than average and the movie rates two and one half stars. jessieshriver If you like climbing films, watch this. Critics didn&#39;t get this film back in the day. The critics didn&#39;t understand that this was a send-up of spy movies, Clint-style. Vonneta McGee steals the film as Jemima Brown. Jack Cassidy is marvelous as a flagrantly gay agent. Thayer David is absolutely inspired as Eastwood&#39;s macabre boss, and all the minor characters play like James Bond supervillains on Bizarro-world. And, stoic Clint plays off all of them magnificently at every opportunity. Meanwhile, George Kennedy is perfect, playing straight man for all the bizarre characters all around him. This is as hysterical a spy farce as I have ever seen. This was a good movie. It was a little far-fetched, but despite that the climbing scenes were very good and Eastwood was his typical self. The plot is also not bad. Overall this was a good Eastwood movie and for those who fans of Eastwood and climbing movies. More like this 6.4 The Gauntlet 6.9 Play Misty for Me 6.4 Coogan&#x27;s Bluff 6.2 Bronco Billy 6.3 Tightrope 6.6 Honkytonk Man 5.9 Firefox 7.2 The Beguiled 6.6 Sudden Impact 6.4 Joe Kidd 7.0 Breezy 6.5 White Hunter Black Heart Related interests Conspiracy Thriller Spy Action Crime Thriller Storyline Edit Did you know Edit Trivia This is the only movie that John Williams has scored for Clint Eastwood . He was suggested by the studio and producers Richard D. Zanuck and David Brown , after Jaws (1975), and because Williams knew that Eastwood was a huge fan of jazz. He did incorporate that style into his score, which also featured a classical, more traditional orchestral sound. Goofs In Hemlock&#39;s house on the wall over his desk there are pictures of him on various climbs. One of these pictures is of him dangling from the rope by the railway tunnel door at 