# Item

**Source**: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=30356152
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:57:55.192282+00:00

---

Ignoring full page replacements (&#x27;Showing results for &quot;eggzactly that&quot;, to see r... | Hacker News Hacker News new | past | comments | ask | show | jobs | submit login saalweachter on Feb 16, 2022 | parent | context | favorite | on: Google Search Is Dying Ignoring full page replacements (&#x27;Showing results for &quot;eggzactly that&quot;, to see results for &quot;eggzackly that&quot;...) I think this is all just punctuation related. For instances, on the [&quot;quotes don&#x27;t give&quot;] example, the first result I get is https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.goodreads.com&#x2F;quotes&#x2F;tag&#x2F;never-give-up If I do a find-in-page for &quot;quotes don&#x27;t give&quot;, I get zero results. Oh no! Perfidy! ... but , if you look more closely, you&#x27;ll find this string waaaaay down at the bottom: &gt; tags: don-t-give-up, don-t-give-up-on-your-dreams, don-t-give-up-on-yourself, don-t-give-up-quotes, don-t-give-up-the-fight, encouragement, ... Thanks to the wonders of tokenization, that &quot;don-t-give-up-quotes, don-t-give-up-the-fight&quot; gives you the string of tokens, &quot;don t give up quotes don t give up the fight&quot;, which contains the exact phrase &quot;quotes don t give&quot;, which is the tokenization of the phrase &quot;quotes don&#x27;t give&quot;. dannysullivan on Feb 16, 2022 | next [–] Yes. And thank you for spotting. elwell on Feb 16, 2022 | prev [–] Nice work! I too viewed source, but I did &quot;give up&quot; quickly. saalweachter on Feb 19, 2022 | parent [–] That&#x27;s actually from the visible text of the page -- well, desktop version as I saw it; when you click through on mobile they only show half as many quotes and you need to load more to find it. Consider applying for YC's Winter 2026 batch! Applications are open till Nov 10 Guidelines | FAQ | Lists | API | Security | Legal | Apply to YC | Contact Search: