# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Developmental%20Psychology&title=Longitudinal%20linkages%20between%20sibling%20relationships%20and%20adjustment%20from%20middle%20childhood%20through%20adolescence&author=J-Y%20Lim&author=SM%20McHale&author=AC%20Crouter&author=DW%20Osgood&volume=43&issue=4&publication_year=2007&pages=960-973&pmid=17605528&doi=10.1037/0012-1649.43.4.960&
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:14:44.292798+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.04 sec) My profile My library Lookup Longitudinal linkages between sibling relationships and adjustment from middle childhood through adolescence. JY Kim , SM McHale , AC Crouter… - Developmental …, 2007 - psycnet.apa.org JY Kim , SM McHale , AC Crouter, DW Osgood Developmental psychology, 2007 • psycnet.apa.org The links between changes in sibling conflict and intimacy and changes in perceived peer social competence and depression symptoms were examined from middle childhood through adolescence. Participants were mothers, fathers and first-and second-born siblings from 197 White, working/middle class, two-parent families. Peer competence peaked in early adolescence and then declined; depression symptoms were high in middle childhood and, for girls, in middle adolescence. Controlling for parent-offspring relationships and sibling … Abstract The links between changes in sibling conflict and intimacy and changes in perceived peer social competence and depression symptoms were examined from middle childhood through adolescence. Participants were mothers, fathers and first-and second-born siblings from 197 White, working/middle class, two-parent families. Peer competence peaked in early adolescence and then declined; depression symptoms were high in middle childhood and, for girls, in middle adolescence. Controlling for parent-offspring relationships and sibling and parent adjustment, increases in sibling conflict were linked to increases in depression symptoms, and increases in sibling intimacy were linked to increases in peer competence and, for girls, decreases in depression symptoms.(PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2016 APA, all rights reserved) American Psychological Association Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 431 Related articles All 11 versions Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help