# S41598 021 95330 X

**Source**: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-021-95330-x
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:39:37.851687+00:00

---

The largest and earliest known sample of dental caries in an extinct mammal (Mammalia, Euarchonta, Microsyops latidens) and its ecological implications | Scientific Reports Skip to main content Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript. Advertisement View all journals Search Log in Explore content About the journal Publish with us Sign up for alerts RSS feed nature scientific reports articles article The largest and earliest known sample of dental caries in an extinct mammal (Mammalia, Euarchonta, Microsyops latidens ) and its ecological implications Download PDF Download PDF Article Open access Published: 09 September 2021 The largest and earliest known sample of dental caries in an extinct mammal (Mammalia, Euarchonta, Microsyops latidens ) and its ecological implications Keegan R. Selig 1 &amp; Mary T. Silcox 1 Scientific Reports volume 11 , Article number: 15920 ( 2021 ) Cite this article 7582 Accesses 7 Citations 408 Altmetric Metrics details Subjects Anthropology Palaeontology Abstract Dental cavities or caries is a common disease among modern humans, affecting almost every adult. Caries frequency has been used to study dietary change in humans over time, based on an inferred tie between the incidence of caries and a carbohydrate-rich diet. However, the disease is not unique to our species. Among non-human primates, there is also variation in caries frequency associated with diet, suggesting that this metric may provide a mechanism for studying diet in broader contexts, and across geological time. To date, very few studies have examined caries among fossil mammals, and none have done so among Eocene mammals. Here, we present our analysis of the largest sample to date of fossil caries in a single extinct mammal species, Microsyops latidens , a stem primate from the early Eocene, which is known from over a thousand specimens from the Southern Bighorn Basin of Wyoming (n = 1030). Our results show that Microsyops latidens is characterized by a high prevalence of dental caries (7.48% of individuals), with notable variation through time, reaching 17.24% of individuals from a particular interval. This interval is also associated with a change in overall dental form, as quantified by dental topographic analysis, which measures functional aspects of the chewing surface of teeth. These observations suggest that this species experienced a shift in their diet to include more fruit or other sugar rich-foods for a short period. Our analysis, therefore, suggests that the diet of M. latidens fluctuated over time, as well as providing a framework for assessing caries in other fossil taxa. Similar content being viewed by others Fluctuating climate and dietary innovation drove ratcheted evolution of proboscidean dental traits Article Open access 14 August 2023 Multipronged dental analyses reveal dietary differences in last foragers and first farmers at Grotta Continenza, central Italy (15,500–7000 BP) Article Open access 19 February 2021 Windows into the past: recent scientific techniques in dental analysis Article Open access 09 February 2024 Introduction Dental caries is a prevalent disease among humans, affecting nearly every adult during their lifetime 1 . However, caries is not unique to humans, nor is it a recent phenomenon 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 . Among the potential factors influencing caries occurrence are salivary and oral biochemistry, dietary abrasiveness, and fissure depth. But perhaps the most common cause of caries occurs when dental tissues are demineralized by oral bacteria releasing acids as they digest carbohydrates in the mouth. As such, a diet high in carbohydrate-rich foods, such as fruits, gums, or honey, has been associated with higher caries frequency 7 , 8 . Caries, therefore, provides insight into important facets of the life of an individual such as diet and health, so patterns of caries frequencies in the past have the potential to shed light on the ecology of extinct animals. Whereas dental caries can potentially provide useful information for reconstructing the diet of extinct animals e.g., 9 , 10 , palaeontologists tend to study dental morphology and dental wear as proxies for diet e.g., 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 . One method for studying dental morphology is a series of methods known as dental topographic analysis (DTA) e.g., 15 , 16 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 20 , 21 , 22 , 23 . Dental topographic analysis treats the occlusal surface of a tooth like a topographic map, to which several algorithms can be applied to measure functional, three-dimensional aspects of the teeth including curvature (Dirichlet normal energy 24 ), complexity (three-dimensional orientation patch count rotated 25 , 26 ) and relief (relief index 16 , 27 , 28 ). The etiology of caries has been studied in great depth in humans, and to some degree in non-human primates 2 , 29 . Studies have also examined caries in a handful of fossil mammals from the Mid-Miocene to the Late Pleistocene, including studies on fossil primates, bears, and artiodactyls 5 , 6 , 9 , 10 , 30 , 31 , 32 , 33 ; however, these incidences are rare, with only small samples of individuals showing caries (Table 1 ). To date, very little is known about caries in older fossil mammals, or about how caries frequency may vary over time within a single species. Table 1 List of fossil mammal species previously examined for the presence of dental caries. Full size table Here, we present the first description of dental caries in a sample of an Early Eocene (~ 54 million years ago) mammal, the stem primate Microsyops latidens . This sample represents the earliest known incidences of caries among fossil mammals and the largest known collection of carious individuals for any fossil vertebrate taxon. These specimens were collected over the course of an almost fifty-year field project co-lead by Drs. Kenneth D. Rose, Thomas M. Bown, and (more recently) Amy E. Chew from the Willwood Formation of the southern Bighorn Basin of Wyoming, USA, an area that has produced the largest sample of stratigraphically controlled mammalian specimens in the world 34 . First, we visually identify dental caries in our sample (n = 1030). We examine how closely dental pathology and functional dental form in M. latidens are associated with each other through time using previously collected dental topographic data from Selig et al. 35 , as a means for reconstructing dietary change in M. latidens and consider the degree to which dental caries serves as an additional dietary proxy. We also provide diagnostic criteria for caries in fossil mammal teeth. It should be noted that methods such as DTA pick up functional shape that has arisen out of an animal’s adaptation to their diet. This means that when examining change through time, dental topography changes at a slow pace over several generations. Methods such as microwear analysis (which measure scratches and pits on the teeth that can be correlated to patterns of diet) operate on a much shorter timescale, where the last few meals an animal eats are recorded in the microwear. Should dental caries serve as a proxy for examining dietary change through time, it too would operate at a faster time scale (though not as fast as microwear), as increased sugars in the diet would start to cause caries almost immediately. In this sense, analysis of dental caries would fill an intermediate gap in the timescale that can be addressed. Materials The study species Plesiadapiforms were a paraphyletic group consisting of 11 families 36 , 37 commonly regarded as stem primates 38 , meaning they have no living descendants. Microsyopidae 39 is a family of plesiadapiform frequently recovered from the Bighorn Basin of Wyoming and are easily identified by their spearhead-shaped lower central incisors 37 , 40 , 41 , 42 . In phylogenetic analyses, the family is often found to have been among the most basal of primates 38 , 43 , though this classification is based mainly on dental characters; Microsyopidae sits outside of Primates (but still very closely related) when cranial characters are considered alone 44 , 45 , 46 . Although there is debate about the phylogenetic position of microsyopids and their relationship to primates, this argument ultimately does not change the nature of the current analysis. Microsyopids were the second longest lived family of plesiadapiform, persisting from the Late Paleocene to the Late Eocene, a period of over 20 million years, with most species known from Western North America 37 . Microsyops latidens , known from the Early Eocene (~ 54 million years ago), is one of the best-known microsyopid species, represented by thousands of specimens 41 . The species likely weighed about 670 g on average based on body mass estimates derived from lower molar size 41 . Although represented by a large sample of dental remains, very little is known about the microsyopid skeleton 37 . However, they were likely arboreal, sharing similarities with arboreal primates and colugos 37 . In terms of their diet, M. latidens has been reconstructed as a likely omnivore, relying on a combination of fruits and possibly leaves based on previous dental topographic analysis and comparison to extant euarchontan taxa such as lorises, galagoes, treeshrews, and colugos 35 . The sample Our sample consists of 1030 individuals, counted as the minimum number of individuals (MNI) 47 at each meter level. Typically used in zooarchaeological analyses, the MNI is an estimate of the lowest possible number of individuals represented in a sample. It is calculated by dividing the number of dental elements into right and left and using the most abundant number of any one tooth position as the final estimate 47 , 48 . Althoug