# High Performers Share Their Point Of View

**Source**: https://newsletter.weskao.com/p/high-performers-share-their-point-of-view
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:24:18.540139+00:00

---

How to share your point of view (even if you’re afraid of being wrong) Wes Kao's Newsletter Subscribe Sign in How to share your point of view (even if you’re afraid of being wrong) Sharing your point of view is one of the best ways to add value. So why do so many high performers hold back? Here's how to overcome this mental block so you can speak up more confidently. Wes Kao Apr 17, 2024 142 5 14 Share 👋 Hey, it’s Wes . Welcome to my weekly newsletter where I share insights on managing up, driving growth, and standing out as a high performer. ✨ Work with me 1:1 for executive coaching , or bring me on for a keynote to speak with your team on becoming sharper ICs and leaders. I pour my strategic thinking into helping my clients as a sparring partner and personal advisor. To learn more, fill out this form . In this week’s newsletter, we’ll cover principles on how to feel more confident sharing your point of view. The more controversial the idea, the higher the burden of proof. Update your assumptions about how you add value. Share where your hunch is coming from—because it’s coming from somewhere. Describe why the problem matters, so people understand why you’re speaking up. Don’t rely on your credentials. Your idea should make sense on its own. Use language that accurately reflects your level of certainty. Read time : 9 minutes Subscribe Last month, I did a keynote talk for the wonderful folks at Grammarly HQ, and a great question came up in Q&amp;A. I thought I’d share my reply below because I’ve heard this question over the years: Q: In terms of sharing your perspective at work, is there ever a time you shouldn’t share unless you have a ton of conviction or evidence? When something is a hunch, is there ever a time it’s ‘too early’ to share? I believe many high-performers hold back from sharing their POV because generally people dislike being wrong. They don’t want to risk being embarrassed or getting into trouble. This fear is very reasonable. I can remember times in school when I said the wrong answer, everyone looked at me, and my face felt hot. It was unpleasant, and I learned to avoid being publicly wrong whenever possible. We are wired for self-preservation. And in certain work environments, sharing your point of view is legitimately risky. But I’ve also found that many high performers overly aggrandize this perceived risk in their own minds. Their managers keep saying “I want to hear from you” and “I want you to speak up more,” but they still don’t feel safe. So I should get this out of the way early: If you truly never want to be wrong, then you probably shouldn’t speak up. But if you do want to speak up, I’ve jotted some ways that helped me practice this skill. It took time to unlearn my “stay silent and be safe” mentality. It took baby steps of speaking up more until it started to feel like my new default. If you stay silent, you’ll never be noticed. You’ll never contribute the way you could if folks heard your voice. You’re actually robbing your organization of your insights. Luckily, it’s doable to build the muscle of sharing your point of view, and there are a few concepts that can make it easier. So when should you share your perspective? How do you practice this? Is it ever too early to speak up? Here’s how I decide when to speak up. 1. The more controversial the idea, the higher the burden of proof. The more controversial your point of view is, the more conviction and evidence you should try to gather before speaking up. This is because if you're making a big claim, you need to be able to back up the claim. As the saying goes, “If you come for the king, you best not miss.” For example, if you’re saying the company needs to completely change its focus, you should be prepared to present a strong business case for why and what to do instead. This isn't only about presenting to others—this is as much about vetting your own thinking. I actively try to argue the other side and poke holes to find the boundaries of my ideas: Why might what you’re saying be true? Where might it not be true? What are the most obvious counterpoints? If someone is going to ask me, I might as well ask myself first. This list of rigorous thinking questions is a good starting point. One simple way to test your own thinking is to try writing about your idea —usually when you write, you realize you don’t have as much clarity as you thought. Paul Graham has a great essay on why writing is a forcing function for clearer thinking and why writing is harder than speaking . The hardest part of writing, by far, is thinking. You can use this to your advantage because it’s a free way to test your own arguments. When in doubt, I recommend erring on the side of framing your idea with a smaller, more specific scope, and therefore a lower burden of proof . The benefit is you’ll sound more credible than if you were to make broad, sweeping statements that seem like obvious overreach. Once you gain conviction—and have more evidence to back up your claim—you can adjust your assertion to reflect your new higher level of conviction. 2. Update your own assumptions about how you add value. If you’re a high performer, you likely got to where you are because you’re able to climb any mountain in front of you. You relied on raw effort, innate ability, and stamina. The problem is, this only takes you so far. You can’t only “do” more. If you don’t have a perspective, your growth is capped: You’re less valuable to your organization, and more easily replaceable. If I have to give you step by step instructions for everything, I can hire someone on Upwork pretty easily. That’s why if you want to continue to level up as an operator , you need to have a point of view. You need to help decide what problems to attack in the first place. You need to exercise discernment and good judgment. You need to constantly be forming and updating your hypotheses about what to do. In other words, your point of view becomes increasingly more valuable. Your POV distinguishes you from more junior folks, and distinguishes you from everyone else who has a similar background, skills, years of experience, etc. So yes, continue focusing on strong execution and putting in solid effort. But also, realize that your role isn’t only to do—it’s also your responsibility to develop and share your perspective on how to drive the business forward. 3. Share where your hunch is coming from—because it’s coming from somewhere. Let’s say you are on a interview hiring panel. You say, “I have the feeling this candidate is not a good fit.” Most people stop here. If you leave it at that, it’s too woo-woo and soft. How do I (your colleague) understand if your “feeling” is legit? How do I even begin to assess or discuss it? When you share your hunch, you must go a step further: You must explain where your hunch is coming from. Your hunches come from somewhere. You’ll realize it's from x or y data points, and you're subconsciously connecting the dots. I believe instinct is millions of subconscious data points accrued over time, reps, and lived experience . Especially when you’re building something new, there’s often not enough data to “prove” that you should do x or y. It could go either way, and you can’t or won’t know until 3-6 months later if you were right. What does this mean? It means you need to get good at explaining your hunches in a way that sounds more objective and allows others to vet the idea. And this starts with realizing your hunches are, many times, grounded in subconscious data points you picked up on but haven’t taken the time to articulate. Once you realize your hunch is rooted in evidence, it becomes easier to explain. It becomes less of a random musing, and more of an insight rooted in data points, experiences, and pattern matching. The next step is to explain to others, so they can see how you arrived at your hunch. When you share your thought process with more specificity like this, you allow others to agree with or challenge specific parts. Thanks for reading Wes Kao's Newsletter! Subscribe for free to receive new posts and support my work. Subscribe 4. Describe why the problem matters, so people understand why you’re speaking up. I like to kick off by describing why I think a topic matters because this helps folks understand what’s at stake. It makes their ears perk up. If they understand the problem, they’re more likely to appreciate your insight and recommendation. You’ve probably heard the adage “ No pain, no sale .” My riff on this is “No perceived problem, no appreciation for the solution.” If people don’t think there’s a problem, why would they listen? They’ll probably think, “Ugh, why is Tom talking about this again? Why bring this up?” Explaining the problem (before jumping to the solution) is a good move for everyone, but especially a great place to start for more junior folks. It establishes you as a strategic thinker who can zoom out. When I was fresh out of college, I thought I had to wait until I was more experienced and more senior to share my POV. Now, as a leader and manager, I love hearing perspectives from my junior team members. They have a different viewpoint, sometimes represent a different generation (Gen Z), and I'm eager to hear what they have to say. For example, junior folks often interact most directly with customers: answering support tickets, replying to comments on social media, answering questions in the community, etc. This gives you a rare look into what customers are reacting to . A good manager will want to hear this perspective: what patterns you’re noticing what you’re observing on the ground floor what risks/opportunities you see what you recommend as a next step Your manager may not remember to vocalize that they want you to speak up, so it’s up to you to volunteer your insights until they tell you to stop. If you’re junior, let this be your reminder that the encouragement to speak up applies to you, too. 5. Don’t rely on your credentials. 