# Tesla Texas Factory Law Ship Out Of State Direct Sale Legislation

**Source**: https://www.theverge.com/2021/5/30/22457455/tesla-texas-factory-law-ship-out-of-state-direct-sale-legislation
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:54:30.967682+00:00

---

Teslas made in Texas will likely have to leave the state before Texans can buy them | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Teslas made in Texas will likely have to leave the state before Texans can buy them Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech News Close News Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All News Policy Close Policy Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Policy Teslas made in Texas will likely have to leave the state before Texans can buy them Due to a Texas law that might not change until 2023 Due to a Texas law that might not change until 2023 by Mitchell Clark Close Mitchell Clark News Writer Last published Dec 9, 2023 Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Mitchell Clark May 30, 2021, 1:00 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge Tesla is building a factory in Texas to make some of its cars, but when it&rsquo;s up and running, the cars made there may have to go on a roundabout journey to get to Texan buyers ( via The Drive ). Because of state laws banning car companies from selling directly to consumers, Tesla could end up shipping the cars from its Austin factory to other states, before they&rsquo;re sent back to their Texan buyers. The state&rsquo;s lawmakers were debating legislation that would have prevented the situation, but they&rsquo;ve now missed their chance to pass it before they have to go on break until 2023 &mdash; the factory is expected to be completed by the end of 2021. Laws preventing automakers from selling their vehicles directly to consumers aren&rsquo;t unique to Texas, nor are they targeted at Tesla: they were originally put in place in many states to keep manufacturers from undercutting their franchised dealers, and putting them out of business. Tesla doesn&rsquo;t have franchised dealers to protect, but that doesn&rsquo;t matter to Texas law as it&rsquo;s currently written. Tesla’s CEO, Elon Musk, recently moved to Texas himself It&rsquo;s an embarrassing situation for the state, where a worker at the new factory (where Tesla plans on investing a billion dollars) would have to wait for a car they made to travel to a dealership in another state for processing, and then return to them. That could even be the case for Elon Musk himself, who said he had moved to the state earlier this year. It&rsquo;s also a little embarrassing for Tesla, which decided to build a factory in the state without securing a deal to sell its cars there. There was a bill proposed in the Texas legislature seemingly tailored to help Tesla: it would have let companies sell their cars directly to consumers if they were completely driven by electricity or battery-power, and only if those companies never had franchised dealerships in the state. That could rule out companies like Ford, even though it sells EVs, but might also allow other EV makers like Rivian , Lucid , and Canoo to sell directly, once they start producing vehicles. Tesla and other EV manufacturers have been fighting in many states to get permission to sell directly for years, and have even had a few recent successes: Tesla has been allowed to sell in Colorado (where Rivian recently got access as well ) and Tesla was able to work out a legal loophole in Michigan . As many as 12 states allow Tesla to sell directly to customers, and others let Tesla open a limited number of dealerships . But there are many states where hopeful buyers still have to jump through hoops, like having to mail paperwork across state borders to get temporary tags, or drive to other states to make the purchase: Oklahoma, Nebraska, Wisconsin, West Virginia, Alabama, South Carolina, New Mexico, and, of course, Texas have all proposed direct sales, but the bills have all been shut down, tabled indefinitely, or ignored for years. Tesla even has a page on its website where it asks customers to engage with their elected officials about these cases. Connecticut, another state where direct selling isn&rsquo;t allowed (though Tesla can lease cars to customers there), currently has legislation in the works to allow direct sales, and Tesla and Rivian are working together to try and get legislation through in other states this year as well. In many of the states, Tesla has found a way to get cars to customers, but not without hassle. Gubernatorial reprieve is possible For Texas, though, the wait for legislation could be a while. Elon Musk tweeted in response to The Drive &rsquo;s article about lawmakers running out of time, pushing for a change in the state. It&rsquo;s not impossible that it could happen, even with the legislature on break until 2023: Governor Greg Abbott (who called Tesla &ldquo;one of the most exciting and innovative companies in the world&rdquo; when it announced its Texas factory) could call a special session to focus on the un-passed law. Abbott did not respond to a request for comment about whether he intends to do so. It&rsquo;s also possible a legal loophole could be created, like in Michigan. However, it doesn&rsquo;t seem like Texas lawmakers are in a rush to go that route: Tesla also tried to win the right to directly sell cars to Texans in 2013 and 2015 , and lost both times. Follow topics and authors from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates. Mitchell Clark Close Mitchell Clark News Writer Last published Dec 9, 2023 Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Mitchell Clark Cars Close Cars Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Cars Electric Cars Close Electric Cars Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Electric Cars News Close News Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All News Policy Close Policy Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Policy Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech Tesla Close Tesla Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tesla Transportation Close Transportation Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Transportation Most Popular Most Popular Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store Behold: The Lego Game Boy has already been modded to play games for real Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Satya Nadella appoints a new CEO to run Microsoft’s biggest businesses Everything is terrorism in Trump’s America The Verge Daily A free daily digest of the news that matters most. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Tech Amazon’s Fire TV Stick 4K is getting a new name soon Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom Sony shrinks PS5 Slim storage in the US, too Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads A bundle with Amazon’s biggest smart display and a stand just got its biggest discount The quest for every Gap store playlist ever Amazon’s Fire TV Stick 4K is getting a new name soon Cameron Faulkner Oct 3 Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom Tina Nguyen Oct 3 Sony shrinks PS5 Slim storage in the US, too Jay Peters Oct 3 Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Tom Warren Oct 3 A bundle with Amazon’s biggest smart display and a stand just got its biggest discount Brandt Ranj Oct 3 The quest for every Gap store playlist ever Mia Sato Oct 3 Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories Oct 3 With a Friend like this, who needs enemies? Oct 3 I’ve fallen into Sora’s slippery slop Oct 3 I tried Amazon and Google’s new smart home gadgets, ask me anything! Oct 3 The quest for every Gap store playlist ever Oct 3 Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom Oct 3 Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reser