# bridgealliance.us

**Source**: https://www.bridgealliance.us/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:16:00.520411+00:00

---

Home - Bridge Alliance Education Fund About Our History Our Team Our Board Legacy Network Partners All Organizations All Organizations Bridging Divides Civic Education and Engagement Elections and Governance Trustworthy Information Strategic Partners Founding/Investment Partners Current Projects The Fulcrum Engaged Athlete Fellowship News Ambassadors Healthy Democracy Project Strategic Fellows Collective CMF Democracy Awards Past Projects JEDIs for Democracy Election Overtime Project 2024 US Celebrity &amp; Politician Warmth &amp; Competence Study Catalytic Leaders Initiative Dialogue Policing Initiative News &amp; Updates DONATE About Our History Our Team Our Board Legacy Network Partners All Organizations All Organizations Bridging Divides Civic Education and Engagement Elections and Governance Trustworthy Information Strategic Partners Founding/Investment Partners Current Projects The Fulcrum Engaged Athlete Fellowship News Ambassadors Healthy Democracy Project Strategic Fellows Collective CMF Democracy Awards Past Projects JEDIs for Democracy Election Overtime Project 2024 US Celebrity &amp; Politician Warmth &amp; Competence Study Catalytic Leaders Initiative Dialogue Policing Initiative News &amp; Updates BRIDGE ALLIANCE EDUCATION FUND Empowering Citizens. Strengthening Democracy. Explore Our Projects Bridge Alliance Education Fund projects serve our mission in distinct ways. The Fulcrum, the Engaged Athlete Fellowship, News Ambassadors, the Healthy Democracy Project... all different ways to serve our primary mission of activating Americans to find their place within the healthy self-governance ecosystem. Click on a program to explore! Slide title Write your caption here Button Slide title Write your caption here Button Slide title Write your caption here Button Slide title Write your caption here Button Slide title Write your caption here Button Coming in January 2026! The Bridge Alliance Strategic Fellows Collective We are currently finalizing a new model for the a coordinated effort to harness sector expertise in service of strengthening democracy. In this time of democratic flux, siloed efforts are no longer sufficient. The Strategic Fellows Collective reimagines leadership within the Bridge Alliance. Scheduled to launch in January 2026, this agile, sector-based model replaces traditional top-down governance with distributed expertise, collaborative strategy, and public-facing storytelling. ﻿ We envision a cohort of seasoned civic leaders, each stewarding a vital pillar of the democratic ecosystem&mdash;from electoral reform and civic engagement to pluralism, media integrity, and the arts. Fellows will serve as strategic advisors, conveners, connectors, and catalysts&mdash;coordinating sector intelligence, amplifying field insights, and shaping the narrative of democratic renewal. Our Mission is to strengthen American democracy by fostering civic engagement, supporting trusted journalism, and advancing reforms that promote fairness, accountability, and inclusion. By bridging divides and empowering citizens, we work to renew trust in institutions, expand participation, and ensure that democracy truly works for everyone. News and Weekly Updates A Leadership Transition at the Bridge Alliance By David Nevins &bull; August 18, 2025 Looking Ahead Together The Path Forward Report By Kristina Becvar &bull; July 18, 2025 Imagining The Path Forward for The Healthy Democracy Ecosystem The Bridge Alliance 2025 Survey of Pro-Democracy Practitioners &amp; Organizations By Kristina Becvar &bull; April 23, 2025 What&rsquo;s Next for the Pro-Democracy Community? We Need Your Voice. SUPPORT OUR WORK Contact us info@BridgeAlliance.us Our EIN is 82-3476248 Join our mailing list to stay connected Name: Email: Confirm that you are not a bot. &times; &copy;2023 | All Rights Reserved |&nbsp; Bridge Alliance Education Fund Website powered by Neon One Privacy Policy | Terms of Service Share by: