# Warner Bros To Release Every 2021 Movie On Hbo Max At The Same Time As Theaters.Html

**Source**: https://www.cnbc.com/2020/12/03/warner-bros-to-release-every-2021-movie-on-hbo-max-at-the-same-time-as-theaters.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:54:43.331160+00:00

---

Warner Bros. to release every 2021 movie on HBO Max at same time as theaters Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Cryptocurrency Futures &amp; Commodities Bonds Funds &amp; ETFs Business Economy Finance Health &amp; Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim&#x27;s Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown NEW! My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Stock Lists Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news &amp; videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech Warner Bros. will launch every 2021 movie on HBO Max at the same time they hit theaters Published Thu, Dec 3 2020 1:40 PM EST Updated Thu, Dec 3 2020 4:06 PM EST Todd Haselton @robotodd WATCH LIVE Key Points AT&amp;T&#x27;s Warner Bros. announced Thursday that all of its films scheduled to launch in 2021 will be released on HBO Max at the same time they are available in theaters. It&#x27;s an example of how AT&amp;T is adapting to the coronavirus pandemic, allowing people to safely watch new movies at home without having to venture out to a movie theater It&#x27;s currently a one-year plan. watch now VIDEO 1:28 01:28 Warner Brothers will release all of its 2021 films in theaters and HBO Max concurrently The Exchange AT&amp;T &#x27;s Warner Bros. announced Thursday that all of its films scheduled to launch in 2021 will be released on HBO Max at the same time they are available in theaters. It&#x27;s currently a one-year plan. AMC shares closed down nearly 16% on the news. It&#x27;s an example of how AT&amp;T is adapting to the coronavirus pandemic , allowing people to safely watch new films at home without having to venture out to a movie theater, many of which have been closed because of the increasing spread of Covid. It&#x27;s also a move that Warner Bros. already made with &quot;Wonder Woman 1984,&quot; which will be released to theaters and HBO Max on Christmas Day. That movie was originally scheduled to come out in the summer, but was delayed several times before WarnerMedia decided to release it on HBO Max. HBO Max is AT&amp;T&#x27;s online video service, which launched in the U.S. in May. It costs $14.99 per month and includes access to movies and TV shows. &quot;No one wants films back on the big screen more than we do,&quot; Ann Sarnoff, chair and CEO of WarnerMedia Studios and Networks Group said. &quot;We know new content is the lifeblood of theatrical exhibition, but we have to balance this with the reality that most theaters in the U.S. will likely operate at reduced capacity throughout 2021.&quot; Warner Bros. movies launching in 2021 include &quot;The Little Things,&quot; &quot;Judas and the Black Messiah,&quot; &quot;Tom &amp; Jerry,&quot; &quot;Godzilla vs. Kong,&quot; &quot;Mortal Kombat,&quot; &quot;Those Who Wish Me Dead,&quot; &quot;The Conjuring: The Devil Made Me Do It,&quot; &quot;In The Heights,&quot; &quot;Space Jam: A New Legacy,&quot; &quot;The Suicide Squad,&quot; &quot;Reminiscence,&quot; &quot;Malignant,&quot; &quot;Dune,&quot; &quot;The Many Saints of Newark,&quot; &quot;King Richard,&quot; &quot;Cry Macho&quot; and &quot;Matrix 4.&quot; Universal took a similar approach in April and released &quot;Trolls World Tour&quot; online and in theaters at the same time. But, that required people to purchase the movie since it wasn&#x27;t available as part of a subscription package at the time. In July, Universal shortened the number of days films needed to run in theaters before they were available online through an agreement with AMC Theaters. Before that accord, theaters had exclusive rights to Universal films for 90 days. Disney has also experimented with launching a blockbuster movie directly on streaming. Earlier this year, Disney released &quot;Mulan&quot; on Disney+ as a one-time, $30 purchase. Cinemark, a U.S. movie theater chain, responded to WarnerMedia&#x27;s decision on Thursday afternoon. &quot;In light of the current operating environment, we are making near-term booking decisions on a film-by-film basis,&quot; a Cinemark spokesperson said. &quot;At this time, Warner Brothers has not provided any details for the hybrid distribution model of their 2021 films.&quot; Disclosure: NBCUniversal is the parent company of Universal Studios and CNBC. Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing &amp; Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance CNBC on Peacock Join the CNBC Panel Supply Chain Values Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Ad Choices Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Privacy Policy CA Notice Terms of Service © 2025 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by