# The Rise And Impending Fall Of The

**Source**: https://www.cremieux.xyz/p/the-rise-and-impending-fall-of-the#footnote-anchor-21-143114296
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:11:17.939744+00:00

---

The Rise and Impending Fall of the Dental Cavity Cremieux Recueil Subscribe Sign in The Rise and Impending Fall of the Dental Cavity Another of history's great killers is on the chopping block Cremieux Apr 09, 2024 238 44 31 Share You Have Your Mother’s Cavities Cavities are a communicable disease, and if you’re among the 90% of Americans who’s ever had one, you probably got them from your mother. 1 This isn’t to say that you were directly infected with cavities by your mother, but that due to the everyday interactions where parents end up exchanging spit with their children, at some point, your oral microbiome probably came to resemble hers. You share food, you share drinks, you share utensils and silverware, and as a result, your clean infant mouth was eventually colonized by your mother’s strain of the main cavity-causing bacteria Streptococcus mutans . 2 Mother Feeding Child . Mary Cassatt, 1898 After S. mutans has taken up residence in your gluttonous abode, that’s when the magic happens. S. mutans is a carbaholic—it absolutely loves carbs . The primary way it gets its energy is through using the magic of glycolysis to break down sugar, bread, and everything else it can touch, producing several acidic byproducts in the process. The main organic acid produced as a result of S. mutans’ feeding is lactic acid. Carbohydrate metabolism in Streptococcus mutans. Lemos et al. (2019), Figure 1. With lactic acid in your mouth, the pH falls, leaving your mouth more acidic and hostile to its mineral inhabits— your teeth . The acidified environment begins to demineralize tooth enamel, making it rough, causing pits to form and widen. When those pits are large enough, that’s a cavity. This process has been shown experimentally in vivid detail. In the journal Dental Materials , Cross et al. presented profilometry images of what happens to teeth after exposure to a 30% lactic acid solution. The result of doing this is shown in images a , b , c , and d , below, which are, respectively, polished enamel and the same enamel after 45, 90, and 225 minutes. It clearly becomes much less smooth and vastly more rough as time in the acid continues. You’ll also notice images e and f , which are, respectively, another clean enamel surface and the same surface after 72 hours of colonization by S. mutans . 3 Cross et al. (2009), Figure 3 Acidic environments rip through teeth, and the other bacteria living in the mouth are generally happy to take advantage of this situation, often making things worse. 4 The Revolutionary Origins of Dental Decay We know how people get the bacteria that drives the formation of dental cavities (henceforth “caries”), and we know how they work, but how long have animals had to deal with dental decay? There are currently no publications documenting caries in dinosaurs. We have plenty of records indicating mechanical wear and tear, but none showing that dinosaurs were beset by caries. This might be shocking since some of the toothiest dinosaurs had extraordinarily thin enamel , so it wouldn’t take much for caries to form. But even today, many animals renowned for their smiles don’t seem to get caries despite thin enamel— the alligator is a familiar example . The standard explanation for the co-occurrence of thin enamel and absent caries is that the relevant animals are polyphyodonts, 5 meaning that their teeth are continually replaced over the lifespan. But this explanation isn’t that great unless you believe that teeth are dropped as soon as decay sets in, and that’s not realistic. More likely, the reason caries are so rare among so many animals is because their diets aren’t usually sugar-rich, and there’s just not much for S. mutans to ferment even if the bacteria has taken up residence in their mouths. 6 S. mutans has a special affinity for sucrose—table sugar—, a disaccharide combination of glucose and fructose. While there are few animals whose diets are rich in sucrose, there are plenty of frugivorous animals who have fructose-rich diets. The fact that the first true fruits made their appearance in the late Cretaceous might go a long way to explaining why there are so few known frugivorous dinosaurs 7 and why caries haven’t yet been documented among them. I think this case is further strengthened by the finding that dinosaur teeth often contained fluorapatite instead of hydroxyapatite like our teeth . That means that if those dinosaur’s diets were conducive to S. mutans or were otherwise acidifying, their teeth would have been noticeably melted; not only that, the melting would have produced hydrogen fluoride, killing dinosaurs unless they had some never-before-observed means of resisting it. 8 So we’ll have to start the story of caries a little later than the dinosaurs. The earliest-known example of caries in a mammal was published in 2021 . Microsyops latidens was a stem primate found in Wyoming. This proto-monkey existed for about 500,000 years before going extinct 54 million years ago, so the samples are old . 1,030 Microsyops specimens were uncovered and 7.5% of them had caries, but the proportion of individuals with caries varied considerably over time. In the time period caries were most frequent, every sixth Microsyops specimen had them. Because we also have knowledge about their diets throughout the sampling period, this excess of caries can be used to affirm what I said above: diet matters . The period with the greatest frequency of caries seemed to be the one with the greatest levels of fruit consumption and thus the dietary environment most conducive to acidification. 9 Selig and Silcox (2021), Figure 3. Ancient monkeys don’t have anything on modern humans. The CDC reports that 9/10 Americans have had caries before . Moreover, a quarter of the U.S. population was estimated to have untreated dental decay. That’s a lot of decay, and it’s not unique to America either. The 2019 Global Burden of Disease Study suggested that 3.09 billion people had untreated caries in their adult teeth. If we turn back to the Selig and Silcox study on Microsyops , we’ll see that their Table 1 contains a list of fossil mammal species that had been previously investigated for caries. On the list, we see two hominids, from the Pliocene-Pleistocene and the Mid-Pleistocene, respectively. Look at how frequently these samples—who existed long before serious dentistry was around—had caries: Selig and Silcox (2021), Table 1. To figure out what went wrong in our mouths between early Hominidae and today’s Homo sapiens , we have to look at archaeological evidence. A perusal of the relevant literature shows repeated reference to the seminal text on the matter: Cohen and Armelagos’ 1984 volume Paleopathology at the Origins of Agriculture . Cohen and Armelagos mustered data from twenty-one societies to illustrate a trend towards worsening health during the transition to agriculture. In nineteen of those societies, agriculture brought an increase in disease and a reduction in physical stature that we’ve only managed to reverse after the Industrial Revolution. 10 There are many reasons for these changes: humans began living closer together and with more animal contact, promoting infectious disease; nutritional quality per person declined as meat was replaced by wheat, leading to numerous observations of osteoporosis and anemia ; and through the transition to plant consumption, the dietary environment became conducive to caries. Publications have generally tended to affirm the ill effects of the transition to agriculture . 11 One straight forward example of what paleopathologists have learned from skeletons concerns historical changes in height. Skeletons from Greece and Turkey show that the average height of hunger-gatherers toward the end of the ice ages was a generous 5' 9'' for men, 5' 5'' for women. With the adoption of agriculture, height crashed, and by 3000 B. C. had reached a low of only 5' 3'' for men, 5' for women. By classical times heights were very slowly on the rise again, but modern Greeks and Turks have still not regained the average height of their distant ancestors. — Jared Diamond (1999) Genetic evidence clearly points to the Agricultural Revolution as a critical point for the evolution of S. mutans . A revealing publication from 2012 used sequencing data from 57 S. mutans isolates and three Streptococcus relatives and uncovered evidence that the S. mutans population exponentially increased right around the dawn of agriculture, with evidence for positive selection for fourteen genes implicated in sugar metabolism and tolerance to the higher levels of acid it would produce with humanity’s new diets. The authors noted: Our estimates for the timing of the demographic expansion in S. mutans coincide with the origin of human agriculture [10,000 years ago]…. Numerous studies in physical anthropology have shown an increased prevalence of dental caries in human remains from post-agricultural societies (5–50%) when compared with remains of Mesolithic hunter–gatherers (0–2%). This pattern has been attributed to changes in diet and the consequent increase in consumption of carbohydrates in human populations after the development of starchy crops, leading to the establishment of infectious agents causing dental caries. Our timing and expansion estimates are consistent with S. mutans as a possible etiological agent of human dental caries; however, it is not possible to rule out other oral bacteria species as also contributing to the development of this disease. There’s considerable evidence that our dietary niche bred our dental predators, 12 and there’s also evidence that the dietary shifts that accompanied the Industrial Revolution have promoted extremely cariogenic bacteria . This makes total sense, because even compared to humans at the dawn of the Agricultural Revolution, we have extraordinarily sugary diets. As a species, we’ve socially developed adaptations to caries and other dental maladies, and they’ve been in use f