# Christina Scharff

**Source**: https://www.kcl.ac.uk/people/christina-scharff
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:04:40.058644+00:00

---

Christina Scharff | King&#x27;s College London Skip to main content Opens navigation menu Study Navigation category. Contains links. Press enter key to expand. Study Navigation link in category Study. Press escape key to return to main menu Undergraduate Navigation link in category Study. Press escape key to return to main menu Postgraduate taught Navigation link in category Study. Press escape key to return to main menu Postgraduate Research Navigation link in category Study. Press escape key to return to main menu Professional Education Navigation link in category Study. Press escape key to return to main menu International Education &amp; Languages Navigation link in category Study. Press escape key to return to main menu International Navigation link in category Study. Press escape key to return to main menu Study Abroad Navigation link in category Study. Press escape key to return to main menu International Foundation Navigation link in category Study. Press escape key to return to main menu Language Centre Navigation link in category Study. Press escape key to return to main menu Summer and Winter Programmes Navigation link in category Study. Press escape key to return to main menu Accommodation Navigation link in category Study. Press escape key to return to main menu Social Mobility Navigation link in category Study. Press escape key to return to main menu Visit King&#x27;s Navigation link in category Study. Press escape key to return to main menu Student Services Navigation category. Contains links. Press enter key to expand. Student Services Navigation link in category Student Services. Press escape key to return to main menu Academic Calendar Navigation link in category Student Services. Press escape key to return to main menu King’s Sport Navigation link in category Student Services. Press escape key to return to main menu Libraries &amp; Collections Navigation link in category Student Services. Press escape key to return to main menu Student&#x27;s Union Navigation link in category Student Services. Press escape key to return to main menu Careers Navigation link in category Student Services. Press escape key to return to main menu Language Centre Navigation link in category Student Services. Press escape key to return to main menu King’s IT Navigation link in category Student Services. Press escape key to return to main menu Student Services Online Navigation link in category Student Services. Press escape key to return to main menu Mental health and wellbeing Navigation link in category Student Services. Press escape key to return to main menu Student news Navigation link in category Student Services. Press escape key to return to main menu Research &amp; Innovation Navigation category. Contains links. Press enter key to expand. Research &amp; Innovation Navigation link in category Research &amp; Innovation. Press escape key to return to main menu Explore Navigation link in category Research &amp; Innovation. Press escape key to return to main menu Impact Navigation link in category Research &amp; Innovation. Press escape key to return to main menu Research Environment Navigation link in category Research &amp; Innovation. Press escape key to return to main menu Funding Navigation link in category Research &amp; Innovation. Press escape key to return to main menu Facilities Navigation link in category Research &amp; Innovation. Press escape key to return to main menu Collaborate with King&#x27;s Navigation link in category Research &amp; Innovation. Press escape key to return to main menu King&#x27;s Health Partners Navigation link in category Research &amp; Innovation. Press escape key to return to main menu King&#x27;s Doctoral College Navigation link in category Research &amp; Innovation. Press escape key to return to main menu Our faculties Navigation category. Contains links. Press enter key to expand. Our faculties Navigation link in category Our faculties. Press escape key to return to main menu Arts &amp; Humanities Navigation link in category Our faculties. Press escape key to return to main menu Law Navigation link in category Our faculties. Press escape key to return to main menu Nursing, Midwifery &amp; Palliative Care Navigation link in category Our faculties. Press escape key to return to main menu Business Navigation link in category Our faculties. Press escape key to return to main menu Life Sciences &amp; Medicine Navigation link in category Our faculties. Press escape key to return to main menu Psychiatry, Psychology &amp; Neuroscience Navigation link in category Our faculties. Press escape key to return to main menu Natural, Mathematical &amp; Engineering Sciences Navigation link in category Our faculties. Press escape key to return to main menu Dentistry, Oral &amp; Craniofacial Sciences Navigation link in category Our faculties. Press escape key to return to main menu Social Sciences &amp; Public Policy Navigation link in category Our faculties. Press escape key to return to main menu About Navigation category. Contains links. Press enter key to expand. About Navigation link in category About. Press escape key to return to main menu History Navigation link in category About. Press escape key to return to main menu Strategy Navigation link in category About. Press escape key to return to main menu Learning &amp; Teaching Navigation link in category About. Press escape key to return to main menu Our People Navigation link in category About. Press escape key to return to main menu Work at King&#x27;s Navigation link in category About. Press escape key to return to main menu Partnerships Navigation link in category About. Press escape key to return to main menu Governance, policies &amp; procedures Navigation link in category About. Press escape key to return to main menu Professional &amp; Support Services Navigation link in category About. Press escape key to return to main menu Diversity &amp; Inclusion Navigation link in category About. Press escape key to return to main menu Financial information Navigation link in category About. Press escape key to return to main menu King’s Impact Navigation link in category About. Press escape key to return to main menu King&#x27;s Venues Navigation link in category About. Press escape key to return to main menu Students Staff Alumni King&#x27;s College London Professor Christina Scharff Professor of Culture and Subjectivity Associate Dean for Doctoral Studies, Arts &amp; Humanities Research interests Culture Media Contact details +44 (0)20 7848 1854 christina.scharff@kcl.ac.uk Biography Christina explores gender, media and culture from an international perspective, through theoretically informed empirical research, and collaboration with colleagues and students. Before joining CMCI in 2010, Christina was Fellow in Contemporary Social Thought at the Sociology Department, London School of Economics. Christina has held various research grants from the Economic and Social Research Council and the British Academy. Research Interests and PhD Supervision Digital feminism Engagements with feminism Inequalities in the cultural and creative industries The classical music profession Entrepreneurial subjectivities and the psychic life of neoliberalism Engagements with Feminism Christina conducted empirical research on young women’s engagements with feminism, postfeminism and neoliberalism (ESRC) and participated in various collaborative projects, such as cooperative inquiry research on dilemmas of femininity (British Academy). Her work on engagements with feminism also includes research on the contemporary postfeminist and neoliberal era, media representations of feminism, and feminist activism in and beyond academia. With Carrie Smith-Prei and Maria Stehle, Christina co-edited the volume ‘Digital Feminisms: Transnational Activism in German Protest Cultures’ (London, Routledge). The Politics of Cultural Work Christina’s second area of expertise is in the field of cultural work. Her research project ‘Young, female and entrepreneurial? Exploring the working lives of young women in the classical music profession’ (British Academy/ESRC) addressed various timely issues, such as the racial, classed and gendered inequalities that characterise the classical music profession, the gendered politics of self-promotion, as well as the psychic life of neoliberalism and the subjective experiences of precarious work. The findings of the project are published in Christina&#x27;s second monograph &#x27;Gender, Subjectivity, and Cultural Work: The classical music profession&#x27; (London, Routledge). Christina welcomes proposals for PhD research linked to her research interests. For more details, please see her full research profile . Teaching Christina is passionate about teaching and a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy. She is the supervisor of several PhD students, has contributed to core modules on the MA in Cultural and Creative Industries, the BA in Culture, Media and Creative Industries, and taught the optional module Gender, Media and Culture at undergraduate and postgraduate levels. Christina has also been invited internationally as a guest teacher for undergraduate and postgraduate courses and PhD workshops. Expertise and Public Engagement Christina’s work has appeared in a range of British and international media, such as the BBC, The Guardian, Die Zeit, The New York Times, and the Nikkei. She regularly speaks at academic and public events, nationally and internationally. Christina has also done consultancy work for policy-makers and has worked with cultural and public sector partners. Selected publications Are we all influencers now? Feminist activists discuss the distinction between being an activist and an influencer . Available in French (translated by Hélène Bourdeloie) Creating content for Instagram: digital feminist activism and the politics of class Feminist activists discuss practices of monetisation: digital feminist activism, neoliberalism