# You Cant Just Make The Hits

**Source**: https://dougshapiro.substack.com/p/you-cant-just-make-the-hits
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:15:12.849101+00:00

---

You Can’t Just Make the Hits - by Doug Shapiro Subscribe Sign in You Can’t Just Make the Hits Why the TV Business Needs to Tackle Rising Risk Doug Shapiro Apr 17, 2023 Share [Note that this essay was originally published on Medium] Midjourney, prompt: “professional cinema camera exploding, black and white, clean background, abstract style — ar 16:9” The value of any business, or any financial instrument for that matter, is a function of two things: growth and risk. It has a direct relationship with the former and an indirect relationship with the latter. It’s widely understood that in the past year growth expectations have declined in the TV business. What isn’t as well understood is that risk is also rising. In this essay, I explain why TV has become riskier, why that’s putting increasing pressure on returns in TV and what the big media companies can do about it. Tl;dr: TV and film production has always been a hit-driven business. But the model is riskier than ever for three compounding reasons: spending per project has gone up (duh); risk has shifted to content buyers from sellers; and the variance of returns is climbing because more value is being concentrated in fewer hits. The first driver of increased risk needs little elaboration. Intuitively and empirically, production cost per TV series and film has climbed in recent years. Second, risk has shifted to content buyers (streamers and networks) from sellers (talent and studios) because of business practices pioneered by Netflix and adopted industry-wide. These include cost-plus deal structures, massive upfront overall deals for top talent and straight-to-series orders. Lastly, more value is concentrating in fewer hits for a variety of reasons: the dwindling middle and lengthening tail of popularity means that the biggest hits are relatively bigger than the average; hits are more global than ever; every hit is a potential franchise; and, perhaps most important in a D2C environment, hits have an outsized effect on subscriber acquisition (which I show with new data from Parrot Analytics). The big media companies need to lower risk. The response so far — shifting resources to franchises — won’t solve the problem owing to franchise commoditization (not “fatigue”) and the rising bargaining power of top talent. The short term solution is to revert back to historical deal structures that appropriately share risk and reward with talent and independent studios. The long term, and much tougher, solution is a fundamental rethinking of the risk profile of video content creation. Thanks for reading The Mediator! Subscribe for free to receive new posts and support my work. Subscribe Growth Expectations in TV Have Fallen I won’t belabor this point. It has become increasingly clear over the past year that streaming won’t likely compensate for declining profits in traditional pay TV. Consumers apparently don’t have an appetite for as many monthly SVOD subscriptions as once hoped; churn is much higher than many expected (with a significant proportion of subscribers regularly disconnecting and reconnecting depending on the content available); and content spend remains very high owing to both the competitive dynamic and the need to satisfy newly empowered consumers’ insatiable demand for new content. To cap it off, the pressure on the traditional pay TV business also continues unabated, with the pace of subscriber losses picking up in recent quarters. I’ve written about these dynamics in several prior posts, including One Clear Casualty of the Streaming Wars: Profit (10/2020), Is Streaming a Good Business? (08/2022) and Media’s Shift from Growth to Optimization (10/2022). Perhaps the best way to make the point is a recent chart from SVB MoffettNathanson showing free cash flow (FCF) for the major public media companies (Figure 1). Note both the stark decline from peak levels (Disney achieved peak FCF of $9.9 billion in F2018, not shown on the chart) and the expectation that, other than Netflix, none will re-achieve historical levels of FCF by 2025. Figure 1. Historical and Expected FCF for Media Conglomerates Note: Disney FCF was ~$9.9 billion in F2018. Disney on September fiscal year, Fox on June fiscal year. Source: SVB MoffettNathanson. The idea that free cash flow growth expectations have fallen is widely understood. What’s less well understood is that risk has also increased. Risk Driver #1: Higher Cost per Project I won’t belabor this point either. (Don’t worry, there’s plenty of belaboring below.) It tracks intuitively that spending per project in TV (and, for that matter, movies) has climbed in recent years. The data also back that up. Here’s a chart I showed in another recent post, Forget Peak TV, Here Comes Infinite TV (01/23) . Ten years ago, production costs for the average hour-long cable drama were about $3–4 million. Today it is common to see dramas exceed $15 million per episode (Figure 2). Figure 2. Many TV Series Now Exceed $15 million Per Episode in Production Costs Source: Stacker.com The story is similar in film, particularly among the higher-end productions. Here’s some great data from Stephen Follows . As shown in Figure 3, while the median film budget hasn’t changed that much over the past 20 years (and these figures aren’t adjusted for inflation), the median cost of the highest-budget films has almost doubled. Figure 3. The Median Budget of the Most Expensive Movies Has Almost Doubled in the Last 20 Years Source: Stephen Follows. Risk Driver #2: Risk Has Shifted to Buyers There has been a structural shift of risk from talent and studios to networks and streamers over the past decade too. This is due to several changes in industry practices pioneered by Netflix that have been adopted industry-wide in recent years. Historically, when producing TV, studios (and, indirectly, talent) would bear relatively high degrees of risk and retain substantial upside. (Note that sometimes studios are independent third parties and sometimes they are owned within the same corporate entity as the network/streaming service. For our purposes, I am making the simplifying assumption that affiliated studios operate at arms length from their affiliated networks/streaming services and will gloss over the distinction and just use the word “studios.”) Studios would license their shows to broadcast (and to a lesser degree, cable) networks at a deficit, meaning that the license fees wouldn’t cover production costs. But studios retained backend rights, so they profited from any home entertainment, international licensing or syndication revenue after the initial run. (And, depending on the contractual relationship between the studios and the show runners/writers/actors, that upside was shared with talent.) That’s how series like Seinfeld , Friends , The Simpsons or The Big Bang Theory became billion-dollar properties for studios and talent. When Netflix started offering original programming in 2011, it decided to eliminate the backend. It wanted to build its originals library to reduce reliance on licensed content and didn’t want to license those originals to third parties. It also had global ambitions. As a result, it sought to retain rights to its originals for very long periods (generally ten years or more after the series ends), in all territories. To secure those rights, Netflix need a new template to compensate studios and talent. It established several practices, all of which shift risk to networks and streamers: Cost-plus structures. The most fundamental shift in deal structures was toward “cost-plus deals.” Rather than license shows at a deficit, streamers agreed to pay a premium over cost (“cost-plus”) of generally around 20%. Under this structure, the streamers are paying a premium for all shows, whether they succeed or not. The flip side is that the streamer also owns the rights when a show hits, not the studio. In practice, however, this hasn’t been a great tradeoff. Because they are generally not licensing these shows off platform, there are no more syndication/home entertainment/international windfalls; they have capped the upside . In addition, generally these deals have clauses that increase talent compensation and budgets (and, therefore, the absolute dollar value of the premium, which is a percentage of the budget) if the series extends past a certain number of seasons. Even if this isn’t contractual, the talent has substantial bargaining leverage when negotiating the outer seasons of a hit. A good example is Stranger Things . The first season reportedly cost $6 million per episode and season four reportedly rose to $30 million per episode. Some of the increase was higher production values and much longer run times, but it also included significantly higher compensation for the stars. According to Puck, for instance, Winona Ryder will make $9.5 million for season five , up from $1 million in season one . Lucrative overall deals. In an overall deal, a studio secures all of a writer/producer’s output for a set period of time (usually two-three years, but sometimes as long as five). It pays a guaranteed fee, which is then recouped to the extent the writer/producer is successful over that period. The highest profile recent overall deals include Ryan Murphy ( $300 million from Netflix) , Shonda Rhimes ( reportedly worth between $300–400 million from Netflix ), Tyler Perry ( $150 million annually plus an equity stake in BET+ from Paramount ), Greg Berlanti ( $400 million from WarnerBros. Discovery ) and JJ Abrams ( $250 million from WarnerBros. Discovery ). While these are all as close as you get to household names among showrunners, in recent years it has also become common for many less well-known writers and producers to get overall deals. These deals are all structured differently and the “headline” parenthetical numbers above all mean something different. In some cases (Ryan Murphy), these headline numbers are guaranteed and relatively fixed, in others (Shonda Rhime