# Elon Musk Spacex Near 150 Billion Valuation.Html

**Source**: https://www.cnbc.com/2023/07/13/elon-musk-spacex-near-150-billion-valuation.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:22:17.648431+00:00

---

Elon Musk&#x27;s SpaceX near $150 billion valuation after stock sale Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Cryptocurrency Futures &amp; Commodities Bonds Funds &amp; ETFs Business Economy Finance Health &amp; Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim&#x27;s Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown NEW! My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Stock Lists Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news &amp; videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Space Elon Musk&#x27;s SpaceX nears $150 billion valuation after secondary share sale Published Thu, Jul 13 2023 4:27 PM EDT Updated Thu, Jul 13 2023 4:57 PM EDT Michael Sheetz @in/michaeljsheetz WATCH LIVE Key Points The valuation of Elon Musk&#x27;s SpaceX hit near $150 billion following a share sale by existing investors announced this week, CNBC has learned. SpaceX has an agreement with new and existing investors to sell up to $750 million in stock from insiders at $81 a share, according to a copy of the purchase offer that CNBC obtained. watch now VIDEO 1:25 01:25 SpaceX nears $150 billion valuation after $750 million share sale Closing Bell: Overtime The valuation of Elon Musk&#x27;s SpaceX hit near $150 billion following a share sale by existing investors announced this week, CNBC has learned. SpaceX has an agreement with new and existing investors to sell up to $750 million in stock from insiders at $81 a share, according to a copy of the purchase offer sent by CFO Bret Johnsen on Thursday, which CNBC obtained. The company did not announce a raise of new capital at this time, with the purchase offer representing a secondary sale of existing shares. Musk in April said that the company does &quot;not anticipate needing to raise funding&quot; to further bolster the programs for Starship, Starlink and other initiatives. SpaceX typically performs these secondary rounds about twice a year, to give employees and other company shareholders a chance to sell stock. A Starship prototype stands on the company&#x27;s launchpad in Boca Chica, Texas on March 16, 2022. SpaceX The new share price represents an increase of about 5% from its previous secondary sale at $77 each, at a valuation of about $140 billion. SpaceX did not respond to a CNBC request for comment on the purchase offer. Bloomberg and The Wall Street Journal previously reported the company&#x27;s plan to sell shares. Sign up here to receive weekly editions of CNBC&#x27;s Investing in Space newsletter . SpaceX continues to rank as one of the most valuable private companies in the world, classifying it as a &quot;centicorn&quot; or &quot;hectocorn&quot; – a $1 billion unicorn, 100 times over. The company has established a near-monopoly on the U.S. satellite launch market, thanks to its workhorse Falcon rockets and the struggles of rivals to field operational rockets to compete . Last month, SpaceX landed an orbital rocket booster for the 200th time and has launched 47 times so far this year, putting the company at a blistering average of a launch every four days. Musk&#x27;s company has launched nearly 5,000 of its Starlink internet satellites to date.The service has grown to more than 1.5 million subscribers in under three years since its debut. SpaceX also projected that &quot;Starlink will make money&quot; in 2023, having achieved a cash flow positive quarter last year. It won a Pentagon contract last month to provide Starlink service in Ukraine , for an undisclosed amount. watch now VIDEO 14:56 14:56 Why Starship is indispensable for the future of SpaceX Tech SpaceX continues to spend heavily on development of its next-generation Starship rocket. Musk expects the company to spend about $2 billion on the vehicle&#x27;s development this year. The first Starship flight got off the launchpad and achieved several milestones , but also had multiple problems. SpaceX is preparing to attempt a second launch in the coming months, but awaits Federal Aviation Administration approval in order to do so. The FAA is also fighting an environmental lawsuit over how it regulates SpaceX&#x27;s Starship. But SpaceX remains quiet about the potential IPO of its Starlink business. President Gwynne Shotwell said earlier this year that there is &quot;no update.&quot; Last year, CNBC reported that Musk told employees that the company isn&#x27;t likely to take Starlink public until 2025 or later. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing &amp; Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance CNBC on Peacock Join the CNBC Panel Supply Chain Values Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Ad Choices Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Privacy Policy CA Notice Terms of Service © 2025 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by