# Article.Php

**Source**: http://www.baseballprospectus.com/article.php?articleid=15761
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:50:38.232146+00:00

---

Future Shock: White Sox Top 11 Prospects | Baseball Prospectus Notice : Trying to get property 'display_name' of non-object in /var/www/html/wp-content/plugins/wordpress-seo/src/generators/schema/article.php on line 52 keyboard_arrow_up top search close SEARCH --> Login / Subscribe Features Archive Transaction Analysis Español Podcasts Chats Books Merch Short Relief Fantasy 2025 Fantasy Positional Series The BP Dynasty 101 (2/25) Top-500 Dynasty Rankings (8/25) Top-500 Dynasty Prospects (8/25) Top-250 Dynasty Prospects (5/25) Scoresheet Draft Aid Team Tracker Bat Signal The AX The Closer Grid Archive Prospects Prospect List Homepage The Midseason 50 The 2025 MLB Draft Big Board The Top 101 2025 Org Rankings Archive Standings Statistics Hitting Leaderboard Pitching Leaderboard Fielding Leaderboard Baserunning Leaderboard PitchInfo Leaderboard Team Level DRA-/DRC+ Splits DRA- (Deserved Run Average) DRC+ (Deserved Runs Created) DRP (Deserved Runs Prevented) Sortable Stats (Legacy) PECOTA Download Tools Depth Charts Cot&#8217;s Contracts Injured List Ledger The Recovery Dashboard The Four-Year Injury Map More Gift Subscriptions Jobs at Baseball Prospectus FAQ Future Shock: White Sox Top 11 Prospects Kevin Goldstein January 16, 2012 Share: > Subscribe to Baseball Prospectus Previous Rankings : 2011 | 2010 | 2009 | 2008 System in 20 Words or Less : Two words: Not good. Four-Star Prospects 1. Addison Reed, RHP Three-Star Prospects 2. Nestor Molina , RHP 3. Trayce Thompson , OF 4. Jake Petricka, RHP 5. Simon Castro , RHP 6. Keenyn Walker, OF Two-Star Prospects 7. Eduardo Escobar , SS 8. Jhan Marinez , RHP 9. Myles Jaye, RHP 10. Tyler Saladino, SS 11. Andre Rienzo , RHP Nine More 12. Juan Silverio , 3B: He&rsquo;s a third baseman who has the ability to hit, and could move forward in 2012. 13. Jared Mitchell , OF: This former first-rounder still has tools, but the results have been disastrous. 14. Brandon Short , OF: His plus hit tool is matched with a poor approach and a lack of corner-outfield power. 15. Pedro Hernandez , LHP: He was acquired from the Padres in the Carlos Quentin deal. Martinez could pitch in the big leagues this year, but he has a seventh-inning ceiling. 16.&nbsp; Gregory Infante , RHP: Infante is another potential 2012 bullpen piece. He has a power arm, but does not have much to go with in. 17. Erik Johnson , RHP: This 2012 second-round pick has a plus fastball and slider, but he needs to refine his changeup and command. 18. Michael Blanke, C: He has raw power and a good arm, but there are big questions about his bat. 19. Dylan Axelrod , RHP: His ceiling is a fifth starter, but he might already be there. 20. Ozzie Martinez, SS: Martinez arrived from Florida in the Ozzie Guillen deal. He&rsquo;s a future utility player. 1. Addison Reed, RHP DOB : 12/27/88 Height/Weight : 6-4/215 Bats/Throws : L/R Drafted/Signed : Third round, 2010, San Diego State 2011 Stats : 1.12 ERA (8.0-4-1-11) at Low-A (4 G ); 1.59 ERA (28.1-21-4-39) at High-A (15 G ); 0.87 ERA (20.2-10-6-33) at Double-A (13 G ); 1.27 ERA (21.1-8-3-28) at Triple-A (11 G ); 3.68 ERA (7.1-10-1-12) at MLB (6 G ) Tools Profile: He has closer-worthy stuff. Year in Review : This 2010 second-round pick began the year in Low-A and finished it in the big leagues. The Good : Reed has everything it takes to be a major-league closer. His fastball averages 95 mph and touches 97-98, and it plays up due to his ability to use both sides of the plate and get ahead of hitters. His wipeout slider is among the best in the minor leagues; it&rsquo;s a two-plane breaker that consistently misses bats. He works quickly, aggressively, and without fear. The Bad : Reed is a pure reliever who has a below-average changeup and just works better in short stints. His release point can get a little too low, which gives left-handers a long look at the ball. Ephemera : Across four minor-league levels, right-handed batters facing Reed went 24-for-155 (.155) with 74 strikeouts. Josh Harrison was the only right-handed better to hit a home run against Reed. That occurred in Reed&#39;s Triple-A debut. Perfect World Projection : He&rsquo;s a big-league closer. Fantasy Impact : While he won&#39;t earn saves immediately, he should get them down the road. Path to the Big Leagues : Reed will be given every opportunity to earn a late-inning spot in the big-league bullpen this spring. The path for him to close is wide open. ETA : 2012 2. Nestor Molina, RHP DOB : 1/9/89 Height/Weight : 6-1/179 Bats/Throws : R/R Drafted/Signed : Venezuela, 2006 2011 Stats : 2.58 ERA (108.1-102-14-115) at High-A (21 G ); 0.41 ERA (22.0-12-2-33) at Double-A Tools Profile: He has extreme command and control, but average pure stuff. Year in Review : This Venezuelan put up huge numbers in the minors, and was traded to the White Sox for Sergio Santos . The Good : Molina lives off his fastball, which has only average velocity but plays up due to movement and plus-plus&mdash;if not better&mdash;command and control of the pitch. He paints the corners like a veteran and constantly gets ahead in the count, which allows him to use a nasty split fastball to keep hitters off-balance. Despite being a converted third baseman, Molina has a clean delivery and has successfully transitioned from thrower to pitcher. The Bad : Some scouts are concerned about the depth of Molina&#39;s arsenal. He leans predominantly on his two best pitches because both his slider and change are, on his best day, fringe-average. He has a higher floor than most prospects, but he also has a lower ceiling. Ephemera : The only Nestor to reach the big leagues is Nestor Chavez , who pitched in a pair of games for the 1967 San Francisco Giants at age 19. After that, he had elbow issues. He died in a plane crash in 1969. Perfect World Projection : He could be a third starter, but is more likely to be a fourth. Fantasy Impact : It&rsquo;s not overwhelming in any one area; it&rsquo;s more solid across the board. Path to the Big Leagues : Molina will likely begin 2012 in the Double-A Birmingham rotation, but he could be fast-tracked as a reliever. ETA : 2013 3. Trayce Thompson, OF DOB : 3/15/91 Height/Weight : 6-3/195 Bats/Throws : R/R Drafted/Signed : Second round, 2009 Santa Margarita HS (CA) 2011 Stats : .241/.329/.457 at Low-A (136 G ) Tools Profile: He has huge raw power, but &ldquo;raw&rdquo; is the key word. Year in Review : This toolsy player repeated Low-A and led the Sally League in runs and finished in the top five in both doubles and home runs. The Good : Thompson has plenty of athleticism, but his calling card is plus-plus raw power. When he makes contact, he pounds balls; in 2011, 62 of his 125 hits went for extra bases. He has a good sense of the strike zone, which helps him make up for a low batting average. He&#39;s an average runner who has improved in the outfield, where his arm is a weapon. The Bad : Thompson struck out 172 times in 2011, and big whiff totals will always be a part of his package. He needs to improve his platoon splits, as his numbers are buoyed by a tendency to crush left-handers. He&#39;s merely an average runner, which will likely push him to a corner down the road, and put even more pressure on his bat. Ephemera : In one of the more extreme splits you&#39;ll find, Thompson hit .193/.273/.368 with the bases empty, but became an All-Star with runners on, batting .297/.390/.561. Perfect World Projection : He&rsquo;s a five-spot hitter with a low batting average but a good number of walks and plenty of home runs. Fantasy Impact : He&#39;ll help in the power categories, but little else. Path to the Big Leagues : Thompson will move up to High-A in 2012, but we won&#39;t find out just how big his swing-and-miss issues are until he gets to the upper levels. ETA : 2014 4. Jake Petricka, RHP DOB : 6/5/88 Height/Weight : 6-5/170 Bats/Throws : R/R Drafted/Signed : Second round, 2010, Indiana State 2011 Stats : 0.00 ERA (4.0-4-0-5) at Rookie; 2.81 ERA (41.2-39-13-48) at Low-A (8 G ); 4.39 ERA (67.2-71-26-46) at High-A (13 G ) Tools Profile: He has a power arm, but he&rsquo;s still trying to complete the rest of the package. Year in Review : This 2010 second-round pick split time among two A-level squads and showed flashes of greatness with plenty of holes. The Good : Petricka certainly looks the part of a starter. He&rsquo;s long and lanky, and uses his long levers to unleash 93-97 mph heat with natural sinking action. He generally throws strikes. He flashes a plus curveball and has some feel for a change, and kept his stuff deep into games. He did miss some time with a sore back. The Bad : Petricka isn&#39;t as dominant as scouts expect based on his size and velocity. His secondary pitches are inconsistent, and he has a tendency to scrap them when they&#39;re not going well, as opposed to fighting through it. Because of his size, he can get inconsistent in his delivery, which leads to command issues. Ephemera : Petricka is from Faribault, Minnesota. In addition to playing baseball in high school, he earned a pair of varsity letters in hockey. Perfect World Projection : He could be a third starter, but without improving the depth of his stuff, he could end up as a reliever. Fantasy Impact : He&rsquo;ll be good but not great in either role. Path to the Big Leagues : Petricka scuffled in the second half of the season in the Carolina League, but will get an opportunity to earn an Opening Day assignment at Double-A Birmingham. ETA : 2013 5. Simon Castro, RHP DOB : 4/9/88 Height/Weight : 6-5/210 Bats/Throws : R/R Drafted/Signed : Dominican Republic, 2006 2011 Stats : 4.33 ERA (89.1-95-16-73) at Double-A (16 G ); 10.17 ERA (25.2-37-18-21) at Triple-A (6 G ) Tools Profile: He has a power frame, and power stuff. Year in Review : The former top prospect in the Padres&rsquo; system struggled at the upper levels due to command issues and a dependence on his fastball. The Good : Castro&#39;s physique has long garnered comparisons to a young Jose 