# Super Bowl 52 Patriots Eagles Mailbag Bill Simmons

**Source**: https://www.theringer.com/nfl-playoffs/2018/2/2/16963670/super-bowl-52-patriots-eagles-mailbag-bill-simmons
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:37:52.026120+00:00

---

The Super Bowl 52 Super Bag - The Ringer Discover anything Discover anything Videos Podcasts The Latest The Latest Fantasy Football Rankings Fantasy Football Rankings NBA NBA NFL NFL TV TV Movies Movies MLB MLB The Ringer 107 The Ringer 107 Music Music Soccer Soccer Events Events The Streaming Guide The Streaming Guide Simmons Pod Simmons Pod Rewatchables Rewatchables Big Picture Big Picture Russillo Pod Russillo Pod The Watch The Watch Higher Learning Higher Learning House of R House of R The Town The Town Plain English Plain English By Bill Simmons Feb. 2, 2018, 9:12 am UTC • 19 min NFL NFL The Super Bowl 52 Super Bag Do the Eagles stand a chance against the Patriots, Bill Belichick, Tom Brady, and the TB12 Method? Bill Simmons makes his Super Bowl pick and dives headlong into a mailbag full of super questions. By Bill Simmons Feb. 2, 2018, 9:12 am UTC • 19 min I wrote the original Super Bag in Dallas in 2011, heroically reporting from an overwhelmed city that had been annihilated by five whole inches of snow. The next year, I wrote Super Bag II: Half in the Bag in Indianapolis after nearly overdosing on bronchitis medication. I can’t remember why Super Bag III didn’t happen in 2013, but the reason was probably, “I’m in New Orleans and there’s a casino two blocks from my hotel — Super Bag III can go to hell.” Super Bag III: Legacy Edition belatedly posted in 2014, followed by Super Bag IV: A Little Deflated in 2015. I didn’t have a website in 2016, but Super Bag V: The All-Patriots Edition posted on The Ringer in 2017. And now … it’s time for Super Bag VI. Last night, I met a friend in Beverly Hills for a drink. I was wearing a hoodie with a red Patriots shirt. Our waitress noticed me and immediately said, “I hate your shirt. You guys are cheaters.” I hadn’t even ordered yet. Welcome to Super Bag VI: Everybody Hates Us. As always, these are actual emails from actual readers. Q: Outside of the Giants, my second favorite thing about football is the Patriots continuing to succeed. The greater the GOAT evolves into THE GOAT (all caps = all sports), the more improbable the story: Best team ever vs. Backfoot + helmet. The biggest reason those Super Bowls were special? They played the Patriots! The more they win, the sweeter it gets!! How does this vicious cycle make you feel??! — Will, Brooklyn BS: Nice try. Will was just trying to rattle me because his team hasn’t won a playoff game in six years. Very funny. Q: Just curious — how do you feel knowing that Giants fans will be rooting for the Pats in the Super Bowl? — Ned, Clark, N.J. BS: You mean, because you hate the Eagles so much? That’s the reason, right? Q: I’m 21 years old and I’ve been a Giants fan all my life. Should I just be rooting for Brady and Belichick to win as many Super Bowls as possible? Every ring they get boosts Eli’s legacy even further no matter how many more deep balls he underthrows? — Jamie Magone, Rochester, N.Y. BS: Wait a second … Q: As a Giants fan, I’ve taken great joy in watching the Patriots machine continue to stack wins and rings. As you know, Eli Manning and the boys are the only team to have defeated Brady and Belichick in a Super Bowl. Every trophy they hoist and ring they add makes those two victories that much sweeter. Go Pats! — Victor, Hoboken, N.J. BS: What the hell? Giants fans are ROOTING for the Patriots? I asked a few Giants fan friends and they confirmed that — thanks to Eli’s legacy, their last two Super Bowl wins, some residual affection for Belichick shutting down Montana’s Niners and Kelly’s Bills in back-to-back weeks in 1990, and, of course, their unabashed hatred for the Eagles — nearly all of them are rooting against Philly. Well, unless I can talk them out of it. This is pathetic! Eli’s Hall of Fame résumé is THAT flimsy? You have to support America’s biggest 21st-century sports villain to feel more secure about your two pulled-it-out-of-your-sphincter Super Bowl wins? You have to support a BOSTON TEAM to feel better about your franchise QB having a worse career passer rating than Jay Cutler, Sam Bradford, David Garrard, and Marc Bulger? In 2001, I remember Boston fans (myself included) hitting rock bottom after 15 years of bad sports luck that started with Mookie’s grounder and turned into something of a sports-depression free fall. What was rock bottom? When the entire area rooted for Ray Bourque to win a Stanley Cup in Colorado. I watched the deciding game in a crowded bar of cheering fans in Cambridge; you would have thought no. 77 were still playing for a Boston team. It’s the closest we could come to winning. It was bringing an escort to a wedding because we couldn’t find a date. And trust me — we KNEW it was pathetic. But that’s what rock bottom feels like. The New York Football Giants won two of the past 10 Super Bowls; they have the second overall pick, a new coach and Odell coming back next season. And they’re rooting for a Boston dynasty to keep going? It’s almost like they know Eli isn’t even remotely a Hall of Famer or something. Even the beaten-down, self-loathing Jets fans would never sink this low — and they’re the proverbial 110-pound inmates in the NFL’s maximum security prison right now. If you’re rooting for the Pats and you’re not a Pats fan, the only acceptable reasons are “I bet on the Pats,” “I’m married to a Pats fan,” or “I want 1960 to hang over Eagles fans like a dangling noose.” Q: Also — did you know the Pats are 28–9 against the spread since the start of 2016? 28–9!!! — Victor, Hoboken, N.J. BS: Don’t suck up to me, Victor. We’re pulling the bandwagon over. Get off. Q: Where is your review of Tom vs. Time ? Should I watch it? — Kelly, Allston, Mass. BS: I’m not watching until after the Super Bowl because I don’t want to see something that I can’t unsee until then. You don’t understand how many “Not that there’s anything wrong with it, but is Brady starting to get a little weird like Tom Cruise did?” email chains and text chains I’ve been on this season. It’s fine. Everything’s fine. Nothing to see here. Q: Where would you rank Alex Guerrero’s pliability massages of a shirtless Tom Brady against other famous pliability massages? When I post that video on YouPorn I am going to use the tags #tomvstime #massage, #pliabilitymassage, #itmoved and #GOATboner. GO EAGLES! — Andy, Delaware BS: And now you know why I’ve been holding off on Tom vs. Time . Q: What did you think of the kissing scandal with Brady and his son? Your son is 10 — do you still kiss him on the lips? Do you have any dad buddies who kiss their sons on the lips? — Angelina, Chicago BS: Again, just an incredible decision by me to hold off on Tom vs. Time . Why did the notoriously private Brady pick the two weeks before the Super Bowl to release his own infomercial/pseudo-reality show? Because he’s won five Super Bowls and thinks he’s invincible, that’s why. Do these red flags scare me? As someone who worried in the stands before Super Bowl 42 only because I saw Brady take time to shake Pat O’Brien’s hand, um … OF COURSE! OF COURSE I AM WORRIED! WHAT THE HELL IS GOING ON??????? Can we have Private Tom Brady back? By the way, here’s the Mount Rushmore of ridiculous Patriots-related headlines heading into Super Bowl 52 that appeared in real newspapers and real sports blogs. I made up only one of them. Kiss Between Tom Brady, 11-Year-Old Son, Raises Questions About Parent-Child Affection Have Patriots Surpassed Yankees As Most Hated Sports Team Ever? Yes Tom Brady’s Water Habit Could Kill an Ordinary Person Doggone It: Even Pooches Hate Pats QB Tom Brady! Philly Columnist: Maybe Aaron Hernandez Happened Because the Patriots Win So Much For Tom Brady, Outrage Is Another Way to Sell the Product Fans Are Blaming Patriots’ Belichick and Brady for Eagles Players Being Sick Why Is Tom Brady Ageless? He Drinks His Own Semen Q: In this lucrative era of the NFL, with mega-stadiums, giant video scoreboards, and team-owned private jets, why is it that when a superstar player suffers a traumatic injury, they get hauled off the field bouncing around in the back of a landscaper’s utility truck? — Patrick Keeley, Portland, Maine BS: Because the NFL doesn’t care about its players!!!! I keep telling you! Did you see this video? Here&#039;s every concussion in the NFL this year pic.twitter.com/zyzwciboSj &mdash; Josh Begley (@joshbegley) February 1, 2018 Q: What do you think about the Browns picking a QB with both the no. 1 and no. 4 spots? — Jeff Spiegel BS: You mean for the plot of Draft Day II , or in real life? If there were ever a draft in which the same team could whiff on two QBs in the top four, it’s this one — and that’s before you factor in the Browns’ DNA and the Sam Darnold “I’m Taking A Dump In The Cotton Bowl” Face, which looked alarmingly like the Markelle Fultz “I Hope That Dude Over There Isn’t Videotaping My Shooting Session” Face. My advice: take Saquon Barkley first, let the Giants talk themselves into Sam Darnold or Josh Rosen at no. 2, hope the Colts trade no. 3 to Denver, Arizona, the Jets or whoever else has a hard-on for Darnold/Rosen (whoever is left), take stud pass rusher Bradley Chubb to team up with Myles Garrett at no. 4, then spend some free-agent money on Case Keenum and you’re good to go. I’d bet on the track record of a successful late-bloomer QB (and Keenum) over talking myself into Darnold or Rosen. Also, I look forward to seeing this take get thrown back in my face on @OldTakesExposed in four years. Whatever. Q: Time for your (at this point) annual answer to the “What Super Bowl halftime show song will best represent how the game is going for the Patriots?” I know we peaked with “Beautiful Day” (XXXVI) and “Free Fallin’” (XLII), but last year, Lady Gaga had an unbelievable entry with “A Million Reasons.” The Patriots were giving their fans a million reasons to “quit the show,” to leave the game and give up on their team. (Mark Wahlberg actually took her up on it and left early!) But we had one good reaso