# Music Nft Site Hit Piece Temporarily Shuts Down Following Artist Outrage 110929645.Html

**Source**: https://www.engadget.com/music-nft-site-hit-piece-temporarily-shuts-down-following-artist-outrage-110929645.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:00:24.731941+00:00

---

HitPiece takes its NFT music platform down following artist outrage Sign in Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Trending : Kindle Scribe Colorsoft hands-on This Game Pass hack defers new price hike Shark&#x27;s latest &#x27;vacuum&#x27; is for your face Apple removes ICEBlock from App Store October Prime Day: Best early deals HitPiece takes its NFT music platform down following artist outrage The site aims to sell NFTs &quot;for every song in the world.&quot; Steve Dent Reporter Steve Dent Reporter Thu, February 3, 2022 at 11:09 AM UTC 2 min read Add Engadget on Google blackdovfx via Getty Images A website called HitPiece that has been selling music-related NFTs has temporarily closed after artists accused it of appropriating their work without permission, Rolling Stone has reported. Outraged social media posts were issued recently from artists including Jack Antonoff, Eve 6, and Sadie Dupuis. &quot;Any [Bleachers] NFTs are fake,&quot; Tweeted Jack Antonoff. &quot;I do not believe in NFTs so anything you see associated with me isn&#39;t real.&quot; The HitPiece website is apparently built on top of Spotify&#39;s API. Before shutting down, it appeared to be offering NFTs of songs and albums from the likes of John Lennon and BTS, including photos and album artwork, according to the Internet Archive . Like many other NFT business models, however, it&#39;s not clear what HitPiece was selling, exactly. &quot;This particular grift doesn’t really affect artists in that HitPiece wasn’t even selling files of the songs — just the receipt of purchase to the general idea of them,&quot; Infant Island guitarist and grad student Alex Rudenshiold told Rolling Stone . &quot;It&#39;s still copyright infringement. It&#39;s re-commodifying the metadata (art, song and album titles, etc.) to make money without permission.&quot; Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement HitPiece, founded by former indie label owner Rory Felton, issued a statement. &quot;Clearly we have struck a nerve and are very eager to created the ideal experience for music fans,&quot; it said on Twitter. &quot;To be clear artists get paid when digital goods are sold on Hitpiece. &quot;We are continuing to listen to all user feedback and are committed to evolving the product to fit the needs of the artists, labels and fans alike.&quot; However, artists are skeptical of HitPiece&#39;s claim that they will be paid. &quot;They steal your music, auction NFTs of it on their site, and when they get caught they say don’t worry you &#39;get paid,&#39;&quot; the group Deerhoof tweeted. &quot;I get that corporate types are simply greedy and cruel on principle but what kind of mind could even imagine that doubletalk like this could somehow make it OK?&quot; About our ads Advertisement Advertisement Subscribe to our newsletter: The Morning After - A twice-weekly dose of the news you need By subscribing, you are agreeing to Engadget&#x27;s Terms and Privacy Policy . Subscribe By subscribing, you are agreeing to Engadget&#x27;s Terms and Privacy Policy . About Engadget masthead About our ads Advertise Licensing FAQ RSS feed Sections Reviews Gear Gaming Entertainment Tomorrow Buying guides Video Podcasts Deals Contribute Comment guidelines Support Buying Guides Best laptop The best iPad Best Bluetooth speaker Best E Ink tablets Best wireless earbuds Best power banks Best gaming handhelds Contribute Comment guidelines Support Buying Guides Best laptop The best iPad Best Bluetooth speaker Best E Ink tablets Best wireless earbuds Best power banks Best gaming handhelds Follow Us © 2025 Yahoo. All rights reserved. About Us Reprints and Permissions Trademarks Advertise About Our Ads Terms and Privacy Policy Privacy Dashboard