# Data Dive

**Source**: https://parentdata.org/post-type/data-dive/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:57:59.654756+00:00

---

Article Archives | ParentData by Emily Oster Try it for free --> Log in dewey search Log in Subscribe Trying to Conceive Pregnancy Babies Toddlers Kids Grown-Ups See All Post Type: Article --> Search Signup About FAQs Articles Contact Search Ask Petey a question Subscribe Log in Post Type: Article Sep 6 2023 --> Oct. 1, 2025 9 minute read Common Questions About Coughs Adam Davis, MD Sep 6 2023 --> Sep. 29, 2025 11 minute read How to Help Your Kids Be More Independent Miranda Featherstone Sep 6 2023 --> Sep. 26, 2025 6 minute read Is Co-Feeding Right for You? Marea Goodman, LM, CPM Sep 6 2023 --> Sep. 22, 2025 8 minute read Should You Be Taking Creatine? Emily Oster, PhD In the news Sep 6 2023 --> Sep. 20, 2025 7 minute read What’s Happening to the MMRV, Hepatitis B, and COVID Vaccines? Emily Oster, PhD In the news Sep 6 2023 --> Sep. 16, 2025 6 minute read Fact Check: Vaccine Studies Emily Oster, PhD Sep 6 2023 --> Sep. 15, 2025 8 minute read What Is Restorative Reproductive Medicine? Emily Oster, PhD Sep 6 2023 --> Sep. 8, 2025 9 minute read Has Kindergarten Gotten More Academic? Emily Oster, PhD In the news Sep 6 2023 --> Sep. 7, 2025 6 minute read Is Tylenol Safe in Pregnancy? Emily Oster, PhD Sep 6 2023 --> Sep. 3, 2025 7 minute read Are Sleep Regressions Real? Emily Oster, PhD Sep 6 2023 --> Sep. 2, 2025 6 minute read Do Wearables Work for Cycle Tracking? Emily Oster, PhD In the news Sep 6 2023 --> Aug. 25, 2025 8 minute read Does Giving Families Money Improve Child Outcomes? Emily Oster, PhD Sep 6 2023 --> Aug. 19, 2025 11 minute read How Does PGT-A Work? Kolbe Hancock, MD Sep 6 2023 --> Aug. 18, 2025 11 minute read Talking to Your Partner After Kids Emily Oster, PhD Sep 6 2023 --> Aug. 4, 2025 10 minute read Making the Case for More Research on Pregnant Women Emily Oster, PhD Sep 6 2023 --> Jul. 30, 2025 9 minute read Common Postpartum Symptoms and Why They Happen Emily Oster, PhD 1 2 3 &hellip; 30 Next "> Start Your 7-Day Free Trial No credit card required Full access to all ParentData features Try before you commit 0"> Please Login . Start your free trial Loading... Already have an account? Login QUESTION Where are you currently on your parenting journey? (Select all that apply) Trying to Conceive (TTC) Pregnant Enter how long you've been pregnant 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 Already a Parent Add your children’s ages Add another child Other Please make a selection. Continue SELECT BIRTHDATE Cancel Select NEWSLETTERS These are the newsletters that we recommend Enter how long you've been pregnant 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 0"> Please make a selection. Continue Loading... You’re enrolled! Enjoy your one week free trial of ParentData. --> newsletters!--> --> Continue Your Free Trial Has Ended! Upgrade to keep premium features What you get Unlimited articles Weekly newsletters Live events with Emily VIP backstage passes Ask Emily directly What you miss Only a few articles No email updates No event invites No backstage access No access to Q&A Upgrade now Continue with free plan Don’t miss your free trial Stay a little longer. Your 7 day free trial is one click away. Start your free trial Log out anyway Category Pregnancy Babies Toddlers Kids TTC Grown-Ups Information About Authors Data Methodology How to Partner Gift a Subscription Contact Us Resources Account Articles Ask Petey Free Resources Community Guidelines Podcast Subscribe Subscribe to the ParentData newsletter to keep up to date on everything in the community, the podcast, latest articles, and more! © ParentData 2024 Terms of Use Privacy Policy We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings . Accept Change cookie settings Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies 3rd Party Cookies Additional Cookies Powered by&nbsp; GDPR Cookie Compliance Privacy Overview This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again. 3rd Party Cookies This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website. Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Additional Cookies This website uses the following additional cookies: (List the cookies that you are using on the website here.) Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! Enable All Save Settings