# Coinbase North Korea Threats Remote Work 2025 8

**Source**: https://www.businessinsider.com/coinbase-north-korea-threats-remote-work-2025-8
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:58:45.239607+00:00

---

Coinbase Mandates in-Person Orientation to Stop North Korean Hackers - Business Insider Business Insider Subscribe Newsletters Search Business Strategy Economy Finance Retail Advertising Careers Media Real Estate Small Business The Better Work Project Personal Finance Tech Science AI Enterprise Transportation Startups Innovation Markets Stocks Indices Commodities Crypto Currencies ETFs Lifestyle Entertainment Culture Travel Food Health Parenting Politics Military &amp; Defense Law Education Reviews Tech Streaming Tickets Home Kitchen Style Beauty Gifts Deals Video Big Business Food Wars So Expensive Still Standing Boot Camp Subscribe My account Log in Newsletters US edition Deutschland &amp; Österreich España Japan Polska TW 全球中文版 Get the app Tech Coinbase CEO says he&#x27;s mandating in-person orientation to combat North Korean hackers seeking remote jobs By Brent D. Griffiths You&#x27;re currently following this author! Want to unfollow? Unsubscribe via the link in your email. Follow New Follow authors and never miss a story! Follow Brent D. Griffiths Every time Brent D. Griffiths publishes a story, you’ll get an alert straight to your inbox! Enter your email Sign up By clicking “Sign up”, you agree to receive emails from Business Insider. In addition, you accept Insider’s Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong said the crypto exchange is making efforts to thwart North Korean workers. Patrick T. Fallon / Getty Images 2025-08-22T09:59:01Z Share Facebook Email X LinkedIn Reddit Bluesky WhatsApp Copy link lighning bolt icon An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt. Impact Link Save Saved Read in app Add us on This story is available exclusively to Business Insider subscribers. Become an Insider and start reading now. Have an account? Log in . North Korean IT workers are targeting Coinbase , CEO Brian Armstrong said. Armstrong said Coinbase has made some changes to its "remote-first" policies to thwart those efforts. Some Coinbase employees have been offered bribes to compromise sensitive information. Coinbase prides itself on "remote-first" work, but CEO Brian Armstrong said the company was forced to make changes to thwart a foe: North Korea. Armstrong said that North Korean IT workers have tried to leverage the company's remote work policy to gain employment and then access to the crypto exchange's sensitive systems. Coinbase works with law enforcement, but Armstrong said the threat just keeps growing. "It feels like there's 500 new people graduating every quarter from some kind of school they have — that's just their whole job," Armstrong told John Collison, cofounder and president of online payment provider Stripe, in an episode of Collison's "Cheeky Pint" podcast posted on Wednesday. Armstrong said that Coinbase is requiring all workers to come to the US for in-person orientation and that anyone with access to sensitive systems must hold US citizenship and submit to fingerprinting. Last month, the FBI put out an updated warning about North Korean IT workers who target private companies "to illicitly generate substantial revenue for the regime." The FBI said that the IT workers work with both "witting and unwitting" people within the US. The FBI said US-based facilitators have reshipped company laptops, attended virtual interviews on behalf of North Korean workers, and even created front businesses. Armstrong said that in many cases, workers themselves might be a target and are being coerced to participate. He said that Coinbase requires prospective employees to turn on their camera during interviews "to prove they're not AI" or not being coached. Related stories Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Ultimately, Armstrong said that security risks have led Coinbase to build up US-based customer support, pointing to the company's new facility in Charlotte, North Carolina. "It feels like proof of physical presence is going to be become a bigger deal in a world of AI, deepfakes, just higher stakes for all this kind of cyber crime stuff where in a weird way you see certain areas where remote work goes backwards," Collison said. Armstrong said Coinbase has also made aggressive efforts to deter internal threats to sensitive information. In some cases, "threat actors" have offered hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes to customer service agents to take photos of sensitive information. Part of the way Coinbase deters this, Armstrong said, is by locking down the information employees have access to. It's also by making it clear what the consequences will be. "When we catch people, we don't walk them out the door, they go to jail," Armstrong said. "And we try to make it very clear that you're destroying the rest of your life by taking this, even if you think, whatever, it is a life-changing amount of money, it's not worth going to jail." Check out: Personal Finance Insider's review of Coinbase. Recommended video Coinbase FBI North Korea More Cybersecurity crypto Read next Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know HOME Subscribe This story is available exclusively to Business Insider subscribers. Become an Insider and start reading now. Have an account? Log in . Legal &amp; Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Privacy Policy Accessibility Code of Ethics Policy Reprints &amp; Permissions Disclaimer Advertising Policies Conflict of Interest Policy Commerce Policy Coupons Privacy Policy Coupons Terms Your Privacy Choices Company About Us Careers Advertise With Us Contact Us News Tips Company News Awards Masthead Other Sitemap Stock quotes by finanzen.net Corrections International Editions AT DE ES JP PL TW Copyright &copy; 2025 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . Jump to Main content Search Account