# John Kerry

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/john-kerry/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:55:11.561355+00:00

---

John Kerry - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: John Kerry past is prologue Nov. 12, 2024 Democrats Were Crushed in 2004, Too. It Didn’t Last Long. Losing to George W. Bush was a lot like losing to Donald Trump a second time, with predictions that the Republicans were the true majority party. By Ed Kilgore early and often Aug. 8, 2024 Why the Swiftboating of Tim Walz Won’t Work The attacks on Walz’s military service are weak tea. And they’re being vigorously contested, not ignored like the attacks on John Kerry in 2004. By Ed Kilgore early and often July 25, 2024 How Kamala Harris Can Fight the ‘Too Liberal’ Label The veep should learn from John Kerry and not put too much emphasis on her reputation as a tough prosecutor. By Ed Kilgore early and often Feb. 22, 2024 The Swiftboater Coming for Biden With co-pilot Susie Wiles, Chris LaCivita has brought discipline to the Trump campaign. Is that enough to win? By David Freedlander catholicism Nov. 17, 2021 Bishops Cave on Denying Communion to Pro-Choice Politicians Like Biden After Pope Francis repeatedly warned conservative bishops against politically weaponizing the sacrament of the Eucharist, they took the hint. By Ed Kilgore cop26 Nov. 12, 2021 The New Politics of Climate Hyperbole Are the world’s leaders talking a big game on climate because they want to take action, or because they don’t? By David Wallace-Wells 9/11: 20 years later Sept. 6, 2021 What 9/11 Did to the Democratic Party To this day, Democrats struggle with the fear of looking weak. By Ed Kilgore politics July 15, 2021 Democrats Can’t Win the Culture War With Silence Changing the subject to poll-tested economic policy issues has never dispelled Republican cultural smears in the past. It won’t now, either. By Ed Kilgore contested election Dec. 30, 2020 Hawley to Trigger Congressional Vote on Trump’s Election Coup The circus will come to Congress on January 6, but the man at center ring is Mike Pence, who will preside over a joint session to certify electors. By Ed Kilgore politics Dec. 4, 2020 No, Congress Won’t Help Trump Overturn the Election Alabama congressman Mo Brooks’s last-ditch effort to protest the electoral vote count won’t amount to much. By Ed Kilgore vision 2020 Nov. 11, 2020 Biden’s Popular-Vote Win Is Beginning to Look More Impressive Percentage-wise, he did better than any Democrat not named Obama in a half century. By Ed Kilgore the next act Oct. 23, 2020 Here’s Who Biden Is Considering for Top Jobs in His Administration He still needs to win, of course. But campaign documents and sources close to Biden suggest how the cabinet could take shape. By Gabriel Debenedetti poll position Sept. 14, 2020 50 Days Out, Biden Doing Better in Polls Than Clinton, Obama, or Kerry The only candidate to overcome as big a disadvantage as Trump faces now is Obama in 2008, and all hell broke loose that fall. By Ed Kilgore democratic national convention Aug. 19, 2020 Jill Biden Promises Joe Can End Presidential Empathy Deficit In her DNC speech, Jill Biden portrayed her husband as a man blessed with the qualities Trump most conspicuously lacks. By Ed Kilgore vision 2020 May 7, 2020 Team Trump Goes Negative on Biden Early and Heavily Trump needs to make this a “contrast” election rather than a referendum on his presidency, fast. By Ed Kilgore vision 2020 May 4, 2020 The State of the Presidential Race, Six Months Before Election Day Recent presidential elections show the eventual winner ahead at this point, except for Trump himself in 2016. By Ed Kilgore vision 2020 Feb. 2, 2020 John Kerry Denies Report He Is Considering Run Against Bernie Sanders The Biden surrogate used some choice language to deny a report in which he was overheard saying he may ponder a 2020 run if Sanders’s rise continues. By Matt Stieb vision 2020 Dec. 24, 2019 Does Joe Biden’s Catholicism Matter? If elected, Biden would become just the second Catholic president. But his faith probably won’t greatly affect the odds he will win. By Ed Kilgore vision 2020 Nov. 22, 2019 Getting Hot Late Is Usually the Key to Winning Iowa A good organization and momentum are both key to an Iowa caucus win, but this year there are signs of potential late shifts. By Ed Kilgore vision 2020 Nov. 4, 2019 Maybe Democrats Should Remain on the Defensive in 2020 The Trump Era may call for a more proactive agenda, but the Trump campaign is all in on all the old attack lines — and Democrats need to be ready. By Ed Kilgore vision 2020 Oct. 29, 2019 South Carolina Priest Denies Joe Biden Communion Over Pro-Choice Views It’s an old if sporadic problem for Catholic pro-choice politicians. By Ed Kilgore vision 2020 July 30, 2019 What Does the History of Black Primary Voting Tell Us About 2020? It’s not totally clear whether Harris or Booker will perform like Barack Obama in 2008 or like Al Sharpton in 2004. By Ed Kilgore president trump May 9, 2019 Trump Calls for John Kerry’s Prosecution Under the Logan Act Trump suggested Thursday that he had asked the DOJ to prosecute Kerry for meeting with Iranian officials, but “my people don’t want to do anything.” By Eric Levitz thomas massie Apr. 11, 2019 Congressman Claims His John Kerry “Gotcha” Moment Wasn’t As Stupid As It Looked Unfortunately, it was. By Benjamin Hart interesting times Jan. 11, 2019 Andrew Sullivan: Welcome to Act III of the Trump Tragedy Threatening the unnecessary use of emergency powers to accomplish a trivial political goal marks a new phase in America’s anti-democratic spiral. By Andrew Sullivan politics Dec. 5, 2018 Democrats Finally Splitting With Republicans on Terrorism-Focused Foreign Policy Democrats are abandoning the war in Yemen that Obama supported. The 2020 presidential race could spur a real Democratic foreign policy debate. By Ed Kilgore john mccain Aug. 27, 2018 That Time McCain Almost Switched Parties to Become the Democratic VP Candidate McCain thought about breaking with his party twice, and defying its orthodoxies a third time, but was never that maverick-y. By Ed Kilgore May 4, 2018 Trump Very Maturely Taunts John Kerry for Getting in Bike Accident During a speech that was supposed to be about guns, natch. By Benjamin Hart international women’s day Feb. 8, 2018 John Kerry and Angelina Jolie Talk at Each Other About Women’s Rights For International Women’s Day. By Madeleine Aggeler Jan. 25, 2018 Kerry 2020 and the Reign of the Gerontocrats Kerry is definitely a blast from the past, but deserves a hearing as much as any other septuagenarian. By Ed Kilgore movie review Jan. 19, 2018 The Final Year Gives an Insider’s Perspective of the Obama Presidency Greg Barker’s swift documentary covers the achievements, mistakes, and compromises that make the Obama legacy alternately exhilarating and depressing. By David Edelstein Nov. 8, 2017 November 8, 2016: A Hard Day’s Night and Then a Year of Helter-Skelter I didn’t have time to freak out over Trump’s election. But it hits me now and then, without warning. By Ed Kilgore lgbtq rights Jan. 9, 2017 State Department Apologizes for Discriminating Against LGBTQ Employees John Kerry just apologized for discriminatory practices “as far back as the 1940s.” By Claire Landsbaum Dec. 29, 2016 The GOP’s Bibi-Centric Foreign Policy As Republicans overreact to the U.N. resolution condemning Israeli settlements, their unconditional support for Netanyahu is a rare point of unity. By Ed Kilgore Dec. 28, 2016 Kerry Delivers Eulogy for the Two-State Solution With Israel on the brink of abandoning a decades-old point of agreement, the outgoing secretary of State defends it one last time. By Ed Kilgore Oct. 3, 2016 It’s Officially a No Go Between Russia and the United States on Syria Talks are suspended after the Kremlin-backed Syrian government’s ongoing strikes against Aleppo. By Jen Kirby Syria Sept. 19, 2016 U.S. Air Strike in Syria Endangers Week-Old Cease-fire Syria has accused the U.S. of intentionally helping ISIS. By Charley Lanyon Sept. 13, 2016 Syria Cease-fire Goes Into Effect, But Humanitarian Aid Still Hasn’t Arrived No deaths reported since the truce began, but the fighting hasn’t completely stopped. By Jen Kirby international affairs Sept. 10, 2016 U.S. and Russia Agree on New Ceasefire Plan in Syria The plan