# Disinvitation Database

**Source**: https://www.thefire.org/research/disinvitation-database/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:48:25.021729+00:00

---

Campus Deplatforming Database | The Foundation for Individual Rights and Expression Skip to main content Member Portal Students Faculty Alumni K-12 Educators College Administrators Store About Us Submit a Case Donate Home Store Donate Defending Your Rights What We Do Individual Rights Advocacy Reforming College Policies Legal Support Legislative Policy Reform Our Impact What we defend Free Speech Academic Freedom Religious Liberty Due Process Press Freedom Freedom of Assembly Freedom of Conscience Title IX Have your rights been violated? If you face retaliation over protected speech, reach out to FIRE to learn more about how we can protect your rights. Submit a Case Get Involved Make a difference Get FIRE Updates Take Action Donate Attend an Event Host a FIRE Speaker Be an Advocate Join Our Team Subscribe to FIRE Updates Subscribe to receive emails and texts about FIRE&#039;s work and upcoming events. Subscribe Take Action Across the nation, free speech rights are under attack. Join us in defending this essential quality of liberty. Make your voice heard and join a campaign. Protect Free Speech Research &amp; Learn Resources Resource Library Reports Issue Pages Databases Campus Guides Toolkits Books Supreme Court Cases College Free Speech Rankings Presented by FIRE and College Pulse, the 2026 College Free Speech Rankings is the largest survey of campus free expression ever performed. Explore Rankings National Speech Index The National Speech Index is a new quarterly component of America’s Political Pulse, an ongoing weekly survey that will allow researchers to track shifting free speech sentiment in America over time. Learn More Colleges News Cases About Us Submit a Case Home Research &amp; Learn Contents Table of Contents Share Share with Email Share on Bluesky Share on Twitter Share on Facebook Print Campus Deplatforming Database This research documents the ways and reasons that deplatforming attempts occur on college and university campuses from 1998 to the present.&nbsp; A deplatforming attempt is a form of intolerance motivated by more than just mere disagreement with, or even protest of, some form of expression. It is an attempt to prevent some form of expression from occurring. Deplatforming attempts include efforts to disinvite speakers from campus speeches or commencement ceremonies, to cancel performances of concerts, plays, or the screenings of movies, or to have controversial artwork removed from public display. An attempt to disrupt a speech or performance that is in progress is also considered a deplatforming attempt, whether it succeeds or fails.&nbsp; Deplatforming attempts do not include criticisms of some form of expression and protests denouncing them that are not motivated by the goal of deplatforming the controversial expression FIRE’s methodology details what the Campus Deplatforming database records for each deplatforming attempt. This database is updated every few weeks. © 2025&nbsp; Foundation for Individual Rights and Expression P.O. Box 40128 Philadelphia, PA 19106 fire@thefire.org 215-717-FIRE About Us Contact Us Careers Submit a Case Privacy Statement Terms and Conditions Facebook Twitter Instagram Bluesky YouTube TikTok Donate Share Share this selection on Twitter Share this selection via email