# Heb Prepared Coronavirus Pandemic

**Source**: https://www.texasmonthly.com/food/heb-prepared-coronavirus-pandemic/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:36:56.379669+00:00

---

Inside the Story of How H-E-B Planned for the Pandemic &#8211; Texas Monthly Search Texas Monthly new Turn on notifications for this browser to stay up-to-date with Texas Monthly . Allow Notifications Not Now Sections Hide All Show All News &amp; Politics Politics &amp; Policy Business Health &amp; Medicine Energy Best and Worst Legislators Bum Steers Arts &amp; Entertainment Style &amp; Design Books Music Film &amp; TV Art Sports Being Texan Texas History The Texanist Best Thing in Texas Food &#038; Drink Dining Guide The 50 Best Tacos Recipes Local Favorites Tex-Mexplainer BBQ BBQ Joint Reviews Top 50 BBQ Joints TM BBQ Fest TM BBQ Club Travel &#038; Outdoors Critters Travel Guides Hunting &amp; Fishing Parks &amp; Recs Where to Stay Now True Crime Magazine Current Issue All Issues Longreads Purchase Issues Podcasts The Final Flight of Captain Forrester Viva Tejano The Problem With Erik One by Willie Boomtown See All Video News &amp; Features Arts &amp; Music Style &amp; Design Food &amp; Drink Being Texan Texas Country Reporter Games Subscribe Newsletters Join TM BBQ Club TM Signature Events Join TM Audio Manage Subscription Renew Give a Gift Back Issues Buy Merch About Us The Stand Up Desk Press Room Careers Advertise Texas Monthly Studio Events Promotions Accessibility Tools Close Search Search Sort By Filter By Locations Type View Results Filters Quick Links Topics Index The Texanist Music Latest Issue Texas Monthly TM BBQ Fest Subscribe Log in Read Next Camp Mystic Reopening Texas’s Most Precious Resource Charles Butt’s Art Business Inside the Story of How H-E-B Planned for the Pandemic The grocer started communicating with Chinese counterparts in January and was running tabletop simulations a few weeks later. (But nothing prepared it for the rush on toilet paper.) By Dan Solomon Dan Solomon Dan Solomon writes about politics, music, food, sports, criminal justice, health care, film, and business. View Articles Email RSS and Paula Forbes Paula Forbes Paula Forbes is a senior writer who serves as Texas Monthly 's restaurant critic. View Articles Email Instagram RSS March 26, 2020 H-E-B employees work at the new super-regional warehouse in San Antonio on March 21, 2020. Photograph by Tamir Kalifa The coronavirus pandemic has transformed the country in just a handful of weeks. As Americans focus on the essentials&mdash;feeding our families and ensuring we have the necessary supplies to keep our households clean and safe&mdash;grocery stores and pharmacies have demonstrated just how crucial they are to a functioning society. We&rsquo;ve seen chains struggle with the challenges the current crisis presents. Some stores are instituting policies limiting the numbers of shoppers allowed in at a time, creating long waits to enter. Perhaps even worse, other stores are not, leaving their shops a free-for-all without adequate social distancing measures. Staples like flour and yeast, to say nothing of hand sanitizer and toilet paper, are proving difficult to find on shelves. Supply chains are taxed. And the conditions faced by employees vary wildly by chain, with stores developing new ( sometimes controversial ) policies around sick leave for the workers who have proved themselves essential, and often doing so on the fly . San Antonio-based H-E-B has been a steady presence amid the crisis. The company began limiting the amounts of certain products customers were able to purchase in early March; extended its sick leave policy and implemented social distancing measures quickly; limited its hours to keep up with the needs of its stockers; added a coronavirus hotline for employees in need of assistance or information; and gave employees a $2 an hour raise on March 16, as those workers, many of whom are interacting with the public daily during this pandemic, began agitating for hazard pay. This isn&rsquo;t the first time H-E-B has done a good job of managing a disaster&mdash;it played an important role in helping the Gulf Coast recover from Hurricane Harvey in the immediate aftermath of the storm&mdash;which led us to ask: How did a regional supermarket chain develop systems that allow it to stay ahead of a crisis as big as this one? We spoke with nearly a dozen employees, executives, and customers to better understand&mdash;in their words&mdash;how H-E-B has taken on its unique role in shaping its business around the needs of Texans in the midst of trying circumstances. H-E-B's president, Craig Boyan, left, and Justen Noakes, the company's director of emergency preparedness. Photograph by Tamir Kalifa Before the Outbreak Justen Noakes, director of emergency preparedness, H-E-B: Just a little bit of history: we have been working on our pandemic and influenza plan for quite a while now, since 2005, when we had the threat of H5N1 overseas in China. That&rsquo;s when we first developed what our plan looked like, [as well as] some of our requirements and business implications. In 2009, we actually used that plan in response to H1N1, when the swine flu came to fruition in Cibolo , and refined it, made it more of an influenza plan. We&rsquo;ve continued to revise it, and it&rsquo;s been a part of our preparedness plan at H-E-B ever since.&nbsp; Craig Boyan, president, H-E-B: Justen leads our emergency preparedness with a group of folks, and that is a full-time, year-round position. We are constantly in a year-round state of preparedness for different emergencies. We keep emergency supplies at almost every warehouse and have water and other supplies staged and ready to go and kept in storage to make sure that we are ready to [react quickly] when a crisis emerges, whether it be a hurricane or a pandemic. We take being a strong emergency responder in Texas, to take care of Texas communities, very seriously.&nbsp; On&nbsp;January 15, Wuhan&rsquo;s Municipal Health Commission announced that the novel coronavirus was spreading via human-to-human transmission.&nbsp; Justen Noakes: So when did we start looking at the coronavirus? Probably the second week in January, when it started popping up in China as an issue. We&rsquo;ve got interests in the global sourcing world, and we started getting reports on how it was impacting things in China, so we started watching it closely at that point. We decided to take a harder look at how to implement the plan we developed in 2009 into a tabletop exercise. On February 2, we dusted it off and compared the plan we had versus what we were seeing in China, and started working on step one pretty heavily. Craig Boyan: Starting in January, we&rsquo;ve been in close contact with several retailers and suppliers around the world. As this has started to emerge, we&rsquo;ve been in close contact with retailers in China, starting with what happened in Wuhan in the early couple of months, and what kind of lessons they learned. Over the last couple of months, [we&rsquo;ve been] in close contact with some of our Italian retailers and suppliers, understanding how things have evolved in Italy and now in Spain, talking to those countries that are ahead of us in the curve. We&rsquo;ve been in daily contact, understanding the pace and the change and the need for product, and how things have progressed in each of those countries. Justen Noakes: We modeled what had been taking place in China from a transmission perspective, as well as impact. As the number of illnesses and the number of deaths were increasing, obviously the Chinese government was taking some steps to protect their citizens, so we basically mirrored what that might look like. We also took an approach to what we saw during H1N1 in 2009, and later got on top of it. Our example was if we were to get an outbreak, specifically in the Houston area, how would we manage that, and how would we respond with our current resources, as well as what resource opportunities would we have. Craig Boyan: Chinese retailers have sent some pretty thorough information about what happened in the early days of the outbreak: how did that affect grocery and retail, how did that affect employees and how people were addressing sanitization and social distancing, how quarantine has affected the supply chain, how shopping behavior changed as the virus progressed, how did companies work to serve communities with total lockdowns, and what action steps those businesses wish they had done early in the cycle to get ahead of it. An H-E-B employee wraps crates of bread before they are loaded onto trucks. Photograph by Tamir Kalifa Preparing Employees Justen Noakes: One of the biggest things we&rsquo;ve looked at is what are the impacts to their employees? How they dealing with the health of their employees? We&rsquo;re very interested in what&rsquo;s happening in the supply chain world, and the products that are being affected. How are they running their stores when they&rsquo;re impacted by absenteeism? We&rsquo;re trying to get answers so we can get ahead of this and really understand how the overall operations of their companies are being impacted. On February 12, the first coronavirus case was found in Texas. Over the next month, certain products started becoming scarce, and on March 14, H-E-B announced it would be reducing store hours to 8 a.m.&ndash;8 p.m.&nbsp; Justen Noakes: Going to eight-to-eight has been in our playbook all along, but I think what drove it for us was trying to ensure that we had enough product on our shelves to take care of our customers. That&rsquo;s really what we needed&mdash;we needed a little bit of extra time to stock all the groceries that were coming in. Tina James, chief people officer, H-E-B: [Our partners] have responded exceptionally well. Our volume is up tremendously in our stores, and [as far as] our culture, we are incredibly dedicated and engaged. I have been amazed and humbled by how positive their spirit is, and how great they feel to be serving our customers. That said, it&rsquo;s fairly exhausting work, and the volume has been so substantial th