# Llm Transformer Inference Guide

**Source**: https://www.baseten.co/blog/llm-transformer-inference-guide/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:45:19.126239+00:00

---

A guide to LLM inference and performance Product Product Platform Platform Solutions Solutions Developer Developer Resources Resources Pricing Pricing Log in Get started Model performance A guide to LLM inference and performance Learn if LLM inference is compute or memory bound to fully utilize GPU power. Get insights on better GPU resource utilization. Authors Varun Shenoy Philip Kiely Last updated May 18, 2025 Table of contents Reading GPU specs A10 key specs Calculating the operations per byte (ops:byte) ratio Calculating arithmetic intensity Breaking down the attention equation Discovering our inference bottleneck Batching memory-bound processes on a GPU Evaluating GPUs for LLM inference Generating a single token on each GPU Prefilling with batched prompt tokens on each GPU Estimating total generation time on each GPU Benchmarks for Llama 2 7B Chat on NVIDIA GPUs Optimizing LLM model inference with transformer math Share TL;DR We want to use the full power of our GPU during LLM inference. To do that, we need to know if our inference is compute bound or memory bound so that we can make optimizations in the right area. Calculating the operations per byte possible on a given GPU and comparing it to the arithmetic intensity of our model’s attention layers reveals where the bottleneck is: compute or memory. We can use this information to pick the appropriate GPU for model inference and, if our use case allows, use techniques like batching to better utilize our GPU resources. Many layers of abstraction sit between an ML model API and a bare-metal GPU. Developing strong mental models for these abstractions helps you control costs and improve performance during inference so that you get the most bang for your buck by fully exploiting the potential of your GPUs. This guide will help you understand the math behind profiling transformer inference. As a concrete example, we’ll look at running Llama 2 on an A10 GPU throughout the guide. We’ll cover: Reading key GPU specs to discover your hardware’s capabilities Calculating the operations-to-byte (ops:byte) ratio of your GPU Calculating the arithmetic intensity of your LLM Comparing ops:byte to arithmetic intensity to discover if inference is compute bound or memory bound Practical strategies for optimizing memory-bound and compute-bound inference Plus, we’ll check our work with real-world benchmarks of the model. You’ll come away from this guide with an understanding of the main bottlenecks for model serving and how to mitigate them. Reading GPU specs One common workload is running a seven billion parameter LLM like Llama 2 or Mistral . Serving and LLM in production requires a GPU, but which one should we pick? Suppose we pick an A10 , a good middle ground between the lean T4 and the powerful (but pricey) A100 . Here are the A10’s key specs. A10 key specs There are three numbers we care about here when it comes to inference: FP16 Tensor Core : This is our compute bandwidth . We have 125 TFLOPS (teraflops, or a trillion float point operations per second) of available compute for models in half-precision (also known as FP16) . Half-precision is a binary number format that occupies 16 bits per number, as opposed to full-precision, which refers to a binary format that utilizes 32 bits per number. For many ML applications, using half-precision is a practical choice as it requires less memory without losing accuracy. In this blog post, we ignore datasheet values associated with sparsity (denoted by an asterisk). GPU Memory : We can quickly estimate the size of a model in gigabytes by multiplying the number of parameters (in billions) by 2. This approach is based on a simple formula: with each parameter using 16 bits (or 2 bytes) of memory in half-precision, the memory usage in GB is approximately twice the number of parameters. Therefore, a 7B parameter model, for instance, will take up approximately 14 GB of memory. Why does this matter? Well, with our A10&#x27;s 24 GB of VRAM , we can comfortably run a 7B parameter model and still have about 10 GB of memory remaining as a buffer. This spare memory plays an important role in model execution, something we will elaborate on later. GPU Memory Bandwidth : We can move 600 GB/s from GPU memory (also known as HBM or high bandwidth memory) to our on-chip processing units (also known as SRAM or shared memory). Calculating the operations per byte (ops:byte) ratio Using these numbers, we can calculate the ops:byte ratio of our hardware . This tells us how many floating point operations per second (FLOPS) we can complete for every byte of memory we access. Given the numbers from the spec sheet, we calculate the ops:byte ratio for the A10: ops_to_byte_A10 = compute_bw / memory_bw = 125 TF / 600 GB/S = 208.3 ops / byte This means to take full advantage of our compute resources, we have to complete 208.3 floating point operations for every byte of memory access. If we find ourselves only able to complete fewer than 208.3 operations per byte, our system performance is memory bound . This essentially means that the speed and efficiency of our system are constrained by the rate at which we can transfer data or the input-output operations that it can handle. If we want to do more than 208.3 floating point operations per byte, our system is instead compute bound . In this state, our effectiveness and performance are restrained not by the memory, but rather the number of compute units that our chip possesses. It’s essential to know if we are compute bound or memory bound so we know where to focus optimization efforts. Calculating arithmetic intensity To determine whether we’re memory bound or compute bound, we need to calculate the arithmetic intensity of our 7 billion parameter LLM, then compare it to the ops:byte ratio we just calculated for our GPU. Arithmetic intensity is the number of compute operations an algorithm takes divided by the number of byte accesses it requires and is a hardware-agnostic measurement. The most computationally expensive parts of our 7B parameter LLM are the attention layers , which ensure next token predictions are weighted based on the relevance of previous tokens. Because attention layers are the most computationally demanding part of the inference, we’ll calculate our arithmetic intensity there. Understanding attention layers requires getting just a bit more specific with how the model works under the hood. When sampling from a transformer, there are two phases: Prefill : In the first phase, the model ingests your prompt tokens in parallel, populating the key-value (KV) cache. The KV cache can be thought of as the state for your model, nestled within the attention operation. During the prefill, no tokens are being generated. Autoregressive sampling: In the second phase, we leverage our current state (stored in the KV cache) to sample and decode the next token. We pay a small price in storage in order to not recalculate the cache for every single new token. Without the KV cache, every successive token would take longer to sample because we would have to pass all previously seen tokens through the model. Breaking down the attention equation Below is the equation for attention in LLM inference. We’ll go through this equation step by step to determine what requires memory movement and what requires compute operations, which we can then compare to find the arithmetic intensity that we’re looking for. ✕ The authors of the FlashAttention paper have a great implementation for the standard attention algorithm. This framing will make it easier for us to calculate memory and compute in the algorithm. ✕ Eagle-eyed readers might notice this algorithm drops the scaling by sqrt(d_k) . It’s a minor factor that we can safely ignore. All three steps follow the same pattern: load values from memory, perform a computation, and store the results of that computation to memory. In the algorithm: N is the sequence length of the LLM, which sets the context window. For Llama 2 7B, N = 4096 . d is the dimension of a single attention head. For Llama 2 7B, d = 128 . Q , K , and V are all matrices used to compute attention. Their dimensions are N by d , or in our case 4096x128 . S and P are both matrices calculated during the equation. Their dimensions are N by N , or in our case 4096x4096 . O is the output matrix with the results of the attention calculation. O is an N by d matrix, or in our case 4096x128 . HBM is high bandwidth memory. From the data sheet, we know that we have 24 GB of HBM on the A10 operating at 600 GB/s. With these figures in mind, let’s break down the standard attention algorithm for each line in the implementation, which we’ll then sum to find the total compute and memory costs of running the algorithm. We calculate total memory movement by summing the first and third columns (the loads from and stores to memory). total_memory_movement_in_bytes: = (2 * 2 * (N * d)) + (2 * (N * N)) + (2 * ((N*N) + (N * d))) + (2 * (N * N)) + (2 * (N * N)) + (2 * (N * d)) = 8N^2 + 8Nd bytes And calculate total compute by summing the second column (the compute on the loaded data). total_compute_in_floating_point_ops: = ((2 * d) * (N * N)) + (3 * (N * N)) + ((2 * N) * (N * d)) = 4(N^2)d + 3N^2 ops The arithmetic intensity can be calculated as follows. arithmetic_intensity_llama ~= total compute / total memory movement = 4d(N^2) + 3N^2 ops / 8N^2 + 8Nd bytes = 62 ops/byte for Llama 2 7B Discovering our inference bottleneck Our arithmetic intensity for Llama 2 7B is 62 operations per byte, which is way less than our A10’s ops:byte ratio of 208.3. Thus, during the autoregressive phase, our model is memory bound . In other words, in the time it takes us to move a single byte from memory to compute, we could have completed many, many more calculations than just on that byte. This is a problem. We’re paying good money to keep our GPUs up, but are not using the compute that’s available to us. Batching memory-bound processes on a GPU One solutio