# Biggest Music S

**Source**: https://www.wired.com/2009/02/biggest-music-s/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:45:35.064977+00:00

---

&#x27;World&#x27;s Largest Music Store&#x27; Closing Down | WIRED Skip to main content Menu SECURITY POLITICS THE BIG STORY BUSINESS SCIENCE CULTURE REVIEWS Menu Account Account Newsletters Security Politics The Big Story Business Science Culture Reviews Chevron More Expand The Big Interview Magazine Events WIRED Insider WIRED Consulting Newsletters Podcasts Video Merch Search Search Sign In Sign In Eliot Van Buskirk Business Feb 19, 2009 10:37 AM &#39;World&#39;s Largest Music Store&#39; Closing Down On Thursday, the Virgin Megastore in Manhattan’s Times Square, said to be the largest record store in the world, began marking down merchandise in preparation for its eventual closure, which will happen in April, according to a Virgin MegaStore spokeswoman. If the writing wasn’t already on the wall for traditional music retailers, it is now. […] Save Story Save this story Save Story Save this story On Thursday, the Virgin Megastore in Manhattan&#x27;s Times Square, said to be the largest record store in the world, began marking down merchandise in preparation for its eventual closure, which will happen in April, according to a Virgin MegaStore spokeswoman. If the writing wasn&#x27;t already on the wall for traditional music retailers, it is now. &quot;This sale will give our loyal shoppers one last chance to browse the world&#x27;s largest music store,&quot; stated Virgin Entertainment Group CEO Simon Wright. &quot;We&#x27;ll be offering discount prices on items that might be difficult to find in the days to come, and we hope our customers have a lot of fun shopping this final sale.&quot; No matter how cheap those items get, or how hard they might be to find in physical form, they&#x27;ll still be cheaper and more available via imeem, YouTube, bit torrent and the rest -- which is sort of the point here. The Times Square location will be survived by five remaining Virgin MegaStores in the United States. See Also: &#x27;World&#x27;s Greatest Record Collection&#x27; for Sale on eBay Second Life Slowly Turning into a Record Store Record Stores: Be an &#x27;Institution&#x27; or Perish ITunes Music Store: Over Five Billion Songs Served Photo: kennymatic Topics Music Read More Lenovo’s New Laptop Concept Can Swivel the Screen From Landscape to Portrait The 14-inch ThinkBook VertiFlex Concept has a screen you can manually twist whenever the mood strikes. Get These Deconstructed Old-School Gadget Art Pieces at a Discount Right Now Grid Studio is celebrating its 5th anniversary with a 20 percent off sitewide sale. Its art pieces include deconstructed iPhones, Game Boys, and even the original Samsung Galaxy S. Gear News of the Week: Google’s Next-Gen Nest Cams Are Coming, and Sony Debuts a New Xperia Phone Plus: Qualcomm unveils Quick Charge 5+, Solo Stove has an easier-to-light firepit, Nikon debuts a cinema camera, and xMEMS upgrades the bass on its headphone tech. For One Glorious Morning, a Website Saved San Francisco From Parking Tickets The serial website builder Riley Walz launched a project that tracked San Francisco parking enforcement in real time&#8212;until the public data feed was cut off. Can Qualcomm’s New Snapdragon X2 Chips Beat a MacBook? Initial Tests Show Promise We ran some early benchmarks on reference units to see how Qualcomm&#39;s new Snapdragon X2 Elite chip stacks up to the competition. Everything You Need to Know About USB Ports and Speeds USB-C was supposed to make everything simple. Instead, it’s more complicated than ever. So let’s clear up the confusion. Your Favorite Streamer’s DJI Mic Kit Is Just $109 Right Now&#8212;That’s $60 Off Show off your social side with this kit from DJI, which includes two microphones and a charging case. Our reviewers love it. Save $100 on Apple’s Small but Mighty iPad Mini Apple’s iPad Mini sports a new CPU and better cameras, and you’ll save a few bucks. USA Today Enters Its Gen AI Era With a Chatbot DeeperDive, a new tool that converses with readers, is an effort to beat the AI industry at its own game. Save $36 on a Cool, Compact Hall Effect Keyboard The Keychron Q1 HE brings our favorite new type of keyboard switch to the mainstream. Save $70 on One of Our Favorite Android Tablets Samsung’s Galaxy Tab S10 FE, a solid mid-tier tablet, is now $430 on Amazon. Google Injects Gemini Into Chrome as AI Browsers Go Mainstream Google weaving Gemini further into the popular Chrome browser is an inflection point for AI in our software, although some users will still be looking for the “off” switch. WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries. Subscribe Newsletters Travel FAQ WIRED Staff WIRED Education Editorial Standards Archive RSS Accessibility Help Reviews Buying Guides Mattresses Electric Bikes Soundbars Streaming Guides Wearables TVs Coupons Gift Guides Advertise Contact Us Manage Account Jobs Press Center Condé Nast Store User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron Italia Japón Czech Republic &amp; Slovakia Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok