# Hilton Surpass Vs World Of Hyatt Card

**Source**: https://thepointsguy.com/news/hilton-surpass-vs-world-of-hyatt-card/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:10:26.128884+00:00

---

World of Hyatt card vs. Hilton Surpass card: Battle of the mid-tier hotel credit cards - The Points Guy Skip to content Menu Go to Home Page Subscribe Advertiser disclosure Search The Points Guy Advertiser disclosure ADVERTISEMENT News World of Hyatt card vs. Hilton Surpass card: Battle of the mid-tier hotel credit cards Danyal Ahmed Danyal Ahmed Credit card writer Credit card writer Danyal Ahmed is an avid traveler, averaging about 100,000 aeronautical miles per year. He regularly applies that knowledge and his expertise in credit cards to his role as a credit card writer at TPG. Chris Dong Chris Dong Contributor Chris was a reporter at The Points Guy, where he covered the intersection of credit card rewards and travel. At TPG, he wrote a broad array of stories ranging from in-depth features and reports to trending travel news as it related to loyalty, card benefits and consumer behavior. also contributed to this story Jan. 06, 2025 • 12 min read Jump to section Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Copy URL Email The cards we feature here are from partners who compensate us when you are approved through our site, and this may impact how or where these products appear. We don’t cover all available credit cards, but our analysis, reviews, and opinions are entirely from our editorial team. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information. Although sometimes overlooked, hotel credit cards can be a lucrative addition to any wallet. Many of these cards offer generous welcome offers, incredible hotel redemptions and free night perks. We&#x27;ll look at two mid-tier hotel credit cards: the World of Hyatt Credit Card (see rates and fees ) and the Hilton Honors American Express Surpass® Card . The World of Hyatt card has a reasonable $95 annual fee, whereas the Hilton Surpass has a moderate $150 annual fee (see rates and fees ). World of Hyatt vs. Hilton Surpass overview World of Hyatt card Hilton Surpass card Welcome offer Earn up to 60,000 bonus points: 30,000 bonus points after spending $3,000 in the first three months from account opening and up to 30,000 more by earning 2 bonus points per dollar spent in the first six months from account opening on purchases that normally earn 1 bonus point, on up to $15,000 spent. Earn 155,000 Hilton Honors bonus points after spending $3,000 on purchases in the first six months of card membership. Free night award Earn a free night at a Category 1-4 Hyatt hotel or resort every year after your cardmember anniversary and an extra free Category 1-4 night after spending $15,000 in a calendar year. Earn a free night reward after spending $15,000 on eligible purchases on your card in a calendar year. Earning points 4 points per dollar at participating Hyatt hotels 2 points per dollar on local transit and commuting, restaurants, airline tickets purchased directly and fitness club and gym memberships 1 point per dollar on all other purchases 12 points per dollar at participating Hilton hotels 6 points per dollar at U.S. restaurants, U.S. gas stations and U.S. supermarkets 4 points per dollar on U.S. online retail purchases 3 points per dollar on all other eligible purchases Elite status Discoverist status Hilton Honors Gold; upgrade to Diamond by spending $40,000 in a calendar year Redeeming points Fixed award chart with nightly redemptions starting at 5,000 Hyatt points Dynamic award chart Statement credits None Up to $200 annually (up to $50 each quarter) toward Hilton purchases Benefits No foreign transaction fees Travel and shopping protections No foreign transaction fees (see rates and fees ) Travel and shopping protections National Car Rental Emerald Club Executive status Enrollment is required for select benefits. World of Hyatt vs. Hilton Surpass welcome offer The Hilton Surpass currently has a welcome offer where you can earn 155,000 Hilton Honors bonus points after spending $3,000 on purchases in the first six months of card membership. Hilton Honors points are worth 0.5 cents, according to TPG&#x27;s June 2025 valuations , so the welcome bonus is valued at $775. Meanwhile, the World of Hyatt Credit Card offers new applicants to earn up to 60,000 bonus points: 30,000 bonus points after spending $3,000 in the first three months from account opening and up to 30,000 more by earning 2 bonus points per dollar spent in the first six months from account opening on purchases that normally earn 1 bonus point, on up to $15,000 spent. World of Hyatt points are worth 1.7 cents each (according to TPG&#x27;s June 2025 valuations ), so the welcome bonus is worth up to $1,020. THE POINTS GUY The Hyatt card is issued by Chase, which means it&#x27;s subject to the restrictions of 5/24 . You will not be approved for this card if you have opened five or more personal credit cards across all banks in the last 24 months. Winner: Hilton Honors Surpass, as it requires less spending to earn the bonus. Related: The award traveler&#x27;s guide to Hilton Honors and The ultimate guide to the World of Hyatt World of Hyatt vs. Hilton Surpass benefits The Hilton Surpass and the World of Hyatt card offer elite status with their respective brands, but the Hilton card goes one step further. Hilton Surpass cardholders receive automatic Hilton Gold status. Hilton Gold status is very valuable based on its perks at Hilton portfolio properties. Gold status perks include bonus points on stays and space-available upgrades for up to executive rooms. Terms apply. Daily Newsletter Reward your inbox with the TPG Daily newsletter Join over 700,000 readers for breaking news, in-depth guides and exclusive deals from TPG’s experts Email address Sign up By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy . You may unsubscribe at any time. If you spend more than $40,000 on the card in a calendar year, you&#x27;ll be bumped to top-tier Hilton Diamond status through the end of the next calendar year. CLINT HENDERSON/THE POINTS GUY Meanwhile, World of Hyatt cardholders get automatic entry-level Discoverist status, with benefits such as late checkout, preferred rooms and a 10% points bonus on eligible purchases. Discoverist status is as valuable as other hotel statuses but is still useful. Both of these mid-tier hotel cards offer a free night award — but differ in how you earn it. For the Hilton Surpass, you&#x27;ll receive a complimentary free night reward after you spend $15,000 on your card in a calendar year. You can use this free night at almost any Hilton property worldwide. Even the most expensive Hilton properties (think Conrads and Waldorfs) qualify for this free night reward. Terms apply. WALDORF ASTORIA AMSTERDAM/FACEBOOK The World of Hyatt card offers an annual free night certificate at a Category 1-4 Hyatt property, which you&#x27;ll receive every account anniversary. This can be worth much more than the card&#x27;s $95 annual fee but does not include more premium properties in the Hyatt portfolio. However, you can also get a second Category 1-4 free night certificate after spending $15,000 in a calendar year. Compared to the Surpass, you&#x27;ll essentially be getting two free nights versus one night with the Hilton — with the caveat being the Hilton night can be at a super high-end property. The Surpass also offers a statement credit of up to $200 per calendar year at eligible Hilton properties. Cardmembers receive up to $50 in statement credit each quarter when using their Hilton Surpass made directly with a Hilton property. Eligible purchases include room rates and incidental charges at Hilton portfolio properties. Additionally, Surpass cardholders receive Emerald Club Executive status with National Car Rental and various travel and shopping protections. The card&#x27;s no foreign transaction fees are also a great benefit when using it outside the U.S. BECKER BREDEL/ULLSTEIN BILD VIA GETTY IMAGES Meanwhile, the World of Hyatt card also provides several purchase and travel protections, along with no foreign transaction fees. You can also earn five elite qualifying nights every year you have the card, with the opportunity to earn even more elite credit. Also, every $5,000 spent on the card will earn you two additional qualifying nights. Winner: Surpass. It has superior elite status and a $200 Hilton statement credit per calendar year. Related: The best Hyatt Category 4 hotels to maximize your free night award certificate Earning points with the World of Hyatt vs. Hilton Surpass With the Hilton Surpass , you&#x27;ll receive Hilton Honors points at the following rates: 12 points per dollar at participating Hilton hotels 6 points per dollar on dining at U.S. restaurants , U.S. gas stations and U.S. supermarkets 4 points per dollar on U.S. online retail purchases 3 points per dollar on all other eligible purchases Based on TPG&#x27;s June 2024 valuations , this equates to a return on spending of 6%, 3%, 2% and 1.5%, respectively. FREDERIC J. BROWN/AFP/GETTY IMAGES Meanwhile, the World of Hyatt card earns bonus points with these categories: 4 points per dollar at participating Hyatt hotels 2 points per dollar on local transit and commuting , restaurants , airline tickets purchased directly and fitness club and gym memberships 1 point per dollar on all other purchases This equates to a return on spending of 6.8%, 3.4% and 1.7%, respectively, according to TPG&#x27;s June 2025 valuations . Winner: World of Hyatt. Considering TPG&#x27;s June 2025 valuations , World of Hyatt points are worth much more than Hilton, and both cards have a very similar earning structure. Related: What&#x27;s the best Hilton card for you? Redeeming points with the World of Hyatt vs. Hilton Surpass Your best bet for both of these cards will be to redeem for hotel stays with each respective brand. Hilton has a much larger global footprint than Hyatt, so consider that when dec