# The Tools We Use

**Source**: http://frequentmiler.boardingarea.com/2014/06/30/the-tools-we-use/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:46:46.406148+00:00

---

The Tools We Use (for playing the points and miles game) back to top Facebook Instagram RSS Twitter Beginner&#8217;s Guide Best Credit Card Offers Best Offers Card Exploration Tool (Beta) All Credit Cards American Express Bank Of America Barclays Capital One Chase Citibank Discover TD Bank US Bank Wells Fargo Other Cards How-Tos &#038; Guides Podcasts Frequent Miler On The Air Frequent Miler “Ask Us Anything” Blog About Us Annual Team Challenges Contact Search Best Offers Beginners Subscribe Beginner&#8217;s Guide Best Credit Card Offers Best Offers Card Exploration Tool (Beta) All Credit Cards American Express Bank Of America Barclays Capital One Chase Citibank Discover TD Bank US Bank Wells Fargo Other Cards How-Tos &#038; Guides Airlines American Airlines British Airways Delta Southwest United Hotels Hotel Reviews Marriott Hyatt Hilton IHG Best Rate Guarantees Points & Miles What Are Points Worth? Amex Membership Rewards Capital One “Miles” Chase Ultimate Rewards Citi ThankYou Rewards Bilt Rewards Current Transfer Bonuses Transfer Partner Master List Booking Awards Which Award Booking Tools is Best Best Awards by Destination Best Options for Domestic First Class Booking Partner Award Flights Cancelation & Change Fees CREDIT CARD SPEND Credit Card Spend Guide Best Rewards for Everyday Spend Best Category Bonuses Best Big Spend Bonuses Visa and MasterCard Gift Cards Pay Taxes via Credit Card Pay Bills via Credit Card with Plastiq Earn Miles for College PODCAST & YOUTUBE Frequent Miler on the Air Ask Us Anything, Live MORE Transferable Points Booking Awards Managing Miles Credit Card Bonuses Credit Card Spend Credit Card Benefits Stacking Deals More Ways to Save Start Here Check out our Beginner's Guide if you're just getting started... Read more Podcasts Frequent Miler On The Air Frequent Miler “Ask Us Anything” Blog About Us Annual Team Challenges Contact Subscribe Search... Featured Article Points and Miles The Tools We Use (for playing the points and miles game) By Greg The Frequent Miler - April 30, 2025 47 Disclosure: With some of the tools in this post, Frequent Miler will earn a commission if you sign up through our link. The post &#8220; The Games We Play ,&#8221; outlines some of the top techniques for earning more points &amp; miles, for getting more out of our points &amp; miles, for saving money, and getting elite perks for less. In this post, you&#8217;ll find the tools we use to help us achieve these goals. JUMP TO SECTION Toggle General tools for playing the miles and points game Tools for earning more points &amp; miles Credit card bonuses Credit card bonus categories Shopping portals and card-linked offers Increase credit card spending Award bookings Transferable Points Hotel awards Flight awards More flight award tools Deal seeking Flight deals Hotel deals Car Rental Deals Other travel deals Non-travel deals Elite perks What should beginners do? General tools for playing the miles and points game Podcasts : Listening to podcasts can be a great way to get up to speed. We publish our &#8220;Frequent Miler on the Air&#8221; podcast every Tuesday and Friday on all popular podcast platforms. YouTube : Like podcasts, YouTube videos can be a great way to learn. On our Youtube Channel, we publish our podcast in video form, host &#8220;Ask Us Anything&#8221; question and answer sessions, and post &#8220;How-To&#8221; and other miscellaneous videos. Subscribe to our Youtube channel here. Social media : Instagram and Facebook are the top public options for interacting with us. Join the Frequent Miler Insiders Facebook group to ask questions and learn from others. For post notifications, you can also follow us on X (Twitter) , Bluesky , and Threads . News readers : Use a news reader, such as Feedly , to subscribe to blogs like Frequent Miler. Forums : Reddit Churning and Flyertalk are filled with great information provided by forum members. AwardWallet : Use this web app and mobile app to keep track of points and miles across many different programs. Understand your credit : How new credit cards can impact your credit score Complete Guide to Free Credit Scores, Reports, and Monitoring Tools for earning more points &amp; miles The heart of this game lies in earning points &amp; miles, usually without traveling. Here are some of the top tools for miles &amp; points. Credit card bonuses Credit card welcome bonuses are the quickest and easiest way to earn crazy amounts of points &amp; miles quickly. We use these tools to make the most of it: Travel Freely : Use this free website to track your credit card signups, to remind you when to cancel cards, and to intelligently recommend new cards. You can read my take on this tool here: Take the stress out of credit card bonus hunting: Travel Freely . Frequent Miler&#8217;s Best Credit Card Offers page: Lists all of the best public offers along with application tips for each card issuer. Offers are automatically sorted by estimated first year value. Greg’s top 10 picks : Lists my favorite current offers along with a short explanation for why each card made it to my top 10 list. Credit card bonus categories Many credit cards offer extra points for spend within certain categories. Best category bonuses : Visit this page to see which cards have the best bonuses for different categories of spend (e.g. drug stores, gas stations, dining, etc.) Award Wallet Merchant Category Lookup Tool . In addition to keeping track of your point balances, Award Wallet provides an easy way to lookup merchants to see how those merchants have been coded so that you can determine whether or not you&#8217;ll earn a category bonus. Doctor of Credit&#8217;s Payment Workshop : Doctor of Credit maintains a table indicating whether or not various purchases earned category bonuses with various cards. The data mostly comes from reader reports. Shopping portals and card-linked offers If you&#8217;re planning to buy something online, you might as well earn extra miles, points or cash back by starting your shopping with an online shopping portal. Use these tools to maximize your rewards: SaveWise : Shows the best portal options and card-linked offers for online shopping. See: Savewise &#8212; An awesome shopping tool (compare portals + find stacks) CardPointers : Automatically enroll all of your cards in card-linked offers (Amex Offers, Chase Offers, Citi Merchant Offers, etc.). This functionality overlaps with SaveWise. At the time of this writing, CardPointers doesn&#8217;t help with finding portals, but it has more extensive options for automatically enrolling in card-linked offers. For details, see: CardPointers &#8212; Automatically enroll offers to all of your cards . See also: Top 6 shopping portal myths . Increase credit card spending It&#8217;s possible to increase credit card spend without draining your bank account. Start here: Guide to increasing credit card spend Also see: Staying organized: A sheet for gift card purchases Complete guide to paying taxes via credit card, debit card, or gift card Best Options for Buying Visa and Mastercard Gift Cards Increase Spend (and do good) with Kiva and Kivalens Rewards for Charitable Giving Award bookings Once you&#8217;ve earned points and miles, the next step of the game is to use those points towards maximum value. Here are concepts and tools for getting more out of your points and miles&#8230; Transferable Points Transferable points, such as Chase Ultimate Rewards, Amex Membership Rewards, Citi ThankYou Rewards, Capital One Miles, and more are awesome because they make it possible to find the best award deals and then transfer your points to the appropriate program to book those deals. Here are some helpful resources: Current Transfer Bonuses : There are often bonuses when transferring points to airline or hotel programs. Use this page to see which bonuses are current and which have expired (the latter gives you an idea of whether to wait in the hopes that a similar bonus will happen again). Complete List of Transferable Points Partners : Use this page to find all transfer options from major transferable points programs. Hotel awards For a comprehensive comparison of hotel award search tools, see: Which hotel award search tool is best? Trip Planning : Awayz : Awayz makes it easy to find points-bookable hotels for your upcoming trips. Simply enter the location where you&#8217;re going and the dates when you&#8217;ll be there and Awayz will show you all of the points options, cash prices, and will recommend whether each hotel is a better deal paying with points or cash. PointsYeah Hotels : Like Awayz, this tool makes it easy to find points-bookable hotels for your upcoming trips. PointsYeah also throws in useful information that is uniquely of interest to point-collectors such as the price to book hotels through AA or United (and how many miles you&#8217;ll earn), the price for booking through Fine Hotels &amp; Resorts (and what benefits you&#8217;ll get), and more. Hard-to-find hotel awards : Some of the most popular hotels can be difficult to book with points or free night certificates because their base rooms fill up quickly. My favorite tools for finding these awards are Rooms.aero (which is a sister site to Seats.aero ), and MaxMyPoint . Flight awards Finding flight awards can be really tough. Fortunately, 3rd party tools can help. For a comprehensive comparison of flight award search tools, see: Which award search tool is best? If you’re looking for a free general purpose tool, PointsYeah and AwardTool offer similar capabilities. Both offer date range searches, award alerts, and capable discovery functions. PointsYeah has an edge because its discovery function is very good and it isn’t limited for free users. On the other hand, if you want to search multiple airports at once, you’ll need AwardTool. Of course, since the tools are free, you might as well use both! For the paid tools, again my favorites are PointsYeah and AwardTool . As a power