# Biggest Box Office Bombs 2022 Lowest Grossing Movies 1235325138

**Source**: https://deadline.com/2023/04/biggest-box-office-bombs-2022-lowest-grossing-movies-1235325138/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:59:18.550661+00:00

---

The Biggest Box Office Bombs In 2022: Disney Animation Has Lowest-Grossing Movies Skip to main content Open Mega Menu Got A Tip? deadline-logo-svg Deadline Follow Us: site categories TV Film Awards Awards Hub Digital Issues Box Office Biz International Politics Theater Reviews Obits Video Events Contenders Television: Docs+Unscripted+Variety Television Film: Nominees Film: Documentary Film: International Film: Los Angeles Film: London Sound &amp; Screen Television Film Other For The Love Of Docs Visual Effects + Screen Festivals North America Sundance Toronto Telluride SXSW Tribeca Europe Venice Cannes Zurich Berlin/EFM Middle East Red Sea Asia Tokyo Insider News Alerts Menu deadline-logo-svg Deadline Read Next: A Haunting From A Dog’s POV And Viral Sensation Nuzzles Into Crowded Weekend &#8211; Specialty Preview Got A Tip? Tip Us Dismiss News Banner Breaking News Sean &quot;Diddy&quot; Combs Sentenced To Four-Plus Years In Prison Read the full story Home Box Office News The Biggest Box Office Bombs Of 2022: Deadline’s Most Valuable Blockbuster Tournament By Anthony D&#039;Alessandro Anthony D&#039;Alessandro Editorial Director/Box Office Editor @AwardsTony More Stories By Anthony Jason Bateman In Talks To Direct Universal Feature Take Of John Grisham&#8217;s &#8216;The Partner&#8217; With Tom Holland, Rideback &amp; Aggregate Producing New Line In Final Talks With Michiel Blanchart To Direct &#8216;Final Destination 7&#8217; &#8216;The Testament Of Ann Lee&#8217; Dances Way To Christmas Release In 70MM; Amanda Seyfried&#8217;s 2nd Movie Over Holiday After &#8216;Housemaid&#8217; View All April 14, 2023 3:40pm 50 Comments Services to share this page. Share on Facebook Post Share to Flipboard Email Show more sharing options Share on LinkedIn Pin it Submit to Reddit Post to Tumblr Share on WhatsApp Print This Page Story Arc 'Devotion', 'Amsterdam', 'Lightyear', 'Strange World' and 'Babylon' Everett Collection Deadline&rsquo;s Most Valuable Blockbuster tournament took a hiatus during the pandemic as movie theaters closed for the majority of 2020-2021 and theatrical day-and-date titles on both the big screen and studios&rsquo; respective streaming platforms became more prevalent. Coming back from that brink, the studios have largely returned to their theatrical release models and the downstream monies they can bring. Not to mention their power in launching IPs around the world with big global marketing campaigns. When it comes to evaluating the financial performance of top movies, it isn&rsquo;t about what a film grosses at the box office. The true tale is told when production budgets, P&amp;A, talent participations and other costs collide with box office grosses, and ancillary revenues from VOD to DVD and TV. To get close to that mysterious end of the equation, Deadline is repeating&nbsp;our Most Valuable Blockbuster tournament for 2022, using data culled by seasoned and trusted sources. Related Stories News Small Movies, Big Profits: An Oscar Winner And Horror Hits Among Overachievers In Deadline&rsquo;s 2022 Most Valuable Blockbuster Tournament Legal Nirvana &#8216;Nevermind&#8217; Album Cover Child Porn Lawsuit Dismissed For The Final Time &#8211; Update While everyone waits with bated breath on the final two most profitable films in Deadline&rsquo;s Most Valuable Blockbuster Tournament, let&#8217;s reflect on the most notable bombs of 2022. Realize that, at the end of the day, it&#8217;s better to take a loss in a theatrical window downstream model versus collapsing windows with Premium VOD or streaming &#8212; or even worse, sending a movie straight to streaming. If you&#8217;re going to do that, best to make your movies cheap. Watch on Deadline On these five films, studios took the road best taken. THE FILM Strange World Walt Disney Animation Total Loss: -$197.4M &#8216;Strange World&#8217; Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures/Courtesy Everett Collection It&#8217;s not enough to say that original animation is a challenge at the box office when it comes to Strange World &#8216;s failure. The movie centered on a family of explorers, the Clades, as they attempt to navigate an uncharted, treacherous land alongside a motley crew that includes a mischievous blob, a three-legged dog and a slew of ravenous creatures. Some might say Disney&#8217;s embrace of a gay character in the film turned off red-state audiences, while critics found the fantasy pic to be clunky and incomprehensible, and the animation retro and stale. Disney nonetheless supported the movie with a full theatrical release and dated it during their traditional five-day Thanksgiving launchpad, where it saw a record-low start for a Disney Animation title during that frame with $18.8M. Disney knew the goods were soured and had Strange World on Disney+ a month later, by December 23. Disney has done better in their first go-rounds with original IP in Wreck-It Ralph and Zootopia . However, one thing is clear: post-pandemic, it is getting whipped at the box office by Illumination with Minions: Rise of Gru and The Super Mario Bros Movie. THE BOX SCORE THE FILM Amsterdam New Regency/Disney Total Loss: -$108.4M &#8216;Amsterdam&#8217; Disney This New Regency-financed film had to shift its planned production from Boston to Los Angeles due to Covid. Despite California tax credits of $2.5 million and the period nature of the film, the budget shot up from $50M to $80M. The pic also featured a massive all-star cast including Margot Robbie, Christian Bale, John David Washington, Taylor Swift, Chris Rock, Anya-Taylor Joy and Rami Malek to name a few. Bale got paid under his normal rate of $5M, while other stars showed up to play with filmmaker David O. Russell, opting for lower paychecks (read: Oscar winner Malek received a six-figure payday). That said, way too much spend for an early World War I era-set absurdist ensemble comedy that had zero draw. While the intent was to make another American Hustle here, Amsterdam did not have that title&#8217;s 1970s hipness, camp, and mobster hijinks. New Regency is the big loser here financially as it merely has a distribution deal with Disney. Still, the financier is known for getting behind auteurs&#8217; visions that do have a history of paying off blockbuster- and awards-wise, including the $533M global-grossing The Revenant which won three Oscars. THE BOX SCORE THE FILM Lightyear Pixar/Walt Disney Total Loss: -$106M &#8220;Lightyear&rdquo; Disney/Pixar One would think an extension of the Toy Story franchise, a spinoff about Buzz Lightyear, would be a sure-fire win, but devoted fans weren&#8217;t thrilled that Tim Allen wasn&#8217;t doing the voice-over (Chris Evans took over), not to mention their issues with the movie taking liberties with Toy Story canon. The $50.5 million domestic start wasn&#8217;t going to get Lightyear to the moon at the summer box office. Also potentially impacting grosses: former moviegoers getting too comfortable with seeing Pixar movies at home on Disney+ after Soul and Turning Red were sent straight to the service. Per CEO Bob Iger, Disney is returning to the regular Toy Story franchise with a fifthquel. With an A- CinemaScore, Lightyear had the lowest grade to date for a Toy Story movie. Critical reception fell from the typical 90%+ on Rotten Tomatoes to 74% on Lightyear. THE BOX SCORE THE FILM Devotion Black Label Media/Sony T otal Loss: -$89.2M &#8216;Devotion&#8217; Sony Pictures Entertainment / Courtesy Everett Collection This Korean War fighter pilot story about Jesse LeRoy Brown, the first Black man to be trained by the U.S. Navy as an aviator and also the first Black pilot to see combat, was a passion project for all those involved including financier-producer Molly Smith&#8217;s Black Label Media; Top Gun: Maverick actor Glenn Powell, who read Adam Makos&#8217; book when it first came out in 2015, and brought it to Smith; and filmmaker J.D. Dillard, whose own father was an African American naval pilot. No expense was spared and the production racked up a $90 million cost after Georgia and Canada tax credits. DNEG handled VFX, and there was a fleet of vintage aircraft. STX sold foreign which here amounts to $40M. Sony handled for a distribution fee on a rent-a-system basis, with $40M P&amp;A backstopped by Black Label Media. Despite a world premiere at the Toronto Film Festival and very good reviews on Rotten Tomatoes at 80% certified fresh and an A- CinemaScore, no one came to this movie, which was released at Thanksgiving in the wake of Black Panther: Wakanda Forever soaking up business. Although the pic starred Powell after the $1.49 billion-grossing global success of Top Gun: Maverick and Majors pre- Creed III and Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania , it wasn&#8217;t enough to pull in the masses. Domestic streaming and home entertainment didn&#8217;t go through Sony&#8217;s rivers, which only counted U.S. and Canada here; instead it was sold off to Paramount Home Entertainment and Paramount+. THE BOX SCORE THE FILM Babylon Paramount Total Loss: -$87.4M &#8216;Babylon&#8217; Paramount Pictures If moviegoers last holiday season were going to drive in the snow to the movies, it was to see Avatar: The Way of Water , not this 3 hour-9 minute, R-rated raunchy tale about early Hollywood stars. This period piece, made for a lofty $80 million production cost around Santa Clarita, CA during Covid (some would argue still way too much for a film of this type) by Oscar-winning La La Land director Damien Chazelle, was greenlight by Wyck Godfrey, former Paramount president and producer of Chazelle&#8217;s First Man . Although he left the studio, the movie was championed by the current administration, screened a month before its opening, and notched five Golden Globe nominations (with a win for Justin Hurwitz&#8217;s nonstop jazz score) and three Oscar noms. How raunchy was this movie? Enough to possibly make people leave during the first 30 minutes, which included a hooker urinating on a Fatty Arbu