# nytimes.com

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com#tooltip-8
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:18:51.226964+00:00

---

The New York Times - Breaking News, US News, World News and Videos Skip to content Skip to site index SKIP ADVERTISEMENT U.S. International Canada Español 中文 Today’s Paper U.S. Sections U.S. Politics New York California Education Health Obituaries Science Climate Weather Sports Business Tech The Upshot The Magazine Top Stories Donald Trump Supreme Court Congress Immigration Abortion Newsletters The Morning Make sense of the day’s news and ideas. The Evening Catch up on big news, and wind down to end your day. See all newsletters Podcasts The Daily The biggest stories of our time, in 20 minutes a day. See all podcasts World Sections World Africa Americas Asia Australia Canada Europe Middle East Science Climate Weather Health Obituaries Top Stories Middle East Crisis Russia-Ukraine War China International Relations The Global Profile Leer en Español Newsletters The World A guide to understanding the news, made for readers around the globe. The Interpreter Original analysis on the week’s biggest global stories. Your Places: Global Update The latest news for any part of the world you select. Canada Letter Backstories and analysis from our Canadian correspondents. See all newsletters Business Sections Business Tech Economy Media Finance and Markets DealBook Personal Tech Energy Transition Your Money Top Stories U.S. Economy Stock Market Artificial Intelligence Newsletters DealBook The most crucial business and policy news you need to know. On Tech Our best tech reporting from the week. See all newsletters Podcasts Hard Fork Our tech journalists help you make sense of the rapidly changing tech world. See all podcasts Arts Sections Today&#x27;s Arts Book Review Best Sellers Dance Movies Music Television Theater Pop Culture T Magazine Visual Arts Recommendations 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century Critic’s Picks What to Read What to Watch What to Listen To 5 Minutes to Make You Love Music Newsletters Books Reviews, news and features to help you find your next read. Watching Streaming TV and movie recommendations. See all newsletters Podcasts Book Review The podcast that takes you inside the literary world. Popcast Pop music news, new songs and albums, and artists of note. See all podcasts Lifestyle Sections All Lifestyle Well Travel Style Real Estate Food Love Your Money Personal Tech T Magazine Columns 36 Hours Ask Well The Hunt Modern Love Where to Eat Vows Social Q’s The Ethicist Ask the Therapist Newsletters The Weekender Unwind with stories about culture and the way we live. Well Essential news and guidance to live your healthiest life. See all newsletters Podcasts Modern Love The complicated love lives of real people. See all podcasts Opinion Sections Opinion Guest Essays Editorials Op-Docs Videos Letters Topics Politics World Business Tech Climate Health Culture Columnists Jamelle Bouie David Brooks Gail Collins Ross Douthat Maureen Dowd David French Thomas L. Friedman M. Gessen Michelle Goldberg Ezra Klein Nicholas Kristof Carlos Lozada Tressie McMillan Cottom Lydia Polgreen Bret Stephens Zeynep Tufekci Podcasts Interesting Times with Ross Douthat Mapping the new world order through interviews and conversations. The Opinions You&#x27;ve heard the news, here&#x27;s what to make of it. The Ezra Klein Show Discussions of ideas that matter, plus book recommendations. See all podcasts Audio Audio Podcasts and narrated articles covering news, tech, culture and more. Listen The Headlines The Daily Hard Fork The Ezra Klein Show Interesting Times The Opinions Serial Productions The Book Review Podcast Modern Love Popcast Reporter Reads Cannonball The Interview See all audio Featured Cannonball with Wesley Morris Come on in, the culture&#x27;s fine. The Headlines Your morning listen. Top stories, in 10 minutes. Serial: The Retrievals Season 2 An investigation into C-sections. Newsletters Audio Our editors share their favorite listens from The Times and beyond. Serial Be the first to know about our new shows. See all newsletters Audio is included in an All Access subscription. Learn more. Games Games Word games, logic puzzles and crosswords, including an extensive archive. Play Spelling Bee The Mini Crossword Wordle The Crossword Pips NEW Strands Connections Sudoku Letter Boxed Tiles Community Spelling Bee Forum Wordplay Column Wordle Review Submit a Crossword Meet Our Crossword Constructors Mini to Maestro Wordlebot Take the Puzzle Personality Quiz Newsletters Gameplay Puzzles, brain teasers, solving tips and more. Easy Mode Get an easy version of one of the hardest crossword puzzles of the week. See all newsletters Games is included in an All Access subscription. Learn more. Cooking Cooking Recipes, advice and inspiration for everyday cooking, special occasions and more. Recipes Easy Dinner Quick Healthy Breakfast Vegetarian Vegan Chicken Pasta Dessert Editors&#x27; Picks Easy Salmon Recipes Grilling Recipes Easy Weeknight Newest Recipes Cheap and Easy Dinner Ideas Slow Cooker Recipes Healthy Breakfast Ideas Fourth of July Recipes Newsletters The Cooking Newsletter New recipes, easy dinner ideas and smart kitchen tips from Melissa Clark, Sam Sifton and our New York Times Cooking editors. The Veggie Delicious vegetarian recipes and tips from Tanya Sichynsky. Five Weeknight Dishes Dinner ideas for busy people from Emily Weinstein. See all newsletters Cooking is included in an All Access subscription. Learn more. Wirecutter Wirecutter Reviews and recommendations for thousands of products. Reviews Kitchen Tech Sleep Appliances Home and Garden Moving Travel Gifts Deals Baby and Kid Health and Fitness The Best... Air Purifier Electric Toothbrush Pressure Washer Cordless Stick Vacuum Office Chair Robot Vacuum Newsletters The Recommendation The best independent reviews, expert advice and intensively researched deals. Clean Everything Step-by-step advice on how to keep everything in your home squeaky clean. See all newsletters Wirecutter is included in an All Access subscription. Learn more. The Athletic The Athletic Personalized coverage of your sports teams and leagues. Leagues NFL NBA NHL Premier League MLB College Football NCAAM NCAAW Tennis F1 Fantasy &amp; Betting WNBA Top Stories NBA Playoffs MLB Standings Soccer Transfers Newsletters The Pulse Delivering the top stories in sports, Sunday to Friday. Scoop City The top stories in the NFL, from Jacob Robinson with Dianna Russini. See all newsletters Play Connections: Sports Edition Connections Coach The Athletic is included in an All Access subscription. Learn more. U.S. Sections U.S. Politics New York California Education Health Obituaries Science Climate Weather Sports Business Tech The Upshot The Magazine Top Stories Donald Trump Supreme Court Congress Immigration Abortion Newsletters The Morning Make sense of the day’s news and ideas. The Evening Catch up on big news, and wind down to end your day. See all newsletters Podcasts The Daily The biggest stories of our time, in 20 minutes a day. See all podcasts World Sections World Africa Americas Asia Australia Canada Europe Middle East Science Climate Weather Health Obituaries Top Stories Middle East Crisis Russia-Ukraine War China International Relations The Global Profile Leer en Español Newsletters The World A guide to understanding the news, made for readers around the globe. The Interpreter Original analysis on the week’s biggest global stories. Your Places: Global Update The latest news for any part of the world you select. Canada Letter Backstories and analysis from our Canadian correspondents. See all newsletters Business Sections Business Tech Economy Media Finance and Markets DealBook Personal Tech Energy Transition Your Money Top Stories U.S. Economy Stock Market Artificial Intelligence Newsletters DealBook The most crucial business and policy news you need to know. On Tech Our best tech reporting from the week. See all newsletters Podcasts Hard Fork Our tech journalists help you make sense of the rapidly changing tech world. See all podcasts Arts Sections Today&#x27;s Arts Book Review Best Sellers Dance Movies Music Television Theater Pop Culture T Magazine Visual Arts Recommendations 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century Critic’s Picks What to Read What to Watch What to Listen To 5 Minutes to Make You Love Music Newsletters Books Reviews, news and features to help you find your next read. Watching Streaming TV and movie recommendations. See all newsletters Podcasts Book Review The podcast that takes you inside the literary world. Popcast Pop music news, new songs and albums, and artists of note. See all podcasts Lifestyle Sections All Lifestyle Well Travel Style Real Estate Food Love Your Money Personal Tech T Magazine Columns 36 Hours Ask Well The Hunt Modern Love Where to Eat Vows Social Q’s The Ethicist Ask the Therapist Newsletters The Weekender Unwind with stories about culture and the way we live. Well Essential news and guidance to live your healthiest life. See all newsletters Podcasts Modern Love The complicated love lives of real people. See all podcasts Opinion Sections Opinion Guest Essays Editorials Op-Docs Videos Letters Topics Politics World Business Tech Climate Health Culture Columnists Jamelle Bouie David Brooks Gail Collins Ross Douthat Maureen Dowd David French Thomas L. Friedman M. Gessen Michelle Goldberg Ezra Klein Nicholas Kristof Carlos Lozada Tressie McMillan Cottom Lydia Polgreen Bret Stephens Zeynep Tufekci Podcasts Interesting Times with Ross Douthat Mapping the new world order through interviews and conversations. The Opinions You&#x27;ve heard the news, here&#x27;s what to make of it. The Ezra Klein Show Discussions of ideas that matter, plus book recommendations. See all podcasts Audio Audio Podcasts and narrated articles covering news, tech, culture and more. Listen The Headlines The Daily Hard Fork The Ezra Klein Show Interesting Times The Opinions Serial Productions The Book Review Podcast Modern Love Popcast Reporter Reads Cannonball The Interview See all audio Featured Cann