# Microsoft Sneaks Ads Into The New Outlook For Windows

**Source**: https://www.ghacks.net/2024/02/02/microsoft-sneaks-ads-into-the-new-outlook-for-windows/?ref=wheresyoured.at
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:26:19.193023+00:00

---

Microsoft sneaks ads into the new Outlook for Windows - gHacks Tech News --> g hacks. net Home VPNs Windows Linux Software Firefox Chrome Internet Mobile Computing Companies Email Misc Home VPNs Windows Linux Software Firefox Chrome Internet Mobile Computing Companies Email Misc Search for: Microsoft sneaks ads into the new Outlook for Windows Martin Brinkmann Feb 2, 2024 Microsoft Outlook | 28 --> The migration from the classic Mail and Calendar app to the new Outlook app is in full swing already. Microsoft announced the deprecation of the classic apps in favor of a new Outlook app in June 2023. It introduced the new Outlook app to Insider builds a month later and announced that it would enforce the migration in early 2024. ADVERTISEMENT Not all users are migrated at this point. Those who have been migrated already or installed the Outlook app directly, may notice several differences between the new Outlook app and the classic Mail app. One of the main differences turns an ad-free email experience into one with ads. You may see ads in the inbox in the new Outlook. The classic Mail app did not have any ads. The new Outlook app is based on the web-version of Outlook, which also features advertisement. Microsoft highlights advertisement with an ad icon. The ads are designed to look like regular emails otherwise, and it may be difficult for some users to distinguish between ads and real emails. Microsoft is not the only maintainer of a free email service that displays these types of ads. Google's Gmail service and many other free email services may also display these types of ads to users. Ads in the new Outlook app may be deleted. This is done by hovering over them in the inbox and selecting the trashcan icon. This won't last long though, as new ads will eventually be added to the inbox again. There is also a menu link that links to the "go ad-free" page on Microsoft's website. Microsoft asks for $1.99 per month for an ad-free Outlook experience. Ads and trackers are almost synonymous these days. Proton, maker of Proton Mail and therefore a Microsoft competitor, claimed that Microsoft was using the Outlook app as a new data collection service on Windows . Go ad free by switching to another email client Switching email clients is an option. While ads are shown like emails in the Outlook app, these are not shown when you connect third-party email clients to the Outlook account. One of the best options on Windows is the open source Thunderbird client. Installation and setup of Outlook in the email client is straightforward. All it takes is to type the Outlook email address and password in Thunderbird's account creation dialog to add the account. It takes less than a minute to complete and you will get an ad-free experience in the end. Closing Words Ads used to be distinguishable from regular content. This was the case for ads on the websites of email services, for search results and many other places. Nowadays ads are designed to look like regular content. This increases click rates and increases the revenue of the publisher and also the ad company. It seems unlikely that this trend is going to reverse anytime soon. The new Outlook app is a step back in this regard. A percentage of Mail users will dislike the display of ads in the new Outlook, as ads were not part of the classic Mail app. Now You: what is your take on the new Outlook, and ads made to look like regular content? Summary Article Name Microsoft sneaks ads into the new Outlook for Windows Description The new Outlook email application for Windows displays ads disguised as regular emails to users. The classic Mail app did not. Author Martin Brinkmann Publisher Ghacks Technology News Logo Advertisement About Martin Brinkmann Martin Brinkmann is a journalist from Germany who founded Ghacks Technology News Back in 2005. He is passionate about all things tech and knows the Internet and computers like the back of his hand. You can follow Martin on Facebook or Twitter , and read his weekly tech newsletter on Substack View all posts by Martin Brinkmann → Related content Microsoft is ending an Outlook app that you may not have heard about, but may have used, if you knew about it Outlook Mobile Enhances Multitasking with New Draft Management Feature Outlook for Mac Finally Gets This Long-Awaited Email Recall Feature Step-by-Step Guide to Convert OST to PST Using the Best Software: Stellar Converter for OST Microsoft confusing users again with new Outlook update Microsoft won't kill classic Outlook for Windows "until at least 2029" Tutorials & Tips How to add emojis in Outlook? How to Update Microsoft Outlook? Microsoft Outlook Window Not Appearing Fix Previous Post: &laquo; Report: Microsoft starts Mail and Calendar app migration to the inferior Outlook app Next Post: &laquo; Microsoft won't kill classic Outlook for Windows "until at least 2029" Comments Agnetha said on May 11, 2025 at 11:24 pm Reply Why should I make a billionaire like Bill Gates wealthier? The ads are annoying as they peddle rubbish I neither want nor need. sean obrien said on March 12, 2025 at 6:36 pm Reply I thought I BOUGHT a hard copy of microsoft office specifically to avoid this. For like $200. For Word, Excel, Powerpoint and Outlook. Now I have F@&amp;#$*^ ads? TVD said on March 25, 2024 at 4:39 pm Reply Question: I know the New Outlook will replay Mail and Calendar apps, but what about the Outlook app as part of the Microsoft 365 Office suite (with other applications like Word, Excel) etc&#8230; Does Microsoft have plans to replace this as well, or not at all? (it is rather confusing: on the net you read about &#8220;the New Outlook replacing the &#8216;classic outlook'&#8221;, but what exactly then is meant by &#8216;the classic outlook&#8217;? jakub said on March 21, 2024 at 8:36 am Reply time to go back to thunderbird, how to uninstall this spam app? Qwin said on February 5, 2024 at 9:20 am Reply The best key combo for the new Outlook: Alt-F4 TelV said on February 7, 2024 at 11:26 am Reply Not in Windows 11. That Alt-F4 key combination in the new OS loads Powershell now. David said on February 4, 2024 at 7:47 am Reply So you pay a Windows license to get an email client with ads&#8230; Nice. They should include ads only if you use their free mail service. George said on February 3, 2024 at 5:58 pm Reply This is not a replacement for the Mail app it is a replacement for desktop outlook a VERY different thing. It is not the addition of ads that is a problem it is a corruption of task data that it. This new app relies on Microsoft todo which is not yet fully integrated that curious data. Does not support all inline data placements, moves their location to headers and doesn’t support formatting completely DESTROYING users data. That use NOT ok! Timoleon said on February 3, 2024 at 9:06 am Reply Microsoft is not a charity and as long as we don&#8217;t talk about monopoly and shady business they can produce any software they want. That being said, we may use alternative applications that come ad-free. Personally, I don&#8217;t use Microsoft apps other than File Explorer and I&#8217;m perfectly happy. As for the quality of ad-free apps, it may vary but in my case I&#8217;ve had no problem finding good replacements. TelV said on February 7, 2024 at 11:35 am Reply @Timoleon, You&#8217;re lucky you don&#8217;t live in the Netherlands. All digital interaction with government agencies requires you to confirm login using an application called DigID. That will only work with proprietary software meaning a choice between two evils namely Microsoft or Apple. In Germany, they have a version of DigID that will work with Linux, but not here unfortunately. Mike said on February 3, 2024 at 6:21 am Reply I&#8217;m been a Microsoft user since the early 90s, I think it&#8217;s time to FINALLY give Apple a try. These monthly fees add up and I&#8217;m tired of it. Everyone wants a monthly fee and I just don&#8217;t have any more to give. The Internet is horrible anymore and this is one of the main reasons it does. Corporate greed and control of something that should be free. RIP Net. It was fun. eWaste11 said on February 3, 2024 at 12:56 am Reply After all, it is simply a web wrapper for Outlook.com. Nobody is being deceived, except for those who are unaware. Instead of creating quality software, Microsoft is now solely good at bothering, harassing, and defrauding their users. I&#8217;m still waiting for an ARM build of Thunderbird. Tom Hawack said on February 2, 2024 at 5:30 pm Reply When it comes to Windows OSs my policy has always been to avoid all the native Microsoft apps, services and replace them with worthy alternatives. Outlook, old, new : exit. Office work with LibreOffice, email with Webmail (Posteo[.]de here). Browser : any but not Edge (should I run post-Windows 7) nor Google&#8217;s Chrome. Firefox here, otherwise it could be brave or &#8230; Palemoon, maybe. My digital credo : avoid as far as possible (&#8216;possible&#8217; means the equation that resolves feasibility and subjective easiness) all of GAFAM products and services. There are alternatives and I use them for a better digital life. No Microsoft (except the OS, still Windows 7), no Google, no Facebook &amp; Co., 14Mb of system-wide blockers via DNSCrypt-proxy, uBlock Origin on Firefox plus several privacy dedicated extensions. We get along very nicely without GAFAM and will continue to. As for the argument which implicitly surrenders to advertisement (which includes malvertisement) and corollary tracking in consideration of modern times, it&#8217;s that one argument which just doesn&#8217;t stand in the face of human dignity. IMO, need to say. Not in mine only. We all know this flexible wording which applies to whatever you wish : &#8220;there are two sorts of people &#8230;&#8221;. Here it&#8217;d be, &#8220;those who accept to be exploited and the others&#8221;. Many of us refuse, most talented develop alternatives, from OSs to brows