# The Whitney

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/the-whitney/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:23:06.288336+00:00

---

The Whitney - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: The Whitney neighborhoods Oct. 28, 2024 The Meatpacking District With No Meat-packers The city plans to kick them out of their last market, which could become much-needed housing and a “cultural and artistic hub.” By Adriane Quinlan grub guides Oct. 24, 2019 How to Spend Halloween in New York City Fifteen stellar options for the most raucous time of the season. By Nikita Richardson art July 22, 2019 A True Protest Biennial Artists are withdrawing from the Whitney left and right, making good on the radical politics of the show. By Jerry Saltz happenings Aug. 3, 2018 Inside an Art-Meets-Fashion Shopping Experience at the Whitney Museum Guests came to ponder the role of consumption in society — and to buy clothes. By Sarah Nechamkin fashion Aug. 2, 2018 A Museum Show Where You Can Wear the Art Home The Whitney’s Eckhaus Latta exhibit doubles as a clothing store. By Cathy Horyn events Feb. 11, 2018 People Are Getting Love Poem Tattoos for Valentine’s Day A special event at the Whitney Museum in New York. By Carolyn Twersky r.i.p. Aug. 17, 2015 Jerry Saltz Remembers Melva Bucksbaum, Art Patron Nonpareil She gave back to the art world all the gifts that art gave to her. By Jerry Saltz May 19, 2015 Whitney Names Scott Rothkopf Chief Curator Current head of curatorial Donna De Salvo will get new position of deputy director for international initiatives and senior curator. By Nate Freeman vintage May 1, 2015 The Iconoclastic Woman Who Founded the Whitney A look back at the maverick heiress, sculptor, and collector Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney. By Erica Schwiegershausen chic dinners Apr. 25, 2015 Max Mara Hosts a Dinner to Celebrate Renzo Piano and the New Whitney Museum Titans of Italian design, teaming up. By Cathy Horyn Apr. 23, 2015 There’s Already a Bag Inspired by the New Whitney Max Mara releases its limited-edition “Whitney Bag.” By Kristin Tice Studeman Video Feed Apr. 20, 2015 Watch Michael Anthony Discuss How the Design of the Whitney Will Influence His “When you’re sitting in the dining room at Untitled, you can see the High Line and the Hudson in one glance.” By Grub Street Chef Shuffle Dec. 22, 2014 Michael Anthony Will Be Untitled’s Chef When It Reopens Downtown It all starts next May. By Hugh Merwin art Nov. 21, 2014 Look! Jackie O on the Art Scene Back in 1966 Vintage photos from the Whitney Museum’s very first gala. By Thessaly La Force art Nov. 21, 2014 Look! Jackie O on the Art Scene Back in 1966 Vintage photos from the Whitney Museum’s very first gala. By Thessaly La Force art Nov. 20, 2014 We Smoked a Cigarette in the Whitney Last Night Saying good-bye to the Breuer Building on Museum Mile. By Kaitlin Phillips art Oct. 20, 2014 Brazen Graffiti Artist Hits Jeff Koons Show Without Ruining the Art Using the reflective surface of the work. By Joe Coscarelli art Mar. 3, 2014 Meet 7 Artists Showing at the Last Whitney Biennial on Madison They will engage with the old building as they close it down. By Jerry Saltz first looks Feb. 27, 2013 Jay DeFeo, Forgotten Female Beat Artist, Gets Her Due She’s gone from being a one-hit art wonder to finally getting her own Whitney retrospective. By Julie Ma Menu Changes Feb. 14, 2012 What to Eat on Untitled’s À La Carte Dinner Menu, Launching Thursday How about some lamb meatballs or a trout BLT? By Edna Ishayik Menu Changes Feb. 3, 2012 Danny Meyer’s Untitled Will Forgo Prix Fixe Dinners for À La Carte Later this month, the restaurant will say buh-bye to their $46 evening meal. By Edna Ishayik paying taxes is hard Jan. 30, 2012 The Whitney Museum Supposedly Owes a Bunch in Back Taxes But the check’s in the mail, they promise. By Noreen Malone the whitney May 12, 2011 The Met Plans to Take Over the Whitney Building When the Whitney leaves its current spot in 2015. By Julie Gerstein Openings May 2, 2011 Untitled’s Dinner Unveiled A look at some of the weekend-only menu items at Danny Meyer’s Whitney Museum café. By Daniel Maurer Menu Changes Apr. 27, 2011 Untitled to Start Family-Style Dinners on May 8 It will be a family-style set menu. By Alan Sytsma Openings Feb. 15, 2011 Danny Meyer Announces Plans for Whitney Museum Café, Opening Next Month Meyer names the place, as well as its chef. By Daniel Maurer neighborhood news Jan. 7, 2011 Peetie the Parakeet, Art-World Darling The star of the Whitney’s Keinholz exhibition leads a charmed life. By Alice Gregory Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us About New York Magazine Newsletters Help Contact Press Media Kit We’re Hiring Privacy Terms Ad Choices Accessibility Do not sell or share my personal data New York is a Vox Media Network . &copy; 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All rights reserved.