# Retirement Plans Faqs Regarding Substantially Equal Periodic Payments

**Source**: https://www.irs.gov/retirement-plans/retirement-plans-faqs-regarding-substantially-equal-periodic-payments#7
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:58:52.058756+00:00

---

Substantially equal periodic payments | Internal Revenue Service Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. English Español 中文 (简体) 中文 (繁體) 한국어 Русский Tiếng Việt Kreyòl ayisyen Information Menu Help News Tax Pros Sign in Search Sign in Menu Search Include Historical Content - Any - No Include Historical Content - Any - No Search Main navigation File Overview INFORMATION FOR… Individuals Business and self-employed Charities and nonprofits International filers Retirement Governments and tax-exempt bonds Indian Tribal Governments FILING FOR INDIVIDUALS How to file When to file Where to file Update your information POPULAR Tax record (transcript) Apply for an Employer ID Number (EIN) Amend return Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN) File your taxes for free Pay Overview PAY BY Bank Account (Direct Pay) Payment Plan (Installment Agreement) Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS) POPULAR Your Online Account Tax Withholding Estimator Estimated Taxes Penalties Refunds Overview Where’s My Refund? Direct deposit Where’s My Amended Return? Credits & Deductions Overview INFORMATION FOR... Individuals For you and your family Businesses & Self-Employed Standard mileage and other information POPULAR Earned Income Credit (EITC) Child Tax Credit Clean Energy and Vehicle Credits Standard Deduction Retirement Plans Forms & Instructions Overview POPULAR FORMS & INSTRUCTIONS Form 1040 Individual Income Tax Return Form 1040 Instructions Instructions for Form 1040 Form W-9 Request for Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) and Certification Form 4506-T Request for Transcript of Tax Return Form W-4 Employee&#039;s Withholding Certificate Form 941 Employer&#039;s Quarterly Federal Tax Return Form W-2 Wage and Tax Statement Form 9465 Installment Agreement Request POPULAR FOR TAX PROS Form 1040-X Amended Individual Income Tax Return Form 2848 Power of Attorney Form W-7 Apply for an ITIN Circular 230 Regulations Governing Practice before the IRS Search Include Historical Content - Any - No Include Historical Content - Any - No Search Information Menu Help News Tax Pros Sign in File Overview INFORMATION FOR… Individuals Business and self-employed Charities and nonprofits International filers Retirement Governments and tax-exempt bonds Indian Tribal Governments FILING FOR INDIVIDUALS How to file When to file Where to file Update your information POPULAR Tax record (transcript) Apply for an Employer ID Number (EIN) Amend return Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN) File your taxes for free Pay Overview PAY BY Bank Account (Direct Pay) Payment Plan (Installment Agreement) Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS) POPULAR Your Online Account Tax Withholding Estimator Estimated Taxes Penalties Refunds Overview Where’s My Refund? Direct deposit Where’s My Amended Return? Credits &amp; Deductions Overview INFORMATION FOR... Individuals Businesses &amp; Self-Employed POPULAR Earned Income Credit (EITC) Child Tax Credit Clean Energy and Vehicle Credits Standard Deduction Retirement Plans Forms &amp; Instructions Overview POPULAR FORMS &amp; INSTRUCTIONS Form 1040 Form 1040 Instructions Form W-9 Form 4506-T Form W-4 Form 941 Form W-2 Form 9465 POPULAR FOR TAX PROS Form 1040-X Form 2848 Form W-7 Circular 230 Main navigation File Pay Refunds Credits &amp; Deductions Forms &amp; Instructions Info Menu Mobile Charities &amp; Nonprofits Help News Tax Pros Home Retirement Plans Topic index Substantially equal periodic payments Substantially equal periodic payments &nbsp; More In Retirement Plans IRAs Types of retirement plans Required minimum distributions Published guidance Forms and publications Operate a retirement plan News Topic index These frequently asked questions and answers provide general information and should not be cited as any type of legal authority. They provide the user with information responsive to general inquiries. Because these answers do not apply to every situation, yours may require additional research. Is there an additional tax on early distributions from certain retirement plans? Is there an exception to the 10% additional tax for distributions as a series of substantially equal periodic payments for life? Is there specific guidance on this exception? How are interest rates determined? How is life expectancy determined? How is the account balance determined? How is annual amount determined under the three methods? Can the taxpayer split the annual amount into installments during the year? What happens if the taxpayer modifies a SoSEPP by taking an annual amount that is different from the annual amount determined under the method originally established? After the taxpayer has received a SoSEPP payment determined under one method, can the taxpayer change to another method? What is the effect of the assets being completely depleted? Are these three methods the only acceptable ways of determining a SoSEPP? Once the taxpayer has established a SoSEPP from an account, when does the taxpayer fulfill the SoSEPP requirements for that account? Are there any other exceptions to the 10% additional tax? 1. Is there an additional tax on early distributions from certain retirement plans? Yes. Under Section 72(t), there is an additional tax of 10% on distributions to the taxpayer if the distribution is made before the taxpayer is age 59 ½. This applies to distributions from qualified retirement plans, which include: a plan described in Section 401(a) (which includes a trust exempt from tax under Section 501(a)), an annuity plan described in Section 403(a), an annuity contract described in Section 403(b), an individual retirement account (“IRA”) described in Section 408(a), and an individual retirement annuity described in Section 408(b). The 10% additional tax is determined with respect to that portion of the distribution that is includible in gross income. Back to top 2. Is there an exception to the 10% additional tax for distributions as a series of substantially equal periodic payments for life? Yes. Under Section 72(t)(2)(A)(iv), if the distributions are determined as a series of substantially equal periodic payments (called a “SoSEPP”) over the taxpayer’s life expectancy (or over the life expectancies of the taxpayer and the taxpayer’s designated beneficiary), the 10% additional tax does not apply. However, there are certain requirements: If these distributions are from any of the arrangements listed in items 1 through 3 of Q&amp;A 1, the taxpayer must be separated from service with the employer maintaining the plan before the payments begin for this exception to apply. (This does not apply to IRAs or individual retirement annuities.) Once the SoSEPP is established, the taxpayer cannot make any additions to the account, nor take any payments from the account, other than the SoSEPP payments. Changes to the account due to investment experience do not affect this prohibition against making additional contributions to the account or taking distributions from the account in addition to the annual payment under the SoSEPP. The taxpayer cannot have more than one SoSEPP in effect for the account for any year. The taxpayer does not modify the SoSEPP (other than by reason of death, disability, or distribution to a qualified public safety officer under Section 72(t)(10)) before the date that is the later of: The 5th anniversary of the date of the first SoSEPP payment; and The date the taxpayer reaches age 59 ½. If the taxpayer modifies the series of payments before that date, an additional recapture tax applies (see Q&amp;A 9 for details). See Q&amp;As 3, 10 , and 11 &nbsp;for information regarding certain changes that are not considered modifications to a SoSEPP for this purpose. Back to top 3. Is there specific guidance on this exception? Yes. Notice 2022-6 lists three methods the taxpayer may use in determining payments under a SoSEPP: the required minimum distribution method (the “RMD method”), the fixed amortization method, and the fixed annuitization method. All three methods require the use of a life expectancy or mortality table. These tables are specified in Notice 2022-6, based on regulations that apply beginning on January 1, 2022 . The second and third methods require the taxpayer to specify an interest rate to be used (with certain constraints on the permissible interest rates). Earlier guidance provided in Revenue Ruling 2002-62 PDF also allowed the use of the three methods above, but used earlier, pre-2022 mortality and life expectancy tables and provided different rules regarding permissible interest rates. To determine the amount of payment for a SoSEPP commencing-- before 2022, Revenue Ruling 2002-62 applied, in 2022, the taxpayer may elect to apply the rules in either Revenue Ruling 2002-62 or Notice 2022-6, and after 2022, Notice 2022-6 applies. Transition Rule: There is a special transition rule for a SoSEPP that was established under Revenue Ruling 2002-62 using the RMD method. Under this rule, the taxpayer may change the RMD method used to compute the SoSEPP amounts beginning with any year after 2021 by using the corresponding 2022 life expectancy or distribution period table indicated under Notice 2022-6, and this change is not considered a modification of the SoSEPP that results in the additional recapture tax imposed by Section 72(t)(4), described in Q&amp;A 9 . Once the RMD method of computing SoSEPP payments is changed in this manner, a reversion to using the earlier pre-2022 life expectancy or distribution period tables would be considered a modification of the SoSEPP and would be subject to the recapture tax imposed by Section 72(t)(4) (see Q&amp;A 9 ). Back to top 4. How are