# Pmc5483797

**Source**: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5483797/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:48:38.534309+00:00

---

Legendary Hero: Dr. G.V. Black (1836-1915) - PMC Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Search Log in Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Search… Search NCBI Primary site navigation Search Logged in as: Dashboard Publications Account settings Log in Search PMC Full-Text Archive Search in PMC Journal List User Guide PERMALINK Copy As a library, NLM provides access to scientific literature. Inclusion in an NLM database does not imply endorsement of, or agreement with, the contents by NLM or the National Institutes of Health. Learn more: PMC Disclaimer | PMC Copyright Notice editorial J Clin Diagn Res . 2017 May 1;11(5):ZB01–ZB04. doi: 10.7860/JCDR/2017/17462.9813 Search in PMC Search in PubMed View in NLM Catalog Add to search Legendary Hero: Dr. G.V. Black (1836-1915) Shruti Jain Shruti Jain 1 Assistant Editor, Journal of Clinical and Diagnostic Research, Delhi, India. Find articles by Shruti Jain 1, ✉ , Hemant Jain Hemant Jain 2 Editor-in-Chief, Journal of Clinical and Diagnostic Research, Delhi, India. Find articles by Hemant Jain 2 Author information Article notes Copyright and License information 1 Assistant Editor, Journal of Clinical and Diagnostic Research, Delhi, India. 2 Editor-in-Chief, Journal of Clinical and Diagnostic Research, Delhi, India. ✉ NAME, ADDRESS, E-MAIL ID OF THE CORRESPONDING AUTHOR: Dr. Shruti Jain, A-668/1 Upper Ground Floor, Bhagwan Mahavir Marg, Shastri Nagar, Delhi-110052, India. E-mail: shruti.shanu@gmail.com Received 2015 Oct 22; Revision requested 2016 Mar 1; Accepted 2016 Aug 21; Issue date 2017 May. Keywords: Amalgam formula, Dental drill, Gnathodyanamometer, Grand old man of dentistry, Microbe, Mottling of enamel © 2017 Journal of Clinical and Diagnostic Research PMC Copyright notice PMCID: PMC5483797 PMID: 28658895 The primary purpose of all professions is to nurture and refine hidden undiscovered talents. Dr. Greene Vardiman Black (Father of Operative Dentistry) was born in a farm near Winchester Illinois, USA to William and Mary Black on August 3, 1836. In childhood, he never took interest in studies rather developed interest in wildlife and nature. Instead going to school, he preferred hunting, fishing and roaming the woods. Studying plants and animals like wild turkeys, pigeons, deer, skunks, wolves, bears and foxes were more fascinating to him. Little boy Black seemed to be suffering from the same problem that Charles Darwin, Thomas Addison had in their boyhood [ 1 ]. He could learn more in the woods in an hour than in school in a week, once he said. People considered him dull, idiot and good for nothing. At that time his mother was the only one who understood him. Why waste time on school and work when there are more interesting things to do? He must have thought! [ 2 ]. He wandered in the forests trying to learn by himself, experimenting and exploring nature. This not only developed his sharp sense of observation and an analytical mind but also laid the foundation of his lifetime achievements. He had only 22 months of formal schooling yet keen to grab every golden opportunity to learn in his own way. Mr. Black was primarily self-taught; he earned the title of “The Father of Modern Dentistry”. In 1852, after 17 years at farm, Black decided to study medicine at his elder brother Thomas G. Black’s office who was a physician at Clayton Illinois, a graduate of the Louisville Medical College. He got influenced by his career-oriented brother that was probably a first turning point of his life when he started thinking seriously about education. Here, he met a family friend Tom, senior by 11 years, a good instructor to Greene. Under Tom’s direction Greene read medicine and during 4 years (1853-56), he gained enough knowledge in anatomy and medicine. Tom and Greene remained close and lifelong friends [ 2 ]. During ongoing process of self educating himself, young Mr. Black fell in love with Lady Jane Coughener, whom he later married. Then he came in contact with Dr. J.C. Spear, practicing dentistry in Mount Sterling, a neighboring town. Dr. Spear introduced him in the practice of dentistry where he found his true calling and realized that field of dentistry was highly under studied. He read all the books that Dr. Spear owned and revised. After a year of apprenticeship under Dr. Spear, with gained confidence in dental skills, Dr. Black ventured out to start his own dental practice in Winchester, Illinois [ 2 ]. It was a great time and beginning of an active career and research in the field of dentistry. He became first dentist in Scott County [ 2 ]. At that time, dentistry was a part of medicine but far from being a science. He believed that dentistry should be seen as a profession that was independent of, but equal to medicine. If he had chosen medicine as his career, it would be a great loss to the field of dentistry [ 2 ]. When civil war broke out, young dentist served his nation as Union scout and got enlisted as one of the 129 Illinois volunteers in 1862. During service, he suffered a serious knee injury, leading to a long stay in hospital at Louisville, Kentucky. This made him ineligible to serve army which resulted in expulsion from army services. During his rough patch of life, he lost his first son however blessed with another son. His wife suffered from tuberculosis and died in 1863. The younger son was taken to grandparents home as the Winchester home was broken up. “Which is due to happen always happens for sure. But struggler never puts an end as the game of destiny is here and was yet to come.” So is Dr. Black, he moved to Jacksonville, Illinois, a city of 10,000 inhabitants to practice dentistry. He began further study and though serious research in dentistry and met Miss Elizabeth Davenport, student at Jacksonville Female Academy in 1863. On September 14, 1865; they got married and brought their young son Carl home. Elizabeth Black, a well behaved, polite and social woman with pleasing personality, rare insight, tact and devotion filled a missing place in life of Dr. Black and his young son. Carl became young wife’s boy in every sense of world [ 2 ]. Dr. G.V. Black was a set example of a great father and husband in the family circle, an ideal professional man in public life, a scholar and scientist who laboured in secrecy without any pompous show. Spending huge amount of time and money on extensive research, he graciously fostered his children, providing every educational advantage. He was pious too, sang in chorus of Christian church and loved music, played flute, violin and piano [ 2 ]. His curiosity did not end with dentistry so he experimented with himself and was successful in training himself to be ambidextrous by writing two letters simultaneously. To the extent of educating himself, he studied Latin, Algebra and Geometry to study works of other scientist. His command on French and German language made him invitee to deliver lectures to Germany and France on the results of his research. He ensured that he did not repeat his lectures rather updated them time to time [ 3 ]. Dr. Black’s Achievements 1870: Invented Cord driven foot engine with a foot motor. Used till late 90’s by most of the dentists. 1871: Patented for an improvement in dental drills (US117733) and an improvement in universal joints (US117732). 1877: Reissued patent for his dental drill (USRE7452). 1883: Prepared first book “The formation of poisons by Microorganisms” 1890: Published first edition of his Dental anatomy followed by many phenomenal books namely Operative dentistry (2 volumes), The Periosteum and Peridental Membrane, Special Dental Pathology. 1891: Standardized the rules of cavity preparation and filling. 1896: Standardised the formula of amalgam with his knowledge of material science, had been used almost unchanged till date. 1896: Proposed classification of dental caries and standardized dental terminologies. Credited with the first acceptable nomenclature for and classification of hand instruments. Awarded ‘ Miller Prize ’ for his contribution to the advancement of dentistry. Awarded ‘Doctor of Science’ by the Missouri Dental College and later by the Illinois College and University. Awarded ‘ Doctor of Medicine ’ by Chicago Medical College. Awarded ‘ Doctor of Law ’ by the North Western University Dental School. Awarded ‘ Fellowship Medal ’ by The Dental Society of the state of New York. 1897: Became second dean of Northwestern University Dental School. In June 1866, Missouri State Dental Association was delighted to have Dr. Black as one of its members during first meeting itself. It was a blissful moment when he became one of the trustees of Missouri Dental College (chartered on September 15, 1866) where he served as a faculty member from 1870 to 1881 [ 1 ]. This grand old man of dentistry was a person with a class in himself, he was president of the Ward Republican Club, member of the Managing Committee of the Library Association, held as president of the Illinois State Dental Society, Illinois State Dental Board of Dental Examiners, National school of dental techniques, National dental association, chairman of section of etiology, pathology and bacteriology at World Columbian Dental Congress and many more [ 4 ]. He was one of the first medical professionals to introduce nitrous oxide (laughing gas) as an anaesthetic in dentistry. This helped dentists to pull teeth without causing extreme pain to the patients and proved to be a safe and effective remedy for the anxiety and discomfort that a patient may get by a visit to the dentist on the other hand. This anxiety free dentistry is still in