# Christian Horner F1 Red Bull Misconduct Investigation

**Source**: https://web.archive.org/web/20240301170542/https://www.roadandtrack.com/news/a60007430/christian-horner-f1-red-bull-misconduct-investigation/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:00:21.682817+00:00

---

Red Bull Dismisses Misconduct Investigation Into Christian Horner Search About Us Join Now All Access R&amp;T Experiences Shop R&amp;T News Reviews Car Culture Exclusives Performance Car of the Year Contact Follow Newsletter Your Privacy Choices Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content News Reviews Culture Exclusives Gear Join Now sign in News Red Bull Dismisses Misconduct Investigation Into Christian Horner Red Bull Dismisses Misconduct Investigation Into Christian Horner Red Bull says that the claims against Horner have been dismissed, but adds that &quot;the investigation report is confidential&quot; and will not share anything else. By Fred Smith Published: Feb 28, 2024 Save Article Mark Thompson // Getty Images Red Bull Formula 1 boss and major Drive to Survive player Christian Horner will retain his job after a month-long investigation into allegations of undisclosed inappropriate behavior ended with the complaint being dismissed. The investigation was completed internally by Red Bull GmbH rather than the racing team it owns. The specific details of the accusations against Horner were not previously disclosed at any point during the process and, according to the brand's release , will remain undisclosed. This, according to the statement, is because the final report &quot;is confidential and contains the private information of the parties and the third parties who assisted in the investigation.&quot; Horner is now set to stay on at Red Bull, the team he has led since Red Bull acquired it from Jaguar before the 2005 season. The team has won six constructor's championships over the past two decades, complimented by seven driver's titles between Sebastian Vettel and Max Verstappen. The program is once again a heavy favorite to win both the team and driver's championships with an innovative new Adrian Newey design , one that got off to a hot start at pre-season testing last week. Red Bull's decision comes just over a week after Mark Rushbrook, global director of future Red Bull engine partner Ford Performance, noted his brand's concern about complaints and trust in the investigation . The release notes that &quot;the complainant has a right of appeal,&quot; meaning that the process can continue if the other party involved chooses to do so. Motorsport The Biggest Formula 1 Season Ever WRC Drops Hybrids After Just Three Seasons HBO Has a Dan Wheldon Documentary Coming Soon Aston Martin's Latest Vantage GT4 Fighter Arrives Advertisement - Continue Reading Below NASCAR Cheating Gloves Explained Photo Finish! Daniel Suarez Wins Atlanta by .003 Late Stage Cautions Shake Up Ambetter Health 400 NASCAR's Joey Logano Penalized for Altered Glove Haiden Deegan Wins First SX Race and Ghost Rides NASCAR Driver Bayley Currey Loses Roof at Atlanta NASCAR Driver Chase Briscoe's Talents Grow on Dirt Loose Drainage Cover Damages Ferrari F1 Car Again Advertisement - Continue Reading Below About Us New Cars Media Kit Press Room Contact Us Car Rankings Newsletter Advertise Online Customer Service Gear &amp; Accessories Subscribe Community Guidelines A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Autos, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights/Shine the Light DAA Industry Opt Out Terms of Use Site Map Your Privacy Choices: Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads