# 03

**Source**: https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/toc/2025/03/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:50:25.320430+00:00

---

March 2025 Issue - The Atlantic Skip to content Site Navigation The Atlantic Popular Latest Newsletters Sections Politics Ideas Fiction Technology Science Photo Economy Culture Planet Global Books AI Watchdog Health Education Projects Features Family Events Washington Week Progress National Security Explore The Atlantic Archive Play The Atlantic Games Listen to Podcasts and Articles The Print Edition Latest Issue Past Issues Give a Gift Search The Atlantic Quick Links Audio Crossword Puzzle Magazine Archive Your Subscription Popular Latest Newsletters Sign In Subscribe March 2025 All Issues Latest Issue Search the Atlantic In This Issue Explore the March 2025 print edition below. Or to discover more writing from the pages of The Atlantic , browse the full archive . Cover Story Javier Jaén How Progressives Froze the American Dream The U.S. was once the world’s most geographically mobile society. Now we’re stuck in place—and that’s a very big problem. Yoni Appelbaum Get the digital edition of this issue. Subscribers can access PDF versions of every issue in The Atlantic archive. When you subscribe, you’ll not only enjoy all of The Atlantic’s writing, past and present; you’ll also be supporting a bright future for our journalism. Subscribe Already a subscriber? Sign In Features Illustration by Kimberly Elliott Want to Change Your Personality? Have a Baby. I knew that becoming a parent would change me—but I had no idea how. Olga Khazan An Rong Xu for The Atlantic The Man in the Midnight-Blue Six-Ply Italian-Milled Wool Suit A perfect suit, made by an expert tailor out of superlative fabric, would do nothing less than transform me. Gary Shteyngart Illustration by Jan Robert Dünnweller* A Novelist Who Looks Into the Dark Ali Smith scrambles plotlines, upends characters, and flouts chronology—while telling propulsively readable stories. Adam Begley Photo-illustration by Ben Denzer. Source: Paul Denzer. The Moron Factory A short story George Saunders Dispatches Illustration by Ben Hickey Why the COVID Deniers Won Lessons from the pandemic and its aftermath David Frum Illustration by Ben Kothe / The Atlantic. Sources: Anna Moneymaker / Getty; Oxford Science Archive / Print Collector / Getty; mikroman6 / Getty. Europe’s Elon Musk Problem He and other tech oligarchs are making it impossible to conduct free and fair elections anywhere. Anne Applebaum Chris Hoare for The Atlantic All the King’s Censors When bureaucrats ruled over British theater Thomas Chatterton Williams Ann Telnaes Capitulation Is Contagious When fear spreads in a society, powerful people who know better are often the first to show their weakness. Adrienne LaFrance Musuk Nolte Shipwrecked in the Amazon Photographs of the worst drought in the river basin’s recorded history Alex Cuadros Culture &amp; Critics Illustration by Liz Hart. Source: Peacock. Bridget Jones Isn’t a Postfeminist Relic How the beloved British diarist outlasted her critics Sophie Gilbert Illustration by Anna Morrison. Source: Archivio GBB / Alamy. When Robert Frost Was Bad Before he became America’s most famous poet, he wrote some real howlers. James Parker Illustration by Trevor Shin The Modern Voice of War Writing In All Quiet on the Western Front , Erich Maria Remarque reinvented a genre. George Packer Photo-illustration by Paul Spella* Hanif Kureishi’s Relentlessly Revealing Memoir How a tragic accident helped the author find his rebellious voice again Hillary Kelly Departments The Atlantic The Commons: ‘There Is No One-Size-Fits-All Approach to Reading Instruction’ Readers respond to our December 2024 issue and more. The Atlantic Caleb's Inferno: March 2025 A devilish crossword puzzle Poetry Alamy Stock Photo Reflections Czesław Miłosz Latest Issues October 2025 September 2025 August 2025 July 2025 June 2025 May 2025 April 2025 March 2025 February 2025 January 2025 December 2024 November 2024 Scroll → The Atlantic Daily Get our guide to the day’s biggest news and ideas, delivered to your inbox every weekday and Sunday mornings. See more newsletters Email Address Sign Up Your newsletter subscriptions are subject to The Atlantic&#x27;s Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions . Ideas That Matter Subscribe and support more than 160 years of independent journalism. Subscribe Popular Links About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Reprints &amp; Permissions Podcasts Radio Atlantic Good on Paper The David Frum Show How to Age Up Autocracy in America Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Atlantic Editions Newsletters Follow facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin flipboard About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Reprints &amp; Permissions Podcasts Radio Atlantic Good on Paper The David Frum Show How to Age Up Autocracy in America Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Atlantic Editions Newsletters Follow facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin flipboard Site Information Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices privacy-options Advertising Guidelines Terms &amp; Conditions Terms of Sale Responsible Disclosure Site Map TheAtlantic.com © 2025 The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply