# 1412.6980

**Source**: https://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6980
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:33:49.543480+00:00

---

[1412.6980] Adam: A Method for Stochastic Optimization Skip to main content We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate &gt; cs &gt; arXiv:1412.6980 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About --> Computer Science > Machine Learning arXiv:1412.6980 (cs) [Submitted on 22 Dec 2014 ( v1 ), last revised 30 Jan 2017 (this version, v9)] Title: Adam: A Method for Stochastic Optimization Authors: Diederik P. Kingma , Jimmy Ba View a PDF of the paper titled Adam: A Method for Stochastic Optimization, by Diederik P. Kingma and Jimmy Ba View PDF Abstract: We introduce Adam, an algorithm for first-order gradient-based optimization of stochastic objective functions, based on adaptive estimates of lower-order moments. The method is straightforward to implement, is computationally efficient, has little memory requirements, is invariant to diagonal rescaling of the gradients, and is well suited for problems that are large in terms of data and/or parameters. The method is also appropriate for non-stationary objectives and problems with very noisy and/or sparse gradients. The hyper-parameters have intuitive interpretations and typically require little tuning. Some connections to related algorithms, on which Adam was inspired, are discussed. We also analyze the theoretical convergence properties of the algorithm and provide a regret bound on the convergence rate that is comparable to the best known results under the online convex optimization framework. Empirical results demonstrate that Adam works well in practice and compares favorably to other stochastic optimization methods. Finally, we discuss AdaMax, a variant of Adam based on the infinity norm. Comments: Published as a conference paper at the 3rd International Conference for Learning Representations, San Diego, 2015 Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG) Cite as: arXiv:1412.6980 [cs.LG] &nbsp; (or arXiv:1412.6980v9 [cs.LG] for this version) &nbsp; https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1412.6980 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Diederik P Kingma M.Sc. [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 22 Dec 2014 13:54:29 UTC (280 KB) [v2] Sat, 17 Jan 2015 20:26:06 UTC (283 KB) [v3] Fri, 27 Feb 2015 21:04:48 UTC (289 KB) [v4] Tue, 3 Mar 2015 17:51:27 UTC (289 KB) [v5] Thu, 23 Apr 2015 16:46:07 UTC (289 KB) [v6] Tue, 23 Jun 2015 19:57:17 UTC (958 KB) [v7] Mon, 20 Jul 2015 09:43:23 UTC (519 KB) [v8] Thu, 23 Jul 2015 20:27:47 UTC (526 KB) [v9] Mon, 30 Jan 2017 01:27:54 UTC (490 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Adam: A Method for Stochastic Optimization, by Diederik P. Kingma and Jimmy Ba View PDF TeX Source Other Formats view license Current browse context: cs.LG &lt;&nbsp;prev &nbsp; | &nbsp; next&nbsp;&gt; new | recent | 2014-12 Change to browse by: cs References &amp; Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar 42 blog links ( what is this? ) DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Diederik P. Kingma Jimmy Ba a export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation &times; loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recommender toggle IArxiv Recommender ( What is IArxiv? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status Get status notifications via email or slack