# Disney Succession Mess Iger Chapek.Html

**Source**: https://www.cnbc.com/2023/09/06/disney-succession-mess-iger-chapek.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:52:25.079272+00:00

---

Disney CEO mess: Inside story of Iger and Chapek Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Cryptocurrency Futures &amp; Commodities Bonds Funds &amp; ETFs Business Economy Finance Health &amp; Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim&#x27;s Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown NEW! My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Stock Lists Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news &amp; videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Media Disney&#x27;s wildest ride: Iger, Chapek and the making of an epic succession mess Published Wed, Sep 6 2023 6:00 AM EDT Updated Thu, Oct 19 2023 2:07 PM EDT Alex Sherman @in/alex-sherman @sherman4949 WATCH LIVE Key Points What did a private bathroom, Oogie Boogie and a hippo have to do with the behind-the-scenes chaos between Bob Iger and Bob Chapek at Disney? Here&#x27;s the inside story of a CEO succession plan gone awry — a cautionary tale about ego and hubris at the highest levels of corporate America. This article is based on conversations with more than two dozen people who worked closely with Iger and Chapek between 2020 and 2022. In this article DIS Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Illustration by Elham Ataeiazar After pushing back his retirement four times, Bob Iger finally made the leap. On Feb. 25, 2020, he announced he would step down as Disney&#x27;s CEO. His hand-picked successor, Bob Chapek, then Disney&#x27;s parks chairman, would take over the day-to-day job of running the company, effective immediately. As part of the changing of the guard, the Disney board suggested the new CEO should take over Iger&#x27;s expansive office at Disney headquarters in Burbank, California. There was just one problem. Iger had no interest in moving out. He wasn&#x27;t truly leaving Disney, anyway. His succession plan allowed him to stay on as executive chairman for 22 more months. Chapek would report to him and the board. Iger would also &quot;direct the company&#x27;s creative endeavors&quot; — nebulous phrasing suggesting he would retain control of movie and TV content and operations. There was a practical reason Iger didn&#x27;t want to move out of his office. It had a private shower, built for former CEO Michael Eisner, and a vanity for shaving. Iger, now 72, consistently woke up around 4:15 a.m. to work out and then shower. On evenings when Iger was heading out for a Disney premiere, award show or benefit, he would often take a second shower — this time in the office. Iger told Chapek that he lived for those &quot;two-shower days,&quot; according to people familiar with the conversation. Iger chose Chapek, now 64, as his successor because of Chapek&#x27;s integrity and business acumen, not his interest in Hollywood socialization. Chapek has the outward corporate demeanor of a Midwestern businessman — or, as one colleague jokingly put it, &quot;a tuna salad sandwich who sits in front of spreadsheets.&quot; He&#x27;s a risk-taker who&#x27;s not afraid to upend the status quo, but he&#x27;s not a schmoozer by nature. Whereas Iger holds court around his Brentwood mansion — a short stroll from celebrities, producers, super-agents and other Disney executives — Chapek lives about an hour&#x27;s drive from downtown Los Angeles, in Westlake Village. Iger enjoys yachting; Chapek is more of a power-boating and kayaking kind of guy. Both men agreed Chapek wouldn&#x27;t have much need for the office shower; Chapek would instead move into a smaller office on the same floor. On the wall of Iger&#x27;s office bathroom hung two posters. The first was a framed collage of newspaper front pages and magazine covers with images of Iger celebrating Disney&#x27;s purchase of Marvel in 2009. The $4 billion deal was arguably Iger&#x27;s shrewdest decision as CEO and one of the best media and entertainment acquisitions in U.S. corporate history. The second picture spoofed the movie poster for the 1975 Clint Eastwood thriller &quot;The Eiger Sanction,&quot; but the image was of Iger instead of Eastwood, with the title &quot;The Iger Sanction.&quot; Zoom In Icon Arrows pointing outwards LMPC | Getty Images &quot;The Eiger Sanction&quot; is about an assassin who comes out of retirement for one last job. On Nov. 20, 2022, Bob Iger came out of retirement to become Disney&#x27;s CEO once again. The board had fired Chapek. Within days, Iger fired Chapek&#x27;s closest advisors, including his former chief of staff, Arthur Bochner; his assistant, Jackie Hart; and his de facto second-in-command, Kareem Daniel. In July , Iger extended his contract through 2026, the fifth time he has pushed back his departure as CEO. Chapek confided to a friend that his tenure at Disney was &quot;about three years of hell,&quot; defined by one overriding theme: his unrelenting fear that Iger wanted his job back. Iger, meanwhile, has told peers and colleagues he returned to Disney to correct what he sees as one of the biggest mistakes of his career — choosing Chapek. &quot;When the two people at the top of a company have a dysfunctional relationship, there&#x27;s no way that the rest of the company beneath them can be functional,&quot; Iger wrote in his autobiography, &quot;The Ride of a Lifetime.&quot; &quot;It&#x27;s like having two parents who fight all the time.&quot; Iger wasn&#x27;t describing his relationship with Chapek — he was recalling his observations living through the meltdown between Eisner and his No. 2, Michael Ovitz, in the 1990s. The pair got along great for years, until they became the top two people at Disney. Within 16 months, their relationship had exploded and Ovitz was fired. But like a son who vows never to repeat his father&#x27;s mistakes and then proceeds to do just that, Iger&#x27;s relationship with Chapek followed a strikingly similar pattern. There&#x27;s no company in the world more associated with storytelling than Disney; its most famous movies are modern versions of timeless fables. The story of the Chapek era is timeless in its own way. It&#x27;s a tale of how good intentions clashed with hubris and ego can erode one of the most famous organizations in the world — a case study in corporate dysfunction and succession gone wrong. As Iger and the Disney board resume their search for a successor, a critical question looms: Have they learned the moral of the story? watch now VIDEO 5:13 05:13 Disney&#x27;s succession mess: The inside story of Iger and Chapek CNBC News and Programming This account is based on conversations with more than 25 people who worked closely with Iger and Chapek at Disney between 2020 and 2022. They declined to be named, as the events and conversations were private. Many of the details have never been reported. Through a representative, Chapek defended his record as Disney CEO in a statement to CNBC. &quot;Bob is proud of the work he did in the course of his 30-year career at Disney, particularly during his nearly three-year run as CEO, steering the company through the unprecedented challenges of the pandemic, and setting the course for business transformation as he and his team took the disruptive yet necessary steps for business revitalization and long-term growth,&quot; said a Chapek spokesperson. Iger declined to comment for this story. Iger&#x27;s succession plan Iger&#x27;s decision to step down as CEO not only shocked the entertainment and media worlds, it took even his close associates by surprise. Disney&#x27;s head of streaming, Kevin Mayer, whom many outsiders had pegged as Iger&#x27;s likely replacement , found out minutes before Iger&#x27;s public announcement. &quot;I didn&#x27;t know that was coming at all,&quot; Mayer told CNBC in 2021. Kevin Mayer, co-founder and co-CEO of Candle Media, speaks at the Milken Institute Asia Summit in Singapore on Sept. 29, 2022. Bryan van der Beek | Bloomberg | Getty Images But Iger figured the timing was right. He was getting close to 70 and he&#x27;d been CEO for almost 15 years. The company&#x27;s recently launched streaming service, Disney+, was an instant success . And Iger was convinced Chapek was the right caretaker to continue his legacy. Chapek grew up in Hammond, Indiana, &quot;the son of a World War II veteran and a working mother,&quot; as he has described it . His family took annual trips to Walt Disney World when he was young, seeding his genuine love for the company&#x27;s theme parks. He studied microbiology at Indiana University and got his MBA from Michigan State University. He joined Disney in 1993 and by 2015 had risen to become chairman of the parks division. For more than two decades, Chapek earned Iger&#x27;s respect as a shrewd cost-cutter and a low-drama manager. Iger especially valued Chapek for his integrity and operational expertise. At each of the divisions Chapek led at Disney — home video, consumer products and parks — profit and revenue soared under his watch. He also benefited from some good timing, running the home video division when Disney animation hits such as &quot;The Little Mermaid,&quot; &quot;Aladdin&quot; and &quot;Beauty and the Beast&quot; were first sold on VHS, and piloting consumer products just as &quot;Frozen &quot; launched. Chapek cemented his reputation with Iger