# Why Every Man Should Study The Ancient Classics

**Source**: http://www.artofmanliness.com/2015/11/23/why-every-man-should-study-the-ancient-classics/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:41:30.350754+00:00

---

Why Every Man Should Study Classical Culture | The Art of Manliness Why Every Man Should Study Classical Culture | The Art of Manliness Menu random podcast Get Style Clothing Accessories Facial Hair Ties Get Strong Fitness Health Program Review Get Social Family Fatherhood Relationships Social Skills Get Skilled How To Manly Know-How Outdoor/Survival Podcast Books Random Find more of the Art of Manliness: Instagram Feedly Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Clothing Accessories Facial Hair Ties A ManГўВҖВҷs Guide to the Rugby Shirt 5 Ways to Wear an OCBD With Style Men Don&#8217;t Dress Like Boys How to Wear a White T-Shirt With Style The Dos and Don&#8217;ts of Applying Cologne Did Commandos Go Commando? A Man&#8217;s Guide to Fragrance: How to Choose and Wear Cologne My Go-To Sunglasses for Summer How to Trim Your Eyebrows Your No-Nonsense Guide to Choosing the Right Beard Style How to Grow a Beard: The One and True Guide Beard Oil FAQs: Answering All Your Pressing Beardly Questions Skill of the Week: Tie a Full Windsor Necktie Knot How to Tie a Tie Skill of the Week: Put a Dimple in Your Tie Skill of the Week: Tie a Scarf 5 Different Ways Browse all Get Style Fitness Health Program Review What My Workout Has Looked Like Lately Podcast #1,086: Build Muscle Without the B.S. ГўВҖВ” A Straightforward Guide to Size and Strength How to Turn Treading Water Into a Legit Workout Skill of the Week: Effectively Traverse the Monkey Bars Skill of the Week: Tape a Sprained Ankle Podcast #1,084: Overdiagnosed ГўВҖВ” How Our Obsession with Medical Testing and Labels Is Making Us Sicker A ManГўВҖВҷs Guide to Blood Pressure: What It Is, Why It Matters, and How to Keep It in Check Podcast #1,076: The Microbiome Master Key ГўВҖВ” How 100 Trillion Bacteria Influence Your Weight, Mood, and All-Around Health The Insanely Difficult Standards of History&#8217;s Hardest P.E. Program Which Fitness Program Is Right for You? A Review of the MovNat Workshop Strengthen Your Tribe: A Report on the Atomic Athlete Vanguard Browse all Get Strong Family Fatherhood Relationships Social Skills A Back-to-School Game Plan for Dads Podcast #1,056: The 80/80 Marriage ГўВҖВ” A New Model for a Happier, Stronger Relationship Podcast #1,039: What&#8217;s Behind the Rise of Parent-Child Estrangement? Take the D Word Off the Table Podcast #1,085: The Preparation ГўВҖВ” An Adventure-Driven, Skill-Building Alternative to College for Young Men Podcast #1,072: Men Don&#8217;t Run in the Rain ГўВҖВ” And 7 Other Essential Lessons for Being a Man The Dad Instinct: How Fathers Prepare Kids for the Wider World The 4 Parenting Styles (And Which One Is Best) The Yearly Marriage Checkup Podcast #1,068: Building Tribe ГўВҖВ” How to Create and Sustain Communities of Men Podcast #1,060: No, There Isn&#8217;t a Loneliness Epidemic (And That May Be an Even Bigger Problem) Podcast #1,058: The Science of Porn: Myths, Facts, and Overlooked Issues Podcast #1,087: Why You Need the Good Stress of Socializing Podcast #1,070: How to Have the Manners and Charm of a Proper English Gentleman How to Flirt Like It&#8217;s 1995 Podcast #1,052: Stop Saying Um (And Fix the Other Vocal Tics That Are Sabotaging Your Speaking) Browse all Get Social How To Manly Know-How Outdoor/Survival Skill of the Week: Sharpen a Pocket Knife How to Drive a Tank How to Do a Brush Pass Like a Cold War Spy Skill of the Week: Properly Fold the American Flag Skill of the Week: Heel-And-Toe Shift Skill of the Week: Make a Rope Swing (And Fly Like Tarzan) Skill of the Week: Jump From a Height Into Water How to Use a Multimeter Skill of the Week: Cross a Piranha-Infested River Skill of the Week: Fire a Flare Gun Skill of the Week: Open a Coconut (With or Without Tools) Podcast #1,078: From Plane Crashes to Terrorist Attacks ГўВҖВ” Who Survives, and Why Browse all Get Skilled in: Character , Featured , Knowledge of Men Brett and Kate McKay &bull; November 23, 2015 &bull; Last updated: October 7, 2023 Why Every Man Should Study Classical Culture If youГўВҖВҷve been following the Art of Manliness for awhile now, youГўВҖВҷve likely caught on to the influence that the classical cultures of Greece and Rome exert on a lot of our content. We promote an idea of ГўВҖВң manliness as virtue ГўВҖВқ that was espoused by both of these ancient civilizations. And thereГўВҖВҷs a reason for that: In college, I majored in ГўВҖВңLettersГўВҖВқ &#8212; a degree program connected with the Classics Department. I studied Latin and took classes on the history of freedom in both ancient Greece and Rome. I read and discussed the Greek tragedies and even took an entire course on Ovid. ItГўВҖВҷs during this time that I developed a deep and lasting love for classical culture; despite having graduated from college nearly ten years ago, IГўВҖВҷm still reading and pondering the works of Homer, Plato, and Cicero. An understanding of the culture, philosophy, and literature of antiquity has greatly enhanced my life, and itГўВҖВҷs an education I think every man should be well-versed in. Even if you didnГўВҖВҷt study the classics in high school or college, thereГўВҖВҷs a case to be made that you should begin doing so&nbsp;now. Below are eight reasons why every man should dive into the classics, as well as&nbsp;a list of suggested works to get you started. 1. Enhances your cultural literacy. Do you know what it means when someone is said to be facing a choice ГўВҖВңbetween Charybdis and ScyllaГўВҖВқ? Do you understand the reference to someone having &#8220;crossed the Rubicon&#8221;? Does it make sense to you to hear Alexander Hamilton called the ГўВҖВңAmerican CiceroГўВҖВқ? Western culture is infused with references to the history and literature of classical Greece and Rome. With just a passing allusion to an ancient myth or story, an artist, author, or statesman can pack a mighty rhetorical punch . But for that punch to land, the audience must have fluency in the symbols and ideas of the classical era. Unfortunately, because fewer and fewer people study the classics in high school or college, fewer and fewer are able to grasp the significance of classical allusions in literature, poems, and even film. Without that cultural knowledge of the Greeks and Romans, these folks are missing out on a much richer and deeper intellectual and emotional encounter with these works. Heck, even watching a movie like O&#8217; Brother, Where Art Thou? is more enjoyable when youГўВҖВҷre well-versed in HomerГўВҖВҷs Odyssey . If youГўВҖВҷd like to make art and even politics more vibrant and vital in your life, then start boning up on the ancient classics. YouГўВҖВҷll be amazed at the new insights youГўВҖВҷll uncover in your favorite books or movies, and youГўВҖВҷll be better able to engage in meaningful dialogue with your family, friends, and community: 2. Allows you to take part in the ГўВҖВңGreat Conversation.ГўВҖВқ When the famous Great Books curriculum was created in the 1930s at the University of Chicago, its purpose was to acquaint students with the primary source texts that had played a fundamental role in shaping Western thought and culture. University president Robert M. Hutchins wanted Americans to be able to take part in what he called ГўВҖВңthe Great Conversation.ГўВҖВқ For him, this universal dialogue was&nbsp;made up of the deep discussions which form around the philosophical pursuit of Truth, which began with the ancient Greeks and continues today. Topics of the Great Conversation concern the Big Ideas that philosophers, theologians, and artists have been mulling over for thousands of years. What is justice? What is true friendship? What is love? What is honor? How do you live a good life? Like any discussion that you take part in, to actively participate in the Great Conversation, you need to have an idea of whatГўВҖВҷs already been said; you donГўВҖВҷt want to be the guy who&nbsp;jumps in and blurts out things that make no sense. Lots of people today are willing to state their opinion on the Big Ideas in life without having taken the time to study the threads of discussion&nbsp;that have come before them. They think theyГўВҖВҷre contributing to the conversation, but they come off like anyone&nbsp;who jumps into a discussion without bothering&nbsp;to get filled in on whatГўВҖВҷs already been said&nbsp;&#8212;&nbsp;their thoughts are fragmentary, out-of-turn, needlessly repetitive, and lacking in context. Getting ГўВҖВңfilled inГўВҖВқ on the Great Conversation requires you to go back and read the ancient classics. For example, to understand any philosophers from the 18 th , 19 th , and 20 th centuries, you first have to achieve an understanding of the philosophy of Plato and Aristotle. No philosophy exists in a vacuum; rather, all philosophers have been having an extended conversation with each other for thousands of years, whether explicitly or implicitly. And the origin of this conversation traces back to ancient Athens. Once youГўВҖВҷve got this foundation down, from there you can see how successive philosophers have added, transformed, and rebutted what came out of that city-state. And then, at last, you can start making your own constructive contributions to the Great Conversation. 3. Allows you to see the interconnectedness of ideas. Our educational system has become increasingly specialized. WeГўВҖВҷve created artificial barriers between different fields of study. When youГўВҖВҷre in history, you largely just focus on history. When youГўВҖВҷre studying physics, you mostly focus on physics. Historian Richard Weaver referred to this as the ГўВҖВңfragmentationГўВҖВқ of knowledge. But when you read the classics, those walls disappear. For the ancient Greeks and Romans, all knowledge was interconnected. When you read The Histories by Herodotus, youГўВҖВҷll see him connect historical events to political theory, anthropology, and even geography. Plato doesnГўВҖВҷt just muse about Truth, Justice, and Beauty, but also math and physics. The Roman Stoics werenГўВҖВҷt just interested in learning how to live in alignment with Nature, but also how to govern empires and interact with people you donГўВҖВҷt get along with