# John Nichols

**Source**: https://www.thenation.com/authors/john-nichols/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:58:39.065709+00:00

---

John Nichols | The Nation --> Log In Email * Password * Remember Me Forgot Your Password? Log In New to The Nation ? Subscribe Print subscriber? Activate your online access Skip to content Skip to footer Magazine Newsletters Subscribe Log In Search Subscribe Donate Magazine Latest Archive Podcasts Newsletters Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts The Nation About Events Contact Us Advertise Current Issue John Nichols Executive Editor @NicholsUprising John Nichols is the executive editor of The Nation . He previously served as the magazine’s national affairs correspondent and Washington correspondent. Nichols has written, cowritten, or edited over a dozen books on topics ranging from histories of American socialism and the Democratic Party to analyses of US and global media systems. His latest, cowritten with Senator Bernie Sanders, is the New York Times bestseller It's OK to Be Angry About Capitalism . Robert Redford Sounded the Alarm About Our Corrupted Politics Over 50 Years Ago Robert Redford Sounded the Alarm About Our Corrupted Politics Over 50 Years Ago The late legend's 1972 classic "The Candidate" was an urgent warning about how money-driven, TV-obsessed campaigns would devastate democracy. Sep 24, 2025 / John Nichols The GOP’s Bloated Pentagon Budget Is Indefensible The GOP’s Bloated Pentagon Budget Is Indefensible The House just approved $892.6 billion in military spending—continuing the march toward $1 trillion defense budgets. Sep 12, 2025 / John Nichols Ad Policy Democrats Have No More Excuses on Gaza Democrats Have No More Excuses on Gaza The American people want their leaders to stop supporting Netanyahu’s murderous inhumanity. Sep 11, 2025 / Katrina vanden Heuvel , John Nichols for The Nation Rebecca Solnit on Trump, Books, and the Reincarnation of King George III Rebecca Solnit on Trump, Books, and the Reincarnation of King George III A conversation with the writer and activist about living in a nation where those who lead are often disinclined to read—let alone write—meaningful books. Sep 8, 2025 / Q&amp;A / John Nichols “They Will Attack Every Organized Worker in America” “They Will Attack Every Organized Worker in America” Talking to the head of America’s largest union of federal workers about Trump’s assault on his members and all of labor. Sep 1, 2025 / John Nichols DC Statehood: Now, More Than Ever DC Statehood: Now, More Than Ever The best counter to Trump’s authoritarianism is a renewed commitment to secure full representative democracy in Washington. Aug 28, 2025 / John Nichols Minnesota Democrats Are at War Over the “Mamdani of Minneapolis” Minnesota Democrats Are at War Over the “Mamdani of Minneapolis” Democratic socialist mayoral candidate Omar Fateh won the endorsement of his city party. Then the state party overturned the result. Representative Ilhan Omar calls it “inexcusabl... Aug 26, 2025 / John Nichols “The Nation” Interviews Zohran Mamdani “The Nation” Interviews Zohran Mamdani New York's Democratic mayoral nominee shares his views on the city's affordability crisis, the new media landscape—and how Democrats need to stand up for what they believe. Aug 12, 2025 / Feature / Katrina vanden Heuvel and John Nichols New Yorkers Aren’t About to Elect a Mayor Who Makes Common Cause With Donald Trump New Yorkers Aren’t About to Elect a Mayor Who Makes Common Cause With Donald Trump Amid reports that Cuomo is consulting with Trump and telling business leaders he doesn’t want a fight with the president, Zohran Mamdani sees a “betrayal of the city.” Aug 8, 2025 / John Nichols Representative Democracy Will Live or Die In Texas Representative Democracy Will Live or Die In Texas A gerrymandering fight reveals how far Trump will go to avoid electoral accountability. Aug 5, 2025 / John Nichols Go to archive page 1 1 Go to archive page 2 2 Go to archive page 3 3 &hellip; Go to archive page 465 465 Go to next archive page Next Ad Policy Ad Policy Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts OppArt Poetry Letters Magazine Current Issue Masthead Archive Subscription Services Reprints More About Us Contact Us Advertise Nation Events Nation Shop Nation Travels Nation Podcasts Newsletters Follow Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube RSS Founded by abolitionists in 1865, The Nation has long believed that independent journalism has the capacity to bring about a more democratic and equitable world. Donate Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility Statement Help Careers Nation Fund Privacy Manager x