# Trump Federalize Washington Dc Military Troops Cost

**Source**: https://theintercept.com/2025/08/20/trump-federalize-washington-dc-military-troops-cost/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:58:36.123393+00:00

---

Price Tag for Trump’s D.C. Military Surge: At Least $1 Million a Day Skip to main content Support Us Support Us Politics Justice War on Gaza Technology Immigration Chilling Dissent Support Us Special Investigations Voices Podcasts Press Freedom Defense Fund Join the Newsletter About Contact Us More Ways to Donate Impact &#038; Reports Jobs Become a Source © THE INTERCEPT ALL RIGHTS RESERVED Terms of Use Privacy Politics Justice War on Gaza Technology Immigration Chilling Dissent About Support Us Price Tag for Trump’s D.C. Military Surge: At Least $1 Million a Day An analysis conducted for The Intercept found that the militarization of D.C. could end up costing hundreds of millions. Nick Turse August 20 2025, 1:13 p.m. Share Copy link Share on Facebook Share on Bluesky Share on X Share on LinkedIn Share on WhatsApp District of Columbia National Guard members arrive at Union Station in Washington, D.C., on Aug. 15, 2025. The D.C. National Guard is uniquely commanded by the president through the defense secretary. Photo: Tech. Sgt. Missy Sterling/U.S. Air National Guard/Joint Task Force D.C./DVIDS The military forces deploying in Washington, D.C. — whose mission includes not only “community safety patrols” but assisting in “traffic control” and “area beautification” — could cost upward of $1 million per day, with the possible price tag climbing into the hundreds of millions for the open-ended occupation, according to expert analysis. Washington is now ground zero in President Donald Trump’s push to turn America into a full-fledged police state . The power grab in the District of Columbia — which thus far has involved seizing control of D.C.’s police force, deploying National Guard troops, and flooding the streets with federal officers — follows deployments of federal troops from coast to coast, surges of &nbsp;masked federal agents &nbsp;around the United States, and consistent tyrannical use of executive authority in ways with little precedent in modern U.S. history. Trump has brushed off being called a “ dictator ” since his capital city putsch, which he touted as a law enforcement operation and urban beautification campaign. Related Trump’s Trial Run for a Police State The Republican governors of West Virginia, South Carolina, Ohio, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Tennessee announced, in the last several days, that they will send National Guard troops to assist Trump’s efforts to&nbsp;“ federalize ” D.C.&nbsp;Those forces will join the nearly 900 D.C. National Guard troops already activated by Trump and deployed in the capital.&nbsp; Approximately 500 National Guard members from West Virginia had arrived in the capital by Monday afternoon, according to a defense official who spoke to The Intercept on background. Around 300 troops from South Carolina were en route, the official said. (South Carolina’s Gov. Henry McMaster only publicly authorized the deployment of 200 Guard members.) All told, around 2,100 troops will soon be deployed. The Intercept asked Hanna Homestead of the National Priorities Project, a nonpartisan research group, to estimate the possible expense of this operation. Her analysis finds that the cost of Trump’s troop deployment in Washington could exceed more than $1 million per day, based on the deployment of around 2,100 Guard members to D.C. U.S. Army soldiers from the District of Columbia National Guard, activated in support of the “D.C. Safe and Beautiful Task Force,” at the National Mall in Washington on Aug. 18, 2025. &nbsp; Photo: Nina Cortez/U.S. Army/Joint Task Force DC/DVIDS &#8220;It&#8217;s unconscionable that the Trump administration would hand the military a blank check of over a million dollars a day to occupy D.C. while stripping access to health care and food aid from millions of families across the country,” Homestead told The Intercept. &#8220;The daily cost of the D.C. troop deployment is more than four times what it would cost to operate affordable housing for D.C.&#8217;s entire unhoused population. The government&#8217;s priorities could not be more clear.&#8221; “The daily cost of the D.C. troop deployment is more than four times what it would cost to operate affordable housing for D.C.’s entire unhoused population.” Homestead based her calculations on recent National Guard deployments where the total number of troops, cost, and deployment length are publicly available but cautioned that government secrecy makes it impossible to account for all variables including lodging, transportation, equipment usage, and other expenses. Homestead noted that since Trump began his federal power grab, more than 450 people have been&nbsp; arrested . &#8220;Describing the National Guard deployment as a glorified&nbsp;gardening mission is an attempt to whitewash the danger of the expanding&nbsp;police state,&#8221; she told The Intercept.&nbsp;&#8220;It directly contradicts reports of what is actually happening on the ground: Troops aren&#8217;t picking up trash or planting flowers, they are operating checkpoints and helping make hundreds of arrests of mostly Black and brown residents.&#8221; Most Read Trump and Hegseth Gathered U.S. Military Leaders for an “Embarrassing” Rant Nick Turse Trump Administration Conjures Up New “Terrorist” Designation to Justify Killing Civilians Nick Turse Judge Finds Rubio and Noem Intentionally Targeted Pro-Palestine Activists to Chill Speech Shawn Musgrave The Pentagon claims it does not know the costs of these National Guard deployments, leaving taxpayers on the hook for inestimable costs. “We won’t know the cost until the mission concludes,” another defense official told The Intercept, speaking on the condition of anonymity. The first defense official expressed skepticism of this claim of total unknowability, intimating that the Pentagon does, or at least could, have an idea of the cost: “The concern is they don&#8217;t want anyone pinning them down, saying, ‘Oh, you said it&#8217;s going to cost this much, but actually it cost a lot more.’” The ultimate length of the deployment is unspecified, leaving open the possibility that it could last for months or longer, driving costs into the tens or hundreds of millions by Homestead’s estimate. Trump suggested that funding for his D.C. takeover — including rousting homeless camps, removing “all” the city’s graffiti, and tending to “grasses” in the parks — would cost a “ relatively small amount of money .” “Spending tens if not hundreds of millions of dollars to deploy the National Guard to the nation&#8217;s capital, whether to address an imagined increase in violent crime or in support of immigration enforcement missions, is a massive distraction from the military’s mission,” said Gabe Murphy, a policy analyst at Taxpayers for Common Sense, a nonpartisan budget watchdog advocating for an end to wasteful spending. “It undermines readiness, pulls resources and personnel from other missions, and dangerously blurs the lines between military and civilian jurisdictions.” Louisiana National Guard soldiers arrive at the D.C. Armory in Washington on Aug. 19, 2025. &nbsp; Photo: Cpl. Joseph Martin/U.S. Army/Joint Task Force DC/DVIDS Despite Justice Department figures showing that violent crime in the D.C. was already at a&nbsp; 30-year low , Trump declared a crime emergency in Washington on August 11. “Our capital city has been overtaken by violent gangs and bloodthirsty criminals,” Trump said at a White House news conference that day, painting the city as a hellscape filled with “drugged out maniacs” and “caravans of mass youth” who “rampage through city streets” day and night. “I’m deploying the National Guard to help reestablish law, order and public safety in Washington, D.C.,” he declared. The National Guard deployment is one facet of Trump’s efforts to put the District of Columbia under federal authority. He also declared that he is temporarily taking control of the city’s police department. Hundreds of officers and agents from more than a dozen federal agencies — including the FBI; Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; Drug Enforcement Administration; Immigration and Customs Enforcement; and the U.S. Marshals Service — have also fanned out across Washington. Masked federal agents have made arrests in neighborhoods across the city, set up traffic checkpoints to enforce laws against seatbelt violations or broken taillights, and torn down a protest banner , among other efforts. On Friday, Washington’s attorney general sued the administration for appointing the head of the DEA as the city’s “emergency police commissioner.” The administration walked back the move but then issued a follow-up order that directed local police to “cooperate fully and completely with federal immigration authorities.” We’re independent of corporate interests — and powered by members. Join us. Become a member Join Our Newsletter Thank You For Joining! Original reporting. Fearless journalism. Delivered to you. Will you take the next step to support our independent journalism by becoming a member of The Intercept? I&#039;m in Become a member By signing up, I agree to receive emails from The Intercept and to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Use . Join Our Newsletter Original reporting. Fearless journalism. Delivered to you. I&#039;m in In his first seven months in office, Trump has commanded the military to increasingly insert itself into civil and law enforcement functions within the United States. He has deployed around 20,000 federal troops on American soil, including personnel from the National Guard, the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marines, according to the Pentagon. But the true number of personnel deployed &nbsp;may be markedly higher . U.S. Northern Command has no running tally of how many troops have been deployed around the country. These federal forces have been operating under Title 10 authority , or federal control, in at least five states — Arizona, California , Florida, New Mexico, and Texas — in service