# Luxury Home In Montreal Owned By Pornhub Exec Burned Down In Apparent Arson

**Source**: https://montrealgazette.com/news/local-news/luxury-home-in-montreal-owned-by-pornhub-exec-burned-down-in-apparent-arson
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:30:05.333205+00:00

---

Luxury home in Montreal owned by Pornhub exec burned down in apparent arson | Montreal Gazette Advertisement oop Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Skip to Content Sections Search Search montrealgazette.com Perform search Montreal Gazette Share Share this Story : Luxury home in Montreal owned by Pornhub exec burned down in apparent arson Copy Link Email X Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Manage My Account Manage My Account Search montrealgazette.com Perform search News Canada News Canadian Politics Health Crime Montreal Politics Off-Island Gazette Quebec Quebec Politics The Corner Booth West Island Gazette Weather MTL MAYOR RACE 2025 Sports Baseball Basketball Football CFL Montreal Alouettes NFL Golf Hockey Laval Rocket NHL Hockey Inside Out Montreal Canadiens PWHL Montreal Victoire Junior Hockey Olympics Soccer MLS CF Montréal Tennis Montreal Canadiens Opinion Columnists Editorials Letters To The Editor Op Eds Business Energy Real Estate Technology Montreal's Top Employers Entertainment And Life Books Celebrity Fashion & Beauty Homes Montreal movies Music Recipes Restaurants Theatre Television Travel Cruises Travel Canada Travel International Travel USA Travel Deals Shopping Montreal Gazette Store Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Healthing Contests National Contests Driving ePaper Remembering Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Celebrations Real Estate Pet Posts & Adoptions Working Business Ads This Week's Flyers Profile Settings My Subscriptions My Offers Newsletters Customer Service FAQ Sign Out News MTL MAYOR RACE 2025 Sports Montreal Canadiens Opinion Business Entertainment And Life Travel Shopping Puzzles Comics Advice Healthing Contests Driving ePaper Remembering Advertisement 1 This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Breadcrumb Trail Links Home Real Estate Local News Share this Story : Luxury home in Montreal owned by Pornhub exec burned down in apparent arson Copy Link Email X Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Luxury home in Montreal owned by Pornhub exec burned down in apparent arson There were several fires inside the eight-bedroom, seven-bathroom residence and firefighters were still at the scene early Monday. Author of the article: Presse Canadienne Ugo Giguère Published Apr 26, 2021 1 minute read Investigators examine the scene of a fire that destroyed a $19.5 million mansion under construction for Mindgeek, which is the parent company of the Pornhub website, executive Feras Antoon Monday, April 26, 2021 in Montreal.THE CANADIAN PRESS/Ryan Remiorz ORG XMIT: RYR101-04-26 Photo by Ryan Remiorz / The Canadian Press Article content A luxury home under construction and owned by an executive of the online pornography site Pornhub was burned down after a fire deemed to be arson tore through the structure late Sunday. THIS CONTENT IS RESERVED FOR SUBSCRIBERS ONLY There with you then. Here with you now. As a critical part of the community for over 245 years,The Gazette continues to deliver trusted English-language news and coverage on issues that matter. Subscribe now to receive: Unlimited online access to our award-winning journalism including thought-provoking columns by Allison Hanes, Josh Freed and Bill Brownstein. Opportunity to engage with our commenting community and learn from fellow readers in a moderated forum. Unlimited online access to the Montreal Gazette and National Post, including the New York Times Crossword, and 14 more news sites with one account Support local journalists and the next generation of journalists. Montreal Gazette ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition to view on any device, where you can share and comment.. SUBSCRIBE TO UNLOCK MORE ARTICLES There with you then. Here with you now. As a critical part of the community for over 245 years,The Gazette continues to deliver trusted English-language news and coverage on issues that matter. Subscribe now to receive: Unlimited online access to our award-winning journalism including thought-provoking columns by Allison Hanes, Josh Freed and Bill Brownstein. Opportunity to engage with our commenting community and learn from fellow readers in a moderated forum. Unlimited online access to the Montreal Gazette and National Post, including the New York Times Crossword, and 14 more news sites with one account Support local journalists and the next generation of journalists. Montreal Gazette ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition to view on any device, where you can share and comment.. REGISTER / SIGN IN TO UNLOCK MORE ARTICLES There with you then. Here with you now. As a critical part of the community for over 245 years,The Gazette continues to deliver trusted English-language news and coverage on issues that matter. Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience. Access articles from across Canada with one account. Share your thoughts and join the conversation in the comments. Enjoy additional articles per month. Get email updates from your favourite authors. THIS ARTICLE IS FREE TO READ REGISTER TO UNLOCK. Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience. Access articles from across Canada with one account Share your thoughts and join the conversation in the comments Enjoy additional articles per month Get email updates from your favourite authors Sign In or Create an Account Email Address Continue or View more offers If you are a Home delivery print subscriber, online access is included in your subscription. Activate your Online Access Now Article content The property, worth an estimated $19.5 million, was visited by Montreal police arson investigators Monday morning after the flames spread so quickly overnight that three alarms were sounded summoning 80 Montreal firefighters to the scene. Article content We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team . Luxury home in Montreal owned by Pornhub exec burned down in apparent arson Back to video We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team . Play Video Article content Advertisement 1 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Police said they became aware of the incident after receiving a 911 call at 11:30 p.m. reporting that two individuals had broken into the building on Jean-Bourdon St. near Gouin Blvd. Article content Officers at the scene called firefighters. Article content While the main source of the fire was brought under control by 2:30 a.m., several other fires inside the eight-bedroom, seven-bathroom residence needed to be put out and firefighters were still at the scene early Monday. Article content People look over the scene of a fire that destroyed a $19.5 million mansion under construction for Mindgeek, which is the parent company of the Pornhub website, executive Feras Antoon Monday, April 26, 2021 in Montreal. Photo by Ryan Remiorz / The Canadian Press Article content Three neighbouring residences were evacuated as a precaution, however all residents had returned to their homes by Monday morning. Article content Montreal fire chief Daniel Girard said one nearby residence was damaged by flames but that fire was quickly extinguished. Article content No arrests have been made in connection with the incident. Article content A description of the residence on the Royal Lepage website detailed a two-storey residence with basement, three garages — each big enough for three cars — as well as a “multi-sports complex” that could also be used as a reception hall. Article content A mansion under construction in Ahuntsic was the target of arsonists April 26, 2021. The property was reported to belong to one of the owners of Pornhub. Realtor.ca Article content Monday’s fire comes three days after the property and its reported owner — Feras Antoon, an executive with Mindgeek, which oversees several online platforms including Pornhub — were featured in a TVA report announcing the sale. Article content Advertisement 1 This advertisement has not loaded yet. Trending Quebecers file flood of complaints as stores wrestle with new French sign rules Quebec Politics What the Puck: Are the Canadiens and Senators developing a full-blown rivalry? Hockey Inside Out Todd: Anticipation soars as window opens for deep, talented Canadiens Montreal Canadiens Quebec students prop up English universities amid decline in outside applicants Quebec Case against West Island resident charged with murdering his wife in Wickham expected to end Monday Crime Share this article in your social network Share this Story : Luxury home in Montreal owned by Pornhub exec burned down in apparent arson Copy Link Email X Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Featured Local Savings Manage My Account Categories News MTL MAYOR RACE 2025 Sports Montreal Canadiens Opinion Business Entertainment And Life ePaper Follow Montreal Gazette Secondary Links Advertise With Us Advertising Solutions Postmedia Ad Manager Savings Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy Policy Terms of Use FAQ Copyright Manage My Print Subscription 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2025 Montreal Gazette, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here . By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . OK