# Introducing Erik Torenberg

**Source**: https://a16z.com/introducing-erik-torenberg/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:53:13.041090+00:00

---

Introducing Erik Torenberg | Andreessen Horowitz ABOUT US News &amp; Content Portfolio Team About Jobs Connect What we offer AI American Dynamism Bio + Health Consumer Crypto Enterprise Fintech Infrastructure Seed Speedrun Growth Cultural Leadership Fund Talent x Opportunity Perennial FOLLOW a16z See More Results TOP SUGGESTIONS AI Machine &amp; Deep Learning Infrastructure Fintech Product, Design &amp; Engineering Education Marketplaces Web3 a16z News Introducing Erik Torenberg Marc Andreessen and Erik Torenberg share Copy Link Email X LinkedIn Facebook Hacker News WhatsApp Flipboard Reddit Posted April 21, 2025 When we started a16z, we decided that we were going to take a very network and media heavy approach to venture capital. That we wanted to treat venture as not only a craft, but also a product, and staff an organization set up for that goal. We sometimes called ourselves &ldquo;a media company that monetizes via investing&rdquo;. While these efforts are commonplace in 2025, they were not when we began them in 2009. Another person who&rsquo;s also focused on the intersection of investing and network and media for the last decade is Erik Torenberg. Erik is a well known and much loved figure in the technology world in Silicon Valley and beyond, having built some of the most valuable networks and communities in the tech ecosystem over the past decade: Product Hunt, On Deck, Village Global, and Turpentine. We got to know Erik originally when we backed Product Hunt in 2014, and I&rsquo;ve been speaking to him nearly every day since the group chat era began in earnest in 2019. We&rsquo;ve collaborated with him on each of his endeavors, leading to a number of co-investments: Applied Intuition, Figma, Pave, Flexport, Rappi, Replit, Hadrian, Apex, Socket, and more. In that time, I&rsquo;ve grown to respect his positive-sum nature, his ability to be on the pulse of interesting people and ideas, and his uncanny nose for talent and opportunity. Many people in the tech ecosystem are grateful for Erik&rsquo;s support at a critical juncture, whether through his counsel, a key introduction, or help getting their startup or careers off the ground.&nbsp; With Turpentine, he has created one of the best tech podcast networks for vertical expertise across positions and sectors. He has also created an extraordinary founder social network with some of our own founders giving it rave reviews. We&rsquo;re excited to acquire Turpentine and scale our media and network efforts.&nbsp; Erik&rsquo;s skills and experiences &mdash; from investing to media to networks &mdash; make him an excellent addition to a16z as a general partner, where he&rsquo;ll be making investments as well as helping spearhead our media and network initiatives.&nbsp; Over the last few years, Erik has been at the intellectual frontier, curating some of the most important conversations in technology and big ideas. On a personal level, I appreciate how he&rsquo;s opened my mind on how people can change. Some day, the full story of group chats will be written, and Erik will have played a valuable role in facilitating the vibe shift.&nbsp; He&rsquo;s relentless, incredibly generative, and he has excellent taste in people and ideas. He will be a great resource for our companies on going from zero to one, go-to-market, and all things talent. For the last decade, Erik has built products, communities, and media that help founders and give an edge for investing, and has the results to show for it. So when he and I were brainstorming about how he could best do the same over the next decade, I had a very clear idea for him. I thought he should join Andreessen Horowitz and help the next generation of founders as an investor and also help us achieve our full potential as a firm. That&rsquo;s why I am so pleased to announce that Erik Torenberg will be our newest general partner. Want more a16z? Sign up to get the best of a16z content, news, and investments. See All Newsletters Contributors Marc Andreessen is a Cofounder and General Partner at the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz. Follow X Erik Torenberg is a general partner at Andreessen Horowitz, where he focuses on investing and running our marketing &amp; ecosystem orgs. More From These Contributors Flow Marc Andreessen Marc Andreessen &amp; Jack Altman: Venture Capital, AI, &amp; Media Marc Andreessen and Jack Altman The State of Consumer Tech in the Age of AI Bryan Kim, Anish Acharya, Olivia Moore, Justine Moore, and Erik Torenberg Fei-Fei Li: World Models and the Multiverse Fei-Fei Li, Martin Casado, and Erik Torenberg Marc Andreessen: What We Got Right&mdash;and Wrong&mdash;About the Future of Tech Marc Andreessen and Erik Torenberg Views expressed in &ldquo;posts&rdquo; (including podcasts, videos, and social media) are those of the individual a16z personnel quoted therein and are not the views of a16z Capital Management, L.L.C. (&ldquo;a16z&rdquo;) or its respective affiliates. a16z Capital Management is an investment adviser registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Registration as an investment adviser does not imply any special skill or training. The posts are not directed to any investors or potential investors, and do not constitute an offer to sell &mdash; or a solicitation of an offer to buy &mdash; any securities, and may not be used or relied upon in evaluating the merits of any investment. The contents in here &mdash; and available on any associated distribution platforms and any public a16z online social media accounts, platforms, and sites (collectively, &ldquo;content distribution outlets&rdquo;) &mdash; should not be construed as or relied upon in any manner as investment, legal, tax, or other advice. You should consult your own advisers as to legal, business, tax, and other related matters concerning any investment. Any projections, estimates, forecasts, targets, prospects and/or opinions expressed in these materials are subject to change without notice and may differ or be contrary to opinions expressed by others. Any charts provided here or on a16z content distribution outlets are for informational purposes only, and should not be relied upon when making any investment decision. Certain information contained in here has been obtained from third-party sources, including from portfolio companies of funds managed by a16z. While taken from sources believed to be reliable, a16z has not independently verified such information and makes no representations about the enduring accuracy of the information or its appropriateness for a given situation. In addition, posts may include third-party advertisements; a16z has not reviewed such advertisements and does not endorse any advertising content contained therein. All content speaks only as of the date indicated. Under no circumstances should any posts or other information provided on this website &mdash; or on associated content distribution outlets &mdash; be construed as an offer soliciting the purchase or sale of any security or interest in any pooled investment vehicle sponsored, discussed, or mentioned by a16z personnel. Nor should it be construed as an offer to provide investment advisory services; an offer to invest in an a16z-managed pooled investment vehicle will be made separately and only by means of the confidential offering documents of the specific pooled investment vehicles &mdash; which should be read in their entirety, and only to those who, among other requirements, meet certain qualifications under federal securities laws. Such investors, defined as accredited investors and qualified purchasers, are generally deemed capable of evaluating the merits and risks of prospective investments and financial matters. There can be no assurances that a16z&rsquo;s investment objectives will be achieved or investment strategies will be successful. Any investment in a vehicle managed by a16z involves a high degree of risk including the risk that the entire amount invested is lost. Any investments or portfolio companies mentioned, referred to, or described are not representative of all investments in vehicles managed by a16z and there can be no assurance that the investments will be profitable or that other investments made in the future will have similar characteristics or results. A list of investments made by funds managed by a16z is available here: https://a16z.com/investments/ . Past results of a16z&rsquo;s investments, pooled investment vehicles, or investment strategies are not necessarily indicative of future results. Excluded from this list are investments (and certain publicly traded cryptocurrencies/ digital assets) for which the issuer has not provided permission for a16z to disclose publicly. As for its investments in any cryptocurrency or token project, a16z is acting in its own financial interest, not necessarily in the interests of other token holders. a16z has no special role in any of these projects or power over their management. a16z does not undertake to continue to have any involvement in these projects other than as an investor and token holder, and other token holders should not expect that it will or rely on it to have any particular involvement. With respect to funds managed by a16z that are registered in Japan, a16z will provide to any member of the Japanese public a copy of such documents as are required to be made publicly available pursuant to Article 63 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan. Please contact compliance@a16z.com to request such documents. For other site terms of use, please go here . Additional important information about a16z, including our Form ADV Part 2A Brochure, is available at the SEC&rsquo;s website: http://www.adviserinfo.sec.gov . Want more a16z? Sign up to get the best of a16z content, news, and investments. See All Newsletters RECOMMENDED FOR YOU We&rsquo;re Leaving Delaware, And We Think You Should Consider Leaving Too Jai Ramaswamy , Andy Hill , and Kevin McKin