# The Supply Chain Africa Needs

**Source**: https://theprepared.org/features/2018/12/22/the-supply-chain-africa-needs
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:36:50.007146+00:00

---

Scope of Work Home About Membership Sign up Reading Group Feedback Log In Subscribe Sign up Sign in Theme Home About Membership Sign up Reading Group Feedback Please enter at least 3 characters 0 results found The Prepared Archive Project Notes Scope Creep Reading Group Feature Scope of Work Excellent writing about the physical world. Join now Great! Check your inbox and click the link. Sorry, something went wrong. Please try again. 8 min read Notes, 2025-09-29 A form of inquiry through which you catch sight of your errors&hellip; Spencer Wright &bull; 2025-09-29 Project Notes &bull; 9 min read Notes, 2025-09-22. Spencer Wright &bull; 2025-09-22 Mailbag &bull; 11 min read Notes, 2025-09-15 Spencer Wright &bull; 2025-09-15 7 min read The Shore. Software doesn’t run on top of hardware – it saturates it.&hellip; TW Lim &bull; 2025-09-01 7 min read Fake Instruments. How did they work? Who knows!&hellip; Anna Pendergrast & Kelly Pendergrast &bull; 2025-08-25 6 min read Missing Industrial Arts. Do I seem to be concerned?&hellip; James Coleman &bull; 2025-08-18 Scope Creep &bull; 4 min read Notes, 2025-08-11. Kids, catching air, on bikes.&hellip; Spencer Wright &bull; 2025-08-11 10 min read Settling Up &quot;It isn&#39;t working,&quot; we told him.&hellip; Spencer Wright &bull; 2025-08-04 6 min read Aquatic Achievements Enough to get one&#39;s feet wet&hellip; Natasha Balwit-Cheung &bull; 2025-07-21 Scope Creep &bull; 6 min read Scope Creep, 2025-07-14 Seriously, so nice out!&hellip; Spencer Wright &bull; 2025-07-14 12 min read The Scope of My Work It&#39;s messy no matter how you cut it.&hellip; Spencer Wright &bull; 2025-07-07 Scope Creep &bull; 6 min read Notes, 2025-06-30 You&#39;ll never actually have to plug it in to recharge&hellip; Spencer Wright &bull; 2025-06-30 Load more posts Scope of Work Excellent writing about the physical world. Featured posts Settling Up 2025-08-04 The Scope of My Work 2025-07-07 Progress Unraveled 2025-06-02 Import, Immature. 2025-04-28 How Silica Gel Took Over the World 2025-03-31 Authors View all Spencer Wright Spencer Wright is the (mostly accidental) founder of Scope of Work, which he started writing (as The Prepared) in 2013. Today he serves as its editor-in-chief and chief dilettante. 454 posts Hillary Predko Hillary Predko is an interdisciplinary artist and researcher who works across the boundaries of craft and computation with a penchant for trash. 63 posts Scope of Work Excellent writing about the physical world. 18 posts Explore topics View all The Prepared Archive 470+ Project Notes 62+ Scope Creep 45+ Reading Group 38+ Excellent writing about the physical world. Navigation Home About Membership Sign up Reading Group Feedback Subscribe Join now Great! Check your inbox and click the link. Sorry, something went wrong. Please try again. &copy;2025&nbsp; Scope of Work . Published with&nbsp; Ghost . Great! You’ve successfully signed up. Welcome back! You&#x27;ve successfully signed in. You&#x27;ve successfully subscribed to Scope of Work. Your link has expired. Success! Check your email for magic link to sign-in. Success! Your billing info has been updated. Your billing was not updated.