# 24096 H Mart Korean Grocery Store

**Source**: https://food52.com/blog/24096-h-mart-korean-grocery-store
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:27:50.567168+00:00

---

The Best Things to Buy at H Mart, America&#x27;s Korean Grocery Store This Week&#x27;s Mood: Dinner &amp; a Movie This Week&#x27;s Mood: Dinner &amp; a Movie Schoolhouse Dansk Search Shop New Best Sellers Exclusively at Food52 Featured Makers Kitchen Kitchen Utensils &amp; Tools Kitchen Storage &amp; Organization Countertop Organization Food Storage Kitchen Linens Cutting Boards Coffee &amp; Tea Accessories Knives Cookware Frying Pans &amp; Skillets Baking &amp; Roasting Pans Dutch Ovens &amp; Stock Pots Sauce &amp; Saute Pans Cookware Sets Tabletop Dinnerware Glassware Table Linens Flatware &amp; Serving Utensils Serveware Outdoor Entertaining Home Organization &amp; Storage Cleaning &amp; Laundry Bath Towels &amp; Accessories Vases &amp; Decorative Objects Clocks &amp; Lighting Candles &amp; Candle Holders Planters Shop All Recipes Popular Quick and Easy 5 Ingredients or Fewer Cocktails Appetizers Ingredients Chicken Steak Salmon Pasta Potato Rice Meals &amp; Dishes Breakfast Lunch Dinner Salad Sweet Treats Lifestyle Vegetarian Vegan Gluten-Free Alcohol-Free Drinks Tools &amp; Techniques One Pot Sheet Pan No Bake Grill Life Travel Hosting &amp; Entertainment Parenting Pets Kitchen Sink Crafts &amp; Hobbies Community View All Food Recipes How To &amp; Hacks Meal Planning Baking Trending &amp; Seasonal Drinks Community Hotline View All Home Style &amp; Design Cleaning &amp; Organizing Outdoors Renovation Home Tours View All Watch Shop All Shop New Best Sellers Exclusively at Food52 Featured Makers Kitchen Kitchen Utensils &amp; Tools Kitchen Storage &amp; Organization Countertop Organization Food Storage Kitchen Linens Cutting Boards Coffee &amp; Tea Accessories Knives Cookware Frying Pans &amp; Skillets Baking &amp; Roasting Pans Dutch Ovens &amp; Stock Pots Sauce &amp; Saute Pans Cookware Sets Tabletop Dinnerware Glassware Table Linens Flatware &amp; Serving Utensils Serveware Outdoor Entertaining Home Organization &amp; Storage Cleaning &amp; Laundry Bath Towels &amp; Accessories Vases &amp; Decorative Objects Clocks &amp; Lighting Candles &amp; Candle Holders Planters Shop all Shop Recipes All Recipes Popular Quick and Easy 5 Ingredients or Fewer Cocktails Appetizers Ingredients Chicken Steak Salmon Pasta Potato Rice Meals &amp; Dishes Breakfast Lunch Dinner Salad Sweet Treats Lifestyle Vegetarian Vegan Gluten-Free Alcohol-Free Drinks Tools &amp; Techniques One Pot Sheet Pan No Bake Grill Life All Life Travel Hosting &amp; Entertainment Parenting Pets Kitchen Sink Crafts &amp; Hobbies Community Shop all Life Food All Food Recipes How To &amp; Hacks Meal Planning Baking Trending &amp; Seasonal Drinks Community Hotline Shop all Food Home All Home Style &amp; Design Cleaning &amp; Organizing Outdoors Renovation Home Tours Shop all Home Watch Account 0 Items in your Cart Your shopping cart is empty. Continue Shopping The Best Things to Buy at H Mart, America&#x27;s Favorite Korean Grocery Store Kimchi, gochujang, and more. By Eric Kim Published On January 31, 2022 Photo by Nandaro/Wikimedia Commons I noticed there was a shift. I started seeing Shin Ramyun everywhere in New York City—drugstores, supermarkets, and even corner bodegas. In a local dollar store in Washington Heights, I watched a girl rush out of line (“Will you save my spot?”) to grab a couple packs of the stuff, flashing a smile at me as she returned with the red squares, “I’m obsessed with these.” I grew up with this Korean brand of instant ramen. It’s so iconic in Korean pop culture that, if there’s ever a food scene in a television drama, more often than not the character is eating Shin Ramyun out of this ramen pot . (Watch the members of K-pop sensation Girls’ Generation slurp Shin Ramyun for a whole 6-minute television segment .) To think that this grocery-store staple has become so ubiquitous would’ve been unfathomable back in the late ‘80s and ‘90s, especially where I grew up in the suburbs of Atlanta, Georgia. But then again, so much has changed since then. In 2004, H Mart came to Duluth, Georgia, and it was a sign that Korean immigrants had truly arrived. In that same year, the Italian restaurant where I had my first date with an old girlfriend became a Korean fried chicken restaurant, and the local Blockbuster turned into a Korean bakery. Koreans were finally establishing their own community in the predominately white Georgia suburbs of Fulton County—not just a place for them to shop for groceries, but also a communal space for them to see friends, neighbors, and fellow Koreans. H Mart is to Korean immigrants in America as Patel Brothers is to Indian immigrants in America: a grocery store, of course, but also a marker of a moment in time and space, when a cultural need for belonging gave way to venture capital. In the time since H Mart first opened back in 1982, Sandra Oh has won an Emmy, the word gochujang has been added to the dictionary, and Yakult has flown off the shelves because of a Netflix film based on a novel written by a Korean-American writer . Boy band BTS has taken over the world . Like these cultural moments, the ubiquity of H Mart, too, is a sign that Korean food is on its way to becoming mainstream. And so, with unbridled excitement in my Korean-American heart, I offer you my veritable list of the very best things to buy at H Mart, America&#x27;s most-beloved Korean grocery store. Featured Video See all Food52 videos What to Buy at H Mart Photo by Amazon Photo by H Mart 1. Short-Grain White Rice It’s the first thing you’ll see when you walk in: a wall of short-grain rice options. My favorite brand is Kokuho Rose sushi rice —but just go for the cheapest. Fun fact: The packaging will all look Japanese, but that’s because most Korean rice is, historically , Japanese. 2. Kimchi Contrary to popular belief, most Koreans don’t actually make their own kimchi. It might be a seasonal activity for certain home cooks, but many just buy their everyday stash at H Mart. Even my mother! That&#x27;s because H Mart makes perfectly good kimchi, as long as you wait till it ferments before eating (usually a couple weeks in the fridge, or if you&#x27;re really impatient, overnight on the counter). There are many varieties: kkakduki (&quot;Country Style Cubed Radish Kimchi,&quot; the label might read), chonggak (young &quot;bachelor&quot; radish), and regular cabbage kimchi (with or without oysters). Photo by Amazon Photo by H Mart 3. Instant Ramen Again, Shin Ramyun is the go-to, but I often get Shin Ramyun Black , which has thicker noodles and an extra seolleongtang bone broth soup mix packet that adds nice depth. Or sometimes I opt for Ichiban (beef flavor) because it&#x27;s what my mom would cook for my brother and me after long days at the pool. There are so many varieties and brands of instant noodles at H Mart that are worth exploring. My cousin Becky goes to H Mart just to see what&#x27;s new on the shelf: These days you can get instant jjajangmyeon , jjamppong , and even carbonara-inspired ramen . 4. Roasted Seaweed Snack Also known as gim , seaweed snack is Korean-style nori that&#x27;s been brushed with sesame oil, salted, then roasted. We ate it as a side dish growing up, or as a vehicle for leftover rice balls in the morning. As an adult, I&#x27;ve learned to incorporate it into my recipes because I find that it adds a nuanced salinity that salt or soy alone can&#x27;t provide. You&#x27;ll find it in my avocado toast , deviled eggs , and even scrambled eggs . The Great Wall of Gim at H Mart is proof enough of this pantry item&#x27;s lasting importance in the Korean diet. The gim selection at H Mart takes up nearly an entire aisle. 5. Korean Snacks, Chips &amp; Candies My brother shops at H Mart for one thing and for one thing alone: the snacks. See below for a few of our personal favorites growing up: Goraebab , which translates to &quot;whale food,&quot; is an umami-packed tomato-flavored chip that&#x27;s dangerously good (1); Shrimp Flavored Cracker is a classic, and exactly what it sounds like (2); Sweet Potato Snack is a lovely sweet cracker studded with black sesame seeds (3); and Onion Flavored Rings are a cleaner-tasting Funyun (4). 1. Goraebab 2. Shrimp Flavored Cracker 3. Sweet Potato Snack 4. Onion Flavored Rings &quot;Also, I never make it out without at least one thing of Hi-Chew ,&quot; Software Engineer Micki Balder tells me. 6. Korean Ice Cream Korea has great ice cream, too. I&#x27;m particularly fond of the Samanco cake cone ice cream sandwiches filled with vanilla ice cream and sweet red bean (there&#x27;s also a strawberry version that I sometimes prefer). Another favorite is Melona , a soft, creamy ice pop flavored with honeydew. You can stock up on green tea and red bean ice cream at H Mart, as well—and don&#x27;t forget to leave without those little mochi ice cream bites. View post on Pinterest 7. Pantry Staples &amp; Specialty Ingredients (depending on who&#x27;s asking) H Mart is where I come to stock my Korean pantry: sesame oil, soy sauce, gochujang (red pepper paste), gochugaru (red pepper powder), black bean paste, tofu, and miso. They have a wide selection of Japanese pickles, as well, which are lovely to keep on hand. “I like to get containers of pickled ginger from the fridge section,&quot; Lifestyle Writer Ella Quittner says. &quot;I eat it as a snack, sometimes dipped in a bit of soy.&quot; Senior Social Media Manager Connor Bower buys those &quot;large, teabag-like packets filled with dried anchovies, kelp, and shiitake mushrooms used to make anchovy stock two cups at a time.&quot; Many a Korean recipe starts with anchovy stock, including tteokbokki , gyeranjjim , and budae jjigae . &quot;It&#x27;s been so useful to have on hand whenever I want to make one dish,&quot; Connor admits, &quot;as I&#x27;m not sure I&#x27;d be able to go through large quantities of the anchovies and kelp by myself.&quot; A miso for all of my personalities. &quot;I love buying the golden curry packets, fish balls, and f