# Nova

**Source**: https://www.yesstudios.tv/ourcontent/documentaries/nova
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:20:06.661315+00:00

---

--> #NOVA | yes Studios top of page We&#39;d love to hear from you!&nbsp; We&#39;d love to hear from you!&nbsp; HOME OUR CONTENT SERIES YOUR HONOR INTERNATIONAL ADAPTATIONS DOCUMENTARIES KIDS &amp; TEENS IN PRODUCTION TRAILERS SOCIAL PRESS ABOUT US CONTACT More Use tab to navigate through the menu items. &lt; Back to Documentaries #Nova Nova tribe, a community of over 10,000 psychedelic trance music enthusiasts, has in recent years, gathered together for an annual outdoor festival. This year&#39;s event, held on October 7th in southern Israel, close to the border with Gaza, ended in a devastating tragedy, with the cold-blooded massacre of over 300 partygoers and the abduction of a further 40. ​ &nbsp; During the days following the event, director Dan Pe&#39;er, who was engaged in volunteer efforts to aid survivors, started receiving a multitude of video and audio clips from survived festival goers. #NOVA chronicles the harrowing atrocities minute by minute, merely through festival survivors camera footage, and terrorists body camera recordings. With no outside intervention, the raw documentary reveals the true, bone-chilling atrocities of October 7th. ​ &quot;#NOVA, created with utmost skill and momentum by director Dan Pe&#39;er, is an outstanding documentary. Literally. Some may call it a hypnotizing reconstruction created in a sterling effort, with sharp skill and endless sensitivity.&quot; Einav Shiff, Yediot &nbsp; &quot;11 minutes into the film, the height of the tragedy is nowhere near, but the body caves in pain, and wells of tears gush.&quot; Nadav Menuchin, Walla &nbsp; &quot;&hellip; this documentary is tantalizing and important to watch.&quot; Smadar Shiloni, Ynet &nbsp; &nbsp; &quot;&hellip;in the realms of documentary there is a winner, and the winner is breath-taking, sorrowful and historical, completed at uttermost speed which goes completely unnoticed.&quot; Nir Wolf, Israel Hayom Documentary Feature | 52&#39;&nbsp; Language | Hebrew, Arabic ​ Directed by Dan Pe&#39;er ​ Produced by yes Docu, Kastina Communications ​ International Distribution yes Studios Request a Screener yes Studios Buyers Newsletter See it First SUBSCRIBE &copy; 2021 By yes Studios. Proudly created by&nbsp; Wix.com bottom of page