# S12903 021 01934 0

**Source**: https://bmcoralhealth.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12903-021-01934-0
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:55:28.882375+00:00

---

Number of teeth is associated with all-cause and disease-specific mortality | BMC Oral Health | Full Text Skip to main content Advertisement Search Explore journals Get published About BMC My account Search all BMC articles Search BMC Oral Health Home About Articles Submission Guidelines Join the board Collections Submit manuscript Number of teeth is associated with all-cause and disease-specific mortality Download PDF Download PDF Research Open access Published: 08 November 2021 Number of teeth is associated with all-cause and disease-specific mortality Yau-Hua Yu 1 , Wai S. Cheung 1 , Bjorn Steffensen 1 &amp; … Donald R. Miller 2 , 3 Show authors BMC Oral Health volume 21 , Article number: 568 ( 2021 ) Cite this article 3586 Accesses 31 Citations Metrics details Abstract Background Tooth loss has been shown to correlate with multiple systemic comorbidities. However, the associations between the number of remaining natural teeth (NoT) and all-cause mortality have not been explored extensively. We aimed to investigate whether having fewer NoT imposes a higher risk in mortality. We tested such hypotheses using three groups of NoT (20–28,10–19, and 0–9), edentulism and without functional dentition (NoT &lt; 19). Methods The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey in the United States (NHANES) (1999–2014) conducted dental examinations and provided linkage of mortality data. NHANES participants aged 20 years and older, without missing information of dental examination, age, gender, race, education, income, body-mass-index, smoking, physical activities, and existing systemic conditions [hypertension, total cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and stroke (N = 33,071; death = 3978), or with femoral neck bone mineral density measurement (N = 13,131; death = 1091)] were analyzed. Cox proportional hazard survival analyses were used to investigate risks of all-cause, heart disease, diabetes and cancer mortality associated with NoT in 3 groups, edentulism, or without functional dentition. Results Participants having fewer number of teeth had higher all-cause and disease-specific mortality. In fully-adjusted models, participants with NoT0-9 had the highest hazard ratio (HR) for all-cause mortality [HR(95%CI) = 1.46(1.25–1.71); p &lt; .001], mortality from heart diseases [HR(95%CI) = 1.92(1.33–2.77); p &lt; .001], from diabetes [HR(95%CI) = 1.67(1.05–2.66); p = 0.03], or cancer-related mortality [HR(95%CI) = 1.80(1.34–2.43); p &lt; .001]. Risks for all-cause mortality were also higher among the edentulous [HR(95%CI) = 1.35(1.17–1.57); p &lt; .001] or those without functional dentition [HR(95%CI) = 1.34(1.17–1.55); p &lt; .001]. Conclusions Having fewer NoT were associated with higher risks for all-cause mortality. More research is needed to explore possible biological implications and validate our findings. Peer Review reports Background Tooth loss has been shown to correlate with several systemic comorbidities such as cardiovascular diseases, cancer, femoral neck bone mineral density or fractures [ 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 ]. Periodontal diseases, one of the major causes of tooth loss [ 5 , 6 ], was found to be significantly associated with cardiovascular diseases [ 7 ], diabetes and the related healthcare expenditure [ 8 , 9 ]. Recent reports have demonstrated that dental factors, such as the accumulation of oral health symptoms, or having severe tooth loss could serve as a significant predictor for mortality [ 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 ]. Elderly with less than functional dentition, weak chewing ability, or having difficulty in eating or swallowing later developed physical frailty (a geriatric syndrome manifested by fatigue, diminished strength, and reduced physical functioning leading to dependency or death [ 14 ]) and other adverse health outcome including mortality [ 11 , 15 ]. Over the past decades, a decreasing trend of edentulism has been detected in the United States, although the improvement is not evenly distributed between the poor and the non-poor populations [ 16 ]. Indeed, socioeconomic status such as education and income levels that were highly correlated with access to dental care were demonstrated to be very predictive of tooth loss [ 17 , 18 ]. Our goal for this study is to examine whether the number of remaining natural teeth (NoT), i.e., the severity of tooth loss, could be a predictor for the all-cause or disease-specific mortality in a representative general population. We used data from the United States National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) and its publicly linked mortality for this analysis. It is noteworthy that when examining the NoT within a population, the distribution of NoT does not follow a common normal distribution and varies significantly depending on age and the study population. Therefore, to overcome the statistical challenges based on the distribution of NoT, different categories based on remaining dentition have been developed [ 1 , 2 , 3 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 20 ]. In this manuscript, we used the WHO functional dentition (NoT 20 teeth or more) [ 17 , 21 , 22 ] as the criteria of the reference group of NoT20-28. Of note, NoT 20 is at the 75th percentile based on the decreasing NoT (with 28 teeth as the origin). We used NoT0-9 as the worst group, which contained the lowest14th percentile (one seventh) of the study samples (with edentulism as the origin). We then set NoT10-19 as the middle group (about 11%), which together with NoT0-9 dichotomized those participants with less complete dentition. The breakdown of NoT in the anterior or posterior segments of the mouth, or by the tooth types provided a more comprehensive way for understanding the patterns of tooth loss. Lastly, we used such other groupings of NoT as edentulism or functional dentition in the survival analysis in order to compare the differences in all-cause mortality risks given the severity of tooth loss. Methods Study design and population The NHANES program under the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) uses a stratified, multistage, cluster sampling design to obtain a representative health and nutrition information of the U.S. household population. The NHANES consists of a detailed home interview and a health and dental examination conducted in a mobile examination center [ 23 ]. Starting from 1999, NHANES became a continuous (annual) program. Data from 1999 and after are publicly available (released every two years) with detailed survey operations and examination manuals on the website [ 24 ]. The NHANES program was approved by the United States National Center for Health Statistics Research Ethics Review Board and conforms to the STROBE guideline [ 25 ]. Our goal was to test whether the severity of tooth loss (as in NoT) could influence risks for the all-cause or disease-specific mortality. Here, we used the NHANES data from 1999 to 2014. Among 47,279 participants with mortality data, 7181 participants were excluded due missing dental information. An additional 7027 participants with any of the missing covariates except femoral neck bone mineral density were further excluded from the analysis, leaving 33,071 participants as the final sample size. We have provided the comparison of the excluded participants in Additional file 1 : Table S1. Assessment of number of teeth present (NoT) In the NHANES dental examination, tooth count is charted as primary, permanent, implant, missing or residual roots. Here, we used the sum of permanent dentition tooth count (excluding residual roots) as NoT. Third molars are excluded in the NHANES because of their frequent extraction in young adulthood. We did not include dental implants in the analysis because only a very low number of participants had dental implants (n = 379; 1.1%). Additionally, NoT was categorized into three groups based on the functional dentition [ 17 , 18 , 19 , 20 ], the 2nd lowest and the lowest seventh of the population based on NoT. The range of the NoT in three groups was as follows: NoT20-28, the reference group, (n = 24,770; 75%), NoT10-19 (n = 3653; 11%) and NoT0-9 (n = 4648; 14%). We also specify the edentulous (n = 2818; 8.5%) versus the dentate groups. In the supplementary information, we provide details of the distribution of the study population based on the total NoT (Additional file 1 : Figure S1) and the patterns of tooth loss (breakdown of tooth types) based on age or the total NoT (Additional file 1 : Table S2&amp;3). In this analytical sample, the mean fraction of edentulism reached 5% when mean age was 48 years old. The mean number of molars fell below 1 when the total NoT was below 10. Assessment of mortality, hypertension, total cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and stroke Mortality of the NHANES participants was ascertained by the National Center for Health Statistics with probabilistic record matching using the death certificates from the National Death Index, and converted to the public-use linked mortality file [ 26 ]. Vital status was determined form various sources, including through active follow-up of survey participants. Leading cause of death and other causes of interest were based on the ICD-10 (international statistical classification of diseases, 10th revision). Existing systemic comorbidities at the study interview such as total cardiovascular disease (CVD; including congestive heart failure, coronary heart disease, angina and heart attack) and stroke were summarized from the self-reported medical questionnaires [ 27 , 28 ]. The presence of hypertension was defined with either of the following conditions—self-report of a physician’s diagnosis, the use of antihypertensive medications, or averaged blood pressure greater than 140/90 mmHg. Blood pressure readings were taken by a NHANES physician, usually 3 and sometimes 4 times. Diabetes mellitus was defined according to self-report of a physician’s diagnosis, the presence of a fasting plasma glucose level greater than 140 mg/dL or a random plasma glucose level greater