# Chelsea Handler Ozempic.Html

**Source**: https://www.thecut.com/2023/01/chelsea-handler-ozempic.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:56:53.584811+00:00

---

Chelsea Handler Says She Unwittingly Took Ozempic Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Style Self Culture Power Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission weight loss Chelsea Handler Says She Didn’t Realize She Was on Ozempic By Danielle Cohen , senior news editor at The Cut. &nbsp; From 2021 to 2024, Danielle was a writer covering pop-culture news and entertainment for the Cut. Jan. 25, 2023 save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Photo: Michael Kovac/Getty Images for Champagne Colle & OBC Wines Lately, it seems like no one can stop talking about Ozempic , an injectable diabetes medication that has earned a reputation as a popular weight-loss treatment among the one percent. Despite the fact that the drug is not FDA approved for chronic weight loss , doctors seem to be prescribing it off-label to help people shed pounds. Khloé Kardashian , Kyle Richards , and Rosie O’Donnell have all denied using Ozempic amid rumors that they’re taking the drug. Meanwhile, others have described catastrophic side effects , including extreme nausea and major gastrointestinal issues. And if Chelsea Handler’s experience is any indication, it seems as if Ozempic is indeed rampant in Hollywood. During a recent episode of Call Her Daddy , Handler claimed that she was unknowingly taking the drug after her doctor prescribed her a medication called semaglutide for weight loss. (At the time, she says she didn’t know that Ozempic is the brand name of semaglutide.) “Everyone is on Ozempic,” Handler said after jokingly revealing that she’d injected several of her friends with Ozempic and had some at her home. “My anti-aging doctor just hands it out to anybody.” Recalling her own experience with the drug, she said, “I didn’t even know I was on it.” Handler said her doctor told her, “Oh, if you ever wanna drop five pounds, this is good.” She went on to recount injecting herself with the drug and then going to lunch with a friend who was also on Ozempic days later: “She was like, ‘I’m not really eating anything. I’m so nauseous; I’m on Ozempic.’ And I was like, ‘I’m kinda nauseous too! But I’m not on Ozempic.’ And she was like, ‘Are you sure?’ And I’m like, ‘Well, what is it? I’m on semaglutide.’ And she goes, ‘That’s Ozempic.’” Handler clarified that she stopped taking it once she realized what it was. “I’m an irresponsible drug user, but I’m not gonna take a diabetic drug,” she said. Stay in touch. Get the Cut newsletter delivered daily Email This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Vox Media, LLC Terms and Privacy Notice By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice and to receive email correspondence from us. Related You Might Go Through Hell for Your Post-Ozempic Body Tags: celebrity ozempic weight loss chelsea handler culture More Show Comment Chelsea Handler Says She Didn’t Realize She Was on Ozempic Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission The Cut Shop 28 Best Sneakers for Women in Every Single Style I’m on the Hunt for the Best Sunscreens Without a White Cast 31 Best Luxury Candles That Double As Great Gifts Most Viewed Stories 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Woman Who Ate Only Fruit The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Your Daily Horoscope by Madame Clairevoyant: October 3, 2025 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Why I Got a Neck-Lift at 41 Years Old Both Sides of a Breakup: His Relationships Never Last More Than 4 Months Sign In to Comment Most Popular 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Woman Who Ate Only Fruit The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Your Daily Horoscope by Madame Clairevoyant: October 3, 2025 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Why I Got a Neck-Lift at 41 Years Old Both Sides of a Breakup: His Relationships Never Last More Than 4 Months The Latest sex diaries 7:00 p.m. The Sober Event Planner Sleeping With a Client In this week’s story, a 32-year-old woman gives her crush a blowjob to reduce his stress before a big event. life of a showgirl 6:16 p.m. The Showgirl Doesn’t Get a Standing Ovation Taylor Swift was once untouchable — but is her reputation as pop’s best songwriter over? music 5:37 p.m. Taylor Swift’s Famous Friends Are Loving The Life of a Showgirl Sabrina Carpenter, Nikki Glaser, and whoever posts for the New Heights podcast are all amped about the album. do i need this? 5:33 p.m. Here’s What You Need From Gap’s Studio Collection Every piece worth buying from the brand’s fall drop. the kardashians 5:28 p.m. Apropos of Nothing, Kim Kardashian Is Producing an Elizabeth Taylor Doc What a day to be learning this news. power 4:47 p.m. Diddy Has Been Sentenced to More Than Four Years in Prison The judge said the sentence was required to show “that exploitation and violence against women is met with real accountability.” music 4:40 p.m. No, Taylor Swift Is Definitely Online At least, she was when she made The Life of a Showgirl . prime day 4:06 p.m. The Early Prime Day Beauty Deals Our Editors Recommend Start shopping the sale now with tools from Shark Beauty and more. taylor swift 3:37 p.m. Taylor Swift’s Engagement Ring Is Having a Great Rollout Good for her. celebrity breakups 3:06 p.m. In Other News, Lori Loughlin and Her Husband Are Separated There’s no better day to quietly uncouple. travel week 2:42 p.m. These Are the Best Over-the-Ear Headphones for Sound and Style AirPods Max aren’t the only headphones out there. always shopping 2:30 p.m. 25 Best Wedding Shoes for Every Kind of Bride According to a recent bride. prime day 2:00 p.m. These Bella Hadid–Approved Headphones Are on Sale And they’re worth the hype. paris fashion week 1:43 p.m. A Night Out With Kristy Sarah Scott at Schiaparelli From viral videos to the front row, Scott is making Paris Fashion Week her stage. weddings 1:30 p.m. This Is What Your Wedding Gift Says About You Gift ideas for the plus-one, the third wheel, and everyone in between. cut chats 1:02 p.m. The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Taylor Swift’s new album has some high points but lacks the punch and clarity of her previous collaborations with Max Martin. celebrity friendships 12:45 p.m. Who Did Taylor Swift Write ‘CANCELLED!’ About? While Blake Lively and Brittany Mahomes are at the top of our guess list, too, there are some other names to consider. the approval matrix 12:00 p.m. The Approval Matrix: The Life of a One-Term Mayor Our guide to what’s highbrow, lowbrow, brilliant, and despicable. fangirls 11:55 a.m. Nicki Minaj Really Loves ‘Wood’ The rapper took a break from her feud with Cardi B to livetweet The Life of a Showgirl . horny police 10:38 a.m. I Was Not Familiar With Your Game, Travis Kelce “Wood” might be the horniest Taylor Swift track ever. More Stories Email You\&#x27;ll receive the next newsletter in your inbox. *Sorry, there was a problem signing you up. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice and to receive email correspondence from us. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. or Already a subscriber? Sign In What is your email? This email will be used to sign into all New York sites. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive email correspondence from us. Enter your email: Please enter a valid email address. Submit Email or Connect with Google Connect with Facebook Sign in | Subscribe Today Sign In To Continue Reading Create Your Free Account edit email Sign in with Facebook Sign in with Google Choose a password to create an account: Enter your password or sign in with a different email Forgot Password? Password must be at least 8 characters and contain: Lower case letters (a-z) Upper case letters (A-Z) Numbers (0-9) Special Characters (!@#$%^&*) This password will be used to sign into all New York sites. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive email correspondence from us. Sign In Create Account You’re in! As part of your account, you’ll receive occasional updates and offers from New York , which you can opt out of anytime. Continue Reading or Already a subscriber? Sign In What is your em