# 80000hours.org

**Source**: https://80000hours.org
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:43:15.711403+00:00

---

80,000 Hours: How to make a difference with your career Toggle navigation Search for: Career guide AGI careers Podcast Job board Resources Problem profiles What are the world's most pressing problems? See all → Top areas to work on Power-seeking AI systems AI-enabled power grabs Engineered pandemics Great power conflict Factory farming Wild animal suffering Global health Climate change Emerging challenges Moral status of digital minds Gradual disempowerment 'S-risks' AI-enhanced decision making Space governance Catastrophic AI misuse More problem profiles → Career reviews Write-ups on high-impact career paths. See all → AI-focused career paths AI governance and policy AI safety technical research Information security in high-impact areas Expert in AI hardware China-related AI safety and governance Other top paths Journalism Biorisk research, strategy, and policy Be a founder Earn to give Help build the effective altruism community Research into global priorities Nuclear weapons safety and security Operations in high-impact organisations More career reviews → Foundations What's the philosophy behind our advice? Key topics Your career is your most important decision A definition of impact On problem selection Why prioritise existential risks Effective solutions Making a big contribution Differences in productivity Comparative advantage Being ambitious Coordination Exploration Harmful jobs Fundamentals of career planning See the full series → See all → Top areas to work on Power-seeking AI systems AI-enabled power grabs Engineered pandemics Great power conflict Factory farming Wild animal suffering Global health Climate change Emerging challenges Moral status of digital minds Gradual disempowerment 'S-risks' AI-enhanced decision making Space governance Catastrophic AI misuse More problem profiles → See all → AI-focused career paths AI governance and policy AI safety technical research Information security in high-impact areas Expert in AI hardware China-related AI safety and governance Other top paths Journalism Biorisk research, strategy, and policy Be a founder Earn to give Help build the effective altruism community Research into global priorities Nuclear weapons safety and security Operations in high-impact organisations More career reviews → Key topics Your career is your most important decision A definition of impact On problem selection Why prioritise existential risks Effective solutions Making a big contribution Differences in productivity Comparative advantage Being ambitious Coordination Exploration Harmful jobs Fundamentals of career planning See the full series → Get 1-1 advice Get 1-1 advice New&nbsp;releases All&nbsp;articles Community Give&nbsp;feedback About About us Meet&nbsp;the team Our impact and&nbsp;credibility Our mistakes Our donors Our research&nbsp;process Contact us Support us Work with&nbsp;us Home Search for: New&nbsp;releases All&nbsp;articles Community Give&nbsp;feedback About About us Meet&nbsp;the team Our impact and&nbsp;credibility Our mistakes Our donors Our research&nbsp;process Contact us Support us Work with&nbsp;us We&#8217;ll help you find a role that shapes the future We&#8217;ll help you find a role that shapes the future We help people find fulfilling careers that make a big positive impact. Our career guide, 1-1 advising, and other resources can help you: Decide what problems to focus on Find and compare jobs that tackle those problems Enter your new role Our resources are based on over 10 years of research, plus advising thousands of people 1-1 on their careers. We&#8217;re a nonprofit, and everything we provide is free. Read our career guide What are the world&#8217;s most pressing problems? The problem you work on is probably the largest factor in how big a difference you can make. It helps to focus on issues that are large in scale, tractable, and unduly neglected by the rest of society. Some of these issues may even threaten humanity&#8217;s future — making them especially high priority. Here&#8217;s our (uncertain!) ranking of global problems where additional people can have the most impact: What are the world&#8217;s most pressing problems? The problem you work on is probably the largest factor in how big a difference you can make. It helps to focus on issues that are large in scale, tractable, and unduly neglected by the rest of society. Some of these issues may even threaten humanity&#8217;s future — making them especially high priority. Here&#8217;s our (uncertain!) ranking of global problems where additional people can have the most impact: Most pressing problems: Power-seeking AI systems Power-seeking AI systems AI-enabled power grabs AI-enabled power grabs Engineered pandemics Engineered pandemics Great power conflict Great power conflict Factory farming Factory farming Power-seeking AI systems We may develop very powerful AI systems before we've built adequate control mechanisms. If such systems accumulate power while misaligned with human values, the result could be catastrophic. Read more AI-enabled power grabs AI could turbocharge people's efforts to seize and hold power. Surveillance, persuasion, and control technologies could let small groups or authoritarian leaders entrench their rule — potentially with little chance of recovery. Read more Engineered pandemics Pandemics are among the deadliest events in human history. Developments in biotechnology and AI may lower barriers for creating devastating biological weapons, and make future pandemics even worse. Read more Great power conflict Beyond killing billions in worst-case scenarios, great power rivalry accelerates dangerous arms races that could spiral out of control. Read more Factory farming There are trillions of farmed animals, and the vast majority are on factory farms. The conditions in these farms are far worse than most people realise. Read more Other emerging challenges: Moral status of digital minds Read Gradual dis-empowerment Read 'S-risks' Read Space governance Read Catastrophic AI misuse Read See all problem profiles High-impact careers in the age of AGI There&#8217;s a real possibility that artificial general intelligence — AI systems that are as good or better than humans at most tasks — will be developed by 2030 . This would cause enormous change and pose extreme risks. So, if you want to have a high-impact career, we think you should urgently consider working on making things go well. Many people, with both technical and non-technical backgrounds, are needed. See why we think this, and what you can do to help: Start exploring Career guide Our 12-part career guide explains how to find a fulfilling career that does good, from why you shouldn&#8217;t &#8220;follow your passion,&#8221; to why medicine and charity work aren&#8217;t always the best ways to help others. It&#8217;s full of practical tips and exercises, and at the end, you&#8217;ll have a draft of your new career plan. Read the 2-minute summary , or: Read online or listen 1-1 career advising If you&#8217;re interested in working on helping AGI go well, apply for a free 1-1 career advice call with our team. We can: Help you decide whether to shift your focus Introduce you to experts at the forefront of technical research, policy, and other fields Review your options and suggest opportunities Get 1-1 advice You don&#8217;t need a technical background to make a big difference. We also need policymakers, managers, communicators, and specialists of all kinds to prepare for AGI and improve its trajectory. The advising team is incredibly well-researched and connected in AI safety. Their advice is far more insightful, personalized, and impact-focused than most of what I got from Google, self-reflection, or the peers or mentors I would typically go to. Ethan Perez Research Scientist Anthropic 80,000 Hours advising showed me that I could pursue a career that was both ethically and personally rewarding. They showed me that my job horizons — and therefore opportunities to do good — were broader than I had thought, even with my heavy involvement in effective altruism. Cullen O'Keefe Director of Research Institute for Law & AI The advising team is incredibly well-researched and connected in AI safety. Their advice is far more insightful, personalized, and impact-focused than most of what I got from Google, self-reflection, or the peers or mentors I would typically go to. Ethan Perez Research Scientist Anthropic 80,000 Hours advising showed me that I could pursue a career that was both ethically and personally rewarding. They showed me that my job horizons — and therefore opportunities to do good — were broader than I had thought, even with my heavy involvement in effective altruism. Cullen O'Keefe Director of Research Institute for Law & AI You don&#8217;t need a technical background to make a big difference. We also need policymakers, managers, communicators, and specialists of all kinds to prepare for AGI and improve its trajectory. Our advisees now work at: In-depth conversations about the transformative potential of artificial intelligence and what you can do to safeguard humanity&#8217;s future. See all episodes Most useful skills Early in your career, it&#8217;s usually best to focus on building useful skills. But which skills are most useful for solving top global problems? Policy and political skills Organisation-building Research Communicating ideas Software and tech skills Experience with an emerging power Engineering Expertise in a top problem area See all skills Highest impact career paths The highest-impact careers are ones that position you to tackle the most pressing problems. To help you get ideas, assess your fit, and get started, we&#8217;ve reviewed many top paths — including some pretty unconventional options. AI governance and policy Technical AI safety research Biorisk research, strategy, & policy Information security Expert in AI hardware China-related AI safety and governance Grantmaking Building the effective 