# 24 18.Html

**Source**: https://law.justia.com/cases/maryland/court-of-appeals/2019/24-18.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:27:08.287452+00:00

---

State v. Syed :: 2019 :: Maryland Supreme Court Decisions :: Maryland Case Law :: Maryland Law :: U.S. Law :: Justia Log In Sign Up Find a Lawyer Ask a Lawyer Research the Law Law Schools Laws &amp; Regs Newsletters Marketing Solutions Justia Connect Pro Membership Practice Membership Public Membership Justia Lawyer Directory Platinum Placements Gold Placements Justia Elevate SEO Websites Blogs Justia Amplify PPC Management Google Business Profile Social Media Justia Onward Blog Justia &rsaquo; U.S. Law &rsaquo; Case Law &rsaquo; Maryland Case Law &rsaquo; Maryland Supreme Court Decisions &rsaquo; 2019 &rsaquo; State v. Syed State v. Syed Annotate this Case Justia Opinion Summary The Court of Appeals reversed the judgment of the court of special appeals affirming in part and reversing in part the judgment of the post-conviction granting Respondent a new trial, holding that certain actions on the part of Respondent’s trial counsel did not violate Respondent’s constitutional right to effective assistance of counsel. Respondent was convicted of first-degree murder, robbery, kidnapping, and false imprisonment. Respondent later filed a petition for post-conviction relief alleging that he received ineffective assistance of counsel. The post-conviction court denied relief. The intermediate appellate remanded the case. On remand, the post-conviction court concluded that Respondent’s trial counsel’s performance was deficient and that this deficiency prejudiced Respondent. As a result, the post-conviction court vacated the convictions and granted Respondent a new trial. The court of appeals reversed in part, but the court’s ultimate disposition left the new trial granted by the circuit court in place. The Court of Appeals reversed, holding that trial counsel’s deficient performance in one aspect of her representation did not prejudice Respondent within the meaning of Strickland v. Washington, 466 U.S. 668 (1984). Read more" data-expanded_text=" Collapse Summary">Read more Want to stay in the know about new opinions from the Maryland Supreme Court? Sign up for free summaries delivered directly to your inbox. Learn More › You already receive new opinion summaries from Maryland Supreme Court. Did you know we offer summary newsletters for even more practice areas and jurisdictions? Explore them here . Opinion Annotation Download PDF State of Maryland v. Adnan Syed, No. 24, September Term, 2018. Opinion by Greene, J. CRIMINAL LAW—POST CONVICTION—INEFFECTIVE ASSISTANCE OF TRIAL COUNSEL—FAILURE OF TRIAL COUNSEL TO INTERVIEW POTENTIAL ALIBI WITNESS—STRICKLAND V. WASHINGTON The Court of Appeals held that under the deficient performance prong of Strickland v. Washington, 466 U.S. 668 (1984), at a minimum, Respondent’s trial counsel had a duty to contact a potential alibi witness to investigate or explore that person’s background and potential as an alibi. The failure of Respondent’s trial counsel to contact an alibi witness identified by Respondent constituted deficient performance under the first prong of the Strickland test. The second prong of the Strickland test asks whether trial counsel’s deficient performance resulted in prejudice. The Court of Appeals held that given the totality of the evidence against Respondent, there was not a significant or substantial possibility that the jury would have reached a different verdict had his trial counsel presented the alibi witness. CRIMINAL LAW—POST CONVICTION—INEFFECTIVE ASSISTANCE OF TRIAL COUNSEL—APPLICATION OF WAIVER PRINCIPLES The Court of Appeals held that an individual who advanced a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel in his post-conviction petition, filed pursuant to the Uniform Postconviction Procedure Act, but failed to assert all grounds upon which that claim is made, cannot later assert other grounds upon which the ineffective assistance of counsel claim could have been premised. Thus, the Court held that the waiver provision of the Uniform Post-Conviction Procedure Act, Criminal Procedure Article, § 7-106(a), applied in this case to bar an allegation upon which the ineffective assistance of counsel claim could have been argued but was not, because the Respondent’s ineffective assistance of counsel claims had already been fully litigated. Circuit Court for Baltimore City Case No. 199103042 through 199103046 Argued: November 29, 2018 IN THE COURT OF APPEALS OF MARYLAND No. 24 September Term, 2018 STATE OF MARYLAND v. ADNAN SYED Barbera, C.J. Greene McDonald Watts Hotten Getty Adkins, Sally D., (Senior Judge, Specially Assigned), JJ. Opinion by Greene, J. Watts, J. concurs. Barbera, C.J., Hotten and Adkins, JJ., concur and dissent. Pursuant to Maryland Uniform Electronic Legal Materials Act (§§ 10-1601 et seq. of the State Government Article) this document is authentic. 2019-03-08 13:14-05:00 Suzanne C. Johnson, Clerk Filed: March 8, 2019 In the present case, we are asked to reconsider the decision of a post-conviction court that granted the Respondent, Adnan Syed, a new trial. That decision was affirmed in part and reversed in part by our intermediate appellate court with the ultimate disposition— a new trial—remaining in place. The case now stands before us, twenty years after the murder of the victim, seventeen-year-old high school senior Hae Min Lee (“Ms. Lee”). We review the legal correctness of the decision of the post-conviction court and decide whether certain actions on the part of Respondent’s trial counsel violated Respondent’s right to the effective assistance of counsel. FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND We shall not endeavor to replicate the thorough, carefully-written and wellorganized Opinion, penned by then-Chief Judge Patrick Woodward, of the Court of Special Appeals in this case. For a more exhaustive review of the underlying facts, evidence presented at trial, and subsequent procedural events involving Respondent’s (hereinafter “Respondent” or “Mr. Syed”) conviction of first-degree murder of his ex-girlfriend, we direct readers to the Opinion of that court. Syed v. State, 236 Md. App. 183, 181 A.3d 860 (2018) (“Syed”). For purposes of our review of the issues before us, we shall include relevant facts as necessary as well as an abbreviated recitation of the significant procedural markers in this case’s sojourn. On February 25, 2000, a jury sitting in the Circuit Court for Baltimore City convicted Mr. Syed of first-degree murder, robbery, kidnapping, and false imprisonment of Ms. Lee. Mr. Syed challenged his conviction on direct appeal. In an unreported opinion, the Court of Special Appeals affirmed his conviction on March 19, 2003. Syed v. State, No. 923, Sept. Term 2000. On May 28, 2010, Mr. Syed filed a petition for post-conviction relief, which he supplemented on June 27, 2010. In that petition, Mr. Syed alleged that he received ineffective assistance of counsel and in so alleging lodged claims against his trial counsel, sentencing counsel, and appellate counsel. In the post-conviction petition, Mr. Syed argued nine bases for his claim that he had received ineffective assistance of counsel. Syed, 236 Md. App. at 206-07, 181 A.3d at 872-73 (listing the nine bases on which Mr. Syed claimed his trial counsel or appellate counsel were ineffective). Of relevance to our inquiry is that none of the nine bases was a claim that his trial counsel failed to challenge an alleged Brady1 violation regarding the admission of evidence that potentially undermined the reliability of cell tower location evidence that was used as part of the State’s case.2 Mr. Syed did raise and argue that his trial counsel was ineffective for failing to investigate or call Asia McClain (“Ms. McClain”) as an alibi witness. After a two-day 1 When evidence that is favorable to an accused is not disclosed or is suppressed by the State, the result—colloquially referred to as a Brady violation— is considered a denial of due process. See Brady v. Maryland, 373 U.S. 83, 83 S. Ct. 1194, 10 L.Ed.2d 215 (1963). 2 By way of comparison, in his Motion to Re-Open Post-Conviction Proceedings, which he filed upon remand to the Circuit Court by the Court of Special Appeals, Mr. Syed presented two related questions regarding the cell tower location evidence. As the Court of Special Appeals characterized, one of the issues presented in his motion was “[w]hether the State withheld potentially exculpatory evidence related to the reliability of cell tower location evidence in violation of the disclosure requirements under Brady.” Syed v. State, 236 Md. App. 183, 208-09, 181 A.3d 860, 874 (2018). The second issue presented was whether “trial counsel’s alleged failure to challenge the reliability of the cell tower location evidence violated [Mr. Syed’s] Sixth Amendment right to effective assistance of counsel.” Id. at 209. -2- hearing on October 11, 2012 and October 25, 2012, the post-conviction court issued an order and memorandum in which it denied post-conviction relief on January 6, 2014. Thereafter, Mr. Syed filed a timely application for leave to appeal, which presented the issue of his trial counsel’s failure to interview or investigate Ms. McClain as a potential alibi witness.3 Subsequent to his filing of an application for leave to appeal, Mr. Syed supplemented his application for leave to appeal and requested that the Court of Special Appeals remand the case for the post-conviction court to consider an affidavit from Ms. McClain.4 The intermediate appellate court granted Mr. Syed’s request and issued a limited remand order in which it afforded Mr. Syed “the opportunity to file such a request to re-open the post-conviction proceedings” in the Circuit Court. See Syed, 236 Md. App. at 210, 181 A.3d at 875 (reciting the Remand Order in relevant part). Upon remand by the Court of Special Appeals and as part of his request to the Circuit Court to reopen his post-conviction proceedings, Mr. Syed filed a request for the 3 Additionally, Mr. Syed requested that the Court of Special Appeals review whet