# Class Fictions

**Source**: http://www.boston.com/news/globe/ideas/articles/2005/10/09/class_fictions/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:56:21.129741+00:00

---

The Boston Globe Skip to main content Sections Epaper Sports Red Sox Patriots Celtics Bruins High Schools Colleges TV &amp; Radio Metro Weather Politics Transportation Education Camberville Around Mass. Investigations Obituaries Death Notices Games &amp; Puzzles Align Crossword Mini Crossword KenKen Sudoku Word Flower Business Technology Economy Housing Real Estate Biotech The Fine Print Bold Types Politics Money, Power, Inequality Climate Spotlight Opinion Ideas Columns and Op-eds Editorials Letters Cartoons Say More podcast New Hampshire Business Politics Education Crime Health Commentary Rhode Island Things to Do Rhode Island Podcast RI Food &amp; Dining Politics Business Arts Crime World COVID Globe Magazine Miss Conduct Dinner with Cupid Perspective Connections Lifestyle A Beautiful Resistance Food &amp; Dining Comics Crossword Games Travel Pop Culture Relationships Love Letters The Big Day Real Estate Arts Books Movies Music Television Visual Arts Performing Arts Cars Real Estate Events News tips Search ePaper Podcasts email Created with Sketch. Newsletters More ePaper Metro Weather Politics Sports Business Puzzles Rhode Island Globe Magazine Opinion Health Arts Lifestyle Education Camberville Money, Power, Inequality Spotlight Technology Climate Cars Real Estate Events The Boston Globe TRENDING: trump updates | Sean ‘Diddy’ Combs | Gaza | Blue Cross | red sox | Methuen spa | Maxamillian Dutton | Erewhon | World Cup | forecast More than 12,000 patients affected by more changes to Blue Cross Medicare Advantage product Primary care doctors connected to Beth Israel Lahey Health are losing their in-network status for some Medicare Advantage patients. Government funding vote fails again in Senate as hopes fade for quick end to shutdown. Follow live updates. Senators were expected to depart for the weekend, and there have been few signs of any real progress towards ending the congressional standoff. Laborers, politicians, employers gather at emergency round table about government shutdown Trump orders Israel to stop bombing Gaza after Hamas partially accepts his peace plan President Trump said earlier that Hamas must agree to a proposed peace deal by Sunday evening. Sheffield mother agonizes after sons aboard flotilla detained by Israeli forces “It seemed like this was not going to plan, and so I was nervous, because when things don’t go to plan, then maybe people escalate,&quot; said the mother, Nadia Milleron. DOJ reverses plan to tie federal grants for crime victims to compliance with immigration policy: R.I. attorney general Supreme Court lets Trump strip protections from more than 300,000 Venezuelan migrants Game 3 | Yankees 4, Red Sox 0 Dan Shaughnessy Rafael Devers might have been the piece the Red Sox were lacking in the playoffs, and other thoughts Some might consider it baseball malpractice to trade away a team&#x27;s best hitter without replacing his level of production. Tara Sullivan: Cam Schlittler’s motivation in Game 3 came straight from his own buddies Nearly 250 patients at top Mass. hospitals say they were abused by a renowned doctor. Why wasn’t he stopped sooner? Hundreds of women allege Dr. Derrick Todd sexually abused them over a decade. A Globe Spotlight investigation found the state’s medical establishment missed key warning signs. Larry Nassar and Derrick Todd were accused of sexual assault under the guise of pelvic floor therapy. What is it? Sean ‘Diddy’ Combs gets 4 years in prison for case involving sex workers and violence The judge said a lengthy sentence was needed for deterrence and that he was unconvinced that if Combs is released these crimes won’t happen again. Nine Methuen spas have now closed as city cracks down on alleged human trafficking Nine Methuen spas have closed amid city crackdown on alleged human trafficking. Vermont responds to Globe story on Northern education nosedive: ‘Vermont can do a better job’ According to assessments, Vermont&#x27;s schools have declined from among the best in the nation, with low income students experiencing particularly large declines. Globe Magazine: New England schools are failing — and ‘nobody seems to care’ Low-fare Icelandic airline Play abruptly closes The airline filed for bankruptcy protection and canceled all flights earlier this week. Christian motivational speaker defends speech at Nantucket High School amid controversy “Last time I checked I had freedom of religion,” Maxamillian Dutton said. Erewhon hinted its trendy smoothies and organic groceries might be coming to Boston — or that’s what fans thought A social media post fueled speculation that a Boston outpost of the trendy organic grocer was in the works. Here are the initial prices for Boston World Cup tickets at Gillette Stadium The first tickets went on sale for those who were chosen in FIFA&#x27;s Visa presale draw. California resident gets over 8 years in prison for attempt to assassinate Justice Kavanaugh Inmate, girlfriend charged after another inmate dies inside R.I. prison Band teacher allegedly tried to arrange sex in Taunton with 14-year-old he met online analysis Fine, we’ll tell you about Taylor Swift’s supposed Charli XCX diss track Decoding Taylor Swift’s ‘The Life a Showgirl’: A guide to her references R.I.’s Original New York System, known for ‘hot wieners,’ to close after nearly 100 years The restaurant, which first opened in 1927, will close on Oct. 31 after years of financial struggles. LOVE LETTERS Will my boyfriend move with me for my PhD? What happens to my relationship? Opinion RENÉE GRAHAM Hollywood’s newest supervillain: an AI-generated ‘actress’ Tilly Norwood is fake. But the attention she’s getting is making real actors nervous. Jennifer A. Serafyn I led the civil rights unit at the US Attorney’s Office in Boston. Its dismantling leaves an alarming void. IDEAS | Daegan Miller Why I cut my lawn with an old-fashioned scythe Renée Loth What if liberals banned books? IDEAS | Joan Baez Wilderness: A poem by Joan Baez Games & Puzzles Crossword Mini Crossword Sudoku Word Flower KenKen Align ← → ' style="width:100%; border:none;overflow:hidden;"> More recent News Manchester synagogue terrorist suspect was reportedly under investigation for rape Jihad al-Shamie, had convictions for past crimes that were unrelated to terrorism, according to a Greater Manchester Police official who spoke with the New York Times. Kansas deputy charged with murder kneeled on inmate for 1 minute and 26 seconds Richard Fatherly was charged last month with second-degree murder and an alternative count of involuntary manslaughter in Charles Adair’s July 5 death. ‘I know exactly what it looked like’: Boston-area Mormons respond to Michigan church attack Sunday’s attack left the tight-knit Mormon community in Greater Boston reeling. University of Rhode Island fraternity suspended amid hazing allegations URI has launched an investigation into the allegations regarding the Kappa Iota Chapter of the Pi Kappa Alpha International Fraternity, university officials said. Substitute teacher in Vermont caught with cocaine in classroom, police say A student alerted school officials after noticing that the teacher was “fidgety” and “a little high-strung,” police said. Police officer in Millis charged with domestic assault and battery placed on unpaid leave The officer pleaded not guilty on Wednesday and was released on personal recognizance, court records show. Recommended reads Rising ‘food forests’ bring free fruit and heat relief to Boston’s neighborhoods A decade of organizing has turned trash-strewn lots into edible parks. Now, Boston is expanding food forests as part of its climate action plan. Massachusetts gears up to protect access as FDA reviews abortion pill An FDA review of mifepristone is sparking concern over politics outweighing science, even as the agency approved a new generic pill. Boston Symphony Orchestra celebrates Symphony Hall then and now BSO is celebrating 125 years at Symphony Hall with music including “Missa solemnis,&quot; which was played when the building first opened. Was there a secretive plot to evict King Richard’s Faire and build a rival kingdom? A lawsuit by the fair&#x27;s owner accuses its former landlord, 98-year-old Alphonse D’Amico, of a secretive plot to evict King Richard’s Faire and supplant it with his own rival kingdom. Culture &amp; Lifestyle Where to celebrate Taylor Swift’s new album, ‘The Life of a Showgirl,’ from dance parties to drag brunches Things to do around Boston this weekend and beyond How do you finish a Mozart commission without Mozart? A Triennial exhibit for the birds (and other wildlife) Special Projects Broken Promises, Unfulfilled Hope The Boston Globe explores the legacy of Boston’s busing era. A Boston Globe Spotlight Team report on Steward Health Care A Boston Globe Spotlight Team review found the Steward Health Care hospital system plagued by staggering neglect at the hands of executives. Explore the project: Snitch City In a nation addicted to drugs, local police are addicted to informants. Nightmare in Mission Hill The story of how a murder in Mission Hill — the Carol Stuart shooting — terrorized and wounded a community of innocent people. Support Real Journalism Subscribe to the Globe for just 99 cents Subscribe Now FROM OUR PARTNERS product by Studio/B. What is this? This content was produced by Boston Globe Media&#x27;s Studio/B in collaboration with the advertiser. The news and editorial departments of the Boston Globe had no role in its production or display. product by BG BRANDLAB. What is this? This content was produced by Boston Globe Media&#x27;s Studio/B in collaboration with the advertiser. The news and editorial departments of the Boston Globe had no role in its production or display. Opinion, ideas, and commentary Kara Panzer Homeschooling, anti-vax, homeopathy: My left-wing childhood is back, on the right Renée Graham How ‘Breaking Bad’ foretold today’s manosphere IDEAS | Bill McKibben Welcome renewable en