# Goldman Sachs

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/goldman-sachs/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:55:55.149391+00:00

---

Goldman Sachs - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: Goldman Sachs the money game Aug. 11, 2023 Is David Solomon Too Big a Jerk to Run Goldman Sachs? Inside a banking mutiny. By Jen Wieczner the eavesdropper Oct. 20, 2022 Listening In at Goldman Sachs Well, just outside their lobby. In our new series, The Eavesdropper, we visit ultraspecific spots to see what people are chattering about. By Adriane Quinlan return to office Aug. 31, 2022 The Junior Bankers Have Made a Startling Discovery Their workplace is “toxic.” By Clio Chang return to office Mar. 30, 2022 The Junior Bankers Are Revolting The battle against the return to office has begun (online). By Choire Sicha magaudacity Mar. 25, 2022 Has Goldman Sachs’ Dina Powell Finally Gone Too Far? She’s helping her husband, David McCormick, run a shamelessly Trumpy campaign in Pennsylvania. Some of her insider pals are appalled. By Shawn McCreesh the money game Mar. 22, 2022 What Do Metallica, Doja Cat, and the CEO of Goldman Sachs All Have in Common? DJ David Solomon will be showcasing his skills for the masses at this summer’s Lolla. By Kevin T. Dugan the festival circuit Mar. 22, 2022 Is David Solomon the First Investment-Bank CEO to Play Lollapalooza? Vulture investigates. By Justin Curto the money game Mar. 14, 2022 Goldman Sachs CEO Says Ostracizing Russia Isn’t the Finance Industry’s Job David Solomon framed his company’s withdrawal from the country as obeying the law, not a criticism of Russia or its aggression. By Kevin T. Dugan reopening Mar. 11, 2022 Goldman Hour Is Back And our eyes are burning. By Clio Chang just asking questions Mar. 2, 2022 Lloyd Blankfein on the New Economic Cold War The veteran banker watches as the system he helped build turns into a weapon. By Kevin T. Dugan first person Dec. 29, 2021 Good-bye, Goldman Sachs Getting a job there was a dream. The pandemic changed my perspective. By Nathan Risser the money game Nov. 4, 2021 Revolt of the Goldman Juniors Crushed by pandemic workloads, Wall Street’s youngest want more money and better conditions. But mostly more money. By Jen Wieczner the intelligencer profile Oct. 29, 2021 What Happened to Matt Taibbi? The former darling of the liberal media is now one of its loudest critics. He says he hasn’t changed. By Ross Barkan Sponsor Story Why Streaming Is Reviving the Music Industry Music revenue could more than double by 2030. wall street Nov. 15, 2018 Goldman CEO Is Shocked – Shocked – to Find Fraud Is Going On in Here CEO David Solomon said that he is “personally outraged” over his bank’s role in abetting financial fraud in Malaysia. By Eric Levitz Mar. 9, 2018 Goldman CEO Lloyd Blankfein Is Reportedly Preparing to Step Down More time to let the beard grow. By Adam K. Raymond today in djs Feb. 27, 2018 The Hippest Party in Williamsburg This Weekend Had a Goldman Sachs Exec As a DJ DJ D-Sol (Goldman Sachs co-president David Solomon) continues to spin. By Lisa Ryan Jan. 19, 2018 Some Wall Street Traders Preparing for ‘Big, Fat Zeroes’ in Bonus Season Break out the tiny violins. By Adam K. Raymond bias Aug. 17, 2017 Banker Sues Goldman Sachs Over Alleged Race Discrimination She claims she was discriminated against for being black and for her Jewish faith. By Dayna Evans side hustles July 14, 2017 Turns Out the President of Goldman Sachs Is Also a DJ The new Model/DJ is Goldman Sachs Exec/DJ. By Gabriella Paiella July 12, 2017 Gary Cohn Is the Front-runner to Replace Yellen As Fed Chair: Report The former Goldman Sachs president could soon lead one of the most powerful regulators of Wall Street. By Eric Levitz June 4, 2017 New Jersey’s Forgotten Governor’s Race Primary voting in the contest to replace Chris Christie takes place on Tuesday — not that it’s getting much notice. By Ed Kilgore May 31, 2017 Goldman Speeches a Big Unforced Error for Hillary Clinton She denies her paid speeches for Wall Street audiences represented special treatment. It’s probably true, but hard to prove. By Ed Kilgore May 31, 2017 Hillary Clinton on Why She Gave Those Goldman Sachs Speeches: ‘They Paid Me’ She also slagged the DNC and addressed the possibility of running for office again. By Adam K. Raymond May 30, 2017 Goldman Sachs Accused of Giving ‘Lifeline’ to Venezuela’s Socialist Dictator As Nicolás Maduro’s forces kill protesters and poor Venezuelans starve, the bank’s bond deal put $865 million into the ruling regime’s coffers. By Eric Levitz Mar. 15, 2017 Yet Another Goldman Sachs Banker Is Headed for the Trump Administration Wall Street sees Deputy Treasury Secretary nominee Jim Donovan as a check on Steve Bannon’s economic nationalism. By Eric Levitz Feb. 6, 2017 Wall Street Remembers Why It Was Afraid of President Trump Goldman Sachs is starting to wonder if having an incompetent nativist as president might have its downsides. By Eric Levitz Dec. 22, 2016 Goldman Sachs President Gary Cohn Is a Rising Power in Trumpworld One insider sees him as a potential chief of staff if Priebus stumbles. By Gabriel Sherman Dec. 15, 2016 Here’s What the Markets Expect From President Trump Trump’s America will be a great place for banks and for-profit colleges — but not for hospitals — according to the Wall Street hive mind. By Eric Levitz Dec. 9, 2016 Trump Taps President of Goldman Sachs for National Economic Council Keep draining that swamp. By Eric Levitz Nov. 29, 2016 Trump Taps Steve Mnuchin for Treasury Secretary The populist president names a former Goldman Sachs partner — who is also the son of a Goldman Sachs partner — to his cabinet. By Eric Levitz policy Nov. 13, 2016 Wall Street’s (Confused) Position on Trump’s Presidency Speculation in a vacuum of information. By Jessica Pressler hacked emails Oct. 15, 2016 Here Are Hillary Clinton’s Goldman Sachs Speeches The unauthenticated transcripts of Clinton’s remarks at three Goldman Sachs events in 2013 have been released by WikiLeaks. By Chas Danner Oct. 8, 2016 If Trump Weren’t a Monster, Clinton’s Leaked Speeches Would Be Devastating On Friday, WikiLeaks revealed Clinton’s closed-door speeches to Goldman Sachs. It’s no mystery why she wanted to keep them secret. By Eric Levitz last night on late night Apr. 15, 2016 Late Night Breaks Down Goldman Sachs’s $5B Fine Those naughty banks. By Halle Kiefer Apr. 12, 2016 Goldman Can Deduct Much Of Its $5 Billion Fine For fraudulent behavior that helped create the financial crisis, the bank will pay roughly $4 billion and face no legal consequences. By Eric Levitz Feb. 4, 2016 Jimmy Carter Lends Ted Cruz a Hand Carter criticized Cruz for being too committed to right-wing principles. Which will definitely hurt him in a GOP primary. By Eric Levitz wall street Sept. 22, 2015 Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein Has Cancer It is a “highly curable” form of lymphoma. By Jaime Fuller as the world interns June 17, 2015 Goldman Tells Interns to Go Home at Night Or at least leave the office. By Adam K. Raymond Sept. 26, 2014 What If the Regulators Are As Bad As the Banks? A whistleblower argues that the New York Fed’s regulators defer to Goldman Sachs’ bankers. And she has the tape to prove it. By Annie Lowrey yik yak attack June 9, 2014 NYU Students Are Mocking Goldman Sachs Interns on Yik Yak It’s become a meme. By Kevin Roose white men with money June 3, 2014 Former Goldman Guy Wants You, Too, to Have a $1 Million Violin-Shaped Pool Bankers are dedicating their second acts to making people hate them even more. By Joe Coscarelli who does that Apr. 15, 2014 Goldman Sachs CEO Retains Sense of Childlike Wonder When you make millions, sometimes it’s the little things in life. By Jessica Pressler going down? Mar. 6, 2014 Goldman Sachs Elevator Loses Book Deal He lost his book deal. By Joe Coscarelli white men with money and spare time Feb. 25, 2014 The Goldman Sachs Elevator Tweeter Never Worked at Goldman Sachs He’s a former bond executive who lives in Texas. By Margaret Hartmann facts about goldman sachs Jan. 31, 2014 Lloyd Blankfein’s Beard Gets $2 Million Bonus It now earns $23 million. By Kevin Roose goldman gods Nov. 6, 2013 Goldman Sachs Monitors Junior Bankers Teaching type-A bankers to relax, one weekend at a time. By Kevin Roose baby bankers Oct. 29, 2013 Why Is Goldman Sachs Easing Up on I