# Dishcast Archive 70 Episodes

**Source**: https://andrewsullivan.substack.com/p/dishcast-archive-70-episodes
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:27:48.332330+00:00

---

Dishcast Archive - by Chris Bodenner - The Weekly Dish The Weekly Dish Subscribe Sign in Dishcast Archive Find all of our pod episodes in one place, along with corresponding clips and transcripts. Chris Bodenner Apr 23, 2022 2 Share Below are all our guests organized under a general theme (though many could fit under multiple themes): Foreign Affairs : Scott Anderson , Tara Zahra , Edward Luce , Douglas Murray ( twice ), Andrew Neil , Adam Kirsch , Aaron Zelin , Noah Smith , Eli Lake , Jonathan Freedland , Graeme Wood , Robert Kaplan , Fareed Zakaria , Fraser Nelson , Robert Wright , Fiona Hill, Samuel Ramani ( twice ), Edward Luttwak , Anne Applebaum ( twice ), John Mearsheimer , Yossi Klein Halevi , Dominic Cummings , Michael Schuman , Michael Moynihan ( twice ), Peter Beinart , Niall Ferguson ( twice ), Tim Shipman ( twice ) Race/Wokeness : David Greenberg , Reihan Salam , Musa al-Gharbi , Lionel Shriver , Nellie Bowles , Rob Henderson , Freddie DeBoer , Lee Fang , Tabia Lee , Nigel Biggar , Cathy Young , Glenn Loury , Christopher Rufo , John McWhorter , Briahna Joy Gray , Wesley Yang , Glenn Greenwald , Kmele Foster , Michael Hirschorn Immigration/Diversity : Mike White , Yoni Appelbaum , Amy Chua , Bryan Caplan , Charles Murray , Eric Kaufmann ( twice ), Nick Miroff ( twice ), Mickey Kaus , Christopher Caldwell ( twice , thrice ), Matt Yglesias Trump/Politics : John Ellis , Jill Lepore , Walter Isaacson , Batya Ungar-Sargon , Chris Matthews , Robert Merry , Jake Tapper &amp; Alex Thompson , Sam Tanenhaus , David Graham , Byron York , Frances Lee &amp; Steve Macedo , Michael Lewis , Walter Kirn , Michelle Goldberg , James Carville , Jeffrey Toobin , Bill Maher , Oren Cass , Nate Silver , Mike Isikoff &amp; Dan Klaidman , Jeff Greenfield , Joe Klein , David Leonhardt , John Judis &amp; Ruy Teixeira , Vivek Ramaswamy , Josh Barro , Matt Lewis , David Weigel , Erick Erickson ( twice ), Chris Stirewalt , Michael Lind , Matt Taibbi , Robert Draper , Damon Linker ( twice ), Dexter Filkins , Larry Summers , Matthew Continetti , Ann Coulter , Bob Woodward &amp; Robert Costa , Michael Wolff , Jon Rauch ( twice ), Michael Anton , David Frum ( twice ), Damir Marusic &amp; Shadi Hamid , Shadi Hamid , Olivia Nuzzi , Coleman Hughes , Sam Harris ( twice ) Technology/Media : Claire Lehmann , Francis Collins , Nick Denton , Christine Rosen , Tina Brown ( twice ), Adam Moss , Kara Swisher , Ben Smith , Jonathan Haidt , Johann Hari ( twice ) ( thrice interviewing me) Gender/Sex : Wesley Yang , Shannon Minter , Thomas Mallon , Evan Wolfson , Brianna Wu , Neil J. Young , Abigail Shrier , Cat Bohannon , Pamela Paul , Leor Sapir , Jean Twenge , Hannah Barnes , Jill Filipovic , Ben Appel , Carl Trueman , Alyssa Rosenberg , Richard Reeves , Louise Perry , Jamie Kirchick , Bari Weiss , Kathleen Stock , Christina Sommers &amp; Danielle Crittenden , Katie Herzog &amp; Jamie Kirchick , Carole Hooven ( twice ), Julie Bindel , Buck Angel &amp; Helena Kerschner , Emily Yoffe , Mara Keisling , Dana Beyer Pandemics : Nicholas Wade , Kyle Harper , Peter Staley , David Wallace-Wells ( twice ), Michael O’Loughlin , Michael Lewis , Meghan Daum Philosophy/Religion/Humanism : Paul Elie , Ian Buruma ( twice ) Mary Matalin , Anderson Cooper , Bill Wasik &amp; Monica Murphy , Rod Dreher ( twice ), Stephen Fry , Elizabeth Corey , George Will , Daniel Finkelstein , Richard Dawkins , Christian Wiman , Jeffrey Rosen , Justin Brierley , Alexandra Hudson , Matthew Crawford , David Brooks , Spencer Klavan , Martha Nussbaum , Patrick Deneen , David Grann , John Oberg , Mark Lilla , Susan Neiman , Jon Ward , James Alison , John Gray ( twice ), Aurelian Craiutu , Kathryn Schulz , Yoram Hazony , Frank Bruni , Christopher Hitchens , Matthew Rose , Sohrab Ahmari ( twice ), Jennifer Senior , David Goodhart , Francis Fukuyama , David French , Nicholas Christakis , Jim Holt , Roosevelt Montás , Steven Pinker , Cornel West , Antonio García Martínez , Ross Douthat ( twice ), Michael Brendan Dougherty , Caitlin Flanagan Addiction/Psychedelics/Mental Health : Katie Herzog , Sebastian Junger , Abigail Shrier , Maia Szalavitz , Michael Shellenberger , Sam Quinones , Michael Pollan , Shawn McCreesh , Sally Satel , Brian Muraresku To jump down to a brief episode description, along with links to its audio page, clips, and select transcripts, just type “Command + F” (for Mac) or “Control + F” (for PC) and enter the guest’s last name. (You can also enter the word “transcript” to pop down to one of 29 polished transcripts: Gray, Alison, Angel/Kerschner, Woodward/Costa, Herzog/Kirchick, Brown, Cummings, Flanagan, French, Greenwald, Haidt, Halevi, Hill, Hitchens, Loury, Mearsheimer, McWhorter, Kirchick, Montás, Moynihan, Murray, Perry, Rauch, Rose, Rufo, Shellenberger, Trueman, West, Yang.) Substack now provides rough auto-transcripts for every episode, which you can find below the byline of each episode page by clicking on “Transcript”: Descriptions for every episode are listed below, in reverse-chronological order: Katie Herzog On Drinking To Get Sober (10/3/25) She’s a journalist, podcaster, and longtime friend of the Dish. She’s a former staff writer at The Stranger, and she’s contributed to The Atlantic, The Guardian, The Free Press, and The Weekly Dish. She hosts the podcast “Blocked and Reported” alongside Jesse Singal, and she just wrote her first book, Drink Your Way Sober: The Science-Based Method to Break Free from Alcohol . Go here for the full description and audio. Go here and here for clips. Wesley Yang On Gender Madness (9/26/25) He’s written extensively for Tablet, Esquire, and New York Magazine, and many of his essays were compiled in a book, The Souls of Yellow Folk . More of his writing and podcasting can be found on his substack, “Year Zero.” He’s been chronicling the gender revolution aspect of the successor ideology on X these past few years — and he eloquently lets rip more emphatically than ever in this conversation. Go here for the full description and audio. Go here and here for clips. John Ellis On The News And GOP History (9/19/25) He’s a journalist, media consultant, old friend, and George W Bush’s cousin. He’s worked for NBC News as a political analyst and the Boston Globe as a columnist. In 2016, he launched a morning brief called “News Items” for News Corp, and later it became the WSJ CEO Council’s morning newsletter. News Items jumped to Substack in 2019. John also co-hosts two podcasts — one with Joe Klein (“Night Owls”) and the other with Richard Haas (“Alternate Shots”). Go here for the full description and audio. Go here and here for clips. Jill Lepore On The Constitution (9/12/25) She’s a professor of American history at Harvard, a professor of law at Harvard Law, and a staff writer at The New Yorker . She’s also the host of the podcast “X-Man: The Elon Musk Origin Story.” Her many books include These Truths: A History of the United States (which I reviewed for the NYT in 2017) and her new one, We the People: A History of the U.S. Constitution . Go here for the full description and audio. Go here and here for clips. Niall Ferguson On Where We Are Now (9/5/25) He’s one of my oldest and dearest friends, stretching back to when we were both history majors and renegade rightists at Magdalen, Oxford. He is now the Milbank Family Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution and a senior faculty fellow of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard. He’s also the founder and managing director of Greenmantle LLC, an advisory firm. He’s written 16 books, including Doom: The Politics of Catastrophe (which we discussed on the pod in 2021). Go here for the full description and audio. Go here and here for clips. Johann Hari Grilling Me (8/15/25) One of my best mates asks me about psychedelics, Keir Starmer, the Daily Dish, and much more. I apologize for TMI. Johann has written four bestsellers: Chasing the Scream: The First and Last Days of the War on Drugs , Lost Connections: Uncovering the Real Causes of Depression , Stolen Focus: Why You Can’t Pay Attention, Magic Pill: The Extraordinary Benefits and Disturbing Risks of the New Weight-Loss Drugs . His upcoming book is about the tunnels below Las Vegas. Go here for the full description and audio. Scott Anderson On The Iranian Revolution (8/8/25) He’s a war correspondent and author. His non-fiction books include Lawrence in Arabia , Fractured Lands , and The Quiet Americans, and his novels include Triage and Moonlight Hotel . He’s also a contributing writer for the New York Times Magazine. His new book is King of Kings: The Iranian Revolution: A Story of Hubris, Delusion and Catastrophic Miscalculation . Go here for the full description and audio. Go here and here for clips. Shannon Minter On Trans Life And Politics (8/1/25) He’s a civil rights attorney, most notably as the lead counsel for same-sex couples in the landmark marriage case in California. He’s currently the legal director at the National Center for LGBTQ Rights, where he is leading several federal court challenges to the trans military ban. I’ve long tried to find an interlocutor on the new radical direction of trans activism and its hostile takeover of the gay rights movement. Shannon was the first to agree, and we got along great. In some areas, we strongly agree; in others, we strongly disagree; but we can talk and not hate each other. Go here for the full description and audio. Go here and here for clips. Tara Zahra On Anti-Globalization After WWI (7/25/25) She’s a writer and academic — currently the Hanna Holborn Gray Professor of East European History at the University of Chicago. This week we discuss her hauntingly relevant book, Against the World: Anti-Globalism and Mass Politics Between the World Wars. Go here for the full description and audio. Go here and here for clips. Thomas Mallon On Literature And AIDS (7/18/25) He’s a novelist, essayist, and critic, who once described himself as a “supposed literary int