# chuckklostermanauthor.com

**Source**: https://chuckklostermanauthor.com/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:41:19.363099+00:00

---

Chuck Klosterman Skip to main content Football On sale 1/20/26 A hilarious but nonetheless groundbreaking contribution to the argument about which force shapes American life the most. For two kinds of readers—those who know it’s football and those who are about to find out. Chuck Klosterman, New York Times bestselling critic, journalist, and, yes, football psychotic gets to the bottom of all of it. He takes us to a metaphorical projection of Texas, where the religion of six-man football merges with America’s Team [sic] and makes an inexplicable impact on a boy in North Dakota. He dissects the question of natural greatness, the paradox of gambling and war, and the timeless caricature of the uncompromising head coach. He interrogates the perfection of football’s marriage with television and the morality of acceptable risk. He even conjures an extinction-level event. If Žižek liked the SEC more than he liked cinema, if Stephen Jay Gould cared about linebackers more than he cared about dinosaurs, if Steve Martin played quarterback instead of the banjo . . . it would still be nothing like this. A century ago, Yale’s legendary coach Walter Camp wrote his unified theory of the game. He called it Football. Chuck Klosterman has given us a new Camp for the new age, rooted in a personal history he cannot escape. Pre-order Amazon Barnes &amp; Noble Books A Million Bookshop.org Apple Books Audible Be the first to hear about Chuck Sign me up for news about books, authors, and more from Penguin Random House. Email address (required) Sign Up By clicking Sign Up, I acknowledge that I have read and agree to Penguin Random House's Privacy Policy and Terms of Use and understand that Penguin Random House collects certain categories of personal information for the purposes listed in that policy, discloses, sells, or shares certain personal information and retains personal information in accordance with the policy . You can opt-out of the sale or sharing of personal information anytime. Privacy Policy CA Privacy Policy Terms of Use Do Not Sell My Personal Info Affiliate Program Disclosure © Copyright 2025 Penguin Random House Back to&nbsp;top