# Feature

**Source**: https://www.thenation.com/content/feature/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:00:53.489852+00:00

---

Feature | The Nation --> Log In Email * Password * Remember Me Forgot Your Password? Log In New to The Nation ? Subscribe Print subscriber? Activate your online access Skip to content Skip to footer Magazine Newsletters Subscribe Log In Search Subscribe Donate Magazine Latest Archive Podcasts Newsletters Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts The Nation About Events Contact Us Advertise Current Issue Feature How Germany Silenced Its Artists to Support Israel How Germany Silenced Its Artists to Support Israel As Israel intensified its genocide in Gaza, Germany ramped up its long-simmering war on dissent, silencing Palestine solidarity while bolstering its own far right. Sep 30, 2025 / Feature / Nikki Columbus The Other Side of Trump’s Tariffs: Ghana’s Toxic Gold Rush The Other Side of Trump’s Tariffs: Ghana’s Toxic Gold Rush As gold prices spike across the globe, illegal mining is exploding—and driving the west African country toward ecological collapse. Sep 15, 2025 / Feature / Jocelyn C. Zuckerman Ad Policy Elon Musk’s AI Grift Elon Musk’s AI Grift The tech lord’s recent bid to reshuffle the ownership structure of his empire reinforces the clout of the Middle Eastern strongman regimes in its orbit. Sep 12, 2025 / Feature / Jacob Silverman How DSA Built Zohran Mamdani’s Electoral Machine How DSA Built Zohran Mamdani’s Electoral Machine The unsung hero of Mamdani’s campaign is its field operation. It may make him mayor of New York City. Sep 12, 2025 / Feature / Hadas Thier How Did Republican Fashion Go From Blazers to Belligerence? How Did Republican Fashion Go From Blazers to Belligerence? Trump and his cronies’ style reflects a platform where grievance is currency and performance is power. Sep 10, 2025 / Feature / Derek Guy Yolanda Díaz Is the New Face of the Spanish Left Yolanda Díaz Is the New Face of the Spanish Left The labor minister hopes to keep Spain’s far right at bay, while winning workers more free time. Will she pull it off? Sep 9, 2025 / Feature / Sarah Jaffe The Most Important Story I’ve Never Told The Most Important Story I’ve Never Told The Pulitzer Prize– and Emmy Award–winning journalist recounts a story of hope and heartbreak on the South Side of Chicago. Sep 9, 2025 / Feature / Trymaine Lee Is Amtrak the End of the Line for US Public Transit? Is Amtrak the End of the Line for US Public Transit? The railroad once represented the American dream of expansion—and exploitation. But is train travel becoming a thing of the past? Aug 28, 2025 / Feature / Julian Epp The Bookstores Bridging Divides in Israel The Bookstores Bridging Divides in Israel People of goodwill on either side of the horror find unity in the search for a good read. Aug 15, 2025 / Feature / Eric Orner Eric Foner’s Personal History Eric Foner’s Personal History Reflecting on his decades-long career, the historian considers what his field of study owes to the public. Aug 14, 2025 / Feature / Eric Foner Go to archive page 1 1 Go to archive page 2 2 Go to archive page 3 3 &hellip; Go to archive page 624 624 Go to next archive page Next Ad Policy Ad Policy Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts OppArt Poetry Letters Magazine Current Issue Masthead Archive Subscription Services Reprints More About Us Contact Us Advertise Nation Events Nation Shop Nation Travels Nation Podcasts Newsletters Follow Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube RSS Founded by abolitionists in 1865, The Nation has long believed that independent journalism has the capacity to bring about a more democratic and equitable world. Donate Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility Statement Help Careers Nation Fund Privacy Manager x