# Siri Apple Intelligence Ios 18 Development Went Wrong

**Source**: https://9to5mac.com/2025/03/09/siri-apple-intelligence-ios-18-development-went-wrong/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:47:52.331627+00:00

---

What went wrong with Apple Intelligence Siri development? - 9to5Mac Skip to main content Toggle main menu 9to5Mac Logo Go to the 9to5Mac home page Switch site 9to5Toys 9to5Google Logo 9to5Google Electrek Drone DJ Logo DroneDJ Space Explored About Privacy Toggle social menu Toggle dark mode Search for: Submit Toggle search form Exclusives Store Podcasts Apple@Work Happy Hour 9to5Mac Daily Runtime Vision Vision Pro visionOS Hands-on iPhone iPhone iPhone 14 iPhone 15 iPhone 16 iOS 18 Mac Mac MacBook Pro MacBook Air iMac Mac mini Mac Studio Mac Pro macOS Sequoia Watch Apple Watch Apple Watch Ultra Apple Watch Ultra 2 Apple Watch Series 10 Apple Health Apple Watch SE watchOS 11 iPad iPad Pro iPad Air iPad mini iPad iPadOS iPadOS 18 Music and TV Apple Music AirPods HomePod Apple TV tvOS 18 Guides Reviews How Tos AAPL Apple Store Apple Arcade Apple Card Apple Silicon Apple One Apple Fitness+ CarPlay Siri HomeKit Toggle dark mode AAPL Company Apple Intelligence What went wrong with Apple Intelligence Siri development? Michael Burkhardt &nbsp;|&nbsp;Mar 9 2025 - 1:54 pm PT 72 Comments On Friday, Apple officially delayed the release of its promised iOS 18 Siri features . Those features, including personal context, on-screen awareness, and in-app actions, will now release &#8220;in the coming year.&#8221; We had already received hints that these features would be delayed, but now we know for sure. This leaves the question, what went wrong? Apple&#8217;s statement never gave a clear answer. The company said said that it&#8217;s going to take longer than it thought, but never cited any specific reasons for the delays. However, some insights from Bloomberg&#8217;s Mark Gurman give us some potential answers for what went wrong. Poor Siri infrastructure While developing new Siri features for iOS 18, Apple didn&#8217;t have the time to create one unified backend for handling all Siri requests. As a result, theres two systems, one for legacy commands, and one for more advanced ones. That complicates development, per Bloomberg : The current iOS 18 version of Siri essentially has two brains: one that operates the legacy Siri commands, like timers and making calls, and another that handles more advanced queries. The latter capability will be able to tap user data and already is used to not get confused when people change their request mid-command. In order to get Apple Intelligence out the door as part of iOS 18, the company didn’t have time to meld the two systems together. That means the software doesn’t work as smoothly as it could. Apple plans to release a unified system for iOS 19, but obviously that doesn&#8217;t do anything for the iOS 18 features that it promised . Given Apple&#8217;s usage of &#8220;in the coming year&#8221; rather than &#8220;in the coming months&#8221;, this likely means that the company wants to wait on the new Siri backend in iOS 19 to release these more advanced features. Internal problems Additionally, Bloomberg reports that development for these new features hasn&#8217;t necessarily gone smoothly, as one could assume. The report describes Apple engineers as &#8220;racing to fix a rash of bugs&#8221;, and states that engineers believe the features won&#8217;t be ready until next year at the earliest, likely iOS 19.3 or later. Apple software executive Craig Federighi also voiced concerns over the features, in their current form, not aligning with how Apple had marketed them to work: In the lead-up to the latest delay, software chief Craig Federighi and other executives voiced strong concerns internally that the features didn’t work properly — or as advertised — in their personal testing, said the people, who asked not to be identified discussing internal matters. Lastly, some Apple employees question whether or not the AI teams need better leadership, and that the company will continue to fall behind without a change in leadership: Apple employees are questioning whether Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook or the company’s board needs to take action to change the leadership of the AI group. They believe that, short of major changes, Apple will continue to fall behind. Overall, Apple is facing a heap of technical challenges headed into this, and the company likely would&#8217;ve been better off not rushing into the AI craze. I&#8217;m sure the allegedly poor leadership isn&#8217;t helping the teams as well. My favorite Apple accessories on Amazon: Anker 25K Compact Power Bank with retractable cable MOFT Magnetic Wallet Stand, fits up to 3 cards AirTag 4-pack (on sale for 30% off!) Anker MagSafe 2-in-1 Wireless Charging Stand with Qi2 AirPods Pro 2 (USB-C) SanDisk Extreme 2TB USB-C SSD, up to 1050MB/s Follow Michael:&nbsp; X/Twitter ,&nbsp; Bluesky ,&nbsp; Instagram FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More. You’re reading 9to5Mac — experts who break news about Apple and its surrounding ecosystem, day after day. Be sure to check out our homepage for all the latest news, and follow 9to5Mac on Twitter , Facebook , and LinkedIn to stay in the loop. Don’t know where to start? Check out our exclusive stories , reviews , how-tos , and subscribe to our YouTube channel Featured from 9to5Mac 9to5Mac Logo Rumor Replay: M5 MacBook Pro, Siri app, Apple Glasses, and more Ryan Christoffel Oct 2 2025 Apple Watch can lose these training wheels thanks to stellar battery life Zac Hall Oct 2 2025 iPhone 17 Pro and iPhone 17 sales are stronger than expected: report Ryan Christoffel Oct 2 2025 Here&#8217;s my top 10 list of Apple and non-Apple tech – what&#8217;s yours? Ben Lovejoy Oct 3 2025 Check out 9to5Mac on YouTube for more Apple news: Comments Expand Close comments Expand Close comments Guides AAPL Company Breaking news from Cupertino. We’ll give you t&hellip; Apple Intelligence Author Michael Burkhardt mbrkhrdt Michael is 9to5Mac&#8217;s Weekend Editor, keeping up with all of the latest Apple news on Saturday and Sunday. He got started in the world of Apple news during the pandemic, and it became a growing hobby. He&#8217;s also an indie iOS developer in his free time, and has published numerous apps over the years. Michael Burkhardt's favorite gear Anker 25K Compact Battery Bank Featuring two built in cables, a built in display, multiple ports, a 25,000mAh capacity, and up to 100W of output - this is one of the best battery banks for recharging your entire Apple ecosystem on the go. AirPods Pro 2 (USB-C) Despite a new version reportedly being around a corner, I still personally believe AirPods Pro 2 are a great deal. They're already equipped with USB-C, and continually gain new software features. With them consistently going on sale, it's a great purchase to make. Features like Adaptive Audio are incredible.