# 5 To Know United Mileageplus

**Source**: https://thepointsguy.com/2017/09/5-to-know-united-mileageplus/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:34:37.917249+00:00

---

5 Things You Need to Know About United Airlines MileagePlus - The Points Guy Skip to content Menu Go to Home Page Subscribe Advertiser disclosure Search The Points Guy Advertiser disclosure ADVERTISEMENT Guides 5 Things You Need to Know About United Airlines MileagePlus Richard Kerr Richard Kerr Contributor Richard Kerr is a veteran naval officer and founder of the Award Travel 101 Facebook community. He’s one of the foremost experts in points and miles strategy, featured in Forbes, US News, Money Magazine, Kiplinger Personal Finance and presented at #SXSW 2017. Richard has visited over 45 countries, lived in England and Japan, and spends his spare time dissecting loyalty program award charts to maximize the value of points and miles. Richard holds a BBA in International Business and has his wife and two small children in tow for his travels as often as possible. Sept. 13, 2017 • 8 min read Jump to section Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Copy URL Email The cards we feature here are from partners who compensate us when you are approved through our site, and this may impact how or where these products appear. We don’t cover all available credit cards, but our analysis, reviews, and opinions are entirely from our editorial team. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information. Update: Some offers mentioned below are no longer available. View the current offers here . United&#x27;s MileagePlus program has undergone quite a transformation in the past few years. Award chart devaluations , the shift to revenue-based earnings and award routing rule changes have made the current MileagePlus stand in stark contrast to the program circa 2014. All that said, the program can unlock some solid redemptions on United metal and on Star Alliance partners, and it&#x27;s relatively easy to boost your mileage balance by transferring Ultimate Rewards points. Today, I&#x27;ll cover the top five things you need to know about United MileagePlus. 1. XN Fare Availability Makes a Difference We all want to pay the lower, Saver-level prices for award tickets on United-operated flights, which requires finding &quot;X&quot; fare Saver availability. As an added perk for Chase United co-branded card holders — for cards such as the United MileagePlus Explorer Card — United has a separate fare class of Saver award space, XN, that cardholders can view and book when logged in to their United account. It&#x27;s not uncommon to see results like the below screenshot; on a search for Washington, D.C. (IAD) to Charleston, SC (CHS) I have two extra flights at the Saver level available to me because I&#x27;m a cardholder: I&#x27;ll happily pay the $95 annual fee for the MileagePlus Explorer Card to get the XN space — it makes that much of a difference. 2. United&#x27;s Award Search Engine Has Some Kinks When using the United award search engine, it&#x27;s important that you don&#x27;t take the initial results — or the calendar view results — at face value. By changing inputs such as cabin desired, departure time and displaying only nonstop routes, and by searching one-way, you can alter the routing options and seats that United.com shows. This becomes even more important if you want a specific routing not initially shown on United.com. United no longer allows you to search for any two flights that show Saver availability and then call an agent to piece together your itinerary. If you want to book a itinerary that has Saver seats but it&#x27;s not an option shown on United.com, you&#x27;ll have to pay for each individual flight you want to book. Similarly, for Star Alliance partner itineraries, United.com won&#x27;t display all (or any) of the possibilities on your first search. It&#x27;s important that you know your most desired routing and the flights possible so you can work the engine to give it the routing you want. A quick example: Next April I&#x27;m going to New Zealand and have been looking at return options. A quick one-way search for Auckland to Atlanta (AKL-ATL) on April 25, even with the flexible date box checked, still shows no results available: However, when I change the initial search from AKL-ATL to Auckland-San Francisco, limiting the itinerary to only one connection, a search result appears: Daily Newsletter Reward your inbox with the TPG Daily newsletter Join over 700,000 readers for breaking news, in-depth guides and exclusive deals from TPG’s experts Email address Sign up By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy . You may unsubscribe at any time. On the above screen, I change the destination from San Francisco to Atlanta, click search again and voilà: Multiple options now appear for Auckland to Atlanta at the Saver level on April 25. So get to know the nuances of the United award search engine, and be prepared to do multiple searches to get it to cooperate. 3. Take Advantage of the Excursionist Perk United did away with its great award routing rules that allowed multiple stopovers and open jaws and replaced it with the Excursionist Perk , selling it as a &quot;more flexible and intuitive&quot; award-booking option. The simplest way to explain the Excursionist Perk is that on a round-trip award itinerary, the first flight you add that&#x27;s not in the same zone as the originating region won&#x27;t cost you extra miles. The free flight must be within a single zone, booked in the same or lower class as the inbound and outbound legs, and the round-trip ticket must end in the same zone it originated from. Given the loose set of rules United has laid out for the Excursionist Perk, there are actually a lot of neat things you can do to maximize it. Here&#x27;s an option to get you inspired: Tokyo Narita (NRT) - Washington Dulles (IAD) / Singapore (SIN) - Bangkok (BKK) - Ho Chi Minh City (SGN) / Osaka (KIX) - Tokyo Haneda (HND) Cost: 40,000 miles The itinerary prices as follows: NRT-IAD: 35,000 miles SIN-BKK-SGN:0 miles KIX-HND: 5,000 miles The itinerary qualifies for the Excursionist because travel begins and ends in the same zone (Japan), and the first leg added is not in the origination zone and is wholly within a single zone (Southeast Asia). The KIX-HND leg is added for the itinerary to end in Japan, meaning I can get the SIN-BKK leg for free. You can complete a second, similar Excursionist itinerary to close the loops and give yourself one heck of a vacation to multiple Asian destinations for very few miles. 4. Pay Attention to Your Flight&#x27;s Equipment Type The carrier has labeled most international business-class flights as Polaris on United.com. I&#x27;m hearing weekly now from people who are confused when they board and discover that it is the same old hard product with only the new Polaris soft product (think bedding and dinner presentation). TPG enjoying the new Polaris cabin on the 777-300ER. You&#x27;re flying the new Polaris product in its entirety only if you&#x27;re flying the new 777-300ER, which is only serving a few routes (or if you&#x27;re lucky enough to snag a seat on the single 767-300ER that has been retrofitted ). Check the route on United.com to look for 777-300ER, and check the seatmap if you&#x27;re flying on a 767: Next, there&#x27;s such a variety of equipment in the United fleet that you want to make sure you choose the best product available for your route. Look at a simple domestic route like Washington Dulles - Houston. On any given day you can pay the same 25,000 miles for a business-class seat but be on either a regional Embraer ERJ-175, narrow-body recliner 737 or 757, or a wide-body 767 with lie-flat seats — obviously, there&#x27;s a huge difference in onboard experience. The flights often leave an hour apart from each other, so make sure you look at the details of your flight and don&#x27;t sit on a regional when you could enjoy a 767. 5. Booking Last-Minute Award Tickets Is Expensive, But Availability Is Great When booking a MileagePlus award ticket within 21 days of departure, you&#x27;ll have to pay a steep fee of $75 per ticket. Close-in ticketing fees remain one of the silliest ancillary airline charges, so make sure you know what you&#x27;re getting into if you want to use your miles close to departure. If you have United elite status , your fee will either be waived or reduced : Silver members pay $50, Gold pay $25 and Platinum and 1K members have the fee waived entirely. Even with close-in ticketing fees, I still look to United to book tickets close to departure because the program has the best award availability out of the legacy carriers. As a United cardholder, I estimate there&#x27;s a 75% chance I&#x27;ll find a last-minute Saver seat to my destination, excluding holidays. If I need a last-minute ticket that would cost $500+ but is available for 10,000 - 12,500 miles and $80.60, I&#x27;ll happily take the deal. Bottom Line Even with the routing and pricing changes, this program has plenty to offer. It&#x27;s worth putting in the effort to learn the nuances to using the United.com award search engine and to understand and maximize all the possibilities of the Excursionist Perk. Above-average last-minute award availability is the icing on the cake with United MileagePlus. What are your top tips for maximizing the MileagePlus program? Maximize your travel Facebook Instagram YouTube Twitter TikTok Sign up for our daily newsletter for the latest news, deals and tips. Email address Subscribe By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy . You may unsubscribe at any time. Meet TPG About us TPG gives back Careers Contact us Site map Newsletters Legal Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Privacy policy Terms of use Cookie settings Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy Our Commitment to Tra