# One Handed Bowline Knot

**Source**: https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/one-handed-bowline-knot/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:49:28.063010+00:00

---

Skill of the Week: Tie a One-Handed Bowline Knot | The Art of Manliness Skill of the Week: Tie a One-Handed Bowline Knot | The Art of Manliness Menu random podcast Get Style Clothing Accessories Facial Hair Ties Get Strong Fitness Health Program Review Get Social Family Fatherhood Relationships Social Skills Get Skilled How To Manly Know-How Outdoor/Survival Podcast Books Random Find more of the Art of Manliness: Instagram Feedly Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Clothing Accessories Facial Hair Ties A Man’s Guide to the Rugby Shirt 5 Ways to Wear an OCBD With Style Men Don&#8217;t Dress Like Boys How to Wear a White T-Shirt With Style The Dos and Don&#8217;ts of Applying Cologne Did Commandos Go Commando? A Man&#8217;s Guide to Fragrance: How to Choose and Wear Cologne My Go-To Sunglasses for Summer How to Trim Your Eyebrows Your No-Nonsense Guide to Choosing the Right Beard Style How to Grow a Beard: The One and True Guide Beard Oil FAQs: Answering All Your Pressing Beardly Questions Skill of the Week: Tie a Full Windsor Necktie Knot How to Tie a Tie Skill of the Week: Put a Dimple in Your Tie Skill of the Week: Tie a Scarf 5 Different Ways Browse all Get Style Fitness Health Program Review What My Workout Has Looked Like Lately Podcast #1,086: Build Muscle Without the B.S. — A Straightforward Guide to Size and Strength How to Turn Treading Water Into a Legit Workout Skill of the Week: Effectively Traverse the Monkey Bars Skill of the Week: Tape a Sprained Ankle Podcast #1,084: Overdiagnosed — How Our Obsession with Medical Testing and Labels Is Making Us Sicker A Man’s Guide to Blood Pressure: What It Is, Why It Matters, and How to Keep It in Check Podcast #1,076: The Microbiome Master Key — How 100 Trillion Bacteria Influence Your Weight, Mood, and All-Around Health The Insanely Difficult Standards of History&#8217;s Hardest P.E. Program Which Fitness Program Is Right for You? A Review of the MovNat Workshop Strengthen Your Tribe: A Report on the Atomic Athlete Vanguard Browse all Get Strong Family Fatherhood Relationships Social Skills A Back-to-School Game Plan for Dads Podcast #1,056: The 80/80 Marriage — A New Model for a Happier, Stronger Relationship Podcast #1,039: What&#8217;s Behind the Rise of Parent-Child Estrangement? Take the D Word Off the Table Podcast #1,085: The Preparation — An Adventure-Driven, Skill-Building Alternative to College for Young Men Podcast #1,072: Men Don&#8217;t Run in the Rain — And 7 Other Essential Lessons for Being a Man The Dad Instinct: How Fathers Prepare Kids for the Wider World The 4 Parenting Styles (And Which One Is Best) The Yearly Marriage Checkup Podcast #1,068: Building Tribe — How to Create and Sustain Communities of Men Podcast #1,060: No, There Isn&#8217;t a Loneliness Epidemic (And That May Be an Even Bigger Problem) Podcast #1,058: The Science of Porn: Myths, Facts, and Overlooked Issues Podcast #1,087: Why You Need the Good Stress of Socializing Podcast #1,070: How to Have the Manners and Charm of a Proper English Gentleman How to Flirt Like It&#8217;s 1995 Podcast #1,052: Stop Saying Um (And Fix the Other Vocal Tics That Are Sabotaging Your Speaking) Browse all Get Social How To Manly Know-How Outdoor/Survival How to Crack a Whip Skill of the Week: Sharpen a Pocket Knife How to Drive a Tank How to Do a Brush Pass Like a Cold War Spy Skill of the Week: Heel-And-Toe Shift Skill of the Week: Make a Rope Swing (And Fly Like Tarzan) Skill of the Week: Jump From a Height Into Water How to Use a Multimeter Skill of the Week: Cross a Piranha-Infested River Skill of the Week: Fire a Flare Gun Skill of the Week: Open a Coconut (With or Without Tools) Podcast #1,078: From Plane Crashes to Terrorist Attacks — Who Survives, and Why Browse all Get Skilled in: Featured , How To , Skills , Visual Guides Patrick Hutchison &bull; May 11, 2025 Skill of the Week: Tie a One-Handed Bowline Knot An important part of manhood has always been about having the competence to be effective in the world — having the breadth of skills, the&nbsp; savoir-faire , to handle any situation you find yourself in. With that in mind, each Sunday we’ll be republishing one of the illustrated guides from our archives, so you can hone your manly know-how week by week. The bowline is one of the most useful knots you can know . Simple to tie, and easy to undo, the beauty of the bowline is that it creates a quick loop secured by a knot that tightens when under load. Sailors use the bowline to fasten halyards and other rigging, which require a super-secure connection. &nbsp; The one-handed bowline is a technique that allows you to tie the knot using only one hand. Why is that useful? Imagine you’ve slipped and fallen into a rushing river. At the last second, you grab the branch of a tree, but you can’t pull yourself up. A friend tosses you a rope to tie around yourself, but the only knots you can tie would require the use of both hands. With a one-handed bowline, you can secure a loop around your body while still holding onto the branch. In most scenarios, this is a survival knot tied around your waist, but it can be adapted to a number of circumstances.&nbsp;&nbsp; Like this illustrated guide? Then you’re going to love our book&nbsp; The Illustrated Art of Manliness ! Pick up a copy on&nbsp; Amazon . Related Posts Skill of the Week: Tie the Half-Windsor Necktie Knot How to Tie a Four-in-Hand Necktie Knot: Your 60 Second Visual Guide How to Tie the Simple Necktie Knot How to Tie a Bow Tie How to Tie a Tie Skill of the Week: Tie a Full Windsor Necktie Knot Tags: Knots Previous Next Never miss an update Subscribe to the AoM Newsletter Daily Weekly I agree to the privacy policy terms. Want to start taking action on the content you read on AoM? Join the Strenuous Life Learn More Never miss an update Subscribe to the AoM Newsletter Daily Weekly I agree to the privacy policy terms. Podcast #1,087 Why You Need the Good Stress of Socializing Podcast #1,086 Build Muscle Without the B.S. — A Straightforward Guide to Size and Strength Podcast #1,085 The Preparation — An Adventure-Driven, Skill-Building Alternative to College for Young Men Podcast #1,084 Overdiagnosed — How Our Obsession with Medical Testing and Labels Is Making Us Sicker View all Related Articles / / / How to Crack a Whip Skill of the Week: Sharpen a Pocket Knife Skill of the Week: Tape a Sprained Ankle Skill of the Week: Board Up Your House Before a Hurricane View all Never miss an update Subscribe to the newsletter The Art of Manliness Copyright &copy; 2025 All Rights Reserved Contact Legal About All Topics Archives The Art of Manliness participates in affiliate marketing programs, which means we get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links. We only recommend products we genuinely like, and purchases made through our links support our mission and the free content we publish here on AoM. × Want AoM at the top of your Google search results? Give them a bump. CLICK HERE.