# Ai Capabilities Can Be Significantly Improved Without Expensive Retraining

**Source**: https://epoch.ai/blog/ai-capabilities-can-be-significantly-improved-without-expensive-retraining
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:43:41.140231+00:00

---

AI capabilities can be significantly improved without expensive retraining | Epoch AI Publications & Commentary Papers & Reports Newsletter Podcast Data & Resources Datasets Overview AI Benchmarking AI Models ML Hardware GPU Clusters AI Companies Resources AI Trends & Statistics Data Insights Projects FrontierMath GATE Playground Distributed Training Model Counts About About Us Our Team Careers Consultations Our Funding Donate Latest Contact Search epoch.ai Search Enter a query to search for results Placeholder Article AI capabilities can be significantly improved without expensive retraining paper AI capabilities can be significantly improved without expensive retraining While scaling compute for training is key to improving LLM performance, some post-training enhancements can offer gains equivalent to training with 5 to 20x more compute at less than 1% the cost. Cite Published Dec 12, 2023 Authors Tom Davidson,&nbsp; Jean-Stanislas Denain,&nbsp; Pablo Villalobos,&nbsp; Guillem Bas Resources Paper Contents Key results Policy implications The massive computation used to train LLMs and similar foundation models has been one of the main drivers of AI progress in recent years, which has led to the recognition of the “Bitter Lesson”: that general methods that better leverage computational power are ultimately the most effective ( Sutton, 2019 ). The cost of training frontier models has now become so high that only a handful of actors can afford it ( Epoch AI, 2023 ). Our study explores methods of improving performance after training that don’t rely on access to vast computing resources. We divide these enhancements in five categories, presented in Table 1. You can read the full paper here . This article was a collaboration between Epoch AI , Open Philanthropy , UC Berkeley , and ORCG . Category Description Example Tool use Teaching an AI system to use new tools WebGPT , Toolformer Prompting Changing the text-based input to the model to steer its behavior and reasoning. Chain of thought Scaffolding Programs that structure the model's reasoning and the flow of information between different copies of the model AutoGPT , LATS Solution choice Techniques for generating and then choosing between multiple candidate solutions to a problem. AlphaCode , training a model to verify generated answers Data Techniques for generating more, higher-quality data for fine-tuning. Minerva , fine-tuning on self-generated data Table 1: Categories and examples of post-training enhancements. Key results Compute-Equivalent Gain (CEG): We introduce the concept of Compute-Equivalent Gain, a metric that quantifies the performance improvement produced by an enhancement. The CEG is defined to be the amount by which pre-training compute must be scaled up to improve benchmark performance by as much as the enhancement. We developed a methodology to estimate the CEG from publicly available benchmark evaluations. Toy example where the CEG is 5x. The same performance improvement can be achieved either by applying a post-training enhancement (PTE) or by scaling pre-training compute by 5x. Survey of post-training enhancements: We conducted a survey of PTEs across five categories: tool, prompting, scaffolding, solution choice and data enhancements. Their estimated CEG is typically between 5x and 30x for relevant benchmarks. We also estimate the computational cost of these PTEs. There are two types of costs: a one-time cost needed to adjust the model to use the PTE (e.g. fine-tuning a model to learn to use a tool), and an ongoing increase in the cost of inference (e.g. if the enhancement involves generating multiple samples and choosing the best of them). For all PTEs we review, the one-time cost is less than 10% of the cost of pre-training, and often less than 0.1%. While the cost of inference is not affected in the majority of cases, in some cases it increases by up to ~100x. Summary of results: the improvement produced by the surveyed techniques, quantified using the Compute-Equivalent Gain. The x axes show the associated one-time (left) and inference (right) costs. Policy implications As post-training enhancements are continuously discovered and refined, the capabilities of deployed LLMs will improve over time. This finding suggests that safety policies, such as responsible scaling policies , should incorporate a “safety buffer”: restricting capabilities that are projected to reach dangerous levels through future improvements in post-training enhancements. Because these enhancements have relatively low computational costs, their development is accessible to a broader range of actors than those capable of undertaking extensive pre-training. This democratizes capability advancement but presents challenges for regulating AI development, as it is no longer sufficient to focus solely on entities with access to substantial computational resources. About the authors Guest author Tom Davidson is a senior research analyst at Open Philanthropy. He’s currently working on assessing arguments that transformative AI might be developed relatively soon. Prior to joining Open Philanthropy, Tom worked as a Data Scientist for education technology startup BridgeU and taught science at a UK comprehensive school. He has a Masters in Physics and Philosophy from the University of Oxford. Jean-Stanislas Denain is a senior researcher at Epoch AI, where he leads consultation services. He is also a graduate student in Statistics at UC Berkeley. Former employee Pablo Villalobos has a background in Mathematics and Computer Science. After spending some time as a software engineer, he decided to pivot towards AI. His interests include the economic consequences of advanced AI systems and the role of algorithmic improvements in AI progress. Guest author Guillem Bas is an AI Policy Officer at Riesgos Catastróficos Globales. He is mainly interested in the security implications of AI and other emerging technologies Tags Algorithmic Progress Related work report · 27 min read Trading off compute in training and inference We characterize techniques that induce a tradeoff between spending resources on training and inference, outlining their implications for AI governance. Jul 28, 2023 · By Pablo Villalobos and David Atkinson paper · 2 min read Revisiting algorithmic progress Examining over 100 computer vision models, we find that every 9 months, better algorithms contribute the equivalent of a doubling of compute budgets. Dec 12, 2022 · By Ege Erdil and Tamay Besiroglu Epoch AI’s work is free to use, distribute, and reproduce provided the source and authors are credited under the Creative Commons Attribution license . Cite this work as Tom Davidson, Jean-Stanislas Denain, Pablo Villalobos, and Guillem Bas. ‘AI capabilities can be significantly improved without expensive retraining’. ArXiv [cs.AI] , 2023. arXiv. https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07413. BibTeX citation @misc{davidson2023ai, title={AI capabilities can be significantly improved without expensive retraining}, author={Tom Davidson and Jean-Stanislas Denain and Pablo Villalobos and Guillem Bas}, year={2023}, eprint={2312.07413}, archivePrefix={arXiv}, primaryClass={cs.AI} } Not implemented yet We will redirect to a new page listing all the posts by this author. Excited about our work? Talk to us Support our research Sign up for our newsletter to read the latest updates on our research and weekly commentary on AI news and developments. Subscribe to our newsletter Publications & Commentary Papers & Reports Newsletter Podcast Data & Resources Data on AI AI Trends & Statistics Data Insights Projects FrontierMath GATE Playground Distributed Training Model Counts Company About Us Our Team Careers Consultations Our Funding Donate Latest Contact @ 2025 Epoch AI Privacy Notice Cookie Policy We value your privacy Our website uses cookies to enhance your browsing experience and analyze site traffic. By clicking ‘Accept All,’ you consent to our use of cookies as described in our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy . If you wish to withdraw your consent, you can contact us at ops@epoch.ai . Reject all Accept all Help us make our website better! Please tell us about you. I am a: Government Representative Policy Advisor Software Engineer ML/AI Engineer AI Researcher Data Scientist Journalist Student Entrepreneur AI Enthusiast Other No thanks Submit Feedback Leave feedback Have a question? Noticed something wrong? Let us know. Please enter your feedback If you would like a reply, please include your name and email address. Cancel Submit Thank you for your feedback! Your comment will be reviewed. We may not be able to respond to every submission. Close There’s been an error in submitting your feedback. Please try again later. Back