# Sophie Gilbert

**Source**: https://www.theatlantic.com/author/sophie-gilbert/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:57:10.610956+00:00

---

Sophie Gilbert, The Atlantic Skip to content Site Navigation The Atlantic Popular Latest Newsletters Sections Politics Ideas Fiction Technology Science Photo Economy Culture Planet Global Books AI Watchdog Health Education Projects Features Family Events Washington Week Progress National Security Explore The Atlantic Archive Play The Atlantic Games Listen to Podcasts and Articles The Print Edition Latest Issue Past Issues Give a Gift Search The Atlantic Quick Links Audio Crossword Puzzle Magazine Archive Your Subscription Popular Latest Newsletters Sign In Subscribe Sophie Gilbert Sophie Gilbert is a staff writer at The Atlantic . She won the 2024 National Magazine Award for Reviews and Criticism and was a finalist for the 2022 Pulitzer Prize in Criticism. She is the author of Girl on Girl , an analysis of 21st-century popular culture's influence on women, and of On Womanhood: Bodies, Literature, Choice . Before joining The Atlantic in 2014, she was the arts editor at Washingtonian. Featured What Madonna Knows The artist is always one step ahead—and has a unique power to scandalize each generation anew. Sophie Gilbert October 10, 2023 Ken Regan / Camera 5 / Contour RA by Getty Latest The Hard-Won Lessons of Lilith Fair A new documentary about the ’90s women’s music festival emphasizes how rare its collective ethos feels today. Sophie Gilbert September 30, 2025 Illustration by The Atlantic A Bleak World Without Women Task , HBO’s new Delaware County–set crime drama, has violence, vengeance, and a point to make about men. Sophie Gilbert September 17, 2025 Peter Kramer / HBO Lights Out, With a Whimper In the end, And Just Like That couldn’t hide its shame that its characters were aging. Sophie Gilbert August 15, 2025 Craig Blankenhorn / HBO Max Romance On-Screen Has Never Been Colder. Maybe That’s Just Truthful. Lena Dunham’s new series makes falling in love look almost utilitarian. Sophie Gilbert July 17, 2025 Netflix Thank God for The Bear Season 4 of the FX show is exactly what it—and we—needed. Sophie Gilbert June 26, 2025 FX Money Is Ruining Television Depictions of extreme wealth are everywhere on the small screen and, well, it’s all quite boring. Sophie Gilbert June 7, 2025 Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Everett Collection. What the Show of the Summer Knows About Intimacy The new Netflix miniseries Sirens has beachy vibes but a dark heart. Sophie Gilbert May 24, 2025 Netflix / Everett Collection What Porn Taught a Generation of Women It colored our ambitions, our sense of self, our relationships, our bodies, our work, and our art. Sophie Gilbert April 15, 2025 Photo-illustration by Paul Spella* A Truly Macabre White Lotus Plot What was Tim Ratliff’s arc really about? Sophie Gilbert April 8, 2025 HBO Reclaim Imperfect Faces Technology isn’t just changing the way we look—it’s changing our sense of how we should look. Sophie Gilbert April 5, 2025 Illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Getty. The Atlantic Daily Get our guide to the day’s biggest news and ideas, delivered to your inbox every weekday and Sunday mornings. See more newsletters Email Address Sign Up Your newsletter subscriptions are subject to The Atlantic&#x27;s Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions . Ideas That Matter Subscribe and support more than 160 years of independent journalism. Subscribe Popular Links About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Reprints &amp; Permissions Podcasts Radio Atlantic Good on Paper The David Frum Show How to Age Up Autocracy in America Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Atlantic Editions Newsletters Follow facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin flipboard About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Reprints &amp; Permissions Podcasts Radio Atlantic Good on Paper The David Frum Show How to Age Up Autocracy in America Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Atlantic Editions Newsletters Follow facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin flipboard Site Information Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices privacy-options Advertising Guidelines Terms &amp; Conditions Terms of Sale Responsible Disclosure Site Map TheAtlantic.com © 2025 The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply