# Googles Bard Finally Lands In The Eu Now Supports More Than 40 Languages

**Source**: https://techcrunch.com/2023/07/13/googles-bard-finally-lands-in-the-eu-now-supports-more-than-40-languages/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:53:48.092095+00:00

---

Google&#039;s Bard chatbot finally launches in the EU, now supports more than 40 languages | TechCrunch TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps Disrupt 2025 Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech &amp; Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government &amp; Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media &amp; Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Crunchboard Contact Us Image Credits: Smith Collection/Gado/ / Getty Images AI Google&#8217;s Bard chatbot finally launches in the EU, now supports more than 40 languages Kyle Wiggers Paul Sawers 1:43 AM PDT · July 13, 2023 Google is making its ChatGPT rival Bard available to a wider audience today, launching the generative AI chatbot in more than 40 languages and finally bringing it to the European Union (EU) after an initial delay due to data privacy concerns. The internet giant also introduced a swathe of new features to Bard, though some are only available in English at first. Google first teased Bard back in February in what was seemingly a rushed response to the snowballing success of ChatGPT , a super-smart search engine/chatbot that leans on large language models (LLMs) to generate fresh content from simple prompts. ChatGPT is the handiwork of OpenAI, an AI company with heavy backing from Google rival Microsoft . While Bard initially opened for early access with an English version , starting in the U.S. and U.K. back in March, the initial waitlist ended in May with a global rollout spanning some 180 countries and with additional support for Japanese and Korean. A notable omission thus far, however, has been the EU, with Google delaying the EU launch after a privacy regulator voiced concerns . The Irish Data Protection Commission (DPC), which governs data protection in the EU region when companies use Ireland as their European HQ, said that while Google had informed the DPC of its intentions to launch Bard in the EU, it hadn&#8217;t provided the regulator with enough information to address its data privacy concerns. With today&#8217;s launch, it seems that Google has now given the DPC what it was looking for. &#8220;We’ve proactively engaged with experts, policymakers and privacy regulators on this expansion,&#8221; Bard product lead Jack Krawczyk, and VP of engineering Amarnag Subramanya, wrote in a blog post. Indeed, Google has touted its latest update as its &#8220;biggest expansion to date,&#8221; rolling out across most of the world with support for Arabic, Spanish, Chinese, German, and Hindi. And in addition to the EU, Bard is also now available in Brazil. Techcrunch event Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss the 20th anniversary of TechCrunch, and a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. San Francisco | October 27-29, 2025 REGISTER NOW Fine-tuning Coinciding with the expansion are new features focused on fine-tuning Bard&#8217;s responses and beefing up the chatbot&#8217;s potential for productivity. Some were telegraphed and previewed in early May, but today marks their broad rollout. Now users can change the tone and style of Bard&#8217;s responses with five different options: &#8220;simple,&#8221; &#8220;long,&#8221; &#8220;short,&#8221; &#8220;professional&#8221; or &#8220;casual.&#8221; Available in English to start, the toggle takes Bard&#8217;s default responses to a prompt and adjusts them to align with whichever tone and style the user selects. Elsewhere, Bard can now vocalize its responses thanks to a new text-to-speech AI feature. Supporting over 40 languages, the chatbot&#8217;s audible responses can be accessed by clicking the new sound icon next to a prompt. On the productivity side, Bard can now export code to more places &#8212; specifically Python code to Replit, the browser-based integrated development environment. Images can be used in prompts &#8212; users can upload images with prompts (only in English for now) and Bard will analyze the photo. New options allow users to pin, rename and pick up recent conversations with Bard. And Bard&#8217;s responses can now more easily be shared with the outside world through links. &#8220;Curiosity and imagination are the driving forces behind human creativity,&#8221; Krawczyk and Subramanya wrote. &#8220;That’s why we created Bard: to help you explore that curiosity, augment your imagination and ultimately get your ideas off the ground &#8212; not just by answering your questions, but by helping you build on them.&#8221; Google struggled mightily with Bard early in the chatbot&#8217;s life cycle, failing to match the quality of responses from rival bots such as ChatGPT. It gave factually incorrect answers complete with made-up citations, leading even Google employees to label the chatbot &#8220;worse than useless&#8221; and a &#8220;pathological liar.&#8221; (The company&#8217;s stock briefly tanked 8% at Bard&#8217;s launch.) But Google claims that Bard is improving in measurable ways, particularly in areas like math and programming. It&#8217;s also gained extensions, including from Google&#8217;s own apps and services as well as third-party partners like Adobe, and the ability to explain code, structure data in a table, and surface images in its responses. In another bad look for Google, though, Bloomberg reported this week that the humans who train Bard are often overworked and underpaid. Some contractors make as little as $14 per hour, receive minimal training and are expected to complete complex audits of Bard in minutes. Bloomberg&#8217;s story follows an Insider piece in April that found that Bard-testing contractors weren&#8217;t given enough time to corroborate and check the chatbot&#8217;s most accurate answer. From the looks of it, that hasn&#8217;t changed. Topics AI , AI , Apps , Bard , chatbot , Generative AI , Google Kyle Wiggers AI Editor Kyle Wiggers was TechCrunch&#8217;s AI Editor until June 2025. His writing has appeared in VentureBeat and Digital Trends, as well as a range of gadget blogs including Android Police, Android Authority, Droid-Life, and XDA-Developers. He lives in Manhattan with his partner, a music therapist. View Bio Paul Sawers Senior Reporter Paul was a senior TechCrunch writer based in London, who focused largely (but not exclusively) on the world of UK and European startups. He also wrote about other subjects he was passionate about, such as the business of open source software. Prior to joining TechCrunch in June 2022, Paul had gained more than a decade of experience covering consumer and enterprise technologies for The Next Web (now owned by the Financial Times) and VentureBeat. Pitches were sent to: paul.sawers [at] techcrunch.com Secure/anon tip-offs via Signal: PSTC.08 He was also on Bluesky: @jambo.bsky.social View Bio October 27-29, 2025 San Francisco ONE-WEEK BUNDLE FLASH SALE Founder Bundle Offer: Land your investor and sharpen your pitch. Save 15% when you bring 4-9 founders. Investors Bundle Offer: Discover your next breakout startup. Save 20% when you bring 4-9 investors. Bundle offer ends October 3. Register Now Most Popular A new a16z report looks at which AI companies startups are actually paying for Dominic-Madori Davis Salesforce launches enterprise vibe-coding product, Agentforce Vibes Rebecca Szkutak AI recruiter Alex raises $17M to automate initial job interviews Marina Temkin Vibe-coding startup Anything nabs a $100M valuation after hitting $2M ARR in its first two weeks Marina Temkin Techcrunch event Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss the 20th anniversary of TechCrunch, and a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. San Francisco | October 27-29, 2025 REGISTER NOW The AI services transformation may be harder than VCs think Connie Loizos Famed roboticist says humanoid robot bubble is doomed to burst Connie Loizos Spotify to label AI music, filter spam and more in AI policy change Sarah Perez Loading the next article Error loading the next article X LinkedIn Facebook Instagram youTube Mastodon Threads Bluesky TechCrunch Staff Contact Us Advertise Crunchboard Jobs Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy RSS Terms of Use Code of Conduct H1-B Visa GPT Pulse Grok Steph Curry TechCrunch Disrupt Tech Layoffs ChatGPT © 2025 TechCrunc