# Red Lobster Seafood Downfall.Html

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/09/business/red-lobster-seafood-downfall.html?smid=nytcore-ios-share&referringSource=articleShare&sgrp=c-cb
**Extracted**: 2025-09-30T20:04:30.948939+00:00

---

Greed, Gluttony and the Crackup of Red Lobster - The New York Times Business | Greed, Gluttony and the Crackup of Red Lobster https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/09/business/red-lobster-seafood-downfall.html Share full article 498 Credit... Lisa Sheehan Skip to content Skip to site index The Great Read Greed, Gluttony and the Crackup of Red Lobster How missed opportunities, a $1.5 billion real estate deal, all-you-can-eat shrimp and the global pandemic sank the country’s largest seafood chain. Credit... Lisa Sheehan Supported by SKIP ADVERTISEMENT Share full article 498 By David Segal Published Sept. 9, 2024 Updated Sept. 10, 2024 In June of last year, Red Lobster announced that Ultimate Endless Shrimp — as much as you can scarf down for just $20 — would become an “all day, every day” fixture of the menu. Game on, said America. Listen to this article with reporter commentary Diners swarmed the chain’s nearly 700 restaurants, ordering round after round of Parrot Isle Jumbo Coconut Shrimp (breaded, sweet and fried), Walt’s Favorite (breaded and fried), Garlic Shrimp Scampi (shrimp in a pool of butter and garlic sauce), Shrimp Linguini Alfredo (shrimp on a pile of pasta with garlic sauce) and Grilled Shrimp Skewers (self-explanatory). The first round came with two sides: coleslaw, French fries, mashed potatoes, baked potato or rice. It was a giddy, raucous display of gluttony. TikTokers sank into upholstered booths and declared their goals — “Hi, my name is Onalee and I’m going to eat 65 shrimp tonight” — or posted videos of shrimp-gobbling marathons. “Only eat at Red Lobster for an entire day?” said a grinning mattpeterson__fan-764 . “Challenge accepted!” Among employees, news that Endless Shrimp would, in fact, never end was greeted with dread. As an occasional special over the years, it was always a frantic ordeal. Cooks and servers could barely keep up. Bargain hunters griped about the pace of refills. Cops were summoned to handle diners enraged that they couldn’t get takeaway bags. It was a struggle under the best of conditions, and, last year, Red Lobster was wobbling. Shunned by young diners and crowded by cheaper rivals, the chain would later report that its customer count had plunged 30 percent since 2019. The slide was a devastating, slow-motion calamity for a brand that over the decades had introduced millions of Americans to seafood along with such nautical-themed desserts as Brownie Overboard. It had been a beloved special-occasion venue for middle-class diners, less expensive than white-tablecloth restaurants, classier than fast-food joints. New management had arrived in 2020 and tried to revive the chain with the corporate version of heart paddles. Thai Union, a seafood giant based in Samut Sakhon, Thailand, administered the shocks in the form of stern lectures, surprise inspections and cost-cutting measures that strained the staff to its breaking point. Now, by unveiling perpetual Endless Shrimp, Thai Union wanted Red Lobster employees to work even harder. Image At the Red Lobster in Orem, Utah, managers were told to &ldquo;get that shrimp out as fast as you can,&rdquo; a former employee recalled. Credit... Niki Chan Wylie for The New York Times “When they dumped this on us in June, we’d already been squeezed to the bone,” said Malcom Clarke, then a service manager at the Red Lobster in Orem, Utah. “We got emails from corporate saying: ‘This is a free-for-all. Get that shrimp out as fast as you can.’” Like a lot of former Red Lobster employees, Mr. Clarke speaks about the chain with a mix of anger and heartbreak. When he joined the company in 2019, it had a certain prestige. Just landing the job took months, a series of interviews and 11 weeks of training, widely considered the best in the industry. At the time, he and others talked unironically about the “Red Lobster family.” Managers spent years climbing the ladder, waiting for those on the top rung to move along or retire. By last year, the spirit of warmth and generosity had vanished, and Endless Shrimp had made the dining room “hellish and chaotic,” as one manager put it. Some customers planted themselves there for hours, ordering nothing but shrimp and water. “We called them campers,” said Zachary Spain, a manager at the Red Lobster in Times Square. “This one couple, they came in every Sunday, and I’d say they ate about 100 shrimp apiece, maybe 120. And we’d see people all the time, scraping shrimp into Tupperware on their lap.” By January, Thai Union was done. Citing mounting losses, Thiraphong Chansiri, Thai Union’s chief executive, announced that the company was cutting all ties to Red Lobster, like a parent disowning a child. In a statement for this article, Thai Union said that it had little choice after exploring “all avenues to resolve Red Lobster’s onerous financial obligations” and investing hundreds of millions of dollars in the chain “during the most adverse market conditions in the company’s history.” Those conditions included unforeseeable disasters, like Covid. But long before the pandemic began, Red Lobster was a company in decline. That never-ending $20 special was merely the final kick in the gut. For roughly a decade, the chain has endured goofs, pratfalls and neglect at the hands of a series of corporate parents. Too often, they behaved like one of those Tupperware-toting shrimp fiends, thinking mostly about how much profit could be scraped from the plates. The Original Sin The first Red Lobster opened in Lakeland, Fla., in 1968, the brainchild of Bill Darden, a restaurant prodigy who had opened a 25-seat luncheonette in his native Georgia at the age of 19. The goal of Red Lobster Inns, as the chain was originally called, was to bring seafood to landlocked areas at affordable prices. To keep checks low, there were no place mats and no bread. There was no lobster, either, at least at first, because it was too pricey. As Mr. Darden’s partner, Charley Woodsby, explained in his autobiographical “Red Lobster: The Beginning,” the pair settled on “Red Lobster” because they liked its sound. Abundance was a theme from the start. Early offerings included the Neptune Platter, which included fried shrimp, oysters, fillet of flounder, frog legs, scallops, deviled crab cake, fried crab claws, hush puppies and a choice of potato or coleslaw for $2.50, the equivalent of $22.60 today. The interiors featured ship wheels and fishing nets. Waitresses wore sailor tops. Lines formed outside the original restaurant starting at 4 p.m., an hour before opening. In 1970, General Mills, wanting to expand beyond Cheerios and Betty Crocker, bought the company. By 1983, there were 350 Red Lobsters in 36 states . It was the largest table-service dining chain in the country. “We didn’t envision this kind of success,” Mr. Darden said that year, as the company expanded into Japan, worried it had reached a saturation point in the United States. General Mills added Olive Garden to its portfolio and in 1995 created Darden Restaurants as a stand-alone corporation traded on the New York Stock Exchange. (Mr. Darden died the year before; the name was a tribute.) In the ensuing years, the glow faded from Red Lobster. Prices rose as China discovered a taste for lobster in the 2010s , and shipping, labor and factory costs kept climbing. All this made the chain a little too expensive for its core audience. Instead of updating the look of restaurants and upgrading equipment, Darden siphoned off money to its faster-growing brands, like LongHorn Steakhouse and the Capital Grille. At the same time, seafood was becoming a protein of choice. Americans now eat four more pounds of seafood per capita than they did in 1980, and restaurants have met demand by adding shrimp and fish to their menus. “When Outback Steakhouse introduced tilapia, I remember thinking that they were playing in our sandbox,” said Melissa Coyle, who managed Red Lobsters for 24 years, most recently in North Carolina. “We didn’t evolve, we didn’t maneuver fast enough to get the next generation of guests.” Ms. Coyle had started as a Red Lobster server in Colonial Heights, Va. In 2018, she moved with her husband and their children to the Raleigh area, where she oversaw 10 locations bringing in $35 million in annual revenue. She planned to stay with Red Lobster until retirement. “It was a great company, a company with a culture that was all about respect and integrity,” she said. “If you told somebody you worked at Red Lobster, you said it with a certain amount of pride.” There was pride but dwindling profits. Nudged by activist investors, Darden sold Red Lobster in 2014 to Golden Gate Capital, a private equity firm in San Francisco, for $2.1 billion. The deal led to what one former Red Lobster executive described as “the original sin.” Golden Gate sold the real estate under 500 restaurants for $1.5 billion. The transaction, called a sale-leaseback, netted a quick and immense windfall for Golden Gate and its shareholders. It produced something else for Red Lobster managers: a new expense called rent. To industry observers, the deal was an outrage. “These clowns basically ransacked Red Lobster,” said Phil Kafarakis, president of the International Foodservice Manufacturers Association, which represents food companies that sell to restaurants. “Golden Gate — they’re finance guys. They were just making a quick buck off a wounded animal. And it was a shame because it was a great brand in a very difficult category.” Golden Gate declined to comment. In theory, cash from sale-leasebacks can be poured into a business that badly needs it. And Golden Gate bankrolled upgrades, former employees say, including a Kitchen of the Future project that included new sauté stations and software to streamline orders. Image Red Lobster missed the opportunity for a viral moment after Beyoncé name-checked the chain in her 2016 hit “Formation.” Credit... Chang W. Lee/The New York Times It was enough to inspire hopes that a turnaround was 