# 2021 Donald Trump Net Worth Business

**Source**: https://www.bloomberg.com/graphics/2021-donald-trump-net-worth-business/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:49:17.405742+00:00

---

Trump Net Worth 2021: Business Empire at Risk from Covid, Capitol Riot, Debt Skip to content Bloomberg the Company &amp; Its Products The Company &amp; its Products Bloomberg Terminal Demo Request Bloomberg Anywhere Remote Login Bloomberg Anywhere Login Bloomberg Customer Support Customer Support Bloomberg Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world For Customers Bloomberg Anywhere Remote Login Software Updates Manage Products and Account Information Support Americas +1 212 318 2000 EMEA +44 20 7330 7500 Asia Pacific +65 6212 1000 Company About Careers Inclusion at Bloomberg Tech at Bloomberg Philanthropy Sustainability Bloomberg Beta Communications Press Announcements Press Contacts Follow Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Products Bloomberg Terminal Data Trading Risk Compliance Indices Industry Products Bloomberg Law Bloomberg Tax Bloomberg Government BloombergNEF Media Bloomberg Markets Bloomberg Technology Bloomberg Pursuits Bloomberg Politics Bloomberg Opinion Bloomberg Businessweek Bloomberg Live Conferences Bloomberg Radio Bloomberg Television News Bureaus Media Services Bloomberg Media Distribution Advertising Company About Careers Inclusion at Bloomberg Tech at Bloomberg Philanthropy Sustainability Bloomberg Beta Communications Press Announcements Press Contacts Follow Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Products Bloomberg Terminal Data Trading Risk Compliance Indices Industry Products Bloomberg Law Bloomberg Tax Bloomberg Government BloombergNEF Media Bloomberg Markets Bloomberg Technology Bloomberg Pursuits Bloomberg Politics Bloomberg Opinion Bloomberg Businessweek Bloomberg Live Conferences Bloomberg Radio Bloomberg Television News Bureaus Media Services Bloomberg Media Distribution Advertising Bloomberg Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world For Customers Bloomberg Anywhere Remote Login Software Updates Manage Contracts and Orders Support Americas +1 212 318 2000 EMEA +44 20 7330 7500 Asia Pacific +65 6212 1000 Sign In Subscribe Search Live TV Markets Chevron Down Economics Industries Tech Politics Businessweek Opinion More Chevron Down US Edition Chevron Down Menu Subscribe Trump’s Ailing Empire His Fortune Slips to $2.3 Billion as Covid and Riot Take a Toll Donald Trump upended the American presidency after stepping away from the company that made him rich and famous. Four years later, returning to his empire after losing the White House, what he finds may upend him. Trump’s net worth is down to $2.3 billion from $3 billion when he became president, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. The pandemic he promised would disappear is walloping his company, and the riot that got him impeached for a second time is wounding his brand. His financial disclosures and loan documents, interviews with former executives and industry analysts, and a host of legal fights and investigations reveal just how much trouble Trump and his company could face. Covid has been hard on office buildings key to his wealth and hotels and resorts that bear his name. The fallout from the Capitol assault has hurt his relationships with brokers and lenders. At least $590 million in loans come due in the next four years, more than half personally guaranteed by Trump, and his scrapyard of failed enterprises has only gotten more crowded. But Trump, whose company declined to comment, has bounced back before. A post-pandemic economic recovery could reinflate the value of his properties. He could continue his run of bestsellers, pivot back to television or start a rival to the social media platforms that have shunned him. Even if things go poorly, he could make the best of losses by using them to slash his tax bills, as he’s done for years. Only Trump knows what he’s thinking as he contemplates the defeat he denies and teases another run. When he looks around, much of what he sees will be sad and some will be a total disaster. Inside his empire is a grab bag of opportunities that no former politician can rival and threats that no tycoon would want. Commercial Real Estate We&#39;ll See ★★★☆☆ $256.8M DEBT $1.7B VALUATION -26% VALUATION CHANGE 2016-2021 No segment in Trump’s business world is as important as commercial real estate, which accounts for about three-quarters of his net worth. And few industries in the U.S. have been as hard hit over the past year, when workers disappeared from office towers and business districts became ghost towns. He’s facing a “triple whammy” from Covid, the Capitol riot and an aging portfolio of properties, says Ruth Colp-Haber, who runs office consultant Wharton Property Advisors. “These are the businesses you don’t want to be in right now.” Vornado Properties Most office workers in New York and San Francisco are still stuck at home. That’s terrible news for Trump, whose most valuable holding is a 30% stake in two skyscrapers owned by Vornado Realty Trust at 555 California St. in San Francisco and 1290 Ave. of the Americas in New York. The value of his stake, which makes up roughly one-third of his fortune, has fallen by $80 million since 2019 to about $685 million. Billionaire Steven Roth, who runs Vornado, has said the company explored a sale. 40 Wall St. Trump’s Art Deco tower in Lower Manhattan has fallen in value to $277.7 million from $550 million in 2016, in part the result of a decline in revenue and a worsening market. Some tenants say they’re leaving or considering it, and loan documents show Trump has offered concessions to stay in the 91-year-old building. Broker Cushman & Wakefield Plc, which handled leasing, cut ties to Trump after his supporters stormed the Capitol. Trump Tower Once his crown jewel, the Fifth Avenue building was turned into a fortress after Trump won the presidency. At the top is a marbled and golden triplex that’s no longer his primary residence. Apartment owners have seen their units linger on the market, even with steep discounts. The Trump Organization owns and manages the retail space, as well as the former Niketown store around the corner, where Tiffany has taken up temporary residence. Rents on Fifth Avenue, in decline even before the pandemic, have plunged 32% from a 2018 peak, according to the Real Estate Board of New York. Resorts and Hotels Sad ★★☆☆☆ $330M DEBT $90.8M INCOME -42% INCOME CHANGE 2015-2020 $558.9M VALUATION Trump owns, manages or licenses his name to about a dozen hotels and resorts, from one in an old post office near the White House where the bar is named for Benjamin Franklin, to two in Scotland. Trump has personally guaranteed $330 million of their debt. Almost half comes from a loan for the Washington hotel, more than a third is for his Miami golf resort, and the rest is tied to a Chicago property. His lender, Deutsche Bank AG, said after the riot that it won’t do business with him again. Trump International Hotel in Washington Trump’s Washington hotel was a chandeliered symbol of conflict: The government he controlled leased the building to him, and lobbyists and foreign officials bought $100 vodka cocktails with caviar. But revenue fell to $14.3 million last year, down $26.2 million from 2019, according to financial disclosure figures adjusted to account for unequal time periods. His company put the hotel on the market in 2019 for more than $500 million and said it rejected bids “north of $350 million.” Its brokers quit in January. Michael Bellisario, an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co., says the asking price isn’t realistic. Trump National Doral Miami The Doral, with 643 guest rooms and four golf courses, used to be one of Trump’s biggest cash cows. Now it’s suffering from the pandemic. Income last year tumbled more than $57 million from 2015, and 560 workers have been temporarily laid off or furloughed. Mar-a-Lago Trump bought the 126-room Marjorie Merriweather Post estate in Palm Beach, Florida, for about $10 million in 1985. He turned it into a private club that has been his home and base of operations since he left the White House. The property brought in $22.9 million last year, up from $22.3 million in 2015, disclosures show. Members, who pay $250,000 for a chance to rub elbows with Trump, sometimes give him a standing ovation when he enters the dining area. “Could Be Huge” After Trump left his company in the hands of his adult sons, Eric and Don Jr., there were plans to open hotels in the South under the brands Scion and American Idea. That never happened. The Trumps could try again, catering to their base of supporters with mid-market hotels, resorts or even branded residential buildings. Pent-up demand for travel once Covid restrictions are removed could be a boost. Golf We&#39;ll See ★★★☆☆ $18M DEBT $108.3M INCOME -19% INCOME CHANGE 2015-2020 $271.7M VALUATION Golf has been one of the few bright spots for the Trump empire during the pandemic, thanks to enthusiasm for a socially distanced outdoor sport. The number of rounds played last year was among the highest ever, according to Mike Loustalot, co-founder of Sagacity Golf, which collects data on the industry. But all isn’t well at the 19 courses his company owns or manages. Two in Scotland, Trump Turnberry and Aberdeen, have consistently lost money, U.K. filings show. After the Capitol attack, the PGA of America voted to end an agreement to host next year’s tournament at Trump National Golf Club Bedminster in New Jersey, saying holding it there would hurt the group’s brand. The opening of Trump World Golf Club Dubai, Trump’s second course in the United Arab Emirates, has been delayed for years. That course, and two in Indonesia, are listed on his website as “coming soon.” Licensing and Management Sad ★★☆☆☆ $22.7M INCOME -30% INCOME CHANGE 2015-2020 For decades, the ma