# Openai Searchgpt Ai Search Engine Google Perplexity Rival

**Source**: https://www.theverge.com/2024/7/25/24205701/openai-searchgpt-ai-search-engine-google-perplexity-rival?ref=wheresyoured.at
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:44:25.398797+00:00

---

OpenAI announces SearchGPT, its AI-powered search engine | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. OpenAI announces SearchGPT, its AI-powered search engine Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... OpenAI Close OpenAI Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All OpenAI AI Close AI Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All AI Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech OpenAI announces SearchGPT, its AI-powered search engine The Google and Perplexity rival will be available as a prototype in limited release, with plans to eventually build it into ChatGPT. The Google and Perplexity rival will be available as a prototype in limited release, with plans to eventually build it into ChatGPT. by Kylie Robison Close Kylie Robison Last published Apr 15 Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Kylie Robison Jul 25, 2024, 6:00 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads Image: OpenAI Kylie Robison Close Kylie Robison Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Kylie Robison was a senior AI reporter working with The Verge’s policy and tech teams. OpenAI is announcing its much-anticipated entry into the search market, SearchGPT , an AI-powered search engine with real-time access to information across the internet. The search engine starts with a large textbox that asks the user “What are you looking for?” But rather than returning a plain list of links, SearchGPT tries to organize and make sense of them. In one example from OpenAI, the search engine summarizes its findings on music festivals and then presents short descriptions of the events followed by an attribution link. In another example, it explains when to plant tomatoes before breaking down different varieties of the plant. After the results appear, you can ask follow-up questions or click the sidebar to open other relevant links. There’s also a feature called “visual answers,” but OpenAI didn’t get back to The Verge before publication on exactly how this works. An example of SearchGPT query. Image: OpenAI SearchGPT is just a “prototype” for now. The service is powered by the GPT-4 family of models and will only be accessible to 10,000 test users at launch, OpenAI spokesperson Kayla Wood tells The Verge . Wood says that OpenAI is working with third-party partners and using direct content feeds to build its search results. The goal is to eventually integrate the search features directly into ChatGPT. It’s the start of what could become a meaningful threat to Google, which has rushed to bake in AI features across its search engine, fearing that users will flock to competing products that offer the tools first. It also puts OpenAI in more direct competition with the startup Perplexity, which bills itself as an AI “answer” engine . Perplexity has recently come under criticism for an AI summaries feature that publishers claimed was directly ripping off their work . SearchGPT’s “visual answers” feature showcases an AI-generated video from OpenAI’s Sora, via YouTube. Image: OpenAI OpenAI seems to have taken note of the blowback and says it’s taking a markedly different approach. In a blog post, the company emphasized that SearchGPT was developed in collaboration with various news partners, which include organizations like the owners of The Wall Street Journal , The Associated Press , and Vox Media, the parent company of The Verge . “News partners gave valuable feedback, and we continue to seek their input,” Wood says. Publishers will have a way to “manage how they appear in OpenAI search features,” the company writes. They can opt out of having their content used to train OpenAI’s models and still be surfaced in search. “Responses have clear, in-line, named attribution and links” “SearchGPT is designed to help users connect with publishers by prominently citing and linking to them in searches,” according to OpenAI’s blog post. “Responses have clear, in-line, named attribution and links so users know where information is coming from and can quickly engage with even more results in a sidebar with source links.” Releasing its search engine as a prototype helps OpenAI in a few different ways. First, if SearchGPT’s results are wildly incorrect — like when Google rolled out AI Overviews and told us to put glue on our pizza — it’s easier to say, well, it’s a prototype! There’s also potential for getting attributions wrong or maybe wholesale ripping off articles like Perplexity was accused of doing. This new product has been whispered about for months now, with The Information reporting about its development in February, then Bloomberg reporting more in May. We reported at the same time that OpenAI had been aggressively trying to poach Google employees for a search team. Some X users also noticed a new website OpenAI has been working on that hinted toward the move. OpenAI has slowly been bringing ChatGPT more in touch with the real-time web. When GPT-3.5 was released, the AI model was already months out of date. Last September, OpenAI released a way for ChatGPT to browse the internet , called Browse with Bing, but it appears a lot more rudimentary than SearchGPT. The rapid advancements by OpenAI have won ChatGPT millions of users, but the company’s costs are adding up. The Information reported this week that the cost of training and inference for OpenAI could reach $7 billion this year alone, with the millions of users on the free version of ChatGPT only further driving up compute costs. SearchGPT will be free during its initial launch, and since the feature appears to have no ads right now, it’s clear the company will have to figure out monetization soon. Follow topics and authors from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates. Kylie Robison Close Kylie Robison Last published Apr 15 Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Kylie Robison AI Close AI Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All AI OpenAI Close OpenAI Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All OpenAI Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech More in this stream See all New YouTube AI tools help creators give viewers what they want Mia Sato Sep 16 Making ChatGPT less annoying. Robert Hart Sep 16 AI chatbots can help perfect a phishing scam, despite being trained not to. Elissa Welle Sep 15 Most Popular Most Popular Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store Behold: The Lego Game Boy has already been modded to play games for real Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Everything is terrorism in Trump’s America Satya Nadella appoints a new CEO to run Microsoft’s biggest businesses The Verge Daily A free daily digest of the news that matters most. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in OpenAI I’ve fallen into Sora’s slippery slop Microsoft 365 Premium bundles Office and AI for the same price as ChatGPT Plus Samsung teams up with OpenAI to deliver Stargate chips OpenAI made a TikTok for deepfakes, and it’s getting hard to tell what’s real Apple asks judge to toss Musk’s lawsuit over ChatGPT on iPhone OpenAI’s new social video app will let you deepfake your friends I’ve fallen into Sora’s slippery slop Hayden Field 5:08 PM UTC Microsoft 365 Premium bundles Office and AI for the same price as ChatGPT Plus Tom Warren Oct 1 Samsung teams up with OpenAI to deliver Stargate chips Robert Hart Oct 1 OpenAI made a TikTok for deepfakes, and it’s getting hard to tell what’s real Hayden Field Oct 1 Apple asks judge to toss Musk’s lawsuit over ChatGPT on iPhone Robert Hart Oct 1 OpenAI’s new social video app will let you deepfake your friends Hayden Field Sep 30 Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories 2:00 PM UTC With a Friend like this, who needs enemies? 5:08 PM UTC I’ve fallen into Sora’s slippery slop 1:03 PM UTC I tried Amazon and Google’s new smart home gadgets, ask me anything! 3:06 PM UTC The quest for every Gap store playlist ever 4:52 PM UTC Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom 1:57 AM UTC Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guideli