# )”

**Source**: https://www.worldjewishtravel.org/listing/hostages-square-bringthemhomenow/)”
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:56:59.888794+00:00

---

Hostages Square (#BringThemHomeNow) | World Jewish Travel --> English Hebrew World Jewish Travel Destinations Cultural Calendar Calendar Types Jewish Cultural Events Jewish Cultural Days eBook Library Blogs Partners Partner Types Service Partner Content Partner About FAQ יעדים לוח שנה תרבותי סוגי לוחות שנה אירועי תרבות יהודיים ימי תרבות יהודיים ספריית ספרים בלוגים שותפים סוגי שותפים שותפי שירות שותפי תוכן אודות שאלות נפוצות Sign In כניסה Join הרשמה Home Tel Aviv Dark Tourism Hostages Square (#BringThemHomeNow) Hostages Square (#BringThemHomeNow) Black Saturday Memorial Explore the public plaza-turned-headquarters for the #BringThemHomeNow movement, born in the aftermath of Black Saturday. While walking around you will come across various art installations and banners, depicting messages on behalf of the Israeli hostages and their families. Spend your time going from one visual art piece to another, to really take in the thought behind each one. Witness the chilling impact of the eerie empty dinner table at Hostages Square in person, with each vacant seat serving as a poignant representation of a missing hostage. Afterwards, step into an immersive mock Hamas tunnel, walking through a dimly lit, claustrophobic passage while coming face to face with hostages&#8217; names, family messages, and day count markings since October 7th. Throughout the week there are protests, community gatherings, news reporting, interviews, fundraisers, concerts, and speeches given at the square. A public initiative, Hostages Square stands as a testament to the strength and solidarity of the people of Israel and should not be missed. Image Attribution: All from: &lt;https://stories.bringthemhomenow.net/&gt; Read More Show Less Address Tel Aviv Museum of Art Official Website https://stories.bringthemhomenow.net/ Contact info [email&#160;protected] Social Media My Homepage Bring Them Home Now הירשמו עכשיו וקבלו טיפים ועדכונים ישירות למייל Subscribe now to get tips & updates directly to your mail Notice: JavaScript is required for this content. אירועים Events בלוג Blog ספרייה אלקטרונית eBook Library אודות About us שאלות נפוצות FAQ כתבות Press releases פרסום באתר Advertise with us צרו קשר Contact us Travel Advice ייעוץ נסיעות תרמו Donate European Jewish Travel Pilgrimages עליות לרגל European Jewish Travel Pilgrimages עליות לרגל עקבו אחרינו Follow us שיתוף פעולה איתנו Partner with us תנאים והתניות Terms and conditions מדיניות פרטיות Privacy policy © 2025 World Jewish Travel. כל הזכויות שמורות © 2025 World Jewish Travel. All rights reserved. X Log in and continue exploring! Forgot your password? Not a member yet? Sign up X תרגום לעברית *Please enter the Full name and Email השפה העברית בחלקה, תורגמה בעזרת גוגל. לפיכך, מתנצלים מראש אם נמצאו טעויות. תיאמנו את פריסת הדף. אנו עושים כל מאמץ לשיפור מיטבי של התרגום. מקווים שתהנו מהאתר! Notice: JavaScript is required for this content. Notice: JavaScript is required for this content. Notice: JavaScript is required for this content. Notice: JavaScript is required for this content. Notice: JavaScript is required for this content. X Forgot your password? Enter the email address associated with your account, and we’ll email you a link to reset your password. Email Address or Username Send Back to login X Sent If your email address is associated with an account, a link to reset your password has been sent to you. Please check any spam folders if you don't receive it. X *Please enter the Full name and Email דוא&quot;ל יישלח אליך בקרוב כדי לאמת את חשבונך. אם אינך מקבל זאת, אנא בדוק את תיקיית הספאם שלך (ובכרטיסיית הקידום אם אתה משתמש ב-Gmail). An email will be sent to you shortly to verify your account. If you don’t receive this, please check your spam folder (and promotion tab if you use Gmail). X Join the WJT community *Please enter the Full name and Email Sign up as a partner Sign up as a customer More details on becoming a WJT partner Already a member? Sign In X Thank you for joining the WJT community! An email will be sent to you shortly to verify your account. If you don’t receive this, please check your spam folder (and promotion tab if you use Gmail). world_jewish_travel 202 9,586 🌍 Celebrating One Year of the Jewish Silk Road Portal World Jewish Travel was thrilled at #IMTM 2024 to present a copy of the WJT Jewish Silk Road Pressbook to the CEO of the Azerbaijan National Tourism Board Florian Sengstschmid and Jamilya Talibzade its Israeli representative Azerbaijan Tourism Board (ATB). The Pressbook celebrates the one year anniversary of the Jewish Silk Road Portal launch, an amazing example of using Jewish travel as a means of cultural diplomacy, whilst highlighting the significant Jewish contribution to the ancient trade route. Kudos to our participating partners from the Kiriaty Foundation (Turkey), National Board of Tourism of #Georgia, National Board of Tourism of #Uzbekistan, and Israeli Embassy of #India. See the overwhelming reaction from the press, by downloading our free pressbook. Special thanks to Moshe Gilad of the @haaretzcom for highlighting this forgotten but important story in the Galeria section of the newspaper and available to download on WJT. 👉Link to WJT Jewsih Silk Rad Pressbook and more is in our bio 40 2 Open post by world_jewish_travel with ID 18417707497071696 🌍 Celebrating One Year of the Jewish Silk Road Portal World Jewish Travel was thrilled at #IMTM 2024 to present a copy of the WJT Jewish Silk Road Pressbook to the CEO of the Azerbaijan National Tourism Board Florian Sengstschmid and Jamilya Talibzade its Israeli representative Azerbaijan Tourism Board (ATB). The Pressbook celebrates the one year anniversary of the Jewish Silk Road Portal launch, an amazing example of using Jewish travel as a means of cultural diplomacy, whilst highlighting the significant Jewish contribution to the ancient trade route. Kudos to our participating partners from the Kiriaty Foundation (Turkey), National Board of Tourism of #Georgia, National Board of Tourism of #Uzbekistan, and Israeli Embassy of #India. See the overwhelming reaction from the press, by downloading our free pressbook. Special thanks to Moshe Gilad of the @haaretzcom for highlighting this forgotten but important story in the Galeria section of the newspaper and available to download on WJT. 👉Link to WJT Jewsih Silk Rad Pressbook and more is in our bio ... 40 2 Step into the soul-stirring Pesach traditions of Jerusalem virtually. Experience the resonating echoes of Birkat Kohanim🌿 Link is in our bio #VirtualTravel #JerusalemVibes #SpiritualJourney #JewishTravel #Isarel #BirkatKohanim #JewishJerusalem 18 0 Open post by world_jewish_travel with ID 18032823706924217 Step into the soul-stirring Pesach traditions of Jerusalem virtually. Experience the resonating echoes of Birkat Kohanim🌿 Link is in our bio #VirtualTravel #JerusalemVibes #SpiritualJourney #JewishTravel #Isarel #BirkatKohanim #JewishJerusalem ... 18 0 Discover the enigmatic “Donkey Stable” in Jerusalem`s underground. Unveil the city`s secrets from home. 🌌 Find link in our bio #JerusalemUnderground #CitySecrets #ExploreHistory #JewishTravel #Israel #Travel #WesternWall 19 2 Open post by world_jewish_travel with ID 18021018334967619 Discover the enigmatic “Donkey Stable” in Jerusalem`s underground. Unveil the city`s secrets from home. 🌌 Find link in our bio #JerusalemUnderground #CitySecrets #ExploreHistory #JewishTravel #Israel #Travel #WesternWall ... 19 2 Load More Follow on Instagram