# Americans Arent Getting Married Anymore

**Source**: http://fivethirtyeight.com/datalab/americans-arent-getting-married-anymore/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:51:19.761227+00:00

---

Americans Aren&#8217;t Getting Married Anymore | FiveThirtyEight Skip to main content FiveThirtyEight Search Search ABC News Menu Americans Aren&#8217;t Getting Married Anymore Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Politics Sports Science Podcasts Video Interactives ABC News This is an archived site and is no longer being updated. New 538 articles can be found at www.abcnews.com/538. Sep. 24, 2014 , at 1:52 PM Americans Aren&#8217;t Getting Married Anymore By Ben Casselman Filed under Links The Pew Research Center on Wednesday came out with a big report on the decline of marriage in the United States. A record 1 in 5 Americans 25 or older have never been married, up from 1 in 10 in 1960. The report is full of interesting tidbits. The gender gap is widening: Men are less likely than women to get married (presumably, men are more likely to have had more than one spouse). And so is the racial one : More than a third of African-Americans 25 and older have never been married versus a quarter of Hispanics and about a sixth of whites. The relationship between education and marriage has undergone a fundamental shift, especially for women. Women with more education used to be far less likely to get married than women with less education. Now, women of all educational backgrounds are about equally likely to get married. For men, the trend is the opposite: The best-educated men are now by far the most likely to get married. That could be at least partly the result of another trend: The long-term decline in employment rates among less-educated men could be making them less attractive marital partners. In a survey conducted as part of the study, 78 percent of women said it would be “very important” for their prospective spouse to have a steady job. One key question is whether Americans are skipping marriage altogether or simply delaying it. The Pew researchers estimate that in 2030, a quarter of 45- to 54-year-olds will never have been married, up from 14 percent today. But that estimate is based on projections of existing trends. No one knows for sure how those trends will play out over coming decades. Another issue not addressed in depth in the Pew report: the impact of the weak economy. The recession and slow recovery have led many young people to delay striking out on their own and likely to delay marriage as well. In the Pew survey, young adults disproportionately cited lack of financial security as their main reason for not getting married. But with recent data suggesting a hint of improvement for young people’s finances, it’s possible more of them will start walking down the aisle as well. Ben Casselman was a senior editor and the chief economics writer for FiveThirtyEight. @bencasselman Comments Filed under Education (111 posts) Gender Gap (24) Pew Research Center (22) Marriage (19) Employment (16) Links (8) Interactives Latest Videos Why Biden Is Losing Support Among Voters Of Color Should We Trust Polls Campaigns Leak To The Press? How Well Can You Tell The 2024 GOP Candidates Apart? What The GOP Primary Looks Like In The Early States Get more FiveThirtyEight Store Twitter Facebook Data RSS Follow @FiveThirtyEight About Us Jobs Masthead Pitch FiveThirtyEight Advertise With Us About Nielsen Measurement Powered by WordPress VIP Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Your US State Privacy Rights Children's Online Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads &copy; 2025 ABC News Internet Ventures. All rights reserved. Close Additional Information Terms of Use and Privacy Policy and Safety Information/ Your California Privacy Rights / Children's Online Privacy Policy are applicable to you. © 2025 ABC News Internet Ventures. All rights reserved. Interest-Based Ads . Cookie Policy .