# S11121 005 0006 1

**Source**: https://doi.org/10.1007/s11121-005-0006-1
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:31:47.032341+00:00

---

Parent Recruitment and Retention in a Universal Prevention Program for Child Behavior and Emotional Problems: Barriers to Research and Program Participation | Prevention Science Skip to main content Log in Menu Find a journal Publish with us Track your research Search Cart Home Prevention Science Article Parent Recruitment and Retention in a Universal Prevention Program for Child Behavior and Emotional Problems: Barriers to Research and Program Participation Published: 02 August 2005 Volume 6 , pages 275–286, ( 2005 ) Cite this article Prevention Science Aims and scope Submit manuscript Nina Heinrichs 1 , 2 , Heike Bertram 1 , Annett Kuschel 1 &amp; … Kurt Hahlweg 1 Show authors 5934 Accesses 379 Citations 6 Altmetric Explore all metrics Despite the potential of parent training as a prevention and behavioral family intervention strategy, there are a number of important issues related to implementation (e.g., recruitment and retention of families). This paper presents recruitment and retention data from families enrolling in a randomized controlled universal prevention trial for child behavior problems conducted in Germany. The recruitment rate averaged 31% (general project participation), with families of lower socioeconomic status (SES) participating at a lower rate. Project-declining families most often reported intrusion of privacy as their primary concern. In contrast, once parents were enrolled in the project, participation among those randomized to the parent training group averaged 77% (program/intervention participation); non-participation was mostly due to logistical issues. Parents accepting the offer of parent training were more likely to report child behavior problems than did declining parents. Although parents from more disadvantaged areas had a lower overall level of participation in the project once recruited, parents with children having higher levels of behavior problems indeed were more likely to participate in the intervention. Different recruitment methods may be required to engage high-risk families from socioeconomically disadvantaged areas to further improve community-level impact on child mental health. This is a preview of subscription content, log in via an institution to check access. Access this article Log in via an institution Subscribe and save Springer+ from $39.99 /Month Starting from 10 chapters or articles per month Access and download chapters and articles from more than 300k books and 2,500 journals Cancel anytime View plans Buy Now Buy article PDF USD 39.95 Price excludes VAT (USA) Tax calculation will be finalised during checkout. Instant access to the full article PDF. Institutional subscriptions Fig. 1. Similar content being viewed by others Adaptive Recruitment and Parenting Interventions for Immigrant Latino Families with Adolescents Article 11 April 2018 Addressing Barriers to Recruitment and Retention in the Implementation of Parenting Programs: Lessons Learned for Effective Program Delivery in Rural and Urban Areas Article 16 June 2018 Feasibility Study of the Enhancing Parenting Skills Programme Article Open access 25 September 2019 Explore related subjects Discover the latest articles, books and news in related subjects, suggested using machine learning. Behavioral Methods Behavioral Sciences and Psychology Educational Research Early Childhood Education Instructional Psychology Outcomes research Notes We reviewed more than 40 frequently cited universal, selective and indicated prevention trials for the introduction which we summarized in a Table. It is not a systematic review but it demonstrates how recruitment and attendance rates may be influenced by the type of prevention (universal, selective, indicated), targeted population characteristics (such as the child's developmental stage or the program target), intervention demands (i.e., how many sessions to commit to), recruitment setting (such as low SES factors) and recruitment method. This Table is available as a PDF document from the first author (n.heinrichs@tu-bs.de). Item-by-item comparisons between Spoth et al. (1996) and our sample on reasons for non-participation in the project and the program, respectively, are also available as a PDF document. REFERENCES Achenbach, T. M., &amp; Resorla, C. A. (2000). Manual for the ASEBA preschool forms and profiles . Burlington: University of Vermont. Google Scholar Barrera, M., Jr., Biglan, A., Taylor, T. K., Gunn, B. K., Smolkowski, K., Black, C., et al. (2002). Early elementary school intervention to reduce conduct problems: A randomized trial with hispanic and non-hispanic children. Prevention Science , 3 , 83–94. Article PubMed Google Scholar Bäse, B. (1995). Die sozialräumliche Gliederung der Stadt Braunschweig. Methodik und Durchführung sozialgeographischer Analysen im städtischen Wohnumfeld auf Grundlage des Zensus von 1987 [The social-ecological structure of the city of Brunswick. Method and procedure of socio-geographical analyses in urban living areas based upon the census of 1987]. Dissertation, Technische Universität Braunschweig. Bronstein, P., Duncan, P., Clauson, J., Abrams, C. C., Yannett, N., Ginsburg, G., &amp; Milne, M. (1998). Preventing middle school adjustment problems for children from lower income families: A program for aware parenting. Journal of Applied Developmental Psychology , 19 , 129–152. Article Google Scholar Boyle, M. H., &amp; Lipman, E. L. (2002). Do places matter? Socioeconomic disadvantage and behavioral problems of children in Canada. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology , 70 , 378–389. Article PubMed Google Scholar Bradley, R. H., &amp; Corwyn, R. F. (2002). Socioeconomic status and child development. Annual Review of Psychology , 53 , 371–399. Article PubMed Google Scholar Charlebois, P., Vitaro, F., Normandeau, S., &amp; Rondeau, N. (2001). Predictors of persistence in a longitudinal preventive intervention program for young disruptive boys. Prevention Science , 2 , 133–143. Article PubMed CAS Google Scholar Conduct Problems Prevention Research Group. (1999a). Initial impact of the Fast Track prevention trial for conduct problems: I. The high-risk sample. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology , 67 , 631–647. Article Google Scholar Conduct Problems Prevention Research Group. (1999b). Initial impact of the fast track prevention trial for conduct problems: II. Classroom effects. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology , 67 , 648–657. Article Google Scholar Dumka, L. E., Garza, C. A., Roosa, M. W., &amp; Stoerzinger, D.H. (1997). Recruitment and retention of high-risk families into a preventive parent training intervention. The Journal of Primary Prevention , 18 , 25–39. Article Google Scholar Forehand, R., Miller, K., Dudra, R., &amp; Chance, M. W. (1997). Role of parenting in adolescent deviant behavior: Replication across and within two ethnic group. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology , 65 , 1036–1041. Article PubMed CAS Google Scholar Furr-Holden, C. D. M., Ialongo, N. S., Anthony, J. C., Petras, H., &amp; Kellam, S. G. (2004). Developmentally inspired drug prevention: Middle school outcomes in a school-based randomized prevention trial. Drug and Alcohol Dependence , 73 , 149–158. Article PubMed Google Scholar Greenberg, M. T., Domitrovich, C., &amp; Bumbarger, B. (2001). The prevention of mental disorders in school-aged children: Current state of the field. Prevention &amp; Treatment , 4, Article 1. Retrieved from http://journals.apa.org/prevention/volume4/pre0040001.html Grossman, D. C., Neckerman, H. J., Koepsell, T. D., Liu, P., Asher, K. N., Beland, K., et al. (1997). Effectiveness of a violence prevention curriculum among children in elementary school. JAMA , 277 , 1605–1611. Article PubMed CAS Google Scholar Guyll, M., Spoth, R., &amp; Redmond, C. (in press). The effects of incentives and research requirements on participation rates for a community-based preventive intervention research study. Journal of Primary Prevention. Ingoldsby, E. M., &amp; Shaw, D. S. (2002). Neighborhood contextual factors and early-starting antisocial pathways. Clinical Child and Family Psychology Review , 5 , 21–55. Article PubMed Google Scholar Hart, B., &amp; Risley, T. R. (1995). Meaningful differences in the everyday experience of young American children . Sydney: Paul H. Brooks. Google Scholar Hinshaw, S. P. (2003). Intervention research, theoretical mechanisms, and causal processes related to externalizing behavior patterns. Development and Psychopathology , 14 , 789–818. Article Google Scholar Kaufman, A. S., &amp; Kaufman, N. L. (2001). Kaufman assessment battery for children (K-ABC). Deutschsprachige Fassung von P. Melchers &amp; U. Preuß. 5., korr. und erg. Auflage. Leiden: Swets &amp; Zeitlinger. Leventhal, T., &amp; Brooks-Gunn, J. (2000). The neighborhood they live in: The effects of neighborhood residence on child and adolescent outcomes. Psychological Bulletin , 126 , 309–337. Article PubMed CAS Google Scholar Loeber, R., Farrington, D. P., Stouthamer-Loeber, M., Moffitt, T. E., Caspi, A., &amp; Lynam, D. (2001). Male mental health problems, psychopathy, and personality traits: Key findings from the first 14 years of the Pittsburgh youth study. Clinical Child and Family Psychology Review , 4 , 273–297. Article PubMed CAS Google Scholar Mason, W. A., Kosterman, R., Hawkins, J. D., Haggerty, K. P., &amp; Spoth, R. L. (2003). Reducing adolescents'growth in substance use and delinquency: Randomized trial effects of a parent-training prevention intervention. Prevention Science , 4 , 203–212. Article PubMed Google Scholar McLoyd, V. C. (1998). Socioeconomic disadvantage and child development. American Psychologist , 53 , 185–204. Article PubMed CAS Google Scholar Metropolitan Area Conduct Research Group. (2002). A cognitive-ecological approach to preventing aggression in urban settings: Initial outcomes for high-risk children. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology , 70 , 179–194. Article 