# Super Specific Feedback

**Source**: https://newsletter.weskao.com/p/super-specific-feedback
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:47:41.931194+00:00

---

Super Specific Feedback: How to give actionable feedback on work output Wes Kao's Newsletter Subscribe Sign in Super Specific Feedback: How to give actionable feedback on work output &quot;Ninety minutes of your time can enhance the quality of your subordinate's work for two weeks, or for some eighty-plus hours.&quot; - Andy Grove, CEO of Intel Wes Kao Feb 28, 2024 84 3 4 Share 👋 Hey, it’s Wes . Welcome to my weekly newsletter where I share frameworks for becoming a sharper operator, rooted in my experience as an a16z-backed founder. ⛑️ Apply to work with me 1:1 for executive coaching , or bring me on as a keynote speaker on managing up, rigorous thinking, and creating a culture of direct feedback. Hit reply or fill out this form to see if we’re a fit. This week, we’ll dive into how to give detailed and actionable feedback on work output. Get “permission” and sell why getting lots of feedback benefits them. Explain the “why.” Avoid the shit sandwich. Share positive feedback. Aim for being tactical, actionable, concrete, and specific (TACS). Structural feedback first, line edits second. “I believe you were trying to do x, and if so, this part fell flat because y.” Anytime you’re diagnosing, share what you noticed. Use suggested edits. Show a before and after. Use comments. Develop shared language. Annotate screenshots for anything visual. Mention if your feedback is stylistic or a pet peeve. Record a screen share video or voice memo. Balance what’s easy for you (feedback giver) and easy for them (feedback receiver). Read time : 12 minutes Subscribe It’s extremely valuable to be a player-coach. A player-coach is a leader who can actually do the job, not just shout instructions from the sidelines. If this is you, there’s one thing you must do, with no excuses: Coach your team daily. Every piece of work product is an opportunity to share what you notice and to level up your team’s judgment. This allows you to help your team think like you, which acts as a force multiplier and passes on your capacity. Giving detailed feedback on work output takes time, and it’s time well spent. There are some things you simply can't outsource. This is one of them. Part I: What is Super Specific Feedback? The difference between general feedback vs Super Specific Feedback When you hear “feedback,” you probably think of macro, behavioral feedback . This is the kind of feedback you’d include in a performance review. For example, “I noticed you missed the deadlines you set for these project milestones. I’d like to work with you on time management to make sure you’re not over-committed and prioritizing well.” This is useful, but 90% of advice about feedback is about this. Instead, I want to focus on a subcategory of feedback that’s less discussed: I call it Super Specific Feedback (SSF). Regular feedback tends to be general, abstract, and mainly about behavior. Super Specific Feedback is extremely concrete feedback primarily on work output, such as writing, product flows, marketing assets, and design. The goal is to strengthen the work product to get it closer to ship ready, and to help the feedback recipient improve their craft and judgment over time. This type is important for a few reasons: First, work output is the final form of thinking. Upstream, there’s strategy and intention. Downstream, the thing that customers eventually interact with is pixels and words. You’re not “just” giving feedback on an asset (like an email, job description, event image, website messaging). By giving feedback on the work product, you’re giving feedback on the strategic thinking that went into that asset. Why? Your customer doesn’t interact with your strategy as an abstract concept. No one cares what your intentions are. They care about what’s in front of them. They interact with your brand via words and pixels, in the form of product flows, copy, messaging, design, etc. Second, you can’t teach judgment in a silo. Many people agree on a high level, but when they try to execute, they fail. They intended to do X, but the result looks nothing like X because there were too many subpar micro-decisions that compounded along the way. Super Specific Feedback on work output helps narrow the gap between strategy and execution. Third, pointing out subpar work and offering coaching will raise the standard of excellence . Folks realize you won’t simply let things slide. It shows you care about doing work you’re proud of and want to push your team to be proud of their work too. I love this quote from ServiceNow CEO Frank Slootman : “There is performance upside everywhere. As a leader, your opportunity is to reset in each of these dimensions. You do it in every single conversation, meeting, and encounter. You look for and exploit every single opportunity to step up the pace, expect a higher quality outcome, and narrow the plane of attack. Then, you relentlessly follow up and prosecute at every turn. Yes, it is confrontational. That is pretty much what CEOs do all the time: confront people, issues and situations. It’s not a quick transformation. In fact, it never ends.” Super Specific Feedback is a way to “confront” and seize opportunities to improve the quality of work product. What are the benefits of Super Specific Feedback? For team members , most high performers crave more feedback and coaching from their managers, especially if their manager is someone they respect. Time and time again, I’ve seen high performers’ eyes light up when they get detailed, actionable coaching on work output. The result is more motivation AND improved judgment. For managers , it frees up your bandwidth in the long run. You’re no longer the bottleneck. You’re no longer solely responsible for editing. You’re no longer the only one with high standards . Your team comes to you with work that’s in a tighter place to begin with. The assertion behind SSF is: By giving detailed feedback on work output, my team members will learn how I think and sharpen their own skills via hands-on concrete work. This will lead to doing better work, faster, that requires fewer edits. Over time, they will proactively address most or all of what I would have given them feedback on. My team members learn on the job, and feel challenged and supported. Many leaders want to do kick off this virtuous cycle, but aren’t sure how to get started. Here’s how. If you’re enjoying this, subscribe to get new posts every week: Subscribe Part II: How to give Super Specific Feedback on work output Here are 16 ways to give actionable feedback on work product starting today. 1. Get “permission” and sell why getting lots of feedback benefits them. The right high-performers love getting feedback. I’ve had multiple direct reports say this was their favorite part of the job, and their months or years working together were the most they’ve ever learned. This is a huge gift you can offer your direct reports and it helps you retain high-performing talent. One thing to note: If you haven’t been giving a lot of feedback and start to all of a sudden, folks might wonder where this is coming from. This is why you should get their buy-in: share why frequent feedback benefits them, why you’re investing time into coaching them, and making sure they’re excited about it. Your direct reports should feel like your feedback is a gift you’re giving because you believe deeply in their potential. 2. Explain the “why.” This is the root of all Super Specific Feedback. Don’t just say &quot;This doesn't work.&quot; Share your explanation of the improvement that needs to be made, and also the bigger thinking behind the “why” and “how.” This includes solid analogies that help to reinforce and clarify the point. If there is one thing you take away from this post, let it be this. Explain the why behind your feedback. For example, here’s feedback I shared with Maven’s branding agency when they were designing our logo. Notice how I didn’t only say “I don’t like this.” Design is subjective, but by sharing your thought process, you can have more productive conversations and get closer to a strong outcome. It’s a meme that marketers say “make the button bigger!” and force their design counterparts to execute seemingly random changes. Don’t be that person. I’ve had great working relationships with designers for over a decade in large part due to sharing my strategy and thought process, then letting them decide how to express that visually. 3. Avoid the shit sandwich. Be direct with both constructive and positive feedback. Below is an example of sharing feedback with a team member. Notice how I’m quite direct in saying, “this feels a bit uninspiring” and “it doesn’t seem like our best effort.” This works because I share my specific examples and my process (see list item #1), but also because other times, I’ve given this person positive feedback when it was warranted. This is different from the shit sandwich, which is giving fake positive feedback on either ends of what you really want to say. It’s intellectually honest and rigorous to simply say what you want to say, as long as you support it with evidence, logic, and a respectful posture. 4. Share positive feedback so they know what to continue doing. The ultimate goal for feedback is behavior change . You want to give positive feedback because you want them to continue doing what’s working. Otherwise, your direct report might accidentally stop doing something because they didn’t realize it was effective. The other reason positive feedback matters is because it buys you goodwill, which allows you to be super direct with constructive feedback. My team knows that I give them positive feedback when it’s warranted, and celebrate not only the results, but also their effort, conscientiousness, rigor, etc. So when I have constructive feedback, I can be equally direct because I’ve established that I’m objective. 5. Aim to be tactical, actionable, concrete, and specific . I originally wrote about the TACS framework for creatin