# Building On The Gains Made From Remote Work

**Source**: https://www.strategy-business.com/blog/Building-on-the-gains-made-from-remote-work
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:54:41.100711+00:00

---

Building on the gains made from remote work Skip to content Skip to navigation Sign up for the digital issue Topics Climate &amp; sustainability Consumer &amp; retail Energy Entertainment &amp; media Healthcare Leadership Manufacturing Reinvention &amp; transformation Strategy Tech &amp; innovation Value creation Workforce Thought leaders Business books Inside the Mind of the CxO The s+b 10 principles collection Thought leaders Young profs The issue Current issue Past issues Sign up for the digital issue The podcast Search: You can search by entering questions, phrases, or keywords in the box above. Sign up for newsletters Sign up for the digital issue &nbsp; &nbsp; Light Dark Auto All topics Business books Climate & sustainability Consumer & retail Energy Entertainment & media Healthcare Inside the Mind of the CxO Leadership Manufacturing Reinvention & transformation Strategy Tech & innovation The s+b 10 principles collection Thought leaders Value Creation Workforce Young profs The issue Current issue Past issues Sign up The podcast Follow s+b Follow s+b on LinkedIn Follow s+b on Twitter Follow s+b on Facebook Follow s+b on YouTube Gets updates via RSS s+b on the Apple App store s+b on the Google Play store Light Dark Auto Workforce Building on the gains made from remote work Focusing on communication and culture can further boost employee experience and productivity. by Josh Levs July 7, 2021 Share to:&nbsp; Share on X &nbsp; Share on LinkedIn &nbsp; Share on Facebook &nbsp; Email this article &nbsp; Photograph by Westend61 As vaccination rates creep up across the country, businesses are working to figure out a new normal. One of the biggest questions many leaders are facing is how much flexibility they’ll give employees to continue working from home. Related stories s+b Blogs How to boost people&#8217;s energy and productivity during meetings by Elizabeth Doty s+b Blogs Fight the fatigue that&#8217;s killing your team&#8217;s productivity by Wanda T. Wallace Granting autonomy without losing control by Constantinos C. Markides Though some executives are embracing plans to allow continued flexibility, others have already begun pushing employees to come back to the office. As Morgan Stanley CEO James Gorman said , “If you want to get paid New York rates, you work in New York. None of this ‘I’m in Colorado…and getting paid like I’m sitting in New York City.’” There’s no doubt that there will be benefits to having many employees see one another face-to-face again. For example, new connections and relationships can form, which can help spark serendipitous collaboration , and employees may learn more about what different departments are up to. But it’s likely that many of these benefits can still be realized by having employees come back to work some days rather than every day, and perhaps setting aside a day each month when everyone is in the office together. As we move forward, it’s crucial that businesses not lose the gains they’ve made in the past year in permitting employees to work from home. Beyond allowing people to maintain social distance and safety in the midst of a pandemic, remote work has paid dividends for both employers and employees. The ability to work from home gives people the opportunity to build greater work–life balance (or “ integration ”). And to the surprise of some business leaders, in many instances it has led to an increase in productivity. More PwC insights PwC&#8217;s US Remote Work Survey A PwC survey published in January found that “business leaders [were] more convinced about the productivity gains achieved” nine months into the shift to working from home. This view was trending in a positive direction, with 83% of employers saying the shift to remote work had been a success, up from 73% who said the same in a survey conducted in June 2020. These findings build on years of research showing that a great many workers are more productive at home, for all sorts of reasons. To take one example, those working at home are not wasting time, energy, and money on commutes , which can also cause health problems. But even considering these results, many employers have not yet begun to reap the full extent of the gains that can accrue from embracing remote work in a post-pandemic era. The increases in productivity over the past year have come despite kids being home from school and various loved ones being sick with COVID-19. Parents and other caregivers have been juggling tremendous responsibilities while coping with their own stress . If they can increase their productivity, even amid those very challenging circumstances, imagine how much they’ll get done when kids are back at school and most of the country is vaccinated. Try building culture remotely Some of the biggest concerns business leaders raise about the continuation of remote work center on company culture. In the January PwC survey, executives were asked how often employees should be in the office in order to maintain a strong culture. Though their responses represented just about every possibility, the most common response, at 29%, was three days per week. A total of 39% said it should be even more. If employees can increase their productivity, even amid those very challenging circumstances, imagine how much they’ll get done when kids are back at school and most of the country is vaccinated. The challenge is that many companies don’t know how to build culture remotely. Until they make active efforts to do so, they won’t know what the right mix of remote and in-person work is. Jonathan Steiman, CEO of customer-support outsourcing company Peak Support, argues that with some effort, companies can create great cultures with remote staff. In a column for Inc. , he writes that by being intentional about communicating regularly, creating virtual communities, sharing stories, and outlining a clear vision and values, organizations can provide the benefits of a strong remote culture. The collaboration platform Miro has published an extensive 11-step guide for building remote work culture, which includes establishing psychological safety, extending onboarding, implementing regular rituals, and more. I know from experience that working remotely does not have to mean being left out of company culture. I began my career at NPR, where I spent years working in Atlanta and connecting each day with editors and producers in Washington, DC. I felt like part of the team. And my rare visits up to headquarters always felt like an opportunity for valuable face-to-face time with work friends rather than an entrance into a foreign environment. These days, many companies have at least some employees who don’t work at headquarters but may work at smaller satellite offices. Efforts to build culture outside of a company’s main offices should be sure to include them as well. The pressure is on. In the January PwC survey, more than half of employees (55%) said they want to work remotely at least three days a week after the pandemic. If businesses aren’t prepared to embrace this level of telework, some employees may start looking for other jobs. Supporting remote employees could soon be a necessity for attracting talent. As Bhushan Sethi, joint global leader of PwC’s people and organization practice, wrote in March, it’s crucial to not let a new hybrid workforce become a matter of “us” versus “them”: “Only those businesses that create a shared experience for their entire workforce and build an inclusive culture can realize the benefits of our new ways of working.” In the post-pandemic era, we have an opportunity to see just how big those benefits are. Share to:&nbsp; Share on X &nbsp; Share on LinkedIn &nbsp; Share on Facebook &nbsp; Email this article &nbsp; Topics: communication , human capital , leadership , organization culture , productivity , work-life balance Josh Levs Josh Levs &nbsp;is a business consultant, former journalist for NPR and CNN, and the author of&nbsp; All In: How Our Work-First Culture Fails Dads, Families, and Businesses &mdash; and How We Can Fix It Together . He tweets about modern fatherhood and the workplace&nbsp; @JoshLevs . Twitter &nbsp; Recommended stories The Elusive Right Path to Engineering Offshoring Farming out product design and development can be a risky venture, as many organizations have learned the hard way. Here are five steps to making it work. by Vikas Sehgal, Sunil Sachan, and Ron Kyslinger Work is something you achieve, not somewhere you go The use of surveillance software to track remote employees&rsquo; activities reflects outdated thinking about productivity. by Josh Levs In the shift to hybrid work, don&#8217;t overlook your in-person workforce Many knowledge workers have more flexibility in their jobs than ever before. But in-person workers are feeling overlooked and underappreciated, and many are at risk of leaving. by Bhushan Sethi and Peter Brown Digital issue Be a better decider As reinvention pressure rises, the March issue of s + b explores how CEOs need to rewire their decision-making. Trending articles 1. The little engine that could The novel The Magnificent Ambersons reveals the dangers of complacency in the face of transformative new technologies. 2. The Right to Win Business strategy is at an evolutionary crossroads. It&rsquo;s time to resolve the long-standing tension between the inherent identity of your organization and the fleeting nature of your competitive advantage. 3. Using neuroscience to make feedback work and feel better Research shows that using feedback is how organisms &mdash; and organizations &mdash; stay alive. Here&rsquo;s how leaders can make the most of the anxiety-producing process. 4. Inside Dell Computer Corporation: Managing Working Capital The secret to excellence lies in doing many things well. It also requires staying focused on the goal even when tempted to do otherwise. 5. The rise of the eco-friendly consumer During the pandemic, people have become more sensitive to th