# S41586 022 05620 1

**Source**: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-022-05620-1
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:50:56.012112+00:00

---

The person-to-person transmission landscape of the gut and oral microbiomes | Nature Skip to main content Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript. Advertisement View all journals Search Log in Explore content About the journal Publish with us Sign up for alerts RSS feed nature articles article The person-to-person transmission landscape of the gut and oral microbiomes Download PDF Download PDF Article Open access Published: 18 January 2023 The person-to-person transmission landscape of the gut and oral microbiomes Mireia Valles-Colomer ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-1988-6054 1 , Aitor Blanco-Míguez ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0001-7386-5572 1 , Paolo Manghi ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0003-0846-6529 1 , Francesco Asnicar ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0003-3732-1468 1 , Leonard Dubois 1 , Davide Golzato 1 , Federica Armanini 1 , Fabio Cumbo 1 , Kun D. Huang 1 , Serena Manara ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0001-6371-528X 1 , Giulia Masetti 1 , Federica Pinto ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-4539-4811 1 , Elisa Piperni 2 , Michal Punčochář 1 , Liviana Ricci ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0001-9450-9235 1 , Moreno Zolfo ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0001-6661-4046 1 , Olivia Farrant 3 , Adriana Goncalves 3 , Marta Selma-Royo 1 , 4 , Ana G. Binetti ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0001-5212-1101 5 , Jimmy E. Becerra 6 , Bei Han 7 , John Lusingu 8 , John Amuasi ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-8640-2662 9 , Loredana Amoroso 10 , Alessia Visconti ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0003-4144-2019 11 , Claire M. Steves 11 , Mario Falchi ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-5646-1004 11 , Michele Filosi ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-3872-347X 1 , Adrian Tett 1 , 12 , Anna Last 3 , Qian Xu ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-7623-217X 13 , 14 , Nan Qin ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-9128-9414 13 , 14 , Huanlong Qin ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0001-8438-2322 13 , Jürgen May ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0001-7831-8420 15 , Daniel Eibach 15 , Maria Valeria Corrias ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-7316-0772 16 , Mirco Ponzoni 16 , Edoardo Pasolli 17 , Tim D. Spector ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-9795-0365 11 , Enrico Domenici ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0001-7436-6919 1 , 18 , Maria Carmen Collado 4 &amp; … Nicola Segata ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-1583-5794 1 , 2 Show authors Nature volume 614 , pages 125–135 ( 2023 ) Cite this article 138k Accesses 331 Citations 1286 Altmetric Metrics details Subjects Bacterial genetics Genome informatics Metagenomics Microbiome Abstract The human microbiome is an integral component of the human body and a co-determinant of several health conditions 1 , 2 . However, the extent to which interpersonal relations shape the individual genetic makeup of the microbiome and its transmission within and across populations remains largely unknown 3 , 4 . Here, capitalizing on more than 9,700 human metagenomes and computational strain-level profiling, we detected extensive bacterial strain sharing across individuals (more than 10 million instances) with distinct mother-to-infant, intra-household and intra-population transmission patterns. Mother-to-infant gut microbiome transmission was considerable and stable during infancy (around 50% of the same strains among shared species (strain-sharing rate)) and remained detectable at older ages. By contrast, the transmission of the oral microbiome occurred largely horizontally and was enhanced by the duration of cohabitation. There was substantial strain sharing among cohabiting individuals, with 12% and 32% median strain-sharing rates for the gut and oral microbiomes, and time since cohabitation affected strain sharing more than age or genetics did. Bacterial strain sharing additionally recapitulated host population structures better than species-level profiles did. Finally, distinct taxa appeared as efficient spreaders across transmission modes and were associated with different predicted bacterial phenotypes linked with out-of-host survival capabilities. The extent of microorganism transmission that we describe underscores its relevance in human microbiome studies 5 , especially those on non-infectious, microbiome-associated diseases. Similar content being viewed by others Environmental factors shaping the gut microbiome in a Dutch population Article 13 April 2022 Gut microbiome evolution from infancy to 8 years of age Article 02 April 2025 Gut microbiome pattern reflects healthy ageing and predicts survival in humans Article 18 February 2021 Main Our genome is inherited from our parents and remains stable over our lifetime, with limited accumulation of nucleotide variations. By contrast, the genetic makeup of our microorganism complement (the human microbiome) is seeded at birth and changes over time, displaying both high temporal variability and personalization 6 , 7 . Factors including diet and lifestyle are well known to modulate the composition of the human microbiome 1 , 2 , 8 , but as very few members of the microbiome can thrive outside the human body, most microorganisms must be acquired from other individuals 3 , 4 . Indeed, colonization of the human gut by microorganisms is largely seeded by maternal transmission 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 , but maternal seeding alone cannot account for the large diversity of microorganisms found in adults. How members of the microbiome are acquired and transmitted by individuals and spread in populations, and how this shapes the personal microbiome genetic makeup remain largely unexplored—especially in humans 15 , 16 —with only preliminary findings to date 11 , 17 . So far, research has been hindered by the limited number and size of accurately designed studies, and by the difficulties in consistently and comprehensively profiling microorganism conspecific strains—that is, genetic variants within species. Strains are the individual-specific building blocks of the human microbiome 18 , 19 . They can be highly genomically and functionally divergent within a species, and their profiling is a necessary prerequisite to distinguish transmission of microorganisms from microbiome convergence towards an overlapping set of species. Identifying the features of microbiome transmission will advance our understanding of the complexity of the human microbiome, and can help address the ‘communicable’ factor that microbiome transmission adds to diseases and conditions currently considered non-communicable 5 . Here, we characterize and quantify the patterns of person-to-person microbiome strain sharing across multiple scenarios to provide a comprehensive description of the microbiome transmission landscape. Profiling microbiome transmission To unravel the modes of person-to-person microbiome transmission we performed an integrative analysis on a large set of metagenomic datasets 2 , 9 , 10 , 12 , 20 , 21 , 22 , 23 , 24 , 25 , 26 , 27 , 28 , 29 , 30 , 31 , 32 , 33 , 34 with known family relationships ( n = 31) that were analysed using improved strain-level profiling metagenomic tools (Methods). Eight of these datasets were newly sequenced in the context of this study from different geographical areas and host lifestyles in America (Argentina, Colombia and the USA), Africa (Guinea-Bissau), Asia (China) and Europe (Italy). Three other studies 9 , 34 in Africa (Ghana and Tanzania) and Europe (Italy) were further expanded here for a total of 978 stool and 1,929 saliva samples (Supplementary Tables 1 and 2 ). This collection comprises 9,715 microbiome samples (7,646 stool and 2,069 saliva) and curated host information, enabling the assessment of transmission across mother–infant pairs, household members, adult twin pairs, villages and populations. Although the 31 datasets differ in size, with human metagenomes from 20 different countries in five continents and representing diverse host lifestyles (Fig. 1a,b , Extended Data Fig. 1a and Supplementary Table 2 ), the integrated set facilitates the identification of person-to-person microbiome transmission patterns at the global level. Fig. 1: A metagenomic framework to survey person-to-person microbiome strain transmission. a , Overview of the study and dataset based on the SGB framework (Methods). Numbers in square brackets are the number of units sequenced in this study. b , Overall species-level structure of the gut samples (principal component analysis on Aitchison distance, one random sample per individual, n = 4,840). Samples are coloured by country and shapes indicate age. c , Phylogeny of B. bifidum (SGB17256) (Methods), a low-prevalence highly transmitted species (Supplementary Table 9 ), showing the genetic diversity of strains and the shared strains between samples of the same individual and between different individuals. One example of strain sharing is highlighted for each relationship type. Tree leaves involved in strain-sharing instances are coloured by dataset (Extended Data Fig. 1b ) and their shapes reflect kinship. Bottom, the distribution of pairwise centred nGDs of the species in individuals sampled at two time points (less than six months apart, ‘same individual’) and in unrelated individuals (‘different individual’; Extended Data Fig. 3 and Methods), confirming the suitability of the methodology to infer strain identity. d , e , The distribution of pairwise nGDs between B. animalis (SGB17278) ( d ) and S. thermophilus , S. salivarius and S. vestibularis (SGB8002) ( e ) strains reconstructed from human gut metagenomes or mouse samples and MAGs reconstructed from fermented food 40 . The presence of B. animalis in humans is associated with the consumption of commercial dietary products (Extended Data Fig. 4a ), whereas only a subset of S. thermophilus , S. salivarius and S. vestibularis strains is associated with fermented food intake (Extended Data Fig. 4b ). f , Person-to-person strain-sharing rates (number of share