# 11280484

**Source**: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/11280484/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:53:20.894385+00:00

---

Sisters, brothers, and delinquency: evaluating social influence during early and middle adolescence - PubMed This site needs JavaScript to work properly. Please enable it to take advantage of the complete set of features! Clipboard, Search History, and several other advanced features are temporarily unavailable. Skip to main page content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Log in Show account info Close Account Logged in as: username Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Access keys NCBI Homepage MyNCBI Homepage Main Content Main Navigation Search: Search Advanced Clipboard User Guide Save Email Send to Clipboard My Bibliography Collections Citation manager Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Save citation to file Format: Summary (text) PubMed PMID Abstract (text) CSV Create file Cancel Email citation Email address has not been verified. Go to My NCBI account settings to confirm your email and then refresh this page. To: Subject: Body: Format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) MeSH and other data Send email Cancel Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Add to My Bibliography My Bibliography Unable to load your delegates due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Your saved search Name of saved search: Search terms: Test search terms Would you like email updates of new search results? Saved Search Alert Radio Buttons Yes No Email: ( change ) Frequency: Monthly Weekly Daily Which day? The first Sunday The first Monday The first Tuesday The first Wednesday The first Thursday The first Friday The first Saturday The first day The first weekday Which day? Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Report format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) PubMed Send at most: 1 item 5 items 10 items 20 items 50 items 100 items 200 items Send even when there aren't any new results Optional text in email: Save Cancel Create a file for external citation management software Create file Cancel Your RSS Feed Name of RSS Feed: Number of items displayed: 5 10 15 20 50 100 Create RSS Cancel RSS Link Copy Full text links Wiley Full text links Actions Cite Collections Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Permalink Permalink Copy Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Page navigation Title &amp; authors Abstract Publication types MeSH terms Grants and funding LinkOut - more resources Title &amp; authors Abstract Publication types MeSH terms Grants and funding LinkOut - more resources Child Dev Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2001 Jan-Feb;72(1):271-83. doi: 10.1111/1467-8624.00278. Sisters, brothers, and delinquency: evaluating social influence during early and middle adolescence C Slomkowski &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; R Rende ,&nbsp; K J Conger ,&nbsp; R L Simons ,&nbsp; R D Conger Affiliations Expand Affiliation 1 Brown Center for Behavioral and Preventive Medicine at the Miriam Hospital, and Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, Brown University School of Medicine, Providence, RI 02906, USA. PMID: 11280484 DOI: 10.1111/1467-8624.00278 Item in Clipboard Sisters, brothers, and delinquency: evaluating social influence during early and middle adolescence C Slomkowski &nbsp;et al. Child Dev . 2001 Jan-Feb . Show details Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Child Dev Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2001 Jan-Feb;72(1):271-83. doi: 10.1111/1467-8624.00278. Authors C Slomkowski &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; R Rende ,&nbsp; K J Conger ,&nbsp; R L Simons ,&nbsp; R D Conger Affiliation 1 Brown Center for Behavioral and Preventive Medicine at the Miriam Hospital, and Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, Brown University School of Medicine, Providence, RI 02906, USA. PMID: 11280484 DOI: 10.1111/1467-8624.00278 Item in Clipboard Full text links Cite Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Abstract Although a number of studies have shown that brothers are highly correlated for delinquent behavior, much less research has been conducted on sisters. We propose that sisters, like brothers, show notable similarity for delinquent behavior, and also promote each other's delinquency through direct interaction. We examined these issues in 164 brother and sister pairs studied over a 4-year period (from early to middle adolescence) in a study of intact families in the rural Midwest. Sibling similarity for self-reports of delinquent behavior were highly correlated for both brothers and sisters. Conditional effects of high levels of hostile-coercive sibling relationships and older sibling delinquency predicted younger sibling delinquency in both brother and sister pairs. For brothers, conditional effects were also detected for high levels of warmth-support, in contrast to sisters. The conditional effects of older sibling delinquency and relationship quality were shown to predict change in younger sibling delinquency through adolescence. The results add to a growing literature on sibling effects as well as theoretical models that emphasize the role of social interaction between siblings as a risk factor for the development of delinquent activity in adolescence. PubMed Disclaimer Publication types Evaluation Study Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov&#x27;t Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Research Support, U.S. Gov&#x27;t, P.H.S. Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search MeSH terms Adolescent Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Adolescent Behavior / psychology* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Age Factors Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Child Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Child Development Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Female Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Follow-Up Studies Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Humans Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Interpersonal Relations Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Juvenile Delinquency / statistics &amp; numerical data* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Male Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Regression Analysis Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Sibling Relations* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Social Environment* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Surveys and Questionnaires Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Grants and funding MH00567/MH/NIMH NIH HHS/United States MH01281/MH/NIMH NIH HHS/United States MH01559/MH/NIMH NIH HHS/United States etc LinkOut - more resources Full Text Sources Ovid Technologies, Inc. Wiley Medical MedlinePlus Health Information Full text links [x] Wiley [x] Cite Copy Download .nbib .nbib Format: AMA APA MLA NLM Send To Clipboard Email Save My Bibliography Collections Citation Manager [x] NCBI Literature Resources MeSH PMC Bookshelf Disclaimer The PubMed wordmark and PubMed logo are registered trademarks of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Unauthorized use of these marks is strictly prohibited. Follow NCBI Twitter Facebook LinkedIn GitHub Connect with NLM Twitter SM-Facebook SM-Youtube National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike Bethesda, MD 20894 Web Policies FOIA HHS Vulnerability Disclosure Help Accessibility Careers NLM NIH HHS USA.gov