# Heres What You Could Buy With 1 Billion Dollars

**Source**: https://www.buzzfeed.com/spenceralthouse/heres-what-you-could-buy-with-1-billion-dollars
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:30:03.842096+00:00

---

17 Things You Can Buy For $1 Billion In The US Skip To Content BuzzFeed Homepage Sign In BuzzFeed Quizzes Shopping Trending News Celebrity Buzz Chat Arcade Quizzes Shopping Trending News Celebrity Buzz Chat Arcade Browse links Newsletters The best of the internet, delivered straight to your inbox! Pop Culture TV &amp; Movies Celebrity Best of the Internet Animals Music Rewind Books LGBTQ Quizzes &amp; Games Arcade NEW! Latest Trending Food Love Trivia Quiz Party Showdown Shopping Latest Home Fashion Tech Beauty &amp; Personal Care Pets Sports &amp; Fitness Video Latest Cocoa Butter Mom In Progress Worth It Unsolved Multiplayer Pero Like Lifestyle Tasty Style Travel Goodful: Wellness Nifty: DIY Parents Food Weddings Sex And Love Community Make a Quiz or Post! Featured Posts Leaderboard From Our Partners Safe Haven Back to School Prep College Curation About About Us Advertise Investor Relations Jobs Edition US UK Australia Canada Deutschland India Japan Latam US residents can opt out of &quot;sales&quot; of personal data. Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Privacy Settings Privacy Settings © 2025 BuzzFeed, Inc Press RSS Privacy Consent Preferences User Terms Accessibility Statement Ad Choices Help Contact Sitemap BuzzFeed Tasty Search, watch, and cook every single Tasty recipe and video ever — all in one place! BuzzFeed Goodful Self care and ideas to help you live a healthier, happier life. HuffPost News, Politics, Culture, Life, Entertainment, and more. Stories that matter to you. BuzzFeed Quizzes Shopping Trending News Celebrity Buzz Chat Arcade Quizzes Shopping Trending News Celebrity Buzz Chat Arcade Work &amp; Money · Posted on Jul 3, 2025 Subscribe to BuzzFeed Daily Newsletter Caret Down Billionaires Shouldn't Exist, And To Prove It, Here's What $1,000,000,000 Can Actually Buy You If you had $1 billion, you could pay your rent for the next 50,968 years in the US. Meanwhile, on average, Elon Musk makes that much money every 30 days. by Spencer Althouse BuzzFeed Staff Facebook Pinterest Link It's so hard to conceptualize how much $1 billion actually is. For example, Elon Musk is so rich that spending $1 billion to him is equivalent to the average American spending only $300. That's like me buying a year's worth of Premium Netflix, meanwhile Elon could buy a year's worth for all 3.2 million people in Puerto Rico. And he'd still have money left over! The Washington Post / The Washington Post / Getty Images, Andrew Caballero-Reynolds / AFP / Getty Images You can check out the net worth of every single billionaire here . As of just a few months ago, there were 902 reported billionaires in the US alone. However, 34% of all Americans are living paycheck to paycheck. So, as Donald Trump's "Big Beautiful Bill" becomes one step closer to being passed into law — in which the rich will receive massive tax cuts, yet nearly 17 million people will lose their health insurance altogether — I wanted to break down exactly what you could buy with $1 billion. Pool / Getty Images 1. Throughout the US, the average person spends $1,635 per month on rent. If you had $1 billion dollars, that would cover your rent for the next 50,968 years. Fox 2. Oh, wait, you wanna live in New York City instead? Well, the average rent there is $4,019 per month. Your $1 billion would still last you an impressive 20,734 years, though, assuming you haven't run into greedy landlords. Columbia Pictures 3. Your $1 billion could also buy every single person in Japan, Germany, France, Sweden, Palestine, Ghana, Spain, Poland, Australia, South Africa, and Brazil a burrito from Taco Bell. And you'd still have another 5.3 million burritos left over! Not too shabby, considering you started with over 671 million burritos. Taco Bell / tacobell.com 4. Heck, maybe you want to end poverty in general! You could totally wipe it out statewide in Alaska, Vermont, and Wyoming...and you'd still have about $120 million to spare. ALEX WROBLEWSKI / AFP via Getty Images 5. Perhaps you're a sucker for all things fashion. With $1 billion, you could buy 78,740 Birkin bags. That's enough to give two bags to every single person who lives in Monaco. Jeremy Moeller / Getty Images To be more specific, these would be the Birkin 25 in Togo leather (not pictured), which cost $12,700 each. 6. Or maybe running is more your speed. Nike's Streakfly 2 running shoes retail for $190, but with your $1 billion you could buy 5,263,157 pairs. That's nearly enough to give every single resident of Ireland or New Zealand their own pair of shoes. Nike / nike.com 7. Jeff Bezos just spent an estimated $50 million on his star-studded wedding in Italy. That may seem like a lot (because it is!), but to him, it's the equivalent of spending only $41.23 in comparison to the median American. After all, his total net worth is $233.9 billion. If you had just $1 billion and wanted to recreate his wedding extravaganza — which included performances from Usher, among others — you could do so every single week for the next 5 months. MARCO BERTORELLO / AFP via Getty Images 8. Maybe music is your passion, and you want a private concert from Beyoncé. Two years ago, she was paid $24 million to put on a private show in Dubai, which is the most expensive private performance ever recorded. You could spend $1 billion on 41 private Beyoncé concerts and still have $16,000 left over. Kevin Mazur / WireImage for Parkwood 9. Or perhaps Bruno Mars is more your style. You could get 312 private concerts from him instead, which would equal one concert every month for the next 26 years. After all, Bruno's rate is about $3.2 million per private show. The CW / youtube.com 10. Are you into cars? You could buy the new Porsche 718 Boxster with your $1 billion. And then you could buy a bunch more to hand out to your closest 13,350 friends. Perhaps you live in Vatican City and want to give them to every other resident of the country. That means each person would receive 15 entire Porsches. I hope they have enough space in their garage. BBC Studios / Top Gear / youtube.com 11. Maybe you were disappointed in how the eighth and final season of Game of Thrones ended. Each of those episodes cost $15 million to make, so you could redo all six of them annnnnyyyyy way you'd like 11 times and still have some change left over. And maybe then you'll actually be able to get it right! HBO 12. The average hospital bill for delivering a baby in the US (without complications) is $19,000. With your $1 billion, you could front the bill for 52,631 new kids. That's only three thousand people less than the entire population of Greenland. 20th Century Fox 13. Lord knows we need as many Mamma Mia! movies as possible. The first one had a budget of $52 million, so you could spend your $1 billion to create 19 new films and still have $12 million left over for Meryl Streep's signing bonus. Universal Pictures 14. The average in-state college student spends $9,750 per year on tuition at a public university. Your $1 billion could pay off all four years of school for well over 25,000 students. Prime Video 15. Let's say you wanted to give away all of your money to charity at the rate of $1 per second. It'll take you just over 16 minutes to give away $1,000. If you kept going, it'll take you just over 11.5 days to give away $1 million. But, hey, you're a billionaire, so it'll take you over 31.7 years to give away all $1 billion. Paramount Pictures 16. Let's say you're feeling generous and want to order breakfast, lunch, and dinner from the McDonald's Dollar Menu for every single person who lives in Rhode Island. You'd be able to feed everyone (over 1 million people!) for the next 299 days. McDonald's / youtube.com 17. Finally, the average yearly salary in the US is projected to be about $68,000 this year. Elon Musk makes that much money every 2 minutes and 59 seconds. If the average salary never changed, you’d have to work for the next 14,705 years to earn $1 billion. AMC If Elon wanted another billion dollars, he'd simply have to work 30 days, 9 hours, 54 minutes, and 49 seconds. By that point, the average US citizen would have only made $5,667. Billionaires shouldn't exist!!!!! Bye!!!!!