# Oura Itc Case

**Source**: https://ouraring.com/blog/oura-itc-case/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:51:06.113231+00:00

---

Oura Secures Decisive Legal Victory with ITC Patent Ruling - The Pulse Blog English Čeština Dansk Nederlands Suomi Français Deutsch Italiano 日本語 Norsk Español Svenska Shop Now &times; THE PULSE &nbsp;Blog Meet Oura Oura 101 Oura in Research Inside the Ring News Sleep Sleep Basics Sleep Benefits Sleep Tips Sleep Positions Health HRV Women’s Health Mental Health &amp; Stress Heart Health Activity &amp; Movement Longevity Metabolic Health Illness Community Member Spotlights Member Tips Data Stories For Business Case Studies Profiles White Papers Working Well Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Accessibility Experience Membership Community Oura for Business Shop Now We are constantly publishing more blog articles in your language. X Why Oura How It Works For Business Shop Menu Close Close --> Shop Oura Ring 4 Oura Ring Gen3 On Sale Extra Charger Gift Card --> For Business --> Why Oura Explore Why Oura Science and Research Sleep and Rest Women's Health Stress Heart Health Activity and Movement How It Works Explore How It Works Integrations Oura Ring 4 is here Shop THE PULSE &nbsp;Blog Meet Oura Oura 101 Oura in Research Inside the Ring News Sleep Sleep Basics Sleep Benefits Sleep Tips Sleep Positions Health HRV Women’s Health Mental Health &amp; Stress Heart Health Activity &amp; Movement Longevity Metabolic Health Illness Community Member Spotlights Member Tips Data Stories For Business Case Studies Profiles White Papers Working Well English Čeština Dansk Nederlands Suomi Français Deutsch Italiano 日本語 Norsk Español Svenska THE PULSE &nbsp;Blog --> Featured Articles Health Health Panels, Explained: A Guide to Key Biomarkers Emilina Lomas October 1, 2025 News New Oura Ring 4 Charging Case Offers a Convenient Charging Solution to Stay Connected Oura Team October 1, 2025 Meet Oura Introducing Oura Ring 4 Ceramic: Naturally Colorful, Powerfully Personal Oura Team October 1, 2025 Health Introducing Health Panels at Oura Oura Team October 1, 2025 News Oura Secures Decisive Legal Victory with ITC Patent Ruling Author: Oura Team August 22, 2025 Updated August 22, 2025 Y esterday, the United States International Trade Commission (ITC) ruled against Ultrahuman and RingConn for patent infringement related to the Oura Ring form factor. The ITC issued exclusion and cease-and-desist orders banning all Ultrahuman and RingConn smart rings and components from being imported into and sold in the U.S. market. This ruling establishes at the most rigorous levels of review that ŌURA’s patents are valid and enforceable, and reinforces not only the strength of ŌURA’s patents but our long-term IP strategy. April 30, 2025 We received a favorable initial determination from the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) in our ongoing case with the United States International Trade Commission (ITC) against Ultrahuman and RingConn for patent infringement related to the Oura Ring form factor. The full filing (published to the ITC’s Electronic Document Information System ) outlines a long list of infringements, noting that all of Oura’s patent claims were valid, as well as a summation of dishonest tactics taken by our competitors, most notably: A claim-by-claim analysis found that both Ultrahuman and RingConn&#8217;s products infringe every element of every asserted claim of Oura&#8217;s patent (pp. 30-68). Oura was the only participant to bring forward a credible witness; Ultrahuman was specifically called out for having falsified evidence of a manufacturing facility in Texas (pp. 22-25). The smart ring and wearable market in the United States is growing rapidly, with many smart rings, smartwatches, and fitness trackers available, thus dismissing the notion that Oura aims to decrease competition (p. 135). To that end, we’ve been clear about our willingness to collaborate with others in the space while protecting our intellectual property. Oura meets the standard for United States domestic industry. (p. 117 and p. 123) Read the full filing here. We’re happy with the initial determination, which validates our position and the strength of our patents in the U.S. The initial determination is subject to review by the full Commission in the coming months, and we’re optimistic that the Commission will make a similar determination that Oura’s inventions and patents are being infringed upon by foreign competitors. The U.S. patent system is a cornerstone of American innovation, empowering creators and safeguarding the creative work of inventors and companies that spur technological breakthroughs and fuel economic growth. With the vast majority of our customers, investors, and talented team members based in the U.S., this essential system has enabled Oura to make a meaningful difference in the lives of Americans and our many members around the world. Since Oura’s inception over a decade ago, innovation has been core to our culture and long-term strategy. Today, it may seem unsurprising that the small ring form factor can house technology that accurately tracks sleep stages, blood oxygen, menstrual cycle stages, and more. But in 2013, when Oura was founded, it wasn’t. We had the vision and conviction to overcome and solve the many challenges related to achieving incredible accuracy in such a small and wearable form factor, and turn them into opportunities and differentiators. The result of those early years of R&amp;D, coupled with our ongoing investments in accuracy testing, scientific validation, and continuous user-experience improvements, is the award-winning Oura Ring experience we know today. In just the last year, we’ve delivered game-changing new capabilities and experiences to our members: We introduced a new in-app platform, Oura Labs , allowing our members to opt in to test experimental features, provide feedback, and contribute to discussions about Oura and the future of wearable technology. We took a significant stride forward in preventive health with Symptom Radar , a feature that highlights early biometric signals that could indicate the onset of illness, allowing members to take preventive actions. We opened up an entirely new category in health tracking with the introduction of our Heart Health feature set, Cardiovascular Age (CVA) , and Cardio Capacity (CC) . CVA, a metric unique to Oura, is based on a proprietary metric related to the concept of pulse wave velocity (PWV). We launched a category-leading new generation of Oura Ring, Oura Ring 4 . OR4 features a proprietary sensing platform for best-in-class accuracy and personalization, sleek design delivering improved comfort, and a reimagined app experience for all Oura Members. Doubling down on our commitment to women’s health, we launched Fertile Window, which gives Oura members a view of their estimated fertile days, chance of conception at that time, and detected day of ovulation, giving them more information about their chances of getting pregnant throughout their cycle. We acquired Veri, a personalized metabolic health company, to accelerate our metabolic health roadmap. We released our first-ever Perimenopause Report to identify the physiological changes that occur in the years before, during, and after menopause, and to destigmatize the experience that all women will go through at some point in their lives. We announced a long-term partnership with Dexcom , the global leader in glucose biosensing, to introduce new metabolic capabilities to our members. Together, ŌURA and Dexcom will help members decide what and when to eat by surfacing correlations between activities like sleep and exercise and members’ glucose levels. And because we know that people are affected differently by the same foods and activities, guidance and insights will be personalized. We rolled out Oura Advisor, our AI-powered health coach, globally to all Oura members, marking a meaningful step in our broader pursuit of leveraging AI to transform human care. We also continued investing in research and validation with partner organizations; we announced the results of a study , conducted by researchers at Brigham and Women’s Hospital, that evaluated the accuracy of sleep-staging algorithms in three consumer wearable devices—Oura Ring, Fitbit Sense, and Apple Watch—against gold-standard polysomnography and found that Oura Ring was the most accurate sleep tracker in four-stage sleep classification. We also collaborated with Scripps Research Digital Trials Center on a first-of-its-kind research collaboration focused on analyzing biobehavioral changes during pregnancy. Oura is uniquely positioned to have a meaningful impact on the lives of Americans and Oura Members around the world. The ALJ’s opinion is meaningful to the scientists, developers, product teams, and all of those at ŌURA who innovate every day to ensure that Oura Ring can continue to shape the future of holistic health innovation. Our focus has always been to push the boundaries of what’s possible for biometric tracking devices. We believe that Oura Ring has a role to play in the future of preventative health, and we’re committed to building that future today . On behalf of everyone at Oura, we’re grateful for this community, and we are dedicated to continuing to innovate to ensure you have the best tools to manage your health. In good health, Oura Team Oura Team August 22, 2025 Featured Articles Health Health Panels, Explained: A Guide to Key Biomarkers Emilina Lomas October 1, 2025 News New Oura Ring 4 Charging Case Offers a Convenient Charging Solution to Stay Connected Oura Team October 1, 2025 Meet Oura Introducing Oura Ring 4 Ceramic: Naturally Colorful, Powerfully Personal Oura Team October 1, 2025 Health Introducing Health Panels at Oura Oura Team October 1, 2025 Recent Posts Strength, Steps, and Swings: How Male Oura Members Are Staying Active What Makes Oura Ring Different? Inside the Ring: Crafting the Colorful Oura Ring 4 Ceramic Health Panels, Explained: A Guide to Key Biomarkers Join the Community Shop Now --> Invest in the health of your organization