# The Idol

**Source**: https://www.hbo.com/the-idol
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:33:06.853278+00:00

---

Watch The Idol (HBO) | HBO Max Skip To Content Movies Shows Live Sports Originals Brands Collections Free Episodes Sign In Movies Shows Live Sports Originals Brands Collections Free Episodes Movies Shows Live Sports Originals Brands Collections Free Episodes Sign In Sign Up Sign In Sign Up Now Choose your language ENGLISH English Español Skip To Content Sign In Sign In Oh no! This title currently isn’t available to watch in your country. TV-MA 2023 1 Seasons Drama The Idol (HBO) : A pop star enters a relationship with enigmatic nightclub impresario in this series starring Abel "The Weeknd" Tesfaye and Lily-Rose Depp. Plans start at $9.99/month. Sign Up Now See All Plans TV-MA 2023 1 Seasons Drama The Idol (HBO) : A pop star enters a relationship with enigmatic nightclub impresario in this series starring Abel "The Weeknd" Tesfaye and Lily-Rose Depp. Home Episodes Season 1 1 . Pop Tarts &amp; Rat Tales Pop superstar Jocelyn meets Tedros, an enigmatic nightclub owner who wants to un... More 2 . Double Fantasy After clashing with her team over her new single, Jocelyn pushes herself to the ... More 3 . Daybreak When Tedros starts calling all the shots in Jocelyn&#x27;s life, some members of her ... More 4 . Stars Belong to the World Despite the brewing tension between her and Tedros, Jocelyn is determined to int... More 5 . Jocelyn Forever While planning a showcase for her upcoming tour, Jocelyn begins to take control ... More You May Also Like Bernard And Doris (HBO) Portrait of a Lady on Fire (HBO) If These Walls Could Talk (HBO) The Killing of a Sacred Deer (HBO) Phil Spector (HBO) Horizon: An American Saga - Chapter 1 (HBO) House Of Saddam (HBO) Native Son (HBO) Sometimes In April (HBO) Skin Can Breathe (HBO) Wig (HBO) Maggie (HBO) The Idol (HBO) A troubled pop star has her passion for making music reignited by Tedros, a magnetic nightclub impresario with a sordid past in this drama series starring Abel "The Weeknd" Tesfaye and Lily-Rose Depp. Starring:&nbsp; Abel Tesfaye, Lily-Rose Depp, Suzanna Son, Jennie Jane, Hank Azaria, Jane Adams, Melanie Liburd, Rachel Sennott, Hari Nef, Moses Sumney, Da'Vine Randolph, Dan Levy, Troye Sivan, Eli Roth, Scott Schofield, Nina McNeely, Kristen Fisher, Mike Dean, Kyle Allen, Alexa Demie, Sophie Mudd Producers:&nbsp; Sam Levinson, Abel Tesfaye, Reza Fahim, Kevin Turen, Ashley Levinson, Sara White, Joe Epstein, Aaron Gilbert, La Mar Taylor, David Davoli, Wassim Slaiby, Harrison Kreiss Created By:&nbsp; Sam Levinson, Abel Tesfaye, Reza Fahim Genres:&nbsp; Drama Episodes:&nbsp; 1 Seasons Available (5 Episodes) Release Year:&nbsp; 2023 Rating Information:&nbsp; TV-MA Find Your Perfect Plan HBO Max Bundles HBO Max Plans Disney Plus, Hulu, HBO Max Bundle With Ads HBO Max Basic With Ads , Disney+ Basic , and Hulu (With Ads) Full HD video resolution on HBO Max Stream HBO Max on 2 devices at once $ 16.99 /month Increasing to $19.99/mo. on 10/21 Select Plan Disney Plus, Hulu, HBO Max Bundle No Ads HBO Max Standard , Disney+ Premium , and Hulu (No Ads) Full HD video resolution on HBO Max Stream HBO Max on 2 devices at once 30 downloads on HBO Max to watch on the go $ 29.99 /month Increasing to $32.99/mo. on 10/21 Select Plan Basic With Ads Watch with limited ads. Stream on 2 devices at once Full HD video resolution Live Sports NHL on TNT MLB on TBS $ 9.99 /month Select Monthly or $ 99.99 /year Save $19 Select Yearly Standard Watch on the go. Stream on 2 devices at once Full HD video resolution 30 downloads to watch on the go Live Sports NHL on TNT MLB on TBS $ 16.99 /month Select Monthly or $ 169.99 /year Save $33 Select Yearly Premium Watch on the go and in 4K. Stream on 4 devices at once (only 2 for Sports) 4K Ultra HD video quality (as available) Dolby Atmos immersive audio (as available) 100 downloads to watch on the go Live Sports NHL on TNT MLB on TBS $ 20.99 /month Select Monthly or $ 209.99 /year Save $41 Select Yearly Save with our student discount &rsaquo; Ads served on select live & linear content in No Ads plan. Savings based on regular monthly price of each service. Access each service separately. Content, feature & device compatibility vary by service. Live Sports available only on select plans. Plan availability varies by subscription provider. Check with your subscription provider for details. Select games available and blackouts may apply. Download limits apply to certain content categories on HBO Max. Additional&nbsp;terms&nbsp;apply. By signing up for this bundle, HBO Max will share your email address & subscription details with Disney+ and Hulu for eligibility, marketing, and other purposes. For more info about your choices, see the Privacy Center . Savings are based on the price of the yearly plan paid upfront compared to the monthly plan paid over 12 months. Ads served on select live and linear content on Standard and Premium Plans. Live Sports available only on select plans. Plan availability varies by subscription provider. Check with your subscription provider for details. Select games available and blackouts may apply. Download limits apply to certain content categories. See hbomax.com/information for more. Savings are based on the price of the yearly plan paid upfront compared to the monthly plan paid over 12 months. Ads served on select live and linear content on Standard and Premium Plans. Live Sports included only on Standard and Premium plans. Live Sports has select games and blackouts. Download limits apply to certain content categories. See&nbsp; max.com/information . --> More Info × Live&nbsp;Sports Catch every game-changing moment across 1,700&nbsp;sports events in&nbsp;2025. Stream Must-See Series, Movies & More Home Explore What’s On Movies TV Shows Originals Free Episodes Live Sports Disney+, Hulu, HBO Max Bundle Student Discount Savings on HBO Max Contenido en Español Accessibility Privacy Policy Children&#x27;s Privacy Policy Terms of Use Ad Choices Do Not Sell My Personal Information Help Company Join the Team Press Releases Advertising ©2025 WarnerMedia Direct, LLC. All rights reserved. HBO Max and related elements are property of Home Box Office, Inc. Explore What’s On Movies TV Shows Privacy Policy Children&#x27;s Privacy Policy Terms of Use Ad Choices Do Not Sell My Personal Information Help Company Join the Team Press Releases Advertising ©2025 WarnerMedia Direct, LLC. All rights reserved. HBO Max and related elements are property of Home Box Office, Inc.