# Marriott Spg Complete Guide Sweet Opportunities

**Source**: http://frequentmiler.boardingarea.com/2016/09/23/marriott-spg-complete-guide-sweet-opportunities/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:26:13.021816+00:00

---

Marriott SPG Complete Guide to Sweet Opportunities back to top Facebook Instagram RSS Twitter Beginner&#8217;s Guide Best Credit Card Offers Best Offers Card Exploration Tool (Beta) All Credit Cards American Express Bank Of America Barclays Capital One Chase Citibank Discover TD Bank US Bank Wells Fargo Other Cards How-Tos &#038; Guides Podcasts Frequent Miler On The Air Frequent Miler “Ask Us Anything” Blog About Us Annual Team Challenges Contact Search Best Offers Beginners Subscribe Beginner&#8217;s Guide Best Credit Card Offers Best Offers Card Exploration Tool (Beta) All Credit Cards American Express Bank Of America Barclays Capital One Chase Citibank Discover TD Bank US Bank Wells Fargo Other Cards How-Tos &#038; Guides NOTICE: This post references card features that have changed, expired, or are not currently available Airlines American Airlines British Airways Delta Southwest United Hotels Hotel Reviews Marriott Hyatt Hilton IHG Best Rate Guarantees Points & Miles What Are Points Worth? Amex Membership Rewards Capital One “Miles” Chase Ultimate Rewards Citi ThankYou Rewards Bilt Rewards Current Transfer Bonuses Transfer Partner Master List Booking Awards Which Award Booking Tools is Best Best Awards by Destination Best Options for Domestic First Class Booking Partner Award Flights Cancelation & Change Fees CREDIT CARD SPEND Credit Card Spend Guide Best Rewards for Everyday Spend Best Category Bonuses Best Big Spend Bonuses Visa and MasterCard Gift Cards Pay Taxes via Credit Card Pay Bills via Credit Card with Plastiq Earn Miles for College PODCAST & YOUTUBE Frequent Miler on the Air Ask Us Anything, Live MORE Transferable Points Booking Awards Managing Miles Credit Card Bonuses Credit Card Spend Credit Card Benefits Stacking Deals More Ways to Save Start Here Check out our Beginner's Guide if you're just getting started... Read more Podcasts Frequent Miler On The Air Frequent Miler “Ask Us Anything” Blog About Us Annual Team Challenges Contact Subscribe Search... Elite Status Flights Lodging Points and Miles Travel Cheaper &amp; Better Marriott SPG Complete Guide to Sweet Opportunities By Greg The Frequent Miler - September 23, 2016 98 NOTICE: This post references card features that have changed, expired, or are not currently available Thanks to the Marriott Starwood merger, it is now possible to link your Marriott Rewards and SPG (Starwood Preferred Guest) accounts. By linking accounts you can now do the following: Match Status : Marriott Gold matches to SPG Gold; Marriott Platinum matches to SPG Platinum Transfer Points : Points transfer in either direction. 3 Marriott Rewards points = 1 SPG Starpoint Marriott Rewards and SPG each have unique program sweet spots and partnerships. As a result, this merger has opened up some really sweet opportunities . This post serves as a complete overview to these opportunities. I&#8217;ll add to the post as more sweet spots are discovered. I&#8217;ll also follow up with in-depth coverage of some of these sweet spots (and I&#8217;ll update this post to link out to those). To learn pretty much everything you need to know about the merger and how it affects the two loyalty programs, Marriott has put together an excellent FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) site, found here: members.marriott.com/faq . Sweet Opportunities: Point Earnings on Stays Earn more SPG points per dollar at Marriott properties . With the exception of Residence Inns and Towneplace Suites, stays at Marriott properties earn 10 points per dollar for general members, 12.5 points per dollar for Gold elites, and 15 points per dollar for Platinum elites. If you then convert those points 3 to 1, it translates to the following earning rates: General Members: 3.33 SPG Starpoints per dollar (vs. 2 Starpoints per dollar at Starwood properties) Gold Members: 4.17 SPG Starpoints per dollar (vs. 3 Starpoints per dollar at Starwood properties) Platinum Members: 5 SPG Starpoints per dollar (vs. 3 to 4 Starpoints per dollar depending on your Platinum status level) Pay with your SPG card . The SPG Amex card offers 2 points per dollar at Starwood and Marriott properties. This is equivalent to 6 Marriott Rewards points per dollar. The Marriott Rewards Premier card , meanwhile earns 5 points per dollar at Starwood and Marriott properties. The SPG card, therefore, is a better bet for hotel spend. Promotions change the math. Marriott and SPG frequently run promotions in which it is possible to earn extra points or free nights. A good promotion can easily alter the math shown above. Sweet Opportunities: Point Earnings Elsewhere Earn more Marriott points per dollar with the SPG credit card. The Amex SPG credit card offers 1 point per dollar for most spend and 2 points per dollar at Starwood and Marriott properties. This translates to 3 Marriott points per dollar for most spend and 6 Marriott points per dollar at Starwood and Marriott properties. This is much better than Marriott branded cards that earn 5X at Marriott &amp; SPG, 2X for airline, car rental, &amp; restaurants, and 1X elsewhere. Convert the Amex SPG signup bonus into 75,000 Marriott Rewards points . Skip the stinky new 2 free night offer and go for the good old 25K signup bonus offer instead. Earn 3X Marriott points with SPG partners. Delta, Emirates, Caesars Entertainment, Design Hotels, Uber, and Audience Rewards all offer opportunities to earn Starpoints. Now, you can indirectly earn 3X Marriott points. You can find details of these partnerships here . Earn 1/3X SPG points with Marriott partners . Obviously this is less compelling than going the other way around, but there may be some opportunities worth pursuing. Find Marriott point earning partnerships here . Additional options for earning SPG points which now convert 1 to 3 to Marriott Rewards, can be found here: Top 10 shortcuts to earning SPG points . Sweet Opportunities: Free Nights Convert SPG points to Marriott to book free nights for 24% more value : Hotel Hustle shows median point redemption values for most hotel chains . At the time of this writing, the median point value (in cents per point) for SPG is 1.849 and Marriott is 0.763. This means that, on average , you can get more value per SPG point by converting to Marriott 1 to 3. By doing so, each SPG point, on average, should yield 0.763 x 3 = 2.289 cents per point value . That&#8217;s a 24% increase in value over using SPG points to book SPG hotels! Of course, this is just based on median results &#8212; your specific results will vary. Book Marriott hotels for 2000 to 15,000 SPG points per night . Marriott&#8217;s free night award chart ranges from 6,000 to 45,000 points per night. With the SPG to Marriott 1 to 3 conversion ratio, that means that SPG points go really far when booking Marriott stays. Book Ritz Carlton hotels for 10,00 to 23,333 SPG points per night . Again, SPG points represent a great value for booking Ritz properties. Book low category SPG properties for 6,000 to 12,000 Marriott points per night : SPG category 1 and 2 properties range in award price from 2,000 to 4,000 SPG points per night. That translates to only 6,000 to 12,000 Marriott points per night. Get 5th Night Free on low category hotels. SPG&#8217;s 5th Night Free benefit is limited to category 3-7 hotels. Marriott has no such restriction. You can use Marriott&#8217;s 5th Night free benefit at low category Marriott hotels. More here . Book SPG Points &amp; Cash nights , up to Category 5 for 18,000 (or fewer) Marriott points per night (plus cash) Book SPG Points &amp; Cash upgraded rooms , up to Category 5 for 21,750 (or fewer) Marriott points per night (plus cash) Book SPG Points &amp; Cash suites , up to Category 5 for 36,000 (or fewer) Marriott points per night (plus cash) Sweet Opportunities: Nights &amp; Flights Both Marriott and SPG offer travel packages in which you can redeem hotel points for 5 or 7 night hotel stays plus get airline miles as well. The airline miles go to your airline loyalty account and do not have to be used for the same trip in which you book your stay. For background, please see: SPG Nights &amp; Flights vs. Marriott Travel Packages Analysis of Marriott Travel Packages: 5 Night vs. 7 Night These travel packages lead to the following sweet opportunities: Get 5 nights at a category 5 Marriott property plus 132,000 United MileagePlus miles for 79,000 SPG points* Get 5 nights at a category 5 Marriott property plus 120,000 air miles for 79,000 SPG points* Get 7 nights at a category 5 Marriott property plus 132,000 United MileagePlus miles for 90,000 SPG points Get 7 nights at a category 5 Marriott property plus 120,000 air miles for 90,000 SPG points Get 5 nights at an SPG category 3 property plus 50,000 air miles for 180,000 Marriott points Get 5 nights at an SPG category 4 property plus 50,000 air miles for 210,000 Marriott points * Note that Marriott 5 Night travel packages exist, but they&#8217;re intended to be only available to Marriott Vacation Club (timeshare) owners. In rare cases, Marriott elite members have been able to book these packages without being Vacation Club owners. More details can be found here: Marriott 5 Night Travel Packages exist, but they’re secret. Sweet Opportunities: Transfer to Miles SPG has a huge list of transfer partners ( found here ) and most transfer at a very favorable rate: 20,000 SPG Starpoints = 25,000 air miles. But, SPG does not transfer to Southwest Airlines, and the transfer ratio to United is poor (2 to 1). When SPG to Marriott to Miles is a good idea&#8230; Marriott points transfer to many airlines as well, but transfer ratios vary by the number of points transferred, whether or not you use a travel package to transfer, and the specific airline you transfer to. I&#8217;ll cover these intricacies in a future post. For now, consider converting SPG points to Marriott and then to miles as follows (note that you can often do better than SPG&#8217;s usual 1 to 1.25 ratio!): Convert SPG to United at a g