# Mark Beissinger On Contemporary Urban Civic Revolutions

**Source**: https://democracyparadox.com/2022/04/12/mark-beissinger-on-contemporary-urban-civic-revolutions/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:51:28.332073+00:00

---

Mark Beissinger on Contemporary Urban Civic Revolutions - Democracy Paradox Skip to content Search Search for: Democracy Paradox Because Democracy is More than Elections Menu Home Book Lists 100 Books on Democracy 100 Recent Books on Democracy and Politics Democracy Paradox Podcast Contact Open Search Mark Beissinger on Contemporary Urban Civic Revolutions Mark Beissinger is a professor of politics at Princeton University and the author of the new book The Revolutionary City: Urbanization and the Global Transformation of Rebellion . Become a Patron! I think the revolutionary process has become somewhat less consequential in some ways. The ability to bring about substantive change in the wake of revolution has deteriorated for one thing. We&#8217;ve gained certain things as well. I mean, revolutions are no longer as violent as they once were. They&#8217;re more frequent than they once were, almost more normal in terms of being part of the political landscape in a way that they were not in the past. Mark Beissinger Key Highlights An Account of the Orange Revolution in Ukraine Description of Urban Civic Revolutions Why are Revolutions more Successful than in the Past? Why are Revolutions Less Violent? How do Revolutions Continue to Change? Podcast Transcript Thank you for listening to the Democracy Paradox: A podcast on democracy, democratization, and world affairs. Each week you’ll learn about insights largely absent from traditional political discourse. These are complex ideas that might be unfamiliar so, I’ve provided a complete transcript at democracyparadox.com. You can also support the podcast at Patreon for as little as $5/month. Supporters have access to bonus material like this week’s conversation with my kids about their project to build their own country. Other conversations feature guests like Richard Davies, host of the podcast How Do We Fix It . I’m always impressed with the breadth of topics on How Do We Fix It . They tackle subjects with a mission to discover solutions. So, check out How Do We Fix It and consider becoming a patron to listen to conversations with guests like Richard or even my kids. Today’s guest is Mark Beissinger. He is a professor of politics at Princeton University and the author of a new book published today The Revolutionary City: Urbanization and the Global Transformation of Rebellion . We actually recorded this conversation a few weeks before Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine, but Ukraine was already on everyone’s minds. Shortly after the invasion I saw protests break out without much success in Russia, Belarus, and occupied cities in Ukraine. Beissinger’s analysis helps explain why these protests did not turn into revolutions. But he also explains why protests can lead to revolutionary outcomes. It’s something to watch as events continue to evolve in the former Soviet Union. So, with that said… Here is my conversation with Mark Beissinger…. jmk Mark Beissinger, welcome to the Democracy Paradox . Mark Beissinger Thanks, Justin. jmk Well, Mark, I was so impressed with your book. I was anticipating it for months and it did not disappoint. And It&#8217;s difficult sometimes in a book like yours that has so much theory and so much information and so much analysis to find a starting point. But your book does start out with an account of the Orange Revolution in Ukraine. And it&#8217;s really a part of the world that has drawn a lot of attention lately. Not to disappoint, but I don&#8217;t want to get into the current events of the moment. But I do think that your account of Ukraine&#8217;s Orange Revelation does bring to life the idea of this urban revolution, this modern revolution, if you will. Can we start there? Can you paint a picture of what exactly happened in Ukraine during the orange revolution and how the dynamics of the city helped to shape its outcome? Mark Beissinger Sure. Sure. So, I mean, the Orange Revolution came about, because of electoral fraud. But also because of the pervasive corruption of the Kuchma regime and the repressiveness of the Kuchma regime. So, those are the kinds of regimes that tend to be vulnerable to the contemporary urban revolutions. So, in the Orange Revolution, enormous numbers of people were assembled in a very short period of time. The entire revolution lasted 17 days. Upwards of one million people mobilized in the central square of Kiev, the Maidan, what&#8217;s known as independence square. So, that&#8217;s fairly typical of the contemporary, what I call urban civic revolutions which have become the dominant form of revolution around the world today. You concentrate very large numbers of people in a very short period of time in a central open space. That contrasts with urban revolutions of the past where there was barricade fighting and armed rebellion. In fact, most urban revolutions up to 1985 were armed revolutions. It&#8217;s really only since 1985 that we&#8217;ve seen this power of numbers playing out as a revolutionary strategy. You know, you can look around the world at other revolutions. The Egyptian Revolution in 2011, very similar kind of pattern, you know, it lasted for 18 days. Millions mobilizing in Tahrir Square. Of course, there are other cities which are involved as well. And that was true in the orange revolution. But one of the things about these kinds of revolutions is that they are very rapidly assembled. They differ from revolutions in the past in that people come together kind of on the spot. They are negative coalitions against the regime and really are fairly highly fragmented. So, it&#8217;s not surprising that in the case of the Orange Revolution actually the regime that was brought to power by the revolution fell apart within a relatively short period of time. And in fact, the forces against which the revolution mobilized came back to power. You know, you ended up with another revolution approximately ten years later over somewhat the same issues. So, you know, you can contrast this kind of revolution also with the rural revolutions that were dominant in the middle of the 20th century. So, you know, contrast the Orange Revolution with say the Chinese Revolution of 1949. I mean, the Chinese Revolution involved revolutionaries going off to the countryside, fighting from inaccessible areas. In cities it was just simply too dangerous to engage in armed rebellion. The state was too strong, too dominant. So, they fought their struggle for 21 years from inaccessible areas and finally were able to capture cities. You know, another example would be the Taliban most recently fighting against the Afghan government. Again, you know, it took 22 years for the Taliban. They fought from the rough terrain of the Afghan countryside. So, there&#8217;s a very different pattern, these urban civic revolutions, than the revolutions of the past. jmk So, Mark, you made an interesting comment. You said that in the Chinese Revolution that they did not fight in the cities because it was too dangerous. And it&#8217;s a point that you echo throughout the book. In fact, you write, “Urban revolutions occur precisely where the coercive capacity of the state is strongest. They do not seek to hide from state power. Rather they confront state power directly.” It sounds exactly like what the Chinese were concerned about. It sounds incredibly dangerous. Mark Beissinger Yeah, well ultimately that&#8217;s what all revolutionaries want to capture, those nurse centers of power which are located in cities. So, it&#8217;s not only the case that revolutionaries are vulnerable to repression because that&#8217;s also where the state is strongest, where it has its coercive capacity concentrated. But it&#8217;s also the case that regimes are most vulnerable in cities. That&#8217;s exactly where their nerve centers are concentrated and what the revolutionaries want to capture. So, this is what I call the proximity dilemma in revolutions. There&#8217;s a trade-off that&#8217;s involved. The closer you are to the nerve centers of power, the more you&#8217;re able to disrupt them. But the more vulnerable you are also to the repressive capacities of the state. So, essentially over time, revolutionaries have had to figure out how to manage this. Regimes have also had to figure out how to manage this. So, prior to, you know, the late 20th century, most urban revolutions were armed and they had a very low rate of success. Something like one out of every five were successful in these armed urban revolutions. And the reason was that the state had overwhelming coercive power in cities. It was less able to penetrate the countryside. But in cities that&#8217;s where, you know, their power really lay. So, today urban revolutions don&#8217;t rely on the power of arms. They rely on the power of numbers. And that was not possible in the early 20th century. It was not possible, because cities were simply too small. In the early 20th century, there was something like nine cities with over a million people around the world. So, a small number of very large cities, whereas today there&#8217;s something like 516 cities with over a million people around the world. So, you can generate the kinds of numbers you need today, whereas in the early 20th century, you couldn&#8217;t. Arms were the only way really that urban revolutionaries could engage in taking on the state. jmk So, Mark, are you saying that the number of people involved in the protest is really more important than the percent of the population that is involved in the revolt? Mark Beissinger Yes, to some extent. I mean, if you look at successful revolutions, you look at what proportion of a population really participates in revolution and in successful revolutions it can range from maybe between 7% and 18%. So, it&#8217;s always a minority of people who participate in revolutions. Now that doesn&#8217;t mean that the revolutionaries didn&#8217;t have majority support within the population. In, you know, the cases that I lo