# Bad Bunny Concert Mexico City Ticket Fraud Ticketmaster Apology

**Source**: https://www.latimes.com/entertainment-arts/music/story/2022-12-11/bad-bunny-concert-mexico-city-ticket-fraud-ticketmaster-apology
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:31:45.309404+00:00

---

Ticketmaster apologizes for Bad Bunny concert-ticket fraud - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing &amp; Homelessness Politics Science &amp; Medicine World &amp; Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor &amp; Workplace Real Estate Technology and the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing &amp; Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate &amp; Environment Global Warming Water &amp; Drought Entertainment &amp; Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 best restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art &amp; Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health &amp; Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel &amp; Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World &amp; Nation Immigration &amp; the Border Israel-Hamas Mexico &amp; the Americas Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios Business • AI &amp; Tech • Banking &amp; Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Goods &amp; Retail • Healthcare &amp; Science • Law Dentists Decor &amp; Design Doctors &amp; Scientists Hot Property Live &amp; Well Orange County Pets The Hub: Rebuilding LA Travel Weddings &amp; Celebrations Newsletters Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Students &amp; Educators Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store L.A. Times Studios News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance &amp; Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? People on the Move Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Sections Tap to enable a layout that focuses on the article. Focus mode Show Search Search Query Submit Search Advertisement Music Ticketmaster apologizes for fake-ticket fiasco at Bad Bunny show in Mexico Bad Bunny performs a 2022 concert at Mexico City’s Estadio Azteca. (Eduardo Verdugo / Associated Press) By Christi Carras Staff Writer&nbsp; Dec. 11, 2022 12 PM PT Share via Close extra sharing options Email Facebook X LinkedIn Threads Reddit WhatsApp Copy Link URL Copied! Print p]:text-cms-story-body-color-text clearfix mb-10 md:max-w-170 md:mx-auto" data-subscriber-content> Bad Bunny’s World’s Hottest Tour became the world’s hottest mess Friday after instances of ticket fraud prevented hundreds of fans from attending the musician’s concert in Mexico City. Ticketmaster issued an apology Friday after an “unprecedented” number of people were sold fake tickets and denied entry to Mexico City’s Estadio Azteca for the penultimate Bad Bunny concert of 2022. The ticket vendor promised full refunds to those who purchased legitimate tickets but were also denied entry at the venue during the chaotic scene. Anyone who bought authentic tickets and was unable to access Friday’s show can email contactanos@ticketmaster.com to request a refund, the company said in a statement posted on social media . Advertisement #AvisoImportante con respecto al concierto de @sanbenito ( #BadBunny ) en el @EstadioAzteca . pic.twitter.com/VjIoxBDR4V &mdash; Ticketmaster México (@Ticketmaster_Me) December 10, 2022 Furthermore, Ticketmaster said it is cooperating with Mexico’s Procuraduría Federal del Consumidor (Profeco) to investigate the incident, inhibit and penalize the sale of false tickets going forward. Mexico City was the last stop on Bad Bunny’s wildly popular World’s Hottest Tour. The Puerto Rican reggaeton sensation played his final show of the year at Estadio Azteca on Saturday after traveling to various cities in North, Central and South America. In some cases, tickets for Friday’s performance sold for thousands of pesos, while resold tickets reportedly went for tens of thousands, according to the Associated Press . Because of the ticket-fraud fiasco, mass confusion and outrage erupted Friday outside Estadio Azteca, where some attempted to climb over the gates only to be stopped by security inside, according to Billboard magazine . Ticketmaster said its processing system was overwhelmed by the unanticipated amount of fans who arrived at the stadium with a mix of real and counterfeit tickets. Advertisement According to CNN , cases of concert-ticket fraud have been rising in Mexico, and Profeco received more than 400 complaints related to ticket fraud from 2018 to October of this year. Music For global phenomenon Bad Bunny, Puerto Rico remains his playground, battleground and muse At a moment in his career when the American music industry and Hollywood are fighting for a piece of Bad Bunny, he’s fighting for his identity too. May 13, 2022 In a recent interview with Billboard , Bad Bunny said he plans to take a breather in 2023 after a whirlwind year of releasing new music, topping the charts, touring, winning awards and collecting Grammy nominations. “I’m taking a break,” he told the music magazine. “2023 is for me, for my physical health, my emotional health to breathe, enjoy my achievements. We’re going to celebrate. Let’s go here, let’s go there, let’s go on the boat. I have a couple of sporadic commitments, and I’ll go to the studio, but there’s no pressure. Remember yourself, c—. You’ve worked your ass off.” Advertisement Music Bad Bunny, king of the music world, wears the crown lightly at SoFi Stadium Puerto Rican superstar’s 2 1/2-hour set ranged from good-times island vibes to a critique of colonialism Oct. 1, 2022 In November, the “Me Porto Bonito” hitmaker received Grammy nominations for pop solo performance (“Moscow Mule”), música urbana album (“Un Verano Sin Ti”) and album of the year (“Un Verano Sin Ti”). Shortly thereafter, he was crowned the world’s most-streamed artist of the year by both Spotify and Apple Music. “I feel in control,” the recording artist told Billboard. “I’ve been doing this five, six years, and I’ve been acquiring experience. Yes, six years is nothing. But we’re living in a digital era, where everybody can upload their music and if you explode, you explode, and suddenly, you’re huge with a single hit and you have no experience.... “I’d say I’ve acquired that experience little by little. I’ve been able to overcome and heal many things in my life, and now I feel that security. I’ve never felt as centered in both my life and my career. I’m clear on what I am and who I am in terms of the music industry.” More to Read Bad Bunny bids farewell to Puerto Rico while marking Hurricane Maria anniversary Sept. 21, 2025 FTC sues Ticketmaster and Live Nation over concert ticket resale practices Sept. 18, 2025 Mad Fer Mexico: Oasis reunion brings chaos, reverie to fans in CDMX Sept. 16, 2025 Music Entertainment &amp; Arts The biggest entertainment stories Get our big stories about Hollywood, film, television, music, arts, culture and more right in your inbox as soon as they publish. By continuing, you agree to our Terms of Service and our Privacy Policy . Enter email address Agree &amp; Continue Christi Carras Former staff writer Christi Carras reported on the entertainment industry for the Los Angeles Times. She previously covered entertainment news for The Times after graduating from UCLA and working at Variety, the Hollywood Reporter and CNN Newsource. More From the Los Angeles Times Music If you like these tracks from ‘The Life of a Showgirl,’ try these Taylor Swift songs next Television Taylor Swift apparently has a lot to brag about with Travis Kelce (especially in bed) Music Future Ruins, Nine Inch Nails’ film-music festival, is canceled Music Before Taylor Swift rolled out ‘Father Figure,’ George Michael’s estate gave her props Oct. 3, 2025 Most Read in Music Music Taylor Swift’s ‘The Life of a Showgirl’ is an immaculate act of damage control Oct. 2, 2025 Music ‘This is the record that properly represents us’: Inside AFI’s journey to its definitive album Oct. 3, 2025 Music Spotify boycott: Artists leave ‘garbage hole’ platform after CEO invests in AI weapons July 31, 2025 Music Ice Spice says Matty Healy ‘apologized a bunch’ for those racist comments: ‘We’re good’ Sept. 29, 2023 Subscribers are Reading For Subscribers Almost no one is building new apartments in Los Angeles. Here’s why L.A. Affairs: He roots for Trump and the Dodgers. Could we stay married? UCLA donors question athletic director Martin Jarmond’s leadership, future viability How one man in East L.A. ended up with the world’s most famous feet UCLA chancellor ready to stand firm against Trump demands, unless they’re ‘valid’ Advertisement Latest Music Cannibal Corpse’s death metal keeps head banging into the mainstream, from ‘Ace Ventura’ to TikTok fame Oct. 3, 2025 How to have the best Sunday in L.A., according to Jenny Lewis Oct. 3, 2025 Hayley Williams says Morgan Wallen is the ‘racist country singer’ she refers to in her song Oct. 2, 2025 25 years later, Erykah Badu says ‘Mama’s Gun’ still guides her musical evolution Oct. 2, 2025 Mariah Carey and Michael Jackson did a duet, she says, but the world has to wait to hear to it Oct. 2, 2025 Advertisement Advertisement Ad