# rachaelkayalbers.com

**Source**: https://rachaelkayalbers.com/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:46:24.644864+00:00

---

Rachael Kay Albers | Brand Strategist &amp; Marketing Muckraker Skip to content Special Series: The Online Business Family Tree [ LISTEN NOW ] Rachael Kay Albers Menu About Work With Me Speaking Show Blog Podcast Contact Scroll down for the that gives your business unforgettability The one woman showstopper who teaches you there is no stupid trick. More on this later. The average person thinks about sex 8 times a day. They'll think about you 9. Scratch that. It's not about you as much as the vision you have for a better world. Standing out is fun and all, but spreading meaningful ideas that have people talking and taking action is where the magic happens. The difference between a passing glance - and a ground shaking shift in perspective? Unforgettability. One little word that turns your casual followers into critical thinkers who turn the questions you ask into their own answers. Click for my mom's reaction to finding the word "sex" on my website So, forget the X-factor &nbsp; do you have Unforgettability boosts your Gettability. As in: Get more signed contracts, PR opportunities, and sold-out stages where people are seeking you out for your expertise and your disruptive take on how to do things better.* *No gel-slicked combover, rented Lambos, or manipulative sales tactics required. Because when it comes to being listened to, selling your stuff, and making a name for your business… *Brad A Lambo-flexing, funnel-hacking, comma-pushing snake oil salesman. Will do just about anything for your email address. The Brads* can shove their bulletproof coffees. There's an unsleazy way to grow. While all the "gurus" are pedaling formulas for earning 7 figures from your toilet seat, I teach you to take the pages from their dated playbooks and set fire to the status quo. You don't need to launch more, hustle harder, or do it ALL. You just need to crack the code on what makes you, your content, and your vision for our changing world most memorable. And the only rule you really need to know? Is that there are none. Ready to unlearn the "hacks" that set you back? Turn on Rattling the cage of the status quo since 2017 When a Boy Boss and a Girl Boss Fall in Love&#8230; Are MLMs The Dick Pics of Online Marketing? Every Life Coach Website Ever: &#8220;GET UNSTUCK OR I WILL CUT YOU!&#8221; Santa, Fire Your Copywriter! The Worst Email To Send Your Customers The Power of Vulnerability to Make You Rich and Famous Why Are There No Boy Bosses? How I Joined The Three Comma Club When Marie Forleo, TEDx, and SXSW Said No: Is Everything Really Figureoutable? This Epic Marketing FAIL Will Save Your Business Get episodes by email Subscribe on YouTube Featured on Never settle for strap the box to a firecracker and watch that sucker 'splode I’m Rachael Kay Albers and I teach the latter. I won’t bore you with regurgitated marketing theories from 1996 or long-winded anecdotes about how you're just "one funnel away" from joining the three comma club. In fact, I won’t bore you ever. What will I do? Show you how to build your brand in a way that feels good in your guts (and puts cash in your bank account). My approach to business includes a critical analysis of what capitalism and brand culture are doing to us, and how we can be agents of change. No, I don't believe there's an "easy" marketing swap to make you an ethical billionaire. We can do better. Step into my office* *And the Awkward Marketing episode of The Office. Hey I'm RKA! Think of me as your one-woman SNL of business comedy who pours Pop Rocks in your Perrier. Cancel Culture and Personal Brands in PR Crisis, with Molly McPherson I&#8217;m joined by the indestructible Molly McPherson, who you may know as the TikTok “PR Lady,” as her followers have affectionally dubbed her, talking cancel culture and personal brands in PR crisis. Part 4: Fix It From Within or Burn It All Down? What Next? Burn it all down? Or fix it from within? Where do we go from here? Tune in for the final installment of the Online Business Family Tree&#8230; Part 3: ClickFunnels to Hell, Fake It &#8216;Til You Make It, and Moneyball In this installment, we cover fake it &#8217;til you make it, clickbait and ClickFunnels, from Russell Brunson all the way to WWI and WWII. I have no freebie to tempt you with. No automated email sequence to whisper sweet nothings into your inbox late at night. Here’s what I do have: a hilarious show on how to market with integrity, sell your services &amp; products successfully, and still not take yourself too seriously. Join me here: Your first name Please enter your name. The email address you actually check Please enter a valid email address. Give me my unforgettability! Thanks for subscribing! Please check your email for further instructions. Something went wrong. Please check your entries and try again. About Work With Me Speaking Show Blog Podcast Contact Copyright RKA © 2024 Brand Values Privacy Policy Terms &#038; Conditions Website by RKA ink