# Artificial Intelligence

**Source**: https://www.bbc.com/innovation/artificial-intelligence
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:27:07.447291+00:00

---

BBC Innovation | Artificial Intelligence Skip to content Watch Live British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Technology Science &amp; Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US &amp; Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science &amp; Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film &amp; TV Music Art &amp; Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean &amp; Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture &amp; Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList To the Ends of The Earth Earth Natural Wonders Weather &amp; Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcast Categories Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Watch Live Artificial Intelligence Startup creates technology to fight cyber attacks FarX combines voice and facial recognition with artificial intelligence to add extra protection. See more Latest headlines Should you turn to AI for advice on love? More people are turning to AI for help with their relationships, but is that a good idea? Musk becomes world&#x27;s first half-trillionaire The rise has been driven by a sharp increase in the value of his electric car company Tesla. Emily Blunt among Hollywood stars outraged over &#x27;AI actor&#x27; Tilly Norwood The AI actress is apparently in talks with Hollywood talent agencies to represent her on the big screen. When AI sends you on a scenic trek to nowhere An Eiffel Tower in Beijing, an imagined town in Peru: travellers are increasingly using tools like ChatGPT to plan trips – and being sent to places that don&#x27;t exist. &#x27;A million jobs in London could be changed by AI&#x27; The jobs most at risk include telemarketing, bookkeeping and data entry, according to research. AI tool used to recover £500m lost to fraud, UK government says Ministers say software developed by the Cabinet Office has helped to ramp up fraud detection. AI v the Mind How AI helped my back pain (sort of...) Back pain is one of the leading causes of disability in the world, but an AI-powered app is being used to help patients in the UK to manage their symptoms. But how does it measure up? We gave an AI a Rorschach test. What did it see? Inkblot tests play with the human imagination and our mind&#x27;s ability to impart meaning onto the world around us – but what does AI see in them? Watch Is this how AI might eliminate humanity? A new research paper predicts AI autonomy by 2027 could lead to human extinction within a decade. 22 Aug 2025 Tech Now The best-case scenario for AI in schools Amid fears about the use of AI in classrooms, American educator and founder of Khan Academy Sal Khan lays out an optimistic future. 20 Aug 2025 Artificial Intelligence What it takes to write like Agatha Christie We explore how technology is reviving the renowned fiction writer&#x27;s legacy. 28 Jun 2025 Tech Now Meet the world&#x27;s first recipient of an AI-powered bionic arm Sarah De Lagarde lost an arm and a leg after being hit by two trains in London. Now, she has an AI-powered arm. 17 Jan 2025 AI v the Mind Meet the world&#x27;s first artist robot We find out how AI blurs the line between creation and automation, raising questions about the essence of art. 18 Oct 2024 Innovation &#x27;A tech firm stole our voices - then cloned and sold them&#x27; Two voice-over artists were listening to a podcast when they heard their own stolen AI-generated voices. 19 Sep 2024 Innovation Would you eat a meal dreamed up by a computer? AI v The Mind: We explore the world of food and ask if human expertise is the only way to deliver great flavour. 23 Aug 2024 Innovation Century-old Olympics footage brought back to life A look through footage from the Paris 1924 Olympics gives viewers a chance to reflect on how much has changed. 9 Aug 2024 Sport How AI scouts sporting heroes of future at the Olympics A project using AI and sports science identifies potential future athletes from the crowds of Olympic fans. 8 Aug 2024 Sport Can AI tell funnier jokes than a human? In a clash of wit and technology, we bring together two unlikely adversaries: a comedian and an AI chatbot. 26 Jul 2024 Artificial Intelligence Watch the movie that rewrites itself Filmmaker Gary Hustwit has created a documentary which can rewrite itself before every screening. 7 Jun 2024 Artificial Intelligence AI v The Mind: Who has the edge? In a new series, we will test the limits of the latest AI technology by pitting it against human experts. 1 May 2024 Artificial Intelligence How AI and deepfakes are changing politics Some politicians have found themselves victims of deepfakes. Can the public trust politicians in the age of AI? 12 Apr 2024 Artificial Intelligence Could this suit revolutionise motion capture? A company’s motion capture system offers access to advance animation capacities at an affordable price. 14 Nov 2023 Artificial Intelligence What happens to our digital lives when we die? Can technology help us keep a connection with lost loved ones? 14 Nov 2023 Artificial Intelligence Can artificial intelligence predict the future of fashion? Using AI to spot future fashion trends could also help reduce clothing waste. 14 Nov 2023 Artificial Intelligence The tech keeping planes in the sky The team developing advanced flight safety aids in a small South African suburb. 9 Nov 2023 Artificial Intelligence What happens when AI has an overactive imagination? Google DeepDream explores how artificial intelligence can produce dream-like art. 9 Nov 2023 Artificial Intelligence ChatGPT: Why we&#x27;re still smarter than machines ChatGPT has been hailed as a game-changer, but how smart are AI chatbots really? 9 Nov 2023 Artificial Intelligence God and robots: Will AI transform religion? AI is changing how we interact with everything – from food to healthcare, travel and also religion. 9 Nov 2023 Artificial Intelligence More artificial intelligence 23 Sep 2025 Bollywood stars fight for personality rights amid deepfake surge Karan Johar, Aishwarya Rai, Abhishek Bachchan and others have gone to court to protect their personality rights. 23 Sep 2025 22 Sep 2025 What&#x27;s the big deal about AI data centres? Huge investment is going into data centres for AI, but why are they so expensive? 22 Sep 2025 22 Sep 2025 Nvidia to invest $100bn in OpenAI Nvidia says it will supply high-performance chips needed for OpenAI&#x27;s data centres. 22 Sep 2025 21 Sep 2025 Oxford gives students access to AI platform The rollout is part of a partnership between the institution and OpenAI, which develops ChatGPT. 21 Sep 2025 19 Sep 2025 Analysis: Will the US tech bromance turn around the UK economy? In the week the UK hosted Donald Trump for a second state visit, the country also rolled out the red carpet for US tech firms. 19 Sep 2025 19 Sep 2025 AI industrial park in Irvine &#x27;could bring £15bn investment&#x27; A UK-based company announces plan to create one of Europe&#x27;s largest artificial intelligence infrastructure hubs at a site in North Ayrshire. 19 Sep 2025 19 Sep 2025 Friend stole my face for deepfake nudes – now I want tougher laws The victim of one of the first deepfake prosecutions in Scotland says the law needs to change to protect victims. 19 Sep 2025 18 Sep 2025 Chipmaker Nvidia to invest $5bn in rival Intel The two American chipmakers will partner to make personal computer and data centre chips, in a lifeline for Intel as it struggles to profit from the AI boom. 18 Sep 2025 18 Sep 2025 Facebook owner unveils new AI-powered smart glasses The event comes as Meta faces ongoing scrutiny over the impact of its products, particularly on children. 18 Sep 2025 ... British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use Subscription Terms About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info BBC.com Help &amp; FAQs Content Index Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.