# Thomas Piketty New Gilded Age

**Source**: http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2014/may/08/thomas-piketty-new-gilded-age/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:30:16.722937+00:00

---

Why We’re in a New Gilded Age | Paul Krugman | The New York Review of Books Skip to Content Advertisement Politics Literature Arts Ideas short logo Sign In Subscribe Politics Literature Arts Ideas The New York Books Review Homepage Logo. Politics United States International Human Rights Climate Change Literature Fiction Poetry Biography &#038; Memoir In Translation Essays Arts Visual Arts Performing Arts Film &#038; Television Music Society &#038; Culture Ideas History Economics Science &#038; Technology Law Philosophy &#038; Religion More from the Review Events All Issues About Us Shop Literary Gifts Shop NYRB Classics Subscribe to our Newsletter Best of The New York Review, plus books, events, and other items of interest Continue October 23, 2025 Current Issue NYBooks Logo. Link to Homepage Sign In Subscribe Site logo Politics Collapse United States International Human Rights Climate Change Literature Collapse Fiction Poetry Biography &#038; Memoir In Translation Essays Arts Collapse Visual Arts Performing Arts Film &#038; Television Music Society &#038; Culture Ideas Collapse History Economics Science &#038; Technology Law Philosophy &#038; Religion Current Issue Current Issue More from the Review Events All Issues About Us Shop Literary Gifts Shop NYRB Classics Why We’re in a New Gilded Age Paul Krugman Thomas Piketty’s ‘Capital in the Twenty-First Century’ May 8, 2014 issue Visit us on Facebook! Opens External Webpage Visit us on Twitter! Opens External Webpage Visit us on Threads! Opens External Webpage Visit us on Bluesky! Opens External Webpage Mail to Print page Submit a letter: Email us letters@nybooks.com Reviewed: Capital in the Twenty-First Century by Thomas Piketty, translated from the French by Arthur Goldhammer Belknap Press/Harvard University Press, 685 pp., $39.95 Emmanuelle Marchadour Thomas Piketty in his office at the Paris School of Economics, 2013 Thomas Piketty, professor at the Paris School of Economics, isn&rsquo;t a household name, although that may change with the English-language publication of his magnificent, sweeping meditation on inequality, Capital in the Twenty-First Century . Yet his influence runs deep. It has become a commonplace to say that we are living in a second Gilded Age&mdash;or, as Piketty likes to put it, a second Belle &Eacute;poque&mdash;defined by the incredible rise of the &ldquo;one percent.&rdquo; But it has only become a commonplace thanks to Piketty&rsquo;s work. In particular, he and a few colleagues (notably Anthony Atkinson at Oxford and Emmanuel Saez at Berkeley) have pioneered statistical techniques that make it possible to track the concentration of income and wealth deep into the past&mdash;back to the early twentieth century for America and Britain, and all the way to the late eighteenth century for France. The result has been a revolution in our understanding of long-term trends in inequality. Before this revolution, most discussions of economic disparity more or less ignored the very rich. Some economists (not to mention politicians) tried to shout down any mention of inequality at all: &ldquo;Of the tendencies that are harmful to sound economics, the most seductive, and in my opinion the most poisonous, is to focus on questions of distribution,&rdquo; declared Robert Lucas Jr. of the University of Chicago, the most influential macroeconomist of his generation, in 2004. But even those willing to discuss inequality generally focused on the gap between the poor or the working class and the merely well-off, not the truly rich&mdash;on college graduates whose wage gains outpaced those of less-educated workers, or on the comparative good fortune of the top fifth of the population compared with the bottom four fifths, not on the rapidly rising incomes of executives and bankers. It therefore came as a revelation when Piketty and his colleagues showed that incomes of the now famous &ldquo;one percent,&rdquo; and of even narrower groups, are actually the big story in rising inequality. And this discovery came with a second revelation: talk of a second Gilded Age, which might have seemed like hyperbole, was nothing of the kind. In America in particular the share of national income going to the top one percent has followed a great U-shaped arc. Before World War I the one percent received around a fifth of total income in both Britain and the United States. By 1950 that share had been cut by more than half. But since 1980 the one percent has seen its income share surge again&mdash;and in the United States it&rsquo;s back to what it was a century ago. Still, today&rsquo;s economic elite is very different from that of the nineteenth century, isn&rsquo;t it? Back then, great wealth tended to be inherited; aren&rsquo;t today&rsquo;s economic elite people who earned their position? Well, Piketty tells us that this isn&rsquo;t as true as you think, and that in any case this state of affairs may prove no more durable than the middle-class society that flourished for a generation after World War II. The big idea of Capital in the Twenty-First Century is that we haven&rsquo;t just gone back to nineteenth-century levels of income inequality, we&rsquo;re also on a path back to &ldquo;patrimonial capitalism,&rdquo; in which the commanding heights of the economy are controlled not by talented individuals but by family dynasties. It&rsquo;s a remarkable claim&mdash;and precisely because it&rsquo;s so remarkable, it needs to be examined carefully and critically. Before I get into that, however, let me say right away that Piketty has written a truly superb book. It&rsquo;s a work that melds grand historical sweep&mdash;when was the last time you heard an economist invoke Jane Austen and Balzac?&mdash;with painstaking data analysis. And even though Piketty mocks the economics profession for its &ldquo;childish passion for mathematics,&rdquo; underlying his discussion is a tour de force of economic modeling, an approach that integrates the analysis of economic growth with that of the distribution of income and wealth. This is a book that will change both the way we think about society and the way we do economics. 1. What do we know about economic inequality, and about when do we know it? Until the Piketty revolution swept through the field, most of what we knew about income and wealth inequality came from surveys, in which randomly chosen households are asked to fill in a questionnaire, and their answers are tallied up to produce a statistical portrait of the whole. The international gold standard for such surveys is the annual survey conducted once a year by the Census Bureau. The Federal Reserve also conducts a triennial survey of the distribution of wealth. These two surveys are an essential guide to the changing shape of American society. Among other things, they have long pointed to a dramatic shift in the process of US economic growth, one that started around 1980. Before then, families at all levels saw their incomes grow more or less in tandem with the growth of the economy as a whole. After 1980, however, the lion&rsquo;s share of gains went to the top end of the income distribution, with families in the bottom half lagging far behind. Advertisement Historically, other countries haven&rsquo;t been equally good at keeping track of who gets what; but this situation has improved over time, in large part thanks to the efforts of the Luxembourg Income Study (with which I will soon be affiliated). And the growing availability of survey data that can be compared across nations has led to further important insights. In particular, we now know both that the United States has a much more unequal distribution of income than other advanced countries and that much of this difference in outcomes can be attributed directly to government action. European nations in general have highly unequal incomes from market activity, just like the United States, although possibly not to the same extent. But they do far more redistribution through taxes and transfers than America does, leading to much less inequality in disposable incomes. Yet for all their usefulness, survey data have important limitations. They tend to undercount or miss entirely the income that accrues to the handful of individuals at the very top of the income scale. They also have limited historical depth. Even US survey data only take us to 1947. Enter Piketty and his colleagues, who have turned to an entirely different source of information: tax records. This isn&rsquo;t a new idea. Indeed, early analyses of income distribution relied on tax data because they had little else to go on. Piketty et al. have, however, found ways to merge tax data with other sources to produce information that crucially complements survey evidence. In particular, tax data tell us a great deal about the elite. And tax-based estimates can reach much further into the past: the United States has had an income tax since 1913, Britain since 1909. France, thanks to elaborate estate tax collection and record-keeping, has wealth data reaching back to the late eighteenth century. Exploiting these data isn&rsquo;t simple. But by using all the tricks of the trade, plus some educated guesswork, Piketty is able to produce a summary of the fall and rise of extreme inequality over the course of the past century. It looks like Table 1 on this page. As I said, describing our current era as a new Gilded Age or Belle &Eacute;poque isn&rsquo;t hyperbole; it&rsquo;s the simple truth. But how did this happen? 2. Piketty throws down the intellectual gauntlet right away, with his book&rsquo;s very title: Capital in the Twenty-First Century . Are economists still allowed to talk like that? It&rsquo;s not just the obvious allusion to Marx that makes this title so startling. By invoking capital right from the beginning, Piketty breaks ranks with most modern discussions of inequality, and hearkens back to an older tradition. The general presumption of most inequality re