# Photo Finish Daniel Suarez Wins Nascar Cup Race By 003

**Source**: https://www.roadandtrack.com/news/a46963254/photo-finish-daniel-suarez-wins-nascar-cup-race-by-003/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:11:15.038424+00:00

---

Photo Finish! Daniel Suarez Wins NASCAR Cup Race by .003 We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and other uses. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. Search About Us Join Now All Access R&amp;T Experiences Shop R&amp;T News Reviews Car Culture Exclusives Performance Car of the Year Contact Follow Newsletter Send Us a Tip Your Privacy Choices Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content News Reviews Culture Exclusives Gear Send Us a TIp Sign Up Join Now sign in News Photo Finish! Daniel Suarez Wins Atlanta by .003 in a Thrilling Three-Car Battle Photo Finish! Daniel Suarez Wins Atlanta by .003 in a Thrilling Three-Car Battle NASCAR fans were treated to an all-time finish as Daniel Suarez won his second NASCAR Cup Series race by a margin of 0.003 over second place and 0.007 over third. By Victoria Beaver Published: Feb 25, 2024 7:56 PM EST Save Article Alex Slitz // Getty Images For the second week in a row, fans had to wait for the official call to know which driver was victorious in the NASCAR Cup Series. This time as Daniel Suarez beat Ryan Blaney and Kyle Busch to the line by a margin of .003 and .007 seconds respectively. Suarez's Sunday night victory enters the records book as the third smallest margin in NASCAR Cup history. &quot;It was so damn close man,&quot; Suarez said after climbing out of the car. &quot;It was so damn close. It was good racing.&quot; View full post on X The smallest margin of victory in a NASCAR Cup Series race is .002, which has happened twice before first at 2003 Darlington when Ricky Craven won over Kurt Busch and at Spring Talledaga in 2011 when Jimmie Johnson beat Clint Bowyer to the line. Blaney was leading the closing laps while playing defense to two lines barrelling behind him. After losing a push going into the final corners both Busch and Suarez found themselves within striking distance of the leader. To the naked eye, the three cars crossed the line in unison. &quot;I can't complain. I've won them by very very little too,&quot; Blaney told Fox Sports after the race. &quot;I can't complain too much when I lose them by that much.&quot; Suarez was running third and took the chance on the high side as Busch battled in the middle. This win means a lot to Suarez, after the Trackhouse driver missed the playoffs last year there's speculation that his seat might be at risk going forward as co-owner Justin Marks and Pitbull spent the end of the 2023 season and the off-season signing multiple promising upcoming competitors to the organization. When questioned after the race Marks said that he couldn't image Suarez ever not being a driver for his team. While the pressure is not gone, those words have to be music to the driver of the No. 99 ears. After finishing in third, Busch talked about racing with and helping out Suarez during the race. Notoriously, Busch has had problems making friends and holding alliances on the track. On the opposite end of the spectrum, Suarez has built a brand around being an 'Amigo', both in reference to his Mexican heritage and friendly demeanor. &quot;It was good to see Daniel get a win,&quot; Busch told NASCAR on FOX. &quot;We were helping each other being Chevy team partners. It shows that when you do have friends and can make alliances they do seem to work and that was a huge part of today.&quot; Countless fans and accounts online were quick to draw the comparison between this finish and the famous scene in Pixar's Cars where the animated character Lightning Mcqueen wins by sticking out his tongue while racing Chick Hicks and Strip 'The King' Weathers. View full post on X Atlanta has been recently reconfigured and fans and drivers are getting familiar with the &quot;New Atlanta&quot;. Many love it and many watched the race today begrudgingly. Before this historic finish, there were 42 lead changes; the most in Atlanta's 120 race history, nine cautions, one red flag, and a first-of-its-kind glove penalty . It was an action-packed race already and a three-wide battle just put the cherry on top. Related Stories NASCAR's Joey Logano Penalized for Altered Glove NASCAR Beats the Weather, Hamlin Wins the Clash Late Stage Cautions Shake Up Ambetter Health 400 Victoria Beaver Contributing Writer Victoria Beaver is a nomadic sports writer who spends her time hopping between race tracks and hippie farms. She’s covered every corner of motorsports that will let her in from 410 Sprints to NASCAR to Supercross. Her daily driver is a 2010 Subaru that she refused to do the smallest amount of preventative maintenance on. Instead, she spends her free time and money building a 42-foot Skoolie to one day travel the country full time. Spotlight Defender D7X-R Wants to Conquer the Desert For One Driver, 72 Hours of Racing Is No Big Deal The Ferrari F80 Is a Silent Killer Tested: 2026 Chevrolet Silverado EV Trail Boss Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Alpine Wins 6 Hours of Fuji, WEC's 100th Race Is Tail of the Dragon Worth the Hype? The Rise of Ferrari’s New Young Talents The 2026 Toyota GR Corolla Is Much Stiffer Pearley: Where's My Fox-Body Mustang GTD? Best Luxury Sports Cars for 2025 and 2026 Why McLaren Insists Piastri’s Baku GP Was a 'One-Off' The Bentley Bentayga Is an Ultra-Lux Tow Barge Advertisement - Continue Reading Below About Us New Cars News Press Room How We Test Cars Send Us a Tip Car Rankings Newsletter Contact Us Advertise Online Customer Service Gear and Accessories Subscribe Community Guidelines Media Kit A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2025 Hearst Autos, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights/Shine the Light DAA Industry Opt Out Terms of Use Site Map Your Privacy Choices: Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads