# Bs Xpm 2001 06 02 0106020237 Story.Html

**Source**: https://www.baltimoresun.com/news/bs-xpm-2001-06-02-0106020237-story.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:39:38.473380+00:00

---

Lawyer Gutierrez agrees to disbarment &#8211; Baltimore Sun Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 68&deg;F Friday, October 3rd 2025 Baltimore Sun eNewspaper Home Page Subscriber Services Manage Subscription EZ Pay Vacation Stop Sun Insider eNewspaper Daily Sun Evening Edition Carroll County Times Capital Gazette The Aegis Advertise with Us Advertise Classified Homes Jobs Special Sections News News Latest Crime and Public Safety Education Elections Environment Health Lottery Marijuana Nation Politics Sun Investigates World Carroll County Times Carroll County Times eNewspaper Education High School Sports News Opinion Obituaries Submit News The Aegis The Aegis eNewspaper Aegis Opinion Aegis Sports Harford Magazine Local News Local News Maryland Anne Arundel County Baltimore City Baltimore County Carroll County Times Harford County &#8211; The Aegis Howard County Eastern Shore Sports Sports Baltimore Orioles Baltimore Ravens Olympics High School Sports College Sports Terps Horse Racing Business Business Autos Best Reviews Real Estate Top Workplaces Opinion Opinion Editorials Opinion Columnists Dan Rodricks Op-Ed Readers Respond Submit Letter to the Editor Submit Op-Ed News Obituaries News Obituaries Death Notices How to submit a death notice Things To Do Things To Do Arts Entertainment Events Food and Drink Home and Garden Horoscopes Fun and Games Movies Music Branded Content Paid Partner Content Advertising by Ascend Paid Content by Brandpoint Sign up for email newsletters Sign Up Lawyer Gutierrez agrees to disbarment Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Subscribe Login Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Sign up for email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Login Search 68&deg;F Friday, October 3rd 2025 Baltimore Sun eNewspaper News eNewspaper Latest Headlines Sports News Obituaries Death Notices Things To Do Opinion Weather Don&#039;t miss: 📺 Watch FOX45 news 🇺🇸 Shutdown coverage 🍁 Maryland foliage forecast 🏆 Baltimore Sun&#8217;s Best 🚨 Search Baltimore crime data 🚔 Baltimore homicide map News Lawyer Gutierrez agrees to disbarment Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X By UPDATED: October 1, 2021 at 5:30 AM EDT M. Cristina Gutierrez, one of the Baltimore area&#8217;s most ferocious criminal defense lawyers, has agreed to her own disbarment, marking the end of an accomplished law career. The state Court of Appeals ordered her &#8220;disbarred by consent&#8221; May 24, after Gutierrez agreed to resign rather than fight complaints filed against her with the state Attorney Grievance Commission, which investigates allegations of wrongdoing by lawyers. Reached by telephone yesterday at her home in Towson, Gutierrez, 50, said she suffers from multiple sclerosis. &#8220;I am not physically able to keep practicing,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I can barely walk.&#8221; She said she was in the hospital for much of the winter and has gone blind in one eye. &#8220;Since I can&#8217;t defend myself against anything, and I can&#8217;t practice anyway, I decided to sign the consent.&#8221; Melvin Hirshman, bar counsel to the Attorney Grievance Commission, said his office took over Gutierrez&#8217;s client files about a month ago, after another lawyer informed the commission she was too sick to handle her practice. When she turned over her financial records, the commission discovered that client money that should have been retained in a trust account wasn&#8217;t there. At the same time, clients began complaining, he said. About a dozen clients said they had paid Gutierrez, but she had not filed their pleadings in court. Because Gutierrez signed the disbarment consent, those claims will not investigated. Hirshman said that once the commission finishes gathering her files, stored in three locations around Baltimore, it can start informing all her clients about what has happened. If she cannot repay clients, they can appeal to the state&#8217;s Client Security Trust Fund for reimbursement. Lawyer A. Dwight Pettit said the deterioration of Gutierrez&#8217;s practice was a result of her failing health. &#8220;As she got progressively sicker, she found it increasingly hard to make communications with the clients,&#8221; Pettit said. &#8220;I never got any indication that there was any kind of error or incompetence. It was all about her being sick.&#8221; Colleagues described her as a meticulous and tireless trial lawyer who could destroy witnesses on the stand. &#8220;She&#8217;s a dynamo. There&#8217;s almost nobody else I would have wanted to represent me,&#8221; said Louis Curran, a public defender. William H. Murphy Jr., a top criminal defense lawyer and former judge, met Gutierrez in the 1970s and worked with her on and off for about 20 years. &#8220;This is a sad day for a truly great lawyer,&#8221; he said. &#8220;She&#8217;s one of the best lawyers I&#8217;ve ever seen. Gutierrez has handled some of Baltimore&#8217;s most notorious cases, including the defense of former Baltimore Comptroller Jacqueline F. McLean, who was convicted in 1994 in a corruption scandal. In one of her first cases after leaving the city public defender&#8217;s office, she defended a Baltimore policewoman accused of shooting her husband six times while he was in bed. She used a battered-spouse defense and saved her client from a first-degree murder conviction. The woman was convicted of second-degree murder. But between the victories there has been contention. &#8220;Let me put it this way,&#8221; said one Baltimore judge, &#8220;controversy always seemed to surround Cristina.&#8221; She defended Jacqueline Bouknight, accused of killing her young son. In 1991, lawyers for the boy sought to sanction Gutierrez for advising Bouknight she did not have to disclose her son&#8217;s whereabouts. He was never found. When Gutierrez represented John J. Merzbacher Jr., a Catholic school teacher convicted in 1995 of sex offenses against a female student, Gutierrez failed to tell him of a plea offer, said Thomas Pavlinic, Merzbacher&#8217;s current lawyer. Elizabeth L. Julian, Baltimore&#8217;s chief public defender, said that after a career of fighting for others, Gutierrez should take care of herself. &#8220;She has always put her clients first. Now it&#8217;s time for her to put herself first.&#8221; Originally Published: June 2, 2001 at 12:00 AM EDT Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X RevContent Feed Most Popular Most Popular Baltimore taxpayers on the hook for mayor’s $163K SUV — twice the price of his last ride Baltimore taxpayers on the hook for mayor’s $163K SUV — twice the price of his last ride Report: White House fires nearly all members of National Council on the Humanities Report: White House fires nearly all members of National Council on the Humanities Ravens QB Lamar Jackson could miss 2-3 weeks with hamstring injury: sources Ravens QB Lamar Jackson could miss 2-3 weeks with hamstring injury: sources Orioles manager candidates: As offseason begins, who could be in play now? Orioles manager candidates: As offseason begins, who could be in play now? Ravens replacement crew: Meet the reserves set to play key roles Ravens replacement crew: Meet the reserves set to play key roles Trump administration to cancel funding for 12 Maryland projects amid shutdown Trump administration to cancel funding for 12 Maryland projects amid shutdown Walker&#8217;s Restaurant Group names location for new Howard County eatery Walker&#039;s Restaurant Group names location for new Howard County eatery Iowa district hired superintendent with Baltimore ties despite false Morgan State doctorate claim Iowa district hired superintendent with Baltimore ties despite false Morgan State doctorate claim Havre de Grace State Theater will return to its roots, becoming a movie theater Havre de Grace State Theater will return to its roots, becoming a movie theater Construction of new Fallston park set to start later this year Construction of new Fallston park set to start later this year More in News Lawsuit seeks to stop Trump’s $100,000 fee for H-1B visas Federal appeals court rules Trump administration can’t end birthright citizenship White House keeps 45 DOGE employees working despite shutdown City Councilman Mark Conway considers challenging Rep. Kweisi Mfume 2001 June 2 JTF Publications, LLC Capital Gazette Studio 1847 Company Info About Us Contact Careers Mary J. Corey Internships Photo Reprints Archives Privacy Policy Tag Disclosures Sitemap Advertising Classified Public Notices The Sun Store Subscribe Now Subscriber Terms and Conditions Terms of Service Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection CA Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Copyright &copy; 2025 Baltimore Sun Close