# Get Ampd Heres What Publishers Need To Know About Googles New Plan To Speed Up Your Website

**Source**: https://www.niemanlab.org/2015/10/get-ampd-heres-what-publishers-need-to-know-about-googles-new-plan-to-speed-up-your-website/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:35:43.613012+00:00

---

Get AMP&#8217;d: Here&#8217;s what publishers need to know about Google&#8217;s new plan to speed up your website | Nieman Journalism Lab tag on every page of your site. --> Fellowships Reports Lab Storyboard Donate Now &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; --> Nieman Foundation at Harvard HOME About Fuego --> Encyclo --> Subscribe Archives &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Foundation Reports Storyboard LATEST STORY Don&#8217;t dwell on &#8220;democracy,&#8221; and other new findings about how to market local news Business Models Mobile & Apps Audience & Social Aggregation & Discovery Reporting & Production ABOUT &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; SUBSCRIBE Business Models Mobile & Apps Audience & Social Aggregation & Discovery Reporting & Production Encyclo --> Translations Fuego --> Oct. 7, 2015, 2:15 p.m. Mobile &amp; Apps Get AMP&#8217;d: Here&#8217;s what publishers need to know about Google&#8217;s new plan to speed up your website The speed gains are very real. But do publishers want to trade in the open space of what we&#8217;ve known as the web for yet another platform they have little control over? By Joshua Benton @joshuabenton.com Oct. 7, 2015, 2:15 p.m. Tweet Email --> Oct. 7, 2015, 2:15 p.m. Google unveiled its new plan to speed up the mobile web today — Accelerated Mobile Pages , or AMP — and it&#8217;s the latest attempt by a technology company to deal with the problem of the slow mobile web. Facebook has its Instant Articles to make certain news stories load more quickly in an app; Apple wants to move you into its slick new Apple News app. Google&#8217;s effort has more to do with changing the mobile web than building its own app or environment, which is why AMP is debuting with a ton of partners in technology (Twitter, Pinterest, LinkedIn, Chartbeat, Parsely) and publishing (The New York Times, Vox Media, the Financial Times, Gannett, Hearst, the Posts Washington and Huffington). There are a ton of smart ideas in AMP. And it works — cutting the load times of article pages enormously. But I have to say I&#8217;m a little conflicted about it. Google notes that AMP isn&#8217;t a business partnership the way that Instant Articles or Apple News are; there&#8217;s no ad rev share to consider. But AMP tries to do something maybe even more significant: change the way that the web is built, killing off some technologies and advantaging others. In a world of controlled platforms and walled app gardens, the web is the last open space standing, built over two decades, and there&#8217;s something irksome about a few Google engineers deciding which parts to ban. Yes, publishers don&#8217;t have to adopt it, and yes, it&#8217;s an open source project, and yes, the performance gains are very real and very substantial. But publishers can choose to adopt Facebook Instant Articles and Apple News too. The point is that this is another stop on the path to powerlessness for publishers — another case of tech companies setting the rules. It&#8217;ll take time and evidence to see how much my reaction is emotional — the fears of an old webhead who remembers browser wars and ActiveX and the battles over open web standards — and how much is strategic. Because maybe it really does take a giant like Google to be the one to save publishing from itself. What&#8217;s the origin story? Google&#8217;s incentive here is obvious: It makes its money on advertising, and the vast majority of that advertising is on the open web. If Facebook (or some other platform, but seriously, Facebook) provides a markedly better mobile experience than the open web does, those advertising opportunities (and that user data) disappears into Zuckerberg&#8217;s Walled Garden of Earthly Delights. AMP grew out of a discussion at the most recent Newsgeist, the occasional Google-and-Knight-sponsored unconference of news and tech people to Think Big Thoughts and Talk Big Talk. If you look at this writeup of the May event by Austrian news exec Gerold Riedmann, it&#8217;s clear what was top of mind: I’m happy to share that the big discussion at #newsgeist was on Facebook Instant Articles&#8230;Participants saw it as a clear sign that, after Google long ignored difficulties with news publishers, Facebook wanted to make friends in Europe. Participating media executives see it as an experiment, as a way to learn. There was no discussion about the product quality. Everybody loved the look and feel, the loading speeds, and all other advantages Facebook Instant Articles offer for customers. But there is a lot of controversy amongst news publishers in signing a deal with Facebook (also described in my previous post). Everybody knows the Facebook Instant Articles feature is a land grab, and it helps Facebook become “the Internet.” The devilish offer is you keep all the money from ads sold by you, plus you get data. For some, that seemed too good to be true. Honestly, that sets new standards and makes Google think about how attractive its offers for publishers could/should be. You can also see a seed of AMP in this Jeff Jarvis post from the same time: Among other topics, we chose to talk about what Google could do for news, about Facebook as the new distributor — and sometimes editor — of the news, and about at least one idea to take advantage of that new reality. That idea is something Google News chief Richard Gingras and I advocated at the last Newsgeist in the U.S., something I’ve been working on for years: the containerized, embeddable article that travels to any site with brand, revenue, analytics, and links attached. In other words, let’s take what Facebook has done with Instant Articles and open it up to any creator and any embedder. I was delighted to hear serious discussion of the notion at this Newsgeist, opening the door to reimagining the distribution of news so that instead of always requiring and depending on our users to come to us, we can now take our news to them. So what is AMP? AMP is a number of technologies rolled into one. The first and most important is what we might call code subsetting . HTML, the language webpages are built in, includes some things that load quickly and others that load slowly. AMP aims to kill off the slow parts, most notably JavaScript. Here&#8217;s Malte Ubl , the AMP Project tech lead: The web today is many things: an application platform, an e-commerce platform, a content platform, a gaming platform, and so much more. We decided to focus entirely on static content as it lends itself to more radical optimization approaches that are easier to apply across the board. We began to experiment with an idea: could we develop a restricted subset of the things we’d use from HTML, that&#8217;s both fast and expressive, so that documents would always load and render with reliable performance?&#8230; One thing we realized early on is that many performance issues are caused by the integration of multiple JavaScript libraries, tools, embeds, etc. into a page. This isn’t saying that JavaScript immediately leads to bad performance, but once arbitrary JavaScript is in play, most bets are off because anything could happen at any time and it is hard to make any type of performance guarantee. With this in mind we made the tough decision that AMP HTML documents would not include any author-written JavaScript, nor any third-party scripts. No third-party scripts! Here are some things that use third-party scripts: essentially every ad, essentially every analytics package. When you see a page that is stuffed full with trackers, those are pretty much all third-party scripts. The @chicagotribune literally has too many web trackers to fit on a 27” iMac screen pic.twitter.com/33TMw7FqPK &mdash; Joshua Benton (@jbenton) September 8, 2015 Certain HTML tags are also banned : iframe , embed , object , and all script other than JSON (and the script that loads AMP in the first place). The main HTML5 multimedia tags, img , video , and audio , are replaced with custom elements amp-img , amp-video , and amp-audio . Creating these new elements let AMP HTML treat images and video as assets that can be constrained at will for performance reasons: We call them managed resources because whether and when they will be loaded and displayed to the user is decided by the AMP runtime&#8230;.The runtime should prioritize resources currently in viewport and attempt to predict changes to the viewport and preload resources accordingly. The AMP runtime may at any time decide to unload resources that are not currently in viewport or reuse the resource containers such as iframes to reduce overall RAM consumption. CSS is also strictly limited in AMP HTML (&#8220;The restriction is in place to make overall performance easier to reason about. It may be opened up in the future&#8221;). Among the banned are the common CSS properties used for animation. Custom fonts are allowed but constrained in certain ways. AMP is a turning point for the web. Stripped back pages, no Javascript, no tracking. Google did a great thing today. &mdash; Owen Williams (@ow) October 7, 2015 By essentially supplanting the native rendering engine in a mobile browser, AMP can load or unload assets at will — not worrying about images until they&#8217;re nearly in view, for instance, or loading editorial text content first and ads second. @gloddy JS allows controlling render time. AMP is extremely lazy and just won&#39;t render most things at all. Browsers are super eager. &mdash; Malte Ubl (@cramforce) October 7, 2015 There are lots of clever ideas here, and it&#8217;s understandable why these constraints would help improve performance. For better and for worse, this is essentially a rollback of how HTML and web technologies have evolved over the past decade. It&#8217;s a little jarring that so many of the sample AMP pages on display this morning look a lot like the web of, say, 2002, shrun