# August Brown

**Source**: https://www.latimes.com/people/august-brown
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:19:25.359227+00:00

---

August Brown - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing &amp; Homelessness Politics Science &amp; Medicine World &amp; Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor &amp; Workplace Real Estate Technology and the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing &amp; Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate &amp; Environment Global Warming Water &amp; Drought Entertainment &amp; Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 best restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art &amp; Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health &amp; Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel &amp; Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World &amp; Nation Immigration &amp; the Border Israel-Hamas Mexico &amp; the Americas Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios Business • AI &amp; Tech • Banking &amp; Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Goods &amp; Retail • Healthcare &amp; Science • Law Dentists Decor &amp; Design Doctors &amp; Scientists Hot Property Live &amp; Well Orange County Pets The Hub: Rebuilding LA Travel Weddings &amp; Celebrations Newsletters Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Students &amp; Educators Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store L.A. Times Studios News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance &amp; Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? People on the Move Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Sections Show Search Search Query Submit Search Advertisement August Brown Staff Writer Follow Us Email August Brown covers pop music, the music industry and nightlife policy at the Los Angeles Times. Latest From This Author Music Future Ruins, Nine Inch Nails’ film-music festival, is canceled The hotly-anticipated event from the band’s Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross had been scheduled for Nov. 8. Oct. 3, 2025 Music Terror charge tossed out for Kneecap rapper Mo Chara A U.K. judge dismissed terrorism charge against Kneecap rapper Mo Chara due to a technical error in how prosecutors brought the case. Sept. 26, 2025 Music Coachella 2026 is sold out three days after passes go on sale After years of slower sales, the fest has officially sold out for 2026. Condolences to the straggling Beliebers and Carpenters. Sept. 23, 2025 Review Air breezes into the Hollywood Bowl with chill, orchestral vibes in honor of ‘Moon Safari’ At the Bowl on Sunday the band revisited the whole of ‘Moon Safari’ with the Hollywood Bowl Orchestra, capping off KCRW’s festival season there. Sept. 22, 2025 Review At the Forum, Nine Inch Nails conjure rage and dread. Be afraid, Americans Nine Inch Nails thrive in the murk of base instinct and dread. Who better to limn out disgust and desolation now? Sept. 19, 2025 Music She’s the only Deaf Grammy-winning artist. He’s an acclaimed Deaf poet. Their new album is extraordinary Percussionist Evelyn Glennie and poet Raymond Antrobus performed their latest album ‘Aloud’ in single takes, with no rehearsal or even knowledge of what the other would perform. Sept. 19, 2025 Music Fire charred Altadena. DEI is under attack. Can these music activists help save both? BMAC’s founder, Willie “Prophet” Stiggers, spoke to The Times about trying to offer direct support to impacted families in the notably Black community of Altadena ahead of a gala for the organization. Sept. 18, 2025 Music Terry Reid, singer who turned down Led Zeppelin and Deep Purple, dies at 75 The British singer, nicknamed ‘Superlungs,’ was a coveted figure among the arena-rock titans of the era and was invited to join two of the biggest bands of the ’70s but declined in favor of doing his own thing. Sept. 9, 2025 Music FireAid releases 2 audit reports that find no misuse of funds. ‘Aid is reaching affected communities’ FireAid released two audit reports that show no misuse of its $100 million in wildfire relief funds raised for victims of the Pacific Palisades and Altadena fires. Sept. 8, 2025 Music For L.A.’s Anglophiles, the Oasis reunion is ‘a football game with 80,000 people on same team’ Oasis’ Rose Bowl reunion shows are a celebration for city that needs one. “We need to bring joy back to people,” one fan said. “Something simple like one of the greatest rock and roll bands of all time.” Sept. 5, 2025 Load More Newsroom Directory Contact information for editorial staffers Advertisement Advertisement Subscribe for unlimited access Site Map Follow Us X Instagram YouTube Facebook eNewspaper Find/Post Jobs Place an Ad Media Kit: Why the L. A. Times? MORE FROM THE L.A. TIMES Crossword Obituaries Recipes Guides L.A. Times Store About/Contact For the Record L.A. Times Careers Manage Subscription Reprints and Permissions Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information