# Picasso 201012

**Source**: http://www.vanityfair.com/culture/features/2010/12/picasso-201012?printable=true
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:31:25.347551+00:00

---

The Curious Case of the Le Guennec Picassos | Vanity Fair Skip to main content Newsletters Menu Menu POLITICS HOLLYWOOD ROYALS STYLE CULTURE POLITICS HOLLYWOOD ROYALS STYLE CULTURE BUSINESS CELEBRITY VIDEO WHAT IS CINEMA? MORE NEWSLETTERS PODCASTS MAGAZINE ARCHIVE VF SHOP Search Search Sign In Culture December 2010 Issue The Curious Case of the Le Guennec Picassos How did Pierre Le Guennec&#8212;a 71-year-old French electrician&#8212;come to possess a cache of more than 250 previously unknown or presumed missing Pablo Picasso works , valued at more than $60 million? The artist’s biographer about their provenance. By John Richardson December 9, 2010 Save Story Save this story Save Story Save this story The announcement last week that Pierre Le Guennec, a 71-year-old French electrician, was the owner of 271 previously unknown or presumed missing works by Pablo Picasso, has created a furor on both sides of the Atlantic. For installing burglar alarms on Picasso’s homes, including the villas near Cannes on the French Riviera, Le Guennec claims that the artist and his second wife, Jacqueline, gave him the drawings, prints, and collages, dating from 1900 to 1932, which are estimated to be worth upward of $60 million. When shown the works, Picasso’s son Claude confirmed that they were authentic but suggested that they must have been stolen. It is my belief that this treasure trove belonged to a massive group of some 70 portfolios of works on paper which the artist had been obliged to remove from his Paris apartment on the Rue la Boétie and his studio on the Rue des Grands Augustins after the French government enacted regulations preventing people from having multiple residencies. Picasso had tried and failed to fight this injunction, but since he had apparently forsaken his Paris properties to reside in the Villa La Californie at Cannes, he was unsuccessful. To his rage, he was forced to relinquish them and have their contents stored or sent down to Cannes. Douglas Cooper, the celebrated British Picasso collector, and I happened to be visiting Picasso when this vast shipment arrived. He asked us to help him go through some of the portfolios. The next two days were spent sitting on the floor of the principal studio rediscovering these treasures. He hadn’t looked at most of the material for 20 or 30 years, Picasso said, and the contents were as much a surprise to him as they were to us. The artist’s excitement was infectious and his comments fascinating. The contents, which had never been photographed or catalogued, were exceedingly varied—and anything but systematically organized. Virtually everything was on paper, so you never knew what was going to emerge. Nor were the contents confined to the artist’s work. One portfolio had nothing in it but blank sheets of rare paper, which Picasso collected: 17th- and 18th-century sheets, French, Italian, Japanese. Another portfolio might contain little of consequence—exhibition catalogues, pamphlets, mementos from his Russian Ballet years. It was the luck of the draw. Picasso was especially excited to re-discover a group of portrait drawings (circa 1900) of fellow members of Els Quatre Gats, a Barcelona group that was sacred to his memory. These portraits have reappeared in Le Guennec’s cache. Picasso would never, in my opinion, have given away these works—so relevant to his early development—not even to his wife. As soon as I heard about Le Guennec’s Picassos, I realized they had to have been part of this horde that had arrived in Cannes more than 50 years ago. How such a large chunk of the artist’s private collection ended up in the possession of Le Guennec is another matter. Picasso was exceedingly generous with his work, but he never gave away anything from earlier periods, always from whatever he was working on at the time and available in the studio. Also, when he gave someone a drawing or a print, he always signed and also inscribed it. Of the 271 works said to be in Le Guennec’s cache, reportedly only one of them bears the artist’s signature, and none of them is inscribed. The Le Guennec affair puts me in mind of the large collection of works, mostly on paper and mostly executed at the end of the artist’s life, belonging to the heir of his driver, Maurice Bresnu, which appeared on the market in the 1990s. Bresnu (nicknamed “Nounours”) and his wife endeared themselves to the Picassos. At first mistakenly thought to have been fakes and, later, to have been stolen—only a fraction had been inscribed—they were ultimately O.K.’d by the Picasso administration and put up for sale at Christie’s (November 19, 1998). It will be interesting to see how the Picasso administration, not to mention the French judiciary, reacts in this new, far graver case. Read More Books Inside the Photo Shoot That Made Marilyn Monroe an American Icon Seventy years after The Seven Year Itch premiered, a posthumous collection from Sam Shaw, the photographer behind the famous subway grate photo, offers an intimate glimpse of the enigmatic star. Fashion The Guys Who Made Needlepoint an SEC Uniform Explain Why It’s So Frat-Coded The founders of Smathers &amp; Branson, a power player in the needlepoint-belt biz, credit a girlfriend with helping shape the modern frat-bro uniform. Celebrity Hold Your Applause: The Tyranny of Film Festival Standing Ovations Must Be Stopped What began as a tribute has become a brachial arms race of emotional semaphore, like castanets at a funeral. Television My Week&#8212;Or Three&#8212;at The White Lotus Fleeing a breakup, and reality, in Los Angeles, Lorraine Nicholson accepted an invite to stay at the Four Seasons Koh Samui while the third season of Mike White’s HBO smash hit filmed. Not long after she arrived, life began imitating art&#8212;save for all the homicide. Culture The Florida Divorcée’s Guide to Murder Hit Man: A Technical Manual for Independent Contractors inspired a triple murder and led to a major First Amendment case. Still, the book is just one chapter in the bizarre story of its author, “Rex Feral,” a 77-year-old great-grandmother wrestling with decades of guilt and living anonymously&#8212;until now. Movies Beyond Monster: 6 Grisly Films Inspired by Serial Killer Ed Gein As Ryan Murphy brings a new series about the murderer to Netflix, here’s a guide to movies that fictionalized his story&#8212;from Psycho to The Texas Chain Saw Massacre. Hollywood Judd Apatow Opens Up His Personal Photo Trove In an exclusive excerpt from his visual memoir, Comedy Nerd, the filmmaker annotates snapshots from Freaks and Geeks, Girls, and more&#8212;and Lena Dunham describes the generous guy behind the slapstick. Movies Hollywood’s Monkey-Selfie Problem: Who Would Actually Own a Movie Made by AI? Creatives, executives, and legal scholars are all debating what “intellectual property” even means in the age of machine intelligence: “I’m not seeing a huge amount of clarity.” Credits October 2025 U.S. Credits Vanity Fair&#39;s October 2025 issue, featuring Dakota and Elle Fanning Fashion Giorgio Armani, Fashion Paragon of Sophistication and Success, Dead at 91 The designer married Hollywood glamour with Italian tailoring to build a vast, independent luxury empire. Politics Inside the Battle for The Smithsonian Donald Trump’s unprecedented measures to take control of The Smithsonian Institution have rattled staffers, enraged artists, and even put the future of its vast collection in doubt. Hollywood Ten Fiancés, Eight Exceptional Rings: Visit Elizabeth Taylor’s Luxury Diamond Collection The Oscar-winning actress, also known for her turbulent private life, received multiple sparkers&#8212;but which one had the most carats? Facebook X Instagram Pinterest YouTube Newsletters Subscribe Digital Edition Inside the Issue About Vanity Fair FAQ Contact VF Manage Account Advertising Careers User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Condé Nast Store VF Media Kit Accessibility Help © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vanity Fair may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Entertainment Select international site United States LargeChevron Italy Spain France