# longhauler-advocacy.org

**Source**: https://www.longhauler-advocacy.org/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:09:19.242352+00:00

---

--> Home | C19LAP | COVID-19 Longhauler Advocacy Project top of page About C19LAP Our Mission Our Work Our Team Our Community Our Mission Our Work Our Team Our Community Resources &amp; Education #LongCOVIDAwarenessDay2025 Comprehensive Guide to LC 2024 NASEM LC Definition &amp; Report Actions &amp; Events Graphics, Videos &amp; Webinars, Training #LongCOVIDAwarenessDay2025 Comprehensive Guide to LC 2024 NASEM LC Definition &amp; Report Actions &amp; Events Graphics, Videos &amp; Webinars, Training Support Our Mission Partner With Us Donate Sponsor Volunteer Shop Partner With Us Donate Sponsor Volunteer Shop Long COVID is a Global Public Health Crisis Join Us In The Fight More About Long COVID About Long COVID What is Long COVID Long COVID (LC) is an infection-associated chronic condition (IACC) that occurs after SARS-CoV-2 infection and is present for at least three months as a continuous, relapsing and remitting, or progressive disease state that affects one or more organ systems . LC can affect children and adults, regardless of health, disability, or socioeconomic status, age, gender, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity, or geographic location. LC can follow asymptomatic, mild, or severe SARS-CoV-2 infection and can be continuous from the time of acute SARS-CoV-2 infection or can be delayed in onset for weeks or months following what had appeared to be full recovery from acute infection.&nbsp; &nbsp; LC can impact every organ system including the brain, gastrointestinal tract, heart, lungs, and immune system . It can last months to years to life, ranging from mild to severe and can present in multiple ways: ​ As singular or multiple symptoms such as, but not limited to, shortness of breath, cough, persistent fatigue, post-exertional malaise, difficulty concentrating, memory changes, recurring headache, dizziness, fast heart rate, sleep disturbance, problems with taste or smell, bloating, constipation, and diarrhea.&nbsp; As singular or multiple diagnosable conditions such as, but not limited to, interstitial lung disease and hypoxemia, cardiovascular disease and arrhythmias, cognitive impairment, mood disorders, anxiety, migraine, stroke, blood clots, chronic kidney disease, postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS) and other forms of dysautonomia, myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS), mast cell activation syndrome (MCAS), diabetes, and other autoimmune disorders such as lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, and Sjogren&rsquo;s syndrome.&nbsp; 2024 NASEM Long COVID Definition &amp; Report Important Features of LC: LC can follow asymptomatic, mild, or severe SARS-CoV-2 infection. Previous infections may have been recognized or unrecognized. LC can be continuous from the time of acute SARS-CoV-2 infection or can be delayed in onset for weeks or months following what had appeared to be full recovery from acute infection. LC can affect children and adults, regardless of health, disability, or socioeconomic status, age, sex, gender, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity, or geographic location. LC can exacerbate pre-existing health conditions or present as new conditions. LC can range from mild to severe. It can resolve over a period of months or can persist for months or years. LC can be diagnosed on clinical grounds. No biomarker currently available demonstrates conclusively the presence of LC LC can impair individuals&rsquo; ability to work, attend school, take care of family, and care for themselves. It can have a profound emotional and physical impact on patients and their families and caregivers. Important Terminology: Using consistent terminology is as important as using a consistent definition. Long COVID - Patient-developed term and its simplicity and familiarity can facilitate communication within and between the scientific community and public. Infection-associated chronic condition (IACC) &ndash; Applies to a variety of chronic conditions that can be triggered by viruses, bacteria, fungi, or parasites. Use of this term highlights the ongoing nature of Long COVID and its association with a triggering infection without conveying any unwarranted conclusions about pathobiological mechanisms. Disease state -&nbsp; To stress the systemic reality of Long COVID. Definition and Report Highlights: Patient-centeredness was an instrumental part of this process, and Long COVID patient developed terminology was prioritized, such as making Long COVID the formal name over several others that have previously been used (Long-Haul COVID, PASC, PACS, Chronic COVID), as well as the term infection-associated chronic conditions (IACC&rsquo;s) used to represent the family of chronic conditions resulting from several forms of infections, whether viral, bacterial, fungal, or parasitic. Disease state was chosen to represent the severity of the ongoing, systemic nature of Long COVID. The definition applies to both adults and children, regardless of health, disability, or socioeconomic status, age, gender, sex, or sexual orientation, race, ethnicity, or geographic location- recognizing that social determinants of health and structural inequalities intersect to create health disparities. There may be several mechanisms involved in Long COVID, such as immune dysregulation, autoimmunity and immune priming, viral persistence, blood clotting and endothelial abnormalities, dysfunctional neurological signaling, and microbiota dysbiosis. Given the heterogeneity of Long COVID presentation, there may not be one causation for the development of long-term health consequences from COVID-19 infection. For this reason, it is also important to study other similar Infection-Associated Chronic Conditions to better understand the body&#39;s response to infections and the potential mechanisms that may be at play. The definition does not require a positive COVID test because no test has perfect sensitivity, and because the rates of false negatives on antigen and PCR tests vary with time and other factors. As a patient-advocate, I also emphasize that society is not actively testing as they should be, given the downplaying of COVID-19, including messaging that COVID is just a cold, leading people to not test.This leads to less documentation and data to follow, with more people lacking the needed care and support services. Additionally, equity plays a significant role in a person&#39;s access to acute-COVID testing, access to evaluation for Long COVID, willingness of clinicians to diagnose a particular patient, access to insurance benefits, and patient&rsquo;s fears of stigmatization.&nbsp;&nbsp; The definition does include POTS and ME/CFS, among others, as examples of diagnosable conditions that can be part of the picture of Long COVID. These and other potentially overlapping conditions are compatible with the diagnosis of Long COVID. For example, patients may be diagnosed with POTS and Long COVID or Long COVID and new onset rheumatoid arthritis. Long COVID is an umbrella term and can be diagnosed alongside associated conditions. Long COVID is not a diagnosis of exclusion. The definition specifies a minimum duration of three months, whether consistent or relapsing and remitting, to qualify as Long COVID, however, a clinician should recognize, acknowledge, treat, and monitor concerning symptoms before the three-months mark and still document ICD-10 U09.9. The committee also chose not to include a maximum latency period due to its continued ambiguity. For example, there are comparisons to the development of MS years to decades after an EBV infection, or the development of cancer years to decades after an HPV infection. Long COVID has significant medical, social, and economic impacts and the definition firmly acknowledges the profound impact of Long COVID on function and the ability of patients to work, attend school, take care of family, and themselves.&nbsp; It is essential for researchers to try to adhere to definition as best as possible when choosing inclusion/exclusion criteria and strongly justify alterations so that the data remains meaningful and further contributes to our understanding of and solutions to Long COVID.&nbsp; Recommendation for Adoption and Implementation of the 2024 NASEM Long COVID Definition. C19LAP urges the rapid adoption and implementation of the 2024 NASEM Long COVID Definition, and encourages all stakeholders, especially patients, caregivers, clinicians, researchers, support services, health agencies, and government, to read the full report . Inconsistent terminology and meaning has limited progress and the generalizability of research findings, inhibiting patients from obtaining the recognition, care, and support they need. This definition should be applied to clinical care and diagnosis, eligibility for health services, insurance coverage, disability benefits, and school or work accommodations, public health, social services, policy making, epidemiology and surveillance, private and public research, and public awareness and education. It should also be utilized by safety net programs, including but not limited to, payers, workplaces and employers, academic institutions and educators. Recommendation for Adoption and Implementation of the 2024 NASEM Long COVID Definition. C19LAP urges the rapid adoption and implementation of the 2024 NASEM Long COVID Definition, and encourages all stakeholders, especially patients, caregivers, clinicians, researchers, support services, health agencies, and government, to read the full report . Inconsistent terminology and meaning has limited progress and the generalizability of research findings, inhibiting patients from obtaining the recognition, care, and support they need. This definition should be applied to clinical care and diagnosis, eligibility for health services, insurance coverage, disability benefits, and school or work accommodations, public health, social services, policy making, epidemiology and surveillance, private and public research, and public aware