# Packages

**Source**: https://www.grandhotel.com/packages/?gclid=CjwKCAjwpqCZBhAbEiwAa7pXeREx_hVX_G_tAI2uvZAEScSr1QVK97kY3bo1YK3AQGGEgC09XNuG4xoC_U8QAvD_BwE)—a
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:44:54.497187+00:00

---

Mackinac Island Vacation Specials | Grand Hotel Crisp Air, Colorful Leaves, and Horse-Drawn Carriage Rides. Experience the Magic of Autumn at Grand Hotel. Book Your Fall Getaway Today! Close X Skip to main content Menu Offers & Packages Shop Gallery Golf Search for: Search Reserve Today Close Live Webcam Accommodations Back View All Accommodations Guest Rooms Back View All Guest Rooms Balcony Rooms Back View All Balcony Rooms Lake View Balcony Superior – Double Lake View Balcony Deluxe – King or Queen Golf View Balcony – Double Golf View Balcony – King Lake View Rooms Back View All Lake View Rooms Lake View Deluxe – King or Queen Lake View Superior – Double Lake View Superior – King or Queen Lake View Balcony Superior – Double Lake View Balcony Deluxe – King or Queen Grand Rooms Back View All Grand Rooms Grand Double Grand Superior Double Grand King or Queen Suites Back View All Suites Two-Bedroom Suite with Parlor Cupola Suites Musser Suite Signature Suites Back View All Signature Suites Signature Superior Suite – Double Signature Superior King or Queen Suite Signature Balcony Suite – Double Signature Balcony Suite – King or Queen First Lady Suite – Double First Lady Suite – King or Queen First Lady Balcony Suite Masco Cottage Grand Club Offers &#038; Packages Golf Dining Resort Memberships Experiences Back View All Experiences Purchase Admission Reserve Your Experiences Indoor Experiences Island Activities Outdoor Experiences Event Calendar Property Map Popular Itineraries Back View All Popular Itineraries Best of Grand Hotel Grand Family Fun Getaway for Two Table for One Meetings &#038; Groups Back View All Meetings &#038; Groups Meetings Back View All Meetings Group Accommodations Meeting RFP Meetings Venues Group Tours Back View All Group Tours Adult Group Tours Youth Group Tours Group Tours RFP Woodfill Conference Center 2026 Special Group Offer Weddings &#038; Celebrations Back View All Weddings &#038; Celebrations Weddings Back View All Weddings Wedding RFP Planning Guide Special Events Request for Proposal Venues Our Story Back About Grand Hotel Back View Our Story View About Grand Hotel Grand Legends Photo Galleries About Mackinac Island Getting Here and Around Newsletters FAQs Hotel Policies and Information Contact Us Offers & Packages Shop Gallery Golf Reserve Today Specials Home Specials A Different Way to Vacation For the experience of it, for the fun of it. Take advantage of our offers and packages at Grand Hotel, where you just need to be. Filter specials &amp; packages by: Category Category All Categories Family Honeymoon/Anniversary Promotional Themed Month Month All months January February March April May June July August September October Last Minute Rooms Now Available! Promotional Extraordinary Fall Savings Select September and October dates have just been released starting at an exceptional $279 per night plus taxes and fees with daily breakfast included, a 50% savings for two guests each day! Book Today Explore this Package Themed 2025 Chasing Fall There’s nothing like fall on Mackinac Island! As the summer crowds fade, a new kind of beauty emerges that is peaceful, vibrant, and full of charm. Now, enjoy up to 20% savings with our 2025 Chasing Fall package when you plan your fall getaway! Book Today Explore this Package Select Oct. Dates Family Welcome Fall Weekends Delight in the fall season at Grand Hotel with a weekend full of activities for those who love crisp air and beautiful fall foliage. Explore this Package Oct 17 - 19 Themed Grand Hotel History Weekend You’re invited to journey through time at Grand Hotel’s 16th Annual History Weekend and learn the story behind the hotel's wooden structure built in 1887. Book Today Explore this Package Oct. 24 - 26 Themed Fall Murder Mystery Weekend Join us in October for an interactive weekend brought to you by The Murder Mystery Company, founded in Michigan. Book Today Explore this Package Oct. 24 - 26 Family 2025 Halloween Weekend Get ready for a ghoulishly good time this Halloween at Grand Hotel, where cozy island charm meets festive family fun, delicious dining, spooky adventures, and autumn magic on hauntingly beautiful Mackinac Island. Book Today Explore this Package Oct. 26 -27 Family Close The Grand Join in this annual tradition, as we close Grand Hotel’s doors for the season. Enjoy dinner and breakfast, a casual atmosphere, the official Closing Ceremony, and more! Book Today Explore this Package Best Value Dates of 2025 Promotional Grand Favorites Looking for the best value for your stay at Grand Hotel? Explore our Grand Favorites, a listing of 2025 Value Dates and packages that feature the lowest rates of the 2025 season. Explore this Package Select Dates through October Promotional Stay One Night and Save 30% Escape the heat and break away from the ordinary this summer with a one-night getaway to Grand Hotel with 30% savings on your accommodations, including dinner and breakfast. Book Today Explore this Package Select Dates During the Season Promotional Best Flexible Rate with American Meal Plan This special package includes Grand Hotel accommodations and daily breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Book Today Explore this Package Promotional Grand Flexible Rate with Modified American Meal Plan For something different, something near and far: Plan a Grand Hotel vacation, and get our best available rate. Book Today Explore this Package Promotional Bed & Breakfast Package Have a new kind of old-fashioned getaway with a Mackinac Island bed and breakfast package at Grand Hotel. Book Today Explore this Package Select Dates During the Season Promotional Room Only Enjoy ultimate flexibility with our Room Only package, including access to all resort amenities. Book Today Explore this Package Promotional Book Early & Save Enjoy savings between 20% - 25% on most dates throughout the 2025 season. Book Today Explore this Package Save with AAA Promotional AAA Member Rate AAA members receive a special discount on accommodations and breakfast at Grand Hotel. Book Today Explore this Package Available Most Dates of the Season Honeymoon/Anniversary Honeymoon and Anniversary Package Filled with romance, relaxation, and adventure, Grand Hotel is the perfect setting for your honeymoon or special anniversary. Book Today Explore this Package Special Savings to Honor Our Heroes Themed Grand Hero Rate All medical personnel, teachers, and military enjoy 15% to 20% savings on accommodations, daily breakfast, and more with this special package. Book Today Explore this Package Available Most Dates of the Season Themed Grand Romance Package Celebrate a special occasion with your loved one at Grand Hotel, the perfect location to get away from it all for your romantic getaway. Book Today Explore this Package Stay Longer, Save More Promotional Paradise Perfected Introducing Grand savings, where you can stay longer this season and enjoy everything Grand Hotel and Mackinac Island have to offer. Explore this Package Special Pricing for Canadian Residents Promotional Canada Resident Rate Are you a resident of Canada? For only $25 extra, this special rate for Canadian residents includes a $75 daily resort credit to be used during your stay and all resort amenities. Book Today Explore this Package Sold Out. Wait List Only 1-800-334-7263 Themed Cork & Fork: A Celebration of Female Culinary Talent Guests can look forward to an extraordinary weekend filled with exclusive receptions, wine sampling experiences, and a lavish multi-course dinner crafted by talented female chefs. Book Today Explore this Package Nearly Sold Out Themed Legacy Five Concert Package Enjoy the Gospel and Christian music of Legacy Five at Grand Hotel. This package includes concerts, accommodations, breakfast, dinner, and more! Book Today Explore this Package Stay Connected with Grand Hotel &quot; * &quot; indicates required fields First Name Last Name State Email Address * I agree to receive emails from Grand Hotel Comments This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. 286 Grand Avenue, Mackinac Island, MI 49757 Grand Hotel Reservations: 1-800-33GRAND Hotel Information: 1-906-847-3331 Email: [email&#160;protected] FAQs Careers Privacy Policy Cookies Policy Grand Assurance Press &#038; Media Travel Professionals Accessibility Terms of Use Contact Us Sitemap Cookie Settings &copy; 2025 Grand Hotel. All Rights Reserved. Reserve Today close Welcome Fall Weekends! Kick off the fall season at Grand Hotel with a weekend getaway full of activities for those who can’t get enough of fall. Enjoy breakfast and dinner daily, history lectures, a tour of the Grand Hotel Stables and Carriage Museum, and more! Explore Stays