# Bs Md Ci Syed Appeal 20190222 Story.Html

**Source**: https://www.baltimoresun.com/news/crime/bs-md-ci-syed-appeal-20190222-story.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:21:09.459327+00:00

---

Adnan Syed case: Maryland high court reinstates &#8216;Serial&#8217; subject&#8217;s conviction &#8211; Baltimore Sun Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 68&deg;F Friday, October 3rd 2025 Baltimore Sun eNewspaper Home Page Subscriber Services Manage Subscription EZ Pay Vacation Stop Sun Insider eNewspaper Daily Sun Evening Edition Carroll County Times Capital Gazette The Aegis Advertise with Us Advertise Classified Homes Jobs Special Sections News News Latest Crime and Public Safety Education Elections Environment Health Lottery Marijuana Nation Politics Sun Investigates World Carroll County Times Carroll County Times eNewspaper Education High School Sports News Opinion Obituaries Submit News The Aegis The Aegis eNewspaper Aegis Opinion Aegis Sports Harford Magazine Local News Local News Maryland Anne Arundel County Baltimore City Baltimore County Carroll County Times Harford County &#8211; The Aegis Howard County Eastern Shore Sports Sports Baltimore Orioles Baltimore Ravens Olympics High School Sports College Sports Terps Horse Racing Business Business Autos Best Reviews Real Estate Top Workplaces Opinion Opinion Editorials Opinion Columnists Dan Rodricks Op-Ed Readers Respond Submit Letter to the Editor Submit Op-Ed News Obituaries News Obituaries Death Notices How to submit a death notice Things To Do Things To Do Arts Entertainment Events Food and Drink Home and Garden Horoscopes Fun and Games Movies Music Branded Content Paid Partner Content Advertising by Ascend Paid Content by Brandpoint Sign up for email newsletters Sign Up Adnan Syed case: Maryland high court reinstates&#8230; Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Subscribe Login Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Sign up for email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Login Search 68&deg;F Friday, October 3rd 2025 Baltimore Sun eNewspaper Entertainment eNewspaper Latest Headlines Sports News Obituaries Death Notices Things To Do Opinion Weather Don&#039;t miss: 📺 Watch FOX45 news 🇺🇸 Shutdown coverage 🍁 Maryland foliage forecast 🏆 Baltimore Sun&#8217;s Best 🚨 Search Baltimore crime data 🚔 Baltimore homicide map Things To Do Entertainment Adnan Syed case: Maryland high court reinstates &#8216;Serial&#8217; subject&#8217;s conviction Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Elizabeth Malby / Baltimore Sun A collage of photographs of Hae Min Lee and her friends were on display at Lee's memorial service. Barbara Haddock Taylor / Baltimore Sun Adnan Syed enters Courthouse East in Baltimore prior to a hearing on whether he should be granted a new trial. Karl Merton Ferron / Baltimore Sun Officials escort "Serial" podcast subject Adnan Syed from the courthouse in 2016 at the end of the first day of hearings for a retrial. Karl Merton Ferron / Baltimore Sun Alibi witness Asia McClain walks from the courthouse with an unidentified man after the first day of the retrial hearing of Adnan Syed of "Serial." Kim Hairston / Baltimore Sun Yusuf Syed, the younger brother of Adnan Syed, poses for a photo. Kim Hairston / Baltimore Sun Sarah Koenig, producer of "Serial," arrives at Courthouse East for the second day of hearings on whether Adnan Syed should get a new trial in the 1999 murder of Hae Min Lee. Barbara Haddock Taylor / The Baltimore Sun Adnan Syed enters Courthouse East in Baltimore prior to a hearing on whether he should be granted a new trial. Elizabeth Malby / Baltimore Sun Youn Kim, mother of Hae Min Lee, is escorted from her daughter's Memorial Service by Woodlawn guidance counselor Gwen Kellam. Justin George / Baltimore Sun Sarah Koenig, the host of "Serial," interviews a records custodian with the Baltimore City State's Attorney's Office. Lloyd Fox, Baltimore Sun Rabia Chaudry, the immigration lawyer who brought Adnan Syed's case to the attention of Sarah Koenig-- launching what became "Serial." Baltimore Sun An undated school yearbook photo of Hae Min Lee Kim Hairston / Baltimore Sun Yusef Syed, the younger brother of Adnan Syed, poses for a picture. Kim Hairston / Baltimore Sun Yusuf Syed, 25, Windsor Mill, sits on a swing in his backyard. Syed is the younger brother of convicted murderer Adnan Syed. Yusuf was 9 years old when Adnan was incarcerated for the murder of his ex-girlfriend. Barbara Haddock Taylor / Baltimore Sun This is a wooded area along Franklintown Road in Leakin Park where Hae Min Lee's body was approximately discovered in 1999. Kim Hairston / Baltimore Sun Yusef Syed, younger brother of Adnan Syed, poses for a picture. Justin George, Baltimore Sun / Baltimore Sun The is the approximate location in Leakin Park was where Hae Min Lee's body was discovered in 1999. Karl Merton Ferron / Baltimore Sun "Serial" podcast subject Adnan Syed is escorted from the courthouse after the end of the first day of hearings. Show Caption Elizabeth Malby / Baltimore Sun 1 of 17 A collage of photographs of Hae Min Lee and her friends were on display at Lee&#039;s memorial service. Expand By Justin Fenton and Tim Prudente UPDATED: August 21, 2019 at 9:26 PM EDT Maryland&#8217;s highest court has determined that Adnan Syed does not deserve a new trial, reversing the opinion of a lower appellate court and reinstating Syed&#8217;s conviction in the murder of Hae Min Lee. The 20-year-old case shot to international prominence as the subject of the &#8220;Serial&#8221; podcast. The Court of Appeals, on a 4-3 vote, agreed with the lower court that the performance of Syed&#8217;s counsel during his initial trial was &#8220;deficient&#8221; for failing to pursue a possible alibi witness account. But they disagreed that it had prejudiced Syed, saying the evidence against him was strong. &#8220;Given the totality of the evidence the jury heard, we conclude that there is not a significant or substantial possibility that the verdict would have been different had trial counsel presented&#8221; an alibi witness, Judge Clayton Greene Jr. wrote for the majority. Syed&#8217;s lead attorney, C. Justin Brown, told The Baltimore Sun that the defense team believes there are &#8220;at least three other avenues of relief&#8221; that they would be exploring in the coming weeks. He declined to discuss what form those options might take. &#8220;We are devastated by the Court of Appeals&#8217; decision but we will not give up on Adnan Syed,&#8221; Brown said in a statement. &#8220;Our criminal justice system is desperately in need of reform. The obstacles to getting a new trial are simply too great.&#8221; Attorney General Brian E. Frosh said: &#8220;We are pleased with the court&#8217;s decision. Justice was done for Hae Min Lee and her family.&#8221; Syed was convicted 19 years ago of killing his former girlfriend and Woodlawn High School classmate, and has been serving a life sentence. The case became an international hit podcast in 2014 with &#8220;Serial ,&#8221; and Friday&#8217;s opinion was issued as a four-part documentary series on the case is set to premiere Sunday. Lee disappeared Jan. 13, 1999. Her body was found almost a month later buried in the city&#8217;s Leakin Park. At trial, the state&#8217;s evidence included a friend, Jay Wilds, who said that Syed told him he killed Lee and showed him the victim&#8217;s body in the trunk of his car. Syed filed an alibi notice saying he had been at track practice and attended services at a mosque, and that 80 people would corroborate that as his typical routine. Many questions have been raised about the case since, but Syed&#8217;s appeal relied primarily on his trial counsel, the late M. Cristina Gutierrez, allegedly failing to pursue an alibi witness: classmate Asia McClain, who had written Syed a letter saying she saw him in the campus library after school. His appellate attorneys also questioned cellphone tower evidence. The Court of Appeals in its Friday ruling said Gutierrez&#8217;s efforts &#8220;fell below the standard of reasonable professional judgment and was, therefore, deficient.&#8221; But they disagreed that McClain&#8217;s account would have helped Syed, saying it &#8220;does little more than call into question the time that the state claimed Ms. Lee was killed and does nothing to rebut the evidence establishing Mr. Syed&#8217;s motive and opportunity to kill Ms. Lee.&#8221; The alibi &#8220;could not have affected the outcome of the case because that evidence did not negate Mr. Syed&#8217;s criminal agency,&#8221; Greene wrote. In a concurring opinion, Judge Shirley Watts went further, saying she did not believe Gutierrez&#8217;s performance was deficient, and said there were &#8220;several obvious indications that McClain&#8217;s version of events was false.&#8221; &#8220;Syed&#8217;s trial counsel was not required to call McClain as a witness just because there was a chance, however slight, that the jury would have viewed her testimony as exculpatory. No reasonable criminal defense lawyer would advocate that, in every case, the defense should, to use a colloquialism, &#8216;throw everything at the wall to see what sticks,&#8217;&#8221; Watts wrote. Judge Michele D. Hotten, in a dissent joined by the court&#8217;s chief judge, Mary Ellen Barbera, wrote that &#8220;not only does Ms. McClain&#8217;s alibi address the most integral period of time in the case, it presents direct, not merely circumstantial, evidence of Mr. Syed&#8217;s whereabouts during that time.&#8221; &#8220;The state offered no direct evidence establishing that Mr. Syed &#8216;caused the death&#8217; of Ms. Lee, and its case was largely dependent on witness testimony, which the state readily admitted was conflicting and problematic,&#8221; Hotten wrote. &#8220;&#8230; I would remand the case for a new trial.&#8221; In overturning Syed&#8217;s conviction in 2016, Baltimore Circuit Court Judge Martin Welch said he had been most swayed by questions over cellphone tower evidence. But bo