# Record High Rents Are Driving People Back Out Of Nyc

**Source**: https://nypost.com/2022/04/28/record-high-rents-are-driving-people-back-out-of-nyc/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:37:46.437007+00:00

---

Record high rents are driving people back out of NYC Primary Menu Sections US News Metro Long Island Politics World News Page Six Sports NFL MLB Olympics NBA NHL College Football College Basketball WNBA Post Sports+ Sports Betting Business Personal Finance Opinion Entertainment TV Movies Music Celebrities Awards Theater Shopping Lifestyle Weird But True Sex &amp; Relationships Viral Trends Human Interest Parenting Fashion &amp; Beauty Food &amp; Drink Travel Health Wellness Fitness Health Care Medicine Men&#8217;s Health Women&#8217;s Health Mental Health Nutrition Real Estate Alexa Media Tech Science Space Environment Wildlife Archaeology Astrology Video Photos Pod Force One NY POSTcast Today&#8217;s Paper Covers Columnists Horoscopes Crosswords &amp; Games Sports Odds Podcasts Careers Email Newsletters Official Store Home Delivery Tips Search Email New York Post Search Search Recommended Skip to main content Real Estate Pandemic flashback: Record high rents are driving people back out of NYC By Hannah Frishberg Published April 28, 2022 Updated April 29, 2022, 4:35 p.m. ET For many New Yorkers, increased rents on recent leases have proven the final straw -- and they're skipping town for greener pastures where they can save more green. Getty Images Explore More Rewards program Bilt to move NYC headquarters to Meatpacking District Maxwell House coffee is changing its name for the first time in 133 years — and there&#8217;s a bizarre reason why Tenants horrified by egregiously tight apartment listing: &#8216;Utter lunacy&#8217; Once again, the rent is too damn high.&nbsp; For many city denizens who weathered the pandemic in the boroughs, new record high rents and bidding wars have proved the final straw. Instead of renewing their leases, they’ve moving to more affordable areas. &#8220;My rent for a micro-bedroom by Green-Wood Cemetery is $1,750, but I need to hold Zoom meetings in a nearby office and keep much of my stuff in storage, pushing my total rent to $3,500 a month,&#8221; soon to be former NYC resident Jonah Baker told The Post. The past two years have been difficult for his web design business , he noted. &#8220;My nonprofit clients have been hit hard by the pandemic and cannot afford to pay me as much, while cost-of-living has skyrocketed,&#8221; he said. 3 Inside Baker&#8217;s $1,750 Brooklyn &#8220;micro-bedroom,&#8221; where he&#8217;s currently part-way through packing for Vermont PHOTO COURTESY OF JONAH BAKER 3 He&#8217;s getting exponentially more space in Brattleboro, Vermont. This is the home Baker is moving to next month. PHOTO COURTESY OF JONAH BAKER So, next month, he&#8217;s moving to Brattleboro, Vermont where &#8220;I can manage an Airbnb, offering rejuvenating retreats, for supplemental income and actually survive.&#8221; He&#8217;s not alone. Bargain-hunters are increasingly “choosing to move out versus paying the higher current price,” said Mark Parrell, the CEO of real estate investment company Equity Residential, on a Wednesday call regarding first quarter earnings, Bloomberg reported . As if renters needed more proof it’s currently a landlord’s market, he added that the situation is “not a concern since we are easily able to attract new residents at these higher rates.”&nbsp; While many New Yorkers are being pushed by high prices to finally call it quits on the city, Equity Residential is having a ball with the current real estate market. The Manhattan, Brooklyn and New Jersey-based company’s net-effective rent hike on leases renewed this quarter was 21%, far more than the 14.5% increase it saw on leases last quarter.&nbsp; The hikes some renters have reported this year are indeed obscene.&nbsp; See Also NYC renters wage bidding wars for basic apartments with sky-high asks “It should be illegal,” New York residential agent Brett Allen told The Post in February of some of the rent increases he’s seen in the boroughs recently. “It’s horrible. I’m seeing a lot of people being turned out of their homes, people who paid rent on time with perfect credit scores.” In the West Village, three-year city resident Anne Kennedy had planned on renewing the lease on her $2,696-per-month studio until she learned her landlord planned to increase her rent by 46.5% to a whopping $3,950.&nbsp; 3 Surging rents and inflation have created what is undoubtedly a landlord&#8217;s market in NYC. Corbis via Getty Images “It’s actually comical,” she said, adding it’s also“definitely heartbreaking because I won’t be able to live with one of my best friends in the building anymore.” It’s certainly a stark contrast to the deals many renters enjoyed over the course of the pandemic. The beginning of 2022 saw the “biggest rent increase since before the pandemic began,” roommate search platform SpareRoom wrote in a recent report. “Every NYC borough saw a jump in rents over the last year, with Manhattan leading the way with increases of 15%, followed by Brooklyn up 13%.”&nbsp; Inflation, of course, hasn’t helped the situation.&nbsp; “New York saw rents hit hard over the course of the pandemic, but, as the city starts to recover, so does the rental market,” SpareRoom director Matt Hutchinson said. “Roommates who welcomed the downturn in rents certainly won’t be celebrating now, as they start to climb fast. With the vast majority already worried about the rising cost of living, the prospect of rents hitting new all-time highs, which is certainly a possibility over the summer months, could cause real issues for an already over-stretched generation.” Filed under landlords leases nyc rent 4/28/22 Read Next New luxury tower in NYC will use AI to keep an eye on seni... Most Commented Join the Conversation This story has 3K comments. 3K Government shuts down after Senate Democrats fail to support stopgap funding bill This story has 2.7K comments. 2.7K Hillary Clinton ripped for tone-deaf remarks about white men of &#039;a certain religion&#039; damaging the US This story has 1.9K comments. 1.9K Hegseth demands troops meet &#039;male-level&#039; physical standards, rails against &#039;fat troops&#039; and &#039;dudes in dresses&#039; Trending Now in Real Estate This story has been shared 13,673 times. 13,673 Posh NYC family spars with UES neighbors over construction of &#039;excessive&#039; indoor pool in their $30M home This story has been shared 7,364 times. 7,364 See inside Taylor Swift&#039;s $157M portfolio of houses, mansions and lofts across the US This story has been shared 1,254 times. 1,254 A boldly retro NYC penthouse comes with massive space and art for sale Now on Page Six Amal Clooney exudes Old Hollywood glamour with George at Albie Awards The 2025 Albie Awards: George and Amal Clooney, Meryl Streep and Shailene Woodley, plus more Sean ‘Diddy’ Combs sentenced to 4 years in prison in federal prostitution trial See All Video Shutdown Shakedown: Dems hold DC hostage | Red Hot Takes Inside Baker's $1,750 Brooklyn "micro-bedroom," where he's currently part-way through packing for Vermont He's getting exponentially more space in Brattleboro, Vermont. This is the home Baker is moving to next month. Surging rents and inflation have created what is undoubtedly a landlord's market in NYC. You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement More Stories Page Six Keith Urban not-so secretly hated Nicole Kidman’s &#039;Babygirl&#039; movie: sources NYPost Sean &#039;Diddy&#039; Combs sentenced to only 4 years in prison after salacious trial exposed mogul&#039;s reign of terror Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Email YouTube TikTok Snapchat Sections &amp; Features US News Metro World News Sports Sports Betting Business Opinion Entertainment Fashion &amp; Beauty Shopping Lifestyle Real Estate Media Tech Science Health Travel Astrology Video Photos Alexa Covers Horoscopes Sports Odds Podcasts Crosswords &amp; Games Columnists Classifieds Post Sports+ Subscribe Articles Manage Newsletters &amp; Feeds Email Newsletters RSS Feeds NY Post Official Store Home Delivery Subscribe Manage Subscription Delivery Help Help/Support About New York Post Editorial Standards Customer Service Apps Help Community Guidelines Contact Us Tips Newsroom Letters to the Editor Licensing &amp; Reprints Careers Vulnerability Disclosure Program Apps iPhone App iPad App Android Phone Android Tablet Advertise Media Kit Contact &copy; 2025 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved Terms of Use Subscription Terms Privacy Notice Sitemap Your California Privacy Rights Do Not Sell My Personal Information