# God Loves Cleveland

**Source**: http://grantland.com/features/god-loves-cleveland/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:09:30.549317+00:00

---

&raquo; God Loves Cleveland Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous Man vs. Machine ➤ Next The 30: East of Eden Facebook Twitter Print NBA God Loves Cleveland Why LeBron James — unparalleled NBA genius, heir to Michael (and Larry and Magic) — went home by Bill Simmons on July 11, 2014 Y eah, I read LeBron James&#8217;s classy letter in Sports Illustrated . I believe him. I think he wanted to come home. I think he always wanted to come home. In the summer of 2010, LeBron handled everything wrong. He knows that now. His hometown turned on him. His former owner excoriated him. Everyone else hated what he did. We turned him into a wrestling heel, pushed him to a dark place, affected his personality, planted seeds of doubt that blossomed like a black rose during the 2011 Finals. It took LeBron nearly 15 months to recover from the damage, both mentally and physically, and when he did, he captured two straight MVPs and his first two NBA titles. But he never forgot what happened, and deep down, he probably always wanted to atone. When the time arrived this summer, he flipped the script on us. This wasn&#8217;t a 24-7, overplanned reality show like the one in 2010. He said nothing. He hinted at nothing. During the first week of July, his agent took every meeting. During the second week, LeBron stayed in Las Vegas and made everyone come to him. He announced his decision in an online piece titled &#8220;I&#8217;m Coming Home,&#8221; then he flew to Brazil for the World Cup. So much for the Boys &amp; Girls Club and Jim Gray. Click here for more on 2014 NBA free agency. Those four Miami seasons made me sure of one thing: He&#8217;s one of the greatest NBA players ever. Now he&#8217;s pursuing a greater challenge: bringing Cleveland its first title in 50 years in any sport. Add everything up and it&#8217;s the best possible story. He&#8217;s the conquering hero who came home, and, hopefully, will conquer again. It&#8217;s also not entirely accurate. I think LeBron would have stayed in Miami &#8212; for at least one or two more years &#8212; if he truly believed he had a chance to keep winning there. If you think of him like a genius, it makes more sense. He&#8217;s smarter about basketball than you and me, and, really, anyone else. He sees things that we can&#8217;t see. During that last Miami season, I don&#8217;t think he liked what he saw from his teammates. LeBron James wanted to come back to Cleveland, but he also wanted to flee Miami. His heart told him to leave, but so did his brain. And his brain works like very few brains &#8212; not just now, but ever. &nbsp; &#8220;D o you think Michael Jordan was a genius?&#8221; I asked Doug Collins that question during the 2014 NBA Finals, on the afternoon of Game 3, hours before San Antonio transformed into some crazy hybrid of Russell&#8217;s Celtics, Walton&#8217;s Blazers and Bradley&#8217;s Knicks. We were eating lunch at our hotel&#8217;s pool, flanked by the radiantly blue ocean off Brickell Key, talking hoops, because that&#8217;s what you do when you&#8217;re around Doug. He loves basketball more than just about anyone I&#8217;ve ever met. The man has enough stories for three books, but too much respect for the game, and for the relationships he has cultivated over the years, to ever actually write one. When Collins played for Will Robinson at Illinois State, Robinson forced him to take up boxing. Robinson didn&#8217;t want opponents targeting Collins — painfully scrawny at the time — believing that, &#8220;If you let them rip out your heart, they&#8217;ll take your jump shot, too.&#8221; That&#8217;s how Collins learned to fight for himself. In the gold-medal game of the 1972 Olympics, a Russian player recklessly undercut Collins on the potential winning layup with three seconds to play. Collins flipped over, struck his head and got knocked out. When he came to his senses, he thought of Robinson telling him to fight for himself, and he heard coach Hank Iba tell the officials, &#8220;If Doug Collins can stand, he&#8217;s taking those free throws.&#8221; Collins cleared his head and sank the greatest pressure free throws ever made. Even if he was robbed of becoming the Mike Eruzione of basketball, those few minutes changed his life. Nobody would rip Doug Collins&#8217;s heart out. Fourteen years later, he started coaching Michael Jordan &#8212; someone who collected more ripped-out hearts than anyone. Do you think Michael Jordan was a genius? I barely got the words out of my mouth. &#8220;Oh yes,&#8221; Collins said. &#8220;There&#8217;s no question.&#8221; It wasn&#8217;t just Jordan&#8217;s ability to flip geometry and gravity against his competitors, Collins explained, or how he saw entire sequences of plays before they happened. Jordan spent more time reading people than Phil Ivey. He studied their faces, weighed their body language, solved their tells. He did this quickly and instinctively. If a particular opponent seemed weak, Jordan kept attacking until that person broke. If he sensed that a particular teammate would fail him, he&#8217;d gesture to Collins to remove that person from the game. All these years later, Collins delights in imitating how Jordan did it &#8212; by making eye contact with his coach, glancing toward the offending teammate, then unleashing one of those &#8220;Get him the F out of here&#8221; grimaces. Almost always, his instincts were right. David Halberstam once wrote that sociologist Harry Edwards &#8220;talked about Jordan representing the highest level of human achievement, on the order of Gandhi, Einstein or Michelangelo.&#8221; If that&#8217;s true &#8212; and I don&#8217;t think it&#8217;s far-fetched &#8212; then Jordan&#8217;s situation was particularly interesting because he couldn&#8217;t succeed without the assistance of teammates and coaches. Jordan weeded out weaker personalities and relentlessly pushed the ones that might have helped him. Teammate B.J. Armstrong became so frustrated by Jordan&#8217;s withering personality, he checked out library books about geniuses hoping to understand the man better. Really, it wasn&#8217;t hard. Jordan&#8217;s teammates needed to come through for him &#8230; or else. Of course, the greatest sequence of Jordan&#8217;s career didn&#8217;t involve teammates: Game 6 of the 1998 Finals, 41.9 seconds remaining, Chicago trailing by three. Pippen inbounded the ball at half court, and after that, nobody on Chicago touched it again. Jordan ripped through Utah&#8217;s defense for a floating layup, swiped the ball from Karl Malone like he was snatching a purse, then drained the title-winning jumper in Bryon Russell&#8217;s mug. It wasn&#8217;t just the storybook ending that made it so unforgettable, or even Jordan&#8217;s incomparable brilliance, but how premeditated everything seemed. There was something genuinely spooky about it. I watched Jordan play in person, many times, at various stages of his career. My favorite version was post-baseball MJ &#8212; a little humbled, a little wiser, still kicking everyone&#8217;s collective rear end &#8212; when the Bulls occasionally rolled through Boston and eviscerated the carcass of Celtic Pride. One particular night, we turned on the locals and started cheering what we were watching. It didn&#8217;t happen because we were selling out, but because we had witnessed a special kind of greatness during the Bird Era. We knew what it meant. We knew how fragile it was. We missed seeing it. Watching those Bulls was like catching up with an old friend. Jordan&#8217;s genius during that particular run, at least for me, was in how beautifully he meshed with Scottie Pippen. You watched them together, running around in tandem, and it was almost like Jordan had spawned his own clone. Like Dr. Evil and Mini-Me. Only in this case, Pippen was two inches taller. Pippen moved like Michael, saw the court like Michael, jumped passing lanes like Michael and blended with Michael&#8217;s game like a non-identical twin. It was crazy. I will never forget watching it for the rest of my life. Bird and Magic were genuises, too, but shit, they never figured out how to replicate themselves. For that reason and many others, I am never seeing a better basketball player than Michael Jordan. I am 44 years old and I know this to be true. Remarkable athlete, exceptional talent, insanely hard worker, homicidal competitor, and yes, an unequivocal genius. Whenever the subject turns to heirs to Jordan&#8217;s throne, you can always count on Collins reacting like someone were hitting on Mrs. Collins. He takes it personally. He really does. &#8220;I was there,&#8221; Doug Collins will tell you. &#8220;We need to stop comparing people to Michael. We are NEVER seeing that again.&#8221; He believes it&#8217;s true, and he believes it because it&#8217;s true. Michael Jordan was a genius, and maybe he was better than even that. From December 1990 through the 1998 Finals, not including his baseball sabbatical, the Chicago Bulls never lost three straight games with Jordan. Given the unforgiving NBA schedule, nonstop travel and general wear and tear, that&#8217;s basically impossible. But it happened. The man hated losing THAT much. Either he brought the best out of a teammate or he dumped that teammate like a showrunner killing off a struggling character. Keep up or get out. Still, that was an exclusive genius &#8212; Jordan couldn&#8217;t transfer those gifts to others, with Pippen the lone exception. You weren&#8217;t Jordan&#8217;s teammate as much as his coworker. Jordan believed, like Kobe after him, that the best situation for him was always the best situation for the team. He left it up to every teammate to figure out how to play with him. And if they didn&#8217;t, they had to go. Bird and Magic went the other way &#8212; if they made their teammates better, it gave them a better chance to win. Like