# Getting Moneyball Right.Html

**Source**: http://blogs.edweek.org/edweek/rick_hess_straight_up/2011/10/getting_moneyball_right.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:51:36.963227+00:00

---

Getting Moneyball Right (Opinion) Leadership Back Leadership Budget &amp; Finance Equity &amp; Diversity Families &amp; the Community Professional Development Recruitment &amp; Retention School &amp; District Management School Climate &amp; Safety Student Achievement Student Well-Being Policy &amp; Politics Back Policy &amp; Politics Education Funding Every Student Succeeds Act Federal Law &amp; Courts School Choice &amp; Charters Standards &amp; Accountability States Teaching &amp; Learning Back Teaching &amp; Learning Assessment College &amp; Workforce Readiness Curriculum Early Childhood English Learners Mathematics Reading &amp; Literacy Science Social Studies Special Education Teaching Teacher Preparation Teaching Profession Technology Back Technology Artificial Intelligence Classroom Technology Ed-Tech Policy IT Infrastructure &amp; Management Personalized Learning Privacy &amp; Security All Topics Jobs Back Jobs Search for Jobs Sign up for Job Alerts Virtual Career Fairs Post a Job Job Hunting Tips &amp; Advice Careers at EdWeek Opinion Back Opinion Opinion Blogs Submit an Essay Submit a Letter to the Editor About Us Advertising &amp; Marketing Solutions Group Subscriptions Recruitment Advertising Events and Webinars The State of Teaching Leaders to Learn From Current Issue Special Reports Newsletters Resources Trackers Video EdWeek Research Center EdWeek Top School Jobs EdWeek Market Brief Menu Search Sign In Subscribe Moneyball Right"> Getting Moneyball Right Subscribe Reset Search Leadership Policy &amp; Politics Teaching &amp; Learning Technology Opinion Jobs Market Brief Opinion Blog Rick Hess Straight Up Education policy maven Rick Hess of the American Enterprise Institute think tank offers straight talk on matters of policy, politics, research, and reform. Read more from this blog. School &amp; District Management Opinion Getting Moneyball Right By Rick Hess — October 20, 2011 3 min read Share article Remove Save to favorites Save to favorites Print Email Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Copy URL Rick Hess Follow Unfollow Opinion Contributor ,&nbsp; Education Week Rick Hess is the director of Education Policy Studies at the American Enterprise Institute and the author of Education Week’s Rick Hess Straight Up opinion blog. He is the creator of the annual RHSU Edu-Scholar Rankings . twitter linkedin Saw Brad Pitt’s new flick Moneyball the other week. Good, not great; thought the book was better. A lot of the interesting stuff gets lost in translation. I’ve noted the same thing when K-12 thinkers latch onto the “moneyball” analogy. K-12 enthusiasts point out that Billy Beane used sophisticated statistical analysis to build winning teams, and sensibly presume that the same kinds of tools can help drive school improvement. (Back in 2003, when the book was published, the edu-analogies consisted mostly of paeans to data dashboards; today, it’s all about “value-added” metrics.) Here’s the problem. Author Michael Lewis made it real clear in the book (though it’s less clear in the movie, which features scouts talking about whether players have attractive girlfriends) that the problem in baseball prior to Beane’s revolution in Oakland was not an absence of data. In fact, baseball has been a geek haven for generations because of all its statistics. The problem? The stats in question--typically home runs, runs batted in, and batting average--are flawed measures of individual performance. They routinely understate (or overstate) a player’s value by ignoring the stadium he plays in, how often his teammates get on base, how selective he is at the plate, how well he fields, and so on. A big part of the problem wasn’t a lack of numbers; it was a reliance on overly simplistic measures. Consequently, players who hit a lot of home runs or who hit for a high average were massively overpriced, while players who walked a lot or hit a lot of doubles were undervalued. This is where value-added enthusiasts come in. Value-added is a potentially very useful (if limited) tool, but it’s one that’s still in its relatively infancy. It can tell us what we might otherwise overlook or fail to see, helping correct our tendency to overvalue or undervalue certain teachers and techniques. The problem is our impatience and, sometimes, hubris. There’s a sense among too many would-be reformers that our new edu-statistics are ready for prime-time, and even an inclination to imagine that they can render judgment and common sense superfluous. Nope. Look, it’s frustrating, but today’s data dashboards and crude value-added measurements only mean we have finally caught up to the pre -"moneyball” era. We finally have simple, incomplete performance measures like home runs and batting average. These tell us something useful, but they can provide a distorted picture or lead us astray if not used with care. Today’s metrics conflate the effect of support staff and teachers of record, capture only a narrow slice of instructional quality, are exceedingly imprecise, and are relevant (even incompletely) for no more than perhaps 30 percent of teachers. This is a far cry from counting and measuring everything that matters, and then allowing calculations of cost-effectiveness to guide hiring and staffing decisions. Paul DePodesta, the inspiration for Jonah Hill’s ubergeek statistician in the movie, has explained that the “moneyball” idea was not to scrap baseball’s traditional metrics or scouting systems. (Again, this kind of gets lost in the film version; and even in Lewis’s book.) Rather, DePodesta has pointed out that baseball execs are “constantly trying to predict the future performance of human beings. We’re trying to get our arms around that uncertainty. Scouts really help you deal with that uncertainty. On the other hand, we looked at it and said, ‘How can we further decrease that uncertainty?’ And being able to use data was one of the ways we could do that.” It’s not that “moneyball” is a bad analogy. It’s a terrific analogy. But you’ve got to use it right. And I fear that the value-added enthusiasts who imagine they’re right now gearing up to play moneyball in K-12 are actually going to find, to their chagrin, that they’re the potbellied scouts hoping to sign an overpriced free agent because the guy drove in 100 runs for the Yankees last year. Related Tags: Value-Added Measures The opinions expressed in Rick Hess Straight Up are strictly those of the author(s) and do not reflect the opinions or endorsement of Editorial Projects in Education, or any of its publications. Rick Hess Straight Up Open image caption Close image caption Luca D'Urbino for Education Week Teaching Profession Opinion A New Test for Some Would-Be Teachers Might Just Be a Political Move Rick Hess , September 30, 2025 &bull; 8 min read Remove Save to favorites Open image caption Close image caption Luca D'Urbino for Education Week School Choice &amp; Charters Opinion How Can Education Savings Accounts Serve Students With Special Needs? Rick Hess , September 23, 2025 &bull; 8 min read Remove Save to favorites Open image caption Close image caption Luca D'Urbino for Education Week Student Well-Being Opinion Why Charlie Kirk Was an Icon to So Many Boys Rick Hess , September 15, 2025 &bull; 6 min read Remove Save to favorites View Collection Most Popular Stories Open image caption Close image caption F. Sheehan for Education Week School &amp; District Management From Our Research Center SEL by Another Name? Political Pushback Prompts Rebranding Arianna Prothero , October 1, 2025 &bull; 8 min read Remove Save to favorites Open image caption Close image caption iStock/Getty Images Reading &amp; Literacy Opinion Small-Group Reading Instruction Is Not as Effective as You Think Mike Schmoker & Timothy Shanahan , September 26, 2025 &bull; 5 min read Remove Save to favorites Open image caption Close image caption The Capitol is seen during rainy weather on Sept. 25, 2025, just days before federal money runs out, which could trigger a government shutdown. A shutdown that lasts even a few days could have ripple effects for schools across the nation. J. Scott Applewhite/AP Federal How Will a Federal Shutdown Affect Schools? 5 Big Questions, Answered Mark Lieberman , September 29, 2025 &bull; 9 min read Remove Save to favorites Related Open image caption Close image caption Yutthana Gaetgeaw/Getty School &amp; District Management A Growing Number of Superintendents Say the Job Stress Isn&#x27;t Worth It Caitlynn Peetz Stephens , October 3, 2025 &bull; 3 min read Remove Save to favorites Resources Open image caption Close image caption Photo provided by FIRST This content is provided by our sponsor. It is not written by and does not necessarily reflect the views of Education Week&#x27;s editorial staff. Sponsor School &amp; District Management Sponsor Supercharged by STEM Learning: How FIRST® Robotics Boosted Volusia County Students’ State Exam Scores by 50% Content provided by&nbsp; FIRST Remove Save to favorites Open image caption Close image caption Image provided by Paper This content is provided by our sponsor. It is not written by and does not necessarily reflect the views of Education Week&#x27;s editorial staff. Sponsor School &amp; District Management Sponsor Insights from the 15 Superintendents Shaping the Future Content provided by&nbsp; Paper Remove Save to favorites Sign Up for The Savvy Principal Get our weekly newsletter just for principals. Email * Sign up Thank you for subscribing. About Us Our Organization Our History Our People Our Supporters Careers at EdWeek Contact Us Letters to the Editor Help/FAQ Customer Service Contact the Newsroom Get EdWeek Subscriptions Newsletters &amp; Alerts Group Subscriptions Content Licensing &amp; Permissions Do Business With Us Advertising &amp; Marketing Solutions Recruitment &amp; Job Advertising K-12 Market Intelligence Custom Research High contrast ©2025 Editorial Projects in Education, Inc. Terms of Use Privacy Policy twitter instagram youtu