# A Food Manifesto For The Future

**Source**: http://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/02/01/a-food-manifesto-for-the-future/?pagemode=print
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:39:34.172076+00:00

---

A Food Manifesto for the Future - The New York Times Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times Opinionator | A Food Manifesto for the Future Close search Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Supported by Opinionator A Gathering of Opinion From Around the Web Search Mark Bittman A Food Manifesto for the Future By Mark Bittman February 1, 2011 10:28 pm February 1, 2011 10:28 pm Mark Bittman on food and all things related. For decades, Americans believed that we had the world&#x2019;s healthiest and safest diet . We worried little about this diet&#x2019;s effect on the environment or on the lives of the animals (or even the workers) it relies upon. Nor did we worry about its ability to endure &#x2014; that is, its sustainability. That didn&#x2019;t mean all was well. And we&#x2019;ve come to recognize that our diet is unhealthful and unsafe. Many food production workers labor in difficult, even deplorable, conditions, and animals are produced as if they were widgets. It would be hard to devise a more wasteful, damaging, unsustainable system. Here are some ideas &#x2014; frequently discussed, but sadly not yet implemented &#x2014; that would make the growing, preparation and consumption of food healthier, saner, more productive, less damaging and more enduring. In no particular order: End government subsidies to processed food. We grow more corn for livestock and cars than for humans, and it&#x2019;s subsidized by more than $3 billion annually; most of it is processed beyond recognition. The story is similar for other crops, including soy: 98 percent of soybean meal becomes livestock feed, while most soybean oil is used in processed foods. Meanwhile, the marketers of the junk food made from these crops receive tax write-offs for the costs of promoting their wares. Total agricultural subsidies in 2009 were around $16 billion, which would pay for a great many of the ideas that follow. Begin subsidies to those who produce and sell actual food for direct consumption. Small farmers and their employees need to make living wages. Markets &#x2014; from super- to farmers&#x2019; &#x2014; should be supported when they open in so-called food deserts and when they focus on real food rather than junk food. And, of course, we should immediately increase subsidies for school lunches so we can feed our youth more real food. Break up the U.S. Department of Agriculture and empower the Food and Drug Administration . Currently, the U.S.D.A. counts among its missions both expanding markets for agricultural products (like corn and soy!) and providing nutrition education. These goals are at odds with each other; you can&#x2019;t sell garbage while telling people not to eat it, and we need an agency devoted to encouraging sane eating. Meanwhile, the F.D.A. must be given expanded powers to ensure the safety of our food supply. (Food-related deaths are far more common than those resulting from terrorism, yet the F.D.A.&#x2019;s budget is about one-fifteenth that of Homeland Security.) Outlaw concentrated animal feeding operations and encourage the development of sustainable animal husbandry. The concentrated system degrades the environment, directly and indirectly, while torturing animals and producing tainted meat, poultry, eggs, and, more recently, fish. Sustainable methods of producing meat for consumption exist. At the same time, we must educate and encourage Americans to eat differently. It&#x2019;s difficult to find a principled nutrition and health expert who doesn&#x2019;t believe that a largely plant-based diet is the way to promote health and attack chronic diseases, which are now bigger killers, worldwide, than communicable ones. Furthermore, plant-based diets ease environmental stress, including global warming . Encourage and subsidize home cooking. (Someday soon, I&#x2019;ll write about my idea for a new Civilian Cooking Corps.) When people cook their own food, they make better choices. When families eat together, they&#x2019;re more stable. We should provide food education for children (a new form of home ec, anyone?), cooking classes for anyone who wants them and even cooking assistance for those unable to cook for themselves. Tax the marketing and sale of unhealthful foods. Another budget booster. This isn&#x2019;t nanny-state paternalism but an accepted role of government: public health. If you support seat-belt, tobacco and alcohol laws, sewer systems and traffic lights, you should support legislation curbing the relentless marketing of soda and other foods that are hazardous to our health &#x2014; including the sacred cheeseburger and fries. Related Mark Bittman&#x2019;s Blog Read more from the columnist. Reduce waste and encourage recycling. The environmental stress incurred by unabsorbed fertilizer cannot be overestimated, and has caused, for example, a 6,000-square-mile dead zone in the Gulf of Mexico that is probably more damaging than the BP oil spill. And some estimates indicate that we waste half the food that&#x2019;s grown. A careful look at ways to reduce waste and promote recycling is in order. Mandate truth in labeling. Nearly everything labeled &#x201C;healthy&#x201D; or &#x201C;natural&#x201D; is not. It&#x2019;s probably too much to ask that &#x201C;vitamin water&#x201D; be called &#x201C;sugar water with vitamins ,&#x201D; but that&#x2019;s precisely what real truth in labeling would mean. Reinvest in research geared toward leading a global movement in sustainable agriculture, combining technology and tradition to create a new and meaningful Green Revolution. I&#x2019;ll expand on these issues (and more) in the future, but the essential message is this: food and everything surrounding it is a crucial matter of personal and public health, of national and global security. At stake is not only the health of humans but that of the earth. This column appeared in print on February 2, 2011. It will appear in Opinionator regularly. What&apos;s Next Loading... Previous Post Women at War Next Post Triumph and Agony in Egypt Mark Bittman is an Opinion columnist and the Times magazine&#x2019;s lead food columnist; his Minimalist column ran in the Dining section of The Times for more than 13 years. In 2009, Mr. Bittman, who has been urging Americans to change the way we eat for decades, published &#x201C; Food Matters ,&#x201D; which explored the crucial connections among food, health and the environment. He is also the author of the &#x201C;How to Cook Everything&#x201D; series. His new book VB6: Eat Vegan Before 6:00 to Lose Weight and Restore Your Health . . . for Good , will be published April 30. His Web site is markbittman.com . Visit Mr. Bittman&#x2019;s blog &#xBB; Inside Opinionator Fixes Private Lives Couch The Stone Moviegoers More Contributors Anxiety Bedside Disunion Draft Errol Morris Menagerie The Conversation The End The Great Divide All Contributors &amp; Series &#xBB; April 26, 2016 Guiding a First Generation to College Students who are new to America or lack college-educated parents often don&#x2019;t know their options. Read&#xA0;more&#x2026; April 19, 2016 How Dwindling Fish Stocks Got a Reprieve Giving fishermen a business incentive to fish sustainably can &#x201C;unleash their creative capacity&#x201D; to help solve the problem, says one expert. Read&#xA0;more&#x2026; More From Fixes &#xBB; April 21, 2016 Fractured: A First Date It wasn&#x2019;t my heart that he broke. Read&#xA0;more&#x2026; March 17, 2016 Steph Curry, the Prophet of Basketball What desperate, humiliating steps would I take in order to watch him play? Read&#xA0;more&#x2026; More From Private Lives &#xBB; April 19, 2016 Should Therapists Write About Patients? Even when we disguise their identities, we risk betraying them. Read&#xA0;more&#x2026; April 12, 2016 Grieving My Patient&#x2019;s Friend It isn&#x2019;t unusual for therapists to get emotionally attached to people we&#x2019;ve never met. Read&#xA0;more&#x2026; More From Couch &#xBB; April 18, 2016 The Perils of Being a Black Philosopher After reading so many hateful messages I began to feel sick, literally. Read&#xA0;more&#x2026; April 16, 2016 Is That Even a Thing? What this language trend says about us. Read&#xA0;more&#x2026; More From The Stone &#xBB; February 26, 2016 Bruni and Douthat Agree: #OscarsSoPolitical The Moviegoers pick who should and who will win at the Academy Awards &#x2014;&#xA0;and pick apart Hollywood&#x2019;s diversity problem. Read&#xA0;more&#x2026; December 28, 2015 Escaping to a Galaxy Far, Far, Far Away The &#x201C;Force&#x201D; holds great appeal compared with our anxieties here on earth, as seen in other films this season. Read&#xA0;more&#x2026; More From Moviegoers &#xBB; February 6, 2016 Not Just a Death, a System Failure My mother&#x2019;s death was so wrenching that I applied to medical school to help change the way people die in America. Read&#xA0;more&#x2026; January 27, 2016 When the Hospital Is Not a Haven Had I prolonged my Indian grandmother&#x2019;s suffering with my stubborn belief in the power of medicine to fix things? Read&#xA0;more&#x2026; More From The End &#xBB; August 15, 2015 Puzzling Through My Fiction What I learned about writing from doing crossword puzzles. Read&#xA0;more&#x2026; July 11, 2015 Writing Books Very Few Will Read When a family commissions a work, they&#x2019;re more interested in stories, lessons and values, rather than in sensation. Read&#xA0;more&#x2026; More From Draft &#xBB; July 27, 2015 10 Things I&#x2019;d Tell My Former (Medicated) Self I&#x2019;ve been drug-free for nearly a month. Here is what I learned about my own seven-month weaning process. Read&#xA0;more&#x2026; June 26, 2015 Singleminded As I decrease my medications, the urgency I feel around men and relationships subsides. Read&#xA0;more&#x2026; More From Anxiety &#xBB; June 22, 2015 Every Creeping Thing That C