# Pew Survey Muslims Atheists Religion

**Source**: http://www.vox.com/identities/2017/2/15/14625018/pew-survey-muslims-atheists-religion
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:47:59.671652+00:00

---

Survey: American attitudes toward Muslims have improved | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo Survey: American attitudes toward Muslims have improved Free speech needs fearless journalism Free speech is endangered; unbiased and trustworthy news is elusive. In a time of noise, confusion, and spin, we’re committed to clarity, truth, and depth — even when it’s hard. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join now Politics Survey: American attitudes toward Muslims have improved The country is — slowly but surely — moving in a more inclusive direction. by German Lopez Feb 15, 2017, 6:50 PM UTC Share Gift Americans have warmed toward almost all major religious groups, including Muslims and atheists, over the past few years. That was the conclusion of a new report by the Pew Research Center, which gauged Americans&rsquo; attitudes toward religious groups by asking nearly 4,000 US adults to rate different groups through a &ldquo;feeling&rdquo; thermometer. Pew did a similar survey in 2014, but this time it found much higher ratings for different religious groups almost across the board. Pew Research Center For example: In June 2014, Americans on average gave Muslims 40 degrees &mdash; a very chilly rating. But in January 2017, that jumped up to 48 degrees. That&rsquo;s still far from welcoming &mdash; and atheists and Mormons don&rsquo;t fare much better &mdash; but it&rsquo;s a notable increase in just a few years. Personal proximity to a religion seemed to play a big role in the findings. People who identified as the religion they were rating were, not surprisingly, more likely to rate it higher. And people who knew someone who practiced the religion they were rating were &mdash; also not surprisingly, given a lot of sociological research &mdash; also more likely to rate it higher. The latter could explain why Americans rated Muslims more highly this time around. According to Pew, &ldquo;Fewer than half of Americans say they personally know a Mormon (43%) or a Muslim (45%), though more Americans say they know a Muslim today than said this in June of 2014 (38%).&rdquo; Another factor seemed to be partisanship. While Pew found that both Republicans and Democrats reported warmer feelings toward various religious groups, Democrats were much more likely to demonstrate big increases compared to 2014. So while Republicans saw a 6-degree bump in feelings toward Muslims, Democrats saw a bigger 10-degree jump. Pew Research Center The only group to not see any sort of increase, including among both Democrats and Republicans, was evangelical Christians. Again, feelings toward some groups, particularly Muslims and atheists, remain fairly chilly. And it remains to be seen whether the increases will have any effect on views toward specific policies, such as President Donald Trump&rsquo;s executive order to restrict immigration from seven Muslim-majority countries. But Pew&rsquo;s survey shows a notable improvement, indicating that America is slowly but surely moving in a more inclusive direction. Watch: Why Mormons identify with Syrian refugees See More : Politics Most Popular The chaos at the Pentagon, explained Podcast Jane Goodall’s most radical message was not about saving the planet Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword Democrats are doing more to resist Trump than their voters think The Supreme Court fight over whether gay and trans people can be “cured,” explained Today, Explained Understand the world with a daily explainer, plus the most compelling stories of the day. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Politics Will TrumpRx save me money on drugs or not? Podcast The chaos at the Pentagon, explained Trump’s “war” with drug cartels, briefly explained Democrats are doing more to resist Trump than their voters think The Supreme Court fight over whether gay and trans people can be “cured,” explained The Highlight Hundreds of societies have been in crises like ours. An expert explains how they got out. Health 11:00 AM UTC Health 11:00 AM UTC Will TrumpRx save me money on drugs or not? The president’s new plan to slash drug prices is “a splashy announcement without a lot of substance.” By Dylan Scott Podcasts Oct 2 Podcast Podcasts Oct 2 The chaos at the Pentagon, explained Why Trump is sticking with Pete Hegseth. By Devan Schwartz and Noel King The Logoff Oct 2 The Logoff Oct 2 Trump’s “war” with drug cartels, briefly explained Why Trump is claiming drug cartels are attacking the US. By Cameron Peters Politics Oct 2 Politics Oct 2 Democrats are doing more to resist Trump than their voters think There’s only so much you can do without a majority. By Christian Paz Politics Oct 2 Politics Oct 2 The Supreme Court fight over whether gay and trans people can be “cured,” explained A new Supreme Court case could make therapists immune from regulation. By Ian Millhiser Politics Oct 2 The Highlight Politics Oct 2 The Highlight Hundreds of societies have been in crises like ours. An expert explains how they got out. An analysis of historical crises over the past 2,000 years offers lessons for avoiding the end times. By Peter Turchin Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Vox Vox logo Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok About us Our staff Ethics &amp; Guidelines How we make money Contact us How to pitch Vox Newsletters Privacy Notice Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Settings Licensing Accessibility Platform Status Careers © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved