# Parents Money Family Wealth Stories.Html

**Source**: https://nymag.com/intelligencer/article/parents-money-family-wealth-stories.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:58:43.454641+00:00

---

14 People on How Their Parents’ Money Impacts Their Lives Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Politics Business Technology Ideas About Intelligencer Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Close Close Politics Business Technology Ideas About Intelligencer Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Search Search Close wealth People With Parents With Money 14 adults come clean about the down payments, allowances, and tuition payments that make their New York lives feasible. As told to Paula Aceves and Julia Edelstein With additional reporting by Alyssa Shelasky and Rachel Sklar Feb. 10, 2025 Photo-Illustration: Maurizio Cattelan and Pierpaolo Ferrari save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Photo-Illustration: Maurizio Cattelan and Pierpaolo Ferrari Photo-Illustration: Maurizio Cattelan and Pierpaolo Ferrari When you live in the wealthiest city in the world, it’s not hard to come up with people you suspect have access to their parents’ money. But when we set out to put faces to the generational wealth that sustains — and inflates — New York’s economy (and which is projected to be in the trillions over the next few decades), finding people who would be willing to talk about it in minute detail was a very different project. In This Issue Your Parents’ Money How Many New Yorkers Are Secretly Subsidized by Their Parents? The Sneaky Ways Parents Transfer Money to Their Adult Children See All &nbsp; The rejections were swift and often vague. DMs went unanswered or, worse, “liked.” We broadened our search again and again, drafting dozens of uncomfortable emails and texts to friends, co-workers, family friends, family of friends, former bosses, exes, people we met once and vaguely kept up with on Instagram. We dropped uninvited into Facebook groups (and, in some cases, were just as quickly ushered out of them). When we brought it up at drinks and holiday parties, conversations ended with a gauzy look of confusion or a sudden beeline to the bathroom. “I’ll ask around!” they would often say, followed by a prompt “Sounds fascinating, though!” Spending your parents’ money, we realized, may be the very last taboo in polite society. These 14 people range from those whose grandparents ran multimillion-dollar media empires to those whose teacher-parents made decent stock returns. In awkward conversations that occasionally became therapy sessions, they answered our questions candidly: How much, how often, for what? Several admitted they weren’t even sure how to label their own class status in a city of extreme wealth. Nearly all of them remarked that they hadn’t ever talked about this with anyone else — ever . Nosy Conversations With … • The Psychologist Crippled By Guilt Over Her Privilege • The Divorced Dad Cashing His Mother’s Social Security Checks • The Teacher Who Buffers Her Lifestyle With a Monthly Allowance • The Woman Whose Parents Control Her Love Life • The Banker Whose Parents Wire Money From China • The Social Worker Living in Her Grandparents’ Sprawling Apartment • The Upper West Sider Whose Parents Subsidized His Community Organizing • The Filmmaker Whose Family Pays for Her Keratin Treatments • The Mom Whose Parents Cover Two Private-School Tuitions • The Musician Who Keeps His Wealth a Secret • The Upper East Sider Who Traded Privacy for IVF • The Fashion Designer Who Worries Taking Money Might Make Him Less of a Man • The Doctor Whose Parents Helped Her Open Her Own Practice • The Millennial Who Pretended to Be Straight to Get Their Dad’s Help . The Psychologist Crippled By Guilt Over Her Privilege Age: 39 Location: Brooklyn The Money: Just over a million dollars I thought I was middle class most of my life. My parents were frugal . My dad was a teacher and my mom was a mathematician, but she was very sick for most of my childhood and didn’t work for long. They told me I had to go to a public university for college because a private college was out of the question. After I graduated, I let them know I wanted to go to grad school and expected to hear the same response, but instead they said, “We can pay for that.” My parents wound up covering eight years of my Ph.D. program in New York City, including my rent, food, and tuition. I didn’t live exorbitantly. I didn’t want to overspend and put them into debt — at that time, I still did not understand what we were dealing with as far as their wealth. My family gave me the money for rent, which I then gave to my roommate. We did that for appearances. Their financial support was so embarrassing to me. And it still is, honestly. I think if I had said, “Dad, I want to try to be an influencer, and I need you to fund my lifestyle,” he would have been like, “You won’t be seeing a dime from me.” But because I was in school and doing things that he considered worthwhile, he was happy to support me. While I was in graduate school, my mother was dying. She really wanted to see my husband and me settled in a home, so we bought a condo in Brooklyn and my parents gave us all the money for the down payment. We closed right as COVID hit. Then, after I graduated, we sold it and did well with the sale. We recently used that money to buy a house. Now my dad is helping us pay to renovate it and pay a nanny. At this point, he has given me over a million dollars — he made it with a small investment in the stock market — and there’s over a million left for me. I often feel that if my colleagues found out that I don’t have Ph.D. debt, they would be like, “How do you relate to your patients? And are you really working hard?” They might think I don’t love the work as much as they do because there’s just not as much on the line for me. I feel fortunate, but I have so much guilt. In fact, I have had so much guilt for so long that I developed an anxiety disorder I’ve had to treat and manage. There were periods when I didn’t function well because it bothered me so much. . The Divorced Dad Cashing His Mother’s Social Security Checks Age: 47 Location: Westchester The Money: $1,000 per month It didn’t take much for my mother to see that I was sort of broken after my divorce in 2019. I had been laid off a few years earlier from a career in marketing, and I had lost about half the money I entered my marriage with to the settlement. I didn’t say, “Hey, Mom, I’m desperate here.” But she felt it. At a certain point, she became eligible for Social Security, and my dad was like, “We are going to give you Mom’s Social Security checks.” So I get a thousand bucks from them a month, which, honestly, still isn’t enough. I had to move from the Upper East Side to the Bronx two summers ago, then last summer I moved to Westchester. My son is enrolled in a $94,000-a-year private school; I took the tuition out of my 401(k). I don’t tell most people about the help. I have pride. I’m an Ivy League graduate. I’m a published author. There’s a stigma. A lot of people, especially of an older generation, might say I should be punished in some way for not living up to the success that I portray. 3. The Teacher Who Buffers Her Lifestyle With a Monthly Allowance Age: 34 Location: Murray Hill The Money: $335,000 The gifting started when I was 24 and single and my parents — they’re in real estate — bought me a studio in Forest Hills. Both my name and my dad’s were on the deed. I lived in that apartment and then eight years ago, when my now-husband and I got serious, my dad bought me out of my share (which he had originally paid for anyway) and I used that couple hundred-thousand dollars for the down payment on a two-bedroom in a doorman building in Murray Hill. Had my parents not helped us, we would have had to rent and would be in a worse apartment — maybe in Jackson Heights — or we’d have had to move out of the city because rents keep going up. Instead, we’ve been able to live a stable life. Our maintenance hasn’t increased, and our mortgage is a golden 2 percent. When I bought the Murray Hill apartment, I told everyone, “My parents gave us money.” I’m pretty open about the help my parents give me because I don’t want anyone to think that this lifestyle is attainable on just my and my husband’s incomes. Before the first apartment, I drove an Infiniti, and I would tell people, “Guys, my dad is clearly paying for this. A 24-year-old should not be driving this car.” Now I have a daughter, and my parents and my grandma send me about $2,400 for her every month. I call it an allowance. It’s funny to be so grown up and calling it that, but that’s what it is. It started before I had a baby, but it has gotten larger since she arrived. It helps pay for day care. I could go and spend it at Bloomingdale’s, but I don’t. For me, this money is the answer to Can I eat out as often as I want to? Can we go on this vacation? But our day-to-day life wouldn’t be affected if we didn’t have it. I mean, my husband’s in finance. I’m a teacher. Together, we’re pulling in six figures, but in Manhattan it just never seems like enough. I sometimes think to myself, Am I a trust-fund baby, or are we middle class? I can’t even tell what middle class means in Manhattan. I know parents who bought their kids $4 million apartments in Tribeca or Hamptons homes. My parents are not giving me anything like that, so I’m conditioned