# Long Covid Me Understanding The Connection

**Source**: https://www.meaction.net/long-covid-me-understanding-the-connection/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:14:11.878069+00:00

---

--> LONG COVID &amp; M.E. | #MEAction top of page DONATE SUBSCRIBE ABOUT WHAT IS M.E.? LONG COVID &amp; M.E. STAFF BOARD &amp; ADVISORS SCIENTIFIC &amp; MEDICAL ADVISORY BOARD TAKE ACTION TAKE ACTION FOR ME/CFS MEDICAID TELEHEALTH #MILLIONSMISSING SEVERE ME ARTISTS PROJECT GET INVOLVED VOLUNTEER EVENTS #MEACTION USA #MEACTION UK #MEACTION SCOTLAND SUPPORT FIND YOUR GROUP FIND A DOCTOR CRISIS RESOURCES NEWS &amp; PRESS NEWS PRESS RESOURCES PATIENTS CAREGIVERS HEALTHCARE PROVIDERS RESEARCHERS STOP REST PACE MEPEDIA HANDOUTS &amp; TOOLS STORE LONG COVID &amp; M.E. Understanding the Connection When the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic began, disability advocates&nbsp; sounded the alarm : acute viral infection leads to chronic illness in a significant number of individuals. Dr. Fauci&nbsp; repeatedly warned &nbsp;of the risk patients would develop myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS). ​ Like many other neurological diseases, up to&nbsp; 80% of cases of ME/CFS &nbsp;are initiated by infection.&nbsp; Several &nbsp;preliminary&nbsp; studies &nbsp;are now &nbsp; showing &nbsp;that nearly half of people with Long COVID have ME/CFS.&nbsp; ​ Infection-associated chronic illness is nothing new. Yet despite its high prevalence and severity, research and clinical care into ME/CFS lags behind the times. Our goal is to ensure that everyone can easily access the information they need to make the best possible decisions for the health of their families, patients, and for their own well-being. #MEACTION&#39;S PACING CAMPAIGN MAYO CLINIC PROCEEDINGS CME You help make great resources happen! ​ If you find value in our #StopRestPace campaign, our Pacing Guide, or our Continuing Medical Education Courses, please consider making a donation. DONATE FOR MORE RESOURCES LIKE THESE FURTHER RESOURCES Other Recommended Resources for Long COVID SEE OUR OTHER TOOLS &amp; RESOURCES RETURN TO THE #MEACTION HOMEPAGE #MEAction USA ​ #MEAction UK ​ #MEAction Scotland ​ #MillionsMissing ​ News ​ Privacy Policy ​ Terms of Use About #MEAction ​ Board &amp; Advisors ​ Staff ​ ​ Contact Us ​ Financials ​ Donate &copy; 2025 The Myalgic Encephalomyelitis Action Network, All Rights Reserved bottom of page