# Emergence

**Source**: https://hackingsemantics.xyz/2024/emergence/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:51:58.248908+00:00

---

A Sanity Check on ‘Emergent Properties’ in Large Language Models - Hacking semantics Skip links Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to footer You are using an outdated browser. Please upgrade your browser to improve your experience. Hacking Semantics All Posts Categories Tags Toggle search Toggle menu Anna Rogers Follow IT University of Copenhagen Homepage Google Scholar Semantic Scholar ORCID Twitter LinkedIn GitHub Custom Social Profile Link --> Toggle Menu #peer-review (9) #academia (7) #methodology (6) #LLMs (5) #transformers (5) #conferences (4) #ethics (4) #debate (2) #society (2) #teaching (2) #machine-reasoning (1) #negative-results (1) #productivity (1) #review (1) A Sanity Check on ‘Emergent Properties’ in Large Language Models 13 minute read One of the often-repeated claims about Large Language Models (LLMs), discussed in our ICML’24 position paper , is that they have ‘emergent properties’. Unfortunately, in most cases the speaker/writer does not clarify what they mean by ‘emergence’. But misunderstandings on this issue can have big implications for the research agenda, as well as public policy. From what I’ve seen in academic papers, there are at least 4 senses in which NLP researchers use this term: A property that a model exhibits despite not being explicitly trained for it. E.g. Bommasani et al. (2021, p. 5) refers to few-shot performance of GPT-3 (Brown et al., 2020) as “an emergent property that was neither specifically trained for nor anticipated to arise’”. (Opposite to def. 1): a property that the model learned from the training data. E.g. Deshpande et al. (2023, p. 8) discuss emergence as evidence of “the advantages of pre-training’’. A property “is emergent if it is not present in smaller models but is present in larger models.’’ (Wei et al., 2022, p. 2) . A version of def. 3, where what makes emergent properties “intriguing’’ is “their sharpness, transitioning seemingly instantaneously from not present to present, and their unpredictability, appearing at seemingly unforeseeable model scales” (Schaeffer, Miranda, &amp; Koyejo, 2023, p. 1) For a technical term, this kind of fuzziness is unfortunate. If many people repeat the claim “LLLs have emergent properties” without clarifying what they mean, a reader could infer that there is a broad scientific consensus that this statement is true, according to the reader’s own definition. I am writing this post after giving many talks about this in NLP research groups all over the world - Amherst and Georgetown (USA), Cambridge, Cardiff and London (UK), Copenhagen (Denmark), Gothenburg (Sweden), Milan (Italy), Genbench workshop (EMNLP’23 @ Singapore) (thanks to everybody in the audience!). This gave me a chance to poll a lot of NLP researchers about what they thought of emergence. Based on the responses from 220 NLP researchers and PhD students, by far the most popular definition is (1), with (4) being the second most popular. The idea expressed in definition (1) also often gets invoked in public discourse. For example, you can see it in the claim that Google’s PaLM model ‘knew’ a language it wasn’t trained on (which is almost certainly false). The same idea also provoked the following public exchange between a US senator and Melanie Mitchell (a prominent AI researcher, professor at Santa Fe Institute): What this exchange shows is the idea of LLM ‘emergent properties’ per definition (1) has implications outside the research world. It contributes to the anxiety about the imminent takeover by super-AGI , to calls for pausing research . It could push the policy-makers in the wrong directions, such as banning open-source research – which would further consolidate resources in the hands of a few big tech labs, and ensure they won’t have much competition. It also creates the impression of LLMs as entities independent on the choices of their developers and deployers – which has huge implications for who is accountable for any harms coming from these models. With such high stakes for the research community and society, shouldn’t we at least make sure that the science is sound? How much do these notions of ‘emergence’ contribute to the scientific understanding of LLMs? Much in the above versions of ‘emergence’ in LLMs is still debatable: how much do they actually advance the scientific discussion, with respect to other terms and known principles that are already in use? I would like to stress that this discussion is completely orthogonal to the question of whether LLMs are useful or valuable. Countless models have been and will be practically useful without claims of emergence. Let us start with definition 2: something that a model learned from the training data . Since this is exactly what a machine learning model is supposed to do, does this version of ‘emergence’ add much to ‘learning’? For the definition (3) ( something that only large models do ), the better performance of larger models is to be expected, given basic machine learning principles: the larger model simply has more capacity to learn the patterns in its training data. Hence, this version of ‘emergence’ also does not add much. Unless we expect that the larger models, but not the small ones, do something they weren’t trained for – but then this definition depends on definition (1). For the definition (4), the phenomenon of sharp change in performance turned out to be attributable to non-continuous evaluation metrics (e.g. for classification tasks like multi-choice question answering), rather than LLMs themselves (Schaeffer, Miranda, &amp; Koyejo, 2023) . Furthermore, J. Wei himself acknowledges that the current claims of sharp changes are based on results from models that are only available in relatively few sizes (1B, 7B, 13B, 70B, 150B…), and if we had more results for intermediate model sizes, the increase in performance would likely turn out to be smooth (Wei, 2023) . The unpredictability part of definition (4) was reiterated by J. Wei (Wei, 2023) as follows: the “emergence” phenomenon is still interesting if there are large differences in predictability: for some problems, performance of large models can easily be extrapolated from performance of models 1000x less in size, whereas for others, even it cannot be extrapolated even from 2x less size. However, the cited predictability at 1,000x less compute refers to the GPT-4 report (OpenAI, 2023) , where the developers knew the target evaluation in advance , and specifically optimized for it. Given that, predictable scaling is hardly surprising theoretically (though still impressive from the engineering point of view). This is in contrast with the unpredictability at 2x less compute for unplanned BIG-Bench evaluation in (Wei et al., 2022) . This unpredictability is expected, simply due to the unknown interaction between (a) the presence of training data that is similar to test data, and (b) sufficient model capacity to learn some specific patterns. Hence, we are left with the definition (1): emergent properties are properties that the model was not explicitly trained for. This can be interpreted in two ways: A property is emergent if the model was not exposed to training data for that property. A property is emergent even if the model was exposed to the relevant training data -- as long as the model developers were unaware of it. Per def. 6, it would appear that the research question is actually ‘what data exists on the Web?’ (or in proprietary training datasets of generative AI companies), and we are training LLMs as a very expensive method to answer that question. For example, ChatGPT can generate chess moves that are plausible-looking (but often illegal) . This is surprising if we think of ChatGPT as a language model, but not if we know that it is a model trained on a web corpus, because such a corpus would likely include not only texts in a natural language, but also materials like as chess transcripts, ascii art, midi music, programming code etc. The term ‘language model’ is actually a misnomer - they are rather corpus models (Veres, 2022) . Per def. 5, we can prove that some property is emergent only by showing that the model was not exposed to evidence that could have been the basis for the model outputs in the training data. And it cannot be due to lucky sampling in the latent space of the continuous representations. If we are allowed to generate as many samples as we want and cherry-pick, we are eventually going to get some fluent text even from a randomly initialized model – but this should arguably not count as an ‘emergent property’ on definition (5). For commercial models with undisclosed training data such as ChatGPT, such a proof is out of the question. But even for the “open” LLMs this is only a hypothesis (if not wishful thinking), because so far we are lacking detailed studies (or even a methodology) to consider the exact relation between the amount and kinds of evidence in the training text data for a particular model output. On definition 5, emergent properties are a machine learning equivalent of alchemy – and the bar for postulating that should be quite high. Especially in the face of evidence to the contrary. Counter-evidence to ‘emergent properties’ in LLMs Here are some of the empirical results that make it dubious that LLMs have ‘emergent properties’ by definition (5) (the model was not exposed to training data for that property): Phenomenon of prompt sensitivity (Lu, Bartolo, Moore, Riedel, &amp; Stenetorp, 2022; Zhao, Wallace, Feng, Klein, &amp; Singh, 2021) : LLMs responding differently to prompts that should be semantically equivalent. If we say that models have an emergent property of answering questions, slightly different ways of posing these questions, and especially different order of few-shot examples, should not matter. The most likely explanation for the prompt sensitivity is that the model responds better to prompts that are more similar to its training data in some way that helps the model