# Jaylen Brown Nba Boston Celtics

**Source**: https://www.theringer.com/nba/2023/3/21/23639331/jaylen-brown-nba-boston-celtics
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:14:23.637350+00:00

---

Jaylen Brown Is Trying to Find a Balance - The Ringer Discover anything Discover anything Videos Podcasts The Latest The Latest Fantasy Football Rankings Fantasy Football Rankings NBA NBA NFL NFL TV TV Movies Movies MLB MLB The Ringer 107 The Ringer 107 Music Music Soccer Soccer Events Events The Streaming Guide The Streaming Guide Simmons Pod Simmons Pod Rewatchables Rewatchables Big Picture Big Picture Russillo Pod Russillo Pod The Watch The Watch Higher Learning Higher Learning House of R House of R The Town The Town Plain English Plain English By Logan Murdock March 21, 2023, 11:45 am UTC • 25 min The Celtics star wants to be known for more than just basketball, even as he tries to help Boston to a repeat NBA Finals bid. But recent missteps, largely stemming from his affiliation with Kyrie Irving and Ye, have shown just how difficult that may be. The Celtics star wants to be known for more than just basketball, even as he tries to help Boston to a repeat NBA Finals bid. But recent missteps, largely stemming from his affiliation with Kyrie Irving and Ye, have shown just how difficult that may be. By • - Editor’s note: Jaylen Brown reportedly agreed on Tuesday, July 25, to sign the largest deal in NBA history—a five-year, $304 million supermax extension. In this feature story reported in January and published in March, Brown discusses his complex relationship with the Boston Celtics, as well as the long-term goals for his career. When Jaylen Brown was being recruited to the University of California, he met Derek Van Rheenen, a prominent cultural studies professor. They struck up a friendship months later, in a Cal summer program that Brown attended. Impressed by Brown’s intellect and persistence, Van Rheenen pushed for Brown to receive a special exemption to enroll in his graduate course the Theoretical Foundations of the Cultural Studies of Sport in Education. One morning, Van Rheenen led a discussion about the ignorant belief that Black athletes are genetically more gifted than athletes of other races. “The corollary there is that maybe they’re not as intellectually or cognitively up for the task,” Van Rheenen tells me. “Like, yeah, you’re really good at playing basketball, but we don’t expect much more from you relative to your intellectual scholarship.” The lecture lingered in Brown’s mind long after class. At basketball practice later that day, he lagged through drills and missed basic instructions. “There was this intense conversation; I’m working through it,” coaches recalled him saying. “I can’t just do the thing that you’re asking me to do.” Brown was Cal’s highest-ranked basketball recruit since Jason Kidd, but he committed to the school ahead of the 2015-16 season hoping to find an identity beyond sports and to play for the predominantly Black coaching staff led by Cuonzo Martin. But on the way to practice that fall day, Brown felt like he was just another athlete living out the stereotype he’d discussed in class. Worse, he was the face of an institution making money off his talent. “It make you not want to play at all,” Brown tells me. “Make you not want to even show up.” When I saw Brown in Boston in January, he was going through a similar conflict. In the seven years since the Boston Celtics picked him third overall, Brown has blossomed from an inconsistent contributor into the face of one of the most successful franchises in sports. On the floor, he helped lead the Celtics to their first NBA Finals in a decade last season. Off the floor, the 26-year-old has used his voice and profile to enact social change. His foundation has partnered with colleges to create a bridge program for underrepresented youth aimed at closing the educational gap between races. And in the wake of George Floyd’s murder, he led protests, became an advocate for social change, and inspired the Celtics front office to revamp its approach to community outreach. But his quest to find worth beyond the game resulted in a number of public missteps in the past year. Last spring, he signed with Donda Sports, an agency founded by Ye, the rapper formerly known as Kanye West; five months later, the agency went dormant, and the school associated with it shut down because of the musician’s offensive behavior and comments. A couple of weeks later, Brown publicly defended Kyrie Irving’s right to free speech after his former teammate tweeted a link to a movie that spewed antisemitic tropes. His basketball life has also been complicated. He’s still reconciling the departure of Ime Udoka, the former Celtics head coach whom Brown advocated to hire but was later suspended before this season for an improper relationship with a subordinate. Brown also spent the summer in trade rumors, heightening his feelings about being a commodity for an institution rather than a partner in the quest for the Celtics’ 18th banner. As this season grinds to a close, Brown’s Celtics, riding a breakthrough season from Jayson Tatum and following the lead of new head coach Joe Mazzulla, have struggled, but remain among the favorites to make it back to the Finals. But Brown is also striving to strike a balance between playing the game and being known beyond it. “Obviously, our goal is to win the championship. That’s, I think, what everybody is focused on,” Brown tells me. “Me, I feel like I still have so many more limits to tap individually. To be better, to be a better leader, to be a better player, et cetera. As for now, I’m just playing my role on the team to help us get back to do what we got to do. So, nothing wrong with being a part of a team and doing your job. That’s how I look at it.” Photo by Nathaniel S. Butler/NBAE via Getty Images The beginning of Brown’s NBA career was marred by inconsistency. As a rookie, he impressed with his defense on LeBron James in the 2017 postseason, and he excelled in a pivotal role the following season for a Celtics team that again reached the Eastern Conference finals. But his urge to live up to his draft position often overrode his desire to reach team goals. “I wanted to win; I wanted to also prove that I was the third pick of the draft,” Brown says. “At the time, when you’re young, you see all your counterparts out there doing all types of stuff. Ben Simmons in Philly, Brandon Ingram in L.A., they are in the same draft, and so you want to keep showing people that you are not a bust. You are of equal talent. So during that time, that’s all it was for me, just trying to make sure people knew that Jaylen could play.” When Brown played selfishly, shooting a contested jumper early in the shot clock or dribbling into a double-team, his teammates would grumble. “He always used to get in trouble,” Marcus Smart, Brown’s best friend on the team, tells me. “Because he would go one-on-five a lot when he was young, and everybody would just be like, ‘Slow down, man.’ “So I asked him, I’m like, ‘J.B., what be going through your head when we be yelling at you, “Slow down”’? “He’s like, ‘All right, listen. So, right, y’all screaming slow down—the defender hears that. So I’m thinking he’s going to think I’m slowing down, so I’m going to speed up.’ “And I’m like, ‘No, man.’ I’m like, ‘Nah, nah, nah, you got to change that. That’s not how you got to think.’” Role changes also proved difficult. After starting during the 2017-18 campaign and helping to push LeBron and the Cavs to a Game 7 without new additions Gordon Hayward and Kyrie Irving, Brown was relegated to the bench for most of the following season. He began to wonder if he’d ever get a prominent role in Boston. We all got ups and downs. And most of all, we don’t always handle everything in the perfect media-appropriate demeanor. Kyrie, one thing about him, he going to be who he is. I appreciate that. Jaylen Brown “The pain came from being ready to do more,” Brown says. “And not being allowed to. From a basketball standpoint, I always felt like … throw me out there no matter if I’m in Boston or in Japan [playing for Team USA]. I’m going to figure it out. I’m more athletic, I’ve got more skill than the majority of people in this league. And I’m a wing, which is of extreme value. I got long arms. I’m athletic. I can get to where I’m going. I can see the game. I got a feel for it. I had to learn more about how to play the game. And that came with experience.” But the Celtics’ veteran core—which, in addition to Irving and Hayward, included the likes of Al Horford and Marcus Morris Sr.—didn’t have time to wait. When Brown, Tatum, or Terry Rozier would make mistakes, Irving would lash out, and Brown, the most outspoken of the young players, would push back. “Me and Kyrie didn’t really see eye to eye when we was here,” Brown tells me. “Really at all.” Irving, already with a championship under his belt, felt it was his responsibility to help facilitate Brown’s ambitious goals and to guide the young Celtics into contention for years to come. But Irving now admits he missed the mark. “Sometimes—and I could say this for myself—sometimes our individual goals are before the team goals, and he had to adjust,” Irving says. “You think about our team. I want you to really look back at our team that we had and see how talented we were. And we had a lockup in every position. It was two, three guys in every position. So it was not only competitive with me and J.B., but it was competitive amongst all of us. And that wasn’t the best recipe for team success if you’re competing with your brothers every day.” Prior to the 2018-19 season, Irving, who was in the last year of his contract, publicly committed to the Celtics at a season-ticket holder event. But Irving says his personal life began to interfere with his organizational promises. “I mean, for me, I lost my grandfather my second year in Boston, so it was my first time really losing someone close like that to me, other than my mom and my grandmother when I was young,” Irving says. “So me being in Boston, not being home, not having that emotional suppor