# Who Are The Adults Not Vaccinated Against Covid.Html

**Source**: https://www.census.gov/library/stories/2021/12/who-are-the-adults-not-vaccinated-against-covid.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:16:13.037572+00:00

---

Who Are the Adults Not Vaccinated Against COVID? United States Census Bureau | An official website of the United States Government An official website of the United States government Here’s how you know Here’s how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock A locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Inconsistent Search Results Users may experience issues with the search function. We encourage you to browse our pages manually through the navigation until this is resolved. Thank you for your patience. Skip Header Partners Researchers Educators Survey Respondents Explore Census.gov for... Partners Researchers Educators Survey Respondents News NAICS Codes Jobs About Us Contact Us Help Topics Data &amp; Maps Surveys &amp; Programs Resource Library --> Search data, events, resources, and more Search Search Helpful Links Advanced Data Search Get Survey Help International Database (IDB) American Community Survey (ACS) Census Records &amp; Genealogy Helpful Links Advanced Data Search Get Survey Help International Database (IDB) American Community Survey (ACS) Census Records &amp; Genealogy Search Menu Topics Browse our topics and subtopics to find information and data. View All Topics and Subtopics Index A to Z Age and Sex Business and Economy Education Emergency Management / Disasters Employment Families and Living Arrangements Geography Health Hispanic Origin Housing Income and Poverty International Trade Migration/Geographic Mobility Population Population Estimates Public Sector Race Redistricting Research Voting and Registration Data &amp; Maps Access demographic, economic and population data from the U.S. Census Bureau. Explore census data with visualizations and view tutorials. Explore data on data.census.gov View all data resources Census Academy Combining Data Data Tools and Apps Datasets Developers Experimental Data Products Interactive Maps Mapping Files Profiles Related Sites Software Tables Training and Workshops Visualizations Surveys &amp; Programs Our surveys provide periodic and comprehensive statistics about the nation. This data is critical for government programs, policies, and decision-making. Survey Help View all Surveys &amp; Programs 2020 Census 2026 Census Test 2030 Census American Community Survey (ACS) American Housing Survey (AHS) Annual Business Survey (ABS) Annual Integrated Economic Survey (AIES) County Business Patterns (CBP) Current Population Survey (CPS) Economic Census Household Pulse Survey International Programs Metro and Micro Areas Population Estimates Population Projections Small Area Income and Poverty Statistics of U.S. Businesses Survey of Income and Program Participation (SIPP) Resource Library Browse our collection of stories and more. View all library resources Glossary America Counts: Stories Audio Blogs By the Numbers Facts for Features Fact Sheets Infographics and Visualizations Photos Publications Spotlights Stats for Stories Training (Census Academy) Videos Working Papers Topics Data &amp; Maps Surveys &amp; Programs Resource Library Topics Data &amp; Maps Surveys &amp; Programs Resource Library Partners Researchers Educators Survey Respondents News NAICS Codes Jobs About Us Contact Us Help View All Topics and Subtopics Index A to Z Age and Sex Business and Economy Education Emergency Management / Disasters Employment Families and Living Arrangements Geography Health Hispanic Origin Housing Income and Poverty International Trade Migration/Geographic Mobility Population Population Estimates Public Sector Race Redistricting Research Voting and Registration Explore data on data.census.gov View all data resources Census Academy Combining Data Data Tools and Apps Datasets Developers Experimental Data Products Interactive Maps Mapping Files Profiles Related Sites Software Tables Training and Workshops Visualizations Survey Help View all Surveys &amp; Programs 2020 Census 2026 Census Test 2030 Census American Community Survey (ACS) American Housing Survey (AHS) Annual Business Survey (ABS) Annual Integrated Economic Survey (AIES) County Business Patterns (CBP) Current Population Survey (CPS) Economic Census Household Pulse Survey International Programs Metro and Micro Areas Population Estimates Population Projections Small Area Income and Poverty Statistics of U.S. Businesses Survey of Income and Program Participation (SIPP) View all library resources Glossary America Counts: Stories Audio Blogs By the Numbers Facts for Features Fact Sheets Infographics and Visualizations Photos Publications Spotlights Stats for Stories Training (Census Academy) Videos Working Papers Who Are the Adults Not Vaccinated Against COVID? Who Are the Adults Not Vaccinated Against COVID? // Census.gov / Library / America Counts: Stories / Who Are the Adults Not Vaccinated Against COVID? Household Pulse Survey Shows Many Don’t Trust COVID Vaccine, Worry About Side Effects December 28, 2021 Written by: Lindsay M. Monte The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reports that as of December 14, roughly 85% of adults ages 18 and over in the United States had received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine but 15% remained unvaccinated. Who are the unvaccinated and why are they choosing not to get a COVID vaccine? About 42% reported that they “don’t trust the COVID-19 vaccine.” According to the U.S. Census Bureau’s newest phase of the experimental Household Pulse Survey (HPS) , those who were unvaccinated against COVID in early December 2021, reported a variety of reasons why. &quot;Vaccinated&quot; here refers to adults who have received at least one dose of any COVID vaccine, and &quot;unvaccinated&quot; refers to adults who have not received any. Unvaccinated adults who responded to the survey could select more than one reason: About half reported that they were concerned about possible side effects of the vaccine. About 42% reported that they “don’t trust the COVID-19 vaccine.” Less than 10% reported that they hadn’t gotten the vaccine because their doctor had not recommended it. About 2% reported not getting the vaccine because of difficulty obtaining it. HPS Phase 3.3 The findings are based on the first data from Phase 3.3 of the HPS. These data were collected Dec. 1-Dec. 13 and released last week. HPS Phase 3.3 is the latest update to the Census Bureau’s experimental data collection effort to measure the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on U.S. households. The new version of the questionnaire is set to continue into February 2022. For adults 18 and over, a previous question about plans for receiving all required COVID-19 vaccinations was replaced with one focused on the specific number of vaccinations received. There is also a new question about vaccine brands. Unvaccinated Adults Younger, Less Educated Adults who had not received any doses of the COVID vaccine differed from those who had received at least one dose of a COVID vaccine across several measures. They were younger, on average, than those who had been vaccinated. Roughly 75% of the unvaccinated were under age 50. Among the vaccinated, less than half were under age 50. They had lower levels of education, on average, than those who were vaccinated. Survey respondents who had received at least one dose were twice as likely as the unvaccinated to have a college degree or higher. They were much less likely than vaccinated adults to be married (46% vs 56%). Racial and Ethnic Differences The share of unvaccinated non-Hispanic White adults was not different from the share who were vaccinated. The same was true for Hispanic adults. But non-Hispanic Black adults were slightly more represented among the unvaccinated (13%) than the vaccinated (11%), a small but statistically significant difference. There were notable differences for the Asian population, however: 6% of the vaccinated were non-Hispanic Asian but only 1% of the unvaccinated were non-Hispanic Asian. Who Are the Hard-to-Reach? Most of the HPS response options are either about information (“Don’t know if it will protect me”) or trust (“Don’t trust the vaccine”). However, one involves access: “It's hard for me to get a COVID-19 vaccine.” Who are the people in the small subset of adults who responded to the HPS who reported that they had not gotten a vaccine because it was hard to get? Compared to all HPS respondents, the hard-to-reach: Were more likely to be non-White. Were less likely to be married (35% of the hard to reach were married compared to 54% of all respondents). Had lower levels of education, on average, and were more economically disadvantaged; about half of this hard-to-reach population reported difficulty meeting expenses in the week prior to the survey. Were much more likely to report a disability. The HPS asks about difficulty seeing, hearing, remembering or walking or climbing stairs. Those who reported being unvaccinated because they had no access to the vaccine were almost twice as likely to report either complete impairment or “a lot of difficulty” with one or more of these measures than the general population. About the Data Approximately 1,044,000 housing units were selected from the sampling frame for this HPS collection period, and approximately 61,000 respondents answered the online questionnaire. Their responses were the basis of this analysis. The Household Pulse Survey was launched in April 2020, to quickly and efficiently gauge the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on households. Over the course of 40 collection cycles, HPS data were disseminated in near-real time to inform federal and state response and recovery planning. The data collected enabled the Census Bureau to produce statistics at the national and state level and for the 15 largest Metropolitan Statistical Areas. More information is available on these HPS pages: Househ