# Many Psychology Research Findings May Be False.Html

**Source**: http://nymag.com/scienceofus/2015/08/many-psychology-research-findings-may-be-false.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:09:13.260841+00:00

---

A Deep Dive Into the Blockbuster Study That Called Into Doubt a Lot of Psych Research Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Style Self Culture Power Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission A Deep Dive Into the Blockbuster Study That Called Into Doubt a Lot of Psych Research By Jesse Singal Aug. 28, 2015 save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Photo: Adrian Assalve Yesterday, Science published a blockbuster article about the state of, well, science. Since 2011, a group called the Open Science Collaboration, headed by the psychologist Brian Nosek, has been working to replicate 100 studies previously published in leading psychology journals — that is, to conduct these experiments again to see whether the same results would pop up. (The researchers set out to replicate even more, but for various reasons the final number was culled to 100.) What they found was rather alarming: In more than half of the studies the researchers attempted to redo, different results popped up, and among the ones that did replicate similar results, the findings were significantly less impressive than what was published the first time around. Some findings that had garnered widespread attention and sexy media headlines, including one on how women’s menstrual cycles affect their mate preferences and another on how a belief in free will influences people’s ethical decisions, failed to replicate (we’ll explain a bit more about these in a bit). To understand why all this matters — and what it says about the exciting new science findings flashing into your news feeds seemingly every day — requires a bit of background. Here’s an explainer. I’ve been hearing a lot about this “replication crisis” lately. Can you explain what the deal is in a non-nerdy way? Basically, there’s an increasing awareness that many of the scientific findings we’ve accepted as “true” may be less sturdy than everyone thinks. It turns out that there are many ways that researchers, claiming to have found a given effect (“effect” just means that X does something to Y — ibuprofen reduces headache pain, for example), may have overstated or fabricated the effect they’re reporting. Overstated effects? Fabricated ones? Sounds like there’s massive fraud afoot! No one really thinks that. While instances of true nefariousness such as all-out data fabrication do occur, there’s a general consensus that it’s pretty rare (for one thing, most people aren’t that unethical; for another, if you’re caught, that’s it for your scientific career). What’s more common is that subtle forms of bias and pernicious incentives creep into the scientific process. The short version is that the more cool results you publish as a scientist, the more likely you are to make a name for yourself, and this leads to problems. So, sometimes researchers might run a bunch of experiments and only report the ones that produce cool stuff. Other times, they might hypothesize an effect before they run their experiment, discover another, conflicting one when they run the experiment, and then rewrite what they were looking for so it looks like they had a coherent theory the whole time. Yet other times, they might use p-hacking to nudge a given finding from statistical insignificance to statistical significance. P-hacking? Yeah, this one’s important enough to warrant a quick (nontechnical) statistical segue. To oversimplify a bit, let’s say I want to figure out whether a coin is fair — that is, whether it’s equally likely it’ll come up heads (H) or tails (T). I toss it 100,000 times and record the results. Now, here and there, because of how probability works, I’ll get a sequence like HHHHHHHHH or TTTTTTTTTTTTT . Taken out of context, a sequence like this looks suspicious. Within the context of 100,000 tosses, it’s pretty meh. What sometimes happens in science is that researchers, consciously or unconsciously ( unconsciously sounds like a cop-out, but unconscious bias is as big a problem in science as it is in any other human endeavor), will select which of their data to use in a way that overblows the WHOA - ness of their findings. For example, if I didn’t publish the results of all 100,000 coin tosses, but rather picked and chose from the data in a way that highlighted those like the HHHHHHHHH and TTTTTTTTTTTTT sequences of tosses, while downplaying more normal-looking ones, I’d be (again, oversimplifying a bit) engaging in a form of p-hacking. It sounds like there are a lot of ways researchers might publish shady findings. How do you fix this problem? Is that where replication comes in? The only surefire way to gain confidence in a given finding is to test it over and over. Throughout science, the findings that have hardened into “facts” (nothing is really ever a “fact,” in science, since the scientific method leaves open the possibility that something newer and better will come along and improve upon a given idea that everyone had accepted) have been tested so frequently, from so many different angles, that there’s very little remaining doubt that the basics, at least, are true. Evolution and Einstein’s findings about relativity, for example, have been so thoroughly tested that it’s very hard to come up with a story in which they’re fundamentally wrong. But many other sorts of claims haven’t actually endured this much rigor. They haven’t been tested over and over and over. Part of the problem is that in science, especially if you’re a young researcher, you get way more points for discovering a new thing than for checking to make sure an old thing holds up; as a result, the practice of replicating old findings has been slow to catch on. And when old findings don’t get replicated, they just sit there, treated like they’re “true,” even though they shouldn’t be. Plus, whatever initial burst of publicity they get (more on this in a bit) is seen as the last word; these studies don’t get the skeptical treatment any scientific claim should be met with. So this Open Science Collaboration paper is the first big effort of its kind to reproduce old psychology findings in a systematic way? Yes. That’s why it’s a big deal. Now, in the past there have been statistical estimates of how many studies are likely to fail to hold up. Back in 2005, for example, John P. A. Ioannidis of Stanford Medical School did some statistical noodling to argue that more than half of all research claims — across all fields — are false . Actually reproducing a study, though, is difficult. To do it right, you need to gather a lot of information about how the original study was run — information that’s not always readily available, and which sometimes entails peppering the authors of the original with a bunch of questions. Then you need to actually conduct the study again, analyze the results, and so on. It’s time-consuming. And Nosek’s team did all that? Yes, and they did it in a particularly transparent way. The authors write: The replication protocol articulated the process of selecting the study and key effect from the available articles, contacting the original authors for study materials, preparing a study protocol and analysis plan, obtaining review of the protocol by the original authors and other members within the present project, registering the protocol publicly, conducting the replication, writing the final report, and auditing the process and analysis for quality control. Project coordinators facilitated each step of the process and maintained the protocol and project resources. Replication materials and data were required to be archived publicly in order to maximize transparency, accountability, and reproducibility of the project . There’s a reason this whole thing took years to complete, and why the paper has dozens of co-authors and volunteers listed. Which papers did the researchers attempt to reproduce? To keep things somewhat self-contained, they took a big handful of papers from three leading journals: Psychological Science , Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , and Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition . Excluding the replications that had not concluded in time for the paper’s publication, 100 replications were conducted in total. Let’s get to the good stuff: What did they find? Of the original 100 studies, almost all of them (97) found a statistically significant result. Only 36 percent of the replications did, though. Moreover, the replications detected effect sizes only about half the strength of the effect sizes detected in the original papers, on average. Overall, just 39 percent of the origin