# The 100 Most Influential Images Of All Time

**Source**: http://kottke.org/16/11/the-100-most-influential-images-of-all-time
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:02:43.553443+00:00

---

The 100 most influential images of all time KOTTKE DOT ORG KOTTKE DOT ORG MENU Member Login Home Membership Newsletter Goods Archive + Tags About/Contact dark mode light mode Advertise here with Carbon Ads Socials & More Newsletter RSS Feed Bluesky Mastodon This site is made possible by member support . 💞 Big thanks to Arcustech for hosting the site and offering amazing tech support. When you buy through links on kottke.org, I may earn an affiliate commission. Thanks for supporting the site! kottke.org. home of fine hypertext products since 1998. Beloved by 86.47% of the web. 🍔 &nbsp; 💀 &nbsp; 📸 &nbsp; 😭 &nbsp; 🕳️ &nbsp; 🤠 &nbsp; 🎬 &nbsp; 🥔 × close posted Nov 22 @ 01:59 PM by Jason Kottke &ensp;·&ensp; gift link The 100 most influential images of all time Time Magazine has selected the 100 most influential photos of all time , from the first permanent photograph taken (in 1826) to the heartbreaking photo of the body of a 3-year-old refugee washed up on a beach from last year. As you might expect, many of the images are tough to view, but history and our good conscience compels us not to look away. I was pleased to see Josef Koudelka&#8217;s photo Invasion of Prague included (it&#8217;s the one above with the wristwatch); it&#8217;s one of my favorites . Josef Koudelka, a young Moravian-born engineer who had been taking wistful and gritty photos of Czech life, was in the capital when the soldiers arrived. He took pictures of the swirling turmoil and created a groundbreaking record of the invasion that would change the course of his nation. The most seminal piece includes a man&#8217;s arm in the foreground, showing on his wristwatch a moment of the Soviet invasion with a deserted street in the distance. It beautifully encapsulates time, loss and emptiness — and the strangling of a society. The photos are also available in book form . best of Josef Koudelka lists photography Share