# Nfl Trade Value Assets Part 2

**Source**: http://grantland.com/features/nfl-trade-value-assets-part-2/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:16:45.159357+00:00

---

&raquo; NFL Trade Value, Part 2 Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous Wrestler, Statesman, Hostage Negotiator, Legend: The Life of Antonio Inoki ➤ Next 30 for 30 Shorts: ‘The High Five’ Patrick McDermott/Getty Images Facebook Twitter Print NFL NFL Trade Value, Part 2 Bill Barnwell completes his ranking of pro football’s top 50 most valuable assets by Bill Barnwell on July 23, 2014 On Monday, Grantland published Part 1 of the annual NFL Trade Value column. Click here to read the first installment as well as a breakdown of the rules and how the picks are made. Group 6: The Stars by Any Price (continued) 29. Duane Brown, LT, Houston 28. Tyron Smith, LT, Dallas These are two great left tackles with different contract situations. Brown, who missed two games during Houston&#8217;s disastrous 2013 season, is two years into a very manageable six-year, $53.4 million contract that will never see his cap hit rise over $10 million. Average-or-worse left tackles were getting deals in that range this offseason, and Brown&#8217;s a great one. Smith, meanwhile, is still just 23 years old and made the first of what will likely be many Pro Bowls last season. It&#8217;s crazy to think he&#8217;s just a couple of weeks older than Eric Fisher, who was the first overall pick in last year&#8217;s draft, two seasons after Smith entered the league. The Cowboys have him signed for one more year at a cap hit of just less than $4 million and picked up his team option for 2015 at just more than $10 million; they may use the cap space vacated by a released Tony Romo to lock Smith up to an extension in 2016. Group 7: The (Mostly) Young Influentials 27. Jimmy Graham, TE, New Orleans Wow, did that arbitrator&#8217;s ruling cost Graham a lot of money! Yes, we understand he reached a deal with the Saints , but to understand his value here is to understand the difference in what he could have cost the team. To begin, here&#8217;s what it would have cost the Saints to franchise Graham over each of the next three seasons. Franchised WR TE 2014 $12,132,000 $7,050,000 2015 $14,558,400 $8,460,000 2016 $20,964,096 $12,182,400 Defining Graham to be a tight end saved the Saints more than $5 million this year, the difference between the franchise tag figure for wideouts ($12.1 million) and tight ends ($7.1 million). It also totally changed the terms of Graham&#8217;s extension-to-come. Pretend, for a moment, that Graham is ruled to be a wideout. In 2015, the Saints can&#8217;t afford to franchise him again; they already have $141.8 million committed in 2015 against an expected cap in the $140 million range, and that was without a Graham contract on the books. They would make him among the five highest-paid players in football with a third franchise tag in 2016, at which point the Saints would have zero leverage. In all likelihood, the Saints would either have had to give Graham a six- or seven-year contract with more money, both in the signing bonus and the base salaries early in the contract. The alternative would be losing Graham no later than the 2016 offseason. Click here for more from our 2014 NFL preview. More Trade Value Rankings Bill Simmons on the NBA Bill Barnwell on the NFL Jonah Keri on MLB All Trade Value! Instead, by keeping Graham as a tight end, the entire leverage component changes. The Saints can absolutely justify franchising Graham two years in a row, given that there&#8217;s a difference of more than $6 million between the two figures in 2015 and more than $11 million over the two-year stretch. It changes the baseline of a contract extension from that of a star wide receiver to that of a star tight end, and those two aren&#8217;t remotely comparable. Before Graham received $21 million in guaranteed money, the largest guarantee ever given to a tight end was the $16 million received by Dennis Pitta and Jared Cook. There are 14 wide receivers in the NFL right now with a guarantee of $16 million or higher. Graham has numbers comparable with the best wideouts in the game. He just won&#8217;t be getting paid like them over the years to come. 26. Jadeveon Clowney, LB, Houston Put it this way: Everson Griffen has started one game in four seasons for the Vikings, but because he has contributed 17.5 sacks in part-time duty, Minnesota gave him a five-year, $42.5 million deal with nearly $20 million guaranteed over the next two years. Every team in football would take Clowney over Griffen based on the former&#8217;s college tape and athleticism alone, and he&#8217;s on a fully guaranteed four-year, $22.3 million deal with a fifth-year option that should come in around $12 million. Even if Clowney&#8217;s not a superstar, he can still be enormously valuable if he comes in with Ryan Kerrigan–level production on an annual basis while retaining a ceiling that Kerrigan can&#8217;t touch. And if Clowney really is the once-in-a-generation pass-rusher many project him to be, he&#8217;s a top-10 value for each of the next three seasons. As long as he stays healthy, it&#8217;s hard for this pick not to work out for Houston. 25. Greg Hardy, DE, Carolina Hardy, meanwhile, will make more with the franchise tag this year ($13.1 million) than Clowney will make over the next two and a half seasons combined. You would rather have Hardy in a vacuum because the 25-year-old has actually done it at the pro level, having produced a DPOY-caliber season with 15 sacks a year ago, but there&#8217;s a good chance Clowney actually outproduces Hardy next year at a fraction of the cost. Actually, switch these two up. Clowney&#8217;s at 25 and Hardy&#8217;s at 26. 24. Luke Kuechly, MLB, Carolina Carolina&#8217;s playmaker and defensive leader, Kuechly was a worthy choice as Defensive Player of the Year in his second season as a pro. Blessedly for Carolina&#8217;s still-terrible cap situation , Kuechly is two years removed from a serious raise and still has three cost-controlled years left before he&#8217;ll be due an extension, at which point Carolina&#8217;s cap woes should finally be over. The reason he&#8217;s not higher is simply that teams don&#8217;t value middle linebackers all that much; it&#8217;s why Kuechly, who just about everyone agreed was a star heading into the 2012 draft, fell to the Panthers at nine. This is about as high as it gets for players at a non-premium position; after Kuechly, 22 of the final 23 selections play one of the five critical positions in the modern pass-first game (quarterback, wide receiver, left tackle, pass-rusher, and cornerback). 23. Joe Staley, LT, San Francisco 22. Joe Thomas, LT, Cleveland Staley was originally ahead of Thomas on this list solely by virtue of his incredible contract, which had four years and $21.6 million in unguaranteed money left to go, a pittance for a great left tackle. Unfortunately, his contract was so great for the team that Staley noticed. The 49ers signed him to a two-year extension this past week, which adds some cash to the deal, and while the specific terms aren&#8217;t available yet, it&#8217;s likely enough to move Thomas back ahead. Because there aren&#8217;t good stats for offensive linemen, and Thomas plays for what&#8217;s been a terrible football team, he dominates in almost total obscurity. His Rotoworld page has been updated nine times in seven seasons . You can&#8217;t even make the (very tired) &#8220;he&#8217;s the hipster football player&#8221; joke, because that would imply a cultural resonance he doesn’t have. Heavy investment, works pretty well despite a total lack of interest &#8230; Joe Thomas is the Google Plus of football? The only reason he&#8217;s not the clear choice over Staley is that Thomas also gets paid like the best left tackle in the league, as his $12.3 million cap hit is the largest of any tackle in 2014. Group 8: The Class of 2004 21. Ben Roethlisberger, QB, Pittsburgh 20. Eli Manning, QB, New York Giants 19. Philip Rivers, QB, San Diego Jim McIsaac/Getty Images Every quarterback ahead of these three on this list is either significantly younger, significantly cheaper, or at a different level of production over the past several seasons. You can&#8217;t count the class of 2004 out, but it&#8217;s likely they&#8217;re closer to the end of their careers than to the beginning. I feel so old right now. Can&#8217;t it be 2004 again? Just for like a couple of weeks? Can&#8217;t there be a Zach Braff Kickstarter for this? He wants it to be 2004 again, too, just like me! Of these three, I&#8217;m obviously biased toward Manning, Grantland&#8217;s official quarterback, but I think this is pretty clearly the way to rank them. Roethlisberger&#8217;s perennially the most beat-up of the three, and while he made it through all 16 games for just the second time in his career last season, it seems unlikely that will become a habit. Since 2005, Roethlisberger has missed a total of 15 starts, while both Manning and Rivers haven&#8217;t missed a start since taking over as their team&#8217;s respective starters (although Rivers did tear his ACL in the postseason). That&#8217;s too much risk to assume for a quarterback being paid market value or better going forward. Manning was downright terrible last season, leading the league in interceptions (27) while posting below-average numbers in every category. He&#8217;ll bounce back some with a healthier supporting cast, and it&#8217;s unlikely that he&#8217;s done at 33. Rivers was by far the best of the three a year ago, with his play revitalized by new coach Mike McCoy after years of slow decline under Norv Turner. You wouldn&#8217;t want to count on him flirting with completing 70 percent of his passes again, but even if Rivers gives away some of his 2013 gains to Manning, he would be the best of these three and a viable Pro Bowl candidate. Group 9: The Last of the Mortal Non-Quarterbacks 18. Von Miller, LB, Denver Things suddenly got a lot clo