# Marc Andreessen Ben Horowitz A16Z Trump Donations

**Source**: https://www.theverge.com/2024/7/24/24204706/marc-andreessen-ben-horowitz-a16z-trump-donations
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:51:27.489362+00:00

---

The moral bankruptcy of Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. The moral bankruptcy of Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Business Close Business Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Business Policy Close Policy Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Policy Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech The moral bankruptcy of Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz Two of Silicon Valley’s famous venture capitalists make the case for backing Trump: that their ability to make money is the only value that matters. If you buy something from a Verge link, Vox Media may earn a commission. See our ethics statement. by Elizabeth Lopatto Close Elizabeth Lopatto Senior Reporter Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Elizabeth Lopatto Jul 24, 2024, 12:00 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads If you buy something from a Verge link, Vox Media may earn a commission. See our ethics statement. In venture capital, you are what you fund. | Image: Cath Virginia / The Verge Elizabeth Lopatto Close Elizabeth Lopatto Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Elizabeth Lopatto is a reporter who writes about tech, money, and human behavior. She joined The Verge in 2014 as science editor. Previously, she was a reporter at Bloomberg. Last week, the founders of venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz declared their allegiance to Donald Trump in their customary fashion: talking about money on a podcast. &ldquo;Sorry, Mom,&rdquo; Ben Horowitz says in an episode of The Ben & Marc Show . &ldquo;I know you&rsquo;re going to be mad at me for this. But, like, we have to do it.&rdquo; Marc Andreessen and Horowitz insist they voted for Democrats until now. They are friends with liberals. They claim to be nervous about the social blowback they will receive for this, especially because of the historically progressive nature of the tech industry and the Bay Area. “It doesn’t have anything to do with the big issues that people care about.” But given the general movement among their class toward Trump, I think those claims about being nervous are overblown, if not performative. There is, for instance, Elon Musk&rsquo;s pro-Trump super PAC , which has support from Sequoia Capital&rsquo;s Shaun Maguire and 8VC&rsquo;s Joe Lonsdale, among other notables. ( The Wall Street Journal reported Musk is planning to donate $45 million a month , which Musk has denied.) There&rsquo;s the $160 million the crypto movement has put forward in support of crypto-friendly candidates. We can&rsquo;t forget their VC pal David Sacks speaking at the Republican National Convention. And last but not least, there&rsquo;s Trump&rsquo;s running mate choice of JD Vance, a former venture capitalist whose firm&rsquo;s investors included Peter Thiel, Eric Schmidt, and Andreessen himself. This isn&rsquo;t a movement. It&rsquo;s a clique. The podcast itself is an extraordinary performance. At one point, Andreessen concedes that their major problems with President Joe Biden &mdash; the ones that led them to support Trump &mdash; are what most voters would consider &ldquo;subsidiary&rdquo; issues. &ldquo;It doesn&rsquo;t have anything to do with the big issues that people care about,&rdquo; he says. If we take this podcast at face value, we are to believe that these subsidiary issues are the only reason they&rsquo;ve chosen to endorse and donate to Trump. These subsidiary issues take precedence for Andreessen and Horowitz over, say, mass deportations and Project 2025&rsquo;s attempt to end no-fault divorce . We are looking at a simple trade against personal liberty &mdash; abortion, the rights of gay and trans people, and possibly democracy itself &mdash; in favor of crypto, AI, and a tax policy they like better. For Horowitz, &ldquo;probably the most emotional topic&rdquo; is crypto &mdash; a16z started a $4.5 billion crypto fund in 2022 , and the pair believe that the Biden administration has been deeply unfair to crypto. In Horowitz&rsquo;s view, the Biden administration &ldquo;basically subverted the rule of law to attack the crypto industry.&rdquo; “We’re the largest crypto investors or largest blockchain investors in the world.” Certainly much of the crypto industry prefers Trump. But it seems obvious that there has been a lot of intra-agency squabbling as Congress dithered on passing any laws. To place the blame squarely on Biden is bizarre, particularly when we have Trump&rsquo;s chaotic previous term as guidance. Sure, Trump is no longer saying Bitcoin is &ldquo; a scam against the dollar ,&rdquo; as he did in 2021; he is scheduled to speak at the Bitcoin conference this year. But his record in office is not exactly pro-crypto. During the Trump administration, financial regulator FinCEN initially asked the public to provide comments on a crypto rule change over a 15-day period that included Christmas Eve , Christmas Day, New Year&rsquo;s Eve, and New Year&rsquo;s Day, which effectively shortened the comment window by four working days. There is also the Ripple Labs enforcement case, in which the SEC is seeking a $1.95 billion fine ; it, too, dates to the Trump administration. The pair&rsquo;s complaints about Gary Gensler, the current head of the Securities and Exchange Commission, are striking. They are particularly annoyed that he won&rsquo;t pay attention to them. &ldquo;We&rsquo;re the largest crypto investors or largest blockchain investors in the world, and we&rsquo;ve requested meetings with him at least a half a dozen times,&rdquo; Horowitz says. Gensler has not met with them. Neither, they say, has Senator Elizabeth Warren or Biden himself. In fact, Andreessen makes it clear that he expects presidential attention, something he&rsquo;s been getting since he was 23. Given the number of times Andreessen and Horowitz make references to various meetings with various politicians, it&rsquo;s easy to get the impression that they are mostly insulted that they are being treated like ordinary constituents. From crypto, we move to AI, which Andreessen and Horowitz don&rsquo;t think is being regulated correctly either. According to Horowitz, AI is as powerful as, or more powerful than, the internet and the global computer industry from the 1950s on. &ldquo;This may be the biggest technological boom of all time,&rdquo; Andreessen says. These regulations have little to do with technology and a lot to do with old-fashioned lying Andreessen says in his newsletter-cum-manifesto, &ldquo; The Little Tech Agenda ,&rdquo; that he is worried that AI will face similar scrutiny to crypto. The FTC has issued guidance to the AI industry that indicated it will pursue companies that exaggerate what their AI can do, say they are using AI when they are not, and recklessly put products on the market without properly analyzing the risks. Meanwhile, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has told lenders that they must supply a reason for a credit denial that&rsquo;s better than just &ldquo; computer says no &rdquo; when using AI models. These regulations have little to do with technology and a lot to do with old-fashioned lying. In the podcast, Andreessen and Horowitz single out Biden&rsquo;s executive order about artificial intelligence . The order requires companies to disclose the presence of very large models, as well as to provide the government information about what the plans are for the model, what cybersecurity measures are taken to protect those models, and the results of red-team testing for sensitive subjects, among other things. This is in keeping with Horowitz&rsquo;s assertion about the seriousness of the technology. So what&rsquo;s the problem? The two focus on computing power. The disclosure requirements apply to &ldquo;any model that was trained using a quantity of computing power greater than 10 26 integer or floating-point operations, or using primarily biological sequence data and using a quantity of computing power greater than 10 23 integer or floating-point operations.&rdquo; Andreessen and Horowitz think specifying such a limit is ridiculous. Little tech &ldquo;will be snuffed out by this kind of regulation,&rdquo; Horowitz says. It is perhaps worth noting that nothing above the size specified in the executive order &mdash; the size Andreessen and Horowitz object to &mdash; even exists yet , according to Arati Prabhakar, Biden&rsquo;s top tech advisor. The irony is so obvious it’s almost embarrassing to point it out The fundamental complaint here is that these two believe that the Biden administ