# Sxsw 2025 Live Coverage Health Tips From Bryan Johnson Concerns About Elon Musk And What Its Like To Actually Ride A Waymo Uber On The Conferences Final Day

**Source**: https://techcrunch.com/storyline/sxsw-2025-live-coverage-health-tips-from-bryan-johnson-concerns-about-elon-musk-and-what-its-like-to-actually-ride-a-waymo-uber-on-the-conferences-final-day/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:31:26.865688+00:00

---

SXSW 2025 live coverage: Health tips from Bryan Johnson, concerns about Elon Musk, and what it&#039;s like to actually ride a Waymo Uber on the conference&#039;s final day | TechCrunch TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps Disrupt 2025 Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech &amp; Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government &amp; Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media &amp; Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Crunchboard Contact Us AI SXSW 2025 live coverage: Health tips from Bryan Johnson, concerns about Elon Musk, and what it&#8217;s like to actually ride a Waymo Uber on the conference&#8217;s final day 36 Stories Kirsten Korosec March 7, 2025 &#8211; March 14, 2025 TechCrunch will be on the ground at SXSW 2025 — the annual tech, music, comedy, and film conference that kicked off Friday in Austin — in search of the zeitgeist of this AI-centric era. The tech portion of the annual event kicked off Friday and will run through March 13. The conference begins with several tracks that fall squarely in TechCrunch’s area of interest, including the creator economy, culture, startups, health and medtech, and energy. Mar 14, 2025 Kirsten Korosec From AI and &#8216;mundus sine caesaribus&#8217; to Rivian and Koe Wetzel Folks, it&#8217;s time to hit the dusty trail and leave Austin and SXSW 2025 behind. The official conference ended Thursday evening and the music festival, which lasts another two nights, took over. We marked the end of the conference with some tacos and Billboard’s The Stage at SXSW with headliner Koe Wetzel. Tech had a lighter footprint at the conference this year, particularly in the exhibition hall. But we still found lots of founders, some investors, interesting onstage interviews, and Bluesky Jay Graber&#8217;s cheeky wardrobe choice that called for &#8220;A world without Caesars.” Not to mention lots of robotaxis. On the transportation beat, Rivian , Uber, and Waymo made the biggest splash. But AI was the real star, at least in terms of stage time. AI popped up in every conversation — on stage and off — from sports and entertainment to enterprise, social media, and urban development. The messaging fell squarely in the cautious optimism camp with a few folks like Signal President Meredith Whittaker and author Kasley Killam issuing sterner warnings of the risks from AI. See y&#8217;all next year.&nbsp; Updated 7 months ago Mar 14, 2025 Rebecca Bellan Testing Tern AI’s low-cost GPS alternative At SXSW, Tern AI demonstrated exclusively for TechCrunch that its low-cost alternative to GPS could “derive a position from nothing” — “No triangulation, no satellites, no Wi-Fi, nothing.” All Tern’s intelligent system uses is a cocktail of cached map information and a vehicle’s existing sensor data.&nbsp; “Your GPS cannot initialize position without that triangulation process, and so we think it’s a rather important innovation to be able to determine position organically within the vehicle,” Brett Harrison, co-founder and president, told TechCrunch. “[Tern] turns all these vehicles that you see into creators and originators of position information instead of consumers of it.”&nbsp; Our most critical systems, from aviation to disaster response to precision farming, rely on GPS. Foreign adversaries have already demonstrated that they can spoof GPS signals, which could have catastrophic impacts both on the economy and national security. Which makes finding alternatives all the more important.&nbsp; Read more about Tern AI’s mission and my demo with the Austin-based startup’s tech! Updated 7 months ago Mar 13, 2025 Rebecca Bellan Bryan Johnson wants to start ‘foodome sequencing’ In the same way that genome sequencing determines the genetic makeup of an organism, Bryan Johnson — the investor and founder behind the Don’t Die movement — wants to start “foodome” sequencing. “We’re going to sequence the U.S. ‘foodome,’ which means test 20% of foods that constitute 80% of the American diet based on stuff we eat everyday,” Johnson said Thursday at SXSW.&nbsp; Johnson is the founder and former CEO of Kernel, a brain monitoring device company, founder of OS Fund, and founder and former CEO of e-commerce company Braintree.&nbsp; “I want to be real with you, it’s just very, very hard to buy clean food,” he said, noting that most foods from grocery stores, even the organic brands, could have toxins in them from the way the food was processed.&nbsp; His goal is to test all of the food and create a public database where people can donate money to have certain foods and brands tested for toxins like heavy metals or microplastics, and then use the results to hold brands accountable for unsafe food practices.&nbsp; Updated 7 months ago Mar 13, 2025 Kirsten Korosec What we discovered when we finally matched with a Waymo robotaxi Image Credits: Kirsten Korosec The Waymo on Uber robotaxi service launched in Austin a week before SXSW and it’s been a challenge actually matching with one. In Phoenix, San Francisco, and Los Angeles, consumers use the Waymo One app to hail a ride. And it’s always a robotaxi. Here in Austin, consumers use the Uber app and sometimes they’re matched with a robotaxi. Usually they get a human driver. Waymo helped TechCrunch coordinate a robotaxi ride. And that was fine and all, but we wanted an experience that was less orchestrated.&nbsp; We got lucky Thursday morning and were matched. The drive itself was uneventful, although the route was longer than what Google Maps suggested (I always compare). Waymo told me that the vehicles were being routed around certain areas, which may explain the difference.&nbsp; We did notice some new stuff though. Namely, the user interface, which includes the two displays inside the vehicle that shows the robotaxi and its surroundings. Waymo confirmed the updates and noted that these occur continuously. Here&#8217;s what we spotted. The display now shows the turn signals, hazards, and brake lights of vehicles in front of, and around, the robotaxi. Waymo now colors pedestrians, cyclists, and parked vehicles differently and the display highlights the destination building as the rider arrives at their drop off point. Finally, the Waymo display shows stop signs and traffic cones. Updated 7 months ago Mar 13, 2025 Rebecca Bellan The most SXSW film goes to: ‘The Rivals of Amziah King’ Kirsten and I turned our tech brains off for a couple of hours to treat ourselves to a film, and I gotta say, “The Rivals of Amziah King” is THE PERFECT SXSW film. The movie, which is the first film Matthew McConaughey has been in in six years, has a healthy dose of Southern charm, strong themes of honor culture, heartwarming comedy, and a constant current of live bluegrass music that is so soulful, it’ll challenge anyone who claims they don’t like country. It also received a standing ovation at the premiere . And, welp, that doesn’t happen every day.&nbsp; I almost don’t want to tell you anything else about this film. I went in blind, and I was enthralled by every unexpected plot turn and camera angles. All you need to know is, everyone in that theater laughed, cried, jumped, and tapped their feet to the music. I have a newfound respect for both bees and the humble mandolin. Updated 7 months ago Mar 13, 2025 Kyle Wiggers Rumman Chowdhury is worried about Elon Musk&#8217;s role in the government The former director of Twitter’s machine ethics team had some choice words about Elon Musk and his Department of Government Efficiency onstage at SXSW on Thursday. “When your funding is frozen and you don’t know if you’re gonna be fired, and there’s this, like, absolutely unhinged person saying weird things on the internet constantly, you still have to do your job, right?” Chowdhury said. “The lights have to be kept on because Elon Musk is not the one keeping the lights on, even though he would like you to think that.” Chowdhury said she fears the brain drain resulting from the dramatic reductions and chaotic management style. Updated 7 months ago Mar 13, 2025 Kirsten Korosec It’s the last day of the SXSW conference .. cue the music We’re here for the final day of the SXSW conference, which means the tech talks will end and the music goes to 11. We will bid adieu by tonight, but first let’s catch up on a bit of tech. The exhibition hall within the Austin Convention Center was light on tech. Really, really light on tech. In years past, the hall was brimming with startups. This year, I found them in the installations and activations outside of the convention center, including Midwest House, Ireland House, and Funded House. Oh, and of course the parties too. Founders were out and about — and looking for funding. There were delegations of founders too, coming from Europe, Australia, and Brazil. Notably, I didn&#8217;t encounter much chatter of dual-use or defense startups. Although that might have been due to circumstances &#8212; SXSW tends to spread out. Quantum computing has been having a moment at SXSW with several talks on Wednesday and today. Plus, Marc Maron, the comedian whose podcast “WTF with Marc Maron,” receives over 80 million listeners per year, riffed on a lot of topics, including an earnest exclamation that the podcast will never get into video. And we managed to get matched with a Waymo robotaxi with the Uber app. Hooray. More on that in a moment. Updated 7 months ago Mar 12, 2025 Rebecca Bellan AI startup grants in San Jose open today! Remember that San Jose grant program for AI startups I mentioned yesterday? Well, we’ve got some more details on that now. The city officially opened applications for 