# 21465 Fried Chicken Recipes From All Around The World

**Source**: https://food52.com/blog/21465-fried-chicken-recipes-from-all-around-the-world
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:54:46.044318+00:00

---

Crispy, Crunchy Fried Chicken Knows No Borders This Week&#x27;s Mood: Dinner &amp; a Movie This Week&#x27;s Mood: Dinner &amp; a Movie Schoolhouse Dansk Search Shop New Best Sellers Exclusively at Food52 Featured Makers Kitchen Kitchen Utensils &amp; Tools Kitchen Storage &amp; Organization Countertop Organization Food Storage Kitchen Linens Cutting Boards Coffee &amp; Tea Accessories Knives Cookware Frying Pans &amp; Skillets Baking &amp; Roasting Pans Dutch Ovens &amp; Stock Pots Sauce &amp; Saute Pans Cookware Sets Tabletop Dinnerware Glassware Table Linens Flatware &amp; Serving Utensils Serveware Outdoor Entertaining Home Organization &amp; Storage Cleaning &amp; Laundry Bath Towels &amp; Accessories Vases &amp; Decorative Objects Clocks &amp; Lighting Candles &amp; Candle Holders Planters Shop All Recipes Popular Quick and Easy 5 Ingredients or Fewer Cocktails Appetizers Ingredients Chicken Steak Salmon Pasta Potato Rice Meals &amp; Dishes Breakfast Lunch Dinner Salad Sweet Treats Lifestyle Vegetarian Vegan Gluten-Free Alcohol-Free Drinks Tools &amp; Techniques One Pot Sheet Pan No Bake Grill Life Travel Hosting &amp; Entertainment Parenting Pets Kitchen Sink Crafts &amp; Hobbies Community View All Food Recipes How To &amp; Hacks Meal Planning Baking Trending &amp; Seasonal Drinks Community Hotline View All Home Style &amp; Design Cleaning &amp; Organizing Outdoors Renovation Home Tours View All Watch Shop All Shop New Best Sellers Exclusively at Food52 Featured Makers Kitchen Kitchen Utensils &amp; Tools Kitchen Storage &amp; Organization Countertop Organization Food Storage Kitchen Linens Cutting Boards Coffee &amp; Tea Accessories Knives Cookware Frying Pans &amp; Skillets Baking &amp; Roasting Pans Dutch Ovens &amp; Stock Pots Sauce &amp; Saute Pans Cookware Sets Tabletop Dinnerware Glassware Table Linens Flatware &amp; Serving Utensils Serveware Outdoor Entertaining Home Organization &amp; Storage Cleaning &amp; Laundry Bath Towels &amp; Accessories Vases &amp; Decorative Objects Clocks &amp; Lighting Candles &amp; Candle Holders Planters Shop all Shop Recipes All Recipes Popular Quick and Easy 5 Ingredients or Fewer Cocktails Appetizers Ingredients Chicken Steak Salmon Pasta Potato Rice Meals &amp; Dishes Breakfast Lunch Dinner Salad Sweet Treats Lifestyle Vegetarian Vegan Gluten-Free Alcohol-Free Drinks Tools &amp; Techniques One Pot Sheet Pan No Bake Grill Life All Life Travel Hosting &amp; Entertainment Parenting Pets Kitchen Sink Crafts &amp; Hobbies Community Shop all Life Food All Food Recipes How To &amp; Hacks Meal Planning Baking Trending &amp; Seasonal Drinks Community Hotline Shop all Food Home All Home Style &amp; Design Cleaning &amp; Organizing Outdoors Renovation Home Tours Shop all Home Watch Account 0 Items in your Cart Your shopping cart is empty. Continue Shopping Crispy, Crunchy Fried Chicken Knows No Borders The Southern classic has all sorts of international companions. By Valerio Farris Published On February 1, 2018 I grew up in Houston, Texas, home to some of the best fried chicken in the world. It’s crackly and slick and the skin falls off with a flourish of steam that reveals a tender inside. Quality fried chicken is ubiquitous in this corner of the South, but one establishment rises above the rest: Since 1969, Frenchy’s has been doling out the tastiest fried birds in the city. Don’t believe me? Just ask Beyoncé . Fried chicken, as convention dictates in the American South, is always dredged in buttermilk and flour—it’s this crucial combination that gives that signature browned crunch. But while I, and many others, may be staunch traditionalists, there’s technically more than one way to make fried chicken. In fact, there’s a whole slew of methods. So many that you could practically travel the world in fried chicken dishes alone, so grab your passport and let’s get going. North America Here are two go-tos for Southern-style fried chicken. There’s plenty of buttermilk and plenty of oil. Michael Ruhlman’s recipe recommends brining the chicken first in a tart and tangy rosemary-lemon brine. This gives the meat some flavor and succulence before being tossed into the fryer. Featured Video See all Food52 videos For the oil averse (or those who just can’t be bothered to fry on a weeknight), get cracking on this inventive “fried” chicken technique. It calls for an oven instead. Crank it up to 400° F and give those dredged bites a good crisp. Nashville’s signature fried chicken rendition is sharp and spicy. For this recipe, it’s all about the hot maple sauce—sweet syrup with a cayenne kick. Serve it all atop a pillowy waffle for the ultimate breakfast, brunch, lunch, or any-kind-of-time meal. India This Indian-inspired take on fried chicken comes to us from Asha Gomez, the master when it comes to mashing up Southern and South Asian recipes. Her chicken batter is laden with chiles and contains a special secret ingredient: mint! Michelle Peters-Jones of The Tiffin Box had this to say about her recipe: &quot;Chicken 65 might have an unusual name, but it’s actually the name of one of the most popular bar snacks in Southern India. Unlike other well-known Indian chicken dishes—like tandoori style and chicken lollipops—this crunchy, fiery, and completely addictive chicken is traditionally made from spicy, marinated chicken pieces that are deep fried, then quickly sautéed again in a spicy yogurt and curry leaf sauce.&quot; Thailand This Thai recipe is derived from the famed fried chicken served at Soi Polo, a Bangkok institution. They serve their bird with a crispy skin and top it with even crispier garlic flakes. The recipe is fairly simple and doesn’t require any dredge, just two whole heads (!) of garlic instead. Serve this with a side of sweet and spicy Thai chile sauce. China For a fried chicken approach that is a little less involved—and takes half the time—try this one. This Chinese method calls for coating the chicken bits in cornstarch before tossing them into hot oil. Fried chicken for the weeknight warrior. Korea Ah, the ever-beloved Korean fried chicken. This take goes light on the dredge (just flour) but heavy on the glaze. Smear a sticky, sweet, spicy ginger-soy glaze across these bad boys and dig in. Scared of splatter? Fear no more, the Frywall is here! Make sure to use one of these and avoid any unfair, and unnecessary, cooking splatter. What’s your preferred fried chicken? Do you have a favorite? Tell us about it in the comments below. Our best tips for eating thoughtfully and living joyfully, right in your inbox. Subscribe Company About Us DEI Vision Press Jobs Affiliate Program Get Help Contact &amp; FAQ Gift Cards Advertising Inquiries Social Facebook Instagram Pinterest TikTok YouTube © 2025 Food52, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Code of Conduct Accessibility Policy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. When you visit our website, we collect and use personal information about you using cookies. You may opt out of selling, sharing, or disclosure of personal data for targeted advertising (called &quot;Do Not Sell or Share&quot; in California) by enabling the Global Privacy Control on a compatible browser. See our Privacy Policy for further information. Accept