# Outgoing Pitchfork President Reflects On Evolution Of The Chicago Media Company

**Source**: https://www.chicagotribune.com/2017/07/20/outgoing-pitchfork-president-reflects-on-evolution-of-the-chicago-media-company/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:54:31.531872+00:00

---

Outgoing Pitchfork president reflects on evolution of the Chicago media company &#8211; Chicago Tribune Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 77&deg;F Friday, October 3rd 2025 eNewspaper Home Page Subscriber Services Subscriber Services Manage Subscription EZ Pay Vacation Stop Delivery Issue Today&#8217;s E-Editions Chicago Tribune Evening Edition The Beacon News The Courier-News Daily Southtown Lake County News-Sun Naperville Sun Post-Tribune Naperville Magazine Advertise with Us Advertise with Us Classified Who&#8217;s Who Jobs Business Business Careers &amp; Finance Top Workplaces Real Estate Transportation Dining Dining Louisa Kung Liu Chu Recipes Entertainment Entertainment Advice Arts Books Home and Garden Movies Museums Music The Theater Loop Travel TV and Streaming En Español News Latest Headlines Crime and Public Safety Education Environment Health History Immigration Investigations Local News Marijuana National News Science World News Weather Opinion Opinion Editorials Commentary Letters Tribune Voices Politics Politics Elections Chicago Bulls Chicago White Sox Chicago Bears Chicago Cubs Chicago Blackhawks Sports Sports Chicago Bears Chicago Bulls Chicago Blackhawks Chicago Cubs Chicago White Sox Chicago Sky College Sports Soccer Aurora Beacon-News Daily Southtown Elgin Courier-News Lake County News-Sun Naperville Sun Post-Tribune Suburbs All Suburbs Aurora Beacon News Daily Southtown Elgin Courier-News Lake County News-Sun Naperville Sun Post-Tribune Classifieds Jobs Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an obituary Special Sections Branded Content Paid Partner Content Advertising by Ascend Paid Content by Brandpoint Subscribe Log In Logout Sign up for email newsletters Sign Up Entertainment | Outgoing Pitchfork president reflects on&#8230; Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Subscribe Log In Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Sign up for email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Login Search 77&deg;F Friday, October 3rd 2025 eNewspaper Entertainment Books Movies Museums Music and Concerts The Theater Loop TV and Streaming Travel Trending: 👥 Broadview residents react to ICE 🏗️ Michigan City building boom 🏈 Bears Q&#038;A ⚾️ Cubs-Brewers playoff schedule ✍️ Asking Eric 📆 Today in History Breaking News Chicagoans say ICE agents responded to heckling with tear gas near school on busy Northwest Side street Things To Do Entertainment Outgoing Pitchfork president reflects on evolution of the Chicago media company Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email By Tracy Swartz UPDATED: May 23, 2019 at 4:25 PM CDT For his final Pitchfork Music Festival in charge, outgoing Pitchfork President Chris Kaskie mostly stuck to his routine. He said he sat by the pool Sunday night in Union Park &#8212; his typical spot as the annual festival winds down &#8212; and listened to Nicolas Jaar&#8217;s set. &#8220;In the perfect world, you reflect over the weekend, and in this case, I was obviously reflecting over a much larger situation. I was kind of sitting there for the last time in that headspace. It was a prideful moment, and as people would walk by, it became a little bit of a gathering point, which was kind of cool,&#8221; Kaskie said. Kaskie, who is Pitchfork&#8217;s first full-time employee, is set to officially step down Friday after nearly 14 years with the Chicago-based music media company. In an interview with the Tribune, the 37-year-old Beverly-area resident reflected on Conde Nast&#8217;s acquisition of Pitchfork and Pitchfork&#8217;s place in the saturated festival market, while looking forward to &#8220;just enjoying music and not putting (my) critical glasses on and hitting play.&#8221; On Conde Nast&#8217;s purchase of Pitchfork in 2015 : &#8220;We were finally at the point where our needs and our wants were converging. For a long time, everything we wanted to do, we didn&#8217;t have to so we could just continue to push forward, but suddenly everything was kind of converging. Everyone that was running different areas of our publication and festival were kind of hitting ceilings. &#8230; We didn&#8217;t just need money, we needed expertise in a way that we didn&#8217;t have yet. We needed all sorts of different things. &#8230; The only thing I would say that I had, and I wouldn&#8217;t even call it like a struggle or a challenge, but it was the biggest learning curve (after the acquisition), was just the pace with which things move. You&#8217;re talking about a company that has 20-plus brands inside of it and we&#8217;re a group of people that have lived on the Internet. If you and I talk now and I want to publish something in an hour, I can. And there, it just became a little bit different.&#8221; On regrets : &#8220;Every mistake we made, like I think part of why I don&#8217;t even consider it a mistake, was because on one side, we learned so much through that mistake and on the other side, I don&#8217;t know that I would not have those things around even if they didn&#8217;t work out. &#8230; Like we had The Dissolve for a number of years, which is a film site. We were unable to turn that into a business in a way that would allow for it to continue. But at the same time, there&#8217;s not one single thing that I would ever take back from doing that, because to this day, I consider it to be a huge success from the creative and editorial, design and everything else. I mean, it&#8217;s an amazing thing.&#8221; On the growth of the festival, which began in 2006 : &#8220; In 2010, we had LCD (Soundsystem) headline for the first time and that was the most crowded I&#8217;ve ever seen the park, the most impressive performance I&#8217;ve probably ever seen to date and that was just like a very emotional thing, so having them back this year was an accomplishment in the sense that like, their career&#8217;s obviously gone on to greater things even after their hiatus and we&#8217;ve obviously become a different thing in terms of how we&#8217;ve grown.&#8221; On the crowded festival landscape : &#8220;I don&#8217;t know that the world needs any more (festivals), but in fact, I think it needs many less of them. &#8230; Being unique is pretty much where we live and that&#8217;s why we continue to succeed. Everything&#8217;s a commodity now and it&#8217;s just carbon copied and picked up and dropped in a new location and it&#8217;s kind of a drag honestly.&#8221; On what&#8217;s next : &#8220;For me, it&#8217;s kind of time to tackle new challenges. First and foremost, before any of those things, is to spend time with my kids and my wife, just for a minute because since I&#8217;ve been 23, it&#8217;s been a hustle. &#8230; I owe them like a month or so to hang out and give them undevoted attention and after that, when things have kind of settled down, to start getting weird. I like weird things and I like doing weird things. I like doing nonsensical things. I&#8217;m excited to see what all that stuff might entail.&#8221; Originally Published: July 20, 2017 at 11:07 AM CDT Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email RevContent Feed Most Popular Most Popular Daily Horoscope for October 03, 2025 Daily Horoscope for October 03, 2025 Mother and children detained in Millennium Park released from ICE custody, father flown to Texas detention center: &#8216;We’re praying for a miracle&#8217; Mother and children detained in Millennium Park released from ICE custody, father flown to Texas detention center: &#039;We’re praying for a miracle&#039; President Donald Trump cancels $583M in energy projects for Illinois, one of many blue states affected President Donald Trump cancels $583M in energy projects for Illinois, one of many blue states affected Chicago Cubs beat San Diego Padres 3-1 for 1st postseason series win since 2017. Next up: Milwaukee Brewers. Chicago Cubs beat San Diego Padres 3-1 for 1st postseason series win since 2017. Next up: Milwaukee Brewers. Man arrested after allegedly punching Chicago woman as &#8216;Loop puncher&#8217; videos go viral on social media Man arrested after allegedly punching Chicago woman as &#039;Loop puncher&#039; videos go viral on social media Donald Trump’s granddaughter Kai accused of stealing Travis Kelce’s logo for her new line of sweatshirts Donald Trump’s granddaughter Kai accused of stealing Travis Kelce’s logo for her new line of sweatshirts Chase of cyclist by ICE agents in downtown Chicago described as surreal by witness Chase of cyclist by ICE agents in downtown Chicago described as surreal by witness Asking Eric: Daughter and granddaughter have moved in Asking Eric: Daughter and granddaughter have moved in Chicago Cubs in the playoffs: Schedule set for NL Division Series vs. Milwaukee Brewers Chicago Cubs in the playoffs: Schedule set for NL Division Series vs. Milwaukee Brewers Chicago Bears Q&amp;A: Could Darnell Wright be moved to left tackle with Ozzy Trapilo on the right side? Chicago Bears Q&amp;A: Could Darnell Wright be moved to left tackle with Ozzy Trapilo on the right side? More in Entertainment Review: Bleak family drama &#8216;Anemone&#8217; brings back the great Daniel Day-Lewis &#8216;Harry Potter: A Forbidden Forest Experience&#8217; lets fans explore an outdoor &#8216;Harry Potter&#8217; world Sean &#8216;Diddy&#8217; Combs cries during sentencing hear