# Kathy Hochul

**Source**: https://www.curbed.com/tags/kathy-hochul/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:41:10.910070+00:00

---

Kathy Hochul - Curbed Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Menu Close Close Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York About Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Menu Close Close Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York About Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Close All From: Kathy Hochul public art watch Sept. 29, 2025 A Ruth Bader Ginsburg Monument Is Officially Coming to Brooklyn Bridge Park A state committee is asking for artist proposals to honor the late Supreme Court justice. By Adriane Quinlan neighborhood news Sept. 5, 2025 The Student You Are Trying to Call Is Not Available Scenes from the first day of phoneless school. By Christopher Bonanos getting around Aug. 1, 2025 You Gotta Believe the IBX Is Coming Riding the D train with Kathy Hochul and Janno Lieber as they hype the Interborough Express. By Matthew Sedacca getting around Apr. 15, 2025 How Well Is Congestion Pricing Doing? Very. One hundred days in, honking is down; bus speeds are up. By Christopher Bonanos neighborhood news Jan. 11, 2025 Facing Congestion Pricing The full range of views from behind the wheel. By Christopher Bonanos getting around Jan. 5, 2025 It’s On As the congestion-pricing toll system went live, enthusiasts (and a couple of others) gathered to cheer at the uptown edge of the Manhattan fare zone. By Christopher Bonanos getting around Nov. 14, 2024 Where Does $9 Congestion Pricing Get Us? Trying to make sense of Kathy Hochul’s mess. By Nolan Hicks politics Nov. 14, 2024 Congestion Pricing Is Back. Can Trump Still Kill It? On Thursday, Governor Hochul announced a new, reduced toll to get into Manhattan. The incoming president is not a fan. By Nia Prater getting around Nov. 6, 2024 Trump’s Election Means It’s Now or Never for Congestion Pricing Three billion dollars in federal matching funds will likely evaporate after January 20. By Nolan Hicks politics Sept. 3, 2024 Ex–Hochul Aide Got ‘Salted Ducks’ for Favors to Chinese Prosecutors allege that Linda Sun, who was arrested on Tuesday, acted on behalf of the Chinese government. By Nia Prater politics Aug. 20, 2024 Hochul Seems Set on Watered-Down Congestion Pricing Months after her shock decision to pause the program, Hochul said she may propose a new plan later this year. By Nia Prater environment Aug. 14, 2024 How a Floating Pool in the East River Would Actually Work A scientist explains how the Plus Pool would make the East River clean enough to swim in. By Clio Chang getting around Aug. 8, 2024 Scaling Back Congestion Pricing to Save It Here’s a proposal that keeps the core of the plan intact but addresses Governor Hochul’s chief concerns. By Nolan Hicks getting around Aug. 1, 2024 Exactly What We Lost When We Lost Congestion Pricing What does that $15 billion slash — which will cost us an extra $3 billion on top of that — really mean for transit riders? By Nolan Hicks getting around June 26, 2024 Congestion Pricing’s Promises Never Reached East Harlem And now the Second Avenue Subway won’t either. By Nolan Hicks getting around June 14, 2024 What Made Kathy Hochul Flip? Inside the governor’s sudden U-turn on congestion pricing. By Nolan Hicks getting around June 6, 2024 “I Don’t Think There’s a Plan B” Confusion and fury (and Andy Byford) at MTA headquarters as the congestion-pricing news came down. By Nolan Hicks street view June 5, 2024 We Need Congestion Pricing, and Kathy Hochul Blew It She threw us under the bus (and it’s stuck in traffic). By Justin Davidson getting around June 5, 2024 At the Last Second, Hochul Ditches Congestion Pricing by the Side of the Road We were so close to getting there on time! By Christopher Bonanos politics Mar. 6, 2024 Get Ready to See the National Guard on Your Commute Governor Kathy Hochul announced that 750 guardsmen will be placed in the MTA system as part of a five-point plan to address subway crime. By Nia Prater long island Aug. 4, 2023 A Basement Housing Bill Killed by Conspiracists Huntington seemed poised to legalize ADUs. Then things got weird. By Molly Osberg right to shelter Aug. 2, 2023 ‘We Can’t Sleep Because of the Worry’ Overnight at the Roosevelt Hotel, where hundreds of migrants are still waiting for somewhere to go. By Luis Feliz Leon street view June 28, 2023 Two Penn Station Plans That Finally Look Promising Could they converge to make the nation’s worst rail hub much better? By Justin Davidson getting around May 8, 2023 We’re Another Step Closer to Congestion Pricing The Federal Highway Administration has given the plan its blessing, even if New Jersey politicians are crying. By Alissa Walker the suburbs Apr. 19, 2023 Long Island NIMBYs May Be Winning Housing Fight Lawmakers fighting for the “right to a suburban quality of life” could weaken Hochul’s density plan. By Clio Chang scene report Feb. 9, 2023 Partying With the New YIMBYs on the Block The data bros, jaded brokers, and occasional lefty ready to build, baby, build. By Bridget Read neighborhoods Jan. 30, 2023 Does New York’s Chinatown Really Need an Arch? Hochul has granted the money to build one, but younger residents ask whether the money would be better spent on other community needs. By Wilfred Chan cityscape Jan. 26, 2023 ‘Use That Time As a Meditation Time’: The MTA’s New, Very Long Escalator Ten stories down into the new Grand Central Madison terminal. By Adriane Quinlan q&amp;a Dec. 23, 2022 The Would-Be Salt Kings of New York City Talking to Joe Bucci Jr. and Joe Bucci Sr. As told to Adriane Quinlan hotels Dec. 22, 2022 Did New York Miss Its Moment To Turn Hotels Into Housing? “It’s hard to look at the timing of these programs and say that it was treated as an emergency.” By Bridget Read street view Dec. 15, 2022 Can the Hochul-Adams New New York Actually Happen? The Hochul-Adams mission statement is big on sweeping ideas — and way short on explaining how any of this happens. By Justin Davidson cryptocurrency Nov. 28, 2022 Is New York’s Crypto-Mining Moratorium the Start of a Trend? The two-year ban is the first of its kind, possibly not the last. By Clio Chang look book Nov. 24, 2022 The Look Book Goes to Kathy Hochul’s Election Night Party The governor and fellow New York Democrats hosted a crowd of hundreds at Capitale as the midterm results came in. By Kelsie Schrader and Jenna Milliner-Waddell 2022 midterms Nov. 9, 2022 What Neighborhoods Went for Lee Zeldin? A micro-breakdown of Tuesday night’s results. By Clio Chang operators Nov. 8, 2022 Ron Lauder Likes Lee Zeldin Because He’s Afraid to Ride the Subway And definitely not because he’s mad about a Hamptons wind-farm cable. By Clio Chang street fights Nov. 3, 2022 There’s a Campaign-Sign War Happening in Brooklyn According to at least three people. By Clio Chang getting around Sept. 7, 2022 The MTA Says You Can Officially Wear Your Mask Weird Now There’s a sign and everything. By Clio Chang developing Aug. 10, 2022 ‘They’re Destroying an Artists’ Block’: Locals on the Vornado Penn Station Plan A furrier, a circus school, and other shops on the big changes coming to their block. By Kim Velsey urban fauna July 21, 2022 Yeah, You’re Seeing More Sharks A shark expert explains. By Clio Chang getting around June 29, 2022 How California Got ‘Relief at the Pump’ Right Lawmakers realized it’s not just about drivers. By Alissa Walker party report June 24, 2022 The Year REBNY Tried to Get Cool And the real power players left early. By Kim Velsey and Clio Chang politics June 7, 2022 New Yorkers Really Don’t Like Adams, Hochul Because of Crime A new poll shows fear of crime has skyrocketed and sent both Democrats’ approval ratings into a crater. By Nia Prater debt June 1, 2022 A Long, Strange Year of Rent Relief It was a tedious, administrative nightmare. It also (mostly) worked. By Clio Chang criminal justice Apr. 11, 2022 The Case Against Bail Reform Was Always a Tabloid Mirage For the rollback to succeed, New Yorkers would have to be made to feel afraid of where they live. By Nick Pinto budget Apr. 8, 2022 Trust Me, To-Go Drinks Will Solve Everything What budget problems? By Clio Chang stop the presses Feb. 11, 2022 Manhattan’s Maskless Machers Love The Music Man — and The Mayor Eric Adams is getting raves: “Hot, compassionate, strong, determined” — Diane von Furstenberg; “Pitch-perfect” — Barry Diller. By Shawn McCreesh highway removal Jan. 26, 2022 About Time: Syracuse’s I-81 Is Finally Being Demolished Kathy Hochul’s next move aims to start rectifying a mid-century mistake. By Alissa Walker street view Jan. 26, 2022 Hochul’s Penn Station Plan Is the Worst Kind of Urban Renewal Did we learn nothing from tearing the guts out of city after city in the 1960s? By Justin Davidson getting around Jan. 8, 2022 Every Governor Should Copy Kathy Hochul’s Interborough Express Putting underused rails back into action for transit is a no-brainer of a good idea. By Alissa Walker politics Dec. 9, 2021 Tishquake: Letitia James Drops Out of Governor’s Race The attorney general says she’s choosing to run for another term in her current office, in a major relief to Kathy Hochul. By Nia Prater Load More Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us About Curbed About New York Magazine Newsletters Help Contact Press Media Kit We’re Hiring Privacy Terms Ad Cho