# Nikola Jokic Denver Nuggets The Joker Serbia Darko Milicic

**Source**: https://www.si.com/nba/2017/02/08/nikola-jokic-denver-nuggets-the-joker-serbia-darko-milicic
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:05:56.751033+00:00

---

The Joker: Nikola Jokic Gets Serious With Nuggets - Sports Illustrated ON SI SI SWIMSUIT SI TICKETS SI RESORTS SI SHOPS MY ACCOUNT SUBSCRIBE NOW NFL SOCCER WNBA PLAYOFFS NCAAF MLB PLAYOFFS FANTASY NBA GOLF TENNIS MEDIA NCAAB BETTING Mexico US US (Spanish) The Joker: Nikola Jokic Gets Serious In Denver An unlikely headliner, Nikola Jokic is delighting and amusing in Denver after undergoing a physical transformation. Can the Nuggets' intriguing big man become the NBA's next unicorn? Lee Jenkins | Feb 8, 2017 The Joker: Nikola Jokic Gets Serious In Denver / In the summer of 2004, Darko Milicic invited an old friend from Serbia to a mansion in the Detroit suburbs. Milicic had been drafted by the Pistons the previous yearГўВҖВ”second overall, ahead of Carmelo Anthony, Chris Bosh and Dwyane WadeГўВҖВ”but his rookie season was a disappointment. Though Detroit won the championship, the 7ГўВҖВҷ0ГўВҖВқ phenom failed to crack the rotation, averaging 1.4 points in 4.7 minutes. Milicic struggled to fit in with his new teammates, so he kept in touch with old ones, including a dynamic 6ГўВҖВҷ6ГўВҖВқ wing named Nemanja Jokic. Jokic, who starred alongside Milicic on Serbian club teams since they were 16, was interested in moving to the United States and playing college basketball. Jokic accepted a scholarship to Detroit Mercy, in part because of Milicic. Jokic lived on MilicicГўВҖВҷs estate in Rochester Hills, down the block from Tayshaun PrinceГўВҖВҷs place. He had access to MilicicГўВҖВҷs expanding fleet of cars. He was a regular at Pistons games. ГўВҖВңI was living a NBA playerГўВҖВҷs life,ГўВҖВқ Jokic says. ГўВҖВңI was throwing the best parties on campusГўВҖВ”at his house.ГўВҖВқ He watched awestruck as Milicic bought a second home in Detroit, a yacht, toys galore. The fun lasted for a year-and-a-half, until Milicic was traded to Orlando and Jokic was forced into a dorm. He came off the bench for three seasons at Detroit Mercy, then transferred to C.W. Post in Long Island and signed with the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Steamers of the fledgling Premier Basketball League. ГўВҖВңI made mistakes,ГўВҖВқ Jokic says. ГўВҖВңWhen I was young, basketball wasnГўВҖВҷt my No. 1 priority. Going out, having fun, drinking, girls, that was my No. 1 priority. I was making my own decisionsГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВҳIГўВҖВҷm not going to practiceГўВҖВҷГўВҖВ”when I still needed family support. ThatГўВҖВҷs what I was missing.ГўВҖВқ Isaiah Thomas: The Boston Celtics&#39; Little Ticket ГўВҖВӢГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ His buddy missed the same. Darko bounced from Orlando to Memphis, New York to Minnesota, the specter of Melo and D-Wade forever hovering over his frosted tips. The Human Victory Cigar clashed with coaches and lashed out at referees. He gained weight. He never averaged more than 8.8 points in a season. ГӮ ГўВҖВңThere was so much pressure put on him,ГўВҖВқ Jokic recalls, ГўВҖВңand he put so much pressure on himself. I think he had too much going on in his life. The houses, the cars, there wasnГўВҖВҷt anyone to tell him he didnГўВҖВҷt need all those things.ГўВҖВқ In 2012ГўВҖВ“13, Milicic played his last pro game with the Celtics, and Jokic with the Steamers. Jokic flew back to his hometown of Sombor for the first time in seven years and reconnected with his two brothers. He had always been close with his older brother, Strahinja, a 6ГўВҖВҷ8ГўВҖВқ bruiser who played professionally in Serbia. But his younger brother, Nikola, was only 10 when he left for America. He remembered Nikola mainly as the little kid Strahinja used to terrorize, tossing him from one bed to another in the familyГўВҖВҷs small apartment, often during heated games on a plastic mini hoop. ГўВҖВңHe once held down my arms and threw knives all around my head,ГўВҖВқ Nikola adds, punishment for refusing to climb a tree during a picnic. ГўВҖВңThat was a little crazy.ГўВҖВқ Getty Images (2) ГўВҖВӢ Now, Nikola was 17, bigger than both of them. He liked basketball, but he also liked soccer and water polo, volleyball and harness racing. He was overweightГўВҖВ”ГўВҖВңObese,ГўВҖВқ clarifies one of his strength coachesГўВҖВ”chugging three liters of Coca-Cola every day and chowingГӮ on fatty cheese pies called bureks for breakfast. When he signed his first contract with Mega Leks in New Belgrade, he stood almost 7ГўВҖВҷ0ГўВҖВқ and weighed nearly 300 pounds, but he could not do a single pushup. ГўВҖВңHe just wanted to have fun,ГўВҖВқ Nemanja says. He wanted to stand at the high post, ball in his hands, and bend fancy no-look lobs around defendersГўВҖВҷ ears. His favorite game was half-court three-on-three, where he didnГўВҖВҷt have to worry about transition defense. ГўВҖВңThe first time I saw him play, he was throwing these behind-the-back passes that no one else would even try,ГўВҖВқ Nemanja recounts. ГўВҖВңAnd everybody let him. They didnГўВҖВҷt tell him he couldnГўВҖВҷt do it. They knew he had this really unique skill.ГўВҖВқ HeГўВҖВҷd need to cut the weight, quit the soda and hit the iron. HeГўВҖВҷd need to overcome tired stereotypes, born from Darko, and buck astronomic odds. HeГўВҖВҷd need a little dumb luck and a lot of tough love. The Joker, as he is known, would have to get serious. Nemanja had no idea how long such a metamorphosis would take. But he knew one thing for sure. When the time came for Serbia to unleash its next prodigal giant on the NBA, everything would be different. The 41st pick in the draft has produced Cuttino Mobley and Jodie Meeks, Bobby Simmons and Willie Green, longshots made good. More often, it has yielded the likes of Jamaal Franklin and James Augustine, who played fewer than 30 NBA games, Jason Lawson and Jason Sasser, who played fewer than 20, David Young and Chris Carawell, who didnГўВҖВҷt play any at all. A front office that is shrewdГўВҖВ”and charmedГўВҖВ”can find a contributor at 41. What you canГўВҖВҷt find, even if you go all the way back to Popeye Jones, is a big man to build around. Ten days before the 2014 draft, Misko Raznatovic fired off a tweet declaring that Nikola Jokic was withdrawing from consideration and returning to Mega. Raznatovic, JokicГўВҖВҷs agent, had received scant interest from NBA organizations. ГўВҖВңThere was an appearance bias,ГўВҖВқ says one general manager. ГўВҖВңThe guy had no muscle definition. He couldnГўВҖВҷt really jump.ГўВҖВқ Jokic referred to himself as a ГўВҖВңfat point guardГўВҖВқ and coined all sorts of colorful nicknames for his fleshy pectorals. Raznatovic used to tell him before big games, ГўВҖВңClose your eyes and imagine youГўВҖВҷre playing me and my daughter for chocolate chip cookies.ГўВҖВқ Jokic never lacked for motivation. When Mega lost, coaches made the team run 50 suicides. ГўВҖВңI hated that,ГўВҖВқ he laments. Strahinja moved to New Belgrade, mainly to monitor his little brotherГўВҖВҷs diet and conditioning. Strahinja would get him in the weight room, even if he needed sharp objects to do it. Concerns about the JokerГўВҖВҷs doughy physique led to questions about his dedication. He once missed a week at Mega with tendonitis in his wrist, sustained while signing too many autographs. Here, scouts feared, was another big soft Serb playing only because he could. Here was another Darko. ГўВҖВңItГўВҖВҷs true,ГўВҖВқ says Nuggets GM Tim Connelly, ГўВҖВңhe didnГўВҖВҷt have a sexy body.ГўВҖВқ But Connelly and his staff looked beneath the pudge and saw the panoramic vision, the downy touch, the nimble feetГўВҖВ”and the basketball family driven to correct the past. Maybe Jokic wasnГўВҖВҷt another Darko. Maybe he was another Sabonis, another Divac, another Gasol. The Nuggets were sold at the Nike Hoop Summit, as Jokic threw his elaborate fakes at Clint Capela and his impossible dimes to Karl-Anthony Towns . ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ Connelly persuaded Raznatovic to leave Jokic in the ГўВҖВҷ14 draft and picked him 41st. Jokic was asleep at the time of the selection. He had no intention of going to Denver, at least not anytime soon. Jokic and Raznatovic had already formulated a plan, to sign a lucrative contract with a major European club and then think about the NBA in two or three years. In the winter of ГўВҖВҷ14-15, officials from FC Barcelona traveled to New Belgrade to finalize a deal with Jokic. ГўВҖВңWe had practically agreed,ГўВҖВқ Raznatovic says. ГўВҖВңWe were just working out small details. But on that trip, they watched him play one more game, and he was horrible. I mean, really horrible. You canГўВҖВҷt imagine how bad he was. They asked for more time.ГўВҖВқ ГўВҖВңI had four points, three rebounds and I didnГўВҖВҷt play defense,ГўВҖВқ Jokic says. ГўВҖВңI think it was a sign. Without that game, IГўВҖВҷd be in Barcelona right now.ГўВҖВқ Instead, he opened the door for Denver. Back at headquarters, Nuggets executives were watching Jokic highlights daily, regaling each other with descriptions of kick-out passes he threaded to the corner between his legs. The Nuggets were busy preparing for the ГўВҖВҷ15 draft, deconstructing KristapsPorzingis, and they started to wonder if Jokic was in the same class. David Zalubowski/Getty Images Denver officials visited Jokic eight times at Mega and explained that they were building another Balkan nation in the Rocky Mountains. They had hired acclaimed Serbian coach OgnjenStojakovic; they had acquired Bosnian big man JusufNurkic; Lithuanian legend ArturasKarnisovas was ConnellyГўВҖВҷs assistant GM. Jokic turned down a contract to join the Nuggets mid-season, but he found himself daydreaming of Denver. HeГўВҖВҷd miss camping in his beloved forest outside Sombor, but his brothers loved America and his girlfriend was playing volleyball at a junior college in Oklahoma. ГўВҖВңIn the end, Arturas is the guy who convinced us to change our strategy,ГўВҖВқ Raznatovic remembers. ГўВҖВңArturas said, ГўВҖВҳHis skills are not in doubt. ItГўВҖВҷs his body. Where will he have a better chance to improve his body, in the NBA or in the Euroleague?ГўВҖВҷГўВҖВқ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ On the flight to Pepsi Center, the Joker downed his last Coke. ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ ГӮ This time, there is no mansion, no fleet, no yacht. The three brothers live together, with NikolaГўВҖВҷs girlfriend, in a three-bedroom apartment in LoDo. They recently hung another mini hoop in the hall. ГўВҖВңItГўВҖВҷs a little small for us now,ГўВҖВқ Nikola says, ГўВҖВңbut weГўВҖВҷre still playing one-on-one