# Retire Even Earlier

**Source**: https://www.madfientist.com/retire-even-earlier/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:48:53.843967+00:00

---

Retire Even Earlier Without Earning More or Spending Less If you've enjoyed the last 9 years of ad-free content and want to say thanks, here's how → Order Album! --> Main menu Skip to content BLOG PODCAST ABOUT RESOURCES LAB CARDS Retire Even Earlier Without Earning More or Spending Less Updated on February 23, 2022 190 Comments I&#8217;ve written about many tax-avoidance strategies that future early retirees can take advantage of but I haven&#8217;t ran the numbers to see how much of a difference these strategies could make to someone&#8217;s journey to financial independence. Until now&#8230; Assumptions The lab rat for this experiment is a 30-year old single person who: Has no children and expects to live until 90 years old Makes $60,000 per year Resides in a state with no state income tax Happily lives off of $1,400 per month ($16,800 per year) Expects a 5% inflation-adjusted real rate of return on investments Invests $30,000 per year into taxable investing account Plans to utilize a 4% withdrawal rate (adjusted annually for inflation) during retirement Invests in a 75% stocks/25% bonds portfolio of low-cost index funds (so transaction costs and management fees are negligible) All of the calculations in this post are based on these assumptions so let&#8217;s see how much earlier our lab rat could reach financial independence&#8230; Triple Value of Income In the Triple Value of Income article, I showed how to dramatically increase the value of your earnings by utilizing various tax-advantaged accounts and retirement incentives. Let&#8217;s assume after reading this article, the lab rat decides to take advantage of his employer&#8217;s 5% 401(k) match. He knows he should contribute more than 5% though so he decides to fully max out his 401(k). This results in an annual contribution of $20,500 ($3,000 from his 5% employer match and $17,500 from his own pre-tax contributions). Traditional IRA vs. Roth IRA &#8211; The Final Battle Let&#8217;s also assume he decides to max out his IRA during his working years. Using what he learned in the Traditional IRA vs. Roth IRA article, he decides to fund a Traditional IRA rather than a Roth IRA because he knows he can convert the Traditional IRA to a Roth IRA after FI without paying any taxes. Smart guy. Ultimate Retirement Account After reading the Ultimate Retirement Account article, he realizes that a Health Savings Account (HSA) is the Clark Kent of retirement accounts (it&#8217;s actually a super IRA in disguise) so he decides to contribute the maximum of $3,250 to his HSA every year as well. Bonus: To keep track of your tax-advantaged accounts, click here to download a free copy of the spreadsheet I used on my own journey to financial independence! Graph The following graph shows how these optimizations affect his path to financial independence. The green line in the graph shows what happens when the lab rat simply invests everything into a taxable investment account like he was before and the bars on the graph are what happens when he implements the optimizations described in this article. Finally, the dashed red line represents the amount he needs to achieve FI. Retire Earlier As you can see, it&#8217;s possible to retire over two years earlier by taking advantage of these optimizations! It&#8217;s pretty amazing that he can take years off of an already short working career without earning more, spending less, or taking on any additional risk! Taxes The reason these seemingly subtle changes have such a big impact is because they decrease the amount of money spent on taxes and therefore, increase the amount of money that gets invested. When we look at the graph representing the amount of tax paid in each of his working years, we can see he is paying nearly $5,700 less per year in the updated scenario than he was in the original scenario. Combining these tax savings with his employer&#8217;s 401(k) match, the lab rat is able to invest almost $8,700 more per year than he did in the unoptimized scenario. Eventual Taxation? I can hear you ask, &#8220;Since most of his money is in tax-deferred retirement accounts, won’t that money be taxed eventually?&#8221; No, actually. Thanks to his low living expenses and the fact that he won&#8217;t be earning any more money from employment after he reaches FI, he&#8217;ll be able to slowly convert his tax-deferred accounts (401(k) and Traditional IRA) into a Roth IRA, without paying any tax on the conversion (see the Traditional IRA vs. Roth IRA post for more information on this conversion). Early Withdrawal Penalties? Since most of his money in the updated scenario is in tax-advantaged retirement accounts, you may wonder if he will be forced to pay early-withdrawal penalties when he withdraws money from these accounts before standard retirement age. No again! Thankfully, there are many ways to access funds in retirement accounts before standard retirement age without paying any penalties! Surprised? I don&#8217;t know about you but I was actually a bit surprised to see how much of an impact these changes had on this hypothetical scenario. I know tax-advantaged accounts can really help supercharge your retirement savings, which is why I&#8217;ve been maxing out mine for years, but I didn&#8217;t expect these tax-avoidance strategies to take over two years off of an already extremely short working career. I&#8217;m looking forward to experimenting with more optimizations in future articles, in an effort to make the lab rat&#8217;s career even shorter (and hopefully yours and mine as well). To see an experiment where these strategies are applied to actual market returns, check out the real-time Guinea Pig Experiment ! What do you think? Were you surprised by the impact of these optimizations? Will it make you think twice about taking full advantage of retirement accounts in the future? Related Post Guinea Pig Experiment Watch the journey of someone going from $0 to financial independence, using real-time market returns and decision-making! Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Chart Your Progress to Financial Independence! Calculate your FI date and graph your progress to FIRE for free in the Mad Fientist's FI Laboratory! Enter the Lab 190 comments for &ldquo; Retire Even Earlier Without Earning More or Spending Less &rdquo; arebelspy May 14, 2013 at 9:54 am Dynamite post. I love the math behind early retirement, and this apples-to-apples comparison to see how individual variables affect time to retirement is brilliant. Well played. Reply The Mad Fientist May 14, 2013 at 10:50 am Thanks, arebelspy. The whole reason I wrote the Lab Rat and Assumptions post was so that I could do more of this type of apples-to-apples comparison in the future so I&#8217;m really glad to hear you&#8217;re into it! Reply Free Money Minute December 10, 2013 at 8:21 am I agree, nicely done. Looking forward to shifting some of my strategies in this way so I can get out of the rat race earlier and be a younger, healthier, retired rat. Reply Nick May 14, 2013 at 1:10 pm Great work! Couple of financial planning items to add to make this even better! The HSA contribution also escapes Social Security and Medicare tax (usually 7.65%) so that adds and extra $250/year (minor I know, but thought I&#8217;d point out). Much more importantly, now the rat has a taxable income of $23,750 ($60k &#8211; $17.5k 401k &#8211; $5.5k IRA &#8211; $3.25k HSA &#8211; $6.1k Standard Deduction &#8211; $3.9k Personal Exemption) so&#8230;this lucky rat doesn&#8217;t have to pay any taxes on qualified dividends or long term capital gains (as long as his taxable income stays below $36,250 with the qualified dividends and long term capital gains in 2013) in the taxable account each year! If put money in tax efficient investments (think total stock market index with only qualified dividends) then you basically turn this taxable account into a Roth IRA and have access to it day one after reaching FI. Based on my calculations, the taxable contributions in year one would be about $13,900, so with the return you are using this could make a difference over 10 years! Maybe get us down to 7 years? Reply The Mad Fientist May 14, 2013 at 10:59 pm Great catch, Nick! I was still taxing his investment gains during his working years so I updated the graphs to account for the tax-free growth in his taxable accounts. Making this change sadly didn&#8217;t get his working career down to 7 years but it did make 8 years look a lot more doable. Reply Nick May 15, 2013 at 7:35 pm Awesome! Yeah, I crunched the numbers and arrived at the same conclusion. The benefits of the 0% dividends and capital gains will continue to increase over time (fingers crossed they keep it around). Awesome job with the article. Look forward future posts. Reply jlcollinsnh May 15, 2013 at 10:05 pm Holy smokes, MF, this is just too bloody brilliant! I l-o-v-e your concepts and analisis here, especially the Roth conversion ladder. The only &#8220;flaw&#8221; I see is that strategies this good tend to snowball your net worth. Next thing you know your investment income pushes you to levels that are taxable in the end. As flaws go, a very nice one to have! Well done! Reply The Mad Fientist May 17, 2013 at 8:01 am Thanks a lot, Jim! I agree&#8230;that is definitely an excellent flaw to have! I&#8217;m sure that after a few decades of retirement, he won&#8217;t mind sending a few bucks Uncle Sam&#8217;s way if needs to. Reply Shilpan May 18, 2013 at 5:49 pm This is, undoubtedly, one of my most favorite posts ! I like the way you make it simple for most people to understand. Often, personal finance bloggers forget that most people don&#8217;t like reading about personal finance as it is a daunting subject to comprehend. Way to go, my friend. I tweeted and added to my G+ Reply The Mad Fientist May 19, 2013 at 12:07 am Shilpan, I&#8217;m really glad you enjoyed the post and thank you very much for tweeting about it! It looks like the Share Bar 