# 18322790

**Source**: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18322790/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:54:43.816017+00:00

---

Implementation matters: a review of research on the influence of implementation on program outcomes and the factors affecting implementation - PubMed This site needs JavaScript to work properly. Please enable it to take advantage of the complete set of features! Clipboard, Search History, and several other advanced features are temporarily unavailable. Skip to main page content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Log in Show account info Close Account Logged in as: username Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Access keys NCBI Homepage MyNCBI Homepage Main Content Main Navigation Search: Search Advanced Clipboard User Guide Save Email Send to Clipboard My Bibliography Collections Citation manager Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Save citation to file Format: Summary (text) PubMed PMID Abstract (text) CSV Create file Cancel Email citation Email address has not been verified. Go to My NCBI account settings to confirm your email and then refresh this page. To: Subject: Body: Format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) MeSH and other data Send email Cancel Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Add to My Bibliography My Bibliography Unable to load your delegates due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Your saved search Name of saved search: Search terms: Test search terms Would you like email updates of new search results? Saved Search Alert Radio Buttons Yes No Email: ( change ) Frequency: Monthly Weekly Daily Which day? The first Sunday The first Monday The first Tuesday The first Wednesday The first Thursday The first Friday The first Saturday The first day The first weekday Which day? Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Report format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) PubMed Send at most: 1 item 5 items 10 items 20 items 50 items 100 items 200 items Send even when there aren't any new results Optional text in email: Save Cancel Create a file for external citation management software Create file Cancel Your RSS Feed Name of RSS Feed: Number of items displayed: 5 10 15 20 50 100 Create RSS Cancel RSS Link Copy Full text links Wiley Full text links Actions Cite Collections Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Permalink Permalink Copy Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Page navigation Title &amp; authors Abstract Publication types MeSH terms LinkOut - more resources Title &amp; authors Abstract Publication types MeSH terms LinkOut - more resources Review Am J Community Psychol Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2008 Jun;41(3-4):327-50. doi: 10.1007/s10464-008-9165-0. Implementation matters: a review of research on the influence of implementation on program outcomes and the factors affecting implementation Joseph A Durlak &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Emily P DuPre Affiliations Expand Affiliation 1 Department of Psychology, Loyola University Chicago, 6525 North Sheridan Road, Chicago, IL 60626, USA. jdurlak@luc.edu PMID: 18322790 DOI: 10.1007/s10464-008-9165-0 Item in Clipboard Review Implementation matters: a review of research on the influence of implementation on program outcomes and the factors affecting implementation Joseph A Durlak &nbsp;et al. Am J Community Psychol . 2008 Jun . Show details Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Am J Community Psychol Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2008 Jun;41(3-4):327-50. doi: 10.1007/s10464-008-9165-0. Authors Joseph A Durlak &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Emily P DuPre Affiliation 1 Department of Psychology, Loyola University Chicago, 6525 North Sheridan Road, Chicago, IL 60626, USA. jdurlak@luc.edu PMID: 18322790 DOI: 10.1007/s10464-008-9165-0 Item in Clipboard Full text links Cite Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Abstract The first purpose of this review was to assess the impact of implementation on program outcomes, and the second purpose was to identify factors affecting the implementation process. Results from over quantitative 500 studies offered strong empirical support to the conclusion that the level of implementation affects the outcomes obtained in promotion and prevention programs. Findings from 81 additional reports indicate there are at least 23 contextual factors that influence implementation. The implementation process is affected by variables related to communities, providers and innovations, and aspects of the prevention delivery system (i.e., organizational functioning) and the prevention support system (i.e., training and technical assistance). The collection of implementation data is an essential feature of program evaluations, and more information is needed on which and how various factors influence implementation in different community settings. PubMed Disclaimer Publication types Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov&#x27;t Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Review Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search MeSH terms Health Promotion / organization &amp; administration* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Outcome Assessment, Health Care* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Program Development / methods* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search LinkOut - more resources Full Text Sources Ovid Technologies, Inc. Springer Wiley Medical ClinicalTrials.gov Full text links [x] Wiley [x] Cite Copy Download .nbib .nbib Format: AMA APA MLA NLM Send To Clipboard Email Save My Bibliography Collections Citation Manager [x] NCBI Literature Resources MeSH PMC Bookshelf Disclaimer The PubMed wordmark and PubMed logo are registered trademarks of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Unauthorized use of these marks is strictly prohibited. Follow NCBI Twitter Facebook LinkedIn GitHub Connect with NLM Twitter SM-Facebook SM-Youtube National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike Bethesda, MD 20894 Web Policies FOIA HHS Vulnerability Disclosure Help Accessibility Careers NLM NIH HHS USA.gov