# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=J.%20Youth%20Adolesc&title=A%20social%20process%20model%20of%20adolescent%20deviance:%20Combining%20social%20control%20and%20differential%20association%20perspectives&author=KG%20Erickson&author=R%20Crosnoe&author=SM%20Dornbusch&volume=29&publication_year=2000&pages=395-425&
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:23:18.280226+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.03 sec) My profile My library Lookup A social process model of adolescent deviance: Combining social control and differential association perspectives KG Erickson, R Crosnoe , SM Dornbusch - Journal of youth and …, 2000 - Springer KG Erickson, R Crosnoe , SM Dornbusch Journal of youth and adolescence, 2000 • Springer This paper examines social factors associated with changes in 2 forms of adolescent deviance, substance use and delinquency. Using longitudinal data, the research evaluates a model that combines ideas from 2 sociological explanations of crime. The model specifies 2 processes by which conventional social bonds reduce adolescent deviance over time: Strong social bonds indirectly reduce deviance by decreasing associations with deviant peers and by decreasing susceptibility to the negative influences of peers. The results of … Abstract This paper examines social factors associated with changes in 2 forms of adolescent deviance, substance use and delinquency. Using longitudinal data, the research evaluates a model that combines ideas from 2 sociological explanations of crime. The model specifies 2 processes by which conventional social bonds reduce adolescent deviance over time: Strong social bonds indirectly reduce deviance by decreasing associations with deviant peers and by decreasing susceptibility to the negative influences of peers. The results of path analyses, using measures of peer deviance that are based on actual responses from the adolescents&#39; close friends, support the conceptual model. Deviant friendships and susceptibility linked social bonds to both forms of problem behavior. Bonds were more consistently related to friends&#39; substance use than to friends&#39; delinquency. Supplementary analyses within gender subgroups indicate that the deviance of males was more strongly affected by the actions of friends than was deviance of females. Springer Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 349 Related articles All 10 versions Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help