# Spacex S Starlink Poised Record Revenue 2024 19450589.Php

**Source**: https://www.expressnews.com/business/article/spacex-s-starlink-poised-record-revenue-2024-19450589.php?ref=wheresyoured.at
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:54:53.837321+00:00

---

SpaceX’s Starlink subsidiary poised for record revenue in 2024 San Antonio Express-News Hearst Newspapers Logo Skip to main content Subscribe News Politics Local Border &amp; Mexico U.S. &amp; World Education Hill Country Sports High School Cowboys &amp; NFL Colleges Final Four Spurs Weather Forecasts Flood Risk Map Business Real Estate SpaceX Press Releases Opinion San Antonio Forward Food Chowbot Top Restaurants Cooking &amp; Recipes Lifestyle Arts &amp; Entertainment Comics Puzzles Special Projects Remembering Uvalde Victims Bleeding Out Nowhere To Hide Podcasts Puro Politics Nosotros Spurs Insider EN Depth Classifieds Obituaries Place an Obituary Legal Notices About Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use Photo Store Newsletters Newsroom Events San Antonio Express News Logo Subscribe 56m ago ‘Diddy’ gets prison for case involving sex workers, violence and ‘freak-offs’ 56m ago Business SpaceX’s Starlink subsidiary poised for record revenue in 2024 Even with Starship delays, the satellite internet business keeps growing. By Brandon Lingle , Staff writer May 13, 2024 A photo provided by SpaceX shows Starlink satellites just before being deployed in May 2019. Various companies are pressing ahead with plans for internet service from space, which has prompted astronomers to voice concerns about the impact on research from telescopes on Earth. SpaceX SpaceX’s satellite internet company, Starlink , is projected to generate sky-high revenue this year as its grows its customer base and constellation, according to analysts tracking its progress. The commercial space company’s subsidiary, which has a satellite factory in Bastrop and seeks to provide broadband internet connectivity nearly anywhere in the world, has found success since its launch in 2019 amid concerns from some scientists that such proliferation of satellites is cluttering the sky. On Thursday, representatives with Quilty Space , a space economy research and consulting firm, discussed their findings that they say put the privately held Starlink on track to generate $6.6 billion in revenue this year, up from $4.2 billion in 2023. Advertisement Article continues below this ad This 2021 photo shows Starlink satellites passing over Uruguay. MARIANA SUAREZ/AFP via Getty Images Last year marked the first time SpaceX’s satellite internet service provider business generated more revenue than its launch business, which brought in $3.5 billion during the same period. “What Starlink has achieved in the past three years is really nothing short of mind blowing,” said Chris Quilty, co-CEO and president of the firm. By comparison, the combined revenue of Starlink’s two largest competitors — SES and Intelsat, which announced a merger last month — is roughly $4.1 billion, he said. READ MORE: Watch: That wasn’t a UFO over San Antonio. It was SpaceX’s Falcon 9 carrying Starlink satellites. Advertisement Article continues below this ad The Quilty analysis said Starlink has positive cash flow and “quite profitable” earnings before subtracting for interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket carrying Starlink satellites is launched from Kennedy Space Center at Port Canaveral, Fla., in August 2022. Malcolm Denemark, MBR / Associated Press According to Quilty, the idea of building a so-called mega-constellation of low Earth orbit satellites for internet or other communication isn’t new, but Starlink is the first company to succeed in the market. “People have been talking about mega-constellations since the 1990s,” he said. “There were a lot of them out there, doing different things. Some were broadband, some were voice, but they all had one thing in common, which is 100% of them went bankrupt.” Quick growth Starlink has launched 6,350 small satellites, and 5,935 remain in orbit, with 5,233 of those operational and providing internet for more than 2.7 million subscribers across 75 countries. Advertisement Article continues below this ad More than half of its customers are from the United States, and it has large footprints in Europe, Australia, New Zealand, the Philippines and Japan, said Caleb Henry, director of research at Quilty. “We’re also seeing a good uptick in Nigeria and in Latin America,” he said. Starlink has also found a niche in places of turmoil around the world such as war zones — like Ukraine — or natural disaster areas. READ MORE: Editorial: Elon Musk’s Starlink connects the planet. It also clutters the heavens. The quick growth came from SpaceX’s reusable Falcon 9 rocket being able to carry dozens of the mass-produced, low-cost satellites to orbit frequently. In recent years, Falcon 9s have carried Starlink satellites to orbit every few days. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Version 1 Starlink satellites cost about $200,000, and newer versions cost more, Henry said. A string of SpaceX Starlink satellites crosses the night sky. MARCO LANGBROEK, Contributor / AFP/Getty Images Of SpaceX’s roughly 13,000 workers, Starlink has 3,000 employees, Henry said, and the number in Texas is expected to grow. “Texas is where we expect to see more growth in terms of head count, thanks to their newest facility in Bastrop … where they intend to mass produce even more Starlink kits and terminals than they currently do,” he said. Next steps SpaceX’s Starship rocket — in development at Starbase outside Brownsville — is an important part of Starlink’s continued expansion. Advertisement Article continues below this ad “Starship has been the pacing element for the next generation of the Starlink satellites,” Henry said. “We’re projecting early launches that launch Starlink satellites in 2025.” READ MORE: ‘Texas has to win’: New Texas space commissioner discusses state’s booming space business SpaceX, which had planned to use Starship to carry the larger second-generation Starlink satellites to orbit, now expects to launch the third-generation satellites this year. However, much work remains before Starship carries Starlink’s satellites to orbit. A string of SpaceX Starlink satellites passes over a house near Florence, Kan. Reed Hoffmann, UGCR / Associated Press Starship’s next launch is still pending the completion of a mishap investigation for its third test flight in March. Lights in the sky People sometimes see Starlink satellites as they deploy to their orbit. The phenomenon looks like a string of stars streaking across the sky. The growing constellation has sparked concerns from astronomers and scientists who worry the thousands of craft will obstruct their views, create more space junk and increase risk for collisions. Astronomers are lobbying the United Nations for international guidelines, and SpaceX is collaborating with the National Science Foundation to minimize the impacts of the craft. SpaceX uses darker materials and coatings, as well as maneuvering, to minimize the sun’s reflection off the craft and solar panels. Scientists worldwide are researching ways to manage the growing “low Earth orbit economy” while also preserving the night sky. They say SpaceX is trying to mitigate the impacts, but they’re not so sure about other countries such as China, which is planning to build a similar mega-constellation of satellites. May 13, 2024 Brandon Lingle Technology Reporter Brandon Lingle covers technology, cybersecurity and aerospace for the Express-News. You can reach him at Brandon.Lingle@express-news.net. Before writing for the Business team, he was an Editorial Board member and opinion columnist. Brandon joined the paper in 2020 as a Report for America fellow. He came to journalism after more than 20 years in the Air Force. MORE NEWS Target aims to lure more shoppers with $4M revamp of Southeast Side store Target is remodeling hundreds of stores across the country in an effort to boost sales at its brick-and-mortar locations. Feds investigating accident that killed 79-year-old worker at Palm Harbor Homes Federal safety regulators are investigating the death of a 79-year-old worker at a manufactured home dealership on the south side of San Antonio early Tuesday. Mark your calendar: SpaceX sets date for next Starship launch in South Texas The 11th test flight, set for mid-October, comes nearly two months after a successful mission for Elon Musk’s company. Fewer apartments, shops, offices being built in San Antonio. Here&#x27;s why. Investors’ hesitancy, interest rates, and construction and insurance costs have caused a slow-down in commercial real estate projects in San Antonio. San Antonio law firm employees fired, sued over boss’ private Zoom call Firm owner Heather Clement Tessmer says in a court filing that she contacted the FBI and police — and a criminal investigation is now underway. MOST POPULAR Weather This South Texas lake has dropped nearly 2 feet in two months After seeing significant improvement over the summer, South-Central Texas lake levels have started to drop again at an alarming rate this fall. News Emaciated 10-year-old&#x27;s parents charged with capital murder, SAPD says When the medical examiner removed the diaper Michael was wearing, they found large, open sores and a severe rectal prolapse. Sports Brahmas not returning to San Antonio for 2026 season Business San Antonio law firm employees fired, sued over boss’ private Zoom call Business Why the Pentagon is reaching out to grocery chains about its commissaries News Lackland program that forged ties with foreign militaries could be over Education New Trump plan offers UT funding benefits with conditions on academics Weather This South Texas lake has dropped nearly 2 feet in two months After seeing significant improvement over the summer, South-Central Texas lake levels have started to drop again at an alarming rate this fall. Business San Antonio law firm employees fired, sued over boss’ private Zoom call News Lackland program that forged ties with foreign militaries could be over News Emaciated 10-year-old&#x27;s parents charged with capital murder, SAPD says When the