# Money Power

**Source**: https://www.dissentmagazine.org/online_articles/money-power/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:01:08.045569+00:00

---

Money Power - Dissent Magazine tag. --> menu Login About Us Magazine Online Blog Podcasts Events Subscribe Store Donate Fall 2025 Subscribe Magazine Online Blog Podcasts Events Store Logout About Us Donate Contact Advertise Newsletter Money Power Money Power If we want to move toward a world that meets everyone&#8217;s needs, we will need to get serious about the role of money on the left. Nina Luo &squarf; June 5, 2023 A detail from Man Weighing Gold by Adriaen Isenbrant, ca. 1515-1520 (Metropolitan Museum of Art) One of the first things I learned as an organizer is that there are two kinds of power : money and people. Our side doesn’t have money, so we need people. Over more than a decade of organizing, this became a robotic refrain I repeated while on the streets, in legislative offices, at campaign events, and at people’s doors. Is it true? Much (though not all) of my work was paid. Many of our national partners seemed to easily raise and waste millions every year. Some of the most transformative organizing I witnessed was funded, and fundraising was a central question any decently experienced organizer, paid or not paid, was expected to agonize over. Clearly, money power and people power are not entirely separate. Perhaps because the left is thought to be disadvantaged in accessing money, we often avoid the conversation. But money is useful. It can pay organizers to build tenant unions toward a city-wide rent strike or replace the wages of workers laid off in retaliation for a strike. In 2021, for example, the Invest in Our New York campaign won billions in new taxes on the rich (and billions for public schools, undocumented families, and rent relief). We couldn’t have succeeded without a funded campaign that paid for communications staff, organizers, field tools, food and transport costs, literature, and more. If we want to win, we must figure out how to raise and spend money strategically. The left has always debated over the role of money in movements, but in recent years, that debate has escalated. In 2007, The Revolution Will Not Be Funded— a collection of essays published by INCITE! Women of Color Against Violence—exploded onto the scene with righteous critiques of the “nonprofit industrial complex.” The book argued that 501(c)(3) organizations limited mass movement building and were replacing the functions of a receding state. It condemned the gatekeeping role well-connected white liberals in private philanthropy played in doling out money to poor people of color. Organizers repackaged these critiques during the Black Lives Matter protests, the George Floyd uprising, and the COVID-19 pandemic, demanding funders cede power to the ground. In response, foundations, individual donors, donor advisors, and consultants hosted a lot of conferences, diversified their staff and boards, and made commitments to spend down. These reforms, however genuine, were insufficient because they didn’t address the central question. We are not close to building the powerful and sustained mass movements we need, in part because we have not yet figured out how to transform the power of money into multiracial working-class power. Such a project is much more complicated than just changing the decision-makers named on a website. As I’ve spent more time in the money space, I’ve come to understand something that any good organizer could diagnose almost instantly: because funders don’t have a clear strategy based on an analysis of power and outcomes, what remains is cyclical and beleaguered conversations about structure and capacity. It doesn’t have to be this way. Many foundation program officers are former organizers. Many donors are seriously committed to the project of redistribution. Many advisors and consultants hold aligned values and think strategically. But they’re unorganized. And our failure to organize progressive funders reflects larger problems on the left. For at least fifty years, the left has failed to hold any kind of significant governing power in the United States. Most leftists only know how to lose, which means we have tremendous gaps in electoral infrastructure, leadership development, and policy capacity. We lack an organizing culture that both dares to dream big and understands how to build power to actually win those dreams. In the face of defeat, a significant portion of the left retreated into proto-anarchist formations that idealized local, prefigurative work, and funders followed. Today, despite some recent electoral and policy wins on the left, charity-style mutual aid and small-scale solidarity economy work remain popular among a certain set of progressive donors, perhaps because the effects of such donations can feel more concrete. But limiting our ambitions to small pockets of survival means giving up on the prospect of a world where everyone—not just those lucky enough to work in a co-op or live on a community land trust—is fed, housed, safe, and cared for. Though the broad left has recently shifted focus to winning and wielding state power, funders have yet to catch up. If we want to move toward a world where everyone’s needs are met, the organized left—the portion of the left that sees building organizations and institutions as necessary to changing people’s lives at scale—will need to get serious about the role of money in our movement. Money has the potential to help us align on and execute a disciplined strategy to win. And funders won’t take consolidated, risky, multi-decade bets without deeper political connections to the groups they fund. Rather than treating funders as just a means to cover budgets, we need to develop them as peer organizers. Money on the Right We often cite the Koch brothers as an example of the right’s superior access to money. In fact, across large foundations and small-dollar political donations, the left has significantly increased its war chest in recent years. For example, ActBlue, the primary engine for Democratic small-dollar donations, nearly doubled its fundraising from $1.3 billion in the 2017–2018 electoral cycle to $2.2 billion in the 2021–2022 cycle. Groups to the left of the Democratic Party have also benefited from this surge. “The [progressive] money landscape has gotten bigger,” says Micah Sifry, a long-time democracy activist who writes The Connector newsletter. “There’s a whole industry of vendors who are very good at extracting money from individual donors, who can tap into progressives’ current frustrations and scale up temporary operations at the expense of horizontal organizing. It isn’t that hard to raise sufficient funds to get your project going, [but] there’s a lot of redundancy.” A lot of money is sloshing around to support duplicate tactics and organizations, with no real examination of whether they fit into a winning plan. Leah Hunt-Hendrix, who co-founded Solidaire and Way to Win (donor networks focused on social movement and electoral funding, respectively), has also seen the rise of more progressive funding networks. “It feels like the dam broke, and we are collectively moving more donors and more money than we did individually,” Hunt-Hendrix told me. “But all these networks have slightly different theories of change. The problem is not a lack of money, but a lack of a shared set of strategies.” The right offers a good example of how coordinated spending can make a big difference in politics. In State Capture , Alexander Hertel-Fernandez looks at the work of three conservative organizations, funded to the tune of over $200 million a year by business interests and wealthy donors. The American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC) organizes networks of state legislators to pass model bills. The State Policy Network coordinates and fundraises for more than sixty state-based think tank affiliates that publish policy and polling propaganda, bring lawsuits when they don’t win in the legislature, and house and train political staff to rotate into government when Republicans are in power. The third organization, Americans for Prosperity, typically spends more than $100 million a year across its PAC and foundation-backed policy and communications campaigns, creating the appearance of grassroots support for the conservative agenda. This troika flipped state legislatures red in traditionally blue or purple states, including Wisconsin in 2011, Michigan in 2011, and Iowa in 2016. Once in power, Republicans in these states swiftly enacted policies to crush unions, privatize prisons, expand policing and sentencing, deregulate gun possession and use, increase barriers to voting, and prevent immigrants from accessing public benefits. As Hertel-Fernandez writes, “it would be a big mistake to read history backward and assume that the troika’s present-day success was preordained from the start.” Strategists on the right saw fundraising as essential to success and reorganized to prioritize money. For example, facing budget gaps in the late 1980s, ALEC began to approach its work as a business, with a product, defined customer base, and minimum profit it wanted to generate from each member. ALEC brought corporations and private philanthropists into membership, granted members who paid larger dues greater decision-making power, and increasingly turned away from conservative foundations, which took too long to move money and often attached strings to their grants. Meanwhile, the right has also successfully undermined the left’s capacity to fundraise. For years, charter schools and tort reform have been pet causes for conservatives. These issues aligned with an agenda of privatization and minimizing corporate liabilities, but as Hertel-Fernandez argues, the real prize for the right was eroding the left donor base. “It’s very clear what the program is—it is to defund the Democratic Party,” says one political operative in State Capture. By forcing teacher unions and trial lawyers—both major sources of funding for Democratic Party war chests—to spend on defense rat