# billderesiewicz.com

**Source**: https://billderesiewicz.com/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:17:39.007334+00:00

---

Bill Deresiewicz Menu William Deresiewicz Home Books The End of Solitude The Death of the Artist Excellent Sheep A Jane Austen Education Appearances Essays &amp; Reviews Media About Contact OUT NOW IN PAPERBACK THE END OF SOLITUDE &#8220;One of the important cultural critics of our age.&#8221; Franklin Foer &#8220;Restless, shrewd, probing, melancholic, Deresiewicz’s essays seek out the largest of questions.&#8221; Laura Kipnis &#8220;It is a lucky break to share the culture with William Deresiewicz, because he knows it so deeply and he illuminates it so well.&#8221; Leon Wieseltier &#8220;Deresiewicz uses the essay for its classical purpose: to know himself better and in so doing to put forth wisdom.&#8221; Phillip Lopate &#8220;As these totally absorbing essays show, Deresiewicz is too restless to stay in one place, or in one camp.&#8221; Mark Oppenheimer &#8220;Makes a kind of exultant and endless sense.&#8221; Meghan Daum Order Now More Info &times; Order The End of Solitude A passionate, probing collection gathering nearly thirty years of groundbreaking reflection on culture and society alongside four new essays, by one of our most respected essayists and critics. What is the internet doing to us? What is college for? What are the myths and metaphors we live by? These are the questions that William Deresiewicz has been pursuing over the course of his award-winning career.&nbsp; The End of Solitude &nbsp;brings together more than forty of his finest essays, including four that are published here for the first time. Ranging widely across the culture, they take up subjects as diverse as Mad Men and Harold Bloom, the significance of the hipster and the purpose of art. Drawing on the past, they ask how we got where we are. Scrutinizing the present, they seek to understand how we can live more mindfully and freely, and they pose two fundamental questions: What does it mean to be an individual, and how can we sustain our individuality in an age of networks and groups? Acclaim for The End of Solitude &#8220;thematically wide-ranging and bottomlessly rewarding&#8221; — Shelf Awareness &#8220;[Deresiewicz] constructs beautiful sentences which often remind me of the late novelist Philip Roth. Like Roth, Deresiewicz is whip smart, erudite, and an artisan of language&#8230;. The End of Solitude &nbsp;is a treasure trove, a rich vein of lucid thinking from one of the most astute social critics working today. — California Review of Books &#8220;Deresiewicz eviscerates &#8216;groupthink&#8217; in this razor-sharp collection&#8230;.Deresiewicz anatomizes modern life with skill and fierce conviction. Readers will relish grappling with these erudite provocations.&#8221; — Publishers Weekly Join my mailing list to receive notifications about new work. --> Menu Home Books The End of Solitude The Death of the Artist Excellent Sheep A Jane Austen Education Appearances Essays &amp; Reviews Media About Contact Copyright 2025 William Deresiewicz. All rights reserved.