# 04

**Source**: https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/toc/2022/04/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:24:27.137312+00:00

---

April 2022 Issue - The Atlantic Skip to content Site Navigation The Atlantic Popular Latest Newsletters Sections Politics Ideas Fiction Technology Science Photo Economy Culture Planet Global Books AI Watchdog Health Education Projects Features Family Events Washington Week Progress National Security Explore The Atlantic Archive Play The Atlantic Games Listen to Podcasts and Articles The Print Edition Latest Issue Past Issues Give a Gift Search The Atlantic Quick Links Audio Crossword Puzzle Magazine Archive Your Subscription Popular Latest Newsletters Sign In Subscribe April 2022 All Issues Latest Issue Search the Atlantic In This Issue Saudi Arabia’s crown prince, an inmate advocates for his own death, finding empathy for COVID skeptics, and new fiction by Paul Yoon. Plus Death Be Not Proud , a Beat Generation friendship, lessons from Harry Truman, and more. Cover Story Lynsey Addario for The Atlantic Absolute Power Asked about the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, Mohammed bin Salman said, “If that’s the way we did things, Khashoggi would not even be among the top 1,000 people on the list.” Graeme Wood Get the digital edition of this issue. Subscribers can access PDF versions of every issue in The Atlantic archive. When you subscribe, you’ll not only enjoy all of The Atlantic’s writing, past and present; you’ll also be supporting a bright future for our journalism. Subscribe Already a subscriber? Sign In Features Photo illustration by Adam Maida. Sources: Mississippi Department of Corrections / AP. A Good Man, at One Time How a Mississippi inmate became an advocate for his own execution Elizabeth Bruenig Illustration by Paul Spella* My Father, the Fool I’d run out of sympathy for COVID skeptics. Then I remembered my father’s stiff neck. Richard Russo Photograph by Irving Penn | John Gunther, New York, 1947 | © The Irving Penn Foundation The Book That Unleashed American Grief John Gunther’s Death Be Not Proud defied a nation’s reluctance to describe personal loss. Deborah Cohen Fiction Nora Hollstein / Connected Archives; Stefan Dotter / Connected Archives Cromer A short story Paul Yoon Dispatches Illustration by Oliver Munday. Source: Getty The Grown-Ups Are Losing It We’ve turned schools into battlefields, and our kids are the casualties. George Packer Benjamin Rasmussen An American Community in 10 Fragments How one photographer documented the aftermath of Colorado’s Marshall Fire Jordan Kisner Culture &amp; Critics Oliver Munday The Story of Jack and Neal The friendship that made On the Road —and the Beat Generation—possible James Parker Photo illustration by Alicia Tatone. Sources: Archive Photos / Getty; Independent News and Media / Getty; Paco Elvira / Getty; Rolls Press / Popperfoto / Getty Ireland’s Great Gamble The country wanted modern prosperity and traditional values. It could only have one. Cullen Murphy TJ Rinoski The Goon Squad Gets Old Do Jennifer Egan’s tricks still work? Mark Greif Jan Robert Dünnweller What Joe Biden Can Learn From Harry Truman His approval rating hit historic lows, his party was fractious, crises were everywhere. But Truman rescued his presidency, and his legacy. John Dickerson Departments The Atlantic The Commons: ‘Responsible Conservatism Has a Voice and a Future’ Readers respond to our January/February 2022 issue. Tim Lahan An Ode to Giving People Money You won’t regret it. James Parker Poetry Gabriela Pesqueira Pearl Greg Delanty Latest Issues October 2025 September 2025 August 2025 July 2025 June 2025 May 2025 April 2025 March 2025 February 2025 January 2025 December 2024 November 2024 Scroll → The Atlantic Daily Get our guide to the day’s biggest news and ideas, delivered to your inbox every weekday and Sunday mornings. See more newsletters Email Address Sign Up Your newsletter subscriptions are subject to The Atlantic&#x27;s Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions . Ideas That Matter Subscribe and support more than 160 years of independent journalism. Subscribe Popular Links About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Reprints &amp; Permissions Podcasts Radio Atlantic Good on Paper The David Frum Show How to Age Up Autocracy in America Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Atlantic Editions Newsletters Follow facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin flipboard About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Reprints &amp; Permissions Podcasts Radio Atlantic Good on Paper The David Frum Show How to Age Up Autocracy in America Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Atlantic Editions Newsletters Follow facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin flipboard Site Information Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices privacy-options Advertising Guidelines Terms &amp; Conditions Terms of Sale Responsible Disclosure Site Map TheAtlantic.com © 2025 The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply