# Avoiding Lockout Red Sox

**Source**: http://www.grantland.com/story/_/id/7100999/avoiding-lockout-red-sox
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:20:18.990222+00:00

---

&raquo; Avoiding the Lockout and the Red Sox Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous Oklahoma vs. Texas, a Letter to Les Miles, and a Hard-To-Get Hunk ➤ Next What Have We Learned From the NFL? AP Photo/Julie Jacobson Facebook Twitter Print Bill Simmons Avoiding the Lockout and the Red Sox Before we get to the Week 6 picks, the Sports Guy has a few things he absolutely doesn't want to talk about by Bill Simmons on October 14, 2011 I f it&#8217;s all right with you, I would like to make it through this week&#8217;s NFL Picks column without mentioning &#133; A. The indefensible NBA lockout. You should never miss games (and paychecks) without a really good reason. In 2004-05, hockey had a good reason: They had a blue-collar sport with white-collar costs, leaving them a business model that was unsustainable. The NBA has a totally sustainable business model &#8212; it just needs to be tweaked. What&#8217;s happening right now isn&#8217;t &#8220;tweaking.&#8221; It&#8217;s like fixing up your family room by swinging a wrecking ball through it. B. Two weeks (and counting) of canceled NBA games. And as we&#8217;re finding out, nobody except die-hard NBA junkies care. Everyone else? They&#8217;re more than happy to keep watching pro and college football through the holidays, deal with their fantasy teams, gamble on games, eat up the dozens of talking-head shows, read the hundreds of football-related blogs/columns and figure out who&#8217;s making the playoffs and BCS Championship Series. But seriously, keep up the &#8220;tree falling in the NFL forest&#8221; routine and keep losing all your momentum with casual fans after one of the five best seasons in NBA history, Everyone Involved In This Indefensibly Dumb Lockout. C. The agents, who escaped this debacle relatively unscathed because just about every person covering the NBA counts at least two or three agents among their best sources &#8212; sorry, it&#8217;s true &#8212; and also, it&#8217;s easier to vilify the visible lockout characters (David Stern, Billy Hunter, Derek Fisher, etc.) over the ones who helped block any real progress from happening because some of them cared as much about protecting the ceiling of their next 25 years of commissions as they did about preventing their current players from missing paychecks. 1 Will the players ever understand that part? Will they ever understand that agents are not &#8212; all caps: NOT &#8212; always their friends in a situation like this? Or that there&#8217;s a real chasm right now between the agendas of the best agents (the ones who rep the LeBrons and Durants and want to keep the ceiling of contracts as high as possible) and the grinders (the ones who want to protect the middle-class guys and keep the midlevel exception intact), and over everything else, that&#8217;s why Billy Hunter is acting like he&#8217;s being drawn and quartered right now? Or that this chasm, as well as the festering (and more-public-than-they-should-be) issues between Hunter and the agents, have conspired to make Stern&#8217;s owners believe, &#8220;We just need to cancel some games and their entire side will eventually implode?&#8221; A group of extremely bright people seemed to have outsmarted themselves here &#8212; by trying to make things better, they made things worse. Again, the players don&#8217;t seem to realize this. D . The players, almost all of them millionaires or multi-multi-multi-millionaires, who had the gall to start a &#8220;Let Us Play&#8221; social media campaign earlier this week and expected America to feel sorry for them during the recession. We&#8217;re supposed to trust their collective judgement after that display of fecal fireworks? 2 Hey, players? Go research the 2008 Writers Strike, when the writers overvalued three things: their own worth, the concept of supply and demand and the future of Internet revenue (which was five years away from truly being figured out). If you remember, those writers missed four-plus months of paychecks and allowed Hollywood to reset its entire system so it was more favorable to studios and production companies. That&#8217;s where you&#8217;re headed. And by the way, you&#8217;re taking no accountability whatsoever for all the guys who got overpaid. Nobody on the planet thinks Travis Outlaw should make $35 million over five years, or Rashard Lewis should make $23 million this season. If your sport is handing out those deals, something went horribly wrong. This needs to be fixed. There&#8217;s a reason Leo DiCaprio makes 20 times more for a movie than his buddy Kevin Connolly. People pay to see stars. Nobody pays to see role players and middle-class guys. Of course, the players&#8217; union would never accept this &#8212; it&#8217;s made up of mostly role players and middle class guys. Those guys want to protect what they have. And what they have is a system that overpays them. Which, by the way, is the biggest reason we&#8217;re having a lockout. The owners are fine with paying LeBron $20 million a year; they just don&#8217;t want to pay James Posey $7 million a year. They are trying to save themselves from themselves. The players won&#8217;t help them. Their attitude is, &#8220;Just don&#8217;t sign those dumb contracts then.&#8221; But the owners have proven &#8212; flagrantly and embarrassingly over these past few decades &#8212; that they can&#8217;t freaking help themselves. They want more protection. They want more checks and balances. And you know what? In this case, they&#8217;re right. What the players need to realize is that it&#8217;s bad for them to be overpaid. When someone like Josh Childress is mailing in a big deal that he never should have gotten to begin with, it makes fans resent the players and their sport. Do they care? Do they see the big picture here? Doesn&#8217;t seem like it. That&#8217;s why we need shorter contracts, and that&#8217;s why we need more checks and balances to prevent the owners from pulling a Plaxico on themselves. Sometimes it&#8217;s not all about &#8220;getting the most you can get.&#8221; I&#8217;d love to hear a veteran player admit that publicly. Just once. 3 E. Billy Hunter, the overmatched head of the players union, who showed no urgency whatsoever this spring, acted stubbornly for reasons that were only clear to him, refuses to acknowledge the change in consumer habits (and keeps pretending that the NBA&#8217;s business from 2012 to 2022 will look exactly like it did from 2001 to 2011), showed no ability to pull off a give-and-take negotiating session, and basically seemed petrified to think outside the box for eight solid months. We knew in February that we were headed for D-Day. Where was the urgency? Why did everyone seem so blindsided this week when games were finally canceled? And why do I keep hearing from connected/smart/knowledgeable people within the sport that Billy knows he can&#8217;t get a better deal than the one the owners offered last week, only he doesn&#8217;t want to accept it now because he knows that &#8212; if he does &#8212; the players union will fire him afterwards for caving, which means he&#8217;ll lose his lucrative ($2.5 million per year) contract? If that&#8217;s true, that means Billy would rather lose everyone else&#8217;s paycheck over his own. I really hope that&#8217;s not true. Just know that&#8217;s what people are whispering, Billy. 4 F. Kevin Garnett, who inexplicably turned into Norma Rae these past few weeks and led the charge to fight the fight and stand strong &#133; without, of course, ever mentioning that his agent was savvy enough to defer a significant amount of money from his last contract extension so that he still has fresh money coming in this season (unlike 95 percent of the players), or that a 50-game regular season would be absolutely perfect for his aching knees, or that losing two months of 2011-12 money might help him with his next contract because he won&#8217;t break down during a shortened season (increasing the odds that he&#8217;ll get one last lucrative extension next summer). Should someone who&#8217;s earned over $300 million (including endorsements) and has deferred paychecks coming really be telling guys who have made 1/100th as much as him to fight the fight and stand strong and not care about getting paid? And what are Garnett&#8217;s credentials, exactly? During one of the single biggest meetings (last week, on Tuesday), Hunter had Kobe Bryant, Paul Pierce and Garnett (combined years spent in college: three) negotiate directly with Stern in some sort of misguided &#8220;Look how resolved we are, you&#8217;re not gonna intimidate us!&#8221; ploy that backfired so badly that one of their teams&#8217; owners was summoned into the meeting specifically to calm his player down and undo some of the damage. (I&#8217;ll let you guess the player. It&#8217;s not hard.) And this helped the situation &#133; how? And we thought this was going to work &#133; why? Congratulations, players &#8212; you showed solidarity! You showed you wouldn&#8217;t back down! You made things worse, and you wasted a day, but dammit, you didn&#8217;t back down! Just make sure you tell that to every team employee who gets fired over these next few weeks, as well as to all the restaurant and bar owners near NBA arenas who are taking a massive financial hit through the holidays. I&#8217;m sure they will be proud of you. G. The owners, who wanted to miss two months of games all along and even went as far as investigating this summer how they&#8217;d legally go about filling their arenas during nights when they &#8220;had&#8221; NBA home games in November and December. (The answer: You can&#8217;t schedule other events in your arena without violating labor laws. But if you want to schedule a musical act for two nights before a home game, then &#8220;play it by ear&#8221; and &#8220;add&#8221; a third night a