# 18632 25 Board Games Tailored To Your Holiday Crowd From The Rowdiest To All Ages

**Source**: https://food52.com/blog/18632-25-board-games-tailored-to-your-holiday-crowd-from-the-rowdiest-to-all-ages
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:57:33.416836+00:00

---

25 Board Games Tailored To Your Holiday Crowd, from the Rowdiest to All Ages This Week&#x27;s Mood: Dinner &amp; a Movie This Week&#x27;s Mood: Dinner &amp; a Movie Schoolhouse Dansk Search Shop New Best Sellers Exclusively at Food52 Featured Makers Kitchen Kitchen Utensils &amp; Tools Kitchen Storage &amp; Organization Countertop Organization Food Storage Kitchen Linens Cutting Boards Coffee &amp; Tea Accessories Knives Cookware Frying Pans &amp; Skillets Baking &amp; Roasting Pans Dutch Ovens &amp; Stock Pots Sauce &amp; Saute Pans Cookware Sets Tabletop Dinnerware Glassware Table Linens Flatware &amp; Serving Utensils Serveware Outdoor Entertaining Home Organization &amp; Storage Cleaning &amp; Laundry Bath Towels &amp; Accessories Vases &amp; Decorative Objects Clocks &amp; Lighting Candles &amp; Candle Holders Planters Shop All Recipes Popular Quick and Easy 5 Ingredients or Fewer Cocktails Appetizers Ingredients Chicken Steak Salmon Pasta Potato Rice Meals &amp; Dishes Breakfast Lunch Dinner Salad Sweet Treats Lifestyle Vegetarian Vegan Gluten-Free Alcohol-Free Drinks Tools &amp; Techniques One Pot Sheet Pan No Bake Grill Life Travel Hosting &amp; Entertainment Parenting Pets Kitchen Sink Crafts &amp; Hobbies Community View All Food Recipes How To &amp; Hacks Meal Planning Baking Trending &amp; Seasonal Drinks Community Hotline View All Home Style &amp; Design Cleaning &amp; Organizing Outdoors Renovation Home Tours View All Watch Shop All Shop New Best Sellers Exclusively at Food52 Featured Makers Kitchen Kitchen Utensils &amp; Tools Kitchen Storage &amp; Organization Countertop Organization Food Storage Kitchen Linens Cutting Boards Coffee &amp; Tea Accessories Knives Cookware Frying Pans &amp; Skillets Baking &amp; Roasting Pans Dutch Ovens &amp; Stock Pots Sauce &amp; Saute Pans Cookware Sets Tabletop Dinnerware Glassware Table Linens Flatware &amp; Serving Utensils Serveware Outdoor Entertaining Home Organization &amp; Storage Cleaning &amp; Laundry Bath Towels &amp; Accessories Vases &amp; Decorative Objects Clocks &amp; Lighting Candles &amp; Candle Holders Planters Shop all Shop Recipes All Recipes Popular Quick and Easy 5 Ingredients or Fewer Cocktails Appetizers Ingredients Chicken Steak Salmon Pasta Potato Rice Meals &amp; Dishes Breakfast Lunch Dinner Salad Sweet Treats Lifestyle Vegetarian Vegan Gluten-Free Alcohol-Free Drinks Tools &amp; Techniques One Pot Sheet Pan No Bake Grill Life All Life Travel Hosting &amp; Entertainment Parenting Pets Kitchen Sink Crafts &amp; Hobbies Community Shop all Life Food All Food Recipes How To &amp; Hacks Meal Planning Baking Trending &amp; Seasonal Drinks Community Hotline Shop all Food Home All Home Style &amp; Design Cleaning &amp; Organizing Outdoors Renovation Home Tours Shop all Home Watch Account 0 Items in your Cart Your shopping cart is empty. Continue Shopping 25 Board Games Tailored To Your Holiday Crowd, from the Rowdiest to All Ages It&#x27;s not all Scrabble and Clue up in here By Samantha Weiss Hills Published On December 12, 2016 When you&#x27;re home for the holidays—or hosting others—what&#x27;s your tactic for convincing the troops to put down their phones, back away from the TV, and interact with each other? Me, I&#x27;m a true believer in the humble board game (with a side of wine). Whether the political conversations are making you batty or the kids are hyped up and you need to just direct their energy somewhere , the board game is here for you. But which game is right for your group? Here&#x27;s your game, based on who&#x27;s around. (And if you don&#x27;t have the one that&#x27;s right for you, maybe it&#x27;s time to upgrade?): For The Rowdy Bunch Featured Video See all Food52 videos Guillotine Pictionary Cards Against Humanity The self-proclaimed &quot;party game for horrible people.&quot; Break this out after the bourbon&#x27;s on the table and the little ones have retired for the evening. Pictionary Make sure the teen artist who can draw is on your team. Sorry In my house, when you knocked someone off the board you did so in a flamboyant fashion while yelling &quot;SORRY&quot;! We didn&#x27;t really raise our voices all that often, so it was invigorating. I suggest you try it. Yahtzee Everyone should have their own signature dice shake, because even if you come in second, you&#x27;ll look cool doing it. Guillotine Somewhat macabre in title, but pretty harmless in practice. You line up a bunch of characters from the French revolution and collect them with action cards—gather the most points (i.e. the most valuable characters), and you win. For The Readers and Wordsmiths Taboo Moby Dick, The Card Game Taboo Don&#x27;t say it, don&#x27;t say it! Until someone guesses it, that is. Scrabble But you already own this one, right? Right? Scattergories A personal favorite! Roll the alphabetical dice and then race against opponents to scribble out as many words as possible that relate to a list of categories before time is up. Moby Dick A new card game for the literature lover, described by the creators as such: Experience the thrill, the awe and the terror of The White Whale in this card-driven narrative adventure game based on the classic book by Herman Melville. Set sail with 2 to 4 players, and follow Ahab and the crew of the Pequod to their inevitable, fated destruction. Roll custom engraved dice, collect beautiful raw wood oil tokens, and assemble a crew of hardy sailors ready to take on the boundless adventure of the open ocean. Bananagrams Be your own best Will Shortz , but do it quickly and use up all those tiles! For The Competitive Set Trivial Pursuit Master Edition Jenga Monopoly But only the version with paper money!! Do not even reach for the one with a credit card reader. (P.S. There is also a Star Wars version, my fellow nerds.) Clue This classic game pits you against each other to find out who committed the perfect—or not so perfect—crime. (Mr. Mustard is usually my alias.) Trivial Pursuit Even if you can&#x27;t complete your pie before someone else does, you can impress your family members with obscure sports facts. Jenga Lots of trash talk until the tower topples right into your beer. For The Group In It For The Long Haul The Game of Life Settlers of Catan Settlers of Catan Never rely on the longest road—it gets you nowhere. And plan for about 3 hours for this one. Evolution Only click on this if you plan to have 5 free hours somehow during the holidays, and you&#x27;re cool with masquerading as a reptile, bird, or insect. Risk To be honest, looking at the Risk board gives me anxiety, but it&#x27;s good for occupying competitive siblings who want you to know just how strategic they are. The Game of Life Spinning the wheel is the best part because, at least in my childhood version, it sounds like what I imagine the Wheel of Fortune does. For All Ages Chinese Checkers Candyland Twister You&#x27;re gonna need stretch pants for this one. Uno One of the easiest card games to grasp right from the beginning—and also one of the easiest to annoy everyone by reversing the order 4 times! Candyland We always put real candy to be won at each new location—good incentive to occupy kiddos while you drink wine in the other room. Trouble Portable enough for distraction in the car and to go right to the table when you arrive. Operation That buzzer when you hit someone&#x27;s abs while trying to remove a rib stays with you, even after the game&#x27;s over. Parcheesi Get all your pieces to home base before the others do. Or else! Chinese Checkers Contrary to what the name suggests, this game is German in origin. Race across the board by hopping other players and making single-space moves to take the other corner. You got this. You look like you might need some snacks handy with all that playing... Let&#x27;s hear it: What is your favorite board game to rally family around? Tell us in the comments below! Our best tips for eating thoughtfully and living joyfully, right in your inbox. Subscribe Company About Us DEI Vision Press Jobs Affiliate Program Get Help Contact &amp; FAQ Gift Cards Advertising Inquiries Social Facebook Instagram Pinterest TikTok YouTube © 2025 Food52, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Code of Conduct Accessibility Policy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. When you visit our website, we collect and use personal information about you using cookies. You may opt out of selling, sharing, or disclosure of personal data for targeted advertising (called &quot;Do Not Sell or Share&quot; in California) by enabling the Global Privacy Control on a compatible browser. See our Privacy Policy for further information. Accept