# Ikea Smart Blinds Blackout Us Store Availability

**Source**: https://www.theverge.com/2019/1/9/18175640/ikea-smart-blinds-blackout-us-store-availability
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:48:46.964605+00:00

---

Ikea’s smart blinds will be available in the US starting on April 1st | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Ikea’s smart blinds will be available in the US starting on April 1st Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech Gadgets Close Gadgets Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Gadgets Circuit Breaker Close Circuit Breaker Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Circuit Breaker Ikea’s smart blinds will be available in the US starting on April 1st The goal is making smart blinds more affordable The goal is making smart blinds more affordable by Stefan Etienne Close Stefan Etienne Last published Mar 10, 2022 Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Stefan Etienne Jan 9, 2019, 7:29 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads Photo: Ikea Ikea has set a release date of April 1st for its aggressively priced smart blinds in the United States, according to a Fast Company report , only a couple of months after the motorized shades&rsquo; debut in Europe on February 2nd. There, Ikea priced its Fyrtur blackout shades between $113 and $181 (converted from euros), with blind sizes ranging from the width of your average room window, all the way up to 195 cm (76.8 inches) wide. If you&rsquo;ve never heard of smart blinds before &mdash; internet-controlled automated shades &mdash; that&rsquo;s probably because most smart blinds cost anywhere between $300-500. Their high cost makes them a tough smart home upgrade to swallow, so any affordable competition in this space is worth learning more about. However, Ikea&rsquo;s official pricing in the US is still unannounced. Ikea also promises their upcoming smart blinds will come bundled with a remote control and a rechargeable battery pack, as well as support for Alexa, HomeKit, and Google Assistant control and integration. That&rsquo;s all I ever wanted out of smart blinds, really. Ikea also integrated their Tr&aring;dfri smart lights and smart plugs with their blinds, which will work with the same app and will be able to communicate with your shades to dim or brighten lights, according to the time of day. The smart blinds will even support Ikea&rsquo;s existing Vidga curtain rail series , so if you already own Ikea curtains, there&rsquo;s a possibility you&rsquo;re already on the path to using Ikea&rsquo;s smart blinds. Follow topics and authors from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates. Stefan Etienne Close Stefan Etienne Last published Mar 10, 2022 Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Stefan Etienne Circuit Breaker Close Circuit Breaker Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Circuit Breaker Gadgets Close Gadgets Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Gadgets Ikea Close Ikea Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Ikea Smart Home Close Smart Home Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Smart Home Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech Most Popular Most Popular Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store Behold: The Lego Game Boy has already been modded to play games for real Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Everything is terrorism in Trump’s America Satya Nadella appoints a new CEO to run Microsoft’s biggest businesses The Verge Daily A free daily digest of the news that matters most. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Tech Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom Sony shrinks PS5 Slim storage in the US, too Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads A bundle with Amazon’s biggest smart display and a stand just got its biggest discount The quest for every Gap store playlist ever The real price of a free TV Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom Tina Nguyen 4:52 PM UTC Sony shrinks PS5 Slim storage in the US, too Jay Peters 3:39 PM UTC Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Tom Warren 3:18 PM UTC A bundle with Amazon’s biggest smart display and a stand just got its biggest discount Brandt Ranj 3:15 PM UTC The quest for every Gap store playlist ever Mia Sato 3:06 PM UTC The real price of a free TV David Pierce 1:33 PM UTC Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories 2:00 PM UTC With a Friend like this, who needs enemies? 5:08 PM UTC I’ve fallen into Sora’s slippery slop 1:03 PM UTC I tried Amazon and Google’s new smart home gadgets, ask me anything! 3:06 PM UTC The quest for every Gap store playlist ever 4:52 PM UTC Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom 1:57 AM UTC Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved