# Diet Coke Is Not Killing You

**Source**: https://theoutline.com/post/842/diet-coke-is-not-killing-you
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:31:52.546353+00:00

---

Diet Coke is not killing you | The Outline Culture Diet Coke is not killing you It also won&#x2019;t make you gain weight or cause depression. Culture Diet Coke is not killing you It also won&#x2019;t make you gain weight or cause depression. Yvette d&#x2019;Entremont Jan&#x2014;10&#x2014;2017 08:59AM EST As a time-honored Diet Coke lover, I&#x2019;ve heard every reason why I should give up my delicious, crisp, delightfully caffeinated, aspartame-enriched beverage of choice: It&#x2019;s giving me cancer. It&#x2019;s as addictive as cocaine. It depletes nutrition from my body. According to a recent article in the New York Post , Diet Coke is definitely making me fat. If I give it up, my tastebuds will come to life, and my headaches will disappear. My bones will strengthen, and my attitude will even get better. My dog and my cat will start getting along. I&#x2019;ll be able to hold warrior three, and I&#x2019;ll finally understand why my most &#x201C;spiritual&#x201D; friends are addicted to Keeping Up With the Kardashians. If there was any truth to these claims, I probably should have sprouted a third nipple by now. But I haven&#x2019;t even gotten one of those mega-zits that the internet attributes to this magical, calorie-free elixir. So what gives? What&#x2019;s the truth, and what&#x2019;s just a clickbait headline on a website with no scientific credibility? Let&#x2019;s have a look at the most common claims about Diet Coke&#x2019;s toxicity and then decide if you can safely drink one with a 3,000-calorie mega meal. Diet Coke deadens your taste buds I&#x2019;ve seen this one floating around on a few listicles and natural blogs: Diet Coke kills your sense of taste. Either by virtue of its acidity levels or the artificial sweeteners, some chemical mischief causes your taste buds to not be able to taste food as well anymore. And when you quit the evil demon Diet Coke, food tastes like gossamer whispers once again . Too bad this isn&#x2019;t even slightly true. People have reported anecdotally upon giving up diet soda that &#x201C;naturally&#x201D; sweet things like fruit taste sweeter to them, but that&#x2019;s exactly how far the evidence goes; an anecdote. No such study exists to prove this. As for the claim that Diet Coke &#x201C;deadens&#x201D; your tastebuds, only a handful of things actually kill your tastebuds or cause changes to your ability to taste. Oral diseases and certain types of medicines are known tastebud killers. But the main cause of tastebud demise is time . Your friend who&#x2019;s convinced the apple tastes so much sweeter after they gave up Diet Coke? They need to research &#x201C;the nocebo effect.&#x201D; Diet Coke causes cancer and multiple sclerosis There is no way the magical chemical that makes Diet Coke taste sweet isn&#x2019;t up to some biochemical mischief right now. We&#x2019;ve all gotten the chain emails that say diet soda is causing tumors to pop up in rats and that it causes multiple sclerosis-like symptoms. Should you be worried? No. The sweetener in Diet Coke, aspartame (also marketed as Nutrasweet&#xAE; and Equal&#xAE;), is one of the most extensively studied chemicals that&#x2019;s ever been approved for the food supply. No link has ever been established between aspartame and cancer. At one point, there was some concern that aspartame was linked to an increase in certain types of cancers, but the increase began eight years before aspartame&#x2019;s introduction to the market. This would be like blaming Obama for 9/11, and nobody sane would do that, right? All further testing has not shown any causal relationship between aspartame and cancer. Additionally, all new sweeteners go through more than a hundred safety studies, including cancer studies, before hitting the market. And what about the MS claims? Good news: They&#x2019;re full of shit, too. Both the National MS Society and Snopes have debunked the link between aspartame and MS. The National MS Society goes on to say that &#x201C;no scientific evidence supports the claims that aspartame &#x2014; an artificial sweetener used in many diet soft drinks and other foods &#x2014; causes MS.&#x201D; Diet Coke causes tooth decay You&#x2019;ve heard the old urban legend (or at least the line in the musical Grease ) that you can dissolve a tooth in some Coke, right? Or even that it&#x2019;s as bad for your teeth as meth? Of course the internet has proof that drinking diet cola destroys your teeth. There are blogs in which someone put a baby tooth that fell out into a bottle of Coca-Cola &#x2014; the full-sugar formula &#x2014; for nearly two months . They found that, indeed, when exposed to a liquid that&#x2019;s a combination of sugar and a few different acids, the tooth decayed. There are also a few studies showing that, if you put a tooth into soda for two weeks, the enamel is worn down . Think for a minute what the flaws in this experiment might be. The conditions in which this tooth decayed are astronomically different from that in which a normal tooth is exposed to soda. First, this is just an experiment in vitro (i.e. a petri dish), with no controls and nothing in real-world settings to compare it to. No tooth was held for a similar amount of time in vitro in a solution of oral fluids and just periodically dosed with diet soda for two minutes followed by being brushed. Second, when you drink a Diet Coke, even if you have it daily, it&#x2019;s not in your mouth 24/7. If you&#x2019;re drinking one of the common serving sizes, a 12-ounce can or a 20-ounce bottle, it&#x2019;s probably only actually touching your teeth for a few minutes at most. Odds are that you also brush your teeth, drink other fluids, and consume other foods. The environment that your tooth is in is changing regularly and being cleansed multiple times a day, and not sitting in one environment soaking constantly. So yes, you can buy into scare tactics of poorly designed studies showing tooth enamel loss when a tooth is literally bathed in soda with zero oral care for more time in two weeks than your teeth will ever be in a lifetime. Or you can pick up a tooth brush at least twice a day and not worry about it. (Of course, without a proper oral hygiene routine, any acidic drink could contribute to oral decay, but singling out diet soda is falling prey to the natural fallacy.) Diet Coke causes depression Everything you eat seems to make some disease worse, right? Except, of course, kale. So naturally, when I came across an infographic that said diet soda increased risk of depression by 30 percent, I shouldn&#x2019;t have been surprised. Everything somehow makes you more likely to&#x2026; something. Get a cold. Get cancer. Prefer DC over Marvel. Vote Republican. In 2013, the American Academy of Neurology conducted a long-term population study on intake of beverages versus depression. The study&#x2019;s 263,925 participants tracked their intake of various beverages for one year. Then, a decade later, they were asked to report any instances of depression over the course of the decade. A total of 11,311 were diagnosed and treated for depression at some point in the decade. This represents 4.3 percent of the people in the study, and diet soda was linked to a higher level of depression than coffee. From the variations reported 10 years earlier in beverage consumption, can we safely conclude that Diet Coke consumption causes depression? Not a chance. The study has been criticized for many reasons, but mostly because no mechanism for causation of depression by ingredients in diet soda was ever proposed. Furthermore, the language in the study suggested that fruit punch was linked to a 38 percent increase in depression. The category of &#x201C;fruit punch&#x201D; included some beverages that used artificial sweeteners and some that didn&#x2019;t, and they were relying on a quarter of a million people to feed them accurate data about their beverage intake with somewhat nebulous categories. This is an example of correlation and causation gone horribly awry. To get their conclusions, researchers used reported intake of these beverages from 1995 to 1996 and then compared those numbers to rates of depression in the early 2000s. They didn&#x2019;t closely track the participants&#x2019; food or beverage intake over the decade. They didn&#x2019;t ask about traumatic life events. They didn&#x2019;t ask, &#x201C;Are you drinking diet soda because you&#x2019;re trying to lose weight and depriving yourself of calories is a bummer?&#x201D; It doesn&#x2019;t appear that the study posed follow-up questions to its participants or regular questions on diet, and people&#x2019;s diets change a lot over time. And in a stunning move scientists refer to as p-hacking (i.e. making the data look the way you want it to by cherry picking the parts that look good), the researchers chose not to include approximately 30,000 cases of depression in their analysis because they felt these cases couldn&#x2019;t be tied in with diet. Well, that&#x2019;s strange. Doesn&#x2019;t that also make the percentage of cases that are linked to diet look higher? And the bigger problem: There still isn&#x2019;t any proof that any of these cases are tied into beverage consumption. Given how poorly controlled all the data is from this study, it&#x2019;s essentially useless for making any declarative statements. Diet Coke causes diabetes This is a pernicious one. The artificial sweetener in Diet Coke triggers something in your tongue so it thinks it&#x2019;s tasting real sugar, setting forth an insulin response, tripping a mousetrap in your pancreas. Then a miracle happens and you have diabetes. That&#x2019;s not how any of this works. In one 2009 study in the journal Diabetes Care , an association was found between diet sodas and diabetes or metabolic syndrome. But the authors of the study ultimately concluded that there was no causality between diet soda and the diabetic or pre-diabetic condition. In other words,