# Hypertext 30

**Source**: https://www.press.jhu.edu/books/title/8902/hypertext-30
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:43:19.729045+00:00

---

Hypertext 3.0 | Hopkins Press Skip to main content Johns&nbsp;Hopkins&nbsp;University Est.&nbsp;1876 America&rsquo;s&nbsp;First&nbsp;Research&nbsp;University Now Browsing: To navigate items, use the arrow, home, and end keys. Press Books Journals Open Access Project MUSE HFS Menu Close Search JHU Press To navigate items, use the arrow, home, and end keys. Shop Books Journals Information For Book Authors For Journal Authors For Journal Editors For Educators For Booksellers For Media Book Catalogs Journal Catalogs News &amp; Events Newsroom Awards Events Podcasts &amp; More About About The Press History Code of Conduct Accessibility Leadership Careers Rights &amp; Permissions Online References Support The Press Search Cart Account To navigate items, use the arrow, home, and end keys. Sale Subjects Series Authors Browse All Customer Service Cart Account Back to Results Share this Title: Hypertext 3.0 Critical Theory and New Media in an Era of Globalization George P. Landow third edition Publication Date February 10, 2006 Binding Type Paperback $37.00 Quantity Leave this field blank George Landow's widely acclaimed Hypertext was the first book to bring together the worlds of literary theory and computer technology. Landow was one of the first scholars to explore the implications of giving readers instant, easy access to a virtual library of sources as well as unprecedented control of what and how they read. In hypermedia, Landow saw a strikingly literal embodiment of many major points of contemporary literary theory, particularly Derrida's idea of "de-centering" and Barthes's conception of the "readerly" versus "writerly" text. From Intermedia to Microcosm, Storyspace... Read more George Landow's widely acclaimed Hypertext was the first book to bring together the worlds of literary theory and computer technology. Landow was one of the first scholars to explore the implications of giving readers instant, easy access to a virtual library of sources as well as unprecedented control of what and how they read. In hypermedia, Landow saw a strikingly literal embodiment of many major points of contemporary literary theory, particularly Derrida's idea of "de-centering" and Barthes's conception of the "readerly" versus "writerly" text. From Intermedia to Microcosm, Storyspace, and the World Wide Web, Landow offers specific information about the kinds of hypertext, different modes of linking, attitudes toward technology, and the proliferation of pornography and gambling on the Internet. For the third edition he includes new material on developing Internet-related technologies, considering in particular their increasingly global reach and the social and political implications of this trend as viewed from a postcolonial perspective. He also discusses blogs, interactive film, and the relation of hypermedia to games. Thoroughly expanded and updated, this pioneering work continues to be the "ur-text" of hypertext studies. About Related Books Reviews Details Authors Resources Related Related Books Preorder Culture and Environment in the Early French Caribbean Michael Harrigan $64.95 Quick Add Culture and Environment in the Early French Caribbean Culture and Environment in the Early French Caribbean Michael Harrigan Publication Date: June 23, 2026 Binding Type Hardcover $64.95 E-book $64.95 Quantity Leave this field blank Preorder Studies in Eighteenth-Century Culture Volume Volume 55 edited by George Boulukos Volume Volume 55 $49.95 Quick Add Studies in Eighteenth-Century Culture Volume Volume 55 Studies in Eighteenth-Century Culture edited by George Boulukos Volume Volume 55 Publication Date: June 23, 2026 Binding Type Hardcover $49.95 Quantity Leave this field blank Preorder Urban Infrastructure in Medieval England Roberta J. Magnusson $64.95 Quick Add Urban Infrastructure in Medieval England Urban Infrastructure in Medieval England Roberta J. Magnusson Publication Date: June 23, 2026 Binding Type Paperback $64.95 E-book $64.95 Quantity Leave this field blank Preorder Cats Rod Phillips $32.95 Quick Add Cats Cats Rod Phillips Publication Date: June 2, 2026 Binding Type Hardcover $32.95 E-book $32.95 Quantity Leave this field blank Preorder The Cherokee War of 1776 Kevin Kokomoor $34.95 Quick Add The Cherokee War of 1776 The Cherokee War of 1776 Kevin Kokomoor Publication Date: May 19, 2026 Binding Type Hardcover $34.95 E-book $34.95 Quantity Leave this field blank Reviews Reviews Challenges the reader... Because it invites (and nearly requires) readers to place themselves in more than one position: as a student of communication theory, as a student of computer science, as a student of academic publishing, or as a student of literature. &#8212; Paul Baker, Education PR Blog Landow['s]... presentation is measured, experiential, lucid, moderate, and sensible. He merely points out that the concept 'hypertext' lets us test some concepts associated with critical theory, and gracefully shows how the technology is contributing to reconfigurations of text, author, narrative, and (literary) education. &#8212; Postmodern Culture Worth reading, whether one's initial mood is enthusiasm, skepticism, or simple curiosity. &#8212; Contemporary Sociology A bold and enthusiastic prediction of the impact of hypertext on literature and pedagogy. &#8212; Rocky Mountain Review of Language and Literature In this insightful and readable volume, Landow explores the relationship between contemporary literary and social theory and the latest advances in computer software. &#8212; Voice Literary Supplement About Book Details Publication Date February 10, 2006 Status Available Trim Size 7.5 x 9 Pages 456 ISBN 9780801882579 DOI https://doi.org/10.56021/9780801882562 Illustration Description 8 halftones, 27 line drawings Subject Literature &amp; Language Arts Contemporary Literature Global Literature Literary Theory, Criticism &amp; History History History of Technology History (General) Cultural Criticism Table of Contents Preface: Why Hypertext 3.0? Acknowledgments 1. Hypertext: An Introduction Hypertextual Derrida, Poststructuralist Nelson? The Definition of Hypertext and Its History as a Concept Very Active Readers Vanneva More Preface: Why Hypertext 3.0? Acknowledgments 1. Hypertext: An Introduction Hypertextual Derrida, Poststructuralist Nelson? The Definition of Hypertext and Its History as a Concept Very Active Readers Vannevar Bush and the Memex Forms of Linking, Their Uses and Limitations Linking in Open Hypermedia Systems: Vannevar Bush Walks the Web Hypertext without Links? The Place of Hypertext in the History of Information Technology Interactive or Ergodic? Baudrillard, Binarity, and the Digital Books Are Technology, Too Analogues to the Gutenberg Revolution 2. Hypertext and Critical Theory Textual Openness Hypertext and Intertextuality Hypertext and Multivocality Hypertext and Decentering Hypertext as Rhizome The Nonlinear Model of the Network in Current Critical Theory Cause or Convergence, Influence or Confluence? 3. Reconfiguring the Text Reconfiguring the Text The In MemoriamWeb New Forms of Discursive Prose—Academic Writing and Weblogs Problems with Terminology: What Is the Object We Read, and What Is a Text in Hypertext? Visual Elements in Print Text Animated Text Stretchtext The Dispersed Text Hypertextual Translation of Scribal Culture A Third Convergence: Hypertext and Theories of Scholarly Editing Hypertext, Scholarly Annotation, and the Electronic Scholarly Edition Hypertext and the Problem of Text Structure Argumentation, Organization, and Rhetoric Beginnings in the Open Text Endings in the Open Text Boundaries of the Open Text The Status of the Text, Status in the Text Hypertext and Decentrality: The Philosophical Grounding 4. Reconfiguring the Author Erosion of the Self How the Print Author Differs from the Hypertext Author Virtual Presence Collaborative Writing, Collaborative Authorship Examples of Collaboration in Hypertext 5. Reconfiguring Writing The Problematic Concept of Disorientation The Concept of Disorientation in the Humanities The Love of Possibilities The Rhetoric and Stylistics of Writing for E-Space; or, How Should We Write Hypertext? Hypertext as Collage Writing Is This Hypertext Any Good? Or, How Do We Evaluate Quality in Hypermedia? 6. Reconfiguring Narrative Approaches to Hypertext Fiction—Some Opening Remarks Hypertext and the Aristotelian Conception of Plot Quasi-Hypertextuality in Print Texts Answering Aristotle: Hypertext and the Nonlinear Plot Print Anticipations of Multilinear Narratives in E-Space Narrative Beginnings and Endings Michael Joyce's afternoon Stitching Together Narrative, Sexuality, Self: Shelley Jackson's Patchwork Girl Quibbling: A Feminist Rhizome Narrative Storyworlds and Other Forms of Hypertext Narratives Computer Games, Hypertext, and Narrative Digitizing the Movies: Interactive versus Multiplied Cinema Is Hypertext Fiction Possible? 7. Reconfiguring Literary Education Threats and Promises Reconfiguring the Instructor Reconfiguring the Student Learning the Culture of a Discipline Nontraditional Students: Distant Learners and Readers outside Educational Institutions The Effects of Hypermedia in Teaching and Learning Reconfiguring Assignments and Methods of Evaluation A Hypertext Exercise Reconceiving Canon and Curriculum Creating the New Discursive Writing From Intermedia to the Web—Losses and Gains Answered Prayers, or the Academic Politics of Resistance What Chance Has Hypertext in Education? Getting the Paradigm Right The Politics of Hypertext: Who Controls the Text? Can Hypertext Empower Anyone? Does Hypertext Have a Political Logic? The Marginalization of Technology and the Mystification of Literature The Politics of Particular Technologies Technology as Prosthesis The Political Vision of Hypertext; or, the Message in the Medium Hypertext and Postcolonial Literature, Criticism, and Theory Infotech, Empires, and Decolonization Hypertext as Paradigm for Postcoloniality Forms of Postc