# Bad Santa 201012

**Source**: http://www.vanityfair.com/culture/features/2010/12/bad-santa-201012?printable=true
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:07:49.120877+00:00

---

Bad Santa: The Improbable Holiday Classic | Vanity Fair Skip to main content Newsletters Menu Menu POLITICS HOLLYWOOD ROYALS STYLE CULTURE POLITICS HOLLYWOOD ROYALS STYLE CULTURE BUSINESS CELEBRITY VIDEO WHAT IS CINEMA? MORE NEWSLETTERS PODCASTS MAGAZINE ARCHIVE VF SHOP Search Search Sign In Holidays 2010 December 2010 Issue Bad Santa: The Improbable Holiday Classic How did 2003’s Bad Santa &#8212;the ill-mannered holiday movie starring Billy Bob Thornton&#8212;somehow sneak into the canon of oft-quoted Christmas classics? By Marc Spitz December 23, 2010 Save Story Save this story Save Story Save this story All good Christmas movies have morals as heavy as a boat of gravy. They mostly involve the shelving of superficial concerns in favor of a humble return to spirituality or family. In It’s a Wonderful Life (1946), a stymied and broken George Bailey (Jimmy Stewart) pleads with God: “I’m not a praying man, but if you’re up there and you can hear me, show me the way.” The Man Upstairs, as every holiday-season sap knows, sends the wingless angel Clarence Odbody (Henry Travers) down to Earth to set George straight. Even bad Christmas movies have iron-clad messages. In Jack Frost (1998), Michael Keaton plays an absentee-parent/ramblin’-man rock ’n’ roller who is killed in a car accident while traveling to a gig. His once selfish spirit ends up trapped within the body of a snowman, where he finally learns to love. (Yes, this movie got made.) But 2003’s Bad Santa, directed by Terry Zwigoff ( Crumb, Ghost World ), imparts only the following: “The world ain’t fair and you gotta take what you need when you can get it. You gotta learn to stand up for yourself. You’re gonna have to quit being a pussy and kick these kids in the balls or something—or don’t. Shit, I don’t care. Just leave me the hell out of it.” Yet somehow, this ill-mannered, uncompromising piece of nastiness has snuck into the Christmas canon and come to be regarded as a classic, perhaps the first since 1983’s oft-quoted A Christmas Story. Billy Bob Thornton portrays Willie “Tugboat” Soke, a suicidal, alcoholic, safe-cracking shopping-mall “Santa” with an “I don’t give a shit if the focus groups like this guy” glee. Not once does he wink at the camera, Mel Brooks–style. Instead, he remains as emotionally committed to embodying Willie as he was to portraying Karl Childers in Sling Blade. The relationship between Willie and the chubby, mercilessly bullied eight-year-old Thurman Merman (Brett Kelly) is as complicated as that between Thornton’s prison guard, Hank Grotowski, and his son (played by the late Heath Ledger) in 2001’s Monster’s Ball. Thurman, whose dad is incarcerated for white-collar crime, offers cash, shelter, wheels, and the use of the family hot tub in exchange for Willie’s (conditional) love; hence the above-mentioned advice. “There’s one scene at the end of the film where he’s trying to figure out what elephant he is going to give to the kid,” says Tony Cox, who plays Willie’s little-person accomplice turned betrayer, Marcus (posing, naturally, as Santa’s helper elf). “He finally decides and turns around to face me. I’ve got my gun on him, and I was surprised to see a tear in his eye. It got me. To see that tear. Oh man, it was just the best working with him.” Like many in Hollywood, Cox had known of the script (by Glenn Ficarra and John Requa) but figured he’d never see it produced in his lifetime. “Who would go see an R-rated Christmas film that wasn’t a horror movie?” went the logic. Bad Santa was long considered unmakeable until Thornton signed on, and, despite his star power, it was only a modest, if critically praised, hit. “There are certain unwritten parameters governing mainstream American movies, and Bad Santa violates them all,” Roger Ebert observed in his original review, adding, “For him to play Hamlet would take nerve; for him to play Willie T. Soke took heroism.” Over the years, thanks in part to a Badder Santa director’s-cut DVD and annual cable broadcasts (it airs on Spike TV on December 20), the film has found a devoted audience. “It’s pretty neat being in something that’s on TV every year now and seen all over the place,” says Brett Kelly, now in his mid-teens. “Realistically, when it came out if you were asked, ‘Would you see this around every year?’ you’d probably say no, because it’s not the typical Christmas movie. But to this day, this is the movie that people know me the most from. All my friends, everyone at my school, all my family—this is probably their favorite movie of mine.” It’s no wonder Thornton, promoting the revenge actioner Faster, co-starring Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson, last month, expressed interest in putting on the red suit one more time. “I heard about that interview,” says Kelly. “I’d definitely be interested in doing it. I think it would be interesting to see where everyone has gone almost 10 years later.” Let’s hope for the return of former Gilmore Girls mom Lauren Graham as the fetishist/bartender (“Fuck me, Santa! Fuck me, Santa!”), Lauren Tom as the nefarious shopaholic Lois, and Cloris Leachman as the often comatose grandmother (“I’ll make some sandwiches!”). Sadly John Ritter, who played the straightlaced department-store manager, and Bernie Mac, the corrupt, chain-smoking chief of mall security, are now gone. “I don’t know if there will ever be another one like it, but I hope they do a sequel,” says Cox. “The whole thing depends on a great script, and if we can bring that team together, Billy and Terry. It would have to be like the Godfather: Part II. You just don’t want to mess with it if you can’t improve it, ’cause there’s a lot of people out there that like Bad Santa. ” This week the possibility of a Bad Santa sequel became considerably stronger when the Weinstein Co. and the new management of Miramax Films announced a partnership that would revisit the latter’s classic titles for possible sequels and spin-offs. As with all of Zwigoff’s films, the world of Bad Santa (which encompasses a Phoenix department store, mostly, with occasional forays into its plus-size dressing room) is populated by two kinds of people: those who mindlessly obey the rules and those way outside of society. The latter, despite their angst and addictions, are implicitly free. The former, the running joke goes, are too polite and timid to really challenge the audacity of someone like Willie T. This happens to serve as a pretty good metaphor for *Bad Santa’*s place in the canon of modern holiday-film fare. There’s double-crossing, grift, murder, and near murder (Willie survives a Sonny Corleone–style hail of bullets). The term “fuck stick” is introduced to the vernacular. Nobody grows. Nobody really learns anything. Still, unlike Seinfeld or Curb Your Enthusiasm, Bad Santa still somehow feels warm. It’s Christmas on its own terms. Even those iconic Christmas songs (Burl Ives, Dean Martin, etc.) don’t feel out of place on the soundtrack. “It’s a one-of-a-kind movie,” Cox says today. “It was funny, but it was real, too. There are people out there like that, dressed in Santa suits and robbing people.” Read More Music Sabrina Carpenter Is the Best Frankenstein Reboot of the Year&#8212;(Please Please Please) Let Me Explain Mary Shelley’s classic has been explored and reexplored, but with respect to Jacob Elordi, someone 17 inches shorter has nailed it. Style Jessica Buttafuoco’s Life Has Been Shaped by Her Father’s Crime&#8212;and Relived in a Pop-Culture Nightmare Loop A figure in one of the most infamous tabloid sagas of the 1990s&#8212;rehashed everywhere from the New York Post to The New York Times, played out in TV movies starring Drew Barrymore or Alyssa Milano&#8212;is confronting the full devastation of a teenage girl’s crime. Television My Week&#8212;Or Three&#8212;at The White Lotus Fleeing a breakup, and reality, in Los Angeles, Lorraine Nicholson accepted an invite to stay at the Four Seasons Koh Samui while the third season of Mike White’s HBO smash hit filmed. Not long after she arrived, life began imitating art&#8212;save for all the homicide. Hollywood From Sex and the City to Summer I Turned Pretty : Why Paris Is Rarely Ever a Good Idea for Romantic Heroines The Summer I Turned Pretty and Netflix’s The Wrong Paris are the latest in a long line of love stories that hinge on a man keeping a woman from her true joie de vivre. Movies Beyond Monster: 6 Grisly Films Inspired by Serial Killer Ed Gein As Ryan Murphy brings a new series about the murderer to Netflix, here’s a guide to movies that fictionalized his story&#8212;from Psycho to The Texas Chain Saw Massacre. Celebrity Leonardo DiCaprio Is Now In His “The Dude” Era Here’s what Leo can learn from Jeff Bridges’s iconic stoner. Movies The 20 Best Movies on Hulu to Watch Right Now (October 2025) The best movies on Hulu are a cornucopia of classics, comedies, dramas, and more. Fashion Carmen Busquets Rewears Balenciaga Couture to Kering Foundation Dinner With Demi Moore and Dakota Johnson Before attending the Kering Foundation’s Caring for Women dinner (which raised a record $4.5 million to combat gender-based violence), the Venezuelan-born entrepreneur spoke with Vanity Fair about her couture look for the evening. Movies The Onion Wants an Oscar for Jeffrey Epstein: Bad Pedophile &#8212;Coming to a Theater Near You And Onion CEO Ben Collins knows just how to sell this 20-minute mockumentary to the Academy: “Do you like pedophiles? I don’t think you do. You know what you could do to prove it?” Politics Turning Point USA Will Be “Bigger Than Ever”: Inside the Charlie Kirk Memorial Service Mourners had gathered outside State Farm Stadium in Glendale, Arizona by 4 a.m. to pay their respects to Turning Point USA founder Charlie Kirk. Movies The 20 Best Movies on Amazon Prime to Watch Now (October 2025) Whether you’re in the mood for a classic drama or an antic comedy, see our list of the best movies on Amazon Prime Video. Movies The 25 Best Movies on Netflix to W