# App Redesign Blowback Will Cost Sonos Up To 30 Million Ceo Says

**Source**: https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2024/08/app-redesign-blowback-will-cost-sonos-up-to-30-million-ceo-says/?ref=wheresyoured.at
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:51:04.493102+00:00

---

Sonos’ $30M app fail is cautionary tale against rushing unnecessary updates &#x2d; Ars Technica Skip to content Ars Technica home Sections Forum Subscribe Search AI Biz &amp; IT Cars Culture Gaming Health Policy Science Security Space Tech Feature Reviews AI Biz &amp; IT Cars Culture Gaming Health Policy Science Security Space Tech Forum Subscribe Story text Size Small Standard Large Width * Standard Wide Links Standard Orange * Subscribers only &nbsp;&nbsp; Learn more Pin to story Theme HyperLight Day & Night Dark System Search dialog... Sign In Sign in dialog... Sign in App-ologies Sonos’ $30M app fail is cautionary tale against rushing unnecessary updates Sonos is delaying two hardware releases because of the app's problems. Scharon Harding – Aug 8, 2024 5:11 pm | 144 Credit: Sonos Credit: Sonos Text settings Story text Size Small Standard Large Width * Standard Wide Links Standard Orange * Subscribers only &nbsp;&nbsp; Learn more Minimize to nav Addressing blowback from Sonos' wildly unpopular app redesign will cost the company $20 to $30 million "in the short term," according to CEO Patrick Spence. In May, Sonos launched an updated app that aggravated many users due to its removal of common functions, like accessibility features and the ability to edit playlists and song queues, use sleep timers, and access local music libraries. Sonos said it wanted to modernize the app's interface and make it easier to navigate. While the app initially succeeded in making certain things quicker, like adjusting the volume, the changes caused outrage among Sonos' typically loyal user base . In July, Spence apologized for the maligned redesign and said Sonos would fix the app with biweekly updates . During Sonos' fiscal Q3 2024 earnings call yesterday, Spence said that fixing the app and managing related customer fallout will cost Sonos millions. The costs come from three primary areas—app updates, customer support, and winning back customers and partners—and are “necessary to right the ship for the long term," Spence said. “We have identified the key bugs, have a plan to fix them, and are improving our processes and staffing to ensure we successfully execute our action plan,” Spence told investors. Sonos brought in the software's original architect, Nick Millington, to fix the app. Spence said the updated app’s “modular developer platform based on modern programming languages” enables quicker updates and will eventually enable features the previous app could not support. The executive didn’t get into specifics. Because of the app, Sonos has to spend more on customer and partner support. It looks like the company is also planning to offer financial discounts to try to win back customers and partners. Spence said Sonos will launch “programs” this quarter and next “to both support and thank our customers and partners for sticking with us through this period and turn their dissatisfaction to delight.” Further, Sonos reduced its fiscal 2024 guidance due to problems stemming from the redesign. Software problems delay hardware launches The app problems are having a ripple effect within Sonos. In addition to the remediation that will cost Sonos up to $30 million, the company is also delaying two hardware releases. Spence said: The app situation has become a headwind to existing product sales, and we believe our focus needs to be addressing the app ahead of everything else. This means delaying the two major new product releases we had planned for Q4 until our app experience meets the level of quality that we, our customers, and our partners expect from Sonos. Sonos didn't specify the devices affected, but Sonos has been rumored to be planning a new flagship soundbar to succeed the Arc . With these delays in mind, Sonos expects $240 to $260 million in fiscal Q4 revenue, compared to $397.1 million in fiscal Q3 2024 and $305.1 million in fiscal Q4 2023. Cautionary tale Sonos' expensive predicament is a cautionary tale about rushing—and forcing—changes to devices that people already own. Many users were already happy with Sonos' app, but Sonos was eager to push out a redesign ahead of the June release of its Ace headphones . Bloomberg previously reported that Sonos wanted to release the update "at least a few weeks" before Ace and that the update was originally supposed to roll out in March but faced "software-engineering challenges." Considering how big of an overhaul Sonos says the app redesign was, it should have been developed and tested thoroughly and completely, even if that took longer than originally planned. Spence told investors this week that the app overhaul was "a redesign of the entire system—not only the app but also the player side of our system, as well as our cloud infrastructure—and this was complex undertaking," adding, "as we rolled out the new software to more and more users, it became evident that there were stubborn bugs we had not discovered in our testing." It's unclear how much testing the app underwent before release. In May, Sonos Chief Product Officer Maxime Bouvat-Merlin admitted to The Verge that Sonos knew upon the update's rollout that "it may require taking a few steps back to ultimately leap into the future." But most customers would rather see those "few steps back" occur behind closed doors, not while they're using their expensive gadgets. Sonos may also have overlooked the impact of its update on older gear and therefore long-time customers. Spence told investors that far too many users, "especially those with some of our older products in their systems, are having an experience that is worse than" before. "For some, this meant existing speakers missing from their Sonos systems, while others saw latency issues or errors while setting up new products," he said. Apps are meant to be updated, improved, and polished over time, but Sonos' release took obvious steps backward by removing features. Sonos then put the burden on customers in May, when it said that it would take months to restore lost features. That means Sonos customers have to endure months of already-paid-for devices not working as they should. Sonos has done decent damage control by apologizing and providing a roadmap for fixes (albeit after various tech publications called it out) . But when companies with years' worth of hardware don't fully consider the immediate needs and expectations of its customers before ushering in massive updates that overhaul the user experience, customer trust takes a hit. Sonos is at a pivotal point. Fixing the app and a pair of killer hardware releases could help. But the latter can’t happen without the former, and Sonos is right to make fixing the app and trying to earn back customer trust its new top priorities. Listing image: Sonos Scharon Harding Senior Technology Reporter Scharon Harding Senior Technology Reporter Scharon is a Senior Technology Reporter at Ars Technica writing news, reviews, and analysis on consumer gadgets and services. She's been reporting on technology for over 10 years, with bylines at Tom’s Hardware, Channelnomics, and CRN UK. 144 Comments Comments Forum view Loading comments... Prev story Next story Most Read 1. Trump admin defiles even the “out of office” email auto-reply 2. Meet the Arc spacecraft: It aims to deliver cargo anywhere in the world in an hour 3. Why iRobot’s founder won’t go within 10 feet of today’s walking robots 4. Apple iPhone 17 Pro review: Come for the camera, stay for the battery 5. Rocket Report: Alpha explodes on test stand; Europe wants a mini Starship Customize Ars Technica has been separating the signal from the noise for over 25 years. With our unique combination of technical savvy and wide-ranging interest in the technological arts and sciences, Ars is the trusted source in a sea of information. After all, you don’t need to know everything, only what’s important. More from Ars About Us Staff Directory Ars Newsletters General FAQ Posting Guidelines RSS Feeds Contact Contact us Advertise with us Reprints Manage Preferences © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Ars Technica Addendum and Your California Privacy Rights . Ars Technica may earn compensation on sales from links on this site. Read our affiliate link policy . The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices