# A Running Diary Game 162

**Source**: http://www.grantland.com/story/_/id/7033950/a-running-diary-game-162
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:49:11.597675+00:00

---

&raquo; A Running Diary of Game 162 Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous So, Cricket? Maybe? ➤ Next WWE Hell in a Cell Preview Rob Carr/Getty Images Facebook Twitter Print Bill Simmons A Running Diary of Game 162 The AL wild card was up for grabs. The Red Sox were collapsing. The Rays were rallying. Here's what transpired. by Bill Simmons on October 7, 2011 N inety minutes before the Red Sox played in Baltimore to determine whether (a) they would advance to the 2011 playoffs, (b) they would advance to a one-game playoff in Tampa Bay on Thursday, or (c) they would finish the biggest September collapse in the history of professional baseball, I was paying for groceries in Los Angeles while wearing my trusty Tim Wakefield no. 49 T-shirt jersey. From behind me, I heard a raspy, older, female voice ask me, &#8220;You guys gonna win today?&#8221; I turned around. The voice belonged to Amy Madigan, the actress who played Kevin Costner&#8217;s wife in Field of Dreams . &#8220;Yes,&#8221; I told her. &#8220;We are going to win today. But I don&#8217;t know about tomorrow.&#8221; &#8220;Who&#8217;s pitching?&#8221; she asked. &#8220;Lester today. Tomorrow, I don&#8217;t know. Might be Kevin Costner.&#8221; She thought this was funny. We spent 15 seconds making small talk, then I spent the next 30 minutes trying to determine whether it was a good omen. That&#8217;s what you do when your baseball season is falling apart: you search for signs &#133; any signs, anything that means anything. Your whole life becomes a Ouija board. Ray Kinsella&#8217;s wife from the cornfield? Had to be a good sign. Field of Dreams was really about hope, higher beings, cosmic forces, unfinished business, believing past the point when you should believe. The Red Sox hit that point about two weeks ago, midway through their improbable swoon, as they kept trotting out the Lackeys, Wakefields and Weilands with everyone thinking, &#8220;Wait, we don&#8217;t have ANY other options?&#8221; It&#8217;s been a surreal month for Red Sox fans: Our pre-2004 DNA told us to react the way we always did (total panic, woe-is-us complex, the whole thing); our post-2007 DNA told us, &#8220;You won twice, keep it in perspective, this isn&#8217;t life or death, other teams have it worse&#8221;; and our sports-fan DNA told us, &#8220;You just spent the past six months watching a team that&#8217;s probably going to kick you in the teeth &#133; hard. It&#8217;s coming.&#8221; GRANTLAND MLB POST MORTEM Eight teams, four games and two playoff spots. That&#8217;s one hell of a scenario for Game 162 on the MLB calendar. Simmons: A Running Diary of Game 162 Kang: Red Sox Nation: F@#$ These Guys Chris Ryan: Hunter Pence: Erratic Heartbeat of the Phillies Shane Ryan: Treasure the Regular Season, Rays and Yankees Keri: Atlanta&#8217;s Long, Cold Winter About Last Night: Pure, Unbridled Insanity By the time Game 162 rolled around, I didn&#8217;t know what to think anymore. I ended up at my friend Daniel&#8217;s house to watch Sox-Orioles and Rays-Yankees. And yes, I kept a running diary. Here&#8217;s what transpired. 4:00 p.m. PT &#8212; Thanks to NESN for working in the obligatory Carl Crawford strikeout on a pitch in the dirt during its &#8220;GAME 162&#8221; montage intro. Just what we needed. Jerry Remy tries to make up for it a minute later: &#8220;Some comfort food for Boston fans &#8212; [Jon] Lester has pitched 17 times against Baltimore; he&#8217;s 14-and-0.&#8221; Sorry, I&#8217;m not sure &#8220;comfort&#8221; and &#8220;Boston fans&#8221; can be used in the same sentence this week. It&#8217;s illegal. 4:02 &#8212; A month ago, Ryan Lavarnway was in Triple-A. As recently as 48 hours ago, he wasn&#8217;t playing. Today, in Game 162, with a playoff spot on the line? He&#8217;s catching and batting fifth. Somehow, I&#8217;m fine with this. I can&#8217;t think of anyone else I&#8217;d bat fifth. Welcome to the 2011 Red Sox season. 4:07 &#8212; As the camera pans the Red Sox players standing for the national anthem, we see one blond-haired guy, and Daniel says, &#8220;Who&#8217;s that?&#8221; Neither of us have any idea. Again, welcome to the 2011 Red Sox season. 4:08 &#8212; Baltimore&#8217;s starter today: Alfredo Simon, pitching with a giant tobacco can in his back right pocket. Is there a manlier look than chew-can butt? Chaz Bono should add this to his Dancing With the Stars getup; it&#8217;s much more effective than the scraggly beard. 4:14 &#8212; After Simon retires the first two Red Sox hitters (Ellsbury and Pedroia), Ortiz comes up as Remy explains that Francona changed the order for the umpteenth time this season because he wanted &#8220;to get his best four hitters up as many times as possible.&#8221; Should that really be a new goal when it&#8217;s Game 162? I&#8217;m almost out on Francona. We&#8217;re getting there. 4:17 &#8212; Adrian Gonzalez grounds out to end the top of the first. Meanwhile, the Yankees have a runner on first with two outs &#8212; we have that game showing on Daniel&#8217;s iPad thanks to his MLB.TV account, which, of course, is a separate expense than his DIRECTV MLB EXTRA INNINGS in Major League Baseball&#8217;s never-ending effort to antagonize its fans. By the way, if you had explained to me as recently as 10 years ago that I&#8217;d be living in California and rooting for the Yankees on an iPad, I would have assumed that I was on the lam for a crime and doing whatever it took to survive. 4:22 &#8212; Red Sox killer Robert Andino leads off for the Orioles as Daniel hisses, &#8220;That&#8217;s just an eff you move by Showalter.&#8221; Lester strikes him out. I&#8217;ve had Andino on my AL Keeper Team all season &#8212; he&#8217;s a homeless man&#8217;s Ben Zobrist. There&#8217;s no better candidate to ruin the 2011 Red Sox season and join the Bucky Dent/Enos Slaughter/Aaron Boone group. He&#8217;s the odds-on favorite. 4:25 &#8212; J.J. Hardy&#8217;s surprisingly good season (30 homers) inadvertently inspires Daniel and me to discuss whether we&#8217;d take HGH if we were baseball players. I decide that I wouldn&#8217;t take it until I started slipping in my mid-30s, and then I&#8217;d start popping them like Pez. Daniel&#8217;s take: &#8220;I&#8217;d definitely take it. I&#8217;m thinking about taking it anyway.&#8221; He&#8217;s serious. 4:25 &#8212; We&#8217;re both confused by NESN&#8217;s &#8220;Bill James&#8217; Temperature Gauge&#8221; graphic &#8212; seems like a fancy way to just say someone&#8217;s hot or cold. Daniel thinks Bill James could create any stat and people would start using it without ever questioning if it made sense. That&#8217;s really the final sabermetric stage: It&#8217;s like when A-list actors start releasing music albums. I just hope Bill Barnwell can get there some day. 4:25 &#8212; Lester strikes out Markakis and gets a groundout from Vlad Guerrero to end the first. In Tampa, David Price needs 29 pitches to get out of the first. 1-0, Yankees. Hmmmmmm. 4:29 &#8212; J.D. Drew smacks a one-out single, then cracks wise at first base with Mark Reynolds. &#8220;What&#8217;s going on with J.D.?&#8221; Daniel wonders. &#8220;He showed emotion last night, now he&#8217;s smiling. Next thing you know, he&#8217;s gonna steal a base!&#8221; I&#8217;m gonna miss these moments with J.D. when he&#8217;s gone next year. Oh, wait, no I won&#8217;t. 4:31 &#8212; NESN keeps marketing this Fenway Brick, the first product marketed specifically in the hope that girlfriends and wives might mistakenly buy it for their man even though we definitely don&#8217;t want one. Ladies, trust me, that Fenway Brick is going in your man&#8217;s garage or attic within two weeks. Speaking of bad purchases, Carl Crawford just flied out to end the top of the second. 4:41 &#8212; Lester gets a long fly ball out from Baltimore&#8217;s Secretly Scary Guy (Matt Wieters), then gives up an infield single to Baltimore&#8217;s Openly Scary Guy (Adam Jones) before Baltimore&#8217;s Secretly Horrendous Guy (Mark Reynolds) grounds into a double play to end the inning. I enjoy Reynolds because he&#8217;s one of those guys who secretly sucks by old-school numbers (.220 batting average, 195 K&#8217;s, 26 errors at first base) AND new-school numbers (.321 OBP, -26.2 UZR, 0.5 WAR). He bridges all eras. 4:47 &#8212; After a Mike Aviles walk, NESN shows Crawford staring sadly from the dugout for the 2,500th time this season. I have to come clean: I feel as bad for Crawford as you can feel for someone who&#8217;s worth nine figures and helped ruin your baseball season. I don&#8217;t think he ever wanted to play in Boston, then they offered him so much money that he couldn&#8217;t turn it down &#133; and everything&#8217;s gone wrong ever since. Like the Karma Gods just said, &#8220;Dude, we&#8217;re calling you out on this one &#8212; you know you wanted to go to Anaheim, you jumped at the money, and now you know, money isn&#8217;t everything.&#8221; Even if he&#8217;s been a mess mentally for much of this season, and even if I&#8217;m going to need to give myself amnesia to unremember all the dreadful at-bats he had this season, I still feel like Crawford could redeem himself someday &#8212; maybe even during these next five weeks. I&#8217;m rooting for him. (Please, Lord, don&#8217;t let that paragraph be thrown back in my face.) 4:49 &#8212; Back-to-back singles by Ellsbury and Pedroia. 1-0, Red Sox, nobody out, David Ortiz up. Semirelated: I wish Ortiz named his different beards with monikers like &#8220;Insignia&#8221; and &#8220;Macarena.&#8221; For tonight he shaved his mustache, shaved the left and right sides over his chin, but kept every other part of the beard and connected the soul patch to it. It would have been so much easier if I could have just told you, &#8220;Tonight Ortiz is wearing Insignia,&#8221; right? 4:52 &#8212; The bad news: Check-sw