# San Francisco Substitution Rent Damn High.Html

**Source**: https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2018/06/san-francisco-substitution-rent-damn-high.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:17:00.051738+00:00

---

San Francisco substitution the rent is too damn high - Marginal REVOLUTION Toggle navigation About Marginal Revolution Categories Date Archives Our Books Our Textbook: Modern Principles of Economics Marginal Revolution University Search Search Thank-you! You've been successfully added to the Marginal Revolution email subscription list. San Francisco substitution the rent is too damn high by&nbsp;&nbsp; Tyler Cowen June 28, 2018 at 9:35 am in Economics Food and Drink Law Restaurateurs who say they can no longer find or afford servers are figuring out how to do without them. And so in this city of staggering wealth, you can eat like a gourmand, with real stemware and ceramic plates. But first you’ll have to go get your own silverware. &#8230;Restaurateurs here have taken a model familiar to taquerias and fast-casual, cafeteria-style places like Sweetgreen and Chipotle Mexican Grill , and pushed it further up the fine-dining food chain. Call it fast-fine, they suggest, or fine-casual. Or counter service “ in a full service environment ” that includes $11 cocktails and $22 pan-roasted salmon. By the way, rent is not the only problem: On July 1, the minimum wage in San Francisco will hit $15 an hour, following incremental raises from $10.74 in 2014. The city also requires employers with at least 20 workers to pay health care costs beyond the mandates of the Affordable Care Act, in addition to paid sick leave and parental leave. Even the dosa is troubled: In December, he opened a counter-service version of Dosa in Oakland. The new restaurant serves cardamom- and fenugreek-spiced cocktails. But there’s also a self-service water station, and a busing station for diners inclined to clear their own tables. (If they aren’t, an employee will do the job.) Here is more from Emily Badger (NYT). Addendum : Hadur in the comments writes: &#8220;Who could have predicted that this would happen in America&#8217;s most high-tech city?&#8221; 88 Comments Facebook Twitter RSS Feed print Comments Sort by Top Sort by Recent Sort by Controversial Comments for this post are closed Marginal Revolution University See Courses Learn more about Mercatus Center Fellowships Learn More Subscribe via Email Enter your email address to subscribe to updates. Email Address Subscribe RSS Feed Contact Us Alex Tabarrok Email Alex Follow @atabarrok Tyler Cowen Email Tyler Follow @tylercowen Webmaster Report an issue Blogs We Like Interesting People & Sites Our Web Pages Alex Tabarrok's Home Page Alex's TED talk, how ideas trump crises Conversations with Tyler FDAReview.org Tyler Cowen's Personal Web Page Tyler's ethnic dining guide Apply to Emergent Ventures Books Modern Principles of Economics Tyler Cowen & Alexander Tabarrok Marginal Revolution 2025 About Marginal Revolution Categories Date Archives Our Books Our Textbook: Modern Principles of Economics Marginal Revolution University Facebook Twitter RSS Feed Marginal Revolution University See Courses Search Search Privacy Policy Marginal Revolution 2025