# Google I O 2025 Live Coverage Google Ai Ultra Project Mariner Gemini App Updates And More

**Source**: https://techcrunch.com/storyline/google-i-o-2025-live-coverage-google-ai-ultra-project-mariner-gemini-app-updates-and-more/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:25:21.621781+00:00

---

Google I/O 2025 live coverage: Google AI Ultra, Project Mariner, Gemini app updates, and more | TechCrunch TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps Disrupt 2025 Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech &amp; Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government &amp; Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media &amp; Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Crunchboard Contact Us Enterprise Google I/O 2025 live coverage: Google AI Ultra, Project Mariner, Gemini app updates, and more 62 Stories Karyne Levy , Kyle Wiggers , Kirsten Korosec , Ivan Mehta , Sarah Perez , Aisha Malik , Maxwell Zeff May 20, 2025 &#8211; May 20, 2025 Google I/O, Google’s biggest developer conference of the year, is here. I/O will showcase product announcements from across Google’s portfolio. We&#8217;re looking forward to plenty of news relating to Android, Chrome, Google Search, YouTube, and — of course — Google’s AI-powered chatbot, Gemini. Stick with us all day as we bring you the latest news from this year&#8217;s conference. May 20, 2025 Kirsten Korosec And that&#8217;s a wrap It’s time to close up the live updates shop. Yes, there was a lot announced today, although many could be housed under the “AI improvements” category. You can read everything that was announced at Google I/O 2025 here. The mood was upbeat and the crowd — per reporter Maxwell Zeff’s view — was most interested in the AI Mode rollout. What’s AI Mode? You can read about it here . Here’s what is on tap for tomorrow. Waymo co-CEO Dmitri Dolgov is scheduled to talk. No word on what Dolgov will talk about but he’ll surely mention this milestone that was posted on X today: Waymo has now officially served over 10 million fully autonomous paid rides — doubling its total from the end of last year . Tomorrow’s I/O agenda is packed, including sessions covering Google&#8217;s Gemma family of open AI models , Google Workspace , and Android development tools. We&#8217;re expecting lots of demos, as well as possibly a few surprises that weren&#8217;t announced during the Tuesday keynotes. Updated 5 months ago May 20, 2025 Kyle Wiggers Gemma models get refreshed Google launched a new series of AI models in its Gemma collection at Google I/O. Gemma models are “open” in the sense that developers can build apps on top of them and fine-tune them, including offline. Gemma 3n is a general-purpose model that can handle audio, text, images, and videos, and run on devices with as little as 2GB of RAM. MedGemma can analyze health-related text and images. As for SignGemma, it can translate sign language to spoken-language text; Google says it’s best at American Sign Language and English. Updated 5 months ago May 20, 2025 Kyle Wiggers New dev tools round out the first day of Google I/O Consumer features might’ve gotten most of the focus at Google I/O’s day-one keynote, but Google highlighted a few developer tools and platform updates as well. Google’s Colab, a notebooking tool for AI applications, now has a built-in AI “agent” that can perform certain actions, like fixing errors and transforming code. Meanwhile, Gemini Code Assist, Google’s AI coding assistant, entered general availability. And Google rolled out a new API, Computer Use API, that lets developers build applications that can browse the web or use other software tools. Updated 5 months ago May 20, 2025 Kyle Wiggers Google teams up with Darren Aronofsky on AI movies Google says that it’s teaming up with Darren Aronofsky, the filmmaker behind “The Whale” and “The Fountain,” to experiment with generative AI tools for movie making.&nbsp; We’re teaming up with @PrimordialSoup_ , a new venture by visionary director @DarrenAronofsky , to redefine AI’s role in filmmaking and put artists in control of technological innovation. The first film explores how emotional live-action performance integrates with Veo-generated… pic.twitter.com/IjWTOuUdvb &mdash; Google DeepMind (@GoogleDeepMind) May 20, 2025 Aronofsky’s new venture, Primordial Soup, has produced a live-action film that integrates footage generated by Google’s Veo video model . The film, “Ancestra,” was directed by Eliza McNitt and will premiere at the Tribeca Festival in June. Updated 5 months ago May 20, 2025 Kyle Wiggers Usage of Google’s AI is skyrocketing During the Google I/O keynote this morning, Google CEO Sundar Pichai mentioned that AI usage across Google’s products and services climbed from 9.7 trillion tokens in April 2024 to more than 480 trillion tokens in April 2025, a 50x increase. Most important plot from IO today &#8212; AI usage is skyrocketing. This is real. pic.twitter.com/IGQf3UX50k &mdash; Nathan Lambert (@natolambert) May 20, 2025 Tokens are the raw bits of data that AI models work with, with a million tokens being equivalent to about 750,000 words (roughly 163,000 words longer than “War and Peace”). Updated 5 months ago May 20, 2025 Kirsten Korosec Current wait time for those Android XR-based smart glasses is &#8230; Two hours. Yes, two hours to try the Android-based XR glasses at Google I/O 2025, at least that is according to boots-on-the-ground reporter Maxwell Zeff. In case you missed it, we have the full story on the XR glasses , which is Google going after Meta’s Ray-Ban Meta glasses. Google launched the Android XR platform with&nbsp; Qualcomm and Samsung last year . Today, the company provided more detail, had a few live demos, and announced new partnerships with Gentle Monster and Warby Parker to create smart glasses based on Android XR. Updated 5 months ago May 20, 2025 Kirsten Korosec It’s an OS makeover at Google I/O 2025 Image Credits: Google The update to Wear OS 6 is, perhaps, one of the announcements you might have missed. The upshot: Google gave Wear OS 6 a design makeover with Material 3 Expressive, the design language the company unveiled earlier this month. Reporter Ivan Mehta has the details in this story, but here’s the TL;DR: Google released the developer preview of Wear OS 6, which is based on Android 16, for testing. The aim of the makeover is to make apps look more cohesive, so app tiles will adopt the default system font, among other improvements. Updated 5 months ago May 20, 2025 Kirsten Korosec Waymo rides for all Word from folks “in the know” is that Waymo has a booth at the Google I/O 2025 conference and is giving out tickets to ride in the company’s robotaxis in its Silicon Valley territory. Waymo just received approval from California regulators that allows them to expand that service area . The expansion hasn’t happened yet, but it does allow Waymo to offer robotaxi rides in more Silicon Valley cities, including most of San Jose. Updated 5 months ago May 20, 2025 Sarah Perez Google TV improves ratings and reviews Image Credits: Google Here&#8217;s another item you might have missed. App developers who build for Google’s TV platform, Google TV, can now use an updated version of the In-App Ratings and Reviews API to prompt viewers to leave a rating and review for a piece of content, like a TV show or movie. The feature allows users to see the rating averages, browse reviews, and leave their own reviews directly from the app store listing page on Google TV. Updated 5 months ago May 20, 2025 Ivan Mehta A few more things like detecting natural calamities There was so much packed into the Google I/O 2025 keynote that we missed a few items. For instance, toward the end of the keynote, Sundar Pichai said Google is building a constellation of satellites to detect natural calamities. “Together with an amazing group of partners, we are building something called Fire SAT. It’s a constellation of satellites that use multi-spectral satellite imagery and AI, aiming to provide near-real-time insights,&#8221; he said. &#8220;It can detect fires as small as 270 square feet, about the size of a one-car garage. Our first satellite is in orbit now, and when fully operational, imagery will be updated with a much greater frequency, down from every 12 hours today to every 20 minutes.&#8221; Updated 5 months ago May 20, 2025 Kirsten Korosec And that&#8217;s a wrap — sort of The main showcase of the Google I/O conference — which was livestreamed — is over. CEO Sundar Pichai gave closing remarks for the show, along with a handy wrap-up video. But stay with us for a bit. We&#8217;ll have more to share, plus full articles on everything that was announced today. In a word: AI. But it goes deeper than that. AI is touching all of Google&#8217;s products, from search and video to Google Meet and its Gemini AI app. Updated 5 months ago May 20, 2025 Kyle Wiggers &#8216;AI&#8217; was mentioned 92 times during Google’s I/O keynote this year Image Credits: Google Google’s in on the joke. Toward the end of this year’s I/O keynote, the company put up a counter showing how many times its execs and product leaders mentioned “AI” onstage. “AI” got 92 callouts this year — a little down from I/O 2024’s 120+ mentions. Updated 5 months ago Next Topics Enterprise , Google , Google I/O October 27-29, 2025 San Francisco ONE-WEEK BUNDLE FLASH SALE Founder Bundle Offer: Land your investor and sharpen your pitch. Save 15% when you bring 4-9 founders. Investors Bundle Offer: Discover your next breakout startup. Save 20% when you bring 4-9 investors. Bundle offer ends October 3. Register Now Most Popular A new a16z report looks at which AI companies startups are actually paying for Dominic-Madori Davis Salesforce launches enterprise vibe-coding product, Agentforce Vibes Rebecca Szkutak AI recruiter Alex raises $17M to automate initial job interviews Marina Temkin Vibe-coding startup Anything nabs a $