# Why Is It So Hard To Find A Suicide Bomber These Days

**Source**: http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/15/why_is_it_so_hard_to_find_a_suicide_bomber_these_days?page=full
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:05:05.865797+00:00

---

Why Is It So Hard to Find a Suicide Bomber These Days? &#8211; Foreign Policy There appears to be a technical issue with your browser This issue is preventing our website from loading properly. Please review the following troubleshooting tips or contact us at [email&#160;protected] . Close Skip to navigation Skip to search Skip to main content Skip to footer Foreign Policy Get analysis and alerts more quickly in the mobile app. Install Show expanded website navigation Back to Foreign Policy Magazine home page Latest Regions Asia &amp; the Pacific China Middle East &amp; Africa Americas Europe Newsletters By submitting your email, you agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Use and to receive email correspondence from us. You may opt out at any time. Enter your email Sign Up Editors’ Picks Evening roundup with our editors’ favorite stories of the day World Brief Your guide to the most important world stories of the day China Brief The latest news, analysis, and data from the country each week Situation Report Weekly update on what’s driving U.S. national security policy FP Weekend A curation of our best book reviews, deep dives, and other reads Africa Brief Essential analysis of the stories shaping geopolitics on the continent South Asia Brief Weekly update on developments in India and its neighbors The Reading List Curated guides on geopolitics and current affairs Latin America Brief One-stop digest of politics, economics, and culture Southeast Asia Brief A weekly dispatch with news from the region’s 11 countries View All Newsletters FP Live Latest Trending: U.S. government shutdown Trump’s speech to generals Argentina bailout Website Search and Account Management Search Icon Search this website Search Search Preferences My FP Feed Saved Articles Newsletters Magazine Archive Subscription Settings FAQs Log Out Sign In Sign In Global intelligence for your team Global intelligence for your team SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Global intelligence for your team Global intelligence for your team Show expanded website navigation Feature: Why Is It So Hard to Find a Suicide Bomber These Days? Share icon Share Copy Link icon Copy Link Link copied to clipboard Email icon Email Facebook icon Facebook Bluesky icon Bluesky X icon X LinkedIn icon LinkedIn WhatsApp icon WhatsApp Reddit icon Reddit Save icon Save Create an FP account to save articles to read later. Sign Up ALREADY AN FP SUBSCRIBER? LOGIN Download icon PDF Downloadable PDFs are a benefit of an FP subscription. Subscribe Now ALREADY AN FP SUBSCRIBER? LOGIN Gift Copy Link icon Copy Link Link copied to clipboard Email icon Email WhatsApp icon WhatsApp Gifting articles is a subscriber benefit. Subscribe Now ALREADY AN FP SUBSCRIBER? LOGIN This article is an Insider exclusive. Contact us at [email&#160;protected] to learn about upgrade options, unlocking the ability to gift this article. Back to Foreign Policy Magazine home page Preferences My FP Feed Saved Articles Newsletters Magazine Archive Subscription Settings FAQs Log Out Sign In Sign In Global intelligence for your team Global intelligence for your team SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Global intelligence for your team Global intelligence for your team Latest Newsletters World Brief Editors’ Picks Africa Brief China Brief Latin America Brief South Asia Brief Southeast Asia Brief Situation Report The Reading List FP Weekend See All Topics Trump’s second term Shadow government War in Ukraine Crisis in the Middle East U.S. foreign policy Trade and economics U.S.-China competition Artificial intelligence Regions Asia &amp; the Pacific China Middle East &amp; Africa Americas Europe FP Live How Oct. 7 Changed the World October 7 Why Young Americans Are Swinging Right October 9 See All Podcasts Illustration with Adam Tooze headshot on a green background with the text Ones &amp; Tooze Ones and Tooze Illustration with a male spy headshot and the text I Spy I Spy FP Live podcast logo Foreign Policy Live See All Magazine Fall 2025 Issue Fall 2025 Issue Print Archive See All Collections The AI Arms Race The Trade Wars FP Analytics In-depth Special Reports Issue Briefs Power Maps and Interactive Microsites FP Simulations &amp; PeaceGames Synthesis Reports Insight Briefs &amp; Spotlights Graphics Database See All Events FP @ WHS October 12 From Plans to Action October 12 FP @ COP30 November 12 Where we'll be this year See All Search Search Icon Additional Navigation Bluesky icon Follow FP on Bluesky X icon Follow FP on X LinkedIn icon Follow FP on LinkedIn Instagram icon Follow FP on Instagram Facebook icon Follow FP on Facebook FP SOLUTIONS FP Analytics FP Events FP Studios Simulations and Peacegames Advertise with FP Country Reports Subscription Services Your FP Account Group Subscriptions Reprint Permissions FP Magazine Archive Buy Back Issues EDUCATION Graduate Education Guide FP for Education Institutional Access ABOUT FP Writer&#039;s Guidelines Meet the Staff Work at FP Contact FP Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Terms of Use Accessibility Bluesky icon Follow FP on Bluesky X icon Follow FP on X LinkedIn icon Follow FP on LinkedIn Instagram icon Follow FP on Instagram Facebook icon Follow FP on Facebook Foreign Policy Magazine is a division of Graham Holdings Company. All contents (c) 2025, Graham Digital Holding Company. All rights reserved. Foreign Policy, 655 15th St NW, Suite 300, Washington, DC, 20005. Powered by WordPress VIP This article was published more than 14 years ago Feature Why Is It So Hard to Find a Suicide Bomber These Days? A decade after 9/11, the mystery is not why so many Muslims turn to terror -- but why so few have joined al Qaeda&#039;s jihad. By Charles Kurzman Harry Lynch/The News &amp; Observer via AP Harry Lynch/The News &amp; Observer via AP Economics August 15, 2011, 3:53 AM The rental car turned onto the sidewalk behind the registrar's office and rolled slowly down the brick path between a dining hall and the English department, a few steps from my office. &quot; Beyond Time ,&quot; an upbeat German dance song, played on the car's stereo. The driver, Mohammed Taheri-Azar, had just graduated from the University of North Carolina three months earlier, so he knew the campus well. Beyond the dining hall was a plaza known as the Pit , where students were hanging out at lunchtime on a warm winter day in early 2006. Taheri-Azar planned to kill as many of them as possible. He brought no weapons except a knife, some pepper spray, and the four-wheel-drive sport utility vehicle he had rented in order to run people over without getting stuck on their bodies. When he reached the Pit, Taheri-Azar accelerated and swerved to hit people as they scattered out of his way. His fender clipped several students, and several more rolled over his hood and off the windshield. Taheri-Azar turned left at the end of the plaza, hit another couple of students in front of the library, and then sped off campus just beneath my office window. The rental car turned onto the sidewalk behind the registrar&#8217;s office and rolled slowly down the brick path between a dining hall and the English department, a few steps from my office. &quot; Beyond Time ,&quot; an upbeat German dance song, played on the car&#8217;s stereo. The driver, Mohammed Taheri-Azar, had just graduated from the University of North Carolina three months earlier, so he knew the campus well. Beyond the dining hall was a plaza known as the Pit , where students were hanging out at lunchtime on a warm winter day in early 2006. Taheri-Azar planned to kill as many of them as possible. He brought no weapons except a knife, some pepper spray, and the four-wheel-drive sport utility vehicle he had rented in order to run people over without getting stuck on their bodies. When he reached the Pit, Taheri-Azar accelerated and swerved to hit people as they scattered out of his way. His fender clipped several students, and several more rolled over his hood and off the windshield. Taheri-Azar turned left at the end of the plaza, hit another couple of students in front of the library, and then sped off campus just beneath my office window. Taheri-Azar drove down the hill that gave Chapel Hill its name, pulled over in a calm residential neighborhood, parked, and called 911 on his cell phone. &quot;Sir, I just hit several people with a vehicle,&quot; he told the operator . &quot;I don&#8217;t have any weapons or anything on me; you can come arrest me now.&quot; Why did you do this? the operator asked. &quot;Really, it&#8217;s to punish the government of the United States for their actions around the world.&quot; So you did this to punish the government? &quot;Yes, sir.&quot; Following the operator&#8217;s instructions, he placed his phone on the hood of the car and put his hands on his head as police officers arrived. Before leaving his apartment that morning, Taheri-Azar left a letter on his bed explaining his actions more fully: Due to the killing of believing men and women under the direction of the United States government, I have decided to take advantage of my presence on United States soil on Friday, March 3, 2006 to take the lives of as many Americans and American sympathizers as I can in order to punish the United States for their immoral actions around the world. In the Qur&#8217;an, Allah states that the believing men and women have permission to murder anyone responsible for the killing of other believing men and women. I know that the Qur&#8217;an is a legitimate and authoritative holy scripture since it is completely validated by modern science and also mathematically encoded with the number 19 beyond human ability. After extensive contemplation and reflection, I have made the decision to exercise the right of violent retaliation that Allah has given me to the fullest extent to which I am capable at present. I have chosen the particular location on the University campus as my target since I know there is a high likelihood that I will kill several people before b