# 1811 Clap Your Hands Say Yeah

**Source**: https://pitchfork.com/reviews/albums/1811-clap-your-hands-say-yeah/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:07:59.804813+00:00

---

Clap Your Hands Say Yeah: Clap Your Hands Say Yeah Album Review | Pitchfork Skip to main content Open Navigation Menu Menu Newsletter Search Search News Reviews Best New Music Features Lists Columns Video Open Navigation Menu Menu Newsletter Search Search Albums Clap Your Hands Say Yeah Clap Your Hands Say Yeah 2005 9.0 Best New Music By Brian Howe Genre: Rock Label: Clap Your Hands Say Yeah Reviewed: June 21, 2005 Every time it seems like conventional indie rock has gasped its last, someone builds a mansion of song that reminds us that, at its best, the genre still pulls off raw, celebratory spirit more convincingly than almost any other... Save Story Save this story Save Story Save this story Maybe no one told Clap Your Hands Say Yeah that first impressions are important. Or maybe they&#x27;ve just got massive sack. Either way, their self-released, self-titled debut CD opens with the weirdest, most potentially grating bit of snake-oil salesmanship you&#x27;re likely to hear until Tom Waits puts out another record. I happen to dig the song, entitled &quot;Clap Your Hands!&quot; (a theme is emerging), but a maniacal carny barking over a stuttering calliope isn&#x27;t for everyone. Those who persevere, though, will quickly discover that this garish foyer gives out onto spacious, elegant chambers of clean lines and soft lights. Clap Your Hands are a five-piece from Brooklyn who&#x27;re known to break out both harp and harmonica. They&#x27;ve recently been garnering rave press in their home city, and, over just the past two weeks, burning up the internet like a vintage Lohan nipslip. The pundits are saying Wilco (not hearing it), Talking Heads (okay), and Neutral Milk Hotel (getting warmer), but if it checks in with a number of modern and classic new wave referents, the music sings for itself: Clap Your Hands traffics in melodic, exuberant indie rock that pairs the shimmering, wafting feel of Yo La Tengo with a singular vocal presence that sounds like Paul Banks attempting to yodel through Jeff Mangum&#x27;s throat. Or imagine the Arcade Fire if their music were more fun-loving and less grave. Of course, if Clap Your Hands had a press kit, it would undoubtedly include something about &quot;synthesizing these influences into a sound that&#x27;s uniquely their own.&quot; And for once, it would be true. On the album&#x27;s first true song, &quot;Let the Cool Goddess Rust Away&quot;, a wailing vocal evokes Walkmen frontman Hamilton Leithauser, as hitching, muted guitars and singing melodic ones twist and furl over throbbing bass. On &quot;Over and Over Again (Lost and Found)&quot;, the band veers into more Interpol-ish territory, with small, stripped guitars and bass, a thin synth wash, and lilting vocals with woozily yawning vowels. Same goes for the iridescent guitars, purring synths, and weary vocals of &quot;Details of the War&quot;. The record is consistently, remarkably strong, but &quot;The Skin of My Yellow Country Teeth&quot; in particular stands out, with its richly buzzing synth phrases, textbook Modest Mouse guitar lead (a trebly, gliding string bend skimming over the rhythm like a flat stone over a pond), contrapuntal bass, and shuffling drums. The song also features one of vocalist Alec Ounsworth&#x27;s most memorable performances: He ramps up the urgency as the heavier chords kick in, his voice cracking and shifting in cascading waves as if someone were pressing his vocal cords to a fret board and bending them. &quot;Is This Love?&quot;, with its clean, galloping guitars and fruit loop synth trills is the song most blatantly redolent of Neutral Milk Hotel (especially of the unhinged pop and careening vocals Mangum favored on On Avery Island ), and its dizzily wowing vocal harmonies carry over to &quot;Heavy Metal&quot;, where fuzzed-out bass and wheezing harmonica punch smart shapes into the fizzy guitars. There&#x27;s something really refreshing about stumbling across a great band that&#x27;s trembling on the cusp without any sort of press campaign or other built-in mythology-- you actually get to hear the music with your own ears. While a lot of bands view the promotional apparatus as a necessary evil, Clap Your Hands Say Yeah prove that it&#x27;s still possible for a band to get heard, given enough talent and perseverance, without a PR agency or a label. Indie rock has received a much-needed kick in the pants, and we have the rare chance to decide what a band sounds like of our own accord before any agency cooks up and disseminates an opinion for us. Damn, maybe this is how it&#x27;s supposed to work! Most Read Reviews Through the Wall Rochelle Jordan The Art of Loving Olivia Dean Vie Doja Cat Brian Howe has written for Pitchfork since 2003. He is also a longtime contributor and former editor at Indy Week in Durham, North Carolina. ... Read More Contributor X More Reviews for Clap Your Hands Say Yeah New Fragility The Tourist Only Run Little Moments EP Hysterical Some Loud Thunder More Reviews From Pitchfork XO Salt Llif3 Ben Bondy Ego Death at a Bachelorette Party Hayley Williams Joy in Repetition Hot Chip Verses GT Verses GT Body Lapse Rian Treanor SISTER Frost Children Who Is the Sky? David Byrne Orcutt Shelley Miller Orcutt Shelley Miller 41 Longfield Street Late ’80s Kieran Hebden Through the Wall Rochelle Jordan Songs and Bodies Piotr Kurek Goodbyehouse Snuggle The most trusted voice in music Instagram X Facebook YouTube Tiktok Video Lists &amp; Guides Podcast Masthead RSS Pitchfork Music Festival Chicago Pitchfork Music Festival London Pitchfork Music Festival Paris Pitchfork Music Festival CDMX All Events User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Newsletter RSS Feeds Contact Accessibility Help Advertising © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Pitchfork may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Entertainment