# Social Housing Public Affordable California Maryland

**Source**: https://jacobin.com/2021/02/social-housing-public-affordable-california-maryland
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:55:41.732604+00:00

---

Social Housing Is Becoming a Mainstream Policy Goal in the US Jacobin Logo Jacobin Icon A/V Icon Jacobin Subscribe Magazine Donate Catalyst Facebook Icon Twitter Icon Email Icon Print Icon Social Housing Is Becoming a Mainstream Policy Goal in the US Search Icon Login Icon Login J Subscribe Back Issues Donate Store Magazine Blog Catalyst About Contact Us Advertise Search Icon New issue, &#8220;Borders,” out now. Get a discounted subscription to our print magazine today. Your support keeps us publishing! Remove Icon 02.21.2021 United States Policy Cities Facebook Icon Twitter Icon Email Icon Print Icon Social Housing Is Becoming a Mainstream Policy Goal in the US By Galen Herz Slowly but surely, the idea of social housing — a public housing model most commonly associated with the socialist government of “Red Vienna” — is moving from being a leftist dream to a concrete policy agenda item in a number of US states. Cover art for “California Housing Corporation: The Case for a Public Sector Developer.” (Alfred Twu) Jacobin &#8216;s fall issue, “Borders,&#8221; is out now. Follow this link to get a discounted subscription to our beautiful print quarterly. Deportation as Class Strategy Oliver Eagleton Citizenship by Algorithm Nika Soon-Shiong The Borderland Where Fascism Learned to Rule David Broder From Scapegoats to Citizens Suzy Lee A bill introduced this month in California’s legislature would lay the foundation for publicly developed and owned housing for people of all incomes: social housing. If it passes, it will mark a monumental shift in the state’s housing system. This comes at a time when the housing market, dominated by private for-profit interests, has failed Californians. More than 2 million California households reported “little to no confidence” in their ability to cover rent in February 2021, and a recent Moody’s report suggests 10 million American households are behind on rent by an average of $5,600. According to a recent UCLA study , at least 10,000 COVID deaths and 400,000 infections nationwide are attributable to evictions. At least 150,000 Californians are without a home — and this atrocious number predates the pandemic. Robust tenant protections and rent cancellation and/or relief are urgently needed to address the immediate issues facing tenants. Social housing is not a substitute for that. But for a long-term, internationally proven solution to the housing crisis, social housing is the answer. Many questions surround the new social housing bill: What would social housing look like in California? What can we learn from other legislative efforts for social housing? And what do the politics of social housing look like? Can a broad coalition be assembled to pass the bill? A Very Brief History of Social Housing Social housing is an umbrella term that encapsulates many types of nonmarket housing and is generally defined as being accessible to people of various incomes. A 2018 report by Saoirse Gowan and Ryan Cooper for the People’s Policy Project (PPP), “ Social Housing in the United States ,” reintroduced the concept to many leftists. Drawing on international models from Vienna, Finland, and Sweden, they advanced a bold plan for building 10 million mixed-income publicly owned homes over the next decade. For a long-term, internationally proven solution to the housing crisis, social housing is the answer. Of those examples, Vienna is the most well-known and continues to inspire . In response to dire housing conditions facing the working class in the 1920s, a newly elected socialist government built abundant, high-quality social housing — a trend that continues to this day, with now 60 percent of Vienna residents living in nonmarket homes. A January 29, 2021 video by The Gravel Institute, “ How Socialists Solved The Housing Crisis ,” features Zohran Mamdani , a New York state assemblyman, waxing poetic about Viennese social housing’s leafy courtyards, bathhouses, and other amenities at average rents of $400–600 per month. The video already has more than 150,000 views. The case for social housing has been bolstered by the inadequacy of the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) program, the nation’s dominant “public-private” program for creating affordable housing. Tax credits are awarded to nonprofit and for-profit affordable housing developers who then sell them to private investors. The program has been described by one housing researcher as &#8220;a better-than-nothing gimmick that helps the poor by rewarding the rich.&#8221; Recent analysis explains that even if the corporate tax rate were doubled to make LIHTC tax credits more valuable and increase housing output, it would only produce enough homes to meet the current national shortage of 7 million affordable units by 2070. Even more troubling, many of the LIHTC homes constructed would have affordability standards that expire after thirty years . There is a clear need for a better affordable housing system. The public agrees. A recent nationwide poll by Data for Progress found likely voters prefer a public option for housing to a tax credit by a 32-point margin. Social housing is popular. Progressive politicians at the national level have taken notice, as evidenced by a Bernie Sanders 2020 campaign commitment to 2 million units of mixed-income social housing (as part of a plan for 10 million affordable homes), and Representative Ilhan Omar’s Homes for All Act , which calls for 12 million new public and private affordable homes. A bill introduced this month in California’s legislature would lay the foundation for publicly developed and owned housing for people of all incomes: social housing. Still, federal efforts remain unlikely to pass in the near future. The Homes for All Act most recently had a measly six cosponsors . (For comparison, Medicare for All had 118 .) Gowan, one of the authors of “ Social Housing in the United States ,” told me that with an unclear path at the federal level, they see state action as the next best option for building social housing. Progressive state legislators seem to agree: there are now social housing bills pending in Maryland, Hawaii, and California. What Social Housing Could Look Like in California The bill introduced in California, the Social Housing Act of 2021 , is just seventy words long and only provides intent language. The sponsor, newly elected assemblymember Alex Lee, who is also a Democratic Socialists of America (DSA) member, told me he wants “tenant groups, labor, housing advocates, nonprofit builders to build this bill from the ground floor up.” Still, the initial language provides a good overview: the state will create a new agency, the California Housing Authority, to develop both mixed-income rental and owner-occupied housing with affordability standards, using models such as limited equity cooperatives or long-term leaseholds , where the owner has the right to use the apartment for forty to ninety-nine years. Alton West in London is among the greatest social housing developments of the twentieth century. (Wikimedia Commons) This latter model is based on elements from Singapore, where the government builds 80 percent of the housing, and Vienna, where the housing is mixed-income, instead of means-tested and for the poor only. This feature is the “crux of social housing,” according to Shanti Singh, the founder of San Francisco DSA’s Social Housing Committee. Mixed-income projects allow for cross-subsidization, sometimes called “solidarity rents,” in which higher rents from higher earners help pay for the costs of the building that lower-income tenants couldn’t cover. In the absence of social housing, higher-income tenants’ money would just “go into land rentiers’ and developers’ pockets,” Singh says. Such developments also have the benefits of social integration. However, some on the Left have opposed this model. A mixed-income housing project with 50 percent below-market-rate units on public land in San Francisco last year was met with calls for “100 percent affordable housing.” Gowan says that approach is short-sighted. “A very narrow focus on ‘we just target the people who most need it right now’ is something that a lot of people on the Left criticize when we talk about means-tested programs in other areas,” says Gowan. “The Left should not just be looking at the next two years, but we should be trying to build toward the society we want to see.” Gowan continued, “We don&#8217;t say, on the Left, that rich people should be excluded from Medicare for All because they can afford to pay for it. That&#8217;s actually an argument that the center makes.” Mixed-income housing also shapes the coalition behind social housing. A graphic explaining cross-subsidization from “California Housing Corporation: The Case for a Public Sector Developer” by Derek Sagehorn and Alfred Twu “From a standpoint of creating a politics of solidarity, we realize that low- and moderate-income people are not served by pitting their interests against each other,” said Derek Sagehorn, a social housing proponent and volunteer with East Bay for Everyone, a group with a “YIMBYist” (Yes In My Backyard) outlook. A plethora of ideas to reduce the cost of building social housing can be found in Sagehorn’s recent whitepaper, “ California Housing Corporation: The Case for a Public Sector Developer ,” which looks at underutilized public land, benefits from economies of scale in construction, and the University of California (UC)’s construction of student housing. “We talk to people, and they’re like, ‘What criticisms are you going to get from more conservative opponents?’” said Sagehorn. “I was like, ‘They’re probably going to say the public sector can’t do this,’ like we’re incapable of doing this. My response is, ‘We’re already doing it.’” Sagehorn filed public disclosure requests to study twenty-five years of UC construction financing and found that without regular use of public subsidy, they averaged around $100,000 less per unit t