# Reutersipsos Large Sample Poll February 2025

**Source**: https://www.ipsos.com/en-us/reutersipsos-large-sample-poll-february-2025
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:56:18.919557+00:00

---

Reuters/Ipsos Large Sample Poll February 2025 | Ipsos Skip to Content Skip to Footer Ipsos iSay Ipsos.Digital Contact us Solutions Insights Hub Insights Hub Insights Hub Overview Publications Surveys Event Replays AI News News News Overview Press Releases &amp; News Events &amp; Webinars Media Hub Corporate Announcements Careers Careers Careers Overview Why Work at Ipsos Opportunities at Ipsos Professionals Early Careers Search Current Opportunities The Path to Insights Investors About Ipsos About Ipsos About Ipsos Overview Our history Who we are Key figures Management Values Taking responsibility The Path to Insights Privacy &amp; Data Collection Online Data Quality Matters Ipsos in the world Media Resources ISO Certification Statements &amp; Policies Search Submit Survey: Ipsos Insights Hub Reuters/Ipsos Large Sample Poll February 2025 Polling Politics Reuters/Ipsos Large Sample Poll February 2025 Americans are unhappy with the direction of the economy, their cost of living, and their personal finances. 25.02.25 Share Washington DC, February 25, 2025 — The latest Reuters/Ipsos survey shows that half of Americans think the country is off on the wrong track generally and a majority of Americans believe the national economy, employment and jobs, and their cost of living are all going off on the wrong track specifically. The poll also shows that Americans believe that the very wealthy have too much influence on government in general. Detailed findings: Forty-nine percent of Americans say that the country is headed off on the wrong track, 34% of say that the country is headed in the right direction and 16% don't know. When it comes to specific issues, a majority of Americans also believe that the national economy (53%) is off on the wrong track, as is their cost of living (64%). A plurality say that employment and jobs (44%) is also off on the wrong track. A majority of Americans say that corruption is off on the wrong track (53%). Americans are split on whether immigration policy is headed in the right direction (43%) or off on the wrong track (43%). When it comes to specific issues, 39% of Americans approve of how President Donald Trump is handling the economy, 37% approve of how he is handling employment and jobs and international trade, and 32% approve of how he is handling the cost of living and inflation and rising prices. Americans are split on their approval of Trump's handling of immigration, with 47% approving and 44% disapproving. Seventy-six percent of Americans agree that the very wealthy have too much influence on the government in general, and 71% agree the very wealthy have too much influence on the White House. Sixty-nine percent of Americans say the very wealthy are making money off their White House connections. Two-thirds of Americans say the American economy is rigged to advantage the rich and the powerful (67%). Fifty-eight percent of Americans say they worry changes in the federal government could cause delays in services people in their community rely on, such as Social Security payments and student aid. Just about a quarter of Americans (23%) say the president has the right to fire any federal employee who expresses disagreement with the administration's policies even if they are in non-political jobs with the government such as postal workers and other civilian workers. Just two in five Americans (41%) say they support new tariffs or taxes on imported goods from other countries, and 68% say that new tariffs or taxes on goods from other countries motivate them to vote in the next election. A majority of Americans support increasing the deportation of illegal immigrants (55%); however, a similar number (51%) oppose expanding detention facilities for illegal immigrants to include military bases such as Guantanamo Bay. Yet, 68% of Americans support creating a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants. Seventy-one percent of Americans say increasing the deportation of illegal immigrants is motivating to vote whether they support the policy or not, and 67% say that creating a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants is motivating to them to vote in the next election. About the Study This Ipsos poll was conducted February 13-18, 2025, on behalf of Reuters using the KnowledgePanel®. This poll is based on a representative sample of 4,125 U.S. residents, age 18 or older. The study was conducted in English. The data were weighted to adjust for gender by age, race and ethnicity, census region, metropolitan status, education, household income, party ID, and 2024 presidential vote. Party ID benchmarks are from the 2024 NPORS annual survey. The demographic benchmarks came from the 2024 March supplement of the U.S. Census Bureau’s Current Population Survey (CPS). Gender (Male, Female) by Age (18–29, 30–44, 45-59 and 60+) Race/Hispanic Ethnicity (White Non-Hispanic, Black Non-Hispanic, Other, Non-Hispanic, Hispanic, 2+ Races, Non-Hispanic) Education (Less than High School, High School, Some College, Bachelor degree, Master’s degree or above) Census Region (Northeast, Midwest, South, West) Metropolitan status (Metro, non-Metro) Household Income (Under $25,000, $25,000-$49,999, $50,000-$74,999, $75,000-$99,999, $100,000-$149,999, $150,000+) Party ID (Democrat, Lean Democrat, Republican, Lean Republican, Independent/Something else) The margin of sampling error is plus or minus 1.6 percentage points at the 95% confidence level, for results based on the entire sample of adults. The margin of error takes into account the design effect, which was 1.14 for all adults. In our reporting of the findings, percentage points are rounded off to the nearest whole number. As a result, percentages in a given table column may total slightly higher or lower than 100%. In questions that permit multiple responses, columns may total substantially more than 100%, depending on the number of different responses offered by each respondent. For more information on this news release, please contact: Chris Jackson Senior Vice President, US Public Affairs +1 202 420-2025 [email&#160;protected] Annaleise Azevedo Lohr Director, U.S. Public Affairs +1 202 420-2025 [email&#160;protected] About Ipsos Ipsos is one of the largest market research and polling companies globally, operating in 90 markets and employing over 18,000 people. Our passionately curious research professionals, analysts and scientists have built unique multi-specialist capabilities that provide true understanding and powerful insights into the actions, opinions and motivations of citizens, consumers, patients, customers or employees. Our 75 solutions are based on primary data from our surveys, social media monitoring, and qualitative or observational techniques. Our tagline "Game Changers" sums up our ambition to help our 5,000 customers move confidently through a rapidly changing world. Founded in France in 1975, Ipsos has been listed on the Euronext Paris since July 1, 1999. The company is part of the SBF 120 and Mid-60 indices and is eligible for the Deferred Settlement Service (SRD).ISIN code FR0000073298, Reuters ISOS.PA, Bloomberg IPS:FP Download Topline Download pdf (1.12 MB) The author(s) Annaleise Azevedo Lohr Director, US, Public Affairs Send an email Related news Polling Survey Where Americans stand on crime in cities Below are five charts on concern with crime, perceived levels of crime, and attitudes towards recent National Guard deployments in American cities 03.10.25 Society Survey Cultural Intelligence: Key insights, data and solutions Here’s a selection of Ipsos&#039; latest and greatest insights and data on cultural intelligence and related issues for business leaders, policymakers, advertisers, and insights professionals. 03.10.25 Society Survey Artificial Intelligence: Key insights, data and tables Here’s what business leaders and policymakers need to know about AI and its uses in entertainment, healthcare, politics and more 03.10.25 Solutions Insights Hub About Ipsos Contact Careers Investors News, Events &amp; Media Ipsos.Digital Follow us on © 2016 - 2025 Ipsos All Rights Reserved Legal Mentions Privacy &amp; Data Protection Cookie Policy Our Alert System ↑