# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Sibling%20relationships:%20Their%20causes%20and%20consequences.%20Advances%20in%20applied%20developmental%20psychology&author=L%20Bank&author=GR%20Patterson&author=JB%20Reid&publication_year=1996&
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:06:24.908644+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.31 sec) My profile My library Lookup [BOOK] [B] Sibling Relationships: Their Causes and Consequences. GH Brody - 1996 - ERIC GH Brody 1996 • ERIC This volume in the Applied Developmental Psychology Series consists of a collection of papers on current sibling research and theory. Prominent researchers and academicians in developmental psychology present reports on aspects of sibling relations in an effort to better understand individual and family growth. These scholars have dealt with questions of social and emotional development, the role of shared and non-shared environment on siblings, consequences of divorce and other family difficulties, and ways to treat sibling and … This volume in the Applied Developmental Psychology Series consists of a collection of papers on current sibling research and theory. Prominent researchers and academicians in developmental psychology present reports on aspects of sibling relations in an effort to better understand individual and family growth. These scholars have dealt with questions of social and emotional development, the role of shared and non-shared environment on siblings, consequences of divorce and other family difficulties, and ways to treat sibling and family problems. The specific topics of study included: (1) &quot;Siblings, Parents, and Peers: A Longitudinal Study of Social Influences in Adolescent Risk for Alcohol Use and Abuse&quot;; (2) &quot;Brothers and Sisters in Middle Childhood and Early Adolescence: Continuity and Change in Individual Differences&quot;; (3) &quot;Sibling Relationships in Middle and Old Age&quot;; (4) &quot;Siblings, Behavioral Genetics, and Competence&quot;; (5) &quot;Adult ERIC Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 92 Related articles All 2 versions Library Search Cached Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help