# Miuccia Prada Fashion.Html

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2023/10/19/t-magazine/miuccia-prada-fashion.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:56:12.356420+00:00

---

How Miuccia Prada Reinvented Fashion - The New York Times Skip to content Skip to site index T Magazine Today’s Paper T Magazine | How Miuccia Prada Reinvented Fashion https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2023/10/19/t-magazine/miuccia-prada-fashion.html Share full article Advertisement SKIP ADVERTISEMENT The Greats Miuccia Prada Queen Latifah Annette Bening Henry Taylor Hide menu Queen Latifah Annette Bening Henry Taylor Miuccia Prada In our 2023 Greats issue, out Oct. 22, T celebrates four talents across music, film, art and fashion whose careers are a master class in curiosity, composure and defiance. Whenever I read the profiles for this, our annual Greats issue, I’m always struck by the same thing: how many of our subjects say that their path once felt unclear to them. To us, they’re people who changed not only their artistic genres but the culture at large. And to be sure, some of them, such as Queen Latifah, knew from an early age that they were meant to explode their medium, that they were destined to create transformative work. The world would notice them — it was only a matter of time. Clockwise from top left: Henry Taylor: Photographed by D’Angelo Lovell Williams. Miuccia Prada: Photographed by Collier Schorr. Annette Bening: Photographed by Katy Grannan. Styled by Delphine Danhier. Hair by Rob Talty. Makeup by Sara Tagaloa. Queen Latifah: Photographed by Rahim Fortune. Styled by Ian Bradley. Hair by Iasia Merriweather. Makeup by Raisa Flowers. But I’d say that that conviction is the exception, not the rule. When you look at our Greats honorees over the years, you see that the path for many of them was meandering, the journey fitful. Some, like the artist Henry Taylor, who for years painted in obscurity while working as a nurse in a psychiatric hospital, found creative or critical success later in life; others, like the fashion designer Miuccia Prada, had to grapple with the gap between her political convictions and commercial and artistic talents (Prada has considered herself a socialist since university). Then there’s Annette Bening, whose long, diverse, unpredictable career feels the result not of long-term strategy but of everyday curiosity, the kind that, if you’re lucky, takes you to unexpected places. Those of us trying to live artistic lives of our own can find plenty of inspiration in those of this year’s honorees: especially about defiance, which all artists find themselves becoming expert in. It takes a special kind of self-possession to make something new, or to rebel against what you’ve been taught to want to create. And there are further lessons, too: in Queen Latifah’s composure, in Taylor’s determination, in Bening’s instincts, in Prada’s ambivalence. But most of all, we can take comfort in their reminders that art is rarely effortless, at any age or any stage in one’s career, and that a life in the arts is always riven with doubt, no matter how it looks on the outside. Not everyone can make something that changes how we see the world. But everyone begins with something humble. — HANYA YANAGIHARA Read more about the making of the issue. MIUCCIA PRADA The designer reimagined fashion’s relationship to art — and forever transformed what the world considers beautiful. By Nick Haramis Photographs by Collier Schorr Fashion Styled by Suzanne Koller EVEN BEFORE heading from the Fondazione Prada, a contemporary art complex housed in an old distillery on the southeastern edge of Milan, to Miuccia Prada’s office about a mile away, I’m reminded of her towering presence everywhere I look. A docent, dressed in a black Prada uniform, shepherds a pair of tourists, both carrying Prada handbags, into a screening of “Four Unloved Women, Adrift on a Purposeless Sea, Experience the Ecstasy of Dissection,” a short film by the Canadian director David Cronenberg accompanied by a wunderkammer of 18th-century anatomical wax sculptures. Once outside, I pass an abandoned rail yard and billboards for two other Fondazione exhibitions: a permanent re-creation of the home studio in Switzerland where Jean-Luc Godard edited his final movie, and a survey of videos, photographs and other works by the New York-based artist Dara Birnbaum on view at the Osservatorio, a satellite venue overlooking Galleria Vittorio Emanuele II, the shopping arcade where Mario Prada, Miuccia’s maternal grandfather, opened the brand’s first store in 1913. Down another few blocks, an old woman in a pair of Prada sunglasses walks by with her dog. At 75, Mrs. Prada, as she’s known to strangers and friends alike, is perhaps the most peculiar and certainly the most innovative fashion designer of her generation. In 1975, she took over her family’s leather goods business. Two years later, she met her future husband, Patrizio Bertelli, now 77 and the chairman of the Prada Group, with whom she began building a global empire. (In 2022, the company’s annual revenue was $4.5 billion.) In addition to Prada, the couple has ownership stakes in Miu Miu, which might be described as Prada’s unruly niece; the footwear brands Church’s and Car Shoe; and the Pasticceria Marchesi pastry shops. (As of last year, they can also claim some of those dusty train tracks: Prada Holding, which owns 80 percent of the Prada Group and is controlled by the Prada family, is one of three entities that acquired the plot of disused land for roughly $190 million to convert it into a park, housing, offices and the Olympic Village for the 2026 Winter Games.) Prada Women’s Wear Spring 1992. Spring 1994. Spring 1996. Spring 1999. Spring 2000. Spring 2001. Firstview Spring 2002. Fall 2002. Spring 2003. Guy Marineau/Condé Nast/Shutterstock (2); courtesy of Prada (3); Firstview (4) Those with no interest in fashion have at least seen the house’s triangular logo and know Prada’s name, whether through movies (in 1999’s teen comedy “10 Things I Hate About You,” a student explains, “There’s a difference between like and love. Because I like my Skechers, but I love my Prada backpack”) and TV shows (in a 2019 episode of “The Simpsons,” Homer relieves himself behind “Prada Marfa,” a replica of a Prada store created in 2005 near Marfa, Texas, by the artists Elmgreen & Dragset), books (Lauren Weisberger’s 2003 novel, “The Devil Wears Prada,” which became a hit film) or music (Beyoncé, Doja Cat and Drake have all name-checked the brand). And yet no matter how far and wide her influence extends, Prada hasn’t made it easy to know her, which is, like everything she does, deliberate. Upon my arrival at the Prada headquarters, a set of stern buildings that occupy approximately 108,000 square feet, I’m confronted by my potential expulsion: the notorious stainless-steel slide connecting the designer’s third-floor work space to the courtyard. The German artist Carsten Höller, who installed it in 2000, says it was intended to help her “leave quickly, traveling through the floor under her office to have a glance at the people working there and then land right where her chauffeur is waiting.” But, he adds, “It’s also a good way to get rid of people.” Prada wool jacket, chiffon blouse and poplin skirt from the spring 2012 women’s collection. Photograph by Collier Schorr. Styled by Suzanne Koller Prada combed-cashmere silk cardigan, silk damier shirt and cloqué Lurex skirt from the spring 2002 women’s collection and patent leather slingbacks. Photograph by Collier Schorr. Styled by Suzanne Koller INTERVIEWING Miuccia Prada, unlike talking to her, can be a tricky enterprise. From her desk in an austere room with white walls and poured concrete floors — what might be mistaken for an operating theater, were it not for the Gerhard Richter painting and a silver bar cart stacked with cookies — she seems to begin every other sentence with, “Between us. ...” She is 5-foot-4, with hazel eyes and wavy blond hair, and has the measured confidence of someone who’s about to deliver the bad news first. Despite her warmth and frequent laughter, she also seems ready, maybe even eager, to spar. She, too, is recording the conversation and taking notes. When I ask what she does to relax, her answer is “no.” Although she’s less inscrutable than her intellectual peers — Rei Kawakubo rarely speaks to journalists; Martin Margiela never has — she’s certainly not as flamboyant as Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana or Donatella Versace, flashier designers from the height of Italy’s sex-bomb era. And while she refuses to acknowledge personal achievements (“I leave it to other people to say what I did,” she says), she’s not above engaging in some mythmaking of her own: There’s a reason her last fragrance was called Paradoxe. Prada double-cloth jacket, poplin shirt, faded denim stretch waistcoat and alpaca micro argyle tights from the fall 2016 women’s collection. Photograph by Collier Schorr. Styled by Suzanne Koller Prada poplin dress featuring a three-dimensional floral design from the fall 2023 women’s collection, $3,750, prada.com . Photograph by Collier Schorr. Styled by Suzanne Koller “If Harvard was a billionaire woman, it would be Miuccia Prada,” says the Italian artist Francesco Vezzoli, her close friend and frequent travel companion. The Belgian stylist Olivier Rizzo, who has worked with her since 2005, tells me she’s changed the way we dress and think about clothing “on every possible level on all levels forever and ever.” She’s “a challenger,” says the Italian creative director Ferdinando Verderi, who has consulted for the brand since 2019. “She’d even challenge the idea of being a challenger.” The American artist Theaster Gates, chairman of Prada’s Diversity and Inclusion Advisory Council, says, “If you’re trying to get a character sketch of Miuccia, she’s [expletive] sincere. And sincerity is better than being right all the time.” The actress Uma Thurman, who developed a relationship with the designer after wearing a lilac Prada gown to the 1995 Oscars, likens her to “a growing tree, letting herself have new barks,” while th