# Aubrey Gordon And Myths About Fat People A Waves Conversation

**Source**: https://slate.com/podcasts/the-waves/2023/01/aubrey-gordon-and-myths-about-fat-people-a-waves-conversation
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:27:07.092391+00:00

---

Aubrey Gordon and myths about fat people: A Waves conversation Advertisement Advertisement Skip to the content Slate Shop Games Newsletters Sign In Account Activating this button will toggle the display of additional content Account Sign out Slate homepage News &amp; Politics Culture Technology Business Life Advice Podcasts Menu Open menu Close menu Menu News &amp; Politics Culture Technology Business Life Advice Podcasts Search Activating this button will toggle the display of additional content Light Dark Auto Subscribe Slate Shop Games Newsletters Sign in Account Sign out Slate homepage Account * Respect for Creatures Large and Small Submit search Enter query Activating this button will toggle the display of additional content Light Dark Auto The Waves Jan 05, 2023 5:00 AM The Myths About Fat People Maintenance Phase’s Aubrey Gordon discusses her new book, “You Just Need to Lose Weight” And 19 Other Myths About Fat People . Copy Link Share Share View Transcript Advertisement Listen &amp; Subscribe Choose your preferred player: Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music TuneIn RSS Feed For questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus feed, check our FAQ . Please enable javascript to get your Slate Plus feeds. All Slate Plus Podcasts Get Your Slate Plus Podcast If you can't access your feeds, please contact customer support. Thanks! Check your phone for a link to finish setting up your feed. Please enter a valid phone number. Listen on your phone: RECOMMENDED Enter your phone number and we'll text you a link to set up the podcast in your app: Text me the link! We'll only text you about setting up this podcast, no spam. Listen on your computer: Apple Podcasts will only work on MacOS operating systems since Catalina . We do not support Android apps on desktop at this time. Listen on your device: RECOMMENDED These links will only work if you're on the device you listen to podcasts on. Set up manually: How does this work? copy copied! We are showing you options for a computer but if you're on a phone or tablet We are showing you options for a phone or a tablet but if you're on a computer , click here. If you still have questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus Feed, check our FAQ. Loading... We're sorry, but something went wrong while fetching your podcast feeds. Please contact us at plus@slate.com for help. Episode Notes On this week’s episode of The Waves, Slate science and health editor Shannon Palus is joined by author and co-host of Maintenance Phase , Aubrey Gordon . Shannon and Aubrey discuss Aubrey’s new book, “You Just Need to Lose Weight” and 19 Other Myths About Fat People , the fraught nature of “body positivity” and the insidious goalpost moving of the Dove “Love Your Body” campaign. In Slate Plus, Aubrey and Shannon discuss the new weight-loss fad, Ozempic. Further Reading Recommendations From Aubrey: Hunger by Roxane Gay Belly of the Beast by Da’shaun L. Harrison The Body Is Not An Apology by Sonya Renee Taylor Fearing the Black Body by Sabrina Strings Julie Murphy’s fiction novels like Dumplin’ Check out Shannon’s new Slate Column: Good Fit Podcast production by Cheyna Roth with editorial oversight by Daisy Rosario and Alicia Montgomery. Send your comments and recommendations on what to cover to thewaves@slate.com Copy Link Share Share Advertisement About the Show The Waves is a biweekly conversation about news and culture examined through the lens of gender and feminism. Every other Thursday, join the hosts—including Slate’s June Thomas, Slate staff writer Christina Cauterucci, Marcia Chatelain of Georgetown University, and Thirst Aid Kit 's Nichole Perkins—for frank discussions about the ways gender shapes everything. Our new name reflects generations of women from the various waves of feminism, the sound waves that carry us to your ears, and the waves we intend to make. All episodes Host Shannon Palus is a features editor for Slate. About About Us Work With Us Contact Pitch Guidelines Send Us Tips Corrections Commenting Reprints Subscriptions Subscribe Group Subscriptions Sign In Account Subscription FAQs Podcast FAQs Newsletters Customer Support Advertising AdChoices Cookie Preferences The Slate Group logo Slate is published by The Slate Group, a Graham Holdings Company. Follow Us Facebook X Instagram YouTube RSS Feed User Agreement Privacy Policy All contents &copy; 2025 The Slate Group LLC. All rights reserved.