# Netflixs Kpop Demon Hunters Is Probably The Biggest Movie In Theaters

**Source**: https://techcrunch.com/2025/08/24/netflixs-kpop-demon-hunters-is-probably-the-biggest-movie-in-theaters/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:20:25.088490+00:00

---

Netflix’s ‘KPop Demon Hunters’ is probably the biggest movie in theaters | TechCrunch TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps Disrupt 2025 Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech &amp; Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government &amp; Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media &amp; Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Crunchboard Contact Us Image Credits: Netflix Media &amp; Entertainment Netflix’s ‘KPop Demon Hunters’ is probably the biggest movie in theaters Anthony Ha 12:59 PM PDT · August 24, 2025 A singalong version of the Netflix animated film “KPop Demon Hunters” is on track to earn $18 million to $20 million in theaters this weekend, making it the No. 1 movie at the domestic box office. And that’s despite only being in theaters for two-thirds of the weekend (namely, Saturday and Sunday). This isn’t the first time a streaming title has topped the box office charts. In fact, Apple’s “F1” (distributed in U.S. theaters by Warner Bros.) opened to an even more impressive $57 million earlier this summer. But this marks the first time Netflix has had the biggest movie in theaters. The victory comes with some asterisks, most notably that Netflix doesn’t announce box office returns itself. So these aren’t official numbers from the streamer, but rather preliminary weekend estimates from other industry sources . This was, admittedly, a quiet weekend, without major new releases. Besides “KPop Demon Hunters,” the top-grossing movie was “Weapons,” which made an estimated $15.4 million in its third weekend in theaters, for a $115 million domestic total. Still, this feels like a milestone for a company that has avoided traditional theatrical releases (a stance that may have driven away some of its most successful filmmakers ). The closest it’s come is a one-week release of Rian Johnson’s “Knives Out” sequel “Glass Onion,” which earned an estimated $15 million in theaters . And then there’s Greta Gerwig’s “Narnia” adaptation, which will probably do even bigger box office numbers when it launches exclusively on Imax screens next fall. This is also an impressive victory for a movie that’s been available on streaming since late June, and has already climbed to the No. 2 spot on Netflix’s chart of all-time most-watched movies , with more than 210 million views. (It’s sandwiched, somehow, between “Red Notice” and “Carry-On”). Produced by Sony Pictures Animation and with a largely Korean/Korean American voice cast, “KPop Demon Hunters” tells the story of a K-pop girl group that, yes, also hunts demons, including a rival boy band. “Golden,” a song from the film’s soundtrack, topped the Billboard charts and has been streamed more than 400 million times on Spotify. Techcrunch event Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss the 20th anniversary of TechCrunch, and a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. San Francisco | October 27-29, 2025 REGISTER NOW In keeping with a longstanding refusal to screen movies without an exclusive theatrical window, AMC Theatres declined to show this singalong version of “KPop Demon Hunters,” but it was the only major chain to do so. Topics kpop demon hunters , Media &amp; Entertainment , Netflix Anthony Ha Anthony Ha is TechCrunch&#8217;s weekend editor. Previously, he worked as a tech reporter at Adweek, a senior editor at VentureBeat, a local government reporter at the Hollister Free Lance, and vice president of content at a VC firm. He lives in New York City. View Bio October 27-29, 2025 San Francisco ONE-WEEK BUNDLE FLASH SALE Founder Bundle Offer: Land your investor and sharpen your pitch. Save 15% when you bring 4-9 founders. Investors Bundle Offer: Discover your next breakout startup. Save 20% when you bring 4-9 investors. Bundle offer ends October 3. Register Now Most Popular A new a16z report looks at which AI companies startups are actually paying for Dominic-Madori Davis Salesforce launches enterprise vibe-coding product, Agentforce Vibes Rebecca Szkutak AI recruiter Alex raises $17M to automate initial job interviews Marina Temkin Vibe-coding startup Anything nabs a $100M valuation after hitting $2M ARR in its first two weeks Marina Temkin The AI services transformation may be harder than VCs think Connie Loizos Famed roboticist says humanoid robot bubble is doomed to burst Connie Loizos Spotify to label AI music, filter spam and more in AI policy change Sarah Perez Loading the next article Error loading the next article X LinkedIn Facebook Instagram youTube Mastodon Threads Bluesky TechCrunch Staff Contact Us Advertise Crunchboard Jobs Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy RSS Terms of Use Code of Conduct H1-B Visa GPT Pulse Grok Steph Curry TechCrunch Disrupt Tech Layoffs ChatGPT © 2025 TechCrunch Media LLC.