# Yoni Appelbaum

**Source**: https://www.theatlantic.com/author/yoni-appelbaum/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:54:45.232283+00:00

---

Yoni Appelbaum, The Atlantic Skip to content Site Navigation The Atlantic Popular Latest Newsletters Sections Politics Ideas Fiction Technology Science Photo Economy Culture Planet Global Books AI Watchdog Health Education Projects Features Family Events Washington Week Progress National Security Explore The Atlantic Archive Play The Atlantic Games Listen to Podcasts and Articles The Print Edition Latest Issue Past Issues Give a Gift Search The Atlantic Quick Links Audio Crossword Puzzle Magazine Archive Your Subscription Popular Latest Newsletters Sign In Subscribe Yoni Appelbaum Follow Yoni Appelbaum is a deputy executive editor at The Atlantic and the author of Stuck: How the Privileged and the Propertied Broke the Engine of American Opportunity . Appelbaum is a social and cultural historian of the United States. Before joining The Atlantic , he was a lecturer on history and literature at Harvard University. He previously taught at Babson College and at Brandeis University, where he received his Ph.D. in American history. Featured How Progressives Froze the American Dream The U.S. was once the world’s most geographically mobile society. Now we’re stuck in place—and that’s a very big problem. Yoni Appelbaum February 10, 2025 Javier Jaén Latest How Progressives Froze the American Dream The U.S. was once the world’s most geographically mobile society. Now we’re stuck in place—and that’s a very big problem. Yoni Appelbaum February 10, 2025 Javier Jaén What The Atlantic Got Wrong About Reconstruction In 1901, a series of articles took a dim view of the era, and of the idea that all Americans ought to participate in the democratic process. Yoni Appelbaum November 13, 2023 The Atlantic Impeach Trump Again Congress must now act, not just to remove Trump—but to ensure that no president ever risks behaving in this way again. Yoni Appelbaum January 6, 2021 BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI / AFP / Getty How America Ends A tectonic demographic shift is under way. Can the country hold together? Yoni Appelbaum November 12, 2019 Photograph by Sam Kaplan; prop styling by Brian Byrne Trump Should Go Back to Where He Came From The president would do well to take his own advice. Yoni Appelbaum July 14, 2019 Spencer Platt / Getty The Mueller Report Is an Impeachment Referral The special counsel has concluded he can neither charge nor clear the president. Only Congress can now resolve the allegations against him. Yoni Appelbaum April 18, 2019 Joseph Sohm / Shutterstock / Getty / The Atlantic It’s Time to Impeach Trump President Trump is unfit for the office he holds. Yoni Appelbaum and Vishakha Darbha January 17, 2019 Impeach Donald Trump Starting the process will rein in a president who is undermining American ideals—and bring the debate about his fitness for office into Congress, where it belongs. Yoni Appelbaum January 16, 2019 Benjamin Lowy / Getty / The Atlantic That Time Trump Violated the Boy Scout Oath This was at the same jamboree where Trump told thousands of teenage boys about a hot New York party. Yoni Appelbaum January 13, 2019 Saul Loeb / AFP / Getty Not Even Trump Wants to Praise Robert E. Lee Twentieth-century American presidents lionized the Confederate general. Now the tide is shifting. Yoni Appelbaum October 15, 2018 Scott Threlkeld / AP The Atlantic Daily Get our guide to the day’s biggest news and ideas, delivered to your inbox every weekday and Sunday mornings. See more newsletters Email Address Sign Up Your newsletter subscriptions are subject to The Atlantic&#x27;s Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions . Ideas That Matter Subscribe and support more than 160 years of independent journalism. Subscribe Popular Links About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Reprints &amp; Permissions Podcasts Radio Atlantic Good on Paper The David Frum Show How to Age Up Autocracy in America Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Atlantic Editions Newsletters Follow facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin flipboard About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Reprints &amp; Permissions Podcasts Radio Atlantic Good on Paper The David Frum Show How to Age Up Autocracy in America Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Atlantic Editions Newsletters Follow facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin flipboard Site Information Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices privacy-options Advertising Guidelines Terms &amp; Conditions Terms of Sale Responsible Disclosure Site Map TheAtlantic.com © 2025 The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply