# Egypt Elections Results Sisi President Trump

**Source**: https://www.vox.com/2018/3/26/17033030/egypt-elections-results-sisi-president-trump
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:03:18.654261+00:00

---

Egypt election 2018: Sisi won, but he should be worried | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo Sisi won Egypt’s election. That doesn’t mean he’s safe. Free speech needs fearless journalism Free speech is endangered; unbiased and trustworthy news is elusive. In a time of noise, confusion, and spin, we’re committed to clarity, truth, and depth — even when it’s hard. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join now Features Sisi won Egypt’s election. That doesn’t mean he’s safe. There are rumblings of dissent in the Arab world’s most populous country. by Alexia Underwood Updated Apr 3, 2018, 3:00 PM UTC Share Gift A poster depicting Egypt’s President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi in the southern Gaza Strip on November 1, 2017. | Majdi Fathi/NurPhoto via Getty ImagesGetty Images Over the past four years, Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi has presided over a security crackdown that&rsquo;s left thousands dead, imprisoned tens of thousands more, and made the use of torture routine. He&rsquo;s repressed free speech, undermined civil society, and ramped up a failing war in the Sinai. And after an election campaign marked by arrests, intimidation, and fear, Sisi just secured another four years in office. On Monday, Egyptian officials announced that Sisi had won Egypt&rsquo;s 2018 presidential elections with 97 percent of the vote. Voter turnout was 41.5 percent, which was lower than voter turnout in the 2014 presidential election, despite widespread accounts of voter bribery. Sisi beat the only other candidate, Mousa Mostafa Mousa, who was publicly known to be a strong supporter of the president. After the results were announced, US President Donald Trump called Sisi to congratulate him on winning Egypt&rsquo;s presidential election . According to a White House statement , &ldquo;The two leaders affirmed the strategic partnership between the United States and Egypt, and noted that they look forward to advancing this partnership and addressing common challenges.&rdquo; In truth, Trump&rsquo;s endorsement isn&rsquo;t terribly surprising. The US president has repeatedly expressed admiration for Sisi , whom he has called a &ldquo;fantastic guy.&rdquo; After a meeting at the White House last April, Trump told reporters, &ldquo;We agree on so many things. I just want to let everybody know in case there was any doubt that we are very much behind President el-Sisi. He&rsquo;s done a fantastic job in a very difficult situation.&rdquo; For good measure, Trump also complimented Sisi&rsquo;s shoes. US President Donald Trump with Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi in the Oval Office on April 3, 2017. Olivier Douliery-Pool/Getty Images Trump&rsquo;s talk of a &ldquo;difficult situation&rdquo; was a reference to Sisi&rsquo;s ongoing, and largely failed, attempt to beat back a violent ISIS-affiliated insurgency in Egypt&rsquo;s Sinai Peninsula. In October 2015, militants downed a Russian plane , killing all 224 people on board. Armed groups have reportedly killed more than 700 civilians and at least 1,000 police officers and soldiers in the past four years. Sisi&rsquo;s forces have killed at least 2,560 alleged terrorists and arrested 16,000 others, although these numbers are disputed , since a person can be designated a terrorist for something as simple as publishing information that contradicts the state . The US president&rsquo;s embrace of Sisi reflects his belief that Egypt is vital to the security of Israel and other US allies throughout the Middle East. Sisi has fostered a strong, if quiet, working relationship with the Israeli government &mdash; since 2015, he&rsquo;s even secretly allowed Israeli drones to operate in Egyptian territory &mdash; and warned Iran to &ldquo;stop meddling&rdquo; in the region. Above all, the US and Israel are gambling on Sisi to control the Arab world&rsquo;s most populous nation after years of political uncertainty. &ldquo;From the Israeli government&rsquo;s perspective, Sisi is a major source of stability in the region,&rdquo; said Dan Shapiro, a former US ambassador to Israel and visiting fellow at the Institute for National Security Studies in Tel Aviv. There are, however, rumblings of dissent in the country. Sisi&rsquo;s iron rule may be intact, but his popularity has declined due to a mix of severe austerity measures , repressive tactics , and an unpopular decision to cede two islands under Egyptian control to Saudi Arabia. His expensive and prolonged anti-terror campaign in the Sinai is also failing. Michele Dunne, the director of Carnegie&rsquo;s Middle East program and an Egypt expert, told me that Sisi now faces growing opposition within his own base &mdash; something he didn&rsquo;t have to deal with the last time he ran. Now that Egypt&rsquo;s charade of an election is out of the way, the real question, she said, is &ldquo;what&rsquo;s going to happen to this opposition going forward?&rdquo; These factors combined raise the chances that one day, Sisi will lose control &mdash; or use ever more violent tactics to maintain his grasp on power. Egypt’s current strongman rules through violence and fear During his past four years in power, Sisi has cracked down on civil liberties and brought the country&rsquo;s political system squarely under his grip . He&rsquo;s not the first military leader to run Egypt. Most of the country&rsquo;s former presidents, including Gamal Abdel Nasser, Anwar Sadat, and Hosni Mubarak, came from the military. The heads of Egypt&rsquo;s armed forces, which has around 1.2 million active personnel , also control a large percentage of the country&rsquo;s economy, though the military budget is secret and their industries are not taxed or audited. Sisi has downplayed the military&rsquo;s economic control, but experts estimate that it could be anywhere from 5 to 40 percent. Sisi first appeared on the Egyptian political stage as the youngest member of the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, a military junta that temporarily ruled Egypt after public protests forced former President Hosni Mubarak to step down in 2011. When Muslim Brotherhood candidate Mohamed Morsi was elected president in 2012, he chose Sisi to be his minister of defense. Morsi granted himself sweeping powers while trying to push through a new constitution and implemented Islamist policies, infuriating much of the Egyptian public. I moved to Cairo in June 2013, right before Egyptians took to the streets en masse again, this time to demand that Morsi leave office. Not long after the mass protests on June 30, Sisi and other military leaders staged a coup and removed Morsi from power. A few weeks later, the Egyptian army &mdash; at Sisi&rsquo;s direction &mdash; killed almost 1,000 pro-Morsi protesters in one day, in what became known as the Rabaa Massacre. Interim President Adly Mansour declared a state of emergency, and I spoke to Egyptians who were reeling from the violence and trying to make sense of the new climate of fear. A man kisses a picture of then-Gen. Abdel Fattah el-Sisi as tens of thousands of people rallied in Tahrir Square against ousted President Mohamed Morsi in Cairo on July 7, 2013. Carsten Koall/Getty Images Sisi presented himself as a steady hand in the midst of chaos, and his popularity soared. As security forces cracked down on all areas of public life in Egypt, he imposed military law and readied himself for the presidential election in May 2014. In Mansoura, a port city outside of Cairo, I met many enthusiastic Sisi fans who turned out to vote, but I also spoke to other Egyptians who were boycotting or supporting the lone opposition candidate, Hamdeen Sabahi. Many of the young Egyptians I met were disillusioned by the wave of state-sponsored violence, and expected more to come. Later that year, as the protest movement and the ensuing violent response spread to Egypt&rsquo;s university campuses, I talked to students who had seen their classmates arrested or shot in the crackdown on dissent. They described the metal detectors, guard dogs, private security companies, and special forces that now occupied their campuses. &ldquo;Those who protest or who merely express their views could be killed in a second by the press of a trigger,&rdquo; Hind, a student at Al-Azhar University, told me in December 2014. Fast-forward a few years: According to most experts and analysts, Sisi&rsquo;s popularity is on the decline. An October 2016 poll conducted by Baseera, the Egyptian Center for Public Opinion Research, showed that the president&rsquo;s approval rating tumbled 24 points during his first two years in office. Sisi&rsquo;s problems at home stem, in part, from Egypt&rsquo;s faltering economy. After the 2011 revolution and increase in terror attacks, Egypt&rsquo;s tourism industry, which was a major source of revenue for the country, took a nosedive. In November 2016, the Egyptian government took emergency measures to avoid bankruptcy and enacted harsh economic reforms to receive a $12 billion loan from the International Monetary Fund. They cut subsidies, and inflation skyrocketed &mdash; food prices rose by 30 percent. Ordinary Egyptians have struggled to adjust. &ldquo;Sisi&rsquo;s popularity has tremendously decreased because of incompetent economic policies,&rdquo; Zeinab Abul-Magd, a history professor at Oberlin College who focuses on Egypt&rsquo;s economy , told me. Another issue is that youth unemployment in the country &mdash; one of the key factors that led to the &ldquo;Arab Spring&rdquo; protests that began in 2010 &mdash; remains very high. Wh