# How To Turn Off Annoying Apple Tv Sports Notifications

**Source**: https://www.pcmag.com/how-to/how-to-turn-off-annoying-apple-tv-sports-notifications?ref=wheresyoured.at
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:20:52.260847+00:00

---

How to Turn Off Annoying Apple TV Sports Notifications | PCMag Skip to Main Content Menu #AmazonPrimeBigDealDays #Top100BudgetBuys Best Products The Best Laptops for 2025 The Best PCs (Desktop Computers) for 2025 The Best Tablets for 2025 The Best Phones for 2025 The Best Wi-Fi Routers for 2025 The Best External Hard Drives for 2025 The Best All-in-One Printers for 2025 The Best TVs for 2025 The Best Headphones for 2025 The Best Robot Vacuums for 2025 The Best VPN Services for 2025 The Best Antivirus Software for 2025 The Best Password Managers for 2025 The Best Web Hosting Services for 2025 The Best Video Editing Software for 2025 The Best Graphics Cards for 2025 The Best Gaming Laptops for 2025 The Best Printers for 2025 The Best Monitors for 2025 See All Best Products Comparisons Reviews How-To News Opinions Deals PCs &amp; Hardware Laptops Desktop Computers Tablets Monitors Hard Drives SSDs Network Attached Storage Wi-Fi Routers Wi-Fi Range Extenders Wi-Fi Mesh Networking Systems Printers 3D Printers Scanners Webcams Computer Mice Keyboards Graphics Cards Processors Motherboards PC Cases Mobile Mobile Phones Wireless Carriers Modems &amp; Hotspots Bluetooth Headsets Mobile Phone Accessories Mobile Apps Android Apps iPhone Apps iPad Apps Electronics TVs Projectors Media Streaming Devices Headphones Speakers Ebook Readers Cameras Lenses Drones VR Electric &amp; Hybrid Cars Car Accessories Smart Home Smart Home Home Security Home Security Cameras Robot Vacuums Smart Displays Smart Lighting Smart Locks Smart Plugs Smart Thermostats Smart Lawn Mowers Appliances Connected Kitchen Health &amp; Fitness Health &amp; Fitness Wearables Fitness Trackers Heart Rate Monitors Smart Scales Medical Alert Systems Gaming Gaming Hardware Gaming Systems Gaming Controllers &amp; Accessories Games PC Games Microsoft Xbox Games Nintendo Games Sony Playstation Games Mobile Games Game Streaming Services Software &amp; Services Artificial Intelligence (AI) Operating Systems Productivity System Utilities Photo &amp; Design Education Website &amp; App Building Tools Communications Personal Finance Accounting E-Commerce &amp; Payments Human Resources IT Management Sales &amp; Marketing Streaming Video Streaming Music Dating Apps DNA Testing Kits Meal Kits Security Security Security Suites Antivirus VPN Password Managers Parental Control Malware Removal Ransomware Protection Events Amazon Prime Big Deal Days Apple WWDC Black Friday Black Hat CES Comic Con Computex Cyber Monday E3 Google I/O IFA Microsoft Build Mobile World Congress (MWC) RSAC SXSW Samsung Unpacked Summer of Gaming Series 5G Accessibility Technology Advertising Content All About AI Amplify Android Apple Back to School Tech Best Internet Service Providers (ISPs) Business Choice Connected Traveler Fast Forward Fastest Mobile Networks Forward Thinking Get Organized Holiday Gift Guide How to Work From Home IT Watch In Depth Moms, Dads &amp; Grads Gift Guide NextCar PCMag Picks PCMag Turns 40! Readers&#039; Choice Refresh Your Tech Retro Computing Rigged Up Robotics Safety Net Science &amp; Space SecurityWatch TechX Awards The Best of the Year The Pop-Off The Why Axis Try AI Weekend Project Windows 11 Newsletters { opacity = 0; setTimeout(() => { opacity = 1; }, 1000); }, 1000)"> { opacity = 0; }, 100)" x-on:mouseleave="setTimeout(() => { opacity = 1; }, 175)"> #AmazonPrimeBigDealDays #Top100BudgetBuys Best Products Comparisons Reviews How-To News Deals query=evt.target.value' x-on:keyup="onKeyUp" x-on:keydown="onKeyDown" x-on:keydown.enter="submitSearch" x-on:focus="searchFocus" x-on:blur="searchBlur" placeholder="Search" maxlength="256" /> 0"> {X-HTML Replaced} PCMag editors select and review products independently . If you buy through affiliate links, we may earn commissions, which help support our testing . Home How-To Operating Systems iOS How to Turn Off Annoying Apple TV Sports Notifications September 3, 2024 ({ allowHTML: true, appendTo: $root, maxWidth: 640, offset: [20, 10], interactive: true, interactiveBorder: 30, placement: 'bottom-end', trigger: 'click', moveTransition: 'transform 250ms ease', content: () => $refs.template.innerHTML, popperOptions: { modifiers: [{ name: 'flip', enabled: false, }, ], }, onShow: () => { $data.isTooltipVisible = true; }, onHide: () => { $data.isTooltipVisible = false; }, }), }" x-on:keydown.escape.window="$refs.trigger._tippy.hide()"> Social Share Threads Bluesky Reddit Facebook LinkedIn Pinterest Flipboard Twitter Copied Error! Copy Link https://www.pcmag.com/how-to/how-to-turn-off-annoying-apple-tv-sports-notifications Email Comments Inundated with sports notifications on Apple TV? Tweak these settings to curb the interruptions. = 768 }" x-resize.document="isDesktop = $width >= 768"> show = show || isDesktop)"> ({ allowHTML: true, appendTo: $root, maxWidth: 640, offset: [20, 10], interactive: true, interactiveBorder: 30, placement: 'bottom-end', trigger: 'click mouseenter', moveTransition: 'transform 250ms ease', content: () => $refs.template.innerHTML, popperOptions: { modifiers: [{ name: 'flip', enabled: false, }, ], }, }), }" x-on:keydown.escape.window="$refs.trigger._tippy.hide()"> Tyler Hayes Tyler Hayes Contributor Experience I’ve contributed to PCMag since 2019, covering all kinds of consumer electronics. As a self-identifying early adopter of technology, I’ve stumbled through the changing devices over the years and usually end up writing about how they work, why they're great, or how they could be better. Read Full Bio Contributor OUR EXPERT Our team tests, rates, and reviews more than 1,500 products each year to help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. (Credit: PCMag / Apple) A feature that allows you to follow sports teams across Apple News and Apple TV can result in incessant notifications that interrupt your video streaming or smartphone browsing. Luckily these alerts can be turned off. Here are the settings to adjust before the next big game. How to Turn Off 'Exciting Games' Notification on Apple TV Apple's "Exciting Games" notifications are intended to keep you apprised of major moments during games you can't watch live, like when it's bases loaded with two outs in Game 7 of the World Series. Sports fanatics may want to keep this setting enabled, but unfortunately, what counts as an "exciting moment" is all over the map, and Apple can overdo it sometimes. To turn them off on an Apple TV device, open Settings &gt; Apps and select TV under the App Settings heading. Scroll down to the Notifications area and toggle Exciting Games to off. Alerts for games you're not following should stop. Don&rsquo;t want any sports synced to your Apple TV? You can turn that off too, at the top of this same settings screen. You May Also Like How to Stop Following Sports on Apple News (Credit: Apple/PCMag) Following a sports team in Apple News for the latest updates will also link those teams across other Apple apps. To manage them, open Apple News and select the Sports icon along the bottom bar. Within the Sports section, tap the three-dot menu in the top-right corner and choose Manage My Sports . Here, you can add or remove sports leagues, events, and teams&mdash;including eSports. How to Manage All Sports Notifications (Credit: PCMag / Apple) To turn sports notifications off in Apple News, open the app and select the Following icon on the bottom bar. Scroll all the way to the bottom and tap on Notifications &amp; Email . Then scroll down to Alerts from Apple News and toggle the Sports button. Recommended by Our Editors The Best NFL Streaming Services for 2025 The Best NBA Streaming Services for 2025 The Best Sports Streaming Services for 2025 For Apple TV notifications, open the iOS Settings app, tap Notifications &gt; TV &gt; Customize Notifications and then toggle Featured Sports off. Interestingly, there doesn&rsquo;t appear to be a way to get notifications from Apple&rsquo;s dedicated Sports app , though Live Activities will launch on Apple Sports with iOS 18 and watchOS 11 . Get Our Best Stories! Love All Things Apple? Sign up for our Weekly Apple Brief for the latest news, reviews, tips, and more delivered right to your inbox. Sign up for our Weekly Apple Brief for the latest news, reviews, tips, and more delivered right to your inbox. Email Sign Me Up By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Thanks for signing up! Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox! About Our Expert Tyler Hayes Contributor Experience I’ve contributed to PCMag since 2019, covering Apple, electric vehicles, and lots of other consumer electronics. If a gadget plugs into a wall or uses a battery, there’s a good chance I’ve tested it and have some thoughts about its place in our daily lives. I write featured articles, how-to guides, and daily news. I got my first taste of writing about technology for Fast Company in 2013, mostly how it intersected with the music industry. Since then I’ve written for dozens of publications and explored all other facets of service journalism, from reviews to buying guides. At one point, I took a break from journalism for a few years to work at a technology startup and then an industry Goliath, both valuable experiences in understanding how the business of tech works from top to bottom. Latest By Tyler Hayes Apple TV+&#039;s Friday Night Baseball to Showcase the iPhone 17 Pro Camera System I Love My AirPods Pro 2, But These 5 Features Sold Me on the Pro 3 You Probably Missed These 7 iPhone Announcements at the Apple Event I Regret Ditching the Apple Watch Ultra for the Series 10. Bring on the Ultra 3 Who Wants to Tell These Case Makers There&#039;s No Black iPhone 17 Pro? More from Tyler Hayes Read Full Bio Table of Contents Table of Contents Advertisement The Best Prime Day Deals According to Our Experts See All of Our Prime Day Big Deal Days Coverage Latest Deals Here are 7 Hot Dell Discounts Before Amazon&#039;s Prime Bi