# Johnny Depp Lawsuit Marriage W521671

**Source**: https://www.rollingstone.com/movies/features/johnny-depp-lawsuit-marriage-w521671
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:01:32.908204+00:00

---

Inside Trials of Johnny Depp: Lawsuits, Drinking, Marriage Gone Wrong &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo TV &amp; Movies The Trouble With Johnny Depp Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Profile The Trouble With Johnny Depp Multimillion-dollar lawsuits, a haze of booze and hash, a marriage gone very wrong and a lifestyle he can’t afford – inside the trials of Johnny Depp By Stephen Rodrick Stephen Rodrick Contact Stephen Rodrick by Email Fake Armies of the Night: Trump Unleashes Show and Awe on Washington You May Be Asking Yourself How Did Dan Bongino Get Here Greg Gutfeld Wants to Know Who the Asshole Is View all posts by Stephen Rodrick June 21, 2018 Matt Mahurin for Rolling Stone Johnny Depp isn&#8217;t here yet. Still, his presence is all around the 10,500-square-foot rented mansion at 16 Bishopswood Road in London&#8217;s Highgate neighborhood. He is here in the busy hands of Russell, his personal chef working up the Peking duck. He is here in the stogie-size joint left by the sink in the guest bathroom. He is here in the never-ending reservoir of wine that is poured into goblets. And he is here in a half-done painting upstairs that features a burning black house, a child Johnny and an angry woman who resembles his mother, Betty Sue. And then he is actually here. He is in the living room, crooning his entrance: &#8220;Oh, my darling, oh, my darling, my darling Clementine. You are lost and gone forever, my darling Clementine.&#8221; Depp has come from a photo shoot for the Hollywood Vampires , his sometime band that features Alice Cooper and Joe Perry. Trailing behind is his lawyer Adam Waldman. Depp is dressed like a Forties gangster, jet-black hair slicked back, pinstripes, suspenders and spats. His face is puffy, but Depp still possesses the fixating brown eyes that have toggled between dreamy and menacing during his 35-year career. Now, Depp&#8217;s studious leer is reminiscent of late-era Marlon Brando. This isn&#8217;t a coincidence, since Depp has long built his life by imitating his legends &ndash; buying an island like Brando, becoming an expert on quaaludes like Hunter S. Thompson. &#8220;Hey, I&#8217;m Johnny. Good to meet you.&#8221; He reaches out a right hand whose fingers recently had their tats changed from &#8220;slim&#8221; &ndash; a reference to his ex-wife Amber Heard &ndash; to &#8220;scum.&#8221; &#8220;So are you here to hear the truth?&#8221; asks Depp as Russell brings him a glass of vintage red wine. &#8220;It&#8217;s full of betrayal.&#8221; We move to the dining room for a three-course meal of pad thai, duck and gingerbread with berries. Depp sits at the head of the table and motions toward some rolling papers and two equal piles of tobacco and hash, and asks if I mind. I don&#8217;t. He pauses for a second. &#8220;Well, let&#8217;s drink some wine first.&#8221; Editor’s picks The 250 Greatest Albums of the 21st Century So Far The 100 Best TV Episodes of All Time The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century This goes on for 72 hours. It had taken a month and almost 200 e-mails for the message to become clear: Come to London; Johnny Depp wants to bare his soul about his empty bank accounts. It&#8217;s estimated that Depp has made $650 million on films that netted $3.6 billion. Almost all of it is gone. He&#8217;s suing The Management Group, run by his longtime business manager, Joel Mandel, and his brother Robert for negligence, breach of fiduciary duty and fraud. The suit cites, among other things, that under TMG&#8217;s watch Depp&#8217;s sister Christi was given $7 million and his assistant, Nathan Holmes, $750,000, without his knowledge, and that he has paid the IRS more than $5.6 million in late fees. (Most of the ire is directed toward Joel, who had day-to-day responsibility for Depp&#8217;s account.) There are additional charges of conflict of interest, saying that TMG invested Depp&#8217;s money for its own purposes and returned it without profit. The suit seeks more than $25 million from TMG, accounting for &#8220;tens of millions&#8221; it claims TMG illegally took for its commission, plus any additional damages the court sees fit. The Mandels categorically deny all wrongdoing and are countersuing, alleging that Depp breached his oral contract with the company. The suit suggests that Depp has a $2-million-a-month compulsory-spending disorder, offering bons mots like &#8220;Wine is not an investment if you drink it as soon as you buy it.&#8221; Depp was continuing to &#8220;concoct malicious and false allegations&#8221; against the company, according to TMG&#8217;s countersuit, because TMG had filed a private foreclosure notice on one of Depp&#8217;s properties, claiming Depp owes TMG $4.2 million in unpaid loans. Over the past 18 months, there has been little but bad news for Depp. In addition to the financial woes, there were reports he couldn&#8217;t remember his lines and had to have them fed to him through an earpiece. He had split from his longtime lawyer and agent. And he was alone. His tabloid-scarred divorce from actress Heard is complete, but not before there were persuasive allegations of physical abuse that Depp vehemently denies. Depp&#8217;s inner circle had begged him to not wed Heard or to at least obtain a prenup. Depp ignored his loved ones&#8217; advice. And there were whispers that Depp&#8217;s recreational drug and alcohol use were crippling him. During my London visit, Depp is alternately hilarious, sly and incoherent. The days begin after dark and run until first light. There is a scared, hunted look about him. Despite grand talks about hitting the town, we never leave the house. As Depp&#8217;s mind leads us down various rabbit holes, I often think of a line that he recited as the Mad Hatter in Alice in Wonderland : &#8220;Have I gone mad?&#8221; Related 15 Best and Worst Johnny Depp Roles: From Scissorhands to Sparrow Music&#039;s Fentanyl Crisis: Inside the Drug That Killed Prince and Tom Petty His closest confidant seems to be Waldman, a lawyer he met less than two years ago. Waldman, 49, possesses an unlined face, sandy hair, a designer black leather jacket and a soothing voice that could make the bird-flu epidemic sound reasonable. He tells me he is married to the &#8220;world&#8217;s number-one face doctor.&#8221; Depp seems oblivious to any personal complicity in his current predicament. Waldman seems to have convinced Depp that they are freedom fighters taking on the Hollywood machine rather than scavengers squabbling over the scraps of a fortune squandered. One day, Depp shows me his artwork, and it strikes me that Depp is now a worn Dorian Gray. &#8220;I imagine Johnny doing a version of Jack Sparrow at 70, at 80,&#8221; his friend Pen&eacute;lope Cruz tells me. &#8220;It will be as charming and as great.&#8221; But the things that were charming when he was 28 &ndash; doing drugs and running around the scaffolding on a high floor of Atlantic Records&#8217; L.A. building &ndash; seem disturbing at 55. (Cruz ends our conversation by telling me about Depp trying to pull his own tooth at a London restaurant while having dinner with her and Stella McCartney.) Maybe being a permanent Peter Pan is the key to Depp&#8217;s onscreen charm. But time has passed. Boyish insouciance has slowly morphed into an aging man-child, still charismatic but only in glimpses. If his current life isn&#8217;t a perfect copy of Elvis Presley&#8217;s last days, it is a decent facsimile. Depp and Tom Petty had long been friends, and Petty&#8217;s death hit Depp hard. &#8220;We&#8217;d call each other and ask, &#8216;Hey, you still smoking?&#8217;&thinsp;&#8221; Depp recalls. &#8220;Tom would go, &lsquo;Yeah, I&#8217;m still smoking,&#8217; and I&#8217;d feel better: &#8216;Well, if Tom is still smoking, I&#8217;m OK.&#8217;&thinsp;&#8221; Depp goes quiet, perhaps realizing the sadness of what he has just said. He wipes his eyes. &#8220;I loved him,&#8221; he says. The two shared more in common than an addiction to nicotine. They both arrived in L.A. whiskey tango from Florida, intent on making it as rockers (perfectly played by Depp in the video for Petty&#8217;s &#8220;Into the Great Wide Open&#8221;). Depp changed course after an L.A. drinking buddy named Nicolas Cage told him there was money to make in acting. He eventually starred in his breakout role as a high school narc on 21 Jump Street in 1987. We sit down for dinner, and I ask if he remembers the first big purchase he made when he started making money. He rolls another joint that he first passes to me and then to Waldman. He wants me to know it wasn&#8217;t a Ferrari, but a house for his mama. &#8220;My mom was born in a fucking holler in eastern Kentucky,&#8221; says Depp. &#8220;Her poor fucking ass was on phenobarbital at 12.&#8221; Depp grew up the youngest of four, raised mostly by his mother, Betty Sue. His father was a civil engineer, but largely absent. They lived first in Kentucky and then Florida, moving, according to Depp, more than 40 times. His mom hurled things, but she was still his mom. &#8220;Yeah, there were irrational beatings,&#8221; says Depp. &#8220;Maybe it&#8217;s an ashtray coming your way. Maybe you&#8217;re gonna get clunked with the phone.&#8221; Depp pauses. &#8220;It was a ghost house &ndash; no one talked. I don&#8217;t think there ever was a way I thought about people, especially women, other than &#8216;I can fix them.&#8217;&thinsp;&#8221; Mostly, Depp remembers his mother coming home from double shifts at her waitressing job; he would rub her feet as she counted out the coins from her tips. He bought her a smal