# Mappers Delight

**Source**: http://kottke.org/14/12/mappers-delight
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:56:06.214456+00:00

---

Mapper&#8217;s Delight KOTTKE DOT ORG KOTTKE DOT ORG MENU Member Login Home Membership Newsletter Goods Archive + Tags About/Contact dark mode light mode Advertise here with Carbon Ads Socials & More Newsletter RSS Feed Bluesky Mastodon This site is made possible by member support . 💞 Big thanks to Arcustech for hosting the site and offering amazing tech support. When you buy through links on kottke.org, I may earn an affiliate commission. Thanks for supporting the site! kottke.org. home of fine hypertext products since 1998. Beloved by 86.47% of the web. 🍔 &nbsp; 💀 &nbsp; 📸 &nbsp; 😭 &nbsp; 🕳️ &nbsp; 🤠 &nbsp; 🎬 &nbsp; 🥔 × close posted Dec 26 @ 03:46 PM by Jason Kottke &ensp;·&ensp; gift link Mapper&#8217;s Delight A project called Maximum Distance. Minimum Displacement. analyzed the lyrics of several popular rappers for geographical mentions and had an industrial robot draw each rapper&#8217;s lyrical journey through the world. At a glance, you can see how worldly (N***as in Paris) or locally oriented (Straight Outta Compton) each rapper is. Compare world-traveller Jay Z : with Kendrick Lamar : Kendrick Lamar&#8217;s analysis is culled from the lyrics of his underground & independent albums and is heavy with Compton references. Over the next few years it will be interesting to see how mainstream successes and personal experience change the travel of his lyrics. art maps music Share