# Age Of Ai Everything You Need To Know About Artificial Intelligence

**Source**: https://techcrunch.com/2023/08/04/age-of-ai-everything-you-need-to-know-about-artificial-intelligence/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:01:33.065900+00:00

---

Age of AI: Everything you need to know about artificial intelligence | TechCrunch TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps Disrupt 2025 Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech &amp; Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government &amp; Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media &amp; Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Crunchboard Contact Us Image Credits: Bryce Durbin / TechCrunch AI Age of AI: Everything you need to know about artificial intelligence Breaking down the jargon, an overview of the major players and staying up-to-date on the latest AI news Devin Coldewey 6:02 AM PDT · August 4, 2023 AI is appearing in seemingly every corner of modern life, from music and media to business and productivity, even dating. There&#8217;s so much it can be hard to keep up — so read on to find out everything from the latest big developments to the terms and companies you need to know in order to stay current in this fast-moving field. To begin with, let&#8217;s just make sure we&#8217;re all on the same page: what is AI? Artificial intelligence , also called machine learning, is a kind of software system based on neural networks, a technique that was actually pioneered decades ago but very recently has blossomed thanks to powerful new computing resources. AI has enabled effective voice and image recognition, as well as the ability to generate synthetic imagery and speech. And researchers are hard at work making it possible for an AI to browse the web, book tickets, tweak recipes and more. Oh, but if you&#8217;re worried about a Matrix-type rise of the machines — don&#8217;t be. We&#8217;ll talk about that later! Our guide to AI has three main parts, each of which we will update regularly and can be read in any order: First , the most fundamental concepts you need to know as well as more recently important ones. Next , an overview of the major players in AI and why they matter. And last , a curated list of the recent headlines and developments that you should be aware of. By the end of this article you&#8217;ll be about as up to date as anyone can hope to be these days. We will also be updating and expanding it as we press further into the age of AI. AI 101 Image Credits: Andrii Shyp / Getty Images Image Credits: Andrii Shyp / Getty Images One of the wild things about AI is that although the core concepts date back more than 50 years, few of them were familiar to even the tech-savvy before very recently. So if you feel lost, don&#8217;t worry — everyone is. Techcrunch event Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss the 20th anniversary of TechCrunch, and a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. San Francisco | October 27-29, 2025 REGISTER NOW And one thing we want to make clear up front: Although it&#8217;s called &#8220;artificial intelligence,&#8221; that term is a little misleading. There&#8217;s no one definition of intelligence out there, but what these systems do is definitely closer to calculators than brains. The input and output of this calculator is just a lot more flexible. You might think of artificial intelligence like artificial coconut — it&#8217;s imitation intelligence. With that said, here are the basic terms you&#8217;ll find in any discussion of AI. Neural network Our brains are largely made of interconnected cells called neurons, which mesh together to form complex networks that perform tasks and store information. Recreating this amazing system in software has been attempted since the &#8217;60s, but the processing power required wasn&#8217;t widely available until 15-20 years ago, when GPUs let digitally defined neural networks flourish. At their heart they are just lots of dots and lines: the dots are data and the lines are statistical relationships between those values. As in the brain, this can create a versatile system that quickly takes an input, passes it through the network and produces an output. This system is called a model . Model The model is the actual collection of code that accepts inputs and returns outputs. The similarity in terminology to a statistical model or a modeling system that simulates a complex natural process is not accidental. In AI, model can refer to a complete system like ChatGPT , or pretty much any AI or machine learning construct, whatever it does or produces. Models come in various sizes, meaning both how much storage space they take up and how much computational power they take to run. And these depend on how the model is trained . Training To create an AI model, the neural networks making up the base of the system are exposed to a bunch of information in what&#8217;s called a dataset or corpus . In doing so, these giant networks create a statistical representation of that data. This training process is the most computation-intensive part, meaning it takes weeks or months (you can kind of go as long as you want) on huge banks of high-powered computers. The reason for this is that not only are the networks complex, but datasets can be extremely large: billions of words or images that must be analyzed and given representation in the giant statistical model. On the other hand, once the model is done cooking it can be much smaller and less demanding when it&#8217;s being used, a process called inference . Image Credits: Google Image Credits: Google Inference When the model is actually doing its job, we call that inference , very much the traditional sense of the word: stating a conclusion by reasoning about available evidence. Of course it is not exactly &#8220;reasoning,&#8221; but statistically connecting the dots in the data it has ingested and, in effect, predicting the next dot. For instance, saying &#8220;Complete the following sequence: red, orange, yellow&#8230;&#8221; it would find that these words correspond to the beginning of a list it has ingested, the colors of the rainbow, and infers the next item until it has produced the rest of that list. Inference is generally much less computationally costly than training: Think of it like looking through a card catalog rather than assembling it. Big models still have to run on supercomputers and GPUs, but smaller ones can be run on a smartphone or something even simpler. Generative AI Everyone is talking about generative AI, and this broad term just means an AI model that produces an original output, like an image or text. Some AIs summarize, some reorganize, some identify, and so on — but an AI that actually generates something (whether or not it &#8220;creates&#8221; is arguable) is especially popular right now. Just remember that just because an AI generated something, that doesn&#8217;t mean it is correct, or even that it reflects reality at all! Only that it didn&#8217;t exist before you asked for it, like a story or painting. The Great Pretender Today&#8217;s top AI terms Beyond the basics, here are the AI terms that are most relevant in mid-2023. Large language model The most influential and versatile form of AI available today, large language models are trained on pretty much all the text making up the web and much of English literature. Ingesting all this results in a foundation model (read on) of enormous size. LLMs are able to converse and answer questions in natural language and imitate a variety of styles and types of written documents, as demonstrated by the likes of ChatGPT, Claude and LLaMa. While these models are undeniably impressive, it must be kept in mind that they are still pattern recognition engines, and when they answer it is an attempt to complete a pattern it has identified, whether or not that pattern reflects reality. LLMs frequently hallucinate in their answers, which we will come to shortly. If you want to learn more about LLMs and ChatGPT, we have a whole separate article on those ! Foundation model Training a huge model from scratch on huge datasets is costly and complex, and so you don&#8217;t want to have to do it any more than you have to. Foundation models are the big from-scratch ones that need supercomputers to run, but they can be trimmed down to fit in smaller containers, usually by reducing the number of parameters . You can think of those as the total dots the model has to work with, and these days it can be in the millions, billions or even trillions. Fine tuning A foundation model like GPT-4 is smart, but it&#8217;s also a generalist by design — it absorbed everything from Dickens to Wittgenstein to the rules of Dungeons &amp; Dragons, but none of that is helpful if you want it to help you write a cover letter for your resumé. Fortunately, models can be fine tuned by giving them a bit of extra training using a specialized dataset, for instance a few thousand job applications that happen to be laying around. This gives the model a much better sense of how to help you in that domain without throwing away the general knowledge it has collected from the rest of its trainin