# California Legislature Passes Major Reforms For

**Source**: https://www.hklaw.com/en/insights/publications/2024/09/california-legislature-passes-major-reforms-for
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:43:29.311044+00:00

---

California Legislature Passes Major Reforms for &quot;Builder&#39;s Remedy&quot; Projects | Insights | Holland &amp; Knight Skip to content Practices Professionals Industries Insights Events News Offices Careers Menu Refine search by section Refine Search Filters Full Site Professionals Practices Industries Insights Events News Case Studies View All Matching Results September 11, 2024 California Legislature Passes Major Reforms for "Builder's Remedy" Projects Current Builder's Remedy Projects Should Consider the Benefits and Drawbacks of Converting to "Builder's Remedy 2.0" Holland & Knight Alert Daniel R. Golub | Will Sterling Highlights With Assembly Bill (AB) 1893, the California Legislature expressly confirms the "Builder's Remedy" as an intended consequence of local governments' failure to adopt legally sufficient housing plans. The law replaces the "free-for-all" approach to Builder's Remedy. Starting Jan. 1, 2025, new Builder's Remedy projects must comply with site restrictions, density limits, certain objective local standards and other mandated requirements. In exchange for these new restrictions, AB 1893 eases certain affordability requirements and offers Builder's Remedy applicants more explicit protection from common tactics used by opponents of Builder's Remedy projects. Existing Builder's Remedy projects that meet certain requirements should be protected automatically, and existing projects that do not meet these requirements may "convert" to AB 1893 by redesigning the project without losing the project's entitlement to the Builder's Remedy. The law provides that existing vested projects may also choose to proceed under pre-existing law. A companion law, AB 1886, clears the path for existing and future Builder's Remedy projects by foreclosing a number of legal arguments that anti-Builder's Remedy jurisdictions frequently employ to frustrate these projects. California law requires cities and counties to regularly plan for new housing development and to prepare and adopt housing elements that formalize these plans. For those cities and counties that fail to adopt housing elements that meet the requirements of state law (or that fail to adopt them on time ), the primary consequence is the "Builder's Remedy." Under current law, the Builder's Remedy prohibits cities and counties from disapproving a housing development that includes 20 percent lower-income housing, unless the city or county has either timely adopted a "substantially compliant" housing element or can satisfy other rarely occurring conditions. Critically, the Builder's Remedy prohibits jurisdictions from disapproving such affordable housing projects even when those projects are inconsistent with the jurisdiction's zoning and General Plan standards. Thus, the Builder's Remedy has come to serve as a shorthand for projects that are designed to deviate from otherwise-applicable zoning standards. The scope and applicability of the Builder's Remedy has been the subject of much debate over the past several years, with numerous cities and counties fighting against its application, even as trial courts have affirmed the Builder's Remedy as a real consequence for housing element noncompliance. Through its adoption of Assembly Bill (AB) 1893 (Assembly Member Buffy Wicks), which strongly confirms the applicability of the Builder's Remedy, the California Legislature has acted to put these debates to bed. On Sept. 19, 2024, Gov. Gavin Newsom&nbsp;signed AB 1893 and AB 1886 (discussed below) into law. AB 1893 writes the term "Builder's Remedy" directly into the Housing Accountability Act (HAA) &ndash; California's marquee law for constraining municipal discretion to disapprove housing projects &ndash; and sets new parameters that these projects must meet as of Jan. 1, 2025. In exchange for these new limitations, the law provides incentives designed to make Builder's Remedy projects more economically feasible and explicitly prohibits common practices that municipalities frequently employ to frustrate Builder's Remedy projects. Although many of these new benefits are only available to projects that meet AB 1893's requirements, the law also provides existing vested Builder's Remedy projects (which have either submitted a Senate Bill (SB 330) preliminary application or a formal "complete" application) an option to "convert" to AB 1893-compliant projects while retaining their entitlement to the Builder's Remedy. For such existing vested projects that do not "convert," AB 1893 states that its enactment is not intended to disadvantage such projects, which may choose to proceed under preexisting law. New Parameters for Builder's Remedy Projects Under current law, Builder's Remedy projects may take any form that the applicant chooses and may be proposed on virtually any parcel, as long as the jurisdiction lacks a substantially compliant housing element at the time of the application. AB 1893 ends this "free-for-all" approach by introducing new site restrictions, setting new density limits and allowing jurisdictions to impose certain objective local standards that would facilitate the Builder's Remedy project. Site Restrictions. Although most sites are still permissible locations for Builder's Remedy projects, AB 1893 now excludes sites that abut parcels with heavy industrial uses or uses that require an operating permit issued under Title V of the federal Clean Air Act. 1 Density Maximums. AB 1893 provides relatively generous maximum densities. The applicable density is set by a complex formula that requires careful site-specific legal analysis. Ten to 65 dwelling units (du) per acre densities may be available depending upon the project location, and even higher densities may be available if the jurisdiction's General Plan, zoning or housing element allows for residential development on the site. AB 1893 also allows applicants to add any density bonus afforded by State Density Bonus Law, which can further increase density by up to 100 percent for qualifying projects. 2 Density Minimums. AB 1893 also sets new density minimums for Builder's Remedy projects. For those projects on sites that 1) are in a zone with a minimum density and 2) are within one-half mile of a commuter rail station or heavy rail station, the Builder's Remedy project must meet the applicable minimum density. For all other Builder's Remedy projects, the applicable minimum density is the lower of 1) the lowest density provided for in the jurisdiction or 2) one-half of the jurisdiction's Mullin density. 3 Objective Standards. Prior to AB 1893, Builder's Remedy projects could not be disapproved for failure to comply with objective local standards and were frequently designed in a manner that disregarded such standards. Under AB 1893, jurisdictions may impose certain objective local standards on Builder's Remedy 2.0 Projects insofar as those standards do not preclude the project from accessing the proposed density up to the maximums described above. 4 These standards are determined as follows: The standards must be "objective," "quantifiable" and "written." 5 If the jurisdiction has a zoning district (or General Plan land use designation) that allows the density and unit type proposed by the applicant, the jurisdiction may require the Builder's Remedy project to comply with the standards of that zoning district or designation. 6 If the jurisdiction does not have a zoning district (or General Plan land use designation) that allows the density and unit type proposed by the applicant, then the applicant may choose any objective standards associated with another zoning district or designation that facilitate the Builder's Remedy 2.0 Project's density and unit type, and those standards will apply. 7 New Affordability Requirements In exchange for these new restrictions on Builder's Remedy projects, AB 1893 lowers the affordability set-aside requirements for accessing the Builder's Remedy. Prior to AB 1893, a project must have been either 20 percent affordable to lower-income households or 100 percent affordable to moderate or middle-income households to qualify for the Builder's Remedy. 8 Under AB 1893, a project that satisfies one of the following affordability requirements will qualify for the Builder's Remedy: 9 at least 7 percent of the units are affordable to extremely low-income households at least 10 percent of the units are affordable to very low-income households at least 13 percent of the units are affordable to lower-income households 100 percent of the units are affordable to moderate-income households projects that propose 10 units or fewer (regardless of affordability level), where the project site is smaller than one acre and the project exceeds a minimum density of 10 du/acre 10 If a jurisdiction has its own requirements regarding greater affordability percentages or "deeper" affordability levels, AB 1893 allows the jurisdiction to impose those requirements instead &ndash; subject to certain restrictions &ndash; but only if it first makes findings that those requirements will not render the Builder's Remedy project financially infeasible. 11 Further, the local agency cannot require an affordable percentage greater than 20 percent and cannot require projects to comply with any other aspect of the local inclusionary ordinance. Critically, AB 1893 introduces a new requirement for the affordable units in a Builder's Remedy 2.0 project: The affordable units must have comparable bedroom and bathroom counts with the market-rate units. 12 New Benefits and Protections for Builder's Remedy Projects AB 1893 also aims to clarify the process for entitling a Builder's Remedy project. It does this by providing additional guidance about the entitlement process, introducing new restrictions to curtail burdensome processing tactics commonly employed by jurisdictions and extending other benefits to facilitate Builder's Remedy projects: AB 1893 expressly provides that cities and counties may not require Bu