# Fall Tv Preview 2025

**Source**: https://www.vanityfair.com/hollywood/story/fall-tv-preview-2025#intcid=_vanity-fair-hollywood-right-rail_577dfd13-c0a0-49b4-bdeb-0f55e4c56b01_popular4-2
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:15:13.246083+00:00

---

24 TV Shows We Can’t Wait to See This Fall | Vanity Fair Skip to main content Newsletters Menu Menu POLITICS HOLLYWOOD ROYALS STYLE CULTURE POLITICS HOLLYWOOD ROYALS STYLE CULTURE BUSINESS CELEBRITY VIDEO WHAT IS CINEMA? MORE NEWSLETTERS PODCASTS MAGAZINE ARCHIVE VF SHOP Search Search Sign In coming attractions 24 TV Shows We Can’t Wait to See This Fall Including old favorites and intriguing newcomers featuring the likes of Claire Danes, Jude Law, and Glen Powell. By Hillary Busis , Richard Lawson , David Canfield , Savannah Walsh , and Chris Murphy August 13, 2025 From Peacock, Hulu, and Netflix. Save Story Save this story Save Story Save this story Unless you’re devoted to Love Island or And Just Like That… —and, let’s face it, if you’re reading this, you probably are—the summer months can feel like a vast desert for TV lovers. So it’s a good thing that the end of the 2025 Emmy season will lead into a raft of intriguing fall premieres. We’ve got stalwart old favorites, like Slow Horses and Stranger Things; we’ve got shiny new projects, coming from proven talents (hello again, Ken Burns and Vince Gilligan !) and zeitgeisty creators on the cusp of the mainstream (welcome, Rachel Sennott and Tim Robinson —both, incidentally, premiering new comedies on HBO). Read on for more information about the 24 shows we’re most looking forward to, premiering between Labor Day and December 31. Wednesday, season two, part two Premiere date: September 3 Network: Netflix Noteworthy cast: Jenna Ortega, Emma Myers, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Luis Guzmán, Fred Armisen, Steve Buscemi Wednesday became Netflix’s most popular English-language show of all time following its November 2022 debut, and its sophomore season is finally upon us. Jenna Ortega reprises her titular role as the angsty adolescent daughter of the delightfully macabre Addams family. In season two, she’s reunited with mother Morticia ( Catherine Zeta-Jones ), father Gomez ( Luis Guzmán ), and roommate Enid ( Emma Myers ), as well as Fred Armisen ’s Uncle Fester . And a few new faces have come to populate Wednesday’s gothic orbit, including Christopher Lloyd, Haley Joel Osment, Joanna Lumley, and reportedly even Lady Gaga herself. (Gaga did not appear in the first part of season two, which launched in August—so she’s got to be coming in this batch of episodes.) — Savannah Walsh The Paper Premiere date: September 4 Network: Peacock Noteworthy cast: Domhnall Gleeson, Sabrina Impacciatore Some two decades after the Steve Carell –starring American version of The Office debuted—following the show’s success in the UK with original star Ricky Gervais —a third chapter in the series’ story is being told. Don’t call it a reboot—but rather, a new comedy set in the same workplace universe. “The documentary crew that immortalized Dunder Mifflin’s Scranton branch is in search of a new subject,” says Peacock, “when they discover a dying historic Midwestern newspaper and the publisher trying to revive it with volunteer reporters.” British Independent Film Award nominee Domhnall Gleeson and Sabrina Impacciatore, best known for season two of The White Lotus, star in the mockumentary-style project from Michael Koman ( SNL, Late Night With Conan O’Brien ) and Greg Daniels, who developed the American version of The Office. — S.W. Task Premiere date: September 7 Network: HBO Noteworthy Cast: Mark Ruffalo, Tom Pelphrey, Emilia Jones, Thuso Mbedu Mare of Easttown creator Brad Ingelsby returns to Delco for another gritty drama shot through with dark humor. This one is about Mark Ruffalo ’s Tom, an FBI agent tasked with unmasking a team that’s been robbing drug houses—an operation that, unbeknownst to him, is headed by Tom Pelphrey ’s seemingly mild-mannered Robbie. The cat-and-mouse element adds some tension, moving Task away from well-trod whodunit territory. And after Ruffalo’s years in Marvel movies, it’s certainly exciting to see him play a real guy again. — Hillary Busis Only Murders in the Building, season five Premiere date: September 9 Network: Hulu Noteworthy cast: Steve Martin, Martin Short, Selena Gomez, Renée Zellweger, Christoph Waltz, Téa Leoni, Keegan-Michael Key Once again, Hulu’s cozy murder comedy has drawn an impressive cast of guest stars for its new outing. But after a sojourn in Los Angeles, it’s also getting back to basics. As showrunner John Hoffmann recently told Deadline : “We’re going straight into a New York story that’s happening very much currently. It’s also happening across the country, obviously, but also in the city itself. We’re pulling from the headlines to ask very specific questions about the balance of power in New York and who has that power…. The history of power in New York is pretty colorful, with the old Mob and the new Mob mixing in. What do those two look like, and how do they sit on either side, with our trio in the center of it?” — HB The Girlfriend Premiere date: September 10 Network: Prime Video Noteworthy cast: Robin Wright, Olivia Cooke, Laurie Davidson, Waleed Zuaiter Robin Wright is entering Claire Underwood mode again for this adaptation of author Michelle Frances ’s psychological thriller, about a wealthy woman who’s convinced her beloved son’s new girlfriend ( Olivia Cooke ) is lying about her past. Seems like classic streaming-limited-series material in the post– Big Little Lies era, with one fun twist: Wright is executive-producing the series and also directing it, in addition to starring on it. — H.B. The Morning Show, season four Premiere date: September 17 Network: Apple TV+ Noteworthy cast: Jennifer Aniston, Reese Witherspoon, Marion Cotillard, Billy Crudup, Karen Pittman When last we left embattled TV news anchor Bradley Jackson ( Reese Witherspoon ), she was turning herself in to the authorities for her role in covering up her brother’s involvement in the January 6 storming of the Capitol. (Y’know, normal morning-news-personality stuff.) Her coworker and frenemy, Alex Levy ( Jennifer Aniston ), was dealing with the fallout from her relationship with a tech zillionaire, played by Jon Hamm. We’re not really sure where season four of Apple’s loopy but engaging current events melodrama will find Bradley and Alex—or newcomer Marion Cotillard as a network exec—but we are eager as ever to find out. At its best, The Morning Show is a glossy good time; it may not be the most politically trenchant show on the air, but at least it swings big. — Richard Lawson Black Rabbit Premiere date: September 18 Network: Netflix Noteworthy cast: Jason Bateman, Jude Law, Troy Kotsur Three years after the end of Ozark , Jason Bateman is back with another Netflix crime series. This one is set far afield of Ozark ’s rural lakeside, bringing us to the belly of Manhattan, where Bateman’s chaotic character—a gambling-addicted ne’er-do-well—returns to mess up the life of his restaurateur brother, played by Jude Law. Bateman and Law might not be the most obvious sibling pair , but both are fine actors. And there’s good pedigree behind the camera too; cocreator Zach Baylin was Oscar-nominated for writing the film King Richard. Plus, the series was shot entirely in and around New York City, which ought to give it the same specific time-and-place texture that benefited Ozark. We’re looking forward to something dark, suspenseful, and elegantly tailored. Who said only HBO can do that? — R.L. The Lowdown Premiere date: September 23 Network: FX Noteworthy cast: Ethan Hawke, Ryan Kiera Armstrong, Kaniehtiio Horn, Tim Blake Nelson, Jeanne Tripplehorn, Kyle MacLachlan Creator Sterlin Harjo follows up Reservation Dogs with this drama, focused on Ethan Hawke (who also executive-produces) as Lee Raybon, a Tulsa native, journalist, and amateur sleuth investigating the suspicious suicide of a powerful family’s black sheep ( Tim Blake Nelson ). FX describes the show as “Tulsa noir,” a label that makes it sound like the Sooner State’s answer to the same network’s Midwestern crime drama, Fargo —and TV could certainly use more shows like Fargo. — H.B. Slow Horses, season five Premiere date: September 24 Network: Apple TV+ Noteworthy cast: Gary Oldman, Jack Lowden, Kristin Scott Thomas, Rosalind Eleazar Tell your dad: Apple TV+ is planning on not one, not two, but three more seasons of Gary Oldman ’s spy dramedy, based on author Mick Herron ’s Slough House series—which itself includes eight novels, with a ninth on the way, plus five novellas. Which means that Oldman might need to adjust his plan to retire sometime in the near future . This year’s installment comes in the wake of season four’s quartet of Primetime Emmy nominations, including nods for outstanding drama series and Oldman’s acting work. “That is truly the wonderful gift that keeps on giving,” the star recently told Deadline. “I just adore the hell out of it, and the people. It is just such a wonderful thing, really, to be part of.” And part of, and part of. — H.B. Chad Powers Premiere date: September 30 Network: Hulu Noteworthy cast: Glen Powell, Steve Zahn, Toby Huss, Quentin Plair Few people have had a bigger few years than Glen Powell: He led the 2023 box office phenomenon Anyone but You and dominated the spring-summer of 2024 with hit movies both in theaters ( Twisters ) and on streaming ( Hit Man ). There’s some delightful surprise, then, in seeing such a bona fide movie star turn to a shaggy TV comedy for his next act. Based on an Eli Manning character sketch, this Hulu half hour finds Powell playing a troublemaking quarterback who dons a disguise to keep his crashing football career alive. — David Canfield Devil in Disguise: John Wayne Gacy Premiere date: October 16 Network: Peacock Noteworthy cast: Michael Chernus, Gabriel Luna James Badge Dale The minds behind Peacock’s take on the notorious serial killer aren’t openly slagging Netflix’s Monster series—but they seem very determined to make their murder show the right way. “Absolutely in no way did I want to be a part of something that was glorifying John Gacy,” a