# Hacked Brain Adderall Cautionary Tale

**Source**: http://www.theverge.com/2012/7/26/3184496/hacked-brain-adderall-cautionary-tale
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:44:22.046486+00:00

---

How I hacked my brain with Adderall: a cautionary tale | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. How I hacked my brain with Adderall: a cautionary tale Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Features Close Features Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Features Entertainment Close Entertainment Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Entertainment How I hacked my brain with Adderall: a cautionary tale A funny thing happened on the way to The Matrix by Trent Wolbe Close Trent Wolbe Last published Aug 8, 2014 Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Trent Wolbe Jul 26, 2012, 2:38 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads add_lead Evolution is a nice, big idea. It connotes the glacial pace of an unmeditated act unfolding upon species, concepts, and ecosystems. It certainly doesn&rsquo;t usually get branded as a feeling. But a couple months ago I felt this thing. Maybe a little like what a mommy feels when her fetus kicks the wall crossed with how the baby feels when it gets its pre-K diploma, and the best word I can come up with for it is evolution. Not the glacial kind, but the real-time, Matrix-flavored kind. I was too busy barreling through the wicked pipe of a 30-milligram Adderall to think about it much when it happened, though. Half an hour into my sunrise dose, I logged into Lynda.com, the extraordinarily put-together training site used by corporate operations to keep their employees up on hot software trends. As an avid Monday Night Football chyron fan, I had promised myself for years that I would learn After Effects as soon as I had the free time; the chemical wave pushed me through an especially potent laziness that has always kept me from becoming the motion graphics expert I knew I wanted to be. "I know kung fu." &ndash; Neo, 1999 There I sat, glued to my chair, watching the instructional videos on my laptop, guzzling Coke Zero, and practicing in the software on my external monitor. I optimized my posture over the course of the first few hours, ironing out repetitive stress pain as it came along, taking smoke breaks between every chapter: "Getting Started With After Effects," "Learning to Animate," "Precomposing and Nesting Compositions." As the sun dipped below the horizon, I found myself at chapter 19: "Rendering and Compression," and finally, at dusk, Chapter 21: "Conclusion." My virtual instructor Chad Perkins wished me well in my motion graphics career and I realized that I was falling in love with him: his nimble pick-whipping and soothing color correction subtly opening the door to my racing heart. I became one with him, and, as a result, I internalized After Effects. As the credits rolled, Neo flashed into my head. "I know After Effects," he said, opening his eyes and staring up at Morpheus through my corneas. Less than a month later, I had landed my first job producing visuals for a national tour for the popular electronic jam band Sound Tribe Sector 9. Although they weren&rsquo;t scrolling inches below Mike Ditka&rsquo;s moustache, my motion graphics were now going to be seen by hundreds of thousands of people on a 30-foot LED pyramid, and my ESPN debut felt so close I could smile at it. This was life on speed; this was me jacking into the Matrix; this was a repeatable equation: Lynda + Adderall = Knowledge + Skills. Something powerful came to life here, something new and useful and limitless that had incubated inside me for 29 years, but wouldn't come out without the help of a shitload of tiny pink pills. &ldquo;The Black Shakes. What causes it?&rdquo; &ndash; Johnny Mnemonic, 1995 &ldquo;Information overload! Technological fucking civilization&hellip; we can't live without it.&rdquo; &ndash; Spider Up until my mid-twenties, I considered myself a learning maximalist: never wanting to specify a direction for myself, preferring always to try to keep up with everything that was going on around me. For the most part, I was able to. Things hadn&rsquo;t reached critical mass yet, social content was just ramping up with the early days of YouTube, the heyday of MySpace, and the beginnings of Twitter and Flickr. I recall very clearly the moment I realized it was no longer possible. I was working as a producer for a daily public radio show and was responsible for scouring the web for cultural tidbits to pitch each morning for coverage. My content digestion system, a tightly-engineered machine woven from Bloglines, specialized Firefox plugins, and a top-notch gChat list was race-lubricated and flying high, content bubbling and churning below me all around the Internet. The production value of content in general at that time was manageable enough to feel like I could at least be cognisant of the most important LOLcats, Bieber memes, and new music that surfaced each and every day. One day in late 2007 a friend was astonished to learn I hadn't yet seen footage of the Japanese cat that goes into boxes, &#29305;&#35347;&#12377;&#12427;&#12397;&#12371;. I watched the video, and it was right in my wheelhouse, something I normally would have been the firstie of in my peer group. Fear of missing out (or FOMO, a social media-fueled psychosis we don&rsquo;t yet fully understand) gripped me, a raw panic searing the synapses of my inner learning maximalist. What had kept me from getting to it before she did? Was my machine rusted out from too much linkbait? Over time, it dawned on me that I didn't really care that I hadn't seen it. A triumph of virality in its purest form, but still nothing that shocked me. The content flood had finally risen above my nostrils, and the scope of my world began to shrink out of necessity. With maximalism no longer tenable, I had to focus on something, exorcise a massive lump of FOMO from my psyche, pick an area of expertise, and aim squarely for mastery of it. Fear of missing out (or FOMO, a social media-fueled psychosis we don&rsquo;t yet fully understand) gripped me For years and years I struggled with this. As a freelancing work-from-home type it is often difficult to motivate oneself to follow through on project ideas, especially when they come fast and furious at all hours of the day. My fellow Virgo Lil Wayne has often discussed the endless flood of lyrics that scream through his head so violently that when he finally gets to work in the studio, it's a relief: he can, at last, depressurize. But Wayne is an extreme artist, far more extreme than most, and he treats his extremities heavily with codeine cough syrup and marijuana. If I wanted to pull myself up out of the flood of information and ideas, I needed some sort of therapy: I had to find my dank drank. With a little help from my already-artificially-hyper-productive friends, I think I knew where to find it. "Floor it." &ndash; Officer Jack Traven, 1994 Adderall&rsquo;s active ingredient is amphetamine. Like most useful drugs, amphetamine has been used in one form or another for centuries (popular references include the hospital scene from Downton Abbey Episode One, Dexys Midnight Runners, and, looking ahead, the Neurachem of Richard Morgan&rsquo;s Altered Carbon ). Just as Merck used to manufacture the best cocaine on the entire planet, Shire now produces the most reliable amphetamine money can buy. And it's good shit, so good that it sits with opium and cocaine on the USA&rsquo;s List of Schedule II Controlled substances. Getting a prescription for Adderall is not hard Getting a prescription for Adderall is not hard. Nearly every major city has a weekly alternative news and arts magazine that is half-full of ads for escorts and pain management clinics. You've probably seen them: "CHRONIC BACK PAIN? GLAUCOMA? ADULT ADHD? WE CAN HELP." I called one of these clinics, located in a zip code painfully familiar to all fans of early-90s teen sitcoms, and scheduled a consultation about my presumptive case of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder. After answering a few multiple-choice questions about my attention span (the "right" answers were knee-slappingly clear), the briefest physical I've ever encountered, and handing over two hundred dollars in cash, I walked out the door with 900 milligrams of generic adderall. The super-jolt of energy novice users experience mellows after a few days of use and changes character dramatically. It does become a very sufficient coffee replacement: a little ritual combined with chemical stimulation that motivates you to get out of bed. But coming up daily on Adderall has less to do with a caffeinated sensation than it does with becoming a detail-oriented post-human, a machine following self-imposed routines with little regard for anything outside the routine&rsquo;s scope. It turns out that my Adderall self has a knack for accounting,