# B4226070179043.Htm

**Source**: http://www.businessweek.com/print/magazine/content/11_18/b4226070179043.htm
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:12:18.609772+00:00

---

Bloomberg Businessweek - Bloomberg Skip to content Bloomberg the Company &amp; Its Products The Company &amp; its Products Bloomberg Terminal Demo Request Bloomberg Anywhere Remote Login Bloomberg Anywhere Login Bloomberg Customer Support Customer Support Bloomberg Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world For Customers Bloomberg Anywhere Remote Login Software Updates Manage Products and Account Information Support Americas +1 212 318 2000 EMEA +44 20 7330 7500 Asia Pacific +65 6212 1000 Company About Careers Inclusion at Bloomberg Tech at Bloomberg Philanthropy Sustainability Bloomberg Beta Communications Press Announcements Press Contacts Follow Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Products Bloomberg Terminal Data Trading Risk Compliance Indices Industry Products Bloomberg Law Bloomberg Tax Bloomberg Government BloombergNEF Media Bloomberg Markets Bloomberg Technology Bloomberg Pursuits Bloomberg Politics Bloomberg Opinion Bloomberg Businessweek Bloomberg Live Conferences Bloomberg Radio Bloomberg Television News Bureaus Media Services Bloomberg Media Distribution Advertising Company About Careers Inclusion at Bloomberg Tech at Bloomberg Philanthropy Sustainability Bloomberg Beta Communications Press Announcements Press Contacts Follow Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Products Bloomberg Terminal Data Trading Risk Compliance Indices Industry Products Bloomberg Law Bloomberg Tax Bloomberg Government BloombergNEF Media Bloomberg Markets Bloomberg Technology Bloomberg Pursuits Bloomberg Politics Bloomberg Opinion Bloomberg Businessweek Bloomberg Live Conferences Bloomberg Radio Bloomberg Television News Bureaus Media Services Bloomberg Media Distribution Advertising Bloomberg Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world For Customers Bloomberg Anywhere Remote Login Software Updates Manage Contracts and Orders Support Americas +1 212 318 2000 EMEA +44 20 7330 7500 Asia Pacific +65 6212 1000 Sign In Subscribe Search Live TV Markets Chevron Down Economics Industries Tech Politics Businessweek Opinion More Chevron Down US Edition Chevron Down Menu Subscribe Map animation: Cedric Sam; Data: EUMETSAT Catastrophe and Weird Science: What Really Happened in the Storm Clouds Over Dubai? By Kit Chellel Finsta for Bloomberg Businessweek Cars, Cognac and Trash: 10 Companies to Watch Right Now Analysts at Bloomberg Intelligence have sifted through thousands of publicly traded companies to highlight a select few worthy of investors’ attention. 3M Might Just Escape Its Toxic Chemical Legacy Decades of selling PFAS left the iconic American manufacturer mired in legal liabilities. A new CEO is hoping to spark a turnaround. Chris Buck for Bloomberg Businessweek; Stylist: Oscar Sanchez/Dry Clean Only The Big Take A Crypto Billionaire’s Path From Pariah to Trump Moneyman Justin Sun was facing an SEC fraud case, but $90 million of Trump coins later, he’s doing business with the president’s family. Businessweek Daily Sign up for the newsletter Jamie Kelter Davis/Bloomberg A Key Piece of the US Jobs Puzzle Is Missing Because of the Shutdown The Fed will have to make do with private data for now. Plus: The Everybody’s Business podcast talks about threatened firings. Taylor Swift Has a New Album and Another Billion Dollars ‘One Battle After Another’ Tosses a Molotov Cocktail Into the Megaplex At 66, I Decided to Pay Back a Lifetime of Sleep Debt Sleep researchers say rest can restore the body and mind — but what happens when decades of deprivation leave you permanently in arrears? Pursuits Longevity Science and Healthspan Hype Is Exhausting. Try a Lil Cheat Instead Productivity Tips From the Boss Why the Art World Is Clamoring for Anselm Kiefer Again Chanel’s New J12 Bleu Watch Is Fall&#x27;s Most Subtle Statement of Taste The Best Movies, TV, Books, Art and Theater Arriving in October Chefs and Top Snack Brands Are Discovering the Ancient Allure of the Rose In this issue MrBeast&#x27;s Quest for an Entertainment Empire Paramount’s New Boss Faces a Media Industry Under Assault AI&#x27;s Impact on the Future of Media In this issue Bessent on Tariffs, Deficits and Embracing Trump’s Economic Plan How Doodles Became a Cutthroat Billion-Dollar Dog Industry Confessions of a Laptop Farmer: How an American Helped North Korea’s Wild Remote Worker Scheme In this issue Elon Musk&#x27;s Empire is Under Threat from Elon Musk Starbuck&#x27;s CEO Plans to Tame the Rush-Hour Free-for-All How Hims Became the King of Knockoff Weight-Loss Drugs In this issue The Eternal Quest to Save Gap Companies Are Abandoning Climate Pledges The Next Reality TV President?? See all issues Chevron Right In this issue MrBeast&#x27;s Quest for an Entertainment Empire Paramount’s New Boss Faces a Media Industry Under Assault AI&#x27;s Impact on the Future of Media In this issue Bessent on Tariffs, Deficits and Embracing Trump’s Economic Plan How Doodles Became a Cutthroat Billion-Dollar Dog Industry Confessions of a Laptop Farmer: How an American Helped North Korea’s Wild Remote Worker Scheme In this issue Elon Musk&#x27;s Empire is Under Threat from Elon Musk Starbuck&#x27;s CEO Plans to Tame the Rush-Hour Free-for-All How Hims Became the King of Knockoff Weight-Loss Drugs In this issue The Eternal Quest to Save Gap Companies Are Abandoning Climate Pledges The Next Reality TV President?? See all issues Chevron Right Radio Bloomberg Businessweek Daily Big Boat Living Arrow Right 10:46 The Best B-Schools 2025-56 These Are the Best Business Schools in the World Government Steps Up Campaign Against Business School Diversity Live Q&amp;A: How to Maximize Your MBA in Changing Times MBAs Cost More and Are Less Profitable as ROI Falls Elon, Inc Over and Out Listen: 40:06 Elon, Inc Will Elon Get Paid $1 Trillion? Listen: 32:11 Elon, Inc. Tesla&#x27;s Master Plan, Part 4 Listen: 25:45 Elon, Inc. Are Elon and Mark Friends Again? Listen: 14:31 Michelle Rohn for Bloomberg Businessweek The Tech Fashion Darling Accused of Swindling Investors Out of $300 Million CaaStle pulled off one of the biggest financial heists in recent tech history, according to the SEC and DOJ. The company’s embattled CEO says there’s more to the story. Going Viral The story behind the hit Ryan Haskins for Bloomberg Businessweek; Photos: Rejuran; Getty Images How South Korean Salmon Sperm Facials Became America’s Latest Beauty Obsession Celebrity endorsements and TikTok buzz helped turn injections of fish DNA into a med-spa juggernaut. Monchhichi Makes a Comeback Amid Labubu Craze Young European Backpackers Are Being Lured to Australia for Mining Jobs Ones to Watch Photo Illustrations: 731; Photos: Berner: David Urbanke. Esparza: Star Montana. Shulman: Barry Chin/Getty Images. Storer: Emma Mcintyre/Getty Images. Young: Justin Goff/Getty Images. Yu: Visual China Group/Getty Images. All others: courtesy subject The Entertainers and Executives Shaping the Arts and Culture Get to know the musicians, podcasters and artists who are shaping the future of the industry. A Walk With Getting to know the most interesting people in business Ériver Hijano for Bloomberg Businessweek The German Owner of Politico Wants Another US Media Outlet After taking full control of publisher Axel Springer, Mathias Döpfner has a pile of cash and the desire to grow. The Ironman CEO Wants to Turn the Race Organizer Into a Lifestyle Brand How Bombas Built a Fancy Socks Empire With $500 Million in Sales Buying Power Amanda Mull on consumer culture Bobby Doherty for Bloomberg Businessweek The Social Media Trend Machine Is Spitting Out Weirder and Weirder Results Trends always have an element of randomness, but our algorithmic feeds have made them unintelligible. Extra Salt Deena Shanker on the food business Rui Pu for Bloomberg Businessweek; Photos: Shutterstock (6) Why America’s Fridges Are Overflowing With Sauce The pandemic is over, but households are still stocked up on fancy ketchups and chili crisp like the world could end tomorrow. The Boom in ‘Better for You’ Kid Snacks Is Worse for Parents Taco Bell’s Not-So-Secret Sauce: An Endless Stream of New Stuff B-Schools A crash course on the best business schools Photo illustration: 731; Getty Images Harvard Business School Is Most Coveted Among MBAs Globally Its enduring brand power makes it the one school grads would choose if costs and admission weren’t factors. Top US Business Schools Are Shutting Down DEI Initiatives Global Business School Leaders Face Increased Tension and Anticipation Field Day Ira Boudway and Randall Williams on the business of sports Alex Gamsu Jenkins for Bloomberg Businessweek Leagues Are Struggling to Deal With a Certain Type of Sports Bet “Player prop” wagers are raising concerns about integrity. Ones to Watch Photo Illustrations: 731; Photos: Berner: David Urbanke. Esparza: Star Montana. Shulman: Barry Chin/Getty Images. Storer: Emma Mcintyre/Getty Images. Young: Justin Goff/Getty Images. Yu: Visual China Group/Getty Images. All others: courtesy subject The Entertainers and Executives Shaping the Arts and Culture Get to know the musicians, podcasters and artists who are shaping the future of the industry. Buying Power Amanda Mull on consumer culture Bobby Doherty for Bloomberg Businessweek The Social Media Trend Machine Is Spitting Out Weirder and Weirder Results Trends always have an element of randomness, but our algorithmic feeds have made them unintelligible. Field Day Ira Boudway and Randall Williams on the business of sports Alex Gamsu Jenkins for Bloomberg Businessweek Leagues Are Struggling to Deal With a Certain Type of Sports Bet “Player prop” wagers are raising concerns about integrity. The Archive The AI Issue June 1, 2025 Trump’s Trade War May 1, 2025 Sear