# Nasa Hubble Pillars Of Creation High Def Image

**Source**: http://www.theverge.com/2015/1/6/7500149/nasa-hubble-pillars-of-creation-high-def-image
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:51:25.079668+00:00

---

One of NASA’s best images gets a stunning high-def remake | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. One of NASA’s best images gets a stunning high-def remake Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Verge Archives Close Verge Archives Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Verge Archives Features Close Features Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Features Report Close Report Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Report One of NASA’s best images gets a stunning high-def remake If you buy something from a Verge link, Vox Media may earn a commission. See our ethics statement. by Andrew Webster Close Andrew Webster Senior entertainment editor Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Andrew Webster Jan 6, 2015, 3:02 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads If you buy something from a Verge link, Vox Media may earn a commission. See our ethics statement. Andrew Webster Close Andrew Webster Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Andrew Webster is an entertainment editor covering streaming, virtual worlds, and every single Pokémon video game. Andrew joined The Verge in 2012, writing over 4,000 stories. To celebrate its 20th anniversary, NASA’s iconic “Pillars of Creation” photo has been recaptured in stunning detail. The Hubble Space Telescope has taken a new, larger, high definition image of the pillars, which was then combined with several other Hubble images to create the best look yet. Originally captured by Hubble’s Wide Field Planetary Camera 2 back in 1995, the “Pillars of Creation” depicts three gaseous clouds that stretch five light-years high. They’re located in a small region of the Eagle Nebula, some 6,500 light-years away from Earth. “Stars are being born deep inside the pillars, which are made of cold hydrogen gas laced with dust,” NASA explains. The new version is not only bigger, but more colorful as well, rendering oxygen, sulfur, and hydrogen in brilliant blues, oranges, and greens. “We coloured it that way not because it was pretty, but because it told you something about the physics,” Arizona State University’s Paul Scowen told New Scientist . “Although it was pretty.” Images courtesy hubblesite.com . Previous Next 1 / 3 The original image, captured in 1995. Credit: NASA, ESA, STScI, and J. Hester and P. Scowen (Arizona State University) Follow topics and authors from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates. Andrew Webster Close Andrew Webster Senior entertainment editor Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Andrew Webster Features Close Features Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Features NASA Close NASA Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All NASA Report Close Report Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Report Science Close Science Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Science Space Close Space Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Space Most Popular Most Popular Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store Everything is terrorism in Trump’s America Behold: The Lego Game Boy has already been modded to play games for real Satya Nadella appoints a new CEO to run Microsoft’s biggest businesses Perplexity’s Comet browser is now available to everyone for free The Verge Daily A free daily digest of the news that matters most. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Verge Archives Crackdown on Silk Road, the underground drug market Amazon is ‘winding down’ some of its DEI programs Meta appoints new Trump-friendly policy chief The US finalizes CHIPS Act funding for Samsung and Texas Instruments Kia drivers are going to get Google Maps data soon OpenAI sued by Canada’s biggest media outlets Crackdown on Silk Road, the underground drug market Verge Staff Jan 22 Amazon is ‘winding down’ some of its DEI programs Emma Roth Jan 10 Meta appoints new Trump-friendly policy chief Emma Roth Jan 2 The US finalizes CHIPS Act funding for Samsung and Texas Instruments Wes Davis Dec 21, 2024 Kia drivers are going to get Google Maps data soon Umar Shakir Dec 12, 2024 OpenAI sued by Canada’s biggest media outlets Andrew J. Hawkins Nov 29, 2024 Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories 2:00 PM UTC With a Friend like this, who needs enemies? Two hours ago I’ve fallen into Sora’s slippery slop 1:03 PM UTC I tried Amazon and Google’s new smart home gadgets, ask me anything! 3:06 PM UTC The quest for every Gap store playlist ever Oct 2 Everything is terrorism in Trump’s America 1:57 AM UTC Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved