# Jennifer Senior

**Source**: https://www.theatlantic.com/author/jennifer-senior/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:23:13.510719+00:00

---

Jennifer Senior, The Atlantic Skip to content Site Navigation The Atlantic Popular Latest Newsletters Sections Politics Ideas Fiction Technology Science Photo Economy Culture Planet Global Books AI Watchdog Health Education Projects Features Family Events Washington Week Progress National Security Explore The Atlantic Archive Play The Atlantic Games Listen to Podcasts and Articles The Print Edition Latest Issue Past Issues Give a Gift Search The Atlantic Quick Links Audio Crossword Puzzle Magazine Archive Your Subscription Popular Latest Newsletters Sign In Subscribe Jennifer Senior Follow Jennifer Senior is a staff writer at The Atlantic. She won the 2022 Pulitzer Prize for Feature Writing, the 2022 National Magazine Award for Feature Writing, and the 2024 National Magazine Award for Columns &amp; Essays. Before joining The Atlantic in 2021, she spent five years at The New York Times , first as a daily book critic and then as an op-ed columnist; before that, she spent 18 years at New York magazine, writing profiles and cover stories about politics, social science, and mental health. Her long-form journalism has earned her two Front Page awards, a GLAAD Media Award, and appearances in both The Best American Political Writing and The Best American Nature and Science Writing . She is also the author of On Grief: Love, Loss, Memory and All Joy and No Fun: The Paradox of Modern Parenthood , which spent eight weeks on the New York Times best-seller list; has been translated into 12 languages; and was named one of Slate ’s top 10 books of 2014. Latest Why Can’t Americans Sleep? Insomnia has become a public-health emergency. Jennifer Senior June 30, 2025 Illustration by Armando Veve Focus on the Things That Matter How do we move forward, as a nation, without looking at strangers as potential enemies? Jennifer Senior November 7, 2024 David Avazzadeh / Connected Archives The Art of Survival In living with cancer, Suleika Jaouad has learned to wrench meaning from our short time on Earth. Jennifer Senior May 15, 2024 Heather Sten for The Atlantic Biden Silences the Doubters He’s always been master of “the connect.” Jennifer Senior March 8, 2024 Alex Brandon / Getty What Will Happen to the American Psyche If Trump Is Reelected? Our bodies are not designed to handle chronic stress. Jennifer Senior December 8, 2023 Matt Huynh ¿Qué pasará con la psique estadounidense si Trump es reeligido? Nuestros cuerpos no están diseñados para soportar el estrés crónico. Jennifer Senior December 8, 2023 Matt Huynh The Death of an Indispensable Person Carmen Ayala, caretaker for Adele Halperin, the subject of The Atlantic ’s September 2023 cover story, has died. She was 81. Jennifer Senior August 23, 2023 Yoshiyuki Matsumura for The Atlantic The Ones We Sent Away I thought my mother was an only child. I was wrong. Jennifer Senior August 7, 2023 Photo-illustration by Oliver Munday. Courtesy of Rona Senior. The Puzzling Gap Between How Old You Are and How Old You Think You Are There are good reasons you always feel 20 percent younger than your actual age. Jennifer Senior February 23, 2023 Illustration by Klaus Kremmerz John Fetterman and the Performance of Wellness The particular challenge of enduring depression as a public figure Jennifer Senior February 17, 2023 Patrick Semansky / AP The Atlantic Daily Get our guide to the day’s biggest news and ideas, delivered to your inbox every weekday and Sunday mornings. See more newsletters Email Address Sign Up Your newsletter subscriptions are subject to The Atlantic&#x27;s Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions . Ideas That Matter Subscribe and support more than 160 years of independent journalism. Subscribe Popular Links About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Reprints &amp; Permissions Podcasts Radio Atlantic Good on Paper The David Frum Show How to Age Up Autocracy in America Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Atlantic Editions Newsletters Follow facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin flipboard About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Reprints &amp; Permissions Podcasts Radio Atlantic Good on Paper The David Frum Show How to Age Up Autocracy in America Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Atlantic Editions Newsletters Follow facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin flipboard Site Information Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices privacy-options Advertising Guidelines Terms &amp; Conditions Terms of Sale Responsible Disclosure Site Map TheAtlantic.com © 2025 The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply