# Russell Brand

**Source**: https://nymag.com/intelligencer/tags/russell-brand/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:19:41.135498+00:00

---

Russell Brand - Intelligencer Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Displaying all articles tagged: Russell Brand Nov. 11, 2014 Russell Brand Has Written a Populist Manifesto We read it so you don’t have to. By Annie Lowrey gossipmonger Aug. 11, 2010 Jessica Loves Her Curves, Lucky Magazine Does Not Helen Mirren gives Russell Brand a bath; Lady Gaga is an “occasional” coke user. gossipmonger July 28, 2010 Ed Westwick Turning Gossip Girl Cast Against Jessica Szohr This was inevitable. gossipmonger July 20, 2010 Lindsay Lohan Goes to Jail, Poses in Bikini All in a day’s work! gossipmonger July 9, 2010 Diners Confuse Cristiano Ronaldo for ‘the Situation’ And all the rest of today’s gossip! Guaranteed to make you smarter! gossipmonger July 8, 2010 Jesus Luz Is Left Alone to Party in Rio Madonna, meanwhile, is hard at work in London. gossipmonger June 1, 2010 Heidi Montag’s Breakup Is for a Reality Show, Too The ‘Hills’ star has left Spencer Pratt and found a new reality roommate. gossipmonger May 28, 2010 Alicia Keys Is Expecting And she and Swizz Beatz are engaged! gossipmonger May 26, 2010 Serena Williams Is Single Again The tennis star and her boyfriend Common have split. gossipmonger May 21, 2010 Russell Brand Made Out With Someone’s Grandma Don’t tell Katy Perry. gossipmonger Apr. 16, 2010 Spencer Pratt Will ‘No Longer Deal With Fake People’ Internally fake, we think he must mean. And more celebrity trivia, in our daily gossip roundup. gossipmonger Apr. 15, 2010 Madonna Likes Her Glee Episode, and Matthew Morrison “I think Mr. Schuester is very cute.” gossipmonger Apr. 12, 2010 Vincent Gallo Would Rather Have Lots of Fancy Shoes Than One Fancy Painting And more “they’re just like us” celebrity nuggets, in today’s gossip roundup. gossipmonger Feb. 2, 2010 Katy Perry Found Out Russell Brand Was Going to Propose From a Google Alert And more celebrity marginalia, in our daily gossip roundup. By Katie Goldsmith gossipmonger Feb. 1, 2010 Snooki Loses Her Pouf The Snooks and the Sitch represented at last night’s Grammys, and more in our celebrity gossip roundup. By Katie Goldsmith the most important people in the world Jan. 5, 2010 Off the Market: Katy Perry and Russell Brand At least for the moment. By Jessica Pressler gossipmonger Dec. 30, 2009 Where in the World Is Tiger Woods? Many say he’s headed to rehab. But for what? By Mike Vilensky gossipmonger Dec. 8, 2009 Lady Gaga Meets Queen Elizabeth The perfect occasion for pleather! By Katie Goldsmith gossipmonger Nov. 10, 2009 Demi Moore Is a Puma, Not a Cougar Rowr! Purrr. Grrrowl. It’s all the same. By Katie Goldsmith gossipmonger Nov. 9, 2009 Levi Johnston and Jon Gosselin, Together At Last Everyone, it’s time to give up. By Katie Goldsmith gossipmonger Oct. 14, 2009 Paris Hilton Gets a Potbelly The starlet has added a porcine princess to her backyard menagerie. By Katie Goldsmith gossipmonger Oct. 13, 2009 Tyra Banks Wants You to Know She Feels Great Naked And more celebrity TMI, in our daily gossip roundup. By Katie Goldsmith gossipmonger Oct. 7, 2009 None of Tinsley Mortimer’s Friends Want to Be on Her Actually Real Reality Show Ones that aren’t sleeping together, we mean. By Katie Goldsmith gossipmonger Sept. 15, 2009 Diddy Ruins Mickey Rourke’s Evening Plans And more celebrity altercations, in our daily gossip wrap-up. By Katie Goldsmith gossipmonger Aug. 12, 2009 Justin Timberlake May Be Moving to Greenwich What? Is he pregnant? Plus, Usher, Charlie Sheen, and Jill Zarin party together, and more celebrity news, in our daily gossip roundup. By Katie Goldsmith gossipmonger Aug. 6, 2009 Brad Pitt Used to Be a Stoner Plus, Steven Tyler fell off a stage, Posh Spice joins ‘American Idol,’ and more celebrity tidbits in our daily gossip roundup. By Katie Goldsmith gossipmonger July 29, 2009 Marilyn Manson Will See How You Feel About Free Speech When He’s Staring You Down With His Weird Eye Also, Scarlett Johansson and Ryan Reynolds have their first public fight, Taylor Momsen eats teenage boys for breakfast, and Kid Rock thinks Twitter is “gay,” in today’s gossip roundup. By Katie Goldsmith gossipmonger July 14, 2009 Ed Westwick and Chace Crawford Split Westwick is getting kicked out of their joint apartment because he’s too messy. That, and the rest of today’s essential gossip. By Katie Goldsmith Like Us Follow Us Follow Follow About Intelligencer About New York Magazine Newsletters Help Contact Press Media Kit We’re Hiring Privacy Terms Ad Choices Accessibility Do not sell or share my personal data intelligencer is a Vox Media Network . &copy; 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All rights reserved.