# Tyler Cowen Guide 10 5 Hr Layover Los Angeles.Html

**Source**: http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2017/10/tyler-cowen-guide-10-5-hr-layover-los-angeles.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:57:55.319531+00:00

---

The Tyler Cowen Guide to 10.5 hr layover in Los Angeles - Marginal REVOLUTION Toggle navigation About Marginal Revolution Categories Date Archives Our Books Our Textbook: Modern Principles of Economics Marginal Revolution University Search Search Thank-you! You've been successfully added to the Marginal Revolution email subscription list. The Tyler Cowen Guide to 10.5 hr layover in Los Angeles by&nbsp;&nbsp; Tyler Cowen October 25, 2017 at 12:30 am in Film Food and Drink Travel That is a reader request , here goes: I sometimes describe L.A. as the world&#8217;s best city to live in, but one of the worst to visit. Nonetheless you have some pretty good options. With half a day, make sure you have a rental car with the appropriate soundtrack(s). If you start from LAX, pick one road to drive east on, another to head back east to west &#8212; how about Sunset and Pico? Wilshire? Stop and walk as you can , convenient parking is often available. Use Jonathan Gold to pick the right eating places, perhaps Thai and Mexican ? Veer off a wee bit and visit the La Brea Tar Pits, or for a longer trek Watts Towers. Time the sunset for Griffith Park. Deemphasize &#8220;Downtown&#8221; but consider the new Broad Museum for contemporary art. Work in a beach walk at Santa Monica or Venice, preferably the former. See a movie. See another movie. Avoid Beverly Hills. The truly ambitious can drive all the way down Western Ave. and stop for Belizean food along the way to that chapel at the very bottom of the road. Basta! 63 Comments Facebook Twitter RSS Feed print Comments Sort by Top Sort by Recent Sort by Controversial Comments for this post are closed Marginal Revolution University See Courses Learn more about Mercatus Center Fellowships Learn More Subscribe via Email Enter your email address to subscribe to updates. Email Address Subscribe RSS Feed Contact Us Alex Tabarrok Email Alex Follow @atabarrok Tyler Cowen Email Tyler Follow @tylercowen Webmaster Report an issue Blogs We Like Interesting People & Sites Our Web Pages Alex Tabarrok's Home Page Alex's TED talk, how ideas trump crises Conversations with Tyler FDAReview.org Tyler Cowen's Personal Web Page Tyler's ethnic dining guide Apply to Emergent Ventures Books Modern Principles of Economics Tyler Cowen & Alexander Tabarrok Marginal Revolution 2025 About Marginal Revolution Categories Date Archives Our Books Our Textbook: Modern Principles of Economics Marginal Revolution University Facebook Twitter RSS Feed Marginal Revolution University See Courses Search Search Privacy Policy Marginal Revolution 2025