# About Nada

**Source**: https://www.nada.org/nada/about-nada/about-nada
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:50:39.949801+00:00

---

About NADA | NADA Skip to main content National Automobile Dealers Association Log In Log In --> Create Account Help? Search Need help? Contact us. NADA's mission is to serve and represent franchised new-car and -truck dealers, their management and employees. Contact us for more information: Online: Fill out this form Call: 800.557.6232 Email: customerservice@nada.org Username Password Reset Password Quick Filters: NADA ATD ATAE NADA Show ATD Show MENU ADVOCACY Public Policy Priorities Legislative Affairs Regulatory Affairs NADA EDUCATION Education &amp; Consulting Resource Center Academy 20 Group Consulting Dealer Driven: the NADA Podcast NEWS NADA Headlines Press Releases NADA SHOW &amp; EVENTS NADA Show NY Auto Forum Women Driving Vehicle Retail RESEARCH &amp; DATA NADA Data NADA Market Beat Auto Retailing: State by State NADA Dealership Workforce Study Why Local Dealerships Matter MEMBERSHIP NADA Membership Member Benefits NADA Insurance NADA Retirement NADA Affinity Provider Program NADA Vault ABOUT NADA What We Do Government Advocacy Careers at NADA Code of Ethics Board of Directors Executive Staff Advertise With Us NADA Century Award National Automobile Dealers Association WHAT WE DO Government Advocacy Education &amp; Consulting Industry Relations Research NADA Foundation NADA PAC QUICK LINKS NADA | National Automobile Dealers Association ATD | American Truck Dealers ATAE | Automotive Trade Association Executives Log In Create Account Help? Need help? Contact us. NADA's mission is to serve and represent franchised new-car and -truck dealers, their management and employees. Contact us for more information: Online: Fill out this form Call: 800.557.6232 Email: customerservice@nada.org Need help? Contact us. NADA's mission is to serve and represent franchised new-car and -truck dealers, their management and employees. Contact us for more information: Online: Fill out this form Call: 800.557.6232 Email: customerservice@nada.org About NADA For more than 100 years, the National Automobile Dealers Association (NADA) has been the national voice of franchised new-car dealerships, their employees and their customers. Founded in 1917 when 30 dealers came to Washington to successfully oppose a luxury tax on vehicles, NADA continues to work on behalf of its 16,000+ members with all branches of government, car and truck manufacturers, the media and the public. BECOME A MEMBER NADA Quick Facts 1917 Founding Year 16,000+ Franchised New-Car Dealer Members 32,500+ Franchises Represented Two Goals Drive Everything We Do: Learn More About Us: What We Do Jobs at NADA Code of Ethics Board of Directors Executive Staff Goal 1: Be the Voice of the Dealer NADA is the voice of franchised new-car and -truck dealers in the U.S., and we passionately and effectively promote franchised dealer interests before Congress, the executive branch and federal agencies, and the federal courts. Additionally, NADA is the dealer’s best advocate in dealer-manufacturer relations, addressing concerns with manufacturers and distributors. Finally, NADA promotes the benefits of local dealerships and the franchise system to the media, opinion leaders, industry stakeholders and the general public. Goal 2: Accelerate Success for Our Members We want to help strengthen our members’ operations through professional programs and services that improve the business skills of management personnel and the technical capabilities of non-management employees. Offering Premier Education Opportunities Learn More We offer in-person training and consulting, plus webinars and other online learning opportunities. The NADA Academy turns dealers and managers into world-class leaders in their stores and communities. Image Hosting the Annual NADA Show Learn More Image The annual NADA Show is the auto industry event of the year. It's where dealers, manufacturers, exhibitors and experts convene for unparalleled opportunities to network with peers, industry experts and exhibitors all under one roof. The NADA Show is anchored by an expo showcasing the latest products and services for each dealership department. And dealers attending the NADA Show enjoy exclusive access to automaker executives during franchise meetings – one of the premier&nbsp;venues for dealers to discuss manufacturer challenges and opportunities directly with their automakers. To learn more about the Time Dealer of the Year Award that is awarded at the Show click here Publishing Economic Reports and Analyses Learn More NADA produces regular research on the state of the retail automobile industry in the U.S., including annual snapshots of vehicle sales and the economic contributions of franchised new-car and -truck dealers (NADA Data and ATD Data); an annual sales and economic forecast; quarterly economic briefings; and a monthly economic Market Beat publication. Image Helping Dealership Employees During Times of Disaster Learn More Image The NADA Foundation – begun in 1975 – has spearheaded a number of programs to benefit the public and promote initiatives sponsored by franchised dealers. And the NADA Foundation's Emergency Relief Program has distributed millions of dollars to dealership employees and their families affected by natural disasters. The Foundation also leads NADA’s Workforce Initiative, which aims to spark interest in careers at new-car and commercial-truck dealerships, with a special focus on service technicians. Image Our story begins in 1917 when 30 auto dealers traveled to the nation's capital to convince Congress not to impose a luxury tax on the automobile. From that experience, NADA was born. View the NADA Story More of What We Do August 1, 2025 NADA Chairman Tom Castriota – August 2025 Letter to Directors and ATAEs June 1, 2025 NADA Chairman Tom Castriota – May 2025 Letter to Directors and ATAEs February 14, 2025 NADA Chairman Tom Castriota – February 2025 Letter to Directors and ATAEs January 16, 2025 NADA Chairman Gary Gilchrist – January 2025 Letter to Directors and ATAEs October 21, 2024 NADA Chairman Gary Gilchrist – October 2024 Letter to Directors and ATAEs July 10, 2024 NADA Chairman Gary Gilchrist Provides Update on Top Issues January 23, 2023 How NADA Represents Dealers in Washington, DC Back to top --> Back to Top --> About Us About NADA About ATD Membership NADA Membership ATD Membership Contact Us Contact Us Advertise with Us Careers at NADA --> Legal Disclaimer Privacy Notice Accessibility Conditions of Use Coverage Transparency Update Cookie Preferences