# Signup

**Source**: https://cloud.email.hollywoodreporter.com/signup/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:49:23.083818+00:00

---

The Hollywood Reporter Email Alerts &amp; Newsletter Preferences &times; Thank You Your subscription preferences have been updated. Please allow up to 24 hours for changes to take effect. SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTERS Account Info Email Address* We'll never share your email with anyone else. First Name Last Name Zip Code* Country* United States United Kingdom Afghanistan Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, The Democratic Republic of The Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote D'ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guinea Guinea-bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and Mcdonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and The Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and The South Sandwich Islands Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Timor-leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Viet Nam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Are you a voting member of any of the following? &nbsp; AMPAS &nbsp; TV Academy &nbsp; DGA &nbsp; PGA &nbsp; SAG/AFTRA &nbsp; WGA &nbsp; Recording Academy &nbsp; Other Guilds By subscribing to our sites and services, you agree to our Terms of Service (including, as applicable, the mandatory arbitration and class action waiver provisions) and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. SUBSCRIBE Newsletter Subscriptions Manage your email subscriptions below by selecting the newsletters you'd like to receive. SUBSCRIBE TO ALL UNSUBSCRIBE FROM ALL Newsletters Today in Entertainment A daily brief about what matters and what's interesting in Hollywood. Weekdays SUBSCRIBE Today in Entertainment - Weekend A weekly brief about what matters and what's interesting in Hollywood. Saturdays SUBSCRIBE Heat Vision A scoop-driven, insider view of Hollywood's genre and blockbuster movie landscape, led by Borys Kit and Aaron Couch. Weekly SUBSCRIBE Feinberg Forecast The latest prognostications from our expert pundit, Scott Feinberg. Weekly, During Awards Seasons SUBSCRIBE Now See This THR's weekly newsletter dedicated to helping you cut through the daunting clutter of the broadcast, cable, and streaming TV landscape. Weekly SUBSCRIBE Loose Threads The gowns, the goods and the gossip of Hollywood. Weekly SUBSCRIBE London Calling Our weekly what’s what on London’s roaring entertainment scene, lovingly crafted by our colleagues across the pond. Weekly SUBSCRIBE Alerts Breaking News Up-to-the-minute news as it happens. Daily SUBSCRIBE THR Charts The latest streaming ratings, box office grosses and the narratives behind the numbers. MON, TUE, THU SUBSCRIBE Animation Showcase A deeper look into the wonderful world of animated films. Weekly, As Warranted SUBSCRIBE Awards Alerts Breaking Awards news as it happens. Daily, As Warranted SUBSCRIBE Awards Brief Roundup of awards news, recaps, and analysis. Daily, As Warranted SUBSCRIBE Awards Chatter Podcast Career-spanning conversations with top awards contenders hosted by Scott Feinberg. Weekly SUBSCRIBE Awards in Focus Themed articles offering a deeper look at category-specific contenders. As Warranted SUBSCRIBE Behind the Screen Tech and crafts stories. As Warranted SUBSCRIBE Box Office Featuring box office updates for new releases. As Warranted SUBSCRIBE Documentary Spotlight A deeper dive into different aspects of the documentary films and series in contention. As Warranted SUBSCRIBE Festivals Showcasing all of the stories and reviews coming out of film festivals, including but not limited to Cannes, Toronto, Venice, etc. As Warranted SUBSCRIBE International Films in Focus Weekly showcase of stories focusing on international contenders. As Warranted SUBSCRIBE International News Covering all international news for TV-, film- and business-related topics. Weekdays SUBSCRIBE International Breaking News International news as it happens. As Warranted SUBSCRIBE Live Feed Alerts Consumer TV news as it happens. Daily, As Warranted SUBSCRIBE Shopping With THR The most stylish online finds and coolest products seen on stars, as selected by Hollywood Reporter editors. Weekly SUBSCRIBE The Download Music awards, albums and artists that Hollywood should know about. As Warranted SUBSCRIBE This Week in Reviews THR's most read reviews from the week's premieres. Weekly SUBSCRIBE THR Presents Screenings and Q&As presented by THR. As Warranted SUBSCRIBE Trending in TV THR's curated newsletter featuring the top trending TV stories of the week. Weekly, As Warranted SUBSCRIBE TV News and Industry Our daily update on current TV industry news. As Warranted SUBSCRIBE World Lens Country or region-themed articles offering a deeper look into their entertainment industry. As Warranted SUBSCRIBE Offers Partner Content Updates from THR Partners & Sponsors. As Warranted SUBSCRIBE By subscribing to our sites and services, you agree to our Terms of Service (including, as applicable, the mandatory arbitration and class action waiver provisions) and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. SUBSCRIBE Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Your California Privacy Rights | Do Not Sell My Personal Information By subscribing to our sites and services, you agree to our Terms of Service (including, as applicable, the mandatory arbitration and class action waiver provisions) and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. SUBSCRIBE Subscribe to submit your email preferences -->