# Roll Call Whos Going To Cooperstown

**Source**: http://www.southsidesox.com/2014/7/21/5922045/roll-call-whos-going-to-cooperstown
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:43:12.145000+00:00

---

Roll call: Who’s going to Cooperstown? | South Side Sox Skip to main content SB Nation SB Nation logo A Chicago White Sox Community South Side Sox October 3, 2025 South Side Sox The Feed Gameday Commentary &amp; Analysis Game Recaps Game Threads Minor League Updates Betting FanDuel MLB Odds FanDuel World Series Odds Chicago White Sox Odds MLB Picks and Predictions Exclusives Card of the Month Draft In Memoriam Know Your Enemy Literary Supplement MiLB Monthly Update MiLB Weekly Update Minors Opinion Player of the Week Podcasts Soxivus Super Stats Pack Today in White Sox History View From the Other Side White Sox Hall of Fame YouTube Links White Sox Web Links South Side Sox standards Community Guidelines Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search The Feed Gameday Expand Commentary &amp; Analysis Game Recaps Game Threads Minor League Updates Betting Expand FanDuel MLB Odds FanDuel World Series Odds Chicago White Sox Odds MLB Picks and Predictions Exclusives Expand Card of the Month Draft In Memoriam Know Your Enemy Literary Supplement MiLB Monthly Update MiLB Weekly Update Minors Opinion Player of the Week Podcasts Soxivus Super Stats Pack Today in White Sox History View From the Other Side White Sox Hall of Fame YouTube Links Expand White Sox Web Links South Side Sox standards Community Guidelines Newsletters Shop Masthead Expand Masthead Meet the Players! All communities Facebook Twitter Youtube RSS South Side Sox Roll call: Who’s going to Cooperstown? Chicago White Sox News Events Roll call: Who’s going to Cooperstown? Calling all SSSers to turn Frank Thomas’ induction day into a party by Jim Margalus Jul 21, 2014, 6:06 AM UTC Facebook Link While we’ve heard plenty from Frank Thomas -- including directly -- as the Hall of Fame induction ceremony on Sunday nears, the Columbus Ledger-Enquirer in Georgia provides a different angle, telling Thomas’ story from the viewpoint of his mother. The whole article is worth your time, but here’s an excerpt: [Thomas’ parents] also had a younger daughter, Pamela, who died from leukemia on Thanksgiving in 1977 when she was 2 years old. “That took a toll on all of us,” Porter said. “... When (Frank) went to the major leagues he charged adults a dollar for autographs and donated the money to leukemia. They used to call it the Frankie Fund but he was raising it for the kids.” After Pamela died, Frank Jr. was the youngest in the family and his siblings spoiled him. “That was my baby,” Porter said. “When he got to junior high school, there was the preppy look. My mom was saying, ‘I’m not paying $50 for one pair of pants.’ So me, I had a job and couldn’t drive. So, I got on the bus and went all the way to Gayfers and got what he wanted.” Read more here: http://www.ledger-enquirer.com/2014/07/17/3205151/frank-thomas-family-looks-forward.html#storylink=cpy The article reminded me to put a call-out for SSSers who are heading to Cooperstown for the induction ceremony. If you are making the trip, let me/us know if you’d be interested in making a meetup/methup out of it. Also, if you’re staying or commuting through the Capital Region side of the state, also let me know if you’re interested in a methup. It’ll probably be easier to get beers that far away from Baseball Ground Zero. See More : Chicago White Sox News Events Most Popular The White Sox coaching purge could not have come at a better time Ranking the South Side’s offseason needs White Sox clean house on coaches, start the hunt for 2026 fixes Today in White Sox History: October 2 Birmingham Barons 2025 Season Review Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Events Sep 28, 2024 Gamethread: White Sox at Tigers Sep 11, 2024 Gamethread: Guardians at White Sox Sep 2, 2024 Gamethread: White Sox at Orioles Aug 29, 2024 Gamethread: Rangers at White Sox Aug 25, 2024 We made it to 100! We made it to 100! Sox lose their 100th, 9-4 to Tigers Aug 25, 2024 Gamethread: Tigers at White Sox AL Central News Sep 28, 2024 AL Central News Sep 28, 2024 Gamethread: White Sox at Tigers The record is broken! The pressure is off! By Leigh Allan AL Central News Sep 11, 2024 AL Central News Sep 11, 2024 Gamethread: Guardians at White Sox Will the home losing streak continue? By Leigh Allan AL Central News Sep 2, 2024 AL Central News Sep 2, 2024 Gamethread: White Sox at Orioles Rough day to try to end the losing streak By Leigh Allan AL Central News Aug 29, 2024 AL Central News Aug 29, 2024 Gamethread: Rangers at White Sox Facing not just a series, but a season sweep By Leigh Allan AL Central News Aug 25, 2024 AL Central News Aug 25, 2024 We made it to 100! We made it to 100! Sox lose their 100th, 9-4 to Tigers Oh. Is that not a good thing? By Leigh Allan AL Central News Aug 25, 2024 AL Central News Aug 25, 2024 Gamethread: Tigers at White Sox Trying to stave off loss 100 for a day By Leigh Allan Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad The Latest 5:09 PM UTC Ranking the South Side’s offseason needs 1:54 PM UTC Today in White Sox History: October 3 Oct 2 The White Sox coaching purge could not have come at a better time Oct 2 Meet the Players: Todd Welter Oct 2 Charlotte Knights 2025 Season Review Oct 2 Today in White Sox History: October 2 Facebook Twitter Youtube RSS The Feed Masthead Community Guidelines Facebook Twitter YouTube Contact Have a news tip? Browse Blogs SB Nation Staff Company Blog Blog Openings Editorial Ethics &amp; Guidelines DMCA Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Settings Licensing Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved Gambling Problem? Call 1-800-GAMBLER (1-800-426-2537). Hope is here. GamblingHelpLineMA.org or call (800) 327-5050 for 24/7 support (MA). Visit www.mdgamblinghelp.org (MD). Call 877-8HOPE-NY or text HOPENY (467369) (NY). 21+ (18+ D.C.) and present in select states (for KS, in affiliation with Kansas Star Casino). Call 1-888-789-7777 or visit ccpg.org/chat (CT) or visit FanDuel.com/RG.