# Compared To The H100 How Are Nvidia S H20 L20

**Source**: https://news.futunn.com/en/post/34012455/compared-to-the-h100-how-are-nvidia-s-h20-l20?level=2&data_ticket=1740605966734833
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:12:20.399025+00:00

---

Compared to the H100, how are Nvidia&#x27;s H20, L20, and L2 chips performing? Investing Stocks HK Stocks US Stocks JP Stocks A-Shares Margin Trading IPO Invest Regularly Derivatives &amp; Cryptos ETF Options Futures Crypto Futu Money Plus Cash Plus Funds US Treasuries Structured Products Futu PWM Private Wealth Management Trust Services Go FUTU Securities check more > Markets Quotes Stocks Options Futures Fores ETF Trading Tools Paper Trade Stock Screener Heat Map Earnings Calendar Institutional Tracker Investment Themes App Store Download &gt; Google Play Download &gt; Mac Download &gt; Windows Download &gt; News &amp; Community News Headlines 24/7 News Economic Calendar Topics Live Learn Library Courses Lectures Community Feeds Hot Topics Pricing Promotions Check more promotion > Welcome Rewards Join Futubull Membership Program Referral Program Transfer Bonus Blog About Us About us > About Futu Futu Highlights Milestones Corporate Social Responsibility Contact us Join Us Futu I&amp;E Futu Store Futu Experience Stores FUTU Flagship Store Shop A,B,C on Gound floor and shop A on 1st Floor, Soundwill Plaza , NO. 38 Russell Street, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong FUTU Store (Tsim Sha Tsui) G/F, 96 Nathan Road, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon FUTU Store (Causeway Bay) G/F, Lai Yuen Apartments , 29-33 Lee Garden Road, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong FUTU Store（Mong Kok) G/F, 67-69 Argyle Street, Mongkok, Kowloon FUTU Head Office (Admiralty) 34/F, United Centre, 95 Queensway, Admiralty, HK FUTU Store（Tsuen Wan) G/F, No. 280 Sha Tsui Road, Tsuen Wan, New Territories FUTU Store（Sha Tin) G09A, G/F, Kings Wing Plaza 1, No. 3 On Kwan Street, Sha Tin, New Territories FUTU Store (Tseung Kwan O) Shop UG16-17, UG/F, MCP Central, Tseung Kwan O, New Territories Check more > Support More About Us About us Support English 繁體中文 简体中文 Sign up/Log in Download English Back Investing Stocks HK Stocks US Stocks JP Stocks A-Shares Margin Trading IPO Invest Regularly Derivatives &amp; Cryptos ETF Options Futures Crypto Futu Money Plus Cash Plus Funds US Treasuries Structured Products Futu PWM Private Wealth Management Trust Services Markets Quotes Stocks Options Futures Fores ETF Trading Tools Paper Trade Heat Map Earnings Calendar Institutional Tracker Investment Themes News &amp; Community News Headlines 24/7 News Economic Calendar Topics Live Learn Library Courses Lectures Community Feeds Hot Topics Pricing Promotions Welcome Rewards Join Futubull Membership Program Referral Program Transfer Bonus Blog About Us About us> About Futu Futu Highlights Milestones Corporate Social Responsibility Contact us Join Us Futu I&amp;E Futu Store Support English 繁體中文 简体中文 Dark Light Open Account Headlines Compared to the H100, how are Nvidia's H20, L20, and L2 chips performing? Semiconductor industry tracking Topic 434 news 14105 Subscribers Subscribe Compared to the H100, how are Nvidia's H20, L20, and L2 chips performing? wallstreetcn · Nov 10, 2023 15:36 NVDA -0.67% NVDS +1.01% NVDX -1.53% Source: Wall Street News Author: Bu Shuqing Theoretically, the H100 is more than 6 times faster than the H20, but in terms of LLM reasoning, the H20 is more than 20% faster than the H100. According to the latest media reports, $NVIDIA (NVDA.US)$ At least three new AI chips will soon be launched, including the H20 SXM, PCIe L20, and PCIe L2, to replace the H100, which is restricted from being exported by the US. All three chips are based on the Hopper GPU architecture, and the maximum theoretical performance can reach 296 TFLOPs (number of floating-point operations per second, also known as peak speed per second). What is almost certain is that all three AI chips are “castrated versions” or “reduced versions” of the H100. Theoretically, the H100 is 6.68 times faster than the H20. According to a recent blog post published by analyst Dylan Petal, even if the H20's actual utilization rate can reach 90%, its performance in the actual multi-card interconnection environment is still only close to 50% of the H100. There are also media reports that The comprehensive computing power of the H20 is only equivalent to 20% of the H100, and due to the addition of HBM video memory and NVLink interconnection modules, the computing power cost has increased significantly. However, The advantages of the H20 are also obvious, being more than 20% faster than the H100 in large language model (LLM) reasoning. The reason is that the H20 is similar in some ways to the next generation super AI chip H200 to be released next year. Nvidia has already made samples of these three chips. The H20 and L20 are expected to be launched in December this year, while the L2 will be launched in January next year. Product sampling will begin one month before launch. H20 Vs. H100 Let's look at the H100 first. It has 80GB HBM3 memory, a memory bandwidth of 3.4 TB/s, theoretical performance of 1979 TFLOP, and a performance density (TFlops/die size) of 19.4. It is the most powerful GPU in Nvidia's current product line. The H20 has 96GB HBM3 memory, and the memory bandwidth is up to 4.0 Tb/s, all higher than the H100, but the computing power is only 296 TFLOPs, and the performance density is 2.9, which is far inferior to the H100. Theoretically, the H100 is 6.68 times faster than the H20 。 However, it is worth noting that this comparison is based on the floating point computing power of FP16 Tensor Core (FP16 Tensor Core Flops) and uses sparse computation (the amount of computation is greatly reduced, so the speed will increase significantly), so it does not fully reflect all of its computational capabilities. In addition, the thermal design power consumption of this GPU is 400W, which is lower than the H100's 700W, and an 8-channel GPU can be configured in the HGX solution (Nvidia's GPU server solution). It also retains the 900 Gb/s NVLink high-speed interconnection function, and also provides a 7-channel MIG (Multi-Instance GPU, multi-instance GPU) function. H100 SXM TF16 (Sparsity) FLOPS = 1979 H20 SXM TF16 (Sparsity) FLOPS = 296 According to PETA's LLM performance comparison model, H20 has a peak tokens/second at a low batch size, which is 20% higher than H100, and the token-to-token delay at a low batch size is 25% lower than H100. This is due to the reduction in the number of chips required for inference from 2 to 1. If an additional 8-bit quantization is used, the LLAMA 70B model can operate effectively on a single H20 instead of requiring 2 H100s. It is worth mentioning that although the computing power of the H20 is only 296 TFLOPs, far less than the H100's 1979, the H20's actual utilization rate is MFU (currently the H100's MFU is only 38.1%), which means that the H20 can actually run 270 TFLOPS, then the performance of the H20 in the actual multi-card interconnection environment is close to 50% of the H100. From the perspective of traditional computation, the H20 has been downgraded compared to the H100, but in terms of LLM reasoning, the H20 will actually be more than 20% faster than the H100. The reason is that the H20 is similar to the H200 to be released next year in some ways. Note that the H200 is the successor to the H100, a superchip for complex AI and HPC workloads. L20 and L2 configurations are more streamlined Meanwhile, the L20 is equipped with 48 GB of memory and 239 TFLOPs of computing performance, while the L2 is configured with 24 GB of memory and 193 TFLOPs of computing performance. L20 is based on L40 and L2 is based on L4, but these two chips are not commonly used in LLM reasoning and training. Both L20 and L2 use PCIe form factors and use PCIe specifications suitable for workstations and servers. Compared with models with higher specifications such as the Hopper H800 and A800, the configuration is also more streamlined. But Nvidia's software stack for AI and high performance computing is so valuable to some customers that they are reluctant to abandon the Hopper architecture, even if the specifications are downgraded. L40 TF16 (Sparsity) floPS = 362 L20 TF16 (Sparsity) floPS = 239 L4 TF16 (Sparsity) floPS = 242 L2 TF16 (Sparsity) floPS = 193 editor/tolk The translation is provided by third-party software. The above content is for informational or educational purposes only and does not constitute any investment advice related to Futu. Although we strive to ensure the truthfulness, accuracy, and originality of all such content, we cannot guarantee it. Risk Disclaimer The above content is for informational or educational purposes only and does not constitute any investment advice related to Futu. Although we strive to ensure the truthfulness, accuracy, and originality of all such content, we cannot guarantee it. Got It Risk Disclaimer The above content is for informational or educational purposes only and does not constitute any investment advice related to Futu. Although we strive to ensure the truthfulness, accuracy, and originality of all such content, we cannot guarantee it. Got It Write a comment 0 0 0 Like Love Laughing Cry Respect Emm Sad Angry Tap to Select a Mood 分享到weixin 分享到qq 分享到facebook 分享到twitter 分享到微博 粘贴板 Use the share button in your browser to share the page with your friends Tap here to share No comments yet. Write one. Market Insights Hot Stock Hot Stock Top HK stocks viewed in the last 24 hours, capturing market sentiment and key capital flow insights. Top HK stocks viewed in the last 24 hours, capturing market sentiment and key capital flow insights. No. Symbol % Chg Sample Name Sample Code +98.41% Sample Name Sample Code +59.05% Sample Name Sample Code +35.09% 4 TR INTERIORS 06162 +29.41% 5 CONGYU INTE AGR 00875 +24.19% View More Invest with Futu! Invest with Futu! - No more - Statement This page is machine-translated. Futubull tries to improve but does not guarantee the accuracy and reliability of the translation, and will not be liable for any loss or damage caused by any inaccuracy or omission of the translation. OK About Us Why Futu Investor Relations Join Us Services Pricing He