# Nuclear War Russia Ukraine Funding Macarthur Existential Risk Effective Altruism Carnegie

**Source**: https://www.vox.com/2022/3/17/22976981/nuclear-war-russia-ukraine-funding-macarthur-existential-risk-effective-altruism-carnegie
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:05:10.559871+00:00

---

Foundations are taking money away from anti-nuclear war efforts | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo The biggest funder of anti-nuclear war programs is taking its money away Free speech needs fearless journalism Free speech is endangered; unbiased and trustworthy news is elusive. In a time of noise, confusion, and spin, we’re committed to clarity, truth, and depth — even when it’s hard. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join now Climate The biggest funder of anti-nuclear war programs is taking its money away At the worst possible time. by Dylan Matthews Mar 17, 2022, 11:30 AM UTC Share Gift Thousands turned out in London, England, on February 6 to march for peace in Ukraine. Kristian Buus/In Pictures via Getty Images Dylan Matthews is a senior correspondent and head writer for Vox’s Future Perfect section and has worked at Vox since 2014. He is particularly interested in global health and pandemic prevention, anti-poverty efforts, economic policy and theory, and conflicts about the right way to do philanthropy. The Ukraine war has been devastating enough for civilians in that country, but it also carries the seeds of a graver global threat. Russian President Vladimir Putin has been rather explicitly threatening to escalate to using nuclear arms , particularly if Western countries get in his way. President Joe Biden has sought to reassure Americans that a nuclear exchange is unlikely. He&rsquo;s probably right. But the cost of such a war &mdash; we&rsquo;re talking about a potential extinction-level event here, though the chances of outright extinction have declined somewhat as nuclear arsenals have shrunk &mdash; makes preventing it incredibly important, and means that even a seemingly small risk of nuclear war could be much, much too high. A recent simulation by Princeton&rsquo;s Program on Science and Global Security suggests a total of 34.1 million immediate deaths in the first hours of a US-Russia exchange. Alan Robock, an environmental scientist who studies what a nuclear war could do to the climate, told my colleague Alex Ward in 2018 that the most devastating effects of a nuclear war would actually come from the smoke, dust, and particulates produced by the explosions, leading to a nuclear autumn or winter. In the worst-case scenario, Robock said, &ldquo;almost everybody on the planet would die.&rdquo; Even using very conservative estimates, nuclear war winds up looking like a major cause of death worth investing considerable resources to prevent. So what are people &mdash; and in particular philanthropists outside of government &mdash; investing in to prevent nuclear war? Not that much, given the scale of the potential catastrophe &mdash; and in the midst of one of the most alarming nuclear crises in years, the total is shrinking. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a drop in the bucket compared to the other high-profile issues like climate change,&rdquo; Emma Belcher, president of the Ploughshares Fund, one of the few dedicated funders on nuclear issues, told me. It wasn&rsquo;t always this way. Foundations and other donors have played a central role in efforts to contain nuclear weapons since the dawn of the atomic age, supporting conferences of US and Soviet scientists starting in the 1950s, the nuclear freeze movement of the 1980s, and the dismantling of nukes in post-Soviet states in the 1990s . They helped make nuclear issues a major public topic of debate &mdash; in 1982, some 750,000 people demonstrated in Central Park for nuclear disarmament , part of a foundation-supported anti-nuclear war movement. Despite that past success, funding nuclear war prevention has always been hard, and it remains so today. It&rsquo;s hard to know whether specific efforts are succeeding, and thus hard for funders to know if their spending is effective. But given the scale of the problem, and its relative neglectedness, there&rsquo;s a solid argument that philanthropists should get serious again about reducing the risk of a nuclear war. What nuclear funding actually funds Before we dig too deep into the particulars of how nuclear issues are funded, let&rsquo;s address an obvious question: How, exactly, can philanthropic funding reduce the risk of nuclear war? Sometimes, there&rsquo;s a role for philanthropies and their grantees in providing actual, physical services. Joan Rohlfing, president and chief operating officer of the Nuclear Threat Initiative (NTI), told me that NTI helped set up the International Atomic Energy Agency&rsquo;s (IAEA) Low Enriched Uranium Bank in Kazakhstan. That&rsquo;s a facility where non-nuclear powers can acquire uranium for nuclear power plants without being tempted to build their own enrichment facilities, which could be used to help produce weapons. A third of the facility&rsquo;s funding came from NTI, which is in turn funded largely by foundations and individuals. It&rsquo;s a worthwhile program, but it is better suited to preventing nuclear terrorism or proliferation to non-nuclear states than it is to managing conflict between nuclear powers, like the US and Russia, that already have plenty of fissile material for bombs. In heated political battles, like that over the Iran nuclear deal in 2015 or the ratification of the New START nuclear reduction treaty between the US and Russia in 2010 , philanthropies can provide support by supporting advocacy targeting the public, Congress, and other stakeholders. Rose Gottemoeller, who was the Obama administration&rsquo;s chief negotiator on the New START treaty, credits in her memoir foundation-funded advocacy groups with helping its ratification, writing that they &ldquo;did important work to generate the campaign that began to inundate Senate offices with cards and letters.&rdquo; Then-US President Barack Obama and then-Russian President Dmitry Medvedev sign the New START Treaty in 2010, in Prague. The treaty provided for a reduction in the two countries’ arsenals to 1,550 warheads over seven years and was the most significant arms agreement between the US and Russia in nearly 20 years. Getty Images Going further back, philanthropic support played a big role in supporting the nuclear disarmament and nuclear freeze movements during the Cold War. The famous Pugwash Conferences , which gathered American, Soviet/Russian, and scientists of other nationalities to discuss nuclear risks and press for disarmament, were named after the town of Pugwash, Nova Scotia, the hometown of their funder Cyrus Eaton. Funders can also support &ldquo;Track II&rdquo; talks between former officials in different countries on nuclear issues. These officials often cycle back into their respective governments, and Track II talks allow them to build rapport and relationships with each other. They can also (as in the past cases of Iran and North Korea) open a channel to talk indirectly to regimes the US is not yet directly negotiating with. NTI helps convene a group known as the Euro-Atlantic Security Leadership Group , which Rohlfing described to me as a &ldquo;Track 1.5&rdquo; process because it includes both current and ex-government officials. Experts from the US, Russia, Canada, and various European countries can discuss and develop proposals to reduce nuclear risk. In the wake of the Ukraine war, the group, which includes Putin&rsquo;s former foreign minister Igor Ivanov, issued a statement urging a ceasefire to prevent nuclear escalation. But the most basic function of funding is to develop expertise in think tanks, academia, and blends of the two (e.g., Harvard&rsquo;s Project on Managing the Atom ) that can inform current policymakers and educate future policymakers. Robert Gallucci, the chief negotiator for the short-lived 1994 deal in which North Korea agreed not to develop nuclear weapons, and a key funder of nuclear groups as president of the MacArthur Foundation from 2009 to 2014, explained that one of his goals as a grantmaker was to train generations of scholars and practitioners who might influence or even write the Nuclear Posture Review (NPR), a congressionally mandated document released every few years that updates US nuclear policy. At MacArthur, Gallucci recalls, &ldquo;we picked schools like King&rsquo;s College London, the JFK School, Princeton. &hellip; We were intent on growing the analysts and funding those kinds of programs so people would continue to talk about this, and we just wouldn&rsquo;t get the old school writing the [Nuclear Posture Review].&rdquo; You can see some of the fruits of those efforts in the people tasked with overseeing nuclear policy, especially in Democratic administrations. Gottemoeller, one of Obama&rsquo;s top nuclear staffers, came to the administration from the Carnegie Moscow Center, which relies on philanthropic support . Bonnie Jenkins, Biden&rsquo;s undersecretary of state for arms control and international security, worked for years at the Harvard Project on Managing the Atom. Philanthropic support gave them space to learn and develop their views before (and after) government service. Where is the money? Funding for all of the above exists &mdash; but it&rsquo;s relatively modest. The Peace and Security Funders Group, an organization of foundations and other philanthropic funders, estimates that in 2020 about $47.7 million in grants were made globally on nuclear issues, excluding those made by the US federal government (which gave about $80.2 million between the Energy Department, the National Institutes of Health, and other agencies). $47.7 million might be an overestimate of the 