# Historical Ea Funding Data

**Source**: https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/ZbaDmowkXbTBsxvHn/historical-ea-funding-data
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:17:01.697782+00:00

---

Historical EA funding data — EA Forum This website requires javascript to properly function. Consider activating javascript to get access to all site functionality. Effective Altruism Forum EA Forum Login Sign up Hide table of contents Historical EA funding data by TylerMaule Aug 14 2022 2 min read 49 267 Community Building effective altruism Data on the EA community Data science Effective altruism funding Frontpage Historical EA funding data Summary Observations Notes on the data GiveWell: Open Phil General Future work 49 comments Summary I have consolidated publicly available grants data from EA organizations into a spreadsheet , which I intend to update periodically [1] . Totals pictured below. Figure 1: publicly available grants by recipient category Figure 2: publicly available grants by source (edit: swapped color palette to make graphs easier to read) Observations $2.6Bn in grants on record since 2012, about 63% of which went to Global Health. With the addition of FTX and impressive fundraising by GiveWell, Animal Welfare looks even more neglected in relative terms—effective animal charities will likely receive something like 5% of EA funding in 2022, the smallest figure since 2015 by a wide margin. Notes on the data NB: This is just one observer&#x27;s tally of public data. Sources are cited in the spreadsheet; I am happy to correct any errors as they are pointed out. GiveWell: GiveWell uses a &#x27;metrics year&#x27; starting 1 Feb (all other sources were tabulated by calendar year). GiveWell started breaking out &#x27;funds directed&#x27; vs &#x27;funds raised&#x27; for metrics year 2021 . Previous years refer to &#x27;money moved&#x27;, which is close but not exactly the same. I have excluded funds directed through GiveWell by Open Phil and EA Funds, as those are already included in this data set. Open Phil Open Phil labels their grants using 25 &#x27;focus areas&#x27;. My subjective mapping to broader cause area is laid out in the spreadsheet . Note that about 20% of funds granted by Open Phil have gone to &#x27;other&#x27; areas such as Criminal Justice Reform; these are omitted from the summary figures but still tabulated elsewhere in the spreadsheet. General 2022 estimates are a bit speculative, but a reasonable guess as to how funding will look with the addition of the Future Fund . The total Global Health figure for 2021 (~$400M) looks surprisingly low considering e.g. that GiveWell just reported over $500M funds directed for 2021 (including Open Phil and EA Funds). I think that this is accounted for by (a) GiveWell&#x27;s metrics year extending through Jan &#x27;22, (Open Phil reported $26M of Global Health grants that month), and (b) the possibility that some of this was &#x27;directed&#x27; i.e. &#x27;firm commitment of $X to org Y&#x27; by Open Phil in 2021, but paid out or recorded to the grants database months later; still seeking explicit confirmation here. Future work If there is any presently available data that seems worth adding, let me know and I may consider it. I may be interested in a more comprehensive analysis on this topic, e.g. using the full budget of every GiveWell-recommended charity. I&#x27;d be interested to hear if anyone has access to this type of data, or if this type of project seems particularly valuable. Thanks to Niel Bowerman for helpful comments ^ Currently the bottleneck to synchronizing data is the GiveWell annual metrics report, which is typically published in the second half of the following year. I may update more often if that is useful. 267 0 0 Reactions 0 0 Mentioned in 299 Red Teaming CEA’s Community Building Work 252 Funding Diversification for Mid-Large EA Organizations is Nearly Impossible in the Short-Medium Term 235 EA is too reliant on personal connections 169 Effective Altruism: Not as bad as you think 144 FTX FAQ Load more (5/23) Comments 49 Comment Sorted by New &amp; upvoted Click to highlight new comments since: Today at 9:35 PM lukeprog Aug 14 2022 73 0 0 Not sure it&#x27;s worth the effort, but I&#x27;d find the charts easier to read if you used a wider variety of colors. Reply DE Aug 14 2022 24 0 0 +1, I&#x27;d also recommend using colours that are accessible for people with colour vision deficiency . Reply ryancbriggs Aug 15 2022 3 0 0 The viridis package is good for colourblindness and is also pretty: https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/viridis/index.html Reply MatthewDahlhausen Aug 15 2022 2 0 0 I find this website helpful for picking colorblind friendly color schemes: https://colorbrewer2.org/ Reply TylerMaule Aug 15 2022 9 0 0 Fixed Reply Peter Wildeford Aug 15 2022 3 0 0 Thanks!! Reply Peter Wildeford Aug 15 2022 37 1 0 Sure seems like animal welfare could use some more spending! Reply david_reinstein Aug 14 2022 33 1 0 Worth joining forces with Hamish and effectivealtruismdata.com (see post ). This stuff should be able to be automated, I think/hope. Reply david_reinstein Aug 14 2022 9 0 0 I also added some tags to this post. with this stuff it’s good to coordinate where we can. Reply TylerMaule Aug 15 2022 7 0 0 Many of the sources used here can&#x27;t be automated, but the spreadsheet is simple to update Reply david_reinstein Aug 15 2022 3 0 0 Fair point but still may be worth joining force or coordinating with Hamish Reply Adam Binksmith Oct 12 2022 2 0 0 A data-point on this - today I was looking for and couldn&#x27;t find this graph. I found effectivealtruismdata.com but sadly it didn&#x27;t have these graphs on it. So would be cool to have it on there, or at least link to this post from there! Reply Nathan Young Oct 18 2022 2 0 1 Hamish applied for funding for that website but was rejected. Seems like something we&#x27;d pay $100k to exist, right? Reply Peter Wildeford Aug 15 2022 19 0 0 This data is very valuable - thanks! Saves me the time of collecting it (or asking someone else to do so). If possible, I think it would be very helpful to also distinguish between biorisk, nuclear risk, AI, and other -- I&#x27;d be really curious how this is distributed. Also I think it could be useful to add data from Longview and Effective Giving, if they ever make data available. Reply SiebeRozendal Aug 15 2022 9 0 0 Me too, same for other areas as well! Kind of bad we didn&#x27;t have this overview before. Seems very basic to have! So thanks for doing it Reply TylerMaule Aug 15 2022 7 0 0 Estimates for Open Phil: Reply Peter Wildeford Aug 15 2022 2 0 0 Thanks! This is for 2014-2022? If so, does it include 2022 projection? Reply TylerMaule Aug 15 2022 1 0 0 2012-Pres. (first longtermist grant was in 2015) no projection Reply Max Avar Aug 14 2022 17 0 0 In light of this, it&#x27;s interesting to look back at the March 2021 post by Applied Divinity Studies &quot; Why Hasn&#x27;t Effective Altruism Grown Since 2015? &quot; The post (reasonably enough) used money moved as a key metric of EA growth, and argued that EA as a movement had been stagnating. The massive increase in EA-aligned funds in the past couple years would seem to suggest otherwise. (See also the discussion in GiveWell&#x27;s 2021 year-end report , which noted: &quot;In 2021, GiveWell continued to enjoy a huge amount of growth in the funds we were able to raise. Overall, our funds raised grew by over 100%, from $293 million in 2020 to $595 million in 2021—the largest absolute increase in funding we&#x27;ve ever experienced.&quot;) Reply Lorenzo Buonanno🔸 Aug 16 2022 12 0 0 Thanks for doing and sharing this, really interesting! Random curiosity, how did your spreadsheet make it into the time.com article about EA ? Reply Niel_Bowerman Aug 16 2022 13 0 0 Naina (the Time journalist) and I were chatting about the aggregate funding data but couldn’t quickly find a source. I connected Naina and Tyler to work on this together. Tyler pulled together the data in part for the Time article. Reply Vasco Grilo🔸 Aug 15 2022 10 0 0 Are the grants adjusted for inflation? If not, doing it might be a good idea, such that the values are more comparable across years. Reply TylerMaule Aug 16 2022 1 0 0 I&#x27;m not sure that inflation makes sense—this money isn&#x27;t being spent on bread :) I think most of these funds would alternatively be invested, and returning above inflation on average. [This comment is no longer endorsed by its author] Reply Vasco Grilo🔸 Aug 16 2022 3 0 0 From Investopedia , &quot;inflation is the rate at which prices for goods and services rise&quot;. So my understanding is that it is a broad measure of the purshasing power of money, and matters even if the money is not (directly) going towards buying food. Reply Robert_Wiblin Aug 16 2022 9 0 0 It seems to me like these amounts would be most useful if they were adjusted for inflation (alternatively, if you want to be fancy possibly even adjusted for an index of the wages of knowledge workers). As it is effective funding dispersed in the early years is being understated. Reply TylerMaule Aug 16 2022 3 0 0 Yes, sorry, on reflection that seems totally reasonable Reply Nathan Young Oct 18 2022 6 0 0 Can this spreadsheet be linked on a page on the EA website? Reply Milli🔸 Sep 29 2023 3 0 0 I know I&#x27;m late to the party, but thanks for the data! One question: Why does your number for 2019 so different from 80K&#x27;s estimates ( https://80000hours.org/2021/08/effective-altruism-allocation-resources-cause-areas/ )? Reply TylerMaule Oct 2 2023 4 1 0 1 Both posts contain a more detailed breakdown of inputs, but in short: 80k seems to include every entry in the Open Phil grants database, whereas my sheet filters out items such as criminal justice reform that don&#x27;t map to the type of funding I&#x27;m attempting to track. They also add a couple of &#x27;best guess&#x27; terms to estimate unknown/undocumented funding sources; I do not. Reply Aaron Bergman Aug 16 2022 3 0 0 Ooh I &lt;3 data. Late to the party, but I cleaned up the raw data by throwing away a small amount of information and stacking into a few columns (variab