# The National Park Typeface

**Source**: https://kottke.org/19/06/the-national-park-typeface
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:14:38.250666+00:00

---

The National Park Typeface KOTTKE DOT ORG KOTTKE DOT ORG MENU Member Login Home Membership Newsletter Goods Archive + Tags About/Contact dark mode light mode Advertise here with Carbon Ads Socials & More Newsletter RSS Feed Bluesky Mastodon This site is made possible by member support . 💞 Big thanks to Arcustech for hosting the site and offering amazing tech support. When you buy through links on kottke.org, I may earn an affiliate commission. Thanks for supporting the site! kottke.org. home of fine hypertext products since 1998. Beloved by 86.47% of the web. 🍔 &nbsp; 💀 &nbsp; 📸 &nbsp; 😭 &nbsp; 🕳️ &nbsp; 🤠 &nbsp; 🎬 &nbsp; 🥔 × close posted Jun 4 @ 09:42 AM by Jason Kottke &ensp;·&ensp; gift link The National Park Typeface National Park is a typeface designed &#8220;to mimic the National Park Service signs that are carved using a router bit&#8221;. I saw those familiar words. Set &#8220;National Park Service, United States Department of the Interior&#8221; — style. I wondered if it actually was a typeface or &#8220;font&#8221; that anyone could download and use? Do park rangers have this as a typeface on their computers to set in their word docs, pdfs and power point slides? I had a sketchbook with me and took some rubbings of the letterforms and asked my friend Miles Barger, the Visual Information Specialist for Rocky, if he had the typeface. He asked the sign shop. No one has it? Turns out it isn&#8217;t a typeface at all but a system of paths, points and curves that a router follows. The typeface comes in four weights and is available as a free download . typography Share