# Tc Disrupt 2025

**Source**: https://techcrunch.com/events/tc-disrupt-2025/?promo=tc_inline_rb&display=
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:47:13.073846+00:00

---

Disrupt 2025 | TechCrunch &#8211;:&#8211;:&#8211;:&#8211; FLASH BUNDLE WEEK: Limited-Time Founder Bundle &amp; 20% Off Investor Groups. Click here to save. Close &#8211;:&#8211;:&#8211;:&#8211; FLASH BUNDLE WEEK: Limited-Time Founder Bundle &amp; 20% Off Investor Groups. Click here to save. Close TechCrunch Disrupt 2025 Mobile Menu Toggle Overview Tickets Investor Pass Founder Pass Hotel Speakers Agenda Exhibit More Partners Side Events Startup Battlefield Volunteer Attendee Portal TechCrunch Disrupt 2025 TechCrunch Disrupt is where you&#8217;ll find innovation for every stage of your startup journey. Whether you&#8217;re a budding founder with a revolutionary idea, a seasoned startup looking to scale, or an investor seeking the next big thing, Disrupt offers unparalleled resources, connections, and expert insights to propel your venture forward. Register Now Book Exhibit Table THIS WEEK ONLY: Founder &amp; Investor groups save 15-20%! Save up to $444 on individual tickets. October 27 &#8211; 29, 2025 San Francisco Register Now Book Exhibit Table THIS WEEK ONLY: Founder &amp; Investor groups save 15-20%! Save up to $444 on individual tickets. Find innovation for every stage at Disrupt 2025 From idea to IPO, Disrupt 2025 will map out the path for startups to achieve their next major milestone. Join 10,000 startup and VC leaders Looking to meet founders, connect with investors, seek advice, or land your next big role? Disrupt is the must-attend event to make it all happen in person. Build and scale your business faster Disrupt is more than a startup launchpad — it’s a growth accelerator. Dive into sessions on scaling, sales, and leadership, and connect with the investors and tech experts who can help take your business to the next level. Gain insights from today’s tech giants Tap into the wisdom of founders and tech titans at Disrupt. From actionable tips to hard-won lessons, they’ll share what works (and what doesn’t) to guide you as you build your own path forward. Disrupt 2025 featured speakers Roelof Botha Partner Sequoia Capital View Profile Chris Britt CEO and Co-Founder Chime View Profile David George General Partner Andreessen Horowitz View Profile Elad Gil CEO Gil &amp; Co View Profile Vinod Khosla Founder Khosla Ventures View Profile Aaron Levie Co-Founder &amp; CEO Box View Profile Tekedra Mawakana Co-CEO Waymo View Profile Brynn Putnam Founder, MIRROR, and CEO Board View Profile Kevin Scott Chief Technology Officer Microsoft View Profile Elizabeth Stone Chief Technology Officer Netflix View Profile Astro Teller Captain of Moonshots X, The Moonshot Factory View Profile Thomas Wolf Co-Founder and Chief Science Officer Hugging Face View Profile Previous Next Close Roelof Botha Partner, Sequoia Capital Twitter Facebook Linkedin I’ve always thought, “What can I do that opens up possibilities?” I grew up in South Africa and went to an Afrikaans high school, and we didn’t speak English at home. But I pushed myself to go to an English-speaking university, and that opened up a door. Then I chose to work for McKinsey, because I thought it would open another door and maybe I’d get a chance to work overseas. I was reading about what was happening in Silicon Valley in the mid 90s, before I came to the U.S. Already, I’m starting to see the beginnings of the internet. Did I fathom how big it would be? Absolutely not. I didn’t know what venture capital was. I didn’t know that I would join a startup. I just had an intuition that I needed to be here. A friend of mine introduced me to Elon in 1999 and I joined PayPal. Then when Mike Moritz asked me to come interview at Sequoia, that was just another door opening. Where might this one lead? Whenever I interview people, I ask about those key moments in somebody’s life where they’ve made career decisions. And I think about companies in the same way—there are these crucible moments that have an enormous bearing on ultimate outcomes. View Bio Roelof&#039;s Sessions What Sequoia Sees Coming Next As one of the most influential VCs of the modern era, Roelof Botha has seen it all; booms, busts, and billion-dollar breakout bets. In this fireside chat, the Sequoia Capital managing partner opens up about how today’s most ambitious founders are navigating AI, geopolitics, and a shifting capital landscape. October 27 14:45PM &#8211; 15:15PM GMT+08 Disrupt Stage Venture Capital Chris Britt CEO and Co-Founder, Chime Twitter Linkedin Chris Britt is the co-founder and Chief Executive Officer of Chime, a financial technology company founded on the premise that basic banking services should be helpful, easy, and free. Chime builds products that help everyday Americans achieve financial progress by addressing their most important financial needs: avoiding fees, accessing short term liquidity, building credit and establishing savings. Previously, Chris served in multiple roles at Green Dot, including Chief Product Officer and SVP of Corporate Development. Chris also held senior positions at Visa and ComScore. In 2024, Britt received the Tulane Distinguished Entrepreneur of the Year Award. A Tulane graduate with a bachelor’s degree in history, he is a member of the Tulane Board of Directors. Britt also serves as a board member of CoachArt, a non-profit that connects chronically ill children with free lessons in the arts and athletics. At Chime, he founded and serves on the Board of Chime Scholars Foundation, pledging 1% of Chime Financial equity to fund college and other post secondary education for aspiring students. View Bio Chris&#039;s Sessions Building a Company That Lasts Chris Britt knows how to build a company that withstands headwinds and seizes rare opportunities. As co-founder and CEO of Chime, he’s led the fintech from scrappy challenger to one of the few to go public in today’s tough market. In this conversation, Britt will share what it takes to scale with discipline, stay resilient through market shifts, and make the leap from private to public when so few manage it. October 27 15:30PM &#8211; 15:55PM GMT+08 Industry Stage- Going Public Fintech David George General Partner, Andreessen Horowitz Twitter Linkedin David George is a general partner at Andreessen Horowitz, where he leads the firm’s Growth investing team and has led many of the firm’s growth investments. Prior to joining a16z, David spent seven years at General Atlantic leading and partnering on numerous consumer internet and enterprise software growth investments, including Airbnb, AppDynamics, Opendoor, Slack, and Uber. Previously, he was an investment associate at FFL Partners and an investment banking analyst for William Blair &amp; Company. David graduated summa cum laude from the University of Notre Dame and earned his MBA from the Stanford Graduate School of Business. He is a member of the Board of Trustees and Investment Committee of Sacred Heart Schools-Atherton and the Advisory Council of the IDEA Center at the University of Notre Dame, and sits on the board of the Foundation for Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital Stanford. David is a proud native of Kentucky, where he developed his love of basketball, bourbon, and horse racing. View Bio David&#039;s Sessions How Long Should a Startup Stay Private? Startups today can grow to huge valuations, cash out their employees, and stay private longer than those of previous eras. But that also means that late-stage startups are facing a whole new set of rules. a16z&#8217;s David George unpacks the shifting VC landscape, what the next generation of scaled startups needs to know, and how capital is being deployed in an era of tighter money and higher expectations. From IPO windows to secondary markets to the evolving role of growth investors, this fireside chat goes deep on what it really takes to build enduring companies in today’s market and what’s coming next. October 27 13:20PM &#8211; 13:50PM GMT+08 Industry Stage- Going Public Startup Elad Gil CEO, Gil &amp; Co Twitter Linkedin Elad Gil is a serial entrepreneur, operating executive, and investor/ advisor to private companies such as AirBnB, Airtable, Anduril, Coinbase, Figma, Gitlab, Gusto, Instacart, Notion, Pinterest, Retool, Samsara, Square, Stripe, TripActions and others. He has invested in over 40 “unicorn” companies worth $1B or more, 30+ of them at seed or series A. He’s the author of the bestselling book “High Growth Handbook”, about organizational and financial scaling of breakout technology companies. Elad is Co-Founder and Chairman of Color, a digital health company focused on virtualized population care delivery. He is also involved with longevity biotech including BioAge and Spring Discovery. Elad’s an advisor to Electric Capital, a crypto hedge fund, and is involved with various crypto protocols and companies (Coinbase, Opensea, Anchorage, Bitwise, Filecoin, dYdX, IronFish…). Previously, Elad was VP of Corporate Strategy at Twitter, he also ran various product teams (Geo, Search). Elad joined Twitter via acquisition of MixerLabs, where he was co-founder and CEO. MixerLabs ran GeoAPI, an early developer-centric infrastructure product. Elad spent many years at Google, where he started the mobile team. He was involved with 3 acquisitions (including the Android team) and was the original product manager for Google Mobile Maps and Mobile Gmail. Prior to Google, Elad had product management and market seeding roles at a number of Silicon Valley companies. Elad worked at McKinsey &amp; Co. and received a Ph.D. from MIT and BS and BA in Math from UCSD. View Bio Elad&#039;s Sessions A Conversation with Investor Extraordinaire Elad Gil Before most of the world had experienced ChatGPT, Elad Gil had already written seed checks to startups like Perplexity, Character.AI, and Harvey. This on top of checks into, for example, Airbnb, Airtable, Anduril, Brex, Checkr, Coinbase, Deel, Figma, Flexport, Gitlab, Gusto, Instacart, Notion, Opendoor, Pinterest, Rippling, Square, Stripe … you get the idea. October 29 10:10AM &