# Differences In The Quran Treatment Of The Themes From The Book Of Genesis.Html

**Source**: https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2019/03/differences-in-the-quran-treatment-of-the-themes-from-the-book-of-genesis.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:55:17.447454+00:00

---

Differences in the Quran treatment of the themes from the Book of Genesis - Marginal REVOLUTION Toggle navigation About Marginal Revolution Categories Date Archives Our Books Our Textbook: Modern Principles of Economics Marginal Revolution University Search Search Thank-you! You've been successfully added to the Marginal Revolution email subscription list. Differences in the Quran treatment of the themes from the Book of Genesis by&nbsp;&nbsp; Tyler Cowen March 3, 2019 at 12:51 am in Books History Religion 1. There are more angels. 2. Satan plays a larger role. 3. There is virtually no literary suspense. 4. Adam is not made in God&#8217;s image. 5. There is considerably less complexity of narrative perspective. 6. Allah does not speak directly, rather it is all coming from Allah. 7. Noah is more of a prophet of doom, and Abraham (&#8220;the first Muslim&#8221;) is a more important figure. 8. The Abraham story is more central. 9. Isaac is aware that he is slated for sacrifice, and accepts his fate. (That he is not killed of course you can think of as an &#8220;alternative&#8221; to the Christ story, namely that the blessed do not have to undergo a brutal, ugly death.) 10. The covenant with God is not national or regional in its origins. For those points I drew upon my interpretations of Jack Miles, God in the Qu&#8217;ran , among other sources. 115 Comments Facebook Twitter RSS Feed print Comments Sort by Top Sort by Recent Sort by Controversial Comments for this post are closed Marginal Revolution University See Courses Learn more about Mercatus Center Fellowships Learn More Subscribe via Email Enter your email address to subscribe to updates. Email Address Subscribe RSS Feed Contact Us Alex Tabarrok Email Alex Follow @atabarrok Tyler Cowen Email Tyler Follow @tylercowen Webmaster Report an issue Blogs We Like Interesting People & Sites Our Web Pages Alex Tabarrok's Home Page Alex's TED talk, how ideas trump crises Conversations with Tyler FDAReview.org Tyler Cowen's Personal Web Page Tyler's ethnic dining guide Apply to Emergent Ventures Books Modern Principles of Economics Tyler Cowen & Alexander Tabarrok Marginal Revolution 2025 About Marginal Revolution Categories Date Archives Our Books Our Textbook: Modern Principles of Economics Marginal Revolution University Facebook Twitter RSS Feed Marginal Revolution University See Courses Search Search Privacy Policy Marginal Revolution 2025