# Wwdc 2025 Live Updates A Fresh Look For Ios A Dedicated Gaming App And More

**Source**: https://techcrunch.com/storyline/wwdc-2025-live-updates-a-fresh-look-for-ios-a-dedicated-gaming-app-and-more/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:12:00.612607+00:00

---

WWDC 2025 live updates: iOS 26, Liquid Glass, Apple Intelligence updates, and everything else revealed | TechCrunch TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps Disrupt 2025 Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech &amp; Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government &amp; Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media &amp; Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Crunchboard Contact Us Apps WWDC 2025 live updates: iOS 26, Liquid Glass, Apple Intelligence updates, and everything else revealed 29 Stories Karyne Levy June 8, 2025 &#8211; June 8, 2025 It&#8217;s finally time for WWDC 2025, Apple&#8217;s biggest developer conference of the year. It&#8217;s also a chance for Apple to notch a win. There&#8217;s considerable pressure on the company to build on its promises and to make amends to developers as it lags behind in AI and faces continued legal challenges over its App Store. WWDC begins Monday and ends Wednesday, but the main event is the keynote, which kicks off the conference at 10 a.m. PT. We&#8217;re expecting tons of reveals, so stick with us to get the latest from Apple&#8217;s big show. Jun 9, 2025 Ivan Mehta Apple adds ChatGPT integration to Xcode 26 Developers can use ChatGPT in Xcode to code, debug, and write documents without needing any account. They can also integrate other LLMs through their API keys. Updated 4 months ago Jun 9, 2025 Rebecca Bellan visionOS 26: From spatial widgets to realistic Personas Apple announced a slew of updates to visionOS 26 , the operating system powering its mixed reality headset. The updates build off last year’s Apple Vision Pro spatial computer that blends digital content with the physical world. At WWDC, Apple announced a range of updates for both consumer and enterprise customers, from new spatial widgets and content to more realistic Personas and more. Updated 4 months ago Jun 9, 2025 Sarah Perez Apple introduces an AI-powered Shortcuts app At WWDC 2025, Apple showed off a new AI-powered Shortcuts app. The company says Shortcuts can now tap into Apple Intelligence directly, and developers will be able to access Apple’s on-device large language model (LLM). With Shortcuts, users will be able to access the AI models either on device or with Private Compute to generate responses that feed into the rest of their shortcut. For instance, a student could create a shortcut that uses AI to compare their audio transcription of their class lecture to their notes, then add key points they missed. They can also tap into ChatGPT to provide further responses that feed into their shortcut’s input. Users will be able to tap into intelligent actions, which are a new type of shortcut that’s enabled by Apple Intelligence. For instance, there are dedicated actions like those for summarizing text with AI (Apple Intelligence’s Writing Tools) or creating images with Image Playground. Apple says the new features are available for testing starting Monday. Updated 4 months ago Jun 9, 2025 Amanda Silberling iPadOS 26 just sherlocked Riverside In good news for podcasters, iPadOS 26 is adding a local capture feature, which allows users to make high-quality recordings on the iPad from any videoconferencing app. Then, audio and video files can be easily shared once the recording is over. While this feature is convenient for creators, it could be a kiss of death for Riverside, a premium cloud video and audio recording tool that has been a boon for remote podcasters. Updated 4 months ago Jun 9, 2025 Tim De Chant Apple brings Preview app to iPad OS 26 Apple today introduced an iPad OS version of Preview, an app that allows users to view, mark up, and modify images and PDFs. Preview for iPad gives users a range of tools, including markup using Apple Pencil and AutoFill. Users can also export images in different formats. Pencil support should be particularly helpful in signing documents. Previously, Mac users had to rely on stored signatures, which are digitized by holding a paper copy up to the built-in camera. The addition of the app brings another feature to iPads that Mac users have long enjoyed. Apart from the Finder, Preview is one of the oldest macOS apps still in use today, tracing its origins to late-1980s NeXTSTEP, the operating system that brought Steve Jobs back to Apple. NeXTSTEP was heavily remodeled to create the first generation of Mac OS X, which in turn formed the basis of the first iPad OS. Updated 4 months ago Jun 9, 2025 Lauren Forristal tvOS 26 gets ‘Liquid Glass’ treatment Apple&#8217;s tvOS 26 showcases the new sleek &#8220;Liquid Glass&#8221; design for Apple TV . A key feature is the quick profile selection, allowing users to seamlessly choose their profiles upon waking the device. The update also includes a new API for developers that connects app logins to Apple Accounts, streamlining the sign-in process for new devices. Updated 4 months ago Jun 9, 2025 Amanda Silberling Logitech Muse and PlayStation VR2 Sense controller coming to Apple Vision Pro Along with updates to visionOS, Apple’s Vision Pro AR/VR headset is getting some new accessories. Logitech Muse, a stylus tool, will allow users to sketch in their environment, which could be helpful for architects or artists sketching a new design. For gamers, PlayStation’s VR2 Sense controllers will be compatible with the Apple Vision Pro, expanding the headset’s capacity to be used as a gaming console. Image Credits: Apple Updated 4 months ago Jun 9, 2025 Tim De Chant Apple Wallet gains new travel-friendly features in iOS 26 Apple Wallet is getting a bit more travel-friendly . The app will soon be able to hold a digital version of your passport, and boarding passes will gain new features that promise to make traveling a little bit easier. The new passport feature is “not a replacement for your physical passport,” Apple said, but it can be used in apps that need to verify age and identity and at supported TSA checkpoints. Digital passports could help procrastinators who have yet to get their Real ID. Boarding passes have long been stored in the Wallet app, allowing for quick access from the lock screen. But with iOS 26, they’re getting a host of new features. Boarding passes will now include links to terminal maps so it’s easier to find your way to the gate or to baggage claim.&nbsp; Once at the claim, Wallet’s new link to Find My should come in handy, allowing users to check the boarding pass to track the progress of their AirTagged luggage. Updated 4 months ago Jun 9, 2025 Amanda Silberling macOS Tahoe includes big update to Spotlight Spotlight is getting a big upgrade , in large part due to Apple Intelligence. Now when you search something on Spotlight, you’ll see all types of results (files, folders, events, apps, messages) listed together and ranked using AI based on relevance to the user. With filtering options, you can narrow down your search by specifically searching for a PDF, for example. Spotlight can also be used to carry out specific tasks, like sending an email, creating a note, or playing a podcast. And with quick keys, users can set short strings of characters that get them to a specific action they assign. Updated 4 months ago Jun 9, 2025 Aisha Malik Apple unveils watchOS 26 Apple Watch&#8217;s watchOS 26 will launch with a redesigned interface based on Apple’s new Liquid Glass operating system, a wrist-flick gesture, a new Apple Intelligence-powered Workout Buddy fitness feature, and more. The wrist-flick gesture can be used to dismiss notifications you want to address later, while the new Workout Buddy will motivate you based on your fitness history. Plus, Apple is bringing the Notes app to the Apple Watch. Image Credits: Apple Updated 4 months ago Jun 9, 2025 Amanda Silberling Meet macOS Tahoe The new macOS will be named Tahoe, after the scenic lake situated between California and Nevada. Tahoe syncs with iOS with Continuity features, like displaying Live Activities, such as the status of an Uber Eats order. Plus, the Liquid Glass redesign will extend to macOS, giving users more opportunities to customize their screen — you can even change the color of a folder on your desktop. Image Credits: Apple Updated 4 months ago Jun 9, 2025 Aisha Malik Apple debuts a new Games app Apple unveiled a new dedicated Games app that is designed to centralize gaming experiences on Apple devices. The app will serve as a launcher for games and allow users to track achievements and view leaderboards. The Games app will also include social features, including a “Play Together” tab that lets you see what your friends are playing, compare scores, and invite them to play with you.&nbsp; Updated 4 months ago Next Topics Apple , Apps , wwdc October 27-29, 2025 San Francisco ONE-WEEK BUNDLE FLASH SALE Founder Bundle Offer: Land your investor and sharpen your pitch. Save 15% when you bring 4-9 founders. Investors Bundle Offer: Discover your next breakout startup. Save 20% when you bring 4-9 investors. Bundle offer ends October 3. Register Now Most Popular A new a16z report looks at which AI companies startups are actually paying for Dominic-Madori Davis Salesforce launches enterprise vibe-coding product, Agentforce Vibes Rebecca Szkutak AI recruiter Alex raises $17M to automate initial job interviews Marina Temkin Vibe-coding startup Anything nabs a $100M valuation after hitting $2M ARR in its first two weeks Marina Temkin The AI services transformation may be harder than VCs think Connie Loizos Famed roboticist says humanoid robot bubble is doomed to burst Connie Loizos Spotify to label AI music, filter spam and more in AI policy change Sarah Perez X Li