# Bob Iger Disney Ceo Interview Vogue May 2018 Issue

**Source**: https://www.vogue.com/article/bob-iger-disney-ceo-interview-vogue-may-2018-issue
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:11:08.315365+00:00

---

Disney CEO Bob Iger On Taking the Biggest Risk of His Career | Vogue Skip to main content Your All-Access Pass to Vogue DOWNLOAD NOW Search Account Menu Menu Menu FASHION RUNWAY SHOPPING BEAUTY CULTURE LIVING WEDDINGS VOGUE BUSINESS FASHION Expand Celebrity Style Street Style Models Designers Trends Sustainability All Fashion RUNWAY SHOPPING Chevron BEAUTY Expand Celebrity Beauty Hair Makeup Nails Wellness Skin All Beauty CULTURE Expand Opinion TV &amp; Movies Music Arts Books News Sports All Culture LIVING Expand Homes Travel Food Parties Royals All Living WEDDINGS Expand Wedding Inspiration Planning &amp; Advice For Wedding Guests The Bridal Shop VOGUE BUSINESS MET GALA VIDEO PHOTOVOGUE MORE NEWSLETTERS PODCAST MAGAZINE PROJECTS VOGUE ARCHIVE Search Search Sign In Contact Us About Vogue Sign In Magazine Disney CEO Bob Iger On Taking the Biggest Risk of His Career By Rob Haskell Photography by Mark Peckmezian April 12, 2018 Disney’s plan to acquire 21st Century Fox is about keeping up with a rapidly changing world. “The status quo, to me, is a joke,” says Iger, photographed at home in Los Angeles. Photographed by Mark Peckmezian, Vogue , May 2018. Art in the background: Mickey , 2012, by Damien Hirst. © Damien Hirst and Science LTD. All rights reserved, DACS/ArtImage 2018. Save Story Save this story Save Story Save this story “There are premieres,” said the actress Angela Bassett, “and there are premieres .” The triumphal march down Black Panther ’s purple carpet and into the Dolby Theatre signaled that this was the latter, clearly—an occasion not just for Hollywood’s cyclical ritual of self-celebration but to toast a presumptive billion-dollar blockbuster written, directed, and starring people of color, a bet no studio had dared make before. The rapper Kendrick Lamar, arriving with an entourage of about fifteen, had flown in that afternoon from New York along with Janelle Monáe; both had performed at the Grammys the night before. The tiered tassels of Bassett’s marigold jumpsuit swished every which way, the jewels sewn into the bodice of Lupita Nyong’o’s Atelier Versace gown trembled excitedly, and actors in dashikis greeted executives in suits as pre­adolescent Marvel Comics mega-fans in glittering orthodontia swirled around them. As if by design, all this traffic seemed to flow toward Robert Iger, chairman and CEO of Disney, known far and wide as Bob, who was hanging at a safe distance from the step-and-repeat. In a dark Tom Ford suit with wide lapels and a waistcoat, Iger looked rather like the hero of the Ian Fleming novels he devoured in junior high. No, with his V-shaped chest (Iger is a famously fit 67-year-old) and well-drawn features, tinted by the violet light of the tent, he was a superhero himself: acquisitor, empire builder, and snagger of lucrative franchises. “I badly wanted this movie,” Iger said with the gleaming, ineffaceable smile of a proud father. “To have a black director, a black producer, a black cast. Look around. It means something.” He greeted other stalwarts of Disney’s extended cinematic family, including Don Cheadle ( Iron Man 2 ), Donald Glover (Lando Calrissian in Solo: A Star Wars Story , which opens next month), and Ava DuVernay, who with A Wrinkle in Time became the first African American woman to helm a $100 million movie. Iger had already seen Black Panther, in successive states of completion, six times, and on nights like these he doesn’t typically stay for the movie. But he was determined to hear the cheers as the credits rolled. So what if his trainer was scheduled for a quarter to five the next morning? Black Panther was shot largely in Atlanta in April 2017. Exactly one year earlier, Disney had sent a warning to Georgia’s governor, Nathan Deal, that it would no longer do business in the state if he passed a “religious freedom” bill that would permit certain businesses to refuse service to LGBTQ people. Georgia is the top production center for movies anywhere in the world, and while every major studio films projects there, only Disney spoke up. This bears mention because it may be tempting to watch Iger ride a new wave of Hollywood inclusiveness and imagine that his motivations begin and end at the bottom line. Indeed, he has sometimes suggested that what appear to be principled positions are really just business decisions. And yet an unmistakable gravitas hovers around him. He is, by most accounts, what his mother’s friends would call a mensch. “On the business side, there is a case to be made for your product reflecting the world you’re trying to do business in,” Iger tells me a few days later—Super Bowl Sunday, in fact—at his home in Brentwood. “But of course there’s also an ethical side. I felt that Marvel needed to turn its afterburners on in terms of developing movies based on more diverse characters, and that led directly to Black Panther and Captain Marvel ”—Marvel’s first film about a woman superhero, played by Brie Larson, which debuts next spring. “It was time to take a leap forward, and I exhorted them to do that.” The house, half-obscured by a massive, primordial-looking magnolia, was designed in the 1940s by Paul R. Williams, a California architect famous for the homes he built for Hollywood luminaries, among them Frank Sinatra, Tyrone Power, Barbara Stanwyck, and Lucille Ball. Williams was a friend of Walt Disney’s and the first African American certified to practice architecture west of the Mississippi River. “He had a sort of ‘beard,’ ” Iger explains, “a white architect who he’d have come in to meet the clients. People wouldn’t work with him if they knew he was black.” We walk past Iger’s prolific vegetable gardens, where the first snap peas of the season have popped, and around the citrus trees, from which he has a tendency to pluck fruit prematurely, according to his wife, Willow Bay, the face of Estée Lauder in the 1980s who went on to become a television anchor and is now dean of the USC Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism. We descend, finally, to his personal sanctuary, the screening room. If no one knows where Iger is, chances are he is here. The room’s ceiling, a programmable planetarium modeled after one at the offices of Pixar, which Iger acquired in 2006 (he pitched the idea to Disney’s board on only his second day as CEO), may be a Trojan horse in the polite battle for the most glamorously kitted-out home theater on Los Angeles’s West Side. The designers surprised him by asking NASA for a photograph of the night sky in New York City on the day he was born, which is now the planetarium’s default setting. But Iger can program sunrises, shooting stars, and the aurora borealis, and when his grandchildren visit from the East Coast, he can get Pinocchio to scamper across the heavens. “Kitschy, I know,” he says. “I have more time than most people would imagine, and that’s a dirty little secret,” Iger confesses. “People think I must always be scheduled and therefore don’t try, and I like that. It’s protective.” If that’s hard to believe, it’s because Iger has spent the last thirteen years relentlessly growing Disney, announcing plans to retire on four occasions, only to extend his reign each time. His reputation rests on three critical purchases—first Pixar, the computer-animation studio; then Marvel, the comic-book publisher and moviemaker; and finally Lucasfilm, holder of the priceless Star Wars and Indiana Jones libraries. Pixar provided a technologic boost to the sagging cornerstone of Disney’s business, animation, while all three acquisitions have brought the company vast catalogs of content not only for the big screen but for pajamas and lunch boxes and ice shows and, of course, Disney’s theme parks. In his time as CEO, Disney’s annual profit has tripled, its stock price has quadrupled, and sixteen of its films have earned more than $1 billion globally. To get the measure of Disney’s might, consider that during that same period, the other major studios—Universal, Paramount, Sony, Fox, and Warner Brothers—have collectively produced only thirteen billion-dollar movies. But despite his success, Iger and his venerable brand face an existential threat from Silicon Valley, in particular from companies like Netflix and Amazon. Disney has wagered on content, beloved but mutable stories with loyal audiences; meanwhile, Netflix has made so much money on subscriptions that it suddenly gets to spend billions on content of its own. (Maybe even more menacing is Amazon, which, as long as it keeps selling toilet paper, can afford to make as many movies as it wants.) Iger has watched two of his once powerful brands, ESPN and ABC, flounder in the era of cord cutting. So, last summer, with his retirement looming, he conjured another deal, likely his last and certainly his biggest: the $52 billion acquisition of the lion’s share of 21st Century Fox, a mega-merger that, if it passes regulatory muster, may help to stem the tech tide and will keep him at Disney through 2021, undoubtedly disappointing friends who hoped he’d run for president in 2020. “Disney is in an interesting place because we’ll be 95 years old this October, and we’re striving to maintain relevance in a world that doesn’t look anything like the world that the brand was created in,” Iger says. “It doesn’t even look like the world the brand existed in five years ago.” Tim Cook, the CEO of Apple, first met Iger in 2005, after the Disney chief offered to sell two then-popular ABC television shows, Lost and Desperate Housewives , to iTunes. “Bob was the only one in the industry at that time to sort of lose sight of the way things had always been done,” Cook explains, adding that it does not surprise him that Black Panther emerged out of Disney. “That film makes the point of nudging the world along a bit, and I credit Bob with his leadership there. Brands should stand for something.” The Fox sale is far from a sure thing. Some industry analysts have suggested that Iger is risking his leg