# Houston S Population Increased As Other Major 17026496.Php

**Source**: https://www.houstonchronicle.com/news/houston-texas/houston/article/Houston-s-population-increased-as-other-major-17026496.php#photo-20993124
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:04:09.202390+00:00

---

Houston’s population increased as other major cities lost residents in nation’s slowest year of growth Houston Chronicle Logo Hearst Newspapers Logo Skip to main content Subscribe Local News Trending Suburbs Education Environment Health &amp; Medicine Weather Politics Houston Texas U.S. &amp; World Business Energy Real Estate Top Workplaces Tech Sports Texans Astros Rockets Colleges High Schools Dynamo &amp; Dash Entertainment Food Restaurants &amp; Bars Restaurant Reviews Barbecue Opinion Editorials Letters to the Editor Columnists Interactives Trackers Texas Flood Map Power Outage Tracker Investigations Newsletters The 713 Texas Take Weekend Wrap Classifieds Obituaries Place an Obituary Legal Notices Place Legal Notices Place Agent/Broker Ad La Voz de Houston Visuals Puzzles Podcasts About Us Archive Newspaper Archive Chronicle Shop Privacy Notice Terms of Use Houston Chronicle Logo Subscribe Local // Houston Houston’s population increased as other major cities lost residents in nation’s slowest year of growth By Sam González Kelly , Staff writer Updated March 24, 2022 5:31 p.m. The “We Love Houston” sign sits at 8th Wonder brewery east of downtown Houston on Friday, Nov. 6, 2020. Mark Mulligan, Houston Chronicle / Staff photographer A cyclist travels north up the Columbia Tap Rail-Trail past the "Sacred Struggles/Vibrant Justice" mural honoring Houston civil rights leaders, Thursday, Sept. 30, 2021, just south of Texas Southern University in Houston. Mark Mulligan, Houston Chronicle / Staff photographer The Houston skyline at sunset on Sunday, Aug. 2, 2020. Elizabeth Conley, Houston Chronicle / Staff photographer Newly released census data shows the population in the Houston area continued to grow in 2021, even as other major cities saw substantial losses amid the slowest year of growth since the U.S. was founded. The Greater Houston area added 69,094 new residents between July 2020 and July 2021, boosting its population from 7,137,747 to 7,206,841. Only the Dallas and Phoenix metro areas grew more, according to the U.S. Census Bureau’s population estimates for 2021. Meanwhile, other major cities — New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and San Francisco — lost about 712,000 residents between them, nearly half of those from New York City alone. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Although the nation overall grew by 392,665 people, the 0.1 percent growth is the lowest annual rate in the nation’s history. The Census Bureau attributes the stagnation to slowing immigration rates and “natural decrease” — when more people die than are born — in nearly three-quarters of the nation’s counties. Both were exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic, which contributed to nearly 474,000 deaths in that time span. The U.S. border closures and court delays related to the pandemic may have also contributed to the slower rate of immigration. “Population growth has been slowing for years because of lower birth rates and decreasing net international migration, all while mortality rates are rising due to the aging of the nation’s population,” said Kristie Wilder, a demographer in the population division at the Census Bureau. “Now, with the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, this combination has resulted in a historically slow pace of growth,” Wilder said. Many people leaving the nation’s largest cities, like New York and Los Angeles, ended up in teeming metropolises such as Houston, or in places the Census Bureau calls “micro areas” — cities with less than 50,000 residents. Caroline Austin, 25, moved to Houston in October from Alexandria, Virginia — a part of the greater Washington, D.C. area, which lost over 29,000 residents between July 2020 and July 2021. A theater publicist, Austin lost her job in Washington, D.C. during the pandemic and jumped at the opportunity to work at the renowned Alley Theatre downtown when it reopened. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Austin has family in the area but had only ever spent one night in Houston, while waiting for a cruise out of Galveston. Coming from a liberal-leaning area, Austin was initially nervous about “not-so-accurate Texas stereotypes,” but any reservations were quickly wiped out as she developed a love for the city’s diversity, culture and cuisine. Its affordability, compared to the Washington D.C. area, didn’t hurt either. “My friends in D.C. are amazed that I can afford a one-bedroom by myself,” Austin said. “They couldn’t wrap their heads around it, and frankly, I couldn’t either.” Though Austin moved to the Heights, within Houston city limits, the majority of newcomers to the area moved into the surrounding suburbs. The City of Houston grew by 9.8 percent between 2010 and 2020, but the city proper appears to have actually lost residents between 2020 and 2021, according to Bill Fulton, director of the Kinder Institute for Urban Research at Rice University. Despite the surge in residents throughout the Greater Houston area, Harris County actually lost over 4,000 residents, the new data shows, leaving places like Fort Bend and Montgomery counties to pick up the slack. Fulton said he expects to see the trend continue. Advertisement Article continues below this ad “As Houston continues to grow, it continues to sprawl, and the population continues to spread out,” Fulton said. “One thing that Houston has that other cities don’t is that ability to sprawl.” Fulton pointed to the strong Texas home building industry as one reason that places like Houston, Dallas and Austin have grown, while the high cost of living forces people out of other major cities. Still the Houston area’s sprawl makes it unlikely that the city itself will surpass Chicago for third-largest in the country anytime soon, he said. “I think on a metro level, areas like Houston and Dallas will continue to ascend, but the City of Houston probably won’t add any more population,” Fulton said. sam.kelly@chron.com Advertisement Article continues below this ad March 24, 2022 | Updated March 24, 2022 5:31 p.m. Sam González Kelly Reporter Sam González Kelly is a demographics reporter for the Houston Chronicle, focusing on issues of race, class, migration and inequality in one of the fastest-growing regions of the United States. His work aims to show how Houston is changing politically, culturally and economically, and how the choices made by local decision makers ripple through different communities. A Chicago native, Sam joined the Chronicle in 2021 and covered marginalized communities for two years before taking a role as education reporter, covering the Houston Independent School District's first year under state-appointed Superintendent Mike Miles. He has a bachelor's degree from Pomona College and worked at the Chicago Sun-Times prior to arriving in Houston. Most Popular 1 . Hidalgo stormed out of budget meeting to attend concert, text messages confirm 2 . Here are the best private schools in Texas, according to Niche 3 . Texans mailbag: What&#x27;s the latest with Tank Dell and Joe Mixon&#x27;s injuries? 4 . Houston ISD may consider &#x27;long-term options&#x27; for Las Americas school 5 . Houston&#x27;s Second Baptist Church is at legal war with its members. Who will win? Latest Local News Tony Earls rejected plea offer ahead of manslaughter trial Harris County prosecutors gave Tony Earls one chance to avoid a jury's verdict about a week out from his manslaughter trial. He rejected the offer and was sentenced to 20 years. These districts have teachers under investigation for Charlie Kirk comments Teachers at 124 school districts are under investigation after more than 350 complaints were filed after the shooting of conservative leader Charlie Kirk. Humble ISD superintendent&#x27;s lynching remark called a mistake The investigation lasted from April 1 to June 6. Former state Sen. Tommy Williams chosen as Texas A&amp;M&#x27;s interim president The interim president will arrive at a 79,000-student university that has, in recent years, struggled to balance the desires of a large faculty with those of the state. Inside the Houston hotel prosecutors say became a locked-down church compound The Department of Justice alleges that the Kingdom of God ministry's Houston location had an armed guard and locked gate to keep unpaid workers inside. Editor&#x27;s Picks Investigations The 12 words that unraveled democracy at Second Baptist Church Interactives Here’s how much money you need to make to be ‘rich’ in Houston Restaurants &amp; Bars Best Indian restaurants in Houston Investigations Houston megadonors who gave the most campaign cash over 25 years Business Elon Musk’s expanding Texas empire, mapped Local How gruesome claims about Houston funerals unraveled a nightmare Trending Videos Let&#x27;s Play SpellTower Pile-Up Poker Typeshift Really Bad Chess Flipart Cross|word Wordbind CubeClear Bongo Return To Top Houston Chronicle Logo About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Standards and Practices Contact Customer Service Frequently Asked Questions Newsroom Contacts Services Archives Newspaper Archive Advertising Account Subscribe e-Edition Newsletters About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Standards and Practices Contact Customer Service Frequently Asked Questions Newsroom Contacts Services Archives Newspaper Archive Advertising Account Subscribe e-Edition Newsletters Hearst Newspapers Logo © 2025 Hearst Newspapers, LLC Terms of Use Privacy Notice DAA Industry Opt Out Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)