# Exporting The N Word

**Source**: http://espn.go.com/blog/truehoop/post/_/id/64299/exporting-the-n-word
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:08:17.232791+00:00

---

Exporting the N-word - ESPN - TrueHoop- ESPN Exporting the N-word --> Skip to main content Skip to navigation &lt; &gt; Menu ESPN scores NFL NBA MLB NCAAF WNBA NHL Soccer More Sports Boxing NCAA Cricket F1 Gaming Golf Horse LLWS MMA NASCAR NLL NBA G League NBA Summer League NCAAM NCAAW NWSL Olympics PLL Professional Wrestling Racing RN BB RN FB Rugby Sports Betting Tennis TGL UFL WWE X Games Editions Where to Watch Fantasy Bet Watch NBA Home Scores Schedule Standings Stats Teams Players Transactions Injuries Fantasy: Sign Up Offseason Moves Draft NBA Summer League Depth Charts Trade Machine Free Agency NBA Power Rankings Odds Futures G League Awards NBA History Salaries NBA.COM tickets Tickets TrueHoop Exporting the N-word 12y Coleman Collins What you missed when Dwyane Wade put the Celtics to sleep 8y ESPN.com The Big Number: Draymond Green might be the best rim protector 8y ESPN.com What you missed when LeBron James dunked the Pacers right out of the Q 8y ESPN.com The Grizzlies' secret weapon 8y Tim MacMahon What you missed when when 'Iso Joe' Johnson clipped the Clippers in the clutch 8y ESPN.com TrueHoop Pod: Ethan & Allie - Warriors Game 1 thoughts, MVP takes 8y ESPN.com TrueHoop Pod: New Jack Steph Curry, last shot politics, Charlie Murphy 8y ESPN.com Everything you missed during the NBA season 8y ESPN.com TrueHoop Pod: The Friday Mailbag - Warts and all 8y ESPN.com TrueHoop Pod: Radio Ethan's House of Strauss Playoff Preview 8y ESPN.com TrueHoop Pod: NBA Awards, Timberwolves, League Trends 8y ESPN.com The last dance of the Black Mamba 8y Baxter Holmes TrueHoop Pod: Playoff peeking, Cavs, Rockets, Chris Paul, Russ 8y ESPN.com TrueHoop Pod: The case for James Harden with Daryl Morey 8y ESPN.com TrueHoop Pod: Russell Westbrook vs. others, Steph hate, Radio Ethan 8y ESPN.com Exporting the N-word Navigating foreign lands is a big part of Coleman Collins' life as he pursues an overseas hoops career.&nbsp; Courtesy of Coleman Collins Coleman Collins Dec 2, 2013, 11:10 AM ET Email Print Editor's note: This column contains language some readers might find offensive. The first time that a person who wasn't black used the word "nigga" to address me face-to-face came when I was out of the country. I was playing basketball for a team in a small, largely Croatian village in Bosnia-Herzegovina. I was walking down the street when I passed three adolescent boys going in the other direction on the opposite side. They were visibly excited to come across a black person in the flesh and called out to me: "Hey man, what's up? Hey, my nigga, how you do?" I didn't respond. I didn't know how to respond. I kept walking, feeling my ears burn and my jaw tighten. In my mind I saw images of barking dogs. The rest of the walk home was a blur. When I had cooled down, I wondered: Were they really trying to insult me? Or had their exposure to black culture led them to believe that this was how I'd like to be greeted? There are generally four schools of thought on the word "nigga." There's the first and largest group -- black working-class (but not exclusively so) people who say it casually because it's what they've always done, or simply because they don't like being told what to do. There's the small but vocal group of middle-class black intellectuals who claim to have "reclaimed" the word, to have turned it into a term of endearment instead of a tool of oppression. It's a neat solution to a messy problem. It ends in "A," after all! This line of thinking is what led us to where Kanye West is currently -- "re-contextualizing" Confederate flags as tour merch. This last seems idiotic at first blush but might yet be proven to be genius. It's too early to talk about it with any sort of nuance, but it's a good marker of the extreme left of the dialogue. The third group is comprised of the "respectable Negroes," the bootstrap types, the "don't you embarrass me in front of these white folks" crowd. Also largely middle- and upper-middle class, the worst of these would have us believe that if black men only pulled their pants up, stopped littering and stopped calling each other that word, racism and poverty would come to an end. Last but certainly not least you have the extremely sympathetic older generation that worked to have the word eradicated from white people's vocabularies only to find it shouted from street corners and blasted from car windows in the future they worked so hard for. Carried to the extreme, it's best represented by the NAACP, which literally attempted to bury the word "nigga" in a well-intentioned but ultimately irrelevant funeral in 2007. &#8220; As I've played and traveled in various countries around the world, I've often been in situations with another person or their family and realized that this was their very first time meeting a person with skin like mine, shaking his or her hand or breaking bread over the dinner table. It is a strange weight to go from "representing your race" to Representing Your Race, but certainly bearable. &#8221; Our academics would have us believe that the word is fine when in context, used without malice as a term of endearment. It's a simple equation in the U.S. Racism = prejudice + power. "White people" are excluded from using it because of their forefather's complicity in the slave trade and subsequent years of oppression. The paleness of their skin serves as prima facie evidence of their inability to use the word. But where did the boys from Bosnia-Herzegovina fit in? They used it as a greeting. They were not a threat to me or my well-being. They didn't represent any white-power structure -- their country never had any slaves or colonies, and furthermore you'd be hard pressed to find any point in the past 100 or so years when the average Slav was better off from a material standpoint then a black American. If the word's power comes not from any intrinsic value but from the power structures behind it, why was I so angry? As I've played and traveled in various countries around the world, I've often been in situations with another person or their family and realized that this was their very first time meeting a person with skin like mine, shaking his or her hand or breaking bread over the dinner table. It is a strange weight to go from "representing your race" to Representing Your Race, but certainly bearable. I've been unusually fortunate. For various socioeconomic reasons and sheer lack of numbers, very few African-Americans leave the United States. The percentage of Americans with passports is reported to be anywhere from 10 to 30 percent. Black passport ownership is believed to be some fraction of this. This means that for the vast majority of the world, the first (and likely only) exposure to African-American culture they will have in their lifetimes is through the Internet. Sports highlights, YouTube clips, memes. These people are receiving all of this without the framework that undergirds every interracial interaction in the U.S. This is not to say our rules are impossible to ascertain, but it makes it very, very difficult. Highlights, music videos, memes. There is a very popular meme among black people that is occasionally funny, generally depressing and seemingly never-ending. It's called "Niggas Be Like." An example: A picture of a Stevie Wonder with the caption "NIGGAS BE LIKE: 'I'LL PAY YOU BACK NEXT TIME I SEE YOU.'" There are thousands of these on the Internet. You could easily copy and paste some of them on to a white supremacist site without anyone noticing; the conspiracy theorist in me wants to believe that's who keeps coming up with them. But the good ones are the sort of in-joke that has come to be understood as OK within cultures. The first time I saw one of these, it had been posted by a former teammate of mine. The second person I saw repost one was a white girl. She was German, was dating an African-American soldier, felt like she had been given a pass. I know her personally, know she isn't racist. She is someone who wants to belong, and for whatever reason, the "pass" is seen as the ultimate sign that you're in. It actually is the natural extension of the tortured logic of that second school of thought -- if the word is now a term of love, of endearment, then a white person who can say that word without consequence is loved beyond any other. It would be, it must be, the pinnacle of white cool. So who gets a pass? Most people, myself included, would argue that people with a black parent are fine. It didn't anger me when I heard that Matt Barnes used it. Conversely, I was dismayed to hear that Richie Incognito used it openly and often, but I know how locker rooms work. All it takes is one black guy to say, "Come on, man, you can say it, you know you my nigga" and all hell breaks loose. It's like a gun ban or a tax increase -- not feasible in a world of people with differing standards. I've been in locker rooms where European players used it nonchalantly around black players, mostly when singing along to song lyrics. Occasionally, I'd pull someone aside and ask them to stop. This was mostly greeted with a look of confusion, an unanswerable question ("But why do you guys say it so much if it's such a terrible word?") and, finally, acceptance and an agreement not to do it again. Outside of that basic, American, black/white binary, the lines are hard to define. What about Puerto Ricans and Dominicans? Africans? Indians? Last year during a casual conversation, a half-Malian, half-French teammate told me, "Nigga, quit lying!" I asked him not to call me that, please. He was genuinely hurt. "What, I'm not black enough to say that? I don't count?" It dawned on me that it wasn't just his attempt at speaking my language -- it was an expression of solidarity. It was an assertion of blackness. He was placing his flag on the ground. I told him that it had nothing to do with being black enough, or that he somehow hadn't earned the right. It was just simply that I'd prefer to be cal