# Jonschwarz

**Source**: https://theintercept.com/staff/jonschwarz/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:25:21.475760+00:00

---

Jon Schwarz, Author at The Intercept Skip to main content Support Us Support Us Politics Justice War on Gaza Technology Immigration Chilling Dissent Support Us Special Investigations Voices Podcasts Press Freedom Defense Fund Join the Newsletter About Contact Us More Ways to Donate Impact &#038; Reports Jobs Become a Source © THE INTERCEPT ALL RIGHTS RESERVED Terms of Use Privacy Politics Justice War on Gaza Technology Immigration Chilling Dissent About Support Us Jon Schwarz Before joining First Look Media, Jon Schwarz worked for Michael Moore’s Dog Eat Dog Films and was a research producer for Moore’s “Capitalism: A Love Story.” He’s contributed to many publications, including the New Yorker, the New York Times, The Atlantic, the Wall Street Journal, Mother Jones, and Slate, as well as NPR and "Saturday Night Live." In 2003, he collected on a $1,000 bet that Iraq would have no weapons of mass destruction. Contacts: jon.schwarz@&ZeroWidthSpace;theintercept.com @Schwarz on X Posts: Voices Erik Prince Calls for U.S. to Colonize Africa and Latin America Jon Schwarz - Feb. 10, 2024 What could possibly go wrong? Voices Thomas Friedman and the Red Lines in Journalism on Israel and Palestine Jon Schwarz - Feb. 7, 2024 His column comparing Middle East nations to insects reveals how the New York Times publishes crimes against human cognition. Israel’s War on Gaza Here Are the Laws Plausibly Broken by Israel in Its Raid on a West Bank Hospital Jon Schwarz - Jan. 31, 2024 When Israeli forces invaded a Jenin hospital dressed in medical outfits and killed three Palestinians, they probably violated laws against perfidy and executing protected individuals. Voices Will the U.S. Block the ICJ on Gaza? It’s Thwarted the Court Before. Jon Schwarz - Jan. 30, 2024 An adverse ICJ ruling on Nicaragua in 1984 shows how the U.S. subverts international law when it chooses. Voices Why Israel’s Violence Gets So Much Notice (It’s Not Antisemitism) Jon Schwarz - Jan. 20, 2024 The question of Israel is whether European colonialism can ever make peace with the rest of the world. Voices Let’s Seize This Opportunity to Destroy Harvard! Jon Schwarz - Jan. 6, 2024 After that, progressives should extirpate the entire Ivy League. Voices I Calculated How Much of My Money the U.S. Sent to Kill Palestinians. You Can Too. Jon Schwarz - Dec. 28, 2023 As Americans, our money is paying for Israel’s atrocities in Gaza. How much did you give? Voices Merry Christmas! We All Belong in Prison at The Hague. Jon Schwarz, Elise Swain - Dec. 24, 2023 Because human joy is anathema to us, we direct your holiday attention to your complicity in the violence in Israel and Palestine. Voices A Top U.K. Official Displayed the Terrifying Ignorance of the World’s Leaders on Gaza Jon Schwarz - Dec. 22, 2023 Former Defense Minister Ben Wallace wrote about the Hamas charter without mentioning its revision in 2017. We need the people in charge to understand the facts. Voices Samantha Power Calls on Samantha Power to Resign Over Gaza Jon Schwarz - Dec. 15, 2023 If Power, the USAID administrator, would take her own genocide book seriously, she would step down over Israel’s assault on Palestinians. 1 2 3 &hellip; 49 Next Page About Support Us Join Newsletter Jobs Contact Us Policies Terms of Use Privacy © The Intercept. All rights reserved Enter your email to keep reading for free. This is not a paywall. I&#039;m in By signing up, I agree to receive emails from The Intercept and to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Use . No ads. No corporate BS. Skip the propaganda and donate to keep The Intercept going strong: No ads. No corporate BS. Skip the propaganda and donate to keep The Intercept going strong: $15 $25 $50 $100 $5 $8 $10 $15 One Time Monthly Yes, count me In We’re independent of corporate interests. Will you join us? $15 $25 $50 $100 $5 $8 $10 $15 One Time Monthly Yes, count me in