# 1703.03906

**Source**: https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.03906
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:13:11.435341+00:00

---

[1703.03906] Massive Exploration of Neural Machine Translation Architectures Skip to main content We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate &gt; cs &gt; arXiv:1703.03906 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About --> Computer Science > Computation and Language arXiv:1703.03906 (cs) [Submitted on 11 Mar 2017 ( v1 ), last revised 21 Mar 2017 (this version, v2)] Title: Massive Exploration of Neural Machine Translation Architectures Authors: Denny Britz , Anna Goldie , Minh-Thang Luong , Quoc Le View a PDF of the paper titled Massive Exploration of Neural Machine Translation Architectures, by Denny Britz and 3 other authors View PDF Abstract: Neural Machine Translation (NMT) has shown remarkable progress over the past few years with production systems now being deployed to end-users. One major drawback of current architectures is that they are expensive to train, typically requiring days to weeks of GPU time to converge. This makes exhaustive hyperparameter search, as is commonly done with other neural network architectures, prohibitively expensive. In this work, we present the first large-scale analysis of NMT architecture hyperparameters. We report empirical results and variance numbers for several hundred experimental runs, corresponding to over 250,000 GPU hours on the standard WMT English to German translation task. Our experiments lead to novel insights and practical advice for building and extending NMT architectures. As part of this contribution, we release an open-source NMT framework that enables researchers to easily experiment with novel techniques and reproduce state of the art results. Comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, 8 tables, submitted to ACL 2017, open source code at this https URL Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL) Cite as: arXiv:1703.03906 [cs.CL] &nbsp; (or arXiv:1703.03906v2 [cs.CL] for this version) &nbsp; https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1703.03906 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Anna Goldie [ view email ] [v1] Sat, 11 Mar 2017 04:17:46 UTC (91 KB) [v2] Tue, 21 Mar 2017 20:34:59 UTC (91 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Massive Exploration of Neural Machine Translation Architectures, by Denny Britz and 3 other authors View PDF TeX Source Other Formats view license Current browse context: cs.CL &lt;&nbsp;prev &nbsp; | &nbsp; next&nbsp;&gt; new | recent | 2017-03 Change to browse by: cs References &amp; Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar 3 blog links ( what is this? ) DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Denny Britz Anna Goldie Minh-Thang Luong Quoc V. Le export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation &times; loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status Get status notifications via email or slack