# Demna Balenciaga Greats.Html

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2022/10/13/t-magazine/demna-balenciaga-greats.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:47:14.818026+00:00

---

Demna - The New York Times Skip to content Skip to site index T Magazine Today’s Paper T Magazine | Demna https://nyti.ms/3MqM0fF Share full article 0 Advertisement SKIP ADVERTISEMENT Demna By Nick Haramis Updated null Share full article 0 In his always provocative, culture-shifting work, the artistic director of Balenciaga is constantly revealing himself — even as he sometimes seeks to disappear. Tgreats.white_yellow In our 2022 Greats issue, out Oct. 16, T celebrates four inimitable artists across music, film, fashion design and sculpture whose talents — and ability to transcend the expectations of their craft — have cemented their place in the culture. Read more about the making of the issue. The Greats nomination process — that is to say, the conversation/debate/slugfest that produces the names of the people we end up profiling for this issue — typically begins in January. The discussion can, at times, sound like a wine tasting. “What about so-and-so?” someone will ask. “Mm, yes, so-and-so,” someone else will agree dreamily, “that’s a good one.” No one ever shouts down or openly disparages anyone else’s choice, but sometimes a name is met with no reaction at all, a silence more damning than outright disapproval. Overall, though, the exercise is good-natured: It allows us to collectively revisit or make the case for our personal heroes, ones both obvious and obscure, famous and forgotten. The people we ultimately choose as Greats mustn’t just be accomplished; they must be inimitable in some way, and their nominators must make a compelling case for their singularity. What we end up with, then, is a group whose talents — and place in the culture — are undeniable. Just look at Demna, the artistic director of Balenciaga and co-founder and former creative director of Vetements; over his seven-year tenure at the head of the French fashion house, he has, as editor at large Nick Haramis writes in his profile, created clothes and accessories that have “become somehow symbolic of a cultural moment.” Demna’s inventions — the leather totes that resemble blue Ikea shopping bags; a logo riffing on the one from Bernie Sanders’s presidential campaign; the pantashoe, stretchy, satiny leggings morphing seamlessly into a pair of stiletto heels — are born of and for a social media era, when everything can be spliced, and everything is branded. Then there’s Lynda Benglis, who, at 80, is the art world’s ultimate iconoclast, known for her poured-latex sculptures, which took art off the wall and placed it on the floor, but also for her revolutionary 1974 Artforum ad (look it up: New York Times standards guidelines prevent us from republishing it), which remains as arresting as it is unknowable — a shocking image still, even in an age of shocking images. “Few other artists have displayed such nerve, or been less obedient,” Sasha Weiss writes of Benglis. “She has helped drive the trajectory of various artistic movements — the heroic eloquence of Abstract Expressionism, the grandeur and engineering feats of post-minimalism, the gaudy cleverness of Pop — and yet belongs fully to none of those traditions.” Equally uncategorizable is the musician Anderson .Paak, though, as Adam Bradley writes, .Paak is also and ultimately “a living embodiment of” soul, a “bedrock Black musical tradition that variously expresses itself in gospel and funk, hip-hop and punk. Soul is the imperative governing all of his music: the will to move the crowd.” .Paak’s music and performance are acts of generosity, Bradley notes, but his colorful, smiley, cheery persona — his eagerness to move the crowd — is also a way of holding the world at arm’s length, of protecting something vulnerable within. That tension, between expressiveness and vulnerability, is also what defines the actor Michelle Williams, writes Susan Dominus. What we know most of Williams’s personal life is the tragic loss, 14 years ago, of her former partner Heath Ledger, the father of her eldest child. And in her craft, too, Dominus notes, “Williams offers audiences portrayals that seem to embody the agony the public associates with her youth, while also transcending it, making of it something original in each iteration.” Another performer might have denied viewers the opportunity to watch her grieve onscreen, to express something so private for a crowd — Williams, however, makes pain visible. Transcendence; generosity; a refusal to obey: Not every creative person possesses these qualities. But those who do are especially thrilling for us to watch — and to be grateful that they are with us, plying their own paths and daring us to do the same. — HANYA YANAGIHARA Demna ‘It’s easier to show pain or joy through my work than to say it out loud.’ By Nick Haramis Photographs by Lise Sarfati Styled by Suzanne Koller Lynda Benglis ‘I knew that there was something that I could do that didn’t have to go back to the figure. My brain wasn’t built for anything like that.’ By Sasha Weiss Photographs by Justin French Anderson .Paak ‘People died in order for my smiley ass to come out here and carry a Gucci purse.’ By Adam Bradley Photographs by D’Angelo Lovell Williams Styled by Ian Bradley Michelle Williams ‘I was totally amorphous and penetrable. So to begin with, pretending to be other people gave me at least somebody to be.’ By Susan Dominus Photographs by Luis Alberto Rodriguez Styled by Charlotte Collet The Greats Demna Lynda Benglis Anderson .Paak Michelle Williams Demna In his always provocative, culture-shifting work, the artistic director of Balenciaga is constantly revealing himself — even as he sometimes seeks to disappear. By Nick Haramis Photographs by Lise Sarfati Styled by Suzanne Koller Lise Sarfati Styled by Suzanne Koller --> Oct. 27, 2022 Demna, photographed at home in Paris on July 7, 2022, wearing his own Balenciaga clothing and a Balenciaga Couture Engineered by Mercedes-AMG F1 Applied Science face shield, price on request, balenciaga.com . Lise Sarfati ON A WARM Paris night this past July, in the same neo-Classical palace off the Place de la Concorde where coronation balls were once held for Emperor Napoleon I and King Charles X, Balenciaga was hosting a dinner for Demna, its artistic director of seven years. Earlier that day, the 41-year-old Georgian designer had presented his second couture collection for the French fashion house founded in 1917 by Cristóbal Balenciaga, the Spanish designer whose bubble hemlines, sack dresses and cocoon coats offered an adventurous postwar alternative to Christian Dior’s hyper-feminine New Look of the late 1940s. Now, in a grand reception room of the recently restored 18th-century Hôtel de la Marine, the magician David Blaine was performing a card trick for the pop star Dua Lipa; the actor Alexa Demie was chatting with the reality star and real estate agent Christine Quinn, whose Balenciaga handbag, one of only 20 in existence, was also a Bang & Olufsen speaker; and Kim Kardashian, the brand’s most loyal and most famous customer, posed in one of the designer’s tinted polyurethane face shields, which made her look like she’d stepped out of a John Baldessari photograph. Listen to This Article Demna was seated at a long banquet table with Kardashian; her mother, Kris Jenner; the actor Michelle Yeoh ; the supermodels Naomi Campbell and Bella Hadid; the rapper Offset; the country musician Keith Urban; and his wife, the movie star Nicole Kidman, who’d walked her first runway show a few hours earlier in a silver-coated silk taffeta gown with a long train knotted at the hip. To allay his sometimes-severe social anxiety at such events, Demna has always surrounded himself with a circle of confidants — including his husband, the composer and musician Loïck Gomez, also known by his stage name, BFRND, whom he met online in 2016 and married in 2017. But after weekly sessions with his life coach, he decided to try exposure therapy this time. (He’s been working with the same therapist since just before starting at Balenciaga; often he finds it easier to communicate emotion through a garment he’s made than with words.) “Am I going to say something wrong to Nicole?” he worried. But when I glanced over to check on him, I saw that Demna was face to face with Kidman, whom he’d only just met. Her hand was on his heart, and his hand on hers, neither of them moving or speaking. They stayed like that, silent and staring at each other, for almost two minutes; it’s her preferred way of connecting to someone, she says. Balenciaga wool hourglass jacket and wrap skirt in black-and-white houndstooth, fluid blouse in white silk and boudoir thigh-high boots in patent calfskin from the fall 2016 collection. Photograph by Lise Sarfati. Styled by Suzanne Koller Across the room at the friends’ table, I found myself where Demna would usually be, with the painter Eliza Douglas, Demna’s longtime muse; her partner, the artist Anne Imhof ; the pop singer Róisín Murphy, who would later perform a few songs in the courtyard; the model Julia Nobis; the photographer Nadia Lee Cohen, who shot Balenciaga’s fall 2022 campaign; Martina Tiefenthaler, the company’s chief creative officer and one of the founding members of Vetements, the influential fashion collective Demna started in 2014; and Tiefenthaler’s boyfriend, Gian Gisiger, the graphic designer behind the latest iteration of Balenciaga’s logo. Among other things, Demna is known for being loyal to his tribe, a creative gang — and informal focus group — of like-minded nonconformists who walk in his shows, star in his look books and cheer him on. “What a crazy carnival of people,” Tiefenthaler said to me with pride. “And there he is, in the middle of it all.” She motioned in the direction of the designer, whose gray cotton hoodie stood out amid all the sequins. His sense of alienation isn’t incidental to his work or a talking point on a press release; it’s visible in every garment he makes — if you know where to look. Demna was hired by Balenciaga in