# Answering Questions About Water Quality Programs

**Source**: https://blog.givewell.org/2022/10/14/answering-questions-about-water-quality-programs/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:21:44.366636+00:00

---

Answering some questions about water quality programs - The GiveWell Blog Top Charities Our Giving Funds Top Charities Fund All Grants Fund Unrestricted Fund List of Grants USAID Our Response &#038; How to Help Podcasts on Foreign Aid Cuts Forecasts on Future Funding Research How Much Does It Cost To Save a Life? Research Overview Research on Programs Our Criteria Cost-Effectiveness Analyses How We Produce Impact Estimates All GiveWell Grants Our Mistakes About About GiveWell Our People Information About Donating General FAQ Values Official Records Jobs Contact Us What Others Are Saying Stay Updated Blog Ways To Give Donor Portal Login Tax Deductibility of Donations Overview of Giving Options Credit Card Check Wire Transfer ACH (Automatic Clearing House) Cryptocurrency Securities/Stock PayPal Wills and Bequests Qualified Charitable Distributions Donor Advised Fund (DAF) Donate to GiveWell UK Enter search terms here. This search returns results from both GiveWell's main site and from the GiveWell Blog. Search form Search Donate Donate Home The GiveWell Blog Answering some questions about water quality programs Previous Post Next Post October 14, 2022 | by Miranda Kaplan On June 22, we held a virtual event on research into water quality interventions , featuring presentations from Michael Kremer of the University of Chicago&#8217;s Development Innovation Lab; Brett Sedgewick from Evidence Action, the parent organization of Dispensers for Safe Water; and Stephan Guyenet, Elie Hassenfeld, and Catherine Hollander of GiveWell. (If you weren&#8217;t able to attend, we&#8217;ve published a video recording, audio recording, and transcript here .) We hosted the event to provide some additional background for our recommendation of up to $64.7 million to Dispensers for Safe Water , which installs chlorine dispensers to treat water at rural collection sites in Kenya, Malawi, and Uganda. This grant was the result of a lengthy investigation and a significant update in our views on the cost-effectiveness of water treatment, which we&#8217;ve written about here . Several attendees wrote in with a range of thoughtful questions—about our analysis of the effects of chlorination interventions, about the particulars of Dispensers for Safe Water&#8217;s program, or more generally about our work. We covered as many as we could during the event and followed up on others by email. Below, we&#8217;re sharing a selection of the questions we responded to in writing, along with other questions we&#8217;ve gotten about this work outside of the event, in the hope that they&#8217;ll be of interest to a broader audience. Questions and answers have been anonymized; some have been edited slightly for brevity, or to fill in important context that was missing. We always appreciate getting your questions—beyond giving us a chance to clarify our work, it provides valuable insight into what we&#8217;re not communicating as well as we could. Feel free to email us with your own questions, about water quality or anything else, at info@givewell.org . You can also comment directly on this blog post or on our most recent open thread . We aim to respond to all questions, though it may take us a few days to get back to you. Table of contents On Dispensers for Safe Water and our grant recommendation Q: What kind of monitoring does Dispensers for Safe Water do to make sure its chlorine dispensers are in working order? Q: How much would it cost to get safe water to all of the approximately two billion people who need it worldwide? On our meta-analysis of water treatment&#8217;s effects Q: What are the benefits of water treatment beyond reducing deaths? Q: What is publication bias? Q: Are there experts who are more enthusiastic or more skeptical about the evidence behind water treatment? On unintended consequences of charity-run programs Q: Do charities reduce the pressure put on local governments to deliver better services? On GiveWell&#8217;s research process and sources of potential new funding opportunities Q: How does GiveWell make funding decisions? On Dispensers for Safe Water and our grant recommendation Q: This grant represents a big investment in the Dispensers for Safe Water approach of installing chlorine dispensers next to water collection points. A worry for me is that the dispensers won&#8217;t be kept in good working order, making the program less effective—I&#8217;ve heard that maintenance of facilities can be a challenge in water provision and sanitation programs. Has anyone checked the effectiveness of the maintenance that Dispensers for Safe Water does? A: Dispensers for Safe Water performs a number of checks to make sure that the dispensers are still working as they should be, and also conducts surveys to make sure that the maintenance is working. A summary of Dispensers for Safe Water&#8217;s monitoring and evaluation activities can be found in our 2018 report on the program here , although the January 2022 grant covers additional data collection activities. Program staff conduct spot checks of dispensers when delivering chlorine and when conducting surveys. [1] Promoters (community volunteers who refill the chlorine dispensers and promote use of the dispensers) are also asked to report any faults with the dispensers and are given a number to call. When promoters in Kenya call to report maintenance issues, the issues are logged and tracked using a cloud-based app; Evidence Action hopes to eventually launch the issue tracker app in Uganda and Malawi as well. Promoters and staff delivering chlorine are trained to address basic functionality problems, and specialized staff engineers are brought in for more serious faults. [2] To confirm that the dispensers remain functional, Dispensers for Safe Water conducts surveys six times a year to (a) determine how many dispensers remain in use and (b) measure the percentage of households served by dispensers who have chlorine in their water. For the latter, Dispensers for Safe Water randomly selects households to visit, asks them to pour a glass of water, and measures the chlorine content. In 2019, Dispensers for Safe Water&#8217;s data showed that approximately 50% of targeted households poured a glass of water that contained chlorine, suggesting that dispensers are in use in those locations. (We&#8217;re citing 2019 data here because we think conditions during COVID-19 may not be representative of the future.) See here in Dispensers for Safe Water 2019 monitoring data analysis . Q: Evidence Action says Dispensers for Safe Water is currently reaching four million people in Kenya, Malawi, and Uganda, and this grant will allow them to expand that to 9.5 million. But Michael Kremer mentioned that more than two billion people are consuming contaminated water each year. Is there a good estimate for how much it would cost to scale up this kind of program so that all of the approximately two billion affected people have safe water? A: We haven&#8217;t come up with an estimate for what it would cost to scale up Dispensers for Safe Water (or a similar program) to all people who could benefit from it, and most likely some locations with unsafe water wouldn&#8217;t meet our current cost-effectiveness bar for funding. Our cost-effectiveness analyses are location-specific, and we would expect the cost-effectiveness of scaling up this program globally to vary quite a bit in each country, or even from region to region within a country, depending on overall mortality rates there and how much of that mortality is due to enteric infections. But generally, our estimates suggest that the locations where simple chlorination interventions, such as Dispensers for Safe Water, tend to be very cost-effective are mostly African countries with a low socio-demographic index (SDI) . African countries with a slightly higher SDI (low-middle as opposed to low) are less well represented among the most cost-effective locations. [3] These locations might not meet our cost-effectiveness bar, but they could still be covered by other funders. Though we can&#8217;t confidently say how much it would cost to bring this chlorination intervention to two billion people annually, we have come up with a very rough, speculative estimated cost of $170 million/year to cover all locations where we think the program might be at least eight times as cost-effective as cash transfers. This figure relies on a number of uncertain assumptions about costs, how much of each country&#8217;s population Dispensers for Safe Water could reach, etc., but it may help give a sense of the huge (and cost-effective) global funding gap for water treatment. On our meta-analysis of water treatment&#8217;s effects Q: Michael Kremer and his team found a very large effect of water treatments like chlorination on child mortality, and GiveWell found a smaller but still significant mortality effect. What about effects beyond mortality? For instance, I&#8217;m curious about the possibility of increasing the child&#8217;s adult income because of improved overall health, or the impact of reducing the family&#8217;s expenditure on medical treatment, etc. How confident can we be in these results? A: The single largest benefit we model from chlorination interventions like Dispensers for Safe Water is a reduction in mortality among children under five, but we do incorporate other benefits as well: Development effects. We believe reducing illness in children probably improves their development, leading to slightly higher income in adulthood. We refer to this as &#8220;development effects&#8221; and include it in our model. We don&#8217;t have direct evidence that water treatment causes this, but we do have direct evidence that malaria prevention and deworming cause it, and we think it probably applies here as well. Medical costs averted. If a child becomes ill less often because their water is chlorinated, we do expect the family will save money on medical treatment, and we factor in thi