# Phys Ed Can Exercise Make Kids Smarter

**Source**: http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2010/09/15/phys-ed-can-exercise-make-kids-smarter/?pagemode=print
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:48:45.319946+00:00

---

Phys Ed: Can Exercise Make Kids Smarter? - The New York Times Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times Well | Phys Ed: Can Exercise Make Kids Smarter? Close search Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Supported by Search Phys Ed: Can Exercise Make Kids Smarter? By Gretchen Reynolds September 15, 2010 12:01 am September 15, 2010 12:01 am Roger Weber/Getty Images In an experiment published last month , researchers recruited schoolchildren, ages 9 and 10, who lived near the Champaign-Urbana campus of the University of Illinois and asked them to run on a treadmill. The researchers were hoping to learn more about how fitness affects the immature human brain. Animal studies had already established that, when given access to running wheels, baby rodents bulked up their brains, enlarging certain areas and subsequently outperforming sedentary pups on rodent intelligence tests. But studies of the effect of exercise on the actual shape and function of children&#x2019;s brains had not yet been tried. So the researchers sorted the children, based on their treadmill runs, into highest-, lowest- and median-fit categories. Only the most- and least-fit groups continued in the study (to provide the greatest contrast). Both groups completed a series of cognitive challenges involving watching directional arrows on a computer screen and pushing certain keys in order to test how well the children filter out unnecessary information and attend to relevant cues. Finally, the children&#x2019;s brains were scanned, using magnetic resonance imaging technology to measure the volume of specific areas. Previous studies found that fitter kids generally scored better on such tests. And in this case, too, those children performed better on the tests. But the M.R.I.&#x2019;s provided a clearer picture of how it might work. They showed that fit children had significantly larger basal ganglia, a key part of the brain that aids in maintaining attention and &#x201C;executive control,&#x201D; or the ability to coordinate actions and thoughts crisply. Since both groups of children had similar socioeconomic backgrounds, body mass index and other variables, the researchers concluded that being fit had enlarged that portion of their brains. Meanwhile, in a separate, newly completed study by many of the same researchers at the University of Illinois, a second group of 9- and 10-year-old children were also categorized by fitness levels and had their brains scanned, but they completed different tests, this time focusing on complex memory. Such thinking is associated with activity in the hippocampus, a structure in the brain&#x2019;s medial temporal lobes. Sure enough, the M.R.I. scans revealed that the fittest children had heftier hippocampi. Related More Phys Ed columns Faster, Higher, Stronger Fitness and Nutrition News The two studies did not directly overlap, but the researchers, in their separate reports, noted that the hippocampus and basal ganglia regions interact in the human brain, structurally and functionally. Together they allow some of the most intricate thinking. If exercise is responsible for increasing the size of these regions and strengthening the connection between them, being fit may &#x201C;enhance neurocognition&#x201D; in young people, the authors concluded. These findings arrive at an important time. For budgetary and administrative reasons, school boards are curtailing physical education, while on their own, children grow increasingly sluggish. Recent statistics from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention show that roughly a quarter of children participate in zero physical activity outside of school. At the same time, evidence accumulates about the positive impact of even small amounts of aerobic activity. Past studies from the University of Illinois found that &#x201C;just 20 minutes of walking&#x201D; before a test raised children&#x2019;s scores, even if the children were otherwise unfit or overweight, says Charles Hillman, a professor of kinesiology at the university and the senior author of many of the recent studies. But it&#x2019;s the neurological impact of sustained aerobic fitness in young people that is especially compelling. A memorable years-long Swedish study published last year found that, among more than a million 18-year-old boys who joined the army, better fitness was correlated with higher I.Q.&#x2019;s, even among identical twins. The fitter the twin, the higher his I.Q. The fittest of them were also more likely to go on to lucrative careers than the least fit, rendering them less likely, you would hope, to live in their parents&#x2019; basements. No correlation was found between muscular strength and I.Q. scores. There&#x2019;s no evidence that exercise leads to a higher I.Q., but the researchers suspect that aerobic exercise, not strength training, produces specific growth factors and proteins that stimulate the brain, said Georg Kuhn, a professor at the University of Gothenburg and the senior author of the study. But for now, the takeaway is clear. &#x201C;More aerobic exercise&#x201D; for young people, Mr. Kuhn said. Mr. Hillman agreed. So get kids moving, he added, and preferably away from their Wiis. A still-unpublished study from his lab compared the cognitive impact in young people of 20 minutes of running on a treadmill with 20 minutes of playing sports-style video games at a similar intensity. Running improved test scores immediately afterward. Playing video games did not. Comments are no longer being accepted. Demi September 15, 2010 &#xB7; 12:53 am From an evolutionary point of view, the finding in both studies make perfect sense. What we call exercise today was the way of life for our ancestors. Our lives have changed drastically in the last few decades and our kids spend much of their time indoors and learning has become a structured activity. Our ancestors, on the other hand, needed constant physical activity to negotiate the complexities of life. Problem solving was concurrent with physical effort, so the brain must have adapted by developing appropriate regions to enhance neurocognition. This connection between the brain and body has been wonderfully systematized in yoga along with another important component: meaningful relaxation. Our kids today are so stressed out that they need not only physical activity but also personal sanctuaries to grown from within. //preciousretreats.com/ flutedoc September 15, 2010 &#xB7; 1:00 am This information should be run as a 30 second &#x201C;advertisement&#x201D; on every daytime TV channel that a parent or a kid could possibly view, right after the whole grain Cheerios ad (is there one yet). dr. mama September 15, 2010 &#xB7; 1:34 am Wow, I see a powerful marketing tool here. If parents want to boost their kids&#x2019; academic scores, they&#x2019;re better off increasing cardiac capacity than enrolling them in enrichment classes or tutoring. Not to mention the added benefit of longer, healthier lives. Want to get Junior into Harvard? Join a fitness club and skip the college coach. //mamasoncall.com james igoe September 15, 2010 &#xB7; 5:52 am You&#x2019;ve presented several studies that showed a correlation between fitness and various mental abilities, but none that showed that exercise increased those abilities. As someone that tests well in both IQ and fitness, 99th and 97th percentiles, respectively, I know that much of my abilities are based on how well I chose my parents. Although I am only a study of one, I know that my abilities were neglected in my youth, and barely nurtured, I also know from numerous MZA (mono-zygotic raised apart) studies that the majority one&#x2019;s intellectual abilities are the outcomes of heredity. You are perpetrating bad science. tg September 15, 2010 &#xB7; 6:39 am Just another angle-study to get children moving again. Shouldn&#x2019;t chidhood obesity be the operative overarching theme here? Overall health. Oxygenating grey matter is good for anyone and systemic movement is good for the body, because it&#x2019;s the body that shuts down the mind. This study just panders to the lost generation of parents suffering from their own values breakdown, the genesis of their children&#x2019;s inactivity and overindulgence&#x2026;.it&#x2019;s the &#x201C;Wii Gen not on my watch you don&#x2019;t, back to the Playstation please and I&#x2019;ll get you a nice cookie and biscuit parent&#x201D;. Look, when I was growing up, if you didn&#x2019;t have a flat nose, one broken limb and at least ten stitches by the time you were 12yo, you hadn&#x2019;t lived &#x2014; and that was just the girls! I&#x2019;m not sayin&#x2019;, I&#x2019;m just sayin&#x2019;. //www.tgfit.com Master Trainer September 15, 2010 &#xB7; 7:01 am Moving is an essential part of everyday life. Many times I have worked on something until feeling exhausted. When I got up and started moving around or exercising I could feel an immediate change in the body like everything was flowing at a faster pace. My mind began to open up. Physical, Mental and Spiritual (PMS) activities are required for a balanced life. Each helps us fill a specific need in life. As far as aerobic exercise there is no doubt it contributes to better mental performance. I hope people don&#x2019;t get the message from this article that fitter people are smarter. They are not. Aerobic exercise applies to everyone. When you study you may do well. However, if you exercise before you study you will do even better. No matter how fit you are. Kids need to move. I hope we don&#x2019;t get rid of exercise time in school. For free exercise advice or training in nyc //www.visionswellness.com The Healthy L ibrarian September 15, 2010 &#xB7; 7:20 am Ditto for grown-ups. What&#x2019;s good for the heart is good for the brain. Here&#x2019;s a serious motivator to get out there &