# How To Find Redbird

**Source**: http://frequentmiler.boardingarea.com/2014/10/15/how-to-find-redbird/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:27:42.814869+00:00

---

How to find REDbird back to top Facebook Instagram RSS Twitter Beginner&#8217;s Guide Best Credit Card Offers Best Offers Card Exploration Tool (Beta) All Credit Cards American Express Bank Of America Barclays Capital One Chase Citibank Discover TD Bank US Bank Wells Fargo Other Cards How-Tos &#038; Guides Podcasts Frequent Miler On The Air Frequent Miler “Ask Us Anything” Blog About Us Annual Team Challenges Contact Search Best Offers Beginners Subscribe Beginner&#8217;s Guide Best Credit Card Offers Best Offers Card Exploration Tool (Beta) All Credit Cards American Express Bank Of America Barclays Capital One Chase Citibank Discover TD Bank US Bank Wells Fargo Other Cards How-Tos &#038; Guides NOTICE: This post references card features that have changed, expired, or are not currently available Airlines American Airlines British Airways Delta Southwest United Hotels Hotel Reviews Marriott Hyatt Hilton IHG Best Rate Guarantees Points & Miles What Are Points Worth? Amex Membership Rewards Capital One “Miles” Chase Ultimate Rewards Citi ThankYou Rewards Bilt Rewards Current Transfer Bonuses Transfer Partner Master List Booking Awards Which Award Booking Tools is Best Best Awards by Destination Best Options for Domestic First Class Booking Partner Award Flights Cancelation & Change Fees CREDIT CARD SPEND Credit Card Spend Guide Best Rewards for Everyday Spend Best Category Bonuses Best Big Spend Bonuses Visa and MasterCard Gift Cards Pay Taxes via Credit Card Pay Bills via Credit Card with Plastiq Earn Miles for College PODCAST & YOUTUBE Frequent Miler on the Air Ask Us Anything, Live MORE Transferable Points Booking Awards Managing Miles Credit Card Bonuses Credit Card Spend Credit Card Benefits Stacking Deals More Ways to Save Start Here Check out our Beginner's Guide if you're just getting started... Read more Podcasts Frequent Miler On The Air Frequent Miler “Ask Us Anything” Blog About Us Annual Team Challenges Contact Subscribe Search... Credit Card Spend How to find REDbird By Greg The Frequent Miler - October 15, 2014 101 NOTICE: This post references card features that have changed, expired, or are not currently available Note: As of October 13, 2015, the Target REDcard (REDbird) can only be loaded with cash in-store at Target.&nbsp;Gift cards and/or debit cards no longer work to load REDcard. For more info, see: Here is the REDbird memo, &ldquo;Cash is the only tender guests can use&rdquo; As of&nbsp;May 6, 2015, Target no longer accepts credit cards for in-store REDbird reloads. For more information, please see&nbsp;&#8220; REDbird Post Memo Answers &#8220;, and &#8220; REDbird grounded. Now what? &#8220; REDbird (AKA the Target Prepaid REDcard) is in hot demand, but it is currently available only in select areas.&nbsp; Why should you care about REDbird?&nbsp; If you can get over the technical hurdles involved in obtaining a card and registering it, you&rsquo;ll find it to be the single easiest (and fee-free) option for increasing credit card spend.&nbsp; For details, please see: REDcard changes everything . While Target slowly rolls out this new product, they provide a participating store lookup here .&nbsp; For those who prefer a visual approach, though, we have something better.&nbsp; A huge thanks go to Tom who scraped the data from Target&rsquo;s website to put into map form: Tom&rsquo;s REDbird Finder Click here , or click the above map image to jump to an interactive map view. Target is testing selling the temporary REDcard for free in some areas and for a $5 fee in other areas.&nbsp; The map shows which is which as follows: Not completely correct. No cards in North Carolina. The map above is not 100% correct.&nbsp; Target hasn&#8217;t updated their list that was published early on.&nbsp; Some stores carry REDbird that aren&#8217;t listed here, and some stores that are listed do not carry REDbird.&nbsp; One particularly important point is that there were technical issues with loading REDbird in North Carolina and Arkansas which were never fixed.&nbsp; As a result, REDbird is not available in those states (and cannot be loaded there). Find the right REDbird Target offers three versions of REDcards: the Prepaid REDcard (the one I refer to as REDbird), the debit REDcard, and the credit REDcard. Confusingly, there&rsquo;s also a perpaid American Express for Target card (which I believe is being phased out).&nbsp; Make sure you&rsquo;re getting the right one! Here&rsquo;s what to look for (note: in some stores there is a $5 purchase fee): Other options If you can&#8217;t make it to a Target store that carries REDbird, another option is to order one online.&nbsp; See www.NoonRadar.com , for example. Read more about REDbird: REDcard changes everything The complete guide to REDbird Also: The Target Prepaid REDcard The complete guide to Bluebird, REDcard, Serve, and SoftServe How to find REDbird How to buy REDbird for others, and how to use them at non participating stores Can’t register REDbird? Do this… REDbird technical issues The REDbird Life-cycle [Infographic] Want to learn more about miles and points? Subscribe to email updates or check out our podcast on your favorite podcast platform. TAGS REDbird REDcard Target Previous article $20 off $100 at Staples with AmexSync! Next article Amazon.com $20 off with Membership Rewards card Greg The Frequent Miler Greg is the owner, founder, and primary author of the Frequent Miler. He earns millions of points and miles each year, mostly without flying, and dedicates this blog to teaching others how to do the same. RELATED ARTICLES MORE FROM AUTHOR Rove Miles promos: 1K miles + 10% for referrals, up to 5K miles for 1st hotel booking &#038; 5x on Target gift cards 10% off Target Gift Cards (today only) Target: $50 back on $50 spend with new Target Circle Debit or Reloadable Card Subscribe Notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments Label {} [+] Name* Email* &#916; Label {} [+] Name* Email* &#916; This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. 101 Comments newest oldest most voted Inline Feedbacks View all comments Target Prepaid REDCard &#8211; iamhellacheap 8 years ago [&#8230;] Here’s a map of where they’re available. Source [&#8230;] 0 Reply How To Earn Mileage Points 9 years ago [&#8230;] REDcard: These cards are only available at certain Target location. I got mine when I was traveling and the state I was at happen to have a Target that sells these [&#8230;] 0 Reply Death of REDbird | The Mathematician&#039;s Wife 10 years ago [&#8230;] have to &#8220;split tender&#8221; the transaction). More on this at ThriftyTraveler.com. Also, FrequentMiler has an excellent site on how to find a REDCard as not all states have them. For most people, [&#8230;] 0 Reply The Prepaid Target REDcard Gives You 5% Off EVERYTHING And Free Shipping From Target.com | invibed 10 years ago [&#8230;] Here’s a map of where they’re available. Source [&#8230;] 0 Reply KW 10 years ago I just picked up one from http://www.NoonRadar.com . Super efficient, friendly, and hassle-free. Whoever runs the site should be in charge of other businesses in this country. 🙂 0 Reply SJ 10 years ago Just got one from http://www.NoonRadar.com . Very swift and satisfied. Thanks 0 Reply Danno 10 years ago Could someone please take a picture of the UPC barcode on the back of the redcard retail packaging and share? I bought cards in Wisconsin, but they were not loaded properly, and i want to see if I can &#8220;repurchase&#8221; them from my local store&#8230; 0 Reply Dave 10 years ago has anyone bought one on ebay? 0 Reply Ken Reply to&nbsp; Dave 10 years ago Yes, lots of people have bought them on Ebay. But, Ebay removes listings as they find them, so you have to be quick if you want one. And only buy from a reputable seller. 0 Reply Tom Reply to&nbsp; Ken 10 years ago So&#8230;. bad news&#8230; correct me if I&#8217;m wrong but I have tried to load my card with a credit card at a few different locations and was denied. I called the red card customer service and they have informed that they are no longer allowing loading via credit card&#8230; which basically defeats the whole purpose of the redcard. any one else had this problem? 0 Reply Ken Reply to&nbsp; Tom 10 years ago @Tom &#8211; Do you live under a rock? The miles and points world imploded this week when Target stopped accepting CC loads for RedBird and Amex for Target. It&#8217;s been EVERYWHERE. 0 Reply Target Prepaid REDCard &laquo; I Am Hella Cheap 10 years ago [&#8230;] Here’s a map of where they’re available. Source [&#8230;] 0 Reply Sara L. 10 years ago I ordered a card online from 616 marketing group. I&#8217;m kind of regretting it now Worried that it may not work or that the card would somehow be tampered with.. Has anyone had any experience with them? 0 Reply Will Gates Reply to&nbsp; Sara L. 10 years ago Sara, L, I ordered from 616 website for a RedCard back on Feb 14th and it was legit. He provided a tracking number. Dang USPS is slow as all get out, but Andrew @ 616 replied very quick when I had a concern about the USPS delay. He called USPS for me to check and provided a status update (and I did the same just to ease my own mind). Ended up getting the card after a massive USPS delay, but the card works perfectly and is helping my wife and me our goals for some upcoming trips we&#8217;re planning 0 Reply Sara L. Reply to&nbsp; Will Gates 10 years ago That&#8217;s very comforting to hear. Thank you. 0 Reply Nigel 10 years ago Was able to pick up a free card at a Target in MD in January and have it activated at a store in Northern VA that does not stock the cards. In fact, was advised to take the card by the MD store when I went to activate a second card &#8211; was told that activating two cards would be a &#8216;security risk&#8217;. When I tried to get another card in Greensboro, NC this week was told that no stores in the area carry the card now &#8211; even though they are still sho