# Biden 2024 Budget Billionaire Tax Capital Gains

**Source**: https://www.vox.com/money/23634085/biden-2024-budget-billionaire-tax-capital-gains
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:54:30.163723+00:00

---

Biden’s billionaire tax proposal, explained | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo Biden’s plan to tax the rich, explained Free speech needs fearless journalism Free speech is endangered; unbiased and trustworthy news is elusive. In a time of noise, confusion, and spin, we’re committed to clarity, truth, and depth — even when it’s hard. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join now Money Biden’s plan to tax the rich, explained The new proposed budget would have billionaires and multi-millionaires footing the bill in an attempt to reduce the federal deficit. by Whizy Kim Mar 10, 2023, 10:18 PM UTC Share Gift “We have to reward work, not just wealth,” President Biden announced at the State of the Union in February, as he called for a new minimum tax on billionaires. Andrew Caballero-ReynoldsAFP via Getty Images Whizy Kim was a reporter covering how the world’s wealthiest people wield influence, including the policies and cultural norms they help forge. Before joining Vox, she was a senior writer at Refinery29. Billionaires in the US pay a tiny proportion of the wealth they accrue in taxes compared to the cut ordinary Americans pay from their wages. Now, President Joe Biden wants that to change: His just-unveiled budget for fiscal year 2024 contains a tapestry of tax hikes with a laser-beam focus on billionaires, multi-millionaires, and large corporations, all aiming to reduce the federal deficit by $3 trillion over the next decade on the dime of the wealthiest Americans. The idea of making billionaires pay higher taxes has been gaining momentum &mdash; and causing controversy &mdash; for years now. Its most well-known champion is Sen. Elizabeth Warren, who proposed a wealth tax in 2019 on households with a net worth north of $50 million, citing an analysis that the richest 0.1 percent of Americans would likely pay just 3.2 percent of their wealth in taxes that year, while others would pay 7.2 percent. Despite the protests of some billionaires , this longstanding progressive agenda item is becoming increasingly mainstream. Wealth inequality in the US has risen sharply in the past few decades , and the share of Americans holding an unfavorable view of billionaires has grown in the past few years. In a 2021 analysis, ProPublica calculated that between 2014 to 2018, the 25 richest Americans &mdash; a list including Elon Musk, Warren Buffett, and Jeff Bezos &mdash; paid a true tax rate of 3.4 percent on their income. The ultra-rich can do this because most of their wealth stems from holding assets, not from wage income &mdash; and they use an array of obscure tax loopholes and accounting moves to receive a lower tax rate on their assets than they otherwise would. According to the tax records ProPublica obtained, Musk paid zero federal income tax in 2018. Former President Donald Trump paid no federal income tax in 2020 because he reported so many business losses that year . That&rsquo;s perhaps why Biden has adopted an agenda of making billionaires pay their &ldquo;fair share.&rdquo; The president&rsquo;s recent attention on taxing the wealthy is a stark contrast from what he infamously told a room of wealthy donors during his presidential campaign in 2019 &mdash; that nothing would fundamentally change for them. Since assuming office, however, Biden has professed a desire to change quite a lot for the ultra-rich in an effort to rein in wealth inequality and raise revenue for important government programs such as Social Security. Biden&rsquo;s budget plan last year contained many similar ideas as this year&rsquo;s, including a 20 percent tax on households with over $100 million. (That proposal, the Billionaire Minimum Income Tax Act , was introduced in the House but hasn&rsquo;t been voted on.) In his State of the Union address in February, Biden boasted that he&rsquo;d passed a 15 percent minimum tax on large corporations as part of the Inflation Reduction Act. &ldquo;But let&rsquo;s finish the job. There&rsquo;s more to do,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We have to reward work, not just wealth,&rdquo; he announced, as he called for a new minimum tax on the ultra-rich. The specifics of that billionaire tax were revealed in this budget: a 25 percent tax on all wealth over $100 million, estimated to apply to just 0.01 percent of Americans. With a Congress that&rsquo;s no longer controlled by Democrats, much of the budget, including substantial tax hikes for the wealthy, isn&rsquo;t likely to pass. And it&rsquo;s not so simple to get billionaires to actually pay significantly higher taxes: There&rsquo;s a well-oiled industry of wealth managers and tax experts whose jobs are to come up with inventive new ways to reduce their clients&rsquo; tax liabilities, whether it&rsquo;s by funneling money into ostensibly philanthropic donor-advised funds or selling off stocks in order to report huge investment losses, which reduces the taxes someone owes. But Biden&rsquo;s new rhetoric around wealth inequality signals that the administration is betting on taxing the rich to be a politically winning message. What would change for the rich? It&rsquo;s important to note that Biden&rsquo;s proposed budget includes no tax increases on anyone making under $400,000. Those making more than $400,000 a year would see their top tax rate on their income tax go up, from 37 percent to 39.6 percent &mdash; effectively, a repeal of the rate cut included in Trump&rsquo;s 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which cut taxes for the richest Americans most. The rest of the proposed changes focus on extremely high earners, and attempt a philosophical shift on what kinds of money should be taxed at which amounts. The fact is, money earned through owning and investing capital is taxed at a much lower rate than the money many people earn by working a job and getting paid a wage. A billionaire&rsquo;s wealth often doesn&rsquo;t come from a paycheck, but from amassing assets such as companies, real estate, and stocks. Capital gains are only taxed when an asset is sold &mdash; and the current top capital gains tax rate is 20 percent. Compare that to the current top tax rate of 37 percent on income earned through labor. &ldquo;Right now, in the game of their money versus your sweat, their money is winning,&rdquo; said Erica Payne, a progressive strategist and founder of Patriotic Millionaires, an advocacy group calling for higher taxes on the ultra-rich. &ldquo;Every single working person&rsquo;s dollar is worth less than every single dollar that a Wall Street investor makes. Mathematically, the country can&rsquo;t do anything other than become more unequal.&rdquo; Biden&rsquo;s budget proposes taxing capital gains at about the same rate as income for those who earn over $1 million, meaning the top capital gains tax rate would also be 39.6 percent. It also proposes levying an unrealized capital gains tax for the first time in US history. Much of the power and influence that the ultra-wealthy wield comes from the value of the assets they currently own. Elon Musk, one of the richest people on Earth, was able to buy Twitter for $44 billion not because he had that much cash in a savings account, but because he was worth north of $250 billion and owned so many valuable assets, such as his stakes in Tesla and SpaceX, that he could leverage to finance the deal. Biden is also proposing raising the stock buyback tax from 1 percent to 4 percent. When a company buys its own shares back from the open market, the number of trading shares decreases, so the value per share increases. It&rsquo;s a move that benefits shareholders; it&rsquo;s become increasingly popular since the 1980s, but the practice has exploded in recent years. In 2022, companies spent a record $1.26 trillion on stock buybacks. Critics argue that corporations spend too much money on stock buybacks instead of reinvesting more of their profits into their workers. Biden&rsquo;s budget estimates that $1.17 trillion will be raised between 2024 and 2033 from the billionaire minimum tax rate, the quadrupled stock buyback tax, and a multinational corporation minimum tax rate &mdash; a lot of money, but still less than what companies spend on stock buybacks in a single year. Among the budget&rsquo;s proposals, corporate taxes would rise from 21 percent to 28 percent. It also seeks to rein in corporations&rsquo; offshore tax avoidance by raising taxes on large US firms&rsquo; foreign profits from 10.5 percent to 21 percent. Amy Hanauer, executive director of the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, said cracking down on undertaxed foreign profits was long overdue. &ldquo;I think the fact that we&rsquo;ve failed to do this already is a little bit of egg on our face, internationally,&rdquo; she said. The budget also proposes closing a few major tax loopholes often enjoyed by the wealthy, including carried interest, a contentious tax rule that critics have long called on the government to plug up. It allows investment managers to pay a lower tax rate on their investment compensation than ordinary income. The president&rsquo;s budget plan not only raises Medicare taxes on wealthy people&rsquo;s investment income, but also closes a loophole that allows wealthy business owners to avoid paying Medicare taxes on their profits &mdash; a tax that&rsquo;s automatically deducted from most workers&rsquo; paychecks. A real estate capital gains tax break would also be closed if Biden&rsquo;s tax proposals became law. A long US history of higher taxes on extreme wealth Progressive advocates of tax refo