#  Welfare Money Often Isn T Spent On Welfare.Html

**Source**: http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/moneybox/2016/06/_welfare_money_often_isn_t_spent_on_welfare.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:39:32.763356+00:00

---

&ldquo;Welfare&rdquo; money often isn&rsquo;t spent on welfare. Slate logo Sign In Sign Up You’d Be Surprised by How “Welfare” Money Is Spent in Some States You’d Be Surprised by How “Welfare” Money Is Spent in Some States Slate logo Sign In Sign Up Slate Moneybox Commentary about business and finance. June 2 2016 5:45 AM “Oh My God—We’re on Welfare?!” The strange story of what “welfare” has become since the 1996 reforms.&nbsp; By Krissy Clark &nbsp; You, yes, you, might have used welfare services without knowing it. Digital Vision This article is part of the series &ldquo;Welfare Reform: 20 Years Later,&rdquo; a collaboration between&nbsp; Slate &nbsp;and Marketplace. You can listen to Marketplace&rsquo;s podcast on welfare, &ldquo;The Uncertain Hour,&rdquo;&nbsp; here . &ldquo;All right, so we&rsquo;re gonna talk about love styles!&rdquo; Advertisement On a Thursday night in Oklahoma City this winter, Scott Roby&mdash; white goatee, polo shirt, and slacks&mdash;stood at the front of a crowded conference room, next to an image of a big colorful heart projected on a PowerPoint screen. The heart was divided into six different sections representing different &ldquo;love styles.&rdquo; &ldquo;There&rsquo;s Do , Be , Give , Encourage , Talk, and Touch . Those are the six different dimensions,&rdquo; Roby, an instructor for a program called &ldquo;Forever. For Real,&rdquo; told his audience. &ldquo;We all have all of these within us.&rdquo; As he talked, the 50 or so people in the room nudged their partners, exchanging knowing looks when their preferred love style came up. &ldquo;Now, sensual touch&mdash;if it&rsquo;s really gonna feed the love style and feed the relationship, it&rsquo;s not always about &lsquo;landing the plane,&rsquo; if you know what I mean,&rdquo; Roby said with a wink. Roby&rsquo;s audience was mostly young or middle-aged professionals who&rsquo;d come to his free, five-hour seminar straight from work, still in their business-casual. Everyone there was either married or engaged; &ldquo;Forever. For Real&rdquo; is open to any couple who lives in Oklahoma as a kind of marriage counseling 101 to help improve relationships and build strong marriages&mdash;and along the way, dance to a little Al Green, draw pictures of what modern marriage looks like (a bicycle? A microwave? A pizza?), and discuss ways of dividing household chores and resolving conflicts.&nbsp; Instructor Scott Roby teaching “Forever. For Real,” which is part of the Oklahoma Marriage Initiative. Krissy Clark Advertisement Over Chex Mix and pizza during a break in class, engaged couple Trey Martin, a prosthetist, and Lori Radford, a paralegal, were expressing relief at their discovery that they share the same love language (touch). They heard about this workshop at a bridal show&mdash;they&rsquo;d get a $45 discount on their marriage license for attending.&nbsp; Though I am newly married myself, relationship coaching was not why I was here at this session of &ldquo; Forever. For Real .&rdquo; I was here to ask couples such as Martin and Radford two questions. Question No. 1: &ldquo;How do you feel about welfare in this country?&rdquo; I asked. &ldquo;Do we spend enough? Too much? Not enough?&rdquo; Lori Radford and Trey Martin participate in a game during “Forever. For Real.” Krissy Clark &ldquo;I think too much,&rdquo; Radford quickly responded. &ldquo;The people who receive it&mdash;a lot of those people don&rsquo;t try to go find jobs. A lot of them just sit at home and they&rsquo;re not looking to better themselves.&rdquo; Advertisement Onto question No. 2: &ldquo;What if I told you this class is funded by federal welfare dollars?&rdquo; Radford looked at her fianc&eacute;. They both wore a look of surprised amusement. &ldquo;Oh my god&mdash;we&rsquo;re on welfare?!&rdquo; Martin asked, chuckling. &ldquo;I never thought I&rsquo;d be on welfare.&rdquo; Pause. &ldquo;Well, that&rsquo;s great!&rdquo; Jordan Weissmann How Welfare Reform Failed Marketplace Your State on Welfare Krissy Clark Wait—I'm on Welfare?! Gina Delvac The Welfare Quiz Krissy Clark When You Can't Find Work or Welfare Michelle Goldberg Hillary Clinton's Role in Welfare Reform Other couples were similarly bemused when I told them that welfare money, formally known as Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, or TANF, made their marriage class possible. Neoka Ashley, a recruiter for an employment agency, and her husband Paoli Wognakou, an IT analyst, certainly didn&rsquo;t consider themselves needy. Ashley describes herself as &ldquo;in need of like&mdash;maybe learning? But as far as benefits, we&rsquo;re pretty good. Financially stable.&rdquo; Advertisement Despite the stubborn stereotypes about just who benefits from federal welfare spending in America&mdash;how needy they are and whether they &ldquo;just sit at home not looking to better themselves&rdquo;&mdash; a workshop full of middle-class couples working on their love styles is exactly what welfare can look like today. * * * Twenty years after President Clinton worked with a Republican-led congress to transform the nation&rsquo;s cash assistance program for poor families and &ldquo;end welfare as we know it,&rdquo; most Americans don&rsquo;t know much about welfare at all. &ldquo;A tiny chunk of what we spend on welfare is spent on what people think of when they think of welfare,&rdquo; says DeVon Douglass, policy analyst with the Oklahoma Policy Institute. And Oklahoma is just one of many states across the country where federal welfare dollars are going toward things that surprise even the people who are benefitting from them. Advertisement For example, in Michigan, welfare spending includes a program that gives private college scholarships to students from households with incomes as high as $250,000 or more. In Pennsylvania, welfare dollars go to funding for so-called &ldquo;crisis pregnancy centers&rdquo; that counsel women against abortions. So, how did this crazy quilt of spending happen? The reforms of 1996 focused on one program in particular, called Aid to Families with Dependent Children, or AFDC. For 60 years, AFDC had worked as an &ldquo;entitlement&rdquo; program: If a family fell below a certain poverty threshold, the family was entitled to cash assistance; the federal government spent as much money on the program each year as there were poor families who qualified. The welfare reform bill did away with AFDC and created in its place TANF, the new system for cash assistance. Under TANF, time limits and work requirements regulate if and for how long a family can receive cash assistance. And rather than the entitlement system of AFDC, funding for TANF comes in the form of block grants to states. The federal government sets aside a fixed amount of money each year&mdash;$16.5 billion, never adjusted for inflation since 1996&mdash;and gives every state a portion. What states do with the money from there&mdash;that&rsquo;s where things get weird. In Michigan, welfare spending includes private college scholarships. In Pennsylvania, welfare dollars go to funding for crisis pregnancy centers. &ldquo;We say to states, &lsquo;Here&rsquo;s your chunk of it,&rsquo; &rdquo; explains Luke Shaefer, a professor at the University of Michigan School of Social Work who focuses on welfare policy. &ldquo;And you can choose to use this money for cash assistance&mdash;a program that&rsquo;s not particularly popular&rdquo; and involves lots of paperwork and reporting requirements to run. &ldquo;Or,&rdquo; Shaefer says, &ldquo;if you don&rsquo;t use the money for cash assistance, you can use it for pretty much anything else. There&rsquo;s virtually no oversight.&rdquo; Virtually no oversight, aside from four unassuming sentences tucked into the 1996 welfare reform bill under Title I, Section 103 , labeled with the heading &ldquo;Purpose,&rdquo; outlining the basic ideas behind welfare and &ldquo;welfare to work.&rdquo; Purpose No. 1 is to &ldquo;provide assistance to needy families&rdquo; so children may be cared for in their own or a relatives&rsquo; home. Purpose two is to &ldquo;end the dependence of needy parents on government benefits&rdquo; by promoting job preparation, work &mdash;and marriage . This is where the language takes a surprising turn toward the matrimonial. Purposes 3 and four 4 down on the marriage theme: to &ldquo;prevent and reduce the incidence of out-of-wedlock pregnancies,&rdquo; and, the flip side of that coin, &ldquo;encourage the formation and maintenance of two-parent families.&rdquo; &ldquo;That language did not appear mystically in the middle of the night,&rdquo; says Ron Haskins of the Brookings Institution and an adviser to the White House and congressional Republicans during the welfare reform debate. Haskins tells me that the emphasis on marriage and family composition has a long history in the welfare reform movement among Republicans and Democrats alike who were alarmed by the rise of single-parent families, especially low-income families. As Haskins notes, census data from 2007&ndash;2009 shows that children in female-headed families are four to five times more likely to be in poverty than those in married families. Yet the emphasis on marriage did not make a lot of headlines when the welfare reform bill was passed. President Clinton didn&rsquo;t mention it when he signed the bill into law in the Rose Garden, declaring that the reforms were all about &ldquo;moving people from welfare to work.&rdquo; Not even policy wonks like Liz Schott of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, or CBPP, took much notice of purposes 3 and 4 at the time. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think anyone really paid attention in 1996,&rdquo; she says. &ldquo;This happens to me when I read draft legislation&mdash;there&rsquo;s all this &lsquo;whereas&rsquo; stuff at the front, and this preamble language, and that&rsquo;s just &lsquo;blah, blah, blah.&rsquo; &rdquo; But in the case