# Srep00518

**Source**: https://www.nature.com/articles/srep00518
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:14:30.422284+00:00

---

Evolution of Cariogenic Character in Streptococcus mutans: Horizontal Transmission of Glycosyl Hydrolase Family 70 Genes | Scientific Reports Skip to main content Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript. Advertisement View all journals Search Log in Explore content About the journal Publish with us Sign up for alerts RSS feed nature scientific reports articles article Evolution of Cariogenic Character in Streptococcus mutans : Horizontal Transmission of Glycosyl Hydrolase Family 70 Genes Download PDF Download PDF Article Open access Published: 18 July 2012 Evolution of Cariogenic Character in Streptococcus mutans : Horizontal Transmission of Glycosyl Hydrolase Family 70 Genes Tomonori Hoshino 1 , Taku Fujiwara 1 &amp; Shigetada Kawabata 2 Scientific Reports volume 2 , Article number: 518 ( 2012 ) Cite this article 6107 Accesses 36 Citations 10 Altmetric Metrics details Subjects Environmental microbiology Microbial genetics Molecular evolution Pathogens Abstract Acquisition of the ability to produce polysaccharides from sucrose, i.e. the gtf gene encoding glucosyltransferase (GTF), is the key evolutionary event enabling dental biofilm formation by streptococci. To clarify the ancestry of streptococcal GTFs, time of its occurrence and order of specific events, we investigated the distribution of GTFs among bacteria by phylogenetic analysis of the glycosyl hydrolase family 70 enzymes. We found that streptococcal GTFs were derived from other lactic acid bacteria such as Lactobacillus and Leuconostoc, and propose the following evolutionary model: horizontal gene transfer via transposons occurred when streptococci encountered lactic acid bacteria contained in fermented food. Intra-genomic gene duplication occurred by a secondary selection pressure such as consumption of refined sugar. Our findings concerning this evolution in Streptococcus mutans provide an important background for studies of the relationship between the historical spread of dental caries and anthropological factors. Similar content being viewed by others The potential use of glycosyl-transferase inhibitors for targeted reduction of S. mutans biofilms in dental materials Article Open access 23 July 2023 Molecular mechanisms of inhibiting glucosyltransferases for biofilm formation in Streptococcus mutans Article Open access 30 September 2021 Molecular insights into antibiofilm inhibitors of Streptococcus mutans glucosyltransferases through in silico approaches Article Open access 23 April 2025 Introduction In humans, dental caries is defined as the demineralisation of teeth by the bacterial production of organic acid from fermentable substrates such as monosaccharides, oligosaccharides and processed polysaccharides 1 , 2 , 3 . The dental caries pandemic has been previously discussed from an anthropological and archaeological viewpoints in terms of the consumption of fermentable carbohydrates 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 . Indeed, the emergence of dental caries positively correlates with the increased consumption of carbohydrates through the main source, grain 8 , 9 , following the advent of prehistoric farming. At that time, the degree of caries was comparatively mild, since oral bacteria produced only low amounts of organic acid. However, the widespread use of refined sugar during the industrial revolution due to improvements in food processing techniques, stabilisation of plantation-based sugar cane supplies and the abolition of the Corn Law 10 led to a sudden increase in the prevalence of caries. Thus far, only anthropological factors, like those described above, have been considered in the development of dental caries in humans, while factors affecting the disease-causing bacteria themselves have been largely ignored. This may be based on the firmly held belief that caries-causing bacteria preceded the development of caries. However, presently, there are no studies describing the origin of caries-causing bacteria. Today, Streptococcus mutans is considered the principal causative organisms of dental caries. These bacteria have the ability not only to metabolise large amounts of acid from various sugars but also to firmly adhere to the tooth surface using adhesive glucans produced from refined sugar by glucosyltransferases (GTFs) 11 . This latter property of caries-causing bacteria is the principal characteristic distinguishing prehistoric caries from modern caries. Because of their role in the formation of dental biofilms, streptococcal GTF enzymes are thought to be one of the primary virulence factors of Str. mutans responsible for the development of dental caries 1 , 11 . Thus, phylogenetic analysis of the origin of GTFs may provide novel insights into the acquisition of cariogenicity by Str. mutans . GTFs (EC: 2.4.1.5), which are encoded by gtf genes, belong to the glycosyl hydrolase family 70 and catalyse the transfer of d -glucopyranosyl units from sucrose to acceptor molecules. To predict the ancestry of streptococcal GTFs, phylogenetic trees for the putative amino acid sequences of glycosyl hydrolase family 70 proteins were constructed using the neighbour-joining (NJ), minimum evolution (ME) and maximum parsimony (MP) methods. The surrounding sequences of the genes encoding the glycosyl hydrolase family 70 proteins were also analyzed. Our findings suggest that the genus Streptococcus acquired the gtf genes via horizontal gene transfer. Through the acquisition of GTFs, Str. mutans became capable of forming cariogenic dental biofilms. Thus, our data support the idea that the pandemic of dental caries is likely to have been caused by not only anthropological factors but also the evolution of Str. mutans . Results Phylogenetic analyses of glycosyl hydrolase family 70 enzymes To determine the origin of genes contributing to the cariogenic potential of Str. mutans , 3 phylogenetic trees of glycosyl hydrolase 70 family enzymes ( Supplementary Table S1 ) were constructed using the NJ, the ME and the MP methods. The tree generated using the MP method is shown in Figure 1 and the other 2 are presented in supplemental information . The 3 resultant trees showed complete congruence. Streptococcal GTF enzymes exhibit homology with dextransucrases from Leuconostoc and GTFs from Lactobacillus and Lactococcus, suggesting a common ancestry for the genes encoding these enzymes. Figure 1 Phylogenetic analysis of glycosyl hydrolase family 70 enzymes. A phylogenetic tree of the amino acid sequences of glycosyl hydrolase family 70 enzymes was constructed using the maximum parsimony (MP) method. Genes bracketed with bold lines are adjacent to each other in the bacterial genome. The value on each branch is the estimated confidence limit (expressed as a percentage) for the position of the branches, as determined by bootstrap analysis. Only values exceeding 50% are shown. Full size image Mapping of the genomic location of glycosyl hydrolase family 70 genes The upstream and downstream regions of gtf genes from 4 species of bacteria are shown in Figure 2A . Transposase sequences were observed in the upstream and/or downstream regions of gtf 180 from Lactobacillus reuteri and gtf Kg15 from Lactobacillus sakei . The downstream of gtfR from Streptococcus oralis also exhibited sequence homology to streptococcal transposase genes ( Fig. 2B ). The identity between this region and the transposase genes from Str. pneumoniae, Str. suis, Str. gordonii, and Str. mitis, indicated 80, 80, 78 and 76%, respectively. However, sequences homologous to transposase genes were not detected downstream or upstream of gtfB, gtfC and gtfD in Str. mutans . Figure 2 Schema of sequences surrounding the gtf gene. (A) Genomic location mapping of the gtf gene. (a) gtf 180 from Lcb. reuteri , (b) gtf Kg15 from Lcb. sakei , (c) gtfR from Str. oralis , (d) gtfB and gtfC from Str. mutans and (e) gtfD from Str. mutans. (B) Sequence of the transposase-homologous downstream of gtfR . The region enclosed by the broken line in A (c) is shown in detail in B. FR00720602 and AE007317 are NCBI accession number of Str. oralis Uo5 and Str. pneumoniae R6 genome, respectively. The number after the accession number indicates the location in the genome. Full size image Phylogenetic analysis of the catalytic domain in streptococcal GTFs To infer age associated with ecological events, the mean interpopulational evolutionary diversity in the sequences encoding the catalytic domain of glycosyl hydrolase family 70 genes among Streptococcus , Leuconostoc and Lactbacillus was estimated as 0.043% (S.E.; 0.003). Further, to identify the most evolved enzyme among the streptococcal GTFs, we reconstructed the phylogenetic tree with only the streptococcal GTF catalytic domains and their coding sequences using the NJ method. The catalytic domain of Lcb. reuteri GTFB and its coding sequences were used as a root ( Fig. 3A and B ). Trees based on both the gene and deduced amino acid sequences indicated that the streptococcal GTF family could be classified into 3 clusters: the water-soluble glucan-synthesising group (WSG), the water-insoluble glucan synthesizing group (WIG) and the intermediate group (INT). The phylogenetic distances based on the catalytic domain DNA sequences are shown in Table 1 . The distances between the root and each streptococcal gtf gene group were found to be almost identical. In addition, the distance between the root and gtfB was found to be the same as the distance between the root and gtfD . In contrast, the distance between the root and gtfC was slightly larger in comparison. Table 1 Mean phylogenetic distances (lower triangle) and standard error (upper triangle) of the catalytic regions among Lcb. reuteri GTFB (LR GTFB), streptococ