# Coldplay Kiss Cam Ceo Caught Cheating Memes

**Source**: https://www.latimes.com/entertainment-arts/story/2025-07-18/coldplay-kiss-cam-ceo-caught-cheating-memes
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:03:03.144165+00:00

---

Coldplay kiss-cam scandal: Merch, memes memorialize mistake - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing &amp; Homelessness Politics Science &amp; Medicine World &amp; Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor &amp; Workplace Real Estate Technology and the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing &amp; Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate &amp; Environment Global Warming Water &amp; Drought Entertainment &amp; Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 best restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art &amp; Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health &amp; Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel &amp; Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World &amp; Nation Immigration &amp; the Border Israel-Hamas Mexico &amp; the Americas Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios Business • AI &amp; Tech • Banking &amp; Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Goods &amp; Retail • Healthcare &amp; Science • Law Dentists Decor &amp; Design Doctors &amp; Scientists Hot Property Live &amp; Well Orange County Pets The Hub: Rebuilding LA Travel Weddings &amp; Celebrations Newsletters Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Students &amp; Educators Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store L.A. Times Studios News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance &amp; Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? People on the Move Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Sections Tap to enable a layout that focuses on the article. Focus mode Show Search Search Query Submit Search Advertisement Entertainment &amp; Arts That time Coldplay’s Chris Martin blew up the world (oops) for a couple caught cheating on the kiss-cam Chris Martin, seen at a January performance in Mumbai, didn’t look like a homewrecker — at least not until Coldplay caught a couple of apparent cheaters on its concert kiss-cam Wednesday night. (Rajanish Kakade / Associated Press) By&nbsp; Christie D’Zurilla Assistant Editor, Fast Break Desk Follow July 18, 2025 1:29 PM PT 24 Share via Close extra sharing options Email Facebook X LinkedIn Threads Reddit WhatsApp Copy Link URL Copied! Print p]:text-cms-story-body-color-text clearfix mb-10 md:max-w-170 md:mx-auto" data-subscriber-content> Sometimes you just want a moment back. Just one tiny moment. For example, the moment that a kiss-cam busted you and your head of HR for cheating at a Coldplay concert on Wednesday night. Andy Byron, chief executive of data-infrastructure company Astronomer Inc., was caught on camera holding human resources chief Kristin Cabot — a woman who is not his wife — tenderly in his arms. Music Coldplay’s Chris Martin falls through trap door onstage during Melbourne concert Chris Martin emerged unharmed and thanked the crew member who caught him after he fell through a trap door during Coldplay’s Sunday concert in Melbourne. Nov. 5, 2024 The moment was an instant classic for those attending the concert: “Ohhh, look at these two,” singer Chris Martin said as the cam spotlighted the couple, prompting Byron to suddenly, awkwardly duck out of camera range while Cabot turned her back, covered her face and ultimately fled. Advertisement “Wait, what? Either they’re having an affair,” Martin said, “or they’re just very shy.” Or maybe, just maybe, they were actually really stupid to react that way? No cheating experts here, but if they had simply smiled and continued their loving embrace, the details of their entanglement might have stayed unknown to the 65,000 or so folks packed into Gillette Stadium, home of the NFL’s New England Patriots. All they had to do was nothing. But ooh, they did something. Television Khloé Kardashian ‘started going ballistic’ when she caught Lamar Odom cheating on her Khloé Kardashian recalls “going ballistic” after busting then-husband Lamar Odom at a downtown L.A. motel with a woman who was “either naked or ... in lingerie.” April 16, 2025 So much for conscious uncoupling . Nice move, Martin. But the singer wasn’t really to blame for this week’s hottest story. What happened in Foxborough, Mass., could have stayed in Foxborough, Mass., were it not for one Grace Springer. Springer is reportedly the 28-year-old who posted the clip on TikTok. She told the U.K. Sun she made the video public because she thought the couple’s “something” was “an interesting reaction.” Advertisement “A part of me feels bad for turning these people’s lives upside down, but, play stupid games … win stupid prizes,” Springer said before adding that she hoped their partners could “heal” and get a second chance at happiness. Play stupid games, win stupid prizes. Ouch. Music Dave Grohl welcomes a baby girl from an affair. He wants to ‘regain’ his family’s trust Foo Fighters rocker Dave Grohl, who shares three kids with wife Jordyn Blum, reveals on social media that he recently welcomed a baby girl outside his marriage. Sept. 10, 2024 The internet, of course, has been quite happy to mete out those stupid prizes left and right. There’s now merch to commemorate the moment, including one tee on Etsy that simply reads, “Not Shy. Just Married. #Coldplaygate.” Advertisement Another seller is offering a sweatshirt that screams in all-caps, “I TOOK MY SIDEPIECE TO THE COLDPLAY CONCERT AND IT RUINED MY LIFE.” One T-shirt dips its toes into political waters, urging people to MAPA: “Make Affairs Private Again!” The tee with an actual photo of the couple is unlikely to last long, what with copyright and all, but the animated version might hang around a bit longer. Alas, there are no koozies for sale. Not yet. World &amp; Nation Cheating on your spouse is a crime in New York. The 1907 law may finally be repealed Cheating on your spouse is illegal in New York. But adultery may soon be legal in the Empire State thanks to a bill that would finally repeal the 1907 law that is punishable by up to three months behind bars. March 23, 2024 Then there are the memes. One shows the couple with the hitchhiking ghosts from the famous finish of Disney’s Haunted Mansion ride. Another shows Miss Piggy in the arms of a tall Fozzie Bear , with a sign in one corner saying “Coldplay’s Caught-in-the-Act Cam.” On X, Elon Musk chuckled at an image of the couple reimagined in the style of Edvard Munch’s “The Scream.” Then there was the classic MasterCard meme: “Priceless.” “ Coldplay hasn’t made a single in years,” one wit said on X , posting a still from the video. “Last night, they made two.” “This is outdated,” another account said , commenting on a ChatGPT blurb about a Taylor Swift ticket allegedly selling for $200,000 on the secondary market. “Coldplay now holds the record for most expensive concert ticket ever sold.” “Uh, it’s time to ‘Kiss It Goodbye,’ ” ESPN’s Randy Scott said as he and “SportsCenter” co-anchor Gary Striewski reenacted the viral moment live Friday morning. “Baseball’s probably not the only thing you could say that about recently.” Entertainment &amp; Arts Soap made with Sydney Sweeney’s used bathwater exists and now we feel so dirty Sydney Sweeney is either playing it clean or playing it very, very dirty. The actor is promoting a limited-edition soap made from water she allegedly bathed in. May 30, 2025 And if Andy Byron appeared to be having some really bad days, what about other dudes named Andy Byron? “NOT THE GUY FROM THE COLDPLAY GIG” reads the Threads bio of one such Andy , who apparently hails from Dublin. “The only one having a worse day than Andy Byron is all the other Andy Byrons,” one user snarked. Advertisement However, an apology statement attributed to the Astronomer CEO turned out to be fake , according to the company itself. The real Astronomer Inc. announced Friday that it is looking into the matter and that Alyssa Stoddard, whoever that poor thing is, is not in the video. Um, we were concerned? Turns out Stoddard is the company’s VP of HR, a step or so down from Cabot, and probably doesn’t deserve to be mentioned in this context at all. “Our leaders are expected to set the standard in both conduct and accountability,” the company said in a post on LinkedIn . “The Board of Directors has initiated a formal investigation into this matter and we will have additional details to share very shortly.” Entertainment &amp; Arts Newlyweds Cameron Diaz, Benji Madden smooch on Lakers kiss-cam Look, there they are! Jan. 28, 2015 Additional. Details. Very. Shortly. Soooooo — the fun won’t be ending any time soon. Meanwhile, the real Andy Byron’s real wife, Megan Kerrigan Byron, nuked the “Byron” from her name on Facebook and then deactivated her account entirely amid an onslaught of comments from the public, according to Newsweek . Looks like she’s choosing to do something instead of nothing, too. More to Read As the Coldplay kiss-cam couple fades into the bushes, here’s what the intern