# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Journal%20of%20Consulting%20and%20Clinical%20Psychology&title=Preventing%20adolescent%20drug%20abuse%20through%20a%20multimodal%20cognitive-behavioral%20approach:%20Results%20of%20a%203-year%20study&author=GJ%20Botvin&author=E%20Baker&author=L%20Dusenbury&author=S%20Tortu&author=EM%20Botvin&volume=58&publication_year=1990&pages=437-446&pmid=2212181&doi=10.1037//0022-006x.58.4.437&
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:25:26.704262+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.03 sec) My profile My library Lookup [PDF] researchgate.net Preventing adolescent drug abuse through a multimodal cognitive-behavioral approach: results of a 3-year study. GJ Botvin, E Baker, L Dusenbury, S Tortu… - Journal of consulting …, 1990 - psycnet.apa.org GJ Botvin, E Baker, L Dusenbury, S Tortu, EM Botvin Journal of consulting and clinical psychology, 1990 • psycnet.apa.org Abstract Students (N= 4,466) attending 56 schools in New York State were involved in a 3- year study testing the effectiveness of a cognitive–behavioral approach to substance abuse prevention. In a randomized block design, schools were assigned to receive (a) the prevention program with formal provider training and implementation feedback,(b) the prevention program with videotaped provider training and no feedback, or (c) no treatment. After pretest equivalence and comparability of conditions with respect to attrition were … Abstract Students (N= 4,466) attending 56 schools in New York State were involved in a 3-year study testing the effectiveness of a cognitive–behavioral approach to substance abuse prevention. In a randomized block design, schools were assigned to receive (a) the prevention program with formal provider training and implementation feedback,(b) the prevention program with videotaped provider training and no feedback, or (c) no treatment. After pretest equivalence and comparability of conditions with respect to attrition were established, students who received at least 60% of the prevention program (N= 3,684) were included in analyses of program effectiveness. Significant prevention effects were found for cigarette smoking, marijuana use, and immoderate alcohol use. Prevention effects were also found for normative expectations and knowledge concerning substance use, interpersonal skills, and communication skills. American Psychological Association Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 1107 Related articles All 12 versions Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help