# No Covid 19 Is Not The Flu

**Source**: https://publichealth.jhu.edu/2020/no-covid-19-is-not-the-flu
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:26:36.709148+00:00

---

No, COVID-19 Is Not the Flu | Johns Hopkins | Bloomberg School of Public Health Skip to main content Departments Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Biostatistics Environmental Health and Engineering Epidemiology Health Policy and Management Health, Behavior and Society International Health Mental Health Molecular Microbiology and Immunology Population, Family and Reproductive Health Faculty Topics Search Search Toggle menus Academics Program Finder Admissions Services Course Directory Academic Calendar Hybrid Campus Lecture Series Convocation Research Strategy and Development Implementation and Impact Integrity and Oversight Practice In the School In the Field In Baltimore Resources for Practitioners Headlines Articles &amp; News Releases In The News Newsletter Podcast Magazine Events Statements &amp; Announcements Newsroom About At a Glance Leadership Student Life Campus Baltimore Inclusion, Diversity, Anti-Racism, and Equity (IDARE) History What is Public Health? Apply Departments Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Biostatistics Environmental Health and Engineering Epidemiology Health Policy and Management Health, Behavior and Society International Health Mental Health Molecular Microbiology and Immunology Population, Family and Reproductive Health Faculty Topics Bloomberg School No, COVID-19 Is Not the Flu There’s a refrain among some skeptics that “COVID-19 is just the flu,” which is not at all&nbsp;accurate. Published October 20, 2020 COVID-19 Epidemiology Health Policy Infectious Diseases Q&amp;A WITH ANDREW PEKOSZ&nbsp; There’s a refrain that “COVID-19 is just the flu,” which is not at all&nbsp;accurate.&nbsp; Andrew Pekosz, PhD , says it can be hard to differentiate the two based on symptoms alone. But large numbers of susceptible people and increased rates of severe disease and death set COVID-19 apart from seasonal influenza.&nbsp; Pekosz, a leading virologist who works on both diseases, breaks down key differences between COVID-19 and influenza to show why this pandemic is so critically—and&nbsp;catastrophically—dangerous.&nbsp; What would you say to someone who insists to you that COVID-19 is “just the&nbsp;flu”? Since December 2019, COVID-19 has killed more people in the U.S. than influenza has in the last five&nbsp;years.&nbsp; Influenza is a significant burden on the population, but COVID-19 has had a vastly larger&nbsp;effect. Are people more susceptible to COVID-19 or the&nbsp;flu?&nbsp; Many more people are susceptible to COVID-19 because there is little preexisting immunity to the virus that causes it—SARS-CoV-2. Through vaccinations and previous infections, a portion of the population has some immunity to influenza, which helps limit the number of cases we see each&nbsp;year. There is a lot of similarity between how the two viruses are spread, but the number of susceptible people is really what allows SARS-CoV-2 to spread so&nbsp;easily.&nbsp; If infected, which has the higher rate of severe disease and mortality? How much&nbsp;higher? COVID-19 has a higher severe disease and mortality rate than influenza in all age groups, except perhaps children under the age of&nbsp;12. Are the populations at higher risk for severe COVID-19 disease the same as the populations at higher risk for severe&nbsp;flu?&nbsp; There is some overlap. The elderly and individuals with cardiovascular disease or a high BMI have more severe disease with both&nbsp;infections.&nbsp; It looks like children and pregnant women are more susceptible to severe disease with influenza, but it’s not clear why that&nbsp;is. What makes COVID-19 particularly dangerous? First, little preexisting immunity to SARS-CoV-2 means that virtually everyone is susceptible to infection. Second, we don’t have good treatments or vaccines for SARS-CoV-2 like we have for influenza. Third, COVID-19 causes more severe disease than influenza&nbsp;overall.&nbsp; Are there long-term health effects of the flu? How do they compare to increasing evidence about long-term health effects of&nbsp;COVID-19? This is another area where the two viruses differ. COVID-19 survivors report many more long-term effects of the infection than influenza survivors. Lingering symptoms like weakness, shortness of breath, trouble focusing and, in some cases, kidney and heart problems are much more common after COVID-19 than after&nbsp;influenza.&nbsp; “Mild” COVID-19 illness has been described as “flu-like.” It’s important to remember that the flu is a pretty debilitating disease so “mild” COVID-19 is still a pretty significant&nbsp;disease.&nbsp; If so many people get only “mild” illness with COVID-19, how can it be more dangerous than the&nbsp;flu? With all infectious diseases, we focus on two main&nbsp;objectives: Treat the infected people Limit the spread of the infection in the population.&nbsp; A large number of COVID-19 patients present with no or very mild symptoms, but those individuals can still transmit the virus to others, some of whom could have a much more serious course of illness. Every person who gets infected keeps the “chains of transmission” going, which can bring COVID-19 to those who are more&nbsp;vulnerable. Is it possible to contract COVID-19 and the flu at the same time, and if so, how dangerous would that&nbsp;be? There have been very few reports of one person infected with both viruses. But we know that COVID-19 has been spreading when influenza has not been detected, so it’s still not clear how big of a risk a co-infection would&nbsp;pose.&nbsp; There was very little influenza in the Southern Hemisphere’s winter (corresponding to the Northern Hemisphere’s summer), but that could be because public health interventions like social distancing and masks worked against influenza. Here in the U.S., we aren’t controlling COVID-19 well enough with public health interventions, so that may open the door for spread of&nbsp;influenza.&nbsp; Since the symptoms are difficult to differentiate, you need to be tested to see if you have SARS-CoV-2, influenza, or perhaps one of the other half dozen or so respiratory infections that usually circulate in fall and&nbsp;winter.&nbsp; Andrew Pekosz, PhD , is a virologist and professor in&nbsp; Molecular Microbiology and&nbsp;Immunology .&nbsp; RELATED CONTENT The Importance of the Flu Vaccine During the COVID-19&nbsp;Pandemic COVID-19, the Flu, and Johns Hopkins Hospital with Infection Prevention Director Dr. Lisa&nbsp;Maragakis Pandemic Deaths Are Almost Impossible to Count. He Invented a Way to Estimate&nbsp;Them. More from the Bloomberg&nbsp;School See latest headlines Related Content Tickborne Diseases Researcher Anya O’Neal Joins MMI as Assistant Professor September 25, 2025 Hepatitis B Vaccination is an Essential Safety Net for Newborns September 24, 2025 What to Know About MMR and MMRV Vaccines September 24, 2025 A Brief History of Antibiotic Resistance September 05, 2025 Could One Health Prevent the Next Pandemic? September 04, 2025 Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health 615 N. Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD 21205 Footer social LinkedIn Facebook Instagram BlueSky X (Formerly Twitter) Youtube Footer menu primary Offices &amp; Services Alumni Giving Calendars Careers Contact Us Footer menu secondary Centers &amp; Institutes Directory My.PublicHealth My.JH CoursePlus Student Information System Johns Hopkins University Footer menu extra Web Policies Accessibility Website Help