# Donald Trump American Democracy Weakness

**Source**: http://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2016/11/7/13532178/donald-trump-american-democracy-weakness
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:57:04.988264+00:00

---

Donald Trump’s success reveals a frightening weakness in American democracy | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo Donald Trump’s success reveals a frightening weakness in American democracy Free speech needs fearless journalism Free speech is endangered; unbiased and trustworthy news is elusive. In a time of noise, confusion, and spin, we’re committed to clarity, truth, and depth — even when it’s hard. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join now Politics Donald Trump’s success reveals a frightening weakness in American democracy Trump found a flaw in our political system, and we have no way to fix it. by Ezra Klein Nov 7, 2016, 1:40 PM UTC Share Gift As the Constitutional Convention of 1787 ended, Ben Franklin walked out of Philadelphia&rsquo;s Independence Hall to find an anxious crowd. According to a diary entry recorded by James McHenry, a signatory to the Constitution, a woman from Philadelphia was the first to speak to Franklin. “Well, doctor,&rdquo; she asked, &ldquo;what have we got, a republic or a monarchy?” “A republic,&rdquo; Franklin famously replied. &ldquo;If you can keep it.” Perhaps we cannot. This reads like hyperbole. But is it? Consider, for a moment, the knife&rsquo;s edge on which the republic rests. The election is 24 hours away. As I write this, Donald Trump is 1.8 points behind Hillary Clinton in the RealClearPolitics polling average . And here is what we know of Donald Trump. He is a man who routinely praises dictators. Of Vladimir Putin, Trump said, “He’s running his country, and at least he’s a leader, unlike what we have in this country.” Of Kim Jong Un, Trump said, “You’ve got to give him credit. He goes in, he takes over, and he’s the boss. It’s incredible.” Of Saddam Hussein, Trump said, “He killed terrorists. He did that so good. They didn’t read them the rights.” It&rsquo;s not just that Trump admires authoritarians; it&rsquo;s that the thing he admires about them is their authoritarianism &mdash; their ability to dispense with niceties like a free press, due process, and political opposition. Trump has promised &mdash; in public, and repeatedly &mdash; to bring this hammer to American governance. He stood in a nationally televised debate and vowed to jail his opponent if elected. He has proposed strengthening libel laws to make it easier to cow the press and antitrust laws to punish Jeff Bezos and Amazon for the Washington Post&rsquo;s coverage of his candidacy. In a recent speech at Gettysburg meant to preview his first 100 days in office, Trump said he would sue all of the women who accused him of sexual assault. During rallies, Trump has exhorted his followers to assault protestors, and has promised to pay their legal fees if their thuggery leads to arrest. He has warned that the only way he could lose the election would be if it is rigged, and has suggested he may refuse to concede. And all this ignores his more basic flaws. He is cruel, lazy, and reckless. He knows nothing of policy and has not bothered to find anything out. He is easily baited, reliant on sycophants, and prone to conspiracy theories. He is a bigot who slimed an American-born judge for his Mexican heritage and a misogynist who boasted that his celebrity gave him license to commit sexual assault. He has cast doubt on America&rsquo;s commitment to the NATO alliance and offhandedly encouraged Saudi Arabia and Japan to build nuclear weapons. His business is rife with conflicts of interest, and his campaign has been amateurish and poorly managed. Here is the compliment I can pay Donald Trump, and I pay it with real gratitude: He never hid who he was. Perhaps he lacked the self-control, or the self-awareness. Whatever the reason, he never obscured his authoritarian tendencies, his will to power, his sexism, his greed, his dishonesty, his racism, his thirst for vengeance. And he is still only 1.8 points behind. It is likely, though not certain, that Hillary Clinton will win on Tuesday. But even if she does, here is what must be said of American politics in 2016: We came within inches of electing Donald J. Trump president of the United States of America. We did this even knowing exactly what he stood for, exactly what he had threatened to do, exactly what kind of man he was. A narrow Trump loss is another way of saying a near Trump win. A 3-point victory for Clinton implies that if Trump were merely a bit more self-disciplined, if he had not bragged about sexual assault while wearing a microphone, if his opponent&rsquo;s pneumonia had lingered a bit longer, America would be ruled by a cruel narcissist with authoritarian ambitions. It will mean that if unemployment were a few percentage points higher, if the man who murdered two police officers last week had been brown rather than white, if Trump&rsquo;s odd-bedfellows alliance of Russian hackers and angry FBI agents had been a bit more effective, Trump would have won. Perhaps, on Tuesday, we will dodge the bullet. But we will still need to understand how we came to be standing in front of a gun. The comforting, but wrong, explanation for Trump There is a comforting and popular explanation for Trump&rsquo;s rise: He is the product of an extraordinary period of economic pain, demographic anxiety, and elite backlash. This argument holds that the condition of the country &mdash; or at least the condition of Trump&rsquo;s supporters &mdash; is catastrophic, and Trump&rsquo;s rise is a response to the suffering. This is reassuring; it makes Trump into a kind of political natural disaster, a hurricane that relied on a rare alignment of winds and rains and warmth, a combination that occurs once in lifetime and can be forgotten once it&rsquo;s been survived. But there is nothing in polls of national attitudes, or indicators of economic health, that reveals this moment as uniquely fertile for the rise of a strongman. In 1992, when Pat Buchanan ran for president on a Trump-like platform, unemployment was higher, consumer confidence was lower , and Americans reported themselves more dissatisfied with the state of the country. But Buchanan lost handily. And as we have learned more about Trump&rsquo;s supporters, and have come to understand more about the year in which he rose, these explanations have grown more and more strained. Photo by Mark Wallheiser/Getty Images The belief that Trump is a predictable reaction to acute economic duress crumbled before the finding that his primary voters had a median household income of $72,000 &mdash; well above both the national average and that of Clinton supporters. The idea that Trumpism arose as a response to a stalled economy collapsed as America experienced its longest sustained run of private sector job growth, and the highest single-year jump in median incomes, in modern history. The idea that Trump was a reaction to failed trade deals and heavy competition from immigrants slammed into data showing support for him showed no relationship to lost manufacturing jobs and was strongest in areas without immigrant labor. The idea that Trump is a reaction to historic disgust with American elites is at war with President Barack Obama&rsquo;s approval ratings, which have risen above 50 percent and now match Ronald Reagan&rsquo;s at this point in his presidency. The reality is that the patterns of Trumpism, the trends of the US economy, and the polls measuring the American mood have stubbornly refused to fit the comforting theory that this is an extraordinary candidacy that could only emerge in an extraordinary moment. Indeed, if this were a period as thick with economic pain and anti-establishment sentiment as the pundits pretend, Trump&rsquo;s victory would likely be assured. Once you appreciate that fact, the lesson of Trumpism becomes much scarier: We are more vulnerable than we thought to reactionary strongmen. It can happen here. To Americans of another era &mdash; particularly the founding era &mdash; it would seem bizarre that we are reaching so far, and straining so hard, to explain the popular appeal of a charismatic demagogue. As former Bush speechwriter Michael Gerson wrote : The founders had little patience for &ldquo;pure democracy,&rdquo; which they found particularly vulnerable to demagogues. Men of factious tempers, of local prejudices, or of sinister designs,&rsquo; says Federalist 10 , &ldquo;may, by intrigue, by corruption, or by other means, first obtain the suffrages, and then betray the interests, of the people.&rdquo; A representative government is designed to frustrate sinister majorities (or committed pluralities), by mediating public views through &ldquo;a chosen body of citizens, whose wisdom may best discern the true interest of their country.&rdquo; The American political system is structured the way it is in part due to the founders&rsquo; fear of demagogues. It&rsquo;s a reason why the American presidency is so weak, why the executive is checked by other branches, why the Senate&rsquo;s members were originally selected by state legislators. It is a credit to the long success of our political institutions that we think dangerous men can only win elections in far-off lands. And so it is the weakening of those institutions that demands our attention now. Why Trump didn’t get McGoverned Donald Trump&rsquo;s nearness to the presidency rests on two separate accomplishments &mdash; or, if you prefer, two separate institutional failures &mdash; that are often conflated. The first is his victory in the Republican Party&rsquo;s presidential primaries. The second is his consoli