# Emily Oster

**Source**: https://www.theatlantic.com/author/emily-oster/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:13:17.402077+00:00

---

Emily Oster, The Atlantic Skip to content Site Navigation The Atlantic Popular Latest Newsletters Sections Politics Ideas Fiction Technology Science Photo Economy Culture Planet Global Books AI Watchdog Health Education Projects Features Family Events Washington Week Progress National Security Explore The Atlantic Archive Play The Atlantic Games Listen to Podcasts and Articles The Print Edition Latest Issue Past Issues Give a Gift Search The Atlantic Quick Links Audio Crossword Puzzle Magazine Archive Your Subscription Popular Latest Newsletters Sign In Subscribe Emily Oster Emily Oster is the CEO of ParentData and an economist at Brown University. Her books include Expecting Better . and Cribsheet . Latest I’ve Never Seen Parents This Freaked Out About Vaccines Since COVID, parents have more questions and more concerns. Emily Oster February 13, 2025 Illustration by Katie Martin Should Parents Stay Home to Raise Kids? And should the government pay them for it? Emily Oster August 17, 2024 H. Armstrong Roberts / Getty When Patients Do Their Own Research At its best, medicine will be a process of shared decision making, and doctors need to be prepared. Emily Oster and Nathan Fox April 30, 2024 Illustration by Derek Abella for The Atlantic Is a Glass of Wine Harmless? Wrong Question. The latest alcohol advice ignores the value of pleasure. Emily Oster July 14, 2023 Imagno / Getty Let’s Declare a Pandemic Amnesty Let’s focus on the future, and fix the problems we still need to solve. Emily Oster October 31, 2022 Katie Martin / The Atlantic; Paolo Veronese; Getty Don’t Make Your Own Formula How parents should, and should not, manage the shortage Emily Oster May 17, 2022 Eric Gay / AP Masking Policy Is Incredibly Irrational Right Now Why must only the youngest children wear face coverings? Emily Oster March 9, 2022 Getty; The Atlantic Kids-Last COVID Policy Makes No Sense Kids should face fewer restrictions than their parents, not more. Emily Oster February 21, 2022 Nick Oxford / Bloomberg / Getty Universities Need to Catch Up to the Post-vaccine Reality Remote learning hurts students. Emily Oster January 5, 2022 Paul Bersebach / Orange County Register / Getty The COVID Externalities Have Changed This phase of the pandemic need not be about individual sacrifice. What’s required now is merely communal common sense. Emily Oster December 21, 2021 The Atlantic The Atlantic Daily Get our guide to the day’s biggest news and ideas, delivered to your inbox every weekday and Sunday mornings. See more newsletters Email Address Sign Up Your newsletter subscriptions are subject to The Atlantic&#x27;s Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions . Ideas That Matter Subscribe and support more than 160 years of independent journalism. Subscribe Popular Links About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Reprints &amp; Permissions Podcasts Radio Atlantic Good on Paper The David Frum Show How to Age Up Autocracy in America Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Atlantic Editions Newsletters Follow facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin flipboard About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Reprints &amp; Permissions Podcasts Radio Atlantic Good on Paper The David Frum Show How to Age Up Autocracy in America Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Atlantic Editions Newsletters Follow facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin flipboard Site Information Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices privacy-options Advertising Guidelines Terms &amp; Conditions Terms of Sale Responsible Disclosure Site Map TheAtlantic.com © 2025 The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply