# Edward W Said

**Source**: https://www.thenation.com/authors/edward-w-said/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:49:54.410150+00:00

---

Edward W. Said | The Nation --> Log In Email * Password * Remember Me Forgot Your Password? Log In New to The Nation ? Subscribe Print subscriber? Activate your online access Skip to content Skip to footer Magazine Newsletters Subscribe Log In Search Subscribe Donate Magazine Latest Archive Podcasts Newsletters Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts The Nation About Events Contact Us Advertise Current Issue Edward W. Said Music Critic Edward W. Said, the late University Professor of English and Comparative Literature at Columbia University, was for many years the magazine's classical music critic as well as a contributing writer. His writing, translated into 14 languages, includes 10 books, among them Orientalism (Pantheon, 1978), a runner-up in criticism for the National Book Critics Circle Award; The World, the Text and the Critic (Harvard, 1983); Blaming the Victims (Verso, 1988); Culture and Imperialism (Knopf, 1993); Peace and Its Discontents: Essays on Palestine in the Middle East Peace Process (Vintage, 1995); End of the Peace Process: Oslo and After (Pantheon, 2000); and, most recently, Power, Politics, and Culture (Pantheon). There Cannot Be Peace and Security Until the Cause of Palestinian Suffering Is Addressed There Cannot Be Peace and Security Until the Cause of Palestinian Suffering Is Addressed There is a racist premise underpinning the “peace process” that Arab lives aren’t worth as much as Jewish lives. Mar 23, 2015 / Books &amp; the Arts / Edward W. Said The Essential Terrorist The Essential Terrorist With the "war on terror" now official nomenclature, the problematic conflating of ethnic, religious and "terrorist" identities is now a matter of policy as well as media distortion... Aug 15, 2006 / Books &amp; the Arts / Edward W. Said Ad Policy A Configuration of Themes A Configuration of Themes This essay--Edward W. Said's first piece for The Nation from the magazine's May 30, 1966, issue--is a special selection from The Nation Digital Archive. If you want to read everyth... Oct 30, 2003 / Books &amp; the Arts / Edward W. Said Untimely Meditations Untimely Meditations Beethoven has been particularly fortunate in his recent critics and biographers. Aug 14, 2003 / Books &amp; the Arts / Edward W. Said What Israel Has Done What Israel Has Done Seeking to eliminate the Palestinians as a people, it is destroying their civil life. Apr 18, 2002 / Feature / Edward W. Said A New Current in Palestine A New Current in Palestine It's too soon to call it a party, but there's now a popular, independent group. Jan 17, 2002 / Feature / Edward W. Said The Clash of Ignorance The Clash of Ignorance Labels like &quot;Islam&quot; and &quot;the West&quot; serve only to confuse us about a disorderly reality. Oct 4, 2001 / Feature / Edward W. Said The End of Oslo The End of Oslo Misreported and flawed from the start, the Oslo peace process has entered its terminal phase of violent confrontation, disproportionately massive Israeli repression, widespread P... Oct 12, 2000 / Edward W. Said A Devil Theory of Islam A Devil Theory of Islam Judith Miller is a New York Times reporter much in evidence on talk shows and seminars on the Middle East. Jul 25, 2000 / Books &amp; the Arts / Edward W. Said Islam Through Western Eyes Islam Through Western Eyes This essay, by the late Edward Said, from the April 26, 1980, issue of The Nation, is a special selection from The Nation Digital Archive. If you want to read everything The Nation... Jan 2, 1998 / Feature / Edward W. Said Ad Policy Ad Policy Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts OppArt Poetry Letters Magazine Current Issue Masthead Archive Subscription Services Reprints More About Us Contact Us Advertise Nation Events Nation Shop Nation Travels Nation Podcasts Newsletters Follow Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube RSS Founded by abolitionists in 1865, The Nation has long believed that independent journalism has the capacity to bring about a more democratic and equitable world. Donate Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility Statement Help Careers Nation Fund Privacy Manager x