# Donald Trump

**Source**: https://www.newyorker.com/tag/donald-trump
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:30:17.416425+00:00

---

Donald Trump | The New Yorker Skip to main content Newsletter Search Search The Latest News Books &amp; Culture Fiction &amp; Poetry Humor &amp; Cartoons Magazine Puzzles &amp; Games Video Podcasts Goings On Shop 100th Anniversary Open Navigation Menu Menu Donald Trump Reporting and commentary on the forty-fifth and forty-seventh President. The New Yorker Radio Hour A Conservative Professor on How to Fix Campus Culture Robert P. George opposed Roe v. Wade, same-sex marriage&#8212;and the rise of MAGA . “I say to my [liberal] colleagues,” he claims, “it was you guys who gave us Donald Trump!” The Lede The Complexities of Trans Gun Ownership In the face of threats and harassment, some trans Americans are becoming gun owners&#8212;only to be targeted by the same movements that claim to defend gun rights. Letter from Trump’s Washington Donald Trump’s Shutdown Power Play The President learned in 2019 how to undercut Congress in a funding fight, and he’s been making the same move ever since. Q. & A. The Stunning Reversal in U.S.-India Relations Why is Donald Trump turning on his ideological ally Narendra Modi? The Financial Page Donald Trump’s TikTok Deal Looks Like Crony Capitalism The sale demonstrates the President’s personal brand of industrial policy&#8212;transactional, opaque, and designed to politically benefit him and his allies. The Lede The Flimsy, Dangerous Indictment of James Comey The charges against the former F.B.I. director look weak. But they may be just the start of Donald Trump’s long-threatened drive to use the Justice Department to go after his enemies. Letter from Trump’s Washington Donald Trump Keeps Finding New Ways to Shock the World Two speeches&#8212;one endorsing hate and another warning foreign nations “you will fail”&#8212;encapsulate a Presidential agenda that is like no other. The Political Scene Podcast How MAHA Is Sowing Vaccine Confusion Trump’s second-term overhaul of the C.D.C. and the H.H.S. has turned vaccine policy into a partisan battleground and has left states to fill the void. The Political Scene How One J6er Has Been Emboldened by His Pardon Some insurrectionists have reoffended. Others have run for office. Cleveland Grover Meredith, Jr., is campaigning to get reparations&#8212;from “the deep state” and his parents. The Financial Page Why Won’t America’s Business Leaders Stand Up to Donald Trump? From Disney’s capitulation on Jimmy Kimmel to tech moguls’ White House dinner, corporate élites are choosing self-preservation over principle. The New Yorker Radio Hour Is the 2026 Election Already in Danger? Donald Trump has long claimed elections are rigged; now he gets to do the rigging. The election lawyer Marc Elias explains what the Administration can and can’t do to impact voting. The Lede Donald Trump’s Firing of a Federal Prosecutor Crosses the Reddest of Lines The dismissal of Erik Siebert sends yet another ominous message about the risks of refusing to do the President’s bidding, and the lengths to which he will go to punish perceived enemies. On Television How Donald Trump’s Culture-Wars Playbook Felled Jimmy Kimmel The late-night host’s show was pulled from the air after an F.C.C. pressure campaign&#8212;one that’s part of a much broader Presidential agenda. Q. & A. The Grave Threat Posed by Donald Trump’s Attack on Jimmy Kimmel The President and his allies are using the power of the state to silence speech they dislike. The Lede J. D. Vance, Charlie Kirk, and the Politics-as-Talk-Show Singularity Broadcasting from the White House, the Vice-President seemed to complete the merger of politics and red-meat live streams&#8212;and to threaten more ominous crackdowns ahead. Cover Story Barry Blitt’s “Remote Control” The President’s watch list. Deep State Diaries Donald Trump’s Assault on Disability Rights Federal offices and programs that insure equal treatment are being shuttered and scaled back. Q. & A. Where Political Violence Comes From Is our era of extreme partisanship to blame? The Financial Page How Far Could Donald Trump’s Assault on the Federal Reserve Go? Some central-bank veterans are concerned about a scenario in which the President’s appointees gain effective control of the institution and end its independence. The Lede The U.S. Government’s Extraordinary Pursuit of Kilmar Ábrego García The Trump Administration’s maneuvers are rising to a political prosecution. More Stories News Books &amp; Culture Fiction &amp; Poetry Humor &amp; Cartoons Magazine Crossword Video Podcasts 100th Anniversary Goings On Manage Account Shop The New Yorker Buy Covers and Cartoons Condé Nast Store Digital Access Newsletters Jigsaw Puzzle RSS About Careers Contact F.A.Q. Media Kit Press Accessibility Help User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. The New Yorker may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Instagram Tiktok Threads X Facebook LinkedIn YouTube