# Revolt Of The Elites

**Source**: http://nplusonemag.com/revolt-of-the-elites
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:51:26.850751+00:00

---

Revolt of the Elites | Issue 10 | n+1 | The Editors You are using an outdated browser. Please upgrade your browser or activate Google Chrome Frame to improve your experience. Subscribe Magazine Online Only Bookstore Events Donate Search n+1 Sign In Email Address Password Forgot Password Available Now Issue 51: Force Majeure Subscribe online and gain access to the entire archive. Subscribe Or sign in and read it now. Email Password Forgot Password Issue 10 Self-Improvement The Intellectual Situation MFA vs. NYC The Editors Revolt of the Elites The Editors Politics Caucasian Nation Marco Roth Golden State Nikil Saval Fiction and Drama How Should a Person Be? Sheila Heti Zone Mathias Enard Essays Gatsby in New Delhi Siddhartha Deb The Two Cultures of Life Kristin Dombek Four Responses to Freedom Keith Gessen, Mark Greif, Benjamin Kunkel, Marco Roth Electric Cars Dan Albert Reviews All in the Family Richard Beck Fictional Capital Elizabeth Gumport Multitude, Are You There? Bruce Robbins Letters Letters The Editors The Intellectual Situation The Editors Revolt of the Elites Published in Issue 10 : Self-Improvement Publication date Fall 2010 Tags Money and Power Share and Save Twitter Facebook Bluesky Instapaper Has any concept more completely defined and disfigured public life over the last generation than so-called elitism? Ever since Richard Nixon’s speechwriters pitted a silent majority (later sometimes “the real America”) against the nattering nabobs of negativism (later “tenured radicals,” the “cultural elite,” and so on), American political, aesthetic, and intellectual experience can only be glimpsed through a thickening fog of culture war. And the fog, very often, has swirled around a single disreputable term. The first thing to note is the migration of the word elite and its cognates away from politics proper and into culture. Today “the cultural elite” is almost a redundancy — the culture part is implied — while nobody talks anymore about what C. Wright Mills in 1956 called “the power elite.” Mills glanced at journalists and academics, but the main elements of the elite, in his sense, were not chatterers and scribblers but (as George W. Bush might have put it) deciders: generals, national politicians, corporate boards. “Insofar as national events are decided,” Mills wrote, “the power elite are those who decide them.” The pejorative connotations of “elite” have remained fairly stable across the decades. The word suggests a group of important individuals who have come by their roles through social position as much as merit; who place their own self-maintenance as an elite and the interests of the social class they represent above the interests and judgments of the population at large; and who look down on ordinary people as inferiors. Today, though, it’s the bearers of culture rather than the wielders of power who are taxed with elitism. If the term is applied to powerful people, this is strictly for cultural reasons, as the different reputations of the identically powerful Obama and Bush attest. No one would think to call a foul-mouthed four-star general an elitist, even though he commands an army, any more than the term would cover a private equity titan who hires Rod Stewart to serenade his 60th birthday party. Culture, not power, determines who attracts the epithet. There are two opposed explanations for this situation. One would be that access to political, economic, and military power is today more meritocratic and open than access to filmmaking, humanistic academia, freelance writing, wine criticism, and so on. Do people no longer complain about the power elite because those with power are no longer elitist? Culture, in that case, would constitute a last vestige of unearned prestige in an otherwise democratically constituted society. The other explanation would be that it simply goes without saying these days that the materially consequential areas of life are lorded over by self-recruiting elites. You wouldn’t speak of a business elite, a governing elite, or a firepower elite because, now, that would be redundant. Complaints about cultural elitism would then be merely a sign that in the world of culture (unlike that of power) there is still an ongoing contest between elitism and equality that in all other realms has already been decided. By the deciders. Unlock twenty-one years of n+1. It only takes 2 minutes to subscribe. Subscribe online and gain access to the entire archive. Subscribe Or sign in and read it now. Email Password Forgot Password MFA vs. NYC Caucasian Nation More from Issue 10 card-default flavor-issue type-magazine term-issue-10 format-pullquote tax-issue featured- The MFA beast has at last been offered a look in the mirror, and may finally come to know itself as it is. Issue 10 Self-Improvement MFA vs. NYC The Editors card-default flavor-issue type-magazine term-issue-10 format-pullquote tax-issue featured-article-featured One begins to think of race in Obama’s America like sex in some caricature of Freud’s Vienna. Issue 10 Self-Improvement Caucasian Nation Marco Roth card-default flavor-issue type-magazine term-issue-10 format-pullquote tax-issue featured- The crack-up of the country’s wealthiest, most populous state has been long in the making. Issue 10 Self-Improvement Golden State Nikil Saval card-default flavor-issue type-magazine term-issue-10 format-pullquote tax-issue featured- I didn’t think, Those are great souls, but I did think, Those are some great personalities for our age. Issue 10 Self-Improvement How Should a Person Be? Sheila Heti card-default flavor-issue type-magazine term-issue-10 format-pullquote tax-issue featured- Without the aspirers emulating, admiring, and parting with their cash, moguls like Arindam would not exist. Issue 10 Self-Improvement Gatsby in New Delhi Siddhartha Deb card-default flavor-issue type-magazine term-issue-10 format-pullquote tax-issue featured-article-featured Abortion, these films taught us, means treating humans like consumer products, or animals. Issue 10 Self-Improvement The Two Cultures of Life Kristin Dombek card-default flavor-issue type-magazine term-issue-10 format-pullquote tax-issue featured- Jonathan Franzen’s novel is a feeling-machine. Issue 10 Self-Improvement Four Responses to Freedom Keith Gessen, Mark Greif, Benjamin Kunkel, Marco Roth card-default flavor-issue type-magazine term-issue-10 format-pullquote tax-issue featured- The good people of America choose electric cars when given the chance. Issue 10 Self-Improvement Electric Cars Dan Albert card-default flavor-issue type-magazine term-issue-10 format-pullquote tax-issue featured- After my two years of war I’ve never been so free, I own nothing now, not even my real name Issue 10 Self-Improvement Zone Mathias Enard card-default flavor-issue type-magazine term-issue-10 format-pullquote tax-issue featured- Now, Oates’s colleagues don’t just watch television. They write books about The Sopranos and teach courses on The Wire. Issue 10 Self-Improvement All in the Family Richard Beck card-default flavor-issue type-magazine term-issue-10 format-pullquote tax-issue featured- We are always in search of fiction that is willing to meet the world as it is. Issue 10 Self-Improvement Fictional Capital Elizabeth Gumport card-default flavor-issue type-magazine term-issue-10 format-pullquote tax-issue featured- There’s no way around it: Commonwealth is an irritating book. Issue 10 Self-Improvement Multitude, Are You There? Bruce Robbins card-default flavor-issue type-magazine term-issue-10 format-pullquote tax-issue featured- Reform and revolution may turn out, then, to be allies rather than enemies. Issue 10 Self-Improvement Letters The Editors More by this Author card-default flavor-author type-magazine term-issue-2 format-pullquote tax-issue featured- A reading is like a bedside visit. The audience extends a giant moist hand and strokes the poor reader&#8217;s hair. Issue 2 Happiness Literary Readings: Cancel Them The Editors card-default flavor-author type-online-only term-announcements format-pullquote tax-online-only featured- Our Spring issue, TRANSMISSION, is almost here. See what’s inside. Announcements Announcing Issue 37 The Editors card-default flavor-author type-magazine term-issue-8 format-pullquote tax-issue featured- The first intellectual consequence of the economic crisis was to undermine neoliberalism as the age’s default ideology. Issue 8 Recessional On Your Marx The Editors card-default flavor-author type-online-only term-book-review format-pullquote tax-online-only featured- To read Keynes is to glimpse a few features of the economic arrangements we need. Book Review N1BReading The Editors card-default flavor-author type-magazine term-issue-48 format-pullquote tax-issue featured- In almost every issue, n+1 seems to have an awful tale that goes down easily. Issue 48 Inside Job One Person’s Bag of Dog Hair Is Another Person’s Treasure The Editors card-default flavor-author type-magazine term-issue-7 format-pullquote tax-issue featured- The injunction had once been to marry Jews. Now it is merely to masturbate to them. Issue 7 Correction The People of the Magazine The Editors n+1 n+1 is a print and digital magazine of literature, culture, and politics published three times a year. We also post new online-only work several times each week and publish books expanding on the interests of the magazine. About n+1 About Masthead Foundation Events Jobs &#038; Internships Submissions Contact Advertise RSS The Magazine Current Issue Subscribe Renew Subscription Gift Subscriptions Back Issues Bookstores Libraries Your Account Email Newsletter Get n+1 in your inbox. Email Address Follow Us Instagram Bluesky Twitter Facebook Copyright &copy; 2025 n+1 Foundation Terms &amp; Conditions | Privacy Policy