# C51Yvz51K2Xo

**Source**: https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c51yvz51k2xo?ref=wheresyoured.at
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:44:55.972476+00:00

---

AI means Google&#x27;s greenhouse gas emissions up 48% in 5 years Skip to content Watch Live British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US &amp; Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science &amp; Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film &amp; TV Music Art &amp; Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean &amp; Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture &amp; Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList To the Ends of The Earth Earth Natural Wonders Weather &amp; Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcast Categories Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Watch Live AI drives 48% increase in Google emissions 3 July 2024 Share Save Imran Rahman-Jones Technology reporter Share Save Getty Images Google&#x27;s greenhouse gas emissions in 2023 were 48% higher than in 2019, according to its latest environmental report. The tech giant puts it down to the increasing amounts of energy needed by its data centres, exacerbated by the explosive growth of artificial intelligence (AI). AI-powered services involve considerably more computer power - and so electricity - than standard online activity, prompting a series of warnings about the technology&#x27;s environmental impact. Google&#x27;s target is to reach net zero emissions by 2030 but it admits that &quot;as we further integrate AI into our products, reducing emissions may be challenging.&quot; In its 2024 Environmental Report, Google says it is &quot;due to increasing energy demands from the greater intensity of AI compute.&quot; Data centres are essentially massive collections of computer servers - and AI needs a huge amount of them. A generative AI system - such as ChatGPT - might use around 33 times more energy than machines running task-specific software, according to a recent study. However, Google&#x27;s report also reveals large global disparities in the impacts of its data centres. Most of the centres in Europe and the Americas get the majority of their energy from carbon-free sources. This compares with data centres in the Middle East, Asia and Australia, which use far less carbon-free energy. Overall, Google says about two thirds of its energy is derived from carbon-free sources. &quot;If you actually go into data centre, it&#x27;s really hot and really noisy,&quot; says Tom Jackson, professor of information and knowledge management at Loughborough University. &quot;People don&#x27;t realise everything they&#x27;re storing in the cloud is having an impact on their digital carbon footprint,&quot; he says. Prof Jackson runs the Digital Decarbonisation Design Group, which tries to measure and find solutions to reduce the carbon footprint of data usage. &quot;Data providers have to work closely with large organisations to help them move away from storing so much of their dark data,&quot; he says. Dark data is data which has been collected by organisations but which has either been used once or not at all. However, storing it on chips still takes up large amounts of energy even when it is not being used. &quot;On average, 65% of the data an organisation stores is dark data,&quot; says Prof Jackson. He commends Google&#x27;s target of reaching net zero in its data centres by 2030, but says it will be &quot;really tough.&quot; The increasing energy - and water - use of AI has prompted a series of warnings, especially as the sector is forecast to keep growing rapidly . The boss of the UK&#x27;s National Grid said in March that the combination of AI and quantum computing would lead to a six-fold surge in demand in the next 10 years. However, Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates recently downplayed the environmental impact of AI. Speaking in London last week, he suggested AI would increase electricity demand by between 2% and 6%. &quot;The question is, will AI accelerate a more than 6 per cent reduction? And the answer is: certainly,&quot; he said, as reported by the Financial Times. Electricity grids creak as AI demands soar Data centre power use &#x27;to surge six-fold in 10 years&#x27; Do we have enough energy to power AI? British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use Subscription Terms About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info BBC.com Help &amp; FAQs Content Index Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.