# Item

**Source**: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=30347719
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:55:44.834567+00:00

---

Google Search Is Dying | Hacker News Hacker News new | past | comments | ask | show | jobs | submit login Google Search Is Dying ( dkb.io ) 3636 points by dbrereton on Feb 15, 2022 | hide | past | favorite | 1561&nbsp;comments softwarebeware on Feb 15, 2022 | next [–] Some really good thoughts here. I&#x27;ll summarize the ones that hit me: - &quot;Why are people searching Reddit specifically? The short answer is that Google search results are clearly dying. The long answer is that most of the web has become too inauthentic to trust.&quot; This is it for me exactly. I search for the following kinds of things on Reddit exactly because results on other sites aren&#x27;t trustworthy: Reviews are secretly paid ads. The &quot;best&quot; recipe for pancakes is only what&#x27;s trending on instagram right now. The latest conditions on mountain bike and hiking trails are being shared inside communities like Reddit but not on the web. The same for trending programmer tools. - &quot;It is obvious that serving ads creates misaligned incentives for search engines...&quot; What I&#x27;m shocked by is that Google somehow maintained a balance on this for so long. Well, at least a good enough balance that people still use it primarily. - &quot;Google increasingly does not give you the results for what you typed in. It tries to be “smart” and figure out what you “really meant&quot; ...&quot; This is the most annoying behavior because I really mean what I write. - &quot;There’s a fun conspiracy theory that popped up recently called the Dead Internet Theory...&quot; I hadn&#x27;t heard of this. Now that&#x27;s some sci-fi level of conspiracy but in today&#x27;s world it seems totally plausible. jedwhite on Feb 15, 2022 | parent | next [–] There&#x27;s a reason why it seems shocking that Google has been able to balance the ads well enough that people still use it. They haven&#x27;t! Google has orchestrated a monopoly over search engine distribution that allows them to get away with search results that are dominated by ads and spam, without losing most consumers. Let&#x27;s be blunt here - almost no consumer consciously chooses to use Google search anymore. Google has a distribution monopoly through Android, its deal with Apple on iOS and MacOS, and on desktop through Chrome. I&#x27;m working on a search engine startup. It is in all practical senses impossible for an iPhone or Mac user to change their search engine to a new search engine on Safari or at the iOS level. And despite being technically possible on desktop with Chrome, it is for all practical purposes beyond what any typical consumer can easily do. Their monopoly over distribution - not search result quality - is what keeps consumers searching Google and clicking ads. dwighteb on Feb 15, 2022 | root | parent | next [–] &gt; It is in all practical senses impossible for an iPhone or Mac user to change their search engine to a new search engine on Safari or at the iOS level. On my IOS device, under Settings -&gt; Safari -&gt; Search Engine, I have a drop down with options, including Bing and DuckDuckgo, but defaulted to google. On Macos, with Safari running, Safari -&gt; Preferences… -&gt; Search, Search Engine I have a drop down, defaulted to google, with Bing and DuckDuckgo amongst other choices. Agreed on google”s effort to get their search engine as the default. However I just don’t understand how changing search engine is impossible given what I’m seeing on my devices? Nor does it seem over the top onerous to my eyes. jedwhite on Feb 15, 2022 | root | parent | next [–] Yes, but you can&#x27;t add a new search engine at all! So if a search engine isn&#x27;t one of the tiny number of options in that dropdown, you can&#x27;t change to it. That applies on both iOS and MacOS. And that option is used for the entire system-wide search, not just Safari. So here&#x27;s a challenge, try adding a search engine not on that list. You can see the search engine I&#x27;m working on in my profile if you&#x27;re interested (I don&#x27;t want to hijack this thread with self-promotion). I challenge you to change to a new competitive option like it. You simply can&#x27;t. That is a clear monopoly over distribution. On desktop in Chrome, as noted it is not something any typical consumer can do easily. But even if they could, Google does not allow you to set the New Tab to another search engine, even by setting the homepage to one. So every new tab opened on Chrome takes you back to Google search, even if a consumer figures out how to change their homepage. As for changing the nav bar search, no ordinary consumer is going to be able to work out how to change a search URL pattern. That is clearly intended to prevent consumers changing. So I stand by my point, especially on an iPhone, you simply cannot change your search engine to a new search engine like us. It is impossible. daanlo on Feb 15, 2022 | root | parent | next [–] I fully understand your point and defaults are very strong. That being said, I try new search engines from time to time and always get back to google, because non of the others have worked for me (in a professional context). I probably do 200 searches per day and google is most likely to give me relevant info on my first query (maybe 80-90% success rate). All others I have tried have been around 40-50% win an avg. of 2-3 search queries to find my result. That is a huge daily time sync on 200 searches per day. I will also test your search engine. And before having tested it, I have some unsolicited advice ;) At least these are things that would make me switch: 1) you are strong in my vertical. 50% of my daily search queries are professional. Probably 10-20% are programming related. If you were better 20% better than google at delivering results for that subset, I would probably use you. 2) If you had very strong support for my locale. Based in Germany, 50% of my private searches are in German. Most search engines, apart from google, suck in German. My assumption is their market share is so small that they don‘t put effort into any language specific search syntax understanding. German or large language groups like Spanish, Hindi, French come to mind. 3) If you can‘t become a default search engine on safari, maybe you can role your own browser (chromium fork or something) where you are the default. You could package it as: MySearchEngine App. It is actually a fully functional browser, but users really use it because they want to use your search engine. That might give easier access than having to manually navigate to your website in safari. &lt;&#x2F; end of unsolicited advice &#x2F;&gt; jedwhite on Feb 15, 2022 | root | parent | next [–] The ultimate test of any search engine is always the results. While the project I&#x27;m working on is definitely still an alpha, I&#x27;d love to chat with you when you try it out. I don&#x27;t want to take the conversation here off-topic. To your general points though, there are definitely opportunities to provide better results within specialist areas of knowledge, and for local markets. I think most of the search startups are doing their own mobile app. On iOS, the system search and browser remains Google&#x2F;Safari (and the App is essentially just a wrapper on Safari for browsing). But at least it is something. I think you&#x27;ll see more people doing desktop apps, although the dominance of Google through Chromium forks for this isn&#x27;t a coincidence. It feels like the bad old days of re-packaging Internet Explorer with a custom homepage all over again. Mezzie on Feb 15, 2022 | root | parent | prev | next [–] Multi-lingual search results in general; Google (and FB) just for some reason cannot comprehend that someone might have reasons to search in multiple languages or even regions. For instance, I at one point was an editor&#x2F;fact-checker for an academic publisher and one project involved checking a lot of information from official government sources around the world, and Google did not know what to do with that. Hell, I&#x27;d love to have the option to make the search results be completely language agnostic. greggman3 on Feb 16, 2022 | root | parent | next [–] Don&#x27;t you just set the region and language at the bottom? I also search in multiple languages but I also know that&#x27;s an exception. The majority of the people in the world likely would only use a single language and it&#x27;s easy to believe that search results are better for those users with languages separated. Mezzie on Feb 16, 2022 | root | parent | next [–] Yes, hence why I&#x27;d want an option for language agnostic results. It would be a terrible default. There are cases when I&#x27;d even like REGION agnostic results, or least ones not bound by national boundaries. For example, I have an interest in my state history (MI), and there&#x27;s plenty of relevant articles&#x2F;commentary from the Canadians. eru on Feb 16, 2022 | root | parent | prev | next [–] I sometimes have similar issues. But I can understand why Google might not want to cater to the multi-lingual market: perhaps it&#x27;s just too niche? Mezzie on Feb 16, 2022 | root | parent | next [–] I don&#x27;t think it&#x27;s too niche, I think they&#x27;re just American. A Canadian&#x2F;Indian&#x2F;EU-based Google probably would&#x27;ve ended up with multi-lingual support, whereas a China&#x2F;UK based one probably wouldn&#x27;t have. By the time Google got big enough for international considerations, there were already a bunch of baked in assumptions about their users, like them being monolingual. masa331 on Feb 15, 2022 | root | parent | prev | next [–] Have you tried Kagi.com? I switched to it and i&#x27;m very happy even with searches in my native language for example the_one_jay on Feb 16, 2022 | root | parent | prev | next [–] Metager.org is my go to google search replacement. I imagine (although my German is non native) that the German search results are quite good. . . it being a German