# Commemorating October 7 With Tattoos

**Source**: https://www.hadassahmagazine.org/2024/05/16/commemorating-october-7-with-tattoos/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:06:31.426846+00:00

---

Commemorating October 7 With Tattoos | Hadassah Magazine Mobile Icons Header Top Menu Hadassah.org Israel at War Subscribe Make a Gift Hadassah Magazine Presents Social Icons Follow Us Israel + Diaspora Israeli Scene American View Wider World Culture + Travel Food Arts Books The Jewish Traveler Gifts + Judaica Hadassah Magazine Presents Community + Faith Family Holidays Health + Medicine Being Jewish About Hebrew Hadassah Blog Archives Issue Archive The Jewish Traveler Archive Menu Subscribe Search Israel + Diaspora Culture + Travel Community + Faith Blog Archives Magazine E-Newsletter Email Address First Name Last Name &#916; Israel + Diaspora Wider World Email Print Commemorating October 7 With Tattoos By Yaël Bizouati-Kennedy May 2024 Email Hadassah Magazine Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... Getting tattooed at a Healing Ink 10.7 event. Courtesy of Artists4Israel “We will dance again” reads the tattoo now inked on the left forearm of Mia Schem, a French Israeli tattoo artist who was kidnapped by Hamas terrorists at the Nova music festival on October 7 and was among those released in November. She is one of the growing number of Israelis and Jews around the world getting tattoos, traditionally considered taboo in Judaism, as a form of commemoration of the atrocities. Most, like Schem, arranged their tattoos privately, but hundreds of others have taken advantage of a new initiative that is offering free inking.&nbsp; Artists4Israel, a nonprofit that sponsors global art campaigns to counter anti-Israel hate, first created the Healing Ink project in 2016 to provide free tattoos to survivors of terror, injured Israel Defense Forces soldiers and families of terror victims. In response to the Hamas attacks, the group launched Healing Ink 10.7, which involves a series of ongoing group tattooing events in Israel and the United States, as “an immediate answer to the needs of the moment,” said Craig Dershowitz, CEO of Artists4Israel . “Tattoos are a way of reclaiming their body and moving the healing process forward,” he said of the thinking of some of the Israelis who are getting tattoos. “For most, the idea of taking agency over their body and actions is a way of finding power and strength in the midst of a terrible situation.” According to Dershowitz, popular tattoo choices include images that had already been inked on murdered loves ones, memorial designs that incorporate names and dates, and “lots of broken hearts.” One concept has been the words “we will dance again”—similar to Schem’s tattoo—with the date 1072023 written like the serial numbers that prisoners received at Auschwitz, he said. Sarah Tuttle-Singer’s dragonfly design is inspired by murdered German Israeli Shani Louk. Courtesy of Sarah Tuttle-Singer Sarah Tuttle-Singer, the new media editor at The Times of Israel, said that after the attacks, she visited a Jerusalem tattoo parlor to get a dragonfly inked on her right shoulder to “represent resilience and transformation. Despite their delicate beauty, they have grit.” The dragonfly design is the work of German Israeli influencer and tattoo artist Shani Louk, who was kidnapped at the Nova festival and whose death was confirmed by Israel on October 30. Since news of her murder, the Louk family has encouraged people to download her designs and use them for their own tattoos, as a way of honoring her, Tuttle-Singer said. “Like the dragonfly, we found the strength to adapt, to rise above and to seek the light, always,” she said about the strength of Israelis. “That’s what we do.” Yaël Bizouati-Kennedy Email Print Trackbacks Cómo Israel hizo del trauma un arma de guerra - Sonámbula says: October 2024 at 1:23 pm [&#8230;] sobre la reciente moda israelí de tatuajes con el tema del 7 de octubre. Un artista, citado en la revista Hadassah Magazine, dijo que a un cliente se le ocurrió un «concepto» que tendría la fecha del atentado «1072023 [&#8230;] Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. &#916; Hadassah Magazine Presents Virtual Events Two Years On With Yossi Klein Halevi and Lee Yaron October 29 | 12:30 PM ET Program Library Watch our past events here. E-Newsletter Stay informed and sign up for the Hadassah Magazine newsletter! Sign up here! &nbsp; Footer Menu Column 2 Israel + Diaspora Culture + Travel Community + Faith Blog Archives Footer Menu Column 3 About Us Contact Us Subscribe Advertise Terms &#038; Conditions Footer Menu Column 4 Make a Gift Social Icons Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Copyright ©2025 HADASSAH, THE WOMEN&#8217;S ZIONIST ORGANIZATION OF AMERICA, INC. HADASSAH, THE H LOGO, AND HADASSAH THE POWER OF WOMEN WHO DO ARE REGISTERED TRADEMARKS OF HADASSAH, THE WOMEN&#8217;S ZIONIST ORGANIZATION OF AMERICA, INC.