# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Journal%20of%20Family%20Psychology&title=Mediation%20as%20a%20method%20of%20parent%20intervention%20in%20children's%20dispute&author=A%20Siddiqui&author=H%20Ross&volume=18&issue=1&publication_year=2004&pages=147-159&pmid=14992617&doi=10.1037/0893-3200.18.1.147&
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:05:06.271453+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.06 sec) My profile My library Lookup [PDF] ut.ee Mediation as a method of parent intervention in children&#39;s disputes. A Siddiqui, H Ross - Journal of Family Psychology, 2004 - psycnet.apa.org A Siddiqui, H Ross Journal of Family Psychology, 2004 • psycnet.apa.org This study examined the feasibility and short-term effects of mothers&#39; use of mediation to help children (5 to 8 years) resolve disputes. Families in which mothers were trained to use mediation were compared with control families on intervention strategies at home and discussion of a recurring conflict in the laboratory. With training, mothers could use mediation strategies, and these strategies were favored by both mothers and children. Children responded appropriately to mediation (reasoning, discussing emotions, and … Abstract This study examined the feasibility and short-term effects of mothers&#39; use of mediation to help children (5 to 8 years) resolve disputes. Families in which mothers were trained to use mediation were compared with control families on intervention strategies at home and discussion of a recurring conflict in the laboratory. With training, mothers could use mediation strategies, and these strategies were favored by both mothers and children. Children responded appropriately to mediation (reasoning, discussing emotions, and understanding motivations more often than in control families). Mediation empowered children, particularly younger siblings, to solve conflict issues. Although questions of the long-term implications of mediation remain, this study suggests that mediation may be a powerful parenting tool, promoting social understanding and productive conflict resolution. American Psychological Association Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 117 Related articles All 10 versions Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help