# Disney Bob Iger Morning Routine 2018 10

**Source**: https://www.businessinsider.com/disney-bob-iger-morning-routine-2018-10
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:07:48.264270+00:00

---

Disney CEO Bob Iger Wakes up at 4:15, Works Out Before Checking Phone - Business Insider Business Insider Subscribe Newsletters Search Business Strategy Economy Finance Retail Advertising Careers Media Real Estate Small Business The Better Work Project Personal Finance Tech Science AI Enterprise Transportation Startups Innovation Markets Stocks Indices Commodities Crypto Currencies ETFs Lifestyle Entertainment Culture Travel Food Health Parenting Politics Military &amp; Defense Law Education Reviews Tech Streaming Tickets Home Kitchen Style Beauty Gifts Deals Video Big Business Food Wars So Expensive Still Standing Boot Camp Subscribe My account Log in Newsletters US edition Deutschland &amp; Österreich España Japan Polska TW 全球中文版 Get the app Business Insider Disney CEO Bob Iger wakes up at 4:15 every morning and enacts a technology &#x27;firewall&#x27; until after his workout By Mark Abadi You&#x27;re currently following this author! Want to unfollow? Unsubscribe via the link in your email. Follow New Follow authors and never miss a story! Follow Mark Abadi Every time Mark publishes a story, you’ll get an alert straight to your inbox! Enter your email Sign up By clicking “Sign up”, you agree to receive emails from Business Insider. In addition, you accept Insider’s Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . Disney CEO Bob Iger. Drew Angerer/Getty Images 2018-10-10T15:41:16Z Share Facebook Email X LinkedIn Reddit Bluesky WhatsApp Copy link lighning bolt icon An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt. Impact Link Save Saved Read in app Add us on This story is available exclusively to Business Insider subscribers. Become an Insider and start reading now. Have an account? Log in . Disney CEO Bob Iger said he wakes up at 4:15 a.m. most days and avoids using his phone until he's finished his morning exercise routine. Iger said his "firewall with technology" helps him organize his thoughts and set him up for success. He's one of many successful people who say they wake up before the sun rises. The first thing many people do after they wake up in the morning is check their phones. Not Disney CEO Bob Iger, who revealed on Tuesday that not only does he get up at 4:15 a.m., he also avoids looking at his phone until after his morning exercise routine. Iger calls it his technology "firewall," and he said it helps him clear his head before he starts his day. "I create a firewall with technology, by the way, in that I try to exercise and think before I read," Iger said &nbsp;at a summit hosted by&nbsp; Vanity Fair &nbsp;on Tuesday. &nbsp;"Because if I read, it throws me off, it's distracting. I'm immediately thinking about usually someone else's thoughts instead of my own.&nbsp;I like being alone with my own thoughts, and it gives me an opportunity to not just replenish but to organize, and it's important." Iger said the "quiet time" he spends each morning when he's not on his phone sets him up for success throughout the day. "I think it's vital, in terms of the ability to run a pretty complicated company in a very, very fast-paced world, to have the energy but also to have spent the time to organize one's thoughts," he said. Iger is far from the first successful person to extol the virtues of waking up early. Everyone from Apple CEO Tim Cook to former first lady Michelle Obama and former Navy SEAL&nbsp;Jocko Willink have gone on record about their pre-5 a.m. morning routines . Recommended video Disney Sleep Read next Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know HOME Subscribe Legal &amp; Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Privacy Policy Accessibility Code of Ethics Policy Reprints &amp; Permissions Disclaimer Advertising Policies Conflict of Interest Policy Commerce Policy Coupons Privacy Policy Coupons Terms Your Privacy Choices Company About Us Careers Advertise With Us Contact Us News Tips Company News Awards Masthead Other Sitemap Stock quotes by finanzen.net Corrections International Editions AT DE ES JP PL TW Copyright &copy; 2025 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . Jump to Main content Search Account