# Meta Hypernova Ar Glasses Wristband.Html

**Source**: https://www.cnbc.com/2025/08/22/meta-hypernova-ar-glasses-wristband.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:15:59.916351+00:00

---

Meta unveil Hypernova smart glasses with display, wristband at Connect Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Cryptocurrency Futures &amp; Commodities Bonds Funds &amp; ETFs Business Economy Finance Health &amp; Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim&#x27;s Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown NEW! My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Stock Lists Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news &amp; videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech Meta to unveil Hypernova smart glasses with a display, wristband at Connect next month Published Fri, Aug 22 2025 4:29 PM EDT Updated Fri, Aug 22 2025 6:14 PM EDT Salvador Rodriguez @sal19 Lora Kolodny @in/lorakolodny/ Jonathan Vanian @in/jonathan-vanian-b704432/ WATCH LIVE Key Points Meta is set to launch two new smart glasses at its annual Connect developer conference in September. That includes its first consumer-ready glasses with a display and a wristband that will allow users to control the glasses with hand gestures, potentially paving the way to AR glasses. Codenamed Hypernova, the glasses will include a small display in its right lens, and will sell for about $800 in partnership with EssilorLuxottica. In this article META Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg makes a keynote speech at the Meta Connect annual event at the company&#x27;s headquarters in Menlo Park, Calif., on Sept. 25, 2024. Manuel Orbegozo | Reuters Meta is planning to use its annual Connect conference next month to announce a deeper push into smart glasses, including the launch of the company&#x27;s first consumer-ready glasses with a display, CNBC has learned. That&#x27;s one of the two new devices Meta is planning to unveil at the event, according to people familiar with the matter. The company will also launch its first wristband that will allow users to control the glasses with hand gestures, the people said. Connect is a two-day conference for developers focused on virtual reality, AR and the metaverse. It was originally called Oculus Connect and obtained its current moniker after Facebook changed its parent company name to Meta in 2021. The glasses are internally codenamed Hypernova and will include a small digital display in the right lens of the device, said the people, who asked not to be named because the details are confidential. The device is expected to cost about $800 and will be sold in partnership with EssilorLuxottica , the people said. CNBC reported in October that Meta was working with Luxottica on consumer glasses with a display. Meta declined to comment. Luxottica, which is based in France and Italy, didn&#x27;t respond to a request for comment. Meta began selling smart glasses with Luxottica in 2021 when the two companies released the first-generation Ray-Ban Stories , which allowed users to take photos or videos using simple voice commands. The partnership has since expanded, and last year included the addition of advanced AI features that made the second generation of the product an unexpected hit with early adopters. Luxottica owns a number of glasses brands, including Ray-Ban, and licenses many others like Prada. It&#x27;s unclear what brand Luxottica will use for the glasses with AR, but a Meta job listing posted this week said the company is looking for a technical program manager for its &quot;Wearables organization,&quot; which &quot;is responsible for the Ray-Ban AR glasses and other wearable hardware.&quot; In June, CNBC reported that Meta and Luxottica plan to release Prada-branded smart glasses. Prada glasses are known for having thick frames and arms, which could make them a suitable option for the Hypernova device, one of the people said. watch now VIDEO 2:57 02:57 Meta Connect 2024 kicks off The Exchange Last year, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg used Connect to showcase the company&#x27;s experimental Orion AR glasses. The Orion features AR capabilities on both lenses, capable of blending 3D digital visuals into the physical world, but the device served only as a prototype to show the public what could be possible with AR glasses. Still, Orion built some positive momentum for Meta, which since late 2020 has endured nearly $70 billion in losses from its Reality Labs unit that&#x27;s in charge of building hardware devices. With Hypernova, Meta will finally be offering glasses with a display to consumers, but the company is setting low expectations for sales, some of the sources said. That&#x27;s because the device requires more components than its voice-only predecessors, and will be slightly heavier and thicker, the people said. Meta and Ray-Ban have sold 2 million pairs of their second-generation glasses since 2023, Luxottica CEO Francesco Milleri said in February. In July, Luxottica said that revenue from sales of the smart glasses had more than tripled year over year. As part of an extension agreement between Meta and Luxottica announced in September, Meta obtained a stake of about 3% in the glasses company according to Bloomberg . Meta also gets exclusive rights to Luxottica&#x27;s brands for its smart glasses technology for a number of years, a person familiar with the matter told CNBC in June. Although Hypernova will feature a display, those visual features are expected to be limited, people familiar with the matter said. They said the color display will offer about a 20 degree field of view — meaning it will appear in a small window in a fixed position — and will be used primarily to relay simple bits of information, such as incoming text messages. Andrew Bosworth, Meta&#x27;s technology chief, said earlier this month that there are advantages to having just one display rather than two, including a lower price. &quot;Monocular displays have a lot going for them,&quot; Bosworth said in an Instagram video. &quot;They&#x27;re affordable, they&#x27;re lighter, and you don&#x27;t have disparity correction, so they&#x27;re structurally quite a bit easier.&quot; &#x27;Interact with an AI assistant&#x27; Other details of Meta&#x27;s forthcoming glasses were disclosed in a July letter from the U.S. Customs and Border Patrol to a lawyer representing Meta. While the letter redacted the name of the company and the product, a person with knowledge of the matter confirmed that it was in reference to Meta&#x27;s Hypernova glasses. &quot;This model will enable the user to take and share photos and videos, make phone calls and video calls, send and receive messages, listen to audio playback and interact with an AI assistant in different forms and methods, including voice, display, and manual interactions,&quot; according to the letter, dated July 23. The letter from CBP was part of routine communication between companies and the U.S. government when determining the country of origin for a consumer product. It refers to the product as &quot;New Smart Glasses,&quot; and says the device will feature &quot;a lens display function that allows the user to interface with visual content arising from the Smart Features, and components providing image data retrieval, processing, and rendering capabilities.&quot; CBP didn&#x27;t provide a comment for this story. The Hypernova glasses will also come paired with a wristband that will use technology built by Meta&#x27;s CTRL Labs, said people familiar with the matter. CTRL Labs, which Meta acquired in 2019, specializes in building neural technology that could allow users to control computing devices using gestures in their arms. The wristband is expected to be a key input component for the company&#x27;s future release of full AR glasses, so getting data now with Hypernova could improve future versions of the wristband, the people said. Instead of using camera sensors to track body movements, as with Apple&#x27;s Vision Pro headset, Meta&#x27;s wristband uses so-called sEMG sensor technology, which reads and interprets the electrical signals from hand movements. One of the challenges Meta has faced with the wristband involves how people choose to wear it, a person familiar with the product&#x27;s development said. If the device is too loose, it won&#x27;t be able to read the user&#x27;s electrical signals as intended, which could impact its performance, the person said. Also, the wristband has run into issues in testing related to which arm it&#x27;s worn on, how it works on men versus women and how it functions on people who wear long sleeves. The CTRL Labs team published a paper in Nature in July about its wristband, and Meta wrote about it in a blog post. In the paper, the Meta team detailed its use of machine learning technology to make the wristband work with as many people as possible. The additional data collected by the upcoming device should improve those capabilities for future Meta smart glasses. &quot;We successfully prototyped an sEMG wristband with Orion , our first pair of true augmented reality (AR) glasses, but that was just the beginning,&quot; Meta wrote in the post . &quot;Our teams have developed advanced machine learning models that are able to transform neural signals controlling muscles at the wrist into commands that drive people&#x27;s interactions with the glasses, el