# Trump Administration Achievements

**Source**: https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2019/12/2/20970521/trump-administration-achievements
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:40:07.152737+00:00

---

Trump’s policy record: environment, Wall Street regulation, and more | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo What Trump has actually done in his first 3 years Free speech needs fearless journalism Free speech is endangered; unbiased and trustworthy news is elusive. In a time of noise, confusion, and spin, we’re committed to clarity, truth, and depth — even when it’s hard. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join now Politics What Trump has actually done in his first 3 years A big tax cut, unprecedented environmental degradation, Wall Street unleashed, and a whole lot of judges. by Matthew Yglesias Dec 2, 2019, 2:00 PM UTC Share Gift Amanda Northrop/Vox The scandals, the leaks, the outrages, and the bizarre tweets of the last three years can distract from an important fact about President Donald Trump: He has changed policy in ways that affect the lives of millions of Americans. Some of the Trump agenda is standard for a Republican president. White-collar criminal prosecutions have hit a 33-year low. The Justice Department defends state laws that could kick thousands off the voting rolls . The National Labor Relations Board is now more sympathetic to employers than unions . And military spending is on track to reach the same levels as during the height of the Iraq War. But he&rsquo;s gone further. While the media, understandably, focuses on Trump&rsquo;s many scandals, his administration has quietly enacted a far more aggressive agenda than his Republican predecessors. Big boosts to fossil fuel production have come at the expense of an unprecedented deterioration in air quality. Tens of thousands of people have lost health insurance by administrative fiat, and millions are in the process of losing their nutritional assistance through the same mechanism. He&rsquo;s remade the judiciary, installing conservative judges at twice Obama&rsquo;s pace, and he&rsquo;s consolidated a conservative majority on the Supreme Court that may endure for decades. Tax changes were Trump&rsquo;s biggest legislative accomplishment, creating a huge windfall for wealthy shareholders and small gains for the middle class &mdash; with revenue losses much larger than initially forecast. He&rsquo;s also undertaken significant but little-noticed alternations in supervision of Wall Street that increase the riskiness of the banking system, plus drastic changes to immigration policy that go far beyond wall construction. The immigration changes align with Trump&rsquo;s main campaign themes, even if they don&rsquo;t line up in detail with what he promised. But much of this amounts to delivering for big business and the wealthy in a much more dramatic way than his &ldquo;populist&rdquo; positioning would indicate. Promises to voters to protect clean air, provide better health care, crack down on banks, and tax the rich have fallen entirely by the wayside. As 2020 approaches, Trump&rsquo;s achievements are a reminder that Trump and his team are doing real things that have real impacts on real lives. His successes explain why the conservative movement is solidly behind him, despite its considerable doubts from four years ago. Regardless of what Trump tweets or says or does during the election, it&rsquo;s worth remembering there&rsquo;s more to him than the Trump Show. More oil and gas production, less environmental regulation A major trend of Trump-era policymaking has been to roll back environmental regulation. This involves going through the process of promulgating new rules that are far more lax than those they replace. The New York Times has identified 53 separate rules that have completed the rollback process and 32 more that are still in the works. It&rsquo;s not unusual for Republican administrations to take a more skeptical view of environmental regulation , but the Trump administration really has been more uniformly aggressive on this front than its predecessors, as seen by criticism of the Trump Environmental Protection Agency by several of the agency&rsquo;s Reagan- and Bush-era chiefs. Several thousand demonstrators rallied on Central Park West near Trump International Hotel before marching on Broadway for New York City’s March for Science on April 22, 2017. Albin Lohr-Jones/Pacific Press/LightRocket via Getty Images This reflects the growing polarization of environmental policy issues, which used to be less strictly aligned with larger left-right policy disputes. But it also reflects one of the key themes of Trump-era policymaking in general: a tendency toward recklessness with regard to politics and public opinion obscured in part by the large volume of coverage dedicated to Trump scandals and Trump&rsquo;s personal behavior. As a candidate, Trump was vocally skeptical of climate change regulations but specifically vowed &ldquo;to promote clean air and water,&rdquo; which are overwhelmingly popular causes. But Trump has moved to roll back dozens of rules on these subjects without the changes ever becoming a focus of sustained public debate. Most of these rollbacks&rsquo; impacts will be felt primarily in the long term, but already, particulate pollution is getting worse, reversing years of progress . A team of researchers at Carnegie Mellon estimates that 9,700 more Americans died due to air pollution in 2018 than in 2016 , in part due to regulatory changes. But the Trump administration is moving to restrict the range of evidence used to demonstrate air pollution&rsquo;s harms , hoping to forestall the promulgation of new standards that would lead to stricter regulation. In tandem with the regulatory rollback, Trump&rsquo;s goal of boosting America&rsquo;s natural resource extraction industries has been largely successful. There is no broad-based revival of the coal industry, but employment in coal mining has stabilized and is rising slightly in a reversal of recent trends. American oil output has soared to the point where net imports of crude oil and petroleum products are at their lowest level in generations and the country is likely to become a net exporter in the near future. Natural gas output, meanwhile, has soared to record highs , continuing a rapid growth pattern that began during the Obama presidency. The reasons are more technological than regulatory, but policy has made a difference at the margins. Trump values boosting extractive industries over environmental protection, and energy production has increased substantially while the air gets dirtier and carbon dioxide emissions rise. Paring back the welfare state Trump speaks frequently, albeit somewhat vaguely, about his business deregulation activities. But there&rsquo;s a sphere of regulatory activism he speaks about much less: the paring back of the social safety net. Efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act failed in Congress, and while House Republicans briefly tried to mobilize around a program for cuts in a broad array of non-health safety net programs , their Senate colleagues weren&rsquo;t interested in taking it up. More recently, however, a more modest version of this agenda has been pursued through regulation. That starts with allowing states to impose work requirements on their Medicaid programs . Arkansas was the first state to take this step, and nearly 20,000 people lost insurance as a result before a federal district court judge put the waivers on hold . Kentucky also received a work requirements waiver, but Andy Bevin&rsquo;s election as governor means his state will reverse course. Despite the district court ruling against the administration, it is likely to prevail at the higher levels of a judicial system that is increasingly dominated by GOP appointees. Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and congressional Democrats conduct a rally on an Affordable Care Act case outside the Supreme Court on April 2, 2019. Tom Williams/CQ Roll Call Beyond the specifics of the Medicaid waiver fight, the uninsurance rate has risen steadily under Trump despite an improving labor market &mdash; seemingly because of the administration&rsquo;s lack of interest in vigorous implementation of the Affordable Care Act . He&rsquo;s also acted to re-legalize skimpy insurance plans that don&rsquo;t cover prescription drugs or maternity benefits. The Trump administration has also launched a three-pronged rulemaking effort to limit federal spending on the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). That started with tougher work requirements that could cost 755,000 people their benefits and was followed up by rule changes that would make about 3 million beneficiaries of a different anti-poverty program ineligible for SNAP . Most recently, the administration proposed some technical changes to how utility costs are calculated that will generate slightly higher benefits for 13 percent of SNAP recipients and larger benefit cuts to about 16 percent of SNAP recipients. The scale of these changes is tiny compared to the massive cuts to the safety net once envisioned by former House Speaker Paul Ryan (to say nothing of Ryan&rsquo;s vision of cutting federal spending on the elderly), but the impact on the lives of several million people is substantial &mdash; and striking in light of the fact that reducing federal spending or narrowing the deficit don&rsquo;t appear to be goals the administration is seriously pursuing. Trump reshaped the tax code The Trump administration has only one really big legislative accomplishment to its name, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 , which initiated a range of changes in both indi