# Silence Of The Lambs At 25 The Complete Buffalo Bill Story 20160214

**Source**: http://www.rollingstone.com/movies/news/silence-of-the-lambs-at-25-the-complete-buffalo-bill-story-20160214
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:54:04.439794+00:00

---

&#039;Silence of the Lambs&#039;: The Complete Buffalo Bill Story &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo TV &amp; Movies &#8216;Silence of the Lambs&#8217;: The Complete Buffalo Bill Story Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In TV &amp; Movies &#8216;Silence of the Lambs&#8217;: The Complete Buffalo Bill Story From the glitter rocker who inspired killer character Jame Gumb to the original song he was supposed to dance naked to By Kory Grow Kory Grow Contact Kory Grow on X Emmys 2025 In Memoriam Honors Ozzy Osbourne, George Wendt, Malcolm-Jamal Warner System of a Down&#8217;s Daron Malakian on the Power of Ozzfest: &#8216;It Was Such a Big Push&#8217; Ozzy and Me: How I Got to Know the Real Ozzy Osbourne View all posts by Kory Grow February 12, 2021 'Silence of the Lambs' actors Ted Levine and Brooke Smith reflect on how they made a murderer Photofest Y ou never know what&#8217;s going to happen with an audition,&#8221; actor Ted Levine remembers of the first time he portrayed Jame Gumb, The Silence of the Lambs &nbsp;villain also known as &#8220;Buffalo Bill.&#8221; &#8220;I just pulled something out. It was scary. It felt kind of magical.&#8221; &#8220;I read with the three final guys who were going to be Buffalo Bill,&#8221; says Brooke Smith, who played Catherine Martin, the U.S. senator&#8217;s daughter whom Gumb abducts in the movie. &#8220;When Ted walked in, it was so crazily obvious. I asked him, &#8216;What the hell did you do in that audition? You were so amazing.&#8217; He was like, &#8216;Well, you know, I wasn&#8217;t sure what I was gonna do, so I just drank a lot of coffee.&#8217; He was amazing.&#8221; Three decades have passed since the film first graced silver screens on Valentine&#8217;s Day in 1991. While critics and film buffs have rightly parsed every eerie eye twitch Anthony Hopkins made in his Oscar-winning portrayal of the nefarious, cannibalistic Dr. Hannibal Lecter, the behind-the-scenes story of Levine&#8217;s harrowing, intimidating interpretation of the puzzling murderer Gumb who struts naked, plies Martin with lotion and raises moths (and &#8220;skins his humps,&#8221; to use the grisly description of the way he kills given by Jodie Foster &#8216;s Special Agent Clarice Starling) remains largely untold. Without minimizing the brutality of the character &ndash; director Jonathan Demme was insistent on honoring real-life victims &ndash; Levine and Smith both have fond memories of making the movie, which went on to win Best Picture at the Academy Awards the following year, as well as several Criterion Editions&#8217; worth of fascinating revelations about how they filmed their scenes, how the movie&#8217;s success affected their careers and what they mean to them now. &#8220;I read the script, and the script was great,&#8221; Levine recalls of why he wanted the role. &#8220;I read the book, and the book was better. I re-read the script, and realized it was pretty damn good. I met Jonathan and everything fell into place.&#8221; I n his 1988 book,&nbsp; The Silence of the Lambs &ndash; which revolved around his Red Dragon character Hannibal Lecter, who coyly assists Starling in finding Gumb, a man whose identity he knows &ndash; author Thomas Harris introduces Gumb with a police-like description: &#8220;white male, 34, six feet one inch, 205 pounds, brown and blue, no distinguishing marks.&#8221; He had a deep voice, thinning hair and budding breasts, the latter due to hormones. The naturally baritone Levine, who would later play Captain Stottlemeyer on Monk and appear in American Gangster and Shutter Island , was 33 at the time the film came out and, as his camcorder scene revealed, a bit leaner than Harris&#8217; description. As for why he wanted the role, the actor explains,&nbsp;&#8220;I figured I could do a good job because I was pretty fearless in those days.&#8221; He would soon test his mettle when he began studying up for the role. Editor’s picks The 250 Greatest Albums of the 21st Century So Far The 100 Best TV Episodes of All Time The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century Although Harris, who has not given an interview since 1976 and politely declined to speak with Rolling Stone , has never officially identified Gumb&#8217;s inspirations, the character is an amalgam of sorts of several different serial killers. FBI Special Agent John Douglas revealed in the movie&#8217;s extras that Gumb&#8217;s first scene was inspired in part by Ted Bundy, who also wore a fake cast and would ask potential victims for help, only to clunk them on the heads when they got to his car. Gumb&#8217;s penchant for skinning his victims with the intention of crafting a &#8220;woman suit&#8221; potentially came from Ed Gein, who killed two women and exhumed bodies for the same purpose, also inspired Texas Chain Saw Massacre&#8217;s Leatherface and Psycho&#8217;s Norman Bates. The way Gumb kept his victims in a pit in his basement came from Gary Heidnik, who killed two of the six women he kidnapped in the mid-Eighties. &#8216;Silence of the Lambs&#8217;: The Complete Buffalo Bill Story , Page 1 of 8 Page 2 Sign Up In this article: Anthony Hopkins, Jodie Foster, Jonathan Demme, The Silence of the Lambs TV &amp; Movies TV &amp; Movies News More News Jane Goodall Talks Life, Death, Putting Trump on a Spaceship in 'Famous Last Words' Interview Final Statement By Jon Blistein Who Wants to See Cillian Murphy Have a Nervous Breakdown? Movie Review By David Fear How Did a Documentary on George Orwell Become the Scariest Movie of 2025? Movie Review By David Fear Bill Burr Defends Riyadh Comedy Fest Performance, Details ‘Mind-Blowing’ Experience ‘Just Like Us’ By Charisma Madarang ‘Hero for the Planet’: Leonardo DiCaprio Writes Tribute to ‘Dear Friend’ Jane Goodall ‘Carry the Torch’ By Charisma Madarang Read more A Peek Behind the Curtain: Inside Taylor Swift's Glitzy 'Official Release Party of a Showgirl' Release Party 37 minutes ago Abbey Road Music Photography Awards Unveil 2025 Winners Best Moments 40 minutes ago Trent Reznor And Atticus Ross’ Future Ruins Fest Cancelled Over 'Logistical Challenges' Called Off 1 hour ago Sean Combs Sentenced to Over 4 Years in Prison Diddy Trial 4 hours ago Top stories newsletter A Cultural Force That Transcends Generations Enter your Email By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Go to PMC.com Most Popular J.K. Rowling Slams &#039;Ignorant&#039; Emma Watson as Their Rift Intensifies; Author Claims Watson Once Wrote Her a Note Expressing Sympathy Over Anti-Trans Backlash Bill Burr Defends Performing at Controversial Riyadh Comedy Festival: &quot;They&#039;re Just Like Us&quot; Insider Claims Nicole Kidman &amp; Keith Urban&#039;s Separation Is &#039;One-Sided&#039; Federal Judge Denies Motion to Dismiss by Kasseem ‘Swizz Beatz’ Dean in 1MDB Scandal Case You might also like ‘Taylor Swift: The Official Release Party of a Showgirl’ Review: Taylor Swift Introduces the 12 Tracks From ‘The Life of a Showgirl.’ But Only One of Them Is Great 3 hours ago 19 Breast Cancer Products That Are Helpful for Patients &amp; Survivors 3 hours ago ‘Anemone,’ ‘After the Hunt’ Shake Up New York Film Festival as ‘One Battle’ Heads Into Second Weekend — Screen Talk 36 minutes ago NFL on Record Pace as TV/Streaming Windows Grow 8% to 20M Viewers 2 minutes ago Rolling Stone Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture Staff Contact Advertise Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Use AdChoices PMC Entertainment California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Accessibility Policy on Anonymous Sources Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Newsletter Signup Enter Your Email Subscribe Got a Hot News Tip? We want to hear it. Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Rolling Stone is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 Rolling Stone, LLC. All rights reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Log In Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Music News Features Lists Album Reviews Live Reviews Artists You Need To Know Songs You Need To Know RS Country RS Latin Politics News Features Lists TV &amp; Movies News Features Lists Recaps Reviews Video &amp; Photos Photos Videos The Cover Musicians on Musicians RS LIVE Culture News Features Lists Creators RS Gaming RS Films RS Recommends Reviews RS Essentials RS Audio Awards Gift Guides Culture Council Subscription Icon Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Alerts &amp; Newsletters Email Address By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. ad