# Coreweave Secures 7 5 Billion Debt Financing Facility Led By Blackstone And Magnetar

**Source**: https://www.blackstone.com/news/press/coreweave-secures-7-5-billion-debt-financing-facility-led-by-blackstone-and-magnetar/?ref=wheresyoured.at
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:18:48.163781+00:00

---

CoreWeave Secures $7.5 Billion Debt Financing Facility led by Blackstone and Magnetar - Blackstone Skip to main content Blackstone Expand Navigation The Firm The Firm Overview Our People Careers Our Clients Institutional Investors Financial Advisors Family Offices Insurance Our Impact Building Sustainable Businesses Blackstone Career Pathways Blackstone Charitable Foundation Blackstone LaunchPad What We Do Businesses Private Equity Real Estate Credit &#038; Insurance Blackstone Multi-Asset Investing Strategic Partners Tactical Opportunities Infrastructure Life Sciences Growth Energy Transition Partners Transformation Technology &#038; Innovations Blackstone Operating Team Products Blackstone Real Estate Income Trust (BREIT) Blackstone Private Credit Fund (BCRED) Blackstone Private Multi-Asset Credit and Income Fund (BMACX) View All News &#038; Insights News View All Press Releases In the News Insights View All Market Views Pattern Recognition Essentials of Private Markets Overview Private Equity Private Credit Private Real Estate Private Infrastructure Infrastructure of the Future We spot trends early and invest at scale behind them. Learn More Financial Advisors Private Wealth at Blackstone Overview Blackstone University Overview Essentials of Private Markets Accessing Private Markets Allocating to Private Assets Insights Events Continuing Education Products Blackstone Real Estate Income Trust (BREIT) Blackstone Private Credit Fund (BCRED) Blackstone Private Multi-Asset Credit and Income Fund (BMACX) View All Shareholders LP Login CoreWeave Secures $7.5 Billion Debt Financing Facility led by Blackstone and Magnetar May 17, 2024 May 17, 2024 Reinforces CoreWeave’s market position as the AI hyperscale Builds on CoreWeave’s significant momentum, evidenced by over $12 billion raised from equity and debt investors over the last 12 months Historic financing builds on the Company’s recently announced $1.1 billion Series C and $2.3 billion debt raise in 2023 Investment represents one of the largest private financings in history New funding will be used to support the market’s unprecedented demand for CoreWeave’s specialized AI cloud infrastructure ROSELAND, N.J. – CoreWeave , the AI hyperscaler, today announced it has signed a definitive agreement for a $7.5 billion debt financing facility led by funds managed by Blackstone (“Blackstone”), with strategic participation from Magnetar (Co-Lead Investor) and Coatue. Participation in the financing also included Carlyle, CDPQ, DigitalBridge Credit, funds and accounts managed by BlackRock, Eldridge Industries, and Great Elm Capital Corp. The new financing will be used to further develop CoreWeave’s growing fleet of high-performance compute to execute existing contracts with leading enterprise customers and AI innovators. Today’s announcement builds on CoreWeave’s exponential momentum and growth, evidenced by over $12 billion raised from equity and debt investors over the last 12 months. This includes a landmark $1.1 billion Series C in May 2024 led by Coatue, and a $2.3 billion debt financing facility led by Blackstone and Magnetar in August 2023. The Company also recently announced its new European headquarters in London &#8211; alongside a commitment to invest $1.25 billion in the region. In 2023, CoreWeave more than quadrupled its data center presence from three to 14, and it anticipates doubling its data center footprint to 28 globally by the end of 2024. “CoreWeave is building the infrastructure to power the AI innovations that are already changing how businesses operate in the global economy,” said Michael Intrator, CoreWeave CEO and co-founder. “The caliber of investors in this large debt financing round is a powerful testament to both the insatiable market appetite for AI infrastructure and their belief in CoreWeave’s ability to deliver cutting edge innovation for the largest AI labs and innovators at scale. And we are really just getting started &#8211; our ambitions are to help reshape the cloud landscape, accelerate the AI race, and power the next generation of AI innovation that is changing the course of history.” “We are thrilled to expand our existing partnership with CoreWeave and strengthen its market leadership in providing the specialized GPU cloud infrastructure required to support today’s explosive growth in AI,” said Jasvinder Khaira, a Senior Managing Director, and John Watson, a Managing Director, at Blackstone. “AI and digital infrastructure are among our highest conviction themes at Blackstone and we are excited to leverage our global platform and flexible capital to support management as it rapidly deploys AI infrastructure at enormous scale.” “We are excited to lead one of the largest private credit financings in history. CoreWeave has established itself as a leading provider of critical infrastructure to support the AI revolution and we’re looking forward to partnering with the company on its growth journey,” added Brad Marshall, Global Head of Private Credit Strategies at Blackstone. “As the first institutional investor in CoreWeave, we have witnessed firsthand their remarkable evolution from a small startup to a go-to-market leader in advanced AI computing solutions,” said David Snyderman, Chief Investment Officer and Managing Partner at Magnetar. “Given their already substantial and expanding AI infrastructure capabilities, coupled with enhanced institutional backing, CoreWeave is exceptionally well-positioned to deliver high performance compute.” The next era of computing will be driven by AI workloads that put tremendous demand on computational resources. CoreWeave is uniquely positioned to fill a void in the cloud market by delivering the high-power infrastructure that these market-leading AI products require. Trusted by top AI labs and enterprises, CoreWeave Cloud uses software and automation to deliver an efficient and performant infrastructure tailored to meet the specific needs of AI engineers and innovators. About CoreWeave CoreWeave is the AI hyperscaler, designed to power the most complex workloads with customized solutions at scale. The company&#8217;s portfolio of cutting-edge technology delivers a broad range of capabilities for machine learning and AI, graphics and rendering, life sciences, real-time streaming, and more. Its world-class teams, talent, and engineering prowess bring unmatched speed-to-market for advanced compute. CoreWeave operates a growing footprint of data centers covering every region of the US. It was founded in 2017 and is based in New Jersey. Learn more at www.coreweave.com . Contact Brittany Stone [email&#160;protected] Quick Links The Firm Our People Insights Careers Social LinkedIn Instagram X (Twitter) Facebook Get in Touch Contact Us Our Offices Limited Partner Login Transparency &amp; Disclosure Legal Privacy Center Japan Disclaimer Phishing and Fraud Awareness Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information &copy; 2025 Blackstone Inc. Welcome to Blackstone Portions of this site are directed only to persons in certain jurisdictions. By selecting the relevant option, you certify that it accurately reflects your residency. I am not a United States Resident I am a United States Resident Footnote Title Footnote Title Footnote Title Footnote Title Footnote Title Footnote Title Footnote Title Footnote Title Footnote Title Footnote Title Footnote Title “Institutional quality” refers to BREIT’s real estate portfolio and not the terms of the offering. Individual investors should be aware that institutional investors generally have different criteria when making investment decisions. Contact Us For office-specific contact information, please visit our offices page . Switchboard: +1 (212) 583-5000 Media Contacts For press inquiries, contact&nbsp; [email&#160;protected] . To view recent press releases,&nbsp; click here . Stay up-to-date To receive email alerts from Blackstone, sign up below. Email Address * First Name * Last Name * Company Job Title Market Commentary &amp; Insights Press Releases &amp; Firm Updates Blackstone Pattern Recognition By submitting this request, you consent to receive email from Blackstone. For information on our privacy practices see our Privacy Policy . Submit Connect with our dedicated team Our dedicated team works directly with private wealth managers, family offices and financial advisors to help their clients access alternative solutions. Individual Investors Please contact your financial advisor to learn more. Financial Professional Inquiries [email&#160;protected] +1 (212) 583-5200 Visit our dedicated site for financial advisors: http://www.blackstone.com/privatewealth お問い合わせ 当社グループの特定の拠点にお問い合わせを希望される場合は、 「当社の拠点」（英語サイト） をご参照ください。 報道関係者お問い合わせ先 [email&#160;protected] 最新のプレス・リリースは こちら （英語サイト）をご確認ください。