# Goldman Sachs Board Starting To Reevaluate Ceo David Solomon

**Source**: https://nypost.com/2023/06/15/goldman-sachs-board-starting-to-reevaluate-ceo-david-solomon/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:32:52.563910+00:00

---

Exclusive | Goldman Sachs board 'starting to reevaluate' David Solomon Primary Menu Sections US News Metro Long Island Politics World News Page Six Sports NFL MLB Olympics NBA NHL College Football College Basketball WNBA Post Sports+ Sports Betting Business Personal Finance Opinion Entertainment TV Movies Music Celebrities Awards Theater Shopping Lifestyle Weird But True Sex &amp; Relationships Viral Trends Human Interest Parenting Fashion &amp; Beauty Food &amp; Drink Travel Health Wellness Fitness Health Care Medicine Men&#8217;s Health Women&#8217;s Health Mental Health Nutrition Real Estate Alexa Media Tech Science Space Environment Wildlife Archaeology Astrology Video Photos Pod Force One NY POSTcast Today&#8217;s Paper Covers Columnists Horoscopes Crosswords &amp; Games Sports Odds Podcasts Careers Email Newsletters Official Store Home Delivery Tips Search Email New York Post Search Search Recommended Skip to main content Business exclusive on the money Goldman Sachs board &#8216;starting to reevaluate&#8217; David Solomon over talent exodus By Lydia Moynihan Published June 15, 2023 Updated June 15, 2023, 6:14 p.m. ET Explore More Trump&#8217;s TikTok deal still worries GOP China hawks — but here&#8217;s why they&#8217;ll go along Here&#8217;s where Bob Iger&#8217;s Jimmy Kimmel standoff with Nexstar, Sinclair is headed — and why nobody is joking Nexstar facing opposition from conservatives over $6.2B merger despite sidelining Jimmy Kimmel It’s no secret that Goldman Sachs CEO David Solomon isn’t winning popularity contests with the rank and file &#8212; but lately the ambivalence has begun to infect the Wall Street giant’s board of directors, sources told On The Money. Since Solomon took the helm in 2018, Goldman partners have griped over their skimpy bonuses, his costly, botched venture into consumer banking and his side hustle as a DJ .&nbsp; But another major issue is a high-handed management style that some claim is changing the bank’s culture for the worse. While Goldman’s stock has soared more than 50% on Solomon’s watch, some insiders fret that a slew of high-level executive departures have clouded the outlook for the iconic investment bank &#8212; and make its 61-year-old CEO vulnerable to getting the boot if business takes a bad turn. “The board is starting to re-evaluate. David may have a problem with the board room. No one wants to see someone is at war with their senior execs,” one Goldman insider told On The Money. “You can ignore the bad coverage for a month or two, but the board no longer has plausible deniability about what’s going on.” 3 Goldman partners have griped over their skimpy bonuses, David Solomon&#8217;s costly, botched venture into consumer banking, and his side hustle as a DJ.&nbsp; Paola Morrongiello/NYPost At issue: Goldman Sachs historically has been run by homegrown financiers who have spent most if not all of their careers at the firm. His predecessor Lloyd Blankfein joined Goldman-owned J. Aron &amp; Co. in his late 20s &#8212; around the same age Blankfein’s predecessor Hank Paulson joined. By contrast, Solomon cut his teeth at Drexel Burnham Lambert and then Bear Stearns before joining Goldman in his late 30s. See Also Lloyd Blankfein reportedly blasts Goldman Sachs CEO David Solomon over DJ gig Critics claim he never understood the culture of camaraderie and collegiality at Goldman.&nbsp;&nbsp; “He’s turned Goldman Sachs into Bear Stearns. He doesn’t understand the culture of partnership and teamwork and loyalty,” one source said. “He doesn’t understand the difference between a dictatorship and a partnership.” Another source echoed the gripe, claiming that Solomon lacks the affability, gentility and approachable manner of his predecessor. “I could always go up to Lloyd and say exactly what I thought and he’d listen,” one source said. “David just does what he wants.”&nbsp; Goldman’s board, meanwhile, jets to India later this month for its annual international meeting as chatter grows over Solomon’s lifestyle — his DJing, his use of the corporate jet, and his frequent trips to the Bahamas . One major problem with ousting Solomon: The bench of potential successors isn’t deep, with many having left over the last few years. Those include Omer Ismail, Katie Koch, Harvey Schwartz, Gregg Lemkau, Eric Lane, Stephen Scherr, and most recently Dina Powell . As reported by On The Money, Stephanie Cohen, once seen as a possible successor to Solomon as the bank’s first female CEO, is also rumored to have left the bank permanently although Goldman has told employees she is on temporary “leave.” 3 Solomon lacks the approachable manner of his predecessor Lloyd Blankfein, a source said. AFP via Getty Images 3 David Solomon during an event attended by Prime Minister Rishi Sunak at the Business Roundtable in Washington, DC, on June 8. Getty Images While some sources suggest John Waldron, the bank’s president and operating chief, is likely the next CEO, others say he is seen as too close to Solomon. According to multiple insiders, Dan Dees, co-head of global banking &amp; markets, may be the best internal candidate. Never Miss a Story Sign up to get the best stories straight to your inbox. Thanks for signing up! Enter your email address Please provide a valid email. By clicking above you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Never miss a story. Check out more newsletters Dees is “beloved,” internally a source adds. Global Head of Asset &amp; Wealth Management Marc Nachmann and Global Co-Head of the Investment Banking Division James Esposito are seen as less likely to nab the top job.&nbsp; Earlier this week, The Wall Street Journal reported a “civil war” is raging inside the bank . Some insiders noted the piece included only one positive, on-the-record comment from a current Goldman employee.&nbsp; &#8220;When you do send him a note, he is very responsive and back to you very quickly,” Ericka Leslie, co-chair of Goldman&#8217;s partnership committee and chief administrative officers, told the paper. To be sure, some Goldman insiders believe tales of Solomon’s demise are exaggerated and say it is just a disagreement of style over substance. Wells Fargo bank analyst Mike Mayo said Solomon deserves credit for Goldman’s stock rally.&nbsp; Still, Mayo adds that it’s “not clear David Solomon has done as good of a job schmoozing internally as externally with his clients.” Dick Bove, Odeon Capital Group as their Chief Financial Strategist., adds that Solomon’s efforts to branch into new businesses “made sense,” but as the market for big mergers and IPOs fell apart last year, “he became a target.” “Executives at other banks running into the same problems will be forgiven,” Bove said. “If you have the right personality you can ride through anything. But he has ruffled feathers and personnel mistakes could cost him his job.”&nbsp;&nbsp; Filed under banks board ceos David Solomon goldman sachs on the money wall street 6/15/23 Read Next Top Goldman exec&#039;s ‘leave’ may be permanent: sources Columnists Jennifer Gould NYC to welcome Beverly Hills hotspot Croft Alley beloved by DiCaprio, Kendall Jenner Lydia Moynihan These founders want to create a private sector DOGE Steve Cuozzo New York City cutthroat office real estate market thriving See All Columnists Trending Now in Business This story has been shared 3,795 times. 3,795 Jeff Bezos makes wild prediction about data centers as energy demand grows This story has been shared 2,829 times. 2,829 Cracker Barrel ends partnership with consulting firm behind logo change This story has been shared 2,079 times. 2,079 Disney succession race to replace CEO Bob Iger now down to two final candidates: report Now on Page Six Amal Clooney exudes Old Hollywood glamour with George at Albie Awards The 2025 Albie Awards: George and Amal Clooney, Meryl Streep and Shailene Woodley, plus more Sean ‘Diddy’ Combs sentenced to 4 years in prison in federal prostitution trial See All Video Shutdown Shakedown: Dems hold DC hostage | Red Hot Takes Goldman partners have griped over their skimpy bonuses, David Solomon's costly, botched venture into consumer banking, and his side hustle as a DJ. Paola Morrongiello/NYPost Solomon lacks the approachable manner of his predecessor Lloyd Blankfein, a source said. AFP via Getty Images David Solomon during an event attended by Prime Minister Rishi Sunak at the Business Roundtable in Washington, DC, on June 8. Getty Images You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement More Stories Page Six Keith Urban not-so secretly hated Nicole Kidman’s &#039;Babygirl&#039; movie: sources NYPost Sean &#039;Diddy&#039; Combs sentenced to only 4 years in prison after salacious trial exposed mogul&#039;s reign of terror Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Email YouTube TikTok Snapchat Sections &amp; Features US News Metro World News Sports Sports Betting Business Opinion Entertainment Fashion &amp; Beauty Shopping Lifestyle Real Estate Media Tech Science Health Travel Astrology Video Photos Alexa Covers Horoscopes Sports Odds Podcasts Crosswords &amp; Games Columnists Classifieds Post Sports+ Subscribe Articles Manage Newsletters &amp; Feeds Email Newsletters RSS Feeds NY Post Official Store Home Delivery Subscribe Manage Subscription Delivery Help Help/Support About New York Post Editorial Standards Customer Service Apps Help Community Guidelines Contact Us Tips Newsroom Letters to the Editor Licensing &amp; Reprints Careers Vulnerability Disclosure Program Apps iPhone App iPad App Android Phone Android Tablet Advertise Media Kit Contact &copy; 2025 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved Terms of Use Subscription Terms Privacy Notice Sitemap Your California Privacy Rights Do Not Sell My Personal Information