# Fall Asleep Fast

**Source**: https://www.artofmanliness.com/2018/03/21/fall-asleep-fast/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:52:12.964794+00:00

---

Fall Asleep Fast — In 2 Minutes or Less | Art of Manliness Fall Asleep Fast — In 2 Minutes or Less | Art of Manliness Menu random podcast Get Style Clothing Accessories Facial Hair Ties Get Strong Fitness Health Program Review Get Social Family Fatherhood Relationships Social Skills Get Skilled How To Manly Know-How Outdoor/Survival Podcast Books Random Find more of the Art of Manliness: Instagram Feedly Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Clothing Accessories Facial Hair Ties A Man’s Guide to the Rugby Shirt 5 Ways to Wear an OCBD With Style Men Don&#8217;t Dress Like Boys How to Wear a White T-Shirt With Style The Dos and Don&#8217;ts of Applying Cologne Did Commandos Go Commando? A Man&#8217;s Guide to Fragrance: How to Choose and Wear Cologne My Go-To Sunglasses for Summer How to Trim Your Eyebrows Your No-Nonsense Guide to Choosing the Right Beard Style How to Grow a Beard: The One and True Guide Beard Oil FAQs: Answering All Your Pressing Beardly Questions Skill of the Week: Tie a Full Windsor Necktie Knot How to Tie a Tie Skill of the Week: Put a Dimple in Your Tie Skill of the Week: Tie a Scarf 5 Different Ways Browse all Get Style Fitness Health Program Review What My Workout Has Looked Like Lately Podcast #1,086: Build Muscle Without the B.S. — A Straightforward Guide to Size and Strength How to Turn Treading Water Into a Legit Workout Skill of the Week: Effectively Traverse the Monkey Bars Skill of the Week: Tape a Sprained Ankle Podcast #1,084: Overdiagnosed — How Our Obsession with Medical Testing and Labels Is Making Us Sicker A Man’s Guide to Blood Pressure: What It Is, Why It Matters, and How to Keep It in Check Podcast #1,076: The Microbiome Master Key — How 100 Trillion Bacteria Influence Your Weight, Mood, and All-Around Health The Insanely Difficult Standards of History&#8217;s Hardest P.E. Program Which Fitness Program Is Right for You? A Review of the MovNat Workshop Strengthen Your Tribe: A Report on the Atomic Athlete Vanguard Browse all Get Strong Family Fatherhood Relationships Social Skills A Back-to-School Game Plan for Dads Podcast #1,056: The 80/80 Marriage — A New Model for a Happier, Stronger Relationship Podcast #1,039: What&#8217;s Behind the Rise of Parent-Child Estrangement? Take the D Word Off the Table Podcast #1,085: The Preparation — An Adventure-Driven, Skill-Building Alternative to College for Young Men Podcast #1,072: Men Don&#8217;t Run in the Rain — And 7 Other Essential Lessons for Being a Man The Dad Instinct: How Fathers Prepare Kids for the Wider World The 4 Parenting Styles (And Which One Is Best) The Yearly Marriage Checkup Podcast #1,068: Building Tribe — How to Create and Sustain Communities of Men Podcast #1,060: No, There Isn&#8217;t a Loneliness Epidemic (And That May Be an Even Bigger Problem) Podcast #1,058: The Science of Porn: Myths, Facts, and Overlooked Issues Podcast #1,087: Why You Need the Good Stress of Socializing Podcast #1,070: How to Have the Manners and Charm of a Proper English Gentleman How to Flirt Like It&#8217;s 1995 Podcast #1,052: Stop Saying Um (And Fix the Other Vocal Tics That Are Sabotaging Your Speaking) Browse all Get Social How To Manly Know-How Outdoor/Survival How to Crack a Whip Skill of the Week: Sharpen a Pocket Knife How to Drive a Tank How to Do a Brush Pass Like a Cold War Spy Skill of the Week: Heel-And-Toe Shift Skill of the Week: Make a Rope Swing (And Fly Like Tarzan) Skill of the Week: Jump From a Height Into Water How to Use a Multimeter Skill of the Week: Cross a Piranha-Infested River Skill of the Week: Fire a Flare Gun Skill of the Week: Open a Coconut (With or Without Tools) Podcast #1,078: From Plane Crashes to Terrorist Attacks — Who Survives, and Why Browse all Get Skilled in: Health , Health &amp; Fitness Brett and Kate McKay &bull; March 6, 2020 &bull; Last updated: June 29, 2023 How to Fall Asleep in 2 Minutes or Less With our archives now 3,500+ articles deep, we’ve decided to republish a classic piece each Friday to help our newer readers discover some of the best, evergreen gems from the past. This article was originally published in March 2018. Have you ever unexpectedly found yourself with a snatch of time in which to steal a nap? You tried to settle into the chair or nook in which you found yourself, closed your eyes, and then . . . you just sat there, drowsy but awake. Despite feeling quite tired, you couldn&#8217;t fall asleep, and soon the time was up before you had gotten in so much as a wink. Talk about frustrating! Not only did you not get to nap, you didn&#8217;t do anything else either; if you weren&#8217;t going to fall asleep, you could have done something productive instead! It&#8217;s quite a knack to be able to fall asleep at the drop of a hat, regardless of where you are and what’s going on around you. To steal some shuteye at airports and on flights, on break times and car rides, in public places and private spaces &#8212; in all the interstices of life. Not to mention how grand it is to be able to go out like a light as soon as your head hits the pillow each night. It probably seems, however, that this is simply a knack that some folks have and others don&#8217;t, with the latter group being much larger than the former. Yet the ability to fall asleep in two minutes or less, anywhere, anytime, is actually a skill like any other, and one anyone can learn. The technique for how to do so was in fact developed for Naval aviators during World War II, and today we’ll share it with you. How to Fall Asleep in 2 Minutes or Less A couple years into WWII, the U.S. military realized it had a problem on its hands. Due to the enormous pressures of aerial combat, many of its pilots were accumulating levels of stress so debilitating that they were cracking under it. The tension caused them to lock up in flight and make fatal mistakes &#8212; accidentally shooting down friendly planes, or becoming an avoidable casualty themselves. In an effort to stem the loss of pilots and planes, the military brought in Naval Ensign Bud Winter to research, develop, and test a scientific method for teaching relaxation. Before the war, Winter had been a college football and track coach, who had also worked with a professor of psychology on techniques to help athletes relax and perform better under the stress of competition. Stationed at the Del Monte Naval Pre-Flight School in California, his mission now was to coordinate with other coaches and professors to create a course that would similarly instruct cadets on how to stay calm and loose under the pressures of combat. The end goal of the program was to teach the Naval aviators how to relax, so that they could learn more quickly, speed up their reaction time, sharpen their focus, and diminish their fear. The course also aimed to teach &#8220;combat aviators to be able to go to sleep in two minutes any time, day or night, under any and all conditions&#8221;; instruction in this skill was included to ensure that pilots got adequate sleep, and could sneak in extra shuteye whenever possible. To accomplish the first goal, Winter taught the men how to physically relax. To accomplish the second, he taught them how to mentally relax. In fact, he essentially defined sleep as the state of being both physically and mentally relaxed. To fall asleep at the drop of a hat, first you work on the former, and then the latter. How to Physically Relax In Relax and Win , the book Winter wrote about the program he developed for combat aviators and then used with athletes after the war, he lays out the exact instructions he gave to cadets to teach them how to relax their bodies; here we give them slightly condensed: “Sit back in your chairs and put your feet flat on the deck. Knees apart, your hands limp on the inside of your lap. Now, close your eyes and drop your chin until it rests on your chest. Let&#8217;s breathe slowly, deeply, and regularly. Take all the wrinkles out of your forehead. Relax your scalp. Just let go. Now let your jaw sag-g-g. Let it drop open. Now relax the rest of your face muscles. Get the brook trout look on your face. Even relax your tongue and lips. Just let them go loose. Breathe slowly. Now, let&#8217;s go after the eight muscles that control your eyes. Let them go limp in their sockets. No focus, just let them go limp. Breathe slowly. Now drop your shoulders as low as they will go. You think that they are low, but let them go more.&nbsp; Did you feel the muscles in the back of your neck go limp? When you think you are really relaxed, let them go even more. Now, let&#8217;s relax your chest. Take a deep breath. Hold it. Exhale and blow out all your tensions. Just let your chest collapse. Let it sag-g-g. Imagine you are a big, heavy blob on the chair, a jellyfish. Breathe slowly. When you exhale, release more and more of your tensions. Let&#8217;s go after your arms. Talk directly to your arm muscles. First, talk to your right bicep. Tell it to relax, go limp. Do the same to your right forearm. Now to the right hand and fingers. Your arm should feel like a dead weight on your leg. Repeat the relaxation process with your left arm. Breathe slowly. Your entire upper body has been exposed to relaxation and a warm, pleasant feeling comes over you. You feel good. A sense of well-being invades your body. Now for your lower body. Talk to your right thigh muscles. Let them go to a dead weight on the chair. Let the meat hang on the bones. Go through the same routine for the right calf muscles. Then all the muscles of your right ankle and foot. Tell yourself that your right leg has no bones in it. It is just a flabby, heavy weight on the deck. Repeat the process with your left thigh, calf, ankle, and foot. At present you are all relaxed physically, or think you are. For a little insurance, let&#8217;s take three deep breaths and when you let them out, blow out all the remaining tensions, one . . . whoosh, two . . . whoosh, three . . . whoosh