# Have You Heard The Good News About Cornstarch Eggs 1835699803

**Source**: https://skillet.lifehacker.com/have-you-heard-the-good-news-about-cornstarch-eggs-1835699803
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:56:49.454275+00:00

---

To Make Perfect Scrambled Eggs, Add Cornstarch | Lifehacker Skip to Main Content View our Bluesky Page (Opens in a new tab) View our Instagram Page (Opens in a new tab) View on Facebook Page (Opens in a new tab) View our Youtube Page (Opens in a new tab) View our Twitter Page (Opens in a new tab) $refs.firstMenuItem.focus());"> Latest Tech Best Picks Entertainment Health Reviews Home & Garden Deals Comparisons Hacks #Deals Live Blog: The Best Sales We’ve Found, All in One Place query=evt.target.value' x-on:keyup="onKeyUp" x-on:keydown="onKeyDown" @click="onKeyUp" @click.outside="results={}" placeholder="Search Lifehacker" /> 0"> Search Result Latest Tech Best Picks Entertainment Health Reviews Home & Garden Deals Comparisons Hacks #Deals Live Blog: The Best Sales We’ve Found, All in One Place Home Food (e.target !== $refs.button && e.target.closest('button') !== $refs.button) && close($refs.button)" :class="{ 'border border-black': toggled }"> Copied Have You Heard the Good News About Cornstarch Eggs? Claire Lower June 20, 2019 0" onClick="window.openweb.scrollToComments('1835699803')"> Credit: Claire Lower Claire Lower Table of Contents Table of Contents Being subjected to rubbery, overcooked scrambled eggs is enough to ruin the genre, but properly cooked scrambles are creamy, indulgent piles of comfort. I have long been a fan of the super-slow scramble , but I only enjoy them about once a month, as they take a full 45 minutes to cook. How to Make Perfect Scrambled Eggs, No Matter How You Like Them Read More I can barely get it together enough to shower before noon, so standing over a stove for the better part of an hour is simply not an option during the workweek. But I do long for custardy, creamy eggs more mornings than I care to admit, which is why I will name my first child after Mandy of Lady &amp; Pup&rsquo;s , the woman who let the world know (via Food52 ) about the sheer and utter genius of adding cornstarch to scrambled eggs. (Just kidding, I&rsquo;m never reproducing.) Cornstarch&mdash;a common thickening agent&mdash;works wonders here, letting you cook eggs that seem slow-cooked in a fraction of the time. The curds are larger than the truly slow bois, but texture is just as rich, and still has that whole &ldquo;cheesy without cheese&rdquo; vibe going for it which, in my esteemed, highly-valued opinion, is the whole point of the slow scramble. These eggs are so creamy and so good that, after taking my first bite, all I could manage was a very quiet, very sincere, &ldquo;well, fuck me.&rdquo; You May Also Like Just like any other recipe that uses cornstarch as a thickening agent, this one has you make a slurry. Mandy recommends milk, but I used heavy cream, because it&rsquo;s what I had. Stir the slurry until there are no lumps, creating an almost non-Newtonian fluid, then whisk it in with some beaten, salted eggs. The mixture noticeably thickens and, after a quick spell in a very hot pan, you have a pile of tender, velvety, creamy scrambled eggs. To make them yourself, you will need: What do you think so far? Eggs, at least 3 Cornstarch, 1/2 + 1/8 teaspoon for each egg Milk (or cream), 1 tablespoon for each egg Salt to taste Butter, 1 tablespoon for each egg Beat the eggs and, in a separate bowl, beat the starch and dairy. Combine, season with salt, and beat into a uniform mixture. Heat a pan over high heat, then add the butter and, once it&rsquo;s melted and foaming, add the eggs. Leave them alone until the edges start to set, then turn off the heat, move them to a cool burner if you&rsquo;re using an electric stove, and push them around in circular, sweeping motions until they are just set, but still look not quite done. I had to move the pan back to the off-but-still-hot burner a couple of times, as the residual heat of the pan was not enough to finish the job. If you&rsquo;ve been stirring your eggs for over half a minute, and they&rsquo;re not quite done, pop &lsquo;em back on low heat for a moment. Once they start to look &ldquo;almost done,&rdquo; spoon &lsquo;em on a plate, and enjoy with lots of crisp, buttered toast. The Daily Newsletter Ready to do everything better? Jordan Calhoun Editor in chief Get daily tips, tricks, and tech guides from Jordan and the team. The Daily Newsletter Ready to do everything better? Get daily tips, tricks, and tech guides from Jordan and the team. Subscribe to Lifehacker&apos;s Newsletter Loading... Sign Up Success! Use this instead By clicking Sign Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . Claire Lower Latest See More Fitness What You Get With Each of Whoop&#039;s Pricing Tiers October 3, 2025 Shopping Lifehacker Deals Live Blog: The Best Sales We’ve Found, All in One Place October 3, 2025 Fitness How Peloton&#039;s New &#039;Club Peloton&#039; Ranking System Works October 3, 2025 Keep Scrolling for Next Article Lifehacker has been a go-to source of tech help and life advice since 2005. Our mission is to offer reliable tech help and credible, practical, science-based life advice to help you live better. Our Mission Our Team Newsletter Latest Tech Food Entertainment Health Home & Garden Relationships Deals Hacks &nbsp; #Deals Live Blog: The Best Sales We’ve Found, All in One Place About Ziff Davis (Opens in a new tab) Privacy Policy Terms of Use Advertise Accessibility Do Not Sell My Personal Information &copy; 2001-2025 Ziff Davis, LLC., A ZIFF DAVIS COMPANY. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Lifehacker is a federally registered trademark of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any affiliation or the endorsement of Lifehacker. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant. AdChoices Image AdChoices Better Business Bureau (BBB) Logo TRUSTe Logo Ziffmedia Logo CNET Logo ZDNET Logo PCMag Logo Mashable Logo Askmen Logo ExtremeTech Logo IGN Logo Speedtest Logo