# Northwestern Coaching Search Candidates Pat Fitzgerald

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/4683371/2023/07/11/northwestern-coaching-search-candidates-pat-fitzgerald/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:41:33.883437+00:00

---

Northwestern after Pat Fitzgerald: Wildcats coaching job pluses, minuses and candidates - The Athletic NCAAF Teams Scores &amp; Schedule Standings Podcasts Until Saturday Newsletter Recruiting Odds Picks All-136 Ranking Latest Playoff Projections Quizzes Rivalry Rankings Northwestern after Pat Fitzgerald: Wildcats coaching job pluses, minuses and candidates By Chris Vannini July 11, 2023 Updated July 20, 2023 Share 145 Northwestern will have its first football head coaching search in 25 years. Pat Fitzgerald was fired Monday following an investigation into hazing in the program. He was initially suspended for two weeks, but university president Michael Schill backtracked and fired the coach instead. (There will be lawyers.) Statement from Pat Fitzgerald (via @_Brian_Hamilton ): Fitzgerald says his agent and lawyer will "take the necessary steps" after he went from suspended to fired without prior notification. His contract went through 2030, so yeah, that's tens of millions of dollars. pic.twitter.com/rjnQR1rw2v — Chris Vannini (@ChrisVannini) July 11, 2023 Fitzgerald brought a program with little winning history to its most consistent period of success since the early 1900s. His teams reached the Big Ten championship game twice and finished ranked in the AP Top 25 five times since 2012. But the program had cratered in recent years. Plenty has been written about Northwestern’s handling of this hazing situation , and more news will certainly come to light. But the football program also has to move forward with a season, and the full-time role will be a sought-after job. Advertisement Northwestern has not yet announced an interim head coach, and the hire of a new full-time head coach remains many months away. But here’s an early breakdown of the job and some potential names to watch, depending on how the season plays out. Investigation from The Athletic: How a hazing culture evolved at Northwestern’s Camp Kenosha The program is down bad right now Northwestern is on an 11-game losing streak . It hasn’t won a game in the United States since Oct. 16, 2021, with last year’s win against Nebraska coming in Ireland. The 1-11 finish was the Wildcats’ worst record since 1989, and that came after a 3-9 season in 2021. The team never recovered from the retirement of former defensive coordinator Mike Hankwitz after the end of the 2020 season, dropping from fifth nationally in scoring defense in 2020 to 89th in ’21 and 81st in ’22. The offense was even worse, finishing 128th in scoring last year. The Wildcats haven’t finished in the top 90 in scoring offense since 2017. Recruiting has always been difficult, in part due to the academic demands of the university. In 2022, Northwestern ranked 49th nationally in 247Sports’ Team Talent rankings. And in the transfer portal era, it wouldn’t be surprising to see an exodus of players, either now or after the season. Transfer rules allow players to leave within 30 days of a head coaching change. It’s harder for Northwestern to get kids in as transfers, too. We’ll see how the 2023 season plays out, but it’s hard to imagine a major turnaround this year. (If it does, Northwestern may stick with that interim head coach). The Big Ten West advantage is going away Since the Big Ten moved to geographic divisions, Northwestern has held the major advantage of being in the easier of the two divisions, avoiding annual games against the power programs in the East. In the division-championship-winning regular seasons under Fitzgerald, the Wildcats avoided Penn State and Ohio State in 2018 and avoided Michigan , Penn State and Ohio State in 2020. Advertisement By 2024, Northwestern will be in a division-less, 16-team Big Ten . That season, Northwestern will play Ohio State, Penn State and USC . For a long time, simply making a bowl game counted as a success for Northwestern. That may become the standard again. But the expectations are not high Despite the recent poor seasons, Fitzgerald could have kept his job for life if he kept things in order off the field. This is not a program that expects to win Big Ten championships or even win 10 games a year. All you have to do is get to bowl games. That alone makes this a very appealing job. It’s not a situation where you’ll get fired after three years for some five- or six-win seasons. In basketball as well, Northwestern has historically given coaches plenty of time to work things out. The pressure is not high, the local media beat is not large. This is a job where you can get paid a lot of money with a good amount of security to run an average to above-average program. GO DEEPER Mandel: Fitzgerald's firing isn't the end of Northwestern's problems The facilities are really good Northwestern has poured a ton of money into facility upgrades in recent years. A $260 million practice facility opened in 2018, including an indoor practice field, strength and conditioning center and more. Located right on Lake Michigan, it’s one of the most picturesque facilities in the country. In addition, there are plans for an $800 million renovation of Ryan Field, which would actually decrease the stadium’s capacity but enhance its ability to host concerts and other events. The school still needs approval from the city, and there has been local pushback. The original plan was to demolish the current stadium after the 2023 season and have the new stadium ready by 2026, though that hasn’t been finalized yet. It’s still the Big Ten Any Big Ten job is highly sought-after. With the annual revenues of the Big Ten and SEC already far surpassing those of other conferences and that gap only set to grow, the move sets up a game of musical chairs. Fitzgerald reportedly had a salary of more than $5 million annually, and there is a lot of money available for the program, as evidenced by those facility upgrades. Advertisement Despite the recent struggles and some inherent disadvantages, it wouldn’t be surprising if sitting Power 5 head coaches have interest in the job. No one knows what the future of college football looks like, but being in the Big Ten or SEC is the safest place to be. So which names could get in the mix? We must start with the heavy caveat that the season must first play out. This fall’s action will impact the potential candidacy of coaches on and not on this list. Army head coach Jeff Monken is a Peoria, Ill., native and was in the mix for the Illinois job when it opened after the 2020 season. He’s in a high-discipline, high-academic-standards job and has brought the Black Knights their most success in decades, with five seasons of at least eight wins over the last seven years. That included 10 wins in 2017 and 11 wins in 2018. The program had one winning season in the 17 years before he arrived. Monken’s triple-option background has likely hurt his ability to get a bigger job, but Army plans to play out of the shotgun this year as it will modify its offense a bit. Tulane head coach Willie Fritz has won at nearly every level of college football and won the Cotton Bowl and American Athletic Conference title last year, capping the largest single-season turnaround in FBS history as the Green Wave went from 2-10 to 12-2 with a win against USC. The 63-year-old nearly took the Georgia Tech job last year but opted to stay at Tulane. His current job has given him experience at a small, private, high-academics school. He has reached four bowls in the last five years at Tulane. Wake Forest head coach Dave Clawson has passed on interest from other Power 5 jobs in the past, but Northwestern fits the same profile as Wake Forest. Clawson has six winning seasons in the last seven years, including an 11-win division title run in 2021. He has also won as a head coach at Bowling Green , Richmond and Fordham. From a personality and fit standpoint, there are a lot of similarities here. Duke head coach Mike Elko just took the Blue Devils to a stunning 9-4 debut season in his first year as a head coach. Duke and Northwestern are very similar school profiles, but Northwestern puts even more investment into football. Elko spent 2017 as Notre Dame ’s defensive coordinator and was Clawson’s defensive coordinator at Bowling Green, so he knows the Midwest, and he has strong recruiting chops. Would Iowa State head coach Matt Campbell have interest? He has turned down a lot of interest from other jobs , but he’s an Ohio native who spent his entire career at Mount Union and Toledo before Iowa State. He’s still only 43 years old and has shown a strong ability to get the most out of his players and produce a team that punches above its weight, taking down Oklahoma multiple times. ISU is 11-14 in the last two years, but Campbell has also brought the Cyclones their most success in a century. Advertisement Kansas head coach Lance Leipold was in the mix for the Illinois job and the Vanderbilt job in 2020. In his second season in Lawrence, the Jayhawks went 6-7 last year, their best season in more than a decade, making clear that a turnaround is underway. Leipold won six Division III national titles at Wisconsin-Whitewater and took Buffalo to two MAC championship games. The Wisconsin native has won everywhere he’s been. He was also around the Nebraska and Wisconsin jobs last cycle but signed a new contract at Kansas that pays him an average of $5 million per season. That buyout is currently $6 million through April 2024. Eastern Michigan head coach Chris Creighton has also won at all kinds of stops across the Midwest. Creighton has taken EMU, which was arguably the worst program in the country, to five bowl games in six years. Last year was EMU’s second-ever nine-win season, and the Eagles produced multiple draft picks for the first time since 1977. He has never coached at the Power 5 level, and the 3-21 record in his first two EMU seasons holds down his overall record there (46-61), which has hurt his chances for bigger jobs. But he has proven he can win more with less over and over. Current Northwestern