# Todd Newman Diamondback Insider Trading

**Source**: http://fortune.com/todd-newman-diamondback-insider-trading/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:32:51.526106+00:00

---

The Hedge Fund Trader Who Beat the Feds | Fortune Search Home News Fortune 500 Fortune Global 500 Fortune 500 Europe Fortune China 500 Fortune SEA 500 Great Place to Work Tech AI Innovation Cybersecurity Finance Personal Finance Real Estate Economy Investing Banking Crypto Leadership Success Future of Work Workplace Culture C-Suite CEO Initiative Lifestyle Arts &amp; Entertainment Travel &amp; Leisure Health Well Education Rankings Analytics Multimedia Live Media Magazine Newsletters Video Podcasts Home News Fortune 500 Fortune 500 Fortune Sea 500 Fortune 500 Europe Fortune Global 500 Fortune China 500 Great Place To Work Tech Tech Ai Innovation Cybersecurity Finance Finance Personal Finance Real Estate Economy Banking Investing Crypto Leadership Leadership Success Future Of Work Workplace Culture C-suite Ceo Initiative Lifestyle Lifestyle Arts &amp; Entertainment Travel &amp; Leisure Health Well Education Rankings Rankings Analytics Multimedia Multimedia Live Media Magazine Newsletters Video Podcasts Asia Europe Analytics The Hedge Fund Trader Who Beat the Feds After Todd Newman’s insider-trading conviction was overturned, his case became a landmark. By William D. Cohan Photograph by Spencer Heyfron The Hedge Fund Trader Who Beat the Feds Hedge fund manager Todd Newman’s successful career was upended when he was prosecuted for insider trading. After his conviction was thrown out on appeal, the case became a landmark in Wall Street regulation. An inside look at what it’s like to be stalked by the feds—and not back down. The phone call that changed Todd Newman’s life came without warning. It was 8:45 on a Monday morning in November 2010. Newman was at his desk at Diamondback Capital Management, a hedge fund based in Stamford, Conn. He had arrived 15 minutes earlier at the firm’s office in One Landmark Square—coincidentally, a building Newman’s grandfather had developed years earlier—after commuting that morning from his home outside Boston, where he lived with his wife and daughter. Newman was a portfolio manager at Diamondback. He ran a long/short book of about $150 million, trading mostly in the stocks of technology companies. No name showed up on the caller ID, but Newman answered anyway. On the other end was David Makol, a 39-year-old FBI agent who, Newman would come to learn, specialized in the “art of the flip”—or getting hedge fund employees to squeal on their colleagues about alleged criminal activity. “We have some stuff going on later today that’s going to affect your job, your family,” Makol told him. “We’ve got to get stuff done. This is urgent.” Newman found the call unsettling, if not particularly alarming. He couldn’t imagine that the FBI had any reason to come after him. He might not have considered himself a target, but Newman was well aware that the feds were in the midst of a major crackdown on insider trading. Eleven months earlier the FBI had arrested Raj Rajaratnam, the billionaire founder of the Galleon Group hedge fund, on charges of insider trading. When he was arrested, Preet Bharara, the U.S. Attorney in the Southern District of New York, said Rajaratnam’s scheme was the largest of its kind in U.S. history. Reports soon surfaced that Bharara was also eyeing another hedge fund billionaire, Steven A. Cohen, the founder of SAC Capital. Bharara made Cohen—and anyone in his circle—a primary target of his investigations. That meant Diamondback was an obvious candidate for the prosecutor’s scrutiny. The fund had been started a year earlier by two traders, Richard Schimel and Larry Sapanski, who had branched off from SAC Capital. What’s more, Schimel was married to Cohen’s sister. Although Diamondback hadn’t taken seed money from SAC, the connections between the two firms were obvious. (SAC would eventually, in 2013, agree to plead guilty to insider trading and to pay a massive $1.8 billion settlement, but Cohen himself was not prosecuted.) Moreover, there were signs that something big was about to go down. Just two days before Newman received the call from Makol, the Wall Street Journal had published a long article, under the headline “U.S. in Vast Insider Trading Probe,” that detailed a three-year, Bharara-led investigation that was about to “ensnare consultants, investment bankers, hedge-fund and mutual-fund traders, and analysts across the nation.” One focus was so-called expert networks, and specifically a company, Primary Global Research, which reportedly connected experts in a variety of industries—particularly health care and technology—with investors looking for information. The Journal story had put Wall Street on edge. Prosecutor Preet Bharara, Wall Street’s top cop, explaining the charges against Newman and others on Jan. 18, 2012. Photograph by Timothy A. Clary—AFP/Getty Images Now, on the phone with Makol, Newman asked the FBI agent what he wanted him to do. “We’re at the McDonald’s around the corner,” Makol said. “We want to talk to you.” “What do you want to talk about?” Newman says he asked Makol. “If you come down, we’ll talk about it,” Makol replied. Newman tried to buy some time. He asked Makol how long he would be at the McDonald’s. “We’re acting on stuff pretty quickly,” Makol said. “Okay,” Newman replied. “If I see you, I see you. If not, whatever.” After hanging up, Newman went to see Diamondback’s general counsel, and together they spoke to the chief operating officer, as well as with the firm’s outside counsel at WilmerHale. Although Newman says he would have been happy to meet with Makol, they agreed that the better course of action for Newman would be to go see Alfred Pavlis, an attorney in Stamford, at Finn Dixon &amp; Herling. The thinking was that in case their interests diverged, Pavlis could represent Newman, while WilmerHale could represent Diamondback. About an hour after Makol’s call to Newman, Reed Brodsky, an assistant U.S. Attorney working for Bharara who had been the lead prosecutor on the Rajaratnam case, spoke to Pavlis. Newman recalls that Brodsky told Pavlis he would like to speak with Newman because “we have him” on tape hearing “possible gray stuff” about corporate earnings and that he was trading on inside information about possible mergers and acquisitions. Newman says Brodsky also told Pavlis that Newman had used “expert networks” to get corporate information. Newman says he told Pavlis he would be happy to speak with Brodsky because he was certain he did not trade on any “gray stuff,” that he hadn’t traded on an M&amp;A deal in years, and that he had never called a consultant at an expert network. “He’s lying!” Newman remembers telling his lawyer. Newman and Pavlis were discussing the merits of meeting with Brodsky when Newman got an emergency text from his office: The FBI was raiding Diamondback! Newman was shocked at how fast things seemed to be moving. In retrospect, his world had already changed irrevocably. That Monday, Nov. 22, 2010, serves as the dividing line between Newman’s old life and a darker new one. Over the next few years the hedge fund manager’s successful career was destroyed and his marriage ended. After enduring months of uncertainty, he would be charged officially with insider trading and, in December 2012, convicted of the crime. Then, two years later, his conviction would be overturned by an appeals court. When the Supreme Court declined to hear the government’s appeal last fall, Newman was a free man—but one with a very different perspective on the authorities who regulate his industry. For more on insider trading, watch this Fortune video: [fortune-brightcove videoid=3629779299001] The reversal of Newman’s conviction was a major setback for Bharara, Wall Street’s top cop, who had successfully prosecuted more than 80 insider-­trading cases since 2009. Newman was his first loss on appeal and another half-dozen guilty pleas were vacated in the wake of the appeals court ruling. But even more than that, the Newman case has touched off a new debate in the legal community and on Wall Street about what precisely constitutes insider trading. (For more on the case’s implications, see “ Why Insider Trading May Be Tougher Than Ever to Prosecute .”) Along the way Newman has become an unlikely hero to those on Wall Street who believe Bharara has been overzealous and overreached. Here, for the first time, Newman shares with Fortune exclusively his story about what it was like to be the target of a driven federal prosecutor determined to add another insider-trading conviction to his growing pile of Wall Street pelts. Through it all, Newman never backed down from his belief that he did nothing wrong. (Bharara still maintains that Newman was rightfully convicted, but he did not respond to Fortune’ s requests to comment for this article.) As he reflects on the events that reshaped his life, Newman, 51, shows traces of bitterness but mostly exudes calm and a degree of satisfaction. That perspective has come only with time, though. The day the feds came calling, his feelings ran more toward fear, panic, and confusion. Newman was no neophyte by the time he answered the call from Makol. He had already been working in finance for more than two decades. An accounting major at Skidmore College, he decided early on that a career as an accountant was not for him. He’d gotten an MBA from Babson College, passed his chartered financial analyst exam, and landed a job, in Boston, at a division of John Hancock’s asset management business. Newman next spent a few years as a tech analyst at Merrill Lynch in New York and another seven years running money at a couple of hedge funds in Boston. In March 2006 he was recruited to Diamondback as a portfolio manager. Over his nearly three years there actively managing money, Newman made investors over $75 million in profit. In return, Diamondback paid him more than $9 million. Bharara and his team treated Newman like a high-value target from the beginning. In fact, they broke new ground in building the case aga