# Photos Catching New Yorkers Mid Delivery.Html

**Source**: https://www.thecut.com/2022/02/photos-catching-new-yorkers-mid-delivery.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:13:07.169942+00:00

---

Photos: Catching New Yorkers Mid-Delivery Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Style Self Culture Power Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission &#x27;knock knock&#x27; Catching New Yorkers Mid-Delivery A deliciously relatable new form of a selfie. By Brooke LaMantia , the Cut's editorial assistant. &nbsp; She also writes for the site, covering shopping, culture, and style. Feb. 18, 2022 save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Photo: Daniel Arnold Photo: Daniel Arnold My least favorite way to be perceived,” shared New York photo editor Maridelis Morales Rosado on her Instagram Stories, pasting an image of herself — eyes closed, leather pants and platform Crocs on, clutching a bag of takeout — photographed by a delivery person. In early 2020, when delivery workers for DoorDash began documenting drop-offs, they unintentionally created a new form of selfie: the DoorDash photo. Unlike the traditional selfie, this photo was more humbling than humblebrag, and posting a DoorDash mishap to social media — reaching for a plastic bag of ramen half-aware, half-dressed, and full hungry in mismatched socks or sans pants — became a deliciously relatable self-own. Photographer Daniel Arnold, known for capturing everyday New York moments, re-created these photos, catching nine New Yorkers mid-delivery. Grace Kuhlenschmidt, Comedian Neighborhood: Clinton Hill. Order: Gorditas from Citrico. “Have you ever had your order come incredibly fast? … I was in the shower when my doorbell rang and was like, There’s no fucking way this is them. I definitely answered in a towel.” Jorge “Gitoo” Wright, Casting director–TV host Neighborhood: Crown Heights. Order: Mochi doughnut and glazed chicken wings from Win Son Bakery. “I now stick my hand out and keep inside, because I know what’s going down in the photo and I’m looking nuts.” Eric Sedeño, TikToker Neighborhood: Bed-Stuy. Order: Tacos from Tacombi. Marie Faustin, Actress Neighborhood: Prospect Heights. Order: Salmon-teriyaki box from Ki Sushi. Ellen Van Dusen, Textile designer Neighborhood: Bed-Stuy. Order: Pan-griddled pork buns from Win Son Restaurant. Dan Pelosi, Food-and-lifestyle creator Neighborhood: Bed-Stuy. Order: Pizza from Rocco’s. “I don’t have embarrassing outfits, unless I was naked. Sometimes I’ll answer the door in my robe and the delivery person is getting a nipple.” Mei Kawajiri, Nail artist Neighborhood: Lower East Side. Order: Shrimp-avocado salad from Ruby’s. Clara Perlmutter, TikToker Neighborhood: East Village Order: Iced lemon teacake and mint-cookie sandwiches from Erin McKenna’s Bakery. Angela Yee, Radio personality Neighborhood: Bed-Stuy Order: Lemon-pepper chicken sandwich from Peaches. Photographs by Daniel Arnold Grace Kuhlenschmidt, Comedian Neighborhood: Clinton Hill. Order: Gorditas from Citrico. “Have you ever had your order come incredibly fast? … I was in the shower when my doorbell rang and was like, There’s no fucking way this is them. I definitely answered in a towel.” Jorge “Gitoo” Wright, Casting director–TV host Neighborhood: Crown Heights. Order: Mochi doughnut and glazed chicken wings from Win Son Bakery. “I now stick my hand out and keep inside, because I know what’s going down in the photo and I’m looking nuts.” Eric Sedeño, TikToker Neighborhood: Bed-Stuy. Order: Tacos from Tacombi. Marie Faustin, Actress Neighborhood: Prospect Heights. Order: Salmon-teriyaki box from Ki Sushi. Ellen Van Dusen, Textile designer Neighborhood: Bed-Stuy. Order: Pan-griddled pork buns from Win Son Restaurant. Dan Pelosi, Food-and-lifestyle creator Neighborhood: Bed-Stuy. Order: Pizza from Rocco’s. “I don’t have embarrassing outfits, unless I was naked. Sometimes I’ll answer the door in my robe and the delivery person is getting a nipple.” Mei Kawajiri, Nail artist Neighborhood: Lower East Side. Order: Shrimp-avocado salad from Ruby’s. Clara Perlmutter, TikToker Neighborhood: East Village Order: Iced lemon teacake and mint-cookie sandwiches from Erin McKenna’s Bakery. Angela Yee, Radio personality Neighborhood: Bed-Stuy Order: Lemon-pepper chicken sandwich from Peaches. Photographs by Daniel Arnold Thank you for subscribing and supporting our journalism . If you prefer to read in print, you can also find this article in the February 14, 2022, issue of New York Magazine. Want more stories like this one? Subscribe now to support our journalism and get unlimited access to our coverage. If you prefer to read in print, you can also find this article in the February 14, 2022, issue of New York Magazine. More 2022 spring fashion issue Let’s Get High A Bonbon for the Hip Fashion Fair Did It First See All Tags: cut homepage lede style fashion spring fashion spring fashion issue 2022 doordash deliveries new york magazine spring fashion digital issue 2022 &#x27;knock knock&#x27; More Show Comment Catching New Yorkers Mid-Delivery Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission The Cut Shop 28 Best Sneakers for Women in Every Single Style I’m on the Hunt for the Best Sunscreens Without a White Cast 31 Best Luxury Candles That Double As Great Gifts Most Viewed Stories 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Woman Who Ate Only Fruit Your Daily Horoscope by Madame Clairevoyant: October 3, 2025 The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Why I Got a Neck-Lift at 41 Years Old Both Sides of a Breakup: His Relationships Never Last More Than 4 Months Sign In to Comment Most Popular 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Woman Who Ate Only Fruit Your Daily Horoscope by Madame Clairevoyant: October 3, 2025 The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Why I Got a Neck-Lift at 41 Years Old Both Sides of a Breakup: His Relationships Never Last More Than 4 Months The Latest sex diaries 7:00 p.m. The Sober Event Planner Sleeping With a Client In this week’s story, a 32-year-old woman gives her crush a blowjob to reduce his stress before a big event. life of a showgirl 6:16 p.m. The Showgirl Doesn’t Get a Standing Ovation Taylor Swift was once untouchable — but is her reputation as pop’s best songwriter over? music 5:37 p.m. Taylor Swift’s Famous Friends Are Loving The Life of a Showgirl Sabrina Carpenter, Nikki Glaser, and whoever posts for the New Heights podcast are all amped about the album. do i need this? 5:33 p.m. Here’s What You Need From Gap’s Studio Collection Every piece worth buying from the brand’s fall drop. the kardashians 5:28 p.m. Apropos of Nothing, Kim Kardashian Is Producing an Elizabeth Taylor Doc What a day to be learning this news. power 4:47 p.m. Diddy Has Been Sentenced to More Than Four Years in Prison The judge said the sentence was required to show “that exploitation and violence against women is met with real accountability.” music 4:40 p.m. No, Taylor Swift Is Definitely Online At least, she was when she made The Life of a Showgirl . prime day 4:06 p.m. The Early Prime Day Beauty Deals Our Editors Recommend Start shopping the sale now with tools from Shark Beauty and more. taylor swift 3:37 p.m. Taylor Swift’s Engagement Ring Is Having a Great Rollout Good for her. celebrity breakups 3:06 p.m. In Other News, Lori Loughlin and Her Husband Are Separated There’s no better day to quietly uncouple. travel week 2:42 p.m. These Are the Best Over-the-Ear Headphones for Sound and Style AirPods Max aren’t the only headphones out there. always shopping 2:30 p.m. 25 Best Wedding Shoes for Every Kind of Bride According to a recent bride. prime day 2:00 p.m. These Bella Hadid–Approved Headphones Are on Sale And they’re worth the hype. paris fashion week 1:43 p.m. A Night Out With Kristy Sarah Scott at Schiaparelli From viral videos to the front row, Scott is making Paris Fashion Week her stage. weddings 1:30 p.m. This Is What Your Wedding Gift Says About You Gift ideas for the plus-one, the third wheel, and everyone in between. cut chats 1:02 p.m. The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Taylor Swift’s new album has some high points but lacks the punch and clarity of her previous collaborations with Max Martin. celebrity friendships 12:45 p.m. Who Did Taylor Swift Write ‘CANCELLED!’ About? While Blake Live