# Where The Commute Is Worse And Better Than Yours

**Source**: http://flowingdata.com/2015/02/05/where-the-commute-is-worse-and-better-than-yours/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:30:33.363115+00:00

---

Compare Worst and Best Commutes in America &#8211; FlowingData Membership Books Projects Learning Newsletters Member Login Data Underload &nbsp;/&nbsp; commute Compare Worst and Best Commutes in America See who has it worse off and better than you. By Nathan Yau My wife grew up where hour-long commutes are normal. Her dad used to leave at 4:00am to beat the morning rush and then nap in the parking lot until work started. On the other hand, I thought my dad&#8217;s 15-minute drive to work was a long time. My mom&#8217;s work was only five minutes away. It&#8217;s all about point of reference . When all you have is crappy commute to refer to, anything less seems pretty great. The same goes for short commutes. Now you can compare who has it worse and better off than your county. Isn&#8217;t that what it&#8217;s all about at the end of the day? In the animation below, with a bit of inspiration from the New York Times, each lane represents a county. The shorter the commute the faster a car moves across the screen. Aleutians East Borough in Alaska whizzes by. Park county in Colorado creeks along. JavaScript required for interaction. Interested in comparing a specific county? Select one in the map above. Counties colored green have a lower average commute time, and brown means a longer average commute time. Gray means about the same. See also: when people leave for work and mode of transportation used to get there . Related Interactive: When Do Americans Leave For Work? Posted to Data Underload --> &rarr; "> Average commute times mapped &rarr; Posted to Maps --> Worst and best commutes in America Posted to Statistical Visualization --> Chart Type Used --> --> Become a member. Support an independent site. Get extra visualization goodness. See What You Get Favorites Causes of Death There are many ways to die. Cancer. Infection. Mental. External. This is how different groups of people died over the past 10 years, visualized by age. Famous Movie Quotes as Charts &rarr; In celebration of their 100-year anniversary, the American Film Institute &hellip; Marrying Age People get married at various ages, but there are definite trends that vary across demographic groups. What do these trends look like? Top Brewery Road Trip, Routed Algorithmically There are a lot of great craft breweries in the United States, but there is only so much time. This is the computed best way to get to the top rated breweries and how to maximize the beer tasting experience. Every journey begins with a single sip. About Contact LinkedIn Instagram Bluesky RSS Copyright &copy; 2007-Present FlowingData. All rights reserved.