# Trump Wrecked America Brand Canada 1235364578

**Source**: https://www.rollingstone.com/politics/politics-features/trump-wrecked-america-brand-canada-1235364578/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:10:59.398541+00:00

---

Donald Trump Has Wrecked America’s Brand &times; &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo Politics Trump Has Completely Wrecked America’s Brand Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Un-American Trump Has Completely Wrecked America’s Brand Thanks to Trump’s second administration, America’s global reputation is undergoing a radical relaunch By Guy Lawson Guy Lawson Why Canada Isn’t Sweating Trump’s Mob Tactics Calling Bullshit: The Truth About the NCAA’s Alleged Reforms Trump Has Completely Wrecked America’s Brand View all posts by Guy Lawson June 14, 2025 President Donald Trump in the Oval Office of the White House on May 28, 2025. Andrew Harnik/Getty Images The longest undefended border in the world has a new and insurmountable wall running the entire length of its extent, from sea to shining sea, a barrier as real as it is imaginary. For Canadians, the constant recipients of Donald Trump &rsquo;s lurid attempts to be press-ganged into becoming the 51st state, there is no longer any need for American border control at the many crossings into the United States. The border is now self-controlled and self-policed, with virtually the entire population of America&rsquo;s peaceful neighbor to the north, my homeland, agreeing that crossing over to America is not just taboo &mdash; it&rsquo;s a kind of betrayal, even borderline treasonous. For decades, the greatest cross-border threats to Canada have come from the south: guns, drugs, weak beer, idiotic wars, reactionary politics, reality TV, idiotic wars, and now epically stupid tariffs and the deranged lunge for annexation. For Americans, Canada has always been a place of refuge &mdash; for loyalists fleeing the Revolutionary War and slaves in the Civil War, to draft dodgers during the Vietnam War and women in the all-too-real fictional gender war of The Handmaid&rsquo;s Tale . It has also been the butt of lame jokes &mdash; an easy source of mockery, yin to the Yankee yang, universal health care and social justice to America&rsquo;s &ldquo;we&rsquo;re all going to die&rdquo; nihilism. A quiet and politely passive neighbor, prospering under a mutually beneficial trade agreement negotiated by Trump in his first term, Canada has long been taken for granted, to the extent its existence is even noticed at all. Former Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau, father of the recently replaced&nbsp; prime minister Justin, once said that living next door to the United States was like sleeping with an elephant &mdash; every twitch and twinge can be felt. But what about trying to exist next to an angry, irrational, vengeful orangutan on a rampage, a tariff-imposing, grudge-holding mob boss with a Nero-strength case of narcissism, who seems intent making himself a Mount Rushmore-worthy historical figure , or failing that, a dictator &mdash; even as he turns himself and increasingly America into a laughingstock? Editor’s picks The 250 Greatest Albums of the 21st Century So Far The 100 Best TV Episodes of All Time The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century AS A SELF-DESCRIBED mastermind marketer and salesman, Donald Trump has always placed a supreme premium on the value of his brand, claiming it alone is worth billions &mdash; ascribing the greatest part of his invented net worth to the intangible monetary appeal of his P. T. Barnum carnival act. As president, Trump has enriched himself and his grifter children with corrupt crypto and creepo businesses , with his family demanding the construction of a Trump-branded golf course for peasants to play on the rice paddies of Vietnam as their latest extortion racket, along the way plunging the concept of graft to a new low &mdash; perhaps even rivaling his hero Vladimir Putin. But Trump is also the steward of the most valuable brand in human history: the United States. Instead of Trump&rsquo;s paltry few billion, the brand of America is worth trillions upon trillions, an incalculable value proposition that is undergoing the most radical relaunch since New Coke in the 1980s.&nbsp; A Manhattan advertising executive for a global agency once hired to promote &ldquo;Brand USA&rdquo; during the Obama years tells me that the approach used then was simple and effective: democracy, independence, freedom. The key phrases now, he says, are capitalism and culture &mdash; but that is putting the best possible spin on what&rsquo;s really happening to America&rsquo;s global reputation. &ldquo;The world is in denial about what&rsquo;s really going on in America,&rdquo; the executive says. &ldquo;The election was a mirror reflecting America back to itself &mdash; the election is who America really is right now &mdash; and that is frustrated young white dudes who are angry at the world.&rdquo; For Canadians intent on boycotting American-made goods and services in favor of Canadian content, as a reaction to Trump&rsquo;s frontal assault on its economy and sovereignty, there is still a humorous element to the undeniable crack-like attraction of American culture. A recent comedy sketch from the CBC show This Hour Has Twenty-Two Minutes titled &ldquo;Canadians Anonymous,&rdquo; illustrates the point, as addled hosers admit that they can&rsquo;t get enough Yankee three-ply toilet paper from Walmart, let alone swap Diet Pepsi for generic Canadian diet cola. As the mortified Canadians sit in a circle of trust, confessing to their relapses buying American products like dry drunks in an AA meeting, they share the strange love-hate relationship between the two countries &mdash; a longing felt exclusively, it seems, by America&rsquo;s northern neighbor. Related Content ‘Hostage Taking’: Trump Is Hurting Americans to Force Dems to Cave on Shutdown Trump Adviser Says ICE Will Be at Bad Bunny’s Super Bowl Halftime Show Amid MAGA Meltdown Kennedy Center Union Demands Investigation After Conservative Group Heckled Yasmin Williams Welcome to Portland, Where Trump&#039;s Fever Dream Is America&#039;s New Nightmare &ldquo;Now, who wants to get drunk?&rdquo; the sponsor asks as the group session ends. &ldquo;Me,&rdquo; comes the instant reply. &ldquo;I can&rsquo;t be sober during this trade war.&rdquo; The star of This Hour is Mark Critch, a Newfoundlander, a peculiar subspecies of Canadian with a mid-Atlantic brogue and a wicked sense of humor &mdash; not the kind of comedy that travels to America in the milquetoast guise of Mike Myers or Jim Carrey, with Canadians passing as Americans. Critch is a specific kind of celebrity &mdash; world-famous all-over Canada, you might say &mdash; who creates comedy for Canadians, without having to pander in search of the supposed big time. &ldquo;When I order a Manhattan in a bar in Toronto now I get the instant judgy eye,&rdquo; Critch tells me. &ldquo;Like it&rsquo;s the most horrible thing.&rdquo; Critch likens Trump to a toxic boyfriend negging Canada, a form of gaslighting that has the predator president claiming that America doesn&rsquo;t need Canada&rsquo;s lumber or steel or boundless fresh water &mdash; when of course the opposite is true. Ironically, Trump&rsquo;s constant attempt to neg Canada has only developed an historically unprecedented positive form of patriotism, from urban hipster leftists to redneck prairie farmers insulted by the bullying and repulsive lechery for Canada&rsquo;s own priceless resources &mdash; natural, national, intellectual, historical, but above all civilizational. For generations, Canadians have defined themselves largely as not being American, a counterpoint form of identity that seemed to lack its own driving force, until Trump came along. Now, not being American has taken on an entirely new significance &mdash; a national characteristic that is both exceptional and the envy of the world. A LITTLE APPRECIATED aspect of the self-generated reality of the con artist is that they need to surround themselves with people stupid or craven enough to go along with their scams. The same is true for Trump, just on an epic level, with the halfwitted J.D. Vance and fake tough guy Don Jr. leading the charge, along with wide-eyed maniacs like Peter Navarro, Stephen Miller, and Kash Patel, as the new brand ambassadors for the United States. Then there are those who are wise to the con, but who believe it&rsquo;s profitable to go along with the Big Lie while it lasts &mdash; like Elon Musk, depending on the level of ketamine in his system measured against his naked, corrupt self interest and sadistic impulses. Together, as the con artist preys upon the gullibility of his followers, promising fantasies that are literally too good to be true, they are enveloped by the giddy sense that if the lies are big enough the bullshit might actually come true. But the result is that the loneliest man in every room is the con man surrounded by idiots &mdash; particularly because he is frequently his own victim, convinced by his own lies, isolating himself from his own tenuous grasp on reality. The new prime minister of Canada appears aware of this context &mdash; and the dire threat to Canada&rsquo;s national interest Trump represents. Sitting with Trump in the White House, as poised as any Goldman Sachs banker &mdash; because he was one &mdash; freshly elected Prime Minister Mark Carney is the kind of sophisticated financial figure who routinely refused to do business with the failed businessman Trump, and for very good reason. Carney is a true plutocrat, fluent in the language of Wall Street and global commerce in a way that Trump can only dream of. As Carney sits politely listening to a torrent of Trump&rsquo;s lies, he effortlessly deploys the arcane argot of the g