# What Went Wrong At The Los Angeles Times

**Source**: https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/v7g34y/what-went-wrong-at-the-los-angeles-times
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:53:21.903167+00:00

---

What Went Wrong at the Los Angeles Times + English Close VICE Editions English Bahasa Indonesia Czech Danish Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands Polish Portuguese Română Russian Srpski Swedish Ελληνικά عربي 日本語 한국어 Open Menu Close Menu Magazine TV News Life Tech Munchies Music Waypoint Shop Members Newsletters Instagram TikTok YouTube Google Discover Google Top Posts Video TV Shop Members Facebook Instagram TikTok Reddit YouTube Google Discover Google Top Posts Search Culture News Tech Munchies Drugs Entertainment Environment Extremism Identity Investigations Music Waypoint Photography Sex Travel News What Went Wrong at the Los Angeles Times By Laura Wagner and Maxwell Strachan July 1, 2020, 2:15pm Share: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share using Native tools Share Copied to clipboard Follow Us On Discover Make Us Preferred In Top Stories Norm Pearlstine was not pleased. For half a century, his integrity had rarely, if ever, been questioned. He believed the charge that had been leveled against him was without merit. For the past 20 months, he had spent his days trying to rebuild one of America’s great newspapers, and here he was facing questions that had the potential to throw his hard-earned reputation into doubt. So he snapped. “My asshole,&#8221; he shouted, &#8220;is clean!” Videos by VICE Pearlstine, executive editor of the Los Angeles Times , was meeting with two veteran investigative journalists from his own newsroom. The two arranged the conference to raise concerns, which had been circulating among a handful of people in the newsroom, about his coverage of the Chinese telecommunications corporation Huawei. The meeting was tense. On one side were a Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter and editor, who had followed Times ethical guidelines that require staffers to report even a perceived or potential conflict of interest. On the other was Pearlstine, the 77-year-old media veteran, who was angrily accusing the reporter of “looking up my ass.” At one point, the editor in the meeting asked Pearlstine if he could “lower the temperature.” Pearlstine vehemently refused, and went on to denigrate the work of the reporter, cast aspersions on his motivations for asking questions about Huawei, and deny that he had done anything improper, according to sources briefed on the meeting contemporaneously and a summary of the meeting that was sent to HR. Pearlstine and the Times would later tell VICE News that an investigation had cleared him of wrongdoing, though the paper would not share the results of that investigation. Our own reporting suggests no impropriety. It also shows, though, that the basic dynamic of that meeting has been recapitulated again and again. Pearlstine has, in his short tenure atop the Times , responded unpredictably to crises great and small, alternately dismissing and overreacting to them while at times showing a curious lack of attention to detail. In all, this has confused and frustrated a staff that on the whole values the work he&#8217;s done to support and gallantly rebuild a newsroom that was, when he came on, in a state of utter chaos. In the course of reporting this story, during which we spoke to more than 40 current and former Times staffers, VICE News found that Pearlstine allowed a top editor whom staffers had accused of inappropriate conduct and toxic management practices to retire in relative glory; didn’t act on the recommendations of respected newsroom staffers seeking to bring in more diverse staff; did little to repair well-established systemic inequities that disadvantaged people of color; brushed off complaints about ethical concerns; and reacted erratically when he realized some in his newsroom had grown frustrated and disillusioned with his leadership. Do you know anything we should know? Send an email to the reporters at laura.wagner@vice.com or maxwell.strachan@vice.com , or reach out on Signal at (310) 614-3752. The mistakes do not tell the full story of Pearlstine&#8217;s tenure. Even his critics describe him as operating in good faith. “I don&#8217;t think that Norm is malicious,” said one newsroom source who was otherwise critical of his decisions. Pearlstine was handed the messiest of situations to fix, which forced him and the rest of leadership to sometimes ruthlessly prioritize problems. On that front, his two years at the Times have been marked by success as well as failure; and his failures are not his alone, but those of an institution that has struggled to overcome a broken culture rooted in both mismanagement and the biases that pervade all aspects of American life. The failures are real, though, and the most damning among them may prove to have been the squandering of the opportunity offered by the very man who chose Pearlstine to build the paper into something that was not just better than what came before it, but truly different too. In a statement, Times owner Patrick Soon-Shiong said that allegations VICE News raised to Pearlstine in a lengthy interview &#8220;had been reviewed previously and had been found to be without merit or otherwise addressed appropriately.&#8221; “The Times continues to benefit from Norm’s leadership, integrity and passion for great journalism,&#8221; the statement continued. &#8220;We can assure our staff that we have an ongoing commitment to diversity and inspiring our community which started when we took over the reins just two years ago.” The statement came four months after an anonymous letter, which said it was on behalf of newsroom leaders, was delivered to Soon-Shiong’s office regarding Pearlstine’s leadership. The letter, which was obtained by VICE News, requested that Soon-Shiong start a nationwide search for Pearlstine’s replacement. When Soon-Shiong agreed to purchase the Times (and the San Diego Union-Tribune ) for $500 million in February 2018, he inherited a newspaper in crisis. The Tronc era that preceded Soon-Shiong had been defined by scandals, resignations, cuts, and departures. To save the paper and themselves, the staff had unionized at the beginning of the year and waged a successful campaign against ownership that even the higher-ups came to appreciate. “It&#8217;s a very, very courageous group of journalists,” said Sewell Chan, the editorial page editor. “They fought to keep the institution alive.” Their prize was Soon-Shiong, a deep-pocketed local owner willing to invest in quality journalism. Here was reason for an unfamiliar feeling at the Times : optimism. From the outset, Soon-Shiong showed an ambitious desire to restore the Times to its former glory. In his search to find a lead editor and chart a course forward, Soon-Shiong quickly brought on Norm Pearlstine in an advisory role. From their first dinner, Soon-Shiong displayed a commitment to diversifying the paper, asking which female journalists or journalists of color could lead the way, Pearlstine has said. “We were extremely impressed by Norm’s inherent commitment to this goal to improve hiring practices and, as importantly, to overcome implicit bias,” Soon-Shiong told VICE News. But finding the paper’s next leader proved difficult. Soon-Shiong personally attempted to recruit top stars like the Washington Post ’s Marty Baron and the New York Times ’ Dean Baquet to run the paper, but they were uninterested. Pearlstine himself has said that he found other potential candidates were wary of the job too. “A few asked whether, after so many years of turmoil, it was too late for a turnaround,” he told staff this June in an all-hands meeting held on Zoom. Pearlstine ultimately suggested that Soon-Shiong not rush into committing to anyone before they familiarized themselves with the staff, according to the Times . The day Soon-Shiong completed his purchase of the paper that June, he announced the first major editorial decision of his reign: He was hiring Pearlstine as executive editor. Pearlstine, then 75, felt like an upgrade to many in the newsroom. He had 50 years of experience in newsrooms, and had held top jobs at Time Inc., Bloomberg L.P., and the Wall Street Journal . “He&#8217;s a journalist,” explained one current Times staffer. “We&#8217;ve been in positions before where we&#8217;ve had people running the place that didn&#8217;t have that kind of experience.” But the elevation of Pearlstine rankled more than a few staffers, who questioned how thorough his search had been to fill a job that became his. (A few quipped that he&#8217;d pulled a Dick Cheney.) In May, a number of respected reporters in the newsroom had generated a list of 10 prospective candidates, only one of whom was a white man, and presented it to Pearlstine. At least four people on the list—including Kevin Merida, editor-in-chief of ESPN’s The Undefeated; Lydia Polgreen, then editor-in-chief of HuffPost; and Susan Chira, former New York Times deputy executive editor and current editor-in chief of the Marshall Project —were not contacted about the job, they told VICE News. Several of the proposed candidates told VICE News they would have been interested in the position. “I got a lot of lists,” Pearlstine said in response. “You happen to have found one of many, and I spoke to a lot of people.” (One of the reporters for this story worked at HuffPost under Polgreen.) Norm Pearlstine at a June 24, 2020 virtual town hall. Photo by Jay L. Clendenin / Los Angeles Times via Getty Images Entrusted with the newspaper, Pearlstine understood his main job to be building up a new and more diverse masthead—“a succession team,” as he put it. He quickly elevated insiders, like Scott Kraft and Kimi Yoshino, and poached the likes of BuzzFeed’s Shani Hilton , Slate’s Julia Turner , Chan , who came from the New York Times , and Lucky Peach co-founder Peter Meehan , who announced his departure as this story was being published, following the publication of a Twitter thread earlier this week that surfaced allegations against hi