# When Will Car Prices Drop

**Source**: https://www.jpmorgan.com/insights/research/when-will-car-prices-drop
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:45:19.524236+00:00

---

Inflation and the auto industry: When will car prices drop? Skip to main content Solutions Who We Serve Insights About Us Menu Solutions Who We Serve Insights About Us Careers News Contact Us Login Global Asia Pacific Europe Latin America Middle East &amp; Africa North America Global Back to all regions Australia &amp; New Zealand Bangladesh Mainland China | English 中文 Hong Kong SAR, China India Indonesia Japan | English 日本 Korea | English 한국 Malaysia Pakistan Philippines Singapore Sri Lanka Taiwan, China Thailand Vietnam Back to all regions Austria Belgium Channel Islands Denmark Finland France Germany Greece Ireland Italy Luxembourg Netherlands Norway Poland Portugal Russia | English Русский Spain Sweden Switzerland Turkey | English Türkiye United Kingdom Back to all regions Argentina | English Español Brazil | English Português Chile | English Español Colombia | English Español Mexico | English Español Panama Peru | English Español Venezuela Back to all regions Bahrain Egypt Israel Lebanon Nigeria Qatar Saudi Arabia South Africa United Arab Emirates Back to all regions United States Canada | English French Commercial Banking Credit and Financing Institutional Investing Investment Banking Payments Private Bank Wealth Management Back to menu Commercial Banking Commercial Banking From startups to legacy brands, you're making your mark. We're here to help. Innovation Economy Fueling the success of early-stage startups, venture-backed and high-growth companies. Midsize Businesses Keep your company growing with custom banking solutions for middle market businesses and specialized industries. Large Corporations Innovative banking solutions tailored to corporations and specialized industries. Commercial Real Estate Capitalize on opportunities and prepare for challenges throughout the real estate cycle. Community Impact Banking When our communities succeed, we all succeed. Local businesses, organizations and community institutions need capital, expertise and connections to thrive. International Banking Power your business' global growth and operations at every stage. Key Links Industries Insights Client Stories Back to menu Credit and Financing Credit and Financing Prepare for future growth with customized loan services, succession planning and capital for business equipment. Asset Based Lending Enhance your liquidity and gain the flexibility to capitalize on growth opportunities. Equipment Financing Maximize working capital with flexible equipment and technology financing. Trade &amp; Working Capital Experience our market-leading supply chain finance solutions that help buyers and suppliers meet their working capital, risk mitigation and cash flow objectives. Syndicated Financing Leverage customized loan syndication services from a dedicated resource. Commercial Real Estate Capitalize on opportunities and prepare for challenges throughout the real estate cycle. Employee Stock Ownership Plans Plan for your business’s future—and your employees’ futures too—with objective advice and financing. Key Links Insights Industries Client Stories Back to menu Institutional Investing Institutional Investing Serving the world's largest corporate clients and institutional investors, we support the entire investment cycle with market-leading research, analytics, execution and investor services. Institutional Investors Putting your long-tenured investment teams on the line to earn the trust of institutional investors. Markets Direct access to market leading liquidity harnessed through world-class research, tools, data and analytics. Prime Services Helping hedge funds, asset managers and institutional investors meet the demands of a rapidly evolving market. Global Research Leveraging cutting-edge technology and innovative tools to bring clients industry-leading analysis and investment advice. Securities Services Solutions Helping institutional investors, traditional and alternative asset and fund managers, broker dealers and equity issuers meet the demands of changing markets. Key Links Fusion Financial Professionals Liquidity Investors Back to menu Investment Banking Investment Banking Providing investment banking solutions, including mergers and acquisitions, capital raising and risk management, for a broad range of corporations, institutions and governments. Center for Carbon Transition J.P. Morgan’s center of excellence that provides clients the data and firmwide expertise needed to navigate the challenges of transitioning to a low-carbon future. Corporate Finance Advisory Corporate Finance Advisory (“CFA”) is a global, multi-disciplinary solutions team specializing in structured M&amp;A and capital markets. Learn more. Development Finance Institution Financing opportunities with anticipated development impact in emerging economies. Sustainable Solutions Offering ESG-related advisory and coordinating the firm's EMEA coverage of clients in emerging green economy sectors. Mergers and Acquisitions Bespoke M&amp;A solutions on a global scale. Capital Markets Holistic coverage across capital markets. Key Links Global Corporate Banking In Context Newsletter from J.P. Morgan Director Advisory Services Back to menu Payments Payments Your partner for commerce, receivables, cross-currency, working capital, blockchain, liquidity and more. Accept Payments Access® Commerce Cross-Currency Solutions Digital Bill Payment Integrated Receivables Payment Gateway Remote Capture Resource Center Wallet™ Explore Blockchain Kinexys Client Service Global Client Service Process Payments Commerce Payment Facilitation Manage Funds Access® Commercial Cards Chase Connect Escrow Services Insights Liquidity and Account Solutions Trade and Working Capital Virtual Account Management Wallet™ Safeguard Information Trust and Safety Banking-as-a-service Concourse™ Liquidity and Account Solutions Wallet™ Send Payments Commerce Commercial Cards Concourse™ Cross-Currency Solutions Developer Portal FedNow Integrated Payables Prepaid Card Trade and Working Capital Virtual Cards Wallet™ Key Links Partner Network Newsletter ClIent Stories Back to menu Private Bank Private Bank A uniquely elevated private banking experience shaped around you. Banking We have extensive personal and business banking resources that are fine-tuned to your specific needs. Investing We deliver tailored investing guidance and access to unique investment opportunities from world-class specialists. Lending We take a strategic approach to lending, working with you to craft the right financing solutions matched to your goals. Planning No matter where you are in your life, or how complex your needs might be, we’re ready to provide a tailored approach to helping your reach your goals. Back to menu Wealth Management Wealth Management Whether you want to invest on your own or work with an advisor to design a personalized investment strategy, we have opportunities for every investor. Invest on your own Unlimited $0 commission-free online stock, ETF and options trades with access to powerful tools to research, trade and manage your investments. Work with our advisors When you work with our advisors, you'll get a personalized financial strategy and investment portfolio built around your unique goals-backed by our industry-leading expertise. Expertise for Substantial Wealth Our Wealth Advisors &amp; Wealth Partners leverage their experience and robust firm resources to deliver highly-personalized, comprehensive solutions across Banking, Lending, Investing, and Wealth Planning. Key Links Why Wealth Management? Retirement Calculators Market Commentary Who We Serve Back to menu Who We Serve Who We Serve INDUSTRIES WE SERVE Commercial Real Estate Consumer and Retail Diversified Industries Energy, Power &amp; Renewables Financial Health Care Media, Telecom and Entertainment Metals &amp; Mining Public Sector Technology Key Links Insights Client Stories All Insights Insights by Topic Insights by Type Back to menu All Insights All Insights Explore a variety of insights. Key Links Client Stories Global Research 2025 Outlooks Back to menu Insights by Topic Insights by Topic Explore a variety of insights organized by different topics. Business Planning and Strategy Commercial Real Estate Community Development Cybersecurity and Fraud Protection Diversity, Opportunity and Inclusion Global Business Investment Banking Markets and Economy Multifamily Real Estate Payments Sustainability Treasury Wealth Planning Key Links Client Stories Global Research Newsletters Back to menu Insights by Type Insights by Type Explore a variety of insights organized by different types of content and media. Client Stories Podcasts Videos Key Links All Insights Global Research Newsletters About Us Back to menu About Us About Us We aim to be the most respected financial services firm in the world, serving corporations and individuals in more than 100 countries. Contact Us News and Stories Media Center Events and Conferences Impact Technology at Our Firm Key Links Insights Client Stories Newsletters Insights Global Research Autos Inflation and the auto industry: When will car prices drop? Global Research Inflation and the auto industry: When will car prices drop? February 22, 2023 J.P. Morgan Research explores the factors driving up vehicle prices and when inflationary pressures will abate. Overview New car prices are rising as a result of higher production costs. In the U.S., the average price of a new vehicle was up 4.2% year-over-year in January 2023. This has fueled demand for used cars, with average prices tracking around 30% above pre-pandemic levels. Used car prices have likely peaked, but new car prices are expected to remain high. In 2023, prices are expected to decline by roughly 10% for used cars and by 2.5% to 5% for new cars. Car prices have accelerated in recent months, as with many other consumer goods. According to figures from data analytics firm J.D. Power, the average price paid for a new vehicle in the U.S. was up 4.2% year-ov