# Annotated Transformer

**Source**: https://github.com/harvardnlp/annotated-transformer/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:58:47.327960+00:00

---

GitHub - harvardnlp/annotated-transformer: An annotated implementation of the Transformer paper. Skip to content Navigation Menu Toggle navigation Sign in Appearance settings Platform GitHub Copilot Write better code with AI GitHub Spark New Build and deploy intelligent apps GitHub Models New Manage and compare prompts GitHub Advanced Security Find and fix vulnerabilities Actions Automate any workflow Codespaces Instant dev environments Issues Plan and track work Code Review Manage code changes Discussions Collaborate outside of code Code Search Find more, search less Explore Why GitHub Documentation GitHub Skills Blog Integrations GitHub Marketplace MCP Registry View all features Solutions By company size Enterprises Small and medium teams Startups Nonprofits By use case App Modernization DevSecOps DevOps CI/CD View all use cases By industry Healthcare Financial services Manufacturing Government View all industries View all solutions Resources Topics AI DevOps Security Software Development View all Explore Learning Pathways Events &amp; Webinars Ebooks &amp; Whitepapers Customer Stories Partners Executive Insights Open Source GitHub Sponsors Fund open source developers The ReadME Project GitHub community articles Repositories Topics Trending Collections Enterprise Enterprise platform AI-powered developer platform Available add-ons GitHub Advanced Security Enterprise-grade security features Copilot for business Enterprise-grade AI features Premium Support Enterprise-grade 24/7 support Pricing Search or jump to... Search code, repositories, users, issues, pull requests... --> Search Clear Search syntax tips Provide feedback --> We read every piece of feedback, and take your input very seriously. Include my email address so I can be contacted Cancel Submit feedback Saved searches Use saved searches to filter your results more quickly --> Name Query To see all available qualifiers, see our documentation . Cancel Create saved search Sign in Sign up Appearance settings Resetting focus You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. Dismiss alert {{ message }} harvardnlp / annotated-transformer Public Notifications You must be signed in to change notification settings Fork 1.4k Star 6.6k An annotated implementation of the Transformer paper. nlp.seas.harvard.edu/annotated-transformer License MIT license 6.6k stars 1.4k forks Branches Tags Activity Star Notifications You must be signed in to change notification settings Code Issues 31 Pull requests 4 Actions Projects 0 Security Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Insights Additional navigation options Code Issues Pull requests Actions Projects Security Insights harvardnlp/annotated-transformer master Branches Tags Go to file Code Open more actions menu Folders and files Name Name Last commit message Last commit date Latest commit History 205 Commits .github/ workflows .github/ workflows docs docs images images writeup writeup .gitignore .gitignore AnnotatedTransformer.ipynb AnnotatedTransformer.ipynb LICENSE LICENSE Makefile Makefile README.md README.md requirements.txt requirements.txt the_annotated_transformer.py the_annotated_transformer.py View all files Repository files navigation README MIT license Code for The Annotated Transformer blog post: http://nlp.seas.harvard.edu/annotated-transformer/ Package Dependencies Use requirements.txt to install library dependencies with pip: pip install -r requirements.txt Notebook Setup The Annotated Transformer is created using jupytext . Regular notebooks pose problems for source control - cell outputs end up in the repo history and diffs between commits are difficult to examine. Using jupytext, there is a python script ( .py file) that is automatically kept in sync with the notebook file by the jupytext plugin. The python script is committed contains all the cell content and can be used to generate the notebook file. The python script is a regular python source file, markdown sections are included using a standard comment convention, and outputs are not saved. The notebook itself is treated as a build artifact and is not commited to the git repository. Prior to using this repo, make sure jupytext is installed by following the installation instructions here . To produce the .ipynb notebook file using the markdown source, run (under the hood, the notebook build target simply runs jupytext --to ipynb the_annotated_transformer.py ): make notebook To produce the html version of the notebook, run: make html make html is just a shortcut for for generating the notebook with jupytext --to ipynb the_annotated_transformer.py followed by using the jupyter nbconvert command to produce html using jupyter nbconvert --to html the_annotated_transformer.ipynb Formatting and Linting To keep the code formatting clean, the annotated transformer git repo has a git action to check that the code conforms to PEP8 coding standards . To make this easier, there are two Makefile build targets to run automatic code formatting with black and flake8. Be sure to install black and flake8 . You can then run: make black (or alternatively manually call black black --line-length 79 the_annotated_transformer.py ) to format code automatically using black and: make flake (or manually call flake8 `flake8 --show-source the_annotated_transformer.py) to check for PEP8 violations. It's recommended to run these two commands and fix any flake8 errors that arise, when submitting a PR, otherwise the github actions CI will report an error. About An annotated implementation of the Transformer paper. nlp.seas.harvard.edu/annotated-transformer Topics python notebook annotated Resources Readme License MIT license Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Activity Custom properties Stars 6.6k stars Watchers 68 watching Forks 1.4k forks Report repository Releases No releases published Packages 0 No packages published Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Contributors 5 Languages Jupyter Notebook 98.8% Other 1.2% Footer &copy; 2025 GitHub,&nbsp;Inc. Footer navigation Terms Privacy Security Status Community Docs Contact Manage cookies Do not share my personal information You can’t perform that action at this time.