# Rising R Usage In The Sciences

**Source**: http://flowingdata.com/2015/01/05/rising-r-usage-in-the-sciences/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:55:01.600028+00:00

---

Rising R usage in the sciences &#8211; FlowingData Membership Books Projects Learning Newsletters Member Login Rising R usage in the sciences January 5, 2015 Topic Software &nbsp;/&nbsp; R , science --> R continues its growth, and usage in the sciences is no exception. Nature describes some of the applications along with links to getting started with the statistical computing language . Besides being free, R is popular partly because it presents different faces to different users. It is, first and foremost, a programming language &mdash; requiring input through a command line, which may seem forbidding to non-coders. But beginners can surf over the complexities and call up preset software packages, which come ready-made with commands for statistical analysis and data visualization. These packages create a welcoming middle ground between the comfort of commercial &#8216;black-box&#8217; solutions and the expert world of code. &#8220;R made it very easy,&#8221; says Rojo. &#8220;It did everything for me.&#8221; For me, R used to be a traditional analysis tool that I made graphs with occasionally. But at some point it became more about the data graphics, and these days that&#8217;s about all I do . That&#8217;s the great thing about R. You don&#8217;t have to learn everything about the language to get a lot out of it. Just take in bits at a time to suit your needs, and before you know it: learning &lt;- function(time) { return(&quot;easy&quot;); } Here are a handful more resources to get you started: R for cats and cat lovers Learn R interactively with Swirl package Introduction to R, a video series by Google Plus lots more . FlowingData Delivered to Your Inbox Email Address Weekly Digest Send me a summary for the week. Related Learning R Versus d3.js for Visualization Posted to Guides --> Why learning code for data is worthwhile Posted to Guides --> Why I Use R More than Python Posted to The Process --> Get access to courses, tutorials, and more resources. Become a member &rarr; About Contact LinkedIn Instagram Bluesky RSS Copyright &copy; 2007-Present FlowingData. All rights reserved.