# goodshort.com

**Source**: https://www.goodshort.com/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:20:44.051298+00:00

---

Best Chinese Drama, Drama China, Short Drama &amp; Movies Online Free – Watch on GoodShort --> We're sorry but website doesn't work properly without JavaScript enabled. Please enable it to continue. Home Categories All Fantasy-Female Revenge Romance Suspense Thriller Urban Fantasy-Male Download TOP UP search... Following English 한국어 ภาษาไทย Indonesia Español Deutsch Français 日本語 Português العربية Log In Score 10% extra value vs the app Top Up Now Most Trending More Now Racer Mom's Untouchable Racing prodigy Elena gave up her career for love and family, only to be betrayed by her husband and son. She came to her senses, divorced him, and with the help of devoted billionaire Sean, she takes down her conniving sister and scumbag ex-husband. The former housewife then reclaims her championship title, becoming a brilliant star far beyond the reach of those who once looked down on her. [ENG DUB] Sisters Against the World's Judgment Romance Blaze was the revered Warrior Goddess of the Northern Realm. After completing her mission, she attended her sister Anna's engagement party but was looked down upon for still wearing her task uniform. Anna stood up for Blaze, who then used her strength to punish Anna's fiancé and his family. After that, Blaze introduced Anna to the worthy suitor, Zane. One day, Blaze and Anna unexpectedly encountered their parents, who abandoned them years ago. Blaze decided to take action on Anna's birthday, aiming to make their neglectful parents regret their choices for a lifetime. Kidnapped by the Mafia Romance Sold by her boyfriend to the mafia king Vincenzo as his contract bride, Violet plans her escape. Yet she discovers Vincenzo's heart of gold... that belongs to her. When danger strikes, Vincenzo saves Violet and suffers grave injuries, leading her to marry him out of duty and gratitude. But during their wedding ceremony, an assassination plot unfolds… Blood and Bones of the Disowned Daughter Natalie was once the Parson family's cherished daughter, but her world was shattered when Monica was unmasked as the true heiress. Manipulated by Monica, she was framed for their grandmother's murder and cast out by her family to a hellish reform school. Two years later, she was released, only to be forced into a marriage with a notorious alcoholic playboy. As the truth about her past and the horrors of that &quot;school&quot; come to light, Natalie watches everyone with a cold stare. Her storm of revenge has just begun. Big Bad Daddy You Are Busted Once a feared underworld lord, Eddie chose a quiet life. Four years later, she returns—Nora Olson, a stunning CEO, holding a child—and shatters his calm world: ‘She’s yours. Marry me, and be her father.’ A flash marriage. Family betrayal. Corporate war. And just when she needs saving most, the richest man alive calls her new husband… son! Trapped and Redeemed By His Love Romance Saddled with her father’s crippling debt, Yvette breaks up with her boyfriend Archer by pretending to sleep with another man. But while chasing her, Archer gets run over by a car and nearly dies. Years later, Yvette is secretly raising Archer’s son, while Archer’s conquered the business world. When their paths cross again, their mutual hatred and repressed love engulf them both like flames… Watch Good Short Dramas For Free Free access to trending short dramas on GoodShort app. Download and watch full episodes anytime &amp; anywhere. Watch dramas for free on the app Top in GoodShort More Fated Deal with the Mafia King Romance [ENG DUB] Flash Marriage CEO Spoils Me a Lot Romance Becoming My Ex’s Mother in Law Romance A Blind Date with my Mr. Meant-to-Be Romance Love by Contract Romance Uncle Richard is My Baby Daddy Romance Hot List More My Gangster Baby Daddy Pampers Me to Paradise Romance Chasing My Billionaire Ex-wife Romance Mistaken for a Gold Digger Romance Dear Husband, Do you Remember me? Romance Billionaire CEO’s Obsession Romance I'm a Queen Not a Mistress Romance Love Stories More Sweet Revenge for the Wrong Diagnosis Romance When Lily and her doctor meet in private to discuss a the results of a cancer screening, her husband Mason accidentally overhears. Believing that Lily has cancer, he divorces her, kicks her out of their house, and shacks up with her best friend—all so he can cut her loose before she can drag him down. Just as Lily is left with nothing, she meets Adam: a billionaire CEO who needs a fake relationship to appease his nagging grandfather. Lily and Adam move in together, even as Mason mocks Lily for being on death's door. But what Mason doesn't know is that Lily isn't the one with late-stage cancer—he is! My Family Sold Me to Criminal Boss Romance When Lilian Grey is forced into marriage with notorious mafia boss Adam Steel, her life becomes a dangerous game of passion and deception. Her status as a bride turns into that of a maid when Adam’s secret marriage to another woman is revealed. Living under the same roof with Adam’s wife and enigmatic brother, Lilian uncovers family lies, a masquerade ball mystery, and false illnesses, all while navigating forbidden desires. But every step toward love reveals hidden enemies closer than she could ever imagine. Our Love Measured in Letters Clare was the woman Axel begged and coaxed for—writing 99 love letters—before finally winning her hand in marriage. By their fifth year,however, Axel grew restless and began spending time with a young nurse. The girl, Emma, came from a poor family yet carried herself with quiet pride. When she firmly rejected the black card Axel offered,declaring she would never be anyone's kept woman, he became obsessed. Axel started appearing around Emma more and more,drawing the attention of all their friends, while briefly forgetting the wife he had once courted with 99 heartfelt letters. Clare neither cried nor argued. Instead, each time Axel broke her heart, she burned one of those letters. And when the last of the 99 was reduced to ashes, it would mark the day she left him for good. Forever With the Right One In her past life, Yvonne Grant gave everything to Marcus Quinn, only to be betrayed and deceived. Reborn on the very day she must choose a fiancé, she turns away from her first love Marcus and instead chooses Quintus Dalton, a man destined to become a tech magnate. As they spend time together, Yvonne uncovers his long-hidden feelings and years of quiet devotion. Realizing that Quintus is the one she was truly meant to love, she confronts Marcus with the truth that he once mistook another woman for her. Free at last from her old obsessions, Yvonne opens her heart to the man who has always stood by her side. Uncle Richard is My Baby Daddy Romance Jocelyn was killed after catching her husband Colton cheating on her with her half-sister. Miraculously, God gave her a second chance and sent her back to the moment she was proposed to three years ago. This time she wouldn't let them get away with it, but she didn't expect to find herself pregnant with a baby from Colton's uncle, Richard Asher. A Mistaken Surrogate for the Ruthless Billionaire Romance Luciana Bridge caught her husband Alex cheating on her just as she was about to tell him the good news that she was pregnant with his baby after artificial insemination. Then she learnt of the sperm mix-up that has left her carrying the child of powerful billionaire David Carlson. Lulu moves into David's mansion to become his secret surrogate and openly fiancée, only to discover that he wants more than just her surrogacy services. Counterattack More The Queen Strikes Back with Three Tycoons Romance Molly was caught between three powerful suitors—the world's richest man, a genius doctor, and a mafia godfather—but her heart belonged to her rescuer, Dante. She planned to propose to him after her grandmother's birthday party, only to discover Dante had married her sister. As her family's abuse began, her three formidable admirers arrived just in time. Impersonating Justice: The Twin Who Walked Again Jeffrey Jameson was killed by his wife, Janice Davis, and his cousin,Zack Jameson. Gerald Jameson, who faked his death ten years ago, was Jeffrey’s twin brother. After finding out about Jeffrey’s death, Gerald decided to impersonate Jeffrey. All he wanted was to get the evidence against the murderers, avenge his family’s death,and get back the company that was founded by his parents. Don't Challenge the Lady Billionaire Romance Juliet, the president of a top financial conglomerate, hides her identity for love. She silently gives her all for seven years, only to be abandoned by her profit-driven boyfriend, Charles. To get revenge on Charles, she has a flash marriage with Charles' boss, Tristian. At an upcoming banquet, Charles is about to face this new couples... Billionaire Heiress VS Her Murderer Husband Revenge Though Lisa's unfaithful husband conspired with his mistress to murder her, she managed to survive the attack. All the while, unbeknownst to them, Lisa is actually the sole daughter of the world's richest man. Quietly, Lisa hatches a plan to make them pay. A Deadly Trap for the Cheating Husband Pregnant and betrayed, Dr. Emma was framed, stripped of everything, and pushed from a hospital rooftop by her husband and his mistress, Isabella. Death should’ve been the end… but she wakes four months earlier, on the very day Isabella returned. Now, Emma vows revenge. With Vincent, a genius doctor hiding dangerous secrets, she plots to destroy her enemies. Love, betrayal, and blood collide—and this reborn Emma will stop at nothing… but when the final move comes, no one knows who will survive. Born in Dust Crowned by Power Romance Growing up as a girl from the slums, Sophia encounters the most incredible opportunity in her darkest hour: she's chosen as the heir of the largest organization in the world! As Sophia steps onto this glorious but dangerous path, she'll have to face many trials. Even with the immensely powerful Louis by her side, her victories mus