# House Of The Dragon

**Source**: https://www.hbo.com/house-of-the-dragon
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:15:52.979405+00:00

---

Watch House of the Dragon | HBO Max Skip To Content Movies Shows Live Sports Originals Brands Collections Free Episodes Sign In Movies Shows Live Sports Originals Brands Collections Free Episodes Movies Shows Live Sports Originals Brands Collections Free Episodes Sign In Sign Up Sign In Sign Up Now All Episodes Now Streaming House of the Dragon: &nbsp; Westeros is on the brink of a civil war, with the Green and Black Councils fighting for King Aegon and Queen Rhaenyra, respectively, to sit on the Iron&nbsp;Throne. Plans start at $9.99/month. Sign Up Now Watch Trailer Synopsis Following King Aegon II’s coronation and the death of Queen Rhaenyra’s son, House Targaryen is divided in two. In King’s Landing, Aegon II rules from the Iron Throne, supported by Alicent and the Green Council, under the protection of the largest dragon in Westeros. From exile on Dragonstone, Queen Rhaenyra and her Black Council consider their next move. Civil war looms as both sides seek support from the great houses of Westeros, ultimately amassing armies — and&nbsp;dragons. Characters Previous Matt Smith Prince Daemon Targaryen Uncle and husband to Queen Rhaenyra Targaryen and brother to the late King Viserys I. A peerless yet erratic warrior and a dragonrider, Daemon possesses the true blood of the dragon. Next Trailers Previous Next Gallery Inside the Episode — Season 2 Exclusive interviews with the cast and crew breaking down each episode’s biggest moments. Episode 1 Episode 2 Episode 3 Episode 4 Episode 5 Episode 6 Episode 7 Episode 8 The House That Dragons Built — Season 2 A behind-the-scenes look at the meticulous set design, intricate logistics, and cutting-edge special effects used in the series. Episode 1 Episode 2 Episode 3 Episode 4 Episode 5 Episode 6 Episode 7 Episode 8 House Who? Previous Next Episodes Season 1 Season 1 Season 2 Free 1 . The Heirs of the Dragon Viserys hosts a tournament to celebrate the birth of his second child. Rhaenyra ... More 2 . The Rogue Prince Rhaenyra oversteps at the Small Council. Viserys is urged to secure the successi... More 3 . Second of His Name Daemon and the Sea Snake battle the Crabfeeder. The realm celebrates Aegon’s sec... More 4 . King of the Narrow Sea After Rhaenyra cuts short her tour of Westeros, Daemon introduces the princess t... More 5 . We Light the Way Daemon visits his wife in the Vale. Viserys and Rhaenyra broker agreements with ... More 6 . The Princess and the Queen Ten years later. Rhaenyra navigates Alicent’s continued speculation about her ch... More 7 . Driftmark As the families gather on Driftmark for a funeral, Viserys calls for an end to i... More 8 . The Lord of the Tides Six years later. With the Driftmark succession suddenly critical, Rhaenyra attem... More 9 . The Green Council While Alicent enlists Cole and Aemond to track down Aegon, Otto gathers the grea... More 10 . The Black Queen While mourning a tragic loss, Rhaenyra tries to hold the realm together, and Dae... More House of the Dragon Genres Fantasy &amp; Sci-Fi, Drama, Epic Quests&nbsp; Release Year 2022 Rating Information TV-MA Co-Creators George R.R. Martin, Ryan Condal Showrunner Ryan Condal Executive Producers George R.R. Martin, Ryan Condal, Sara Hess, Alan Taylor, Melissa Bernstein, Kevin de la Noy, Loni Peristere, Vince Gerardis&nbsp; Based on the novel by George R.R. Martin About This Series Based on George R.R. Martin’s Fire &amp; Blood and set 200 years before the events of Game of Thrones , this prequel series tells the epic story of House Targaryen.&nbsp; Starring Matt Smith, Olivia Cooke, Emma D’Arcy, Eve Best, Steve Toussaint, Fabien Frankel, Ewan Mitchell, Tom Glynn-Carney, Sonoya Mizuno, Rhys Ifans, Harry Collett, Bethany Antonia, Phoebe Campbell, Phia Saban, Jefferson Hall, Matthew Needham. Season 2 cast includes: Abubakar Salim, Gayle Rankin, Freddie Fox, Simon Russell Beale, Clinton Liberty, Jamie Kenna, Kieran Bew, Tom Bennett, Tom Taylor, Vincent Regan You May Also Like Game of Thrones (HBO) House of the Dragon: The House That Dragons Built (HBO) The Last of Us (HBO) Lovecraft Country (HBO) Fahrenheit 451 (HBO) Watchmen (HBO) The Leftovers (HBO) Carnivale (HBO) The Hypnotist (HBO) True Blood (HBO) Daybreak (HBO) Oz (HBO) Stream Must-See Series, Movies & More Plans start at $9.99/month. Sign Up Now Explore What’s On Movies TV Shows Originals Free Episodes Live Sports Disney+, Hulu, HBO Max Bundle Student Discount Savings on HBO Max Contenido en Español Accessibility Privacy Policy Children&#x27;s Privacy Policy Terms of Use Ad Choices Do Not Sell My Personal Information Help Company Join the Team Press Releases Advertising ©2025 WarnerMedia Direct, LLC. All rights reserved. HBO Max and related elements are property of Home Box Office, Inc.