# Activism

**Source**: https://www.thenation.com/subject/activism/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:56:05.120212+00:00

---

Activism | The Nation --> Log In Email * Password * Remember Me Forgot Your Password? Log In New to The Nation ? Subscribe Print subscriber? Activate your online access Skip to content Skip to footer Magazine Newsletters Subscribe Log In Search Subscribe Donate Magazine Latest Archive Podcasts Newsletters Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts The Nation About Events Contact Us Advertise Current Issue Activism The Queer Catholic Group Trying to Reclaim the Church The Queer Catholic Group Trying to Reclaim the Church At a time when our politics is openly hostile to LGBTQ+ rights, communities like New Ways Ministries are offering a vision of religion not as judgment but as sanctuary. Oct 3, 2025 / StudentNation / Amara McEvoy Marching in NYC Marching in NYC Protests across the country and around the world. Oct 1, 2025 / OppArt / Peter Kuper Ad Policy How Microsoft Workers Helped Halt a Major Contract With the Israeli Military How Microsoft Workers Helped Halt a Major Contract With the Israeli Military A grassroots campaign successfully pressured the tech monopoly to take an unprecedented step toward suspending its complicity in the Gaza genocide. Oct 1, 2025 / Maximillian Alvarez How Italy’s Workers Shut Their Country Down for Gaza How Italy’s Workers Shut Their Country Down for Gaza Hundreds of thousands blocked ports and roadways to demand an end to military collaboration with Israel. Sep 30, 2025 / Niccolò Barca How Germany Silenced Its Artists to Support Israel How Germany Silenced Its Artists to Support Israel As Israel intensified its genocide in Gaza, Germany ramped up its long-simmering war on dissent, silencing Palestine solidarity while bolstering its own far right. Sep 30, 2025 / Feature / Nikki Columbus The Trump Regime Intensifies Its War on Activism—but Dissent Is Always Possible The Trump Regime Intensifies Its War on Activism—but Dissent Is Always Possible The president is presiding over suppression unseen in the US for decades. Sep 29, 2025 / Katrina vanden Heuvel Free Palestine Free Palestine Barcelona’s streets are filled with “Palestina Lliure” posters, Catalonia, Spain, July 2025. Sep 26, 2025 / OppArt / Andrea Arroyo The World’s Newsrooms Can Learn From Bill McKibben’s Climate Journalism The World’s Newsrooms Can Learn From Bill McKibben’s Climate Journalism Traditional journalists complain that he is an advocate—the same criticism Woodward and Bernstein faced during Watergate. Sep 25, 2025 / Mark Hertsgaard and Kyle Pope Where Did All the Youth Climate Activists Go? Where Did All the Youth Climate Activists Go? The “Make Billionaires Pay” march might hint at where the climate movement is headed—away from fossil fuel divestment and toward broader resistance, with fewer young people. Sep 24, 2025 / StudentNation / Heather Chen The Climate Movement Has Blind Spots. We’re Here to Expose Them. The Climate Movement Has Blind Spots. We’re Here to Expose Them. The people most harmed by ecological violence are usually the least represented in the stories we consume about climate change. That’s why the podcast "A People’s Climate" exists. Sep 22, 2025 / Shilpi Chhotray Go to archive page 1 1 Go to archive page 2 2 Go to archive page 3 3 &hellip; Go to archive page 1,014 1,014 Go to next archive page Next Ad Policy Ad Policy Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts OppArt Poetry Letters Magazine Current Issue Masthead Archive Subscription Services Reprints More About Us Contact Us Advertise Nation Events Nation Shop Nation Travels Nation Podcasts Newsletters Follow Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube RSS Founded by abolitionists in 1865, The Nation has long believed that independent journalism has the capacity to bring about a more democratic and equitable world. Donate Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility Statement Help Careers Nation Fund Privacy Manager x