# Master Counterfeiter

**Source**: http://kottke.org/14/10/master-counterfeiter
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:55:31.284055+00:00

---

Master counterfeiter KOTTKE DOT ORG KOTTKE DOT ORG MENU Member Login Home Membership Newsletter Goods Archive + Tags About/Contact dark mode light mode Advertise here with Carbon Ads Socials & More Newsletter RSS Feed Bluesky Mastodon This site is made possible by member support . 💞 Big thanks to Arcustech for hosting the site and offering amazing tech support. When you buy through links on kottke.org, I may earn an affiliate commission. Thanks for supporting the site! kottke.org. home of fine hypertext products since 1998. Beloved by 86.47% of the web. 🍔 &nbsp; 💀 &nbsp; 📸 &nbsp; 😭 &nbsp; 🕳️ &nbsp; 🤠 &nbsp; 🎬 &nbsp; 🥔 × close posted Oct 28 @ 12:29 PM by Jason Kottke &ensp;·&ensp; gift link Master counterfeiter Wells Tower recently profiled master counterfeiter Frank Bourassa for GQ. Bourassa made $200 million in nearly flawless fake US twenties in a barn in Canada, got caught, and, you get the feeling pretty early on in the piece, didn&#8217;t really do any time for the crime. Drawing on cautionary news reports of failed counterfeiters, Frank sketched out a set of best-practice guidelines for his new concern. First, &#8220;don&#8217;t ever try to pass the money yourself. You want to be as far away as possible from where the money&#8217;s being spent.&#8221; Second, &#8220;don&#8217;t sell your stuff to anyone who&#8217;s going to be passing it locally. I knew from the beginning, I needed to sell my bills to Europe or Asia.&#8221; Third, resist the temptation to print big bills. &#8220;Do twenties. It&#8217;s stupid to try to pass hundred-dollar bills anymore. People look at them all day long, hold it up to the light and everything. Nobody looks twice at a twenty.&#8221; Fourth, don&#8217;t cheap out. Most of the people who try their luck at counterfeiting do so by breathtakingly broke-dick means, with stuff you can buy at Office Depot. &#8220;Can you make bills on a $50 ink-jet? Sure, if you want to get busted right away,&#8221; said Frank. &#8220;All the security features in a bill are basically there to stop broke fucking-moron assholes who are trying to do their thing on an ink-jet. I knew if I wanted to succeed, my bills had to be as perfect as possible, as close as possible to the way the bills are actually made.&#8221; Don&#8217;t miss the video of Bourassa examining one of the new $US100 bills. He doesn&#8217;t really come off as someone organized enough to pull something like this off, which was probably advantageous to him in actually (almost) doing so. There&#8217;s much more information about Bourassa on his web site . crime currency Frank Bourassa Wells Tower Share