# Anti Porn Extremism Pornhub Traffickinghub Exodus Cry Ncose

**Source**: https://www.vice.com/en/article/n7bj9w/anti-porn-extremism-pornhub-traffickinghub-exodus-cry-ncose
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:12:10.814759+00:00

---

The Crusade Against Pornhub Is Going to Get Someone Killed + English Close VICE Editions English Bahasa Indonesia Czech Danish Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands Polish Portuguese Română Russian Srpski Swedish Ελληνικά عربي 日本語 한국어 Open Menu Close Menu Magazine TV News Life Tech Munchies Music Waypoint Shop Members Newsletters Instagram TikTok YouTube Google Discover Google Top Posts Video TV Shop Members Facebook Instagram TikTok Reddit YouTube Google Discover Google Top Posts Search Culture News Tech Munchies Drugs Entertainment Environment Extremism Identity Investigations Music Waypoint Photography Sex Travel Tech The Crusade Against Pornhub Is Going to Get Someone Killed By Samantha Cole April 13, 2021, 11:57am Share: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share using Native tools Share Copied to clipboard Follow Us On Discover Make Us Preferred In Top Stories In early February, a post by an extremist Christian group on the far-right social media platform Gab called for the death of a specific Pornhub executive. &#8220;WANTED,&#8221; the image posted to Gab, featuring a man&#8217;s headshot and full name, said. &#8220;For crimes against women and children. Help us bring pornstars to justice. Save your children from the LGBT ideology. Save your daughter from becoming a whore. Save the white race!&#8221; Another image in the same post shows a man in military fatigues and a black ski mask holding a gun. Videos by VICE The Gab post described Pornhub as a &#8220;cartel,&#8221; and said that if Canada, where Pornhub&#8217;s parent company Mindgeek is headquartered, fails to sentence Pornhub employees to the death penalty, members of the Christian group will execute them themselves. It also used the hashtag #Traffickinghub, the eponymous name of the mainstream campaign to shut down Pornhub, founded by Laila Mickelwait and &#8220;powered by&#8221; Exodus Cry , a faith-based anti-trafficking organization with ties to a homophobic megachurch that wants to end the porn industry . &#8220;Heil Exodus Cry!&#8221; Another post on Gab by the same neo-Nazi group said, and included an image of a man in a bullet-proof vest, a shotgun, and the words &#8220;SHUT IT DOWN!&#8221; imposed over a photograph of Mindgeek&#8217;s Montreal office. There are other similarities between the extremist Christian group&#8217;s post on Gab and Exodus Cry&#8217;s messaging. In October 1, 2020, Exodus Cry posted a blog about the identity of the same Pornhub executive named in the Gab post, inviting readers to &#8220;join the fight to expose Mindgeek and bring their &#8216;real&#8217; executives to justice for profiting off of sex crimes.&#8221; The post on Gab said that &#8220;all porn producers, watchers and stars must face justice for their crimes.&#8221; The explicit goal of Exodus Cry’s Traffickinghub campaign is to end Pornhub entirely: “We&#8217;re calling for Pornhub to be shut down and its executives held accountable for these crimes,&#8221; the campaign states. Other Gab posts, seen by Motherboard, show people posing in skull masks, holding rifles, and wearing Traffickinghub t-shirts, which Exodus Cry sells for $25. Some posts within these extremist groups are recruitment calls for new members to patrol borders or engage in &#8220;direct activism.&#8221; Several include swastikas and other hate symbols. One, with images of women holding baseball bats and wearing Traffickinghub t-shirts, says that &#8220;volunteers in LA are carrying out patrols, looking for whores, pimps and TIM/TIF [&#8220;trans identified male/trans identified female,&#8221; which are transphobic slurs ] creeps. Women must protect themselves at all cost, the Biden government wont and its only going to get worse! Defend women and children, abolish sex work and trans rights.&#8221; Traffickinghub and Exodus Cry have never explicitly called for violence against Pornhub, and both groups clearly condemned these posts and others that call for violence while invoking their names after Motherboard reached out for comment. Posts by extremists viewed by Motherboard use these anti-trafficking organizations&#8217; branding and language. More importantly, they agree with the substance of the ideologies that these anti-trafficking organizations peddle—that all sex work is trafficking, that the porn industry needs to be eradicated, that massage parlors are dens of criminal activity. They believe that Pornhub is as evil and dangerous as Traffickinghub says, and if the government is not going to stop it like Traffickinghub wants it to, they threaten to stop it themselves by violent means. A spokesperson for Pornhub told me that the company&#8217;s security team is constantly monitoring online and in-person activity to keep employees safe. &#8220;Rampant anti-porn rhetoric has drastically increased instances of death threats and doxing against our employees,&#8221; a Pornhub spokesperson told Motherboard. &#8220;Unfortunately, it has also been detrimental to the hundreds of thousands of models who seek to use our platform to earn a living.&#8221; Mary Moody, a founding board member at the Adult Industry Laborers &amp; Artists Association, told me that she believes organizations like Exodus Cry and the National Center on Sexual Exploitation (NCOSE), formerly known as Morality in Media, try to eradicate the adult industry by making sex workers fear for their lives. &#8220;Violent imagery from their adherents is the direct result of their violent rhetoric against sex workers,&#8221; she said. &#8220;NCOSE and Traffickinghub foment their followers into a deadly frenzy, that is their goal, and they are to blame for the fear sex workers live with, and the deaths that follow.&#8221; Read Next &#8216;War Against Sex Workers:&#8217; What Visa and Mastercard Dropping Pornhub Means to Performers While Exodus Cry has largely tried to get Pornhub shut down using political and social media pressure, its rhetoric is used by people who want to take matters into their own hands. Sex workers and organizations targeted by those people believe that the rhetoric is going to lead to real world violence, and say that several high-profile mass killings can be traced back to anti-sex worker rhetoric more broadly. &#8220;Most recently, these groups have used extremist language and tapped into QAnon sentiment toward child trafficking, so it makes sense that their rhetoric has attracted and mobilized some of the darkest corners of the internet,&#8221; the Pornhub spokesperson said. &#8220;It is disturbing and dangerous, but not the least bit surprising, to see extremists using Nazi paraphernalia, death threats and photos of weapons alongside Exodus Cry&#8217;s Traffickinghub logo.&#8221; Anti-Porn Extremists, Neo-Nazis, and the Anti-Trafficking Movement There are hundreds of anti-trafficking organizations operating in the U.S. alone. The overwhelming majority of these push for a model of sex work called the Nordic or end-demand model, which criminalizes sex buyers. Sex worker advocacy groups, as well as global human rights organizations including Amnesty International , the ACLU , and Human Rights Watch , say—and have conducted studies that show—that this model would only expose workers to more risk. Sex work wouldn&#8217;t simply go away, but it would becomes less visible, more dangerous, and would directly lead to more exploitation. Instead of legalization or &#8220;partial&#8221; decriminalization, these organizations say, sex workers need full decriminalization. Sex trafficking is a real and tragic issue, but anti-trafficking groups frequently equate the entire adult industry, including pornography, with exploitation and paint sex workers as victims in need of rescue. “Anti-sex trafficking” is a topic that&#8217;s easy to gain political backing, fundraising, and popular support for . By couching the conversation as being against “sexual slavery,” it’s easy to shut down the more nuanced and difficult conversations about the ways that politicians, businesses, antiquated laws, poorly written sex trafficking legislation, and an anti-sex-work culture more broadly have hurt and killed people who are working in the consensual porn and sex work industries. No reasonable human is pro-trafficking, but anti-trafficking groups use the issue to advance legislation and policies, and real-world stigma against sex workers, to further their cause. Frequently, these “anti-sex trafficking” groups want to end the entire adult industry altogether. &#8220;Most of this propaganda is pretty ordinary visually in terms of online white supremacists, except that the individuals in the propaganda photos are women, and the text is explicitly anti-porn.” All the anti-sex trafficking groups Motherboard contacted for this story condemned the content of the extremist Gab posts, and all forms of violence, but also rejected the notion that their negative portrayal of sex work and pornography could lead to real world violence. In fact, Mickelwait suggested , without any evidence, that the Gab posts could have been created by Pornhub as a way to undermine her campaign to shut the site down. When I asked Mickelwait to comment on the use of Traffickinghub logos and language by neo-Nazis, she directed me to two of her tweets: one from October 2020 , which screenshot different posts from another white supremacist group. &#8220;For the record, as the founder of the Traffickinghub movement I reject everything about the account creating these horrific hate filled posts misusing the TH hashtag,&#8221; she wrote. &#8220;I wouldn’t be surprised at all if it is actually Pornhub who is behind this to promote a false narrative.&#8221; In the other tweet on March 17, 2021, she quote-tweeted the images from Gab and wrote, &#8220;As the founder of Traffickinghub I aggressively condemn the racist hateful message here. It has no place in this movement. Knowing the dirty tactics of Mindgee