# Disney To Push Back Shanghai Theme Park Opening To 2016

**Source**: https://fortune.com/2015/02/03/disney-to-push-back-shanghai-theme-park-opening-to-2016/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:39:47.760664+00:00

---

Disney to push back Shanghai theme park opening to 2016 | Fortune Search Home News Fortune 500 Fortune Global 500 Fortune 500 Europe Fortune China 500 Fortune SEA 500 Great Place to Work Tech AI Innovation Cybersecurity Finance Personal Finance Real Estate Economy Investing Banking Crypto Leadership Success Future of Work Workplace Culture C-Suite CEO Initiative Lifestyle Arts &amp; Entertainment Travel &amp; Leisure Health Well Education Rankings Analytics Multimedia Live Media Magazine Newsletters Video Podcasts Home News Fortune 500 Fortune 500 Fortune Sea 500 Fortune 500 Europe Fortune Global 500 Fortune China 500 Great Place To Work Tech Tech Ai Innovation Cybersecurity Finance Finance Personal Finance Real Estate Economy Banking Investing Crypto Leadership Leadership Success Future Of Work Workplace Culture C-suite Ceo Initiative Lifestyle Lifestyle Arts &amp; Entertainment Travel &amp; Leisure Health Well Education Rankings Rankings Analytics Multimedia Multimedia Live Media Magazine Newsletters Video Podcasts Asia Europe Analytics International Disney to push back Shanghai theme park opening to 2016 By Geoffrey Smith By Geoffrey Smith SHANGHAI, CHINA - APRIL 08: In this handout photo provided by Disney Parks, dressed in a traditional Chinese costume, Mickey Mouse joins other Disney characters and a 50-voice Shanghai children&#x27;s choir in Shanghai April 8, 2011 during the official groundbreaking ceremony for the Shanghai Disney Resort in Shanghai, China. The Shanghai Disney Resort, the first Disney resort in mainland China, is slated to open in approximately five years. (Photo by David Roark/Disney Parks via Getty Images) Photograph by David Roark — Getty Images Walt Disney Co (DIS) is to put off the opening of its Disneyland Shanghai theme park to next year, the Wall Street Journal reported Tuesday, citing people close to the project. The WSJ said chief executive Bob Iger is likely to give new guidance about the timetable for opening the park during a conference call Tuesday to discuss the group’s fourth-quarter earnings. The delay is the latest in a long line of complications that have dogged the project over the last decade. Iger had said 10 months ago that the park would open in 2015, but the WSJ said an opening in the winter months at the end of the year would have less impact than one in the spring. The WSJ said that the local authorities had become cautious about events likely to draw large crowds in the aftermath of a fatal stampede that killed 36 revellers on New Year’s Eve. Disney is only a minority shareholder in the project with 43%. The remaining 57% is held by Shanghai Shendi, a consortium of businesses owned by the Shanghai government. As a result, Shanghai Shendi has a large degree of control. The extension of Iger’s contract by two years in October–after a tripling of Disney’s share price in the previous three years–means that Iger is still likely to be in charge of the company when the park opens. Overseas theme parks have been one of the few disappointments of Iger’s reign. Euro Disney, the operator of Disneyland Paris, had to be rescued from insolvency in October with a €492 million ($555 million) capital injection. Watch more coverage about Disney from Fortune’s video team: Rankings 100 Best Companies Fortune 500 Global 500 Fortune 500 Europe Most Powerful Women Future 50 World’s Most Admired Companies See All Rankings Sections Finance Leadership Success Tech Asia Europe Environment Fortune Crypto Health Retail Lifestyle Politics Newsletters Magazine Features Commentary MPW CEO Initiative Conferences Personal Finance Education Customer Support Frequently Asked Questions Customer Service Portal Privacy Policy Terms of Use Single Issues for Purchase International Print Commercial Services Advertising Fortune Brand Studio Fortune Analytics Fortune Conferences Business Development About Us About Us Editorial Calendar Press Center Work at Fortune Diversity and Inclusion Terms and Conditions Site Map © 2025 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy | CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice | Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information FORTUNE is a trademark of Fortune Media IP Limited, registered in the U.S. and other countries. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice.