# espn.go.com

**Source**: http://espn.go.com
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:54:18.563148+00:00

---

ESPN - Serving Sports Fans. Anytime. Anywhere. ESPN - Serving Sports Fans. Anytime. Anywhere. --> Skip to main content Skip to navigation &lt; &gt; Menu ESPN scores NFL NBA MLB NCAAF WNBA NHL Soccer More Sports Boxing NCAA Cricket F1 Gaming Golf Horse LLWS MMA NASCAR NLL NBA G League NBA Summer League NCAAM NCAAW NWSL Olympics PLL Professional Wrestling Racing RN BB RN FB Rugby Sports Betting Tennis TGL UFL WWE X Games Editions Where to Watch Fantasy Bet Watch All of ESPN. All In One Place. Sign Up Now Watch Now 📍Watch on ESPN Subscribe Now Watch Now WNBA Finals: Mercury vs. Aces (Game 1) NCAA Football (Week 6) LALIGA Bundesliga UFC 320: Ankalaev vs. Pereira 2 (PPV) SportsCenter For You Quick Links MLB Playoff Bracket College Football Schedule NFL Schedule WNBA Playoffs Fantasy Football Fantasy Hockey Fantasy Men's Basketball Where To Watch Today's Top Odds ESPN Radio: Listen Live Favorites Manage Favorites Customize ESPN Create Account Log In Fantasy Football Baseball Hockey Men's Basketball Women's Basketball ESPN Sites ESPN Deportes Andscape espnW ESPNFC X Games SEC Network ESPN Apps ESPN ESPN Fantasy Tournament Challenge Follow ESPN Facebook X/Twitter Instagram Snapchat TikTok YouTube Marner in Vegas, Sullivan in New York and Crosby ... on the move? Guide to the NHL season Miss anything the past few months? Miss everything? Get caught up here before opening night on Tuesday. 12h Greg Wyshynski Illustration by ESPN Top regression candidates for 2025-26: Geekie, Scheifele, more Opening night is Tuesday, and these players are unlikely to hit previous levels of production. 2d Rachel Kryshak 👀 How to watch games on ESPN networks 💰 Betting: 10 NHL player props to watch TOP HEADLINES Ravens rule out QB Jackson due to hamstring Commanders' Daniels officially a go vs. Chargers Hill returns to Dolphins' facility, speaks to team Rangers focusing manager search on Schumaker Mets begin staff overhaul after missing playoffs Tajh Ariza, ex-NBA veteran's son, picks Oregon Tarleton State coach Gillispie under investigation Ex-Ravens, Syracuse DL Arthur Jones dies at 39 🎥 How The Rock transformed for new movie WNBA Finals - Game 1 Series starts 10/3 The A'ja Wilson text that turned around the Aces' season -- and how Bam Adebayo helped craft it The Aces had just lost by 53 points. A'ja Wilson delivered a message to her teammates. It sparked a 17-game win streak. 11h Michael Voepel Candice Ward-Imagn Images Ranking the top 15 players in the WNBA Finals Las Vegas and Phoenix tip off the 2025 WNBA Finals on Friday. These will be the best players on the court. 11h Michael Voepel and Charlie Creme 🏆 WNBA Finals: Schedule, results, news and highlights 🔮 Predictions, preview, odds EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO KNOW 13 more NFL Week 5 games, 13 matchup previews: We have predictions, picks and wild stats Here's everything you need to know. Which teams will win, who are the X factors, and which storylines matter most? 12h NFL Nation, +2 More AP Photo/Robert F. Bukaty What history tells us about five early-season trends From Cincy's rough start to Dallas' pass defense, here's what advanced metrics tell us. 12h Aaron Schatz 💰 Week 5 betting guide 🏈 Rules change results in historic rate of kick returns How the Browns decided on starting QB No. 41 13h Daniel Oyefusi COLLEGE FOOTBALL SCOREBOARD 📅 Complete scoreboard DIVISIONAL ROUND IS HERE! What -- if anything -- makes the Dodgers different than every defending MLB champ of the past 25 years? Not since the 2000 Yankees has a team won back-to-back World Series. What does that mean for L.A.? 11h Alden Gonzalez Jayne Kamin-Oncea-Imagn Images MLB playoff mega-preview: World Series odds, likely MVPs and more Here's why your squad could be playing deep into October ... or get sent home next. 20h ESPN First look at every division series matchup Divisional round odds: Schedule, favorites for every series 🏆 MLB playoffs: Schedule, postseason bracket, standings INSIDE COLLEGE FOOTBALL Bama's shot at revenge, high stakes in the ACC and the 29 biggest games of Week 6 Can Vanderbilt do it again? Can Virginia sustain its success? And what's next in the Big 12? 11h Bill Connelly Steve Roberts-Imagn Images Critiques from former players and Dabo himself: Can Clemson change the narrative? Frustrations are high at Clemson. Dabo Swinney and former players aren't shying away from the issues. 11h David Hale 📈 Ranking all 68 Power 4 QBs: A surprise No. 1 📅 Week 6 schedule 'FIRST TAKE' Cam Newton puzzled by Shedeur 'reality TV series' in Cleveland 8h 1:12 RC goes off in defense of the Kansas City Chiefs 7h 2:33 PREPPING FOR A NEW SEASON Paolo Banchero, Trae Young: Breaking down 10 names that could define NBA season ESPN's Tim Bontemps breaks down players and personnel that will play major roles on the court and beyond. 11h Tim Bontemps Dustin Satloff/Getty Images Knicks legends ride camels, 76ers go golfing: Top scenes from Abu Dhabi series Here are the top scenes from Abu Dhabi as the 76ers and Knicks face off in a preseason doubleheader. 1d ESPN staff 10 NBA teams that gained -- or lost -- the most value What to watch at NBA training camps Top Headlines Ravens rule out QB Jackson due to hamstring Commanders' Daniels officially a go vs. Chargers Hill returns to Dolphins' facility, speaks to team Rangers focusing manager search on Schumaker Mets begin staff overhaul after missing playoffs Tajh Ariza, ex-NBA veteran's son, picks Oregon Tarleton State coach Gillispie under investigation Ex-Ravens, Syracuse DL Arthur Jones dies at 39 🎥 How The Rock transformed for new movie Favorites Fantasy Manage Favorites Fantasy Home Customize ESPN Create Account Log In ICYMI 0:43 Ryan McMahon flips into the Red Sox dugout for an out Ryan McMahon tracks down a ball and flips into the Red Sox dugout to come up with the ball. The enhanced ESPN App ESPN All of ESPN. All in one place. Watch your favorite events in the newly enhanced ESPN App. Learn more about what plan is right for you. Sounding Off 1:37 Stephen A. isn't buying A.J. Brown's claims about his lack of targets Stephen A. Smith questions whether A.J. Brown's concerns surrounding his target share are valid. Trending Now Illustration by ESPN Ranking every Power 4 quarterback one month into the season What have we learned about the signal-callers so far? Here's where Arch Manning, Beau Pribula and others stand. ESPN Illustration 2025 NFL quarter-season awards: MVP, top rookies, coaches Can Josh Allen win another MVP? Could anyone edge Myles Garrett for DPOY? We ranked the top three candidates to win seven NFL awards through four weeks. Illustration by ESPN Inside the Indiana Fever's roller-coaster 2025 WNBA season Injuries kept coming and the lineup kept changing, but the Fever's resolve never dimmed this season. (Photo by Ron Jenkins/Getty Images) 2025 NBA training camp: Biggest storylines, extensions, depth charts to watch From superstar salaries to on-court adjustments, here are the biggest things to watch for heading into 2025 NBA training camps. Illustration by ESPN Who's the best movie fighter ever? MMA experts weigh in ESPN assembled a panel of MMA experts to determine which Hollywood stars would win a UFC-style event. Sign up to play the #1 Fantasy game! Create A League Join Public League Reactivate A League Mock Draft Now Sign up for FREE! Create A League Join a Public League Reactivate a League Practice With a Mock Draft Sign up for FREE! Create A League Join a Public League Reactivate a League Practice with a Mock Draft Get a custom ESPN experience Enjoy the benefits of a personalized account Select your favorite leagues, teams and players and get the latest scores, news and updates that matter most to you. 📍Watch on ESPN Subscribe Now Watch Now WNBA Finals: Mercury vs. Aces (Game 1) NCAA Football (Week 6) LALIGA Bundesliga Live: Sanderson Farms Championship (Featured Groups) UFC 320: Ankalaev vs. Pereira 2 (PPV) SportsCenter For You Quick Links MLB Playoff Bracket College Football Schedule NFL Schedule WNBA Playoffs Fantasy Football Fantasy Hockey Fantasy Men's Basketball Where To Watch Today's Top Odds ESPN Radio: Listen Live Fantasy Football Baseball Hockey Men's Basketball Women's Basketball ESPN Sites ESPN Deportes Andscape espnW ESPNFC X Games SEC Network ESPN Apps ESPN ESPN Fantasy Tournament Challenge Terms of Use Privacy Policy Your US State Privacy Rights Children's Online Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads About Nielsen Measurement Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Contact Us Disney Ad Sales Site Work for ESPN Corrections ESPN BET Sportsbook is owned and operated by PENN Entertainment, Inc. and its subsidiaries ('PENN'). ESPN BET is available in states where PENN is licensed to offer sports wagering. Must be 21+ to wager. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem and wants help, call 1-800-GAMBLER. Copyright: © 2025 ESPN Enterprises, Inc. All rights reserved.