# Bill Barnwell Phil Emery General Manager Philosophy

**Source**: http://www.grantland.com/story/_/id/9531195/bill-barnwell-phil-emery-general-manager-philosophy
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:38:22.411527+00:00

---

&raquo; The GM of the Future Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous Something Wicked This Way Comes? ➤ Next Sportstorialist: Baseball&#8217;s Swagger Problem Jonathan Daniel/Getty Images Facebook Twitter Print Bill Barnwell The GM of the Future Chicago's Phil Emery is showing how an open-minded mix of old- and new-school approaches to running a franchise is the best way to go by Bill Barnwell on August 2, 2013 I f I asked you to describe what a prototypical general manager of the future might look like, you would probably come up with some pretty distinct archetypes. You might envision a young gun like Theo Epstein or Sam Presti, organizational heads who have ridden analytics and outside-the-box thinking to success. Alternatively, you might go for somebody like Ozzie Newsome, the grizzled ex-pro who seems to have a sixth sense for drafting and developing superstars . You might even go so far as to point to somebody who totally doesn&#8217;t fit the profile, like Jay Z. 1 The r&#233;sum&#233; that wouldn&#8217;t come up in your mind is the one from the 54-year-old that starts with &#8220;Strength and conditioning coach, Western New Mexico&#8221; and traverses its way through a seven-year stint with the Naval Academy before a 14-year run as a scout and scouting director in the pros. You&#8217;d write him off as an old-school scout, an anachronism who would scoff at quantitative analysis and rely exclusively on his gut. You&#8217;d underestimate Phil Emery, and you would be sorely mistaken to do so, because there might not be a single personnel director in sports who better embodies the values of the 21st-century general manager than the kid from Detroit running things in Chicago. In saying that, I&#8217;m suggesting that the role of general manager is one that is materially different than it was even 15 years ago. The sports world is not just post- Moneyball , it&#8217;s post-post- Moneyball . Just as traditionalists and gut-deciders have fallen on their swords, the likes of J.P. Ricciardi in Toronto have proven that big data isn&#8217;t always a viable solution, either. The media and the nature of the media have changed. The language that comes into play is different. The financial landscape is, in some cases, radically opposed to where it was at the turn of the century. The sports world seems to move faster; ideas get stolen more quickly and trade secrets seem like something out of Pleasantville . By virtue of his background, his work ethic, his brainpower, and his open-mindedness, Emery gets himself ahead of the curve in four key ways that stand out as tenets of what a great modern GM should embody: 1. Treating fans like they might actually have an idea of what they&#8217;re talking about. With the rise of Bill Belichick during the first few years of this century, saying as little as possible in press conferences became a bit of a sport among NFL leadership types. It was &#8220; Both teams played hard &#8221; for old white guys. You can understand Belichick&#8217;s reticence in discussing an injured player (which itself has been taken to a new level in hockey), but it got to the point where even relevant questions were brushed aside with coachspeak. A lonely nation instead turned its ears, for better or worse, to Herm Edwards. At least his coachspeak was compelling . Consumers of sports are getting to the point where that doesn&#8217;t fly anymore. That traditional model &#8212; athlete or coach gives quote, reporter files away quote, includes it in 800-word article in the newspaper the following day, where reader sees it for the first time &#8212; is comically outdated. In a 24-hour news cycle, those quotes are on Twitter in real time, analyzed for any relevance immediately, and thrown away shortly thereafter. We as a culture have developed a voracious appetite for interesting content related to the sports things that we love, and that&#8217;s why 24-hour team channels like YES and team message boards and endless hours of sports talk radio and, of course, Grantland all exist. In the process, that has made sports fans a smarter bunch of information consumers, 2 with a stronger knowledge of our history and a much deeper awareness of our present. Sports and some sports coverage haven&#8217;t necessarily caught up. Ask any Knicks fan who has had to spend a decade dealing with the argument &#8220;the Knicks aren&#8217;t allowed to bottom out and rebuild because their fans won&#8217;t let them&#8221; despite the fact every Knicks fan I&#8217;ve ever met wanted them to bottom out and rebuild from 2002 to 2010. Now take Emery, who had to face a fan base that was likely to be (at least in part) hostile toward his two biggest moves this offseason. First, he fired longtime Bears head coach Lovie Smith after a 10-6 campaign, making Smith just the fourth head coach since 1990 to be fired after winning 10 or more games in a season. 3 Then, three months later, Emery announced the Bears would break off negotiations and move on from iconic linebacker Brian Urlacher, who would later fail to find a suitable market for his services and retire. Getting rid of a statue player 4 for your franchise is usually a tough enough sell for one playoff-less offseason, but firing one of the most successful head coaches in team history after a 10-win season, too? The vultures would immediately have begun to circle around a general manager who handled those situations poorly. Emery beat those worries to the punch with his weapon of choice: the thoughtful press conference . With fans still reeling after an end-of-season collapse and the news that their coach had been fired, Emery struck the perfect balance between classy and progressive. Emery thanked Smith for his service in a genuine manner, but gave a concise, tangible explanation for his firing that any Bears fan could understand: The offense hadn&#8217;t developed under Smith&#8217;s watch. He even noted an appropriate statistic in pointing out that the Bears had a top-15 offense under Smith just once. No general manager in sports gives press conferences like Emery, who is delightfully prone to giving long, detailed explanations of what went into his decisions. Words I wouldn&#8217;t use with any other public speaker in football come to mind. Transparency. Openness. Uncertainty, which nominally sounds like something you don&#8217;t want your general manager to convey, but is something that inherently comes with the territory of football and is otherwise disingenuous to ignore. Some general managers make vague references to analytics; Emery actually goes into detail about the different sources he has sought out to try to judge performance. Emery describes his verboseness bluntly enough: &#8220;If you ask me a question, I&#8217;m going to give you an answer. And I think you deserve the content and the process behind that answer. It&#8217;s really not enough for our fans to get a black-and-white answer that&#8217;s just a sound bite.&#8221; It&#8217;s more a fireside chat or a smart conversation at the bar than a press conference. There&#8217;s also a subtle-but-meaningful impact produced by Emery&#8217;s openness. By explaining the process to fans, Emery simultaneously engages them in the process, as opposed to letting the regular season&#8217;s 16 outcomes define his season and his standing in the fans&#8217; eyes. He phrases it in terms that link the fans and the organization as one: &#8220;I want our fans &#8212; and everybody I work with &#8212; to understand all the thinking behind [our processes], so that they&#8217;re more inclined to buy in and work toward that goal.&#8221; There will always be a subset of fans who care only about wins and losses, and there will be another subset of fans who actively disagree with your process, but relying on a season&#8217;s worth of wins and losses can be a very tricky enterprise, especially for a sport with such high variance. Sharing the process with inclined fans gives Emery a far longer leash to work with and creates a topic for discussion during those long stretches when there isn&#8217;t steady football action to define the story lines around a team. That word &#8220;process&#8221; keeps coming up a lot. It&#8217;s another one of those important tenets of the modern GM &#8230; 2. A hyper-focus on process. If you listen to Emery in press conferences or talk to him, you&#8217;ll hear the word &#8220;process&#8221; come up so many times that you&#8217;ll lose count. That&#8217;s a good thing. You can phrase it however you want &#8212; &#8220;process&#8221; often means the same thing as &#8220;the plan&#8221; in this context &#8212; but it&#8217;s essential for an NFL general manager to have a clear idea of his long-term process and stick with it regardless of short-term outcomes. That thought came up again and again when I looked at Ted Thompson&#8217;s history earlier this week . 5 To Emery, focusing on the process not only provides a better chance of building a winner, it performs the perhaps more-meaningful role of preventing you from overreacting to fleeting streaks of success or failure. &#8220;Some of those bumps along the way are like hitting a tree; losses are very tough, particularly ones that have more impact than others [at the end of the season]. They&#8217;re tough to work through, but you have to believe in the process and the talents of the people you work with. If you let outcome drive you, you&#8217;ll be all over the place and never develop the process to get to the final goal.&#8221; And to Emery, the final goal isn&#8217;t simply winning a Super Bowl, which itself usually requires some incredible luck along the way. 6 It&#8217;s &#8220;to be a consistent winner, to consistently be in the championship mix, and win championships.&#8221; In terms of these Bears, it&#8217;s pretty clear that process involves focusing on drafting a