# Public Opinion Us State Of Affairs

**Source**: https://pro.morningconsult.com/trackers/public-opinion-us-state-of-affairs
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:45:40.101771+00:00

---

Tracking Americans&#x27; Opinions on the U.S. State of Affairs Home Search Consumer Trends Brands &amp; Marketing Finance Food &amp; Beverage Media &amp; Entertainment Retail &amp; E-Commerce Sports Tech Travel &amp; Hospitality Industry Reports Economic Trends All Economic Analysis U.S. Consumer Confidence Tracker Tracking U.S. Consumers&#x27; Views on Tariffs U.S. Consumer Health Index U.S. Consumer Spending U.S. Inflation and Supply Chains U.S. Consumer Income &amp; Debt U.S. Jobs and Labor Global Consumer Confidence Economic Reports Political Trends U.S. Politics Global Politics Political Reports Topics 2024 Elections Artificial Intelligence Brand Loyalty China Consumer Spending Gen Z Influencers Key Consumer Groups Streaming Tariffs Workforce Trends Newsletters Reports Trackers Our Products Company Blog Request Demo Updated on Oct 2, 2025 Updates weekly Tracking Public Opinion on the State of U.S. Affairs Amid government shutdown, only 39% of Americans see the country on the right track Morning Consult Logo U.S. adults were asked &quot;Now, generally speaking, would you say that things in the country are going in the right direction, or have they pretty seriously gotten off on the wrong track?” By Cameron Easley Share Share Morning Consult surveys more than 3,000 U.S. adults daily on their views regarding the current state and trajectory of the country, providing an unparalleled gauge of public sentiment. Sign up for the latest political news and analysis delivered to your inbox twice a week. Key Takeaways With the federal government in its second day of a shutdown, just 39% of U.S. adults say the country is headed in the right direction. That&#x27;s actually up slightly from our previous update, which came during the fallout of the assassination of right-wing political activist Charlie Kirk, but down from 51% in early June — the current high for optimism during President Donald Trump&#x27;s second term in office. Partisanship, as always, remains the key dividing line in views on America&#x27;s trajectory. However, the share of Republicans who see the country on the right track has waned slightly in recent months, from an average of 77% in June to an average of 72% in September. Independents&#x27; optimism has declined similarly over that time frame. An average of 28% independents saw the country headed in the right direction last month, down from 32% in June. Meanwhile, the share of Democrats who see the country on the right trajectory has remained anemic since Trump took an office at an average 20%. The sizable gender gap in optimism about the country is a key feature of the second Trump presidency: 47% of men now see the country is headed in the right direction, compared with only 32% of women. A wealth gap in optimism is another key trend we&#x27;ve observed in 2025, with views on the country&#x27;s trajectory diverging among Americans from higher- and lower-earning households. At one point in July, respondents from households with a minimum annual income of $100,000 were 28 percentage points more likely than those from households earning less than $50,000 to say the country is headed in the right direction — the largest such gap we&#x27;ve recorded since October 2016. Data Downloads Intel clients are able to download the datasets that underpin Morning Consult Pro&#x27;s reports and analysis. Contact us to get access. Trended data file Pro+ A trended, sortable CSV data file covering historical daily data on U.S. adults&#x27; perceptions of America&#x27;s trajectory csv • 9Mb About Pro+ A brief overview of what datasets are included in Morning Consult Pro+ pdf • 1 Bytes Perceptions of the State of Affairs in America: A Demographic Breakdown Shares of respondents who believe that the United States is on the right track Morning Consult Logo Source of This Data Methodology Every day, Morning Consult surveys a representative sample of roughly 5,000 U.S. adults on average and asks the question, “Now, generally speaking, would you say that things in the country are going in the right direction, or have they pretty seriously gotten off on the wrong track?” Results are weighted to account for a range of demographic characteristics including age, gender, race/ethnicity, educational attainment and region and have a margin of error of up to +/-4 percentage points. Reporting dates reflect surveys conducted the prior day. (For example, data points labeled &quot;Jan 20 2025&quot; reflect responses gathered Jan. 19, 2025. About Morning Consult Morning Consult is a global decision intelligence company changing how modern leaders make smarter, faster, better decisions. The company pairs its proprietary high-frequency data with applied artificial intelligence to better inform decisions on what people think and how they will act. Learn more at morningconsult.com . Email [email&#160;protected] to speak with a member of the Morning Consult team. Cameron Easley Head of Political and Economic Analysis Cameron Easley is Morning Consult’s head of political and economic analysis. He has led Morning Consult&#x27;s coverage of politics and elections since 2016, and his work has appeared in The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post, Politico, Axios, FiveThirtyEight and on Fox News, CNN and MSNBC. Cameron joined Morning Consult from Roll Call, where he was managing editor. He graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Follow him on Twitter @cameron_easley . Interested in connecting with Cameron to discuss his analysis or for a media engagement or speaking opportunity? Email [email&#160;protected] . Explore more U.S. Politics Tracking Public Opinion of Trump&#x27;s Washington September 29, 2025 U.S. Politics Tracking Trump’s Approval Rating in All 50 States September 5, 2025 Global Politics Global Leader Approval Rating Tracker September 9, 2025 About Careers Pro Morning Consult Intelligence Research Solutions Request a Demo © 2025 Morning Consult, All Rights Reserved. The M Logo and MORNING CONSULT are registered trademarks of Morning Consult Holdings, Inc. Terms &amp; Conditions of Use Terms of Service Privacy Policy Security Trust Center Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information California Privacy Notice