# The Search For Americas Best Burrito Starts In California

**Source**: http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/the-search-for-americas-best-burrito-starts-in-california/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:55:11.183482+00:00

---

The Search For America&#8217;s Best Burrito Starts in California | FiveThirtyEight Skip to main content FiveThirtyEight Search Search ABC News Menu The Search For America&#8217;s Best Burrito Starts in California Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Politics Sports Science Podcasts Video Interactives ABC News This is an archived site and is no longer being updated. New 538 articles can be found at www.abcnews.com/538. Jun. 6, 2014 , at 12:19 PM The Search For America&#8217;s Best Burrito Starts in California By Anna Maria Barry-Jester Filed under Burrito Bracket Illustration by Kelsey Dake Illustration by Kelsey Dake We were nearly eight hours into the Burrito Selection Committee meeting, and it was raining buckets outside as the afternoon submitted to dark, menacing clouds. All day we had been casting votes for our favorite burrito joints in America. Now we were gathered around a tiny television screen screwed into the wall, watching an Excel spreadsheet translate the final round of those votes into rankings. The list of America’s 64 best burritos was complete, but we still faced the task of seeding the top four in the California region. This was a big decision. California burritos are so good that the top four seeds in the state would arguably be the top four in the nation. After eight hours and 12 rounds of voting, the committee still had enough fight left in it to haggle over the choice. At least half of the six members felt that San Francisco’s La Taqueria was the favorite to win and therefore deserved the top ranking. But Yelp rankings and perennial placement on top 10 lists in the local and national press made nearby El Farolito the favorite among some of the data-reverent members. Should historic consensus or the Burrito Selection Committee reign supreme? Which restaurant would be the top seed for America’s Best Burrito? Clockwise from top left: David Chang, Anna Maria Barry-Jester, Nate Silver, Gustavo Arellano. The committee In March, the Burrito Selection Committee’s six burrito fanatics and experts gathered in a conference room above the golf practice stalls at New York City’s Chelsea Piers. Our goal was essentially to do the impossible: identify, in a single day, the top 64 burritos in America. Once selected, the establishments that sell these burritos would be placed in an NCAA-tournament-style bracket of four regions, with 16 restaurants in each region. I am FiveThirtyEight’s burrito correspondent. My job, if you can call it a job, is to visit all 64 restaurants, eat a burrito at each one, rate the burritos and decide which will advance to the next round of competition. Round 2 will yield 16 burritos, from which (after more eating) I will choose the final four. The third, and final, round will produce America’s Best Burrito. But first we had to make the list of the top 64 burrito-selling establishments (BSEs). The members of the Burrito Selection Committee brought impeccable credentials and unique vantage points. Each of the Burrito Bracket’s four regions (California, West, South and Northeast) had its own representative: Gustavo Arellano is El Californiano. He wrote the book on Mexican food in the U.S., “Taco USA: How Mexican Food Conquered America.” He is an editor at OC Weekly and has a syndicated column called “Ask A Mexican.” The New York Times called him “perhaps the greatest (and only) living scholar of Mexican-American fast food.” Jeffrey Pilcher, a professor of history at the University of Minnesota, is The Academic. He wrote a book on the history of Mexican food and its movement around the world. He’s eaten Mexican food in just about every country where you can find it, but conducted intense local food research while completing his undergraduate and graduate degrees in the Southwest. He is representing the West. Bill Addison, The Food Critic, represents the South. He once ate 100 burritos (and 300 tacos) in 10 weeks to find the best taqueria in the Bay Area. He’s also worked at top publications around the country: The San Francisco Chronicle, The Dallas Morning News, Atlanta Magazine and, most recently, Eater, in addition to serving as a board member of the Southern Foodways Alliance. Representing the Northeast is The Chef, David Chang, founder and owner of Momofuku Restaurant Group and winner of the 2013 James Beard Foundation Outstanding Chef Award. Chang has made a big name in food by bringing slow fast food to the masses, and he’s a closet burrito obsessive. Then there’s Nate Silver, El Padrino and FiveThirtyEight’s editor in chief. Back in 2007, just before FiveThirtyEight was born, Nate created a Burrito Bracket to assess the taquerias in his neighborhood in Chicago. Then FiveThirtyEight took off and the Burrito Bracket lay dormant for six years. Now it’s back, but it’s gone national. And finally there’s me, The Decider. I’ve spent most of the last decade living and working abroad as a visual journalist , training myself in the art of street and popular food in the process. I fall more into the “fanatic” than “expert” category; I’m not a food critic (I’m most often a health reporter, and generally write about food more from the perspective of obesity), but I have put in my time when it comes to eating burritos. I have a degree in Latin American Studies and work at Univision, and have spent years reporting on Hispanics in the United States. We had agreed on a painstaking process of decision-making. We divided the country into four regions based on Mexican-American population, the number of taquerias in the Yellow Pages and searches for burritos on Google. Then we gathered Yelp data on 67,391 burrito-selling establishments across the United States. Nate — I mean, El Padrino — borrowed a statistic from baseball to create a score for each restaurant. Just as Value Over Replacement Player (VORP) measures a player against one who might replace him, Value Over Replacement Burrito (VORB) accounts for quality and quantity of Yelp reviews, while adjusting for location (factoring in the extent to which different geographical areas use Yelp, as well as how different locations rank chain Mexican restaurants). More on that in Nate’s Burrito Bracket manifesto . A spreadsheet with scores for all of the BSEs was distributed to the committee. Each regional representative studied the VORB rankings and worked his sources to create a cheat sheet of recommended restaurants for inclusion in the bracket. 1 Everyone took a slightly different approach: Chang called chef friends all over the Northeast while Arellano tapped into his mental Rolodex, since he’s visited an inordinate number of BSEs in California. Addison culled through personal experiences, spoke to other food critics and cross-referenced against trusted sources. Pilcher looked at the notes from writing his book and spoke to food historians across the West. El Padrino and I scoured the data and other online sources, and I spoke to dozens of food-lovers around the country. We were left with hundreds of potential BSEs, and a single day to create a list of 64. (Note: We didn’t want to bias our voting that day at Chelsea Piers, so we ate tacos instead of burritos for lunch. It verges on cruel and unusual punishment to talk about burritos for eight hours straight and not be allowed to eat them.) I’ll roll out the list in four articles, starting with this one on the most competitive region of all: California. The Burrito State Originally, it seemed bold to make California its own region in the Burrito Bracket. One state out of 50 getting a quarter of the spots? But a closer look at the data revealed that a fairer division might have been Northern California, Southern California and the rest of the country split in two. California has 26,911 BSEs on Yelp, by far the most of any region (for comparison, there are 15,753 in the entire Northeast, the region with the second-highest count). California also displays an overwhelming advantage in VORB scores, approximately double the strength of the Northeast and West, and about four times that of the South. While California’s burrito obsession is obvious, whether it can lay claim to the dish is a more of a mystery. The difficulty of finding the burrito’s geographical birthplace is partly a result of the shifting winds of history in the sands of the Sonoran desert. Burritos were almost definitely born in modern-day Mexico’s state of Sonora, but first identified by the written word as a food item in California in the late 19th century, according to Jeffrey Pilcher, The Academic. California was part of the Spanish crown’s claim for over a century, and then belonged to Mexico when the Republic declared independence in 1821. Even after the United States annexed the Golden State in 1848 (the same year that gold was discovered in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada mountains — coincidence?), its cuisine has always been most directly tied to the borderlands. Corn tortillas were eaten by indigenous communities throughout what is now Mexico and the American Southwest long before the arrival of Europeans. The invaders deemed corn peasant food, preferring wheat-flour tortillas, which have remained the more popular mode of food conveyance along Mexico’s northern border, while corn reigns supreme farther south. Flour tortillas were key to the genesis of the burrito; they can carry a larger quantity of goods, keep longer and are more portable than corn tortillas. The colonial ties to wheat flour also have unfairly called into question the “authenticity” of burritos as Mexican fare. Defining what is Mexican when it comes to food requires nuance and historical perspective. Burritos are rooted in Mexican food, and California has promulgated them since their creation. El Padrino speaks California is the region where the members of the BSC have the most personal experience. Between our first-hand knowledge and the robust Yelp data, we came to the California vote with excitement, trepidation, and a lot of opinions. Gustavo Arellan