# Nirvana Unplugged Oral History Kurt Cobain

**Source**: https://www.theringer.com/music/2018/11/14/18087878/nirvana-unplugged-oral-history-kurt-cobain
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:28:01.223065+00:00

---

Three Feet From God: An Oral History of Nirvana ‘Unplugged’ - The Ringer Discover anything Discover anything Videos Podcasts The Latest The Latest Fantasy Football Rankings Fantasy Football Rankings NBA NBA NFL NFL TV TV Movies Movies MLB MLB The Ringer 107 The Ringer 107 Music Music Soccer Soccer Events Events The Streaming Guide The Streaming Guide Simmons Pod Simmons Pod Rewatchables Rewatchables Big Picture Big Picture Russillo Pod Russillo Pod The Watch The Watch Higher Learning Higher Learning House of R House of R The Town The Town Plain English Plain English By Alan Siegel Nov. 14, 2018, 11:30 am UTC • 37 min Music Three Feet From God: An Oral History of Nirvana ‘Unplugged’ Twenty-five years after the historic performance that became the band’s best-selling final album, we talked to producers, directors, musicians, and fans present for Kurt Cobain and Nirvana’s greatest performance Music Three Feet From God: An Oral History of Nirvana ‘Unplugged’ Twenty-five years after the historic performance that became the band’s best-selling final album, we talked to producers, directors, musicians, and fans present for Kurt Cobain and Nirvana’s greatest performance MTV/Getty Images/Ringer illustration By Alan Siegel Nov. 14, 2018, 11:30 am UTC • 37 min The best television episode of the 1990s starred a short, blond man and his band. On November 18, 1993, at Sony Music Studios in New York City, Nirvana took on MTV Unplugged . That night, the biggest group of the decade staged one of the most hypnotically intimate rock concerts ever captured on film. Wearing a fuzzy cardigan, ratty button-down, Frightwig T-shirt, jeans, and Converse sneakers, Kurt Cobain—with help from drummer Dave Grohl, bassist Krist Novoselic, guitarist Pat Smear, and cellist Lori Goldston—orchestrated a performance that was heartfelt, funny, uncomfortable, and mesmerizing. Nirvana’s appearance on the acoustic series proved something that close observers already knew: The loudest band on earth had a stunning amount of depth. Cobain subtly subverted the format, which usually featured acts playing stripped-down versions of their hits, by filling the set list with cover songs. He also invited two of his musical heroes, Cris and Curt Kirkwood of the little-known Meat Puppets. The lead singer even helped design the set, asking for it to be decorated with stargazer lilies and black candles. The room’s haunting vibe later led the event to be described as sorrowful, but despite Cobain’s well-documented struggles at the time, the evening was far from dour. As the show progressed, those in attendance began to realize that what they were watching would become legendary. “You knew for sure that history was being made,” said former MTV executive Amy Finnerty, who worked closely with Nirvana. “No doubt about it. You’re lucky if you get to be at something like that once in your lifetime.” Nirvana at the 1992 MTV Video Music Awards FilmMagic Part I: “Trust the Artist. They Know What They’re Doing.” The story of Nirvana Unplugged began 25 years ago, when MTV’s influence on popular culture was at its peak. Amy Finnerty (vice president of music and talent, MTV): Everybody wanted to see Nirvana do an Unplugged . Everybody was just really excited when they agreed to do it. Mark Kates (A&amp;R, Geffen Records): Kurt wanted to prove to himself that he could do this in an artistically successful way. His creative mind at that time was going more in a quieter direction. Scott Litt (producer, MTV Unplugged in New York ): The only thing I thought might be tricky was trying to play Nevermind songs in that acoustic vein. During that time, all the rage was MTV’s Unplugged show. It was super popular. And I had experience with it, having done one with R.E.M. Dave Grohl (drums) : We’d seen the other Unplugged s and didn’t like many of them, because most bands would treat them like rock shows—play their hits like it was Madison Square Garden, except with acoustic guitars. Earnie Bailey (guitar tech): It became a running joke. So when they were invited to do the show, we had some big questions to figure out. We didn’t quite know how many songs they had that would work and how well they would translate to the acoustic setting. Just days before the taping, Unplugged producer Alex Coletti visited the band during a stop on the In Utero tour. Alex Coletti (producer, MTV Unplugged ): We flew into somewhere in Massachusetts, went to a hotel, and dropped our stuff off, and drove for a bit. And I think they were playing secondary markets, on purpose. Places they hadn’t gotten to on the last tour. We were in a hockey arena. I think it was Springfield . I brought my acoustic bass with me, which is no small feat. It’s frickin’ huge. I’d made a friend at Takamine, David Vincent , who was very helpful throughout the course of Unplugged , whenever I needed gear. Acoustic basses were hard to come by. And then I finally got a Guild one. I think it was the Guild I brought Krist [Novoselic], knowing he didn’t have one. It’s not like an acoustic guitar. It feels different. I remember bringing it backstage, and I’d given it to the tour manager. We were in a room after the show, probably with 20 people, the band and crew, and there was franks and beans on the table. And everybody was sitting down. And [the bass] was handed to Krist, and he said, “Cool, look at this. Can I put stickers all over it?” And I was like, “No you can’t.” I said, “Sorry, I lend this to other people on the show. It’s mine.” He was really excited. I felt bad to pop his bubble. He had a vision for it, clearly. I was sat next to Kurt and I’m slightly shy, so he was talking to the person to his left. I was to his right. And I let them decompress and chat, chat, chat, chat, and he finally looked at me, and I said, “Hey it’s Alex from Unplugged .” He said, “Great, what’s going on?” And I said, “I have some sketches.” Tom McPhillips (production designer): I had a formula for doing the show. It usually involved hanging soft goods around the room. There was a center stage that I usually did some sort of painted floor cloth for. The floor cloth was the one place you could make a statement. I had figured out the floor cloths, which I was basing on the back cover of In Utero . I left out the features, but I put in the flowers and the bones. Coletti: I showed [the sketches] to Kurt, and he said, “I want a lot of flowers.” I said, “OK, great.” He said, “I want candles and stargazer lilies.” I said, “Like a funeral?” He said, “Yes, exactly.” This wasn’t on his mind at all. I put that out there. It was me that brought that kind of gloom into the shorthand of how we would describe it. When he said it, there was no organ sound effect. McPhillips: Well, where do you get stargazer lilies that time of year? We managed to find a couple of places that had them, but we couldn’t really get them in quantity. And they were really, really expensive. So I managed to find locally, [where I was based] in Pennsylvania , [a company that made] a kind of fabric flower, and they did stargazer lilies. So I had bunches of those. It was a mix of real and artificial flowers—real lilies for the foreground, artificial to fill in further back. Coletti: I got to watch from stage that night and I was so blown away by Dave’s power that I left thinking, “He could potentially be the issue.” Because what I found is, if the drummer plays loud, than everyone turns up their acoustic guitars, and they just sound like shitty electric guitars. Bailey: My gut feeling was that doing the show could be a challenge for a group like Nirvana and was better suited for artists like R.E.M. and Mazzy Star. Nirvana shows were typically viewed as successful when they went off script in some way, and it was difficult to imagine how this would play into the MTV Unplugged format. But they did it by bringing in the Meat Puppets. Cris Kirkwood (bass-vocals, Meat Puppets): Once Nirvana started to get popular, we heard that they were name-checking us and some of our contemporaries. Curt Kirkwood (guitar-vocals, Meat Puppets): They asked us to go on tour with them in ’93. We were out on tour for a few days and started to get to know the guys, started to get to know Kurt, and then one evening he said they were gonna do the Unplugged thing. And would my brother and I like to do it because they’d like to do some of our songs. So of course I said, “Yes, that sounds great.” That’s how it started. Cris Kirkwood: They insisted that they wanted to have us go on. Even though the MTV people weren’t that into it. Beth McCarthy-Miller (director, MTV Unplugged ): MTV was a big, giant monster at that time, you know? They were making hits more than even the radio stations were. And I think those bands that were like, “Who cares if our record sells 50 million copies?” were a little wary. Finnerty: Like a lot of bands, [Nirvana] struggled with what MTV was. And then they didn’t hate it as much once they realized that they had the reins. Coletti: I think people at MTV just said, “Oh, they’re gonna bring on Pearl Jam.” And it was like, “No they’re not.” And when they said “Meat Puppets,” it was kind of like, “Oh.” I’ve always learned to trust the artist. They know what they’re doing. Cris Kirkwood: Suddenly, here’s a band that’s very into our scene. And they’re fucking, like, the biggest band in the world. It was certainly different. It was kind of cool. Kurt Cobain plays an acoustic guitar during a recording session in Holland in 1991 Redferns Part II: “It Could Be a Mistake.” Following shows at New York Coliseum on November 14 and Roseland Ballroom on November 15, Nirvana, their touring musicians, and the Kirkwoods spent two days preparing for Unplugged across the Hudson River at SST Studios in Weehawken, New Jersey . It was a memorable and typically chaotic stretch for the people orbiting the mercurial Cobain. Lori Goldston (cello): When I first worked with [Nirvana] it was for the In Utero tour. The music was prepar