# 100014Z15Ko2021

**Source**: https://www.ijcasereportsandimages.com/archive/article-full-text/100014Z15KO2021
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:34:15.806092+00:00

---

Management of infected Penuma implant: Case report - International Journal of Case Reports and Images (IJCRI) Edorium Journals Home About About the Journal Aims & Scope Why Publish with Us? Editorial Board Article Processing Charges Indexing & Abstracting Bibliographic Information For Authors Guidelines for Authors Guidelines for Videos Article Processing Charges Submission Checklists Submit Manuscript Copyright Policy Archive Submit Submit Manuscript Online Submit Revision Submit Page proof Submit Author Agreement Submit Testimonial Submit Feedback Submit Editorial Review Submit Peer Review Submit Permission/Forms Ethics & Policies Criteria for Publication Editorial Workflow Reviewer Workflow Ethics & Policies Join Us Join As Editor Join As Reviewer Favoured Author Program Institutional Membership Resources Manuscript Templates Submission Checklists Author Agreement Form FAQ Submit About Edorium Journals Browse Journals Abstracting & Indexing Testimonials Blogs Edorium Journals Home About About the Journal Aims & Scope Why Publish with Us? Editorial Board Article Processing Charges Indexing & Abstracting Bibliographic Information Authors Guidelines for Authors Guidelines for Videos Article Processing Charges Submission Checklists Submit Manuscript Copyright Policy Archive Submit Submit Manuscript Online Submit Revision Submit Page proof Submit Author Agreement Submit Testimonial Submit Feedback Submit Editorial Review Submit Peer Review Submit Permission/Forms Authors Services Language Editing Illustration Service Infographics Article Poster Professional Reprints Video Bytes Video Abstracts Ethics & Policies Criteria for Publication Editorial Workflow Reviewer Workflow Ethics & Policies Join Us Join As Editor Join As Reviewer Favoured Author Program Institutional Membership Resources Manuscript Templates Submission Checklists Author Agreement Form FAQ Article Outline Title Abstract Introduction Case Report Discussion Conclusion Supporting Information References Comments Related Articles &nbsp; &nbsp; Case Report Management of infected Penuma implant: Case report Kathleen M Olson 1 &nbsp; &nbsp; , &nbsp; Adri M Durant 1 , &nbsp; Aqsa Khan 1 1 Department of Urology, Mayo Clinic Arizona, Phoenix, AZ, USA Address correspondence to: Kathleen M Olson MD, 5777 E Mayo Blvd, Phoenix, AZ 85054, USA Message to Corresponding Author Article ID: 100014Z15KO2021 doi: 10.5348/100014Z15KO2021CR Access full text article on other devices Access PDF of article on other devices How to cite this article Olson KM, Durant AM, Khan A. Management of infected Penuma implant: Case report. J Case Rep Images Urol 2021;6:100014Z15KO2021. ABSTRACT The Penuma implant is a subcutaneous silicone penile implant for penile enhancement that has been FDA approved since 2004. We report the case of a 42-year-old male with infected Penuma implant several months after revision surgery. It was identified on physical exam and imaging and managed with intravenous (IV) antibiotics and explantation. Keywords: Infected prosthesis, Penile implant, Reconstruction Introduction Erectile dysfunction (ED) and penile enhancement are not new topics to the urologic community. The first written description of ED dates back to the 8th Century BC and the first acrylic implant was performed in the US 1952 [1] [2] . Through the years, our surgical management of ED has evolved into a successful practice due to the development of the inflatable penile prosthesis (IPP). However, the field of penile implants and augments is not limited to the IPP. Patients have access to many new devices that claim to augment and enhance the penis while maintaining erectile function, but the American Urologic Association (AUA) does not consider penile augmentation a safe or efficacious procedure and specifically counsels against the use of subcutaneous fat injections and division of the suspensory ligament [3] . No official statements have been made regarding silicone implants placed within the connective tissue of the penis despite FDA approval for these implants. One such device that has appeared on the market is the Penuma, a crescent-shaped silicone implant placed between Dartos and Buck&rsquo;s fascia through an infrapubic approach which spans the length of the penis. Complications associated with these devices include seroma, scarring, and infection [4] , [5] . There is a paucity of experience and recommendations treating infectious complications related to this device. In this case report, we describe the surgical management of an infected Penuma implant. Case Report The patient was a 42-year-old male with non-contributory past medical history who underwent silicon sleeve penile implant for penile enlargement. After this initial procedure, the patient had chronic penile pain exacerbated by erections and developed an area of firmness at the glans which severely affected his social and sexual health. Revision surgery was performed three years later with goal to resize the implant for better outcome. After implant revision, he developed acute on chronic penile pain. Several months after the revision procedure he developed significant penoscrotal edema, erythema and nausea, vomiting, fever, and chills causing him to seek medical care. Upon presentation to the emergency department he was tachycardic but was otherwise hemodynamically stable. His physical exam demonstrated significant edema and erythema of the phallus with palpable fluctuance around implant that extended from his infrapubic incision to the glans of the penis. Rectal exam revealed a normal prostate without tenderness and no pelvic floor discomfort. His lab work showed leukocytosis of 13.4/L, normal basic metabolic panel, and normal urinalysis. CT scan performed without contrast showed edema of the scrotum and penis with fluid collection around implant ( Figure 1 ). He was admitted to the hospital and started on broad-spectrum antibiotics (Zosyn and Vancomycin) with IV fluids for resuscitation. The following day, the patient was taken to the operating room (OR) for explant of silicon penile implant and washout. Incision was made through his prior infrapubic surgical site and dissection was directed toward implant. Capsule was identified and entered with immediate release of purulent fluid. Culture later showed Staphylococcus aureus resistant to ampicillin, clindamycin, and penicillin as well as Cutibacterium acne . The cavity was opened laterally to the distal end of the implant on both sides. The proximal end of the implant was delivered through the incision and mesh and permanent suture anchoring the implant to the distal penis was visualized. The Penuma was then removed through incision after cutting sutures ( Figure 2 ). The mesh was not removed as it was deeply imbedded in the penile tissue. The risks of leaving the mesh in place include pain and infection; however, removal would have led to greater tissue damage and possibly more chronic pain. We decreased the infection risk by using the following steps: the implant cavity was copiously irrigated with double antibiotic solution and half inch Penrose drain was placed into the capsule, exiting just lateral to incision. The subcutaneous tissue was closed with 2-0 vicryl interrupted and epidermis was approximated with surgical staples. Post-operatively, the patient felt much improved. His penile pain and swelling had considerably decreased. His leukocytosis had resolved. He was discharged to home on a two week course of Bactrim and Keflex with drain in place and plan for close follow-up for drain and staple removal. He has not had further infections since explantation. The patient endorsed erectile dysfunction following Penuma explantation, which he did not have an issue with pre-operatively, and was started on sildenafil. Figure 1: Radiographic images at time of presentation. Left: Soft tissue edema and induration consistent with cellulitis. Implant noted to extend cranially beyond corpora cavernosa. Right: Fluid collection around implant with soft tissue edema consistent with abscess. Share Image: Figure 2: Intraoperative photos. (A) Incision made through prior scar in the infrapubic region. (B) Distal aspect of implant sutured to underlying connecting tissue and mesh with permanent suture. (C) Post-operative image showing intact implant and drain positioning. Share Image: Discussion Approved by the FDA in 2004, thousands of Penuma silicone implants have been placed to date [6] . These numbers will likely continue to climb due to increasing public awareness. In a single institutional retrospective study, infections occurred in 3.2% of patients receiving Penuma implants. Of those with infections, 61% required explantation of the device. The infection and explantation rate may be higher than reported in this retrospective study due to incomplete cohort response to surveys [4] . A small case series reported by Furr et al. described removal of silicone implants for penile enhancement due to intractable pain and infection in four cases [5] . Of note, these patients had long-term complications related to fibrosis with curvature and shortening leading to erectile dysfunction [5] . Increased vigilance with regard to sterile technique and prophylactic measures is needed with penile silicone implants. Addition of antibiotic coatings to these devices is under investigation and likely to be beneficial as similar application to IPPs was found to significantly reduce infections [5] , [7] . Furthermore, increased number and standardized recommendations for antibiotic irrigations should be encouraged as well as adherence to the AUA guidelines on antimicrobial prophylaxis involving implanted prosthesis [8] . This case study details treatment principles similar to infected IPPs with prompt identification, explantation, and broad-spectrum antibiotics being the mainstays of treatment. Finally, patients thinking of undergoing this cosmetic procedure need to be counseled on the risks of potent