# Elon Musk Tesla Model 3 Tweets Video

**Source**: http://www.theverge.com/2017/3/24/15049656/elon-musk-tesla-model-3-tweets-video
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:58:55.113082+00:00

---

Elon Musk shares video of near-final Model 3, but says he won’t drive one | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Elon Musk shares video of near-final Model 3, but says he won’t drive one Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Transportation Close Transportation Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Transportation Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech Cars Close Cars Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Cars Elon Musk shares video of near-final Model 3, but says he won’t drive one He tweeted a lot this morning He tweeted a lot this morning by Jordan Golson Close Jordan Golson Last published Jul 23, 2021 Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Jordan Golson Mar 24, 2017, 3:44 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads Elon Musk / Twitter Tesla CEO Elon Musk today shared the first video of what he calls a &ldquo;release candidate&rdquo; version of Tesla&rsquo;s upcoming Model 3 electric car. We&rsquo;ve seen Model 3 prototypes before , and this five-second clip doesn&rsquo;t really show us anything new &mdash; but Musk enjoys feeding the hype train. He also noted that calling the new car the &ldquo;Model 3&rdquo; was sowing confusion among customers about whether it was the &ldquo;next version&rdquo; of Tesla&rsquo;s car, like Apple going from the iPhone 2 to iPhone 3 &mdash; &ldquo;not true,&rdquo; Musk said. He called himself &ldquo;a dumb idiot&rdquo; for naming it Model 3, saying he &ldquo;didn&rsquo;t realize at the time that it would cause confusion.&rdquo; Instead, he says customers should think of the Model 3 as similar to the BMW 3 Series or Audi A4, while the Model S is like a BMW 5 or 6 Series &mdash; different cars but sold side by side. Musk noted that he will keep driving the Model S even after the Model 3 arrives. In an anecdote we&rsquo;ve known for a while, Musk reminded followers that the Model 3 was originally going to be named the Model E (&ldquo;for obvious dumb humor reasons&rdquo; &mdash; meaning the cars would be Models S, E, and X), but a Ford trademark lawsuit prevented that from happening. Next up, naturally, is Model Y . S3XY. As part of his tweetstorm this morning &mdash; which occurred during a flight to Cape Canaveral for a SpaceX rocket launch &mdash; Musk replied to a number of current and potential Tesla customers about what&rsquo;s coming from the company in the coming months. Among other things, he said: The first Model 3 cars will all be rear-wheel drive , much like the Model S was, to make production a bit simpler. All-wheel drive / dual-motor versions will come six to nine months after launch. Performance versions of the Model 3 will come “probably a year from now,” though the Model S will remain faster because it has room for a larger battery. “More cowbell” will be coming in the Tesla 8.1 software update, which is expected next week. It’s a reference to a Will Farrell Saturday Night Live skit of which Musk is a fan. Previous versions of Tesla’s vehicle operating system have included Easter eggs referencing cowbell . The Model 3 will have a single screen combining instrument cluster and infotainment information in one place. Hinting at possible increased autonomy, Musk asked how often riders look at the instrument panel in a taxi. The Model S will remain the fastest Tesla until the next-generation Roadster is released — though that car is “a few years away.” A Tesla semi-truck will beat sports cars from zero to 60 mph. Tesla and SolarCity will begin taking orders for its “solar roof” product next month. Follow topics and authors from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates. Jordan Golson Close Jordan Golson Last published Jul 23, 2021 Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Jordan Golson Cars Close Cars Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Cars Electric Cars Close Electric Cars Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Electric Cars Elon Musk Close Elon Musk Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Elon Musk Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech Tesla Close Tesla Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tesla Transportation Close Transportation Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Transportation Most Popular Most Popular Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store Behold: The Lego Game Boy has already been modded to play games for real Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Everything is terrorism in Trump’s America Satya Nadella appoints a new CEO to run Microsoft’s biggest businesses The Verge Daily A free daily digest of the news that matters most. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Transportation Tesla’s cheaper Model Y finally breaks cover Tesla Cybertruck’s faulty door handles caused woman’s death, lawsuit alleges Tesla finally had a good sales quarter — it may be the last one for a while Ford and GM are buying their own EVs to keep the $7500 tax credit alive Porsche’s electric Cayenne has so much screen they had to bend it Allowing more tailpipe pollution means higher fuel costs for Americans Tesla’s cheaper Model Y finally breaks cover Andrew J. Hawkins 6:00 PM UTC Tesla Cybertruck’s faulty door handles caused woman’s death, lawsuit alleges Emma Roth 3:01 PM UTC Tesla finally had a good sales quarter — it may be the last one for a while Andrew J. Hawkins Oct 2 Ford and GM are buying their own EVs to keep the $7500 tax credit alive Andrew J. Hawkins Oct 1 Porsche’s electric Cayenne has so much screen they had to bend it Andrew J. Hawkins Oct 1 Allowing more tailpipe pollution means higher fuel costs for Americans Justine Calma Oct 1 Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories 2:00 PM UTC With a Friend like this, who needs enemies? 5:08 PM UTC I’ve fallen into Sora’s slippery slop 1:03 PM UTC I tried Amazon and Google’s new smart home gadgets, ask me anything! 3:06 PM UTC The quest for every Gap store playlist ever 4:52 PM UTC Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom 1:57 AM UTC Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved