# Layoff Brain

**Source**: https://annehelen.substack.com/p/layoff-brain
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:56:06.454087+00:00

---

Layoff Brain - by Anne Helen Petersen - Culture Study Subscribe Sign in Essays Layoff Brain Dispatches from a defensive crouch Anne Helen Petersen Jan 25, 2023 453 49 1 Share Have you been meaning to subscribe and keep telling yourself you’ll do it the next time you’re at your computer or near your wallet or or or…. I get it, I absolutely get it. But if you have the means, consider paying for the things that have become important to you . (If you don’t have the means, as always, you can just email me and I’ll comp you, no questions asked). Subscriptions make work like this possible. Subscribe Back in the summer of 2020 , I quit what was ostensibly a very good job in media to write this newsletter full-time. I didn’t do it for money. I didn’t do it because I didn’t like editors (I had excellent ones, whom I appreciated deeply). I did it because I had Layoff Brain. At that point, I’d been at BuzzFeed for six years. I was hired at the beginning of what would become a massive hiring spree, as BuzzFeed expanded mightily into news, lifestyle, and video content. It felt like being on a garishly painted rocket ship. Yes, I had to spend a fair amount of time explaining to people that BuzzFeed was more than listicles. But I also had a decent reporting budget, a lot of leeway in what to write about, and — at least after the first rumblings of unionization — a salary that had been “leveled” to meet industry standards. The problem was: BuzzFeed kept changing its strategy, its focus, its pivot . Facebook Video, long-form video, quizzes, longform journalism, no-wait-no-more-longform-journalism, no wait Investigative Journalism, no wait less of that and more Tasty. The company was and is a digital media company, which is another way of saying that it uses its placement within the journalism industry to mask or at least distract from some of its most egregious, obnoxious, or otherwise nonsensical start-up behaviors. I watched entire departments unceremoniously let go because they weren’t making enough money, even though the company had openly refused attempts to monetize their content. I saw re-org after re-org, double-downs and retractions, the cutting of essential components of the publishing process (copyediting! design!) down to the barest essentials, and horribly handled nightmares of layoff notifications. And again, that was just in six years. Every time, I wondered if my department was next. When I started at BuzzFeed, I had been in academia for nine years. I knew what it felt like to wake up every morning with an anxious pit of despair about your future employment. None of the precarity of digital media was new to me; in fact, it meshed seamlessly with the lessons I’d internalized graduating into the aftermath of the Dot-Com burst and watching the Great Recession decimate the academic landscape. None of this was unique to me, either. “My relationship with my work is one of mistrust,” one millennial worker told Clio Chang in 2020. “I have very little trust for the system and for people running systems.” We knew to expect nothing, to trust no company, to rely on no promised path. It was exhausting, but what other choice did we have? At least I had a job, if an utterly insecure one. When the pandemic hit, BuzzFeed quickly addressed anticipated revenue declines with stark cuts, including significant layoffs in News. The BuzzFeed News Union (which, at that point, was still unrecognized by leadership) worked tirelessly to come up with a plan that would preserve as many jobs as possible. We traded layoffs for across-the-board decreases in salary — a trade I’d make again. Some managers fell on their swords and resigned to save members of their teams. Layoffs are the worst for the people who lose their job, but there’s a ripple effect on those who keep them — particularly if they keep them over the course of multiple layoffs. It’s a curious mix of guilt, relief, trepidation, and anger. Are you supposed to be grateful to the company whose primary leadership strategy seems to be keeping its workers trapped in fear? How do you trust your manager’s assurances of security further than the end of the next pay period? If the company actually “wishes the best” for the employees it let go, why wouldn’t they fucking recognize the union whose animating goal was to create a modicum of security for when the next layoff arrived, as we all knew it would? Leaving to write your own Substack might not seem like more security than a features writing gig at a multi-million dollar company, but if I was going to have a fickle overlord in control of my destiny, I decided I’d rather play that role myself. I feel more secure writing Culture Study than I did at BuzzFeed, but I live, save, and cultivate side gigs as if the bottom can and will drop out at any moment. You could call this good business sense, or you could call it the strategy of a brain irrevocably shaped by the Great Recession, academia, and digital media layoff culture. A millennial brain, but also, I’d argue, a boomer brain, a Gen-X brain, and now — a Gen-Z brain. And just because hundreds of thousands of other people share that posture doesn’t mean it has to be this way. In case you haven’t heard , we’re in a recession. Actually we’re not, but we’ve spent the last year talking about how we will be, which has the effect of altering behavior as if we were. Even if you’ve come to terms with the fundamental irrationality of the stock market, it’s still difficult to fight the feeling that CEOs are willing this recession into existence to create a justifying narrative for layoffs. Not because they necessarily want to save money, or even redirect the company, but to press reset on what they view as out-of-control compensation packages and worker demands. After more than a decade of hiring sprees and bidding wars for talent, these actions have been labeled a sort of natural, totally expected “course correction.” And some of that argument makes sense. But it’s also a very convenient way of (re)instilling fear in the workforce. kelsey mckinney @mckinneykelsey This round of layoffs in particular it feels clear that this isn't about a recession or profit or even worker quality. It's about fear induction. Lay off a bunch of people, and you grab a bit of power back out of the fear among the remaining. It is easier to exploit them. 6:53 PM ∙ Jan 20, 2023 12,983 Likes 2,487 Retweets To be clear, I’m not contesting the existence of decreased earnings reports. I am, however, contesting the near-universally accepted belief that layoffs are the natural response to decreased earnings reports — particularly for companies with significant cash resources. Dr. Jeffrey Pfeffer, a professor at the Stanford Graduate School of Business, has studied the psychology of layoffs for the last forty years, and argues convincingly that layoffs do not actually cut costs, or increase stock prices, or increase productivity. “Layoffs do not solve what is often the underlying problem, which is often an ineffective strategy, a loss of market share, or too little revenue,” he explained . “Layoffs are basically a bad decision.” (Click on the link for more of the explanation, with lots of citations, if you don’t buy it) What do layoffs do? First off, they cost money: in severance packages and unemployment insurance, but also reduced productivity and innovation. They also destroy trust, as Harvard Business School professor Sandra J. Sucher and research associate Marilyn Morgan Westner point out , and increase anxiety and disengagement. “ Post-layoff underperformance ” is very real. All of that makes sense. And yet, some companies really do seem to believe that layoffs goad remaining workers to grind harder or whatever ridiculous phrase we’re using for working all the damn time — and yes, for employees with the potential to lose everything (like, say, their employment visa) if they lost a job, that can happen. But those desperately grinding employees will eventually burn out, and you’ll either lose them to another company…or their skills (precision, creativity, ability to collaborate) will diminish. As for the rest of the workforce, maybe they wish they could churn themselves into a sliver of imagined stability, but they’re too busy fighting intrusive thoughts regarding their own instability. It’s hard to be productive when you spend days at a time backchanneling, hodgepodging your department back together, accustoming yourself to new org charts and workflows and desk locations, and just generally internalizing the demonstrated logic of your organization: that layoffs can happen without warning, in seemingly irrational and surprising and untargeted ways, and there is no way to protect yourself from the next wave. Might as well start quietly building your life raft. Recent articles in the New York Times , the BBC , and the Seattle Times have suggested that Gen-Z and younger millennials are simply getting their first (adult) taste of what older millennials and Gen-Xers have come to understand as the norm: of course you’re going to get laid off from your job. One 48-year-old engineer, recently laid off from Coinbase, told the New York Times that since his first tech layoff, back in 2003, he’s always asked himself: “If I were laid off, what would I do?” By contrast, a recruiter for Meta continually “assured colleagues that their jobs were safe, pointing to the more than $40 billion in cash the company had in the bank.” She was laid off in November. My first impulse is to congratulate the Gen-X engineer on his lifeboat strategy and tell the Meta recruiter that obviously everyone knows that the amount of profits your company is banking means absolutely nothing when it comes to job security. But even just typing that feels ridiculous. Workers have been socialized to absorb the risk previously shouldered by corporations , including and especially the c-suite, and the fact that Gen-Z employees have managed to make it nearly a decade into the