# Chris Kyle American Sniper Murder Eddie Routh Mental Records

**Source**: http://www.thetrace.org/2015/11/chris-kyle-american-sniper-murder-eddie-routh-mental-records/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:46:51.005192+00:00

---

Private Medical Records of Chris Kyle&#039;s Killer Reveal the True Story Behind the &quot;American Sniper&quot; Murder Skip to content Close Fall Campaign: Gun Violence in America, Through a New Lens Make a gift today to help The Trace inform more people about an issue that affects all of us. Donate Now Investigating gun violence in America. The Data Hub Profiles Gun Rights How We Fix This Newsletters Donate The Trace Menu Search Search Projects & Investigations The Industry The role of the gun industry in America’s gun violence epidemic. A Decade of American Gun Violence Our team is examining a decade's worth of data from the Gun Violence Archive for insights into one of the most devastating public health crises in the United States. Bang for the Buck The National Rifle Association is one of the most powerful special interest groups in America. We’re investigating how it spends its money. The Trajectory A newsletter spotlighting the people, policies, and programs grappling with the gun violence crisis. Ongoing Topics Community Violence Gun Policy The Business of Guns Law Enforcement Extremism Data Browse all topics Local Chicago Philadelphia About The Trace About Our team, our mission, our partners, and more. Plus: How to contact us. Donate We report stories that would go untold. Generous readers sustain our work. Newsletter Sign up now to get our latest stories and eye-opening briefings. Bluesky Facebook Instagram Chris Kyle, fifth from top left, was the most celebrated sniper in American history. His killer, Eddie Ray Routh, may have been suffering from undiagnosed schizophrenia. Shooting The Undoing of Eddie Ray Routh Private medical records of Chris Kyle's killer reveal the true story behind the "American Sniper" murder. By Mike Spies Nov 23, 2015 The Trace Go beyond the headlines. How does gun violence impact communities? Email Address The Weekly Briefing The Trajectory The Bulletin Chicago Philadelphia Data Hub Subscribe Share Copy link Share on Facebook Email a link to this page The day before Eddie Ray Routh killed Chris Kyle, the most prolific sniper in American military history, he awoke in his childhood home and tried to get ready for work. Several months earlier the 25-year-old former Marine had moved back in with his parents in Lancaster, Texas, a small, middle-class suburb just south of Dallas. He had been struggling for years with what doctors had diagnosed as Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, though his symptoms suggested he was suffering from a more serious mental illness. He would later tell a forensic psychologist that he believed his coworkers at a cabinet shop were cannibals who planned to eat him. Routh was plagued with such severe anxiety, he was unable to drive himself to work. His mother, Jodi, would drop him off in the morning on her way to her job at an elementary school, and the shop’s owner would return him home. That meant for a few hours each afternoon, Routh was left alone. “When I’d start back to the house,” Jodi recalls, “I’d be like, ‘Please don’t let me find him dead.’ I was so afraid he was going to kill himself. Because that’s what he wanted.” At night, he would often climb into bed with her. “This was a 6’2 Marine,” she says. “A tough man calling for his mama.” Routh had lately become concerned about the state of his soul, and when he and his mother arrived at the cabinet shop on the morning of February 1, 2013, he asked if they could pray together. In the parking lot, Jodi held her son’s hand. Wiry since boyhood, he had a narrow face and a beak nose, with nervous eyes and an unkempt beard. Before he exited the car and slunked off into the shop, he asked the Lord to watch over his mom and dad. Jodi was headed out of town that afternoon to spend the weekend with her husband, Raymond, who was building feedlot equipment a few hours away in Hereford. She took comfort in knowing that her son’s girlfriend would be staying at the house with him, and that his uncle would check in on him. But Routh had plans that his mother did not know about. The following day, Chris Kyle and his friend, Chad Littlefield, were taking him to a shooting range. Kyle’s death generated an outpouring of grief in Texas, where he was celebrated as a hero in a memorial service at Texas Stadium , the home of the Dallas Cowboys. It also resonated with gun enthusiasts across the country, who embraced Kyle as a celebrity at major events like Las Vegas’s SHOT show , the annual firearms industry convention. Kyle’s legend as a kind of modern Wyatt Earp was enhanced by his books. In his bestseller American Gun: A History of the U.S. in Ten Firearms , he writes, “One of my proudest possessions is a replica Peacemaker — the famous Colt revolver that defined the Wild West.” He was especially recognized for his 2012 autobiography, American Sniper , which chronicled his exploits as a Navy Seal in Iraq, where he served four tours and logged 160 kills, a U.S. military record. In his videotaped confession with a Texas Ranger, Routh said, in reference to Kyle, “I knew if I did not take his soul, he was going to take mine.” The film adaptation of his story, starring Bradley Cooper, was already in theaters in Stephenville when Routh’s murder trial began there on February 11, 2014. Outside the courthouse, local vendors sold Chris Kyle baseball caps . A week earlier, Governor Greg Abbott had declared February 2, the anniversary of the murders, Chris Kyle Day. Routh’s lawyers argued that he was insane at the time of the killings. Their medical expert, a forensic psychiatrist who examined Routh for six hours, disagreed with the PTSD diagnosis he had been given years earlier by doctors at the Dallas Veterans Affairs hospital. The expert believed Routh was schizophrenic, and suggested he suffered from paranoid delusions. In his videotaped confession with a Texas Ranger, Routh said, in reference to Kyle, “I knew if I did not take his soul, he was going to take mine.” Prosecutors play video of a police interview with Eddie Routh at his murder trial. (AP/Star-Telegram, Rodger Mallison, Pool) The prosecution, however, argued that Routh was a psychopath, and that his odd statements had been calculated to keep him out of jail. After deliberating for less than two hours, the jury agreed, and Routh was sentenced to life in prison without parole. Following the verdict, the general consensus was that Kyle, the apotheosis of a good guy with a gun, had been killed by a very bad guy with a gun. Marcus Luttrell, the former Navy Seal whose autobiography was the basis for the popular film Lone Survivor , tweeted , &#8220;Justice served for Chris and the Littlefield family. To Eddie Ray Routh, you thought you had PTSD before .?? Wait till the boys in [Texas Department of Criminal Justice] Find out you killed a TX hero.” There’s an obvious appeal to such black and white, good vs. evil narratives. But the truth about the man who killed the celebrated &#8220;American Sniper&#8221; is not that simple. Recently, Jodi and Raymond Routh shared with The Trace hundreds of pages of confidential medical records containing information never brought to light during the trial. The documents appear to corroborate the testimony of the defense’s medical expert: Routh suffered a series of psychotic breaks and exhibited signs of schizophrenia in the two years leading up to Kyle’s murder, raising questions about how Routh’s illness was treated at the Dallas VA. “[The VA] should have been more careful &#8230; when he was presenting with much clearer psychotic symptoms,” says Dr. Amam Saleh, a forensic psychiatrist who reviewed Routh’s medical records for The Trace. “Something was missed.” In September 2007, Routh was deployed to a forward operating base about 60 miles north of Baghdad, where he repaired weapons and worked as prison guard for six months. That was his only war-related experience, though in January 2010 he was sent to Haiti on a humanitarian mission, after an earthquake there devastated the country. He told his parents he was responsible for clearing the land of corpses, among them dead babies. There is no documented evidence to confirm Routh’s account, but when he returned from Haiti, Jodi recalls, “he was just so messed up.&#8221; A photo of Chris Kyle is displayed before the start of his memorial service at Texas Stadium in February 2013. Thousands came to pay their respects. (AP/Brandon Wade) In late July 2011, a little more than a year after he was honorably discharged from the Marines, Routh appeared at the Dallas VA, complaining that a tapeworm — which doctors found did not exist — was eating away at his insides. This is when the VA first diagnosed him as having PTSD, according to the medical records, and doctors prescribed him Risperidone, an anti-psychotic, as well as other medications to treat depression. Several days later, Routh threatened to kill himself with the .357 Magnum his father kept in his car. Again, he was taken to the Dallas VA, where he remained for nearly two weeks. The clinical notes from August 3 say that Routh was “psychotic.” At one point he told the staff, “You are all in this game, I can see the smoke in the mirror, we are all actors.” Over the next year, through 2012, Routh&#8217;s symptoms grew worse. He was convinced the government was spying on him. He reported having auditory hallucinations, like hearing music that seemed like it was “picked up [from] a radio station.” He got into another fight with his father and again threatened to kill himself, which prompted his parents to remove all of their guns from the house. Routh blamed the incident on alcohol. Records from around this time note that the VA offered him inpatient treatment for alcohol abuse, which the clinicians seemed to think was the trigger for his psychotic episodes. Routh declined. He also stopped taking his medication, saying that the drugs made him feel like a “fucking zombie.” In early January, 2013, Jodi met Chris Kyle, then 38 years old. He’d been