# These Dating Apps Are Trying To Capture Gen Zs Attention

**Source**: https://www.latimes.com/business/story/2022-02-11/these-dating-apps-are-trying-to-capture-gen-zs-attention
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:57:20.694995+00:00

---

Gen Z is ready to break up with Tinder, and these new dating apps are here for the rebound - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing &amp; Homelessness Politics Science &amp; Medicine World &amp; Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor &amp; Workplace Real Estate Technology and the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing &amp; Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate &amp; Environment Global Warming Water &amp; Drought Entertainment &amp; Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 best restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art &amp; Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health &amp; Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel &amp; Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World &amp; Nation Immigration &amp; the Border Israel-Hamas Mexico &amp; the Americas Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios Business • AI &amp; Tech • Banking &amp; Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Goods &amp; Retail • Healthcare &amp; Science • Law Dentists Decor &amp; Design Doctors &amp; Scientists Hot Property Live &amp; Well Orange County Pets The Hub: Rebuilding LA Travel Weddings &amp; Celebrations Newsletters Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Students &amp; Educators Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store L.A. Times Studios News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance &amp; Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? People on the Move Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Sections Tap to enable a layout that focuses on the article. Focus mode Show Search Search Query Submit Search Advertisement Business Gen Z is ready to break up with Tinder, and these new dating apps are here for the rebound A new wave of dating apps is targeting Gen Z users and/or people who are over Tinder. (Jade Cuevas / Los Angeles Times) By Jaimie Ding Staff Writer&nbsp; Feb. 11, 2022 5 AM PT Share via Close extra sharing options Email Facebook X LinkedIn Threads Reddit WhatsApp Copy Link URL Copied! Print p]:text-cms-story-body-color-text clearfix mb-10 md:max-w-170 md:mx-auto" data-subscriber-content> With Valentine’s Day looming, Steven Coyle was on his phone looking for a date — but not on Tinder. The 26-year-old from Las Vegas used an app called Snack to scroll through videos of women walking down the street, showing off their outfits, or lip-syncing to the camera. One caught his eye — a tall, pretty blond recording herself walking through Disney California Adventure Park to the Avengers Campus, where she ordered a cocktail at the bar. Advertisement She looks fun, he thought. He pressed a heart to “like.” Coyle had stumbled upon Snack, an app that bills itself as “TikTok meets Tinder,” just a few days earlier. It’s one of a handful of innovative dating apps that are trying to capture the attention of Gen Z, many of whose members say they are tired of the apps that have dominated the online dating scene for nearly a decade — Bumble, Hinge and, above all, Tinder, which popularized the now-ubiquitous “swipe to match” user interface. Looking for love with someone who shares your Myers-Briggs personality type, or your love of video games? Want to see a blurry photo of your prospective partner that gets progressively sharper the longer you chat? The options abound. Heterosexual couples in the U.S. are now more likely to meet a romantic partner online than via any other mode of connection. A 2017 survey found 39% of such couples reported meeting their partner online, compared with 22% in 2009. Nearly half of all 18- to 29-year-olds say they have used a dating app in their life, according to a 2019 Pew Research Center study . Advertisement Business Finding love for $300,000: Inside the business of a matchmaker to the rich and famous You can’t put a price on love, but Amber Kelleher-Andrews has put a price on finding it: $30,000 to $300,000 a year for her elite matchmaking services. Feb. 11, 2022 And during the pandemic, online dating reached new heights — with Bumble reporting a 70% increase in video calls and Tinder exceeding 3 billion swipes in one day for the first time in March 2020. “Dating apps provide that opportunity for you to meet people outside of your typical circles that you would be in day to day and I think that’s really powerful — people say opposites attract,” Snack Chief Executive Kim Kaplan said. Underscoring its intention to court a new generation of daters, Snack eliminated the swipe gesture in favor of pressing a heart button or sending a message. Attempting to swipe brings up the cheeky error message “swiping is old af.” Advertisement “Swiping is 10 years old now,” said Kaplan, who was one of the first employees at Match.com and involved with the dating app Plenty of Fish, which eventually was sold for $575 million. That’s not all that’s been freshened up. Users upload TikTok-style videos instead of photos, there’s no field for a bio, and you can even upload videos to an Instagram-style “story” that people can view after you match with them. VIDEO | 05:09 LA Times Today: Gen Z is ready to break up with Tinder. These dating apps are here for the rebound Share via Close extra sharing options Email Facebook X LinkedIn Threads Reddit WhatsApp Copy Link URL Copied! Watch L.A. Times Today at 7 p.m. on Spectrum News 1 on Channel 1 or live stream on the Spectrum News App. Palos Verdes Peninsula and Orange County viewers can watch on Cox Systems on channel 99. TikTok, where Snack advertises, played a major role in its creation. Kaplan was scrolling through the app one day in early 2020 when she came across a video of a woman introducing herself with her name, age and star sign. Her caption included the hashtag “#single.” Kaplan realized she had discovered an entire “underbelly” of dating already occurring on TikTok. It clicked: A video-first dating app was the logical next evolution of dating. She encouraged her Gen Z employees and investors to incorporate their voices and feedback into the development of Snack. They told her most people of their generation only used the swiping apps because they had to, preferring to move the conversation to a more casual social media platform such as Instagram or Snapchat as quickly as possible. Advertisement Taking a page from the early days of Tinder, the company is focusing on on-the-ground promotion at college campuses and currently has the most users in California, Texas, Florida and New York. The app is available only to those ages 18 to 35. Lifestyle Struck is a new dating app based on zodiac signs: Skeptics are welcome There’s a new astrology-based dating app in Los Angeles and New York. “Skeptics welcome,” says the makers of Struck, who say that pairing people based on zodiac signs is a great way to meet your match. Sept. 7, 2020 It also produces a dating show streamed live every week on TikTok. Although Kaplan declined to disclose user numbers, Snack, which launched in February 2021, was the 10th-most-downloaded dating app in the U.S. in August . Schmooze, another dating app wooing Gen Z, is also organized around a form of digital content the generation has fallen in love with — memes. Or, as CEO Vidya Madhavan put it, “Laugh your way to love.” At first glance, Schmooze doesn’t seem like a dating app. Instead of people’s profiles, you’re immediately greeted with a meme set against a colorful, cartoon-like backdrop, with the choice to swipe right for “like” and left for “don’t like.” After a certain amount of swiping, the app’s machine-learning model attempts to evaluate what kind of humor you like and your topics of interest, such as politics, pop culture or science. At that point, you’ll receive a “#MatchRec” with someone whose humor allegedly matches yours, leaving you with the choice to “Schmooze” or “Snooze.” A few years ago, Madhavan was working in India and debating whether to go to graduate school. She cold-emailed someone who had attended a U.S. business school asking for advice. That first email led to more than 150 email exchanges filled with jokes and humor and, eventually, to marriage — as well as Madhavan’s conviction that humor is a good proxy for romantic compatibility. Advertisement “Meme-based dating fits so perfectly with this generation,” Madhavan said. “Because memes are the way we all communicate, right? Whether it’s sharing news or sharing how you feel.” The 27-year-old Stanford business school graduate co-founded the company with college classmate Abhinav Anurag and launched the app as a beta test in early April 2021. It recently surpassed 300,000 users, with concentrations on the East Coast and in Los Angeles. (For scale, Tinder has about 66 million monthly users worldwide.) Madhavan said the dating apps currently on the market are all essentially the same format — a profile and photos. “Now, are you writing a longer bio? D