# Us Dealer No Evs Nearly Half Refuse Sell Evs Report

**Source**: https://insideevs.com/news/666592/us-dealer-no-evs-nearly-half-refuse-sell-evs-report/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:02:11.769269+00:00

---

Most US Dealers Don&#039;t Have Any EVs &amp; Almost Half Refuse To Sell EVs: Report Most US Dealers Don&#039;t Have Any EVs &amp; Almost Half Refuse To Sell EVs: Report News News Trending Critical Materials Charging Battery Tech Sales All news Reviews Car Reviews First Drives Test Drives Tech Review Comparisons Everything We Know All reviews Features Podcast Features Buying Advice Opinion Lists Power Moves All Features Videos Podcasts Photos Newsletter Best EVs SIGN UP FOR FREE Chime in with article commenting. Sign In Browse this and many other websites without banner ads, personalized tracking and video ads. Sign Up / login Logout from Contentpass News News Trending Critical Materials Charging Battery Tech Sales All news Reviews Car Reviews First Drives Test Drives Tech Review Comparisons Everything We Know All reviews Features Podcast Features Buying Advice Opinion Lists Power Moves All Features Videos Podcasts Photos Newsletter Best EVs page ad skin Home News Sales Most US Dealers Don't Have Any EVs & Almost Half Refuse To Sell EVs: Report On the flip side, 44% of the dealers that don't have EVs to sell would love to sell them if they had access to them. Steven Loveday By : Steven Loveday May 10, 2023 at 12:37pm ET "/> Facebook X LinkedIn Flipboard Reddit WhatsApp E-Mail Share Comment A new Sierra Club report finds that 66% of car dealers in the US simply don't have any electric vehicles (EVs) to sell. Added to this, 45% of dealers said they're unwilling to sell them, regardless. If we really want people to buy EVs, manufacturers need to make them widely available, and that's finally starting to happen. However, it seems it's still not an easy task to get an electric car at many US dealerships. Sierra Club's latest report is entitled&nbsp; “Rev Up Electric Vehicles: A Nationwide Study of the Electric Vehicle Shopping Experience.” For those unfamiliar, Sierra Club is&nbsp;an American environmental organization that advocates for EVs, so its agenda could have an impact on the information it shares. However, the data in this report was gathered from over 800 surveys of automotive dealers in all 50 US states, so it's safe to say these dealer opinions are definitely out there, which comes as no surprise. The report did find one positive statistic based on the survey responses. Among the 66% of US auto dealerships that claimed they don't have any EVs to sell, 44% of them said they want to sell them if they can get access. If people are visiting these dealerships ready to buy an EV, and the dealer can't get them one, it's a loss for the business and perhaps the loss of a customer. Read These Related Stories: Mercedes-Benz Dealer Charges EQA EV Owner For "Engine Oil Change" After Ford Adjusts EV Program, 29 Dealers Decide To Opt Out Dealers who say they can't get EVs blame supply chain issues, a lack of enough inventory, and the way in which the EV manufacturers choose to allocate the cars. We recently visited a local Hyundai dealer and were told that states on the west coast were getting the bulk of the hybrid and electric inventory, and it wouldn't be coming to Michigan in large numbers any time soon. In order to get access to EVs, dealerships often need to commit to investing in charging stations and training for their service and sales staff. It can be a big financial commitment to invest in something that you still may not get access to for years to come, depending on the situation. Sierra Club also reports that there are still 27 US states that don't permit direct sales. This means it's illegal for companies like Tesla and Rivian to sell their EVs in the state. Interestingly, the study also shows that 65% of the EVs sold in the US were sold in states that allow direct sales. Finally, the report broke down the data by automotive brand. Sierra Club reached out to 18 different automaker ownership groups. It found that Mercedes-Benz was the brand with EVs most readily available. An impressive 90% of Mercedes dealers had an EV on hand and for sale. Meanwhile, only 15% of Toyota dealers and 11% of Honda dealers had an EV to sell. There's a wealth of interesting information in the multi-page Sierra Club report. Check it all out by following the link below. Then head down to our popular comment section to share your takeaways. Source: Sierra Club via Electrek Share this Story Facebook X LinkedIn Flipboard Reddit WhatsApp E-Mail Got a tip for us? Email: tips@insideevs.com View all comments ( ) POPULAR Tesla’s Cheaper Model Y Caught On Camera Before Official Reveal Rivian Offers $6,500 Off Of R1T And R1S Leases As Tax Credits End The Surprising Limits Of America’s EV Tax Credits Cadillac's Big Boom: 40% Of Q3 Sales Were EVs latest articles I Drove The VinFast VF8. It's Even Worse Than I Remember Oct 3 - Features - These U.S. States Still Offer Rebates For EVs And PHEVs [Update] Oct 3 - Buying Tips - Rivian R2 Is Up Next As Auto Industry Rethinks Door Handles Oct 3 - Safety - Tesla Cybertruck May Get A Range Boost In A Fascinating Way Oct 3 - News - Cadillac's Big Boom: 40% Of Q3 Sales Were EVs Oct 3 - News - EV Tax Credits Are Dead. Here Come The Deals And Discounts Oct 3 - Critical Materials - The Surprising Limits Of America’s EV Tax Credits Oct 3 - Podcast - RECOMMENDED FOR YOU Audi's Best-Selling Car Last Quarter Was Electric I Drove The VinFast VF8. It's Even Worse Than I Remember Tesla Posts Record Q3 Deliveries As U.S. Tax Credits End These U.S. States Still Offer Rebates For EVs And PHEVs [Update] Ford’s EVs Just Had Another Record Sales Quarter Rivian R2 Is Up Next As Auto Industry Rethinks Door Handles GM Has Already Sold More Electric Vehicles In 2025 Than All Of 2024 --> Subscribe to our Newsletter Receive exciting Automotive news, updates, and special offers straight to your inbox. Subscribe Follow Us Facebook X Flipboard Google News YouTube RSS About Us Advertising Contact 650 Madison Avenue New York, NY 10022 USA Privacy policy Cookie policy Cookie Settings Terms of use © 2025 Motorsport Network. All rights reserved. Logotype News All news News Trending Critical Materials Charging Battery Tech Sales Reviews All reviews Car Reviews First Drives Test Drives Tech Review Comparisons Everything We Know Features All Features Podcast Features Buying Advice Opinion Lists Power Moves Makes All Makes Abarth Acura Afeela Aptera Aston Martin Audi Automobili Pininfarina BMW Bollinger Buick BYD Byton Cadillac Chevrolet Chrysler Citroën Cupra Dacia Daimler Dodge Dongfeng DS Faraday Future Ferrari Fiat Fisker Ford GAC Geely General Motors Genesis GMC Honda Hyundai Infiniti Jaguar Jeep Karma Kia Koenigsegg Land Rover Lexus Lincoln Lordstown Motors Lotus Lucid Lynk & Co Mahindra MAN Maserati Mazda Mercedes-AMG Mercedes-Benz MG Mini Mitsubishi NEVS Nikola Motor NIO Nissan Opel Peugeot Pininfarina Polestar Porsche Ram Renault Rimac Rivian Rolls-Royce Scout Motors SEAT Skoda Slate Smart Stellantis Subaru Suzuki Telo Trucks Tesla TOGG Toyota Uaz VinFast Volkswagen Volvo Workhorse Xiaomi Xpeng Zeekr Models Popular models Tesla Model Y Hyundai Ioniq 5 Rivian R1S Toyota bZ4X Lucid Gravity Ram Ramcharger Body Style All Body Styles Sedan Coupe SUV/Crossover Hatchback Truck Convertible Videos Podcast Photos Edition USA / Global Switch Theme Light Dark Auto Current Edition USA / Global Edition: USA / Global Edizione: Italia Edição: Brasil Ausgabe: Deutschland Edisyon: Türkiye Edition: Argentina Cancel --> Cancel SIGN UP FOR FREE Chime in with article commenting. Sign In Browse this and many other websites without banner ads, personalized tracking and video ads. Sign Up / login Logout from Contentpass -->