# Ng.2536

**Source**: https://www.nature.com/articles/ng.2536
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:54:54.449475+00:00

---

Sequencing ancient calcified dental plaque shows changes in oral microbiota with dietary shifts of the Neolithic and Industrial revolutions | Nature Genetics Skip to main content Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript. Advertisement View all journals Search Log in Explore content About the journal Publish with us Subscribe Sign up for alerts RSS feed nature nature genetics letters article Letter Published: 17 February 2013 Sequencing ancient calcified dental plaque shows changes in oral microbiota with dietary shifts of the Neolithic and Industrial revolutions Christina J Adler 1 , 2 , 3 , Keith Dobney 4 , Laura S Weyrich 1 , 2 , John Kaidonis 5 , Alan W Walker 6 , Wolfgang Haak 1 , 2 , Corey J A Bradshaw 2 , 7 , 8 , Grant Townsend 5 , Arkadiusz Sołtysiak 9 , Kurt W Alt 10 , Julian Parkhill 6 &amp; … Alan Cooper 1 , 2 Show authors Nature Genetics volume 45 , pages 450–455 ( 2013 ) Cite this article 24k Accesses 542 Citations 515 Altmetric Metrics details Subjects Evolutionary biology Metagenomics Palaeontology Abstract The importance of commensal microbes for human health is increasingly recognized 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , yet the impacts of evolutionary changes in human diet and culture on commensal microbiota remain almost unknown. Two of the greatest dietary shifts in human evolution involved the adoption of carbohydrate-rich Neolithic (farming) diets 6 , 7 (beginning ∼ 10,000 years before the present 6 , 8 ) and the more recent advent of industrially processed flour and sugar (in ∼ 1850) 9 . Here, we show that calcified dental plaque (dental calculus) on ancient teeth preserves a detailed genetic record throughout this period. Data from 34 early European skeletons indicate that the transition from hunter-gatherer to farming shifted the oral microbial community to a disease-associated configuration. The composition of oral microbiota remained unexpectedly constant between Neolithic and medieval times, after which (the now ubiquitous) cariogenic bacteria became dominant, apparently during the Industrial Revolution. Modern oral microbiotic ecosystems are markedly less diverse than historic populations, which might be contributing to chronic oral (and other) disease in postindustrial lifestyles. Access through your institution Buy or subscribe This is a preview of subscription content, access via your institution Access options Access through your institution Subscribe to this journal Receive 12 print issues and online access $259.00 per year only $21.58 per issue Learn more Buy this article Purchase on SpringerLink Instant access to full article PDF Buy now Prices may be subject to local taxes which are calculated during checkout Additional access options: Log in Learn about institutional subscriptions Read our FAQs Contact customer support Figure 1: Phylum-level microbial composition of ancient dental calculus deposits. Figure 2: Principal-components plot of β diversity. Figure 3: Changes in the diversity and composition of oral microbiota. Figure 4: Discriminant analysis of β diversity. Similar content being viewed by others Ancient dental calculus reveals oral microbiome shifts associated with lifestyle and disease in Great Britain Article 29 November 2023 Ancient oral microbiomes support gradual Neolithic dietary shifts towards agriculture Article Open access 22 November 2022 Oral microbial diversity in 18th century African individuals from South Carolina Article Open access 28 September 2024 Accession codes Primary accessions NCBI Reference Sequence ERP002107 References Aas, J.A. et al. Bacteria of dental caries in primary and permanent teeth in children and young adults. J. Clin. Microbiol. 46 , 1407–1417 (2008). Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Aas, J.A., Paster, B.J., Stokes, L.N., Olsen, I. &amp; Dewhirst, F.E. Defining the normal bacterial flora of the oral cavity. J. Clin. Microbiol. 43 , 5721–5732 (2005). Article PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Davé, S. &amp; Van Dyke, T. The link between periodontal disease and cardiovascular disease is probably inflammation. Oral Dis. 14 , 95–101 (2008). Article PubMed Google Scholar Grossi, S.G. &amp; Genco, R.J. Periodontal disease and diabetes mellitus: a two-way relationship. Ann. Periodontol. 3 , 51–61 (1998). Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Human Microbiome Project Consortium. Structure, function and diversity of the healthy human microbiome. Nature 486 , 207–214 (2012). Braidwood, R.J., Howe, B. &amp; Reed, C.A. The Iranian Prehistoric Project: new problems arise as more is learned of the first attempts at food production and settled village life. Science 133 , 2008–2010 (1961). Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Oelzea, V.M. et al. Early Neolithic diet and animal husbandry: stable isotope evidence from three Linearbandkeramik (LBK) sites in Central Germany. J. Archaeol. Sci. 38 , 270–279 (2011). Article Google Scholar Childe, V.G. The Dawn of European Civilisation (Kegan Paul, London, 1925). Cordain, L. et al. Origins and evolution of the Western diet: health implications for the 21st century. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 81 , 341–354 (2005). Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Savage, D.C. Microbial ecology of the gastrointestinal tract. Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 31 , 107–133 (1977). Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Scott, G.R. &amp; Poulson, S.R. Stable carbon and nitrogen isotopes of human dental calculus: a potentially new non-destructive proxy for paleodietary analysis. J. Archaeol. Sci. 39 , 1388–1393 (2012). Article CAS Google Scholar Lilley, J., Stroud, G. &amp; Brothwell, D. The Jewish burial ground at Jewbury. in The Archaeology of York Vol. 12 (eds. Addyman, P.V. &amp; Kinsler, V.A.) 291–578 (Council for British Archaeology, York, UK, 1994). Preus, H.R., Marvik, O.J., Selvig, K.A. &amp; Bennike, P. Ancient bacterial DNA (aDNA) in dental calculus from archaeological human remains. J. Archaeol. Sci. 38 , 1827–1831 (2011). Article Google Scholar Vandermeersch, B. et al. Middle Palaeolithic dental bacteria from Kebara, Israel. C.R. Acad. Sci. Paris 319 , 727–731 (1994). Google Scholar Socransky, S.S. &amp; Haffajee, A.D. Dental biofilms: difficult therapeutic targets. Periodontol. 2000 28 , 12–55 (2002). Article PubMed Google Scholar Jin, Y. &amp; Yip, H.K. Supragingival calculus: formation and control. Crit. Rev. Oral Biol. Med. 13 , 426–441 (2002). Article PubMed Google Scholar Lieverse, A.R. Diet and the aetiology of dental calculus. Int. J. Osteoarchaeol. 9 , 219–232 (1999). Article Google Scholar Asikainen, S., Chen, C. &amp; Slots, J. Likelihood of transmitting Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans and Porphyromonas gingivalis in families with periodontitis. Oral Microbiol. Immunol. 11 , 387–394 (1996). Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Van Steenbergen, T.J., Menard, C., Tijhof, C.J., Mouton, C. &amp; De Graaff, J. Comparison of three molecular typing methods in studies of transmission of Porphyromonas gingivalis . J. Med. Microbiol. 39 , 416–421 (1993). Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Aufderheide, A.C., Rodriguez-Martin, C. &amp; Langsjoen, O. The Cambridge Encyclopedia of Human Paleopathology (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1998). Faveri, M. et al. Microbiological diversity of generalized aggressive periodontitis by 16S rRNA clonal analysis. Oral Microbiol. Immunol. 23 , 112–118 (2008). Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Grine, F.E., Gwinnett, A.J. &amp; Oaks, J.H. Early hominid dental pathology: interproximal caries in 1.5 million-year-old Paranthropus robustus from Swartkrans. Arch. Oral Biol. 35 , 381–386 (1990). Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Marsh, P.D. Sugar, fluoride, pH and microbial homeostasis in dental plaque. Proc. Finn. Dent. Soc. 87 , 515–525 (1991). CAS PubMed Google Scholar Marsh, P.D. Are dental diseases examples of ecological catastrophes? Microbiology 149 , 279–294 (2003). Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Hujoel, P. Dietary carbohydrates and dental-systemic diseases. J. Dent. Res. 88 , 490–502 (2009). Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Marsh, P.D. Microbiology of dental plaque biofilms and their role in oral health and caries. Dent. Clin. North Am. 54 , 441–454 (2010). Article PubMed Google Scholar Petersen, P.E., Bourgeois, D., Ogawa, H., Estupinan-Day, S. &amp; Ndiaye, C. The global burden of oral diseases and risks to oral health. Bull. World Health Organ. 83 , 661–669 (2005). PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Mercado, F.B., Marshall, R.I., Klestov, A.C. &amp; Bartold, P.M. Relationship between rheumatoid arthritis and periodontitis. J. Periodontol. 72 , 779–787 (2001). Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Quince, C. et al. Accurate determination of microbial diversity from 454 pyrosequencing data. Nat. Methods 6 , 639–641 (2009). Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Dewhirst, F.E. et al. The human oral microbiome. J. Bacteriol. 192 , 5002–5017 (2010). Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Lazarevic, V., Whiteson, K., Hernandez, D., Francois, P. &amp; Schrenzel, J. Study of inter- and intra-individual variations in the salivary microbiota. BMC Genomics 11 , 523 (2010). Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar La Duc, M.T., Kern, R. &amp; Venkateswaran, K. Microbial monitoring of spacecraft and associated environments. Microb. Ecol. 47 , 150–158 (2004). Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar D'Costa, V.M. et al. Antibiotic resistance is ancient. Nature 477 , 457–461 (2011). Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Beier, S., Witzel, K.P. &amp; Marxsen, J. Bacterial community composition in Central European running waters examined by temperature gradient gel electrophoresis and sequence analysis of 16S rRNA genes. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 74 , 188–199 (2008). Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Schloss, P.D. &amp; 