# Alan Sepinwall Origins Lost

**Source**: http://www.grantland.com/story/_/id/8670609/alan-sepinwall-origins-lost
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:55:44.218472+00:00

---

&raquo; ‘I Pretty Much Wanted to Die’ Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous The End of College Football As We Know It? ➤ Next Playing the Andrew Bynum What-If Game ABC Facebook Twitter Print Movies ‘I Pretty Much Wanted to Die’ The origins of Lost , as told by the people who made it, in an exclusive first serial excerpt from The Revolution Was Televised by Alan Sepinwall on November 27, 2012 T he story of Lost makes no sense. And by that I don&#8217;t mean the story on the show &#8212; though this is the point where you can feel free to insert jokes about the numbers, the outrigger shootout, or the reasons why Walt was &#8220;special&#8221; &#8212; but the story of how Lost itself got made. The creation of Lost defies nearly everything we know about how successful television shows &#8212; or great ones &#8212; are made. The idea for Lost came not from a writer, but a network executive. The first writer on the project got fired. The replacement creative team had a fraction of the usual time to write, cast, and produce a pilot episode. The executive who had championed the show was himself fired before it ever aired. One of the two creators all but quit the moment the pilot was finished. Nearly every creative decision at the start of the show was made under the assumption that it would never succeed. Everyone believed it was too weird, too dense, too unusual to work. And it may have been. But it worked, anyway. Lost , a show thrown together in a rush and snakebit by top-level turnover, was an enormous hit right from the start (it&#8217;s the highest rated of any series discussed in this book). It was among the most thrilling, surprising, memorable dramas in the history of American network television, and at its best could go toe-to-toe with much of what was happening on cable during this period. And more than any other classic of the era, its success was a long shot paying off big. Lost as we know it was made in the only way it could have been made, and it arrived at the only time when it could have succeeded. In the summer of 2003, Lloyd Braun was in the middle of a rocky tenure as chairman of ABC Entertainment. A few years earlier, ABC had geared its entire primetime schedule around the hit game show Who Wants to Be a Millionaire , in the process making it impossible to grow new scripted hits; the Millionaire phenomenon inevitably fizzled, and the network was still recovering. On vacation with his family in Hawaii, Braun watched his network&#8217;s broadcast of the Tom Hanks movie Cast Away , then went down to the beach to watch the sunset and meet up with his wife and kids. As he waited, he began pondering the idea of doing Cast Away as a TV show, but couldn&#8217;t figure out how to make it work with only one actor and one volleyball. &#8220;And then the notion of Survivor popped into my head,&#8221; recalls Braun. &#8220;I don&#8217;t know why. And I put it all together: What if there was a plane that crashed and a dozen people survived, and nobody knew each other. Your past was almost irrelevant. You could reinvent who you were. You had to figure out &#8212; how do you survive? What do you use for shelter, for water? Is it like Lord of the Flies ? How do we get off the island, how do you get home? And I start to get very excited about the idea, and I start thinking about the title Lost .&#8221; Braun had liked the name ever since he saw it attached to a short-lived NBC reality show, and kept it filed away in his head, waiting for the right idea to pair it with. Now, he had that idea &#8212; and not much more. He returned to the mainland and headed to an ABC corporate retreat, where executives had been instructed to pitch one series idea. Braun had another one all ready to go, but as he sat there waiting for his turn, &#8220;I was thinking of the original idea and thought it was lame. So I said, &#8216;To hell with this, I&#8217;ll pitch Lost ,&#8217; knowing it was probably too high-concept for the room. And I did pitch it, and it was dead silent after I pitched it.&#8221; The only executive who showed any interest was Braun&#8217;s head of drama development, Thom Sherman, and the two resolved to make it &#8220;our little baby,&#8221; as Braun puts it, for that development season. Others were aware of it, but no one understood why their bosses were so obsessed with it. Sherman hired a writer named Jeffrey Lieber, and as Lieber worked, Braun became infamous around the ABC offices for hovering over the idea&#8217;s progress: &#8220;All year long, it&#8217;s starting to become a running joke: All I&#8217;m asking about is this project.&#8221; Braun got a pile of pilot scripts from that year&#8217;s development batch around Christmas, and quickly thumbed through looking for Lieber&#8217;s. He found the first danger sign on the cover page: Lieber had changed the title to Nowhere . As for the script itself, Braun&#8217;s gentle in saying that it &#8220;did not live up to my expectations, and I felt, in fact, fell prey to many of the concerns that many people had when they first heard the idea. I was very disappointed.&#8221; Given how late they were into the development season (which typically takes 8 or 9 months from summer to early spring), Sherman suggested they shelve the idea and try again next year. &#8220;I said, &#8216;Thom, there&#8217;s no next year for us,'&#8221; says Braun, who knew the kind of thin ice he was on thanks to the network&#8217;s recent performance. &#8220;At that point, it was clear to me that I didn&#8217;t think any of us were going to be surviving. This was the time to take a shot at a show like this.&#8221; Lieber was out, 1 and Braun turned to the one writer he suspected could do something with this on such short notice: J.J. Abrams. A brams had come to ABC two years earlier with Alias , an addictive spy drama starring a young Jennifer Garner. ABC thought so much of the show, and Abrams, that Alias had been chosen to air after the Super Bowl the season before. Abrams was smart. Abrams was creative. Abrams was also very, very busy, in part because of Lloyd Braun. Earlier in that same development season, Braun had asked Abrams, as a personal favor, to develop another pilot, a bounty hunter drama called The Catch . When Braun approached him about doing a different pilot as a favor in the same season &#8212; while also dry-docking The Catch , after he&#8217;d spent a lot of time on it &#8212; Abrams laughed at the request, but reluctantly agreed to think on Braun&#8217;s idea overnight. &#8220;He comes in the next day and says, &#8216;I hate you,'&#8221; Braun recalls. &#8220;&#8216;Well, why?&#8217; &#8216;Because I haven&#8217;t been able to stop thinking about this thing all night.'&#8221; Abrams told Braun that there wasn&#8217;t quite enough there for a series, but suggested that &#8220;The island has to be a character in the show, and something&#8217;s wrong with the island.&#8221; Braun agreed, so long as Abrams promised to keep things in the realm of &#8220;scientific fact&#8221; and have an explanation for everything. Even with The Catch delayed until the next season, Abrams was still too busy to handle Braun&#8217;s passion project on his own, especially starting in January at a time when other pilots were already beginning to cast and film. Enter Damon Lindelof, a young writer who wanted nothing more than to get a job on Alias and had been, as he puts it, &#8220;stalking&#8221; ABC drama executive Heather Kadin to help him make it happen. Kadin called Lindelof up with a &#8220;good news, bad news&#8221; proposition: she had a way for him to finally meet Abrams, but it was in the context of a project few executives at ABC seemed to understand or believe in. Lindelof says Kadin told him, &#8220;&#8216;Impress J.J. at the meeting, and you will get a job on Alias . Forget about this pilot.'&#8221; But in order to impress J.J., Lindelof needed some good ideas for the pilot. He read Lieber&#8217;s script and realized, &#8220;The biggest problem with the show was the audience would want the characters to get off the island. How do we defuse that desire?&#8221; He wanted to fill the cast with characters who would have no interest in going back to their old lives, and further sate the audience&#8217;s appetite for mainland stories by featuring flashbacks to those old lives in each episode. Lindelof brought those two ideas to Abrams, who shared his own thoughts on making the island a character. Abrams proposed, for instance, that the castaways would discover a hatch in the middle of the jungle, spend the whole first season trying to get it open, and that the hatch in turn would reveal more about the island in future seasons. The ideas, and the men proposing them, meshed well together. Abrams had been getting grief from ABC over Alias and its focus on the works of a Da Vinci-like figure named Rambaldi &#8212; &#8220;This was the climate at the time,&#8221; recalls Lindelof. &#8220;Serialization was bad, and mythological storytelling was worse&#8221; &#8212; but Lindelof also loved the Rambaldi storylines, and they decided to steer right into this particular skid. &#8220;J.J.&#8217;s whole attitude was not defiant,&#8221; Lindelof says. &#8220;It was the idea that we had the luxury of pitching them exactly the show that we wanted to make, and if they didn&#8217;t want to do it, so what? Every other pilot was already cast &#8212; deep into casting. We have a week to basically cook the most ambitious, expensive television show ever, and if they want to make it, great. And if not, no worries.&#8221; There was no time to write a full script, so Braun asked them to write a detailed outline that he would use to decide whether to go forward. He read it on a Saturday morning on the way to the home of his friend Marc Gurvitz, a veteran talent manager, and decided, &#8220;This is one of the best s