# Marylands Longest Serving Woman Prisoner Has Been Released

**Source**: https://www.wmar2news.com/news/local-news/marylands-longest-serving-woman-prisoner-has-been-released
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:53:48.533658+00:00

---

Maryland’s longest-serving woman prisoner has been released Watch Now Menu Local National Weather Sports Traffic Watch Now Watch Now Close &times; Live Watch Alerts Search site Go Local News Anne Arundel County Baltimore City Baltimore County Carroll County Cecil County Harford County Howard County Frederick County Western Maryland Eastern Shore Southern Maryland News Photo Gallery Weather 7 Day Forecast Live Weather Cams School Closings Weather Alerts Weather Blogs Interactive Radar Traffic National News Scripps News Group Don&#x27;t Waste Your Money Health News WMAR Investigates Matter for Mallory Maryland Cold Cases In Focus Key Bridge Collapse Midday Maryland GBMC RX Local Sports Baltimore Orioles Ravens Football Turkey Bowl High School Sports Marketplace Contests Steering Change Chick-fil-A Everyday Heroes Power of Age Home Pros About WMAR Advertise with WMAR Meet the WMAR-2 News Team Contact Us Station Jobs &nbsp;Sign In &nbsp;Newsletters &nbsp;Sign Out &nbsp;Manage Emails &nbsp;Apps &nbsp;Careers Search wmar2news/ wmar2news WMAR2News wmar2news UCADaBeM0qiKEZIw9_OuYmuA 1 WX Alerts 1 Closings/Delays Your Voice, Your Stories Voice for Veterans Maryland Cold Cases In Focus Matter for Mallory WMAR on YouTube Midday Maryland Contests WMAR on Facebook More + Quick Links + Your Voice, Your Stories Voice for Veterans Maryland Cold Cases In Focus Matter for Mallory Midday Maryland Contests News Local News Actions Facebook Tweet Email Maryland’s longest-serving woman prisoner has been released Prev Next By: Brandon Ingram Posted and last updated BALTIMORE — Maryland’s longest-serving woman prisoner has been granted her release from jail. A judge ruled in favor of a joint motion brought by Lawyers from the University of Maryland and the Baltimore City SAO’s Sentencing Review Unit (SRU), resulting in the release of Eraina Pretty. Pretty pled guilty to 1st Degree Murder, Use of a Handgun in a Crime of Violence and Accessory After the Fact (in a different case) on September 19, 1978. Pretty was 18 at the age of the crime and has served 42 years. The SRU was approached by Lila Meadows and Leigh Goodmark of University of Maryland Law School, who represent Pretty. After a thorough review led by Deputy State’s Attorney Jan Bledsoe, State’s Attorney Marilyn Mosby agreed to support Pretty’s release. “The role of the prosecutor is not simply to seek future justice. The pursuit of justice is timeless, and that means we must also correct the injustices of the past,” said State’s Attorney Marilyn Mosby. “Ms. Pretty has served 42 years in prison. She has not only redeemed herself but exemplifies the need for second chances in our criminal justice system and while we recognize the hurt and trauma that lives everyday with the survivors of this unfortunate incident, we remain committed to ensuring restorative support as they heal.” While in prison, Pretty obtained her associate and bachelor’s degrees. She has a bachelor’s degree in Sociology from Morgan State University. She also completed courses in pre-employment job readiness, personal computing, and introduction to databases. She also worked as a data entry clerk for over 20 years and spent time with Baltimore Braille Association assembling books for the blind. She served as a facilitator in the Stopping Criminal Activity, Recovery, Extremely and Maintaining (SCREAM) Program and worked with the Canine Partners Program for multiple years. She has received numerous certificates of appreciation for her leadership roles in events and projects, like self-help luncheons and Operation Smile, an organization that provides surgeries to repair facial deformities for children around the world. As part of the process, the office consulted with the family of the victims, and informed them of the hearing. The office also reviewed her record while incarcerated, her reentry plan, qualifications gained while in prison, and more. As part of the agreement, Pretty will be sent to a reentry facility and placed on probation for five years. Last week, Baltimore City SAO announced the creation of a Sentencing Review Unit (SRU). RELATED: Marilyn Mosby launches sentencing review unit to get older inmates out of prison early amid COVID-19 pandemic The SRU reviews cases of certain incarcerated people like Pretty to determine whether the office supports their release. Pretty is the second incarcerated person that the SRU supported for release. Copyright 2020 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Sign up for the Headlines Newsletter and receive up to date information. now signed up to receive the Headlines Newsletter. Click here to manage all Newsletters News Stay connected to community, wherever you are Traffic News Business Local Sports Entertainment Life Marketplace Don&#x27;t Waste Your Money Support Sitemap Do Not Sell My Info Privacy Policy Privacy Center Journalism Ethics Guidelines Terms of Use EEO Careers FCC Public Files FCC Application Public File Contact Accessibility Statement Scripps Media Trust Center Closed Captioning Contact wmar2news/ wmar2news WMAR2News wmar2news UCADaBeM0qiKEZIw9_OuYmuA © 2025 Scripps Media, Inc Give Light and the People Will Find Their Own Way </html