# Article

**Source**: https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0044904
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:23:15.453456+00:00

---

Beeswax as Dental Filling on a Neolithic Human Tooth | PLOS One Skip to main content Advertisement PLOS One Publish Submissions Getting Started Submission Guidelines Figures Tables Supporting Information LaTeX What We Publish Preprints Revising Your Manuscript Submit Now Calls for Papers Policies Best Practices in Research Reporting Human Subjects Research Animal Research Competing Interests Disclosure of Funding Sources Licenses and Copyright Data Availability Complementary Research Materials, Software and Code Sharing Ethical Publishing Practice Authorship Corrections, Expressions of Concern, and Retractions Manuscript Review and Publication Criteria for Publication Editorial and Peer Review Process Editor Center Resources for Editors Guidelines for Reviewers Accepted Manuscripts Comments Submit Your Manuscript Discover a faster, simpler path to publishing in a high-quality journal. PLOS ONE promises fair, rigorous peer review, broad scope, and wide readership – a perfect fit for your research every time. Learn More Submit Now About Why Publish with PLOS ONE Journal Information Staff Editors Editorial Board Section Editors Advisory Groups Find and Read Articles Publishing Information Publication Fees Press and Media Contact Browse Search Search advanced search Browse Subject Areas ? Click through the PLOS taxonomy to find articles in your field. For more information about PLOS Subject Areas, click here . Loading metrics Open Access Peer-reviewed Research Article Beeswax as Dental Filling on a Neolithic Human Tooth Federico Bernardini , * E-mail: fbernard@ictp.it Affiliation Multidisciplinary Laboratory, “Abdus Salam” International Centre for Theoretical Physics, Trieste, Italy &#x02A2F; Claudio Tuniz, Affiliations Multidisciplinary Laboratory, “Abdus Salam” International Centre for Theoretical Physics, Trieste, Italy, Centre for Archaeological Science, University of Wollongong, Wollongong, New South Wales, Australia &#x02A2F; Alfredo Coppa, Affiliation Department of Environmental Biology, University “La Sapienza”, Rome, Italy &#x02A2F; Lucia Mancini, Affiliation Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A., AREA Science Park, Basovizza (Trieste), Italy &#x02A2F; Diego Dreossi, Affiliation Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A., AREA Science Park, Basovizza (Trieste), Italy &#x02A2F; Diane Eichert, Affiliation Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A., AREA Science Park, Basovizza (Trieste), Italy &#x02A2F; Gianluca Turco, Affiliation Department of Medical Sciences, University of Trieste, Trieste, Italy &#x02A2F; Matteo Biasotto, Affiliation Department of Medical Sciences, University of Trieste, Trieste, Italy &#x02A2F; Filippo Terrasi, Affiliation CIRCE, INNOVA and Department of Environmental Sciences, 2nd University of Naples, Caserta, Italy &#x02A2F; Nicola De Cesare, Affiliation CIRCE, INNOVA and Department of Life Sciences, 2nd University of Naples, Caserta, Italy &#x02A2F; Quan Hua, Affiliation Australian Nuclear Science and Technology Organisation, Lucas Heights, New South Wales, Australia &#x02A2F; Vladimir Levchenko Affiliation Australian Nuclear Science and Technology Organisation, Lucas Heights, New South Wales, Australia &#x02A2F; Beeswax as Dental Filling on a Neolithic Human Tooth Federico Bernardini,&nbsp; Claudio Tuniz,&nbsp; Alfredo Coppa,&nbsp; Lucia Mancini,&nbsp; Diego Dreossi,&nbsp; Diane Eichert,&nbsp; Gianluca Turco,&nbsp; Matteo Biasotto,&nbsp; Filippo Terrasi,&nbsp; Nicola De Cesare x Published: September 19, 2012 https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0044904 Article Authors Metrics Comments Media Coverage Reader Comments Figures Figures Abstract Evidence of prehistoric dentistry has been limited to a few cases, the most ancient dating back to the Neolithic. Here we report a 6500-year-old human mandible from Slovenia whose left canine crown bears the traces of a filling with beeswax. The use of different analytical techniques, including synchrotron radiation computed micro-tomography (micro-CT), Accelerator Mass Spectrometry (AMS) radiocarbon dating, Infrared (IR) Spectroscopy and Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), has shown that the exposed area of dentine resulting from occlusal wear and the upper part of a vertical crack affecting enamel and dentin tissues were filled with beeswax shortly before or after the individual’s death. If the filling was done when the person was still alive, the intervention was likely aimed to relieve tooth sensitivity derived from either exposed dentine and/or the pain resulting from chewing on a cracked tooth: this would provide the earliest known direct evidence of therapeutic-palliative dental filling. Citation: Bernardini F, Tuniz C, Coppa A, Mancini L, Dreossi D, Eichert D, et al. (2012) Beeswax as Dental Filling on a Neolithic Human Tooth. PLoS ONE 7(9): e44904. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0044904 Editor: Luca Bondioli, Museo Nazionale Preistorico Etnografico ‘L. Pigorini’, Italy Received: April 20, 2012; Accepted: August 9, 2012; Published: September 19, 2012 Copyright: © Bernardini et al. This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited. Funding: This work is part of the ICTP/Elettra EXACT Project (Elemental X-ray Analysis and computed Tomography) funded by Friuli Venezia Giulia (Italy). The funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript. Competing interests: The authors have declared that no competing interests exist. Introduction Several molar crowns with regularly shaped cavities with concentric ridges, discovered some six years ago in a Neolithic graveyard in Pakistan, are the most ancient evidence of dentistry practice [1] . Other findings that suggest dental interventions during the Neolithic are very rare and include a very dubious therapeutic dental treatment identified in the Gaione graveyard (Italy) [2] and an artificial tooth from the cemetery of Gebel Ramlah (Egypt), which could have been used as a dental prosthesis [3] , [4] . Although the possibility of treatment of sensitive tooth structure by means of some type of filling has been supposed [1] , there is no published evidence, as far as we know, on the use of therapeutic-palliative substances in prehistoric dentistry. In ancient Egypt, external applications, composed of honey mixed with mineral ingredients, were used to fix loose teeth or to reduce the pain, as reported in the Papyrus Ebers, dating back to the XVI century BC [5] . In this emerging framework of ancient dental therapeutic practices, the finding of a human partial mandible associated with contemporary beeswax, covering the occlusal surface of a canine, could represent a possible case of therapeutic use of beeswax during the Neolithic. The interpretation of the evidence obtained in this study, based on the use of advanced analytical methods, supports the hypothesis of an intentional therapeutic treatment, but alternative post-mortem practices are not ruled out. Materials and Methods The specimen here described (Lonche 1), kept in the Natural History Museum of Trieste, Italy, consists of the left portion of an isolated adult mandible bearing a canine, two premolars, and the first two molars ( Figure 1 ). The mandible was found partially embedded in calcite on the wall of a karstic cave near the village of Lonche, in northern Istria (Slovenia). It was discovered associated to some Upper Pleistocene fauna remains and was consequently considered one of the most ancient anthropological remains from the northern-Adriatic area. However, with the exception of a short and not really informative note published soon after the discovery [6] , a detailed description of the sample and archaeological context is scanty or not available. Download: PPT PowerPoint slide PNG larger image TIFF original image Figure 1. The Lonche jaw from a karstic cave of southern Slovenia. Scale bar, 10 mm. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0044904.g001 On the external aspect of the corpus, the mental foramen is located under the fourth premolar and the oblique line is well marked and extends beneath the second molar, while the ramus ends just before the third molar. On its internal aspect, under the well expressed mylohyoid line, the specimen exhibits deep and anteroposteriorly elongated submandibular and sublingual fossae. A remnant of the digastric fossa is still preserved just before the anterior fracture. The degree of occlusal wear, assessed following Lovejoy (1985), likely indicates that Lonche 1 represents a 24–30-year-old individual (phase E) [7] . The preserved morphology of the mental region, the thickness of the mandibular body, and the dental crown size suggest more likely a male sex diagnosis. A pronounced enamel hypoplasia is present on the cervical half of the buccal aspect of the canine and premolars as well as on that of the lingual aspect of the second molar. Parts of the enamel are broken in the cervical half of the buccal aspect of the canine and the third premolar probably due to taphonomic factors. Radiocarbon analysis, performed by accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS) on collagen extracted from the mandibular bone, has provided an age range of 6655-6400 cal. BP (2σ), which corresponds to the Neolithic in northern Istria and, in particular, to the post-Vlaška phase. The area, at the northern shore of the Adriatic Sea, is rich in archaeological cave sites and rock shelters, many of which were occupied during recent prehistory and mainly used for stabling animals. In fact, the Neolithic economy of the karstic area was mainly based on sheep breeding [8] . The neolithization process spread through northern Istria and Trieste Karst in the middle of the 6 th millennium BC, coming from the south along the eastern Adriatic coast, and is referred to as the so-called Vlaška Culture. This culture shows connections