# University Of Toronto 1281

**Source**: https://theconversation.com/institutions/university-of-toronto-1281
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:54:52.648268+00:00

---

University of Toronto on The Conversation Home Arts + Culture Economy Education Environment + Energy Ethics + Religion Health Politics + Society Science + Tech World Podcasts Local En Español Edition Africa Australia Brasil Canada Canada (français) España Europe France Global Indonesia New Zealand United Kingdom United States Donate Edition: United States Africa Australia Brasil Canada Canada (français) España Europe France Global Indonesia New Zealand United Kingdom s Donate Newsletters Academic rigor, journalistic flair Arts + Culture Economy Education Environment + Energy Ethics + Religion Health Politics + Society Science + Tech World Podcasts Local University of Toronto Established in 1827, the University of Toronto has one of the strongest research and teaching faculties in North America, presenting top students at all levels with an intellectual environment unmatched in depth and breadth on any other Canadian campus. With more than 75,000 students across three campuses (St. George, Mississauga and Scarborough) and over 450,000 alumni active in every region of the world, U of T’s influence is felt in every area of human endeavour. Links Visit utoronto.ca/ Are you an expert from this institution? Register to write Article Feed Articles Authors Displaying 1 - 20 of 1153 articles A new sign hangs on the door of the Pentagon office of Pete Hegseth, featuring his new title, after U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order aiming to rename the Department of Defense the Department of War on Sept. 5, 2025. (AP Photo/Mike Pesoli) September 21, 2025 ‘We want to be offensive too’ — Trump’s Department of War move shows his flimsy grasp of&nbsp;history Ronald W. Pruessen , University of Toronto Donald Trump’s Department of War move suggests he’s ignorant about America’s long record of aggression in the post-Second World War era. Up to one-third of Alzheimer’s disease cases could be prevented simply by avoiding certain risk factors. (Piqsels) September 17, 2025 SHIELD: A simple, memorable model to help prevent Alzheimer’s disease and&nbsp;dementia Donald Weaver , University of Toronto The SHIELD (Sleep, Head Injury prevention, Exercise, Learning, and Diet) mnemonic offers a clear and effective strategy for lowering dementia risk. Une image composite montrant Elon Musk (au centre), encadré à gauche par Ani, une nouvelle « “compagne” virtuelle de sa plateforme xAI, et à droite par Misa Amane, un personnage de l’anime japonais Death Note. (-r: Grok, La Presse canadienne/Matt Rourke, Death Note) September 15, 2025 Le nouveau compagnon IA de Grok 4 brouille la frontière entre travail et&nbsp;fantasme Jul Parke , University of Toronto Les nouveaux compagnons IA de Grok 4 suscitent des inquiétudes quant à l’impact des amis virtuels sur les relations sociales réelles et l’exploitation des données personnelles. Pour les peuples autochtones qui ont été victimes de discrimination dans les établissements de santé, la guérison peut se faire en dehors des pratiques de santé conventionnelles. (Freepic) September 11, 2025 Les aidants autochtones essentiels à des soins de santé mentale culturellement adaptés Louis Busch , University of Toronto Qui sont les aidants autochtones dans le contexte des soins de santé mentale ? Ils combinent un soutien pratique et un accompagnement ancré dans la tradition. A depiction of the War of the Bucket with victorious Modenese troops toting the bucket taken from the rival city of Bologna. (Museum of the History of Bologna) September 10, 2025 The War of the Bucket: What one medieval battle tells us about history and&nbsp;myth Kenneth Bartlett , University of Toronto History and myth are different narrative techniques, and both can be used to stimulate national pride and cohesion and to celebrate events that defined a people. Guillermo del Toro greets fans at the premiere of ‘Frankenstein’ at TIFF in Toronto, Sept. 8, 2025. A week earlier at the Venice Film Festival, the director said he isn’t afraid of AI when asked about the danger AI and technology pose to humanity. THE CANADIAN PRESS/Laura Proctor September 9, 2025 Film festivals like TIFF set the tone for wider industry norms — here’s what we’re watching around&nbsp;AI Lauren Knight , University of Toronto ; Daphne Rena Idiz , University of Toronto , and Rafael Grohmann , University of Toronto AI in the film industry is a hot-button issue that filmmakers, tech companies, distributors, creatives’ guilds and unions, policymakers and viewers are struggling to negotiate. single-species conservation" href="/today-more-than-ever-biodiversity-needs-single-species-conservation-263023"> Focused conservation efforts are essential for the protection and recovery of many species at risk, such as the monarch butterfly. (Chris Johnson) September 8, 2025 Today more than ever, biodiversity needs single-species conservation Chris Johnson , University of Northern British Columbia and Justina C. Ray , University of Toronto Climate stability and economic health depend on biodiversity. Yet this foundation is hardly mentioned as the federal government seeks to shore up Canada’s economic future. Voters in lower socioeconomic groups are focused on the economy, new research suggests. When politicians don’t prioritize the economy, they don’t turn out to vote. (THE CANADIAN PRESS/Jason Franson) August 26, 2025 Canada’s class divide at the ballot box is&nbsp;growing Matt Polacko , University of Toronto Canada’s recent federal election was the first in many years where the economy and pocketbook issues were key issues, which likely played a role in the uptick in voter turnout. Liam Gallagher, left, and Noel Gallagher of Oasis take the stage on Aug. 24, 2025, at Rogers Stadium in Toronto. (Photo by Arthur Mola/Invision/AP) August 24, 2025 The triumph of the Oasis reunion: Resilience rules the day as the Gallaghers end their&nbsp;feud Ramona Alaggia , University of Toronto The Oasis reunion is more than just a comeback tour; it’s a story of overcoming long-standing family conflict. This image made a fake video featuring former President Barack Obama shows elements of facial mapping used in new technology that lets anyone make videos of real people appearing to say things they’ve never said. (AP Photo) August 20, 2025 Battling deepfakes: How AI threatens democracy and what we can do about&nbsp;it Abbas Yazdinejad , University of Toronto and Jude Kong , University of Toronto Open-source generative AI tools and certain apps put audio and video manipulation in the hands of anyone with a laptop. Here’s why that poses such a dire threat to democracy. An Indian railway track is littered with plastic and other waste on Earth Day in Mumbai, in April 2024. Urgent and co-ordinated action is needed to reduce plastic production. (Rafiq Maqbool/AP Photo) August 17, 2025 As negotiations on a global plastics treaty stall, cleanup efforts are more vital than&nbsp;ever Chelsea Rochman , University of Toronto ; Britta Baechler , University of Toronto , and Hannah De Frond , University of Toronto Cleanup is needed to mitigate ecological, economic and social impacts of plastic pollution now and in the future. child-care vouchers aren’t the answer for working families this&nbsp;fall" href="/why-child-care-vouchers-arent-the-answer-for-working-families-this-fall-261828"> For too many Canadian households, September means resuming the annual hunt for affordable, reliable child care. The Blessed Chiara Badano Child Care Centre in Stouffville, Ont., is run by a non-profit and offers before- and after-school programs. THE CANADIAN PRESS/Nathan Denette August 14, 2025 Why child-care vouchers aren’t the answer for working families this&nbsp;fall Daniel Foster , University of Toronto and Kerry McCuaig , University of Toronto Vouchers shift responsibility from public systems to individual families, leaving access to child care in the hands of private companies. A composite image showing Elon Musk (centre) flanked by an image of Ani (left), a new virtual ‘companion’ available on his xAI platform, and an image of Misa Amane (right), a character from the Japanese anime ‘Death Note.’ (l-r: Grok, THE CANADIAN PRESS/Matt Rourke, Death Note) August 14, 2025 Grok 4’s new AI companion offers up ‘pornographic productivity’ Jul Parke , University of Toronto Grok 4’s new AI companions raise concerns about virtual friends disrupting real social relationships, anti-feminist rhetoric and the exploitation of personal data. Cancer comes with an economic burden that lasts throughout your life. Unsplash/ Alexander Grey August 13, 2025 The hidden costs of cancer for young survivors is derailing their financial&nbsp;futures Giancarlo Di Giuseppe , University of Toronto and Jason D. Pole , The University of Queensland The economic impact on young adults with cancer is far greater than previous numbers show. And the impacts last much longer than previously recognized. An aerial view of an area of forest west of Timmins, Ont., in 2012. THE CANADIAN PRESS/Nathan Denette July 29, 2025 Ontario’s forest management is falling short on key sustainability&nbsp;test Jay R. Malcolm , University of Toronto and Justina C. Ray , University of Toronto A recent study indicates that forest management in Northern Ontario is placing timber harvesting above safeguarding natural environments and compromising animal habitat. The Earth’s vast stores of hydrogen will be crucial for producing green energy. (Sumaid pal Singh Bakshi/Unsplash) July 27, 2025 There’s enough natural hydrogen in the Earth’s crust to help power the green energy&nbsp;transition Omid Haeri Ardakani , University of Calgary ; Barbara Sherwood Lollar , University of Toronto , and Chris Ballentine , University of Oxford Vast deposits of naturally occurring hydrogen hold promise for a green future. However, policies need to be enacted for the extraction and circulation of hydrogen. Les tensions peuvent être vives dans les communautés d’échecs en ligne. Piotr Makowski/Unsplash