# The Weeknd The Idol Hbo 1261776

**Source**: https://www.rollingstone.com/tv-movies/tv-movie-news/the-weeknd-the-idol-hbo-1261776/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:59:19.447026+00:00

---

The Weeknd&#039;s HBO Series &#039;The Idol&#039; Casts Troye Sivan, Tunde Adebimpe &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo TV &amp; Movies The Weeknd&#8217;s HBO Series &#8216;The Idol&#8217; Casts Troye Sivan, Tunde Adebimpe Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In TV &amp; Movies The Weeknd&#8217;s HBO Series &#8216;The Idol&#8217; Casts Troye Sivan, Tunde Adebimpe The show will shoot in and around Los Angeles By Emily Zemler Emily Zemler Dave Chappelle Says &#8216;It&#8217;s Easier to Talk&#8217; in Saudi Arabia Than the U.S. Watch Addison Rae Showcase &#8216;Diet Pepsi&#8217; on &#8216;Fallon&#8217; The Yardbirds Co-Founder Chris Dreja Dead at 79 View all posts by Emily Zemler November 23, 2021 Pari Dukovic UPDATE (11/23):&nbsp; Britney Spears said she &#8220;just shot&#8221; for The Idol . It&#8217;s unclear if it&#8217;s for the upcoming series or a different project of the same name, but it is her first announced project since her conservatorship ended . &#8220;I just shot a movie titled &#8216;THE IDOL&#8217; &hellip; it&#8217;s guaranteed to have hits and a lot bright pics to put in my beautiful family&rsquo;s faces !!!!!,&#8221; she wrote on Instagram. &#8220;I hope you guys are having a merry ole jolly time cause I sure am !!!! If I go quiet from time to time, you can catch me with this cat somewhere.&#8221; View this post on Instagram A post shared by XILA MARIA RIVER RED (@britneyspears) *** The Weeknd &#8216;s HBO series The Idol has been officially ordered to series, with Amy Seimetz coming on board to direct all six episodes. The cast, which already includes the Weeknd and Lily-Rose Depp, has been expanded to include Troye Sivan , TV on the Radio&#8217;s Tunde Adebimpe , and Anne Heche. The Idol was co-created by Euphoria &#8216;s Sam Levinson, Abel &ldquo;the Weeknd&rdquo; Tesfaye, and Reza Fahim. The series, which has been in development since the summer, will shoot in and around Los Angeles. HBO describes The Idol as &#8220;set against the backdrop of the music industry, centers on a self-help guru and leader of a modern-day cult, who develops a complicated relationship with an up-and-coming pop idol.&#8221; &ldquo;When the multi-talented Abel &lsquo;the Weeknd&rsquo; Tesfaye, Reza Fahim, and Sam Levinson brought us The Idol , it was clear their subversive, revelatory take on the cult of the music industry was unlike anything HBO had ever done before,&#8221; Francesca Orsi, Executive Vice President, HBO Programming, said in a statement. &#8220;Shortly after, the brilliant duo of Joe Epstein and Amy Seimetz joined forces with the rest of the team, and this dream became a reality.&rdquo; The Weeknd previously appeared in 2019&rsquo;s&nbsp; Uncut Gems, &nbsp;starring Adam Sandler, and also voiced characters on episodes of&nbsp; American Dad &nbsp;and&nbsp; Robot Chicken, &nbsp;two of his favorite animated TV series. Last year, he&nbsp; spoke to&nbsp; Rolling Stone &nbsp;about his interest in writing for film, noting he had a secretive screenplay in the works. &ldquo;This is my first time even opening up to anything, because I had to spend the last decade invested in this project, the Weeknd,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;It really does consume me, so I&rsquo;ve learned to step away from it a little bit, to miss it a little bit.&rdquo; &ldquo;I just want to be a filmmaker,&rdquo; the singer added. &ldquo;I want to make great cinema.&rdquo; The Weeknd&rsquo;s last album, After Hours , dropped last March. He recently joined Post Malone in a music video for their joint track &#8220;One Right Now.&#8221; In this article: HBO, The Weeknd, Troye Sivan, Tunde Adebimpe TV &amp; Movies TV &amp; Movies News More News Jane Goodall Talks Life, Death, Putting Trump on a Spaceship in 'Famous Last Words' Interview Final Statement By Jon Blistein Who Wants to See Cillian Murphy Have a Nervous Breakdown? Movie Review By David Fear How Did a Documentary on George Orwell Become the Scariest Movie of 2025? Movie Review By David Fear Bill Burr Defends Riyadh Comedy Fest Performance, Details ‘Mind-Blowing’ Experience ‘Just Like Us’ By Charisma Madarang ‘Hero for the Planet’: Leonardo DiCaprio Writes Tribute to ‘Dear Friend’ Jane Goodall ‘Carry the Torch’ By Charisma Madarang Read more Sean Combs Sentenced to Over 4 Years in Prison Diddy Trial 2 hours ago Eric Dane Missed the 2025 Emmys Because of a Head Injury That Required Stitches Ouch 4 hours ago Taylor Swift, Young Miko, Mariah the Scientist and All the Songs You Need to Know Songs You Need To Know 5 hours ago The Backlash to Cardi B's Pregnancy Is Rooted in Old, Racist Ideas Commentary 5 hours ago Top stories newsletter A Cultural Force That Transcends Generations Enter your Email By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Go to PMC.com Most Popular J.K. Rowling Slams &#039;Ignorant&#039; Emma Watson as Their Rift Intensifies; Author Claims Watson Once Wrote Her a Note Expressing Sympathy Over Anti-Trans Backlash Bill Burr Defends Performing at Controversial Riyadh Comedy Festival: &quot;They&#039;re Just Like Us&quot; Insider Claims Nicole Kidman &amp; Keith Urban&#039;s Separation Is &#039;One-Sided&#039; Federal Judge Denies Motion to Dismiss by Kasseem ‘Swizz Beatz’ Dean in 1MDB Scandal Case You might also like Tonatiuh on ‘Kiss of the Spider Woman’ and How He Wants Hollywood to See Him: ‘I’m Not a Latin Actor. I’m a Great Actor’ 4 hours ago 19 Breast Cancer Products That Are Helpful for Patients &amp; Survivors 59 minutes ago ‘Anemone,’ ‘After the Hunt’ Shake Up New York Film Festival as ‘One Battle’ Heads Into Second Weekend — Screen Talk 3 hours ago NFL on Record Pace as TV/Streaming Windows Grow 8% to 20M Viewers 2 hours ago Rolling Stone Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture Staff Contact Advertise Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Use AdChoices PMC Entertainment California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Accessibility Policy on Anonymous Sources Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Newsletter Signup Enter Your Email Subscribe Got a Hot News Tip? We want to hear it. Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Rolling Stone is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 Rolling Stone, LLC. All rights reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Log In Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Music News Features Lists Album Reviews Live Reviews Artists You Need To Know Songs You Need To Know RS Country RS Latin Politics News Features Lists TV &amp; Movies News Features Lists Recaps Reviews Video &amp; Photos Photos Videos The Cover Musicians on Musicians RS LIVE Culture News Features Lists Creators RS Gaming RS Films RS Recommends Reviews RS Essentials RS Audio Awards Gift Guides Culture Council Subscription Icon Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Alerts &amp; Newsletters Email Address By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. ad