# Txdot Proposes To Dig A 1 Billion Infrastructure Grave In Downtown Dallas

**Source**: https://www.strongtowns.org/journal/2022/7/6/txdot-proposes-to-dig-a-1-billion-infrastructure-grave-in-downtown-dallas
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:48:17.059366+00:00

---

TxDOT Proposes to Dig a $1 Billion Infrastructure Grave in Downtown Dallas Cart 0 Articles Go to strongtowns.org Cart 0 Articles An archive of articles, podcasts, webpages and more from Strong Towns. Go to strongtowns.org TxDOT Proposes to Dig a $1 Billion Infrastructure Grave in Downtown Dallas &nbsp; Host Abby Kinney, an urban planner in Kansas City, and regular cohost Chuck Marohn, Strong Towns founder and president. This week on Upzoned with Abby Kinney, the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) makes her co-host, Strong Towns President Charles Marohn, almost want to start swearing. For many years now, TxDOT has studied the feasibility of removing Interstate 345, which is a 1.7-mile segment of elevated highway that dissects downtown Dallas in Deep Ellum. Proposals to make the downtown stronger and more productive by creating a boulevard have been in the works for almost a decade, supported by prominent urban planners such as Patrick Kennedy.&nbsp; Then last month, the agency released their official conclusion that removing the highway is unfeasible. Instead, TxDOT now recommends tearing down the elevated freeway and rebuilding it in a 65-foot-deep trench that will contain 10 travel lanes and cost more than a billion dollars. An article by Matt Goodman in D Magazine outlines the agency’s proposal to bridge local streets over that trench to reconnect the neighborhoods, instead of creating a boulevard to distribute traffic and create neighborhood streets that build wealth in a people-centered design. If this hybrid approach moves forward, it seems to send a pretty clear message that highway capacity and maintaining commute times are the central priority of the Dallas Metro, not reconnecting neighborhoods or improving the downtown neighborhood quality of life.&nbsp; Urban planners Kennedy and Brandon Hancock first pitched the idea of tearing I-345 out, which would free up land the city could re-zone to create a mix of housing, office, and retail . The D Magazine article says TxDOT estimated in 2016 that removal would generate about $2.5 billion in new net value, a “significant increase in employment totals,” and an additional $67.4 million in property tax revenue over 30 years. “This is the quintessential situation where a Strong Towns approach … says this is a corridor for building wealth and capacity in the community (with an) investment that would be lower cost, the payoff would be way higher,” Marohn says. “And that whole mindset is trumped by this delusion that we are going to try to move vehicles quickly. And that somehow the city of Dallas itself is going to benefit more from a marginal, theoretical increase in traffic counts, than it will from billions of dollars of private sector investments.” So what happened? That’s where we almost lose our tempers here at Strong Towns. Find out more on this episode of Upzoned . Additional Show Notes “ Dallas City Council Members Walk Back Promise to Remove I-345 ,” by Matt Goodman, D Magazine (June 2022). Abby Kinney (Twitter) Charles Marohn (Twitter) Theme Music by Kemet the Phantom . Cover image source: D Magazine . &nbsp; &nbsp; You May Also Like Strong Towns Jul 28, 2025 Playing the Long Game With New Zealand Infrastructure Strong Towns Jul 28, 2025 Chuck is joined by Graham Campbell of the New Zealand Infrastructure Commission. They discuss the true cost of infrastructure and why both New Zealand and North America are facing the same challenges. Strong Towns Jul 28, 2025 Edward Erfurt Jul 8, 2025 West Virginia Is the Canary in America’s Infrastructure Coal Mine Edward Erfurt Jul 8, 2025 West Virginia’s $1.6 billion Road to Prosperity program was supposed to cover maintenance costs and reignite economic growth. Seven years later, the money’s gone and the situation has gotten worse. Edward Erfurt Jul 8, 2025 Strong Towns Dec 4, 2024 Motivated Reasoning: The Psychology Behind Big Municipal Projects Strong Towns Dec 4, 2024 In this episode of Upzoned , co-hosts Abby Newsham and Chuck Marohn talk about satellite communities and the psychological phenomena that incline people toward large projects. Strong Towns Dec 4, 2024 &nbsp; &nbsp; Featured Abby Newsham Abby Newsham is the cohost of the Upzoned podcast . Abby is an urban design and planning consultant at Multistudio in Kansas City, Missouri. In her own community, she works to advance bottom-up strategies that enhance both private development and the public realm, and facilitates the ad-hoc Kansas City chapter of the Incremental Development Alliance . When she’s not geeking out over cities, Abby is an avid urban mountain biker (because: potholes), audiobook and podcast junkie, amateur rock climber, and guitarist. You can connect with Abby on Twitter at @abbykatkc . Featured Charles Marohn Charles Marohn (known as “Chuck” to friends and colleagues) is the founder and president of Strong Towns and the bestselling author of “ Escaping the Housing Trap: The Strong Towns Response to the Housing Crisis .” With decades of experience as a land use planner and civil engineer, Marohn is on a mission to help cities and towns become stronger and more prosperous. He spreads the Strong Towns message through in-person presentations, the Strong Towns Podcast, and his books and articles. In recognition of his efforts and impact, Planetizen named him one of the 15 Most Influential Urbanists of all time in 2017 and 2023. &nbsp; Podcast , Top Story Strong Towns July 6, 2022 podcast , infrastructure , transportation , transportation spending , highways , freeways , freeway removal , urban freeways , DOT , upzoned , texas Facebook 0 Twitter LinkedIn 0 0 Likes Previous Champion of People-Centered Streets Brings Strong Towns Approach to Congress Top Story Jay Stange July 7, 2022 Congress, federal government, politics, success stories Next Modern Urban Planning Is Inside Out Herriges, Top Story Daniel Herriges July 6, 2022 urban design, urban planning, parks, public space, Privatization, design, development, florida &nbsp; Helping cities, towns and neighborhoods take local action to grow safe, livable and financially resilient. &nbsp; Get Involved Become a Member Sign Up for Emails Pitch a Story RSS Feed Resources Books Action Lab Blog Roll Shop Press About About Us Team | Board Employment Contact Us Site Privacy Policy Comment Policy FAQ Search Each month, this website is funded by Strong Towns members. Join the movement to keep the message going. Become a Member Strong Towns is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization. Our work is performed under a&nbsp;Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License . Please share with others to use for good. &nbsp; Strong Towns 1511 Northern Pacific Rd, Brainerd, MN, 56401 8442181681 linda@strongtowns.org Hours