# Cd Soars After Net Release Radiohead S Kid A 2701966.Php

**Source**: https://www.sfgate.com/business/article/cd-soars-after-net-release-radiohead-s-kid-a-2701966.php
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:46:52.111527+00:00

---

CD Soars After Net Release / Radiohead&#x27;s `Kid A&#x27; premieres in No. 1 slot SF Gate Logo Hearst Newspapers Logo Skip to main content CA MINI CROSSWORD Home Newsletters Classifieds Standards &amp; Practices Advertise With Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use Ad Choices Your Privacy Choices About SFGATE Careers Contact SFGATE News Bay Area California Wildfires Education North Coast Politics Weather Sports 49ers Giants A&#x27;s Warriors Bay Area SF History Travel California Parks Central Coast Disneyland Hawaii Monterey-Carmel Tahoe Wine Country Food + Drink Culture Tech Los Angeles California National Parks Cannabis Real Estate New Homes (Virtual) Open Homes Luxury Rentals Place a Real Estate Ad Neighborhood Guides Home &amp; Garden Movers Obits Obituaries Place an Obituary Best Of Shopping Puzzles Sponsor Content StoryStudio Senior Living Sponsor Content: Business SF Gate Logo CA MINI CROSSWORD Business CD Soars After Net Release / Radiohead&#x27;s `Kid A&#x27; premieres in No. 1 slot By Benny Evangelista, Chronicle Staff Writer Oct 12, 2000 While the record industry continues to fight Napster Inc. in court, one major label yesterday credited a unique Internet-only promotional campaign with sending a popular rock group&#x27;s latest album to the top of the charts. &quot;Kid A,&quot; the new album by Radiohead, premiered at No. 1 on the latest Billboard 200 list, giving the British rock group its first-ever chart topper. Billboard reported the group sold 207,000 copies in the United States alone. Capitol Records executive Robin Bechtel said the label did not have the two traditional industry tools, a video or hit radio single, available to market the album. So the label three weeks ago quietly turned to an online marketing program, letting about 1,000 Web sites make the entire album available in streaming audio for fans to hear. Advertisement Article continues below this ad The label also used technology from Wayne, Pa.&#x27;s IMedium Inc. that encouraged the band&#x27;s loyal fans to send Web links or sound clips to each other. And even though Capitol gave the CD to a limited number of reviewers to keep bootleg copies off Napster, &quot;Kid A&quot; still showed up on the controversial online file-sharing program&#x27;s directories for download two weeks before its release in stores. Napster fans also swapped copies of &quot;Kid A&quot; songs recorded at a Radiohead concert. Bechtel, head of Capitol Records New Media, said she&#x27;s not sure how the album got to Napster users. But Bechtel was pleased that the online exposure, however it occurred, created a buzz that helped make &quot;Kid A&quot; No. 1 with a bullet. Amazon.com alone took orders for 10,000 copies before the CD&#x27;s release. Advertisement Article continues below this ad &quot;We wanted people to hear it,&quot; she said. Radiohead is certainly not the first recording act to use the Internet. Madonna, for example, earlier this year used the Web to let fans listen to her hit album &quot;Music.&quot; And Capitol used similar tactics in July to promote rock band Everclear&#x27;s new album. Online music observers noted that Radiohead&#x27;s chart-topping success can&#x27;t be completely attributed to the Internet. The group was already popular -- last night&#x27;s live concert in New York sold out in four minutes. &quot;Radiohead is so popular they would have debuted high anyway,&quot; said Malcolm Maclachlan, a media analyst with International Data Corp. And he noted the group has a loyal &quot;twentysomething, wired demographic&quot; following that wants to pay for Radiohead songs. Advertisement Article continues below this ad But Adam Powell, chief executive officer of San Francisco Net music company Angry Coffee, one of the sites that helped promote Radiohead, said the rapid rise of &quot;Kid A&quot; demonstrated the growing power of Internet music in the wake of the &quot;media attention and fan hysteria&quot; surrounding Napster. Advertisement Article continues below this ad &quot;It&#x27;s clear to me that Napster and file-sharing technologies had at least something to do with it,&quot; Powell said. Oct 12, 2000 Benny Evangelista, Chronicle Staff Writer CA Mini Crossword 555 people are playing right now. 2,318 players solved today. Can you? 289 people finished in under a minute. This Mini is ready to rumble, and go to the zoo. 555 people are playing right now. Play Now SHOPPING Shopping Ride longer with the best cycling gear for hot weather From apparel to bike racks, here are cycling gear essentials that keep you moving safely even when the temperatures are high. Shopping ASUS ROG Strix Scar 18 (2025) review: An unmatched portable gaming behemoth Designed for gamers who demand both portability and raw power, the ASUS Strix Scar 18 is a serious alternative to a gaming rig. Here's our review. Shopping Breville&#x27;s compact Bambino Plus espresso machine is currently 20% off If you don't have a ton of countertop space, you'll love this quality home espresso machine. Get Breville's Bambino Plus Espresso Machine for 20% off. Shopping EXPED MegaMat Auto review: Your car’s backseat just turned five-star Turn your SUV into a hotel room on wheels with this 4-inch-thick EXPED MegaMat Auto mattress designed to fit around wheel wells. Read our review. Most Popular 1 . Al Michaels, Kirk Herbstreit under fire for rough 49ers-Rams broadcast 2 . Promising young climber dies in fall from Yosemite&#x27;s El Capitan 3 . Horoscope for Friday, 10/3/25 by Christopher Renstrom 4 . SF restaurants are flocking to a growing Bay Area suburb. Business is different. 5 . Ex-KTVU anchor Frank Somerville faces even more legal trouble Let&#x27;s Play Cross|word Pile-Up Poker Typeshift Really Bad Chess Flipart SpellTower Return To Top SF Gate Logo About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Ethics Policy Contact Newsroom Contacts Services Advertise with us Classifieds Recruitment Quick Links Real Estate Listings Cars Jobs Weather Obituaries About Our Company Careers Our Use of AI Ethics Policy Contact Newsroom Contacts Services Advertise with us Classifieds Recruitment Quick Links Real Estate Listings Cars Jobs Weather Obituaries Hearst Newspapers Logo © 2025 Hearst Communications, Inc. Terms of Use Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights (Shine the Light) DAA Industry Opt Out Your Privacy Choices (Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads)