# America Tyranny Donald Trump.Html

**Source**: https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2016/04/america-tyranny-donald-trump.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:12:18.385179+00:00

---

America Has Never Been So Ripe for Tyranny -- NYMag NYMag.com Intelligencer Vulture The Cut Science of Us Grub Street The Strategist FOLLOW: Facebook Twitter Instagram UserName LOG IN REGISTER Popular on NYMag.com The Peculiar Logic of the Trump-Russia Scandal Deniers &raquo; Intelligencer early and often May 1, 2016 9:00 p.m. America Has Never Been So Ripe for Tyranny By Andrew Sullivan That&amp;rsquo;s what&amp;rsquo;s scariest about Donald Trump. 0 Shares Share 0 Tweet 0 Share 0 Share 0 Share Email Print Share Democracies end when they are too democratic. Illustration: Zohar Lazar Democracies end when they are too democratic. And right now, America is a breeding ground for tyranny. Illustration by Zohar Lazar As this dystopian election campaign has unfolded, my mind keeps being tugged by a passage in Plato&rsquo;sÂ Republic . It has unsettled &mdash; even surprised &mdash; me from the moment I first read it in graduate school. The passage is from the part of the dialogue where Socrates and his friends are talking about the nature of different political systems, how they change over time, and how one can slowly evolve into another. And Socrates seemed pretty clear on one sobering point: that &ldquo;tyranny is probably established out of no other regime than democracy.&rdquo; What did Plato mean by that? Democracy, for him, I discovered, was a political system of maximal freedom and equality, where every lifestyle is allowed and public offices are filled by a lottery. And the longer a democracy lasted, Plato argued, the more democratic it would become. Its freedoms would multiply; its equality spread. Deference to any sort of authority would wither; tolerance of any kind of inequality would come under intense threat; and multiculturalism and sexual freedom would create a city or a country like &ldquo;a many-colored cloak decorated in all hues.&rdquo; This rainbow-flag polity, Plato argues, is, for many people, the fairest of regimes. The freedom in that democracy has to be experienced to be believed &mdash; with shame and privilege in particular emerging over time as anathema. But it is inherently unstable. As the authority of elites fades, as Establishment values cede to popular ones, views and identities can become so magnificently diverse as to be mutually uncomprehending. And when all the barriers to equality, formal and informal, have been removed; when everyone is equal; when elites are despised and full license is established to do &ldquo;whatever one wants,&rdquo; you arrive at what might be called late-stage democracy. There is no kowtowing to authority here, let alone to political experience or expertise. The very rich come under attack, as inequality becomes increasingly intolerable. Patriarchy is also dismantled: &ldquo;We almost forgot to mention the extent of the law of equality and of freedom in the relations of women with men and men with women.&rdquo; Family hierarchies are inverted: &ldquo;A father habituates himself to be like his child and fear his sons, and a son habituates himself to be like his father and to have no shame before or fear of his parents.&rdquo; In classrooms, &ldquo;as the teacher ... is frightened of the pupils and fawns on them, so the students make light of their teachers.&rdquo; Animals are regarded as equal to humans; the rich mingle freely with the poor in the streets and try to blend in. The foreigner is equal to the citizen. And it is when a democracy has ripened as fully as this, Plato argues, that a would-be tyrant will often seize his moment. He is usually of the elite but has a nature in tune with the time &mdash; given over to random pleasures and whims, feasting on plenty of food and sex, and reveling in the nonjudgment that is democracy&rsquo;s civil religion. He makes his move by &ldquo;taking over a particularly obedient mob&rdquo; and attacking his wealthy peers as corrupt. If not stopped quickly, his appetite for attacking the rich on behalf of the people swells further. He is a traitor to his class &mdash; and soon, his elite enemies, shorn of popular legitimacy, find a way to appease him or are forced to flee. Eventually, he stands alone, promising to cut through the paralysis of democratic incoherence. It&rsquo;s as if he were offering the addled, distracted, and self-indulgent citizens a kind of relief from democracy&rsquo;s endless choices and insecurities. He rides a backlash to excess&mdash;&ldquo;too much freedom seems to change into nothing but too much slavery&rdquo; &mdash; and offers himself as the personified answer to the internal conflicts of the democratic mess. He pledges, above all, to take on the increasingly despised elites. And as the people thrill to him as a kind of solution, a democracy willingly, even impetuously, repeals itself. And so, as I chitchatted over cocktails at a Washington office Christmas party in December, and saw, looming above our heads, the pulsating, angry televised face of Donald Trump on Fox News, I couldn&rsquo;t help but feel a little nausea permeate my stomach. And as I watched frenzied Trump rallies on C-SPAN in the spring, and saw him lay waste to far more qualified political peers in the debates by simply calling them names, the nausea turned to dread. And when he seemed to condone physical violence as a response to political disagreement, alarm bells started to ring in my head. Plato had planted a gnawing worry in my mind a few decades ago about the intrinsic danger of late-democratic life. It was increasingly hard not to see in Plato&rsquo;s vision a murky reflection of our own hyperdemocratic times and in Trump a demagogic, tyrannical character plucked directly out of one of the first books about politics ever written. Could it be that the Donald has emerged from the populist circuses of pro wrestling and New York City tabloids, via reality television and Twitter, to prove not just Plato but also James Madison right, that democracies &ldquo;have ever been spectacles of turbulence and contention &hellip; and have in general been as short in their lives as they have been violent in their deaths&rdquo;? Is he testing democracy&rsquo;s singular weakness &mdash; its susceptibility to the demagogue &mdash; by blasting through the firewalls we once had in place to prevent such a person from seizing power? Or am I overreacting? Perhaps. The nausea comes and goes, and there have been days when the news algorithm has actually reassured me that &ldquo;peak Trump&rdquo; has arrived. But it hasn&rsquo;t gone away, and neither has Trump. In the wake of his most recent primary triumphs, at a time when he is perilously close to winning enough delegates to grab the Republican nomination outright, I think we must confront this dread and be clear about what this election has already revealed about the fragility of our way of life and the threat late-stage democracy is beginning to pose to itself. Plato, of course, was not clairvoyant. His analysis of how democracy can turn into tyranny is a complex one more keyed toward ancient societies than our own (and contains more wrinkles and eddies than I can summarize here). His disdain for democratic life was fueled in no small part by the fact that a democracy had executed his mentor, Socrates. And he would, I think, have been astonished at how American democracy has been able to thrive with unprecedented stability over the last couple of centuries even as it has brought more and more people into its embrace. It remains, in my view, a miracle of constitutional craftsmanship and cultural resilience. There is no place I would rather live. But it is not immortal, nor should we assume it is immune to the forces that have endangered democracy so many times in human history. Part of American democracy&rsquo;s stability is owed to the fact that the Founding Fathers had read their Plato. To guard our democracy from the tyranny of the majority and the passions of the mob, they constructed large, hefty barriers between the popular will and the exercise of power. Voting rights were tightly circumscribed. The president and vice-president were not to be popularly elected but selected by an Electoral College, whose representatives were selected by the various states, often through state legislatures. The Senate&rsquo;s structure (with two members from every state) was designed to temper the power of the more populous states, and its term of office (six years, compared with two for the House) was designed to cool and restrain temporary populist passions. The Supreme Court, picked by the president and confirmed by the Senate, was the final bulwark against any democratic furies that might percolate up from the House and threaten the Constitution. This separation of powers was designed precisely to create sturdy firewalls against democratic wildfires. Over the centuries, however, many of these undemocratic rules have been weakened or abolished. The franchise has been extended far beyond propertied white men. The presidency is now effectively elected through popular vote, with the Electoral College almost always reflecting the national democratic will. And these formal democratic advances were accompanied by informal ones, as the culture of democracy slowly took deeper root. For a very long time, only the elites of the political parties came to select their candidates at their quadrennial conventions, with the vote largely restricted to party officials from the various states (and often decided in, yes, smoke-filled rooms in large hotel suites). Beginning in the early 1900s, however, the parties began experimenting with primaries, and after the chaos of the 1968 Democratic convention, today&rsquo;s far more democratic system became the norm. Direct democracy didn&rsquo;t just elect Congress and the president anymore; it expanded the notion of who might be qualified for public office. Once, candidates built a career through experience in elected or Cabinet positions or as military commanders; t