# The Stasi And The Swan

**Source**: http://www.newrepublic.com/article/politics/76168/the-stasi-and-the-swan
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:54:43.989401+00:00

---

The Stasi and The Swan | The New Republic Skip Navigation The New Republic The New Republic LATEST BREAKING NEWS POLITICS CLIMATE CULTURE MAGAZINE NEWSLETTERS PODCASTS VIDEO The New Republic The New Republic The New Republic The New Republic The New Republic LATEST BREAKING NEWS POLITICS CLIMATE CULTURE MAGAZINE NEWSLETTERS PODCASTS VIDEO The New Republic The New Republic The New Republic David Grann / April 19, 1999 The Stasi and the Swan The last spy story of the Cold War Nina Ruecker/Getty Images In the spring of 1995, Jim Clark, who had spent half his life spying on others, was sure someone was spying on him. He first noticed the person when he got off the plane in Germany. Now, at the train station in Bonn, he could see the man’s reflection in the ticket counter window. He knew from experience that people do silly things when they think they’re being watched, but he did them despite himself: zigzagging across the terminal, spinning around, even walking backward. He made his way back to America, but, when he entered his apartment in Virginia, he was certain the FBI had been there before him. His clothes were out of order, and his computer had been turned on. “Gonna say you’re a ... spy,” he mumbled to himself, anticipating the FBI’s accusations. “You work for the KGB!” He’d already dug a hole in the woods out back and buried one of his miniature cameras, but there was still other evidence of his nearly two decades as a secret agent for the East Germans: dolls with slits in the back for film and a hollowed-out Reader’s Digest condensed book for concealing documents. “An easy [mark]. An easy mark I am!” he said. With each day, his paranoia increased. At night, alone in his apartment, he talked to himself, even though he knew the FBI might be listening. “I’ve gone through this conversation many times,” he declared to no one in particular. “I’ll answer your question under one condition: That no further questions will occur.” He paused and looked around the empty room. “James Clark. Your honor ... not guilty.” He tried to reach his East German contact, a man he knew only as “Harry.” But it was too late. “FBI!” he yelled to himself. “You’re under arrest!” And then he was. On October 4, 1997, the FBI arrested the 49-year-old paralegal and private investigator for espionage. The government also arrested Jim’s longtime friends—Kurt Stand and his wife, Terry Squillacote—as co-conspirators in what is likely to be the last spy case of its kind. All three were devoted Marxist-Leninists who came of age during the 1960s and, according to wiretaps and court testimony, spied for the East Germans from the 1970s until 1990. Even stranger, all three refused to give up on communism long after the Berlin Wall crumbled. As late as 1997, Kurt and Terry formed a Marxist study group, which convened once a month at their suburban home, and tried to organize a new espionage ring with a band of South African Communists. Their goal, Terry wrote in the discussion group’s syllabus, is “Socialist transformation.” At their trial last October in Alexandria, Virginia, reporters and strangers crowded into the courtroom to see what they looked like, while old leftists seized upon the case to relive the wars of their past. At least a half- dozen Socialists, Communists, and assorted “progressives” sat behind the defendants each day, wearing red roses and warning of a new McCarthyism; one even refused to stand when the judge entered the courtroom. The FBI is “trying to refight the old ideological wars of the 1950s,” warned Robert Meeropol, the son of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg. Conservative David Horowitz, meanwhile, claimed there were dozens more just like them lurking in suburbia. “Why only three?” he asked in Salon magazine after their arrests. But the story of these spies—pieced together from FBI wiretaps and the first public interviews with Kurt and Terry—turns out to be less a tale of seasoned agents than of three minds consumed by an archaic religion. Unable to let go of their ideology, they became increasingly irrational until, by the end, they were no longer revolutionaries but alchemists of revolution, trying to create a new order out of nothing—a handful of minor documents and their own writings on bourgeois materialism. When Kurt and Terry moved to Washington, D.C., in 1980, there was nothing especially unusual about them. They lived in a part of the city that was neither too fancy nor run-down—middle class for the true middle class, they liked to say. Terry studied law and, in 1991, went to work in the Pentagon’s Office of Acquisition Reform, where she received outstanding evaluations and even a reinventing government award from Vice President Al Gore. Kurt, after wandering from job to job, first as a longshoreman and then as a maintenance man, finally settled in as an official with a food workers’ union. They were, of course, old lefties, shopping at the co-op and boycotting Nestle. But, with their two kids and minivan, they seemed almost, well, bourgeois. Their son, Karl, had severe learning disabilities, and Terry spent most of her time fighting with the school bureaucracy to ensure that he got a good education. She once wrote an op-ed in The Washington Post on his struggles, which she clipped and kept with Kurt’s old college essays on imperialism. Neither of them could ever throw anything out, and the house resembled an antiques bazaar, with jars of Italian marbles, used books, and magazines from the ‘70s strewn everywhere. In winter, they’d host a New Year’s party for their friends--a happy occasion where Terry’s pals from the establishment mingled with Kurt’s associates from the Democratic Socialists of America. One person who sometimes attended was a paralegal with the U.S. Army named James Clark. Short and bookish, with receding gray hair and thick glasses, he was the only one in the room more reserved than Kurt: he avoided office birthday parties and, if he had anything personal to say, wrote it down in his diary, which he’d kept since he was a teenager. “No one had a bad word to say about the guy,” says John Murphy, a former FBI agent and U.S. Marine who hired him as a private investigator in 1996. But, every so often, unbeknownst to their friends and neighbors, Jim, Kurt, and Terry all allegedly received secret instructions from Harry, their East German contact. “I am sure you will get what we want,” he wrote Terry in one message. While the kids were out playing, Terry would sometimes go down into the basement and listen to Morse code until her head pounded. Kurt, for his part, would mostly write long analyses of the labor movement and send them overseas. He thought of himself not so much as a traitor but as a friend, a collector of information. In Berlin, Harry kept careful track of all of their exchanges. “Everything arrived intact,” he’d write. Or: “We do like [the] photos.” Although they never appeared to secure any damaging material, Jim chronicled almost everything he saw: newspaper clippings, college syllabi, medical reports. “He was like a ferret,” said one FBI agent. He even coaxed from his friends in the State Department a dozen or so classified documents, including one marked “top secret,” which he couldn’t understand but that satisfied Harry the most. So diligent was Jim that one day the Stasi invited him to Berlin and presented him with a medal, which it took back afterward so that there’d be no evidence. As the century came to a close, Harry suggested in the East German files that everything was going well. But it was one of the last times he would have an assignment for them. When the Soviet Union collapsed in 1990, so, too, did all three defendants. One day in despair, Jim took a hammer and smashed one of his miniature spy cameras. He then walked out to the Theodore Roosevelt Bridge and scattered the bits in the Potomac River. A few miles away, Terry was even more distraught. According to friends, when the Soviets lowered the red flag over the Kremlin for the last time in 1991, she could barely get out of bed. She stayed home and watched CNN and cried for hours while her colleagues at the Pentagon celebrated the end of the Evil Empire. More and more, Terry retreated into her black moods. She took antidepressants and saw a shrink. History had not, as she’d expected, delivered them. It had screwed them. She had spent years trying to get a position at the Pentagon that would please Harry, who had gradually become her lover; now that she finally had such a job, he’d abandoned her in the bowels of the Defense Department. “You know, I definitely need to open up my life and get more sense of gratification in it, because walking into that concrete bunker is killing me,” she told her brother. “It’s just killing me.” Then, one day in 1995, her husband gave her a book called Armed and Dangerous , by Ronnie Kasrils, hoping it would cheer her up. On the cover, Kasrils, the former head of military intelligence for the African National Congress, wore a t-shirt emblazoned with a hammer and sickle. Like Terry, he had been trained in East Germany, and the book read like a spy thriller. But, unlike her, he had helped transform his country and now served openly in the government. “As for what I have done,” Kasrils proclaimed, “I consider it something lofty and noble.” Terry read each page, then read them again. Afterward, she tried for days to organize her thoughts in a letter to the author: “First let me send congratulations to you, and to those with whom you work, from myself and others here who also believe in the struggle to produce a better world.” So much had happened since 1989, since the fall of communism, she didn’t know where to begin. “Subjectivism, rule of law, assertion of objective forces of history....” she continued. “[W]hat do these things mean about how we achieve revolutionary change in society?” She typed and typed until she had written more than five single-spaced pages. She wondered if he’d read between 