# Best Weeknd Songs 1294728

**Source**: https://www.rollingstone.com/music/music-lists/best-weeknd-songs-1294728/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:55:08.721361+00:00

---

The 50 Best Weeknd Songs, Ranked &times; &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Music The 50 Best Weeknd Songs From dark alt-R&amp;B jams to sleek summer hits to synth-pop revelations, and beyond By Tomás Mier , Waiss Aramesh , Julyssa Lopez , Charles Aaron , Angie Martoccio , Elias Leight , Jon Freeman , Mosi Reeves , Jon Blistein , Sarah Grant , Joe Gross , Simon Vozick-Levinson , Jon Dolan , Kory Grow February 14, 2022 Photographs in photo illustration by Frazer Harrison/Getty Images; Rich Fury/Getty Images; John Salangsang/Invision/AP If you had &#8220;Siouxsie and the Banshees fan from Canada remakes R&amp;B in his own image&#8221; on your Pop Music in the 2010s bingo card, congratulations! Abel Tesfaye came out of Toronto in 2011 with a stunning series of spacey, sepulchral EPs that proved the start of a landmark run. Pretty soon he was lacing summer hits, sharing tracks with Ariana and Lana, creating epic albums like After Hours and this year&#8217;s excellent Dawn FM, and even playing the Super Bowl. To coincide with the release of his new Amazon special, The Weeknd x The Dawn FM Experience (available this Saturday) , we&#8217;ve decided to honor the Weeknd&#8217;s decade of moody pop dominance, with our list of his 50 greatest songs. You&#8217;ve earned it! &#8216;Pretty&#8217; (2013) Image Credit: Youtube One of the Weeknd’s cooler, earlier tricks is the goth level of melodrama with which he infused his work. “Pretty,” from his debut full-length, Kiss Land , takes an industrial level of synth dread and drum clatter and sets it to the time-honored tale of the road dog coming home to his partner, who may or may not have cheated. Conclusion: He’ll make you feel beautiful if only because it helps him keep the demons at bay. — J.G. &#8216;The Fall&#8217; (2011) Image Credit: Vince Talotta/Toronto Star/Getty Images The foggy darkness of “The Fall” is a vintage remnant of the Weeknd’s bleakest, most sedated soundscapes. A chugging beat and ominous, choir-like vocals nearly drown him out, but his slightly moribund voice continues with the steely resolve of someone who intimately knows rock bottom. And though the production comes from his early-aughts mixtape era, it’s also ahead of its time, feeling like something that could easily soundtrack a depressing episode of Euphoria. — J.L. &#8216;Tears in the Rain&#8217; (2013) Image Credit: Jeff Lombardo/Getty Images The Weeknd&#8217;s R&amp;B plot twist is that his falsetto croon, cunning production, and vulnerable charisma offer a tender caress until you find out that love is really a serial killer hiding in the closet. Inspired by the replicant Roy Batta&#8217;s dying monologue in Blade Runner , this gorgeous ballad is a spectacular bell tower of distorted guitar and rippling synths that gives you goose bumps. Too bad you&#8217;re lying next to the toilet. — C.A. &#8216;La Fama,&#8217; Rosalía feat. the Weeknd (2022) Image Credit: Youtube Call him “El Fin de Semana.” The singer takes a complete turn from his typical R&amp;B style as he joins Rosalía on the electro-bachata track about the downsides of fame. The Weeknd sings in perfect Spanish as his vocals channel the likes of bachata legend Romeo Santos. — T.M. &#8216;Coming Down&#8217; (2011) Image Credit: Timothy Hiatt/WireImage Emerging from the dusted carnage of &#8220;The Party &amp; the Afterparty,&#8221; this might be Tesfaye&#8217;s most emotionally resonant performance. A cold wind blows past a twinkly, taunting mini-motif as various intoxicating agents exit his system. Racked with regret, he convincingly plays the fallen prince; his ah-ah s, la-la-la s, and refrain of “I always want you when I’m coming down” are acutely relatable. — C.A. &#8216;Prisoner,&#8217; feat. Lana Del Rey (2015) Image Credit: Chelsea Lauren/WireImage This criminally underrated duet is a true relic of the fleeting 50 Shades of Grey -era of 2010s gloom pop, sung and co-written by the genre’s foremost falsettos: the Weeknd and Lana Del Rey. “I’ve inspired her, she’s inspired me,” Tesfaye said at the time. “I feel like we’ve always been talking to each other through our music.” Together for the first time, they sing “I’m addicted to a life that’s empty and cold,” like two dark souls twisting in the wind. —S.G. &#8216;Kiss Land&#8217; (2013) Image Credit: Arthur Mola/Invision/AP Perhaps the Weeknd was worried his major-label debut wouldn&#8217;t be perceived as authentically malevolent. The title track settles that — a disorienting din of post-industrial drone and moan, plus oral-sex quips and a witchy brew of booze, blow, and pills. Cloudrap producer Silky Johnson sustains a K-hole of suspense so when Tesfaye cries, &#8220;Goddamn, I&#8217;m high,&#8221; it&#8217;s actually startling. — C.A. &#8216;In the Night&#8217; (2015) Image Credit: Thomas Concordia/FilmMagic The first song co-written with pop magus Max Martin, &#8220;In the Night&#8221; conjures an Eighties neon raincloud with a whoosh of drum pads, pulsing synths, clattering effects, and Visionquest pathos. Principally, it coaxes Tesfaye&#8217;s most openhearted vocal to date. His taut yet fluid phrasing (a nod to Thriller -era Michael Jackson) delivers the story of an abused sex worker with an unusually sincere ache. — C.A. &#8216;Moth to a Flame,&#8217; Swedish House Mafia and the Weeknd (2022) Image Credit: Youtube “Moth to a Flame” is a petty anthem, masking the bitterness with synth, and marks the Weeknd’s first (of hopefully many) collaboration with Swedish House Mafia. Abel’s vocals shine through a biting chorus that effectively ruins the current relationship of his ex. It should come as no surprise that a list of the Weeknd’s best songs doubles as a masterclass in toxicity. — W.A. &#8216;Crew Love,&#8217; Drake feat. the Weeknd (2012) Image Credit: Ian West/PA Wire/AP The remarkable opening of &#8220;Crew Love&#8221; is a true test for the Weeknd, pitting the singer&#8217;s siren call against a callous, punishing opponent — a mash of crashing cymbals that seems intent on crushing the life out of anything in its path. But the Weeknd&#8217;s sweet croon partially camouflages his own militance. His opening line is every bit as cruel and cutting as those cymbals: &#8220;Take your nose off my keyboard/What you bothering me for?&#8221; And once the Weeknd puts his enemies on their heels, he presses his attack. &#8220;This ain&#8217;t no fuckin&#8217; singalong,&#8221; he snarls prettily. &#8220;So, girl, what you singing for?&#8221; —E.L. &#8216;Acquainted&#8217; (2015) Image Credit: Peter Dejong/AP Oh, the humanity? On this neoclassic Weeknd tale of compulsive wanderlust, boosted by Illangelo&#8217;s crisply cavernous, dubstep-tinged production, Tesfaye coos (and even cries out) with new vulnerability about whether a commitment to &#8220;real&#8221; love/life might be a risk worth taking. Answer: No, &#8220;but, girl, I&#8217;m so glad we&#8217;re acquainted.&#8221; — C.A. &#8216;King of the Fall&#8217; (2014) Image Credit: Youtube Released as a Soundcloud track and a YouTube video in commemoration of his 2014 “King of the Fall” Tour, this is a fan favorite that didn’t get added to streaming services until nearly six years later. It finds the Weeknd at his most insouciantly boastful: “’Bout to leave the crib with a couple of my pirates/Driving by the streets we used to walk through like a triumph,” he sings. Produced with help from Jason “DaHeala” Quenneville, “King of the Fall” has a thrilling, uncompromising edge. When he says, “If you ain’t with me, motherfucker, you against me,” you can feel the tension in his words. “Ain’t nobody can stop me.” — M.R. &#8216;Heartless&#8217; (2020) Image Credit: Youtube This first single from the 2020 album After Hours finds our hero self-consciously returning to his baller ways, grabbing some of his pals (co-writers Metro Boomin, Illangelo, and Dre Moon), loading up on subdermal bass and trappin’ hi-hats and heading out for a night of licking toads, getting ladies high, and spilling whiskey on himself. Once again, he’s in full players-playing mode and he doesn’t make it sound very fun at all. — J.G. &#8216;The Birds Pt. 2&#8217; (2011) Image Credit: Gus Stewart/Redferns/Getty Images On the Weeknd&#8217;s most intense recorded reckoning, our unreliable narrator delivers a harrowing moral: Don&#8217;t fall for self-obsessed, predatory fiends (like me) or somebody will suffer. Forever . Producers Illangelo and Doc McKinney underscore the point — sobs and a gunshot bleed into reverbed whirlpools of decaying surf guitar, an unforgiving snare thud, and Marina Topley-Bird croaking &#8220;sandpaper kisses, paper-cut bliss&#8221; like Madame Lamort. Then the crows caw a bitter adieu. — C.A. &#8216;Love Me Harder,&#8217; Ariana Grande feat. the Weeknd (2014) When Republic Records introduced its hot new R&amp;B act to the world, it used an old-fashioned tactic (Trojan Horse) the new-fashioned way: an Ariana Grande song. Produced by Max Martin, “Love Me Harder” is a coy, synth-driven jam about the joys of rough sex. What takes it to that next level is the indelible way Grande’s sumptuous vocals ricochet off of the Weeknd’s icy falsetto. Two great artists in their own right. But like Pat and Neil, these two just belong together. — S.G. &#8216;Loft Music&#8217; (2011) Image Credit: Christie Goodwin/Redferns/Getty Images “Loft Music” is one of Abel Tesfaye&#8217;s quintessential baby-making moments and a standout from his debut mixtape, House of Balloons . During the chorusless first half of the track, the Weeknd convinces a woman that “baby, it’s OK” for them to hook up, while