# Prisons Abolition Alternatives

**Source**: https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2017/6/19/15764176/prisons-abolition-alternatives
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:06:09.530372+00:00

---

The case for abolishing prisons | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo The case for abolishing prisons Free speech needs fearless journalism Free speech is endangered; unbiased and trustworthy news is elusive. In a time of noise, confusion, and spin, we’re committed to clarity, truth, and depth — even when it’s hard. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join now Politics The case for abolishing prisons A provocative new paper argues for closing down all — or at least close to all — US prisons. by German Lopez Jun 19, 2017, 12:00 PM UTC Share Gift Matias Nieto/Cover via Getty Images America should abolish prisons. Perhaps not all of them, but very close to it. That&rsquo;s the argument in a recent, provocative paper by Peter Salib, a judicial clerk to Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Frank Easterbrook. According to Salib, the idea behind the criminal justice system should be to punish and deter crimes. But prisons are arguably a very inefficient way to do that. The research shows that long prison sentences have little impact on crime, and a stint in prison can actually make someone more likely to commit crime &mdash; by further exposing them to all sorts of criminal elements. At the same time, prisons are incredibly costly, eating up funds that could go to other government programs that are more effective at fighting crime. So why not, Salib suggests, consider alternative approaches to punishment that can let someone actually pay their debt back to society without forcing taxpayers to shoulder the burden of paying for his full confinement? Salib gave the example of an accountant who burned down an office building. Instead of locking him up for potentially decades, Salib suggests keeping an eye on him through other means, such as GPS monitoring, and forcing him to work as an accountant to pay back the cost of the office building. This would, he argues, be much better for everyone involved; the office building owner gets paid back for the damage, and society has to pay much less to confine this person. The idea is a bit discomforting, not least because it sounds like forced labor or slavery. Coupled with the massive racial disparities in the justice system, the idea takes an ugly turn. But Salib makes two points: First, forced labor is certainly punishing, but prison is very punishing as well &mdash; arguably more so. Second, Salib argues that we can try to make the justice system fairer while changing how it punishes people. &ldquo;If you think that we shouldn&rsquo;t punish as many minorities as we do now, that&rsquo;s fine,&rdquo; he told me. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not asking about who we should punish; I&rsquo;m asking about how we punish the people we do punish.&rdquo; This isn&rsquo;t a wholly new concept. Previously, Dylan Matthews wrote for Vox about how we could get rid of prisons by using location-tracking technology to monitor offenders while otherwise letting them live productive lives. And criminal justice experts Mark Kleiman, Angela Hawken, and Ross Halperin previously proposed a &ldquo;graduated reentry&rdquo; system that would similarly monitor people convicted of crimes, but incentivize them to slowly re-earn their freedom by proving their rehabilitation &mdash; getting a job, following a curfew, not committing other crimes, and so on. This could incentivize the inmate to be productive, while avoiding the higher costs of prison. Still, Salib makes one of the clearer cases for how this change would be better not just for prisoners, but for society as a whole. You should read the full paper for more detail. But to follow up on some of the lingering questions I had &mdash; how his system works for murderers, and what kinds of exceptions he envisions that would still warrant prison &mdash; I reached out to Salib. What follows is our full conversation, edited for length and clarity. German Lopez What is the main argument in your paper? Peter Salib We start with the law and economics premise of criminal punishment, which is that the main thing we&rsquo;re interested in when we punish people is deterring anti-social behavior &mdash; imposing costs on people so it&rsquo;s not advantageous for them to make everyone&rsquo;s life worse. For various reasons having to do with how hard it is to figure out when people are doing bad stuff to sufficiently deter them, the costs have to be sufficiently high. In layman terms that means we usually can&rsquo;t just extract money from them, but we sometimes have to do other things. The way our system usually does that now, if criminal punishment is necessary, is imprisonment. The argument in the paper is that if our starting premise is the economic premise of minimizing social costs, we should look at other social costs [related to prison]. It turns out prison is really costly. It may be pretty good at deterring the bad acts we want to deter. But it has high administrative costs. It creates a lot of perverse incentives. And, most importantly, if I&rsquo;m a guy who would otherwise be a productive member of society and I get put in prison, part of the cost to me of being in prison is that I don&rsquo;t get to earn any money and enjoy the fruits of my labor while I&rsquo;m in prison. It turns out that&rsquo;s also a cost to society: If there was some other punishment that also allowed me to work in a socially productive way, we could take the money I earned and give it to, say, my victims or, if my victim has already been compensated, the government or a nonprofit that would distribute it to other people who need it. That would be a lot better from a social standpoint. The second half of the paper says it&rsquo;s not so out there that we could have a different system besides prison. When somebody is convicted of having done some bad stuff we think needs to be deterred, we first exhaust the monetary transfers we could make. So we say you have to keep working to pay your debt to society with actual money to the extent you can. If it turns out there needs to be additional costs on the person, there are lots of additional things you could do. There are some that are historical, and maybe people think some of those are too horrible and archaic. But if you don&rsquo;t like those, you can pick anything you like. You could have public shaming as a punishment. If you don&rsquo;t think that&rsquo;s harsh enough, you could have other modern-day costly punishments &mdash; you could make people eat very spicy peppers on a regular basis or have them do something else that&rsquo;s unpleasant on a regular basis. The idea is that there are options that don&rsquo;t keep people from working and remaining a productive member of society. So not a drain, but rather beneficial to others while still being deterred. German Lopez The way we usually talk about prison, we mostly talk about the costs to the prisoner. &ldquo;Now he has to pay for his crime&rdquo;: That&rsquo;s the frame most people think about with prisons. But I think you&rsquo;re right that people tend to overlook some of the other social costs. To give readers a better idea of what some of the social costs of prison are, could you walk me through them? Peter Salib Say I&rsquo;m an accountant. But I have a streak of pyromania, so I burn down a big office building. Under the current system, I go to prison. Let&rsquo;s say I get sent to 30 years of prison for serious arson. Part of the cost for me is, in addition to being confined to my prison cell and not being able to be with my family and loved ones, I don&rsquo;t get to earn any money while I&rsquo;m in prison. And when I get out, I have foregone 30 years of my salary. That&rsquo;s a cost to me. But it&rsquo;s also a cost to everyone else. Imagine if instead of getting sent to prison, the court tells me I have to repay the costs of the office building. But I don&rsquo;t have the savings to do that. If instead of being sent to prison, I was forced to continue working as an accountant to give, say, 80 percent of my earnings for however long to whoever&rsquo;s office building I burned down, that would actually be a lot better to the guy whose office building I burned down. The fact that I get sent to prison and am prevented from earning any wealth while I&rsquo;m there is as much taking money out of my victim&rsquo;s pocket as it is taking money out of my pocket. German Lopez I could see someone latching onto that framing and arguing that sounds a lot like forced labor or slavery, especially with racial disparities in the criminal justice system. It could have some pretty ugly implications. How would you respond to that? Peter Salib I do worry about it. Part of the reason I don&rsquo;t engage with it very much in the paper is, one, the paper is really supposed to be narrowly a law and economics piece. There are other kinds of reasons we might want to do this. There are moral objections to this and some of the alternative punishments being imposed. As a law and economics matter, though, the point is this system is more efficient. Particularly in regards to racial disparities in incarceration in America, there is a lot of research on that. It is very good. I buy that there are racial disparities that can&rsquo;t be explained or are hard to explain by good reasons. But there&rsquo;s nothing incompatible with the idea that we should be fairer about who we punish and that we might want to punish them in a different way. I can accept the objection that the American system of criminal punishment is unfair along the racial lines. If you think that w