# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Journal%20of%20Family%20Psychology&title=Establishing%20Family%20Foundations:%20Intervention%20effects%20on%20coparenting,%20parent/infant%20well-being,%20and%20parent-child%20relations&author=ME%20Feinberg&author=ML%20Kan&volume=22&issue=2&publication_year=2008&pages=253-263&pmid=18410212&doi=10.1037/0893-3200.22.2.253&
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:00:31.932608+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.04 sec) My profile My library Lookup [PDF] nih.gov Establishing family foundations: intervention effects on coparenting, parent/infant well-being, and parent-child relations. ME Feinberg , ML Kan - Journal of family psychology, 2008 - psycnet.apa.org ME Feinberg , ML Kan Journal of family psychology, 2008 • psycnet.apa.org This study investigated the ability of a theoretically driven, psychosocial prevention program implemented through childbirth education programs to enhance the coparental relationship, parental mental health, the parent–child relationship, and infant emotional and physiological regulation. A sample of 169 heterosexual, adult couples who were expecting their 1st child was randomized to intervention and control conditions. The intervention families participated in Family Foundations, a series of 8 classes, delivered before and after birth, that was … Abstract This study investigated the ability of a theoretically driven, psychosocial prevention program implemented through childbirth education programs to enhance the coparental relationship, parental mental health, the parent–child relationship, and infant emotional and physiological regulation. A sample of 169 heterosexual, adult couples who were expecting their 1st child was randomized to intervention and control conditions. The intervention families participated in Family Foundations, a series of 8 classes, delivered before and after birth, that was designed as a universal prevention program (ie, it was applicable to all couples, not just those at high risk). Intent-to-treat analyses indicated significant program effects on coparental support, maternal depression and anxiety, distress in the parent–child relationship, and several indicators of infant regulation. Intervention effects were not moderated by income, but greater positive impact of the program was found for lower educated parents and for families with a father who reported higher levels of insecure attachment in close relationships. These findings support the view that coparenting is a potentially malleable intervention target that may influence family relationships as well as parent and child well-being. American Psychological Association Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 637 Related articles All 15 versions Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help