# Tad Friend Its Electric

**Source**: https://www.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/tad-friend-its-electric
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:59:24.928774+00:00

---

Tad Friend: It’s Electric! | The New Yorker Skip to main content Newsletter Search Search The Latest News Books &amp; Culture Fiction &amp; Poetry Humor &amp; Cartoons Magazine Puzzles &amp; Games Video Podcasts Goings On Shop 100th Anniversary Open Navigation Menu Menu News Desk Tad Friend: It’s Electric! By Tad Friend August 13, 2009 Save this story Save this story Save this story Save this story This week in the magazine, I write about Elon Musk and his company Tesla Motors, which last year began producing the Roadster , the only highway-capable electric car currently on the road. (Subscribers can access the full article .) In April, while I was reporting in Silicon Valley, where the company is based, I spent a few days test-driving the car, an experience both familiar and strange. Once you slide into the Roadster—which, for me, at six feet tall, required some forethought—you’re in a standard sports-car cockpit, one just large enough to fit two people and a loaf of bread. There is no video-game-style joystick or futuristic trackball; the car feels like a car. Only the lack of a glove compartment and the crappy, off-the-shelf JVC stereo-and-navigation system indicate that Tesla was hurrying to get the car out the door. But you don’t buy a hundred-and-nine-thousand-dollar electric car for its glove compartment. The first difference I noticed was the engine’s catlike purr: when I tooled through the Stanford University campus, cyclists and runners did double takes as I coasted past more softly than the wind. Then I realized that I was unusually elated, filled with an odd combination of moral increase (I’m saving the planet!) and of consumerist glee (I’m faster than a hungry cheetah!). When it comes to acceleration, the new technology has the old beat flat. Rather than relying on an array of valves, camshafts, timing belts, and pistons to regulate the transfer of energy as the car shifts gears, the Roadster’s one-speed power train uses electronics and software to optimize torque. So you very, very quickly go really, really fast (zero to sixty in 3.9 seconds). Even months into owning the car, many Roadster drivers still take off at every stoplight, peeling rubber like teen-agers. The car’s chief annoyance is its abounding N.V.H. and B.S.R. issues—industry jargon for “noise, vibration, and harshness” and “buzz, squeak, and rattle.” The Roadster feels stiff and jouncy, more like a garage-built kit car than like a gliding leather cocoon. It’d be tiring to drive in it for more than two hours. These aspects of its ride are much improved, however, in the company’s new models, which went into production in July: the Roadster 2 and the even higher-performance Roadster Sport (both of which also have glove compartments). The other problem, of course, is the enduring Achilles’ heel of electric vehicles: “range anxiety.” After a few days of motoring around without recharging, I drove to San Francisco to conduct some interviews and suddenly realized that I had only forty miles left on the battery’s original two-hundred-and-forty-four-mile charge. So I drove to my sister’s house and plugged the car into a hundred-and-ten-volt outlet in her garage. Two hours later, the car had gained nine miles. On Highway 101 back to Menlo Park, I eyed the gauge the whole way, trying to suss out the optimal energy-conserving speed (probably fifty-five miles per hour, just as Jimmy Carter suggested thirty years ago). When I arrived at my hotel and left the car in its parking lot, which, like almost all the world’s parking lots at the moment, lacks charging equipment, I had nine miles to spare: exactly the amount I’d gained through my sister’s outlet. The next morning, magically, the car’s battery had gained eight more miles. This seemed worrisome, somehow. Tad Friend has been a staff writer at The New Yorker since 1998. He is the author of the memoir “ In the Early Times: A Life Reframed .” More: Elon Musk Stanford University Tad Friend Read More Annals of Technology Tim Berners-Lee Invented the World Wide Web. Now He Wants to Save It In 1989, Sir Tim revolutionized the online world. Today, in the era of misinformation, addictive algorithms, and extractive monopolies, he thinks he can do it again. Infinite Scroll The A.I. Bubble Is Coming for Your Browser Artificial-intelligence startups, like the makers of the “smart” web browser Dia, are being acquired for vast sums. But it’s not yet clear which products can transcend the hype. Annals of Inquiry What’s the Deal with U.F.O.s? Scientists consider whether we’ve been visited by aliens or their technology. The Lede What the Video of Charlie Kirk’s Murder Might Do Parents have less and less control over what their children see. Our children will likely understand history, and the world, very differently as a result. Back to School Dept. N.Y.U.’s Dumpster-to-Dorm Boutique A group of students collected all the leather jackets, rice cookers, microwaves, and disco balls abandoned in last semester’s dorms to create the free Swap Shop. Critic’s Notebook Adebunmi Gbadebo and the Mysteries of Clay The aftereffect of a new ceramics show, “Watch Out for the Ghosts,” at the Nicola Vassell Gallery, is of feeling . . . pricked. The Weekend Essay What It’s Like to Get Really, Really High Climbers are often chasing a rush. Was I cheating by using some help to get there? Open Questions Does Society Have Too Many Rules? When regular people seem burdened by bureaucracy, and the powerful act as they choose, it’s worth asking whether we’ve forgotten what makes rules effective. Sidekick Dept. An Italian Geek in King Charles’s Court Federico Marchetti, a fashion entrepreneur, was a confidant of Giorgio Armani, but he’s stumped by whether it’s O.K. to wear a kilt around the king. Down East Postcard The New York Historical Looks Down East for Its Facelift Along with a general rebrand, the Central Park West institution is getting clad in pink granite, found&#8212;and quarried by manly men&#8212;on a wild island in Maine. Photo Booth Stephen Shore’s Precocious Adolescent Eye A new book titled “Early Work” reveals that the acclaimed American photographer barrelled into the medium fully formed. Shouts & Murmurs A Round of Gulf? Golf in Scotland or the Gulf of Mexico, and how the President keeps them straight. News Books &amp; Culture Fiction &amp; Poetry Humor &amp; Cartoons Magazine Crossword Video Podcasts 100th Anniversary Goings On Manage Account Shop The New Yorker Buy Covers and Cartoons Condé Nast Store Digital Access Newsletters Jigsaw Puzzle RSS About Careers Contact F.A.Q. Media Kit Press Accessibility Help User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. The New Yorker may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Instagram Tiktok Threads X Facebook LinkedIn YouTube