# Jaylen Brown R J Barrett Nba Salary Cap

**Source**: https://theathletic.com/3448724/2022/07/26/jaylen-brown-r-j-barrett-nba-salary-cap/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:58:00.998464+00:00

---

Hollinger: Jaylen Brown, RJ Barrett and the NBA’s coming salary-cap rise - The Athletic NFL MLB NCAAF NBA NHL WNBA Fantasy Football Golf Premier League Tennis NCAAM NCAAW College Sports Global Sports Soccer Women&#x27;s Soccer MLS NWSL Peak Formula 1 Olympics Sports Business Sailing Opinion Betting Fantasy Baseball Memorabilia and Collectibles Culture Motorsports NASCAR Women&#x27;s Hockey MMA Boxing The Pulse Newsletter Cities WNBA Finals Game 1 F1 Singapore GP Connections: Sports Edition Today&#x27;s News Hollinger: Jaylen Brown, RJ Barrett and the NBA’s coming salary-cap rise By John Hollinger July 26, 2022 Share 132 A new word is about to enter the NBA lexicon: “Extendability.” Extendability is the ability to extend a player’s contract at the max level, despite the fact that the salary cap is likely to rise by 10 percent a year or more for the next half-decade or so as the NBA bakes in a new TV deal and the league continues its general post-COVID recovery. Advertisement Bizarrely, it’s never been a more dangerous time to sign a good contract. Rules restricting the maximum raise on an extension to 120 percent of the final year’s salary make it virtually impossible to extend the contracts of star players on sub-max deals, which in turn has pushed them onto the trade market. We’ve already seen that with San Antonio ’s Dejounte Murray , whose paltry $17 million a year salary between now and 2024 can only be raised in an extension to a nearly-as-paltry $21 million. That, in turn, virtually assures he will become an unrestricted free agent in 2024 and incentivized the Spurs to move on from him for draft picks . The only exception would be if he became supermax eligible by making one of the three All-NBA teams or winning Defensive Player of the Year this coming season. Yes, San Antonio could have done a “renegotiate-and-extend,” but that maneuver creates its own complications; additionally, it is not realistically available to most teams in the same situation. A similar logic may be playing out in Boston, where Jaylen Brown is only eligible to make $36 million in 2024-25 in an extension on his current contract , compared to the $44 million he can make as a free agent. The only way out of it, again, is if he becomes supermax eligible by making one of the three All-NBA teams this season. Otherwise, he has no rational reason to extend his deal and would become an unrestricted free agent in 2024. Could he re-up with Boston in the summer of 2024? Absolutely. Will he still be young enough, at 27 that summer, that the fifth year Boston can offer probably doesn’t matter that much? Also a yes. And that is why the Celtics might be willing to put him in a package for Kevin Durant … and why the Nets , in turn, should be at least slightly nervous about Brown’s flight risk after playing two seasons in Brooklyn. (Fun fact: Brown is an Atlanta native and hits free agency right as the contracts of Murray and Bogdan Bogdanović expire.) Advertisement Similarly, this situation hangs over the Donovan Mitchell situation in Utah — another player who is really good but perhaps not quite good enough to become supermax eligible. One reason the Jazz might be looking harder at trading him now and rebuilding the team is the impossibility of extending him ahead of his player option in 2025. He can make an estimated $48 million that year as a free agent but only $41.8 million on the first year of a non-supermax extension. Welcome back to 2016, everyone. Even if we have “smoothing” rather than the massive one-time cap spike that gave us a glorious July week of teams wooing Kevin Durant in the Hamptons , as well as several other destructively bad contracts (you needn’t remind me, commenters), the implications of an anticipated giant new TV contract in 2025 and the league’s own restored post-pandemic financial health already are becoming clear. One important conclusion is that the number of contacts in this nebulous zone of unextendability is only likely to increase in coming seasons as the cap steadily rises, especially on long-term deals that have already been locked in. That day is still well in the distance on some of these deals ( Jarrett Allen and Jaren Jackson Jr. , for instance, don’t hit free agency until 2026). However, a couple of others — such as Indiana ’s Myles Turner (2023 free agent), Sacramento ’s Domantas Sabonis (2024 free agent) and Toronto ’s Fred VanVleet (2023 player option) and OG Anunoby (2024 player option) — are closing on their inevitable endgames in unrestricted free agency. Current cap rules make a market-value extension near-impossible for each. This brings us to the related topic of rookie-contract extensions for the draft class of 2019. The rising cap environment is a huge factor for teams as they try to plan out half-decade-long salary structures for extension-eligible players, most of whom are eligible to be signed through 2028. Those players, in turn, may hit unrestricted free agency in their late 20s in an environment with a $200 million cap and a $70 million a year supermax. Advertisement The low-hanging fruit is already gone, with Ja Morant , Zion Williamson and Darius Garland agreeing to max extensions on their rookie deals. San Antonio’s Keldon Johnson also inked a four-year, $80 million extension. Now we get to the tricky part: the players who aren’t quite All-Stars but still are pretty good, still on their rookie deals and still pretty obviously capable of getting better. As you’ll see, it gets pretty hard to overpay some of these guys once you factor in the rising cap. Running my BORD$ model on some of these players, even with its hazy crystal ball looking multiple years in the future, showed just how hard it actually is to screw this up: Players like RJ Barrett , Jordan Poole and Tyler Herro pencil out as being worth something like 50 percent more than their maximum deal. This results from a combination of the players’ youth and the rising cap. For the youngest cohort of extension-eligible players, it seems virtually impossible to overpay them at almost any price; in fact, “extendability” creates a downside risk that the contract might end up too low just as the player’s value peaks. For instance, the biggest risk with an extension like Johnson’s above is that he’ll depart in unrestricted free agency at the end of the deal due to the near-impossibility of a workable extension. By BORD$, Johnson’s contract is a humungous value in any environment where we have 10 percent year-over-year cap increases (or anything even remotely close). However, he can only be extended for $21 million a season in the final year of the deal — a pittance for a then-27-year-old in a nearly $200 million cap environment if he’s just a solid starter, let alone a star. Keldon Johnson recently signed a four-year extension in San Antonio. (Ron Chenoy / USA Today) The league could work around the edges of this problem by changing the limit on raises in an extension in the next collective bargaining agreement, which is likely in 2024. (The two sides have a mutual opt-out in 2023; while we’re here, note that everyone is making far too much money right now for a labor stoppage to seem realistic.) Even here, there are limits. Increasing the limit on raises in veteran extensions from, say, 20 to 30 percent, might prove mildly helpful at the margins. But at the end of the day, it’s a dribbling garden hose relative to the tsunami of TV money coming in. We briefly hit a golden era the last few years where virtually every good player signed an extension before becoming a free agent; there might be a lot less of that in the second half of this decade. Advertisement For instance, the cap rises may be so extreme that it becomes difficult to extend a deal even for a player like Morant. He signed a supermax-eligible extension with no player option on his fifth year and likely will be making well below the league’s veteran max by the contract’s endpoint. Even if he qualifies for the supermax, he’ll be making “just” $52.7 million in 2027-28, which could be raised to a maximum of $63.2 million for 2028-29 in an extension. However, if we have a $200 million cap by then and he’s supermax eligible, he’d be able to start a new max deal at $70 million a year. (He could also sign a “one+one” for a mere $60 million and then get his $70 million as a 10-year vet the next summer. Obviously, all this presumes he’s still playing at an All-Star level.) The trick here is that Morant’s salary is based on next year’s cap number, and we don’t actually know what that number will be; if it comes in beneath current estimates, his extendability takes a blow. If he fails to qualify for the supermax, that would be considerably worse, even if helps the Grizzlies’ cap sheet in the short term. The logic extends to players well below Morant in the star hierarchy. Max or max-ish long-term extensions for players like Barrett, Herro and Poole seem like almost no-brainers given what’s going to happen with the cap; first, because it’s the only way to preserve extendability, and second, because a rising cap drains out so much of the risk. Do the math on what could be a 50-60 percent increase in the cap over a period of half a decade, and it hits you over the head. Basically, we’re back in the middle of the last decade: Virtually any young player is worth locking up on a long-term deal because the increases in the cap and (presumably) the player’s own ability completely overwhelm the downside of 8 percent annual raises. In some cases, that’s the case even if the player’s development stalls out. For example, BORDS$ values Poole as being worth $28.7 million for the coming season. If he doesn’t improve at all from that point, the rises in the cap environment alone will make him worth $145 million over the first four years of an extension. The most the Warriors can legally pay him over those four years is $147 million. The math for Barrett and Herro — both of whom are a year younger tha