# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Prevention%20Science&title=Parent%20Recruitment%20and%20Retention%20in%20a%20Universal%20Prevention%20Program%20for%20Child%20Behavior%20and%20Emotional%20Problems:%20Barriers%20to%20Research%20and%20Program%20Participation&author=N%20Heinrichs&author=H%20Bertram&author=A%20Kuschel&author=K%20Hahlweg&volume=6&issue=4&publication_year=2005&pages=275-286&pmid=16075192&doi=10.1007/s11121-005-0006-1&
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:48:36.062547+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.03 sec) My profile My library Lookup Parent recruitment and retention in a universal prevention program for child behavior and emotional problems: Barriers to research and program participation N Heinrichs, H Bertram, A Kuschel, K Hahlweg - Prevention Science, 2005 - Springer N Heinrichs, H Bertram, A Kuschel, K Hahlweg Prevention Science, 2005 • Springer Despite the potential of parent training as a prevention and behavioral family intervention strategy, there are a number of important issues related to implementation (eg, recruitment and retention of families). This paper presents recruitment and retention data from families enrolling in a randomized controlled universal prevention trial for child behavior problems conducted in Germany. The recruitment rate averaged 31%(general project participation), with families of lower socioeconomic status (SES) participating at a lower rate. Project … Despite the potential of parent training as a prevention and behavioral family intervention strategy, there are a number of important issues related to implementation (e.g., recruitment and retention of families). This paper presents recruitment and retention data from families enrolling in a randomized controlled universal prevention trial for child behavior problems conducted in Germany. The recruitment rate averaged 31% (general project participation), with families of lower socioeconomic status (SES) participating at a lower rate. Project-declining families most often reported intrusion of privacy as their primary concern. In contrast, once parents were enrolled in the project, participation among those randomized to the parent training group averaged 77% (program/intervention participation); non-participation was mostly due to logistical issues. Parents accepting the offer of parent training were more likely to report child behavior problems than did declining parents. Although parents from more disadvantaged areas had a lower overall level of participation in the project once recruited, parents with children having higher levels of behavior problems indeed were more likely to participate in the intervention. Different recruitment methods may be required to engage high-risk families from socioeconomically disadvantaged areas to further improve community-level impact on child mental health. Springer Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 607 Related articles All 8 versions Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help