# Nyc Library Public Domain Images Digital

**Source**: http://www.theverge.com/2016/1/6/10723680/nyc-library-public-domain-images-digital
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:48:34.514023+00:00

---

The New York Public Library just uploaded nearly 200,000 images you can use for free | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. The New York Public Library just uploaded nearly 200,000 images you can use for free Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Verge Archives Close Verge Archives Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Verge Archives The New York Public Library just uploaded nearly 200,000 images you can use for free A nostalgist’s dream come true A nostalgist’s dream come true by Andrew J. Hawkins Close Andrew J. Hawkins Transportation editor Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Andrew J. Hawkins Jan 6, 2016, 5:21 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads If you buy something from a Verge link, Vox Media may earn a commission. See our ethics statement. Street scene [church steps] in New Orleans, Louisiana NYPL Andrew J. Hawkins Close Andrew J. Hawkins Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Andrew J. Hawkins is transportation editor with 10+ years of experience who covers EVs, public transportation, and aviation. His work has appeared in The New York Daily News and City &amp; State. The New York Public Library just released a treasure trove of digitized public domain images, featuring epic poetry from the 11th century to photographs of used car lots in Columbus, Ohio from the 1930s . Over 180,000 manuscripts, maps, photographs, sheet music, lithographs, postcards, and other images were released online Wednesday in incredibly high resolution, and are available to download using the library’s user-friendly visualization tool. It’s a nostalgist’s dream come true. “No permission required, no hoops to jump through: just go forth and reuse!” writes Shana Kimball, manager of the library’s public programs and outreach. It’s a dizzying display. Casual users will likely have to wade through a surplus of mundane ephemera &mdash; Yiddish menus for vacation retreats in the Catskills , watercolors of Dutch military officers , 19th century stereoscopic images of the White House &mdash; before stumbling upon something truly unique, like these utterly delightful 18th century Indian color drawings . The images can be sorted by century, color, genre, or library collection. And to inspire further exploration and reuse, the library has also created a number of digital games and tools, such as a " mansion builder " game, where users control a little blue Pac-man-like figure through the floor plans of grand turn-of-the-century New York apartments. Then there’s “then-and-now” comparisons of New York City’s 5th Avenue from wide-angle, placing photographs from 1911 alongside the Google Street View of today. And finally, users can explore a “trip planner” using locations extracted from a mid-20th century motor guide called The Green Book that “list[s] hotels, restaurants, bars, and gas stations where black travelers would be welcome.” Digitization is all the rage among libraries and museums these days, with millions of books and images posted online over the last decade. The New York Public Library says it hopes this recent release of public domain images serves as a starting point for future creative reuses. Given the overwhelming number of images now available in the library’s collection &mdash; well over 670,000, they say &mdash; it seems very likely that someone with a penchant for coding and history will certainly take them up on that offer. Follow topics and authors from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates. Andrew J. Hawkins Close Andrew J. Hawkins Transportation editor Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Andrew J. Hawkins Verge Archives Close Verge Archives Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Verge Archives Most Popular Most Popular Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store Behold: The Lego Game Boy has already been modded to play games for real Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Satya Nadella appoints a new CEO to run Microsoft’s biggest businesses Everything is terrorism in Trump’s America The Verge Daily A free daily digest of the news that matters most. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Verge Archives Crackdown on Silk Road, the underground drug market Amazon is ‘winding down’ some of its DEI programs Meta appoints new Trump-friendly policy chief The US finalizes CHIPS Act funding for Samsung and Texas Instruments Kia drivers are going to get Google Maps data soon OpenAI sued by Canada’s biggest media outlets Crackdown on Silk Road, the underground drug market Verge Staff Jan 22 Amazon is ‘winding down’ some of its DEI programs Emma Roth Jan 10 Meta appoints new Trump-friendly policy chief Emma Roth Jan 2 The US finalizes CHIPS Act funding for Samsung and Texas Instruments Wes Davis Dec 21, 2024 Kia drivers are going to get Google Maps data soon Umar Shakir Dec 12, 2024 OpenAI sued by Canada’s biggest media outlets Andrew J. Hawkins Nov 29, 2024 Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories Oct 3 With a Friend like this, who needs enemies? Oct 3 I’ve fallen into Sora’s slippery slop Oct 3 I tried Amazon and Google’s new smart home gadgets, ask me anything! Oct 3 The quest for every Gap store playlist ever Oct 3 Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom Oct 3 Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved