# longcovidfamilies.org

**Source**: https://longcovidfamilies.org/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:27:39.672919+00:00

---

Home - Long Covid Families Skip to content About Pediatric Long Covid Schools Advocacy Pediatric Long Covid Awareness Week 2025 Medical Care Resources Blog About Pediatric Long Covid Schools Advocacy Pediatric Long Covid Awareness Week 2025 Medical Care Resources Blog DONATE WELCOME TO Long Covid Families Supporting families and raising awareness Learn More Donate According to State-of-Art Narrative Review of Pediatric Research: Postacute Sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 in Children Up to 20% Long COVID affects up to 20% of kids after COVID infection 5.8M 5.8 million kids impacted by Long COVID as of 2023 How We Help We provide comprehensive support to families navigating the challenges of pediatric Long COVID. Awareness We raise awareness about Long COVID, its impact on families, and the need for continued research and support. Empowerment We empower families to navigate healthcare systems, access appropriate care, and advocate for their needs effectively. Advocacy We advocate for policies and research initiatives that advance understanding, treatment options, and support services for Long COVID. Community We cultivate a supportive community where individuals can connect, collaborate, and advocate for shared goals and initiatives. Progress Through our advocacy, we collaborate with stakeholder to accelerate pediatric research and foster innovation. Education We empower families with up-to-date information and resources to better understand and manage Long COVID. Long Covid Families Art Gallery VOICES THROUGH ART This gallery serves as a vivid window into the world of children and adolescents who are navigating the complexities of Long COVID. Each piece of art is a personal narrative, capturing the emotional and physical journey of these young artists. Through their creations, they communicate struggles, hopes, and resilience. It&#8217;s not just about expressing the challenges they face; it&#8217;s about sharing unique perspectives and insights on an experience that has profoundly impacted their lives. Through colors, shapes, and textures, these young artists invite us into their world, providing us with a deeper understanding of Long COVID through the eyes of a young person. Submit Artwork FRANCES 14YRS OLD FRANCES 14YRS OLD FRANCES 14YRS OLD FRANCES 14YRS OLD GABRIELLA 13YRS OLD HAILEY 12YRS OLD JAY 13YRS OLD FELIX 13YRS OLD FELIX 13YRS OLD OLIVIA 14YRS OLD Leeya 13YRS OLD FRANCES 14YRS OLD KEREN 7YRS OLD Home Privacy Policy Resources Subscribe Tax Forms Child Protection Policy Home Privacy Policy Resources Subscribe Tax Forms Child Protection Policy © 2024 Long Covid Families. All rights reserved. Long Covid Families is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. EIN #87-4017934 We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Do not sell my personal information . Cookie Settings Accept Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent . You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE &amp; ACCEPT Powered by