# How Trump Won

**Source**: https://www.weekendreading.net/p/how-trump-won
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:56:13.018355+00:00

---

How Trump “Won” - by Michael Podhorzer - Weekend Reading Weekend Reading Subscribe Sign in How Trump “Won” The Anesthetized Anti-MAGA Majority Michael Podhorzer Jan 04, 2025 1,287 210 386 Share With all the ballots counted and all the races decided, in today’s post, I want to unpack what we already know about how Trump “won” the popular vote. 1 I use quotes around the word “won” for two reasons. First, to keep in full view what I wrote earlier in “ Is This What Democracy Looks Like? ” – that Trump’s candidacy was only viable because the justices he appointed to the Supreme Court: (1) disabled the insurrection clause of the 14th Amendment (which should otherwise have barred him from holding office again) and (2) shielded him from standing trial before the election for trying to overturn the 2020 results or for hoarding classified documents (which would have kept his criminality in full view of the electorate, and possibly rendered his candidacy a non-starter due to a jail sentence or loss of support). In any other country , we would understand that as part of an autocratic takeover, not a democratic victory. Second, as this post will show, the results are best understood as a vote of no confidence in Democrats, not an embrace of Trump or MAGA. Visualizations like this one from FiveThirtyEight , purporting to show that “America swung right,” have been ubiquitous since the election. But, as we will see, America didn’t swing rightward, but couchward : The popular vote result was almost entirely a collapse in support for Harris and Democrats, not an increase in support for Trump and MAGA. Trump was no more popular this year than four years ago, while Harris significantly underperformed Biden 2020. Most of Harris’s losses were due to anti-MAGA surge voters staying home. 2 She lost the most ground in deep-Blue urban areas, where the dangers of a second Trump administration seemed most remote. About 19 million Americans who cast ballots for Biden in 2020 did not vote in 2024. Anti-MAGA surge voters stayed home because they were less alarmed by a second Trump Administration than they were four years ago. A key to Biden’s victory was high turnout from less-engaged voters who believed they had something to lose under Trump. In 2024, however, about 15 million fewer votes were cast “against” Trump than in 2020. As I’ve been saying for years, America has an anti-MAGA majority , but not necessarily a pro-Democratic one . In 2020 (and 2022, in part ), alarm about Trump and MAGA was enough to overcome the cynicism and alienation of mostly younger voters who desperately want bigger systemic change, but who oppose the MAGA agenda. This time, their cynicism won out. This was in no small part because the media and other non-partisan civil society leaders were themselves more skeptical of the dangers , and because the inaction of the Biden Administration and Democrats in Congress against MAGA threats belied their rhetoric of existential dangers to the nation. 3 This map, from the New York Times , does a much better job making clear where Trump’s “gains” came from – namely, from Harris’s losses. Indeed, the defining feature of American politics this century is that neither party can “win” elections anymore; they can only be the “not-loser.” Only thanks to the two-party system can the not-loser be crowned the “winner,” since there is no way to fire the incumbent party without hiring the opposition party. Yet political commentators keep confusing shifts in the two parties’ electoral fortunes with changes in voters’ basic values or priorities. A collapse in support for Democrats does not mean that most Americans, especially in Blue America , are suddenly eager to live in an illiberal theocracy. Consider that only once before in American history have three consecutive presidential elections seen the White House change partisan hands, and that nine out of the last ten midterm or presidential elections have been “change elections ,” in the sense that either the presidency, the House, or the Senate changed partisan hands, which is completely unprecedented. 4 In short, Americans are fed up . This election wasn’t just a vote of no confidence in Democrats; it was yet another vote of no confidence in our entire political system. We cannot mistake this result for an active embrace of Trump or MAGA fascism. Prologue: Escape from Flatland The idea that “America swung right” seems self-evident based on the shift in vote margin towards Trump. But this is what I call “Flatland” thinking – a metaphor for a fatal flaw in most election analysis. In the two-dimensional Flatland, 5 we only count the people who voted and ignore those who were eligible but didn’t, for basically two reasons. First, from a pragmatic perspective, those who don’t vote literally do not count towards the final result. Second, it’s taken for granted that if they had voted, their partisan split would have been similar to those who did vote, and would not have changed the outcome. In 3D-Land, however, we include eligible non-voters in our analysis. This is important not because it will change the outcome, or bolster post-hoc finger pointing with new “what-ifs,” but because it will let us better understand the meaning of the vote, as well as where the best hopes for the future lie. Red Sox vs. Yankees Here’s a simple illustration. Let’s say we are told that in a 1985 vote for the most popular baseball team, there were 499 votes for the Red Sox and 460 votes for the Yankees, and another 541 fans who didn’t vote for either. (Full disclosure: I grew up in Boston.) In my lexicon, a Flatland description of the results would be that the Red Sox won 52 to 48 percent , and a 3D-Land description would be that the Red Sox won 33.3 to 30.7 percent, with 36.1 percent staying home. 6 Now, let’s say that there’s another baseball fan vote in 1986, after the Red Sox blew the World Series to the Mets in 7 games when Bill Buckner allowed a routine ground ball to roll between his legs in game 6. This time, just 424 fans vote for the Red Sox, and once again 460 vote for the Yankees. In Flatland , the result is reported as a complete reversal, 52 to 48 percent win for the Yankees . But in 3D-Land , where we consider the results in the context of all 1,500 fans who could have voted, the results would be reported as Yankees 30.7 percent, Red Sox 28.3 percent, with 41.1 percent not voting . 7 As this graph and the next one make clear, here’s the key difference. Flatland reporting keeps us from seeing whether the result was due to the Yankees gaining fans, or the Red Sox losing fans, or some combination of both. Now, let’s think about how both approaches influence how we think about political trends, first in terms of baseball. This graph shows only the change in each team’s percentage of the vote from 1985 to 1986. In Flatland , the Yankees PR department would boast about gaining fans, as they had persuaded Red Sox fans to finally accept their superiority, while the Boston Globe sports columnists would bemoan the choices made by the Sox brass. Flatland data would support either claim equally; we’d have no way of knowing which interpretation was “right,” unless we were willing to step outside to settle it. On the other hand, in 3D-Land , there would be nothing to debate – it would be obvious that the Red Sox lost fans (falling 5 points, from 33.3 to 28.3 percent) while the Yankees gained none (holding steady at 30.7 percent). 8 Blue vs. Red Now, let’s look at the real world. Compare the partisan swings for the last 50 years of presidential elections in Flatland (left panel) to 3D-Land (right panel). Flatland dictates (and therefore mirrors) our understanding of presidential politics, where each party’s loss is definitionally the other party’s win. (Did Trump do 6 points better than he had four years ago, or did Harris do 6 points worse than Biden did? Who knows!) But in 3D-Land we see how myopic that is. In fact, we have three types of elections: switching, firing, and hiring. Switching elections are those where we can see that voters mostly switched sides. In this period 1976 is most clearly such an election, since Carter gained 6.5 points compared to McGovern in 1972, and Ford lost 7.7 points compared to Nixon. Hiring elections are those where there’s not much change in the vote for the losing side, but gains for the winning side. 1984 and 2000 stand out as hiring elections. Firing elections are those where there’s not much change in the vote for the winning side, but fewer votes for the losing side, as was the case in 1992, 2016 and 2024. Don’t Ask, Can’t Know Now, back to baseball. Here’s something important that I didn’t mention earlier: the pool of 1,500 voters included fans of all 30 teams in Major League Baseball, but the only two teams on the ballot were the Yankees and the Red Sox. Knowing this, we can quickly understand why so many people didn’t vote at all, and we should realize how little this election can tell us about the two teams’ actual fan bases. If the Chicago Cubs were on the ballot too, they would get plenty of votes – and they would also reduce the number of votes for both the Red Sox and the Yankees, as a number of National League fans who were casting ballots against one or the other simply out of spite would rally behind their league’s candidate. Now, let’s see how our real elections look in 3D-Land when we include third-party candidates (gray) and consider the change in overall turnout rates (the black horizontal bars). With that in mind, we can see how much more Flatland hides. First, when there is a viable third party candidate like Perot, turnout goes up – the turnout rate jumped 5.3 points in 1992, the largest jump since the 10-point surge after WWII demobilization. So there are clearly many who don’t vote, but would vote given the right candidate. And we can also see that many who do vote for one or the other choices they’re offered would really prefer another option they ar