# Ron Perelman.Html

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/07/style/ron-perelman.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-01T13:40:27.081980+00:00

---

Ron Perelman&#x27;s Debts Come Due - The New York Times Style | The Debt King https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/07/style/ron-perelman.html Share full article 243 You have a preview view of this article while we are checking your access. When we have confirmed access, the full article content will load. Ron Perelman, the chairman and chief executive of MacAndrews &amp; Forbes, which is best known for overseeing Revlon, in his Upper East Side office, where he displays some of his art collection, including works by Cy Twombly and Giacometti. Credit... Mark Sommerfeld for The New York Times Skip to content Skip to site index The Great Read The Debt King Ron Perelman seemed to have everything. Until the bill arrived. Ron Perelman, the chairman and chief executive of MacAndrews &amp; Forbes, which is best known for overseeing Revlon, in his Upper East Side office, where he displays some of his art collection, including works by Cy Twombly and Giacometti. Credit... Mark Sommerfeld for The New York Times Supported by SKIP ADVERTISEMENT Share full article 243 By Jacob Bernstein Published Jan. 7, 2022 Updated Jan. 11, 2022 Perhaps the most surprising thing about Ronald O. Perelman is he’s one billionaire who didn’t get richer during the pandemic. For much of the last three decades, he lived in a townhouse on East 63rd Street that connects to the offices of MacAndrews &amp; Forbes, the holding company where, as chairman and chief executive, he lords over a mini-empire of businesses that have included online gambling (Scientific Games) and supermarket coupons (Vericast), and were — especially in recent years — less well known than he is. The exception, of course, is Revlon, the cosmetics colossus Mr. Perelman acquired for $2.7 billion in 1985 through a hostile takeover. The purchase turned Mr. Perelman into an emblem of the “greed is good” era and earned him the cachet to shape shift for the one that followed. He joined elite boards, had Revlon sponsor the Oscars, filled his townhouse with artwork by Jasper Johns, Andy Warhol and Cy Twombly, and bought the Creeks, a 72-acre estate in East Hampton. (The day the Richard Serra sculpture arrived for installation in 2007, no one could pass through town in either direction, because Highway 27 was blocked by his trucks). On a recent Sunday afternoon, sitting in a modernist chair in his office, his knee pressed against a Giacometti table, Mr. Perelman said Revlon “was never a vanity play.” But he also can’t deny that in recent years, this midpriced beauty line has been a sinkhole, its lip glosses and eyeshadows languishing on CVS shelves as customers migrated online to buy products by Rihanna and Kylie Jenner. Revlon’s $1.034 billion acquisition of Elizabeth Arden in 2016 was financed largely with loans that grew to $3 billion. Vericast had loans totaling almost as much. And a number of those loans were secured by Mr. Perelman’s properties, artwork and toys. When the pandemic hit and Revlon’s share price fell from $24 to $5, the banks closed in. He began divesting. We are having trouble retrieving the article content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings. Thank you for your patience while we verify access. If you are in Reader mode please exit and log into your Times account, or subscribe for all of The Times. Thank you for your patience while we verify access. Already a subscriber? Log in . Want all of The Times? Subscribe . Related Content Advertisement SKIP ADVERTISEMENT Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2025 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Accessibility Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Canada International Help Subscriptions Manage Privacy Preferences