# Hamid Hayat

**Source**: https://www.sfchronicle.com/projects/2022/hamid-hayat/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:58:15.556872+00:00

---

He was wrongly linked to a terror cell. Freed after 14 years in jail and prison, he is still paying for America’s fear Special Report The man who paid for America’s fear Wrongfully convicted of terrorism in the fearful years after 9/11, Hamid Hayat lost everything. Now he&#x27;s trying to find himself. Story by Jason Fagone Visuals by Stephen Lam March 2, 2022 | Updated: May 12, 2022 2:19 p.m. From the moment he applied for his job at the warehouse two years ago, Hamid Hayat worried that his co-workers would find out about his past. It was hardly a secret: He had written his real name on the application, and anyone who Googled him could find dozens of articles. But he was hired without a problem, earning $16.25 an hour to unload delivery trucks for Amazon at a fulfillment center near the Stockton airport. When Hamid informed his managers he was Muslim and needed a space to pray, he was given access to a room normally reserved for breastfeeding mothers. He knelt on the carpet. Everyone he met at the vast white building was supportive. One of his supervisors regularly complimented his performance and gave him advice on climbing the corporate ladder. Another praised his energy and agility, saying he moved like a man of 18 or 19. Tall, lanky and often wearing a baseball cap, Hamid was 37 but came across much younger. He addressed male managers as “sir” and called co-workers “bro.” He was an upbeat presence, smiling through his tasks. His voice was soft except when he talked about sports, and then he would ramble happily about his favorite teams. Last year, he bet a manager that his Cowboys would beat the Raiders on Thanksgiving; when Hamid lost, he came to work in a Raiders face mask. On a typical day, Hamid arrived to the fulfillment center at 6:45 a.m., put on a reflective vest and went to the dock, where his 10-person team would spend 10 hours unloading pallets of dog food and toilet paper and a million other things Californians had ordered online. He liked the repetition of the tasks, which kept his mind occupied. It was only during the lulls that he would start to feel anxious. When things got too slow, he would bite his lip and his mind would wander. All of a sudden, the world around him would seem unreal, like he was only dreaming it, dreaming he was free, and would wake up as the person he used to be: a young man behind bars, wrongly convicted of being a terrorist, surrounded by the grim quiet of a federal lockup. Then the next trailer would pull into the dock, and he’d remember where he was. One day early last year, Hamid was having trouble concentrating on his work. He confided in a co-worker that he was feeling “mentally drained” and might need to take a short leave. She asked if he wanted to talk about it. They found a private place to sit. “Do you know who I am?” Hamid asked her. “Google my name.” She took out her phone and tapped a few keys. “I can’t believe it,” she said. He paused, trying to think of what to say next. Advertisement Aside from talks with his family and his lawyers, Hamid had never shared his full story — an almost unbelievable series of events that stretched from California to Pakistan to a secretive Midwestern prison unit known as Little Gitmo. It began in the first chaotic months after 9/11, when the FBI, vowing to prevent the next terrorist attack, swept up hundreds of Muslim Americans and accused them of planning atrocious violence, at times building thin cases based on the work of paid informants who slipped in and out of mosques and schools. Many of the suspects they snared were young men like Hamid, who, according to prosecutors at his 2006 trial, “had a jihadi heart and had a jihadi mind.” Convicted, he would lose 14 years of his life to jail and prison, before a long legal battle exposed flaws in the trial and weaknesses in the government’s case, setting him free in 2019. Sitting at the Amazon warehouse now, Hamid wondered how to explain all of this to his co-worker. It was a story of loss, but not the kind that most Americans are used to hearing when they think about 9/11 today, two decades after the attacks. He didn’t know how she would react. But he took a risk. He started to open up. And he did something that, to his great regret, he did not always do as a younger man when giving people a look inside his heart and his mind. This time, he told the truth. Part 1: Before Part 2: Prison Part 3: Today Tap to skip to another part Hamid Hayat checks his phone after praying at his home in Stockton, where he lives with his parents. Stephen Lam / The Chronicle The simplest way to explain how Hamid ended up in prison is that he made the wrong friend at the wrong time. The friend was an FBI informant, and the time was August 2002. Hamid was living in Lodi, the San Joaquin County town just north of Stockton surrounded by vineyards and fruit farms. Billing itself as “Livable, Lovable Lodi” since the 1950s, the warm weather and demand for farm labor had long attracted immigrants from Pakistan, including Hamid’s father, Umer. A resourceful, uneducated man from a farming village called Behboodi, Umer had arrived in the 1970s, hoping to escape poverty and start a family. After years as a laborer, picking grapes and cherries in Lodi’s fields, he bought a modest yellow house and an ice-cream truck with a picture of Homer Simpson on the side. He became the neighborhood ice-cream man. In the yellow house, Umer and his wife, Oma, raised two sons and two daughters. All were born in the United States but spent time in Pakistan while they were young, including Hamid, who was the eldest. In 1991, when he was 9, his father pulled Hamid out of public school and sent him to stay with his grandparents in Rawalpindi, a twin city of the capital, Islamabad. Hamid’s maternal grandfather was a prominent Islamic scholar who ran his own madrassa, a religious school. Umer imagined that Hamid would learn about Islam there and eventually return to the U.S. with prospects as a religious scholar and teacher, possibly following in his grandfather’s footsteps. During a decade of schooling in Pakistan, though, young Hamid failed to impress his teachers and extended family. He often ignored his studies to play cricket and goof around with friends. Relatives came to see Hamid as a good-hearted slacker, sweet but dim. Feeling insecure — “I didn’t have confidence in myself,” he recalls now — he said he often compensated by making up stories. Hamid, wearing a white cap at center rear, with relatives in Pakistan, where he went to school and stayed with his grandparents from 1991 to 2000. Stephen Lam / The Chronicle Once in his late teens, a local doctor stopped by his grandparents’ house in Rawalpindi. Hamid started telling the man that his father, Umer, owned a Kmart back in the United States. Hamid’s brother and two cousins, Jaber and Usama, observed this exchange with amazement, thinking, Why is this guy bullshitting? Jaber later recalled. When the doctor left, Usama told Hamid: “One day this bullshit is going to catch up to you.” Hamid’s stint in Pakistan came to an end in 2000, when he contracted severe meningitis and briefly fell into a coma. His sister Raheela was staying in Pakistan and visited him at an Islamabad hospital. She noticed that the disease, which can cause permanent brain damage, seemed to have altered Hamid’s personality: He jumped up and down on the bed with her, “acting like a little kid with me,” Raheela later remembered. After Hamid and other family members returned to California, Hamid’s odd behavior persisted. “He’s supposed to grow up; he’s supposed to be an adult,” Raheela said, but he was having “tantrums” and “acting more like a kid.” Instead of living inside the yellow house with his parents and siblings, Hamid preferred the garage, where he placed a mattress, a PlayStation and a TV. He zoned out watching Bollywood movies. In Lodi, Hamid turned 19 on Sept. 10, 2001, a day before 9/11. He didn’t know anyone in the Muslim American community who approved of the attacks — “It was evil,” he said. Hamid and his family had long attended a small, mostly unadorned mosque in Lodi, and the Hayats continued to pray there even as others stopped, fearing harassment. Today Hamid remembers this period as one of the loneliest of his life. After so many years in Pakistan, his English fluency had dimmed, making him stumble over words. He tried to find meaningful work, enrolling at a community college and teaching Islam to some local children for a time, but nothing stuck. “I wanted my life to be a purpose — to, like, really help people out,” he told me last year during one of our dozens of conversations. “But I don’t know if I have the ability.” Then, when he was almost 20, Hamid met someone at the mosque who told him he was smart and capable, and suddenly he didn’t feel so alone. “I thought he’s like an older brother to me. I looked up to him, honestly.” — Hamid Hayat, referring to Naseem Khan, an FBI informant Naseem Khan was new in town, and chatty. He was 29, almost a decade older than Hamid, and said he was a computer technician helping the mosque’s two imams. He wore crisp tucked-in shirts and drove a new Dodge Durango. Because Khan said he did not have family nearby, Hamid invited him to dinner at the Hayat home, and soon Khan was a regular presence there. He took to calling Umer “Dad.” Oma cooked for him. “Tell your sister,” Khan said to Hamid one day, “that she makes wonderful tea.” On March 6, 2003, Hamid and Khan were joking around in the garage, bantering in Pashto salted with occasional phrases of Urdu and English. Hamid smoked Marlboro Reds; Khan teased him that his lighter never worked. Hamid groused for a bit about the sorry state of his love life — awkward around women, he wondered if someone had placed a curse on him — and lamented that Pakistan’s national cricket team had not qualified for the World Cup. He offered tea to his friend. Khan abruptly changed the subject. “Have you watched t