# The Biggest Difference Between Parents And Non Parents.Html

**Source**: http://nymag.com/thecut/2016/09/the-biggest-difference-between-parents-and-non-parents.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:44:28.274744+00:00

---

The Biggest Difference Between Parents and Non-Parents Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Style Self Culture Power Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission micro manager The Single Biggest Difference Between Parents and People Who Don’t Have Kids By Laura June Sept. 19, 2016 save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Mother and child take a load off Photo: DEA / STUDIO AB/Getty Images/DeAgostini There is something that went away once I became a mother, and I can’t get it back. I still mourn its loss sometimes, almost always — ironically — when I am alone: I lost time. I feel this more acutely now that my daughter is nearly 3 — also ironically, as I arguably have more time to myself now than I did when she was 2 months old. I’m in limbo now: I don’t think like a fully independent, self-interested woman, nor do I think like a mother 100 percent of the time. Who am I? To be clear, it’s not clock time that I’ve lost, but something that’s harder to grasp. Here are two short memories: A Sunday morning before my daughter was born: We had stayed up a little late — never too late, our patterns are very consistent — watching The Walking Dead or Mad Men . I left my books where they dropped on the couch, didn’t do the dishes. I wake up at nine Sunday morning, stare at the ceiling for a while. I leave Josh asleep, get a newspaper. I don’t read it. I sit outside. I think about eating, but there isn’t any food. I should grocery shop but don’t feel like it. I need to do laundry but don’t want to. Will we go to brunch? Who’s to say? And now: We stayed up a little late — never too late, our patterns are very consistent — watching the O.J. documentary or something I nodded off during. We scramble around before bed putting glasses in the sink, lightly scanning for scissors and pens. Our daughter wakes, singing over a baby monitor, at 5:45 or 6:30 a.m. I ignore her until 7 a.m. routinely, but the stress in our bedroom builds up as we wonder: Who will break first and get her? One of us does; the other is grateful but also awake. We want to sleep in, but we are conflicted because we are all three together only two days a week. If it’s me who gets up, I run to the bathroom, splash water on my face, throw in my contact lenses, get dressed. I go into our daughter’s room, change her. We head out to the kitchen carrying dolls and tiny strollers, books, diapers. We are so laden with items we leave a breadcrumb trail behind us. She knows to be quiet but isn’t capable. We might have breakfast. I have coffee. While she gets to work on a craft or caring for her dolls, I begin to make a list: I need groceries, which can’t be avoided now because kids always need to eat, and she needs school lunches for the week. Her laundry is not negotiable. Her bag from Friday sits on the floor still; it needs to be repacked. She asks to go to the park. “Okay,” I say, standing up, thinking we can go to the store on our way back. It’s 7:45 am. I’m tempted to call the loss “spontaneity” — it’s certainly a huge part of what I mourn. Most mothers I know, when we talk about what is hardest, say something about how much having to plan and how much work it takes to have a night out with friends. It’s not simply “It’s difficult to get a sitter,” it’s not that at all: It is so much more vast than that. Everything needs to be managed: the timing of a school pickup, the meals to be accounted for. The next day must always be blocked out — you need to know in advance. And of course, because I work, my time with her is limited. Do I really want to go out on an evening when I could be with her? Of course I don’t. Of course I do. We struggle together, mother and child. This is very stressful for parents as partners, I have found: My husband and I worked together for years and I was still surprised by the amount of collaboration that was necessary to keep our daughter alive. Remember: She must be accounted for 100 percent of the time. That’s a given — “No shit, Laura,” you might say. But mentally, it’s a real accomplishment! And it is weirdly deflating to your sense of self sometimes. Even when I’m alone, my time isn’t wholly mine. I am mentally, often, just partly, somewhere else. There’s an upside! I don’t want to make it sound like there isn’t. I am the very center of someone’s world and as such am truly never alone — how wonderful and how stifling. How awesome and how weird, after 35 years alone on this big planet, to feel always naked when I walk out of the house with just a purse. What a ride. It will be over soon. I will be almost completely re-assimilated back to myself. She will complete the process of detachment from me that started on the day that she was born, and I will go back to being Laura — a mother with a child, not a baby. I expect it will happen somewhere around her fifth birthday, but I’m not sure. I only know it’s not complete yet. I look forward to this and fear that I won’t be happy about it when it comes. We are both feeling a little conflicted. I try to take my cues from her, to follow her example: It’s okay to be afraid of walking away from your heart. It’s okay to run back for one more kiss and one more hug. But it’s also okay to be happy to go. Tags: cut homepage lede motherhood micro manager parenting The Biggest Difference Between Parents and Non-Parents Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission The Cut Shop 28 Best Sneakers for Women in Every Single Style I’m on the Hunt for the Best Sunscreens Without a White Cast 31 Best Luxury Candles That Double As Great Gifts Most Viewed Stories 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Woman Who Ate Only Fruit Your Daily Horoscope by Madame Clairevoyant: October 3, 2025 The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Why I Got a Neck-Lift at 41 Years Old Both Sides of a Breakup: His Relationships Never Last More Than 4 Months Sign In to Comment Most Popular 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Woman Who Ate Only Fruit The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Your Daily Horoscope by Madame Clairevoyant: October 3, 2025 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Why I Got a Neck-Lift at 41 Years Old Both Sides of a Breakup: His Relationships Never Last More Than 4 Months The Latest sex diaries 7:00 p.m. The Sober Event Planner Sleeping With a Client In this week’s story, a 32-year-old woman gives her crush a blowjob to reduce his stress before a big event. life of a showgirl 6:16 p.m. The Showgirl Doesn’t Get a Standing Ovation Taylor Swift was once untouchable — but is her reputation as pop’s best songwriter over? music 5:37 p.m. Taylor Swift’s Famous Friends Are Loving The Life of a Showgirl Sabrina Carpenter, Nikki Glaser, and whoever posts for the New Heights podcast are all amped about the album. do i need this? 5:33 p.m. Here’s What You Need From Gap’s Studio Collection Every piece worth buying from the brand’s fall drop. the kardashians 5:28 p.m. Apropos of Nothing, Kim Kardashian Is Producing an Elizabeth Taylor Doc What a day to be learning this news. power 4:47 p.m. Diddy Has Been Sentenced to More Than Four Years in Prison The judge said the sentence was required to show “that exploitation and violence against women is met with real accountability.” music 4:40 p.m. No, Taylor Swift Is Definitely Online At least, she was when she made The Life of a Showgirl . prime day 4:06 p.m. The Early Prime Day Beauty Deals Our Editors Recommend Start shopping the sale now with tools from Shark Beauty and more. taylor swift 3:37 p.m. Taylor Swift’s Engagement Ring Is Having a Great Rollout Good for her. celebrity breakups 3:06 p.m. In Other News, Lori Loughlin and Her Husband Are Separated There’s no better day to quietly uncouple. travel week 2:42 p.m. These Are the Best Over-the-Ear Headphones for Sound and Style AirPods Max aren’t the only headphones out there. always shopping 2:30 p.m. 25 Best Wedding Shoes for Every Kind of Bride According to a recent bride. prime day 2:00 p.m. These Bella Hadid–Approved Headphones Are on Sale And they’re worth the hype. paris fashion week 1:43 p.m. A Night Out With Kristy Sarah Scott at Schiaparelli From viral videos to the front row, Scott