# To Serve Altman

**Source**: https://www.wheresyoured.at/to-serve-altman/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:39:21.470945+00:00

---

How Does OpenAI Survive? Home About Better Offline Log In Subscribe Sign up Sign in Home About Better Offline Sign up Log in Subscribe How Does OpenAI Survive? Edward Zitron Jul 29, 2024 31 min read Throughout the last year I’ve written in detail about the rot in tech — the spuriousness of charlatans looking to accumulate money and power , the desperation of the most powerful executives to maintain control and rapacious growth , and the speciousness of the latest hype cycle — but at the end of the day, these are just companies, which leads to a very simple question: can the largest, most prominent company in tech’s latest hype cycle actually survive?&nbsp; I am, of course, talking about OpenAI. Regulars to this newsletter will know that I’m highly skeptical of OpenAI’s product, its business model, and its sustainability. While I don’t want to rehash the arguments made in previous newsletters and podcasts, here’s the crux of the matter: generative AI is a product with no mass-market utility - at least on the scale of truly revolutionary movements like the original cloud computing and smartphone booms - and it’s one that costs an eye-watering amount to build and run.&nbsp; Those two factors raise genuine questions about OpenAI’s ability to exist on a medium-to-long term, especially if — or, if I may be so bold to say, when — the sluice of investment money and cloud computing credits dries up. I don't have all the answers. I don't know every part of every deal that informs every part of every aspect of generative AI. I am neither an engineer nor an economist, nor do I have privileged information. However, I do have the ability to read publicly-available data, as well as evaluate the independent reporting of respected journalists and the opinions of well-informed experts and academics, and come to conclusions as a result. I am hypothesizing that for OpenAI to survive for longer than two years, it will have to (in no particular order): Successfully navigate a convoluted and onerous relationship with Microsoft, one that exists both as a lifeline and a direct source of competition. Raise more money than any startup has ever raised in history, and continue to do so at a pace totally unseen in the history of financing. Have a significant technological breakthrough such that it reduces the costs of building and operating GPT — or whatever model that succeeds it — by a factor of thousands of percent. Have such a significant technological breakthrough that GPT is able to take on entirely unseen new use cases, ones that are not currently possible or hypothesized as possible by any artificial intelligence researchers. Have these use cases be ones that are capable of both creating new jobs and entirely automating existing ones in such a way that it will validate the massive capital expenditures and infrastructural investment necessary to continue. I ultimately believe that OpenAI in its current form is untenable. There is no path to profitability, the burn rate is too high, and generative AI as a technology requires too much energy for the power grid to sustain it, and training these models is equally untenable, both as a result of ongoing legal issues (as a result of theft) and the amount of training data necessary to develop them. And, quite simply, any technology requiring hundreds of billions of dollars to prove itself is built upon bad architecture. There is no historical precedent for anything that OpenAI needs to happen. Nobody has ever raised the amount of money it will need, nor has a piece of technology required such an incredible financial and systemic force — such as rebuilding the American power grid — to survive, let alone prove itself as a technology worthy of such investment. To be clear, this piece is focused on OpenAI rather than Generative AI as a technology — though I believe OpenAI's continued existence is necessary to keep companies interested/invested in the industry at all. OpenAI has raised the most money of any generative AI company ( $11.3 billion ), has arguably the most attention in the press, and both popularized and created the Large Language Mode (LLM)l business model that allowed the current generation of "AI-powered" startups to exist. What I am not saying is that OpenAI will for sure collapse, or that generative AI will definitively fail. I have exhaustively discussed the problems with this industry in the past, and I won't reiterate those points other than to illustrate what I believe is a deep instability in the tech ecosystem, and my point here is to coldly explain why OpenAI, in its current form, cannot survive longer than a few more years without a stunning confluence of technological breakthroughs and financial wizardry, some of which is possible, much of which has no historic precedence. Let's have a look, shall we? The Microsoft (and Valuation) Problem Before we continue, I should note that OpenAI and Microsoft have not publicly-disclosed the terms of their deals, and there may be things I do not know that change this picture. Regardless, OpenAI's relationship with Microsoft is deeply strange, starting with a $1 billion cash infusion in 2019 , framed as a " multiyear exclusive computing partnership " that "port[ed OpenAi's] existing services to work on Azure" (Microsoft's cloud computing product) and made Microsoft "OpenAI's preferred partner." OpenAI CTO Greg Brockman added at the time that this was a "cash investment," but noted that OpenAI would "plan to be a big Azure customer."&nbsp; One particular thing to note is that Brockman stated that Microsoft would get access to sell OpenAI's pre-AGI products based off of [OpenAI's research] to Microsoft's customers, and in the accompanying blog post added that Microsoft and OpenAI were " jointly developing new Azure AI supercomputing technologies ."&nbsp; Pre-AGI in this case refers to anything OpenAI has ever developed, as it has yet to develop AGI and has yet to get past the initial "chatbot" stage of its own 5-level system of evaluating artificial intelligence . In essence, the terms of this funding round involved OpenAI handing over the research it had made to Microsoft, along with the ability for Redmond to sell OpenAI's technology as its own under the Azure banner. Furthermore, Microsoft has access to OpenAI's "pre-AGI product research," meaning that it is able to see exactly how it works, which would allow it to both sell the technology and directly compete with it. This is something that Microsoft is already working on, with The Information reporting in May that Microsoft was readying its own "MAI-1" generative model , run by Mustafa Suleyman, the co-founder of Deepmind ( acquired by Google in 2014 ), which he left in 2022 to become a VC. Suleyman later went on to found Inflection , a transformer-based chatbot company that was sort-of acquired by Microsoft in March , and which Microsoft backed prior to its acquisition. The Information also noted that the OpenAI partnership " helped Microsoft get ahead of their rivals ." I am, again, hypothesizing, and the terms of this deal alone are extremely concerning for OpenAI in general. Things now get a little confusing. Apparently, in 2021 Microsoft made some sort of investment in OpenAI ( cited here in a 2023 blog post about another funding round I'll get to in a minute ). Confusingly, I cannot find many details on this round. Crunchbase references a 2021 secondary market offering of an undisclosed amount (meaning that then-current stockholders at OpenAI were able to sell liquidate their stock), but cites that the money came from Tiger Global Management, Sequoia Capital, Bedrock and Andreessen Horowitz, valuing the company at $14 billion.&nbsp; It's unclear whether this was the same round, or if Microsoft otherwise infused capital. The Information mentions in an article from early 2023 , but somehow nobody covered it at the time. If I'm wrong, I'd love to see how it did so. Regardless, in early 2023 Microsoft invested $10 billion in OpenAI — but the most important parts of the deal are both its terms and its distribution. Though the terms of the deal aren't public, reports state that Microsoft will may receive 75% of OpenAI's profits until it secures "its investment return [a clunky way of saying "makes back the $10 billion it invested]," along with a 49% stake in the company, though OpenAI's convoluted non-profit-for-profit structure is strange in and of itself .&nbsp; Semafor reports that , at least by November 2023, OpenAI had received "a fraction" of the $10 billion investment, which was (is?) delivered in tranches (stages), and that a "significant portion" of that money was in cloud compute credits, meaning that Microsoft's investment was predominantly in the supposed value of a currency that can only be used on its own services. For those who don’t fully understand how weird this is, it’s like an airline investing in a company but, instead of providing cash, it hands over air miles. You can still travel, but you are locked into A) one airline and B) their interpretation of what one “mile” is actually worth. Furthermore, it’s extremely bizarre that said “investment” also may have - again, we don’t know the terms of the deal - allowed OpenAI to raise its valuation in the process.&nbsp; Semafor also adds (vaguely) that Microsoft has "certain rights to OpenAI's intellectual property," and that it "would still be able to run OpenAI's current models on [its] servers" even if the relationship were to break down. What's confusing is that multiple reporters have said that Microsoft had invested "$13 billion" in OpenAI, yet I can't find the two billion dollars anywhere. Was it in 2021? Was the amount $2 billion? Was it cash, or credits? This number has been reported so regularly for so long, and it's extremely strange that so many have just assumed this happened. The reason I think this is concerning is that two billion dollars is a great deal of money by any startup's standards. For exam