# Iphone 17 The Thinnest Iphone Ever And Everything Else Were Expecting Out Of Apples Hardware Event

**Source**: https://techcrunch.com/2025/08/24/iphone-17-the-thinnest-iphone-ever-and-everything-else-were-expecting-out-of-apples-hardware-event/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:57:15.816550+00:00

---

iPhone 17, iPhone Air, AirPods Pro 3, and everything else announced at Apple&#039;s hardware event | TechCrunch TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps Disrupt 2025 Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech &amp; Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government &amp; Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media &amp; Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Crunchboard Contact Us Image Credits: Apple Hardware iPhone 17, iPhone Air, AirPods Pro 3, and everything else announced at Apple&#8217;s hardware event Lauren Forristal 9:32 AM PDT · September 14, 2025 Apple hosted its new hardware event today, releasing its iPhone 17 lineup, along with updates for the Apple Watch and AirPods.&nbsp;For the iPhone 17 models, updates included larger screens and an improved camera system, as well as the introduction of an ultra-thin iPhone Air that replaces the Plus model. And the company may be announcing more new hardware soon, with Bloomberg&#8217;s Mark Gurman reporting that a new iPad Pro, an updated Vision Pro, updated AirTags, a new Apple TV, a new HomePod mini, and updated MacBooks are coming in either 2025 or the first half of 2026. iPhone 17, 17 Pro, and 17 Pro Max Image Credits: Apple The iPhone 17 received a makeover to align more closely with the Pro models . It features a slightly larger 6.3-inch screen, which is an increase of 0.2 inches compared to the iPhone 16. It also has a 120 Hz display, a substantial upgrade from the current 60 Hz. The phone also has a 48-megapixel ultrawide camera. It comes in new colors: lavender, mist blue, black, white, and sage. The Pro&#8217;s upgrades are mainly on the back of the phone. The three rear cameras are now arranged in a rectangular bar that extends from one edge of the device to the other. The flash, light sensor, and microphone are positioned far to the right side. Where the MagSafe charger is, the Apple logo is centered for aesthetic reasons. Notably, the iPhone 17 Pro switched materials, replacing the titanium band around the screen with aluminum. The iPhone 17 starts at $799 and has a base storage of 256GB. In contrast, the iPhone 16 started at $699 for 128GB. The Pro model costs $1,099, and the Pro Max is $1,199. Techcrunch event Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss the 20th anniversary of TechCrunch, and a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. San Francisco | October 27-29, 2025 REGISTER NOW While the event&#8217;s primary focus was on the iPhones, Apple announced new phone cases as a bonus. Called &#8220;TechWoven&#8221; cases, these feature a higher-quality woven material compared to the discontinued &#8220;FineWoven&#8221; line of fabric cases Apple released in 2023. Missing from the keynote was any mention of an AI-enhanced Siri , which puts Apple way behind Google and its competitors. iPhone Air Image Credits: Apple The biggest announcement at the event was the debut of Apple&#8217;s slimmest phone ever, the iPhone Air , which replaces the iPhone Plus. This device has a profile thickness of 5.6 mm, making it about 0.08 inches thinner than current iPhones. It also features a 6.6-inch screen and a 120 Hz ProMotion display. The device is eSIM only , which helps the product maintain its sleek design. This move appears to be Apple&#8217;s response to the trend of slimmer smartphones, following in the footsteps of other companies like Samsung and Huawei. The iPhone Air could potentially outshine the Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge, which measures 5.8 mm thick. Additionally, it may pave the way for Apple’s long-rumored foldable phone , predicted to launch in September 2026. The device is priced at $999 and will be available in black, white, sky blue, and light gold. Apple Watch Series 11, Ultra 3, and SE 3 Image Credits: Apple After a two-year wait, Apple announced the Apple Watch Ultra 3 , which includes faster charging speeds, 5G support, and satellite connectivity. The watch also features a larger display. However, one of the most exciting upgrades for both the Ultra 3 and Series 11 is the incorporation of blood pressure-monitoring capabilities. This feature notifies users if their blood pressure levels are too high or too low. The third-generation Apple Watch SE, meanwhile, didn&#8217;t receive major updates, aside from an always-on display, thanks to a faster S10 chip. Prices for the watches are $249 for the Apple Watch SE 3, $399 for the Series 11, and $799 for the Ultra 3. AirPods Pro 3 Image Credits: Apple After the release of the AirPods Pro 2 in 2022, it&#8217;s about time for an upgrade. The AirPods Pro 3 , priced at $249, features smaller earbuds, improved audio, and a new heart-rate-sensing feature. It also features live translation technology, powered by Apple Intelligence, to help users translate foreign languages in real time. This story has been updated. Topics Apple , Apple Event , evergreens , Hardware , iPhone Lauren Forristal Lauren covers media, streaming, apps and platforms at TechCrunch. You can contact or verify outreach from Lauren by emailing laurenf.techcrunch@gmail.com or via encrypted message at laurenforris22.25 on Signal. View Bio October 27-29, 2025 San Francisco ONE-WEEK BUNDLE FLASH SALE Founder Bundle Offer: Land your investor and sharpen your pitch. Save 15% when you bring 4-9 founders. Investors Bundle Offer: Discover your next breakout startup. Save 20% when you bring 4-9 investors. Bundle offer ends October 3. Register Now Most Popular A new a16z report looks at which AI companies startups are actually paying for Dominic-Madori Davis Salesforce launches enterprise vibe-coding product, Agentforce Vibes Rebecca Szkutak AI recruiter Alex raises $17M to automate initial job interviews Marina Temkin Vibe-coding startup Anything nabs a $100M valuation after hitting $2M ARR in its first two weeks Marina Temkin The AI services transformation may be harder than VCs think Connie Loizos Famed roboticist says humanoid robot bubble is doomed to burst Connie Loizos Spotify to label AI music, filter spam and more in AI policy change Sarah Perez Loading the next article Error loading the next article X LinkedIn Facebook Instagram youTube Mastodon Threads Bluesky TechCrunch Staff Contact Us Advertise Crunchboard Jobs Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy RSS Terms of Use Code of Conduct H1-B Visa GPT Pulse Grok Steph Curry TechCrunch Disrupt Tech Layoffs ChatGPT © 2025 TechCrunch Media LLC.