# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Child%20Development&title=Sisters,%20brothers,%20and%20delinquency:%20Evaluating%20social%20influence%20during%20early%20and%20middle%20adolescence&author=C%20Slomkowski&author=R%20Rende&author=KJ%20Conger&author=RL%20Simons&author=RD%20Conger&volume=72&publication_year=2001&pages=271-283&pmid=11280484&doi=10.1111/1467-8624.00278&
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:46:12.329247+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.02 sec) My profile My library Lookup [PDF] academia.edu Sisters, brothers, and delinquency: Evaluating social influence during early and middle adolescence C Slomkowski, R Rende, KJ Conger… - Child …, 2001 - Wiley Online Library C Slomkowski, R Rende, KJ Conger, RL Simons , RD Conger Child development, 2001 • Wiley Online Library Although a number of studies have shown that brothers are highly correlated for delinquent behavior, much less research has been conducted on sisters. We propose that sisters, like brothers, show notable similarity for delinquent behavior, and also promote each other&#39;s delinquency through direct interaction. We examined these issues in 164 brother and sister pairs studied over a 4‐year period (from early to middle adolescence) in a study of intact families in the rural Midwest. Sibling similarity for self‐reports of delinquent behavior were … Although a number of studies have shown that brothers are highly correlated for delinquent behavior, much less research has been conducted on sisters. We propose that sisters, like brothers, show notable similarity for delinquent behavior, and also promote each other&#39;s delinquency through direct interaction. We examined these issues in 164 brother and sister pairs studied over a 4‐year period (from early to middle adolescence) in a study of intact families in the rural Midwest. Sibling similarity for self‐reports of delinquent behavior were highly correlated for both brothers and sisters. Conditional effects of high levels of hostile – coercive sibling relationships and older sibling delinquency predicted younger sibling delinquency in both brother and sister pairs. For brothers, conditional effects were also detected for high levels of warmth – support, in contrast to sisters. The conditional effects of older sibling delinquency and relationship quality were shown to predict change in younger sibling delinquency through adolescence. The results add to a growing literature on sibling effects as well as theoretical models that emphasize the role of social interaction between siblings as a risk factor for the development of delinquent activity in adolescence. Wiley Online Library Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 478 Related articles All 11 versions Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help