# Sheldon Silver

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/sheldon-silver/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:12:11.315432+00:00

---

Sheldon Silver - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: Sheldon Silver obituary Jan. 24, 2022 Sheldon Silver Was Albany’s Foremost ‘No’ for Decades He spent nearly 40 years in the state assembly, and the past two in prison. By Christopher Bonanos the law July 13, 2017 Preet Bharara Has the Supreme Court to Thank for Letting Sheldon Silver Go Free John Roberts set a very favorable precedent for the former State Assembly speaker, who was sent to jail for public corruption. By Cristian Farias July 13, 2017 Appeals Court Overturns Conviction of Former Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver An appeals court used a recent Supreme Court precedent to say the jury had been given incorrect instructions in the case. By Jen Kirby state politics May 4, 2016 Sheldon Silver Hoping to Serve His Time in a Cushy Prison He was sentenced to 12 years in prison Tuesday. By Joe DeLessio oh albany! Dec. 3, 2015 Sheldon Silver Filed for His Pension a Day After Getting Convicted of Corruption He could make more than $85,000 a year. By Elaine Godfrey oh albany! Nov. 30, 2015 Jurors Increasingly Allergic to Sheldon Silver Trial “Can I leave now? What about now? Now? Now?” By Jaime Fuller oh albany! Nov. 24, 2015 What You Missed in Sheldon Silver and Dean Skelos’s Corruption Trials The jury begins deliberating Silver’s fate. By Margaret Hartmann and Jaime Fuller city politic Nov. 2, 2015 How Andrew Cuomo’s Flashy Bid to Clean Up Albany Backfired As trials of two of his (once) closest Albany allies begin, the governor may be ruing the day he went after corruption. By Chris Smith city politic May 15, 2015 Andrew Cuomo: The Last of the Three Amigos Skelos and Silver are out. Will the governor’s playbook work with Albany’s new leaders? By Chris Smith city politic Apr. 16, 2015 How Far Will Preet Bharara Go in His War on Albany? First Sheldon Silver, now Dean Skelos. Who’s next? By Chris Smith oh albany! Apr. 15, 2015 Report: New York Senate Leader Dean Skelos Is Under Federal Investigation More from the office that just took down former State Assembly speaker Sheldon Silver. By Margaret Hartmann the city politic Mar. 18, 2015 Is Andrew Cuomo Getting Schooled? His rough treatment of the teachers’ unions is driving down his popularity. So why is he doing it? By Chris Smith city politic Feb. 3, 2015 Meet Carl Heastie, New York’s New Assembly Speaker The candidate — and the hasty selection process — isn’t what reformers were hoping for. By Margaret Hartmann city politic Jan. 30, 2015 5 Ways New York May Change Post–Sheldon Silver From legalizing MMA to education reform, the speaker’s ouster has a huge impact. By Margaret Hartmann city politic Jan. 27, 2015 Sheldon Silver’s Epic Fall Ushers in a New Era in Albany Despite his desperate attempt to cling to power, the speaker will soon step down. By Chris Smith oh albany! Jan. 26, 2015 Report: Sheldon Silver to Step Down As Assembly Speaker He’ll let five Assembly Democrats take the reins. By Margaret Hartmann city politic Jan. 23, 2015 Sheldon Silver’s Arrest Is Huge, But Preet Bharara Is Waging an Even Bigger Case He seems to be headed toward a confrontation with the governor. By Chris Smith where are they now Jan. 23, 2015 Where Is Ex-NY Senate Majority Leader Bruno? He faced corruption charges, like Sheldon Silver. Six years later, the state owes him millions. By Margaret Hartmann the city politic Jan. 22, 2015 Tallying the Damage From Sheldon Silver’s Arrest The effects are enormous and already rippling through Albany and the state. By Chris Smith oh albany! Jan. 22, 2015 Why New York Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver Has Been Arrested The legislature’s most powerful Democrat is the target of a federal investigation into Albany corruption. By Margaret Hartmann and Katie Zavadski albany Dec. 29, 2014 New York Assembly Speaker Under Investigation Over Law-Firm Payments Sheldon Silver didn’t disclose. By Katie Zavadski May 23, 2014 The Shelly Silver Scandal Just Keeps Getting Stranger Only in Albany. By Chris Smith oh albany! May 22, 2014 Assembly Speaker Silver Accuses NYT of Mix-up The paper published an article about Sheldon Silver’s decades-long attempt to block a low-income housing development. By Caroline Bankoff dirty old men June 5, 2013 Silver Accused of Affair With Aide by Lopez You probably shouldn’t. By Margaret Hartmann oh albany! May 21, 2013 Sheldon Silver Plans to Weather This Lopez Thing With an Apology Lots of people would like him to resign, but he’s not having it. By Adam Martin oh albany! May 17, 2013 Gross Assemblyman Vito Lopez Can’t Resign Fast Enough He’s still running for City Council, as well. By Joe Coscarelli oh albany! May 17, 2013 Vito Lopez Probably Won’t Be an Assemblyman for Much Longer Speaker Sheldon Silver is threatening him with expulsion, and Governor Cuomo is urging him to resign. By Adam Martin silly scandals Sept. 25, 2012 Grown Man Loses Internet Privileges for Humiliating Sheldon Silver on Facebook He was just defending his boss (as a woman). By Joe Coscarelli the internet Sept. 24, 2012 Sheldon Silver Embarrassed by Facebook Defender And writes sci-fi on the side. By Joe Coscarelli dirty old men Sept. 5, 2012 Vito Lopez Rips Those Calling for His Resignation Not backing down. By Brett Smiley dirty old men Sept. 4, 2012 Report: Sheldon Silver Asked Accused Sexual Harasser Vito Lopez to Resign “He basically was inaudible.” By Brett Smiley dirty old men Sept. 3, 2012 New York Democrats Call for Vito Lopez’s Resignation The state’s DNC delegation doesn’t seem to be standing behind the assemblyman. By Caroline Bankoff dirty old men Aug. 30, 2012 Former Employees Say Vito Lopez Had a History of Slimy Behavior Plenty to keep the ethics committee busy. By Margaret Hartmann mea culpas Aug. 29, 2012 State Assembly Admits Secret Payment Over Sexual Harassment Was Shady Brooklyn Democratic leader Vito Lopez’s scandal is now everyone’s scandal. By Joe Coscarelli June 21, 2012 Once Again, New York Won’t Help Kill the Electoral College Even though a majority of legislators in both chambers would like it to. By Dan Amira neighborhood news Dec. 27, 2011 Assemblyman Cautions Against Cuomo’s Gambling Plan Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver supports Cuomo’s plan but says it may be a close call. By Brett Smiley get well get well soon we want you to get well Nov. 14, 2011 A Pothole Beat Up Sheldon Silver Half of his face is “bruised and purple.” By Dan Amira equal rites June 23, 2011 State Senate ‘Close’ to Final Language on Religious Protections in Marriage-Equality Bill [Updated] Republican senator: “I see it coming to the floor.” By Chris Rovzar equal rites June 20, 2011 Marriage-Equality Bill Stalls in the Face of Rent Regulation and Property Tax Negotiations We’re hearing that Wednesday is the day Cuomo’s people are looking to for a vote on marriage equality. By Chris Rovzar early and often June 14, 2011 Will New York Help Kill the Electoral College? Only one man stands in the way: Sheldon Silver. By Dan Amira oh albany! June 3, 2011 Cuomo, Skelos, and Silver Reach Ethics Deal One goal down, two to go. By Chris Rovzar cuomolot Mar. 27, 2011 Cuomo, Legislature Reach New York Budget Deal Extra-credit points for meeting the deadline, for once. By Adam Pasick cuomolot Feb. 1, 2011 Andrew Cuomo Launches War on ‘Permanent’ Spending Increases The governor calls the state budget process a “sham.” By Chris Rovzar school daze Jan. 15, 2011 Cathie Black’s Sophie’s Choice Jokes Fall Flat “Everybody’s face fell.” By Mike Vilensky oh albany! Nov. 29, 2010 Andrew Cuomo Is Meeting in Secret with Sheldon Silver Transparency right from the get-go! Great. By Chris Rovzar oh albany! Oct. 22, 2010 What Cuomo Gets Out of This Latest Aqueduct Scandal Another boost! By Chris Smith early and awful Oct. 21, 2010 New Report Accuses Democrats of Cronyism Over the Aqueduct Race Track In Queens This doesn’t look good for Albany Democrats. By Nitasha Tiku paladinosaur Oct. 7, 2010 Carl Paladino Is Going to Say Something on TV Tonight Paladino buys airtime across the state for mysterious announcement. By Dan Amira founding follies July 27, 2010 Electoral College One Step Closer to Death Massachusetts joins the movement to make the popular vote matter. By Dan Amira bridge and tunne