# How Much More Netflix Can The World Absorb Bela Bajaria

**Source**: https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2023/01/16/how-much-more-netflix-can-the-world-absorb-bela-bajaria
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:48:39.792223+00:00

---

How Much More Netflix Can the World Absorb? | The New Yorker Skip to main content Newsletter Search Search The Latest News Books &amp; Culture Fiction &amp; Poetry Humor &amp; Cartoons Magazine Puzzles &amp; Games Video Podcasts Goings On Shop 100th Anniversary Open Navigation Menu Menu Profiles How Much Netflix Can the World Absorb? Bela Bajaria, who oversees the streaming giant’s hyper-aggressive approach to TV-making, says success is about “recognizing that people like having more.” By Rachel Syme January 9, 2023 Facebook X Email Print Save Story Bela Bajaria, who oversees Netflix’s original TV series in the U.S. and abroad, says her goal is “to super-serve the audience.” Photograph by Sela Shiloni for The New Yorker Save this story Save this story Save this story Save this story Bela Bajaria, Netflix’s global head of television, follows a similar routine whether she’s visiting Mumbai or Berlin or Seoul or Stockholm or any of the company’s twenty-six foreign outposts. A black car brings her from the airport to a luxury hotel, perhaps the Four Seasons. She checks in and furiously answers e-mails from Los Angeles until it’s time for a breakfast or a dinner or a midday meal with executives and creators. She wears her favorite “travel blazer,” a designer jacket bejewelled on the breast pocket with the words “Art is truth.” And, though she often stays “in country” for only a day or two at a time, she likes to schedule a “slate meeting” so that the local development team can fill her in on upcoming programs. On an afternoon not long ago, she was kicking off one such meeting at the company’s Latin American headquarters, inside one of the tallest skyscrapers in Mexico City. “Next time, I’ll get to stay for a week, so I won’t have to eat twenty-four tacos in twenty-four hours, like last time,” she said to the room of assembled staff members. Bajaria told me that the ideal Netflix show is what one of her V.P.s, Jinny Howe, calls a “gourmet cheeseburger,” offering something “premium and commercial at the same time.” She praised the Latin American group for its recent track record of making slick telenovelas that draw large audiences outside Spanish-speaking regions. “It’s been a lot of learning for other countries to do the type of very commercial things that this team did early on,” she said. A onetime winner of the Miss India Universe beauty pageant, Bajaria has glossy black hair that she often pulls into a high ponytail. Her voice, which she joked is classic “L.A. Valley Girl,” contributes to the impression that she’s younger than her fifty-two years. Although she is ceaselessly on the road for work, she says that she never experiences jet lag, a claim corroborated by her invariably peppy demeanor. “Is there anything you still think we need to do in terms of making a bigger bet, or a fresh swing?” she asked. Francisco Ramos, the natty V.P. of Latin American content, pointed to a screen at the front of the room and said, “We are taking the next step, because our competitors are going to be where we were five years ago.” In the following hour, the executives ran through some two dozen projects. Ramos boasted that a true-crime series about a Mexican kidnapping scandal had generated so much interest that “even the President talked about it for four days in a row,” and that in Colombia, where Netflix was filming a big-budget miniseries adaptation of Gabriel García Márquez’s “One Hundred Years of Solitude,” they were working to secure permission to transplant a rare chestnut tree onto the set. Another executive described “La Flor Más Bella,” a comedy that would feature a spirited morena girl navigating a high school full of “Whitexicans.” “I’m getting such strong ‘Never Have I Ever’ vibes,” Bajaria replied, referring to the American Netflix comedy co-created by her friend Mindy Kaling. Bajaria’s job isn’t to decide which shows get made. According to the company, there is no master list of all the “local-language originals” in progress at any given time. But the decentralized system offers opportunities for what Bajaria calls “cross-cultural learnings.” Under her leadership, Netflix acts like a universal power converter, plugging in and adapting successful show formats to different parts of the world. Bajaria asked the Latin American staffers whether they were “working with the Middle East” to remake some of their more popular shows. “Yes, Egypt is working on ‘Who Killed Sara?,’ and they are doing ‘Dark Desire’ in South Africa,” Ramos said. “France is also making a telenovela, and we’re supporting that.” “Oh, in France ?” Bajaria said approvingly. At the end of the meeting, she left the team with a blunt exhortation to continue scaling up: “It’s not a science. It’s a big creative endeavor. But it’s about recognizing that people like having more.” When Netflix was founded, in 1997, its ambition, almost quaint in retrospect, was to overhaul the movie-rental business. Users would subscribe to the service online and receive DVDs through the mail, a concept that Netflix’s co-founder Reed Hastings liked to say he came up with after borrowing “Apollo 13” from a Blockbuster store and incurring a forty-dollar late fee. (His co-founder, Mark Randolph, has said that the story, like most marketing spin, is only “emotionally true.”) But in 2007 the company introduced the nascent technology of streaming; for certain titles in the Netflix library—initially about a thousand and, soon, many more—users on their home computers had the novel option to “watch now.” In 2010, the platform offered a digital-only subscription and Hastings told investors, “Three years ago, we were a DVD-by-mail company that offered some streaming. We are now a streaming company which also offers DVD by mail.” According to “It’s Not TV,” a recent history of HBO by Felix Gillette and John Koblin, Netflix began looking into making original programming in 2010, after HBO declined to enter a licensing deal. It was evident that, in order to build a lasting streaming library, the platform would have to control its own content. Television, at the time, was in the midst of the so-called golden age of cable, and executives at channels including HBO, AMC, and FX had reinvigorated the medium with ambitious serialized dramas that cultivated critical acclaim over mass appeal. Ted Sarandos—who served as Netflix’s chief content officer before adding the title of co-C.E.O. with Hastings, in 2020—wanted to make the same kinds of shows for cord-cutters. He once said that the company’s goal was “to become HBO faster than HBO can become us.” One of Sarandos’s longtime collaborators, Cindy Holland, helped lead the company’s initial push into television. During her tenure as the V.P. of original series, Netflix brought in such early shows as the political thriller “House of Cards,” the royal roman-fleuve “The Crown,” and the spiky women’s-prison comedy “Orange Is the New Black.” For a time, Netflix succeeded in positioning itself as a leading purveyor of bold, buzzy TV, and Holland’s sensibility was closely aligned with the shows it made. Raphael Bob-Waksberg, the creator of the ambitious animated Hollywood satire “BoJack Horseman,” which ran on the platform for six seasons, told me, “Cindy to me was Netflix.” Then, in 2020, Sarandos promoted Bajaria into the new role of global head of television, giving her oversight of all TV programming both in the United States and abroad. At the same time, he let Holland go. “This last one may not look like much, but just see what it’ll do to your back after seven or eight hours a day.” Cartoon by Alice Cheng Copy link to cartoon Copy link to cartoon Link copied Shop Shop The shakeup was dissected in the industry trades, perhaps in part because of what Bajaria described to me as the media’s appetite for “pitting two women against each other.” But her elevation over Holland was most noteworthy as a sign of Netflix’s evolving priorities. Bajaria had come up in the industry through the high-volume, high-spectacle world of network-TV movies and miniseries, working for two decades at CBS and at NBC Universal. When she joined Netflix, in 2016, she led the company’s first forays into reality TV and brokered deals to rapidly expand the platform’s catalogue. In 2019, she began leading non-English TV programming as well. Sarandos told me that in Bajaria and Holland he had “two unbelievably strong candidates” but that he went with the one who he felt best embodied Netflix’s “breadth of programming” and increasingly global focus. Netflix won’t disclose any internal financial figures, but one former executive told me that the choice was “not shocking” from an economic perspective. “Some of Cindy’s shows were tough. People made them for prestige, and for their friends,” she said. Bajaria’s team more readily embraced the company’s new objective, the executive said: not only to compete with cable but to “replace all television.” Sarandos told me that Netflix’s strategy today is to function as “equal parts HBO and FX and AMC and Lifetime and Bravo and E! and Comedy Central.” In one conversation, from his seventeen-acre estate in Montecito, he invoked the “golden gut,” the idea that for old-school TV executives “things worked because they picked them and they made them work.” The role of Netflix’s leaders today is entirely different. When you’re trying to grow as quickly as possible in as many places as possible, you can’t afford to get “bottlenecked behind one sensibility,” Sarandos said. Bajaria started in her new role just as Netflix reached a high point in a decade of galloping growth. In 2020, tens of millions of pandemic viewers were subscribing to the platform to watch frothy hits such as “Tiger King,” “The Queen’s Gambit,” and Shonda Rhimes’s Regency-era soap “Bridgerton” (according to Howe, an exemplary gourmet cheeseburger). The platform currently releases to the public only one opaque figure to gauge a show’s popularity: hours watched in its first twenty