# Review Mindstorms By Seymour Papert

**Source**: https://www.thepsmiths.com/p/review-mindstorms-by-seymour-papert#footnote-5-138686474
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:00:56.852365+00:00

---

REVIEW: Mindstorms, by Seymour Papert - by John Psmith Mr. and Mrs. Psmith’s Bookshelf Subscribe Sign in REVIEW: Mindstorms, by Seymour Papert John Psmith Apr 01, 2024 58 16 7 Share Mindstorms: Children, Computers, and Powerful Ideas , Seymour Papert (Basic Books, 1980). I go to some effort to teach my kids math at home, which means they’re generally a year or two ahead of whatever’s happening at school. Most of my reasons are personal and idiosyncratic: I like math, and it’s fun to share my hobbies with my kids. I also despise the way math is usually taught, and do not want their first encounter with certain beautiful ideas to be ruined by some teacher who doesn’t really understand them herself. When people find out about this, they generally assume I have a different motivation. They assume that I’m doing it so my kids will get ahead. I have to laugh at this, because I am about the least Tiger Mom person ever. Like Jane, I believe that your kids will be fine pretty much whatever you do , and that a happy and relaxed childhood for both kid and parent far outweighs whatever micro-advantage they might obtain out of you drilling them for hours a day. I also think the data backs me up here — ever since Piaget we’ve known that there are threshold ages when particular cognitive capabilities come online. I have a friend who likes to say: “you can start potty-training your kid on their first birthday and it’ll take two years, or you can start on their third birthday and it’ll take two days.” I’m not actually sure that this is true of potty-training, but I think it might be for calculus. Nevertheless, I do actually think I’m giving them a leg-up, but in a sneaky and roundabout way. Like every parent, I believe my kids are the most amazing and brilliant beings ever. But deep-down inside I know that, statistically speaking, they’re probably around the middle of the bell curve. The one-to-two year advantage in math that I’ve given them will crumble quickly — partly because the actual geniuses will shoot past them without much assistance, partly because it’ll just naturally get eroded by the rising waterline, and by the fact that it’s easier to learn algebra at twelve than it is at ten. But it doesn’t matter, because being temporarily advanced at math will cause them to seem like the smartest kids in their class, even if they’re totally average. This will cause their teachers to treat them differently, and crucially, might cause themselves to think of themselves differently. And I have a hunch that that could turn out to be a much more durable advantage. Yes, I’m one of those “growth mindset” people. I know that’s terribly unfashionable these days, and that everybody else who writes pseudonymously on the internet is very excited about innate differences in ability, and IQ tests and stuff like that. I used to believe an extreme version of the innate intelligence theory, and have written before about how it crippled my intellectual development through college . Two things happened that changed my views: the first was that I dug myself out of that epistemic hole, and noticed an immediate and commensurate improvement in my own abilities. That really got my attention. I was pretty sure that intelligence was innate, and yet changing my beliefs about the world and the ways in which I approached the world had made me smarter in all the ways that mattered. 1 If I could make myself smarter or dumber by changing my beliefs and my behavior, then presumably everybody else could too. The second thing that happened was that the smartest person I knew told me that he thought intelligence was learned. His argument went something like this: over the course of your life, you pick up cognitive tools that make you more effective. Nothing shocking yet, everybody knows that there are kinds of knowledge that make you stronger at problem solving. This is the “standing on the shoulders of giants” effect, and it’s why you can solve harder math problems than the most genius caveman could. Psychometricians sometimes refer to this as the distinction between “fluid” and “crystallized” intelligence, and even the most hardcore believers in innate intelligence accept this. After all, a computer’s effectiveness is a product both of the raw capabilities of its hardware and the efficiency of the program it’s running. But, my smart friend continued, there is another kind of cognitive tool you can pick up: meta-tools, deep lessons about the epistemic structure of reality or the contingent structure of your own psyche — tools which don’t make you better at any particular thing, but make you better at getting better at things . Recursive self-improvement, of the sort the AI doomers fear, right there at all of our fingertips, there for the taking. These meta-tools come in many different guises, I wrote about a few of them in my review of The Education of Cyrus , and I’ll mention a few more of them over the course of this post. 2 But the most important thing might actually be to avoid their opposite: the self-defeating beliefs or practices that make you dumber. One look at a drugged-out zombie camped by the sidewalk tells you that these must exist, but there are other IQ-lowering memes that are more subtle and insidious than meth addiction. I think one common one is “I’m bad at math,” and that this is a terrifyingly easy trap to fall into and a terrifyingly hard one to dig out of. All it takes is one really bad explanation from a teacher at an early age, or one unlucky examination taken on a day you were coming down with a cold. We’re so conditioned, both as individuals and as a society, to believe that people are bundles of immutable aptitudes, that once the “I’m bad at math” meme enters our minds it can take root, grow stronger, and defend itself against attempts at exorcism . If I’m convinced I’m bad at math, then I might not bother studying for my math test, or I might choose to interpret the normal obstacles and frustrations of learning a new subject as evidence of my innate deficiency. I then do badly on my test, which further entrenches my self-sabotaging belief, and so on in a vicious cycle. This is the problem that Seymour Papert wanted to solve. And whereas I am a cynic and only dare solve it for my own kids (by tricking both them and their teachers no less), Papert was a utopian and wanted to solve it for all of society and especially for the disadvantaged. This approach fits both his background (Papert was born in South Africa and spent a while as an anti-apartheid activist ), and his intellectual milieu: the frothy, early years of the MIT AI lab. Was there ever a more optimistic time and place than Cambridge, Massachusetts in the middle of the 20th century? Cyberneticists were busy laying bare the nature of reality, rearchitecting human civilization, and preparing mankind for a new destiny of galactic colonization. So Papert set his sights on the comparatively easy project of solving education, once and for all. And naturally the best way to do this was by making a new programming language. If that last paragraph sounded snarky, it really wasn’t meant to. Yes, judged by his own standards, Papert’s quest ended in failure, but at least he failed while daring greatly. The contemporary versions of Seymour Papert would never dream of doing something as wild and unhinged as fixing the educational system, and so instead they toil away inside of Google, optimizing click-through conversion rates and training neural networks to beam advertisements directly into our tooth fillings. By the standards of his time, too, Papert was great. Most of the 1960s utopians produced nothing but garbage, or occasionally something clever but evil. Papert’s book, on the other hand, is full of great ideas. And if with the benefit of hindsight we can see that he made a few giant mistakes, well, we should all be so lucky that in the end, we turn out only to have made a few. To understand why Papert thought he could fix education with a new programming language, we first need to understand his theory of learning. Have you ever noticed that there are two very different kinds of “knowing” something? There’s the kind where you can parrot an explanation somebody else gave you, but the details are all a bit fuzzy, and you would quickly fall apart under questioning. Then there’s the kind where you inhabit the knowledge, it’s like an old friend or like the neighborhood you grew up in, you know its strengths and weaknesses, where it came from, how it got to be that way, and where it’s probably going. If a reality TV show ambushed you in a restaurant and told you to stand up in front of the live cameras and give a 5-minute lecture on the topic, you would be terrified if you had the first kind of knowledge, and totally at ease if you had the second kind. More importantly for education, the first kind of knowledge is ephemeral, you’ll forget it over the summer. But the second kind makes a strong foundation or structural element in the great epistemic cathedral that we all should be building. Papert was a student of Piaget’s, and hugely influenced by the latter’s theory of constructivism . Roughly speaking, constructivism says that the first kind of knowledge, the shallow and fuzzy sort, is what you get by memorizing or absorbing new information. The second kind is only produced when the student is actively creating or reframing their own internal mental models in their own language. This happens all the time in math education. I can think of many occasions where I had a mathematical concept explained to me, but didn’t really “get it” until I had built up my own explanation with my own terminology, motivating examples, and mental images. Even if you didn’t get very far in math, I bet this happened to you, or I hope it did! Maybe your teacher was explaining long division to you over and over and over again, and it never made any sense, until one day you explained it to yourself , and told it in