# Runway Ai Image Generator Training Data Youtube

**Source**: https://www.404media.co/runway-ai-image-generator-training-data-youtube/?ref=wheresyoured.at
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:35:21.127684+00:00

---

AI Video Generator Runway Trained on Thousands of YouTube Videos Without Permission Account Log in Subscribe Navigation Home About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Thanks Privacy Follow us Twitter Bluesky Mastodon Instagram TikTok Facebook RSS Sign in Subscribe About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Thanks Privacy Advertisement &bull; Go ad free AI AI Video Generator Runway Trained on Thousands of YouTube Videos Without Permission Samantha Cole · Jul 25, 2024 at 9:34 AM A leaked document obtained by 404 Media shows company-wide effort collected thousands of YouTube videos and pirated content for training data. Collage via 404 Media Subscribe Join the newsletter to get the latest updates. Success Great! Check your inbox and click the link. Error Please enter a valid email address. 🖥️ 404 Media is an independent website whose work is written, reported, and owned by human journalists and whose intended audience is real people, not AI scrapers, bots, or a search algorithm. Signing up gets you free access to this article. Learn why we require this here . A highly-praised AI video generation tool made by multi-billion dollar company Runway was secretly trained by scraping thousands of videos from popular YouTube creators and brands, as well as pirated films, according to a massive internal spreadsheet of training data obtained by 404 Media. The model—initially codenamed Jupiter and released officially as Gen-3—drew widespread praise from the AI development community and technology outlets covering its launch when Runway released it in June. Last year, Runway raised $141 million from investors including Google and Nvidia, at a $1.5 billion valuation. When Techcrunch asked Runway co-founder Anastasis Germanidis in June where the training data for Gen-3 came from, he would not offer specifics .&nbsp; “We have an in-house research team that oversees all of our training and we use curated, internal datasets to train our models,” Germanidis told Techcrunch.&nbsp; This post is for paid members only Become a paid member for unlimited ad-free access to articles, bonus podcast content, and more. Subscribe Sign up for free access to this post Free members get access to posts like this one along with an email round-up of our week's stories. Subscribe Already have an account? Sign in More like this 18 Lawyers Caught Using AI Explain Why They Did It Lawyers blame IT, family emergencies, their own poor judgment, their assistants, illness, and more. Jason Koebler , Jules Roscoe · Sep 30, 2025 AI Generated &#x27;Boring History&#x27; Videos Are Flooding YouTube and Drowning Out Real History &quot;These AI videos are just repeating things that are on the internet, so you end up with a very simplified version of the past.&quot; Jason Koebler · Sep 3, 2025 Hackers Threaten to Submit Artists&#x27; Data to AI Models If Art Site Doesn&#x27;t Pay Up Artists&amp;Clients, a website for connecting artists with gigs, is down after a group called LunaLock threatened to feed their data to AI datasets. Matthew Gault · Sep 2, 2025 Google Calls ICE Agents a Vulnerable Group, Removes ICE-Spotting App ‘Red Dot’ The move comes as Apple removed ICEBlock after direct pressure from U.S. Department of Justice officials and signals a broader crackdown on ICE-spotting apps. Joseph Cox · Oct 3, 2025 Can You Win a Congressional Seat Without Social Media? Carleigh Beriont is running for Congress as an “anti-social Democrat” and she thinks the party needs to abandon social media nationally also. Emanuel Maiberg · Oct 3, 2025 Behind the Blog: Open-Source Drama and Saudi-Approved Humor This week, we discuss characters in open source, that Saudi comedy festival, and asking ourselves if we&#x27;re haters. Samantha Cole , Joseph Cox , Emanuel Maiberg , Jason Koebler · Oct 3, 2025 Advertisement &bull; Go ad free Advertisement &bull; Go ad free &bull; Hide Unparalleled access to hidden worlds both online and IRL. 404 Media is a new independent media company founded by technology journalists Jason Koebler, Emanuel Maiberg, Samantha Cole, and Joseph Cox. About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Thanks Privacy Twitter Bluesky Mastodon Instagram TikTok Facebook RSS Join the newsletter to get the latest updates. Success Great! Check your inbox and click the link to confirm your subscription &copy; &nbsp;2025&nbsp;404 Media. Published with&nbsp; Ghost .