# Bitcoin

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/bitcoin/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:38:57.851533+00:00

---

Bitcoin - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: Bitcoin crypto Mar. 31, 2025 The New Trump Get-Richer-Quicker Scheme The Trump Family crypto spree continues on the back end with a bitcoin mining plan. By Matt Stieb chapters Mar. 17, 2025 In Pursuit of the Bitcoin God Years of studying Satoshi Nakamoto led me to a new prime suspect. What if crypto’s creator isn’t the benign figure people want him to be? By Benjamin Wallace the politics of appearances Mar. 8, 2025 The Crypto Summit Was Just a Trump-Thanking Contest White House officials and industry leaders gathered to kiss the non-fungible ring. By Matt Stieb haliey welch Dec. 20, 2024 Hawk Tuah, Insider Trade on That Thang Read this sentence to your mom: Hawk Tuah’s memecoin went bust, allegedly because of insider wallets, and now she’s finally issuing a statement. By Jason P. Frank trump 2.0 Dec. 19, 2024 Crypto Sicko Mode Is Here to Stay The cryptocurrency world isn’t waiting for Donald Trump’s inauguration to make a whole bunch of fast money. By Matt Stieb bitcoin Oct. 8, 2024 A Quest to Unmask Bitcoin Inventor Satoshi Nakamoto Finds a Man Named Peter Todd If the new HBO film got it right, the relatively unknown software developer could be one of the richest people in the world. By Kevin T. Dugan the money game June 11, 2024 Are Democrats Pivoting on Crypto? “There are millions of voters who are going to vote against Biden on the basis of this issue.” By Jen Wieczner the money game May 20, 2024 The Crypto World Has a New Villain Billionaire Barry Silbert is accused of defrauding thousands of people. Should he get to keep their money anyway? By Kevin T. Dugan the money game Mar. 5, 2024 Why Did Bitcoin Hit a New All-Time High? Is Wall Street just in a “buy anything” mood? By Kevin T. Dugan sam bankman-fried Jan. 25, 2024 Sam Bankman-Fried Is Still Messing Up Bitcoin’s Big Comeback After a huge regulatory triumph, the bankrupt husk of FTX is still turning crypto markets red. By Kevin T. Dugan bitcoin Jan. 10, 2024 The Bitcoin ETF Is Approved — and Crypto ‘Chaos’ Is Back Government approval of bitcoin ETFs was supposed to bring the adults to the market. It’s only getting crazier. By Kevin T. Dugan the money game Jan. 2, 2024 Why Wall Street Might Be Falling in Love With Bitcoin An expected regulatory victory has revived interest in the cryptocurrency. By Kevin T. Dugan the money game Nov. 22, 2023 Behold the Utter Destruction of Crypto’s Biggest Names Can crypto survive when so few of its founding fathers have? By Jen Wieczner the money game May 9, 2023 How SpongeBob SquarePants Is Causing Big Problems for Bitcoin The OG digital currency is suddenly open to NFTs and ridiculous memecoins. Will it ever be the same? By Kevin T. Dugan the money game May 1, 2023 Is the Federal Government Trying to Kill Off Crypto? The industry sure thinks so. The White House denies it. Who’s right? By Jen Wieczner the money game Feb. 23, 2023 Gary Gensler on Meeting With SBF and His Crypto Crackdown Following the Bankman-Fried debacle, SEC chief Gary Gensler is getting tough — and answering questions about his role in the mess. By Ankush Khardori cryptocurrency Nov. 28, 2022 Is New York’s Crypto-Mining Moratorium the Start of a Trend? The two-year ban is the first of its kind, possibly not the last. By Clio Chang cryptocurrency Nov. 17, 2022 The 5 Craziest and Most Telling Videos of Sam Bankman-Fried Maybe he was leaving clues all along. By Matt Stieb the money game June 26, 2022 Mike Novogratz on His Big Crypto Mistake and What’s Ahead for Bitcoin “This has been a complete and total old-school ass-beating.” By Jen Wieczner the money game June 13, 2022 Crypto Is Crashing. It Deserves to. The decline feels like more than just a price reboot or a washout. It points to a systemwide failure. By Kevin T. Dugan the money game June 12, 2022 The Clues You Missed: 5 Super-Obvious Signs We Were in a Financial Bubble Stocks and crypto are both plunging. There were some blinding warning lights flashing before the crash began. Did you see them? By Michelle Celarier crypto May 12, 2022 Things Are Going Well in Bitcoin City A rendering arrives right on time. By Clio Chang crime Feb. 15, 2022 The Many Lives of Crypto’s Most Notorious Couple How Heather Morgan and Ilya Lichtenstein spent their time when they couldn’t spend their mountain of allegedly stolen bitcoin. By Kevin T. Dugan and Matt Stieb politics Feb. 14, 2022 Is Peter Thiel Trying to Buy a Fight With China? The tech billionaire turned GOP megadonor is betting big on candidates who happen to be China hawks. By Choire Sicha crime Feb. 9, 2022 The Big Dumb Bitcoin-Laundering Scheme (Feat. Bad Rap) The Feds arrested a husband and (rapping) wife influencer who got in over their heads trying to launder billions in stolen crypto. By Kevin T. Dugan and Matt Stieb bitcoin Jan. 27, 2022 Diamond Hands in the Rough Watching billions get wiped out doesn’t shake a new kind of trader who’s used to 24/7 crypto chaos. By Kevin T. Dugan politics Jan. 20, 2022 Of Course, Eric Adams Is Turning His Paycheck Into Crypto The mayor once talked about getting paid in bitcoin, but he’ll have to settle for the next best thing. By Kevin T. Dugan $$$ Jan. 3, 2022 Matt Damon Says Cryptocurrency Is … Brave? Just like going to space or the invention of flight! By Mia Mercado just asking questions Dec. 6, 2021 She Was D.C.’s Top Crypto Cop. Now She’s Silicon Valley’s Top Crypto Investor. Katie Haun is spreading the Web3 word to everyone from senators to Hollywood stars. By Jen Wieczner hizzoner Nov. 23, 2021 Eric Adams Flies Air Crypto Politico reports the next mayor traveled to Puerto Rico with the controversial billionaire Brock Pierce, who is advising him on crypto. By Benjamin Hart the biden presidency Nov. 17, 2021 Who’s Afraid of Saule Omarova? How a Joe Biden nominee became the target of a ludicrous red-baiting campaign. By Rebecca Traister crypto Nov. 13, 2021 Could Eric Adams Actually Be Paid in Bitcoin? Today’s boast could be tomorrow’s reality. By Kevin T. Dugan the economy Nov. 12, 2021 Is Bitcoin Killing Gold? Goldbugs were screaming about inflation for years. It turns out being right didn’t mean getting rich. By Kevin T. Dugan eric adams Nov. 4, 2021 We Finally Have Our First Crypto-Bro Mayor Eric Adams wants to get paid in bitcoin, at least for a while. By Benjamin Hart the money game Oct. 17, 2021 Why the ‘Big Short’ Guys Think Bitcoin Is a Bubble Are they onto something huge again — or just fighting the last war? By Michelle Celarier the money game Sept. 27, 2021 What Can the U.S. Learn from China’s Crackdown on Crypto? “It’s telling that the world’s most robust economy says, ‘Big tech is a danger and we need prevent what has happened in America from happening here.’” By Scott Galloway and James D. Walsh twitter Sept. 23, 2021 World’s Most Negative Place Expands Tipping Policy Twitter Tips is now available for everyone. By Benjamin Hart the money game Sept. 21, 2021 NYC Crypto Conference Jolted By Rumor of Feds Serving Subpoena to Panelist A speaker might have been served before going onstage Monday at Mainnet, as the cryptosphere awaits regulation from SEC chair Gary Gensler. By Matt Stieb the money game Sept. 13, 2021 Gary Gensler on Crypto, SPACs, and Robinhood The new SEC chief may have taught courses on the blockchain at MIT, but he’s not planning to give bitcoin a free pass. By Jen Wieczner the money game Aug. 25, 2021 The High Priest of Cryptopia Regrets Nothing Ian Freeman could have been a bitcoin billionaire. Instead, he could go to prison for the rest of his life. By Simon van Zuylen-Wood cyberattacks June 7, 2021 DOJ Recovers Most of Colonial Pipeline’s Ransom Payment to Hackers The Department of Justice seized around 85 percent of the bitcoin the firm paid to Russian cybercriminals to stop their May attack. By Matt Stieb the money game May 20, 2021 Cryptocurrency Markets Crashed By 50 Percent. What’s Next? Look out below? By Jen Wieczner our climate May 20, 2021 Jack Dorsey Says Bitcoin Can Make the World Greener. Could He Be Right? There’s a heated discussion going on over this question — and Elon Musk has staked out both sides. By Jen Wieczner the money game May 13, 2021 A Bitcoin Billionaire on When to 