# Bingo Cash Review

**Source**: https://financebuzz.com/bingo-cash-review?ref=wheresyoured.at
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:19:26.232126+00:00

---

Bingo Cash Review [2025]: We Earned $10+ | FinanceBuzz Credit Cards Auto Insurance Bank Accounts Investing Debt &amp; Credit Help Make Money More Back Credit Cards Find Your Card Best Credit Cards of 2025 Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Cashback Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best Business Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best 0% Intro APR Credit Cards Best Student Credit Cards Comparisons Chase Ink vs Capital One Spark Venture X vs Amex Platinum Autograph vs Active Cash Freedom vs Freedom Unlimited Simplicity vs Double Cash Sapphire Preferred vs Reserve Chase Ink Cards Comparison Guides Getting Your First Credit Card Best Credit Cards for Teens Cash Back vs Miles No-Annual-Fee Cash Back Cards Best Credit Cards for Gas Best Credit Cards for Groceries Best Travel Cards for Beginners More in Credit Cards > Back Auto Insurance Save on Car Insurance Get a Free Quote Best Car Insurance How to Save Money on Car Insurance Lower Your Car Insurance How to Switch Car Insurance Bundling Home & Auto Insurance Other Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Car Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Pet Insurance More in Insurance Guides How Life Insurance Works How Much Life Insurance You Need Medicare Open Enrollment Guide Is Pet Insurance Worth It? More in Auto Insurance > Back Bank Accounts Compare Banks Best Banks Best Savings Accounts Best Paycheck Advance Apps Best Brick and Mortar Banks Bank Promos No Direct Deposit Best Banks for Millennials No Credit Check Banks Early Direct Deposit Banks Reviews & Comparisons Amex Savings Review Chime Review Sofi Bank Review Discover Checking Review Barclays Savings Review Online Banks Like Chime GoHenry vs Greenlight for Kids Guides What is a High-Yield Savings Account? Banks With No International ATM Fees How Online Savings Accounts Work Easy Bank Accounts to Open Online More in Bank Accounts > Back Investing Places to Invest Best Robo Advisors Best Online Brokers Best Investment Apps Reviews Stash Review Robinhood Review Masterworks Review Wealthfront Review Acorns Review Public Review SoFi Invest Review Betterment Review Merrill Edge Review Guides Real Estate Investing 101 Can You Lose More Than You Invest? What is Passive Income? What Financial Advisors Do How to Invest in Art More in Investing > Back Debt &amp; Credit Help Balance Transfers How Balance Transfers Work Citi Simplicity vs Diamond Preferred Wells Fargo Reflect Review High Limit Balance Transfer Cards Longest Balance Transfer Cards Debt Help Best Debt Consolidation Companies National Debt Relief vs Freedom Debt Relief Government Debt Relief Programs Debt Settlement Guide What is Debt Consolidation? Bankruptcy Guide Credit Score What's a Good Credit Score? Improve Your Credit Score Best Secured Credit Cards Best Credit Repair Companies Credit Repair 101 DIY Credit Repair More in Debt &amp; Credit Help > Back Make Money Side Hustles Best Side Hustles Best Weekend Side Jobs Best Survey Sites Get Paid to Type Get Paid to Watch Netflix Earn Money on Your IPhone Gaming Apps Legit Game Apps That Pay Bingo Cash Review Cash Giraffe Review Bingo Tour Review Mistplay Review Blackout Bingo Review Solitaire Cash Review Guides Legit Ways to Make Money How to Resell Best Sites for Remote Work Make $500 Fast Earn Passive Income Make $100 Per Day More in Make Money > Back More Retirement How to Save for Retirement Setting Up a 401(k) Grow Your 401(k) to $1 Million How Much to Save for Retirement Social Security and Taxes More in Retirement Saving & Spending Budgeting 101 Best Budgeting Apps Best Tax Software Rocket Money Review Rocket Money vs Quicken Simplifi Capital One Shopping Review Capital One Shopping vs Honey More in Saving & Spending Don't Miss Shopping and Deals News & Trending Travel Home & Auto Trending Stories 15 Legit Ways To Make Extra Cash -> How to Save on Car Insurance in 2025 -> Advertiser and Editorial Disclosures Make Money Gaming Apps Bingo Cash Review [2025]: My Experience Playing + Cashing Out Bingo Cash is a legit game that pays real money when you play bingo against other players and win. We tested it and earned $10 in real money. By Mindy Woodall Edited by Yahia Barakah, CEPF Updated Sept. 23, 2025 Fact checked This article was subjected to a comprehensive fact-checking process. Our professional fact-checkers verify article information against primary sources, reputable publishers, and experts in the field. Learn More 4.8 FinanceBuzz writers and editors score products and companies on a number of objective features as well as our expert editorial assessment. Our partners do not influence our ratings. Bingo Cash OUR VIEW Bingo Cash is an online bingo game that lets you compete against other players for cash prizes, or for free gems. This game has a bit of a learning curve, but once you get the hang of it, it’s really fun to play. Just know that I wouldn’t describe Bingo Cash as relaxing — it requires a lot of multitasking and keeps you on the edge of your seat. When I played Bingo Cash, I competed in 14 cash tournaments and made a total of $10 over the course of a single hour. But keep in mind that “profit” doesn’t account for the money I spent on entry fees, and I earned some money as bonus cash I couldn't cash out rather than real cash I could. Here's my honest take on the Bingo Cash app and why I recommend it over most other bingo games that pay real money. Pros Possible to win real cash prizes in tournaments Confirmed as legit by our team More fun and engaging to play than other bingo cash games Simple interface that's easy to use Cons Annoying pop-up promos Bingo Cash app not available in the Google Play store More complicated gameplay than some other apps How we evaluate products Gaming apps are a fun way to pass the time, but they can also be a great way to make extra income. We rate gaming apps based on payout options, the minimum redemption threshold, app store ratings, and how much fun they are to play. Is Bingo Cash legit? Bingo Cash is a legit game app that's free to download and pays real cash. It's not a scam, and I really did earn money and cash out when I tested it. But it does prompt you to deposit money to play in tournaments with cash prizes, which is part of the reason some people will claim it's not legit. That, and there's no guarantee you'll make money. There are a few ways to play Bingo Cash for free, including participating in gem tournaments without cash prizes and using bonus funds to cover entry fees for cash tournaments. The Bingo Cash app for iOS has more than 250,000 reviews on the App Store with an overall rating of 4.7 out of 5 stars. On the Samsung Galaxy Store, the Bingo Cash app scores 5 stars with over 32,000 ratings. It's one of the highest-rated online bingo games that pays real money. What is Bingo Cash? The Bingo Cash app is a mobile bingo game that pays real money when you win cash tournaments against other players, but it also offers free game modes and a few types of tournaments. Game 4.8 FinanceBuzz writers and editors score products and companies on a number of objective features as well as our expert editorial assessment. Our partners do not influence our ratings. Developer Papaya Gaming Compatible devices iOS, Android (Samsung) App ratings Apple App Store: 4.7/5 stars (226K+ reviews) Samsung Galaxy Store: 5/5 stars (29K+ reviews) Google Play Store: N/A Game modes Free-with-ad tournaments Cash tournaments Gem tournaments Clubs Minimum entry fee (for cash tournaments) $1 Minimum cash deposit $5 Minimum withdrawal amount $5 Withdrawal processing fee $1 Withdrawal methods PayPal (or as a refund to your original payment method) States that prohibit cash tournaments Arizona, Iowa, Louisiana, and South Carolina Download Bingo Cash How Bingo Cash works At first, Bingo Cash doesn't seem much different from a typical bingo game. You have a board with five columns of numbered squares with a free space in the middle. Colored balls labeled with a number and a letter come down a shoot on the upper right side and linger for a moment before moving left across the screen. It also has strategic elements like boosters to improve your chances of winning, and I'll share some tips for using those. Your job is to see if you have any numbers on your board that match the ball. If you do, you "daub" them by tapping them with your finger. The balls move pretty quickly, so you have to be fast. There are three ways to score a bingo: By daubing all the numbers in a straight line across the board By daubing all the numbers in a diagonal line across the board By daubing the numbers in each of the four corners on the board Tip I found it easiest to check the color/letter on the ball first and then look in that column for the number. It's faster than trying to scan your whole board at once, searching for a single number. When you get a bingo, you have to press the Bingo button in order to collect your points. You have one minute and 30 seconds to score as many points as possible, and the player with the highest score wins first place. What I learned playing Bingo Cash Bingo Cash is a popular cash bingo gaming app available on iOS and Samsung that offers tournaments where you can win real cash prizes. If you aren't on an iOS or Samsung device, check out this list of other legit games that pay real money to find one that works for you. Cash tournaments require an entry fee, but this game also lets you play for free using gems or free bonus cash. The Bingo Cash points system and booster options make this game a little tricky to learn at first, but I got the hang of it pretty quickly. If you win prizes, you can withdraw the cash via PayPal. But keep in mind there's a $5 withdrawal minimum, plus a $1 processing fee. My experience playing Bingo Cash I played Bingo Cash for over two hours and competed in 14 cash tournaments. I spent the first hour practicing getting better at the game using the gems tournaments you can play for free. I also had to get used