# Tv

**Source**: https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/c/tv/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:16:45.858638+00:00

---

TV | Hollywood Reporter Skip to main content Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to expand search form Got a tip? The Hollywood Reporter homepage Newsletters Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up site categories News Film TV Music Awards Lifestyle Business International Video Charts Lists Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Menu Click to expand search form The Hollywood Reporter homepage site categories News Film TV Music Awards Lifestyle Business International Video Charts Lists Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up TV optional screen reader Section Subcategories All Features News Reviews Videos TV Grace Van Patten Says Everything Is Out in the Open After Amanda Knox Finale, Teases &#8216;Tell Me Lies&#8217; 'The Twisted Tale of Amanda Knox' ending featured Patten as Knox revisiting the Italian home where her former roommate was murdered, and a final scene that turns the camera back on the audience. By Jackie Strause TV Eric Dane Explains Why He Was Absent at Emmys Despite Planned ‘Grey’s Anatomy’s’ Tribute The actor revealed in April he was diagnosed with ALS. He was slated to announce the winner for directing drama series alongside his former co-star Jesse Williams. By McKinley Franklin , Lexi Carson TV Lisa Kudrow&#8217;s ‘The Comeback’ Final Season Adds John Early, Abbi Jacobson In all, seven guest stars have boarded the HBO comedy&#039;s third cycle, including Barry Shabaka Henley, Tony Macht, Brittany O’Grady, Zane Phillips and Julian Stern. By Etan Vlessing TV ‘Scrubs’ Revival Adds Vanessa Bayer, Joel Kim Booster to Cast Robert Maschio, Phil Lewis, Ava Bunn, Jacob Dudman, David Gridley, Layla Mohammadi and Amanda Morrow are also scrubbing in as guest stars for the ABC sitcom reboot. By Etan Vlessing Latest TV &#8216;Chicago Fire&#8217; Boss, Star Christian Stolte Unpack Season 14 Premiere&#8217;s Repercussions "The theme of this season is Stories — the stories that are told to us, the stories that we tell ourselves and how that affects choices," says showrunner Andrea Newman. TV Features 8 hours ago By Demetrius Patterson New England Patriots vs. Buffalo Bills: How to Watch &#8216;Sunday Night Football&#8217; Without Cable Livestream the Patriots taking on the Bills for 'SNF' — here's everything you need to know about where to watch without a cable subscription. TV News 8 hours ago By Rudie Obias Kim Kardashian Heads to Fox Nation as Streamer Acquires U.S. Rights to ‘Elizabeth Taylor: Rebel Superstar’ The Fox streaming service will debut the docuseries, which premiered last year on the BBC, Monday. TV News 9 hours ago By Alex Weprin Patricia Routledge, Famed for Her Role in Beloved British Sitcom &#8216;Keeping Up Appearances,&#8217; Dies at 96 The actress, made a dame by Queen Elizabeth II in 2017, was best known as the snobbish social climber Hyacinth Bucket in Roy Clarke's hit show. TV News 9 hours ago By Lily Ford Jane Goodall &#8216;Famous Last Words&#8217; Doc Gets Posthumous Release on Netflix The late primatologist, in one of her last interviews, will kick off a docuseries about cultural icons discussing their life and legacy in words to be heard only after their death. TV News 9 hours ago By Etan Vlessing A YouTube Series About Retro Video Games May Be the Sweetest Ode From a Son to His Father Since ‘Big Fish’ Tyler Esposito’s ‘My Retro Life’ is about a lot more than just early Nintendo and Sega games. TV Features 10 hours ago By Tony Maglio The NHL Bets on Off the Ice Drama in Season 2 of &#8216;Faceoff&#8217; Docuseries The series, which takes viewers into the clubhouse and personal lives of stars and up-and-coming players, returns to Prime Video Friday. TV News 10 hours ago By Alex Weprin Golden Globes: Podcasts Eligible for New Best Podcast Award Revealed The winner will be announced during the awards ceremony on Jan. 11, 2026. TV News 22 hours ago By Carly Thomas Bad Bunny Is Right at Home Hosting &#8216;Saturday Night Live&#8217; in New Promos for Season 51 Premiere The newly announced Super Bowl halftime performer is set to return to the late night sketch comedy show after appearing in the show’s season 50 finale. TV News 24 hours ago By Nicole Fell Joshua Allen, Winner of &#8216;So You Think You Can Dance&#8217; Season 4, Dies at 36 Allen competed against fellow dancer Stephen “tWitch” Boss, who died in 2022, on the reality show. TV News 1 day ago By Carly Thomas Streaming Ratings: ‘The Paper,’ ‘NCIS: Tony and Ziva’ Debut on Charts ‘Wednesday’ reclaims the top overall ranking with the release of season two’s last four episodes. TV News 1 day ago By Rick Porter Netflix’s ‘Age of Innocence’ Limited Series Rounds Out Cast Fiona Glascott, Belinda Bromilow and Emma Shipp will be series regulars, and Hayley Mills and Jack Cutmore-Scott are among 11 actors taking supporting roles. TV News 1 day ago By Rick Porter More Stories Sign Up PMC Logo Most Popular Insider Claims Nicole Kidman &amp; Keith Urban's Separation Is 'One-Sided' Federal Judge Denies Motion to Dismiss by Kasseem ‘Swizz Beatz’ Dean in 1MDB Scandal Case NHL Franchise Valuations Ranking List: From Maple Leafs to Blue Jackets Audio Of Cardi B Going Off Over Ice Spice Surfaces Online: "I'mma Beat Her A**" You may also like NFL on Record Pace as TV/Streaming Windows Grow 8% to 20M Viewers 4 hours ago Nate Berkus Designed This $23 Million Turnkey Penthouse in New York’s Hudson Yards 2 days ago Sean “Diddy” Combs Sentenced To Just Over 4 Years In Prison On Prostitution Conviction 4 hours ago 50 Cent Celebrates Getting a Shout-Out From Taylor Swift on ‘The Life of a Showgirl’: ‘I’m Low Key a Swiftie Over Here’ 6 hours ago Subscriber Support Get the Magazine Customer Service Back Issues The Hollywood Reporter About Us Careers Contact Us Accessibility Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Follow Us Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram LinkedIn LinkedIn Threads Threads TikTok TikTok X X YouTube YouTube Newsletter Sign Up Sign Up Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip Sign Up Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Close the menu The Hollywood Reporter homepage Log In News Expand news menu Latest News Culture &amp; Politics LA Wildfires Obituaries LA/Local THR Investigates Film Expand film menu News Features Reviews Box Office Heat Vision TV Expand tv menu News Features Reviews Ratings Live Feed Heat Vision The Fien Print Music Expand music menu Music News Music Industry News Music Features Film and TV Music News Grammys K-Pop Country Music Awards Expand awards menu News Awards Chatter Podcast Feinberg Forecast Behind The Screen The Race THR Presents Oscar Season Hub Lifestyle Expand lifestyle menu Person of Interest News Style Shopping Arts Real Estate Rambling Reporter Business Expand business menu THR, Esq Report Features Unions / Labor Film / TV Tax Credits Signings / Representation THR Charts Expand thr-charts menu Weekly Streaming Ratings Chart Weekly Broadcast Ratings Chart Weekend Box Office Chart Weekly Broadway Grosses Chart More Essentials Expand more-essentials menu International News Video THR Podcasts Featured Voices Subscribe to Logo text Follow Us Follow THR on Facebook Follow THR on Instagram Follow THR on LinkedIn Follow THR on Threads Follow THR on TikTok Follow THR on X Follow THR on YouTube Alerts &amp; Newsletters Your Email Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. optional screen reader About Us Careers Contact Us Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. ad