# Isabella M Weber

**Source**: https://www.thenation.com/authors/isabella-m-weber/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:48:25.056169+00:00

---

Isabella M. Weber | The Nation --> Log In Email * Password * Remember Me Forgot Your Password? Log In New to The Nation ? Subscribe Print subscriber? Activate your online access Skip to content Skip to footer Magazine Newsletters Subscribe Log In Search Subscribe Donate Magazine Latest Archive Podcasts Newsletters Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts The Nation About Events Contact Us Advertise Current Issue Isabella M. Weber IsabellaMWeber Isabella M. Weber is an economist and the author of How China Escaped Shock Therapy . To Defeat the Far Right, We Must Adopt an Anti-Fascist Economic Policy To Defeat the Far Right, We Must Adopt an Anti-Fascist Economic Policy Opposition to the status quo must not be monopolized by the right-wing extremist visions of parties like Alternative für Deutschland. Feb 28, 2025 / Isabella M. Weber What Was the Biggest Factor in Kamala Harris’s Defeat? What Was the Biggest Factor in Kamala Harris’s Defeat? As progressives continue to debate the reasons for Harris's loss—it was the economy! it was the bigotry!—Isabella Weber and Elie Mystal duke out their opposing positions. Dec 13, 2024 / The Debate / Isabella M. Weber and Elie Mystal Ad Policy Ad Policy Ad Policy Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts OppArt Poetry Letters Magazine Current Issue Masthead Archive Subscription Services Reprints More About Us Contact Us Advertise Nation Events Nation Shop Nation Travels Nation Podcasts Newsletters Follow Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube RSS Founded by abolitionists in 1865, The Nation has long believed that independent journalism has the capacity to bring about a more democratic and equitable world. Donate Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility Statement Help Careers Nation Fund Privacy Manager x