# Developer Gets Prison Time For Sabotaging Former Employers Network With A Kill Switch

**Source**: https://techcrunch.com/2025/08/22/developer-gets-prison-time-for-sabotaging-former-employers-network-with-a-kill-switch/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:22:17.359092+00:00

---

Developer gets prison time for sabotaging former employer&#039;s network with a &#039;kill switch&#039; | TechCrunch TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps Disrupt 2025 Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech &amp; Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government &amp; Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media &amp; Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Crunchboard Contact Us In Brief Posted: 7:26 AM PDT · August 22, 2025 Image Credits: Rapeepong Puttakumwong / Getty Images Zack Whittaker Developer gets prison time for sabotaging former employer&#8217;s network with a &#8216;kill switch&#8217; A former software developer has been sentenced to four years in prison for sabotaging his former employer&#8217;s network after leaving the company. Davis Lu, 55, was convicted of installing a &#8220;kill switch&#8221; on the network of his former employer by planting malicious code designed to crash its servers in the event that he was fired. The kill switch was activated when the company terminated Lu&#8217;s employment and deactivated his credentials, causing the kill switch, &#8220;IsDLEnabledinAD&#8221; — referring to whether Lu&#8217;s account was still active in the company&#8217;s Active Directory. The incident locked out thousands of employees from accessing the company&#8217;s systems. The Justice Department, which prosecuted the case , said Lu&#8217;s employer, which was not named but reportedly was the power tech company Eaton, said the incident caused hundreds of thousands of dollars in damage. Lu was discovered in part through his internet search history, the Justice Department said, which included searches researching &#8220;methods to escalate privileges, hide processes, and rapidly delete files.&#8221; We&#8217;re always looking to evolve, and by providing some insight into your perspective and feedback into TechCrunch and our coverage and events, you can help us! Fill out&nbsp; this survey &nbsp;to let us know how we&#8217;re doing and get the chance to win a prize in return! Topics cyberattack , cybersecurity , In Brief , sabotage , Security October 27-29, 2025 San Francisco ONE-WEEK BUNDLE FLASH SALE Founder Bundle Offer: Land your investor and sharpen your pitch. Save 15% when you bring 4-9 founders. Investors Bundle Offer: Discover your next breakout startup. Save 20% when you bring 4-9 investors. Bundle offer ends October 3. Register Now Newsletters See More Subscribe for the industry’s biggest tech news TechCrunch Daily News Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. TechCrunch Mobility TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. Startups Weekly Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. StrictlyVC Provides movers and shakers with the info they need to start their day. No newsletters selected. Subscribe By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . Related Security Hacking group claims theft of 1 billion records from Salesforce customer databases Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai Zack Whittaker 10 hours ago Security Hackers are sending extortion emails to executives after claiming Oracle apps&#8217; data breach Zack Whittaker 1 day ago Security Oneleet raises $33M to shake up the world of security compliance Dominic-Madori Davis 1 day ago Latest in Security Security Hacking group claims theft of 1 billion records from Salesforce customer databases Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai Zack Whittaker 10 hours ago Security Hackers are sending extortion emails to executives after claiming Oracle apps&#8217; data breach Zack Whittaker 1 day ago TechCrunch Disrupt 2025 Last chance alert: Founder and Investor Bundle savings for TechCrunch Disrupt 2025 ends tomorrow TechCrunch Events 1 day ago X LinkedIn Facebook Instagram youTube Mastodon Threads Bluesky TechCrunch Staff Contact Us Advertise Crunchboard Jobs Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy RSS Terms of Use Code of Conduct H1-B Visa GPT Pulse Grok Steph Curry TechCrunch Disrupt Tech Layoffs ChatGPT © 2025 TechCrunch Media LLC.