# Is Day Care Bad For Kids Especially Well Off Kids.Html

**Source**: https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2019/05/is-day-care-bad-for-kids-especially-well-off-kids.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:55:32.370063+00:00

---

Is day care bad for kids, especially well-off kids? - Marginal REVOLUTION Toggle navigation About Marginal Revolution Categories Date Archives Our Books Our Textbook: Modern Principles of Economics Marginal Revolution University Search Search Thank-you! You've been successfully added to the Marginal Revolution email subscription list. Is day care bad for kids, especially well-off kids? by&nbsp;&nbsp; Tyler Cowen May 5, 2019 at 12:17 am in Data Source Education Exploiting admission thresholds to the Bologna daycare system, we show using RDD that one additional daycare month at age 0–2 reduces IQ by 0.5% (4.7% of a s.d.) at age8–14 in a relatively affluent population. The magnitude of this negative effect increases with family income. Similar negative impacts are found for personality traits. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis from psychology that children in daycare experience fewer one-to-one interactions with adults, with negative effects in families where such interactions are of higher quality. We embed this hypothesis in a model that lends structure to our RDD. Here is the forthcoming JPE article by Margherita Fort, Andrea Ichino and Giulio Zanella . And here are various ungated versions . (Do any of you have the links handy for other papers with similar results? They do exist.) Quick quiz, we should: a. Subsidize day care heavily b. Not subsidize day care, or c. Wait and see until more evidence is in. Who is passing and failing this quiz? How about you? 128 Comments Facebook Twitter RSS Feed print Comments Sort by Top Sort by Recent Sort by Controversial Comments for this post are closed Marginal Revolution University See Courses Learn more about Mercatus Center Fellowships Learn More Subscribe via Email Enter your email address to subscribe to updates. Email Address Subscribe RSS Feed Contact Us Alex Tabarrok Email Alex Follow @atabarrok Tyler Cowen Email Tyler Follow @tylercowen Webmaster Report an issue Blogs We Like Interesting People & Sites Our Web Pages Alex Tabarrok's Home Page Alex's TED talk, how ideas trump crises Conversations with Tyler FDAReview.org Tyler Cowen's Personal Web Page Tyler's ethnic dining guide Apply to Emergent Ventures Books Modern Principles of Economics Tyler Cowen & Alexander Tabarrok Marginal Revolution 2025 About Marginal Revolution Categories Date Archives Our Books Our Textbook: Modern Principles of Economics Marginal Revolution University Facebook Twitter RSS Feed Marginal Revolution University See Courses Search Search Privacy Policy Marginal Revolution 2025