# The Best Performing Ceos In The World

**Source**: https://hbr.org/2014/11/the-best-performing-ceos-in-the-world
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:48:29.702564+00:00

---

The Best-Performing CEOs in the World SKIP TO CONTENT Harvard Business Review Logo Harvard Business Review Logo Leadership | The Best-Performing CEOs in the World Subscribe Sign In Latest Magazine Topics Podcasts Store Data &amp; Visuals Case Selections HBR Executive Search hbr.org CLEAR Subscribe Latest Podcasts The Magazine Store Webinars Newsletters All Topics The Big Idea Data &amp; Visuals Case Selections HBR Executive My Library Account Settings Sign In Explore HBR Latest The Magazine Podcasts Store Webinars Newsletters Popular Topics Managing Yourself Leadership Strategy Managing Teams Gender Innovation Work-life Balance All Topics For Subscribers The Big Idea Data &amp; Visuals Case Selections HBR Executive Subscribe My Account My Library Topic Feeds Orders Account Settings Email Preferences Sign In Harvard Business Review Logo Leadership The Best-Performing CEOs in the World The knock on most business leaders is that they don’t take the long view—that they’re fixated on achieving short-term goals to lift their pay. So which global CEOs actually delivered solid results over the long run? Our 2014 list of top performers provides an objective answer. Adi Ignatius A few years ago I sat down […] by HBR Editors From the Magazine (November 2014) Summary . Leer en español Ler em português Post Post Share Save Buy Copies Print The knock on most business leaders is that they don’t take the long view—that they’re fixated on achieving short-term goals to lift their pay. So which global CEOs actually delivered solid results over the long run? Our 2014 list of top performers provides an objective answer. A few years ago I sat down with Starbucks founder Howard Schultz in his Seattle office to discuss the challenges of being a CEO. At one stage I asked whether he felt there was a disconnect between the person he would like to be and the persona he needs to project while running a public company. Serving as a CEO, he said, “has been difficult—and lonely.” Yet he’d found that it was indeed possible to be values-driven while also winning Wall Street’s respect. “But the only ingredient that works in this environment is performance—so we have to perform.” Read more on Leadership or related topics International business and Business management A version of this article appeared in the November 2014 issue of Harvard Business Review. HBR Editors This story is by the staff at Harvard Business Review. Post Post Share Save Buy Copies Print Read more on Leadership or related topics International business and Business management Partner Center Start my subscription! Explore HBR The Latest All Topics Magazine Archive The Big Idea Case Selections HBR Executive Podcasts Webinars Data &amp; Visuals My Library Newsletters HBR Press HBR Store Article Reprints Books Cases Collections Magazine Issues HBR Guide Series HBR 20-Minute Managers HBR Emotional Intelligence Series HBR Must Reads Tools About HBR Contact Us Advertise with Us Information for Booksellers/Retailers Masthead Global Editions Media Inquiries Guidelines for Authors HBR Analytic Services Copyright Permissions Accessibility Digital Accessibility Manage My Account My Library Topic Feeds Orders Account Settings Email Preferences Account FAQ Help Center Contact Customer Service Explore HBR The Latest All Topics Magazine Archive The Big Idea Case Selections HBR Executive Podcasts Webinars Data &amp; Visuals My Library Newsletters HBR Press HBR Store Article Reprints Books Cases Collections Magazine Issues HBR Guide Series HBR 20-Minute Managers HBR Emotional Intelligence Series HBR Must Reads Tools About HBR Contact Us Advertise with Us Information for Booksellers/Retailers Masthead Global Editions Media Inquiries Guidelines for Authors HBR Analytic Services Copyright Permissions Accessibility Digital Accessibility Manage My Account My Library Topic Feeds Orders Account Settings Email Preferences Account FAQ Help Center Contact Customer Service Follow HBR Facebook X Corp. LinkedIn Instagram Your Newsreader Harvard Business Review Logo About Us Careers Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Copyright Information Trademark Policy Terms of Use Harvard Business Publishing: Higher Education Corporate Learning Harvard Business Review Harvard Business School Copyright © 2025 Harvard Business School Publishing. All rights reserved. Harvard Business Publishing is an affiliate of Harvard Business School.