# Naomi Klein On Israels Doppelganger Politics

**Source**: https://jewishcurrents.org/naomi-klein-on-israels-doppelganger-politics
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:50:16.596146+00:00

---

Naomi Klein on Israel’s “Doppelganger Politics” Skip to content Articles Magazine Membership Subscribe Donate Log In Account Log Out Open main menu Articles Magazine Membership Subscribe Donate About Submissions Podcast Newsletter Careers Events Shop Retailers Contact Institutions Log In Account Log Out You should follow us on Twitter or Instagram . And listen to our podcast . Podcast / On the Nose On the Nose is our biweekly podcast. The editorial staff discusses the politics, culture, and questions that animate today’s Jewish left. Listen Now iTunes Google Podcasts Spotify RSS Feed Naomi Klein on Israel’s “Doppelganger Politics” 15 15 Duration 0:00 / 52:09 Published November 16, 2023 In her new book, Doppelganger: A Trip Into the Mirror World , leftist public intellectual Naomi Klein argues that the phenomenon of “doubling”—of the self or a collective, whether adopted or imposed—shapes the politics of our time. Klein’s frequent confusion with the feminist-writer-turned-Covid-conspiracy-theorist Naomi Wolf provides the jumping-off point for a journey through internet culture, vaccine conspiracism, the wellness world, eugenics, and contemporary dynamics around settler colonial denialism, as she explores the way that “doubling” structures what we see and don’t want to see, what we project and what we hide. The book culminates in an extended discussion of Israel/Palestine, which Klein reveals to be a potent site of such “doppelganger politics,” as the scholar Caroline Rooney has put it, in which Israel has created its own “double” of the European nationalism that has oppressed so many Jews, and which allows it to project everything it cannot bear to see about itself onto the Palestinian Other. In this episode of On the Nose , editor-in-chief Arielle Angel speaks with Klein about her book and its relation to the present crisis: How can the figure of the doppelganger help us understand the long history that is erupting in the present—both the Holocaust and the Nakba—in ways that can move us toward justice and solidarity? And how can the left adequately respond to this moment—on campus, on the page, and in the streets? Thanks to Jesse Brenneman for producing and to Nathan Salsburg for the use of his song “VIII (All That Were Calculated Have Passed).” To leave a voicemail for our upcoming episode about talking to your families in this moment, please call 347-878-1359. Books, Films, and Articles Mentioned and Further Reading: Doppelganger: A Trip Into the Mirror World by Naomi Klein Discourse on Colonialism by Aimé Césaire They Do Not Exist , 1974 film by Mustafa Abu Ali Repression of Students for Justice in Palestine at Brandeis and Columbia and in the state of Florida “ Light Among the Nations ,” Suzanne Schneider, Jewish Currents Transcript Arielle Angel: Before we get to this week’s episode, we wanted to ask for your help. We received this letter recently: “In almost every conversation I have with young Jews on the left, I find that we are all currently struggling with the same question: What do we do with our families? How do we relate to our parents and grandparents or relatives who are supportive of and complicit in pogroms and genocide? These conversations are feeling fruitless. I’m going home this weekend to visit my family and don’t know what I’ll do.” As we approach Thanksgiving, we know this question is weighing on many of you, as it does on many of us. We plan to talk about it, but we need your help. In a collaboration with the podcast Unsettled , we’re collecting your stories of how you’re navigating conversations with your families, friends, and communities in this moment. What has struck you most in these interactions and conversations about politics? What has worked in getting through to your loved ones, and what hasn’t? How are you managing these relationships or coping with your feelings about them? Does this feel similar to political arguments you’ve had in the past, or like an entirely new challenge? To tell us about this, we hope you’ll leave us a voicemail at 347-878-1359. That’s 347-878-1359. We’ll also put the number in the show notes for this episode. Please include your first name and location (or neither, if you wish to remain completely anonymous). We’ll be taking messages on this subject until Tuesday, November 28, and we’ll play and talk through a selection of these messages in a post-Thanksgiving episode of On the Nose . Hang in there, everyone. Hello, and welcome back to On the Nose , the Jewish Currents podcast. I’m here with Naomi Klein, author of many, many books, including No Logo , Shock Doctrine , This Changes Everything , and, most recently, a book called Doppelganger , which we are going to talk about today. And I’m very excited to have Naomi on the show. Hi, Naomi. Naomi Klein: Hi, Arielle. Nice to see you. AA: First of all, I want to tell the readers, if they haven’t read the book, or heard anything about the book, that this would seem, maybe, a strange time to talk to Naomi Klein about this book considering everything that’s going on in the world. But it actually builds towards an analysis of what is happening in Israel/Palestine. I read the book before October 7, and as I was revisiting it for this conversation, I was underlining completely different parts, actually, as I’m in this experience of working through the aftermath of that within Jewish Currents . So, I’m really excited to talk to you about all of this. Maybe just to orient us, the thread running through this book is your frequent confusion with the feminist author-turned-COVID conspiracy theorist, Naomi Wolf, but it’s really kind of a theory of everything, in a certain way; it moves from internet culture, to vaccine denialism, to wellness culture, to eugenics, Israel/Palestine, to illuminate what you call doppelganger politics and how that structures the political impasses we’re facing. So, I wanted to ask you first: What are the characteristics of this kind of doppelganger politics? NK: Yeah, the book—I feel like I’ve had to say this lots of times, but it’s not about my doppelganger. It is about ways in which we double ourselves and other people double us, both as individuals and collectives. So, a double could be the way you create an online avatar of yourself to represent you to the world, which is a kind of a partitioning of the self, a performing of the self, which often includes an act of projection of the unwanted self onto the double, and a kind of abject double. This is why I think doppelgangers recur so often in the history of literature and film—they’re a helpful tool to understand the self, the parts of the self we want to be, and the parts of the self we cannot bear and that we project onto the other. So, some doubles we create ourselves knowingly, and some doubles are created by others and projected onto us. The term doppelganger politics is actually a quote from Caroline Rooney. She’s a professor of African and Middle Eastern Studies at the University of Kent, and she describes Israeli politics as doppelganger politics, which she unpacks in two ways. She looks at the way Zionism created a doppelganger of the forms of European nationalism that had targeted and othered Jews, often creating a rocket fuel for the Zionist argument, the idea that you have to have your own nationalist project to fight back. But then, she also looks at doppelganger politics as the way in which Zionism projects everything that it cannot bear to see about itself onto the Palestinian other. AA: I was really struck in the first two thirds of the book, thinking about this structure as a way of also thinking about the political polarization that has happened in the United States and the ways in which things that liberal America has ignored-—the kind of Steve Bannon outrage machine—is picked up and sold back to a group of people who consider themselves to be not served by the liberal narrative. Quote: “Once an issue is touched by ‘them,’ it seems to become oddly untouchable by almost everyone else. And what mainstream liberals ignore and neglect, this emerging alliance lavishes with attention. It’s as if when something becomes an issue in the mirror world, it automatically ceases to matter everywhere else.” NK: Yeah, I’m trying to put my finger on this strange mirror dance that I saw going on. For me in the book, Wolf acts as a kind of white rabbit in Alice in Wonderland, like to try to understand and map this new world that she has chosen for herself—that has chosen her—in which she is a real star. You know, I think one of the things that happens in liberal and left circles is once somebody is exiled, or canceled, or whatever you want to call it—that happened to Wolf.. She became a laughingstock, she had a book pulped, it was over for her in the audiences she used to rely on, right? She was a prominent third-wave feminist, she was a Democratic Party advisor, and then things just went off the rails. And so, she faced a choice: Whether to have an entirely different career that didn’t involve writing, or to turn to people who didn’t care as much about facts, really liked conspiracy theories, really liked the idea of having a prominent Democrat feminist on their team that they could use to claim that their project is not the usual, far-right project but something new and different. And that’s the role that these kinds of crossover stars play for people like Tucker Carlson and Steve Bannon. And so, she made that choice. And she took the star turn where she was suddenly on Steve Bannon’s show (every day, for a while, she’s practically a cohost at different points). And people in our circles tend to believe she no longer exists because she has been ejected from the circles and the publications and the platforms that we read. The algorithms probably no longer serve us up her outrageous tweets. So, the more I listened to the shows where she became a regular, the more I was really struck by the way they were this direct replica, like a