# Disney Chief Diversity Officer Latondra Newton Exit 1235520318

**Source**: https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/business/business-news/disney-chief-diversity-officer-latondra-newton-exit-1235520318/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:50:36.315299+00:00

---

Disney&#039;s Chief Diversity Officer Latondra Newton to Exit Skip to main content Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to expand search form Got a tip? The Hollywood Reporter homepage Newsletters Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up site categories News Film TV Music Awards Lifestyle Business International Video Charts Lists Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Menu Click to expand search form The Hollywood Reporter homepage Read Next: Sean &#8220;Diddy&#8221; Combs Sentenced to Four Years, Two Months in Prison Over Mann Act Violations Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up Home Business Business News Disney&#8217;s Chief Diversity Officer Latondra Newton Departs The executive, who joined the studio in 2017 from Toyota, is said to be leaving to "pursue other endeavors." By Erik Hayden Plus Icon Erik Hayden Executive Editor, Business Erik_Hayden Follow Sign Up More Stories by Erik Media Trust Hits New Low, But One Detail Gets Overlooked Donald Trump Tries Movie Tariff Saber-Rattling Again America&#8217;s Most Trusted News Anchors in the Trump Era Are &#8230; View All June 20, 2023 6:04pm Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Latondra Newton Getty Images Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Disney &#8216;s chief diversity officer is leaving the entertainment conglomerate after a six-year run. Latondra Newton, who joined the Burbank-based studio in Feb. 2017 after leading Toyota&#8217;s inclusion efforts, is leaving Disney &#8220;to pursue other endeavors,&#8221; wrote chief human resources officer Sonia Coleman in a memo on Tuesday. Newton is said to be joining another corporate board as she steps away from Disney. A search for a new chief of diversity, inclusion and equity efforts is set to begin. Related Stories Business Does Sora 2 Come to Hollywood in Peace -- Or to Leave It in Pieces? Business Did Kimmel Cancellations Hit Disney+? There Might Be an Impact, But Don&#039;t Bet on Seeing It The executive&#8217;s tenure at Disney ran concurrent to Hollywood&#8217;s increasing (and halting) efforts to amplify representation in the industry onscreen and off. Newton presided over Disney&#8217;s DEI initiatives in coordination with executives throughout the company. After the murder of George Floyd in May 2020, the exec was one of three names &mdash; along with then-CEO Bob Chapek and Bob Iger &mdash;&nbsp;signing a letter to employees titled &#8220;Resolve in a Time of Unrest&#8221; and pledging &#8220;to bring about real change.&#8221; Shortly after, Disney donated $5 million to the NAACP and social justice organizations and, after announcing the effort in 2020, launched a platform, Reimagine Tomorrow, to amplify representation and track DEI updates. The company directed $140 million in charitable giving to underrepresented communities in fiscal year 2022, among multiple other DEI efforts. The exit is the latest departure for the leadership team at Disney following last November&#8217;s shake-up that saw the ouster of Chapek and the return of Iger. The company has been in reorganization mode this year as Iger consolidates divisions&nbsp;and presides over cost-cuts and pink slips for 7,000 workers. On June 15, CFO Christine McCarthy, who had been at the studio for more than two decades, disclosed that she would be taking family medical leave and departing the role. The full memo from Coleman on Tuesday is below ( Variety earlier reported the exit): To our extended DEI and HR&nbsp;team,&nbsp; I&rsquo;m writing to share the news that Latondra Newton has decided to leave The Walt Disney Company to pursue other endeavors.&nbsp; &nbsp; Since joining the company in 2017, Latondra has led the company&rsquo;s strategic diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives, including partnering with stakeholders across the enterprise to amplify stories of the world by people around the world. She has been dedicated to ensuring every person sees themselves and their life experiences represented in a meaningful and authentic way.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I know you all join me in thanking Latondra for her many contributions, including the lasting impact she has had on our employees and our culture. Working alongside all of you and so many others, she has inspired countless cast members and employees to bring about lasting change and to help create a world where we can all feel safe and we all belong.&nbsp;&nbsp; Latondra&rsquo;s direct reports will report to Julie Merges on an interim basis until a new DEI leader is identified. I want to thank Julie for leading this team along with her Talent Acquisition organization. Additionally, Shelby Curry and the DEI Internal Communications team will continue reporting to Carrie Brown in her role leading internal communications &amp; engagement for the company. &nbsp; Thank you all for your continued contributions to our DEI efforts. I know we can count on you to keep this important work moving forward during this leadership transition.&nbsp; Gratefully,&nbsp; Sonia&nbsp; Read More About: Disney THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe Sign Up More from The Hollywood Reporter YouTube TV YouTube TV Standoff With NBC Is a Warning Shot to the Industry Jimmy Kimmel Live! Brendan Carr to Testify Before Senate Commerce Committee Following Jimmy Kimmel Fracas wrapbook Wrapbook Hires Jeff Caruso as SVP of Studio Sales and Success (Exclusive) HBO Max CNN Live Stream to Be Pulled From HBO Max Next Month as News Channel Preps New Offering labor Commercial Production Workers Ratify First Union Contract YouTube TV NBCUniversal and YouTube TV Strike Carriage Deal, as Company Confirms New Cable Sports Channel The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter SEE MY OPTIONS Sign Up THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Email Address Subscribe Today Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Most Popular Taylor Swift’s &#8216;The Life of a Showgirl&#8217; Critic Reviews Mixed: &#8220;Hits All the Marks&#8221; vs. &#8220;Lacks Sparkle&#8221; By James Hibberd T-Mobile Offering Free iPhone 17 for Customers: Here&#8217;s How to Claim the Deal Online By Tim Chan Dave Chappelle Criticizes Free Speech in America at Saudi Arabia Comedy Festival By James Hibberd One Direction Stars Louis Tomlinson, Zayn Malik Have Reunited for Netflix Road Trip Series By Etan Vlessing Jason Statham Action-Thriller &#8216;Shelter&#8217; Lands January 2026 Release Date From Black Bear By Pamela McClintock Shopping With THR Fan-Made &#8216;Life of a Showgirl&#8217; Merch Streams in Almost as Fast as the Album Itself By Erin Lassner The Hollywood Insider&#8217;s Guide to Santa Fe, Capital of Tamalewood By Ingrid Schmidt Every Taylor Swift &#8216;The Life of a Showgirl&#8217; Vinyl, CD and Retailer-Exclusive Edition Currently Available By Erin Lassner Setting the Standard: How Satellite Helps Make T-Mobile the Best Network in America By Stephanie Tsai PMC Logo Most Popular Insider Claims Nicole Kidman &amp; Keith Urban's Separation Is 'One-Sided' Federal Judge Denies Motion to Dismiss by Kasseem ‘Swizz Beatz’ Dean in 1MDB Scandal Case NHL Franchise Valuations Ranking List: From Maple Leafs to Blue Jackets Audio Of Cardi B Going Off Over Ice Spice Surfaces Online: "I'mma Beat Her A**" You may also like NFL on Record Pace as TV/Streaming Windows Grow 8% to 20M Viewers 3 hours ago Nate Berkus Designed This $23 Million Turnkey Penthouse in New York’s Hudson Yards 2 days ago Sean “Diddy” Combs Sentenced To Just Over 4 Years In Prison On Prostitution Conviction 3 hours ago Backstreet’s Back… In Brazil: Backstreet Boys Talk AI, 25 Years of ‘Millennium’ &amp; Why ‘Brazil Is Our Second Home’ 6 hours ago Subscriber Support Get the Magazine Customer Service Back Issues The Hollywood Reporter About Us Careers Contact Us Accessibility Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Follow Us Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram LinkedIn LinkedIn Threads Threads TikTok TikTok X X YouTube YouTube Newsletter Sign Up Sign Up Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip Sign Up Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Close the menu The Hollywood Reporter homepage Log In News Expand news menu Latest News Culture &amp; Politics LA Wildfires Obituaries LA/Local THR Investigates Film Expand film menu News Features Reviews Box Office Heat Vision TV Expand tv menu News Features Re