# The Good Face The Halo And Projectability

**Source**: http://www.hardballtimes.com/main/blog_article/the-good-face-the-halo-and-projectability/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:31:11.699804+00:00

---

﻿ --> The good face, the halo, and projectability | The Hardball Times ​ ​ Sign In Support FanGraphs FanGraphs Membership FanGraphs Shirts FanGraphs Mugs Gift a Membership Donate to FanGraphs Fantasy Fantasy Tools Fantasy Player Rater Auction Calculator Ottoneu Fantasy Baseball Signup , FAQ , Blog Posts Blogs Blog Roll FanGraphs Podcasts: Effectively Wild FanGraphs Prospects RotoGraphs Podcasts: The Sleeper and The Bust | Field of Streams | Beat the Shift Community Research Archived Blogs: The Hardball Times | NotGraphs | TechGraphs | FanGraphs+ Archived THT: THT Live | Dispatch | Fantasy | ShysterBall Archived Podcasts: FanGraphs Audio | Chin Music | UMP: The Untitled McDongenhagen Project | Stealing Home | Doing It For Bartolo | OttoGraphs | Projections 2025 Pre-Season Projections ZiPS , ZiPS DC Steamer Depth Charts ATC THE BAT , THE BAT X OOPSY 2025 600 PA / 200 IP Projections Steamer600 , Steamer600 (Update) 2025 Updated In-Season Projections ZiPS (RoS) , ZiPS (Update) , ZiPS DC (RoS) Steamer (RoS) , Steamer (Update) Depth Charts (RoS) ATC DC (RoS) THE BAT (RoS) , THE BAT X (RoS) OOPSY DC (RoS) 3-Year Projections ZiPS 2026 , ZiPS 2027 On-Pace Leaders Every Game Played , Games Played % Cy Young Award Projections Auction Calculator Scores Today Live Scoreboard , Probable Pitchers Live Daily Leaderboards Win Probability &amp; Box Scores 2025 , 2024 , 2023 , 2022 , 2021 , 2020 , 2019 AL Games NL Games Standings 2025 Projected Standings 2025 Playoff Odds , Playoff Odds Graphs 2025 ZiPS Postseason Game-By-Game Odds AL East AL Central AL West NL East NL Central NL West Leaders Postseason Leaders Batting: 2025 , ( WCS ) , Career Pitching: 2025 , ( WCS ) , Career Major League Leaders Batting: 2025 , 2024 , 2023 , 2022 , 2021 , Career Pitching: 2025 , 2024 , 2023 , 2022 , 2021 , Career Fielding: 2025 , 2024 , 2023 , 2022 , 2021 , Career Major League Leaders - Rank Batting: Ranking Grid , Compare Players , Compare Stats Pitching: Ranking Grid , Compare Players , Compare Stats Splits Leaderboards Pitch-Type Splits Leaderboards Season Stat Grid Spring Training Leaders Batting: 2025 , 2024 , 2023 Pitching: 2025 , 2024 , 2023 KBO Leaders Batting , Pitching NPB Leaders Batting , Pitching Minor League Leaders AAA: International League , Pacific Coast League AA: Eastern League , Southern League , Texas League A+: Midwest League , South Atlantic League , Northwest League A: California League , Carolina League , Florida State League CPX: Arizona , Florida R: Dominican Summer League College Leaders Batting , Pitching WAR Tools Combined WAR Leaderboards WAR Graphs WPA Tools WPA Inquirer Rookie Leaders Batters 2025 , Pitchers 2025 Splits Leaders Batters: vs L , vs R , Home , Away Pitchers: vs L , vs R , Home , Away Teams Team Batting Stats 2025 , 2024 , 2023 , 2022 , 2021 , 2020 Team Pitching Stats 2025 , 2024 , 2023 , 2022 , 2021 , 2020 Team WAR Totals (RoS) AL East Blue Jays | DC Orioles | DC Rays | DC Red Sox | DC Yankees | DC AL Central Guardians | DC Royals | DC Tigers | DC Twins | DC White Sox | DC AL West Angels | DC Astros | DC Athletics | DC Mariners | DC Rangers | DC NL East Braves | DC Marlins | DC Mets | DC Nationals | DC Phillies | DC NL Central Brewers | DC Cardinals | DC Cubs | DC Pirates | DC Reds | DC NL West D-backs | DC Dodgers | DC Giants | DC Padres | DC Rockies | DC Positional Depth Charts Batters: C , 1B , 2B , SS , 3B , LF , CF , RF , DH Pitchers: SP , RP RosterResource Current Depth Charts AL East Blue Jays Orioles Rays Red Sox Yankees AL Central Guardians Royals Tigers Twins White Sox AL West Angels Astros Athletics Mariners Rangers NL East Braves Marlins Mets Nationals Phillies NL Central Brewers Cardinals Cubs Pirates Reds NL West D-backs Dodgers Giants Padres Rockies In-Season Tools 2025 Closer Depth Chart 2025 Injury Report 2025 Payroll Pages 2025 Transaction Tracker 2025 Schedule Grid 2025 Probables Grid 2025 Lineup Tracker 2025 Minor League Power Rankings Offseason Tools 2025 Free Agent Tracker 2025 Offseason Tracker 2025 Opening Day Tracker Prospects Prospects Home The Board The Board: Scouting + Stats! How To Use The Board: A Tutorial Farm System Rankings Top Prospects List 2025 2024 AL BAL CHW ATH BOS CLE HOU NYY DET LAA TBR KCR SEA TOR MIN TEX NL ATL CHC ARI MIA CIN COL NYM MIL LAD PHI PIT SDP WSN STL SFG 2025 Preseason Top 100 Glossary Library Batting Stats wOBA , wRC+ , ISO , K% &amp; BB% , more... Pitching Stats FIP , xFIP , BABIP , K/9 &amp; BB/9 , more... Defensive Stats UZR Primer , DRS , FSR , TZ &amp; TZL , more... More WAR , UBR Primer , WPA , LI , Clutch Guts! Seasonal Constants Park Factors Park Factors by Handedness Sign In The good face, the halo, and projectability by David Wade September 5, 2010 Not long ago, Ken Funck got it on, and then went on to earn a spot contributing at Baseball Prospectus due in part to his entry in the &#8220;BP Idol Contest&#8221; about one of the subjective measures that baseball scouts use . While I&#8217;m not going down the same avenue Ken chose, I do find myself interested in the same topic. Like many a young (or not so young, as in my case) baseball blogger, Michael Lewis&#8217; Moneyball nudged me toward a more cold and calculating approach to baseball analysis and strategy. With conventional strategy questioned, I started to look at the game of baseball a little differently and felt I could learn a lot more about it than I already knew. Due to that belief, and with sabremetric writings as my bible, my contempt for most sacrifice bunts and intentional walks sprang forth like the Temperance Movement&#8217;s hatred of alcohol. It&#8217;s likely that it grew in some part from the statistical approach to baseball glorified in Moneyball . But, one thing that I also took from the book was something the author portrayed in a negative light and that served as the antithesis to statistical analysis. And, even if there wasn&#8217;t a backdrop of statistical analysis, the absurdity this topic would have still stuck with me. That was &#8216;The Good Face&#8217;. The primary theme in Moneyball is the identification of market inefficiencies in Major League Baseball and it makes sense that the author would analyze economic differences and strategies between baseball organizations. Lewis is a former big market trader that turned writing talent into his first book, Liar&#8217;s Poker , which highlighted his experiences on Wall Street during the 1980s. With his economic eye on the market of baseball, Lewis focused in on Oakland G.M. Billy Beane &#8217;s willingness to value some statistical analysis over traditional scouting. As almost everyone knows by now, Beane&#8217;s inner circle felt most organizations undervalued On Base Percentage and chose to target less expensive players that did well in that category as one way to build up his team in a cost effective manner. In the narrative, Lewis wanted his readers to understand why his main character chose to turn away from conventional scouting methods. He used Beane&#8217;s personal backstory to demonstrate. Beane, a highly regarded player as a youth, had held all the traits that old-school baseball scouts loved. His speed and build jumped out at them and promised unlimited potential. However, despite his abundant tools, he failed as a professional. This, as the story goes, prompted him to lose faith in the idea that traditional tools are the true indicators of future baseball success. So, when Beane found himself evaluating other young players as General Manager of the A&#8217;s, he downplayed scouting and opened his mind to something more tangible. One of the old-school physical traits that Lewis wrote about Beane possessing as a youth, and presumably despising due to a bit of self-loathing, was &#8216;the Good Face&#8217;. From the book- &#8220;Beneath an unruly mop of dark brown hair the boy had the sharp features the scouts loved. Some of the scouts still believed they could tell by the structure of a young man&#8217;s face not only his character but his future in pro ball. They had a phrase they used: &#8220;the Good Face.&#8221; Billy had the Good Face.&#8221; &#8216;Not only his character, but future as a ballplayer&#8217;? Because he had a certain look? A certain &#8216;structure&#8217; to his face? I knew scouts looked beyond traits such as arm strength and bat speed. I knew they looked at a player&#8217;s build and that tall lanky pitchers were the ideal. A kid that looked like he could put on 20 pounds of muscle pretty quick held more future promise than a kid that had already filled out. I knew that. But I had no idea they thought they could predict baseball abilities and character just by looking at a kid&#8217;s face. Is it absolutely ridiculous to propose a certain look could portend future baseball success? Given the incredible amount of statistical studies in baseball, it certainly seems that something like the &#8216;Good Face&#8217; would be as antiquated as a geocentric view of the universe. But then I thought about it a little more. Just like &#8220;Moneyball&#8221; prompted me to think about stats a little more, lately it&#8217;s had me thinking about something Lewis dismissed. And, I&#8217;m wondering if that was a mistake. Scouts have to identify players before they accumulate enough at-bats to use statistics to properly project a player&#8217;s career. That&#8217;s the nature of their job. They are in a constant race to discover a kid before someone else does. They go from school to school and watch kid after kid and cast judgments that could be worth millions of dollars on observational evidence gathered an hour at a time. That&#8217;s not to mention that having mounds of statistical data does not guarantee accurate projections for a coming year, even in established players. Statistical anomalies abound in proven players just this year. From an over performing Jose Bautista , to an under performing Carlos Lee . For scouts looking for someone that could become a proven player, projectio