# The World Is Choking On Digital Pollution

**Source**: https://washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january-february-march-2019/the-world-is-choking-on-digital-pollution/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:18:08.663049+00:00

---

The World Is Choking on Digital Pollution | Washington Monthly Close Donate Subscribe Search for: Search 2025 College Guide and Rankings Open dropdown menu About the College Guide and Rankings College Guide Past Issues Education Open dropdown menu Higher Education K-12 Higher Ed Q&#038;A Politics Open dropdown menu Russia&#8217;s War on Ukraine Law and Justice Protecting the Vote Economy Open dropdown menu Monopolized Economy Health Care Magazine Open dropdown menu Current Issue Past Issues Podcast Open dropdown menu Washington Monthly Podcast Politics Roundtable About Kukula Award Bluesky Page X Username Youtube Page Linkedin Page Instagram Page Washington Monthly’s 2024 College Guide and Rankings Magazine Current Issue Past Issues Education K-12 Higher Education Higher Ed Q&#038;A Politics Health Care Protecting the Vote Law and Justice The Monopolized Economy Economy Books About Advertise Contact Careers Privacy Policy Successes of Philanthropy Close Washington Monthly’s 2024 College Guide and Rankings Magazine Current Issue Past Issues Education K-12 Higher Education Higher Ed Q&#038;A Politics Health Care Protecting the Vote Law and Justice The Monopolized Economy Economy Books About Advertise Contact Careers Privacy Policy Successes of Philanthropy Skip to content Sections Bluesky Page X Username Youtube Page Linkedin Page Instagram Page Washington Monthly Donate Subscribe Open Search Search for: Search Menu 2025 College Guide and Rankings Open dropdown menu About the College Guide and Rankings College Guide Past Issues Education Open dropdown menu Higher Education K-12 Higher Ed Q&#038;A Politics Open dropdown menu Russia&#8217;s War on Ukraine Law and Justice Protecting the Vote Economy Open dropdown menu Monopolized Economy Health Care Magazine Open dropdown menu Current Issue Past Issues Podcast Open dropdown menu Washington Monthly Podcast Politics Roundtable About Kukula Award Posted in January/February/March 2019 , Magazine The World Is Choking on Digital Pollution Society figured out how to manage the waste produced by the Industrial Revolution. We must do the same thing with the Internet today. by Judy Estrin and Sam Gill January 13, 2019 January 9, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Credit: Nick Sirotich Tens of thousands of Londoners died of cholera from the 1830s to the 1860s. The causes were simple: mass quantities of human waste and industrial contaminants were pouring into the Thames, the central waterway of a city at the center of a rapidly industrializing world. The river gave off an odor so rank that Queen Victoria once had to cancel a leisurely boat ride. By the summer of 1858, Parliament couldn’t hold hearings due to the overwhelming stench coming through the windows. The problem was finally solved by a talented engineer and surveyor named Joseph Bazalgette, who designed and oversaw the construction of an industrial-scale, fully integrated sewer system. Once it was complete, London never suffered a major cholera outbreak again. London’s problem was not a new one for humanity. Natural and industrial waste is a fact of life. We start excreting in the womb and, despite all the inconveniences, keep at it for the rest of our lives. And, since at least the Promethean moment when we began to control fire, we’ve been contributing to human-generated emissions through advances intended to make our lives easier and more productive, often with little regard for the costs. As industrialization led to increased urbanization, the by-products of combined human activity grew to such levels that their effects could not be ignored. The metaphorical heart of the world’s industrial capital, the Thames was also the confluence of the effects of a changing society. “Near the bridges the feculence rolled up in clouds so dense that they were visible at the surface, even in water of this kind,” noted Michael Faraday, a British scientist now famous for his contributions to electromagnetism. &nbsp; Relief came from bringing together the threads needed to tackle this type of problem—studying the phenomenon, assigning responsibility, and committing to solutions big enough to match the scope of what was being faced. It started with the recognition that direct and indirect human waste was itself an industrial-scale problem. By the 1870s, governmental authorities were starting to give a more specific meaning to an older word: they started calling the various types of waste “pollution.” &nbsp; A problem without a name cannot command attention, understanding, or resources—three essential ingredients of change. Recognizing that at some threshold industrial waste ceases to be an individual problem and becomes a social problem—a problem we can name—has been crucial to our ability to manage it. From the Clean Air Act to the Paris Accords, we have debated the environmental costs of progress with participants from all corners of society: the companies that produce energy or industrial products; the scientists who study our environment and our behaviors; the officials we elect to represent us; and groups of concerned citizens who want to take a stand. The outcome of this debate is not predetermined. Sometimes, we take steps to restrain industrial externalities. Other times, we unleash them in the name of some other good. &nbsp; By the 1870s, governmental authorities were giving a more specific meaning to an old word: they called industrial waste “pollution.” Now, we are confronting new and alarming by-products of progress, and the stakes may be just as high. Now, we are confronting new and alarming by-products of progress, and the stakes for our planet may be just as high as they were during the Industrial Revolution. If the steam engine and blast furnace heralded our movement into the industrial age, computers and smartphones now signal our entry into the next age, one defined not by physical production but by the ease of services provided through the commercial internet. In this new age, names like Zuckerberg, Bezos, Brin, and Page are our new Carnegies, Rockefellers, and Fords. &nbsp; As always, progress has not been without a price. Like the factories of 200 years ago, digital advances have given rise to a pollution that is reducing the quality of our lives and the strength of our democracy. We manage what we choose to measure. It is time to name and measure not only the progress the information revolution has brought, but also the harm that has come with it. Until we do, we will never know which costs are worth bearing. ICYMI Why Andy Beshear Is a First-Tier Presidential Contender Measuring the Vibecession W e seem to be caught in an almost daily reckoning with the role of the internet in our society. This past March, Facebook lost $134 billion in market value over a matter of weeks after a scandal involving the misuse of user data by the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica. In August, several social media companies banned InfoWars, the conspiracy-mongering platform of right-wing commentator Alex Jones. Many applauded this decision, while others cried of a left-wing conspiracy afoot in the C-suites of largely California-based technology companies. Perhaps the most enduring political news story over the past two years has been whether Donald Trump and his campaign colluded with Russian efforts to influence the 2016 U.S. presidential election—efforts that almost exclusively targeted vulnerabilities in digital information services. Twitter, a website that started as a way to let friends know what you were up to, might now be used to help determine intent in a presidential obstruction of justice investigation. And that’s just in the realm of American politics. Facebook banned senior Myanmar military officials from the social network after a United Nations report accusing the regime of genocide against the Muslim Rohingya minority cited the platform’s role in fanning the flames of violence. The spread of hoaxes and false kidnapping allegations on Facebook and messaging application WhatsApp (which is owned by Facebook) was linked to ethnic violence, including lynchings, in India and Sri Lanka. Concerns about the potential addictiveness of on-demand, mobile technology have grown acute. A group of institutional investors pressured Apple to do something about the problem, pointing to studies showing technology’s negative impact on students’ ability to focus, as well as links between technology use and mental health issues. The Chinese government announced plans to control use of video games by children due to a rise in levels of nearsightedness. Former Facebook executive Chamath Palihapitiya described the mechanisms the company used to hold users’ attention as “short-term, dopamine-driven feedback loops we’ve created [that] are destroying how society works,” telling an audience at the Stanford Graduate School of Business that his own children “aren’t allowed to use that shit.” The feculence has become so dense that it is visible—and this is only what has floated to the top. &nbsp; For all the good the internet has produced, we are now grappling with effects of digital pollution that have become so potentially large that they implicate our collective well-being. We have moved beyond the point at which our anxieties about online services stem from individuals seeking to do harm—committing crimes, stashing child pornography, recruiting terrorists. We are now face-to-face with a system that is embedded in every structure of our lives and institutions, and that is itself shaping our society in ways that deeply impact our basic values. &nbsp; We are right to be concerned. Increased anxiety and fear, polarization, fragmentation of a shared context, and loss of trust are some of the most apparent impacts of digital pollution. Potenti