# The Death Of Local Radio

**Source**: https://washingtonmonthly.com/1999/04/01/the-death-of-local-radio/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:57:03.800790+00:00

---

The Death of Local Radio | Washington Monthly Close Donate Subscribe Search for: Search 2025 College Guide and Rankings Open dropdown menu About the College Guide and Rankings College Guide Past Issues Education Open dropdown menu Higher Education K-12 Higher Ed Q&#038;A Politics Open dropdown menu Russia&#8217;s War on Ukraine Law and Justice Protecting the Vote Economy Open dropdown menu Monopolized Economy Health Care Magazine Open dropdown menu Current Issue Past Issues Podcast Open dropdown menu Washington Monthly Podcast Politics Roundtable About Kukula Award Bluesky Page X Username Youtube Page Linkedin Page Instagram Page Washington Monthly’s 2024 College Guide and Rankings Magazine Current Issue Past Issues Education K-12 Higher Education Higher Ed Q&#038;A Politics Health Care Protecting the Vote Law and Justice The Monopolized Economy Economy Books About Advertise Contact Careers Privacy Policy Successes of Philanthropy Close Washington Monthly’s 2024 College Guide and Rankings Magazine Current Issue Past Issues Education K-12 Higher Education Higher Ed Q&#038;A Politics Health Care Protecting the Vote Law and Justice The Monopolized Economy Economy Books About Advertise Contact Careers Privacy Policy Successes of Philanthropy Skip to content Sections Bluesky Page X Username Youtube Page Linkedin Page Instagram Page Washington Monthly Donate Subscribe Open Search Search for: Search Menu 2025 College Guide and Rankings Open dropdown menu About the College Guide and Rankings College Guide Past Issues Education Open dropdown menu Higher Education K-12 Higher Ed Q&#038;A Politics Open dropdown menu Russia&#8217;s War on Ukraine Law and Justice Protecting the Vote Economy Open dropdown menu Monopolized Economy Health Care Magazine Open dropdown menu Current Issue Past Issues Podcast Open dropdown menu Washington Monthly Podcast Politics Roundtable About Kukula Award Posted in April 1999 , Magazine The Death of Local Radio In the last three years, corporate America has gobbled up much of the dial. But there&#8217;s a way to take it back. by Lydia Polgreen April 1, 1999 January 9, 2022 Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Credit: DT/Flickr The 1996 Telecommunications Act was one of the most lobbied bills in history. Telecom and media interests spent $34 million on campaign contributions for the 1995-96 election cycle—almost 40 percent more than the previous election. The Telecom Act was chock full of goodies for the industry, from cable TV to wireless phone service providers, from television stations to long distance telephone companies. The bill covered so much ground that the quiet but revolutionary changes it made to the rules governing the ownership of radio stations went practically unnoticed. Until 1996, a company could own no more than 40 radio stations nationwide, and no more than two AM and two FM stations in a market, regardless of the market’s size. The Telecom Act removed all restrictions on national ownership, and greatly relaxed the rules on how many stations a company could own in a particular market. In a big market, a company can now own as many as eight stations, and in smaller markets, between five and seven. In smaller cities, it is now possible for two companies to lock up the entire market. Predictably, these new rules triggered a feeding frenzy. One third of all radio stations in the United States have changed hands since 1996. In 1996 alone, 2045 radio stations were sold, for a total of $13.6 billion. Of the 4992 stations in the 268 ranked markets, almost half are now part a “superduopoly,” that is, they are owned by a company that has three or more stations in the market. In 1996 the top ten radio companies controlled only 600 or so radio stations. Today, the four biggest companies—Chancellor Media, Infinity Broadcasting, Clear Channel Communications, and Jacor Communications, which Clear Channel is currently buying—control nearly twice that number. If you live in a major market, chances are there isn’t an independent commercial radio station on your radio dial. There are 1,000 fewer station owners today than there were in 1995. The Bland Band What commercial radio broadcasters sought— and got—in the 1996 Telecom Act was the ability to create huge national media companies that could put radio on the national advertising map. They could pitch their stations to local and national advertisers alike. If Ford wants to sell cars in Cincinnati, it can deal exclusively with Jacor Communications, which controls eight stations in the city with a range of formats. It can target the 25-54-year-old soccer moms who might buy Aerostar minivans on Adult Contemporary station WVMX, tempt 18-35-year-old males with Mustangs on Rock station WEBN, and peddle Tauruses and Explorers to 35-54-year-old males on news/talk station WKRC. ICYMI Why Andy Beshear Is a First-Tier Presidential Contender Measuring the Vibecession Ohio-based Jacor was one of the earliest and most aggressive consolidators. In 1995 Jacor had 25 stations, by late 1996 it had 64 stations, and it currently owns 240 stations in 53 mid-sized markets. Pam Taylor, a spokesperson for Jacor, describes its operating strategy as a “hub and spoke” system: `At a small station in a small market, it costs a lot to have a live, local person on the air even 12 hours of the day. If you limit on-air live time to morning and afternoon drive, you can get the rest of the day’s programming from the hub.” New satellite and internet technology allows a technician at a small station literally to cut and paste bits of local news, weather and chatter into piped-in programming with a click of a mouse on a computer screen. Stations can even apply this technology to listener requests and call-in promotions, by simply clicking and dragging bits of dialogue into the appropriate places. The computer wizardry makes the broadcast seem local, and in many cases, it is hard for listeners to know they are hearing something shipped in from out of town. For listeners, the most important result of consolidation has been that playlists are strategically selected by teams of market researchers who often live and work hundreds of miles away from the people that will actually hear the music. What you hear has been carefully crafted to appeal to targeted demographic groups. “Jacor is nothing if not shameless in taking what works at one station and applying it to others,” says Pam Taylor. DJs at corporate stations have little discretion in what they play; it becomes unlikely that something new and untested will get on the airwaves. A recent story in The Washington Post showed a compelling link between the corporatization of post-deregulation radio and the greater difficulties facing new artists trying to get record deals and get their music played on radio stations. Changes in any realm are usually cause for nostalgia, and so it has been with radio deregulation. It is easy to forget that radio has always been in thrall to the top 40, and the notion of the mythic, music-loving DJ who plays whatever strikes his fancy is mostly fiction. But consolidation has made it even less likely that you’ll hear something new, different, or even slightly out of the ordinary. On an oldies station, probably the most heavily researched and systematized format in radio, you’ll hear the Beatles’ “Hey Jude” and “In My Life” practically every day, but more obscure songs like “I Need You” and “I’m Only Sleeping” get little or no play. , ` A small entrepreneur can take risks and push the envelope for his or her vision,” says Cheryl Leanza, deputy director of the Media Access Project, a public interest telecommunications law firm that advocates diversity in media. A publicly held media conglomerate simply cannot afford’ to take those kinds of risks—they have stockholders to please. Radio has always had to balance listeners’ desires with the need to deliver a predictable audience to advertisers. But it used to be the case that if listeners didn’t like what they heard on a station, if it was monotonous and repetitive, they could tune away. Now there is just less choice out there. The radio spectrum is a preciously limited and publicly owned commodity. There is only so much room on it, and the big companies intend to dominate as much of it as they can. The story of WAAI is a kind of parable for what has happened to small radio stations all over the country. An independently owned country music station based in the small town of Hurlock on the Eastern Shore of Maryland, WAAI employed five full-time announcers and a newsman, as well as a sales and management staff. The station broadcast live local programming from 5 a.m. to midnight. It was, by all accounts, a successful station–so successful that it turned a profit from the very first year it was in business. When consolidation came in 1996, WAAI found its carefully-built advertiser base in serious jeopardy. “Stations that were owned by companies that had big stations in Washington and Baltimore could afford to offer ads in their smaller markets at a fraction of what we could,” one staff member recalls. The corporate owned stations were squeezing WAAI in the local advertising market, while simultaneously pressuring the owners to sell the station. In 1997 the owners sold the station to MTS Broadcasting for close to $1 million, nearly twice its actual value. Not all small stations have sold out. But the Telecom Act drove station prices to lofty heights, putting them out of the reach of the typical entrepreneur and making it difficult for station owners to resist the financial pressures to sell. As a result, only the most dedicated local owners have survived. WDKX-FM, in Rochester, NY, has broadcast live, local programming 24 hours a day, seven days a week for the last 25 years