# Aws Anthropic Ai Public Cloud

**Source**: https://techmonitor.ai/technology/ai-and-automation/aws-anthropic-ai-public-cloud?ref=wheresyoured.at))-
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:59:55.535621+00:00

---

What the AWS Anthropic AI investment means for the cloud market TM Subscribe --> Sections Home Sectors Cybersecurity Digital economy AI and automation Big Tech Government Computing Hardware Silicon Cloud Data Centres Networks Quantum Leadership Digital Transformation Innovation Sustainability White Papers Companies A-Z White Papers Company Releases Events Newsletters About us Contact us Menu Search Sectors Sections Cybersecurity Digital economy Government Computing Hardware Leadership Latest Agentic AI needs stronger digital certificates How much digital sovereignty does the UK have left? TUI staff were drowning in HR processes. Here’s how they resurfaced. White Papers Sections Companies A-Z White Papers Company Releases Latest Suntory Beverage &#038; Food Gb&#038;i Osiąga 40–60% Oszczędności Energii Dzięki Modernizacji Systemu Pomp L’azienda Suntory Beverage &#038; Food Gb&#038;i Arriva A Risparmiare Tra Il 40-60% Di Energia Grazie Alla Nuova Versione Upgrade Del Sistema Di Pompaggio A Bosch India 65% Energiamegtakarítást Ért El A Hűtővíz-rendszereiben Events Newsletters Sectors Digital economy Left Right AI and automation Big Tech AI and automation What AWS&#8217;s big investment in AI lab Anthropic means for the public cloud market Amazon's cloud division thinks the deal will help it stay ahead of its rivals. Tech leaders could benefit from greater choice of AI models. Ryan Morrison September 27, 2023 Share this article Copy Link Share on X Share on Linkedin Share on Facebook Amazon will invest up to $4bn in AI lab Anthropic as part of a compute power deal. This will see the maker of the Claude chatbot train and deploy its future models using Trainium and Inferentia chips developed by Amazon&#8217;s cloud division, AWS . This could prove an important strategic move for the company as it looks to cement its position as the public cloud market leader and head off competition from Microsoft and Google, both of which have invested heavily in AI over recent months. Amazon says its partnership with Anthropic will allow enterprise customers to customise and fine-tune the Claude 2 model. (Photo by Koshiro K/Shutterstock) Anthropic described the deal, announced earlier this week, as a strategic partnership, combining the safe and steerable models built by the start-up with the secure and reliable infrastructure of AWS, the market leader in public cloud infrastructure . The exact nature of the investment isn’t clear but will see Amazon invest up to $4bn in the AI lab. This eclipses the $300m Google Cloud invested in Anthropic in 2022. As part of the deal, AWS will become Anthropic&#8217;s primary cloud provider for both model training and deployment. It was also driven in part by demand from AWS customers for access to Claude, with access further expanded through Amazon&#8217;s AI toolkit Bedrock .&nbsp; Secure model customisations and fine-tuning will made available for enterprise users of AWS, to allow companies to adapt the performance of the model to their needs and further train it on company knowledge to limit potentially harmful outputs.&nbsp; Having deep integration of a high-profile multi-modal AI model is vital for AWS as it looks to maintain its advantage in the cloud market over its closest rival, Microsoft Azure , which has a well-established partnership with OpenAI . Google, the third biggest player in public cloud, has its own extensive AI research and models.&nbsp; AWS is in a “react mode” and was likely caught off guard by the generative AI momentum, according to Sid Nag, vice-president for cloud services and technologies at Gartner. “AWS announced their own AI capability Amazon Bedrock a while ago in response to Microsoft’s investment in and partnership with Open AI and Google’s AI capabilities,&#8221; Nag said. &#8220;Subsequently, Oracle OCI recently announced a partnership with Cohere, so beyond Bedrock, AWS had to take it further with the Anthropic announcement.” Nag says he believes the model choice made by AWS with the Anthropic announcement &#8220;is a good thing&#8221;. He explained: &#8220;It isn’t an exclusive deal and AWS customers will still have access to a wide range of models from other providers, but the deal allows for tighter integration and higher levels of customisation.&#8221;&nbsp; The downside to a lack of exclusivity is that AWS has to find alternative differentiators. Azure has extremely tight integration with OpenAI and Google Cloud has its own models built by its UK-based AI lab DeepMind. Both hyperscalers also offer the same third-party models which are available through AWS Bedrock. Nag says the choice of chip is where AWS is creating a unique position for itself in a crowded market. “AWS is emphasising giving customers the widest choice of chips; CPU, GPU and custom with Trainium and Inferentia,&#8221; he says. &#8220;[This] is a differentiator for them.&#8221; Cloud providers differentiate on AI models Anthropic says of the partnership that organisations running on AWS will be able to use Claude 2, its current generation large language AI model , for a wide range of tasks. This includes dialogue and creative content generation, complex reasoning and detailed instructions. Claude 2 has a much larger context size than rivals, such as GPT-4 from OpenAI or Google’s PaLM model, meaning the amount of information it can store across a single chat is much larger. For GPT-4 it is up to 32,000 tokens, but for Claude 2 it is at 100,000 tokens. Roy Illsley, chief analyst at Omdia, told Tech Monitor every major infrastructure and cloud player will need to have some sort of offering it can claim as native. “I see a future where organisations will select the LLM based on how well it fits the use case they are building private models for,” he says. This is what Amazon is doing with Bedrock at the moment, adding near-native support for Claude 2 in addition to other choices. &#8220;Currently there are lots of LLMs and every cloud has one,&#8221; Illsley says. It is also a potentially important and cost-effective investment opportunity for AWS, especially as most of the expense will be in compute credits rather than cash. Steve Dickens, VP and practice leader at the Futurum Group described Amazon taking a stake in Anthropic as a “solid move” to secure both the workload on its platform and an equity stake in an important company. &#8220;The $4bn is most likely cloud credits which if you assume a 50% profit makes it only a $2bn actual investment,&#8221; he says. The collaboration around Inferentia and Trainium, the AWS custom AI chips, will be critical in the longer term, Dickens argues, as it ties into Amazon’s custom silicon strategy for AWS. As reported by Tech Monitor , the cloud hyperscaler is increasingly deploying custom silicon in its data centres . For Nigel Green, CEO of financial consultancy deVere Group, the trend of big tech companies buying into models and technologies built by AI labs is unlikely to slow down soon. “By doing so they can access advanced AI models and technologies without investing as much time and effort in internal research and development,” he says. “This allows them to stay at the forefront of AI innovation” and by incorporating the models into products and services they can offer more competitive solutions to their customers. “AI research is inherently risky, and not all projects lead to successful models,” Green says. “By diversifying their AI portfolio through acquisitions, the tech titans can spread the risk associated with AI development and increase the likelihood of success.” Read more: AWS adds new foundation AI models to Bedrock --> Sign up for our regular news round-up! Give your business an edge with our leading Tech Monitor Sign up Share this article Copy Link Share on X Share on Linkedin Share on Facebook Partner Content Ping Identity Arrow Electronics Trend Micro Illinois Process Equipment (IPE) More Relevant Comment Businesses can’t audit and insure their way to responsible AI Partner content Technology success is a team sport – highlights from DTX London 2025 Sponsored Enterprise IT Reinvented: Powering Intelligence with AI and Hybrid Cloud AI and automation Agentic AI needs stronger digital certificates Sign up for our weekly news round-up! Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights. close close Sign up to the newsletter: In Brief Your corporate email address --> Your corporate email address * First name * Last name * Company name * Job title * Industry * Academia &amp; Education Aerospace, Defense &amp; Security Agriculture Asset Management Automotive Banking &amp; Payments Chemicals Construction Consumer Foodservice Government, trade bodies and NGOs Health &amp; Fitness Hospitals &amp; Healthcare HR, Staffing &amp; Recruitment Insurance Investment Banking Legal Services Management Consulting Marketing &amp; Advertising Media &amp; Publishing Medical Devices Mining Oil &amp; Gas Packaging Pharmaceuticals Power &amp; Utilities Private Equity Real Estate Retail Sport Technology Telecom Transportation &amp; Logistics Travel, Tourism &amp; Hospitality Venture Capital Industry * Country * UK USA Afghanistan Åland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Democratic Republic of the Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Côte d"Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Eston