# Grit

**Source**: http://freakonomics.com/podcast/grit/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:39:22.157290+00:00

---

How to Get More Grit in Your Life - Freakonomics Podcasts Freakonomics Radio No Stupid Questions People I (Mostly) Admire The Economics of Everyday Things The Freakonomics Radio Book Club Special Series Older Shows Recommendations Live Events On the Radio Books Blog Subscription Shop About The Hosts The Team How to Listen FAQ JOBS Contact Search Search the Site Follow this show Follow on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pocket Casts YouTube Episode 246 How to Get More Grit in Your Life The psychologist Angela Duckworth argues that a person’s level of stick-to-itiveness is directly related to their level of success. No big surprise there. But grit, she says, isn’t something you’re born with — it can be learned. Here’s how. May 4, 2016 By Stephen J. Dubner Produced by: Christopher Werth Comments Share this episode Share via email Share on Facebook Tweet this LinkedIn Listen to this episode Listen on Apple Listen on Spotify Listen on Pocket Cast Listen on youtube Freakonomics Radio Network Newsletter Stay up-to-date on all our shows. We promise no spam. Episode Transcript Before we get into today’s show, there’s something I want to mention about our previous episode . It was called “How to Become Great at Just About Anything,” and it looked at how the key to expert performance is deliberate practice, even more than natural talent. And at the end of the show, we did a callout for volunteers who’d be willing to enroll in a deliberate-practice regimen to try to become excellent at whatever they’re passionate about. We were thinking about picking five or 10 volunteers and following their pursuit for a series of podcasts. (The place to write, if you’re interested, is radio@freakonomics.com .) The good news is that we were inundated with replies — more than 2,500 emails so far. People who want to become great at all kinds of musical pursuits and sports, but also language, coding, math, drawing, gaming, calligraphy, wood-carving, dog-training, documentary filmmaking — even podcasting! You name it, someone out there wants to get great at it. It is unbelievably inspiring to read all these emails. So that is the good news. The bad news is that … well, that we got 2,500 e-mails. Which means it’s going to take us a while to sort things through and come up with a plan. So, if you’ve written in, please be very, very patient. It also means that we’re only going to be able to accept a tiny share of the volunteers to be featured in the podcast, although, we are going to try to come up with a way for anyone who wants to build and follow their own deliberate-practice schedule. So, thanks for your overwhelming interest and enthusiasm and, as always, thanks for listening. OK, here’s today’s show: Srinath Mahankali is sitting on a sofa in his family’s living room in Queens, New York. He’s 12 years old. His father, Srinivas , is looking up dictionary words on a laptop, reading them aloud. SRINIVAS MAHANKALI: Chamois (sham-ee) or chamois (sham-wa)? SRINATH MAHANKALI: Chamois. May I have the language of origin please? SRINIVAS MAHANKALI: It’s Middle French from Late Latin. SRINATH MAHANKALI: Chamois. May I have the definition please? SRINIVAS MAHANKALI: A small goat-like antelope. You’ve probably figured out that Srinath is preparing for a spelling bee. Later this month, he will be competing in the Scripps National Spelling Bee , the Super Bowl of spelling bees. SRINATH MAHANKALI: Chamois. C-H-A-M-O-I-S. Chamois. SRINIVAS MAHANKALI: That’s right. Srinath is not the first great speller in his family. A few years ago, his older brother, Arvind , won the national spelling bee and the $30,000 prize. Arvind’s winning word: knaidel, from the Yiddish. ANNOUNCER 1: Knaidel or knaidel is a small mass of leavened dough cooked by boiling or steaming as with soup, stew or fruit… It’s a dumpling. ARVIND MAHANKALI: Knaidel. K-N-A-I-D-E-L. Knaidel. ANNOUNCER 2: You are the champion. Srinath would of course also like to win. He qualified for the national bee by winning the New York Daily News competition back in March. SRINATH MAHANKALI: I won on the word osculatory. O-S-C-U-L-A-T-O-R-Y. Do you want to know what it means? Related to kissing. Between now and the national bee, Srinath will be practicing a lot. And practice, especially what’s known as deliberate practice, is vital if you want to get really good at anything. It may in fact be more important than the talent you’re born with. ANDERS ERICSSON: With the right kind of training, any individual would be able to acquire abilities that were previously viewed as only attainable if you had the right kind of genetic talent. That’s what we talked about last week on Freakonomics Radio – how deliberate practice can help anyone get really good at just about anything. So let’s assume you buy into that. You really believe that talent is vastly overrated, and that with the right amount and the right kind of practice, you can excel. All right, then, here’s a question: how are you supposed to push yourself to practice like that? Where does that drive come from? How can you increase your determination, your stick-to-it-iveness, your &#8230; grit. May I have the definition, please? ANGELA DUCKWORTH: I define grit as passion and perseverance for especially long-term goals. And what kind of questions should we be asking about grit? DUCKWORTH: What specifically are gritty people like? What do they do when they wake up in the morning? What beliefs do gritty people walk around with in their heads? And, since this is Self-Improvement Month at Freakonomics Radio , let me ask you this: can someone who doesn’t have a lot of grit learn to get some? DUCKWORTH: My answer to that would be yes, you can. * * * Annette Lee grew up in New Jersey. As in many first-generation immigrant Asian families, she says, there was a lot of pressure to succeed, including intra-familial pressure. ANNETTE LEE: No matter what you did, you always heard about Auntie So-and-So&#8217;s son, or Uncle So-and-So&#8217;s daughter, who did it better, faster, first. So you would come home and say, &#8220;Guess what? I got 1520 on my SATs,&#8221; and then you would hear, &#8220;Oh, that&#8217;s too bad. Auntie Rose&#8217;s son got 1600, and he took them in 8th grade.&#8221; So pretty much, no matter what you did, you were kind of a disappointment. Lee’s parents both emigrated from China and met in the U.S. in the 1960s. Her mother was studying for an MFA in painting. Her father got his Ph.D. in organic chemistry and took a job at DuPont. They had three kids; Annette was in the middle. LEE: We had a very, I think, middle-class upbringing. You know, four-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath house in the suburbs. If you&#8217;ve seen The Wonder Years , that kind of a neighborhood. In other words, it was kind of average. Average house, average job, and average children. At least that’s how her dad saw it, Lee says. He just didn’t think his kids had much natural talent. One of his favorite sayings was: “You’re no genius.” LEE: Yeah, “You&#8217;re no genius.” You know, I think that we grew up a lot thinking that we were just failures. Annette Lee, we should say, became a doctor — a reproductive endocrinologist, in private practice in Pennsylvania. But back when she was applying for college and was accepted by Cornell, an Ivy League school, her parents were disappointed that she didn’t get into Harvard, Princeton, or Yale. LEE: And my parents&#8217; reaction was, &#8220;Oh, my God. Thank God we still have Angie.&#8221; DUCKWORTH: Hi, this is Angela. That is Annette’s younger sister, Angie Lee, a.k.a. Angela, now Angela Lee Duckworth . She did go to Harvard, and to Oxford, and she got a Ph.D., in psychology, from the University of Pennsylvania. But their dad’s whole genius shtick stayed with her. DUCKWORTH: I think what my dad meant when he would say out of the blue, you know, “You&#8217;re no genius,” is that I wasn&#8217;t the smartest person that he had met. That I wasn&#8217;t leagues smarter than other people my age or people that he knew. Duckworth’s career has worked out pretty well. DUCKWORTH: I&#8217;m scientific director and founder of the Character Lab and a professor of psychology at the University of Pennsylvania. And now she’s written a book: DUCKWORTH: Oh yeah, here comes the self-promotion part. I&#8217;m also an author of a book called Grit: The Power of Passion and Perseverance . Duckworth’s focus is on education, and her research tries to understand how kids learn best. She used to teach 7th-grade math in New York City. In the classroom, watching the successful kids — and the unsuccessful ones – she came to the conclusion that a given student’s natural abilities seemed to matter a lot less than effort, and grit. DUCKWORTH: That&#8217;s right. I want to redefine genius, if you will. I think most people use the word “genius” the way my dad means the word “genius,” — you know, somebody who has an intellectual gift which is far greater than what most people have in a given area, in music or in mathematics, in running or in dancing. And by that natural ability, they&#8217;re going to far excel the rest of us, almost by destiny. I think that is what most people use the word genius for. And then they all have their handy list of geniuses that they think of, like Mozart or Einstein . I want to define genius as greatness that isn&#8217;t necessarily effortless, but, in fact, greatness that is earned however you do earn it. And so I want to define genius as something that you accomplish yourself as opposed to something that’s given to you. STEPHEN J. DUBNER: And that brings us, I assume, therefore, to grit. So, talk about grit. First of all, let&#8217;s start with how you define it. DUCKWORTH: I define grit as passion and perseverance for especially long-term goals. DUBNER: OK, so that sounds kind of like a no-brainer — that everybody in their right mind would want to have more grit rather than less of that. So surely your argument isn&#8217;t simply that grit is a good t