# Andy Dalton Cincinnati Bengals Pressure

**Source**: http://grantland.com/features/andy-dalton-cincinnati-bengals-pressure/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:14:48.642792+00:00

---

&raquo; A Bengal Under Pressure Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous I Feel Groot! ➤ Next Professor Burt Rob Carr/Getty Images Facebook Twitter Print NFL A Bengal Under Pressure If Andy Dalton wants to quiet critics of his massive deal, he’ll need to wait until the playoffs … when the big blitzes start coming by Bill Barnwell on August 4, 2014 Timing is a wondrous thing! Today, hours after we published this article, Andy Dalton signed a six-year, $115 million extension with the Bengals. Consider this an argument against that deal. E ach week, my portion of the Grantland NFL preview secretly has a theme. Some are more exciting than others. Week 1 was Contracts Week. Not exactly the sexiest subject, unless yelling about Eli Manning happens to get you going. Last week was Contrarian Opinion Week. This week is a personal favorite: QB Crossroads 1 Week! In this week&#8217;s pieces, I&#8217;ll be running through a set of quarterbacks who are at a turning point in their careers. Even better, I&#8217;ll be getting help from Grantland pals Kirk Goldsberry and Chris B. Brown. The stakes are different for each passer, but the general story is the same: 2014 will represent the most important season in determining their respective career paths over the next several seasons. Last year, we saw dramatic swings in the trajectories of passers like Josh Freeman and Philip Rivers, who headed in drastically different directions. Rivers rebuilt his career under a new coaching staff and justified his team-leading contract for years to come. Freeman, well, he drifted off aimlessly and lost a small fortune in guaranteed money in the process. The returns might not be quite as severe for the passers under the microscope this week, but the impact could come just as suddenly. Click here for more from our 2014 NFL preview. I&#8217;m starting today with one of the league&#8217;s more frustrating passers. Andy Dalton is in the final year of his rookie deal, and it&#8217;s still unclear whether the Bengals should treat him as a problem to be dismissed or a solution to be retained. More crucially, Dalton continues to receive steady support from the decision-makers in Cincinnati. Head coach Marvin Lewis backed Dalton after his third straight loss in the wild-card round in January, while star wideout A.J. Green characterized Dalton as &#8220;my guy&#8221; in July. Even new offensive coordinator Hue Jackson suggested that Dalton was “on the cusp of something really good&#8221; in April. For what it&#8217;s worth, you can make a statistical case that Dalton is a worthwhile passer. Many of his rate statistics — yards per attempt, touchdown percentage, passer rating, and QBR — have improved during each of his three professional seasons, even as he&#8217;s thrown more frequently. He hasn&#8217;t missed a start and hasn&#8217;t even shown up on the injury report since Week 1 of the 2012 season. The Cincinnati passing attack has even ranked in the top 12 in passing DVOA twice during Dalton&#8217;s three seasons . And as I mentioned in the Trade Value Column , Dalton is a winner; during his first three seasons, Dalton has won 30 games and made the playoffs three times. The only other quarterbacks in league history to do that are Dan Marino (yay!) and Joe Flacco ( … OK?). And all of that doesn&#8217;t seem to matter, because Dalton has been awful in the playoffs. It&#8217;s a problem that destroyed Cincinnati in last year&#8217;s loss to the Chargers and, left unsolved, will almost certainly prevent him from leading the Bengals — or any other NFL team — to a Super Bowl. Andy Dalton is not without merit, but he has one major problem that needs to be corrected: He can&#8217;t reliably handle pass pressure. Dalton comes from the Kevin Kolb and Blaine Gabbert school, which is a school that should probably be shut down, demolished, and declared a Superfund site. Quarterbacks in this class often struggle to diagnose pressure before the snap and do a subpar job of capturing who exactly is coming at them when defenses disguise their blitzers. Even worse, when they do feel even the tiniest bit of pressure heading in their direction, passers like Kolb and Gabbert bail out of the pocket and frantically sprint toward the sideline like ants trying to escape feet. The coup de grâce is a dangerous pass, one often thrown to the first hint of a friendly uniform without resetting and reexamining the field to see where defenders have settled. T he numbers suggest that Dalton just crumbles when attacked. It&#8217;s not as simple as merely big-blitzing Dalton and having him panic; the Bengals have a very good offensive line, and when that line keeps the opposition off Dalton, he remains a league-average passer. To pick an all-inclusive stat, QBR 2 pegs Dalton as the 23rd-best quarterback in football over his three years as a pro, with a cumulative QBR of 51.5. When teams rush Dalton with five men or more, his QBR falls to 47.0, but since everybody&#8217;s a little worse when they&#8217;re blitzed, that&#8217;s good enough for 21st in the league. When the blitzes actually make it home? That&#8217;s when Dalton falls apart. Naturally, everybody gets worse under these circumstances. No quarterback wants to run through his reads with J.J. Watt bearing down. That&#8217;s human nature. Among the 34 quarterbacks with 500 or more dropbacks over this three-year stretch, the average passer&#8217;s QBR was cut by more than half (52.4 percent) when he was either hassled or hit by a pass-rusher. Dalton is not so lucky. Already just a league-average quarterback when nobody&#8217;s bothering him, Dalton&#8217;s QBR under duress falls to a lowly 11.1, a drop of 81.4 percent. That leaves him as the fifth-most stressed by pressure, and the four guys in front of him don&#8217;t make for a bright future: QB QBR Unrushed QBR Rushed Diff. Pct. Mark Sanchez 41.0 2.6 38.4 93.7% Sam Bradford 55.0 4.8 50.2 91.3% Brandon Weeden 34.0 4.6 29.4 86.5% Matt Hasselbeck 62.3 8.8 53.5 85.9% Andy Dalton 59.6 11.1 48.5 81.4% Gabbert (17.6) actually has a higher QBR under pressure than Dalton. There are several good passers just below Dalton who suffer dramatically with pressure in their face, like Peyton Manning (86.8 QBR without pressure, 26.7 QBR under duress) and Drew Brees (80.3 QBR without pressure, 26.5 QBR under duress), but they&#8217;re so good when not bothered that they can slip by. Dalton can&#8217;t; over the past three years, when hit or hurried, Dalton&#8217;s gone 72-of-217 (33.2 percent) for 932 yards (4.3 yards per attempt) with eight touchdowns and seven interceptions. 3 What has kept Dalton afloat has been the fact that teams don&#8217;t get to him all that often. As previously mentioned, Dalton has had one of the league&#8217;s best lines during his time in Cincinnati, and former offensive coordinator Jay Gruden was very aggressive about getting the ball out of Dalton&#8217;s hands quickly with screens and quick passes. Teams were also naturally afraid of blitzing because it would leave the terrifying Green one-on-one with a cornerback. As a result, Dalton rarely gets hit or hurried. According to ESPN Stats &amp; Information, Dalton has been under duress on just 15.9 percent of his dropbacks over the past three seasons, the fourth-lowest rate among our 34 regulars. Only Tom Brady, Hasselbeck, and Manning were under duress less frequently over that time frame. That figure falls to 12 percent on plays in which teams rush four. 4 Dalton can&#8217;t handle pressure, but his saving grace is that he sees it less than just about anybody else in the league. That&#8217;s a warning for any team with a middling line that might think about acquiring him next offseason, by the way. In a way, Dalton&#8217;s fatal flaw helps explain why he&#8217;s been so disappointing in the playoffs. Observers have been distracted by the wrong problem. It&#8217;s not that Dalton can&#8217;t handle the big game or the bright lights of January; it&#8217;s that he&#8217;s drawn a series of teams in the playoffs that were awful matchups for his weakness, notably the Houston Texans. Under Wade Phillips, the Texans blitzed five or more players more often than just about anybody else in football; according to Football Outsiders, they were one of the six teams most likely to send both five and six-plus rushers at the opposing quarterback in 2011 and in 2012. As frequently as the Texans rushed Dalton with blitzes during their pair of playoff wins against the Bengals, 5 the Chargers really turned things around during last season&#8217;s wild-card round by bringing heavy pressure. Dalton got off to a hot start in that game, and despite losing a likely touchdown when Gio Bernard fumbled inside the San Diego 5-yard line, he drove his team back downfield for a field goal to go up 10-7 at the stroke of halftime. Up to that point, the Chargers had sent five rushers or more on just six of Dalton&#8217;s 18 dropbacks, producing four incompletions (including a pair of missed open receivers), a checkdown for no gain, and a four-yard touchdown pass on a play in which Dalton did a good job of noticing pressure and getting the ball out at the last possible second . It&#8217;s pretty clear that Chargers defensive coordinator John Pagano decided he was going to go after Dalton during halftime, because the Chargers suddenly got far more aggressive. It very well might have won them the game. Dalton dropped back seven times on Cincinnati&#8217;s three ensuing possessions, and the Chargers brought a blitz of five or more or an exotic look (like a four-man zone blitz) on five of those plays. Those seven plays: Time Down Distance Rushers Type Notes 13:32 2 7 4 slot blitz Dalton gets happy feet, scrambles for three yards 12:49 3 4 3 Dalton gets happy feet and scrambles again without a clear plan; he tries to step up but is sacked 6:41 1 10 5 zone blit