# 2022 Met Gala Kim Kardashian.Html

**Source**: https://www.thecut.com/2022/05/2022-met-gala-kim-kardashian.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:08:31.683285+00:00

---

Kim Kardashian Wore Marilyn Monroe’s Dress to the Met Gala Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Style Self Culture Power Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission met gala 2022 Kim Always Knows How to Steal the Show By Mia Mercado , a Cut contributor covering internet culture May 2, 2022 save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Photo: Mike Coppola/Getty Images As you may have heard, the Kardashians have arrived at “ some gala .” That is, the 2022 Met Gala . This year’s theme was “gilded glamour,” which had a variety of interpretations . However, the Kardashian-Jenner clan’s interpretation of the theme was certainly the most … creative. There were rumors each of their outfits would be inspired by different American icons, but it seems Kris Jenner and Kim Kardashian were the only ones to adhere to the self-ascribed theme. Jenner’s look was likened to one worn by former First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis . ( Julianne Moore’s Met Gala outfit was also inspired by Jackie O.) As was rumored, Kardashian wore Marilyn Monroe’s dress. Not a replica of the dress — the exact dress. Specifically, the one Monroe wore when she sang “Happy Birthday” to President John F. Kennedy. The dress was so form-fitting that Monroe famously needed to be sewn into it . Kim told Vogue she lost 16 pounds in order to fit into it. “I haven’t eaten carbs or sugar in three weeks,” she said on the red carpet. Haha, what? In very Kim Kardashian fashion, she showed up her sisters by arriving dead last alongside boyfriend Pete Davidson. He wore a black Christopher John Rogers suit and had to help Kim walk up the stairs. Photo: Kevin Mazur/Getty Images for The Met Museum/ The rest of the Kardashian-Jenners took their own creative liberties with the Met Gala theme. What does “gilded glamour” mean to Kourtney? “I honestly didn’t really think about it,” she told Vogue on the red carpet. I appreciate the honesty! Good for her! She didn’t do the reading, but she is here anyway. She also described her look as a deconstructed version of fiancé Travis Barker’s suit. It was Khloé Kardashian’s first time at the gala, and her look has received some mixed reviews . She wore a gold dress by Moschino, who she said made it “in like ten days.” Kendall Jenner wore a giant black gown that took up most of the carpet, and Kylie gave Runaway Bride meets Lids. Photo: Kevin Mazur/MG22/Getty Images for The Met Museum/ Stay in touch. Get the Cut newsletter delivered daily Email This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Vox Media, LLC Terms and Privacy Notice By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice and to receive email correspondence from us. Related Met Gala 2022: All the Looks [Photos] &nbsp; Tags: culture celebrity fashion kardashians kim kardashian khloe kardashian khloé kardashian kylie jenner kendall jenner kourtney kardashian travis barker kravis kris jenner pete davidson met gala 2022 met gala More Show Comment Kim Always Knows How to Steal the Show Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission The Cut Shop 28 Best Sneakers for Women in Every Single Style I’m on the Hunt for the Best Sunscreens Without a White Cast 31 Best Luxury Candles That Double As Great Gifts Most Viewed Stories 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Woman Who Ate Only Fruit The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Your Daily Horoscope by Madame Clairevoyant: October 3, 2025 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Why I Got a Neck-Lift at 41 Years Old Both Sides of a Breakup: His Relationships Never Last More Than 4 Months Sign In to Comment Most Popular 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Woman Who Ate Only Fruit The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Your Daily Horoscope by Madame Clairevoyant: October 3, 2025 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Why I Got a Neck-Lift at 41 Years Old Both Sides of a Breakup: His Relationships Never Last More Than 4 Months The Latest sex diaries 7:00 p.m. The Sober Event Planner Sleeping With a Client In this week’s story, a 32-year-old woman gives her crush a blowjob to reduce his stress before a big event. life of a showgirl 6:16 p.m. The Showgirl Doesn’t Get a Standing Ovation Taylor Swift was once untouchable — but is her reputation as pop’s best songwriter over? music 5:37 p.m. Taylor Swift’s Famous Friends Are Loving The Life of a Showgirl Sabrina Carpenter, Nikki Glaser, and whoever posts for the New Heights podcast are all amped about the album. do i need this? 5:33 p.m. Here’s What You Need From Gap’s Studio Collection Every piece worth buying from the brand’s fall drop. the kardashians 5:28 p.m. Apropos of Nothing, Kim Kardashian Is Producing an Elizabeth Taylor Doc What a day to be learning this news. power 4:47 p.m. Diddy Has Been Sentenced to More Than Four Years in Prison The judge said the sentence was required to show “that exploitation and violence against women is met with real accountability.” music 4:40 p.m. No, Taylor Swift Is Definitely Online At least, she was when she made The Life of a Showgirl . prime day 4:06 p.m. The Early Prime Day Beauty Deals Our Editors Recommend Start shopping the sale now with tools from Shark Beauty and more. taylor swift 3:37 p.m. Taylor Swift’s Engagement Ring Is Having a Great Rollout Good for her. celebrity breakups 3:06 p.m. In Other News, Lori Loughlin and Her Husband Are Separated There’s no better day to quietly uncouple. travel week 2:42 p.m. These Are the Best Over-the-Ear Headphones for Sound and Style AirPods Max aren’t the only headphones out there. always shopping 2:30 p.m. 25 Best Wedding Shoes for Every Kind of Bride According to a recent bride. prime day 2:00 p.m. These Bella Hadid–Approved Headphones Are on Sale And they’re worth the hype. paris fashion week 1:43 p.m. A Night Out With Kristy Sarah Scott at Schiaparelli From viral videos to the front row, Scott is making Paris Fashion Week her stage. weddings 1:30 p.m. This Is What Your Wedding Gift Says About You Gift ideas for the plus-one, the third wheel, and everyone in between. cut chats 1:02 p.m. The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Taylor Swift’s new album has some high points but lacks the punch and clarity of her previous collaborations with Max Martin. celebrity friendships 12:45 p.m. Who Did Taylor Swift Write ‘CANCELLED!’ About? While Blake Lively and Brittany Mahomes are at the top of our guess list, too, there are some other names to consider. the approval matrix 12:00 p.m. The Approval Matrix: The Life of a One-Term Mayor Our guide to what’s highbrow, lowbrow, brilliant, and despicable. fangirls 11:55 a.m. Nicki Minaj Really Loves ‘Wood’ The rapper took a break from her feud with Cardi B to livetweet The Life of a Showgirl . horny police 10:38 a.m. I Was Not Familiar With Your Game, Travis Kelce “Wood” might be the horniest Taylor Swift track ever. More Stories Email You\&#x27;ll receive the next newsletter in your inbox. *Sorry, there was a problem signing you up. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice and to receive email correspondence from us. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. or Already a subscriber? Sign In What is your email? This email will be used to sign into all New York sites. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive email correspondence from us. Enter your email: Please enter a valid email address. Submit Email or Connect with Google Connect with Facebook Sign in | Subscribe Today Sign In To Continue Reading Create Your Free Account edit email Sign in with Facebook Sign in with Google Choose a password to create an account: Enter your password or sign in with a different email Forgot Password? Password must be at least 8 characters and contain: Lower case letters (a-z) Upper case letters (A-Z) Numbers (0-9) Special Characters (!@#$%^&*) This password will be used to sign into all New York sites. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive email correspondence from us. Sign In Create Account You’re in! As part of your account, you’ll receive occasional updates