# Go Easy On Yourself A New Wave Of Research Urges

**Source**: http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/02/28/go-easy-on-yourself-a-new-wave-of-research-urges/?pagemode=print
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:52:13.893990+00:00

---

Go Easy on Yourself, a New Wave of Research Urges - The New York Times Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times Well | Go Easy on Yourself, a New Wave of Research Urges Close search Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Supported by Search Go Easy on Yourself, a New Wave of Research Urges By Tara Parker-Pope February 28, 2011 5:26 pm February 28, 2011 5:26 pm Stuart Bradford Do you treat yourself as well as you treat your friends and family? That simple question is the basis for a burgeoning new area of psychological research called self-compassion &#x2014; how kindly people view themselves. People who find it easy to be supportive and understanding to others, it turns out, often score surprisingly low on self-compassion tests, berating themselves for perceived failures like being overweight or not exercising. The research suggests that giving ourselves a break and accepting our imperfections may be the first step toward better health. People who score high on tests of self-compassion have less depression and anxiety, and tend to be happier and more optimistic. Preliminary data suggest that self-compassion can even influence how much we eat and may help some people lose weight. This idea does seem at odds with the advice dispensed by many doctors and self-help books, which suggest that willpower and self-discipline are the keys to better health. But Kristin Neff, a pioneer in the field , says self-compassion is not to be confused with self-indulgence or lower standards. &#x201C;I found in my research that the biggest reason people aren&#x2019;t more self-compassionate is that they are afraid they&#x2019;ll become self-indulgent,&#x201D; said Dr. Neff, an associate professor of human development at the University of Texas at Austin. &#x201C;They believe self-criticism is what keeps them in line. Most people have gotten it wrong because our culture says being hard on yourself is the way to be.&#x201D; Imagine your reaction to a child struggling in school or eating too much junk food. Many parents would offer support, like tutoring or making an effort to find healthful foods the child will enjoy. But when adults find themselves in a similar situation &#x2014; struggling at work, or overeating and gaining weight &#x2014; many fall into a cycle of self-criticism and negativity. That leaves them feeling even less motivated to change. &#x201C;Self-compassion is really conducive to motivation,&#x201D; Dr. Neff said. &#x201C;The reason you don&#x2019;t let your children eat five big tubs of ice cream is because you care about them. With self-compassion, if you care about yourself, you do what&#x2019;s healthy for you rather than what&#x2019;s harmful to you.&#x201D; Dr. Neff, whose book, &#x201C;Self-Compassion: Stop Beating Yourself Up and Leave Insecurity Behind,&#x201D; is being published next month by William Morrow, has developed a self-compassion scale : 26 statements meant to determine how often people are kind to themselves, and whether they recognize that ups and downs are simply part of life. A positive response to the statement &#x201C;I&#x2019;m disapproving and judgmental about my own flaws and inadequacies,&#x201D; for example, suggests lack of self-compassion. &#x201C;When I feel inadequate in some way, I try to remind myself that feelings of inadequacy are shared by most people&#x201D; suggests the opposite. For those low on the scale, Dr. Neff suggests a set of exercises &#x2014; like writing yourself a letter of support, just as you might to a friend you are concerned about. Listing your best and worst traits, reminding yourself that nobody is perfect and thinking of steps you might take to help you feel better about yourself are also recommended. Other exercises include meditation and &#x201C;compassion breaks,&#x201D; which involve repeating mantras like &#x201C;I&#x2019;m going to be kind to myself in this moment.&#x201D; If this all sounds a bit too warm and fuzzy, like the Al Franken character Stuart Smalley (&#x201C;I&#x2019;m good enough, I&#x2019;m smart enough, and doggone it, people like me&#x201D;), there is science to back it up. A 2007 study by researchers at Wake Forest University suggested that even a minor self-compassion intervention could influence eating habits. As part of the study, 84 female college students were asked to take part in what they thought was a food-tasting experiment. At the beginning of the study, the women were asked to eat doughnuts. One group, however, was given a lesson in self-compassion with the food. &#x201C;I hope you won&#x2019;t be hard on yourself,&#x201D; the instructor said. &#x201C;Everyone in the study eats this stuff, so I don&#x2019;t think there&#x2019;s any reason to feel real bad about it.&#x201D; Later the women were asked to taste-test candies from large bowls. The researchers found that women who were regular dieters or had guilt feelings about forbidden foods ate less after hearing the instructor&#x2019;s reassurance. Those not given that message ate more. The hypothesis is that the women who felt bad about the doughnuts ended up engaging in &#x201C;emotional&#x201D; eating. The women who gave themselves permission to enjoy the sweets didn&#x2019;t overeat. &#x201C;Self-compassion is the missing ingredient in every diet and weight-loss plan,&#x201D; said Jean Fain, a psychotherapist and teaching associate at Harvard Medical School who wrote the new book &#x201C;The Self-Compassion Diet&#x201D; (Sounds True publishing). &#x201C;Most plans revolve around self-discipline, deprivation and neglect.&#x201D; Dr. Neff says that the field is still new and that she is just starting a controlled study to determine whether teaching self-compassion actually leads to lower stress, depression and anxiety and more happiness and life satisfaction. &#x201C;The problem is that it&#x2019;s hard to unlearn habits of a lifetime,&#x201D; she said. &#x201C;People have to actively and consciously develop the habit of self-compassion.&#x201D; Comments are no longer being accepted. Jim February 28, 2011 &#xB7; 6:03 pm I completely agree with this, and I can&#x2019;t wait for the book to come out. Like anything, this is easier said than done as stated in the article. I definitely fall into the category of &#x201C;self-hater&#x201D; though I can confidently describe myself as compassionate toward others. I am not overweight, I have a good job, etc, and I also know inside that I am too hard on myself, but it does keep me &#x201C;in line&#x201D; so to speak on occasion. There are days though, where I beat my psyche to a pulp and it leaves me feeling drained and depressed. I think it&#x2019;s also important, though not mentioned in this article, to surround yourself with positive influences. An outwardly negative person you are in contact with on a regular basis will only exacerbate your own issues by reinforcing them. For example, if you&#x2019;re always saying how much you hate your body or you hate that you have grey hair, this person may be like &#x201C;Yeah, well, it&#x2019;s all part of getting old.. welcome to the club!&#x201D; that is a negative response and attitude you want to stay away from or ignore. While old age can&#x2019;t be remedied, you weight can as well as your grey hair (though being a proud &#x201C;silver fox&#x201D; myself, I would never resort to such measures). It is of course something that takes practice, and after a very difficult day it may be impossible to do.. but.. keep at it.. soon your good days will outnumber your bad. Jim Connie Clark February 28, 2011 &#xB7; 6:29 pm Thanks so much for this great article! Self-love and positive self regard are indeed factors that contribute to happiness. We are so fortunate to now know that 40% of our happiness is up to us. we can raise our happiness quotient or &#x201C;set point&#x201D; by practicing specific behaviors and attitudes proven to increase joy and life fulfillment. I invite women 50+ to learn more about the science of happiness at my blog, //www.joyafterfifty.com . Talbot February 28, 2011 &#xB7; 6:37 pm Self compassion when it&#x2019;s appropriate is wonderful and healing. But some of the nastiest and most destructive people I&#x2019;ve ever known have self-compassion in spades. I don&#x2019;t think this is a one size fits all kind of an issue&#x2013;the more self compassion the better. For example, &#x201C;A positive response to the statement &#x201C;I&#x2019;m disapproving and judgmental about my own flaws and inadequacies,&#x201D; for example, suggests lack of self-compassion. But what if the person was cruel? Dishonest? Are those not flaws worth self-disapproval? This sounds like it could quickly morph into another version of the everybody&#x2019;s a winner self-esteem movement. Rae February 28, 2011 &#xB7; 7:16 pm Much more complex issues resulting in eating problems that self compassion can remedy. May I suggest to those doing research to consider the importance of patients learning to re-parent, because it is the experiences of infancy and early childhood where physical &amp; emotional abuse, emotional deprivation are at the root of manipulating how food is used in adult hood. I speak from experience, not as a doctor. I recently retired with multiple physical illnesses that are affected by emotional stressors. While medicine is aware of this point, the field of patients self nuturing on the most infantile level is not discussed. Consider the phenom of women &#x2018;adopting&#x2019; new born and realistic baby dolls to understand the unconscious craving for love and physical touch people explore in attempts to heal, a fundamental need before food, drug/alcohol abuse issues can be addressed. Kelly February 28, 2011 &#xB7; 7:42 pm Self-compassion not only helps dieters, but anyone trying to make an important life change, from quitting smoking to conquer