# Why Donald Trump

**Source**: http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/why-donald-trump/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:35:56.423054+00:00

---

Why Donald Trump? | FiveThirtyEight Skip to main content FiveThirtyEight Search Search ABC News Menu Why Donald Trump? Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Politics Sports Science Podcasts Video Interactives ABC News This is an archived site and is no longer being updated. New 538 articles can be found at www.abcnews.com/538. Why Donald Trump? A quest to figure out what’s happening in America. By Clare Malone Filed under 2016 Election Published Mar. 23, 2016 Collage of images from Getty Images T he night before Super Tuesday I was on a plane from Oklahoma City to Cleveland, my hometown, when a thought struck me: I truly had no idea what was going on in America . I’d been traveling a fair bit during the rush of primary season, and you start to feel unstuck when you do that. The moments of my days I would have otherwise spent doing soothingly banal things — grocery shopping, hand-washing delicates, pouring Drano into various plumbing orifices — I now spent alone in hotel rooms, contemplating the Donald Trump phenomenon. I’d seen glints and glimmers of his wide swath of support — the man in New Hampshire who was following Trump around the country, hawking merchandise; the friendly middle-aged women in Iowa who just liked his style; the Oklahoma couple at a Bernie Sanders rally who, after a few minutes of pleasant chitchat about Sanders, started talking to me about their deep admiration for and likely support of Trump. But the thesis was still missing for me: Why him? Why these people? Mulling over these questions has pretty much become the primary occupation of politicos. Jamelle Bouie of Slate wrote that it was a consequence of President Obama’s upending the country’s racial hierarchy. Scott Winship at National Review chalked it up to a more generalized national anxiety disorder. Samantha Bee did her own twist on a focus group with young Trump voters. “I don’t like the way they’re stabbing each other in the back.” So she wouldn’t be voting for Trump, then? “No, I didn’t say that.” There were other theories too, based on more empirical thinking. The Upshot found that areas of Trump support overlapped with places that had high concentrations of people who ethnically identified as “American.” A doctoral student theorized that Trump supporters had a bent toward authoritarianism . Recent political science fieldwork seemed to suggest something different: that his supporters are more raging populists than autocrats. They weren’t rallying around a figure who consolidated power in a chaotic vacuum, they were thrilling to the words of an instigator. What I kept returning to, though, was the surprise of it all. Polling’s long arm, we were promised, could reach farther than any reporter into the brambles of American politics and retrieve what was difficult to see from the outside: the hidden proclivities and preoccupations of demographic groups. Political science, in turn, was meant to act as a killjoy, a gulp of dusty academic air amid the breathlessness of campaign news cycles. But for months political obsessives doubted poll numbers with the strength of a thousand Thomases. The numbers said one thing, but common sense indicated otherwise. Political scientists had no perfect historical precedent to call upon. Reporters, meanwhile, had only the piecemeal musings of the voters they happened to accost at rallies and coffee shops, nothing to suggest that a new paradigm was being formed. Now Trump is the likely Republican nominee for president. Given the limitations of statistical analysis, political science and traditional reporting, I reasoned that a hybrid approach using all three could help answer the prevailing question in American politics: Why Donald Trump? O n March 1 there was a Trump rally in Columbus, in a billboard-strewn no man’s land by the city’s airport. When I arrived that morning it was spotted with campaign yard signs and volunteers directing cars to a vast overflow lot about a mile away. In the Middle West, such parking crises are often engendered by county fairs and football games, but rarely by political speeches. I ended up in a scofflaw’s spot in front of an industrial stone company and walked down the road’s shoulder to where Bill and Alysha Johnson stood pointing cars toward the lot. Bill, 42, a DirecTV installer, and Alysha, 37, who stays at home with the couple’s kids, had driven from their small town of 600 outside Cincinnati while it was still dark to volunteer for the campaign. Alysha’s affection for Trump was simple, she said: “He’s for the working class and seems to be revealing a lot of things about the government we haven’t known.” Outsiders claiming to reveal what’s really happening on the inside of the marble halls of power — that’s what this election has become all about. TRUMP CRUZ KASICH 47% 27% 8% Voters who are “angry” at the federal governement Average of exit and entrance polls for 20 Republican primaries, through March 15; surveys tested full Republican field at the time Source: CNN “The country is fed up with what’s going on,” Trump said in July. “You know, in the old days they used the term ‘silent majority’; we have the silent majority back, folks.” Outsiderism means not just skepticism about big banks and Washington politicians but wariness of other institutional pillars of American life — like the media. Alysha was spending a lot of time fact-checking the news, trying to make sure that what she read and heard about the campaign was trustworthy. “If there’s rumors that are going around, I watch them,” she said. Alysha is not alone in her mistrust of mainstream news organizations — in 2015, only 40 percent of Americans said they trusted mass media, and that number tends to dip in election years, according to Gallup. Trump is never short of disdain for the press, particularly at his rallies; he likes to stop in the middle and direct crowds to jeer at the members of the media in their midst. When I met Joseph Youde, 24, at a Trump rally in Cedar Falls, Iowa, in January, he answered my questions — “I like Donald Trump because we’re weak,” he said. “I think we need a tough leader” — then turned the questioning on me. Youde managed to be genuinely friendly while asking something along the lines of “How does it feel to be a member of the media?” Trump had just dispensed a few choice words for journalists during his speech: “The press, they’re the most dishonest people I’ve ever seen in my life. They’re disgusting.” In Columbus, I asked Alysha Johnson what she thought about what was then Trump’s most recent dust-up, his refusal to disavow an endorsement from David Duke, former head of the Ku Klux Klan. She replied, “From what I know, that’s all a lie and Hillary Clinton is actually cozy with KKK members — there’s several pictures of her with them.” If I went online and searched for “Clinton; image; KKK member” it would show up, she assured me. When I tried that, a picture of former West Virginia Senator Robert Byrd pecking Clinton on the cheek popped up. Byrd was indeed once a member of the KKK and had mentored Clinton in the Senate. So Alysha’s claim wasn’t strictly wrong, though Byrd, who died in 2010, had long ago renounced his membership in the organization. Political science has shown that Alysha isn’t alone in her doubt. A 2000 study by political scientists found that Americans who have incorrect information about public discourse can be divided into two different groups — the misinformed and the uninformed. The uninformed simply don’t know about a given topic; the misinformed are interested in what’s going on, but their sources of information are flawed. Another study, in 2010, found that when the misinformed were told about their inaccuracies, they held onto their beliefs with all the more conviction . Something inspirational seems to be happening among the assembled — a sense of collective identity being discovered. One could forgive them that very human reaction. Anyone who has ever been chastened or embarrassed might understand the tendency toward anger or defensiveness when cornered in an argument — backing down doesn’t seem viable, and that can produce unfortunate sound bites, if not glimpses into deeply held beliefs. But why the alternate news sources to begin with? “I think on the right we’ve been ignoring the mainstream media for years,” Matt Mayer, who runs a conservative think tank out of Dublin, Ohio, told me. “I think the real break was Rathergate . The view was that Dan Rather truly tried to alter the election by hitting Bush with that National Guard stuff, and I think that’s when the right finally said, ‘That’s it.’” And that, he continued, led to the rise of sites like Free Republic and Glenn Beck’s TheBlaze , with their communities of active commenters. Unfounded claims often take root and flourish. “In some ways it’s an echo chamber — some of the stuff I see I’m like, ‘Oh my God, really?’” Mayer said. If the rumor-filled parts of the Internet were the lens through which Alysha viewed the world, then it was like looking through rose-colored stunner shades : There was an unmistakable red tinge and some bars that blocked her from seeing the full picture. E very time I go to Cleveland’s art museum, I like to visit a painting called “ Stag at Sharkey’s ,” by George Bellows. It’s from the early 20th century, during boxing’s heyday, a time when Irish and Italian prizefighters were the fierce poster boys for ethnic whiteness. Bellows’s fighters are going at each other — snapping sinews and all that — but it’s the crowd that always gets me. They’re a mass of dark figures at the foot of the ring, and some have slashing grins, a reminder of the exhilaration of having a champion who can do what you yourself cannot. “Stag at Sharkey’s” by George Bellows Wikimedia Commons As I rounded the corner in Columbus, I found myself in an industrial alley with dozens of late arrivals streaming into an airplane hangar. I’d been denied press credentials for the event — no explanation, alt