# Millionaire Starter Wife

**Source**: https://www.marieclaire.com/sex-love/a5380/millionaire-starter-wife/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:57:37.259084+00:00

---

Elon Musk's First Wife Justine Musk Talks Their Messy Divorce | Marie Claire Marie Claire &times; Search Celebrity Fashion Beauty Culture Nice Talk Style At Large Politics More Career &amp; Money Health &amp; Fitness Power Play Travel Food &amp; Cocktails Promo Codes About Us Love &amp; Sex Subscribe Newsletter RSS Don't miss these Culture The "It Girl" Watch of the Moment, According to Dimepiece Founder Brynn Wallner Culture 'Marie Claire' Cover Star Teyana Taylor on Her Self-Described "Ombre" Album&mdash;and the Career Advice Beyonc&eacute; Gave Her Culture Drybar Founder Alli Webb Built a Blowout Empire&mdash;But Felt "Very Insecure" About Her Own Hair TV shows Taylor Frankie Paul is the Next 'Bachelorette!' Here's What to Know About 'The Secret Lives of Mormon Wives' Star Royals Meghan Markle and Chrissy Teigen Reminisce About Their &lsquo;Deal or No Deal&rsquo; Days Royals Princess Diana Felt She Had to "Put on a Facade" Royals Royal Butler on Charles and Diana's "Epic Arguments" Fashion I'm Entering a New Professional Era&mdash;These Five Pieces Have Been Essential Culture Courage to Pivot Takes Center Stage at Power Play Royals Exclusive: Prince Andrew Biographer Says Sarah Ferguson is "Houdini of the Royal Family" But Is "Running Out of Lives" Celebrity Style Megan Thee Stallion Taps Off-White for a Red Carpet Reveal Celebrity Style Hailey Bieber Pairs Her Saint Laurent LBD With a $4,300 Bag TV shows A Complete Timeline of Lawsuits and Allegations Brought Against &lsquo;Love Is Blind&rsquo; Celebrity Style Amaya "Papaya" Espinal Brought Her 'Love Island' Villa Style Back to the States Royals Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's $100 Million Netflix Deal Won't Be Renewed: Report Trending 'The Life of a Showgirl' New Beauty Products S&eacute;zane x New Balance Magnetic Lashes Sex love "I Was a Starter Wife": Inside America's Messiest Divorce In the middle of her headline-grabbing divorce settlement from Elon Musk, Justine Musk reveals the truth about her marriage to the multimillionaire cofounder of PayPal, Tesla Motors, and SpaceX. Newsletter When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here&rsquo;s how it works . . By Justine Musk published 10 September 2010 in Features (Image credit: Lauren Greenfield) In the late spring of 2008, my wealthy entrepreneurial husband, Elon Musk, the father of my five young sons, filed for divorce. Six weeks later, he texted me to say he was engaged to a gorgeous British actress in her early 20s who had moved to Los Angeles to be with him. Her name is Talulah Riley, and she played one of the sisters in 2005's Pride and Prejudice . Two of the things that struck me were: a) Pride and Prejudice is a really good movie, and b) My life with this man had devolved to a clich&eacute;. At least she wasn't blonde. I found that refreshing. When I first met Elon, I wasn't blonde, either. I was an aspiring writer in my first year at Queen's University in Ontario, Canada, sprung from a small hometown and recovering from a difficult case of first love with the older man I'd left behind. I liked older. I liked poetic and rebellious and tortured . I liked a guy who parked his motorcycle beneath my dorm-room window and called my name through the twilight: Romeo in a dark-brown leather jacket. You may like Drybar Founder Alli Webb Built a Blowout Empire&mdash;But Felt "Very Insecure" About Her Own Hair Taylor Frankie Paul is the Next 'Bachelorette!' Here's What to Know About 'The Secret Lives of Mormon Wives' Star Meghan Markle and Chrissy Teigen Reminisce About Their &lsquo;Deal or No Deal&rsquo; Days Elon wasn't like that. A fellow student a year ahead of me, he was a clean-cut, upper-class boy with a South African accent who appeared in front of me one afternoon as I was leaping up the steps to my dorm. He said we'd met at a party I knew I hadn't been to. (Years later, he would confess that he had noticed me from across the common room and decided he wanted to meet me.) He invited me out for ice cream. I said yes, but then blew him off with a note on my dorm-room door. Several hours later, my head bent over my Spanish text in an overheated room in the student center, I heard a polite cough behind me. Elon was smiling awkwardly, two chocolate-chip ice cream cones dripping down his hands. He's not a man who takes no for an answer. "Elon's wealth seemed abstract and unreal, a string of zeros that existed in some strange space of its own." He was a scientific type, at home with numbers, commerce, and logic. I was not the only woman he pursued, but even after he transferred to Wharton he kept sending roses. When he'd return to Queen's to visit friends, I found myself agreeing to have dinner with him. Once, in the bookstore together, I pointed to a shelf and said, "One day I want my own books to go right there." I had said this before to a girlfriend, who laughed and spun on her heel. But Elon not only took me seriously, he seemed impressed. It was the first time that a boy found my sense of ambition &mdash; instead of my long hair or narrow waist &mdash; attractive. Previous boyfriends complained that I was "competitive," but Elon said I had "a fire in my soul." When he told me, "I see myself in you," I knew what he meant. After I graduated, I taught ESL in Japan for a year &mdash; Elon and I had by then gone our separate ways. Back in Canada I took a bartending job, worked on my novel, and debated whether to go back to Japan or to grad school. One night I heard myself tell my sister, "If Elon ever calls me again, I think I'll go for it. I might have missed something there." He called me one week later. After graduation, he'd moved to Silicon Valley. He was sharing an apartment in Mountain View with three roommates and building his first dot-com company, Zip2. I soon flew out for the first of many visits. One night, over dinner, he asked me how many kids I wanted to have. "One or two," I said immediately, "although if I could afford nannies, I'd like to have four." Stay In The Know Get exclusive access to fashion and beauty trends, hot-off-the-press celebrity news, and more. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. He laughed. "That's the difference between you and me," he said. "I just assume that there will be nannies." He made a rocking motion with his arms and said, happily, "Baby." Then he took me to a bookstore and handed me his credit card. "Buy as many books as you want," he said. No man could have said anything sweeter. Two years later &mdash; two months before our January 2000 wedding &mdash; Elon told me we had an appointment with a lawyer who was going to help us with a "financial agreement" that the board of his new company wanted us to sign. When I looked at him, he said quickly, "It's not a prenup." Although I'd been dating a struggling 20-something entrepreneur, I was now engaged to a wealthy one. Elon had sold Zip2, which partnered with newspapers to help them get online, in 1999, the year before, and was worth about $20 million overnight. He bought and renovated an 1,800-square-foot condo: We now had a place of our own. He also bought a million-dollar sports car &mdash; a McLaren F1 &mdash; and a small plane. Our day-to-day routine remained the same (except for the addition of flying lessons), and Elon's wealth seemed abstract and unreal, a string of zeros that existed in some strange space of its own. I made uneasy jokes that he was about to dump me for a supermodel. Instead, he proposed, getting down on bended knee on a street corner. (Image credit: Lauren Greenfield) Most of his newfound fortune he rolled over into his second company, an online banking institution, X.com , that later became PayPal (the online payment company). It was this board that was supposedly urging him to get a "financial agreement." What I didn't understand at the time was that Elon was actually ushering me into a period of "mediation," which, I now know, means anything done or spoken is confidential and cannot be used in a court of law. But I had no time to research mediation, or learn that it rarely serves the interest of the less powerful person in the relationship. Years later, I came to learn these things. But two months after our wedding, I simply signed the postnuptial agreement. I trusted my husband &mdash; why else had I married him? &mdash; and I told myself it didn't matter. We were soul mates. We would never get divorced. A life without Elon was unthinkable, something I'd realized a few months before he proposed, as we napped together one spring afternoon before a friend's wedding. With my arm slung across his chest, I felt that he was my own private Alexander the Great. Still, there were warning signs. As we danced at our wedding reception, Elon told me, "I am the alpha in this relationship." I shrugged it off, just as I would later shrug off signing the postnuptial agreement, but as time went on, I learned that he was serious. He had grown up in the male-dominated culture of South Africa, and the will to compete and dominate that made him so successful in business did not magically shut off when he came home. This, and the vast economic imbalance between us, meant that in the months following our wedding, a certain dynamic began to take hold. Elon's judgment overruled mine, and he was constantly remarking on the ways he found me lacking. "I am your wife," I told him repeatedly, "not your employee." "If you were my employee," he said just as often, "I would fire you." By the time eBay bought PayPal in 2002, we had moved to Los Angeles and had our first child, a boy named Nevada Alexander. The sale of PayPal vaulted Elon's net worth to well over $100 million. The same week, Nevada went down for a nap, placed on his back as always, and stopped breathing. He wa