# Pmc3151188

**Source**: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3151188/#:~:text=Results,(total%20n%3D6%2C776
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:25:15.855668+00:00

---

Predictive Modeling the Physician Assistant Supply: 2010–2025 - PMC Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Search Log in Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Search… Search NCBI Primary site navigation Search Logged in as: Dashboard Publications Account settings Log in Search PMC Full-Text Archive Search in PMC Journal List User Guide PERMALINK Copy As a library, NLM provides access to scientific literature. Inclusion in an NLM database does not imply endorsement of, or agreement with, the contents by NLM or the National Institutes of Health. Learn more: PMC Disclaimer | PMC Copyright Notice Public Health Rep . 2011 Sep-Oct;126(5):708–716. doi: 10.1177/003335491112600513 Search in PMC Search in PubMed View in NLM Catalog Add to search Predictive Modeling the Physician Assistant Supply: 2010–2025 Roderick S Hooker Roderick S Hooker , PhD, PA a The Lewin Group, Falls Church, VA Find articles by Roderick S Hooker a , James F Cawley James F Cawley , MPH, PA-C b The George Washington University, School of Public Health and Health Services, Department of Prevention and Community Health, Washington, DC Find articles by James F Cawley b , Christine M Everett Christine M Everett , MPH, PA-C c University of Wisconsin-Madison, School of Medicine and Public Health, Department of Population Health Sciences, Madison, WI Find articles by Christine M Everett c Author information Copyright and License information a The Lewin Group, Falls Church, VA b The George Washington University, School of Public Health and Health Services, Department of Prevention and Community Health, Washington, DC c University of Wisconsin-Madison, School of Medicine and Public Health, Department of Population Health Sciences, Madison, WI ✉ Address correspondence to: Roderick S. Hooker, The Lewin Group, 3130 Fairview Park Dr., Falls Church, VA 22042, Phone: 703-269-5627, Email: rod.hooker@lewin.com © 2011 Association of Schools of Public Health PMC Copyright notice PMCID: PMC3151188 PMID: 21886331 Abstract Objective A component of health-care reform in 2010 identified physician assistants (PAs) as needed to help mitigate the expected doctor shortage. We modeled their number to predict rational estimates for workforce planners. Methods The number of PAs in active clinical practice in 2010 formed the baseline. We used graduation rates and program expansion to project annual growth; attrition estimates offset these amounts. A simulation model incorporated historical trends, current supply, and graduation amounts. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to systematically adjust parameters in the model to determine the effects of such changes. Results As of 2010, there were 74,476 PAs in the active workforce. The mean age was 42 years and 65% were female. There were 154 accredited educational programs; 99% had a graduating class and produced an average of 44 graduates annually (total n=6,776). With a 7% increase in graduate entry rate and a 5% annual attrition rate, the supply of clinically active PAs will grow to 93,099 in 2015, 111,004 in 2020, and 127,821 in 2025. This model holds clinically active PAs in primary care at 34%. Conclusions The number of clinically active PAs is projected to increase by almost 72% in 15 years. Attrition rates, especially retirement patterns, are not well understood for PAs, and variation could affect future supply. While the majority of PAs are in the medical specialties and subspecialties fields, new policy steps funding PA education and promoting primary care may add more PAs in primary care than the model predicts. Physician assistants (PAs) and nurse practitioners (NPs) are considered essential parts of the contemporary U.S. medical workforce. 1 As medical providers, PAs have been essential during times of physician shortages and, historically, it was a lack of doctors in underserved areas that first spurred their creation. 2 Once again, experts believe that the U.S. faces an insufficient cadre of physicians, with projections indicating that the supply will be unable to keep pace with demand; by 2025, a shortage of 124,000 primary care physicians is anticipated. 3 , 4 Consequently, analysts have suggested that there will be an increased reliance on PAs and NPs. 5 , 6 Models developed to predict the supply of physicians under various scenarios are important for health planners. Because little research has included the supply of PAs and NPs in these projections, accurate numbers of clinically active providers are needed for rational medical workforce planning. Such key data could provide policy makers with needed information to augment physician services in both the specialty and primary care sectors of the medical workforce. A SHORTAGE OF PHYSICIANS While the supply of U.S. medical school graduates has increased since the new century, the output of doctors has been modest at best and may not be adequate in the short run. 5 , 6 The aging of the population is expected to increase demand for medical services, particularly in specialties that predominantly serve the elderly (e.g., oncology and rheumatology). 7 , 8 There are indications that the baby-boomer generation (and subsequent generations) will be aggressive in seeking medical care services and will be more likely to seek medical care than previous generations. 5 The Association of American Medical Colleges believes that the 30% expansion in medical school enrollment and an increase in graduate medical education positions will not eliminate the projected shortage. 9 Additional factors that could affect supply are lifestyle and working hour trends, changes in overall productivity, the flow of international medical graduates, and delivery system adjustments. A previous attempt to assess the size of the PA workforce overestimated the supply of PAs by 25%. 10 This analysis was based on incomplete information and did not utilize more reliable data from the American Academy of Physician Assistants (AAPA) Master File. While the AAPA's Master File is useful, it imputes data of survey nonrespondents to predict supply estimates and does not track retirement. 11 Neither of these deterministic studies used projection modeling. We argue that simulation is a preferred approach for health workforce modeling. 12 Our objective was to create a more accurate PA workforce projection model to provide analysts with key information needed for policy decision-making. METHODS We evaluated available summary data from the four major PA organizations ( Figure 1 ) by developing a spreadsheet and using regression modeling to project annual clinical PA participation and attrition rates. We based key assumptions on available data and expert opinion to produce a final trend analysis using linear regression analysis. Figure 1. Physician assistant metadata attributes and limitations used to create a predictive model of clinically active physician assistants by 2025 Open in a new tab PA = physician assistant Data sources We obtained the number of PAs in active clinical practice from the AAPA Annual Census and Master File, along with the number of PA educational programs and annual graduates from the Physician Assistant Education Association (PAEA). From the Accreditation Review Commission on Education for the Physician Assistant (ARC-PA), we obtained estimates of the number of academic institutions with PA programs in development or on the pathway to accreditation (i.e., “in the pipeline”). We obtained corroborating information on clinically active PAs from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the National Commission on the Certification of Physician Assistants (NCCPA), and experts on workforce attrition and retirement in the U.S. labor force. We used BLS career retirement trends and AAMC surveys of older doctors as validation measures of PA clinical attrition. 13 , 14 PA education growth The 2010 PA graduation cohort formed the basis for projecting the supply. Sources of data for projections came from PAEA and ARC-PA. All U.S. PA programs must obtain provisional accreditation prior to the beginning of the first class and full accreditation before the first class graduates. The mean time from the first day of class to graduation of the first class is approximately 28 months. As of 2010, a total of 154 programs were operational and 152 were accredited (99%) (Personal communication, John McCarty, ARC-PA, January 2011). Clinically active PAs We defined clinically active PAs as those possessing a state license or employed in a federal agency (e.g., military or Department of Veterans' Affairs). To be clinically active, a PA must pass the PA National Certification Examination (PANCE), which is administered by the NCCPA. Historically, eventual pass rate of the PANCE is 97% (Personal communication, Janet Lathrop, NCCPA, September 2010). This 3% loss of PAs who never obtain certification—and remain ineligible to be licensed as clinically active—was discounted after graduation and not added to the pool of clinically active PAs. The AAPA annual census data of 2009 was used to estimate the number of clinically active PAs that year. 15 Attrition For the purposes of this model, we defined attrition as any PA leaving a clinical role. This relaxed definition includes loss due to death, illness, retirement, inactive status, changing careers, not qualified, and emigration. We estimated annual attrition based on AAPA census results and estimates for 2010, and then computed attrition based on the age of all PAs departing clinical activity at age 70 years. We calculated a mean annual attrition rate using the 2010 PA survey of active PAs and reti