# Chinas Weird Chip Surplus Explained

**Source**: https://www.chinatalk.media/p/chinas-weird-chip-surplus-explained
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:00:15.609492+00:00

---

China’s Weird Chip Surplus, Explained ChinaTalk Subscribe Sign in China’s Weird Chip Surplus, Explained How China has both compute overcapacity and shortage Nicholas Welch , Lily Ottinger , and Jordan Schneider Feb 04, 2025 55 1 7 Share With DeepSeek’s recent breakthroughs dominating headlines, a deeper question remains: is the Chinese government truly pushing toward AGI? And if so, what role if any might it have in allocating compute? While DeepSeek’s accomplishment suggests that access to compute beyond what a hedge fund can cobble together may not be an immediate bottleneck for developing algorithmic advances, the picture is more complex. Western labs are still racing to build massive 100,000-GPU-scale clusters (not to mention the Stargate Project) in the hopes of developing and deploying AGI at scale, and DeepSeek’s CEO has repeatedly said that he is compute constrained . In this article, we unpack a key paradox: how can China have simultaneous compute overcapacity and shortages? And what does this say about whether China is ready for the next step towards developing and deploying AGI? Since early 2024, reports have emerged of idle computing centers in China. And in September, renting Nvidia AI chips in the cloud was cheaper in China than in the US . At first glance, this doesn’t make sense. Since the US restricted China’s access to advanced AI chips, one would expect to see chip shortages , every available chip used to its fullest, and high cloud prices . So, what’s going on here? The puzzle has also attracted the attention of Chinese journalists. In this post, we synthesize takes from two long Chinese articles from November of last year. China’s Computing Power — Is There Overcapacity? 中国算力，过剩了吗?, written by Wu Junyu 吴俊宇 for Caijing Magazine 财经杂志. ( link , archived link ); Too Many AI Computing Centers, Yet Not Enough Large Models 智算中心太“多”，大模型不够用了, written by Zhang Shuai 张帅 for TMTPost 钛媒体 ( link , archived link ). Key takeaways China has added at least 1 million AI chips (70% Nvidia, 30% Huawei) in 2024 to its compute capacity — enough to build, in theory, several 100,000-GPU-scale clusters (which is what would likely be needed to compete with GPT-5 or other next-gen Western models). But how come even in the current 10,000-GPU-scale cluster era China already sees overcapacity? Explanation 1: chips are poorly deployed, leading to shortages for “high-quality compute” but overcapacity for “low-quality compute.” During the AI boom, many companies and local governments rushed to buy GPUs, assuming their mere ownership would ensure profits. Since many of them lacked technical and market expertise, however, chips ended up in geographically dispersed, low-quality data centers that are either difficult to use or in places without demand. This speculative behavior and resource mismanagement have given rise to idle computing centers despite overall shortages. The government has responded by no longer granting permits for new data-center construction, unless they are located in one of eight designated hubs. Industry consolidation and professionalization make it less likely that the same kind of chaos will hamper China’s data center construction in 2025. Explanation 2: short-term overcapacity, long-term shortages. By 2024, the demand for foundation-model training has significantly slowed. Many of the players that rushed to develop foundation models in 2023 have ceased training new generations. Although inference demand is growing rapidly, it remains insufficient to fully absorb the excess capacity previously dedicated to training. In the future, rising inference demand and the development of larger foundation models are expected to drive new shortages. The current “transition period” of temporary overcapacity is anticipated to end in mid-2025. Below, we go into more detail on what the Chinese media has to say on How many AI chips China has, and who is deploying them; The emergence of “fake” and “pseudo” 10,000-GPU clusters, and how the government is responding; Unique challenges for compute clusters using Huawei chips; The transition from training to inference demand; Whether China needs more public cloud computing and fewer private GPU clusters; How China can avoid pitfalls from the 10,000-GPU-scale era in the 100,000-GPU-scale era. Who are the major players investing in AI computing centers? To start with, Caijing gives an overview of who actually builds compute clusters in China. There are three major groups: large technology companies (Alibaba, Tencent, Baidu): projected combined 2024 capex of over 130 billion yuan; state-owned telecom operators (China Mobile, China Telecom): planned 2024 investment of 84.5 billion yuan; local governments and SOEs: statistics are very incomplete, but at least 27.5 billion yuan investment from January to October 2024. Caijing goes in depth on the data to estimate the total number of chips put into operation by these three groups in 2024. Large technology companies Caijing argues that capital expenditure is a good proxy for computing-center investments, since capex is usually used to purchase chips and lease land. In 2024 H1, the total capital expenditures of Alibaba , Tencent , and Baidu reached 50.44 billion yuan, up 121.6% y-o-y. This is the highest growth rate since 2018. If the growth trend in the first half of the year continues, the total capital expenditure of Alibaba, Tencent, and Baidu will exceed 130 billion yuan in 2024. Note that Huawei and ByteDance also operate major computing centers. But because they are not listed companies, they have not disclosed relevant data — which means the total investment in the “large tech companies” category is actually higher than the data presented here. Expect DeepSeek in the coming months to shack up with one of these firms just like OpenAI did with Microsoft. TMT 钛媒体 reported on Monday that ByteDance is “considering research collaboration” with DeepSeek. Partnering with ByteDance, however, could be an enormous unlock for DeepSeek researchers, giving them access to orders of magnitude more compute. Figure 1: Capital expenditures of Alibaba, Tencent, and Baidu (Q1 2021 – Q2 2024) Unit: 100 million yuan Note: 1. Alibaba’s calendar year is inconsistent with its fiscal year, and the data has been adjusted according to the calendar year. 2. Technology companies’ capital expenditures are usually used to purchase chips and servers, as well as to lease the land to build data centers; hence, technology companies’ capital expenditure is directly related to computing power investment. | Source: Caijing In the first half of 2024, Nvidia reported US$6.16 billion in revenue from the Chinese market (approximately 43.7 billion yuan), a year-on-year increase of 42.3%. Since domestic tech companies still largely rely on Nvidia chips, these figures provide another useful proxy for estimating the volume of chips purchased by major tech firms in China. Figure 5: Nvidia’s global revenue scale in various regions (Q1 2022 - Q2 2024) Unit: US dollars Note: 1. Nvidia’s calendar year and fiscal year are inconsistent, and the data has been adjusted according to the calendar year. 2. For statistical convenience, Nvidia’s revenue from mainland China, Taiwan, and outside the United States is combined as “others” in the chart. 3. Nvidia’s revenue from mainland China in the financial report statistics includes Hong Kong. State-owned telecom operators Caijing explains that since 2023, state-owned telecom operators have shifted focus from investment in 5G to computing center investments. In fact, the scale of their investment does not trail too far behind that of the private tech companies listed above. China Mobile and China Telecom both disclosed 2024 computing-power investment plans, with China Mobile investing 47.5 billion yuan and China Telecom investing 37 billion yuan. The total of the two — 84.5 billion yuan — represents a year-on-year increase of 13%. China Unicom did not disclose this data, making data in this section incomplete as well. Figure 3: Telecom operators’ computing power-related capital expenditures (2022-2024) Unit: 100 million yuan Note: 2024 figures are plans disclosed in the 2023 financial reports. China Mobile has publicly released two procurement calls for public bidding. The two procurement documents show calls for more than 9,200 Huawei Ascend 昇腾 AI servers (an Ascend AI server is usually equipped with 4 to 8 GPUs, so this would include around 36,000 and 74,000 GPUs). The winning bidders are well-known domestic Ascend dealers, such as Kunlun 昆仑, Huakun Zhenyu 华鲲振宇, Powerleader 宝德, Baixin 百信, Changjiang 长江, Kuntai 鲲泰, Xiangjiang Kunpeng 湘江鲲鹏, and Sichuan Hongxin Software 四川虹信软件. Some articles suggest that China Mobile’s computing infrastructure built in 2024 relies 85% on domestic chips. Caijing cautions that even these domestic chips rely on global supply chains: A Huawei representative mentioned to us this September that although Nvidia’s H20 chips are still being sold to China for now, it is necessary to prepare for the worst-case scenario, as the supply chain could be disrupted at any moment. Huawei’s Ascend 910 series chips rely on high-bandwidth memory (HBM) supplied by South Korea's SK hynix. At present, domestic alternatives to HBM that are both effective and reliable are lacking. In an extreme scenario, if SK hynix’s HBM supply chain is cut off, the production capacity of the Ascend 910 chips would also be impacted. For more on China’s international reliance on HBM, check out this recent ChinaTalk piece. Export Controls and HBM Jordan Schneider · December 10, 2024 Read full story Local governments and SOEs The data here seems to be most messy and incomplete. Caijing ’s statistics show that as of October 16, 2024, there have been at least 30 bidding projects for AI computing centers launched in various cities, with a total investment of at least 27.5 billion yuan. Note: 1. The statistical period is from January 2024 to October 16,