# Tiktok Sea Shanty Singer Nathan Evans Signs Universal.Html

**Source**: https://www.vulture.com/2021/01/tiktok-sea-shanty-singer-nathan-evans-signs-universal.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:31:28.418044+00:00

---

TikTok Sea Shanty Guy Nathan Evans Gets Record Deal Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close TV Recaps TV Movies Comedy Music Games What to Stream Books Theater Art Awards Coverage Podcasts Criticism Family Entertainment About Newsletters New York App Vulture Festival Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Close Close TV Recaps TV Movies Comedy Music Games What to Stream Books Theater Art Awards Coverage Podcasts Criticism Family Entertainment About Newsletters New York App Vulture Festival Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Search Search Close Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission. extremely online Soon May the Record Deal Come By Charlotte Walsh Jan. 22, 2021 save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Nathan Evans, in all his seafaring glory. Photo: @nathanevanss/TikTok In the year of our lord 2021, people have turned to 19th-century tunes to get them through the day, and it looks like that coping mechanism won’t be going away anytime soon. TikTok star Nathan Evans, one of the creators of the sea shanty trend , announced today that he has signed a record deal with Universal’s Polydor Records . For the rest of us mere mortals, the singer also released two versions of the popular New Zealand tune “Wellerman” with the label — a classic cover and a remix perfect for any seafaring social gathering (a Wellerman is apparently an employee of the 19th-century whaling company the Weller Bros., who would probably be pleased with their viral success 200 years later). The Scottish Royal Mail worker turned musician went viral after recording the song in late December, scoring over 8 million views. Let’s just pray Evans collabs with the guy whose brother drives to sea shanties next. Related It Makes Total Sense We’re All Into Sea Shanties Now Tags: nathan evans extremely online sea shanty sea shanties tiktok music More Show Comment Soon May the Record Deal Come Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission. Most Viewed Stories I Didn’t Need to Know All of That About Travis Kelce Taylor Swift Got Bratty Are Taylor Swift and Olivia Rodrigo Still Holding a Grudge? Cinematrix No. 556: October 3, 2025 The Real Stakes Behind a Synthetic Star Are Taylor Swift and Olivia Rodrigo Still Holding a Grudge? I Didn’t Need to Know All of That About Travis Kelce Cinematrix No. 556: October 3, 2025 Taylor Swift Got Bratty The Nicole Kidman–Keith Urban Divorce Is Already Too Personal Sign In to Comment Most Popular I Didn’t Need to Know All of That About Travis Kelce Taylor Swift Got Bratty Are Taylor Swift and Olivia Rodrigo Still Holding a Grudge? Cinematrix No. 556: October 3, 2025 The Real Stakes Behind a Synthetic Star Are Taylor Swift and Olivia Rodrigo Still Holding a Grudge? I Didn’t Need to Know All of That About Travis Kelce Cinematrix No. 556: October 3, 2025 Taylor Swift Got Bratty Taylor Swift Chooses Chaos Latest News from Vulture celeb reactions 6:46 p.m. All the Celebs Stanning Taylor Swift’s The Life of a Showgirl Yes, the Elizabeth Taylor estate has signed off on “Elizabeth Taylor.” diddy trial 6:35 p.m. The Diddy Carnival Is Over Much of what was unfolding outside the courtroom early on had little to do with the trial itself. true crime 6:01 p.m. Did We Learn Anything in Hulu’s Amanda Knox Series? The Twisted Tale of Amanda Knox was told through Knox’s eyes — and taught us exactly what not to do in her situation. game recognize game 5:35 p.m. The Swiftie-Barb Alliance Remains Strong Nicki Minaj loves Taylor Swift’s love. And her album. red white and royal blue 5:30 p.m. Prince William Very Cool and Normal Guy According to Eugene Levy If the royal’s appearance on The Reluctant Traveler isn’t carefully orchestrated image rehabilitation, then what is it, exactly? neighborhood news 5:00 p.m. The Kimmel Resistance Comes to Fort Greene Unlikely free-speech warrior broadcasts from BAM. court appearances 4:50 p.m. Sean ‘Diddy’ Combs Sentenced to 50 Months in Prison “I’m not this larger-than-life person. I’m just a human being,” he said in his 12-minute address ahead of his sentencing. this week in late night 4:18 p.m. Conan O’Brien Behind The Late Show Desk Won Late Night This Week Plus Kimmel (and Josh Meyers as Gavin Newsom) in Brooklyn and Mariah Carey on The Tonight Show. album review 4:18 p.m. Taylor Swift Chooses Chaos The Life of a Showgirl may be her most polarizing album yet. stand-up 4:05 p.m. ‘Two Weeks of Laughter in the Desert’ Everything you need to know about the Riyadh Comedy Festival, currently underway in Saudi Arabia. am i the drama? 2:56 p.m. Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Fighting Now ? And why did they bring the kids into it? now streaming 1:47 p.m. The 13 Best Movies and TV Shows to Watch This Weekend It’s Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson versus Taylor Swift. the engagement of a showgirl 1:37 p.m. Travis Kelce ‘Crushed’ His Post-Podcast Proposal While Taylor Swift rambled about sourdough on New Heights , their garden engagement was being raised. a long talk 12:52 p.m. ‘You’re Right, I Am Exorcising Something’ Joachim Trier made Sentimental Value — a movie about a bad dad who happens to be a director — shortly after becoming a father himself. By Rachel Handler excluded from the narrative 12:39 p.m. Taylor Swift Has a Weird Understanding of ‘Being Canceled’ Who, exactly, is “canceled” on “CANCELLED!”? vulture lists 12:14 p.m. All 43 V/H/S Segments, Ranked With V/H/S/Halloween now on Shudder, we ranked every entry in the franchise known for incubating horror auteurs. housewives institute bulletin 12:07 p.m. Let’s Talk About That Real Housewives of Miami Reunion Bombshell Julia’s claim that she and Adriana slept together on a cast trip raises more questions than it answers. showgirls (taylor&#x27;s version) 11:00 a.m. I Didn’t Need to Know All of That About Travis Kelce On Taylor Swift’s “Wood.” divorce babes 10:43 a.m. Lori Loughlin and Her Husband Are ‘Living Apart’ The parents involved in the college-admissions scandal have a less full house. chat room 10:42 a.m. Love Is Blind ’s Patrick Suzuki Still Believes Love Is Blind, Actually Despite the heartbreak of failed connections with Anna Yuan and Kacie McIntosh: “I’ve done a ton of therapy, dude.” More Stories Email You\&#x27;ll receive the next newsletter in your inbox. *Sorry, there was a problem signing you up. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice and to receive email correspondence from us. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. or Already a subscriber? Sign In What is your email? This email will be used to sign into all New York sites. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive email correspondence from us. Enter your email: Please enter a valid email address. Submit Email or Connect with Google Connect with Facebook Sign in | Subscribe Today Sign In To Continue Reading Create Your Free Account edit email Sign in with Facebook Sign in with Google Choose a password to create an account: Enter your password or sign in with a different email Forgot Password? Password must be at least 8 characters and contain: Lower case letters (a-z) Upper case letters (A-Z) Numbers (0-9) Special Characters (!@#$%^&*) This password will be used to sign into all New York sites. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive email correspondence from us. Sign In Create Account You’re in! As part of your account, you’ll receive occasional updates and offers from New York , which you can opt out of anytime. Continue Reading or Already a subscriber? Sign In What is your email? This email will be used to sign into all New York sites. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive email correspondence from us. Enter your email: Please enter a valid email address. Submit Email or Connect with Google Connect with Facebook Sign in | Subscribe Today Sign In To Continue Reading Create Your Free Account edit email Sign in with Facebook Sign in with Google Choose a password to create an account: Enter your password or sign in with a different email Forgot Password? Password must be at least 8 characters and contain: Lower case letters (a-z) Upper case letters (A-Z) Numbers (0-9) Special Characters (!@#$%^&*) This password will be used to sign into all New York sites. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive email correspondence from us. Sign In Create Account You’re in! As part of your account, you’ll receive occasional updates and offers from New York , which you can opt out of anytime. Continue Reading Already a subscriber? Sign In View Account Log Out Already a subscriber? Sign In View Account Log Out * please try a longer search Have an Account? Log In TV Movies Comedy Music Books What To Stream Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us About Vulture About New York Magazine Newsletters Help Contact Press Media Kit We’re Hiring Privacy Terms Ad Choices Accessibility Do not sell or share my personal data vulture is a Vox Media Network . &copy; 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All rights reserved.