# Dumb Money Moves Yaez

**Source**: https://financebuzz.com/dumb-money-moves-yaez?adgroupid=21715&clickid=102cf3675d2c60c249465f9925131f).”
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:05:36.665233+00:00

---

11 Dumbest Things Smart People Waste Money On | FinanceBuzz Advertiser and Editorial Disclosures 11 Dumbest Things Smart People Waste Money On Last updated Oct. 3, 2025 | By Team FBZ You're not dumb. You do the normal money-saving things … You're a regular at the clearance rack. You don't eat lunch out too much. And you meticulously selected the perfect combo of streaming services to watch your favs for as cheap as possible. But there are some tips you may not know (yet) — and that's a good thing! Because once you see some of the areas where you can cut your costs, you could find some extra cash in your pocket sooner than you think. Home Insurance: Save potentially $1,000 or more on home insurance in Phoenix Most people don't even think twice about what they pay for home insurance. Huge mistake . Especially if you want more money in retirement. If you live in Phoenix and you haven’t checked rates recently, you could save potentially $1,000s. This tool is actively helping homeowners score huge savings on better home insurance. They bring top insurance providers together to compete for your business, potentially giving you a better deal. This could drive the cost down for you by orders of magnitude. You could slash the cost of home insurance by tapping into potential discounts and incentives most homeowners probably don’t even know exist. You might be eligible if you check these 3 boxes: You own your home. You are willing to switch providers to save money. Your ZIP code qualifies. Complete this short questionnaire to see if you qualify Access your home equity to cover debt — no monthly payments for 10 years Struggling with debt? If you want to utilize your home equity to help pay it down, you’re probably frustrated right now. The strict qualifications of the traditional financial system have left many unable to. But there’s another option you may not have heard of, a home equity agreement (HEA) from Unlock . With Unlock, you could tap into up to $500,000 of your home equity and make no payments for ten years . Unlike a home equity loan, HELOC, cash-out refinance, or reverse mortgage, an Unlock HEA gives you cash today in exchange for a share of your home’s future value: Access up to $500,000 of your home’s equity. No monthly payments for 10 years Not subject to traditional interest rates. Recommended credit score: 600+. You can verify your property value and equity in 60 seconds — and with no impact on your credit score: Start by entering your property address here . And don’t worry — Unlock has an A+ rating from the BBB. So see what you’re eligible for, and you could have the funds you need to end your toxic debt loop sooner than you think. Apply for a home equity agreement with Unlock Home Equity: Arizona Homeowners borrow from your home’s equity to pay down high-interest debt Home equity loans are surging in popularity with homeowners with great credit to pay down high-interest debt quickly or make home improvements. The best part is you can actually keep your current mortgage rate by getting a home equity loan with this genius program! No hassle. No expensive fees. Calculate your equity amount and lock in your rate today! How to get started: Check out LendingTree’s Home Equity matching tool. 1 &lt;p&gt;LendingTree, LLC is a Marketing Lead Generator and is a Duly Licensed Mortgage Broker, as required by law, with its main office located at 1415 Vantage Park Drive, Suite 700, Charlotte, NC 28203, NMLS Unique Identifier #1136. LendingTree, LLC is known as LT Technologies in lieu of true name LendingTree, LLC in NY. LendingTree technology and processes are patented under U.S. Patent Nos. 6,385,594 and 6,611,816 and licensed under U.S. Patent Nos. 5,995,947 and 5,758,328. © 2024 LendingTree, LLC. All Rights Reserved. This site is directed at, and made available to, persons in the continental U.S., Alaska and Hawaii only. Terms and Conditions may apply. &lt;/p&gt; Answer a few questions about your home. Lock in your personalized rate and payment. 700+ Credit Score: Compare real offers for $0 Tax Debt: Ask this company to pay off your late tax debt Each year, the IRS forgives millions in unpaid taxes. If you have more than $10,000 in tax debt, or have 3+ years of unfiled taxes, you could get forgiveness too. You might be eligible to lower the amount you owe, or eliminate your tax debt completely. Easy Tax Relief could help you lower or get out of your tax debt for good. They’re well respected in the industry and have been recognized for their ethical standards when dealing with tax debt. While most tax companies just put you on a payment plan and file your taxes for you, Easy Tax Relief talks to the IRS directly. They can help you pay off your tax debt faster while potentially reducing what you owe. Important : Not everyone will qualify. To take advantage of this special program you must owe more than $10,000 in past-due taxes. Fill out this form to get started Overpaying for ED Meds: Get ED meds as low as $0.87/pill The cost of name brand ED meds (like Viagra) can be as high as $3,000 a month without insurance. Ouch. But this company we found makes it easy for seniors to get practically the exact same medication — for as low as $0.87/pill. That’s significantly cheaper! This new company does not accept insurance and operates on a “cash pay” basis, which is how they keep costs so low, even for seniors. (You can still pay via credit card.) Pharmacies are U.S.- based and dispense only FDA-approved ED medication for your safety and peace of mind. They are trusted by 41,933+ customers. To get started: Take a short assessment to get matched with the right medication for your needs. It takes about 60 seconds. No in-person visits needed, and medications are prescribed by licensed doctors. Shipping is also free and discreet on any prescription. BONUS: New customers get an extra $10 off their first purchase using the link below. Get ED meds here for as low as $0.87/pill This plan protects select Arizona homes from many expensive appliance and home repairs (lock in your ultra-low rate) Sounds crazy. And maybe you’re not even sure if this is real . But … you’re probably curious anyway. If you live in Arizona and own your home, Choice Home Warranty could make it so you don’t have to pay $1,000s on home repairs anymore. They’ve been around since 2008 (so you know they’re legit) and they offer affordable plans to cover appliances and systems in your home that could break down. Just make your claim online or give them a call. Their team is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. 2 &lt;p&gt;CHW reserves the right to offer cash back in lieu of repair or replacement in the amount of CHW&#x27;s actual cost (which at times may be less than retail) to repair or replace any covered system, component or appliance. In the event that CHW makes such payment, CHW will provide written notification of the basis for the amount of the payment. First Month Free with purchase of any single payment home warranty plan. The product being offered is a service contract and is separate and distinct from any product or service warranty which may be provided by the home builder or manufacturer.&lt;/p&gt; Choose a plan here and you could still lock in their ultra-low 2025 rates for a limited time. You could tap into immense savings for nearly any system or appliance in your home that’s covered. Not everyone is eligible for this plan so here’s how to check: Click the link below and enter your zip code. Answer a few simple questions. See if your home qualifies and lock in your rate. Choose a plan here and and see if you’re eligible for $50 off and 1 month free P.S. We negotiated a special deal for FinanceBuzz readers who sign up using the link above. Use it this week to get $50 off and 1 month free. We don’t know how long it will last, so take advantage of it today before it disappears. Scams and Fraud: American adults lost $47 billion to scams and fraud in 2024 That's right. According to a new report, American adults lost $47 billion to scams and identity fraud in 2024. But you can safeguard your data with all-in-one scam and fraud protection services from Aura which comes with up to $1,000,000.00 in identity theft insurance 3 &lt;p&gt;The Identity Theft Insurance is underwritten and administered by American Bankers Insurance Company of Florida, an Assurant company. Please refer to the actual policies for terms, conditions, and exclusions of coverage. Coverage may not be available in all jurisdictions. Review the &lt;a href=&quot;https://www.aura.com/legal/insurance-summary-of-benefits&quot;&gt;Summary of Benefits&lt;/a&gt;.&lt;/p&gt; per adult, to cover eligible losses and fees should you experience them. Plans start at $7 per month , and you can choose a family plan that outmatches most others — including Dark Web monitoring to scour data breaches and leaks for your sensitive personal data — such as Social Security numbers (SSN), Medicare information, and phone numbers. Before you make your next online purchase, protect what you’ve built for a fraction of what it could cost you if your data were compromised. Save up to 68% when you sign up for protection today! Vet Bills: Get out of expensive $1,000+ vet bills Vet bills can cost $1,000s, but if you do this , you might be off the hook. You could be reimbursed up to 90% of covered vet costs after meeting your deductible. This new tool helps you find affordable pet insurance in just a few clicks. All I had to do was enter my pet’s name, type of dog or cat, age, and my email. No calls, no texts, and they instantly showed me my options. This means you could save $1,000s on emergency surgeries, illness treatments, and more. I was supposed to pay $4,100 for my dog’s vet bill, but because I had insurance, I was reimbursed $3,400. 4 &lt;p&gt;Individual experiences will vary. Coverage, reimbursement amounts, and potential savings depend on the specific policy, provider, and your pet’s situation.&lt;/p&gt; That’s a