# Alex Berenson Tell The Truth Marijuana Psychosis Violence

**Source**: https://www.vox.com/future-perfect/2019/1/14/18175446/alex-berenson-tell-the-truth-marijuana-psychosis-violence
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:14:32.118609+00:00

---

Alex Berenson’s Tell Your Children is wrong on marijuana, psychosis, and violence | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo What Alex Berenson’s new book gets wrong about marijuana, psychosis, and violence Free speech needs fearless journalism Free speech is endangered; unbiased and trustworthy news is elusive. In a time of noise, confusion, and spin, we’re committed to clarity, truth, and depth — even when it’s hard. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join now Future Perfect What Alex Berenson’s new book gets wrong about marijuana, psychosis, and violence The book, Tell Your Children , has received a lot of media attention, but it’s essentially Reefer Madness 2.0. by German Lopez Jan 14, 2019, 1:00 PM UTC Share Gift Justin Sullivan/Getty Images Alex Berenson&rsquo;s Tell Your Children: The Truth About Marijuana, Mental Illness, and Violence starts early on with a personal anecdote: One night, Jacqueline Berenson, a forensic psychiatrist and Berenson&rsquo;s wife, recalled a case in which a man &ldquo;cut up his grandmother or set fire to his apartment.&rdquo; At some point in the discussion, Jacqueline remarked, &ldquo;Of course he was high, been smoking pot his whole life.&rdquo; As a journalist, this piqued Berenson&rsquo;s curiosity. He claims that, previously, he saw marijuana as relatively harmless. But here was his wife, with all her expertise, linking marijuana to a gruesome crime. When he pushed back, his wife told him to look at the scientific evidence. So he did. The result is the book in which that conversation is now being retold &mdash; a book that&rsquo;s gotten widespread favorable coverage in CNBC , the New Yorker , Mother Jones , and the Marshall Project , and landed op-eds from Berenson about his findings in the New York Times , the Wall Street Journal , and the Philadelphia Inquirer . His central argument is best summarized in a few brief lines later in the book: &ldquo;Marijuana causes psychosis. Psychosis causes violence. The obvious implication is that marijuana causes violence.&rdquo; I could have found this argument persuasive. I&rsquo;ve become increasingly skeptical of drug legalization over the years, as I&rsquo;ve reported on the opioid epidemic (caused by legal opioid painkillers), alcohol, and tobacco. I&rsquo;ve written about how there are risks to marijuana that are worth taking seriously , even if one thinks that legalization is ultimately a better policy than prohibition. I&rsquo;ve stopped using marijuana myself, in part because my husband had multiple experiences in which pot seemed to make his anxiety disorder flare up. Join the Vox Video Lab Go behind the scenes. Chat with creators. Support Vox video. Become a member of the Vox Video Lab on YouTube today . (Heads up: You might be asked to sign in to Google first.) But as I read Berenson&rsquo;s book, it was impossible to escape that, while a compelling read written by an experienced journalist, it is essentially an exercise in cherry-picking data and presenting correlation as causation. Observations and anecdotes, not rigorous scientific analysis, are at the core of the book&rsquo;s claim that legal marijuana will cause &mdash; and, in fact, is causing &mdash; a huge rise in psychosis and violence in America. The book largely focuses on grisly anecdotes of violent crimes committed under the influence of marijuana, the kind of &ldquo;reefer madness&rdquo; stories authorities and the media leaned on when they first prohibited cannabis in the 20th century. Berenson leverages these anecdotes and limited data to argue that heavy marijuana use, spurred by the legalization of pot in several US states, is already leading to a &ldquo;black tide of psychosis&rdquo; and &ldquo;red tide of violence.&rdquo; He warns that things will only get worse as the legal pot industry grows bigger, with an incentive to stifle heavy regulations on cannabis. In one example, he cites a recent, massive review of the evidence on marijuana&rsquo;s benefits and harms from the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, claiming the report, on the link between marijuana and psychosis, &ldquo;declared the issue settled.&rdquo; But I read the report and wrote about it for Vox when it came out. Far from declaring this issue &ldquo;settled,&rdquo; the National Academies&rsquo; report was extremely careful, cautioning that marijuana&rsquo;s &mdash; and marijuana addiction&rsquo;s &mdash; link to psychosis &ldquo;may be multidirectional and complex.&rdquo; Marijuana may not cause psychosis; something else may cause both psychosis and pot use. Or the causation could go the other way: Psychotic disorders may lead to marijuana use, perhaps in an attempt to self-medicate. &ldquo;In certain societies,&rdquo; the report noted, &ldquo;the incidence of schizophrenia has remained stable over the past 50 years despite the introduction of cannabis into those settings.&rdquo; When discussing the report, Berenson doesn&rsquo;t mention any of this. He cites only the parts of the report that are favorable to his thesis &mdash; a disservice to the massive, rigorous work of the 16-person committee of scientists, who pored over thousands of studies for the review. And this is representative of the book as a whole. Berenson says he named the book Tell Your Children as a tongue-in-cheek jab at his critics, because it&rsquo;s the original name of the infamous movie Reefer Madness (1936), which shows people acting out violently after using marijuana. But the further I got into the book, the more it seemed like Berenson was imitating the strategy he&rsquo;d meant to mock. Tell Your Children is Reefer Madness 2.0. There are concerns about marijuana and how legalization is playing out. As the National Academies&rsquo; report makes clear, there is still a lot about cannabis that we just don&rsquo;t know, including its harms and benefits. There is a risk to commercializing another product that&rsquo;s addictive for some and may be harmful in other ways for others, and there may be better ways to legalize or regulate pot that minimize those risks than what we&rsquo;re doing today. But Berenson&rsquo;s book, with its sensationalist claims and shoddy analysis of the evidence, doesn&rsquo;t genuinely address those concerns. Tell Your Children claims to inform its readers of the &ldquo;truth&rdquo; about marijuana, but it instead repeatedly misleads them. A marijuana business manager prepares for the first day of recreational sales in Denver, Colorado. R.J. Sangosti/Denver Post via Getty Images Berenson overstates the evidence for the link between marijuana and psychosis Much of Berenson&rsquo;s book focuses on the history of schizophrenia, psychosis, and the marijuana legalization movement. But at the crux of Berenson&rsquo;s thesis is a supposed connection between marijuana, psychosis, and violence, and an argument that legalization, and the greater levels of cannabis use that will come with it, will create more violent crime in the US. To make his case, Berenson early on reaches back to the initial wave of reefer madness, looking at the reception of marijuana in the late 19th and early 20th centuries in Mexico and India. He argues that if Mexico and India, separated by 9,000 miles, independently concluded that marijuana causes psychosis, shouldn&rsquo;t we take that seriously? He writes, &ldquo;In 1901, for example, a newspaper reported on a man who attacked strangers on a street and then &lsquo;turned on himself and with bites he tore apart his own arms until a straitjacket could be put on him &hellip; he was crazy under the influence of marihuana.&rsquo;&rdquo; Mexicans &ldquo;had no cultural reason to view marijuana negatively,&rdquo; he later adds. &ldquo;Yet they did.&rdquo; For his information on Mexico, Berenson cites Home Grown: Marijuana and the Origins of Mexico&rsquo;s War on Drugs by University of Cincinnati historian Isaac Campos. I know Campos personally. He taught me the history of the war on drugs and drug policy when I was a student at the University of Cincinnati. I read Campos&rsquo;s book very early into my burgeoning interest in drug policy, and although my memory from the early 2010s is a bit fuzzy, I knew something was wrong with what Berenson wrote. I emailed Campos to confirm my hunch. Campos cautioned that he&rsquo;s only read two photocopied pages from Berenson&rsquo;s book in which he&rsquo;s cited. But based on that, he said that Berenson &ldquo;pretty badly misrepresented&rdquo; his argument. It&rsquo;s not at all clear, he said, that marijuana use alone actually caused the violent outbreaks, even if that was a widely held belief in Mexico at the time. Marijuana was mostly used in &ldquo;Mexico&rsquo;s most marginal environments, especially prisons and military barracks, both extremely unhospitable and violent environments,&rdquo; Campos told me. And it really was widely believed at the time that marijuana caused insanity and violence, which may have created a self-fulfilling prophecy since such behavior was essentially deemed as typical while stoned. Pair all of that with the fact marijuana really can cause paranoia and anxiety (as anyone who&rsquo;s used can attest to) and you get some bad stories. But is marijuana to blame, the circumstances of its use, or a mix of these and other factors? At the very least, it&rsquo;s a much more complicated story than Berenson&rsquo;s one-sided portrayal. Pictures of marijuana plants, from around the 1890s. Universal Images Group via Getty Images There&rsquo;s a simi