# California

**Source**: https://www.latimes.com/california
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:20:19.551125+00:00

---

California - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing &amp; Homelessness Politics Science &amp; Medicine World &amp; Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor &amp; Workplace Real Estate Technology and the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing &amp; Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate &amp; Environment Global Warming Water &amp; Drought Entertainment &amp; Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 best restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art &amp; Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health &amp; Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel &amp; Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World &amp; Nation Immigration &amp; the Border Israel-Hamas Mexico &amp; the Americas Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios Business • AI &amp; Tech • Banking &amp; Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Goods &amp; Retail • Healthcare &amp; Science • Law Dentists Decor &amp; Design Doctors &amp; Scientists Hot Property Live &amp; Well Orange County Pets The Hub: Rebuilding LA Travel Weddings &amp; Celebrations Newsletters Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Students &amp; Educators Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store L.A. Times Studios News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance &amp; Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? People on the Move Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Sections Show Search Search Query Submit Search Advertisement California California Politics Earthquakes Education Fires Housing &amp; Homelessness L.A. Politics Latino Life Orange County Daily Pilot More Advertisement Officials demand investigation into claims that plaintiffs were paid to sue L.A. County Officials are voicing outrage after a Los Angeles Times investigation found that some plaintiffs in a sex abuse settlement claimed they received cash to sue L.A. County. Uber and Lyft drivers can unionize under new law signed by Newsom. How does it work? California gave counties power to inspect ICE detention centers. They’re not using it Two men accused of rigging poker games, cheating casinos out of more than $30,000, prosecutors say Drizzly, windy weather ahead for Southern California. Here’s how long it will last California elementary school teacher on leave after sharing racist illustration in group texts The new AI actor is giving Hollywood the creeps! Before she was found dead in D4vd’s Tesla, Celeste Rivas’ mysterious disappearances distressed family Ex-school board member accused of $93,000 embezzlement scheme at Burbank Unified Trump uses repeated funding cuts to pressure California, complicating state’s legal fight She went to get her green card and now faces deportation. Did the feds trick her? California Politics Election ballots mailed on Nov. 4 may not be counted, state officials warn Changes to the United States Postal Service mean that some ballots mailed on election day may not be postmarked the same day. In the biggest sex abuse settlement in U.S. history, some claim they were paid to sue Your guide to Proposition 50: California redistricting Jane Fonda, derided as ‘Hanoi Jane’ and a traitor during the Vietnam War, is a modern-day force in Democratic politics How to vote in California’s Nov. 4 special election Crime &amp; Courts Sean ‘Diddy’ Combs sentenced to more than 4 years in prison for using prostitutes in ‘freak-offs’ Orange County woman admits to stealing $2.8 million from instant noodle company San Francisco street ambassador fatally shot while trying to deter drug user Column One For Subscribers One refugee’s painful journey. Fleeing the U.S. and splitting up her family amid the Trump-era raids Most Read ‘I thought we got nuked or something.’ Massive explosion, fire at Chevron refinery rocks El Segundo Admired climber dies in fall from Yosemite’s El Capitan during apparent livestream Oct. 2, 2025 A historic housing bill is on Newsom’s desk. Cities are scrambling to figure out how it works Oct. 3, 2025 Newsom threatens to cut state funding to universities that sign Trump’s political compact Oct. 2, 2025 Advertisement Breaking News Woman charged with murder in connection with a body found in a burned Honda in South L.A. A dog disappeared from his California home. He was found 2,000 miles away Here’s the latest design for the newly issued California driver’s license SoCal serial arsonist who started 44,000-acre wildfire was caught by a license plate reader In Depth For Subscribers A mysterious surrogacy mansion. A drug-plagued property. And a criminal known as ‘Dragon’ The father of some 22 children discovered by Arcadia police in May also owns a property in El Monte where authorities found evidence of illegal gambling and drug activity, court records show. For Subscribers She thought she was flirting with her favorite celebrity. A heartbreaking deepfake scam cost her everything For Subscribers What social media got wrong about the ICE raids of the Santa Fe Springs Swap Meet For Subscribers They met at a festival. He was a sheriff’s deputy — and a stalker, her lawsuit claims For Subscribers When the evidence hissed: The snake-killer trial that led to California’s last hanging Imagining a Future L.A. California’s wildfire moonshot: How new technology will defeat advancing flames L.A. is under the gun to add housing units. The hard part? Where and how many Hollywood takes a wrecking ball to Los Angeles Voices Commentary: Prepare to say a frond farewell to Los Angeles’ palm trees Fast-forward 25 years: Sharing hopes and dreams for a future Los Angeles Is Southern California prepared to avoid a ‘Day Zero’ water crisis? Imagine fire-safe communities where residents can live and evacuate in record time L.A. is under the gun to add housing units. The hard part? Where and how many Will we ever get enough housing? The future holds promise A few slices of life from the future Los Angeles Voices Chabria: #Strong is a recovery scam. California’s future demands something more Voices Arellano: When the going gets tough for L.A., our city rallies like no other Introducing Crimes of the Times, a new podcast from L.A. Times Studios Crimes of The Times A popular L.A. sheriff touted reforms in a troubled system. Then a young FBI agent showed up Inside the tragedy that silenced a soul legend: Marvin Gaye’s last fight with his father For Subscribers The assassination of RFK: An icon of hope, a hotel pantry and an ‘angry nobody’ Homicidal cousins and the Hillside Stranglers case: A trial that nearly did not happen ‘Deceit, dishonesty, betrayal’: The wrongful conviction that haunted Johnnie Cochran For Subscribers Detectives investigating UCLA student’s murder uncovered a stunningly personal betrayal How a pair of Palos Verdes altar boys grew up to be Soviet spies It took LAPD 23 years to identify one of their own as the culprit in this fatal love triangle Charged with selling state secrets to the Soviets, a bumbling FBI agent had a novel defense Convicting ‘gun moll’ Barbara Graham was a famous win for L.A. prosecutors. Did they cheat? He was both fire captain and prolific arsonist. His novel put him in prison Before Scopes, Clarence Darrow fought another battle. He was accused of bribing a jury Advertisement California For Subscribers The dirty secret of California’s legal weed An L.A. Times/WeedWeek investigation finds alarming levels of pesticides in cannabis products at dispensaries across the state How we tested for pesticides Legal Weed, Broken Promises: A Times series on the fallout of legal pot in California L.A. Influential For Subscribers The Creators: A Hollywood trailblazer, a gaming visionary, a horror genius... For Subscribers The Connectors: A story huntress, a new kind of cop, a food tastemaker... For Subscribers The Money: A Magic billionaire, Hollywood’s political bundler, agricultural barons... For Subscribers The Civic Center: A groundbreaking mayor, a housing advocate, a giver of food... For Subscribers The Disruptors: The Mattel miracle maker, the modern Babe Ruth, the street vendor avenger... For Subscribers The Establishment: Mother of Kardashians, the nation’s vice president, a live music overlord... Watch: L.A. Influential Up Close Advertisement Education Eager for ‘home,’ students return to school destroyed by L.A. fires — in temporary classrooms Sept. 30, 2025 What counts as cheating with AI? Teachers are grappling with how to draw the line Sept. 27, 2025 AI is infiltrating the classroom. Here’s how teachers and students say they use it Sept. 27, 2025 Housing &amp; Homelessness Which homeless shelters have open beds? Advocates say botched data make it hard to know For Subscribers Almost no one is building new apartments in Los Angeles. Here’s why An RV park in this neighborhood? Not without a fight Earthquakes California Magnitude 4.3 earthquake wakes Sa