# Bugattis Next Powertrain Is A V 16 Hybrid

**Source**: https://www.roadandtrack.com/news/a60024358/bugattis-next-powertrain-is-a-v-16-hybrid/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:58:48.684878+00:00

---

Bugatti's Next Powertrain Is a V-16 Hybrid We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and other uses. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. Search About Us Join Now All Access R&amp;T Experiences Shop R&amp;T News Reviews Car Culture Exclusives Performance Car of the Year Contact Follow Newsletter Send Us a Tip Your Privacy Choices Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content News Reviews Culture Exclusives Gear Send Us a TIp Sign Up Join Now sign in News Bugatti's Next Powertrain Is a V-16 Hybrid Bugatti's Next Powertrain Is a V-16 Hybrid In a world where everyone else is focused on smaller engines, Bugatti is sticking with sixteen roaring cylinders. By Fred Smith Published: Feb 29, 2024 10:22 AM EST Save Article Bugatti Eight years ago today, Bugatti revealed the Chiron. That hypercar went on to sell out of its original production run and reach 300 mph , carrying on the legacy of the Veyron before it as the ultimate grand tourer. The Chiron's run is now complete, so you may have expected Bugatti to get with the times and replace their signature hypercar with something with fewer combustion chambers. Instead, the brand is doubling down on 16 cylinders. Bugatti has confirmed that its next engine is a V-16. Yes, as in two eight-cylinder banks. The brand is not sharing any details on the engine itself but photos of headers marked with a firing order and a quick audio clip, but it will be part of a hybrid powertrain when it debuts in a still-unnamed new car in June. View full post on X A clip shared on social media includes a brief snippet of sound from a running V-16 engine. The new motor sounds like it might rev higher than the outgoing V-16, which has a unique low rumble even in its most aggressive applications . That provides the only meaningful hint at the direction the new Bugatti will take. The car Bugatti built around the new V-16 hybrid will debut in June. We know that it will be the last built by current design team director Achim Anscheidt, and we know that it will not reach production until Bugatti finishes building outstanding orders of the Bolide and Mistral in 2026. Given the sheer length of a powertrain that integrates a V-16, expect the engine bay to be long. Fred Smith Motorsports Editor Fred Smith's love of cars comes from his fascination with auto racing. Unfortunately, that passion led him to daily drive a high-mileage, first-year Porsche Panamera. He is still thinking about the last lap of the 2011 Indianapolis 500. Spotlight Defender D7X-R Wants to Conquer the Desert For One Driver, 72 Hours of Racing Is No Big Deal The Ferrari F80 Is a Silent Killer Tested: 2026 Chevrolet Silverado EV Trail Boss Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Alpine Wins 6 Hours of Fuji, WEC's 100th Race Is Tail of the Dragon Worth the Hype? The Rise of Ferrari’s New Young Talents The 2026 Toyota GR Corolla Is Much Stiffer Pearley: Where's My Fox-Body Mustang GTD? Best Luxury Sports Cars for 2025 and 2026 Why McLaren Insists Piastri’s Baku GP Was a 'One-Off' The Bentley Bentayga Is an Ultra-Lux Tow Barge Advertisement - Continue Reading Below About Us New Cars News Press Room How We Test Cars Send Us a Tip Car Rankings Newsletter Contact Us Advertise Online Customer Service Gear and Accessories Subscribe Community Guidelines Media Kit A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2025 Hearst Autos, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights/Shine the Light DAA Industry Opt Out Terms of Use Site Map Your Privacy Choices: Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads