# Disney Ceo Robert Iger Gets 15Month Contract Extension.Html

**Source**: https://www.cnbc.com/2013/07/01/disney-ceo-robert-iger-gets-15month-contract-extension.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:16:20.692024+00:00

---

Disney CEO Robert Iger Gets 15-Month Contract Extension Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Cryptocurrency Futures &amp; Commodities Bonds Funds &amp; ETFs Business Economy Finance Health &amp; Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim&#x27;s Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown NEW! My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Stock Lists Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news &amp; videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Media Disney CEO Robert Iger Gets 15-Month Contract Extension Published Mon, Jul 1 2013 6:58 PM EDT Lisa Richwine and Ronald Grover WATCH LIVE Bob Iger Getty Images Walt Disney&#x27;s board on Monday extended Bob Iger&#x27;s tenure as its chief executive by 15 months, allowing him to remain both CEO and chairman of the media giant through June 30, 2016. Iger, 62, had planned to step down as CEO on April 1, 2015, and assume the single role as executive chairman through the end of his existing contract on June 30, 2016, the company said in a statement . Since taking over as CEO in 2005, Iger has overseen acquisitions of film studios Pixar and Marvel, two hit makers for Disney, as well as last year&#x27;s purchase of &quot;Star Wars&quot; creator Lucasfilm. The company also invested in theme parks and expanded the Disney brand into international markets. watch now VIDEO 9:25 09:25 Disney CEO: Excellent Quarter Across the Board Closing Bell Disney has delivered a total shareholder return of 193 percent during Iger&#x27;s tenure, exceeding the 54 percent from the S&amp;P 500, Orin Smith, Disney&#x27;s independent lead director, said in a statement. The board asked Iger to extend his term as CEO, Smith said, &quot;given his outstanding leadership, and to provide continuity of Disney&#x27;s corporate strategy.&quot; Keeping Iger in both jobs through June 2016 gives the Disney board more time to choose his successor and ensure a smooth transition, Wunderlich Securities analyst Matthew Harrigan said. Disney suffered through a bruising battle when Iger&#x27;s predecessor, Michael Eisner, was forced out of the company. Chief Financial Officer Jay Rasulo and Disney Parks and Resorts Chairman Tom Staggs are considered leading candidates to replace Iger as CEO, Wall Street analysts say. &quot;It certainly makes sense not to fumble around with that role,&quot; Harrigan said. &quot;I think you&#x27;d like to give it a couple more years to play out.&quot; The culmination of many of Iger&#x27;s biggest projects will come in 2015, when Disney&#x27;s $3.7 billion Shanghai theme park is scheduled to open. Also that year, Disney will release a new &quot;Star Wars&quot; movie and a sequel to last year&#x27;s blockbuster Marvel film &quot;The Avengers.&quot; Iger&#x27;s existing compensation terms remain in place, Disney said. Disney shares rose 1.2 percent to close at $63.93 on the New York Stock earlier on Monday before the news of Iger&#x27;s extended CEO contract. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing &amp; Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance CNBC on Peacock Join the CNBC Panel Supply Chain Values Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Ad Choices Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Privacy Policy CA Notice Terms of Service © 2025 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by