# Microsoft To Invest 10 Billion In Chatgpt Creator Openai Report Says.Html

**Source**: https://www.cnbc.com/2023/01/10/microsoft-to-invest-10-billion-in-chatgpt-creator-openai-report-says.html?ref=wheresyoured.at
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:31:26.716886+00:00

---

Microsoft to invest $10 billion in ChatGPT creator OpenAI, report says Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Cryptocurrency Futures &amp; Commodities Bonds Funds &amp; ETFs Business Economy Finance Health &amp; Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim&#x27;s Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown NEW! My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Stock Lists Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news &amp; videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech Microsoft reportedly plans to invest $10 billion in creator of buzzy A.I. tool ChatGPT Published Tue, Jan 10 2023 7:00 AM EST Updated Tue, Jan 10 2023 6:44 PM EST Ryan Browne @Ryan_Browne_ WATCH LIVE Key Points Microsoft is set to invest $10 billion in OpenAI as part of a funding round that would value the company at $29 billion, news site Semafor reported Tuesday. Microsoft will reportedly get a 75% share of OpenAI&#x27;s profits until it makes back the money on its investment, after which the company would assume a 49% stake in OpenAI. A bet on ChatGPT could help Microsoft boost its efforts in web search, a market dominated by Google. In this article MSFT Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT watch now VIDEO 1:27 01:27 Microsoft invests in ChatGPT parent Closing Bell Microsoft plans to invest $10 billion in OpenAI, the startup behind popular artificial intelligence tool ChatGPT, according to a report from Semafor . The deal is part of a funding round with other investors involved that would value OpenAI at a whopping $29 billion, Semafor reported Tuesday, citing people familiar with the matter. It isn&#x27;t clear whether the deal has been finalized but term sheets sent to prospective investors indicated the plan was to close the deal by the end of 2022, Semafor reported. Microsoft will reportedly get a 75% share of OpenAI&#x27;s profits until it makes back the money on its investment, after which the company would assume a 49% stake in OpenAI. Microsoft and OpenAI were not immediately available for comment when contacted by CNBC. OpenAI logo displayed on a phone screen and ChatGPT website displayed on a laptop screen are seen in this illustration photo taken in Krakow, Poland on December 5, 2022. Jakub Porzycki | Nurphoto | Getty Images For several weeks, the tech world has been abuzz with chatter about ChatGPT . The tool is a natural language processing model, meaning it is designed to generate text that appears as though a human wrote it. The AI model, itself a variant of the GPT-3 family of large language models, has been used for everything from developing code to writing college essays. A bet on ChatGPT could help Microsoft boost its efforts in web search, a market dominated by Google . The company&#x27;s Bing browser has only a small share of the global search engine market, however it is hoped the deal could help the firm chip away at Google&#x27;s dominance by offering more advanced search capabilities. In December, Morgan Stanley published a report examining whether ChatGPT is a threat to Google . Brian Nowak, the bank&#x27;s lead analyst on Alphabet, wrote that language models could take market share &quot;and disrupt Google&#x27;s position as the entry point for people on the Internet.&quot; OpenAI, which was founded by Silicon Valley entrepreneur Sam Altman in 2015, launched its ChatGPT to the public in late November. Despite optimism over its potential, the project is burning through cash due to the overwhelming level of pressure on its servers arising from its virality. Five days after OpenAI released ChatGPT, Altman said that the chat research tool crossed 1 million users. Read the full report on the Semafor website. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing &amp; Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance CNBC on Peacock Join the CNBC Panel Supply Chain Values Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Ad Choices Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Privacy Policy CA Notice Terms of Service © 2025 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by