# The Return Of Fomo.Html

**Source**: https://www.thecut.com/2021/06/the-return-of-fomo.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:51:42.754332+00:00

---

New York City Is Becoming Itself Again and FOMO Is Back Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Style Self Culture Power Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission culture The Return of FOMO The pandemic forced us to simplify our lives and look inward. Now it’s time to have fun again. That should be easy, right? By Matthew Schneier , chief restaurant critic at New York Magazine June 7, 2021 Photo: Jutharat Pinyodoonyachet save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Photo: Jutharat Pinyodoonyachet Photo: Jutharat Pinyodoonyachet Something happened in May. Or rather, a bunch of things started happening. Again. After spending much of the past year on the sofa, my social life reduced to a few close friends and family members, I suddenly had something to do every night of the week — maskless, outside my apartment — whether I wanted to or not. I was thrilled and afraid to say no to any of it: dinners with people I had not seen in person in months, which could be indoors or out; the opening of a new shop selling trompe l’oeil ceramics and vintage glass (“To release!” two guests toasted, clanking together their White Claws); another friend’s comedy show; a Park Slope after-party; a fancy daylong picnic upstate. But there were also the things I wasn’t invited to that clogged my phone’s interminable scroll: the rooftop pandemic-baby showers; delayed multi-person makeup birthday parties; and sweaty, hundred-strong club nights. Any conversation might reveal that the couchlock of 2020–21 was no longer in effect. New York City is becoming itself again: crowded, busy, and competitive. “Over the course of the game, texting friends,” a Knicks fanatic I hadn’t seen in a year told me when we ran into each other during playoff season, “it became clear that everyone was at Madison Square Garden but me.” The pandemic had tamped down just this kind of social triangulating. Pod life simplified things. This could be a relief, even a revelation. “Turns out I’m perfectly happy only speaking to, like, three people for months at a time,” said a woman I know who spent the past year nesting at home, pandemic-pregnant with her second child, while her husband worked in the emergency room at Bellevue. Only later did she realize that, for most of a year, she had not suffered the pangs of FOMO — “fear of missing out” — because sitting at home was what everybody was doing. And, in fact, the FOMO economy collapsed. Ask Patrick McGinnis, the venture capitalist who coined the snack-size acronym in the pages of the Harvard Business School student newspaper in 2004, who had cause for concern. By cosmic misfortune, McGinnis, who has a parallel career as a pop entrepreneur and a podcaster, published his official treatise on FOMO in May 2020, right in the midst of the pandemic. “I thought to myself, Oh God, ” he told me. “ I’ve become super–irrelevant overnight. ” But not so fast. In April of this year, the canaries in the coal mine started to chirp. Vaccines were going into arms, and social life was creeping back. One of the city’s most FOMO-driven subcultures is the art world. So when, in early May, Frieze unfurled at Hudson Yards — which only months before had been a weird wasteland with its own towering shawarma Ozymandias — with Vaxxed Important People dinners afterward, I knew something was being reawakened. Some of the first parties I could remember hearing about in months were happening. “The entire night, people were just like, ‘It’s the first time I’ve gone to any events with more than, like, two people in a year,’ ” Nate Freeman, the art-world reporter and gossip columnist, told me about the Frieze bash he hosted on a Tribeca-hotel rooftop. “I can understand people’s apprehension. But the biggest backlash was from people who weren’t invited.” When the crowds were hustled home at 11 p.m., an overstuffed elevator got stuck, requiring Fire Department intervention. Four months ago: potential tragedy. Today: farce! In mid-May, the CDC updated its guidance to say that “fully vaccinated people can resume activities without wearing a mask or physically distancing” (except where prohibited by “federal, state, local, tribal, or territorial” laws), and the dam broke. By early June, Governor Cuomo relaxed restrictions , and, on cue, my phone buzzed with a text, unbidden, from the Pilates place I’d last seen during the Trump administration: “Hot Girl Summer Take.” All the invitations, the commitments, the double bookings, and the RSVPs came flooding back. They hadn’t been banished; they were only hibernating. And now here they were, good as new, as if we hadn’t had the time to philosophically reconsider our priorities after all. “Our message is simple. It’s time to reenter society,” Cuomo said at a press conference in early June, as a screen flashed IF YOU WANT TO START LIVING AGAIN … DO IT IN NEW YORK. FOMO might have gone into hibernation for a while, but we may now be on the way to a new golden age as we try to make up for the year we lost by doing more than ever. (McGinnis is booked back-to-back now: “The amount of press and speaking inquiries that I’ve gotten just in the past six weeks has been the most I’ve had in my career.”) It couldn’t be otherwise. The city runs on FOMO, a connoisseurship of opportunities and possibilities; the catechism of “Did you get invited, are you on the list, can you get a table?”; the performance of plans. Remember plans? All across town, plans are once again abloom, plans polliniferous, begetting others, which beget others. The city is Rip Van Winkling into wobbly wakefulness. The pandemic rages on in many places, and its traumas will haunt us for years, but in New York City, at one point among the hardest-hit places in the world, vaccinations are up and cases are down — down far enough that we are invited to tiptoe back into public life, paler and weirder than we left it. As Memorial Day approached, city tollbooths clocked traffic at pre-pandemic levels. Over the holiday weekend, rain notwithstanding, 10,000 people a day lined up outside the Met . At retailers across America, sales of in-public essentials for a public creeping out of its hermitage are up: teeth-whiteners, deodorant, sunblock, condoms. Photo: Jutharat Pinyodoonyachet If you doubt it, check your Instagram, where you can watch the repopulating of the social sphere in real time, pandemic pods breaking open to reveal new friendships you’d not realized had been quietly gestating during lockdown. We all know — at least for the young, maybe also for the reckless — the parties never stopped, really ; now, what was once hidden from judgmental eyes is shared widely. “This happening right at the edge of summer has flipped people out,” said an old colleague when I ran into her at an exercise class. “People are asking me, ‘Do you think I should make a plan for every single weekend?’ There’s so much hedging of bets over July and August people are struggling to commit. The options feel limitless even though they’re just what they were before — which is mediocre.” Ours will be a rickety reentry. Like Rip, we are unpracticed, we creak. (“As he arose to walk,” his story goes, “he found himself stiff in the joints and wanting in his usual activity.”) But more than that, we are anxious — about being back and not being back. Are all my friends hanging out without me? Have they been this whole time? Now my phone glows with scheduling and agita. “I feel like my feet are rejecting shoes that aren’t running sneakers or Birkenstocks,” a friend recently admitted to me. “When I put on even the tiniest stitch of makeup, I feel like a Kardashian. I know for sure that I don’t ever want to return to the lifestyle of dinner plans on most nights, but I’m so out of practice when it comes to planning that I can’t seem to strike the right balance. Basically I’m lost. I don’t want to miss out, but I don’t want to go out, either.” All over a jittery city, the excitement of reentry is colliding with the anxiety of abundance. Lockdown was taxing, sure. “What I found so interesting,” Shannon O’Neill, a psychologist at Mount Sinai, told me, “is that we were instructed to behaviorally mimic symptoms of depression.” But the return may be no less fraught. “It was a shared collective experience that you weren’t missing out; everyone really had to stay home. Now, with everyone being able to pick and choose what they do again, seeing people out on social media — whether you don’t feel ready to go out or you’re quite comfortable with this new way of living — I’m sure that often causes a lot of emotional d