# Northwestern Wildcats College Football

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/college-football/team/northwestern-wildcats-college-football/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:47:46.408343+00:00

---

Northwestern Wildcats - News, Schedule, Scores, Roster, and Stats - The Athletic NCAAF Teams Scores &amp; Schedule Standings Podcasts Until Saturday Newsletter Recruiting Odds Picks All-136 Ranking Latest Playoff Projections Quizzes Rivalry Rankings Northwestern Wildcats (2-2) · 10th in Big Ten Can billions in private capital keep the Big Ten locked in and Ohio State, Michigan happy? The Big Ten’s stability is more important for some within the league than for others. Ralph D. Russo and Scott Dochterman 157 Portal Buzz: The top 20 transfer quarterbacks after one month — plus 5 disappointments Antonio Morales and Sam Khan Jr. 48 What we learned about the Big Ten after the conference's most consequential Saturday yet Scott Dochterman 129 College football recruiting staffers share thoughts on Class of 2026 quarterbacks Antonio Morales and Grace Raynor 34 Ranking 136 college football teams after Week 5: Oregon moves into top 2, LSU continues to slide Chris Vannini 167 Advertisement More Stories Ranking 136 college football teams after Week 4: Oklahoma into top 3, OK State out of top 100 Oklahoma will sit in the top five for a while, with an idle week and Kent State coming up before a showdown with Texas. Chris Vannini 197 What Dave Portnoy and Barstool Sports reveal about Fox and the Big Ten's relationship Why does the relationship between Fox and the Big Ten feel more inimical than others conferences' media deals? The Athletic Staff 341 Northwestern Collectibles POWERED BY NEW Car Magnet - Northwestern Wildcats - NCAA College Football - MAGNET 1 available $7.50 View Listing USED Northwestern Wildcats Jacket Men 2XL NCAA Basketball Steve Barry College Purple* 1 available $39.99 View Listing USED Northwestern Wildcats Football Jersey Mens Medium NCAA College Under Armour 1 available $63.62 View Listing USED Adidas Northwestern Wildcats College Football Williams #49 Jersey Size XL 1 available $16.12 View Listing Big Ten football mailbag: Illinois optimism, Oregon concerns as conference play ramps up Also, why Penn State played a weak nonconference schedule and thoughts on Big Ten schedule discrepancies. Scott Dochterman 144 Ranking 136 college football teams after Week 3: Miami, Ohio State overtake LSU The early-season results have already taken on a different look than they did a few weeks ago. The rest of this year is going to be fun. Chris Vannini 295 Advertisement Submit your questions for the next Big Ten football mailbag What have we learned about the Big Ten's 18 teams through three weeks, and what's still a mystery? Scott Dochterman 64 Mandel's Mailbag: Florida skeptics' Billy Napier victory lap and Bill Belichick's latest bad look Plus, what do the late start times mean for Big Ten fans? And how does Stewart Mandel watch games on Saturdays? Stewart Mandel 352 In the Big Ten's early QB hierarchy, the familiar faces are outshining the new arrivals The first two weeks of the season provide a glimpse of the Big Ten QBs hierarchy with the returners from last season on top. Scott Dochterman 106 Ranking 136 college football teams after Week 2: September surprises lead to big moves With multiple overtime games, upsets and close calls, Week 2 provided a lot of results to shake up The Athletic 136. Chris Vannini 172 Big Ten won big in Week 1, but this Saturday could be the real tone-setter With two consecutive national titles and a blissful start to 2025, the Big Ten has earned the right to flex. But now, the moment’s over. Scott Dochterman 162 Ranking 136 college football teams after Week 1: Can LSU, Florida State back up hot starts? This list will be volatile early in the season, with big risers and fallers as data starts to come in. And Week 1 was loaded with data. Chris Vannini 330 Advertisement Jackson Arnold impressed. Arch Manning didn't. Quarterback overreactions after Week 1 Arnold's debut at Auburn was promising. Manning's first road start at Texas was not. Sam Khan Jr. 170 Tulane coach calls out Northwestern ‘disrespect’ in denying Hurricane Katrina uniform homage Coach Jon Sumrall told reporters Northwestern denied Tulane's request to wear white jerseys like the 2005 squad. Amos Morale III 297 10 things you need to know about the Big Ten as mega-conference kicks off 2025 Big Ten football enters its 130th year of competition with plenty of swagger. Scott Dochterman 126 College football Hope-O-Meter 2025: Which fans are feeling good? Who has given up? We received more than 12,000 responses to our survey. More than 80 percent of fans feel good about their team. Surely, that will change. Manny Navarro 65 Big Ten odds, win totals, projections, best bet: Will Ohio State return to the top of the conference? Ohio State is favored to win the Big Ten, something the Buckeyes haven't done since 2020. Will they end the drought or will it continue? Dan Santaromita and Austin Mock 51 Who has the easiest, hardest Big Ten schedules? Ranking all 18, from Wisconsin to Michigan With 18 teams under the Big Ten umbrella, the conference’s schedules have more disparity now than ever before. Scott Dochterman 118 Advertisement Big Ten vs. SEC challenge: Who would win a 16-game showdown? If the sport's two premier conferences played a nonconference series, who would prove to have more depth? We played it out. Scott Dochterman and Seth Emerson 345 Is extra travel hurting Big Ten football teams? What's fact (and fiction) amid realignment Big Ten teams fared poorly when flying multiple time zones last football season. But how much could actually be chalked up to travel? Mitch Sherman and Austin Meek 126 Pat Fitzgerald, Northwestern reach settlement in wrongful termination lawsuit Northwestern fired Fitzgerald in 2023 amid hazing allegations in the football program. He's maintained that he was unaware of the incidents. Chris Vannini 204 Tell us about your favorite college football tailgate foods (and why) We at The Athletic want to celebrate what makes us love college football. Let's hear after your best tailgate food experiences. The Athletic College Football Staff 64 See More College Football Teams Alabama Arizona State Cincinnati Clemson Colorado Florida Georgia Iowa LSU Miami Michigan Michigan State Nebraska Notre Dame Ohio State Penn State Tennessee Texas Texas A&amp;M USC Virginia Tech Washington Wisconsin National Boxing Bundesliga Champions League Championship College Football College Sports Copa America Copa del Rey Cricket Culture Cycling Europa League European Championship FA Cup Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Basketball Fantasy Football Fantasy Hockey Fantasy Premier League FIFA Club World Cup FIFA Men&#x27;s World Cup FIFA Women&#x27;s World Cup Formula 1 Gaming Global Sports Golf International Football La Liga League Cup League One League Two Memorabilia &amp; Collectibles Men&#x27;s College Basketball Mixed Martial Arts MLB MLS Motorsports NASCAR NBA NFL NHL NWSL Olympics Opinion Peak Premier League Sailing Scottish Premiership Serie A Soccer Sports Betting Sports Business Tennis Top Sports News WNBA Women&#x27;s College Basketball Women&#x27;s Euros Women&#x27;s Hockey Women&#x27;s Soccer The Athletic Ink Podcasts Headlines US Arizona Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Buffalo Carolina Chicago Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Dallas Denver Detroit Houston Indiana Jacksonville Kansas City Las Vegas Los Angeles Memphis Miami Minnesota Nashville New Orleans New York Oklahoma Oregon Orlando Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento San Antonio San Diego Seattle St. Louis Tampa Bay Utah Washington DC Wisconsin Canada Calgary Edmonton Montreal Ottawa Toronto Vancouver Winnipeg Partners Collectibles by eBay Odds by BetMGM Streaming by Fubo Tickets by StubHub Subscribe Start Subscription Group Subscriptions HQ About Us Careers Code of Conduct Editorial Guidelines Business Inquiries Press Inquiries Support FAQ Forgot Password? Contact Us Terms of Service Newsletters The Pulse The Bounce The Windup Prime Tire Full Time Until Saturday Scoop City The Athletic FC MoneyCall Red Light © 2025 The Athletic Media Company, A New York Times Company Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Support RSS Sitemap