# Cathy Horyn On Spring Fashions Airy Looks.Html

**Source**: https://www.thecut.com/2022/02/cathy-horyn-on-spring-fashions-airy-looks.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:56:51.442523+00:00

---

Cathy Horyn On Spring Fashion’s Airy Looks Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Style Self Culture Power Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission spring fashion Let’s Get High At last. By Cathy Horyn , The Cut’s fashion critic-at-large since 2015. &nbsp; Before joining The Cut in 2015, she was fashion critic at the New York Times (the second person to ever have the title) from 1999 to 2014. Photographs by Dan Beleiu Feb. 18, 2022 Rick Owens Fogachine Spring-Summer 2022 Faille Lined Long Peter Coat, Silk Chiffon Fog Robe, and Leather Spartan Ankle Shoes, available at Rick Owens Stores and on rickowens.eu. Photo: Dan Beleiu save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Rick Owens Fogachine Spring-Summer 2022 Faille Lined Long Peter Coat, Silk Chiffon Fog Robe, and Leather Spartan Ankle Shoes, available at Rick Owens Stores and on rickowens.eu. Photo: Dan Beleiu Rick Owens Fogachine Spring-Summer 2022 Faille Lined Long Peter Coat, Silk Chiffon Fog Robe, and Leather Spartan Ankle Shoes, available at Rick Owens Stores and on rickowens.eu. Photo: Dan Beleiu The world in which spring’s fashions were conceived could hardly have been less hospitable to lightheartedness, fun — and freedom. And yet when Jack McCollough and his partner at Proenza Schouler, Lazaro Hernandez, sent out a trio of fluid jersey dresses in yellow as well as saffron-orange and fuchsia — against a backdrop of the Hudson River at sunset — they struck the fresh chord of the season. This is what we wanted, even if we didn’t yet know we wanted it. Thankfully, many more designers played along. Peter Do’s long pleated shirtdresses also catch the flow, opening over matching trousers, though you can wear them alone. Do’s spring clothes generally have a cool opulence, with a balance of clean lines and just enough volume in the shapes. Rick Owens may be the conceptual king of drapery and architecture, but in Paris this season, in the plaza of the Palais de Tokyo, he offered some elegantly stark, flowy ankle-length dresses in crinkly chiffon (albeit in his favorite mud hues), paired with sweeping coats. The dresses are Rick to a T. In fact, they are essentially T-shirts. You can wear them over a bodysuit while you swing — or float — down the street. Many of spring’s airy styles seem designed for maximum comfort, like Sportmax’s drawstring linen dresses, or the loose-fitting tops and caftans in vividly colored taffeta at Valentino, or Issey Miyake’s easy, sculptural tops. Others have a quirky, oddball edge, like the decorative smock dresses at Jil Sander. Some pieces are clearly designed for maximum silliness — few more so than Demna’s update of Balenciaga’s famous dress with a short front hem and a trailing back hem. Demna did his big, billowy version in silver. Talk about levity. At Loewe, Jonathan Anderson’s chiffon balloon pants, winglike collars, and jean jackets with asymmetrical swags of denim owe their frivolity to Surrealism. This look, shaped by good fabrics and a precise silhouette, is sufficiently novel to stand out on its own. However you style it — with sneakers, sandals, or a jacket — it should leave you feeling energized and, dare we say it, optimistic, as if you’ve just escaped your lockdown cave and aren’t looking back. Peter Do Champagne Combo Pleated Shirtdress, and Off-White Peter Jeans, available at select retailers. Jil Sander Knee-High Leather-and-Fabric Striped Boot, available on jilsander.com. Proenza Schouler Saffron Matte Jersey Crêpe Dress and Black Square Loafers, available at Proenza Schouler Stores and on proenzaschouler.com. Jennifer Fisher Small Petite Bolden Hoops, available on jenniferfisherjewelry.com. Issey Miyake Fluidity Loop Top and Fluidity Loop Pants, available on us-store.isseymiyake.com. Feben Waterfall Dress and X-Pression Tights (SS22), available soon on brownsfashion.com. Missoni Light Blue Lace and Sequined Top with Side Tails and Vintage Wash Jeans, available at Missoni U.S. boutiques and on missoni.com. Alexander McQueen Coat, available at Alexander McQueen Soho and on alexandermcqueen.com. Chanel Blouse, available on chanel.com; Tiffany and Co. Knot Drop Earrings in Yellow Gold with Diamonds, available at Tiffany & Co. locations and on tiffany.com Photographs by Dan Beleiu Peter Do Champagne Combo Pleated Shirtdress, and Off-White Peter Jeans, available at select retailers. Jil Sander Knee-High Leather-and-Fabric Striped Boot, available on jilsander.com. Proenza Schouler Saffron Matte Jersey Crêpe Dress and Black Square Loafers, available at Proenza Schouler Stores and on proenzaschouler.com. Jennifer Fisher Small Petite Bolden Hoops, available on jenniferfisherjewelry.com. Issey Miyake Fluidity Loop Top and Fluidity Loop Pants, available on us-store.isseymiyake.com. Feben Waterfall Dress and X-Pression Tights (SS22), available soon on brownsfashion.com. Missoni Light Blue Lace and Sequined Top with Side Tails and Vintage Wash Jeans, available at Missoni U.S. boutiques and on missoni.com. Alexander McQueen Coat, available at Alexander McQueen Soho and on alexandermcqueen.com. Chanel Blouse, available on chanel.com; Tiffany and Co. Knot Drop Earrings in Yellow Gold with Diamonds, available at Tiffany & Co. locations and on tiffany.com Photographs by Dan Beleiu Production Credits Photographs by Dan Beleiu Styling by Jessica Willis Hair by Amidat Makeup by Lynski Set Design by Georgina Pragnell Movement Direction by Paul Sadot Model: Ana Jorge at Next Models Casting by AAMØ Production by Henrietta Hitchcock at JN Production Thank you for subscribing and supporting our journalism . If you prefer to read in print, you can also find this article in the February 14, 2022, issue of New York Magazine. Want more stories like this one? Subscribe now to support our journalism and get unlimited access to our coverage. If you prefer to read in print, you can also find this article in the February 14, 2022, issue of New York Magazine. More From 2022 spring fashion issue Catching New Yorkers Mid-Delivery A Bonbon for the Hip Fashion Fair Did It First See All Tags: cut homepage lede spring fashion style fashion spring fashion issue 2022 new york magazine spring fashion digital issue 2022 cathy horyn rick owens chanel alexander mcqueen missoni peter do proenza schouler issey miyake More Show Comment Let’s Get High Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission The Cut Shop 28 Best Sneakers for Women in Every Single Style I’m on the Hunt for the Best Sunscreens Without a White Cast 31 Best Luxury Candles That Double As Great Gifts Most Viewed Stories 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Woman Who Ate Only Fruit Your Daily Horoscope by Madame Clairevoyant: October 3, 2025 The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Why I Got a Neck-Lift at 41 Years Old Both Sides of a Breakup: His Relationships Never Last More Than 4 Months Sign In to Comment Most Popular 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Woman Who Ate Only Fruit Your Daily Horoscope by Madame Clairevoyant: October 3, 2025 The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Why I Got a Neck-Lift at 41 Years Old Both Sides of a Breakup: His Relationships Never Last More Than 4 Months The Latest sex diaries 7:00 p.m. The Sober Event Planner Sleeping With a Client In this week’s story, a 32-year-old woman gives her crush a blowjob to reduce his stress before a big event. life of a showgirl 6:16 p.m. The Showgirl Doesn’t Get a Standing Ovation Taylor Swift was once untouchable — but is her reputation as pop’s best songwriter over? music 5:37 p.m. Taylor Swift’s Famous Friends Are Loving The Life of a Showgirl Sabrina Carpenter, Nikki Glaser, and whoever posts for the New Heights podcast are all amped about the album. do i need this? 5:33 p.m. Here’s What You Need From Gap’s Studio Collection Every piece worth buying from the brand’s fall drop. the kardashians 5:28 p.m. Apropos of Nothing, Kim Kardashian Is Producing an Elizabeth Taylor Doc What a day to be learning this news. power 4:47 p.m. Diddy Has Been Sentenced to More Than Four Years in Prison The judge said the sentence was required to show “that exploit