# Bill Simmons Romantic Comedy Or Sports Movie

**Source**: http://grantland.com/features/bill-simmons-romantic-comedy-or-sports-movie/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:05:17.436617+00:00

---

&raquo; Sports Movie or Not a Sports Movie? Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous No Brain, No Gain ➤ Next Don’t Dismiss Texas Jon Stich for Grantland Facebook Twitter Print Rom-Com Week Sports Movie or Not a Sports Movie? Bill Simmons relies on four decades of experience to determine the difference between a sports movie and a rom-com (among other things) by Bill Simmons on July 25, 2014 I n simpler and more caveman-ish times, we would have called this piece &#8220;Sports Movie or Chick Flick?&#8221; That&#8217;s an easier premise than &#8220;Sports Movie or Rom-Com?&#8221; (doesn&#8217;t account for dramas), &#8220;Sports Movie, Rom-Com or Rom-Dram?&#8221; (the word Rom-Dram looks like a new erectile dysfunction drug), &#8220;Sports Movie, Rom-Com or High School Movie?&#8221; (still doesn&#8217;t account for dramas) and even &#8220;Sports Movie, Rom-Com, Rom-Dram or High School Movie?&#8221; (that title gave me a headache). So we&#8217;re audibling to something even more simple &#8230; &#8220;Sports Movie or Not a Sports Movie?&#8221; Now that&#8217;s easy! How do you know you&#8217;re watching a genuine sports movie? Answers to these four questions might help. 1. Could the movie have worked if you turned the sports theme into a non-sports theme, or would that have ruined the movie? Here&#8217;s how I once broke down my love for School Ties &#8230; &#8220;I love comparing Brendan Fraser to the other great movie quarterbacks. (I have him ranked behind Burt Reynolds but dead-even with Jamie Foxx.) I love the scene when Matt Damon finds out that Fraser&#8217;s character is Jewish (one of the better ‘Uh-oh, this isn&#8217;t gonna end well&#8217; movie moments). I love when Damon turns into Evil Racist Preppy Damon, and I love wondering why the filmmakers decided to have Damon and Fraser fight naked in the shower. (It&#8217;s one of the strangest ideas in movie history. I&#8217;d put it against anything. They could have been shaving. They could have been brushing their teeth. Nope. Guys, take your clothes off and get wet &#8212; you&#8217;re gonna fight naked. ) I love how the anti-Semitism angle kicks into 19th gear before Fraser&#8217;s classmates learn the valuable lesson, ‘Hey, he might be Jewish, but that doesn&#8217;t mean he&#8217;d cheat on a test.&#8217;) I love Fraser telling the dean, ‘You used me for football. I&#8217;ll use you to get into Harvard. Excuse me,&#8217; and then the final Fraser-Damon exchange that ends the movie. It&#8217;s a cable classic.&#8221; Notice how football wasn&#8217;t THAT important in that synopsis? School Ties was a high school movie about anti-Semitism that happened to include some football. Oh, and naked guys fighting in the shower. That, too. But Fraser&#8217;s character just needed to be better than Damon&#8217;s character at one thing, whether it was playing football, singing in the choir, trying out for the school musical or whatever. The sooner Fraser triggers Jealous Insecure Semi-Evil Jew-Hating Test-Cheating Matt Damon, the movie&#8217;s key character, the sooner we can learn lessons about life and stuff. That&#8217;s why School Ties isn&#8217;t a sports movie. It’s been 25 years since the birth of the modern romantic comedy, so we’re celebrating them all week. Welcome to Rom-Com Week. 2. Does the movie have at least one &#8220;chills scene&#8221; in which you get goose bumps from something that&#8217;s specifically sports-related? Some Hall of Fame examples: the final Roy Hobbs homer &#8230; Rocky getting up in Round 14 after Mickey tells him to stay down, then waving Apollo toward him as Apollo&#8217;s shoulders slump &#8230; Ollie&#8217;s two free throws &#8230; LaRusso&#8217;s crane technique to beat Lawrence &#8230; Louden Swain climbing the pegs to prove he can wrestle at 168 &#8230; or the Allies scoring their first goal against the Nazis. You could also throw in a variety of sports movie speeches like &#8220;I love you guys,&#8221; &#8220;For Granny, for Nate, for Caretaker,&#8221; &#8220;When [Apollo] died, a part of me died, too &#8230; &#8221; and the last great moment of Pacino&#8217;s career (the &#8220;inches&#8221; speech). Hold on, those inches are all around us? Can you elaborate, Al? Here&#8217;s when it gets confusing: when something like For Love of the Game vacillates between weighty rom-dram and sports movie for two hours, only it has a moment as fantastic as Mickey Hart jumping over the fence to save Billy Chapel&#8217;s perfect game. (&#8220;I LOVE YOU, MICKEY HART!&#8221;) Now what do we do? (Then again, if For Love of the Game were really a sports movie, that Mickey Hart catch would be on YouTube. And it&#8217;s not. We&#8217;ll come back to this later.) 3. Could this movie appear on the Lifetime Network without making you say, &#8220;Wait, why the hell is this on the Lifetime Network?&#8221; That&#8217;s the eternal dilemma with Bull Durham , a movie that sure seems comfortable being replayed on Lifetime between classics like Mother, May I Sleep With Danger? and My Stepson, My Lover . What is it about Bull Durham that makes it a staple on Lifetime? Hmmmmmmm. We&#8217;ll come back to this later, too. 1 4. Do you inadvertently watch it every time it&#8217;s on just because you&#8217;re waiting for a specific sports scene (or sequence)? Say you&#8217;re flipping channels and stumble across Bud Kilmer convincing his doctors to shoot up Wendell&#8217;s knee before Lance Harbor and the Beek intervene . You&#8217;re going to do the math in your head, figure out that it&#8217;s about 11 minutes until Billy Bob&#8217;s last touchdown and the &#8220;We Can Be Heroes&#8221; song, and you&#8217;re staying for those 11 minutes, right? If you don&#8217;t have sports-specific rewatchability, you probably don&#8217;t have a sports movie. Before we settle some &#8220;sports movie or not a sports movie?&#8221; questions, please note that we&#8217;re skipping over Blue Crush (surfing movie), Breaking Away (a cycling movie, and a pantheon sports movie at that), Bring It On (a high school movie that happens to be about cheerleaders) and Drumline (a high school movie centered on bands); we&#8217;re going yes, yes, no and no for those four. We&#8217;re also sticking to movies released in the past 35 years (with only three exceptions), avoiding all Rob Lowe movies (if you care, Youngblood was a sports movie and Oxford Blues was a rom-com), steering clear of any forgettable 21st-century either/or movies (sorry, Wimbledon ) and saving the four toughest calls for the end of the column. Here we go. All the Right Moves (1983) Here&#8217;s a high school football movie that&#8217;s secretly disguised as a rom-dram &#8212; after about the 35-minute mark, football disappears and the central plot becomes &#8220;Tom Cruise wanted to use football to get a college scholarship and get out of his depressing Pennsylvania mill town, but his coach kicked him off the team and blackballed him with recruiters, so he&#8217;s gonna become a lifelong loser unless his girlfriend can save him from himself.&#8221; Sounds like a Lifetime Network staple, right? But the football stuff carries the movie: Cruise as an undersize cornerback doing over-the-top Cruise things; Rifleman laying down Colin Kaepernick&#8217;s success blueprint 30 years early; Sean Penn&#8217;s brother wreaking havoc as a Luke Kuechly–type linebacker; a phenomenal (and extended) football game that peaks with a goal-line stand during a semi-monsoon; Coach Craig T. Nelson&#8217;s inexplicable decision not to have Ampipe High take a safety (leading to Salvucci&#8217;s game-ending fumble in the end zone); Nelson even more inexplicably berating Salvucci in the locker room afterward (&#8220;Come on, give it a good cry! YOU CHOKED! YOU QUIT!&#8221;); then Cruise defending Salvucci with a Cruisetastic &#8220;We didn&#8217;t quit! YOU QUIT!&#8221; tirade. Just that 15 minutes alone ensured that Moves was and is a sports movie. Turn it into a TV show already. High school football in the heart of blue-collar Pennsylvania steel country! Get Pete Berg on the phone! THE VERDICT: SPORTS MOVIE American Anthem (1986) 1984 Olympian Mitch Gaylord plays a rebel gymnast who gives up competing until he meets another gymnast played by &#8230; wait for it &#8230; Janet Jones! She gets him competing again, they make the Olympic trials, then she gets banned from the Olympics for betting on both of them. Fine, I made that last part up. But it&#8217;s loaded with gymnastics and it&#8217;s definitely a sports movie. Did it work? Gaylord&#8217;s next three IMDb movie credits after 1986’s Anthem: • American Tiger (1990) • Animal Instincts (1992) • Sexual Outlaws (1994) That&#8217;s right, Mitch went from American Anthem to Skinemax in six years. At least we&#8217;ll always have one of the funniest trailers ever made. THE VERDICT: SPORTS MOVIE https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qbCb1S0rykE The Blind Side (2009) In 2009, I called it a &#8220; quality spork flick &#8221; (the hybrid of a sports movie and a chick flick) and reported that my wife loved it, while &#8220;I came out of it thinking, ‘It nearly gave me diabetes, but I have to say, it wasn&#8217;t that bad.&#8217; That&#8217;s a win-win date movie for Team Simmons.&#8221; But a few cable TV years revealed glaring sports movie warts like lousy football scenes, no chills scene and no here-comes-the-big-game payoff. Guess what? It doesn&#8217;t matter! As I wrote five years ago, the heart of the movie isn&#8217;t football, but scenes like this one &#8230; Gigantic Homeless Kid [ looking at his new bedroom ]: &#8220;It&#8217;s nice. I never had one before.&#8221; Sandra Bullock: &#8220;What, a room to yourself?&#8221; Gigantic Homeless Kid: &#8220;A bed.&#8221; [ Cut to Sandy fighting off tears. ] Or this one &#8230; Bullock&#8217;s friend [ praising her ]: &#8220;You&#8217;re changing that boy&#8217