# Among The Cabin Fanatics Of Mississippis Giant Houseparty

**Source**: https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2023/10/09/among-the-cabin-fanatics-of-mississippis-giant-houseparty
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:54:57.004288+00:00

---

Among the Cabin Fanatics of Mississippi’s Giant Houseparty | The New Yorker Skip to main content Newsletter Search Search The Latest News Books &amp; Culture Fiction &amp; Poetry Humor &amp; Cartoons Magazine Puzzles &amp; Games Video Podcasts Goings On Shop 100th Anniversary Open Navigation Menu Menu U.S. Journal Among the Cabin Fanatics of Mississippi’s Giant Houseparty For more than a hundred years, the Neshoba County Fair has drawn revellers from all over the country. Why do they keep coming back? By Paige Williams October 2, 2023 Facebook X Email Print Save Story “In a divorce, people fight harder over the cabin than the children,” Sid Salter, a Neshoba native, said. Photographs by Carolyn Drake / Magnum for The New Yorker Save this story Save this story Save this story Save this story Listen to this article. The Neshoba County Fair calls itself Mississippi’s Giant Houseparty, because every year the same families return, antlike, to five hundred and ninety-seven individually owned, festively painted cabins there. For a week at the end of July, even many who live nearby move to the fairgrounds, creating an instant community of twenty thousand people, three times larger than the population of the county seat, Philadelphia. The fair, founded in the late eighteen-hundreds in the remote east-central part of the state, has survived two World Wars, the Great Depression, and the coronavirus pandemic because the cabin owners could not bear to give it up. After spraying for bugs, touching up the paint, hanging porch swings, washing linens, changing light bulbs, making beds, and stocking refrigerators (some cabins have four), the families hold the equivalent of Thanksgiving—seven times. There are food hangovers, and hangover hangovers, and children everywhere, only nobody goes home. A lightly occupied fair cabin sleeps twenty-six; some sleep sixty. Upper floors resemble bunkhouses: bed after bed after bed. The fair is not the place for introverts, neat freaks, sensitives, or anyone who cannot tolerate unrelenting, bone-deep heat. Central air-conditioning is heresy, as is television. Did the fair’s founders watch “American Ninja Warrior”? They did not. Indoor plumbing and electricity are acceptable—fans and window units blow wide open. This year, during the hottest month in human history, I stepped into a frigid, empty-looking bedroom and was startled when a teen-ager rose from an upper bunk in a ghillie suit of blankets. Cabin dwellers, like Burning Man fanatics, plan their lives around the fair. Cabin 185 is called Mump’s Place because its late matriarch reportedly “thought about the fair for fifty weeks out of the year,” then kept detailed notes on what everybody ate and where they slept. Casseroles are cooked and frozen weeks in advance. The Minshews, of Cabin 1, are so eager for caramel cake, a family fair specialty, that they start eating it before they’ve finished unloading their cars. Diehards have not missed a fair since Franklin D. Roosevelt was President. Carrie Stokes Atkinson, of Cabin 351, was six weeks old when she attended her first fair, in 1988; she was seventeen when she was crowned Miss Neshoba County at the fair; she was thirty-four when, last year, her water broke at the fair, on the kitchen floor. She pointed out the exact spot to me while a meal was in progress, as one always seems to be. Someone said, “People have gotten married at the fair,” and someone else said, “Marriages have ended out here, too.” The fair started as a one-day picnic in 1889, when some families met to compare and share their livestock, field crops, garden vegetables, and crafts. As the event grew, fairgoers debated advances in farming and delivered discourses: “How I Beat the Boll Weevil.” They competed in home-economics contests—best axe handle, best sponge cake, best “homespun dress made during the Great Civil War”—for prize overalls or ten dollars in gold. Exhibits showcased fertilizer and a mechanical cotton chopper. “All these things that promote agriculture and horticulture help build up the country,” the Neshoba Democrat noted. The cabins generally pass down through families. Modern amenities are frowned upon: “They’re putting Sheetrock in there,” a fairgoer said, ruefully, of recent remodels. The first cabins were raw-plank shanties, often made with repurposed materials. Sixty-five of them ultimately faced and surrounded a pavilion, which became known as Founders Square. The governor spoke there in 1896, and every governor is said to have spoken there since. In 1898, the square was seeded with oaks, whose roots spread and surfaced, like keloid scars. Most cabins are narrow and deep, set, at most, several feet apart. The founders added second floors as their families grew, then built more and taller cabins around the square. The cabins radiated out, forming “streets” and “neighborhoods”: Happy Hollow, Sunset Strip. Seventy-four cabins front the red clay horse-racing track; when the starting bugle sounds, quarter and dollar bettors crowd the balconies and porches. In keeping with the founders, many cabin owners pride themselves on building and decorating with salvaged or scavenged materials. A tire store became a cabin; the tin roof of a teardown became a kitchen ceiling. Newer cabins are frequently built with concrete blocks and aluminum siding, substances less susceptible to fire and rot. Owners distinguish themselves through color—there are cabins painted orange, turquoise, fuchsia, canary yellow with pink polka dots—and no two are alike. Robert Craycroft, a former architecture professor at Mississippi State University, has called the mishmash “Fairhouse vernacular.” The cabins are festooned with string lights and paper lanterns; in the blue hour, when the moon rises and the crickets start up, they twinkle like an extension of the midway. At Cabin 203, white bulbs spell out “ BIG DADDY ,” Broadway style. Across the track, there’s “ POPS .” The fair starts on a Friday and ends the next Friday at midnight. Ten days later, the electricity and water are cut. For the fifty-one-week off-season, the fairgrounds “resemble nothing so much as an abandoned Colorado mining town,” Craycroft wrote. “A civilized place absent its civilization.” Every cabin is required to have a porch. Families loll there, play music there, eat there, entertain there, gossip there, lose at cards there, sleep there. For some, the porch is the fair. In 1986, Ellen Johnson Spendrup, who attended her first fair in 1900, at age two, said that she liked “sitting on my porch with my feet up, in my rocking chair, watching the idiots pass.” On Fair Saturday, Don DeWeese was on his porch at Cabin 32, a powder-blue two-story with white trim and patriotic bunting. He comes from a prosperous old Neshoba County family and now lives in Memphis. Relatives had travelled from as far away as Texas and North Carolina—they spilled off the porch and into Founders Square. Decades ago, Stanley Dearman, a former editor of the Democrat , wrote that fair people “take seriously” the art of “eating and talking.” DeWeese, who is seventy-eight, got started on the latter, volunteering that he has “the largest one-owner, one-location doughnut shop in the United States,” and that his forebears “invented plywood out of pine”; he’s had homes in Colorado and the Caymans; he stays at the Baccarat when in New York; one of his “closest friends” is Wynonna Judd, and his “closest friend,” the professional wrestler Jerry Lawler, was, that very day, receiving a lifetime-achievement award from the Tennessee Sports Hall of Fame. DeWeese was missing the ceremony to be at the fair. “We’re not laughing at you, sweetie. We’re laughing at something you don’t understand.” Cartoon by Maddie Dai Copy link to cartoon Copy link to cartoon Link copied Shop Shop As he spoke, DeWeese was hailing people, and people were hailing him. The fair is “a reunion—of your life,” he explained. “I see all my old high-school classmates. I see my old girlfriends. I already hugged one today. I see people I went to kindergarten through college with.” When he found out that I was born and raised two hours north—Oxford; Tupelo—he said, “Girl, I married Miss Tupelo! And her sister was Miss Mississippi!” He hollered over a shoulder, “Rita! Where’s Rita?” DeWeese wanted to show me his cabin. On the way inside, he pointed out an original watercolor by the Mississippi artist Wyatt Waters. It hangs above all the people sitting on his porch at the fair—and depicts a bunch of people sitting on a porch at the fair. Downstairs consisted largely of an open kitchen and an eating area, with a picnic table and a concrete floor. After introducing me to a granddaughter from Asheville who performs “Hamilton” numbers “amazin’ ” and to a man who had competed in that morning’s Heart o’ Dixie triathlon, he climbed steep, narrow stairs and pushed open a battered plywood door, revealing a room of wall-to-wall beds. Daylight knifed through gaps in the plank walls. Suitcases and a monogrammed tote lay open on the floor. Someone said, “Sh-h-h!” Several adults and children were in there, trying to nap before the evening’s events. The fair’s daytime population swells at night, when a live band plays the grandstand, at the racetrack. The fair hosts entertainers who are said to be on their way up, or down. Loretta Lynn, George Strait, Lester Flatt, Patsy Cline, Tammy Wynette, Ronnie Milsap, Lee Ann Womack, Molly Hatchet, the Charlie Daniels Band, and Trace Adkins all performed at the fair. Jerry Lee Lewis appeared there in 1957, just before releasing “Great Balls of Fire.” June Carter performed before she married Johnny Cash. Dolly Parton never played the fair, but her sister Stella did. The fair can’t afford Morgan Wallen, though it was able to book one of his collaborators, the singer-songwriter Niko Moon. DeWeese declared Fair Saturday “the No. 1 night of the year, to a teen-ager in central Mississippi.” Girls planned their outfits for months: “I