# Best Movies Of The 21St Century 1235200512

**Source**: https://www.rollingstone.com/tv-movies/tv-movie-lists/best-movies-of-the-21st-century-1235200512/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:44:33.232985+00:00

---

100 Best Movies of the 21st Century &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Canon Fodder 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century From Moonlight to Parasite, documentaries to superhero epics — our picks for the greatest movies of the past 25 years By Rolling Stone Rolling Stone Contact Rolling Stone by Email Is Taylor Swift&#8217;s &#8216;Actually Romantic&#8217; About Charli XCX? A Look Back at Their Friendship Feuds, Fame, and Father Figures: Key Takeaways From Taylor Swift’s &#8216;The Life of a Showgirl&#8217; Young Thug Proves He’s a Master of Memes and Other Takeaways From ‘Uy Scuti’ View all posts by Rolling Stone July 1, 2025 From 'Moonlight' to 'Parasite' — the best movies of the 21st century. Photo illustration by MATTHEW COOLEY. We&#8217;re now a quarter of century into the 21st century, and to say that the movies are in a different place now than they were 25 years ago would be putting it mildly. Technological innovations, industry fluctuations, the coining of the phrase &#8220;cinematic universe&#8221; — as both an art form and mass entertainment, the medium has changed in both minute and monumental ways. Even the way we view movies has evolved and devolved several times over. Film has been declared dead a half dozen times. It&#8217;s then been dubbed &#8220;never better!&#8221; a half dozen times more. Stars have come and gone, intellectual properties have risen and fallen, and the competition for attention spans and eyeballs has never been tougher. Take a time machine back to the year 2000, and watch as people blankly stare back at you before asking, &#8220;So wait, what&#8217;s a TikTok?!&#8221; What has not gone away, however, is the power that a great film can have over viewers still willing to submit to the possibility of transformation when the lights go down (in a theater or your living room, though, y&#8217;know — aim for the former). The following 100 movies represent what a handful of Rolling Stone contributors who still believe in the movies, still obsess over them, still find thrills and chills and salvation in them, have dubbed the best of this relatively still-young century. It&#8217;s a living document, to be sure; we&#8217;ll undoubtedly go back and add to this list as the years go by. But every single entry here has reminded us of the way that the movies can reflect our humanity back at us, spark our imaginations, inspire us to laugh or cry or gasp or take action, and why we fell in love with the moving pictures in the first place. From comedies to tragedies, biopics to superhero epics, stop-motion foxes to milkshake-drinking tycoons — our picks for the high points of this moviegoing century to date. &#8216;Margaret&#8217; (2011) Image Credit: Searchlight Pictures Kenneth Lonergan shot this drama about an Upper West Side teenager in 2005; after a torturous birthing process, it was finally released in 2011. But while the battles over the final cut have added mystique to Margaret , the work itself stands alone. Anna Paquin plays Lisa Cohen, who inadvertently causes the death of a pedestrian (Allison Janney) while flirting with a bus driver (Mark Ruffalo). The everyday pain of being a teenager starts to meld with the genuine trauma that Lisa feels as she tries (and fails) to make amends to everyone involved. Lonergan&#8217;s sprawling, operatic screenplay is about privilege and New York City, but it also nails the unique yet universal strangeness of being an adolescent anywhere, anytime. —Esther Zuckerman &#8216;Winter&#8217;s Bone&#8217; (2010) Proving that just about any setting can play host to a noir, Debra Granik’s adaptation of a Daniel Woodrell novel follows Ree (Jennifer Lawrence, in a star-making turn), a 17-year-old caring for her siblings and mentally ill mother. She&#8217;s soon forced to chart a dangerous path through the Ozarks’ backwoods in an attempt to keep her family from losing their home. In the process, Winter&#8217;s Bone explores a place with communities whose traditions stretch back through the centuries grappling with the 21st-century scourge of the meth trade. For Ree, that means dealing with the dangerous criminals seemingly responsible for her father’s disappearance and with Teardrop (John Hawkes), a menacing yet sympathetic uncle struggling with addiction. It&#8217;s both a gripping thriller and a depiction of how easily lives on the margin can fall apart and disappear. —Keith Phipps &#8216;Norte, the End of History&#8217; (2013) Clocking in at a shade over four hours, Lav Diaz&#8217;s crime-and-punishment epic is considered one of his more concise films (some of his features run past the nine-hour mark). But what&#8217;s that saying about no great film ever feeling like it&#8217;s too long, and no bad film ever feeling like it&#8217;s too short? The Filipino writer-director&#8217;s Dostevsky-influenced drama is a perfect Exhibit A for the defense of that first sentiment, and this leisurely tale of a moneylender&#8217;s murder — along with the ripple effect of the deed, which lands an innocent man in prison — is never less than completely compelling. And while it doesn&#8217;t shy away from the uglier aspects of the human condition, Norte never feels like the work of a shock artist. It&#8217;s a grand statement from someone who truly believes that people endure, even during times of great hardship and injustice. You wish it would never end. —David Fear &#8216;No&#8217; (2012) In between starting his career as a cinematic agent provocateur ( Tony Manero, Post Mortem ) and refashioning himself as the go-to maker of biopics about complicated women ( Jackie, Spencer, Maria ), Chilean writer-director Pablo Larraín gave us this satirical jab at the 1988 ad campaign that helped sow the seeds of dictator Auguste Pinochet&#8217;s professional demise. Gael García Bernal is the hipster marketer who&#8217;s hired to sell the pro-democracy &#8220;No&#8221; vote to the masses during the country&#8217;s 1988 plebiscite. Rather than make it a depressing laundry list of the leader&#8217;s low points in governing, however, the young man proposes a far more colorful, literally and figuratively, plan of attack. History has already rendered its judgement on how effective his effort was, yet this breezy, based-on-a-true-story drama doesn&#8217;t just keep you guessing on whether he&#8217;ll pull it off or lose his soul in the process. It somehow manages to cast a sideways glance at how media and policy interact while still celebrating a political win, with the good, bad and ugly of it all captured in gloriously scuzzy, period-appropriate low-def video. —D.F. &#8216;City of God&#8217; (2002) Image Credit: Miramax/Disney It&#8217;s the Brazilian gang-war epic that took the whole world by surprise. City of God follows the rise of a murderous criminal empire in the mean streets of Cidade de Deus, the most notoriously violent favela in Rio de Janeiro, from the Sixties to the Eighties. Directors Fernando Meirelles and Katia Lund recruited a cast of hundreds, mostly first-time actors from the Brazilian slums and shantytowns, who knew the desperate poverty, corruption, and bloodshed up close. Leandro Firmino stars as the ruthless drug lord Little Dice, while samba singer Seu Jorge plays his nemesis Knockout Ned. (Jorge later appeared in Wes Anderson’s The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou , singing David Bowie songs in Portugese.) City of God This twist on mobster sagas is visually stunning, complete with handheld cameras, fast edits, and digital time-warp, which reflect Meirelles’ background in advertising. But it’s also devastatingly bleak film — Pixote via Goodfellas — that still managed to became a Brazilian box-office blockbuster and an international sensation. —Rob Sheffield &#8216;Toni Erdmann&#8217; (2016) Image Credit: Sony Picture Classics There are delightful movies, and then there&#8217;s Maren Ade&#8217;s blissful, batshit-crazy tale of a stressed out white-collar worker (Sandra Hüller) and her free spirit father (Peter Simonischek), whose unexpected visit leaves them both feeling disconnected. Then a disruptive, wild man named Toni Erdmann barges into her life and her professional circle — a trickster who happens to bear a striking resemblance to her dad in a bad wig and false teeth. You will not see a better takedown of the banality of corporate living, experience a more profound tale of the ties that bind, or hear a better impromptu take on &#8220;The Greatest Love of All,&#8221; sung with all the passion that a human being not named Whitney can muster. And the movie&#8217;s last half hour, which revolves around a party being crashed by a furry, 10-foot-tall monster — no, seriously — is as close to comic perfection as you could ever hope for. —D.F. &#8216;The Hurt Locker&#8217; (2008) Image Credit: Summit Entertainment Kathryn Bigelow&#8217;s stunning ride-along with an Army Explosive Ordinance Disposal in Iraq feels less like a typical &#8220;war movie&#8221; and more like a wartime procedural, eschewing pro or con Op-Ed viewpoints in favor focusing on the how-to details of defusing I.E.D.s in active combat zones. Just how authentic the film&#8217;s depiction of such missions has been debated , yet it remains a nerve-jangling watch, even if you know that the wild-card staff sergeant (Jeremy Renner, in his big pre-Hawkeye breakout role) will make it through a number of near-fatal vignettes. Adrenaline has always been Bigelow&#8217;s drug of choice, and The Hurt Locker will always be a landmark Best Picture win simply for the fact that it became the first movie directed by a female filmmaker to take home the b