# Chicago Bears Qb Ranking Jay Cutler Mitch Trubisky Justin Fields

**Source**: https://www.theringer.com/nfl/2021/8/31/22648501/chicago-bears-qb-ranking-jay-cutler-mitch-trubisky-justin-fields
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:04:12.424493+00:00

---

Ranking All 45 Bears Quarterbacks Since the Team Last Won the Super Bowl - The Ringer Discover anything Discover anything Videos Podcasts The Latest The Latest Fantasy Football Rankings Fantasy Football Rankings NBA NBA NFL NFL TV TV Movies Movies MLB MLB The Ringer 107 The Ringer 107 Music Music Soccer Soccer Events Events The Streaming Guide The Streaming Guide Simmons Pod Simmons Pod Rewatchables Rewatchables Big Picture Big Picture Russillo Pod Russillo Pod The Watch The Watch Higher Learning Higher Learning House of R House of R The Town The Town Plain English Plain English By Rodger Sherman Aug. 31, 2021, 12:04 pm UTC • 27 min NFL Ranking All 45 Bears Quarterbacks Since the Team Last Won the Super Bowl Chicago finally seems to have its franchise QB in Justin Fields. Before he takes his first NFL snap, let’s rank every one of his predecessors since 1985—from the mediocre to the bad to the truly baffling. NFL Ranking All 45 Bears Quarterbacks Since the Team Last Won the Super Bowl Chicago finally seems to have its franchise QB in Justin Fields. Before he takes his first NFL snap, let’s rank every one of his predecessors since 1985—from the mediocre to the bad to the truly baffling. Getty Images/Ringer illustration By Rodger Sherman Aug. 31, 2021, 12:04 pm UTC • 27 min After taking Justin Fields with the 10th pick in this year’s NFL draft, the Bears finally seem to have their franchise savior at quarterback. I know what you’re probably thinking: Didn’t Bears fans just delude themselves into thinking they had a franchise quarterback? Didn’t the team select Mitch Trubisky second merely four years ago? But there’s a critical difference this time around: Although Trubisky was also a high first-round draft pick, Fields was considered “really good at football” for almost his whole life before the NFL, while Trubisky was not. During his tenure at Ohio State, Fields was widely seen as the second-best prospect in the 2021 draft class, behind only Trevor Lawrence; during his time at North Carolina, Trubisky started just 13 games, and was never regarded as the best passer in his own conference. With Trubisky, the Bears reached for a questionable QB prospect. With Fields, a great one seems to have fallen into their lap. Related What’s More Important in NFL QB Development: Nature or Nurture? What’s More Important in NFL QB Development: Nature or Nurture? Related What’s More Important in NFL QB Development: Nature or Nurture? What’s More Important in NFL QB Development: Nature or Nurture? If Fields succeeds in Chicago, he will snap a stunningly long stretch of franchisewide passing failure. The Bears are 281-278 since 1986, 17th in wins out of the league’s 32 teams, almost perfectly mediocre. But when the team has been good, its success has been almost completely the result of a stellar defense. For most teams, QBs are the heroes whose jerseys are worn in bars and tailgate lots for decades. In Chicago, the franchise heroes are players like Mike Singletary and Brian Urlacher, who anchored amazing defenses that carried lackluster offenses. While the Bears rank among the middle of the pack in wins since 1986, they’re 30th in passer rating. They haven’t produced a first-team All-Pro quarterback since Johnny Lujack in 1950, when Lujack threw four touchdowns and 21 interceptions. The Bears’ only Pro Bowl QB since the 1980s is … Trubisky, who got a Pro Bowl nod in 2018. Of course, he was the fifth NFC quarterback selected, making the cut only after Drew Brees, Jared Goff, and Aaron Rodgers all turned down invitations. It defies logic that one franchise could be so consistently inept at one aspect of football! So to celebrate the potential end of this run, we’re ranking all 45 quarterbacks who have thrown passes for the Bears since the team last won the Super Bowl, in the 1985 season. The main factor in this ranking is the players’ performances with the Bears; however, we’re also factoring in their overall career performances, to demonstrate that almost no good QBs have played for Chicago in more than three decades. For a task this important, we turned to science. Here is our system: Quarterbacks received between 1 and 45 points for their ranking in two categories: passing touchdowns with the Bears and career approximate value according to Pro Football Reference. For example, Jay Cutler passed for the most touchdowns of any Bears QB since 1986, so he got 45 points in that category. The first stat reflects how well these QBs performed for the Bears; the second helps put their contributions in Chicago into context. QBs received one point for every win they had as a starter for the Bears. Players were given five bonus points for making a Pro Bowl with any team, five bonus points for leading the league in any major passing statistic, and five bonus points for winning a Super Bowl as a starter. As you might expect, these bonuses were rare. The bonuses were doubled if any of the above accomplishments happened when a QB was on the Bears. This was extremely rare. One bonus point was awarded to any QB who won a championship in a foreign football league. This bonus was wildly popular. Players were awarded 10,000 bonus points for being named All-Pro at any point in their NFL careers, or for leading the league in any major statistical category as a member of the Bears. Unfortunately, none of the 45 players on the list claimed this bonus, since no Bears QB since 1985 has ever been named All-Pro or led the league in any meaningful stat besides interceptions. Five bonus points were awarded to any QB who set a Bears single-season or franchise record. Although this list only includes players who have thrown passes for the Bears since 1986, we used the full Bears career statistics for Jim McMahon and Steve Fuller, who began playing with the team in 1982 and 1984, respectively. In the event of a scoring tie, the quarterbacks are ranked based on my personal discretion. And that’s it! Without further ado, let’s get to the list. 45. Mark Hartsell Bears TD points: 0 Bears wins points: 0 Career AV points: 0 Bonus points: 0 Total: 0 Hartsell, who came into a Bears-Packers game in 2000, is one of just seven NFL quarterbacks since the 1970 AFL-NFL merger to throw exactly one career pass. It was incomplete. 44. Tyler Bray Bears TD points: 0 Bears wins points: 0 Career AV points: 0 Bonus points: 0 Total: 0 Bray almost joined Hartsell on the vaunted one-career-attempt list. He threw just one in-game pass over his first seven NFL seasons, but his practice contributions were apparently enough to keep his job safe. Unfortunately, Bray was called into action last year after injuries to both Trubisky and Nick Foles left Chicago shorthanded at QB. And he looked completely baffled while trying to lead the Bears on a game-winning drive against the Vikings, going 1-of-5 for 18 yards. Now he’s out of the league. 43. Cory Sauter Bears TD points: 0 Bears wins points: 0 Career AV points: 0 Bonus points: 0 Total: 0 Sauter— one of the lowest-rated quarterbacks in Madden history —got to play once, in garbage time of a 2002 Week 17 matchup against Tampa Bay. Although the Buccaneers had already qualified for the playoffs, they refused to take out their starters, so Sauter was left to face Derrick Brooks, John Lynch, and the rest of the eventual Super Bowl champs. Tough break! 42. Sean Payton Bears TD points: 0 Bears wins points: 0 Career AV points: 0 Bonus points: 0 Total: 0 The Super Bowl–winning Saints coach was once a quarterback. He was also a scab—he was a replacement for the Bears during the 1987 player strike. He was the worst of the three QBs Chicago brought in, going 8-of-23 passing with no touchdowns and an interception. It’s unclear whether this will come up in his Paul Blart–led biopic . David Fales Getty Images 41. David Fales Bears TD points: 0 Bears wins points: 0 Career AV points: 9 Bonus points: 0 Total: 9 Fales has a good relationship with former Bears offensive coordinator Adam Gase, who signed him in Chicago, then again with the Dolphins, and then again with the Jets. I’m implicitly skeptical of anyone Gase trusts. 40. Will Furrer Bears TD points: 0 Bears wins points: 0 Career AV points: 9 Bonus points: 0 Total: 9 Furrer started exactly one game with the Bears, going 9-of-23 passing with no touchdowns and three interceptions in a 1992 Week 17 loss against the Cowboys. It’s hard to imagine any quarterback performing worse … but Todd Collins posted a lower career passer rating during his time with the Bears. Furrer recorded a 7.3 passer rating for Chicago; Collins managed a 5.9. (In case you’re wondering: If you pull a Hartsell and go 0-of-1, you get a 39.6.) 39. Steve Bradley Bears TD points: 13 (2, T-33rd) Bears wins points: 0 Career AV points: 0 Bonus points: 0 Total: 13 Along with Payton, Bradley was one of the 1987 picket-crossers. He went 6-of-18 passing with two touchdowns and three interceptions in a loss to the Saints. Even in a world of replacement players, the Bears quarterbacks still had upsetting stat lines. 38. Moses Moreno Bears TD points: 9 (1, T-36th) Bears wins points: 0 Career AV points: 9 Bonus points: 0 Total: 18 Moreno cracks the top 40 on this list because he actually threw a touchdown for the Bears. He now works as a referee . 37. Todd Collins Bears TD points: 0 Bears wins points: 1 Career AV points: 22 Bonus points: 0 Total: 23 A journeyman who made stops in Buffalo, Kansas City, and Washington, Collins ended his career in Chicago, throwing no touchdowns and five interceptions in his lone season as Cutler’s backup. He’s surprisingly high on this list because he actually managed to win a game as the Bears starter, despite throwing four interceptions in that contest. It probably helped that the opposing QB was Bears legend Jimmy Clausen. Only four teams have managed to win a game since the 2000 season in which their quarterback threw no touchdowns and four interceptions. Chicago has done it twice. In one of those games, we learned tha