# 1609.08144

**Source**: https://arxiv.org/abs/1609.08144
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:51:53.227100+00:00

---

[1609.08144] Google&#39;s Neural Machine Translation System: Bridging the Gap between Human and Machine Translation Skip to main content We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate &gt; cs &gt; arXiv:1609.08144 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About --> Computer Science > Computation and Language arXiv:1609.08144 (cs) [Submitted on 26 Sep 2016 ( v1 ), last revised 8 Oct 2016 (this version, v2)] Title: Google&#39;s Neural Machine Translation System: Bridging the Gap between Human and Machine Translation Authors: Yonghui Wu , Mike Schuster , Zhifeng Chen , Quoc V. Le , Mohammad Norouzi , Wolfgang Macherey , Maxim Krikun , Yuan Cao , Qin Gao , Klaus Macherey , Jeff Klingner , Apurva Shah , Melvin Johnson , Xiaobing Liu , Łukasz Kaiser , Stephan Gouws , Yoshikiyo Kato , Taku Kudo , Hideto Kazawa , Keith Stevens , George Kurian , Nishant Patil , Wei Wang , Cliff Young , Jason Smith , Jason Riesa , Alex Rudnick , Oriol Vinyals , Greg Corrado , Macduff Hughes , Jeffrey Dean View a PDF of the paper titled Google&#39;s Neural Machine Translation System: Bridging the Gap between Human and Machine Translation, by Yonghui Wu and 30 other authors View PDF Abstract: Neural Machine Translation (NMT) is an end-to-end learning approach for automated translation, with the potential to overcome many of the weaknesses of conventional phrase-based translation systems. Unfortunately, NMT systems are known to be computationally expensive both in training and in translation inference. Also, most NMT systems have difficulty with rare words. These issues have hindered NMT&#39;s use in practical deployments and services, where both accuracy and speed are essential. In this work, we present GNMT, Google&#39;s Neural Machine Translation system, which attempts to address many of these issues. Our model consists of a deep LSTM network with 8 encoder and 8 decoder layers using attention and residual connections. To improve parallelism and therefore decrease training time, our attention mechanism connects the bottom layer of the decoder to the top layer of the encoder. To accelerate the final translation speed, we employ low-precision arithmetic during inference computations. To improve handling of rare words, we divide words into a limited set of common sub-word units (&#34;wordpieces&#34;) for both input and output. This method provides a good balance between the flexibility of &#34;character&#34;-delimited models and the efficiency of &#34;word&#34;-delimited models, naturally handles translation of rare words, and ultimately improves the overall accuracy of the system. Our beam search technique employs a length-normalization procedure and uses a coverage penalty, which encourages generation of an output sentence that is most likely to cover all the words in the source sentence. On the WMT&#39;14 English-to-French and English-to-German benchmarks, GNMT achieves competitive results to state-of-the-art. Using a human side-by-side evaluation on a set of isolated simple sentences, it reduces translation errors by an average of 60% compared to Google&#39;s phrase-based production system. Subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL) ; Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Machine Learning (cs.LG) Cite as: arXiv:1609.08144 [cs.CL] &nbsp; (or arXiv:1609.08144v2 [cs.CL] for this version) &nbsp; https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1609.08144 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Mike Schuster [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 26 Sep 2016 19:59:55 UTC (969 KB) [v2] Sat, 8 Oct 2016 19:10:41 UTC (968 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Google&#39;s Neural Machine Translation System: Bridging the Gap between Human and Machine Translation, by Yonghui Wu and 30 other authors View PDF TeX Source Other Formats view license Current browse context: cs.CL &lt;&nbsp;prev &nbsp; | &nbsp; next&nbsp;&gt; new | recent | 2016-09 Change to browse by: cs cs.AI cs.LG References &amp; Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar 8 blog links ( what is this? ) DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Yonghui Wu Mike Schuster Zhifeng Chen Quoc V. Le Mohammad Norouzi &hellip; export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation &times; loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status Get status notifications via email or slack