# Nootrobox Wants To Hack Your Brain.Html

**Source**: http://nymag.com/selectall/2016/10/nootrobox-wants-to-hack-your-brain.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:56:50.122485+00:00

---

Nootrobox Wants to Hack Your Brain Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Politics Business Technology Ideas About Intelligencer Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Close Close Politics Business Technology Ideas About Intelligencer Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Search Search Close The Pill Freaks of Silicon Valley Inside Nootrobox, the company that wants to hack your brain chemistry — or at least make Adderall obsolete. By Alex Morris Nootrobox co-founder Geoffrey Woo. Photograph by Cody Pickens. select all Nootrobox Wants to Hack Your Brain — or At Least Make Adderall Obsolete By Alex Morris Oct. 19, 2016 save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment “Are you ready to watch us stab ourselves with technology?” asks Michael Brandt on a recent Tuesday evening at the WeWork office of Nootrobox , a San Francisco start-up that specializes in “cognitive enhancement.” Soon Brandt, the company’s COO, and its CEO, Geoffrey Woo, both 27, are settled at a conference table with two small boxes and some alcohol swabs. Inside each box is a FreeStyle Libre continuous glucose monitor, which consists of a little plastic patch connected to a little metal needle, with a chip inside that transmits information to a remote reader. Once the needle is inserted under the skin, it can stay in place for two weeks, meaning there’s no need to prick your finger every time you want data about the amount of sugar frolicking in your blood. “The user experience is getting better all the time with a lot of this stuff,” says Brandt, who should know, since he specializes in “human-­interaction design.” Still, the monitor is not yet approved for use in the U.S.; Woo and Brandt had ordered theirs on eBay for about $100 apiece. They plan to wear them for the next 90 days, at least. This self-mutilation in the name of science is, curiously, part of their business plan. Nootrobox sells nootropics, an umbrella term for a set of chemicals — some naturally occurring, some cooked up in labs — that supposedly do what has heretofore eluded all but evolution: help you chemically grow a better brain. Think Adderall without the lack of creativity, coffee without the jitteriness, LSD without the spiders, nicotine without the cancer, and cocaine without the sniffles. It’s a grandiose proposition strangely well suited to entice Silicon Valley’s particular mix of the scientifically minded, the idealistic, and the ambitious. And while it might not seem likely that two computer-science majors would have figured out a way to leapfrog eons of neural development to unlock hidden brain potential, wouldn’t it be beautiful if they had? For a mere $135 a month, the Nootrobox “full stack,” as a regimen is called, offers a cornucopia of self-actualization — improved cognitive function, better sleep, and protection against cellular wear and tear — all through swallowing a few pills a day of an herb like Bacopa monnieri, say, maybe cut with a bit of neural precursor a-GPC. (You’re paying that $135 to not have to know what those words mean.) There’s Rise (two taken in the morning “enhance memory, stamina, and resilience,” according to the Nootrobox website), Sprint (to be taken as needed for “clarity, energy, and flow”), Yawn (“optimized for each of the three phases of sleep”), and Kado-3 (a “supercharged” omega-3). There are also Go Cubes , sugarcoated gummies that “combine the kick of coffee with the relaxation of green tea” through a mixture of caffeine, L-­theanine, vitamins B6 and B12, glucuronolactone, and inositol; they taste like congealed mocha latte. Since first hearing about the tantalizing prospect of nootropics a few years back, Brandt and Woo have used themselves as guinea pigs — “bro science,” as they’ve referred to it — to determine the effects various substances and practices have on their own brains and systems. That’s where the glucose monitors come in. Woo stares down the mechanism that will implant the needle in his arm. “That’s pretty gnarly,” he says. The potential for user error is small, though, since detailed instructions on how to prick yourself are, as Brandt points out, “in the YouTubes.” “You just gotta just do it,” Woo says as Brandt stands, the needle poised. “Want me to help?” He presses down on the mechanism until there’s a loud click. “Oh, that was harmless,” Brandt says, fingering the plastic patch gingerly. “Is it weird?” “A little bit.” Woo takes off his shirt, braces himself on the table, and then — click — his needle is inserted as well. “You kinda feel it after,” Brandt says, grinning. “I didn’t want to say anything.” “I feel like a tagged elephant,” Woo observes. Brandt swipes the reader over the patch to get a reading. “Five point two,” he announces when numbers appear on the screen. He looks down at his new implant. “I’m more machine than man!” Nootrobox co-founder Michael Brandt. Photo: Cody Pickens “Humans are the next platform,” Woo says casually, sitting upright in a leather armchair not far from the WeWork Ping-Pong table where dudes in hoodies goof around. Woo ignores them. He wears a paisley shirt and a neutral expression. Brandt sits beside him, blinking irregularly behind his glasses and chiming in mainly to make a point more pointed. “One thing that I like to say is that we’re arming humans against the robot overlords. It’s kind of tongue in cheek.” Woo smiles. “But kind of true.” Brandt and Woo met at Stanford. “Instead of having kegs of Natty Light at our parties, we would have Two Buck Chuck and EDM,” Woo says of the French House, where they both lived. “I was president of the entrepreneurship club,” he continues. “So, it’s like, ‘I better start a start-up.’ A lot of my predecessors would use it as a cool extracurricular and then take consulting jobs. I thought that was bullshit.” Using his thesis work on how “modern distributed-systems techniques” could track submarines, he created Glassmap, a location app that could not only tell you where someone was but also predict where they were going. “We were building operating systems and routers in class, and it was like, ‘Dude, people are making all this money making stupid-ass iPhone games! We could totally make some iPhone app and just kill it. That was literally the mind-set, because you saw, like, Instagram — those people were at Stanford at the same time as us. Snapchat? Those guys were younger than us.” Before he’d even graduated, Glassmap got funded by Y Combinator, the most powerful tech incubator in the world. “In retrospect, it seems like we were just frickin’ kids, just messing around, and they gave us $170K or something. It was an interesting level up in terms of ­professionalism.” Woo — who had applied for his first patent in high school (“My mom has it framed in the living room”) — eventually sold the app to Groupon, having turned down Facebook before its IPO. “It was in stock,” Woo says of Zuckerberg’s offer. “I can sort of back-­calculate it now, but, I mean, it’s meaningless, right? It would have been nice. It would have been nice for anyone having Facebook stock.” He shrugs. “Whatever.” Meanwhile, Brandt, having been hired by Marissa Mayer for Google’s prestigious Associate Product Manager Program, was tiring of his work product-managing YouTube, which involved “getting people who come around for one video to watch two, three,” he says. He and Woo found themselves simultaneously “between projects,” wandering around the Mission District waiting for the next great idea to strike. Which is exactly when a brain boost can come in handy. A decent chunk of Silicon Valley’s hustlers were already trying to chemically hack their way to billion-­dollar valuations with work aids that included everything from Adderall and Modafinil (developed to treat narcolepsy but especially popular in tech) to tiny doses of LSD. “Some people see that now as a badge of honor,” says David Weiseth, a Nootrobox customer who does software customization. “It’s like, ‘Oh, he’s taking drugs, he’s trying to get an edge, he’s gonna work through the night — that makes sense because it’s so important.’ ” Woo wasn’t much interested in pharmaceuticals or scheduled drugs, but he was drawn to a third option friends hadn’t mentioned: nootropics, a set of fairly unregulated chemicals that had an underground customer base of people enthusiastically engaging in DIY neurochemical experimentation. Before long, Woo was going down a Reddit K-hole of chatter about various brain hacks. “Any friends out there interested in nootropics?” he posted on Facebook in May 2014. Brandt was the second person to respond: “Yes please.” In fact, he’d already started dabbling — among other experiments, he’d tried productivity guru Tim Ferriss’s BrainQuicken, a mix of 21 ingredients like cogamine and folic acid that promised to end “brain fog.” The pair quickly realized nootropics’ potential: not just for brain gain but for financial gain. If they were interested in trying them, they figured, the rest of the Valley would be too; and, naturally, whatever the Valley did, the rest of the world would eventually follow. Soon, they moved in together and went into “start-up mode,” ordering random powders off the internet and hoping they didn’t get punked or worse. “We kind of tried everythin