# Deepseek Research Suggests Huaweis Ascend 910C Delivers 60 Percent Nvidia H100 Inference Performance

**Source**: https://www.tomshardware.com/tech-industry/artificial-intelligence/deepseek-research-suggests-huaweis-ascend-910c-delivers-60-percent-nvidia-h100-inference-performance
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:01:47.738159+00:00

---

DeepSeek research suggests Huawei's Ascend 910C delivers 60% of Nvidia H100 inference performance | Tom's Hardware Skip to main content Open menu Close main menu Tom's Hardware US Edition UK US Australia Canada RSS Sign in View Profile Sign out Search Search Tom's Hardware Best Picks CPUs GPUs SSDs News Laptops Premium Coupons More Newsletter Reviews PC Components PC Building Motherboards Cases Cooling Power Supplies RAM Desktops 3D Printers Peripherals Monitors Windows 11 Gaming Overclocking About Us Forums Trending Intel+Nvidia Borderlands 4 Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9 RTX 5090 Inside Panther Lake-H Don't miss these Artificial Intelligence DeepSeek reportedly urged by Chinese authorities to train new model on Huawei hardware, met with multiple failures Semiconductors Huawei reveals long-range Ascend chip roadmap Artificial Intelligence China's chip champions ramp up production of AI accelerators at domestic fabs, but HBM and fab production capacity are towering bottlenecks Tech Industry DeepSeek&rsquo;s new AI model debuts with support for China-native chips and CANN, a replacement for Nvidia's CUDA Artificial Intelligence Huawei unveils Atlas 950 SuperCluster GPUs Alibaba&rsquo;s AI chip goes head-to-head with Nvidia H20 in state-backed benchmark demo Artificial Intelligence Huawei releases new tool to get Chinese firms around crushing HBM export blacklist Artificial Intelligence Top China silicon figure calls on country to stop using Nvidia GPUs for AI Semiconductors Chinese giant Tencent announces domestic AI chip push GPUs Nvidia could be readying Blackwell B30A accelerator for the Chinese market GPUs Nvidia seeks extra 300,000 H20 GPUs to meet China's surging AI demand Artificial Intelligence Nvidia's next-gen AI chip could double the price of H20 if China export is approved GPUs Nvidia claims software and hardware upgrades allow Blackwell Ultra GB300 to dominate MLPerf benchmarks Artificial Intelligence Positron AI says its Atlas accelerator beats Nvidia H200 on inference in just 33% of the power GPUs Chinese firms turn to used Nvidia GPUs following Beijing H20 crackdown Tech Industry Artificial Intelligence DeepSeek research suggests Huawei's Ascend 910C delivers 60% of Nvidia H100 inference performance News By Anton Shilov published 4 February 2025 Aging chip could succeed in reducing China's reliance on Nvidia GPUs. Comments (18) When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here&rsquo;s how it works . (Image credit: Huawei) Huawei's HiSilicon Ascend 910C is a version of the company's Ascend 910 processor for AI training introduced in 2019. By now, the performance of the Ascend 910 is barely sufficient for the cost-efficient training of large AI models. Still, when it comes to inference, it delivers 60% of Nvidia's H100 performance, according to researchers from DeepSeek. While the Ascend 910C is not a performance champion, it can succeed in reducing China's reliance on Nvidia GPUs. Testing by DeepSeek revealed that the 910C processor exceeded expectations in inference performance. Additionally, with manual optimizations of CUNN kernels, its efficiency could be further improved. DeepSeek's native support for Ascend processors and its PyTorch repository allows for seamless CUDA-to-CUNN conversion with minimal effort, making it easier to integrate Huawei's hardware into AI workflows. This suggests that Huawei's AI processor's capabilities are advancing rapidly, despite sanctions by the U.S. government and the lack of access to leading-edge process technologies of TSMC. While Huawei and SMIC have managed to catch up with TSMC's capabilities in the 2019&ndash;2020 era and produce a chip that can be considered competitive with Nvidia's A100 and H100 processors, the Ascend 910C is not the best option for AI training. AI training remains a domain where Nvidia maintains its undisputable lead. DeepSeek's Yuchen Jin said that long-term training reliability is a critical weakness of Chinese processors. This challenge stems from the deep integration of Nvidia's hardware and software ecosystem, which has been developed over two decades. While inference performance can be optimized, sustained training workloads require further improvements in Huawei's hardware and software stack. Just like the original Ascend 910, the new Ascend 910C uses chiplet packaging, and its main compute SoC has around 53 billion transistors. While the original compute chiplet of the Ascend 910 was made by TSMC using its N7+ fabrication technology (7nm-class with EUV), the compute chiplet of the Ascend 910C is made by SMIC on its 2nd Generation 7nm-class process technology known as N+2. Looking ahead, some experts predict that as AI models converge to Transformer architectures, the importance of Nvidia's software ecosystem may decline. DeepSeek's expertise in the optimization of hardware and software could also significantly reduce dependency on Nvidia, offering AI companies a more cost-effective alternative, particularly for inference. However, to compete at a global scale, China must overcome the challenge of training stability and further refine its AI computing infrastructure. Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware Newsletter Get Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. You may like DeepSeek reportedly urged by Chinese authorities to train new model on Huawei hardware, met with multiple failures Huawei reveals long-range Ascend chip roadmap China's chip champions ramp up production of AI accelerators at domestic fabs, but HBM and fab production capacity are towering bottlenecks TOPICS Nvidia DeepSeek Huawei TSMC See all comments (18) Anton Shilov Social Links Navigation Contributing Writer Anton Shilov is a contributing writer at Tom&rsquo;s Hardware. Over the past couple of decades, he has covered everything from CPUs and GPUs to supercomputers and from modern process technologies and latest fab tools to high-tech industry trends. Read more DeepSeek reportedly urged by Chinese authorities to train new model on Huawei hardware, met with multiple failures &nbsp; &nbsp; Huawei reveals long-range Ascend chip roadmap &nbsp; &nbsp; China's chip champions ramp up production of AI accelerators at domestic fabs, but HBM and fab production capacity are towering bottlenecks &nbsp; &nbsp; DeepSeek&rsquo;s new AI model debuts with support for China-native chips and CANN, a replacement for Nvidia's CUDA &nbsp; &nbsp; Huawei unveils Atlas 950 SuperCluster &nbsp; &nbsp; Alibaba&rsquo;s AI chip goes head-to-head with Nvidia H20 in state-backed benchmark demo &nbsp; &nbsp; Latest in Artificial Intelligence Meta reportedly buying RISC-V AI GPU firm Rivos &nbsp; &nbsp; Huawei-powered mini-PC debuts with Huawei AI chip and 192GB of memory &nbsp; &nbsp; Microsoft adds Grok 4 to Azure AI Foundry following cautious trials &nbsp; &nbsp; Famed gamer creates working 5 million parameter ChatGPT AI model in Minecraft, made with 439 million blocks &nbsp; &nbsp; Nvidia CEO bets $100 billion on OpenAI becoming a multi-trillion-dollar company &nbsp; &nbsp; Elon Musk's Grok AI to be used by US government at a price of 42 cents per agency &nbsp; &nbsp; Latest in News AMD in early talks to make chips at Intel Foundry, report says &nbsp; &nbsp; TSMC reduces peak power consumption of EUV tools by 44% &mdash; company to save 190 million kilowatt-hours of electricity by 2030 &nbsp; &nbsp; M5-powered iPad Pro breaks cover in GeekBench, scoring 4,133 in single-threaded tests &nbsp; &nbsp; OpenAI's Stargate project to consume up to 40% of global DRAM output &nbsp; &nbsp; Microsoft slaps Game Pass Ultimate with a 50% price hike &nbsp; &nbsp; Qualcomm scores big win over Arm in contentious lawsuit &nbsp; &nbsp; 18 Comments Comment from the forums bit_user I just want to point out that the H100 burns a lot of die area on stuff that's not relevant to inference. For instance, you don't need quite so much inter-GPU bandwidth and connectivity, when just doing inference. Also, H100 has quite a bit of FP64 horsepower, for HPC. If you're building a pure AI processor, you wouldn't need that stuff. I actually expected Nvidia to have separated off their AI and HPC products by now. Maybe in the next generation, they will finally do this. Finally, I wonder how many people are even using H100 for inference. It'd be cheaper to distribute your model over a set of L40 cards. Reply das_stig So 910C is 60% performance of H100, what about the per unit price/power/workload, at what point does it make more sense to use the multiple 910c for a single H100 locally? Reply nookoool das_stig said: So 910C is 60% performance of H100, what about the per unit price/power/workload, at what point does it make more sense to use the multiple 910c for a single H100 locally? I think H100 is export control. It would be blackmarket smuggle price vs huawei pricing. Reply artk2219 I wonder how well Moore Threads cards perform with deepseek, i haven't heard anything out of them for a while. Reply YSCCC Where&rsquo;s the gain of salt? Will let non Chinese firms test before believing Reply atomicWAR "Rumored To Come Pretty Close With NVIDIA&rsquo;s H100"... 60% is pretty close? I am not sure when being one-&gt;two generations behind, performance wise, was considered close but I for one find that math suspect as also assumes the purported performance is as described. My guess is it closer to 50% or less in non-cherry picked workloads. This "news" seems to be anything but... Until it is tested rigorously by non-Chinese reviewers I'll take this news with a truck load of salt. Reply Pierce2623 bit_user said: I just want to point out that the H100 burns a lot of die area on stuff that's not relevant to inference. For in