# Best Sports Movie Villain Of All Time

**Source**: http://grantland.com/features/best-sports-movie-villain-of-all-time/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:16:36.291766+00:00

---

&raquo; The Battle for the Best Sports Movie Villain of All Time Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous The CD Case ➤ Next Laughing With Yu Darvish Facebook Twitter Print Movies The Battle for the Best Sports Movie Villain of All Time Who is the most horrifying? by Bill Barnwell and Shea Serrano on July 9, 2014 H i, America. My friend Shea and I are big fans of sports movies. It&#8217;s very convenient, then, that we both happen to write for Grantland, which is a place where you can do things like create arbitrary lists ranking the best fictional quarterbacks in history , as we did back in March. After fighting the first Van Der Beek War, I knew I wanted to get back together and create another totally frivolous list of sports movie things with Shea, but I didn&#8217;t know what to do until Shea started tweeting about the movie Hardball a couple months ago. You remember Hardball ! No, not the incredible baseball game from the early ’90s. Hardball is the Keanu Reeves sports movie that isn&#8217;t The Replacements . Shea: Real quick, because somehow Bill has never seen Hardball so it’s possible you haven&#8217;t, either: Hardball is a movie that came out in 2001, in which Keanu Reeves tries to save the youths of black America by giving them pizza and letting them listen to rap while they play baseball because I guess black people aren&#8217;t any good at baseball unless they can listen to rap while they play it. It&#8217;s mostly an OK way to spend two hours, save for G-Baby. G-Baby, the smallest player on the team and younger brother to one of its best players, is probably the most adorable, charming kid that will ever be. But he&#8217;s too young to officially be on the team. So when Keanu shows up to practice with a boxful of uniforms, there isn&#8217;t one in there for G-Baby. G-Baby asks where his is and Keanu&#8217;s like, &#8220;Hey, fuck off. You&#8217;re not on the team.&#8221; G-Baby, broken in two, cries. It&#8217;s heartbreaking. Keanu ends up letting G-Baby stick around and be a manager/mascot. And that should&#8217;ve been OK, except it&#8217;s not. Because in the final game we see the team play, which is against the league&#8217;s best squad and is the match to see who goes to the championship, Keanu lets G-Baby have an at-bat. G-Baby ends up getting the game-winning RBI because G-Baby is a world-beater. And it&#8217;s lovely. But then, oh hey, guess what, when Keanu drops G-Baby and his older brother off after the game, they end up walking into a gang initiation. A stray bullet hits G-Baby in the chest. He dies. WTF, man? Bill: So, it was settled. We had to run through the most evil, wretched, vile, repugnant, loathsome, repellent, sickening, degenerate, despicable, abhorrent, reprehensible, obnoxious, grim, vicious, nefarious, wicked, appalling villains in sports movie history. As with last time, let&#8217;s start with the award ceremony before we get to the top 10. Best Villain Line Shea: Here&#8217;s what I pray for every single day, Bill: I pray that, at, say, 75 years old — or maybe 80 or even 85, depending on whether my body has turned into goop by then — I pray that I get into some sort of life-threatening accident. Maybe I get attacked by a shark, or maybe I wander onto a train track and get obliterated, or maybe all of the carne guisada I&#8217;ve eaten eventually just chokes my heart to near death. Either way, I want to be lying on a hospital bed, with my wife and sons and Kawhi Leonard 1 by my side. I&#8217;m plugged into all sorts of machines. I&#8217;m just a mess. Nobody knows whether I&#8217;m going to make it through the day. And so I&#8217;m there, lifeless and still, and they&#8217;re all heartbroken and crying and asking God to save me or whatever and that&#8217;s when the doctor walks in. He stands at the foot of my bed, robotic and dead-eyed, looking at me. My wife, she realizes he&#8217;s there, and she runs up to him. &#8220;Doc! Doc!&#8221; she screams. &#8220;What&#8217;s the prognosis?! Is he going to make it?!&#8221; And he slowly turns his gaze and he opens his mouth and says five words to her: &#8220;If he dies, he dies.&#8221; And then he walks out of the room. Malibooyah. That&#8217;s the dream. Ivan Drago&#8217;s &#8220;If he dies, he dies&#8221; line in Rocky IV is the only line delivered by a villain in a sports movie that has ever really mattered. It&#8217;s transcendent. If there&#8217;s a word that&#8217;s more meaningful than &#8220;transcendent,&#8221; then it&#8217;s that. Dolph Lundgren was perfectly cast for the perfect role in the perfect movie, and he delivered that line with a perfect amount of dissonance (and disdain) at a perfect moment with perfect pitch. Nothing truer or more real has ever happened in my life or anyone&#8217;s life before or after. &#8220;If he dies, he dies&#8221; will live on for all of time. We should all aspire to create such things. We should all aspire to have our deaths prefaced by it. Bill: My problem with &#8220;If he dies, he dies&#8221; is that it might almost be too ubiquitous to be a truly evil line anymore. It&#8217;s been reclaimed. &#8220;Sweep the leg, Johnny&#8221; became a joke and the name of a Chicago math-rock band that nobody else liked but me. &#8220;Nosetalgia&#8221; or not, Piers freaking Morgan is bringing up that line in tweets to try to set up boxing matches with Jeremy Clarkson . Nothing is more uncool and less scary than that. Now, &#8220;I must break you&#8221;? That&#8217;s a line. Best Villain Monologue Shea: Easy. Bill Murray in the showdown match against Woody Harrelson in 1996’s surprisingly entertaining bowling movie Kingpin . Bill doesn&#8217;t even say any actual words. It&#8217;s a body monologue. And it&#8217;s beautiful. He prances around, celebrating himself and pickling Woody, and I just love it. There&#8217;s nothing quite like taunting. It touches me. It makes my heart warm. It&#8217;s always my favorite part of any sport. Plus, in this particular case, Murray&#8217;s shtick is made all the more enjoyable because he actually beats Harrelson in the showdown. 2 The only thing better than in-game gloating is winning after you in-game gloat. However! If we&#8217;re including fighting movies, I might swap this out with Ryan&#8217;s monologue while goading Jake into their first fight in 2008’s Never Back Down . Ryan was an all-world villain in that movie. He was the perfect mixture of white privilege, condescension, and actual skill, which serve together as monumentally devastating multipliers. Here&#8217;s the clip. Watch it. Let the hate in your bones grow and grow. Bill: I don&#8217;t know that it&#8217;s technically a sports movie, and I don&#8217;t know that he&#8217;s necessarily the villain, but both seem close enough to being true that I&#8217;m going to run with it. Walter Sobchak&#8217;s eulogy for Donny in The Big Lebowski is the first thing that comes to mind for me when I hear the word &#8220;monologue.&#8221; It&#8217;s a wonderful microcosm of John Goodman&#8217;s character that takes the bizarre turns of somebody else&#8217;s life and uses it to inform and affirm his own interests before clumsily failing in the worst possible manner. Villain With the Best Chance to Turn It Around and Become Likable Shea: It&#8217;s gotta be Drago, right? I mean, if you really think about it, was he even a villain? Wasn&#8217;t he just a very talented boxer? He killed Apollo Creed, but that didn&#8217;t seem to be a thing he set out to do, like, say, Chong Li did in Bloodsport . It was just a thing that happened. He could&#8217;ve been a little more sensitive about it, but maybe he only appeared to be insensitive. Maybe in Russia the phrase &#8220;If he dies, he dies&#8221; is how they console people? Or maybe it comes across different in Russian? Did you ever even think of that? Did you ever even have an open mind? Drago was an elite athlete. If LeBron can reinvent himself after &#8220;The Decision,&#8221; Drago can reinvent himself after The Murder. Bill: I don&#8217;t know, Shea. We basically had a real-life equivalent of Ivan Drago in MMA with Fedor Emelianenko, and he really never became a likable figure. Sure, there was that photo of him eating ice cream . But, like, 30 fights into his career, he was still making people&#8217;s children cry in the ring just by being near them . I tried putting &#8220;If he dies, he dies&#8221; into Russian on Google Translator and ran it back into English again on a different translator and then kept repeating that cycle and this is what I got: 1. If he dies, he dies 2. If he die, he dies 3. If it will die, it dies 4. If he dies, she dies 5. If he dies, she will die WHAT? If Drago killed Rocky, he was going to go after Adrian next. I can&#8217;t abide by that, Shea. No way he ever turns babyface. I&#8217;m going to go with Wolf &#8220;The Dentist&#8221; Stansson from D2: The Mighty Ducks . The movie definitely overplays his villainous tendencies and unfairly avoids his strengths. Wolf Stansson is an incredible freaking coach. Sure, Gordon Bombay managed to get a team mostly made of Minnesota junior rec league players to be the core of an American national team. Wolf Stansson single-handedly built Team Iceland into a world power. Iceland has virtually no good hockey program whatsoever. The climate isn&#8217;t even really all that cooperative with a youth hockey program. 3 And yet, somehow, Stansson has this team in the finals, where — let&#8217;s be honest — his boys are attacked by thugs and kids who use lassoes midplay. There is no way Stansson didn&#8217;t follow some David Blatt–style career path and end up revered as a legendary coach in the NHL someday. Probably the Red Wings, too. Villain With the Worst Chance to Turn It Around and Become Likable Shea: Racism in Remember the Titans . There&#8217;s no hope. Bill: I&#8217;m taking The Beast from The San