# Why Joe Kennedys Loss Isnt The End Of The Kennedy Dynasty.Html

**Source**: https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2020/09/why-joe-kennedys-loss-isnt-the-end-of-the-kennedy-dynasty.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:56:52.993804+00:00

---

Why Joe Kennedy’s Loss Isn’t the End of the Kennedy Dynasty Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Politics Business Technology Ideas About Intelligencer Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Close Close Politics Business Technology Ideas About Intelligencer Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Search Search Close kennedy dynasty The Fall of the Kennedy Dynasty Took More Than Just One Night By Ed Kilgore , political columnist for Intelligencer since 2015 Sept. 2, 2020 save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment John F. Kennedy in his first congressional campaign in 1946. Photo: Corbis via Getty Images Coverage of Joseph Kennedy III’s failed primary challenge to Senator Ed Markey has sometimes focused on its ideological implications, particularly Markey’s successful effort to position himself as a progressive champion fighting the ultimate beneficiary of name-brand privilege. But to a far greater extent, young Joe’s loss has been described as signaling the end of the family dynasty he often seemed uncomfortable representing. That feels unfair, since the Kennedy clan’s reputation for political invincibility began to slowly unravel many years ago. It’s true that Joe III’s campaign broke a long Kennedy winning streak in Massachusetts, as the Boston Globe noted : The powerhouse political family has dominated races in Massachusetts for decades, notching more than 30 primary and general election wins and zero losses since John F. Kennedy won a seat in Congress in 1946. It was also the first Kennedy loss in 13 U.S. Senate races (two by JFK, one by RFK, and nine by Ted Kennedy). But it was hardly the first big family disappointment. Joe’s grandfather Bobby suffered the first Kennedy loss in any electoral contest over a half-century ago in 1968, when he lost an Oregon presidential primary to Eugene McCarthy a week before posting a comeback win in California — but was then assassinated after his victory speech. Four years later, former Peace Corps director Sargent Shriver, a Kennedy by marriage, agreed to become the replacement for vice-presidential nominee Tom Eagleton (who was pushed off the ticket after the media discovered his history of drunk-driving arrests and shock treatments) on the horrifically unsuccessful presidential slate of George McGovern, which lost 49 states. McGovern had actually been the stand-in for RFK at the 1968 convention. In 1980, Ted Kennedy’s presidential challenge to Jimmy Carter got off to a disastrous start, as he lost 12 of the first 13 primaries and caucuses, winning only Massachusetts. Though he later rallied with some big wins, it was all too little, too late, and Ted never ran for president again. The next generation of Kennedy pols had a lot of problems. Joseph Kennedy II, the most recent candidate’s dad, chose to retire from the U.S. House in 1998 after an embarrassing scandal over his efforts to secure an annulment and marry his secretary. His sister Kathleen Kennedy Townsend served two terms as lieutenant governor of Maryland but then lost the governorship to a Republican in a huge 2002 upset . Cousin Mark Kennedy Shriver served two terms in the Maryland legislature before losing a congressional primary to (now-senator) Chris Van Hollen. Ted Kennedy’s son Patrick won a congressional seat in Rhode Island in 1994 and made it into the House Democratic leadership, but in 2010 he gave up his seat and his electoral career after struggling with mental illness and drug addiction. Until Joe III won a Massachusetts congressional seat in 2012, there was a brief moment when no Kennedy was serving in elected office. JFK’s famous daughter, Caroline Kennedy, briefly considered a Senate bid in New York when Hillary Clinton became secretary of State, but she withdrew from consideration. Yet another RFK child, Chris Kennedy, ran for governor of Illinois in 2018 but finished third in the Democratic primary. That’s a lot of family trial and error that should not be laid at the doorstep of Joe Kennedy III. As the Globe notes , it’s entirely possible the dynasty could make a comeback: There are other, younger Kennedys who could enter the political arena — Jack Schlossberg, JFK’s grandson, appeared in a video with his mother, Caroline, at the Democratic National Convention, quickly sparking memes about his resemblance to his handsome uncle, the late John Kennedy Jr. And Ted Kennedy’s grandson, Edward Kennedy III, has expressed an interest in politics. Amy Kennedy, who married Ted Kennedy’s son Patrick, recently won a Democratic House primary in New Jersey. And the latest Kennedy candidate is himself awfully young to retire from politics. Perhaps next time around, he can run as just “Joe.” Sign Up for the Intelligencer Newsletter Daily news about the politics, business, and technology shaping our world. Email This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Vox Media, LLC Terms and Privacy Notice By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice and to receive email correspondence from us. Tags: politics 2020 elections joseph kennedy iii ed markey kennedy dynasty john f. kennedy robert f. kennedy edward kennedy kathleen kennedy townsend mark shriver sargent shriver george mcgovern chris kennedy jimmy carter More Show Comment The Fall of the Kennedy Dynasty Took More Than One Night Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission. Sign In to Comment THE FEED 4:22 p.m. we&#x27;ll do it live we&#x27;ll do it live House, Senate Locked in a Shutdown Stalemate: Live Updates By Intelligencer Staff Trump shared a weird AI video starring him as the Grim Reaper as Congress continued informal talks. Welcome to day three. 4:02 p.m. early and often early and often The Other Demand Democrats Should Make During the Shutdown Fight By Ed Kilgore The real prize is winning the 2026 election, and there’s a Trump executive order standing in the way. 1:43 p.m. early and often early and often Trump Goes Over the Brink, Labels Democrats the Party of Satan By Ed Kilgore Aside from poisoning the atmosphere, Trump’s demonization of the opposition is a shout-out to the QAnon cult and “spiritual warriors.” Most Popular An Epic Courtroom Mismatch Is Looming in the Comey Case By Elie Honig The New Court Tactic Helping ICE Deport Immigrants By Mark Chiusano U.S. Colleges Are About to See a Big Decline in Applicants By Jeffrey Selingo The Spinal Surgeries That Didn’t Need to Happen By Paula Aceves The Dark Side Driving Pete Hegseth By Sarah Jones An Epic Courtroom Mismatch Is Looming in the Comey Case By Elie Honig The Dark Side Driving Pete Hegseth By Sarah Jones The Spinal Surgeries That Didn’t Need to Happen By Paula Aceves The Mamdani Effect By David Freedlander Why Did DHS Send a Russian Exile to Costa Rica? By Amelia Schonbek 12:00 p.m. the approval matrix the approval matrix The Approval Matrix: The Life of a One-Term Mayor Our guide to what’s highbrow, lowbrow, brilliant, and despicable. 11:50 a.m. early and often early and often Trump Regards Millions of Americans As Enemies of the People By Ed Kilgore His sudden zest for mass layoffs of federal employees is another sign that Trump’s vengeance tour is taking in more territory every day. 9:30 a.m. early and often early and often Democrats Must Decide What It Means to Win a Shutdown Fight By Ed Kilgore They aren’t going to get everything they’re demanding. But Democrats can show they’re willing to fight and rehearse a midterms message. 6:00 a.m. the law the law An Epic Courtroom Mismatch Is Looming in the Comey Case By Elie Honig A prosecutorial legend will be facing off against a (to put it kindly) fumbling beginner. 5:00 a.m. immigration immigration Why Did DHS Send a Russian Exile to Costa Rica? By Amelia Schonbek How Trump’s third-country removal strategy forced an asylum-seeking family to start over — in Monteverde. 10/2/2025 tremendous content tremendous content Why Did Melania Trump Share an AI Body-Double Video?: 4 Theories. By Margaret Hartmann Is the First Lady’s bizarre X post an ad for her troubled cryptocurrency or confirmation of “fake Melania”? 10/2/2025 politics politics Is the Trump Administration’s Shutdown Messaging Illegal? By Nia Prater Federal-agency websites and federal workers’ email messages blame Democrats for the shutdown in a possible violation of the Hatch Act. 10/2/2025 early and often early and often Trump’s 2024 Coalition Has Already Fallen Apart By Ed Kilgore Polls show Trump has lost the young, Black, and Latino supporters he attracted in 2024, leaving him with the same old white working-class base. 10/2/2025 crime crime Will Trump Pardon Diddy? What to Know Before the Sentencing. By Margaret Hartmann The president said a pardon would be “difficult,” but also called his former friend “half innocent.” 10/2/2025 early and often early and often It’s Hard to Fight McCarthyism When McCarthy Is President By Ed Kilgore Relaunching free-speech groups that fought the Red Scare is helpful. But last time, they had the White House as an ally, not an enemy. 10/2/2025 politics politics Ex-Staffer Claims Romance With Adams in Book, Odd AI Video By Nia Prater It hasn’t been the mayor’s greatest week. 10/2/2025 just asking questions just asking questi