# Rfk Jr Interview 2024 Campaign

**Source**: https://time.com/6287001/rfk-jr-interview-2024-campaign/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:52:43.636648+00:00

---

Inside the Very Online Campaign of RFK Jr. | TIME Sign Up for Our Ideas Newsletter POV Subscribe Subscribe Sections Home U.S. Politics World Health Climate Future of Work by Charter Business Tech Entertainment Ideas Science History Sports Magazine TIME 2030 Next Generation Leaders TIME100 Leadership Series TIME Studios Video TIME100 Talks TIMEPieces The TIME Vault TIME for Health TIME for Kids TIME Edge TIMECO2 Red Border: Branded Content by TIME Coupons Join Us Newsletters Subscribe Give a Gift Shop the TIME Store TIME Cover Store Digital Magazine Customer Care US &amp; Canada Global Help Center Reach Out Careers Press Room Contact the Editors Media Kit Reprints and Permissions More About Us Privacy Policy Your Privacy Rights Terms of Use Modern Slavery Statement Site Map Connect with Us Presented By Politics elections Inside the Very Online Campaign of RFK Jr. Inside the Very Online Campaign of RFK Jr. 15 minute read By Vera Bergengruen/Los Angeles June 14, 2023 7:00 AM EDT B obby Kennedy Jr. is still talking. Up in the hills of Los Angeles, in a house studded with family memorabilia, the scion of the Kennedy clan and Democratic presidential candidate has been expounding for 90 minutes on everything from Latin American populism to the CIA, from cryptocurrency to the war in Ukraine. His phone is pinging with messages from politicians and Twitter celebrities, and he needs to jump on a flight to Las Vegas, where he&rsquo;ll address a tech convention. But Kennedy waves off his wife, actor Cheryl Hines, as she pops into the living room to remind him he still needs to pack. He wants to talk about how people are finally listening to him. &ldquo;I am constantly surprised by it,&rdquo; Kennedy says of the attention to his long-shot campaign. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s just very weird.&rdquo; Weird is one word for Kennedy&rsquo;s bid, which has won support from figures as disparate as Twitter founder Jack Dorsey, quarterback Aaron Rodgers, actor Alicia Silverstone, and conspiracy theorist Alex Jones. It&rsquo;s a guerrilla operation staffed by longtime friends and colleagues from Kennedy&rsquo;s many previous lives&mdash;as an environmental lawyer, prolific author, master falconer, Hollywood husband, and anti-vaccine crusader. So far, the candidate has spent more time chatting on podcasts and livestreams than visiting with voters. Instead of dropping in on New Hampshire coffee shops, he&rsquo;s given a speech at a Miami Bitcoin conference, appeared on Twitter&#8239; Spaces with Elon Musk, and is slated to be interviewed on June 14 on Joe&#8239;Rogan&rsquo;s wildly popular podcast. More striking than the medium is the message&mdash;a kind of MAGA for Democrats that stands in stark contrast to the optimism that defined the campaigns of his father and uncle. Kennedy sounds simultaneously stuck in the past and jarringly online, his worldview dark and suspicious. He speaks about a time when the country&rsquo;s waters were not polluted, pharmaceutical companies did not poison children, bioweapons did not threaten to destroy humanity, and people trusted the government not to lie to or silence them. &ldquo;I feel like my country is being taken away from me,&rdquo; he tells TIME. &ldquo;I want to restore in many ways the America of my youth, the America I was brought up in.&rdquo; It may be dismissed as a vanity project, but Kennedy is tapping into something. Up to 20% of Democrats pick him in early presidential&#8211;primary polls, and many more say they would consider supporting him. Some of this may be the enduring draw of his name. But the issues he has inveighed about for ages have attracted an unlikely coalition of true believers, cynical right-wing personalities, and contrarian tech bros. Kennedy&rsquo;s most eager cheerleaders have been on the right, where he built a following through his opposition to COVID-19 mandates. Fox News has aired dozens of segments about him, including a full-length documentary. &ldquo;A lot of people who are supporting me do not agree with me on every issue,&rdquo; he says. Kennedy speaks during an anti-vaccine rally in front of the Lincoln Memorial in Washington in Jan. 2022. Patrick Semansky—AP Which is fine with Kennedy. &ldquo;He&rsquo;s desperate to talk to the American public, and he&rsquo;s out there doing it every day, going on every platform that will let him on,&rdquo; says Tony Lyons, his friend and publisher, who is now working on a super PAC backing his campaign. &ldquo;I think he really believes that this is his moment, and that the American people are ready for it.&rdquo; Robert F. Kennedy Jr. , age 69, is the fifth member of the Kennedy clan to run for President, and his campaign has sought to capitalize with a heavy dose of 1960s nostalgia, from vintage signs to constant references to &ldquo;my uncle&rdquo; and &ldquo;my father.&rdquo; Watching him hold forth with a cup of tea in his living room, his three dogs playing by his feet, feels like looking through a fun-house mirror at a figure both familiar and distorted. He is a vision of what his father might have looked like had he been allowed to grow old, with the same rolled-up sleeves, sharp blue eyes, and weathered tan. His speeches are delivered in a voice strained by spasmodic dysphonia, a vocal disorder that came on suddenly when he was 42, and which he has suggested is a side effect of the flu vaccine. While he usually goes by Bobby, like his father, his campaign decided to go with the more formal Robert. In a corner of the living room, there&rsquo;s a picture of his father, beaming in a bright red snowsuit, on a framed 1965 cover of Life magazine celebrating his summit of a Canadian peak, which was rechristened Mount Kennedy. Across the room hangs his dad&rsquo;s voter&#8211;registration card. A bronze bust of his uncle, President John F. Kennedy, keeps watch from a console. An enlarged black-and-white photo on a wall shows 7-year-old Bobby Jr. in the Oval Office in 1961. Kennedy&rsquo;s life has been defined by these two men, their violent deaths, and the legacy they bequeathed. The third of Robert and Ethel Kennedy&rsquo;s 11 children, Bobby Jr. was 9 when his uncle was assassinated in Dallas, and 14 when his father was fatally shot in the kitchen of a Los Angeles hotel in 1968. &ldquo;I hate to use the words &#8216;golden boy&#8217; or &#8216;chosen one,&#8217;&rdquo; says Dick Russell, a longtime colleague who just published a biography titled The Real RFK Jr.: Trials of a Truth Warrior . &ldquo;But he was the one in the family who was kind of looked to as the one to carry that mantle.&rdquo; Bobby Jr. in the Oval Office. Corbis/Getty Images After his father was killed, Kennedy &ldquo;struggled to be a grown-up,&rdquo; as he puts it. He was kicked out of boarding schools and busted for marijuana possession, though he still attended Harvard. He failed the bar exam and struggled with addiction. In the early 1980s, after being charged with heroin possession, he entered a drug-rehab facility. While volunteering for an environmental nonprofit during his probation period, he found the cause to which he would dedicate much of his life. Kennedy threw himself into environmental law, fighting to clean up the Hudson River and prosecute polluters. He created a legal clinic at New York&rsquo;s Pace University that enlisted law students to work on environmental cases, which became a model for projects around the country, and received accolades for his work focused on Indigenous communities. A 1995 cover of New York magazine hailed him as &ldquo;The Kennedy Who Matters.&rdquo; He turned down opportunities to run for office, saying he needed to focus on his six children. He continued to sue corporations he saw as polluting for profit: coal, oil, pesticides. Then, in the 2000s, he turned his attention to vaccines after being contacted by parents who claimed their children had been injured by them. Kennedy &ldquo;went down a wormhole,&rdquo; as he put it to his biographer. He reconsidered his son&rsquo;s peanut allergies and his experience as a summer-camp counselor. (&ldquo;I never saw anybody with autism,&rdquo; he says.) Over time, perceptions of Kennedy shifted from widely respected environmental crusader to conspiratorial outcast. He joined a struggling nonprofit called the World Mercury Project in 2016 and rebranded it as Children&rsquo;s Health Defense, which became one of the country&rsquo;s largest anti-vaccination advocacy groups. It falsely claims that a variety of childhood illnesses are being caused by the ingredients in vaccines, as well as fluoride, acetaminophen, and 5G wireless technology. Kennedy gave speeches, wrote articles, and produced videos claiming that vaccines were &ldquo;making our children dumber and &#8230; giving them injuries.&rdquo; He saw the ensuing criticism from scientists and public-health agencies as confirmation that he was right. Pharmaceutical companies were pushing harmful substances on children, he argued, and U.S. regulators were lying about it the same way they had about river pollution. Kennedy on an environmental mission to Puerto Rico in 2000. Jose Jimenez—Primera Hora/Getty Images Invitations for interviews and public speeches dried up. &ldquo;Once I started talking about vaccines, they didn&rsquo;t just censor me on vaccines, they censored me on everything,&rdquo; he says. In 2009, the Obama Administration reportedly briefly considered him for an EPA appointment, but decided it would be too controversial. In 2016, he met with the Trump Administration about a post on a vaccine commission, which also did not materialize. Kennedy became more vocal about other theories: that the 2004 election had been stolen; that the CIA had killed his father; that 5G has been set up &ldquo;to harvest our data and control our behavior.&rdquo; In 2019, three members of the Kennedy family published an op-ed in which they said that while they loved him, he was &ldquo;tragically wrong&rdquo; about vaccines, and