# The Idol Hbo Suzanna Son 1235010740

**Source**: https://deadline.com/2022/04/the-idol-hbo-suzanna-son-1235010740/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:54:17.251018+00:00

---

&#039;The Idol&#039;: Suzanna Son Not Returning To HBO Drama Series Skip to main content Open Mega Menu Got A Tip? deadline-logo-svg Deadline Follow Us: site categories TV Film Awards Awards Hub Digital Issues Box Office Biz International Politics Theater Reviews Obits Video Events Contenders Television: Docs+Unscripted+Variety Television Film: Nominees Film: Documentary Film: International Film: Los Angeles Film: London Sound &amp; Screen Television Film Other For The Love Of Docs Visual Effects + Screen Festivals North America Sundance Toronto Telluride SXSW Tribeca Europe Venice Cannes Zurich Berlin/EFM Middle East Red Sea Asia Tokyo Insider News Alerts Menu deadline-logo-svg Deadline Read Next: &#8216;RHOP&#8217;s Wendy Osefo On How Friendship With Gizelle Bryant Has Evolved &amp; Allowing Herself To Put Her Guard Down Got A Tip? Tip Us Dismiss News Banner Breaking News Sean &quot;Diddy&quot; Combs Sentenced To Four-Plus Years In Prison Read the full story Home TV News &#8216;The Idol&#8217;: Suzanna Son Not Returning To HBO Drama Series Amid Creative Overhaul By Peter White Peter White Executive Editor, Television @peterzwhite More Stories By Peter Kim Kardashian’s Elizabeth Taylor Docuseries For BBC Lands At Fox Nation Netflix Explores Colin O’Brady’s Travels Across Antarctica In New Doc ‘The Ultimatum: Queer Love’ Canceled At Netflix View All April 27, 2022 12:55pm 8 Comments Services to share this page. Share on Facebook Post Share to Flipboard Email Show more sharing options Share on LinkedIn Pin it Submit to Reddit Post to Tumblr Share on WhatsApp Print This Page Suzanna Son / The Weeknd Courtesy of Everett Collection / Pari Dukovic EXCLUSIVE : More details about the creative overhaul of HBO drama series The Idol are starting to emerge. Deadline broke the news yesterday that director Amy Seimetz had exited the series, which comes from pop star The Weeknd and Euphoria creator Sam Levinson. Suzanna Son, the breakout star of Sean Baker&rsquo;s Red Rocket, is one of the cast members who is not expected to return. The series follows a female pop singer who starts a romance with an enigmatic L.A. club owner turned secret cult leader. Son was playing a cult member. Abel Tesfaye, who performs as The Weeknd, co-created the series with Levinson and Reza Fahim. He is understood to have been unhappy with the creative direction of the show , which is thought to have already filmed footage for around four or five episodes. The crux of the issue appears to be that Tesfaye, who headlined Coachella this year and played the Super Bowl halftime show last year, felt the show was leaning too much into a &ldquo;female perspective&rdquo;, according to sources, with co-star Lily Rose Depp&rsquo;s character rather than his own. Rose Depp remains on board and a key part of the show following its creative overhaul. Watch on Deadline The Idol was thought to have received a seven episode order and it&#8217;s not clear whether that will remain or whether the order will be trimmed slightly. HBO is not commenting beyond its statement on Monday (see below) and Son&rsquo;s reps also declined to comment. &ldquo; The Idol &rsquo;s creative team continues to build, refine, and evolve their vision for the show and they have aligned on a new creative direction. The production will be adjusting its cast and crew accordingly to best serve this new approach to the series. We look forward to sharing more information soon,&rdquo; an HBO spokeswoman told Deadline. Must Read Stories Hide Articles &#8216;Taylor Swift: Showgirl&#8217; Eyes $30M Debut As &#8216;Smashing Machine&#8217; Taps Out Jason Bateman In Talks To Direct Universal Feature Take Of John Grisham&#8217;s &#8216;The Partner&#8217; Feds Consider Minting $1 Trump Coin For America&#8217;s 250th Birthday Adam Driver &amp; Anne Hathaway Lead &#8216;Alone At Dawn&#8217; For Ron Howard, Amazon MGM Read More About: Breaking News Controversial HBO The Idol 8 Comments Subscribe to Deadline Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Sign Up 8 Comments Anonymous on April 27, 2022 6:06 pm LOL @ everyone blaming Levinson for this for the past couple days Anonymous on April 27, 2022 1:57 pm Great way to start of your career in film and television, by overhauling a show that leans too much into the more established female lead&#8217;s perspective&#8230; The female director and another female lead are exiting the series and Sam Levinson has created some of the more iconic female characters in TV history. Maybe The Weeknd should put his misogynistic ego to the side one this one? Nicole on April 28, 2022 1:05 am The Weeknd literally wrote said show. I think he has every right to speak up if it’s not living up to his vision. Simone on April 27, 2022 1:06 pm I&#8217;m interested in The Idol because of Lily-Rose Depp. It&#8217;ll be interesting to see if this show even makes it past S1 with this time of turmoil already occuring. Anonymous on April 27, 2022 1:29 pm No cares that she&#8217;s Johnny Depp&#8217;s daughter. This show is about &#8220;The Weeknd&#8221;, period Anonymous on April 27, 2022 2:24 pm no it isn’t the show was original going to be more about her character but i guess the weeknd didn’t like that so they made it where he’s more of focus lol Nicole on April 28, 2022 1:03 am Abel (aka The Weeknd) literally wrote the show. how do you know it was suppose to be more about the female character than the male one? did Abel tell you that? Anonymous on April 28, 2022 7:44 am 1. I&#8217;ve read the script 2. It&#8217;s literally in the logline that was released to the press when they announced the series Sidebar Trending on Deadline 1 &#039;Taylor Swift: Showgirl&#039; Struts $29M-$31M, &#039;The Smashing Machine&#039; Hits The Mat With $6M-$7M, &#039;One Battle After Another&#039; Heads To $100M WW - Box Office 2 Sean Combs Gets Four Years Behind Bars In Sex-Trafficking Case; Appeal Expected Quickly 3 Dave Chappelle On Saudi Arabia: &quot;It&#039;s Easier To Talk Here Than It Is In America&quot; 4 Tyler Perry&#039;s &#039;Sistas&#039; Sets Season 9 Return Date At BET, Unveils Midseason Trailer 5 Adam Driver &amp; Anne Hathaway To Star In Military Drama &#039;Alone At Dawn&#039; From Ron Howard And Amazon MGM Studios 6 Jason Bateman In Talks To Direct Universal Feature Take Of John Grisham&#039;s &#039;The Partner&#039; With Tom Holland, Rideback &amp; Aggregate Producing 7 &#039;Smashing Machine&#039; Grapples $850K &amp; &#039;Avatar: Way Of Water&#039; Reissue $350K In Previews Before Taylor Swift Storm Begins - Box Office 8 Trump Now &quot;Seriously Considering&quot; Pardon For Sean Combs Ahead Of Sentencing; White House Officially Says Nothing 9 All Of Taylor Swift&#039;s &#039;Life Of A Showgirl&#039; Album Covers &amp; Images 10 Sean &quot;Diddy&quot; Combs Looking At 6 Years Behind Bars, Judge Indicates As Sentencing Hearing In Sex-Trafficking Trial Continues deadline-logo-svg Deadline Signup for Breaking News Alerts &amp; Newsletters Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Latest TV News &#039;RHOP&#039;s Wendy Osefo On How Friendship With Gizelle Bryant Has Evolved &amp; Allowing Herself To Put Her Guard Down Eric Dane Reveals Why He Missed Emmys&#039; Planned &#039;Grey&#039;s Anatomy&#039; Reunion: &quot;Nothing I Could Do&quot; Fox Entertainment Global Hires Americas Sales Chief Filmmaker Cheyenne Ewulu On Playing A “Grade-A Crash-Out” And The Importance Of “Centering Women Nerds” For YouTube Short Series ‘The Comic Shop’ Marketplace Newswire Deadline About Us Advertise Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility AdChoices California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Sitemap TV Film Awards Box Office Business International Connect with Us Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks Have a Tip? We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Send Us a Tip Stay in the Know Sign up for our breaking news alerts Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. PMC Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Site Close the menu deadline-logo-svg Account Expand the sub-menu Manage Account Log Out TV Expand the sub-menu Castings Ratings Late-Night Primetime Pilot Panic Film Expand the sub-menu Festivals Reviews Castings Acquisitions Documentary Awards Expand the sub-menu Awards Hub Emmys Oscars Tonys Box Office Expand the sub-menu International B.O. Specialty B.O. Broadway B.O. Business Expand the sub-menu Politics Legal Executives Agencies International Expand the sub-menu Festivals Film TV International Insider Video Expand the sub-menu Trailers The Actor's Side Behind The Lens The Process More Expand the sub-menu Obituaries Theater Music Podcasts Insider Follow Us Alerts &amp; Newsletters Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by