# Nyc Subway Overspending Second Avenue Nyu Transit Costs Project Goldwyn.Html

**Source**: https://www.curbed.com/2023/02/nyc-subway-overspending-second-avenue-nyu-transit-costs-project-goldwyn.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:44:47.951940+00:00

---

Why It Costs So Much to Build Our Subways Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Menu Close Close Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York About Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Menu Close Close Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York About Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Search Close Every product is independently selected by editors. Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission. getting around Why It Costs So Much to Build Our Subways An NYU study finds that most of the overspending isn’t where you think it is. By Christopher Bonanos , New York’s city editor who joined the magazine in 1993 Feb. 13, 2023 save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Photo-Illustration: Curbed; Photos: Shutterstock, Alamy Photo-Illustration: Curbed; Photos: Shutterstock, Alamy Our subways cost too much. Not just to run — though we certainly know that to be true — but also to build, which is one reason New York has added so few of them in living memory. In this century, New York has added two tunnel extensions and four stations: one on the westward extension of the 7 line and three on upper Second Avenue. The latter had been on the planning boards since 1919 . We spent $1.5 billion per mile for it. Berlin and Paris pay about a sixth as much for more ambitious projects. Paris, in particular, is in the middle of a 120-mile, 68-station subway-and-commuter-rail project that is known for its overruns and budget excesses, and its costs are still nothing remotely close to New York’s. (That is particularly humbling given that it’s France , of all places, a nation not known for weak unions or extreme efficiency.) Phase two of the Second Avenue Subway, which will reach 125th Street, does not look as if it’s going to be much cheaper. None of this is newly discovered information , but three researchers from NYU’s Marron Institute of Urban Management have dug deep into the data and come up with a precise assessment of just where and how the MTA overspends. Most of their methodology involves fine-grained comparisons with practices elsewhere in the world, especially in Sweden, Italy, and Turkey, all of which have useful data and spend (give or take) about 10 percent of what we do per mile of subway. The results of NYU’s Transit Costs Project are a little distressing because there isn’t one graspable, fixable issue; everyone with whom the MTA interacts, from contractors to other agencies to its own internal processes, adds to the cash-draining effect. The obvious answers that may pop into your mind (“It’s the unions,” say, or “New York is dense and complex”) turn out to be small pieces of the whole that, taken together, roughly triple our costs on any given project. Yet the problems are categorizable, falling into a few broad areas. (The MTA’s Janno Lieber commented on the study’s findings at a press conference last week .) I spoke to the study’s lead author, Eric Goldwyn, about the more surprising aspects of each. Our new stations are way too big. The stops on the Second Avenue Subway, like those on the mid-century IND lines, have enormous mezzanines above the tracks. The new stations are also much, much bigger than you might realize. The 96th Street station is more than two and a half times the length of its platform. By comparison, the other cities in the study build stations just 3 to 20 percent longer than their platforms: “They don’t extend, extend, extend — the most expensive thing to do,” Goldwyn says. The giant mezzanines are typically justified as a fire-safety move, ostensibly allowing platforms to be evacuated in a hurry, but they are nearly unique to New York, even though every subway system has fires. Add to that the cost of the buildings needed for ventilation equipment and evacuation. “The ancillary buildings go 70 feet down and another 70 feet up, so you’re building a 14-story mid-rise tower, and of course that’s going to be expensive, especially when half of it is in hard rock.” Those stations also include a lot of back rooms and service areas, way more than other cities. “Back-of-house space,” as it’s called, is surely convenient: You can store extra lighting or equipment and provide staff changing rooms and the like. But too much of it is wasteful and terribly expensive. Goldwyn notes that the 72nd Street station on the Second Avenue Line had higher costs per cubic meter than any other, and it’s no coincidence that it has more back-of-house space, too. “Some rightsizing of the stations, moving the technical spaces out of the underground space, moves the dial on costs.” (Paris and Istanbul stick most of it upstairs.) One reason we build so much underground is pure territorialism. While interviewing MTA employees and consultants, the authors learned that each constituency — hydraulics, track maintenance, and so on — demanded its own space, partly “because each user group bears responsibility for cleaning and maintaining its own room; thus, how would those responsibilities be distributed if multiple groups shared a room?” New York ended up dynamiting spaces out of bedrock rather than impose the solution worked out by every multi-child family in history. The oversize stations more than doubled the cost of the project just on their own , according to the study. Their designs vary too much. Some of this back-of-house bloat will be addressed in the next set of subway stations to be built, where spaces will likely be consolidated and shared. But that brings up another problem, which is that too much custom work goes into each one. The three stations built on Second Avenue “used two different escalator contractors and have a different number of exits, crossovers, and elevators,” thus forgoing economies of scale, the study explains. We do not necessarily want cookie-cutter stations — after all, the City Beautiful movement gave us IRT stops with distinctive finishes — but, as Goldwyn says, “in a utilitarian system, the industrial process can be good. In Copenhagen’s Cityringen , all the stations use the same form, and they’re beautiful. In Stockholm, often considered the most beautiful in the world, they’re relatively standardized. In a dense urban environment, it’s going to be harder to do that, but it’s not impossible.” Other agencies want a piece of the action. City and state agencies defend their turf and budget ruthlessly, a situation Mayor Eric Adams is trying to address . It goes way beyond poor communication: When the MTA needed public space to store construction equipment on Second Avenue, it used a section of a small playground at 96th Street — and the Parks Department charged the MTA $15 million in rent to borrow it for a few years. “When I talked to people in Istanbul,” Goldwyn says, “they had no comprehension of why you couldn’t use public land. All the benefits accrue to the City of New York; for the 7 extension, the city donated the land.” That kind of nonsense has not stopped: “If you look at phase two, MTA is buying parking lots from the city for millions of dollars.” (Some of this is surely owed to the MTA’s being a state agency, not a city one, and it’s worth remembering that Bill de Blasio and Andrew Cuomo were barely on speaking terms.) Many other entities seem to regard a subway project as a chance to extract a few infrastructure updates without paying for them. When the MTA dug up Second Avenue, the Department of Environmental Protection got the transit agency to pay for a replacement water main, rather than doing it out of DEP’s own budget. (It tried to introduce an expensive upgrade in the process, and was negotiated back down.) Why did the MTA agree to pay? “They need to get underground,” Goldwyn says, “and there’s pressure to not slow things down. So if you just did—I’m going to make up numbers here—a $5 billion project, and escalation costs are 5 percent a year, that’s $250 million a year. You might make the calculation that, as long as it’s less than $250 million, it’s worth doing. They can’t just do what they want to do— they need to get a permit from the City of New York to open the street.” There are similar conflicts within the MTA itself: The capital-construction division of the MTA found itself pushed around by the larger New York City Transit arm (which, for example, was the source of many of those demands for back-of-house space). Or if—and this reportedly happened, more than once—Con Edison agrees to turn off the power under the street but the utility’s crew doesn’t show up on the appointed day to actually do it, dozens of expensive construction workers and their equipment sit around idly. Politicians can help, but often they get in the way. The obvious answer to something like that playground fee is to go over everyone’s head. The governor or mayor can simply say, “Give them the space.” But calling upon political power carries with it a separate risk. As Goldwyn put it, “You want politicians meddling — macromanaging — to say, ‘This is a project that the MTA is doing’” and demand that everyone else get out of the way. Instead, what sometimes happens is that elected officials make particular, inefficient demands. They’ll promise some group of constituents an extra station, say, or