# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Journal%20of%20Research%20on%20Adolescence&title=Sibling%20conflict%20and%20ineffective%20parenting%20as%20predictors%20of%20adolescent%20boys'%20antisocial%20behavior%20and%20peer%20difficulties:%20Additive%20and%20interactional%20effects&author=L%20Bank&author=B%20Burraston&author=J%20Snyder&volume=14&issue=1&publication_year=2004&pages=99-125&
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:27:51.644636+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.02 sec) My profile My library Lookup [PDF] academia.edu Sibling conflict and ineffective parenting as predictors of adolescent boys&#39; antisocial behavior and peer difficulties: Additive and interactional effects L Bank, B Burraston , J Snyder - Journal of research on …, 2004 - Wiley Online Library L Bank, B Burraston , J Snyder Journal of research on adolescence, 2004 • Wiley Online Library Extensive sibling conflict is predictive of multiple poor adjustment outcomes during adolescence and early adulthood, but the frequency and developmental impact of such conflict may be conditional on ineffective parenting. Thus, sibling conflict may add to or amplify the negative effects of ineffective parenting on adolescent boys&#39; adjustment. Hypotheses in this study were that:(a) multiple informant measures of problematic parent– child relationships and of sibling conflict would form distinct constructs rather than a single … Extensive sibling conflict is predictive of multiple poor adjustment outcomes during adolescence and early adulthood, but the frequency and developmental impact of such conflict may be conditional on ineffective parenting. Thus, sibling conflict may add to or amplify the negative effects of ineffective parenting on adolescent boys&#39; adjustment. Hypotheses in this study were that: (a) multiple informant measures of problematic parent–child relationships and of sibling conflict would form distinct constructs rather than a single negative family process construct, and (b) ineffective parenting, sibling conflict, and their interaction measured at ages 10 to 12 would predict boys&#39; concurrent status and developmental trajectories for antisocial behavior and peer adjustment across a 4‐year span from ages 12 to 16. Confirmatory factor and latent growth modeling analyses were consistent with these hypotheses, demonstrating the important developmental impact of sibling conflict. Wiley Online Library Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 364 Related articles All 8 versions Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help