# The Anti Economy

**Source**: https://www.wheresyoured.at/the-anti-economy/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:19:53.607123+00:00

---

Software Has Eaten The Media Home About Better Offline Log In Subscribe Sign up Sign in Home About Better Offline Sign up Log in Subscribe Software Has Eaten The Media Edward Zitron Feb 27, 2024 16 min read As I wrote a year ago in The Rot Economy (and as I argued on the first episode of my podcast Better Offline ), I believe that both public and private markets have become decoupled from the concept of "good business," ruled instead by a hunger for the eternal growth of revenue and market share, regardless of whether they're making a good product or treating humans as disposable in the process. This is why your Google search results seem worse , or you're seeing too many videos on Instagram , or why the App Store's "free" section is pumped full of microtransaction-laden apps that are most decidedly not free, or why your iPhone likes to nag you with ads for Apple products — because these companies must always demonstrate revenue growth, every quarter, without fail, to be regarded as "successful" in the eyes of the market. &nbsp; Public tech companies added $2.4 trillion to their market capitalization in 2023 as tech firms laid off over 260,000 workers in the space of a year (though that number is inclusive of private companies). In January 2024, over 23,000 tech workers were laid off from companies like Google ($19.69 billion in profit in Q4 2023), Meta ($11.58 billion in profit in Q4 2023), and Microsoft ($22.29 billion in profit in Q4 2023) as they pushed into the buzzy and unprofitable world of artificial intelligence, burning billions to try and reach feature parity in a world of "innovation" that never seems to end with a particularly useful product. As I've said before, Google should've fired CEO Sundar Pichai by now for mismanaging his company to the point that it’s had to fire more than 12,000 people in the space of a year, costing it $2.1 billion in severance , in addition to laying off more than a thousand in the first 44 days of 2024 . Yet Pichai continues to get paid unfathomably large sums every year, making $221 million in 2022 — a year in which Google made thousands of unnecessary hires to meet post-lockdown demand that would obviously dissipate as life returned to normal. If a worker were to make such a categorical mistake that thousands of people had to be let go, they would be let go with them. Yet executives are never the victims of their own decision-making. C-Suite executives at Meta received six-figure bonuses as thousands of people lost their jobs last year . Indeed, it seems that the only people that shoulder the responsibility of a CEO's decisions are those that actually do the work. In fact, I'd argue that investors — not just those backing pre-IPO businesses, but also those investing in public companies — have become entirely disconnected from production, to the point that an alarming amount of modern business is done to please investors over customers, turning product strategy into a form of symbolic marketing. Our economy isn't one that produces things to be used, but things that increase usage — and the result is the public decay of creativity and innovation. Decaydence Nowhere has this effect been more pronounced than in the media, which is currently suffering horrifying consequences at the hands of some of the scummiest executives to ever walk the Earth. The Messenger, a news outlet that raised $50 million in venture capital and hired 300 people (many of them reporters), abruptly shut down on February 1 2024 , leaving workers unemployed, uninsured, and without any kind of severance package. From the outset, the Messenger was doomed, both by corporate mismanagement — spending $8 million in office space in New York, Washington DC and Los Angeles and $900,000 a year on their CEO Jimmy Finkelstein — and an aggressive and wrongheaded editorial strategy driven by people who didn't know what they were doing other than that "more traffic was good." &nbsp; After the company’s collapse, Eli Walsh, a former Messenger employee who joined the company after a career in California local journalism, described a constant pressure to produce more content , with much of it lifted from other publications, notably the Daily Mail and the New York Post . “I have no usable clips in eight months' time because of this editorial strategy. Zero. Not one ,” he said.&nbsp; Sports Illustrated, formerly one of the most important brands in sports journalism, was slowly choked to death after being sold twice, first to Meredith Corporation ( which acquired it as part of its $1.85 billion acquisition of Time Magazine in 2017 ), and then again when the intellectual property was licensed to Authentic Brands Group (a holding company) for $110 million, with the actual goal being to put Sports Illustrated's brand on things like medical clinics and gambling businesses . Meredith Corporation would continue publishing Sports Illustrated until 2019, when Authentic Brands Group would license editorial operations to The Maven as part of a 10-year licensing deal , which promptly laid off 40 people , shifting its editorial strategy away from deep and thoughtful analysis to focus on breaking news , the thing that people can get anywhere, all while flooding Sports Illustrated's website with contributed content from affiliate sites run by poorly-vetted "contributing bloggers." &nbsp; Sports Illustrated would spend years deteriorating until January 2024, when The Maven, now called "The Arena Group," would lay off most of Sports Illustrated's staff after failing to pay Authentic Brands Group the licensing fee required to keep running Sports Illustrated into the ground , owing over $45 million in unpaid fees. Now the future of the publication is in jeopardy, with Arena Group claiming that it may, somehow, keep publishing Sports Illustrated. Arena Group posted a net loss of $50 million in the first nine months of 2023 . What's very important to know about Sports Illustrated is that it used to be profitable . It was profitable when it was acquired in 2019 , and stayed profitable through 2020 . Its value (over a hundred million dollars) did not come from its logo, but from what the logo symbolized — important, meaningful sports writing from writers like George Plimpton, Curry Kirkpatrick and Emma Baccellieri. The thing that made Sports Illustrated famous was turned into a tool to be licensed to a holding company and licensed to a blogger network. The people that drove both The Messenger and Sports Illustrated into the ground are neither readers nor writers — they're do-nothing private equitors that contribute nothing to the world that make bad business decisions that seem disconnected from both the creation of stuff and the ability to make money from it. And, most recently, Vice Media announced it would no longer publish written content to any of its flagship publications — including Vice.com, Vice’s regional sites, and its acclaimed tech vertical, Motherboard. An unspecified number — though measured in the “hundreds” — of workers were let go. It was an ignominious end for a publication that started life as an indie punk magazine in Montreal, eventually becoming a globe-spanning publication valued at $7bn. Vice — although repeatedly lampooned for some of its faux-gonzo writing, which often consisted of privately-educated twenty-somethings waxing lyrical about the virtues of hallucinogenic substances — did a lot of good stuff. Simon Ostrovsky’s coverage of the earliest days of the Russo-Ukraine War, which culminated in him being arrested and held captive by separatists in the Donbass , provided important illumination to a conflict that few understood at the time — or even really cared to understand. This work earned Ostrovsky and Vice two Emmy nominations, plus a couple of Webby awards, and was rightfully seen by many as the Internet finally challenging traditional broadcast media in the conflict and foreign policy reporting spaces, where it previously enjoyed a monopoly.&nbsp;&nbsp; Vice had an uncanny ability to access some of the world’s most isolated and dangerous places, and come back alive to tell the tale. North Korea . Siberian lumber camps , where an army of North Korean workers toiled in spartan conditions, raising money for their “Dear Leader.” The Syrian city of Raqqa , which, in 2015, was the capital of the Islamic State’s self-proclaimed caliphate. And unlike many outlets, Vice actually made money — though it never seemed to be able to find consistent profitability.&nbsp; So what went wrong?&nbsp; While there’s no single definitive answer, they all share the same theme: the pursuit of growth and executive greed. Vice took on a lot of debt in its pursuit of becoming a global media empire. It expanded aggressively, made a lot of bad bets, and paid its executives lavishly. Executive compensation remained high , even when the company struggled to pay its utility bills and severance obligations . It took deals where investors were contractually guaranteed dividends — even if the company couldn’t afford them. And its aggressive push into branded content — like its 2014 deal with Absolut vodka — and partnership with the Saudi government undermined both its punk rock credibility and its editorial independenc e .&nbsp; Most of the horrifying layoffs you've seen in journalism are a result of rot economics borne of the ideas of people who can't write and don't read. The news industry has spent a decade building itself on foundations made of sand, with executives desperate to change content strategies to match the constantly-shifting whims of social networks and search engines.&nbsp; If you’re looking for somebody to blame, you can start with Cory Haik , Vice’s Chief Operating Officer. Before joining Vice, she co-led Mic, a publication she drove into the ground by forcing it to move from producing beloved written journalism to dancing to the beat of Facebook's " pivot to video ,” leading to the company laying off most of its staff an