# Trump Isnt The Campaign Medias First Mistake 20160519

**Source**: http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/trump-isnt-the-campaign-medias-first-mistake-20160519
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:16:59.386739+00:00

---

Trump Isn&#039;t the Campaign Media&#039;s First Mistake &times; &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo Politics Trump Isn&#8217;t the Campaign Media&#8217;s First Mistake Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Politics Trump Isn&#8217;t the Campaign Media&#8217;s First Mistake We've been getting this story wrong for ages, and Trump is the consequence By Matt Taibbi Matt Taibbi Contact Matt Taibbi on X Forgiving Student Debt Alone Won’t Fix the Crisis Trump’s Gone, So What’s Next for the Democrats? Big Pharma’s Covid-19 Profiteers View all posts by Matt Taibbi May 19, 2016 FiveThirtyEight founder Nate Silver published a piece this week grappling with how he failed to predict the success of Donald Trump in the GOP primary. Joey Foley/WireImage/Getty At FiveThirtyEight this week, statistics guru Nate Silver wrote a major apologia about his 2016 predictions called &#8220;How I acted like a pundit and screwed up on Donald Trump .&#8221; Its ostensible purpose was to explain a string of apparent misdiagnoses from a statistician famed for getting things right. Inadvertently, though, it explained a lot about what we campaign journalists in general have done wrong to pave the way for the seeming outlier of a Trump nomination. Silver&#8217;s voice is a big one in our business. After calling the presidential election for Barack Obama eight months early in 2008 and predicting 49 out of 50 state results, he re-wired the minds of a generation of campaign reporters. An ideological descendant of baseball statistician Bill James (whose Baseball Abstract was an annual purchase in my home growing up), Silver retrained political analysts to think in Moneyball terms, tuning out statistical noise and focusing on the actual path to electoral victory. The naming of his new site, FiveThirtyEight, was symbolic of this new emphasis on what mattered in presidential races, i.e. electoral votes. A candidate who scored seemingly encouraging results in national polls while performing poorly on the state-by-state electoral map was the equivalent of the baseball player who hit for high average but didn&#8217;t draw walks or hit for power. With the analyses of Silver and his crew, reporters now had a much better grasp of who was actually winning races, especially primary/nomination races, which relied on arcane delegate rules that Silver made it his business to understand. On the campaign trail, the success of FiveThirtyEight&nbsp;inspired heated in-plane debates. More than once I had to suppress a laugh listening to a reporter grumble that campaigns would now be less about &#8220;the issues&#8221; thanks to Silver and his lot, as though campaign coverage hadn&#8217;t been 99.9% percent a horse race already. Then 2016 happened. The normally cautious Silver howled from the rooftops that Trump was a temporary phenomenon. As late as November 23 of last year, he wrote a piece called, &#8220; Dear Media, Stop Freaking Out About Donald Trump&#8217;s Polls &#8221; that among other things noted that Trump&#8217;s numbers at the time &mdash; about 25 percent of the 25 percent of Americans who identified as Republican &mdash; roughly matched the number of Americans who believe the moon landing was faked . Editor’s picks The 250 Greatest Albums of the 21st Century So Far The 100 Best TV Episodes of All Time The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century Silver&#8217;s site repeatedly put hard numbers on Trump&#8217;s chances of victory. The results weren&#8217;t pretty, as he notes: &#8220;In order of appearance &mdash; I may be missing a couple of instances &mdash; we put them at 2 percent (in August), 5 percent (in September), 6 percent (in November), around 7 percent (in early December), and 12 percent to 13 percent (in early January).&#8221; To diagnose what went wrong, Silver among other things went back to see what the numbers said about other &#8220;Trump-like candidates.&#8221; He defines those as &#8220;candidates who led national polls at some point in the year before the Iowa caucuses, but who lacked broad support from &#8216; party elites &#8216; (such as measured by their number of endorsements , for example).&#8221; Trump Isn&#8217;t the Campaign Media&#8217;s First Mistake , Page 1 of 3 Page 2 Sign Up In this article: Donald Trump, Election 2016, media Politics Politics News More News ‘Swiftboating’ Is Beyond Dirty Politics Commentary By Michael Embrich ‘Hostage Taking’: Trump Is Hurting Americans to Force Dems to Cave on Shutdown Out of Office By Nikki McCann Ramirez Welcome to Portland, Where Trump's Fever Dream Is America's New Nightmare &#039;Life During Wartime&#039; By Tim Dickinson Dem Says Mike Johnson Is Delaying Her Swearing-In to Prevent Epstein Vote Meeting the Threshold By Nikki McCann Ramirez Jen Psaki on Kimmel, Kamala, and Trump’s ‘Incredibly Fragile Ego’ Q+A By Tim Dickinson Read more Sean Combs Sentenced to Over 4 Years in Prison Diddy Trial 3 hours ago Tomorrow X Together on Their New Era, Contract Renewal, and What the Future Holds Exclusive 4 hours ago Eric Dane Missed the 2025 Emmys Because of a Head Injury That Required Stitches Ouch 4 hours ago Taylor Swift, Young Miko, Mariah the Scientist and All the Songs You Need to Know Songs You Need To Know 5 hours ago Top stories newsletter A Cultural Force That Transcends Generations Enter your Email By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Go to PMC.com Most Popular J.K. Rowling Slams &#039;Ignorant&#039; Emma Watson as Their Rift Intensifies; Author Claims Watson Once Wrote Her a Note Expressing Sympathy Over Anti-Trans Backlash Bill Burr Defends Performing at Controversial Riyadh Comedy Festival: &quot;They&#039;re Just Like Us&quot; Insider Claims Nicole Kidman &amp; Keith Urban&#039;s Separation Is &#039;One-Sided&#039; Federal Judge Denies Motion to Dismiss by Kasseem ‘Swizz Beatz’ Dean in 1MDB Scandal Case You might also like Tonatiuh on ‘Kiss of the Spider Woman’ and How He Wants Hollywood to See Him: ‘I’m Not a Latin Actor. I’m a Great Actor’ 4 hours ago 19 Breast Cancer Products That Are Helpful for Patients &amp; Survivors 1 hour ago ‘Anemone,’ ‘After the Hunt’ Shake Up New York Film Festival as ‘One Battle’ Heads Into Second Weekend — Screen Talk 2 hours ago NFL on Record Pace as TV/Streaming Windows Grow 8% to 20M Viewers 2 hours ago Rolling Stone Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture Staff Contact Advertise Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Use AdChoices PMC Entertainment California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Accessibility Policy on Anonymous Sources Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Newsletter Signup Enter Your Email Subscribe Got a Hot News Tip? We want to hear it. Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Rolling Stone is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 Rolling Stone, LLC. All rights reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Log In Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Music News Features Lists Album Reviews Live Reviews Artists You Need To Know Songs You Need To Know RS Country RS Latin Politics News Features Lists TV &amp; Movies News Features Lists Recaps Reviews Video &amp; Photos Photos Videos The Cover Musicians on Musicians RS LIVE Culture News Features Lists Creators RS Gaming RS Films RS Recommends Reviews RS Essentials RS Audio Awards Gift Guides Culture Council Subscription Icon Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Alerts &amp; Newsletters Email Address By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. ad