# The People The Suburbs Were Built For Are Gone

**Source**: https://www.vice.com/en/article/y3gx5b/the-people-the-suburbs-were-built-for-are-gone
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:42:20.407030+00:00

---

The People the Suburbs Were Built for Are Gone + English Close VICE Editions English Bahasa Indonesia Czech Danish Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands Polish Portuguese Română Russian Srpski Swedish Ελληνικά عربي 日本語 한국어 Open Menu Close Menu Magazine TV News Life Tech Munchies Music Waypoint Shop Members Newsletters Instagram TikTok YouTube Google Discover Google Top Posts Video TV Shop Members Facebook Instagram TikTok Reddit YouTube Google Discover Google Top Posts Search Culture News Tech Munchies Drugs Entertainment Environment Extremism Identity Investigations Music Waypoint Photography Sex Travel Tech The People the Suburbs Were Built for Are Gone By Shayla Love January 21, 2021, 1:00pm Share: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share using Native tools Share Copied to clipboard Follow Us On Discover Make Us Preferred In Top Stories Last summer, Donald Trump and Ben Carson, then Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, co-bylined an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal promising to “protect America’s suburbs,&#8221; describing how they reversed policies that would allow for the creation of denser living structures in areas zoned only for single-family homes. &#8220;America’s suburbs are a shining example of the American Dream, where people can live in their own homes, in safe, pleasant neighborhoods,&#8221; they wrote.&nbsp; Videos by VICE But the suburbs, in the sense of the idyllic American pastoral Trump and Carson referenced, have been changing for some time —not necessarily the physical homes, stores, roads, and offices that populate them, but the people who live there, along with their needs and desires. Previous mainstays of suburban life are now myths : that the majority of people own their homes; that the suburbs are havens for the middle class; or that the bulk of people are young families who value privacy over urban amenities like communal spaces, walkability, and mixed-use properties.&nbsp; This mismatch has led to a phenomenon called “suburban retrofitting,” as documented by June Williamson, an associate professor of architecture at the City College of New York, and Ellen Dunham-Jones, a professor of architecture at the Georgia Institute of Technology. They have a new book out this week: Case Studies in Retrofitting Suburbia: Urban Design Strategies for Urgent Challenges . Read Next Welcome to Metropica, a Supposed City of the Future Since the 1990s, Williamson and Dunham-Jones have been watching the suburbs evolve. They have found that much of the suburban sprawl of the 20th century was built to serve a very different population than the one that exists now, and so preserving what the suburbs once were doesn&#8217;t make sense.&nbsp; Their book describes 32 recent instances in which suburban structures have been transformed into something new. Many of the cases in Williamson and Dunham-Jones first book from 2011 on the same topic were focused on underused parking lots being transformed into mixed-use spaces. But in this new book, the retrofitting projects have become more ambitious, as cities and towns turn old box stores, malls, motels, or office parks into places for people to live, work, eat, play, exercise, go to the doctor, or even watch Mexican wrestling. They have found that when the suburbs are retrofitted, they can take on an astonishing array of modern issues: car dependency, public health, supporting aging people, helping people compete for jobs, creating water and energy resilience, and helping with social equity and justice. Motherboard talked with Williamson and Dunham-Jones about why and how we should retrofit the suburbs, and whether or not the COVID-19 has made the suburbs appealing again, or instead accelerated the desire to retrofit the burbs.&nbsp; The conversation has been edited for length and clarity. Motherboard: How do you define the suburbs—a slippery term with no concrete definition ? You write in the book that you define something as suburban based on its “suburban form,&#8221; not necessarily on location or city lines—what do you mean by that? June Williamson: We&#8217;re architects and urban designers and so we are focused on the built environment. That means that when we&#8217;re looking at places, generally, that have been built out in the second half of the 20th century to be car dependent, not walkable, and have comparatively lower density. Ellen Dunham-Jones: Similarly, you can look at the street networks. If you&#8217;ve got a grid, more or less, with small, walkable-sized blocks, that&#8217;s urban form. If you have a highway leading off into cul de sacs, that&#8217;s suburban form, which is a more treelike kind of pattern. JW: That kind of development certainly characterizes most of the peripheral areas around the older urban cores in Northern American cities. But it can also be found within municipal boundaries of cities. We advocate for an erosion of oppositional thinking that you&#8217;re either in the city or the suburbs. When you look at a larger metropolitan area, suburban form can also be found near the center in need of retrofitting.&nbsp; Watch more from VICE: You argue that many of these suburban forms are obsolete today because they don&#8217;t fit the needs of the people who live there now. Can you walk me through some of the major demographic changes that have led to these suburban forms becoming obsolete?&nbsp; EDJ: One of the biggest shifts is that the U.S. now is a majority of one to two person households. And yet, the majority of land within regional urban boundaries is zoned for single-family houses. That already is something of a mismatch. The expectation going forward is that something like 80 percent of new households that will form over the next 15 years will be these one to two person households. A lot of them would prefer an apartment or a condo—smaller units. Plus you have the aging of the society, that&#8217;s the other really big piece. Especially in the suburbs, a lot of elderly people loved their single-family house while they were raising the kids. But now that they&#8217;re empty nesters and retiring, it&#8217;s kind of lonely. They want to stay in their community with doctors and friends nearby. But a lot of them are looking for, frankly, a more urban lifestyle. Read Next Our Infrastructure Is Being Built for a Climate That’s Already Gone It&#8217;s pretty interesting how the desires of both the younger millennials, Gen Z, and a lot of those aging boomers are converging on an interest in more walkable, mixed-use, compact urban places out in the burbs.&nbsp; JW: Commuting has also been transformed dramatically over the past decade or so, too. The notion that people live in the suburbs and work in the cities just isn&#8217;t true anymore. EDJ: We tend to think that the jobs are downtown. Since the 1980s, the majority of jobs have been more than three miles from the central business district. In places like Atlanta, where I live, it&#8217;s closer to 90 percent of jobs are way outside. The central business district often has high rises and so it&#8217;s really visible, but we’re really seeing something called job sprawl. I certainly see in Atlanta, we have a lot of reverse commuters in that situation.&nbsp; So when you talk about retrofitting, you mean finding and altering underused or abandoned suburban buildings to better accommodate the demographics and desires of the people who live there now? JW: Absolutely. And in most of the cases we&#8217;ve studied, this is happening because the built places have failed or are struggling to some degree.&nbsp; The dead and dying malls, the vacated office parks, the ghost box stores left behind. Rather than bring back the same thing, this is a tremendous opportunity.&nbsp; It can be as simple as re-inhabiting, or an adaptive reuse—fixing up the building, or changing the parking lot for something that&#8217;s better suited to the times. Taking something that was commercial and turning it into housing.&nbsp; It can also involve re-greening because so much of the suburbanization processes disrupted the regional ecologies and stormwater flow systems. Then it&#8217;s an opportunity for wider ranging benefits. There could be places of recreation or social exchange having small plazas and program parks. And then there is redevelopment. Taking a low density, car-dependent use-separated or mono-use place and mixing it up and investing in it.&nbsp; I was really struck by the statistics in the book about how many parking spaces there are per household in certain cities. Like how there are 1.97 cars per U.S. household, but in Des Moines, Iowa, there are 19 parking spaces per household. In Jackson, Wyoming, there are 27. These all seem like really obvious places to re-think about how we&#8217;re using land.&nbsp; JW: These choices around parking we&#8217;ve made have been codified through regulations and naturalized as normal. EDJ: We really have made it almost a right to park as opposed to a right to housing. Cars have much more protection than people do. There are these aging properties for the most part; a lot of them have become obsolete and those are places to retrofit. But sometimes [properties] are thriving. They&#8217;re doing well. Yet they still look at their parking lot as this underperforming asphalt. It&#8217;s not doing enough of the job. Sometimes there&#8217;s a mall that is doing well, and it makes more sense now to build a parking deck and build housing and bring in offices and make more mixed use.&nbsp; Read Next The Broken Algorithm That Poisoned American Transportation All of these: the parking lots, the dead space, the vacant spaces. Those are the opportunities for the suburbs to finally address really urgent challenges of equity, climate change, and health. You’ve been documenting retrofitting since 2011, when your first book came out, and now this second book includes even more case studies. Is the