# For La Times Subscribers

**Source**: https://www.latimes.com/topic/for-la-times-subscribers
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:42:57.437437+00:00

---

For L.A. Times Subscribers - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing &amp; Homelessness Politics Science &amp; Medicine World &amp; Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor &amp; Workplace Real Estate Technology and the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing &amp; Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate &amp; Environment Global Warming Water &amp; Drought Entertainment &amp; Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 best restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art &amp; Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health &amp; Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel &amp; Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World &amp; Nation Immigration &amp; the Border Israel-Hamas Mexico &amp; the Americas Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios Business • AI &amp; Tech • Banking &amp; Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Goods &amp; Retail • Healthcare &amp; Science • Law Dentists Decor &amp; Design Doctors &amp; Scientists Hot Property Live &amp; Well Orange County Pets The Hub: Rebuilding LA Travel Weddings &amp; Celebrations Newsletters Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Students &amp; Educators Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store L.A. Times Studios News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance &amp; Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? People on the Move Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Sections Show Search Search Query Submit Search For L.A. Times Subscribers Latest Food 15 of the best Thai restaurants in Los Angeles These are restaurant critic Bill Addison’s favorite Thai restaurants in L.A., often emphasizing the specificity of a Thai chef’s home region. California A mysterious surrogacy mansion. A drug-plagued property. And a criminal known as ‘Dragon’ Travel &amp; Experiences These 10 buildings tell the story of L.A.’s monumental 1930s, year by year Business Almost no one is building new apartments in Los Angeles. Here’s why Hollywood Inc. Furor over Jimmy Kimmel exposes challenges for Bob Iger’s Disney successor Guides The best breakfast burritos in Los Angeles The 70 best hikes in L.A. 35 of the coolest plant shops you can find only in L.A. More Hollywood Inc. Hollywood writers were already struggling. Now they fear censorship For many, Kimmel’s rebound appears to be a win for free speech and a testament to the power of boycotts against powerful corporate interests. However, for Hollywood writers, the fight over comedy may have just begun. Sept. 29, 2025 California A child dies. Two men vanish. Police investigate secretive California religious group His Way Spirit Led Assemblies has attracted the attention of authorities after the death of a young boy and the disappearance of two adult members. Sept. 30, 2025 Plaschke: Dodgers hero Kirk Gibson now tries to be a hero for those battling Parkinson’s disease Kirk Gibson delivered one of the most iconic plays in Dodgers postseason history, but now he is fighting alongside a new team of Parkinson’s warriors. Sept. 28, 2025 California One refugee’s painful journey. Fleeing the U.S. and splitting up her family amid the Trump-era raids After a life of migrating, Jerardyn thought she’d found sanctuary for her family in a Los Angeles church basement. Then her sense of security was shattered. Sept. 25, 2025 California She thought she was flirting with her favorite celebrity. A heartbreaking deepfake scam cost her everything Fraudsters that use promises of love and companionship to cheat the lonely is a crime as old as Victorian novels. Sept. 24, 2025 California What social media got wrong about the ICE raids of the Santa Fe Springs Swap Meet Social media posts suggested that “dozens” of people were detained during the ICE raid on the Santa Fe Springs Swap Meet and that swap meet officials cooperated with ICE. Interviews with swap meet officials, patrons and others show a different picture. Sept. 24, 2025 Travel &amp; Experiences I’m on a quest to see every lighthouse in California. These 14 are absolutely spectacular Struck by the beauty and lore of lighthouses, journalist Hailey Branson-Potts shares her favorites from across the state — and offers tips for getting the best views. Sept. 23, 2025 California They met at a festival. He was a sheriff’s deputy — and a stalker, her lawsuit claims After a chance encounter in 2023, Briana Ortega claims in a civil lawsuit that a Riverside County sheriff’s deputy used law enforcement databases to track her down and harass her. Sept. 19, 2025 Lifestyle The landlord wants control of the Magic Castle. Will its magicians’ club stay or go? The Magic Castle has housed the Academy of Magical Arts for decades. That could change under a new proposal by mansion owner Randy Pitchford. Sept. 19, 2025 Business L.A. tech startups get big cash infusion as Silicon Valley pivots to defense Southern California defense startups are receiving millions in funding as Silicon Valley venture capital firms and legacy tech giants do an about-turn on the sector. Sept. 18, 2025 Load More Sign up for This Evening&#x27;s Big Stories Catch up on the day with the 7 biggest L.A. Times stories in your inbox every weekday evening. By continuing, you agree to our Terms of Service and our Privacy Policy . Enter email address Agree &amp; Continue Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Subscribe for unlimited access Site Map Follow Us X Instagram YouTube Facebook eNewspaper Find/Post Jobs Place an Ad Media Kit: Why the L. A. Times? MORE FROM THE L.A. TIMES Crossword Obituaries Recipes Guides L.A. Times Store About/Contact For the Record L.A. Times Careers Manage Subscription Reprints and Permissions Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information