# Sidewalk Labs Book Sideways Toronto.Html

**Source**: https://www.curbed.com/2022/09/sidewalk-labs-book-sideways-toronto.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:47:13.934302+00:00

---

Is There Such a Thing As an Ethical Smart City? Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Menu Close Close Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York About Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Menu Close Close Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York About Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Search Close Every product is independently selected by editors. Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission. utopias Is There Such a Thing As an Ethical Smart City? By Alissa Walker , a writer who covers cities, transportation, and architecture Sept. 14, 2022 save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Sidewalk Toronto was an ambitious, high-tech, Alphabet-backed neighborhood that never happened. Photo: Picture Plane In October 2017, an Alphabet subsidiary named Sidewalk Labs announced that it was going to build a brand-new neighborhood, “mixing people-centered urban design with cutting-edge technology,” on a sliver of Toronto’s waterfront known as Quayside. The company, originally founded as Google’s urban-planning arm, promised a beautiful “carbon-positive” city: A 1,500-page, four-volume document featured full-color illustrations of kayakers paddling along packed beaches, families strolling leafy streets, and workers sipping coffee in golden-lit outdoor cafés in the dead of winter. It would also utilize a dizzying array of fantastical tech: pneumatic trash cans, snow-melting pavement, retractable rain canopies, its signature self-driving cars (of course ), and sensors to track everything from foot traffic to air quality to food waste, which, by interfacing with the smartphones of residents, would produce quantified data snapshots of daily life. “The most innovative district in the entire world,” said Dan Doctoroff , a former deputy mayor under Michael Bloomberg, who led Sidewalk’s contingent of urbanists and architects. Alphabet was putting up the funds but expected a return on its investment: The neighborhood would double as a kind of urban-tech theme park to help the company sell its innovations to other municipalities. The project would be so well conceived, so perfectly livable, that Sidewalk Labs assumed the people of Toronto would flock to its meticulously designed, hypersurveilled boundaries. Within 18 months of the announcement, the Canadian Civil Liberties Association called the plan a “non-consensual, state-authorized mass capture of Canadians’ personal information.” Leaked documents also revealed that Sidewalk Labs had much grander aspirations than the single neighborhood it was selling to city leaders. The Quayside parcel was relatively small, only 12 acres, yet Sidewalk Labs was secretly planning to acquire 800 acres of adjacent properties with the intention to site a new Google campus. The reason for the land grab, Sidewalk Labs claimed, was that it needed scale in order to make the grandiose project truly work . Then, in May 2020, less than a year after the official $1.3 billion draft master plan had been released, Sidewalk Labs suddenly abandoned Quayside, blaming the pandemic for derailing its plans. What actually happened was a bit more complicated. Sideways: The City Google Couldn’t Buy is Globe and Mail reporter Josh O’Kane’s effort to piece together why the tech company’s attempt at building a smart city, complete with hypersustainable mass-timber towers filled with much-needed affordable housing, failed so miserably. Curbed spoke with O’Kane about the seasteading origins of Sidewalk Labs, the battle over its existence, and whether it’s possible to build an ethical smart city in the first place. Can you speak first to the ambition of the project? The most powerful company in the world suddenly decides it wants to build a utopian city. Where did this come from? There was a smart-cities movement in the late 2000s, early 2010s, that was very hardware focused — these legacy technology companies becoming interested in infrastructure and centralized operations: We’re going to streamline, streamline, streamline . This is also the time when Larry Page ascended to CEO of Alphabet, and he is this restless character who is constantly thinking about innovation. So what’s next? In 2014, this secretive moon-shot group inside Alphabet called Javelin was formed to change the physical world and improve cities. They decided that in order to test their theories, they needed freedom from regulation. They looked into building a dome-covered, effectively libertarian city on the sea. Well, then it turns out that there are laws governing the sea. So they scale it back but keep the dome idea, which was basically about how the world’s climate is getting harsher, so: What if we could shield ourselves from the elements? This is when they started to build a team that eventually spun out and became Sidewalk Labs. Let’s talk about this team. Were these credentialed urban thinkers? Grifters? Both? Dan Doctoroff built his name as this larger-than-life power broker, first in the private-equity world, then as the mastermind of New York’s failed 2012 Olympic bid and Michael Bloomberg’s deputy mayor for economic development. After launching Sidewalk Labs with Google in the mid-2010s, he brought on a handful of Bloomberg alumni, some Googlers who’d been involved with Larry Page’s earlier urban-fantasy ideas, and some urban-tech experts like Smart Cities author Anthony Townsend. On paper, it was a smart mix of people. In practice, there were a lot of quiet disagreements over what directions to take Sidewalk. And you unearthed this secret 437-page document produced in this time. Their plan for “a city from the internet up.” The Yellow Book. It was filled with a bunch of really interesting and wacky ideas; notably, data was treated as a form of currency in the city they imagined. If you didn’t share a certain amount of your personal data while you’re going around the city, you wouldn’t have access to services. Then they present it to Larry Page, and depending on who you’re talking to, Larry Page either loved the idea or asked if it was innovative enough. Six weeks later, Doctoroff receives an email from a former employee that says, “Hey, we’re working on this project in Toronto. Would you be interested in looking at it?” Over the course of reporting the book, I learned that, in fact, Toronto was sort of a secondary plan. What they wanted to do was actually host Olympic-bid-style contests for cities to have the privilege of working with Sidewalk Labs. Why didn’t they just build their own smart city right on their property in Mountain View? There was a very big push within Sidewalk Labs to not look like it was this big boulder rolling into a city and making all these changes. They at least wanted the optics of building trust with a local community and to show that they are willing to work with governments in terms of execution. They did take a lot of time and effort to put together a bid, and learn about Toronto, and try to work with Toronto. And whether that was genuine or whether that was for the optics will change depending on who you’re asking. If they had just bought a bunch of land here in Toronto, it would have been very different. But it was thought of as an opportunity to build a partnership. What were the vibes in Toronto as this was happening? Did you get a sense you were being turned into an experiment? There was a strange tension in the air by early 2019, where Toronto was splitting into stubborn factions: people who were warning of the potential for massive surveillance, people who were warning that the project could run off the rails without clearer government oversight, and people who saw those groups as blindly against economic development. Each one of them was worried about a different aspect of the future of cities, and there were a lot of wars of words. It seemed like no one was happy. But by mid-2019, Sidewalk dropped its draft master plan, revealing a bunch of details that even its government partner, Waterfront Toronto, was frustrated with. Then even fewer people were happy. It was a strange mood at a moment that should have felt full of potential. What was the beginning of the end? Sidewalk Labs’ ambition for the Toronto property always hinged upon a hope that they would get more than the 12 acres they were allotted by Waterfront Toronto. If you look at Sidewalk Labs’ bid for that land, it was very clear from the very beginning they wanted much more; they wanted to scale. This 1,500-page catalogue that they released in June 2019 explained how they were going to do that. Doctoroff was obsessed with Olympic-bid books. He carefully studied these bid books as he worked on his own Olympic bid, and that obsession carried forward into Sidewalk Labs’s Yellow Book as well as this enormous, four-book draft master plan for Toronto. Waterfront Toronto had been asking Sidewalk to hold off, saying, “Let’s not publish this. Let’s talk about these details.” And then Sidewalk publishes it anyway. This is where the controversy really begins. Waterfront comes out and says, basically, “We don’t endorse this plan.” So when Sidewalk Labs blamed the economics of the pandemic, saying the plan had become infeasible — really, it had al