# Failure Is Moving Science Forward

**Source**: http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/failure-is-moving-science-forward/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:24:31.242076+00:00

---

Failure Is Moving Science Forward | FiveThirtyEight Skip to main content FiveThirtyEight Search Search ABC News Menu Failure Is Moving Science Forward Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Politics Sports Science Podcasts Video Interactives ABC News This is an archived site and is no longer being updated. New 538 articles can be found at www.abcnews.com/538. Failure Is Moving Science Forward The replication crisis is a sign that science is working. By Christie Aschwanden Filed under Scientific Method Published Mar. 24, 2016 Illustration by Shout W hile I paced around the green room at a recent TEDx event in Colorado , one of the other speakers offered the rest of us some advice on how to ease our nerves. “Raise your arms up in the air and make yourself big — it will help you feel powerful!” It was scientifically proven , she told us (she’d seen it in a TED talk ), that adopting a so-called power pose — shoulders wide, arms strong — could raise your testosterone levels, lower your stress hormones, and make you feel more confident and commanding. Like everyone else, I was nervous. This wasn’t my usual kind of speech; it was a performance — a scripted story that wasn’t supposed to sound scripted, told with no notes and no cues. I knew my lines by heart, but I also knew that one moment of doubt was all it would take for me to draw a blank up on stage. So just before I walked through the curtains, I took a deep breath and raised my arms overhead as if signaling victory. I don’t know if the power pose helped me, but it didn’t seem to hurt. What I didn’t say back in the green room was that although one highly touted study had shown how adopting a power pose could alter your hormone levels and make you more bold, another group of researchers had tried to repeat the study and found no such effect . It’s possible that the power pose phenomenon was nothing more than a spurious result. Power poses aren’t the only well-publicized finding called into question by further research. Psychology, biomedicine and numerous other fields of science have fallen into a crisis of confidence recently, after seminal findings could not be replicated in subsequent studies . These widespread problems with reproducibility underscore a problem that I discussed here last year — namely, that science is really, really hard . Even relatively straightforward questions cannot be definitively answered in a single study, and the scientific literature is riddled with results that won’t stand up. This is the way science works — it’s a process of becoming less wrong over time. The roots of the reproducibility crisis A s science grapples with what some have called a reproducibility crisis , replication studies, which aim to reproduce the results of previous studies, have been held up as a way to make science more reliable. It seems like common sense: Take a study and do it again — if you get the same result, that’s evidence that the findings are true, and if the result doesn’t turn up again, they’re false. Yet in practice, it’s nowhere near this simple. “Scientific claims don’t gain credibility by someone saying, ‘I found it.’ They gain credibility by others being able to reproduce it,” said Brian Nosek , a psychologist at the University of Virginia, co-founder of the Center for Open Science and leader of the Reproducibility Project: Psychology . RP:P, initiated in 2011, attempted to replicate 100 studies published in three high-profile psychology journals in 2008 . By this logic, a replication study’s purpose is to confirm a previously reported finding. Yet there are good reasons why real effects may fail to reproduce, and in many cases, we should expect replications to fail, even if the original finding is real. It may seem counterintuitive, but initial studies have a known bias toward overestimating the magnitude of an effect for a simple reason: They were selected for publication because of their unusually small p-values, said Veronica Vieland , a biostatistician at the Battelle Center for Mathematical Medicine in Columbus, Ohio. Imagine that you were looking at the relationship between height and college majors. You collected data from math majors in a small class that had a couple of unusually tall students and compared it with a similar sized philosophy class that happened to have one unusually short person in it. Comparing the two averages, the differences seem large — math majors are taller than philosophy majors (and perhaps the unusual difference between these two particular classes is what caught your attention in the first place). But most of those differences were flukes, and when you repeat the study you’re unlikely to see such an extreme difference between the two majors, especially if the second study has a larger sample. If you’re trying to figure out the true height differences, this “regression to the mean” is a good thing, because it gets you closer to the true averages. But the regression to the mean issue also means that even if the initial results are correct, they may not be replicated in subsequent studies. The RP:P project attempted to replicate 100 studies , 97 of which had produced results with a “significant” p-value of 0.05 or less . By selecting so many positive studies, the group set itself up for a regression to the mean phenomenon, and that’s what it found, said Steven Goodman , co-director of the Meta-Research Innovation Center at Stanford (he was not involved in the RP:P project). Indeed, less than half of the replication studies in RP:P reproduced the original results . That reduction in positive findings could mean that the original studies were wrong, or it could represent a simple regression to the mean. It’s also possible that some of the replication studies produced false negatives, failing to find effects that were real. The paper in the journal Science that described the RP:P results concluded, “how many of the effects have we established are true? Zero. And how many of the effects have we established are false? Zero.” Still, the message that made media headlines was that all these studies were disproven, and that simply wasn’t true, Goodman said. How should we think of replications? R esearchers in RP:P did everything possible to duplicate the original studies’ methods and materials — they even contacted original authors and asked for advice and feedback on their replication plans. Even so, there could have been differences between the studies that explained why their results weren’t similar. For instance, Elizabeth Gilbert , a graduate student at the University of Virginia, attempted to replicate a study originally done in Israel looking at reconciliation between people who feel like they’ve been wronged. The study presented participants with vignettes, and she had to translate these and also make a few alterations. One scenario involved someone doing mandatory military service, and that story didn’t work in the U.S., she said. Is this why Gilbert’s study failed to reproduce the original? For some researchers, the answer is yes — even seemingly small differences in methods can cause a replication study to fail. In a commentary published March 4 in Science , Daniel Gilbert (no relation to Elizabeth), Gary King, Stephen Pettigrew and Timothy Wilson argue that methodological differences between the original studies and RP:P’s replications led the RP:P authors to underestimate how many replication studies would fail by chance. They also took issue with some of the sampling and statistical methods used in the RP:P analysis and conclude that “the reproducibility of psychological science is quite high.” “Individually, each of these problems would be enough to cast doubt on the conclusion that most people have drawn from this study, but taken together, they completely repudiate it,” according to a statement attributed to Gilbert and King in a Harvard University news release . “Psychology might have a replication problem, but as far as I can see, nothing in [the RP:P] article provides evidence for this conclusion,” Gilbert told me. “I learned nothing .” This is more than just a dispute about these particular research projects; it’s a fundamental argument about how scientific studies should be conducted and assessed. The RP:P team responded to Gilbert and his team in the same issue of Science , writing that their “very optimistic assessment is limited by statistical misconceptions” and by the selective interpretation of correlational data to infer causation. The RP:P data can be used to arrive at both “optimistic and pessimistic conclusions about reproducibility” but “neither are yet warranted,” they said. Other researchers have also disputed the statistical argument made by Gilbert’s group , and psychologists continue to debate and discuss the two commentaries. 1 In a post at Retraction Watch , Nosek and Elizabeth Gilbert take issue with Gilbert et al.’s characterization of the differences between the original and replication studies, pointing out that some of the studies they called flawed were endorsed by the original authors and one of them successfully replicated. 2 The debate between these two groups is highly technical and difficult to parse without a deep grasp of statistics and research methodology. It’s also critically important. This is more than just a dispute about these particular research projects; it’s a fundamental argument about how scientific studies should be conducted and assessed. If the push for replication has taught us anything, it’s that seemingly esoteric decisions about how to conduct a study can lead to different results, as demonstrated in this chart from a previous article of mine , which shows what happened when dozens of researchers used the same data to explore a single research question . When 29 research teams working with the best intentions (and fully aware that their work will be scrutinized and compared with that of the other teams) can come up with such a wide range of answers, i