# Love

**Source**: https://harpers.org/tag/love/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:56:12.193188+00:00

---

Love Archives | Harper&#039;s Magazine --> Signed In via Institutional Access Sign In Subscribe Account Account Sign in to access Harper’s Magazine We've recently updated our website to make signing in easier and more secure Sign in to Harper's Learn more about using our new sign-in system Hi there . You have 1 free article this month. Connect to your subscription or subscribe for full access You've reached your free article limit for this month. Connect to your subscription or subscribe for full access Connect Subscription Subscribe Update login Make changes to your subscription Support and FAQ Log out Thanks for being a subscriber! Update login Make changes to your subscription Support and FAQ Log out Get Access to Print and Digital for $25.99 per year. Subscribe for Full Access About Archive Authors Gala Newsletters Shop Podcast Events Subscribe Search 175 Years Current Issue Sections The Latest Search About Archive Authors Gala Newsletters Shop Podcast Events Subscribe Search Love From the Archive Timeless stories from our 175-year archive handpicked to speak to the news of the day. Email address Sign Up Got it! Thanks for signing up! Mother-Daughter Story How to explain to her daughter. Back when she was in college, she had taken a literary seminar for which she’d had to read Kafka’s “Letter to His Father.” After&hellip; Read more Lovefool Illustration by Leonie Bos The night before my brother’s second wedding, he held a rehearsal dinner that was, per contemporary tradition, a rehearsal only for the pained social interactions that&hellip; Read more Love in the Time of Sickle Cell Disease What’s the cost of rolling the genetic dice? Read more Going Nowhere, Fast From The Newlyweds, which will be published next month by Atria Books. For most of my mother’s life, she has lived in the house she was born in. It is&hellip; Read more A Perfect Woman It would be a bold writer who would attempt to have the last word on the much-­debated maternal instinct. But since so many men have had their say on the&hellip; Read more By Any Other Name From terms of address in The Animals: Love Letters Between Christopher Isherwood and Don Bachardy, edited by Katherine Bucknell, published last month by Farrar, Straus and Giroux. Isherwood met Bachardy,&hellip; Read more Motherhood In the beginning, waiting for the baby to feed or stop feeding or burp or pass wind or yellow liquid shit, I postponed showers, phone calls, bowel movements. With the&hellip; Read more Can We Truly Love Our Enemies? Philosopher Jerome Neu argues that our emotional responses can be trained Read more New books Read more Weekly Review Ukraine&#8217;s Supreme Court ordered a second presidential run-off to be held by December 26 after it ruled last month&#8217;s fraud-plagued election invalid.New York TimesSupporters of Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovich, the&hellip; Read more Isn&#8217;t it romantic? Read more 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 &hellip; 29 Subscribe for Full Access Current Issue Advertising Permissions and Reprints Internships Customer Care Contact Careers Classifieds Help Archive Submissions Find a Newsstand About Media Store Terms of Service Privacy Policy Current Issue Contact Archive About Advertising Permissions and Reprints Internships Customer Care Careers Classifieds Help Submissions Find a Newsstand Media Store Terms of Service Privacy Policy &copy; Copyright 2025 Harper's Magazine Foundation Do Not Sell My Personal Information “An unexpectedly excellent magazine that stands out amid a homogenized media landscape.” —the New York Times Join us. “An unexpectedly excellent magazine that stands out amid a homogenized media landscape.” —the New York Times Join us. You’ve read one of your two free articles this month. Subscribe for less than $2 an issue. You’ve read your last free article this month. Subscribe now for only $21.97 per year to continue reading. Debug Close