# How Yahoo Derailed Tumblr

**Source**: http://mashable.com/2016/06/15/how-yahoo-derailed-tumblr/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:02:51.964019+00:00

---

How Yahoo derailed Tumblr | Mashable $refs.firstMenuItem.focus());" class="flex-shrink px-2 nav-button" aria-label="Menu"> animate = true, 1000)"> Prime Day The Mashable 101 Creator Hub Tech Science Life Social Good Entertainment Deals Shopping Games query=evt.target.value' x-on:keyup="onKeyUp" x-on:keydown="onKeyDown" :class="{ 'visible': searchOpen, 'invisible': !searchOpen }" aria-label="Search Mashable Content" placeholder="Search" class="invisible py-1 pr-2 pl-8 w-full text-sm lg:border focus:outline-none lg:focus:border-gray-400 "> Search Cancel 0"> Search Result Prime Day The Mashable 101 Creator Hub Tech Apps &amp; Software Artificial Intelligence Cybersecurity Cryptocurrency Mobile Smart Home Social Media Tech Industry Transportation All Tech Science Space Climate Change Environment All Science Life Family &amp; Parenting Health &amp; Wellness Sex, Dating &amp; Relationships Sleep Careers Mental Health All Life Social Good Activism Gender LGBTQ Racial Justice Sustainability Politics All Social Good Entertainment Games Movies Podcasts TV Shows Watch Guides All Entertainment SHOP THE BEST Laptops Budget Laptops Dating Apps Sexting Apps Hookup Apps VPNs Robot Vaccuums Robot Vaccum & Mop Headphones Speakers Kindles Gift Guides Mashable Choice Mashable Selects All Sex, Dating & Relationships All Laptops All Headphones All Robot Vacuums All VPN All Shopping Games Product Reviews Adult Friend Finder Bumble Premium Tinder Platinum Kindle Paperwhite PS5 vs PS5 Slim All Reviews All Shopping Deals Newsletters VIDEOS Mashable Shows All Videos How Yahoo derailed Tumblr &nbsp;By&nbsp; Seth Fiegerman Seth Fiegerman Seth Fiegerman was a Senior Business Reporter at Mashable, where he covered startups, marketing and the latest consumer tech trends. He joined Mashable in August 2012 and is based in New York.Before joining Mashable, Seth covered all things Apple as a reporter at Silicon Alley Insider, the tech section of Business Insider. He has also worked as a staff writer at TheStreet.com and as an editor at Playboy Magazine. His work has appeared in Newsweek, NPR, Kiplinger, Portfolio and The Huffington Post.Seth received his Bachelor of Arts from New York University, where he majored in journalism and philosophy.In his spare time, Seth enjoys bike riding around Brooklyn and writing really bad folk songs. Read Full Bio &nbsp;on&nbsp; June 15, 2016 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Flipboard Credit: Mashable/Christopher Mineses How Yahoo derailed Tumblr After Marissa Mayer promised &lsquo;not to screw it up&rsquo; Seth Fiegerman Marissa Mayer was running late. This time, it wasn&rsquo;t for a dinner with skeptical advertisers nor a conference call with her inner circle of Yahoo executives . She was late for a rare meeting with much of the team at Tumblr, nearly two years after acquiring the startup for $1.1 billion. The biggest acquisition of Mayer&rsquo;s tenure as Yahoo CEO, Tumblr was supposed to revive Yahoo by broadening its audience and bolstering its long declining advertising business. In a Tumblr post announcing the deal (complete with a flashing GIF urging people to &ldquo;keep calm&rdquo;), Mayer famously promised &ldquo;not to screw it up&rdquo; for users. She tried to make good on that pledge by staying mostly hands off for the first year. By early 2015, however, Tumblr was at risk of being dragged down by Mayer and Yahoo.That January, Mayer broke the clear barrier between the companies by merging Tumblr&rsquo;s ad sales team with Yahoo&rsquo;s and putting them under a new executive who insiders say had little experience with Tumblr and even less rapport with its core employees. Soon after, Tumblr&rsquo;s ad sales department was on the verge of a mass exodus.The sales turmoil came at the worst possible time. Tumblr was fighting to hit a $100 million sales goal set very publicly by Mayer -- a lofty target that surprised members of the media almost as much as it surprised employees at Tumblr. "WTF is that based on?" an employee remembers thinking when it became public. &ldquo;That was Marissa just picking a number,&rdquo; says a former Yahoo executive. (Yahoo declined to comment about revenue matters on the record, but a source close to the company disputed this claim.)The pressure and frustration bled into other departments leading up to Mayer's big meeting with the team, via video conference. One Yahoo source played it off as a routine meet-and-greet to kick off the new year. Numerous Tumblr employees characterized it as a much-needed pep talk from the distant executive shaking up their company.&nbsp;&ldquo;The troops were restless,&rdquo; says one former Tumblr employee who was in attendance that day.David Karp, the 20-something wunderkind who founded Tumblr and got rich selling it to Mayer, sat waiting for his boss to appear on a big screen behind him for a Q&amp;A. Karp, smart and eternally optimistic, but with little experience to prepare him for working at a large corporation, looked &ldquo;out of his element,&rdquo; according to another employee there. On a different screen, Karp pulled up a video of a yule log to accompany the &ldquo;fireside chat.&rdquo;When Mayer showed up 20-30 minutes late, Karp and the audience listened as she talked about her time at Google, the thinking behind the ad sales transition and her intention to help Tumblr grow. Concerns went mostly unaired. One engineer made a GIF of Karp fiddling with his phone while Mayer talked on the screen overhead. He was Photoshopped to be eating while she talked.&ldquo;It really fell pretty flat,&rdquo; one employee said of Mayer&rsquo;s appearance. &ldquo;It was too little, too late and off base,&rdquo; says another. Trouble dot Tumblr dot comTumblr launched in 2007 to make it easier for people to write, share and discover blogs about anything. Literally anything. You want to post pictures of hungover owls , or judge people for taking selfies at funerals , or get all existential looking at Garfield comics without Garfield present? Knock yourself out. Tumblr built strong communities, launched Internet memes, led to countless book deals and helped shape the culture, online and offline. It remains an incredibly vibrant network with hundreds of millions of accounts spanning the full breadth of human interests, from powerful cultural commentary on women in Hollywood to raw teen shoplifting stories to discussions around the Black Lives Matter movement .&nbsp;There was also that thing about the color of The Dress . But the team behind Tumblr was derailed for a year by mass staff departures, internal politics with its parent company, Mayer's questionable executive appointments and a flawed attempt to integrate Tumblr's ad sales team with Yahoo&rsquo;s, according to interviews with a dozen current and former employees from Tumblr and Yahoo as well as conversations with media buyers, analysts and peers in the industry, many of whom requested anonymity citing sensitive personal relationships with the company.Some on the Yahoo side argue Mayer gave Tumblr and Karp too much freedom for too long after the acquisition considering the social network&rsquo;s poor track record making money, and then ultimately put the wrong people in charge of the team and pushed too hard. Those on the Tumblr side, unsurprisingly, mostly agree on the latter points.Top Yahoo executives clashed with Tumblr, or just flat out confused employees. On one occasion, an executive overseeing Karp and his division perplexed employees by saying he thought Tumblr had the potential to "create the next generation PDF," according to multiple sources.&nbsp;At other times, a top Yahoo sales exec spoke down to Tumblr&rsquo;s advertising team and pushed aside a beloved leader, according to multiple employees. Tumblr staffers fled by the dozens, cutting into the company&rsquo;s momentum and morale.Yahoo tried to make things right a year later by separating the ad teams again, but the damage was done. Tumblr has fallen out of the top 100 list of free iOS apps in the U.S. as of the beginning of June, according to data from AppAnnie, an app analytics service. Research firm eMarketer projects that &ldquo;the gap [in users] between Tumblr and its competitors will widen through 2020.&rdquo;&nbsp;In short, Tumblr is no longer the hot new thing for consumers -- or marketers. &nbsp; Kyle Bunch, a longtime Tumblr user and head of social at ad agency R/GA, says &ldquo;the rise of Snapchat&rdquo; has &ldquo;forced Tumblr down the priority ladder&rdquo; for brands.&nbsp;"With so many different platforms and new things emerging and clients coming to us asking, 'How do I do Snapchat better?' or 'Should I be thinking about Medium?' Tumblr has got to find its sweet spot and I just don&rsquo;t know that it totally has a clear one," he says.In the absence of major new product features, younger services like Medium and Giphy are also eating away at it. One former Tumblr employee called it shameful that Giphy has surged to a $300 million valuation when Tumblr was once synonymous with GIFs.&nbsp;For that reason, as well as the internal politics and departures, Tumblr has still not hit that ambitious $100 million annual sales goal set in 2014, according to sources at the company. [img src="http://i.amz.mshcdn.com/7EwZvqyijNMATOFIOBVghxL0qw4=/fit-in/1440x1440/uploads%2F2016%2F6%2F14%2FScreen_Shot_2016_06_14_at_2.16.08_PM.png" caption="Tumblr has gone from being one of the top 10 most downloaded free iOS apps at the time of the acquisition to barely cracking the top 100." credit="" alt=""] Tumblr declined to disclose its revenue growth or make anyone available to comment on the record for this article. A spokesperson for Tumblr noted that its mobile monthly active users have grown 35% year-over-year and daily time spent per user is up too. The spokesperson also highlighted hiring on the sales team and continued development of new advertising and consumer products to keep Tumblr competitive.These efforts to 