# Privacy Policy

**Source**: https://www.thenation.com/privacy-policy/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:05:36.940809+00:00

---

Privacy Policy | The Nation Log In Email * Password * Remember Me Forgot Your Password? Log In New to The Nation ? Subscribe Print subscriber? Activate your online access Skip to content Skip to footer Magazine Newsletters Subscribe Log In Search Subscribe Donate Magazine Latest Archive Podcasts Newsletters Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts The Nation About Events Contact Us Advertise Current Issue Privacy Policy for TheNation.com Information About Us www.thenation.com is a site operated by The Nation Company, LLC (“The Nation”). The Nation is a company registered in New York, NY. We are located at 520 Eighth Avenue, New York, NY 10018. We are committed to maintaining the privacy of your personal information. The following privacy policy (this “Policy”) explains our information collection practices, privacy policies and the choices available to you with regard to how your information is collected and utilized. This Policy applies to TheNation.com and other sites owned and operated by The Nation (“Sites”) (unless otherwise indicated by such Sites). Each of the Sites may further supplement, revise or otherwise amend this Policy as it relates to such Site. If you have any queries about this Policy or how we use your personal information, please contact us using the details at Contact Us . Our nominated person for data protection is Will Herman and their contact details are [email&#160;protected] . The Information We Collect and How We Collect It We have collected the following categories of personal information from consumers within the last twelve (12) months: Category Examples A. Identifiers Includes first name, maiden name, last name, username or similar identifier. B. Personal information categories listed in the California Customer Records statute (Cal. Civ. Code § 1798.80(e)). Includes billing address, delivery address, email address, telephone number, credit card number, or any other financial information. C. Commerical&nbsp;information Includes details about payments to and from you and other details of Nation products and services you have purchased from us. E. Internet or other similar network activity. Browsing history, search history, information on a consumer’s interaction with a website, application, or advertisement. F. Geolocation data. Physical location or movements. We obtain the categories of personal information listed above from the following categories of sources: Directly from you: Information provided by registering on the Site, submitting an order form, subscribing to our newsletter, contacting us through the Site or via email, etc. Automatically collected information: When you access our Site, some information is automatically collected in order to ensure the Site’s functionality. Third party sources: We may collect information from third parties to whom you have provided your information, and consented to the sale, rental or transfer thereof (for example, through social media). When accessing the Sites through a third party social media site and/or application, we may access some of your information from your social media account, such as name, email address, profile picture, location, friend list, posts and/or likes. Please note that some aggregate information, that does not personally identify you, such as content viewed on the social media site/application, may also be collected by us if you access the Sites through a third party social media site. Information provided by you may be combined with other personally identifiable information from third party sources in order to provide personalized content to you. Like most commercial website owners, we collect information using “cookies,” which are small data elements that we place on your computer or device to store your preferences. Cookies help us to deliver advertisements, identify unique browsers that visit us and track usage throughout our Sites. Cookies do not extract personal data about you, like your name or e-mail address. You may block the installation of our cookies by changing the setting on your browser. However, if your browser does not accept cookies, certain areas of the website may not function properly. Some of our third-party merchants and advertisers also use cookies to obtain information about your visits to our Sites, such as the number of times you have viewed an ad (but not your name, address or other personal information), and use this information to serve ads to you on our Sites. The Site contains links to third party websites, which we do not operate, control, monitor, endorse or guarantee. This Policy does not apply to the collection and use of information by such third party websites. We suggest that you carefully read the privacy policy and other policies of all third party websites, in order to learn about those sites’ practices regarding the use of your information and how to opt out of the use of cookies. This Site is affiliated with Publisher First, Inc. dba Freestar (&#8220;Freestar&#8221;) for the purposes of placing certain advertising on the Site, and Freestar will collect and use certain data for advertising purposes. To learn more about Freestar’s data usage, click&nbsp; here .” We provide hyperlinks to third party websites only for the convenience of our users and it is not a recommendation that users access such third party websites. We do not guarantee the services or goods provided and sold by such third party websites to Internet users. YOU AGREE THAT YOUR USE OF ANY THIRD PARTY WEBSITE IS AT YOUR SOLE RISK AND WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND BY THE NATION, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF TITLE, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY OR NONINFRINGEMENT. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL THE NATION BE LIABLE FOR DAMAGES ARISING FROM ANY TRANSACTION BETWEEN YOU AND ANY THIRD PARTY WEBSITE OR FOR ANY INFORMATION APPEARING ON THIRD PARTY WEBSITES. Why We Collect this Information We collect this information for the purposes set out in the section How We Use the Information We Collect. The lawful basis for which we process your information is: your consent; processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which you are a party. If you fail to provide this information we may be unable to perform the contract; and processing is necessary for the purpose of the legitimate interest pursued by us or a third party, except where your rights as a data subject override our legitimate interest or the legitimate interest of that third party. How We Use the Information We Collect To enable us to process, validate and verify subscriptions or to process your donations, and for other purposes communicated to you when collecting such information. To send you e-mail notifications about our products, services and special offers, or to otherwise contact you. We will only use your personal information for electronic marketing purposes if we are allowed to do this by law or if we have your consent. If you agree to us providing you with marketing information, you can always opt out at a later date as described in this Policy. To enhance existing features or develop new features, products and services. To provide aggregate anonymous information to our advertisers to help them better understand our services and to monitor the reach of their advertising on the Sites. To allow us to personalize the content and advertising that you and others see based on personal characteristics or preferences. Responding to customer service requests and similar communications from you. Technical assistance. Sharing Your Information In the preceding twelve (12) months, we have disclosed the following categories of personal information for a business purpose: Category A: Identifiers. Category B: California Customer Records personal information categories. Category C: Commercial information. Category E: Internet or other similar network activity. Category F: Geolocation data. We may share your personal information with the following categories of third parties: Service providers; Business partners; Data aggregators; Social networking sites; Companies affiliated with The Nation, including licensees and joint venture partners, who may be located outside the United States; In the event there is a change in the corporate structure of The Nation including, without limitation, by merger, consolidation, sale, liquidation, or transfer of substantial assets, we may, in our sole discretion, transfer, sell or assign users’ information collected on and through the Site to one or more affiliated or unaffiliated third parties or successor in interest; and Governmental and/or law enforcement agencies. We may share information with third parties for the following purposes: We may need to provide your information to our contractors and suppliers who provide services on our behalf, to the extent necessary to enable you to receive those services, such as fulfilling orders, delivering packages, sending postal mail and e-mail, removing repetitive information from customer lists, analyzing data, providing marketing assistance, processing credit card payments and providing customer service. These agents have access to personal information needed to perform their functions, but are contractually prohibited from using it for other purposes. We may provide your personal information to our promotional partners in connection with editorial features, contests, sweepstakes, special events or other offerings; personal information collected by our Sites in conjunction with such offerings may also be used for the marketing of additional services and events by the Sites and/or our promotional partners. Please also refer to the specific rules and polices of such events and promotions. We have contracted with a number of advertising network partners to monitor certain pages of our website and RSS feeds, including through, web beacons and/or other monitoring technologies to compile anonymo