# Act Up Aids Activism

**Source**: https://filtermag.org/act-up-aids-activism/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:45:23.519975+00:00

---

What the Incredible Achievements of ACT UP Can Teach Activists Today FilterMag What the Incredible Achievements of ... 0 Larry Krasner Beats Primary Challenger ... type in your search and press enter Politics + Legalization Use + Harm Reduction Intersections + Injustice Drugs + Money Media + Culture Politics + Legalization Use + Harm Reduction Intersections + Injustice Drugs + Money Media + Culture Toggle navigation Politics + Legalization Use + Harm Reduction Intersections + Injustice Drugs + Money Media + Culture What the Incredible Achievements of ACT UP Can Teach Activists Today by Maia Szalavitz May 19, 2021 F or her 700-plus page magnum opus on the history of ACT UP (AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power) New York, Sarah Schulman spent 18 years conducting hundreds of interviews and at least three years writing it all up. But Let the Record Show: A Political History of ACT UP New York, 1987-1993 is not only the story of one of the most successful activist groups in American history. The just-published book is also a guide to understanding how ACT UP achieved so much change so quickly—and offers instruction s for today’s activists on how to attain similar results. Founded in New York in 1987, ACT UP still has chapters around the world and is an extraordinary model of activism by people with lived experience. Schulman, a playwright, novelist, author and the co-founder of the Lesbian Avengers, was a member of ACT UP herself during the period she covers. I spoke with her about ACT UP’s accomplishments and what they can teach us. &nbsp; Maia Szalavitz: You write early in the book about why some people become activists and others don’t. One of the things that struck me was that so many of them seemed to tell you something like “Well, I couldn’t not do it.” What did you conclude about what makes an activist? Sarah Schulman: I was interested in, what do these people have in common inside ACT UP? Because they were so different. And at first, I thought, well, maybe they all came from childhoods or families who are community-oriented, but that did not pan out. And then I thought, well, maybe they&#8217;d all had particularly transformative experiences with AIDS. But that was not true either. It&#8217;s the kind of person who can&#8217;t be a bystander. People joined who didn&#8217;t know anyone who had AIDS. And in year eight, I interviewed Rebecca Cole, who at that time was an apolitical actress who had gotten a job at the AIDS hotline because she needed the money. And she got a phone call from a woman in Connecticut who couldn&#8217;t get into a drug trial, because they didn&#8217;t accept women. And when Rebecca called the CDC and made an appointment with them and went with a friend and met with them—well, this is the beginning of the women with AIDS movement. So, I was like, “Okay, this is a personality type.” I realized that it&#8217;s characterological, not experiential. Because of course, there were people with AIDS themselves who never did anything. So, it&#8217;s the kind of person who can&#8217;t be a bystander. &nbsp; What would you class as the major successes of ACT UP? ACT UP forced the Food and Drug Administration to restructure the way drugs were approved so that they would be available to people who needed them, even if they hadn&#8217;t gone through the approval process. ACT UP won a four-year campaign to get the CDC to change the definition of AIDS to include symptoms that affected only women. And this change not only got women benefits, but it allowed women to get into experimental drug trials. Today, every woman with HIV who takes these drugs benefited from that. ACT UP transformed the way that the world saw people with AIDS. ACT UP won needle exchange in New York City. They started the movement of housing for homeless people with AIDS. And ACT UP challenged the Catholic Church [New York’s Cardinal O’Connor had inserted his religion into policy debates, opposing sex education in public schools and in particular, a curriculum that accepted LGBTQ rights. He also spoke out against syringe programs and condom distribution]. They also won the acceptance of a campaign called Countdown 18 months that was run by a 17-year-old girl, Garance Franke-Ruta. It restructured how researchers approached AIDS, going from looking for a medication that would cure AIDS to [focusing on] treating opportunistic infections. And ACT UP transformed the way that the world saw people with AIDS and how they saw queer people and how they saw themselves. &nbsp; It’s incredible how much ACT UP got done—and the impact it had on people with medical disorders becoming involved with research and treatment of those conditions. I think [that] originally comes from the feminist women&#8217;s health clinic movement of the 1970s. Women were doing self-exams, physical exams, and that probably comes from the illegal abortion network. And it&#8217;s why I say that reproductive rights was very influential [in ACT UP]. Tracy Morgan being arrested at the CDC in Atlanta, Georgia, on January 9, 1990. Allan Clear, who took the photo, was arrested shortly after. &nbsp; Why do you think needle exchange as an accomplishment of ACT UP was so ignored by the media and by other writers and documentarians? Everything that ACT UP did was ignored except for treatment activism. Why? Because there&#8217;s this idea in America: the John Wayne, the white male hero who triumphs as the individual hero. And drug users are not viewed that way, even though there&#8217;s a lot of overlap. It took a long time to convince the world to stop looking at what category you were in and start looking at your behavior regarding AIDS. They didn&#8217;t think that white gay men use needles and they didn&#8217;t think that homeless people had gay sex. There were very racist and class-based lines. And that was influential in the way that history was written. &nbsp; Yeah, I was absolutely astonished when I set out to write my harm reduction history [ Undoing Drugs , to be published on July 27] that no similar book had previously been published. There&#8217;s not even a real history of needle exchange. These things get ignored. One of the things I really liked about your book is that you were also looking at what made ACT UP successful. Please say a bit about that. T here were a lot of things. The central issue, I think, is that ACT UP did not work on a consensus model. That was one of its great contributions. So, if you wanted to do needle exchange, for example, needle exchange was very controversial at the time. You have to understand that David Dinkins was the city&#8217;s first Black mayor and he was really afraid of needle exchange, because powerful people [across racial and political lines] opposed it. The only principle of unity was “direct action to end the AIDS crisis.” &nbsp; In fact, the first thing he did when he got elected was shut down the city&#8217;s experimental exchange program. That&#8217;s right. So you know, ACT UP was always fighting the disease plus City Hall. Still, there were people in ACT UP who were not supportive of needle exchange. But because ACT UP was not a consensus-based movement, it really didn&#8217;t matter. Whoever wanted to work on it, could work on it. The only principle of unity was “direct action to end the AIDS crisis.” So even if people didn&#8217;t understand needle exchange, if they didn&#8217;t support it, they just simply wouldn&#8217;t work on it. There was no mechanism for stopping people from doing things. And that&#8217;s very important and a contemporary movement could learn a lot from that. &nbsp; I think of Occupy Wall Street, which didn&#8217;t seem to learn from that. Well, they didn&#8217;t have demands. I mean ACT UP was a reform movement, not a utopian movement. It was made up of people with a terminal disease. They had concrete demands based on the needs of people with AIDS. &nbsp; I think that concreteness was enormously helpful because they did seek specific things, like “We want treatment for opportunistic infections, not for the virus itself.” That took a reconceptualization. Because at the beginning Pharma was recycling failed cancer drugs that they had the patents for. And so, everyone was looking for the pill that [eliminated] AIDS. But it took a more sophisticated reconceptualization to see that [because] AIDS is an umbrella term, kind of like cancer. It&#8217;s not one thing. And it manifests differently in different people and requires different treatments. And so, going for the opportunistic infections is an evolution of thinking about how to approach AIDS treatment. &nbsp; And it also kept many people alive long enough for the effective anti-HIV drugs to be invented. What else do you think made ACT UP so successful? The other factors were direct action—not theory, and not social services. So that was very important. And just the idea of radical democracy, that you have a framework which recognizes that people can only be where they’re at. And this facilitates people responding in a place that makes sense to them, instead of trying to force the homogeneity of analysis or strategy or even language. And that was very crucial. &nbsp; It always amazed me how many people in ACT UP who were positive lived. And you kind of wonder if the activism itself helped them live longer? Well, I will say that that&#8217;s true for men. Every HIV-positive woman in ACT UP has died. Women had a completely different experience. Women couldn&#8217;t get benefits [like housing and Medicaid], they couldn&#8217;t get experimental drugs. They were sicker before they were diagnosed. They often came from poverty backgrounds. So, they did not live. But for the most part, people in ACT UP had access to cutting edge information. Mark Lowe Fisher&#8217;s funeral. From left to right: Tim Lunceford, Joy Episalla, BC Craig, Vincent Gagliostro, Scott Morgan, Eric Sawyer (partial). Photographer unknown. &nbsp; How did ACT UP decide that, basically, if