# How Much Is The Backlist Worth A116D9094E0

**Source**: https://medium.com/@AuthorsGuild/how-much-is-the-backlist-worth-a116d9094e0#.tlvql4ck8
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:33:53.188372+00:00

---

How Much Is the Backlist Worth?. The following article is a response to… | by Authors Guild | Medium Sitemap Open in app Sign up Sign in Medium Logo Write Search Sign up Sign in How Much Is the Backlist Worth? Authors Guild 18 min read · Feb 2, 2017 -- Listen Share The following article is a response to an article in the October 27, 2016 issue of The New York Review of Books , “The New Hillary Library?” by Robert Darnton. by Richard Russo Press enter or click to view image in full size Photo by Elena Seibert Back in November my daughter Emily and her business partner opened a bookstore called Print, in Portland, Maine, where we live. It was an enormous undertaking — finding the right location, getting a small business loan, hiring a store designer, doing a build-out, ordering fixtures, installing the custom-built shelves — all of which had to be done before we could address the business of the books themselves. But eventually they started arriving, the backlist, hundreds of boxes containing thousands of books. It was a daunting sight, inventory piled so high that we had trouble navigating the stacks. The books themselves came utterly disorganized, history mixed with science fiction mixed with children’s books mixed with cookbooks. Immediately put in charge of unskilled labor (that is, in charge of myself), I spent whole days breaking down cardboard boxes, bagging bubble wrap and carting it all off to the dump. It took six people nearly a week to get all these books shelved properly. Allow me to repeat: this was the backlist , that is, not this season’s books. Some of them were published a year or two ago, some a decade ago, some fifty years ago, and others much, much older. In other words the very books Google and some academic writers have argued are of so little economic value that they should be made available to the public for free. If they are right, what a bunch of damned fools we were for wasting our time on what we might as well give away, like bookmarks. But of course they aren’t right, and they know it. The backlist is at the heart of any indie bookstore’s success. So do indie booksellers. According to Oren Teicher, CEO of the American Booksellers’ Association, “the backlist is at the heart of any indie bookstore’s success.” Store owners I’ve spoken to say that backlist titles account for anywhere from twenty-five to a whopping fifty percent of their sales. Moreover, the segment is growing. According to Betsey Burton, of The King’s English in Salt Lake City, “independent bookstores all over the country are putting more and more effort (and dollars) into deep backlist because they know these books are economically viable.” Publishers understand too. Many offer incentives to promote the deep backlist because they know, as Burton says, that “often all it takes is the smallest nudge for older titles to return to the market in a big way.” Even without incentives many backlist titles unexpectedly surge in ways that can perhaps only be explained by chaos theory. “Without backlist,” says Annie Philbrick, of Bank Square Books and Savoy Bookshop &amp; Cafe, “our shops would look more like brick and mortar Amazon stores displaying only frontlist titles, shelved face-out.” Yeah, okay, but what about Amazon the e-tailer, you ask? Do they think there’s money in the backlist? Well, Amazon rarely discusses numbers (or anything else) but Jeff Bezos is a numbers guy, and if there’s little economic value in a book after a year or two, as Mr. Darnton has suggested, then why did the Amazon CEO go to such lengths to corner that particular market? Could it be that he knows what Mitch Kaplan, owner of Books and Books, a chain of indie bookstores in Florida, knows — that “without backlist the entire publishing industry would collapse”? Why? Well, that’s when books really begin to pay off for publishers whose costs — advances to authors, editing, copy-editing, marketing, and manufacture — are largely front-loaded. Depending on the size of the advance given to the author and the amount of money spent on promotion, many frontlist books are probably not yet profitable. Some, if the publisher has paid too much for the title, may never be. It’s money dependably generated by the backlist that allows publishers to take chances on new titles, some by writers of reputation, others by unknowns. Publishing is expensive and the better you do it, the more expensive it gets. What publisher would make an expensive wager (and all trade books are bets) if he knew that after a short time the book would lapse into public domain? Publishers — I’m using the term broadly here to include the Big Five, smaller presses, and even self-published authors — know all too well that some of their bets will be bad, just as gamblers understand that even the most educated wagers on thoroughbred horses won’t all pan out. But publishers also know that over time other books will be far more profitable than anyone imagined when the book was purchased, which cannot be said about pari-mutuel wagering. It’s that “over time” that makes publisher and author alike willing to gamble, the very time that Mr. Darnton and others would like to decrease significantly. Reduce the period under which a book is protected by copyright, though, and you change the entire calculus by undermining a publisher’s incentive to take risks. Out of economic fear, I may not write the book I should. The same is true for authors. The risk factor may be on a smaller scale for an individual writer, but the stakes — her livelihood — are higher. The career author invests an enormous amount in her writing — education, time, experience, research. Risks must be taken every step of the way, wagers made on projects that seem likely to pay dividends versus “slow burn” projects that have long term potential if you can manage not to starve in the interim. Most of my novels are long and on average they take me four or five years to write. That means that if I’m wrong about a book, I’ve wagered most of my income for four years. The only hedge I have, if hardcover sales are underwhelming, is that the paperback will catch fire or perhaps that at some later date the topic takes on unexpected urgency and the book is rediscovered. Should any or all of this become impossible thanks to weakened copyright protection, I may be forced to play things safer, choosing the more commercial project, or the one that can be completed more quickly, instead of the one my heart is really in. Out of economic fear, I may not write the book I should. Mr. Darnton maintains that “the founding fathers designed a copyright system to balance the interests of authors with the public good.” That may be true, but it’s important to remember that publishers and booksellers are also important to the literary ecosystem. We at the Authors Guild understand that authors don’t do it alone. As every self-published author quickly learns, there’s more to publishing a book than writing it. The primary mission of the Guild is to defend the writing life by standing up for the rights of authors, but we also understand that the publishing ecosystem is fragile and that any serious threat to publishers and booksellers will have equally serious ramifications for us. That said, though, we are indeed the ecosystem’s primary stakeholders for the simple reason that without us there are no books, just as there are no movies without scripts. Mr. Darnton believes that current copyright law, parts of which are under review in Congress during the coming months, is out of whack because “after a few years…the main interest of authors is to reach readers rather than collect royalties.” This is, frankly, bullshit. I’m a successful author, at least by my own reckoning, in that for the last two decades I’ve been able to support myself and my family by my pen. I taught for many years, but quit as soon as I could afford to. Let me be clear: there are not a few writers who make more money than I do, some a lot more, but still it wouldn’t surprise me to learn that I’m in the top one or two percent in terms of earnings, earnings that have allowed me to pay for my kids’ education and can contribute to my grandchildren’s. My wife and I own a nice house. We occasionally travel. So yeah, I’m one of the blessed. But it’s also important to understand that in the writing business — unlike, say, law or medicine — you can be in the top one or two percent and not be rich. Moreover, if you’re in the bottom third, maybe even half, you’re courting poverty pretty seriously or already in bed. Despite its “insignificance,” I can’t recall a single time when I didn’t know what to do with the money or wasn’t grateful to see it. But the real story of a writer’s earnings has as much to do with process as sums. Mohawk , my first novel, was published in 1986, thirty years ago. Since then it’s never been out of print, and during that time the book has always earned royalties. Mr. Darnton argues that after a few years most books don’t produce “significant income,” and it’s true that some years Mohawk probably generated only a couple hundred bucks, but you know what? Despite its “insignificance,” I can’t recall a single time when I didn’t know what to do with the money or wasn’t grateful to see it. I was also glad to see the slightly larger (“less insignificant”) earnings generated by my second book. Actually, all of my books have remained in print, and small sums have a way of adding up, in my case, to a living. Am I unusual? Well, for a writer of literary fiction, I suspect so. Over the last decade author incomes are down across the board here in the US and Canada, as well as in the UK, by roughly thirty percent according to a recent Authors Guild study. There are lots of reasons. Cheap e-books and e-readers undermined print books’ platforms for a time, and other forms of digital storytelling that didn’t even exist two decades ago have provided additional stiff competition. Advances are down in part b