# Andrew Luck 2014 Nfl Season Indianapolis Colts Close Games

**Source**: http://grantland.com/features/andrew-luck-2014-nfl-season-indianapolis-colts-close-games/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:35:55.599893+00:00

---

&raquo; Running Out of Luck Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous Josh Howard: No Regrets ➤ Next The NCAA Is a Wreck Now Facebook Twitter Print NFL Running Out of Luck Andrew Luck brings his unprecedented record in close games to his third NFL season, but how long can that last? by Bill Barnwell on August 11, 2014 T his article kicks off Andrew Luck Week here on Grantland, which aims to provide a deeper look into one of football&#8217;s most compelling players. Luck is very obviously a great quarterback, but when you get past the broader descriptor, he&#8217;s a fascinating jumble of traits. Luck is the most pro-ready quarterback to come out of college in a generation, but he derives a considerable amount of his value from his ability to scramble and run for first downs. And despite those preternatural instincts for escaping pressure both inside and outside the pocket, the seemingly indestructible Luck has been knocked down far more frequently than any other quarterback during his two-year career. He is markedly inconsistent from game to game or even half to half, as evidenced by his stunning performance against the Chiefs in the playoffs last season. Of course, what makes all of that even more interesting is that Andrew Luck wins. With one of the worst rosters in the NFL around him and a coaching staff and front office that appear to actively put obstacles in his way, Luck has compiled back-to-back 11-5 seasons at the helm of a team that was 2-14 the year before he arrived. Many of those wins — 14, in fact — have been by one touchdown or less. Today&#8217;s look at Luck focuses on those narrow victories. Click here for more from our 2014 NFL preview. I&#8217;ve often written in the past that teams can&#8217;t control their ability to win close games from season to season, suggesting that a team&#8217;s record in games decided by one score or less is mostly random. Andrew Luck and his Colts were 9-1 in one-touchdown games during his rookie campaign before following it with a 5-1 record the next year. 14-2 sure doesn&#8217;t feel random. With that in mind, I wanted to take a closer look at Luck in his close games and the great quarterbacks of the past to see if there&#8217;s something suggesting that Luck might be an exception to the rule. Instead of using history as a way to point out Luck&#8217;s season as an outlier, I wanted to see if he wasn&#8217;t an outlier after all. I started by finding the best two-year records from any quarterback in close games since the merger. As it turns out, Luck&#8217;s 14-2 record (.875 winning percentage) is the second-best performance 1 over two years since 1970. When I saw the rest of the top five, I gasped: Player Years GP Wins Losses Win% Peyton Manning 2008-09 16 15 1 0.938 Andrew Luck 2012-13 16 14 2 0.875 Jim Hart 1975-76 16 13 3 0.813 Peyton Manning 2007-08 17 13 4 0.765 Peyton Manning 2002-03 17 13 4 0.765 Maybe there&#8217;s something in the air in Indianapolis … The Best of the Best Anecdotally, I&#8217;ve noted in the past that some great quarterbacks have a better win-loss record in games decided by one touchdown or less than you might expect — not to the extent of Luck&#8217;s win-loss record over the past couple of years, of course, but far from the 50-50 split that history would suggest. The first time I really noticed that was in researching one of the millions of stories I&#8217;ve had to write on the Brady-Manning rivalry over the past decade, and, well, it turns out that was no accident. Here are the 20 best records produced by quarterbacks in games decided by one touchdown or less (with a minimum of 50 such games over their career): Player GP W L T Win% Tom Brady 76 54 22 0 0.711 Jay Schroeder 52 34 18 0 0.654 Peyton Manning 103 66 37 0 0.641 Jim Kelly 69 44 25 0 0.638 Matt Hasselbeck 65 40 25 0 0.615 Ken Stabler 68 41 26 1 0.610 Jake Plummer 53 32 21 0 0.604 Dan Marino 107 64 43 0 0.598 Brian Sipe 57 34 23 0 0.596 Terry Bradshaw 59 35 24 0 0.593 Brett Favre 117 68 49 0 0.581 Joe Theismann 50 29 21 0 0.580 Joe Montana 69 40 29 0 0.580 John Elway 113 64 48 1 0.571 Dan Pastorini 58 33 25 0 0.569 Eli Manning 60 34 26 0 0.567 Phil Simms 71 40 31 0 0.563 Ben Roethlisberger 64 36 28 0 0.563 Fran Tarkenton 57 31 24 2 0.561 Dave Krieg 80 44 36 0 0.550 Not a bad group. By my count, there are six Hall of Famers and another five guys who will make it when they&#8217;re eligible. But for all the hardware, there are certainly a few players in the top 20 who don&#8217;t exactly qualify as immortals; I bet you didn&#8217;t know until five seconds ago that Jay Schroeder was the second-clutchest quarterback in league history. And it really stands out just how far Brady is ahead of the pack. He could lose his next six games decided by one score or less and still have the best post-merger record in one-score games. Besides Brady, the records for these players don&#8217;t seem to be obvious proof that they could have a meaningful impact upon their teams&#8217; abilities to win one-score games. Take Joe Montana. His 40-29 record is impressive, but turn just five of his 40 wins into losses and he&#8217;s right back at even with a .507 winning percentage. If Montana — by all accounts the coolest customer in league history — could really manufacture wins in close games, wouldn&#8217;t the difference amount to something more than one win every three seasons? In contrast, Montana&#8217;s record in games that weren&#8217;t decided by eight points or more was 75-17, for a gaudy winning percentage of .815. Indeed, you&#8217;ll often find that the quarterbacks with the best records in games that aren&#8217;t close also have the best records in the tight ones. Among those aforementioned passers with 50 close games or more, Brady has the best win-loss percentage in close games (.711) and contests that aren&#8217;t close (.823). The same quarterback also has the worst win-loss percentage in both categories, too; coincidentally enough, it&#8217;s Archie Manning. Peyton and Eli&#8217;s dad was just 17-61 (.218) in games decided by more than seven points, a figure that rose to 16-34-2 (.327) in one-score contests. It all makes sense; it&#8217;s far easier to imagine an awful team like Archie&#8217;s Saints winning a squeaker than blowing out the competition, while a dominant organization like Brady&#8217;s Patriots is more likely to lose narrowly than to win by a comfortable margin. 2 With all of that being said, for those passers in the 50-game sample, just more than 18 percent of a player&#8217;s winning percentage in close games is accounted for by their performance in games decided by eight or more. As the samples get smaller, naturally, the results get crazier. If you expand the sample out to 20 close games over a career, the best record in one-score contests belongs to, of all people, Vince Young (20-6, .769). Among the sub-.500 crowd: Troy Aikman (31-32, .492), Warren Moon (42-46, .477), Kurt Warner (22-24, .478), Aaron Rodgers (17-20, .459), and, yes, even Doug Flutie (18-19, .486). And all of those players have close-game samples significantly larger than that of Luck. Given the numbers above, it&#8217;s safe to say that Luck won&#8217;t win 88 percent of the close ones over the remainder of what&#8217;s sure to be a long career. Even finishing with a win percentage above 60 percent might prove to be difficult. But there is one example of a player who managed to pull off something resembling Luck&#8217;s magical spell over a much longer time frame who doesn&#8217;t appear in the chart above. Daryle Lamonica did his best work as a member of the Oakland Raiders just before the AFL-NFL merger, sneaking into the NFL for only the final three seasons of his career. If we include his AFL performance, Lamonica was the primary quarterback in 32 games that ended up decided by one score. In those games, Lamonica&#8217;s team was 24-2-6. 24-2-6! With the ties counting as half wins, that&#8217;s a win percentage of .844. So the closest passer amounting to Luck over a fuller career came and went 50 years ago, played in a different league, and still managed to come up short of Luck&#8217;s prodigious win rate in close games. That&#8217;s how incredible Luck has been these past two years. King of the South Colts fans probably aren&#8217;t concerned about what might happen to Luck in close games over the rest of his career, though; they&#8217;re likely more interested in what will happen with Luck and his team in 2014. Last year, Luck&#8217;s 9-1 record in close games seemed unlikely to recur. 5-1 isn&#8217;t quite as extreme as 9-1, but it&#8217;s hardly regression back to the mean. Is two years enough to suggest that Luck and his Colts will be better in close games than we might expect? In an attempt to figure it out, I formed a roughly representative sample of quarterbacks with two-year runs in close games similar to Luck&#8217;s. It&#8217;s impossible to come up with 30 other Lucks, because his performance has been so incredibly rare, but I was able to find 33 pairs of quarterback seasons from 1970 to 2013 from passers who played in 15 or more close games over a two-year stretch and won at least two-thirds of them. Those passers were 399-154 (72.2 percent) in close games during their impressive two-year stretches. The following year, those passers went a combined 106-88, winning just 54.6 percent of their one-touchdown games. That&#8217;s not an even 50 percent, but it&#8217;s close enough to suggest that the quarterbacks — a group that includes the likes of Peyton Manning, Dan Marino, John Elway, and even Vinny Testaverde — are unable to keep up winning close games as a skill, even if they&#8217;ve done it two years in a row. It seems unlikely Luck will be able to keep it up in 2014. Unless he&#8217;s Daryle Lamonica. Do You Ever Feel That Way? It seems fair to give most of the credit for thes