# Harris Campaign Economic Populism Democracy

**Source**: https://jacobin.com/2024/11/harris-campaign-economic-populism-democracy
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:36:30.810634+00:00

---

Analysis: Kamala Harris Turned Away From Economic Populism Jacobin Logo Jacobin Icon A/V Icon Jacobin Subscribe Magazine Donate Catalyst Facebook Icon Twitter Icon Email Icon Print Icon Analysis: Kamala Harris Turned Away From Economic Populism Search Icon Login Icon Login J Subscribe Back Issues Donate Store Magazine Blog Catalyst About Contact Us Advertise Search Icon New issue, &#8220;Borders,” out now. Get a discounted subscription to our print magazine today. Your support keeps us publishing! Remove Icon 11.27.2024 United States Politics Party Politics Facebook Icon Twitter Icon Email Icon Print Icon Analysis: Kamala Harris Turned Away From Economic Populism By Milan Loewer Jared Abbott Pressed by influential corporate advisors, Kamala Harris ran away from a winning economic populist message and ended up losing a campaign. We have the proof. Vice President Kamala Harris waves as she walks off the stage during a rally at Muhlenberg College Memorial Hall on November 4, 2024, in Allentown, Pennsylvania. (Michael M. Santiago / Getty Images) Jacobin &#8216;s fall issue, “Borders,&#8221; is out now. Follow this link to get a discounted subscription to our beautiful print quarterly. Deportation as Class Strategy Oliver Eagleton Citizenship by Algorithm Nika Soon-Shiong The Borderland Where Fascism Learned to Rule David Broder From Scapegoats to Citizens Suzy Lee This year’s presidential election hinged on a few hundred thousand voters across a handful of key swing states, and no one can claim to have known the outcome in advance. Yet the tectonic shift of working-class voters away from Democrats was all too predictable. In fact, the Harris campaign seemed deliberately designed to accelerate trends in working-class dealignment. The vice president’s bid was premised on the risky bet that catering to moderate, college-educated voters would win more support than it would lose in working-class defections. That gamble backfired massively. Instead of expanding the Democratic coalition to bring in a larger share of the working-class vote in critical swing states where working-class voters make up a large majority of the electorate, Kamala Harris saw her only gains among college-educated white voters, and for the first time, Democrats received a higher share of votes from high- compared to low-income Americans. Battle lines have already been drawn between factions of the Democratic coalition to explain Harris’s loss. On the one hand, some have admonished Democrats for failing to connect with the real economic anxieties and sense of cultural alienation from the Democratic Party felt by many working-class voters. This was forcefully expressed by Bernie Sanders, who railed that “it should come as no great surprise that a Democratic Party which has abandoned working class people would find that the working class has abandoned them.” Similar critiques were proffered by Thomas Frank , Senator Chris Murphy , and even New York Times columnist David Brooks , who conceded that I’m a moderate who really did not like the policies that Bernie Sanders proposes. And yet . . . it could be that in order to win working-class votes in an era of high distrust, the Democrats have to do a lot of things that Bernie Sanders said they should do. On the other side, a consensus among mainstream Democrats seems to be emerging that Harris ran the most effective campaign possible, but that obstacles out of her control — such as sexism and racism — were ultimately too great to overcome. Democratic strategist David Axelrod, for instance, argued “there is racial bias in this country, and there is sexism in this country. Anybody who thinks that that did not in any way impact on the outcome of this race is wrong.” For his part, progressive journalist Aaron Rupar chalked up Trump’s victory to “the desire to dominate and inflict cruelty on outgroups.” Since Harris talked very little about her identity as a black woman on the campaign trail, and went out of her way to avoid contentious cultural issues, the argument goes, there is simply nothing more she could have done to improve her odds with working-class voters alienated by the excesses of progressive “woke” branding and suspicious of a black, female candidate. Jon Stewart, for instance, argued that , far from doing “the woke thing,” Democrats in fact “acted like Republicans for the last four months.” And, many Harris apologists would ask, is it fair to say she was not campaigning as an economic populist? After all, an analysis of Harris’s media spending by Politico found that “the economy has been by far the largest theme in the Harris campaign’s paid media campaign.” Further, as the Washington Post ’s Dan Balz has noted , Harris made up significant ground with voters on the economy relative to Trump after rolling out her economic policy agenda in early September. According to reporter Jeff Stein , Harris’s agenda was a “nod to the party’s populist mood . . . [calling] for a ban on price-gouging in the food and grocery sectors, a prohibition on corporate landlords using rent-setting algorithms and a $25,000 federal subsidy for first-time home buyers.” Nor is it difficult to find excellent ads made by or on behalf of the campaign that focused on corporate greed or featured relatable testimonials from working-class voters about Donald Trump being a spoiled rich kid who wants to hurt working people. So who’s right here? Was Harris a populist or not? To determine whether Harris’s critics have a point or are blowing things out of proportion, we took a look at everything Harris actually said on the campaign trail, how it stacked up with other recent presidential candidates, and how it changed over time. What Did the Harris Campaign Actually Focus On? Jacobin looked at hundreds of speeches, rallies, press gaggles, and interview transcripts to trace Harris’s messaging over the course of the campaign and the relative emphasis she placed on a variety of issues and policies. We looked at how frequently Harris used certain phrases in campaign messaging as a proxy for her emphasis on various issue areas or policy sets. Our analysis reveals that the Harris campaign pivoted away from the economy starting around mid-September, de-emphasizing policies that she had previously advocated and moving away from an adversarial stance toward elites. This parallels investigative reporting , which finds that the last weeks of the campaign were increasingly directed by the very same corporate interests that she abstained from criticizing. Over the course of the whole campaign, Harris spoke less about economic issues and progressive economic policy priorities than Joe Biden had in 2020, and far less than Sanders had in the Democratic primaries that year. In this cycle, Trump addressed perhaps the most important issue for voters — prices and the cost of living — more than twice as often as Harris. But at the outset of the campaign — during and immediately after the Democratic National Convention (DNC) — Harris appeared to be heading in the right direction. Progressive Democrats were pushing Harris to emphasize a bold economic vision, and as the campaign began to take shape, Harris chose her “ issues ”: cracking down on price gouging, an expanded child tax credit, and subsidies for homebuyers and small business owners. In August, Harris even hinted at support for price controls, a wealth tax, and higher taxes on corporations and capital gains. In these early weeks, Harris was able to give something to everyone, without committing herself to concrete policies. But after the initial euphoria surrounding the DNC had faded by mid-September, the national Democratic Party took a back seat to the group of advisors who had gathered around Harris&#8217;s campaign. The looming fear of a second Trump presidency prompted party members to get in line and focus on their roles as surrogates and in get-out-the-vote efforts — keeping any criticisms of the campaign to themselves and giving Harris’s team more freedom to act independently. According to reports from the New York Times and Sludge , this team was built around a core group of former Uber executives and corporate PR managers. Typical left-wing economic agenda items like “living wage,” “affordable housing,” “paid family leave,” or “union jobs” dropped out of Harris’s vocabulary in the weeks after Labor Day. Tracking the use of more neutral terms relating to the economy — like “wages,” “jobs,” and “workers” — we see a trend line that slopes upward into early September before declining over the following weeks. By October, Harris was spending less of her time campaigning with Shawn Fain and Bernie Sanders than she was with Republican Liz Cheney and billionaire Mark Cuban, unlikely candidates to push any kind of progressive economic message, let alone a populist one. Cuban was gleeful enough to declare that the “progressive principles . . . of the Democratic Party . . . are gone. It’s Kamala Harris’s party now.” This pivot wasn’t merely rhetorical: donors, consultants, and business-connected campaign staff pushed Harris to “ clarify ” or de-emphasize previous statements indicating support for a slate of popular policies on price controls; capital gains, corporate, and wealth taxes; and a host of other issues. Harris’s vague suggestions that she would engage in price controls to bring down inflation were watered down into a policy that already exists in most states that prevents businesses from profiteering on natural disasters. Her gestures toward taxing the wealthy became a capital gains tax proposal of 28 percent, far lower than the Biden administration’s proposed 40 percent; and she never took a position on Biden’s proposal to tax unrealized capital gains. And as time went on, the candidate spoke less and less frequently about her watered-down price-gouging proposal or her commitment to taxing the rich. Harris even de-emphasized supposedly central elements of her platform like the child tax c