# Plp

**Source**: https://www.abebooks.com/9780141005546/Indian-Mutiny-1857-David-Saul-0141005548/plp
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:34:37.176309+00:00

---

The Indian Mutiny : 1857 - David, Saul: 9780141005546 - AbeBooks Skip to main content AbeBooks.com Search Sign in My Account Basket &nbsp; Help Menu Find My Account My Purchases Sign Off Advanced Search Browse Collections Rare Books Art &amp; Collectibles Textbooks Sellers Start Selling Help CLOSE Items related to The Indian Mutiny : 1857 David, Saul The Indian Mutiny : 1857 ISBN&nbsp;13:&nbsp;9780141005546 The Indian Mutiny : 1857 - Softcover David, Saul 3.94 3.94 out of 5 stars 216 ratings by Goodreads &nbsp; Softcover ISBN&nbsp;10:&nbsp;0141005548 ISBN&nbsp;13:&nbsp;9780141005546 Publisher: Penguin Books , 2003 View all copies of this ISBN edition 19 Used From US$ 1.96 19 New From US$ 20.69 Synopsis About this title Edition details Synopsis In The Indian Mutiny: 1857 Saul David explores one of Britain''s most harrowing colonial battles. In 1857 the native troops of the Bengal army rose against their colonial masters. The ensuing insurrection was to become the bloodiest in the history of the British Empire.Combining formidable storytelling with ground-breaking research, Saul David narrates a tale at once heart-rendingly tragic and extraordinarily compelling. David provides new and convincing evidence that the true causes of the mutiny were much more complex, and disturbing, than previously assumed. ''A fine achievement by a huge new talent'' William Dalrymple, Sunday Times Saul David is Professor of War Studies at the University of Buckingham and the author of several critically acclaimed history books, including The Indian Mutiny: 1857 (shortlisted for the Westminster Medal for Military Literature), Zulu: The Heroism and Tragedy of the Zulu War of 1879 (a Waterstone''s Military History Book of the Year) and, most recently, Victoria''s Wars: The Rise of Empire . "synopsis" may belong to another edition of this title. About the Author Saul David was born near Monmouth in 1966 and educated at Ampleforth and Edinburgh University. His previous books, include Mutiny at Salerno: An Injustice Exposed (made into a BBC Timewatch documentary), The Homicidal Earl: The Life of Lord Cardigan, and Prince of Pleasure: The Prince of Wales and the making of the Regency. He lives in Somerset with his wife and two children. "About this title" may belong to another edition of this title. Publisher Penguin Books Publication date 2003 Language English ISBN&nbsp;10&nbsp; 0141005548 ISBN&nbsp;13&nbsp; 9780141005546 Binding Paperback Number of pages 544 Rating 3.94 3.94 out of 5 stars 216 ratings by Goodreads Buy Used Condition: Good Most items will be dispatched the... View this item US$ 1.96 Convert currency US$ 8.61 shipping from United Kingdom to Switzerland Destination, rates &amp; speeds Add to basket Buy New View this item US$ 20.69 Convert currency US$ 2.35 shipping from Ireland to Switzerland Destination, rates &amp; speeds Add to basket Free 30-day returns Other Popular Editions of the Same Title Featured Edition ISBN&nbsp;10:&nbsp; 0670911372 ISBN&nbsp;13:&nbsp; 9780670911370 Publisher: VIKING, 2002 Hardcover Search results for The Indian Mutiny : 1857 Seller Image The Indian Mutiny: 1857 David, Saul Published by Penguin , 2003 ISBN&nbsp;10: 0141005548 / ISBN&nbsp;13:&nbsp;9780141005546 Used / Softcover Seller: WeBuyBooks , Rossendale, LANCS, United Kingdom (5-star seller) Seller rating 5 out of 5 stars Condition: Good. Most items will be dispatched the same or the next working day. A copy that has been read but remains in clean condition. All of the pages are intact and the cover is intact and the spine may show signs of wear. The book may have minor markings which are not specifically mentioned. Seller Inventory # rev2600739080 Contact seller Buy Used US$ 1.96 Convert currency Shipping: US$ 8.61 From United Kingdom to Switzerland Destination, rates &amp; speeds Quantity: 2 available Add to basket Stock Image The Indian Mutiny: 1857 - Published by - - , 2003 ISBN&nbsp;10: 0141005548 / ISBN&nbsp;13:&nbsp;9780141005546 Used / Paperback Seller: Bahamut Media , Reading, United Kingdom (5-star seller) Seller rating 5 out of 5 stars Paperback. Condition: Very Good. This book is in very good condition and will be shipped within 24 hours of ordering. The cover may have some limited signs of wear but the pages are clean, intact and the spine remains undamaged. This book has clearly been well maintained and looked after thus far. Money back guarantee if you are not satisfied. See all our books here, order more than 1 book and get discounted shipping. Seller Inventory # 6545-9780141005546 Contact seller Buy Used US$ 4.79 Convert currency Shipping: US$ 6.71 From United Kingdom to Switzerland Destination, rates &amp; speeds Quantity: 1 available Add to basket Stock Image The Indian Mutiny: 1857 - Published by - , 2003 ISBN&nbsp;10: 0141005548 / ISBN&nbsp;13:&nbsp;9780141005546 Used / Paperback Seller: AwesomeBooks , Wallingford, United Kingdom (5-star seller) Seller rating 5 out of 5 stars Paperback. Condition: Very Good. The Indian Mutiny: 1857 This book is in very good condition and will be shipped within 24 hours of ordering. The cover may have some limited signs of wear but the pages are clean, intact and the spine remains undamaged. This book has clearly been well maintained and looked after thus far. Money back guarantee if you are not satisfied. See all our books here, order more than 1 book and get discounted shipping. Seller Inventory # 7719-9780141005546 Contact seller Buy Used US$ 5.02 Convert currency Shipping: US$ 6.71 From United Kingdom to Switzerland Destination, rates &amp; speeds Quantity: 1 available Add to basket Stock Image The Indian Mutiny: 1857 David, Saul Published by Penguin Books , 2003 ISBN&nbsp;10: 0141005548 / ISBN&nbsp;13:&nbsp;9780141005546 Used / Softcover Seller: medimops , Berlin, Germany (5-star seller) Seller rating 5 out of 5 stars Condition: good. Befriedigend/Good: Durchschnittlich erhaltenes Buch bzw. Schutzumschlag mit Gebrauchsspuren, aber vollständigen Seiten. / Describes the average WORN book or dust jacket that has all the pages present. Seller Inventory # M00141005548-G Contact seller Buy Used US$ 7.29 Convert currency Shipping: US$ 4.69 From Germany to Switzerland Destination, rates &amp; speeds Quantity: 1 available Add to basket Stock Image The Indian Mutiny: 1857 Saul David Published by Penguin Books Ltd, United Kingdom, London , 2003 ISBN&nbsp;10: 0141005548 / ISBN&nbsp;13:&nbsp;9780141005546 Used / Paperback Seller: WorldofBooks , Goring-By-Sea, WS, United Kingdom (5-star seller) Seller rating 5 out of 5 stars Paperback. Condition: Very Good. In The Indian Mutiny: 1857 Saul David explores one of Britain&#39;s most harrowing colonial battles. In 1857 the native troops of the Bengal army rose against their colonial masters. The ensuing insurrection was to become the bloodiest in the history of the British Empire.Combining formidable storytelling with ground-breaking research, Saul David narrates a tale at once heart-rendingly tragic and extraordinarily compelling. David provides new and convincing evidence that the true causes of the mutiny were much more complex, and disturbing, than previously assumed. &#39;A fine achievement by a huge new talent&#39; William Dalrymple, Sunday Times Saul David is Professor of War Studies at the University of Buckingham and the author of several critically acclaimed history books, including The Indian Mutiny: 1857 (shortlisted for the Westminster Medal for Military Literature), Zulu: The Heroism and Tragedy of the Zulu War of 1879 (a Waterstone&#39;s Military History Book of the Year) and, most recently, Victoria&#39;s Wars: The Rise of Empire. The book has been read, but is in excellent condition. Pages are intact and not marred by notes or highlighting. The spine remains undamaged. Seller Inventory # GOR001627189 Contact seller Buy Used US$ 6.06 Convert currency Shipping: US$ 6.05 From United Kingdom to Switzerland Destination, rates &amp; speeds Quantity: 15 available Add to basket Stock Image The Indian Mutiny : 1857 David, Saul Published by Penguin Books, Limited , 2003 ISBN&nbsp;10: 0141005548 / ISBN&nbsp;13:&nbsp;9780141005546 Used / Softcover Seller: Better World Books Ltd , Dunfermline, United Kingdom (5-star seller) Seller rating 5 out of 5 stars Condition: Good. Ships from the UK. Former library book; may include library markings. Used book that is in clean, average condition without any missing pages. Seller Inventory # GRP17173432 Contact seller Buy Used US$ 6.14 Convert currency Shipping: US$ 9.41 From United Kingdom to Switzerland Destination, rates &amp; speeds Quantity: 1 available Add to basket Stock Image The Indian Mutiny : 1857 David, Saul Published by Penguin Books, Limited , 2003 ISBN&nbsp;10: 0141005548 / ISBN&nbsp;13:&nbsp;9780141005546 Used / Softcover Seller: Better World Books Ltd , Dunfermline, United Kingdom (5-star seller) Seller rating 5 out of 5 stars Condition: Very Good. Ships from the UK. Former library book; may include library markings. Used book that is in excellent condition. May show signs of wear or have minor defects. Seller Inventory # GRP16995474 Contact seller Buy Used US$ 6.14 Convert currency Shipping: US$ 9.41 From United Kingdom to Switzerland Destination, rates &amp; speeds Quantity: 2 available Add to basket Seller Image The Indian Mutiny: 1857 David, Saul Published by Penguin , 2003 ISBN&nbsp;10: 0141005548 / ISBN&nbsp;13:&nbsp;9780141005546 Used / paperback Seller: M Godding Books Ltd , Devizes, WILTS, United Kingdom (5-star seller) Seller rating 5 out of 5 stars paperback. Condition: Good. Posted within 1 working day. 1st class tracked post to the UK, Airmail with tracking worldwide. Robust recyclable packaging. Picture is the actual item. Seller Inventory # 292686 Contact seller Buy Used US$ 7.75 Convert currency Shipping: US$ 10.34 From United Kingdom to Switzerland Destination, rates &amp; speeds Quantity: 1 available Add to basket Stock Image The Indian Mutiny: 1857 David, Saul Published by