# Google Makes It Easier To Edit Drive Videos With A New Vids Shortcut Button

**Source**: https://techcrunch.com/2025/08/22/google-makes-it-easier-to-edit-drive-videos-with-a-new-vids-shortcut-button/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:27:52.377500+00:00

---

Google makes it easier to edit Drive videos with a new Vids shortcut button | TechCrunch TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps Disrupt 2025 Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech &amp; Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government &amp; Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media &amp; Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Crunchboard Contact Us Image Credits: Google Cloud Apps Google makes it easier to edit Drive videos with a new Vids shortcut button Lauren Forristal 8:33 AM PDT · August 22, 2025 Google announced Friday that it’s enhancing the editing experience for Drive videos with a new shortcut button for Vids, the tech giant’s AI-powered video-creation tool. The new feature allows Workspace users to initiate a video edit using Vids directly from the Google Drive interface. Now, while previewing a video in Drive, users will see an &#8220;Open&#8221; button in the top right corner that opens the video in the Vids app. Vids will automatically launch the video file, allowing further edits such as trimming the clip or incorporating music and text.&nbsp; Image Credits: Google This new shortcut, which is activated by default, suggests that the company is integrating the app more closely with Google’s Workspace suite. Launched last year , Vids aims to streamline video production, including the ability to generate videos from basic text prompts, automatically craft scripts, rearrange video clips, add transitions, and more.&nbsp; This comes on the heels of the company introducing another Gemini AI feature for Workspace users in May, which allows them to use AI to summarize video files stored in Google Drive. We&#8217;re always looking to evolve, and by providing some insight into your perspective and feedback into TechCrunch and our coverage and events, you can help us! Fill out this survey to let us know how we&#8217;re doing a nd get the chance to win a prize in return! Topics AI , Apps , Google , google drive , Google Vids , Google Workspace Lauren Forristal Lauren covers media, streaming, apps and platforms at TechCrunch. You can contact or verify outreach from Lauren by emailing laurenf.techcrunch@gmail.com or via encrypted message at laurenforris22.25 on Signal. View Bio October 27-29, 2025 San Francisco ONE-WEEK BUNDLE FLASH SALE Founder Bundle Offer: Land your investor and sharpen your pitch. Save 15% when you bring 4-9 founders. Investors Bundle Offer: Discover your next breakout startup. Save 20% when you bring 4-9 investors. Bundle offer ends October 3. Register Now Most Popular A new a16z report looks at which AI companies startups are actually paying for Dominic-Madori Davis Salesforce launches enterprise vibe-coding product, Agentforce Vibes Rebecca Szkutak AI recruiter Alex raises $17M to automate initial job interviews Marina Temkin Vibe-coding startup Anything nabs a $100M valuation after hitting $2M ARR in its first two weeks Marina Temkin The AI services transformation may be harder than VCs think Connie Loizos Famed roboticist says humanoid robot bubble is doomed to burst Connie Loizos Spotify to label AI music, filter spam and more in AI policy change Sarah Perez Loading the next article Error loading the next article X LinkedIn Facebook Instagram youTube Mastodon Threads Bluesky TechCrunch Staff Contact Us Advertise Crunchboard Jobs Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy RSS Terms of Use Code of Conduct H1-B Visa GPT Pulse Grok Steph Curry TechCrunch Disrupt Tech Layoffs ChatGPT © 2025 TechCrunch Media LLC.