# Best Albums Of All Time 1062063

**Source**: https://www.rollingstone.com/music/music-lists/best-albums-of-all-time-1062063/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:59:53.061605+00:00

---

The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In The RS 500 The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time The classics are still the classics, but the canon keeps getting bigger and better By Rolling Stone Rolling Stone Sean Combs&#8217; History of Controversies and Allegations Redefining Games and Esports: The Future of Entertainment Benson Boone Kicks Off Rolling Stone&#8217;s Future of Music Showcase With Charisma, Huge Vocals, and Plenty of Flips View all posts by Rolling Stone Illustration by Sean McCabe for Rolling Stone December 31, 2023 Editor&#8217;s note, December 2023: In the three years since Rolling Stone rolled out the all-new, fully revamped version of our 500 Greatest Albums list, artists like Beyonce, Bad Bunny, and Taylor Swift have all released undeniable classics. So we’ve updated the list, adding those albums while making a few other tweaks. The 2020 list covered many decades of popular music, and was the result of a vote among more than 300 artists, writers, producers and industry figures; this update covers just three years. So we kept the changes light. Rolling Stone ’s list of the 500 Greatest Albums of All Time was originally published in 2003, with a slight update in 2012. Over the years, it’s been the most widely read — and argued over — feature in the history of the magazine. But no list is definitive — tastes change, new genres emerge, the history of music keeps being rewritten. So we decided to remake our greatest albums list from scratch. To do so, we received and tabulated Top 50 Albums lists from more than 300 artists, producers, critics, and music-industry figures (from radio programmers to label heads). The electorate includes Beyoncé, Taylor Swift, and Billie Eilish; rising artists like H.E.R., Tierra Whack, and Lindsey Jordan of Snail Mail; as well as veteran musicians, such as Adam Clayton and the Edge of U2, Raekwon of the Wu-Tang Clan, Gene Simmons, and Stevie Nicks. How We Made the List and Who Voted When we first did the RS 500 in 2003, people were talking about the &#8220;death of the album.&#8221; The album —and especially the album release — is more relevant than ever. (As in 2003, we allowed votes for compilations and greatest-hits albums, mainly because a well-made compilation can be just as coherent and significant as an LP, because compilations helped shaped music history, and because many hugely important artists recorded their best work before the album had arrived as a prominent format.) Of course, it could still be argued that embarking on a project like this is increasingly difficult in an era of streaming and fragmented taste. But that was part of what made rebooting the RS 500 fascinating and fun; 94 of the albums on the list are from this century, and 163 are new additions that weren’t on the 2003 or 2012 versions. The classics are still the classics, but the canon keeps getting bigger and better. Written By Jonathan Bernstein, Pat Blashill, Jon Blistein, Nathan Brackett, David Browne, Mankaprr Conteh, Anthony DeCurtis, Matt Diehl, Jon Dolan, Chuck Eddy, Ben Edmonds, Gavin Edwards, Jenny Eliscu, Brenna Ehrlrich, Suzy Exposito, David Fricke, Elisa Gardner, Holly George-Warren, Andy Greene, Kory Grow, Will Hermes, Brian Hiatt, Christian Hoard, Charles Holmes, Mark Kemp, Greg Kot, Elias Leight, Joe Levy, Julyssa Lopez, Angie Martoccio, David McGee, Chris Molanphy, Tom Moon, Jason Newman, Rob O’Connor, Park Puterbaugh, Mosi Reeves, Jody Rosen, Austin Scaggs, Karen Schoemer, Bud Scoppa, Noah Schactman, Claire Shaffer, Rob Sheffield, Hank Shteamer, Brittany Spanos, Rob Tannenbaum, David Thigpen, Simon Vozick-Levinson, Barry Walters, Jonah Weiner Arcade Fire, &#8216;﻿Funeral&#8217; Loss, love, forced coming-of-age, and fragile generational hope: Arcade Fire’s debut touched on all these themes as it defined the independent rock of the ‘00s. Built on family ties (leader Win Butler, his wife, Régine Chassagne, his brother Will), the Montreal band made symphonic rock that truly rocked, simultaneously outsize and deeply personal, like the best pop. But for all its sad realism, Butler&#8217;s is music that still finds solace, and purpose, in communal celebration. Rufus, Chaka Khan, &#8216;Ask Rufus&#8217; Fronted by Chaka Khan, one of soul music’s most combustible singers, Rufus built its mid-Seventies sound on heavy-footed, guitar-slathered funk. But after spending 16 months in the studio working on Ask Rufus , they came out with a record that gave their songs more room to breathe, anticipating the lithe, loose arrangements of Nineties neo-soul. Khan glided through the head-nodding &#8220;Everlasting Love&#8221; and the twisty-turny &#8220;Better Days,&#8221; and fans appreciated the adjustment: Ask Rufus was the group&#8217;s first platinum record. Suicide, &#8216;Suicide&#8217; These New York synth-punks evoke everything from the Velvet Underground to rockabilly. Martin Rev’s low-budget electronics are violent and hypnotic; Alan Vega screams as a rhythmic device. Late-night listening to “Frankie Teardrop,” a 10-minute-plus tale of a multiple murder, is not recommended. A droning voice in the wilderness when they appeared in the Seventies, the duo would influence bands from Arcade Fire and the National to Bruce Springsteen, who covered Suicide live in 2016. Various Artists, &#8216;The Indestructible Beat of Soweto&#8217; The greatest album ever to be marketed under the heading “world music,” this 1985 compilation of South African pop was a huge influence on Paul Simon’s Graceland that still sounds jarringly fresh today. Full of funky, loping beats and gruff, Howling Wolf-style vocals (most prominently from &#8220;goat voiced&#8221; star Mahlathini). With a sweet track by Graceland collaborators Ladysmith Black Mambazo (“Nansi Imali”), its badass joy needed no translation. Shakira, &#8216;Dónde Están los Ladrones&#8217; Long before she went blond and took her never-lying hips to the top of the American pop charts, Shakira was a raven-haired guitar rocker who&#8217;d hit peak superstardom in the Spanish-speaking world with her 1995 LP, Pies Descalzos . To keep up the momentum, Shakira enlisted Emilio Estefan to help produce her next LP, this stellar globetrotting dance-rock set, which blends sounds from Colombia, Mexico, and her father&#8217;s native Lebanon. Boyz II Men, &#8216;II&#8217; With their innocent romanticism and meticulous vocal arrangements, Boyz II Men became the most commercially successful R&amp;B vocal group of all time. II includes two mammoth hits, courtesy of Babyface: &#8220;I&#8217;ll Make Love to You&#8221; and the audaciously baroque &#8220;Water Runs Dry.&#8221; But the group&#8217;s own Nathan Morris and Shawn Stockman composed II &#8216;s most poignant moment, &#8220;Khalil&#8217;s Interlude,&#8221; a soft onslaught that&#8217;ll leave you sobbing in the fetal position: &#8220;I need shelter from the rain/To ease the pain of changing from boys to men.&#8221; The Ronettes, &#8216;Presenting the Fabulous Ronettes&#8217; More a Spanish Harlem street gang than a girl group, the Ronettes were pop goddesses dressed as Catholic schoolgirls gone to hell and back. Phil Spector builds his Wall of Sound as his teen protégée (and future wife) Ronnie Spector belts “Be My Baby” and “Walking in the Rain,” while songs like “I Wonder” and “Baby, I Love You” ache with hope for a perfect love that always seems to be impossibly ideal and just within arm&#8217;s reach. Marvin Gaye, &#8216;Here, My Dear&#8217; It’s one of the weirdest Motown records ever. Marvin Gaye’s divorce settlement required him to make two new albums and pay the royalties to his ex-wife – the sister of Motown boss Berry Gordy. So Gaye made this bitterly funny double LP of breakup songs, including “You Can Leave, But It’s Going to Cost You.” When he asks “Somebody tell me please, tell me please/Why do I have to pay attorney fees?&#8221; it&#8217;s one of the most strangely transfixing soul-music moments of all time. Bonnie Raitt, &#8216;Nick of Time&#8217; After being dumped by her previous label, blues rocker Bonnie Raitt exacted revenge with this multiplatinum Grammy-award winner, led by an on-fire version of John Hiatt’s “Thing Called Love” and the brilliant title track, a study in midlife crisis told from a woman’s perspective. Producer Don Was helped her sharpen the songs without sacrificing any of her slide-guitar fire. And as Raitt herself pointed out, her 10th try was “my first sober album.” Harry Styles, &#8216;Harry&#8217;s House&#8217; Harry Styles achieved pop greatness with One Direction, but he got even deeper on his own. In Harry’s House, his third solo album, he stakes his claim as one of his generation’s most savagely imaginative musical minds. It’s a vibrant, playful, vividly emotional song cycle about searching for different kinds of home. He zips from Tokyo-style city pop (“Music for a Sushi Restaraunt”) to disco flash (“Satellite”) to delicate guitar ballads (“Matilda”). “As It Was” has Harry at his most intimate and personal, yet blew up into a universal hit—it spent 15 weeks at Number One. Linda Ronstadt, &#8216;Heart Like a Wheel&#8217; Linda Ronstadt completed her transition from California hippie-folk darling to soft-rock queen on her chart-topping fifth album, covering Hank Williams, Buddy Holly, Little Feat, and Kate and Anna McGariggle on the gorgeous title track. Her version of the Betty Everett oldie “You’re No Good” hits a perfect mix of desire and paranoia. Along with being a showcase for Ronstadt’s peerless versatility, Heart Like a Wheel is Seventies pop-rock craft at its