# leighstein.com

**Source**: https://www.leighstein.com/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:23:20.550182+00:00

---

Leigh Stein IYSTIMFY ABOUT WRITING WRITING --> SELF CARE WHAT TO MISS WHEN CULTURAL CRITICISM WORK WITH ME WORK WITH ME --> COACHING Hype House Newsletter CONTACT Menu Leigh Stein Street Address City, State, Zip Phone Number Author, Teacher, Coach Your Custom Text Here Leigh Stein IYSTIMFY ABOUT WRITING SELF CARE WHAT TO MISS WHEN CULTURAL CRITICISM WORK WITH ME COACHING Hype House Newsletter CONTACT &nbsp; NATIONAL BESTSELLER 〰️ NATIONAL BESTSELLER 〰️ NATIONAL BESTSELLER 〰️ The internet: You may think you’re inhabiting it, but is it really inhabiting you? Fates collide after a tarot influencer disappears from a decaying Hollywood mansion in this unnerving gothic mystery and audacious social comedy from the acclaimed author of Self Care . “ Delightfully unnerving... funny, horrifying, and eerily insightful. Stein deftly mixes uncanny creepiness with the absurdity of social-media jargon... The novel’s deadpan humor, combined with the sharp commentary on the strange psychic damage of living lives online, makes for an enthralling read. ” &mdash; Shelf Awareness “ For anyone who has felt fate intervening on their TikTok feed. ” &mdash; USA Today “ Here you’ll find that gothic horror, so often lurking in the dingy dark, can manifest also in the fluorescent world of the terminally online. ” &mdash; NPR Order your copy: Amazon Barnes & Noble Bookshop IF YOU’RE SEEING THIS, IT’S MEANT FOR YOU After her boyfriend dumps her in a Reddit post, unemployed thirty-nine-year-old Dayna accepts an unusual opportunity from a man she stopped speaking to twenty years ago: If Dayna can help Craig transform his crumbling mansion into a successful hype house of influencers, he can restore his birthright to its former glory, and she can bring her career back from the dead. But missing from the mansion is Becca, an enigmatic tarot card reader who built a rabid fandom with her cryptic, soul-touching videos . . . &nbsp;and then vanished. With nineteen-year-old Olivia, the newest member of the hype house (and one of Becca’s biggest fans), Dayna begins to build a social media campaign around Becca’s disappearance that will catapult the creators to new heights of success. Too bad Craig forbids Dayna from pursuing the mystery at its heart. As Olivia searches for traces of Becca in a labyrinthine house that seems intent on hiding its secrets, and Dayna becomes entangled with both Craig and Jake, the resident heartthrob and the last person to see Becca, the two women make a shocking discovery that will upend everything. @wickedtongue.substack #booktok @Leigh Stein ♬ original sound - Eleanor Stern “ Gothic horror meets the glitz of 21st-century Los Angeles in this surreal and bingeable story… Stein adeptly captures the messiness and contradictions of being human and creating content, portraying the blurred lines between reality and online personas and the unhinged emotional toil that creating such content can take. ” &mdash; Kirkus Reviews “ With this gothic tale of influencers caught in a Los Angeles mansion, Leigh Stein writes the horror story of our modern reality: dancing for dollars, fighting for sponsors, building your platform while losing your housing and your loved ones and your mind. She captures all the terror and glamour of what it is to exist, both online and off, today. Stein’s work provokes you like the most unsettling clip you’ve ever seen on a screen—and you won’t be able to look away. ” &mdash; Julia Phillips, author of BEAR “ Leigh Stein is an absolute master at noticing and excavating meaning from corners of the internet that most people scroll past. In If You’re Seeing This, It’s Meant for You, she blends gothic mystery with sharp cultural critique to reveal the strange, aching humanity behind the creator economy. This is a smart, funny, and incisive novel about fading relevance, digital reinvention, and the people addicted to making content even as it consumes them. ” &mdash; Andrew Boryga, author of VICTIM “ In this hauntingly subversive novel, Leigh Stein summons Rebecca, Alice Liddell, and Francesca Woodman to brilliantly explore the cost of online fame for a generation raised on screens. I happily fell down the rabbit hole. ” &mdash; Betsy Lerner, author of SHRED SISTERS “ A masterpiece... The first novel about TikTok that takes it seriously, in all its hideousness and brainrot. I’m obsessed with the fusion of Gothic creeping dread and the seductive allure of the algorithm. I loved this! ” &mdash; Josh Lora, @tellthebeees “ Intriguing… Stein’s winding narrative effectively builds drama thanks to its solid characterizations and increasingly creepy vibe. There’s plenty to enjoy in this smart social comedy. ” &mdash; Publishers Weekly &nbsp; --> © LEIGH STEIN &amp; RHYMES WITH BEE, LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.