# The Big Nepa Roundup

**Source**: https://noahpinion.substack.com/p/the-big-nepa-roundup
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:50:34.769043+00:00

---

The big NEPA roundup - by Noah Smith - Noahpinion Noahpinion Subscribe Sign in The big NEPA roundup Have we found the regulation that's strangling the U.S. economy? Noah Smith Dec 10, 2022 150 54 1 Share For as long as I’ve been involved in economic policy debates, I’ve heard free-marketers and libertarians complain to me about regulation strangling our economy. And yet the rebuttal to this has always been: “Which regulations?” It turns out that “regulation”, as an aggregate phenomenon, is extremely hard to quantify. Some might be good for growth, and some might be bad. When the economists Nathan Goldschlag and Alex Tabarrok tried to measure regulatory burdens by analyzing the text of regulatory rules across various industries for restrictive-sounding terms like “may not” and “prohibited”, they found no relationship at all between overall regulation and economic dynamism in the United States. But that doesn’t mean the relationship isn’t there; it could just mean it’s hard to measure. And in the past two years, as battles over the construction of new housing and energy infrastructure have heated up, attention has settled on one particular government regulation that could be preventing it from happening: NEPA, the National Environmental Policy Act . This law, enacted under Nixon in 1970, requires any project with federal involvement to do a review of the environmental impacts before starting construction. (California and some other states have their own even more stringent local versions of the law ; California’s is called CEQA, and is often blamed for the state’s failure to build adequate housing). Have we finally found the one big regulation that’s holding back the American economy? I’ve been meaning to write about NEPA for a while, but the issue is so complex, and requires so much background knowledge, that it’ll take a while for me to come to a definitive conclusion. In the meantime, a lot is being said about NEPA out there in the opinion-sphere, especially because it coincides with Joe Manchin’s battle for permitting reform for energy infrastructure projects. So I thought that I’d start this topic off by doing a big roundup of things that other people have been writing about NEPA, just to organize some of the information and the key arguments. I’ll continue adding to this roundup over time. I’ve organized the articles into five basic categories: NEPA explainers Op-eds calling for NEPA to be reformed Think tank articles and reports offering concrete proposals for NEPA reform Defenses of NEPA Law papers giving reform proposals NEPA Explainers “ How NEPA Works ”, by Brian Potter This post is a great overview of the basics of NEPA, and I found this to be the most helpful out of all the articles I read. The basic point is that NEPA is not a law about what a project is allowed to do to the environment; it’s a law about how the government is required to assess the environmental impacts of a project before starting. In other words, it’s a procedural requirement, sort of like IRB requirements for human subjects research in academia. There are basically three levels of review — a Categorical Exclusion (easiest), an Environmental Assessment (mid), and an Environmental Impact Statement (hardest). Some projects start out with an EIS, while others get upgraded from EA to EIS. Here was a helpful chart: Source: Brian Potter EISs are the really time-consuming ones, generally taking several years to complete. Here’s another helpful chart: Source: Brian Potter These completion times have been increasing over the years. And as Potter writes, it tends to be infrastructure projects that are forced to do these: Agencies charged with management of federal lands (such as the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management), and responsible for building large scale infrastructure (such as the Federal Highway Administration and the Army Corps of Engineers) are responsible for an overwhelmingly large portion of NEPA efforts - those 4 agencies are responsible for more than 50% of environmental impact statements produced over the last 35 years…The same seems to be true for EAs (though the data here isn’t great.) In 2015 (the last year we have data), just 2 agencies (the Bureau of Land management and the Corps of Engineers) were responsible for more than 50% of environmental assessments. Interestingly, the number of NEPA reviews seems to be falling over time, though this could be because the U.S. is simply proposing a lot fewer projects out of fear of NEPA reviews. Potter makes two other very important points. First, NEPA enforcement is done by the courts, so people can sue the people doing construction projects and say that they haven’t done a proper NEPA review. And they do sue, quite frequently. Potter writes: The frequency of NEPA litigation is partly due to the fact that…they are sometimes used as a weapon by activist groups to try to stop projects they don’t like. While lawsuits can’t stop a project permanently, the hope is that a lawsuit will result in an injunction that stops the project temporarily, and that the delay will make the project unattractive enough to cancel. He gives several examples of cases where environmental groups (or “environmental” NIMBYs) admitted that the goal of their lawsuits was to delay a construction project so much that it got cancelled entirely. Even worse, these lawsuits cause would-be builders to spend lots of time and effort trying to make their projects lawsuit-proof in advance, which adds enormous delays and costs; Potter cites some research demonstrating this. And even worse, many projects simply never get started in the first place because people are too afraid they’ll get killed by lawsuits. Potter’s final point is that because NEPA is just a procedural requirement instead of a substantive requirement about how the environment should be protected, a lot of other environmental regulation gets lazily misclassified as “NEPA” when people discuss project delays and cancellations. Substantive environmental regulation is a whole category that needs to be evaluated separately from NEPA’s procedural holdups when figuring out how to get America building stuff again. “ Much more than you ever wanted to know about NEPA ”, by Eli Dourado This explainer is helpful because it clarifies some of the interesting properties of NEPA that make it such a target for reform. Dourado points out that in most cases where the federal government has the statutory authority to do something, the civil service doesn’t get successfully sued by citizens — but with NEPA this happens all the time, since all NIMBYs have to do is to challenge one little piece of an Environmental Impact Statement. Dourado also explains that since NEPA’s wording is vague, a lot of the cumbersome requirements and procedures that have grown up around it are custom and precedent rather than strict legal requirements. To name just one such example, NEPA says it applies only to “major” actions by the government, but effectively any government action is automatically counted as “major”. Additionally, many of the procedures around NEPA — for example, the requirement to solicit public comments on projects, which basically invites challenges by NIMBYs — were not in the original law, but came from executive orders issued later. Another issue with NEPA is that because we have fragmented government agencies, and most projects have the involvement of multiple agencies, the same project can end up having to submit a whole bunch of different NEPA reviews. He shows a graphic of how it would take a geothermal plant 7 to 10 years and six separate NEPA statements: Source: Eli Dourado Finally, Dourado goes through various past attempts to reform NEPA: the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act under Bush the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act under Obama the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act under Obama some modest administrative revisions by the Trump administration These don’t seem to have made a huge difference. Op-eds arguing for NEPA reform “ Not Everyone Should Have a Say ”, by Jerusalem Demsas In this article for the Atlantic, Jerusalem Demsas argues that NEPA’s big weakness is that it allows excessive community input. NIMBYs are able to stop local energy or housing projects under the pretext of wanting more environmental reviews, and courts are often willing to oblige. She points out that this is inherently un-democratic, because it means that projects supported by the majority can be blocked by a tiny unrepresentative minority. Demsas does consider the perspective of some NEPA defenders, but is not particularly impressed with their arguments: Environmental-justice groups and two of their strongest allies in Congress—Representatives Raúl Grijalva, the chair of the House Natural Resources Committee, and McEachin—reject the notion that permitting reform is necessary to combat climate change… Grijalva argued that criticisms of NEPA were “talking point[s] by industry and those speaking on behalf of industry, whether they’re elected officials or not.” McEachin said, “I want to push back against this notion that NEPA leads to lawsuits and, second of all, that lawsuits are per se bad … I have every confidence that our court system will do the right thing at the end of the day.” I struggle to reconcile these positions with the reality that NEPA and similar state-level laws have delayed congestion pricing in New York City and solar power in the Nevada desert, forced Seattle to draft an 8,000-page environmental-impact statement for a light-rail project, stopped a rezoning effort in Minneapolis aimed in part at reversing segregation … I could go on for days. “ Climate Hawks Should Have Given Joe Manchin His Pipeline ”, by Eric Levitz Levitz makes an eloquent and thorough argument that progressives are doing themselves, the country, and the environment a disservice by opposing Manchin’s proposed permitting reforms. Progr