# screamsbeforesilence.com

**Source**: https://www.screamsbeforesilence.com/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:56:24.518929+00:00

---

Screams Before Silence Film Trailer About Press Filmmakers Gallery Contact A documentary film on the sexual violence committed by Hamas on October 7, 2023. Watch Full Film Host a Screening Trailer About the Film Never-before-heard eyewitness accounts from released hostages, survivors, and first responders. During the October 7 attacks on Israeli towns and at the Nova Music Festival, women and girls were raped, assaulted, and mutilated. Released hostages have revealed that Israeli captives in Gaza have also been sexually assaulted. Despite the indisputable evidence, these atrocities have received little scrutiny from human rights groups and international organizations. Many leading figures in politics, academia, and media have attempted to minimize or even deny that they occurred. In Screams Before Silence , a 60-minute, presenter-led documentary film, Sheryl Sandberg, former COO of Meta and founder of LeanIn.org, interviews multiple eyewitnesses, released hostages, first responders, medical and forensic experts, and survivors of the Hamas massacres. Press Sheryl Sandberg&#x27;s new documentary: Hamas &amp; sexual violence Sheryl Sandberg Is on a Mission to Make Sure Oct. 7 Horrors Aren’t Forgotten Sheryl Sandberg Fronting Israeli Documentary About Sexual Atrocities Committed By Hamas On October 7 “I remember when there were Holocaust deniers back in the 90s, Steven Spielberg did ‘Schindler’s List’ and put a dagger right through the lies of those Holocaust deniers. Well, Sheryl’s film does the same thing. To all those who said, ‘Oh no, it wasn’t terrible’ and all that, this film graphically shows the horror, the despicableness and the depravity of Hamas,” Senate Majority Leader Charles E. Schumer said. Filmmakers About The Production Company: Kastina Communications Kastina Communications is one of Israel&#x27;s leading production companies, and has produced over 300 documentary films and television shows. Its latest documentary series, The One , about the Israeli Air Force in the Yom Kippur War, premiered in September 2023 on Kan 11 and broke viewing records, both on TV and digitally. Additional successful shows include the first season of Fauda , a show conceived anddeveloped at Kastina; Bloody Murray , winner of the Best Comedy Award in the 2022 Series Mania TV festival in France; Chanshi , the first Israeli drama series to be accepted to the Sundance Film Festival; and #Nova , a52-minute film about the music festival that ended with a massacre, told chronologically solely through the witnesses’ real-time videos and voice and text messages. Screams Before Silence Production Company Kastina Communications Executive Producers Joey Low, Meny Aviram, Eytan Schwartz Director Anat Stalinsky Producer Zameret Alexandrony Gallery Media Contacts Kastina Communications Meny Aviram meny@kastina.co.il +972 52-3113454 Eytan Schwartz eytan.schwartz1@gmail.com +972 54-7949417 To host a screening, contact: screening@sgb.org Privacy Policy © 2024 Kastina Communications Share Link https://www.screamsbeforesilence.com/ Copy Link Cancel By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device, including to enhance site navigation and analyze site usage. More info Deny Accept