# Sports Children Kids.Html

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/2021/03/16/magazine/sports-children-kids.html
**Extracted**: 2025-09-30T20:04:47.121336+00:00

---

Sports Meant So Much to Me. Why Wouldn’t My Son Play? - The New York Times Magazine | Sports Meant So Much to Me. Why Wouldn’t My Son Play? https://www.nytimes.com/2021/03/16/magazine/sports-children-kids.html Share full article 1k Credit... Illustration by Choi Haeryung Skip to content Skip to site index The Great Read Feature Sports Meant So Much to Me. Why Wouldn’t My Son Play? In-line skating, soccer, hockey — my 5-year-old didn’t take to them. Was I doing something wrong? Credit... Illustration by Choi Haeryung Supported by SKIP ADVERTISEMENT Share full article 1k By Keith Gessen Published March 16, 2021 Updated March 18, 2021 Listen to This Article Audio Recording by Audm To hear more audio stories from publishers like The New York Times, download Audm for iPhone or Android . I remember this: Raffi in the community garden. He is maybe 2 years old. I have brought along a soccer ball. He likes running back and forth in the garden, attacking people’s vegetables. Why not kick the ball while he’s at it? He is willing to do it. At first, he is always willing to do it. But he is not good at it. He misses the ball more often than he hits it. In order to keep him interested, I make a goal out of my legs. When, after numerous attempts, he finally scores, I pick him up and spin him around to celebrate. After that he doesn’t want to kick the ball anymore; he just wants to get picked up and spun around. We attend a party at a friend’s house in New Jersey. There are a lot of kids. Raffi is maybe a year old, part walking, part crawling. There is another boy there about his age, skinnier, less beautiful, and yet the way he crawls, the way he picks up toys, I can immediately see that he has total control of his body. That is what it looks like, then. Raffi will continue to get tangled up with his feet until well past his 4th birthday. But it is hockey that I most want him to learn, and that is a sport for which you don’t have to be an expert walker. Bobby Orr was bowlegged. I buy Raffi skates off Craigslist the summer he turns 2 and take him skating at a rink in Queens a little while later. He clings to me the entire time we’re on the ice and cries when I try to put him down. We skate around a few times and then go home. The next time we try, he spends a little more time with his skates touching the ice, but tears soon follow, and again we go home. The first time he doesn’t cry when skating is that winter at my father’s house in Massachusetts. My father has a small pond next to his house that freezes after a few nights of cold. We put our skates on inside and then walk down to the pond through the woods. Emily, Raffi’s mother, shoots a video on her phone. Raffi is barely able to stand on his skates, but he is so surprised at this whole turn of events, us on a pond, in the woods, in the winter twilight, that he just takes it in. My dad’s giant dog comes out onto the ice with us. I hold Raffi under the armpits and slowly skate him around. He doesn’t mind. I say he doesn’t mind because as I write this it’s hard to get Raffi, who is now 5, to do anything. He doesn’t want to go outside, he doesn’t want to learn how to use his in-line skates, he definitely doesn’t want to go ice skating. He wants to play with his Transformers and watch “Wild Kratts” on TV. Noble pursuits, to be sure, but there is more to life. Did I do something wrong, I wonder, or was it always going to be this way? Emily and I had a big fight once about sports. I can’t remember what started it, but that’s not the point — our fights are ambient, the product of a certain level of humidity. The humidity rises for a while, and then it rains. In this fight it emerged that Emily did not see the point of sports. She thought they inculcated violence and were implicated in rape culture. She wanted Raffi to stay away from them. Nor did she think he had shown any aptitude for sports. In her opinion, he much preferred music and drawing. I disagreed. There were things that only sports could give you, and it was too early to tell what he liked. Certainly he was never going to like sports if he was bad at them. He needed a base-line level of competence — knowing how to skate, how to kick a soccer ball, how to throw a baseball. After that he could decide what he wanted to do. As for rape culture, as for male violence, sports could help sublimate those things. That was practically the whole point of sports! And then I said something that I wish I had not said, but it was what I felt: “Boys play sports! That’s what boys do!” Having gotten me to say something stupid, Emily declared victory and left the room. What had I actually meant to say? Perhaps I had meant to say: I, a boy, had played sports, and they had meant so much to me. I played them when I was little — hockey, soccer, baseball, tennis, as long as it was a sport, as long as I was running around. I played them as a teenager, now more seriously — football and hockey. I finally stopped playing sports halfway through college but then returned to them, specifically to hockey, in grad school, when I was miserable and at loose ends after the collapse of my first serious relationship; and it was hockey that I played when I moved to New York after grad school; and hockey again when I moved to Moscow to live with my grandmother, after the publication of my first book. Hockey was a refuge and a solace. I loved the feeling of stepping onto a freshly cut sheet of ice, settling into my skates, getting a puck on my stick and shifting it back and forth, back and forth, then flinging it against the boards. I loved walking out of a new locker room and finding out who could really play — I learned, over the years, that I could never accurately guess. And, not least of all by any means, I loved the fact that I was one of the people who could play: not beautifully, for sure, and less and less effectively as time went on, but still. I had played my whole life. Of all the things that I felt I could give my son, the one I most wanted to give him was sports. When I was a kid, sports were something my father and I had in common. My father has never been a big talker. Like so many of the Soviet Jewish men of his generation who came to America in the ’70s and ’80s, he was trained in problem-solving and math. He is mostly silent, thoughtful, active. But he drove me to all my games, hundreds of games over the years, and on the way home he would sometimes make a comment. Once, in youth hockey, he suggested I shoot the puck more. And once when I was preparing for a tennis tournament, and my coach seemed worried that I wouldn’t be able to handle losing, my father said, on the ride home, “He doesn’t know that you’ve been both the best player on your teams and the worst.” Meaning: “You know how to handle adversity.” It was the highest compliment he ever paid to my character. Most of the friends I have made in life I made through sports. Most of my most powerful memories have been sports memories. My first encounter with what I now recognize to be philosophy was through sports, in the figure of my high school football coach, a retired biology teacher named Aredis Kojoyian who played college football for George Washington University in the late ’40s and early ’50s. During practice, Coach Kojoyian would sing the praises of the forearm shiver, legally the most effective way for a player on offense to knock someone over. This was philosophy of a kind. But after games, when he was called upon to explain what happened (usually, that we lost), Kojoyian could be profound. “In any endeavor you undertake in life,” he would begin, and then he would explain the value of hard work, dedication and solidarity. If you wanted to accomplish something, you had to work at it — and still you might fail. “The better team does not always win,” Kojoyian said once, after we played our hearts out for him and lost to a more talented group of players. “The better man does not always win.” But you must persevere, he said. You must get up to fight again. For a while, under the influence of Kojoyian, I came to believe that sports, and football especially, had special character-building properties. Physical labor, teamwork, discipline — the martial virtues without the martial vices. Of course, my experience of actual sports teams indicated that this was nonsense. Some of my teammates were wonderful people; some were jerks. I have played sports with plenty of loudmouths and bullies. Barack Obama was a high school athlete, but so was Donald Trump. Still there was something in sports that I had not found anywhere else. The summer that Raffi was born, I was trying to finish a draft of my second novel, worrying about money and trying to manage my literary career, such as it was. But I was also on two excellent beer-league hockey teams. Each team was headed for the playoffs. The email messages celebrating our victories flew back and forth. I wanted Raffi to have this too — this life outside his life, this group of friends dedicated to a common cause. In short, of all the things that I felt I could give my son, the one I most wanted to give him was sports. Image Credit... Illustration by Choi Haeryung The first thing you need to learn when learning how to skate is how to get up after you fall. The natural way to get up is to place your hand on the ground and lean on it for support. On the ice that doesn’t work — your hand will slip and you will just fall again. Instead you need to get to your knees, lift one of them up, plant your skate directly under it and push off that knee with both hands. Now you’re standing up and will be for a little longer, until you fall. The next thing to learn is that you skate on your edges, shifting from the inside to the outside and back depending on what you need to do. You can begin to learn this by lifting up your skates and putting them back down again while standing still. At the rink in Queens or on my father’s pond and even a couple of times on the ti