# Theaster Gates The Gift And The Renege

**Source**: https://camh.org/event/theaster-gates-the-gift-and-the-renege/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:09:04.379122+00:00

---

Theaster Gates: The Gift and The Renege | Contemporary Arts Museum Houston Skip to content Search Search Admission is always free. Hours Museum Hours Mon: Closed Tues: Closed Wed: 11AM – 6PM Thu: 11AM – 9PM Fri: 11AM – 6PM Sat: 11AM – 6PM Sun: 11AM – 6PM Plan Your Visit Map Directions Located in Houston’s Museum District 5216 Montrose Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77006 Street parking is available for free. Take the METRORail to the Museum District stop. Buses 056 and 298 to Montrose Boulevard @ Bissonnet Street. Calendar Queer Teen Night Public Program October 3 | 6:00PM - 8:00PM CAMH LGBTQ+ teens and allies are invited to an evening of food, music, and art, inspired by the exhibitions OUT OF STOCK and Tomashi Jackson: Across the Universe. Meet queer teens across Houston, join teen-led drop-in tours of the galleries, and More Junk Journal Open Studio October 4 | 2:00PM - 4:00PM CAMH Creatively recycle mixed media materials into collages on a small journal, inspired by the Teen Council 14th biennial exhibition, OUT OF STOCK, which includes artworks that question consumer culture. More Design a Button Drop-In Experience October 11 | 1:00PM - 4:00PM CAMH Inspired by the exhibition Tomashi Jackson: Across the Universe, create a one-of-a-kind button prompted by historic and contemporary events. More View Calendar Donate Why Give to CAMH? Help us keep admission free for all Support free programs including lectures by artists and art scholars, live performances, concerts and more Help bring nationally-acclaimed artist to Houston Support tours and workshops for local schools and community groups Provide thousands of visitors from Houston and beyond with a gathering place to experience contemporary art Join Give Thursday, September 4, 2025 | 6–10PM Threat of Joy: CAMH's Teacher Advisory Group Exhibition at Mid Main's First Thursday Join us for an art-filled evening, as Contemporary Arts Museum Houston (CAMH) partners with Mid Main for an unforgettable First Thursday block party. GET TICKETS Visit Hours Map Educators Families Tours Facility Rentals Art On View Upcoming Past Exhibitions CAMHLAB Publications Programs Calendar Teens Partnerships Rebirth in Action HISD Houston First Crossroads Hotel Support Memberships Collectors Circle Fundraising Events Donate Shop About Director’s Note History &#038; Mission Opportunities Trustees Staff Search Search Visit our instagram page Visit our facebook page Visit our twitter page Visit our youtube page Visit our tiktok.com page Visit Hours Map Educators Families Tours Facility Rentals Art On View Upcoming Past Exhibitions CAMHLAB Publications Programs Calendar Teens Partnerships Rebirth in Action HISD Houston First Crossroads Hotel Support Memberships Collectors Circle Fundraising Events Donate Shop About Director’s Note History &#038; Mission Opportunities Trustees Staff Installation view of Theaster Gates: The Gift and The Renege at Contemporary Arts Museum Houston, 2024. Photo by Alex Barber. © Contemporary Arts Museum Houston and Theaster Gates Studio. Past Exhibition Theaster Gates: The Gift and The Renege May 17, 2024 - October 20, 2024 Brown Foundation Gallery Add to calendar Google Calendar iCalendar Outlook 365 Outlook Live About Theaster Gates: The Gift and The Renege presents work by the acclaimed Chicago-based artist, featuring large-scale paintings, sculptures, and installations that highlight the seen and unseen dynamics of Freedmen’s Town in Houston’s Fourth Ward. Throughout his career, Theaster Gates has soulfully elevated our understanding of Black labor, materials, place, and community to revitalize underrecognized neighborhoods by combining urban planning and a multifaceted art practice. His work powerfully highlights the true value Black spaces hold—although often devalued—as sites of American resilience, liberation, and redemption. Gates is a shape-shifter, a world-builder, and an artist who singularly connects the dots in both poetic and pragmatic ways. For over 20 years he has worked to transform the Southside of Chicago through various initiatives aimed at preserving and continuing the neighborhood's vital role as a site for Black creativity. His multifaceted practice, which demonstrates the dual importance of building community and exposing power structures, has made him one of the most significant artists working in our time. Organizers Theaster Gates: The Gift and The Renege was developed throughout the planning and engagement process of Rebirth in Action in partnership with Houston Freedmen’s Town Conservancy. The exhibition is organized by Contemporary Arts Museum Houston and co-curated by Ryan N. Dennis, Senior Curator and Director of Public Initiatives, and Hesse McGraw, Executive Director. Support Presenting sponsorship for Theaster Gates: The Gift and The Renege is provided by Mellon Foundation and Scott R. Sparvero. Generous support is provided by a grant from The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts and Bank of Texas. Contemporary Arts Museum Houston exhibitions are made possible by the patrons, benefactors, and donors to CAMH’s Major Exhibition Fund: Chinhui Juhn and Eddie Allen, Jereann Chaney, Louise Jamail, Sissy and Denny Kempner, Dillon Kyle and Sam Lasseter, Cabrina and Steven Owsley, Elisa and Cris Pye, Beverly and How ard Robinson, Anonymous , and Mary Ann and F. Carrington Weems Foundation. Contemporary Arts Museum Houston is funded in part by the City of Houston through the Houston Arts Alliance and the Texas Commission on the Arts. Extended Description As Houston’s mother ward, Freedmen’s Town is a community first built by newly freed Black people, who formed a vibrant community anchored by handmade and laid brick streets. Those same brick streets today serve as the enduring reminder of the possibility of Black places. The Gift and The Renege points to the historical battle the residents of Freedmen’s Town have waged to protect their history and heritage. The exhibition uplifts the radical imagination necessary to realize the historic bricks' full preservation and sacred return to their rightful home in the streets of Freedmen’s Town. Gates is deeply committed to supporting the preservation and growth of overlooked Black neighborhoods. His work takes the form of a kind of urban alchemy that both reframes longstanding tensions between municipal policy and a community’s desire for self-determination and offers a powerful reminder of the necessity of persistence and creativity. About the Artist Theaster Gates (b. 1973) is an artist and social innovator who lives and works in Chicago. Over the past decade, Gates has translated the intricacies of Blackness through space theory and land development, sculpture, and performance. Through the expansiveness of his approach as a thinker, maker, and builder, he extends the role of the artist as an agent of change. His performance practice and visual work find roots in Black knowledge, objects, history, and archives. Gates has exhibited and performed at The LUMA Foundation, Arles, France (2023; The New Museum, New York, (2022); The Aichi Triennial, Tokoname (2022); The Serpentine Pavilion, London (2022); The Victoria and Albert Museum, London, UK (2021);Whitechapel Gallery, London, UK (2013 and 2021); Tate Liverpool, UK (2020); Haus der Kunst, Munich (2020); Walker Art Center, Minneapolis (2019); Palais de Tokyo Paris, France (2019); Sprengel Museum Hannover, Germany (2018); Kunstmuseum Basel, Switzerland (2018); National Gallery of Art, Washington D.C., USA (2017); Art Gallery of Ontario, Canada (2016); Fondazione Prada, Milan, Italy (2016); Kunsthaus Bregenz, Austria (2016); Punta della Dogana, Venice, Italy (2013); and dOCUMENTA (13), Kassel, Germany (2012). In 2010, Gates created the Rebuild Foundation, a nonprofit platform for art, cultural development, and neighborhood transformation that supports artists and strengthens communities through free arts programming and innovative cultural amenities in the Grand Crossing neighborhood of the South Side of Chicago. Gates is the recipient of numerous awards and honorary degrees including the Isamu Noguchi Award (2023); National Buildings Museum Vincent Scully Prize (2023); Frederick Kiesler Prize for Architecture and the Arts (2022); an Honorary Fellowship from the Royal Institute of British Architects (2021); the World Economic Forum Crystal Award (2020); J.C. Nichols Prize for Visionaries in Urban Development (2018); Nasher Sculpture Prize (2018); Sprengel Museum Kurt Schwitters Prize (2017); and Artes Mundi 6 Prize (2015). In April 2018, Gates was appointed as the inaugural Distinguished Visiting Artist and Director of Artist Initiatives at the Lunder Institute for American Art, Colby College, Waterville Maine. He was the Visiting Artist in Residence at the American Academy in Rome (2020); and was inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Letters in 2021. Gates is a professor at the University of Chicago in the Department of Visual Arts and serves as the Special Advisor to the President for Arts Initiatives. Extended Media Resources Tours tour@camh.org 713.284.8276 Additional Information Accessibility Large Print Labels (English) Large Print Labels (Spanish) Press Release Theaster Gates: The Gift and The Renege Educational Materials Teacher Guide Content Review Related Events View Calendar Theaster Gates: The Gift and The Renege Member Preview May 16, 2024 | 6:00PM - 7:00PM All CAMH Members are invited to the Member Preview of Theaster Gates: The Gift and The Renege, to preview Gate’s large-scale paintings, sculptures, and installations highlighting the seen and unseen dynamics of Freedmen’s Town in Houston’s Fourth Ward. More Theaster Gates: The Gift and The Renege Public Opening May 16, 2024 | 7:00PM - 9:00PM Brown Foundation Gallery Join CAMH to celebrate the public opening of the exhibition, Theaster Gates: The Gift and The Renege. More Theaster Gates with Charonda Johnson and Hesse McGraw, moderated by Ryan N. Dennis In Conversatio