# Best Units Nfl History

**Source**: http://grantland.com/features/best-units-nfl-history/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:26:43.144761+00:00

---

&raquo; The Showstoppers Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous Mr. Mike&#8217;s &#8216;SNL&#8217; Nightmare ➤ Next Frank Miller’s Dark Night Facebook Twitter Print NFL The Showstoppers The current dominance of the Seahawks’ secondary made us wonder: Who are the best units in league history? by Bill Barnwell on August 22, 2014 Y ou already know that the defending NFL champions are a unique team. The Seattle Seahawks have a quarterback who is two sizes too small, a running back seemingly powered by candy, and an unconscionably loud home stadium. Something else is strange about the Seahawks, too: how they&#8217;re structured. The Seahawks are unquestionably a team built around their dominant secondary under the auspices of Pete Carroll, once and always a defensive backs coach. There are Super Bowl–winning teams from the past with great secondaries — the 2010 Packers come to mind — but the position you associate most with this Seahawks team, more than anything else, is defensive back. That&#8217;s very uncommon. 1 Earl Thomas and Richard Sherman were first-team All-Pros in both 2012 and 2013, attesting to Seattle&#8217;s strength in the secondary; the last time two defensive backs from the same team were first-team All-Pros in consecutive seasons, per Pro-Football-Reference.com, was when Herb Adderley and Willie Wood pulled the same feat off for the Green Bay Packers in 1965 and 1966. Kam Chancellor made it to the Pro Bowl in 2011 and 2013, and while the fourth spot in the secondary has been a revolving door, that three-man core has been so good that I started wondering: Do the Seahawks have the best secondary ever? It&#8217;s too early to say for these Seahawks, of course, but in researching the question, I started wondering what the best secondaries in league history looked like and how long they stayed together. The answer to that question, especially in the salary cap era, is not very long. It might take only another couple of seasons at this level of play to declare Seattle the best secondary in league history, and there&#8217;s little reason to think that Sherman, Thomas &amp; Co. will slip. And naturally, if it&#8217;s not these Seahawks, I wanted to figure out who was in the best secondary in league history, and then the best linebacking corps in NFL history, and then it was four in the morning and Pro-Football-Reference.com actually started playing a MIDI version of &#8220;Closing Time&#8221; 2 and refused to respond to any more of my searches. Click here for more from our 2014 NFL preview. I eventually came away with a list of the best positional units on one team at any given time in league history. Some are closer than others, and much of it&#8217;s a matter of personal opinion, but there&#8217;s something more than mere trivia to be gained here. How long does a star unit last, especially in the modern era? How much harder is it to build a particularly incredible group of players at one position than it is at another? And are there any current personnel groupings who could make a reasonable run at the star teams of the past? I&#8217;ll try to answer those questions as I go along. A few quick rules I tried to follow in picking the right candidate(s): It&#8217;s not enough to have a great player on your team if he was well past his prime or wasn&#8217;t playing like he had been at his peak. Say the Seahawks traded for Charles Woodson tomorrow and used him as their seventh defensive back this season. Woodson&#8217;s résumé is incredible, but as a backup defensive back playing out the end of his career, his actual impact on the team (and its candidacy for best secondary alive) is negligible. A player&#8217;s level of play at the time he was on the team is more important than his past/future level of performance, but both matter. The very good Eagles secondary from the turn of the decade had Al Harris as their nickelback; when he would later get a chance to start in Green Bay, Harris would reveal himself to be a Pro Bowl–caliber player, which helps put his performance in Philadelphia into context, but he&#8217;s more valuable to those Packers teams for the purposes of this piece than he is to those Eagles squads. All press is good press. Having a Hall of Famer in your positional unit is of enormous value. Having two is a surefire way to be in the running. All-Pro and Pro Bowl appearances mean a lot, too. If your group was notable enough to acquire a famous nickname, that helps. Longevity helps. That 1994 49ers secondary with Deion Sanders was incredible, but Sanders was there for only one season before leaving to join the Cowboys. They might have burned extremely bright while Sanders played by the Bay, but it&#8217;s tougher to put that unit over a group like Seattle&#8217;s, which has had its three core components together in the starting lineup for three seasons. It&#8217;s harder to do this in the modern game. For a number of reasons, it&#8217;s harder to build an incredible positional unit in the current NFL. The salary cap prevents teams from investing heavily at a given position, while the league has grown from 13 teams in 1950 (the earliest point I considered for candidates) to 32 teams here in 2014. I didn&#8217;t write off combinations from the past altogether, as you&#8217;ll see, but I gave extra credence to succeeding in the modern NFL. All right. Preamble aside, let&#8217;s run through the best positional groupings, spot by spot, since 1950: Quarterbacks Winner: Joe Montana and Steve Young, 49ers, 1987-92 A pretty obvious winner here, as Montana and Young were a rare case in which a team had a pair of Hall of Fame quarterbacks on the roster for an extended period of time. 3 Young was hardly an unknown when he was sitting behind Montana, either; he had been a prominent player in the USFL before being taken with the first pick in the USFL Supplemental Draft by the Buccaneers, who promptly gave up on him after two seasons and traded him to the 49ers for second- and fourth-round picks. Montana&#8217;s nagging injury issues meant that Young started 10 games during his first four seasons with the team before taking over as the full-time starter after Montana went down with an elbow injury during the 1990 playoffs. Current Candidate: Peyton Manning and Brock Osweiler, Broncos There&#8217;s no team in football at the moment with two quarterbacks who have any prayer of both winning MVP awards or making the Hall of Fame. The position is just spread too thin, and there&#8217;s no team out there with both a very good starter and a first-round pick waiting in the wings. Because of that, I just chose the best quarterback of all time and his backup, who might surprise us all and turn into something. The last real challenger to this throne would have been Brett Favre and Aaron Rodgers when both were on the Packers from 2005 to 2007, but Rodgers threw only 59 passes before Favre left town. They&#8217;ll both be Hall of Famers one day and finish a close second to Montana and Young for a long, long time. Running Backs Winner: Jim Brown and Bobby Mitchell, Browns, 1958-61 After Brown led the NFL in rushing yards and touchdowns as a rookie in 1957, Cleveland took Mitchell, an Olympic hopeful in track and field, with its seventh-round pick in the 1958 NFL draft. With the bruising 232-pound Brown at fullback and a 192-pound Mitchell at halfback, Cleveland had a perfect big man–small man act. From 1958 through 1961, with Brown and Mitchell at the helm, the Browns ran for 8,768 yards, nearly 1,000 yards more than the second-place Packers , while averaging 4.9 yards per attempt. The partnership ended in 1962, when the Browns dealt Mitchell to Washington as part of a package for the first overall pick, Ernie Davis, who wouldn&#8217;t play for a Washington team that had famously refused to sign or trade for black players. Davis would sadly die from leukemia before ever playing an NFL down, as depicted in The Express . Mitchell, instead, became the player who integrated Washington while moving to wide receiver, where he also excelled before becoming a longtime member of the team&#8217;s front office. Brown would also have another Hall of Fame running back as a teammate several years later in Leroy Kelly, but Kelly really made his mark only after Brown retired at the age of 29 in 1966. Their closest competitors are another pair of ’60s running backs: the duo of Paul Hornung and Jim Taylor in Green Bay, who dominated from 1958 to 1966, with a one-year exception for Hornung&#8217;s season-long gambling suspension in 1963. Current Candidate: Adrian Peterson and Jerick McKinnon, Vikings In 2014, running back is a relative wasteland, so there&#8217;s not really a strong one-two punch to compete with the players of yesteryear. In much the same way I chose the Denver quarterbacks, I went with Peterson, a future Hall of Famer, and the young player who might develop into something behind him. Wide Receivers Winner: Cris Carter and Randy Moss, Vikings, 1998-2001 Oh, this can head in so many directions, and all of them are going to make a group of fans angry. You could easily justify a half-dozen other combinations as the winners here. Lynn Swann and John Stallworth both made the Hall of Fame. 4 Elroy Hirsch and Tom Fears were a dominant duo in an era when the game was totally different. If you want to expand out beyond a two-person combination, you can point to the Art Monk–Ricky Sanders–Gary Clark trio that powered Washington to Super Bowl wins with different quarterbacks in 1987 and 1991, or the Greatest Show on Turf’s four-wideout set of Isaac Bruce, Torry Holt, Az-Zahir Hakim, and Ricky Proehl. You can make a reasonable case for any of those teams over any of the others. Carter and Moss stand out, though, for how freakishly dominant they were in their pomp. Carter was already a superstar when this run started, given that he was 33