# Housing

**Source**: https://www.publicenterprise.org/housing
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:17:40.469213+00:00

---

Housing - Center for Public Enterprise Center for Public Enterprise About Us People Press Our Work Reports Recent Updates Steel in the Ground Initiatives Public Development Community of Practice Mountain West Geothermal Consortium Newsletter Support Housing Production: Mixed-Income Public Development New models for mixed-income public development of housing have become a go-to approach for jurisdictions and housing agencies seeking to grow their housing production volume in recent years. There are a few reasons this type of public development is useful for housing markets. First, these programs can help optimize the allocation of scarce federal subsidies. Second, they are akin to inclusionary zoning, but with no downside risk to housing production. Third, they can push against the hyper-cyclicality of housing production. Center for Public Enterprise works with local, state and federal public agencies, including housing finance agencies and housing authorities, on mixed-income public development program design and implementation. For more information, get in touch with us . Recent Articles Featured Apr 21, 2024 Paul Elliott Williams In Conversation with HUD Apr 21, 2024 Paul Elliott Williams Apr 21, 2024 Paul Elliott Williams Sep 22, 2023 Paul Elliott Williams Launching the Public Development Community of Practice Sep 22, 2023 Paul Elliott Williams Center for Public Enterprise is launching a Public Development Community of Practice&nbsp;for PHAs, HFAs, and other local and state housing agencies&nbsp;to develop best practices for public development as a method of growing affordable multifamily housing production. Sep 22, 2023 Paul Elliott Williams May 31, 2023 Paul Elliott Williams The Basic Logistics of Public Development May 31, 2023 Paul Elliott Williams Here we’ve laid out the basics of what one innovative public housing authority is doing to deliver in the multifamily housing production space. May 31, 2023 Paul Elliott Williams $283 million of public investment in revolving loan funds for construction finance 5,000+ units built or in project pipelines, at mixed-income $0 of tax credits or volume cap used in deal structures About Us People Press Our Work Reports and Briefs Steel in the Ground Connect Newsletter Follow Us Center for Public Enterprise is a not-for-profit 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization headquartered in Brooklyn, NY. Copyright © 2025