# Samsung Unpacked 2025 Live Updates Galaxy S25 New Ai Features And More

**Source**: https://techcrunch.com/storyline/samsung-unpacked-2025-live-updates-galaxy-s25-new-ai-features-and-more/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:56:11.287034+00:00

---

Samsung Unpacked 2025 live updates: Galaxy S25, new AI features, and more | TechCrunch TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps Disrupt 2025 Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech &amp; Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government &amp; Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media &amp; Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Crunchboard Contact Us Hardware Samsung Unpacked 2025 live updates: Galaxy S25, new AI features, and more 8 Stories Karyne Levy January 22, 2025 &#8211; January 22, 2025 Samsung&#8217;s annual Unpacked conference is here, and we&#8217;ve got our hands in all the announcements the company is set to reveal today. And it seems that Samsung is extra excited about this year&#8217;s lineup: Not only did the company announce Unpacked details during its CES press conference, but reservations prior to the event came with a $50 Samsung store credit. The one absolute slam dunk for the event is the Galaxy S25 line, and we&#8217;re expecting three key models: the S25, S25+, and S25 Ultra. And it wouldn&#8217;t be an event in 2025 without AI, so we can be sure Galaxy AI will be the centerpiece. Follow our live updates as we share all the reveals and new hardware as it happens. Jan 22, 2025 Cody Corrall Samsung’s Galaxy S25 will support the Content Credentials standard Adobe has noted that the new Galaxy S25 line will be the first handsets to support the Content Credentials standard, aimed at labeling AI-generated content. Image Credits: Samsung / The Coalition for Content Provenance and Authenticity (C2PA) group — of which Samsung is now officially a part — describes the standard as a “nutrition label for digital content.” The information presented includes how the content was generated and edited, as well as whether any generative AI technologies were used in the process. Updated 8 months ago Jan 22, 2025 Cody Corrall Samsung unveils new AI features that simplify your daily routine Samsung unveiled how SmartThings , its smart home platform, will introduce AI features that allow users to simplify their everyday life through ambient sensing technology and generative AI.&nbsp; Image Credits: Samsung By using advanced sensor technology and sound sensor devices in users&#8217; homes, Samsung says it will be able to understand their daily activities and create the ideal environment. For example, SmartThings could detect if a user is exercising and coach the person on their form, or turn on an air purifier after sensing the person’s dog jumping onto the couch. There’s more to come from Samsung Unpacked . Stay up to date with the latest announcements right here. Updated 8 months ago Jan 22, 2025 Cody Corrall Samsung’s Galaxy S25 gets a better Google Gemini Google is introducing a slew of Android updates, including key updates to its AI assistant, Gemini. Users can now access an improved Gemini that can perform multiple actions across different apps with just a single prompt. For instance, if you’re looking for a restaurant nearby and want to share the options with someone, Gemini can utilize Google Maps to generate recommendations and then compose a message to send via Google Messages.&nbsp; Image Credits: Google, Samsung Additionally, Samsung introduced new features for Gemini Live, like the ability to practice a presentation while receiving immediate spoken feedback, as well as uploading files into the conversation, making Gemini Live more multimodal and context-aware. Updated 8 months ago Jan 22, 2025 Cody Corrall Google brings improved hearing aid features to Android Google announced a pair of accessibility improvements for Android during Samsung’s Unpacked 2025 , including improvements to the screen reader and improved hearing aid functionality. Image Credits: Google (screenshot) Wednesday’s updates bring LE Bluetooth compatibility , which delivers features like hands-free calling and lower latency connections. People who use braille will be able to access HID (human interface design), which will “make it easier to use a braille display across operating systems and different types of hardware.” For more reveals out of Samsung Unpacked , stay up to date with the stream below. Updated 8 months ago Jan 22, 2025 Cody Corrall Google is making Circle to Search more helpful Google is updating Circle to Search to make it easier for users to find information and get things done. The feature allows people to search from anywhere on their phone by using gestures like circling, highlighting, scribbling, or tapping. Image Credits: Google Google is now expanding AI Overviews to more kinds of visual results for places, trending images, unique objects, and more with Circle to Search. If you’re at a museum and see an interesting piece of art, for example, you can circle it to get an AI snapshot of helpful information about the piece. Google says Circle to Search will also be able to recognize numbers, email addresses, and URLs you see on your screen. Updated 8 months ago Jan 22, 2025 Cody Corrall Samsung Galaxy S25 line allows the side button to easily fire up Google Gemini Samsung announced a small but meaningful tweak to the side button for the Galaxy S25 line . As it continues to focus more efforts on mobile AI, Samsung is making it easier to access Google Gemini with the press of a button. Gemini can now be activated with a long press of the device’s side button, signaling the end days of quick Home and Bixby access. Image Credits: Google Watch the full Samsung Unpacked event at the link below. Updated 8 months ago Jan 22, 2025 Cody Corrall Say hello to the $1,300 Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra Samsung announced the latest additions to its flagship Galaxy S smartphone lineup at Samsung Unpacked 2025. The Galaxy S25 Ultra headlines the trio , with a 6.9-inch display and quartet of rear-facing cameras: a 50-megapixel ultra-wide, 200-megapixel wide, and a pair of telephoto lenses, with 3x and 5x optical zoom, respectively. Image Credits: Samsung The defining characteristic of the Galaxy S25, S25+, and S25 Ultra is the company’s continued focus on mobile AI. All three S25 models are up for preorder today, with shipping starting February 7. For more announcements, watch the full Samsung Unpacked event with us right here. Updated 8 months ago Jan 22, 2025 Morgan Little Samsung&#8217;s Unpacked 2025 is about to kick off It&#8217;s January, which means it&#8217;s time for Samsung to follow the sprint that was CES with its first big phone event of the year — Unpacked 2025 , which will feature the reveal of the Samsung Galaxy S25 phone lineup. But as was the case last year, and is all but certain to be the case again this year, it wouldn&#8217;t be a hardware event without a whole bunch of AI. As our hardware editor Brian Heater predicted: &#8220;Galaxy AI will, of course, be the centerpiece as Samsung looks not only to present itself as a leader in the category, but also differentiate its offering from Google Gemini features that will be available across Android devices. Of course, last year’s big AI announcement was Circle to Search , a Google feature that launched on the S24 first. &#8220;Other possible — but significantly less certain — reveals include a successor to the lukewarmly received Galaxy Ring wearable and a closer look at Project Moohan , an extended reality headset being jointly developed with Google.&#8221; Watch the full event , kicking off at 10 a.m. PT / 1 p.m. ET, via the embed below. Updated 8 months ago Topics AI , Hardware , samsung unpacked October 27-29, 2025 San Francisco ONE-WEEK BUNDLE FLASH SALE Founder Bundle Offer: Land your investor and sharpen your pitch. Save 15% when you bring 4-9 founders. Investors Bundle Offer: Discover your next breakout startup. Save 20% when you bring 4-9 investors. Bundle offer ends October 3. Register Now Most Popular A new a16z report looks at which AI companies startups are actually paying for Dominic-Madori Davis Salesforce launches enterprise vibe-coding product, Agentforce Vibes Rebecca Szkutak AI recruiter Alex raises $17M to automate initial job interviews Marina Temkin Vibe-coding startup Anything nabs a $100M valuation after hitting $2M ARR in its first two weeks Marina Temkin The AI services transformation may be harder than VCs think Connie Loizos Famed roboticist says humanoid robot bubble is doomed to burst Connie Loizos Spotify to label AI music, filter spam and more in AI policy change Sarah Perez X LinkedIn Facebook Instagram youTube Mastodon Threads Bluesky TechCrunch Staff Contact Us Advertise Crunchboard Jobs Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy RSS Terms of Use Code of Conduct H1-B Visa GPT Pulse Grok Steph Curry TechCrunch Disrupt Tech Layoffs ChatGPT © 2025 TechCrunch Media LLC.