# How To Party Host Guest.Html

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2024/06/21/style/how-to-party-host-guest.html?smid=nytcore-ios-share&referringSource=articleShare&sgrp=c-cb
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:41:59.163242+00:00

---

The Everything Guide to Partying (Without Regrets) - The New York Times Skip to content Skip to site index How to Party (Without Regrets) Forty-three highly sociable people, from Ivy Getty to Rufus Wainwright, offer tips on how to be a stellar guest and a gracious host. Read this before you say yes to the next invitation. By George Gurley and Carson Griffith June 21, 2024 As the summertime social whirl was about to begin, we asked dozens of socially adept people — socialites, artists, designers, restaurateurs, party planners — to weigh in on how to be the kind of guest who gets invited back and how to be a gracious host. Their advice addresses all aspects of party-going and party-throwing, from dealing with the jitters that may go with preparing for a social event to saying a proper goodbye at night’s end. We've divided their counsel into eight chapters: Getting Ready ; Entering the Space ; How to Converse ; Party Etiquette ; Hot Topics ; Drinking, Gummies, Etc. ; Houseguests ; and When the Party’s Over . (Interviews have been condensed and edited for clarity.) 1 Getting Ready For guests and hosts alike, it’s a good idea to develop the right mind-set before the party gets started, our interviewees said. Lang Phipps , copywriter You want to feel happy to see people. If there’s some anxiety about it, you have to get into your “people mode” and out of “yourself mode,” which may require changing the channel in your psyche a little bit. You have to put on that social facade. Kate Upton, center, with the art adviser Illa Gaunt at a party hosted by Rebecca Gardner. William Laird/Houses & Parties Rebecca Gardner , event planner, interior designer When you accept an invitation, you have an obligation to bring something. You can be the most beautiful person at the party who brings glamour. You can be the person who brings an expensive wine. Or you can bring a sprinkle — which means you sprinkle joy or wit or personality to a party. You have to bring something . Sarah Harrelson, left, with the businesswoman Jen Rubio at a party in March. Jason Sean Weiss Sarah Harrelson , editor in chief of Cultured magazine If you’re going to go, go . Do not plan to leave the party early. If you have to leave early, I say do not come. And don’t ask who else is coming. That is rude . Alex Hitz , chef, author Bring a sense of humor. Bring positive energy. That anecdote of yours? Cut it by 98 percent, practice it in front of the mirror, and in six months you can bring it to the party. If you get dressed for a party, make an effort. You honor your host by making an effort. You don’t show up in Uggs and a neck doughnut. Ariel Arce , bar and restaurant owner, caviar entrepreneur Take a Genius beforehand. It’s a fantastic edible, with THC and caffeine, so you’re chatty but a little loose. Larry Milstein , entrepreneur Eat beforehand. You aren’t distracted about what’s being served or chasing down a tray of mini hot dogs, letting you focus on the most important thing: connecting with people. Maneesh Goyal , bar and restaurant owner There are certain things that will irk the host. One is when you ask the question that should never be asked: “What should I bring?” Instead, you should say, “I’m already planning on bringing some Champagne and wine. What else should I bring?” Or don’t even ask and just show up with something! Wes Gordon , creative director Remember, no matter how nervous you may feel as a guest, the hosts are most likely more nervous and stressed. As the guest, you have the easier job. 2 Entering the Space The very start of a party can be its own special challenge. Our interviewees had advice on how to step into the arena. Lizzi Bickford Meadow , brand strategist Smile! It’s as simple as that. Walk into a room with a friendly demeanor. If you don’t know the host, find them and introduce yourself. Tefi Pessoa , pop culture commentator, online content creator I decide that everyone in the room already likes me before I even enter said room. Daisy Prince , journalist There’s a New Yorker cartoon my parents used to have in our kitchen. It was just a picture of a bunch of people standing in suits and dresses. They’re all having what looks like a very adult conversation, and the bubble above the newcomer is: “Yikes, grown-ups.” I think there’s always a little “yikes, grown-ups” for all of us. So just settle for a minute and then go to the hostess, because your duty, as a guest, is certainly to say hello. Kristy Hurt , headhunter, career coach Make three connections. You don’t have to meet every single person, but go into the party and meet three people. Ten words or less. Elevator pitch. Kendall Werts , talent agency co-founder Don’t forget to laugh. It’s about your eyes and your smile. Nobody wants to work to bring you out of your sad-sack shell! Jorn Weisbrodt Rufus Wainwright , singer-songwriter You have to be athletic and work the room. Separate from your partner. Both of you should cover each side. Harry Hurt III , journalist When working a room, it’s best to obey the 30-second rule: Say hello, talk, and quickly move on. Blue Carreon/Figue Liz Lange , designer, owner, Grey Gardens estate, East Hampton, N.Y. You don’t want the person you’re speaking with to think you want to move onto someone else “better.” But you don’t want to spend the evening sequestered in the corner with just one person. After a few minutes, it’s polite to excuse yourself by saying you want to refresh your drink. Athena Calderone , interior designer Some of my earliest friends in New York remember me as a wallflower. I was so nervous when people would ask me “What do you do?” That was a scary question, because I had yet to define the answer. These feelings can affect your presence in a space. I think it’s important to show up anyway and be who you are. Jennifer Gilbert pours the wine. Jennifer Gilbert , event planner Stop bringing candles to people’s homes. We all know they’re regifted. There are only so many candles any house can take! Kyle Hotchkiss Carone , hospitality executive I hate that move of pretending it’s the first time you’ve met someone, because you’re worried the other person won’t remember you. It’s: “Nice to see you.” Not: “Nice to meet you.” Always! Krista Schlueter for The New York Times Molly Jong-Fast , writer, political commentator Even if you forget who somebody is, pretend you remember them, because people hate it when you forget them. Just pretend you remember people, even if you don’t, because it’s just kind. One thing I’ve noticed is that people in New York sometimes pretend not to know you, even if they do, whereas people in D.C. pretend to know you, even if they don’t. Gary Jackson Bronson van Wyck , event planner, author The best way to make a bad impression is to complain. You may think you’re bonding with another guest by complaining, but that’s a cheap bond. You’re not adding anything when you say something like, “Can you believe how long it took to get here?” Impana Srikantappa , investment executive Relax. Everything is going to be fine. If you operate with the mind-set of “everything is going to be fine,” then everything is going to be fine. But if you stress out, then everything is going to stress you out. 3 How to Converse It seems to come down to listening and asking questions — and resisting the temptation to make it all about you. Laila Gohar , culinary artist I have this theory that dinner guests fall into two different categories: “characters” and “glues.” Characters are big personalities, the life of the party. They are conversation-starters. Glues are good listeners. They’re soft-spoken and hold conversations together. You need the right balance. Too many characters will start competing for attention. Too much glue and things can get boring. When I put together a guest list, I think of it like casting a movie. Susan Gutfreund , socialite A good dinner party is where you mix people up. You mix them up, and you pray it’s going to work like a horse race — you pray it’ll go down to the end, to the wire. Josh Flagg , real estate agent, TV personality, author If somebody’s having a bad day, I get it. And if you make it the topic of conversation for the entire dinner party, that’s fine — you just won’t be invited again. Bronson van Wyck This is one of the top three things a great guest can do for a host: Figure out the person who knows the fewest people or is the most socially awkward, and go talk to them for five minutes. They’re there because the host cares about them, presumably. And the host wants this person to have a nice time. You can help make that happen! Max Tucci , restaurateur A good guest is someone who shows up authentically and doesn’t try to be someone else. Name-dropping, being affected, social-climbing — leave all that at the door. Sara Ruffin Costello , hotel designer, advice columnist I have a friend who talks a lot . People are excusing themselves to go to the bathroom when they get stuck with her. Try listening. When in doubt, try David Sedaris’s bizarre conversational icebreakers. “How long have you known your dentist?” You have to have a certain personality to pull that off. Alex Hitz A party is not a therapy session. No one wants to hear your problems at a party. There’s the terrible renovation story that no one wants to hear. And no one wants to know what’s wrong with you physically. They’ll call you a bore. Tell a joke or two. Tell everyone they look great. Steven Badius, a friend of Kyle Hotchkiss Carone, is captured mid-party. Kyle Hotchkiss Carone Kyle Hotchkiss Carone There is a specific skill that is probably just charisma, but it’s when you know how to meet the energy of the person or group you are chatting with. I hate being asked very specific questions. Tell me a story. If it’s interesting, I’ll tell you one back. And around and around we’ll go. Kendall Werts “Real Housewives” is always a good source of conversation, because these people aren’t real, but they remind you of people in your 