# 620592

**Source**: https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2021/11/breakaway-movement-gen-z-multilevel-marketing/620592/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:54:41.414572+00:00

---

When Multilevel Marketing Met Gen Z - The Atlantic Skip to content Site Navigation The Atlantic Popular Latest Newsletters Sections Politics Ideas Fiction Technology Science Photo Economy Culture Planet Global Books AI Watchdog Health Education Projects Features Family Events Washington Week Progress National Security Explore The Atlantic Archive Play The Atlantic Games Listen to Podcasts and Articles The Print Edition Latest Issue Past Issues Give a Gift Search The Atlantic Quick Links Audio Crossword Puzzle Magazine Archive Your Subscription Popular Latest Newsletters Sign In Subscribe Illustration by Ryan Haskins Technology When Multilevel Marketing Met Gen Z Amelia Whelan used social media as an accelerant for her sales community. Then things blew up. By Kaitlyn Tiffany November 30, 2021 Share Save So you’ve been scrolling through Facebook for a while—dull, dull, dull—when you hear the sound of tropical bird chatter. You glimpse a 20-something woman floating in a natural pool of water with her eyes closed, and then she starts to talk to you about her passion for “manifesting money” and how every little thing she’s ever wanted is now hers. What’s this? She’s looking out the window of an airplane, through the clouds at a mossy mountaintop; she’s scooping up sand and blowing it at the camera as if the grains were dandelion seeds; she’s biking in a white dress on a secluded path, no handlebars. She has more time and wealth than she knows what to do with—and so now she will pause to bathe an elephant. Wait a minute, you say to yourself. Could this be my life too? Maybe, because this video is “your invitation to experience lasting abundance” and “financial freedom” and the opportunity to travel the world, ethically, while eschewing plastic water bottles. Amelia Whelan, founder of the Breakaway Movement, shared it to Facebook on her company’s launch day, in the summer of 2019, when she was 25 years old. “I’ve dedicated the last 12 months of my life to this project, so I know you’ll love it,” she wrote at the time. “I invite you to join me and breakaway …” Doing so would cost just $33.33 a month, in exchange for access to a private Facebook group, invitations to weekly group calls, an assigned mentor, and dozens of hours of video-course materials about how to create a social-media brand, how to form an LLC, how to maintain a “money mindset,” and, sort of, how to sell $5,000 K8 water-ionizing machines to your friends and followers on commission for a Japanese tech company called Enagic. (Enagic says it does not have a formal relationship with the Breakaway Movement or Whelan, beyond her being an independent distributor for the company.) Whelan, the self-made (and self-declared) millionaire at the center of the movement, grew up in a small town in New York and moved to Hawaii for college. When she first started selling water-ionizing machines for Enagic, she joined a sales community on Facebook but didn’t vibe with it. The group had a “very predominant male presence,” she’d later say, and its members’ approach to spending money—“they were flashing checks and they were buying Yeezys”—did not appeal to her. “I knew I was tired of working for corporations that did very little for the things I truly care about,” she told me when I first got in touch with her last April. So she decided to start her own Enagic group, built around those things: “holistic health, sustainability, and the environment.” This would be the Breakaway Movement, an expansive community with good vibes and great aesthetics, offering coursework teaching newbies how to set up effective Instagram ads and “attract” a small fortune. Together, they would sell more than they could sell alone, and they would make Enagic machines into something cool . By this time, Whelan had an enviable personal brand under the Instagram handle @saltsandandsmoothies. Now her look would be the movement’s look—young, blond, an even tan, well dressed in the sense that well-cut bathing suits do not come cheap. (In 2019, she posted to Facebook that she was earning “more money than every single person I know.”) The women she’d tag in her posts—many of whom were also part of Breakaway—starred in equally beautiful narratives on their own Instagram accounts, such as renting a luxury tree house in the rainforest or chartering a ship to sail around “secret islands.” And for more than a year, the platform thrived. As the company started receiving monthly fees from thousands of members, Whelan set up a real company with contractors, and planned glamorous retreats where attendees could enjoy yoga, breathwork, and bonding activities. Whelan’s pitch had been tailored to her generation’s fantasy of success: quantifiable influence on a social platform, a flexible schedule working from a MacBook Air, unlimited world travel, virtuous accumulation of wealth. But her business model might have been familiar to the Breakaway members’ grandparents. The best way to get started in the group as a seller for Enagic was to buy at least one K8 water-ionizing machine yourself (or another, less expensive Enagic product, like a $2,890 shower filter); then you were encouraged to bring in other people to sell machines themselves, passing a chunk of their commission checks on to you. In other words, this was classic multilevel marketing, optimized and freshened up for Gen Z. Amelia Whelan’s influencer sheen would help to bring an old business proposition to a wide, new audience. But that same, new audience was about to bring a lot of trouble in return. From the start, Whelan tried to put her rapidly growing water-machine sales force at ease about the nature of their work. “No one wants to get involved in anything that is shady or unethical,” she explained in one of her early informational videos. “It’s a lot like real estate, honestly.” Multilevel marketing is not, in fact, that much like real estate. The phrase describes a form of person-to-person sales in which your income is partly a function of your ability to expand the network. The more recruiting you do for new salespeople, the more money you make. That works fine, so long as the products that you’re selling are easy to unload, and the supply of new recruits never dwindles. In reality, distributors in these MLM businesses may be set up to fail by weak demand, and by a byzantine structure that can leave them to amass unsold inventory while recruiting more and more salespeople into their downline. Read: LuLaRich reveals a hole in the American economy The best-known MLM companies of a generation ago—Tupperware, Avon, Amway, Mary Kay—mixed suspect commerce with a genuine sense of community. Participants sold functional household items and basic beauty products at cozy living-room parties, surrounded by their friends and family. “You’d get a nice card in the mail or a direct phone call, which was really sweet and feels personal,” says Jane Marie, an executive producer and co-creator of the podcast The Dream , which reports on MLM culture. “It would be a bunch of ladies getting together to have tea or wine and shop, but mostly just, like, hang out.” Whelan’s Breakaway Movement would not seem to have much in common with these sip-and-browse affairs, aside from its connections to a similar commercial structure. In place of cheap, disposable housewares, Whelan and other members sell luxury water machines that are meant to fit into a sleek, environmentally friendly, minimalist lifestyle. And if the Avon lady was someone you knew who would drop by your house and have a cup of coffee while she gave her spiel, Whelan presents herself as an untouchable celebrity posting from thousands of miles away, usually from Indonesia or Hawaii. She’s not your cousin or your neighbor; she’s an influencer . That means she, like others who ascend the ranks of today’s multilevel-marketing companies, can recruit from all over the world—an Instagram-famous salesperson for an Instagram-famous brand, selling access to her expertise in online groups or exclusive meetups: Imagine if an Avon lady could knock on 100,000 doors at once. Recruits come in through referral links, and it takes mere minutes to go from scrolling through an Instagram feed to typing in your credit-card number and getting started. MLMs like Enagic have boomed online in recent years, selling essential oils (doTERRA, Young Living), fitness products (Beachbody, It Works), beauty products (Monat, Arbonne), or women’s fashion (Paparazzi, LuLaRoe). At the same time, their global reach poses problems of its own. An insinuation of grandeur, posted to Instagram over and over, with only slightly varying images and phrases, may well lead to exponential business growth. But the same message, and the same posts, can be quickly fact-checked on the internet, and debunkings will go viral too. Indeed, many of these companies have been publicly excoriated, thanks to ex-distributor testimonials shared on social media, the same platform that enabled their success. The faux-warm “hey hun” used by MLM recruiters in Instagram and Facebook messages is by now a meme, and an “antiMLM” forum on Reddit went from having fewer than 1,000 members at the beginning of 2017 to more than 740,000 by the time of writing. A recent special report from the industry trade publication Social Selling News described the “troubling rise” of anti-MLM sentiment on YouTube, TikTok, and other platforms, and quoted Joe Mariano, the president of the Direct Selling Association, as saying that this was different from “the general kind of public perception issues that we have always had.” Paranoia has been growing in his industry about “ a group of unlikely allies ,” including anti-MLM social-media influencers, longtime consumer advocates, and government regulators, who are angling for the Federal Trade Commission to get more involved in MLM business practices. The August cover story of Social Selling News was a hand-wringing article about the new FTC chair and “ progres