# The Stupidity Of Computers

**Source**: http://nplusonemag.com/the-stupidity-of-computers
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:55:10.751042+00:00

---

The Stupidity of Computers | Issue 13 | n+1 | David Auerbach You are using an outdated browser. Please upgrade your browser or activate Google Chrome Frame to improve your experience. Subscribe Magazine Online Only Bookstore Events Donate Search n+1 Sign In Email Address Password Forgot Password Issue 13 Machine Politics The Intellectual Situation Song for Occupations The Editors A Left Populism The Editors Song for Occupations (Reprise) The Editors Politics Raise the Crime Rate Christopher Glazek Fiction and Drama Buzz Benjamin Kunkel Essays Dmitry Kuzmin Kirill Medvedev Unschooling Astra Taylor Quantitative Formalism: An Experiment Sarah Allison, Ryan Heuser, Matthew Jockers, Franco Moretti, Michael Witmore The Stupidity of Computers David Auerbach Preparation James Franco, Deenah Vollmer Reviews Female Trouble Elizabeth Gumport On the Market Alice Gregory Letters Letters The Editors Essays David Auerbach The Stupidity of Computers Published in Issue 13 : Machine Politics Publication date Winter 2012 Tags Science and Technology Share and Save Twitter Facebook Bluesky Instapaper Dumb Computers are near-omnipotent cauldrons of processing power, but they&#8217;re also stupid. They are the undisputed chess champions of the world, but they can&#8217;t understand a simple English conversation. IBM’s Watson supercomputer defeated two top Jeopardy! players last year, but for the clue “What grasshoppers eat,” Watson answered: “Kosher.” For all the data he could access within a fraction of a second—one of the greatest corpuses ever assembled—Watson looked awfully dumb. Hard Labor Consider how difficult it is to get a computer to do anything. To take a simple example, let’s say we would like to ask a computer to find the most commonly occurring word on a web page, perhaps as a hint to what the page might be about. Here is an algorithm in pseudocode (more or less plain English describing the basic outline of a program), in which we have a table, WordCount, that contains the number of occurrences of each word on the page: FOREACH CurrentWord IN WordsOnPage WordCount[CurrentWord] = WordCount[CurrentWord] + 1 MostFrequentlyOccurringWord = “????” FOREACH CurrentWord IN WordCount.keys() IF (WordCount[CurrentWord] &gt; WordCount [MostFrequentlyOccurringWord]) MostFrequentlyOccurringWord = CurrentWord PRINT MostFrequentlyOccurringWord, WordCount[MostFrequentlyOccurringWord] The first FOREACH loop counts the number of times each word occurs on the page. The second FOREACH loop goes through that list of unique words, looking for the one that has the largest count. After determining the most commonly occurring word, it prints the word and the number of occurrences. The result, however, will probably be a word like the . In fact, the least commonly occurring words on a page are frequently more interesting: words like myxomatosis or hermeneutics . To be more precise, what you really want to know is what uncommon words appear on this page more commonly than they do on other pages. The uncommon words are more likely to tell you what the page is about. So it becomes necessary to track and accumulate this sort of data on vast scales. Any instructions to a computer must be as laboriously precise as these. Some of the towering achievements in computer science have been in the creation of brilliantly clever, efficient, and useful algorithms such as Quicksort, Huffman Compression, the Fast Fourier Transform, and the Monte Carlo method, all reasonably simple (but not obvious) methods of accomplishing precisely specified tasks on potentially huge amounts of precisely specified data. Alongside such computational challenges there has been the dream of artificial intelligence: to get computers to think. Search Almost two decades on , it’s easy to forget the mess that resulted when you tried to use the early search engines—Lycos, AltaVista, Northern Light. In addition to spotty coverage of the nascent web, none of them had any particularly skillful way of ordering their results. Yahoo, which presented users with a search box, was in fact not a search engine at all, but a manually updated, far-from-universal directory of web pages. Either way, users frequently had to go through pages and pages of results, often with completely incoherent descriptions or summaries, in order to find something even resembling the desired information. As spam pages increased on the web, this problem grew worse. But how was a computer to know what a user was looking for, just on the basis of a list of search words? One early search engine attempted to mask its inadequacy by achieving a semantic understanding of the queries being entered in its search boxes. Ask Jeeves (now known simply as Ask) encouraged users to type actual questions rather than keywords: “Where can I buy shoes?” rather than “shoe shops.” Its front page featured a tuxedoed English butler, the eponymous Jeeves, who was unfortunately more like Bertie Wooster. Jeeves did not handle the queries very well. Where other search engines searched for particular words on a page, and the more of them the better, Jeeves interpreted questions in a heuristic fashion, looking for interrogative keywords such as “where,” “who,” and “how,” then transformed these into a more standard query, possibly with some special handling. “How old is President Clinton?” could become “President Clinton’s age” as a query, after isolating “How old” and using a hard-coded rule that equated the answer to that question with a plausible number, say between 0 and 100. Jeeves then searched its archive of the internet for appearances of “President Clinton’s age” or instances of “President Clinton” near a two-digit number (it certainly didn’t know that “President Clinton” was equivalent to “Bill Clinton”). If it found a few websites with the phrase “President Clinton’s age is 52” or “President Clinton is 52 years old” or even “President Clinton is 52,” it could be reasonably confident that this was correct. But it only knew to look for those patterns because humans had hard-coded them. Other cases required similar handcrafted code. It was a cumbersome process and it didn’t “scale.” The particular case of asking for a person’s age was covered, but anything more complicated—“How old is the New York subway system?” or “How old is primogeniture?” much less “How old is 12 in dog years?”—would confuse poor Jeeves. Eliza and Shrdlu Jeeves wasn’t exactly faking it —he really did try to “understand” the question, but his ability to do so was shockingly narrow. To computer programmers, he was just an updated version of Joseph Weizenbaum’s ELIZA, a 1966 program that parodically simulated a Rogerian therapist, mostly by rephrasing its interlocutor’s statements as questions. For example: How are you today? What would you like to discuss? &gt;&gt; I’m having a nervous breakdown. Is it because you are having a nervous breakdown that you came to me? &gt;&gt; Yes. You seem to be quite positive. &gt;&gt; My father hates me. Tell me more about your family. &gt;&gt; I’m a mess. Did you come to me because you are a mess? &gt;&gt; No. You are being a bit negative. ELIZA could recognize keywords like yes, no, and father to deliver particular responses. But that was about as far as it went. A few years later came SHRDLU, developed at MIT by the artificial intelligence researcher Terry Winograd. SHRDLU was a genuine computing achievement. It allowed for natural language interaction with a computer under narrowly circumscribed conditions. Differently shaped blocks were displayed on a screen, and the computer could manipulate these in response to typed instructions from a person: Person Pick up a big red block. Computer OK. [does it] Person Grasp the pyramid. Computer I don&#8217;t understand which pyramid you mean. Person Find a block which is taller than the one you are holding and put it into the box. Computer By “it,” I assume you mean the block which is taller than the one I am holding. Computer OK. [does it] Person What does the box contain? Computer The blue pyramid and the blue box. Person What is the pyramid supported by? Computer The box. Person How many blocks are not in the box? Computer Four of them. Person Is at least one of them narrower than the one which I told you to pick up? Computer Yes, the red cube. Person Is it supported? Computer Yes, by the table. Person Can the table pick up blocks? Computer No. Person Can a pyramid be supported by a block? Computer Yes. [&#8230;] Person A “steeple” is a stack which contains two green cubes and a pyramid. computer I understand. Person Are there are any steeples now? Computer No. Person Build one. Computer OK. [does it] Person Call the biggest block “superblock.” Computer OK. Person Have you picked superblock up since we began? Computer Yes. Person Why did you drop it? Computer By “it,” I assume you mean the superblock. I can’t explain a non­existent event. Every human sentence had to be transformed into a logical syntax that represented its meaning. The sentence “pick up a red block” was represented as the following: (PICK UP A BIG RED BLOCK) (CLAUSE MAJOR TOPLEVEL IMPER ACTV PRT TRANS) (RSS1) (PICK) (VG IMPER) NIL (PICK (VPRT VB INF TRANS MVB) (UP (PRT)) (A BIG RED BLOCK) (NG OBJ OBJ1 DET NS INDEF) (OSS4) (A (DET NS INDEF)) (BIG (ADJ)) (RED (ADJ)) (BLOCK (NOUN NS)))))) NIL) Such programs seemed to hold promise for more generalized communication, but the secret of SHRDLU’s success lay precisely in the very narrow domain it worked within. It could understand English, but only as long as you were talking about colored blocks and the movements that could be performed on them. Alan Turing, the analytical genius who broke the German ENIGMA code during World War II and formulated some of the fundamental principles of computer science, famously proposed a “test” for whether a computer was intelligent: could it, in text-only conversation, convince a person that it was human? Turing predicted in 1950 that a computer w