# Killingfacebook

**Source**: https://www.wheresyoured.at/killingfacebook/#:~:text=For%20over%20a%20decade%2C%20Facebook%20has%20deliberately%20made%20itself%20worse%20to%20make%20more%20money%2C%20thanks%20Mark%20Zuckerberg%20and%20the%20Growth%20Team%20perpetuating%20a%20culture%20that%20manipulates%20and%20tortures%20users%20to%20make%20company%20metrics%20improve.%C2%A0
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:45:10.848236+00:00

---

The People Deliberately Killing Facebook Home About Better Offline Log In Subscribe Sign up Sign in Home About Better Offline Sign up Log in Subscribe The People Deliberately Killing Facebook Edward Zitron May 20, 2024 22 min read Enjoy this post? Why not try the podcast version ? Please download it, and also all the other episodes. Over the last decade, few platforms have declined quite as rapidly and visibly as Facebook and Instagram. What used to be apps for catching up with your friends and family are now algorithmic nightmares that constantly interrupt you with suggested content and advertisements that consistently outweigh the content of people that you choose to follow.&nbsp; Conversely, those running Facebook groups routinely find that their content isn’t even being shown to those who choose to follow them thanks to Meta’s outright abusive approach to social media where the customer is not only wrong , but should ideally have little control over what they see. Over the next two newsletters, I’m going to walk you through the decline of Facebook and Instagram, starting with the events that led to its decay and those I believe are responsible for turning the world’s most popular consumer apps into skinner boxes for advertising agencies. In the case of Facebook, the decline is either reflected in — or directly facilitated by — two specific features: People You May Know and the News Feed. It’s my belief that these products, piloted by deeply insidious people led by Mark Zuckerberg himself, are central to the darkness inside this company. And I want to dispel a notion that many people have: Facebook has, from the very beginning, been a rotten, manipulative company, one that acted with little regard for users, even at times when it pretended to do so. The goal has always been more — not just more money , but more engagement, more time on the app, more visits to the website, and perpetual growth, all mandated by Mark Zuckerberg and a rogue’s gallery of rot economists. We start our story in 2004, a few months after the company was founded, when Peter Thiel became Facebook’s first investor, putting $500,000 into the company in return for a 10.2% stake. As depicted in the 2010 Aaron Sorkin film The Social Network, Thiel was introduced to Zuckerberg by Sean Parker, the co-founder of Napster, his wounds fresh from a brutal beating by Lars Ulrich and Metallica.&nbsp; What was significant about this event wasn’t the people involved or the amount of money invested, but the terms of the deal — terms that would permanently and inextricably ruin Facebook. Parker, ever the advocate for founders, negotiated with Peter Thiel to allow Mark Zuckerberg to retain two of Facebook’s five board seats. When Parker resigned in 2005, he insisted that Zuckerberg be given his seat .&nbsp; While this may have seemed a noble, even ideal situation for a founder in these early days, this single move has allowed Zuckerberg to wield complete power over Facebook, and was the first step along a road that has made him impossible to fire, ultimately dooming the company to whatever miserable death march Harvard’s most quirked-up white boy would deem fit. As an aside: Zuckerberg’s invulnerability also comes from Meta’s dual-class share structure. Essentially, there are two kinds of Meta stock: Class A shares, which are widely traded and represent one vote, and Class B shares, which each represent ten votes.&nbsp; Zuckerberg owns an estimated 60% of all Class B shares , with a significant chunk of the remainder largely held by insiders and other sycophants. This means that despite only owning roughly 13% of Facebook shares, his power is virtually absolute. While there are relatively fewer Class B shares than Class A shares, it doesn’t really matter, given the disproportionate power they wield. In essence, this makes Zuckerberg invulnerable to a stockholder revolt, or the arrival of an activist investor (like, for example, Bill Ackman).&nbsp; This isn’t a particularly unusual structure. It’s common within technology companies, particularly those founded over the past few decades. Google has a three-tier stock structure, with Class B shares (those with the most voting power) held by Larry Page, Sergey Brin, and former CEO Eric Schmidt, in essence giving them a majority despite collectively only owning a relatively small percentage of the company. Class C shares, which Facebook has tried (and failed) to issue , carry no voting rights. I cannot express how important this moment was. This was when the mistake was made, albeit innocently, that kept Zuckerberg in power. I would be kind and suggest that Sean Parker didn’t know what Mark Zuckerberg was like at this point other than the fact that he absolutely did, and he should have known better.&nbsp; A few years later in April 2006, Zuckerberg was once again able to negotiate terms that kept him at the top, in part thanks to Facebook’s strong revenue — $6 million a year, an impressive sum at the time, especially for company in the new and ill-defined social networking space — and the fact that he owned three out of five board seats and could do whatever the hell he wanted. Venture capitalists desperate to avoid missing out on a company with rocketship growth had little leverage against a man with the keys to the most important company in tech.&nbsp; In September 2006 , Facebook would launch the News Feed — a relatively unsophisticated chronological feed of your friends’ status that is, on some level, one of the most important launches in modern software history, and a great example of a good product that got destroyed by executives that realized a focal point for their users is a great place to torture them with advertising.&nbsp; Don’t get me wrong. It had a rough start. The feed, which Facebook product manager Ruchi Sanghvi described as “quite unlike anything you can find on the web,” led to an immediate revolt within Facebook’s 9.5 million users, as it effectively showed a stream of literally every action you took on the platform, which users found “creepy” and “stalker-esque” according to a group made at the time called Students Against Facebook News Feed.&nbsp; For those who weren’t around when it launched, or didn’t use Facebook, this bit is hard to grasp. It would show you literally every activity you and your friends did. If you joined or left a group, or made a new connection, it would appear for all to see. It was almost like a panopticon — one where you are simultaneously the jailer and the prisoner.&nbsp; A few days later, Zuckerberg would apologize, saying that Facebook “ really messed this one up ,” and that Facebook spent two days coding non-stop to add a privacy page that allowed users to choose which types of stories went into their News Feed. While this feature was actually released, it’s important to know that while the rest of the world might not have known what you were doing afterwards, Mark Zuckerberg and Facebook absolutely did. This was the same year that Facebook opened to the general public, turned down a billion-dollar acquisition offer from Yahoo, and signed a three-year advertising deal with Microsoft.&nbsp; Yet Facebook’s rot began in earnest in 2008, when a former McKinsey analyst, now the Vice President of Global Online Sales &amp; Operations at Google, would be made Chief Operating Officer of Facebook. Her name was Sheryl Sandberg, and she would be the force that would grow Facebook into a truly evil company. According to an excerpt from Steven Levy’s “Facebook: The Inside Story,” sometime in 2008, Facebook’s growth had stalled somewhere around 90 million users, with Zuckerberg telling Levy in an interview that the company had “hit a wall.”&nbsp; Chamath Palihapitiya, a former venture capitalist who was at the time Facebook’s VP of Platform &amp; Monetization, came to Zuckerberg with an idea — that Facebook should focus on a new metric, monthly active users. This metric, which is now a cornerstone of most tech companies’ growth metrics, would be a measure of whether users were sticking on the platform, and boosting this number would mean that users were engaged with the product.&nbsp; In a meeting with Zuckerberg and Sandberg, Palihapitiya was asked to name it, and it came up with MAUs. Sandberg responded that they should “just call it growth.”&nbsp; At the next board meeting, Palihapitiya would present what Levy would call “aggressive growth techniques” that would double or triple Facebook’s user base, and then “use the platform itself as an engine for growth.”&nbsp; After a tepid response at the meeting, Palihapitiya was given license to build a new growth team from both within and outside Facebook, one that would eventually become a rogue’s gallery of rot economists, including Facebook Head of Product Naomi Gleit, and Alex Schultz, who would go on to become Meta’s Chief marketing Officer and VP of Analytics, along with fellow teammate Javier Olivan, who replaced Sandberg as Chief Operating Officer in 2022. Gleit, Olivan and Schultz are at the epicenter of almost every single choice that Meta has made to put growth above the user experience. Palihapitiya wanted their team — which also included early Facebook data scientist Danny Ferrante and Blake Ross, who previously co-created the Firefox Web Browser — to become “the Growth Circle,” what Levy refers to as “a power center in the company with special status and a distinctive subculture.”&nbsp; He succeeded. In 2008, Facebook would launch a feature called “People You May Know,” a seemingly-innocent feature that would, as the name suggests, suggest people that you might know on Facebook. Yet this innocent seemed to be a little too good at its job, with reporter Kashmir Hill — who spent over a year investigating the feature for Gizmodo from 2016 to 2017 —&nbsp; saying it “mined information users don’t have control over to make connections they may not want to make,” such as suggesting patients friend their psychiatrist, o