# Sam Bankman Fried

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/sam-bankman-fried/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:09:04.208402+00:00

---

Sam Bankman Fried - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: Sam Bankman Fried strange cell fellows Mar. 10, 2025 Sam Bankman-Fried Says He Hangs Out With Diddy Every Day It’s good to have a friend. By Matt Stieb celebrity real estate Sept. 24, 2024 P. Diddy and Sam Bankman Fried Are Jail Bunkmates Sources say the rapper and the crypto king are in the same housing unit at the Metropolitan Detention Center. By Adriane Quinlan the money game Apr. 10, 2024 The Effective Altruists’ Castle Is for Sale — and Has Become a Culture-War Meme Sam Bankman-Fried funded the philanthropic movement, and now they have to sell to pay back his victims. By Kevin T. Dugan crimes Mar. 28, 2024 Sam Bankman-Fried’s Final Trip to Court The former crypto-billionaire boy wonder did not get the short sentence he wanted. By Kevin T. Dugan frauds Mar. 15, 2024 SBF Planned to ‘Come Out As Republican’ With Tucker Carlson “Come out against the woke agenda” are actual words in a note the crypto fraud wrote to himself. By Kevin T. Dugan the money game Feb. 22, 2024 ‘They Are Very Comfortable With Lying’ How fallen crypto kingpins Su Zhu and Kyle Davies are dodging prison — and rebranding. By Jen Wieczner sam bankman-fried Feb. 20, 2024 SBF’s First Jailhouse Photo Shows Him Skinny and Unkempt Apparently the convicted crypto fraudster doesn’t shower, and there was an unexplained “incident” in jail. By Kevin T. Dugan sam bankman-fried Jan. 25, 2024 Sam Bankman-Fried Is Still Messing Up Bitcoin’s Big Comeback After a huge regulatory triumph, the bankrupt husk of FTX is still turning crypto markets red. By Kevin T. Dugan year in review Dec. 28, 2023 The Wackiest Political Stories of 2023 From Lauren Boebert’s steamy Beetlejuice date to Ron DeSantis’s pudding fingers, U.S. politics had another bizarre trip around the sun. By Intelligencer Staff the money game Nov. 3, 2023 The Real SBF Stood Up An open-and-shut case finally revealed the criminal behind the legend. By Kevin T. Dugan court appearances Nov. 3, 2023 The Trump-SBF Trial Doubleheader Is the Ultimate New York Scene What I saw awaiting Don Jr. and a verdict. By Owen Long court appearances Nov. 2, 2023 Sam Bankman-Fried Never Had a Chance The FTX founder was found guilty on all seven counts of fraud and conspiracy. By Kevin T. Dugan court appearances Oct. 31, 2023 Sam Bankman-Fried Finally Tells His Story The former FTX CEO made a bet that his story would be convincing, but who is he trying to sway? By Kevin T. Dugan court appearances Oct. 28, 2023 Inside the Vaping, Gambling, Jeering Wildness of the SBF Trial Overflow Rooms The crypto fraud trial has an ungainly audience who hold nothing back, and it’s kind of great. By Kevin T. Dugan sam bankman-fried Oct. 25, 2023 Sam Bankman-Fried Is Pulling an Elizabeth Holmes And Testifying The alleged crypto fraudster will take the witness stand in his defense — a risky move. By Kevin T. Dugan the money game Oct. 19, 2023 The Winklevii’s Next Act Is Getting Sued for Crypto Fraud by New York State New York AG Tish James sues the Winklevii’s crypto exchange and CoinDesk’s parent company for defrauding 23,000 people. By Kevin T. Dugan sam bankman-fried Oct. 18, 2023 SBF’s Lawyer Admits He Doesn’t Really Have a Plan If it feels like there’s no strategy, that’s because there probably isn’t one. By Kevin T. Dugan books Oct. 17, 2023 Twilight of the Heroes of Capitalism How Michael Lewis got duped by Sam Bankman-Fried. By David Roth sam bankman-fried Oct. 16, 2023 SBF’s New Plan to Win in Court: Adderall Does the fallen crypto CEO actually need his meds, or is this another game? By Kevin T. Dugan crime Oct. 16, 2023 What’s the Matter With Stanford? The Sam Bankman-Fried scandal reveals a lot about Silicon Valley’s favorite school. By Theo Baker court appearances Oct. 12, 2023 The Unbreakable Caroline Ellison The star witness against Sam Bankman-Fried was untouched by the defense. By Kevin T. Dugan the money game Oct. 12, 2023 Is Sam Bankman-Fried Still Trying to Intimidate Caroline Ellison? A peek inside the sidebar talks as the crypto fraud trial gets testy. By Kevin T. Dugan the money game Oct. 11, 2023 The Revenge of Caroline Ellison, Part 2: ‘$150 Million for the Thing’ Her testimony featured an insane data dump about how her ex-boyfriend Bankman-Fried operated — and a tearful moment at the end. By Kevin T. Dugan court appearances Oct. 10, 2023 Caroline Ellison’s Revenge After Sam Bankman-Fried blamed her for his company’s fraud, she spent hours on the witness stand implicating him in crime after crime. By Kevin T. Dugan court appearances Oct. 5, 2023 SBF’s Discount Suit In his first appearance on trial for fraud in New York, Sam Bankman-Fried cut an unfamiliar profile. By Kevin T. Dugan the money game Oct. 3, 2023 The 3 Most Important Things to Know About Michael Lewis’s SBF Book Here’s the best of what is in the book — and the biggest things Lewis missed. By Kevin T. Dugan court appearances Sept. 30, 2023 Sam Bankman-Fried’s Way to Win His trial begins Monday. Is the prosecution a slam dunk? We think not. By Kevin T. Dugan court appearances Sept. 22, 2023 Introducing Court Appearances: USA v. SBF A newsletter covering the trial of Sam Bankman-Fried, exclusively for New York subscribers. By Choire Sicha ftx fallout Sept. 19, 2023 FTX Wants Back All the Lavish Gifts Sam Bankman-Fried Gave His Parents The crypto exchange filed a lawsuit claiming that Bankman-Fried’s parents received over $26 million in gifts. By Matt Stieb the money game Sept. 13, 2023 Who Wants to Buy a Piece of Sam Bankman-Fried? What’s left of FTX is about to go up for auction, including billions of crypto and Bahamas real estate. By Kevin T. Dugan crypto Sept. 7, 2023 What We Know About Sam Bankman-Fried’s Life in Jail He’s not getting his vegan meals and is spending a whole lot of time with his attorneys while at the notorious MDC facility in Brooklyn. By Matt Stieb the money game Sept. 6, 2023 That’s What I Call Ponzinomics With Sam Bankman-Fried, Gisele, and a credulous Michael Lewis at the zenith of crypto hype. By Zeke Faux crypto Aug. 11, 2023 Sam Bankman-Fried Jailed for Leaking His Ex-Girlfriend’s Diary His bail was revoked for sharing Caroline Ellison’s writings with the press, considered probable cause for witness tampering. By Matt Stieb ftx fallout Aug. 8, 2023 Sam Bankman-Fried Will Be Charged With Illegal Campaign Contributions After All Prosecutors intend to pursue the allegations of illegal campaign donations as part of the money-laundering and wire-fraud charges he faces in October. By Matt Stieb ftx fallout July 31, 2023 Feds Say They Want Sam Bankman-Fried in Jail for Intimidating Witnesses Prosecutors claim Bankman-Fried tried to “discredit” the reputation of his ex-girlfriend, who is cooperating in the case against him. By Matt Stieb crypto July 20, 2023 Caroline Ellison Was Having a Bad Time in the FTX Empire Newly obtained diary entries reveal her struggles working with ex-boyfriend Sam Bankman-Fried as their crypto fraud went down. By Matt Stieb sam bankman-fried May 23, 2023 What Secrets Did Caroline Ellison Keep in Her Diary? She was Sam Bankman-Fried’s former girlfriend and employee. Now, prosecutors reportedly have access to her rawest thoughts and feelings. By Kevin T. Dugan ftx fallout Apr. 19, 2023 Taylor Swift Was Apparently the Only Celeb Too Smart to Fall for FTX She was the “one” person who did her homework before bailing on an endorsement deal, according to the lawyer suing FTX’s celebrity spokespeople. By Matt Stieb ftx Apr. 18, 2023 It Took a Private Eye to Find Shaq for an FTX Lawsuit The former NBA great got served. By Matt Stieb ftx fallout Mar. 29, 2023 SBF’s Dad Is Paying for His Son’s Lawyers: Report As the legal bills pile up, Joseph Bankman is reportedly paying his son’s attorneys with money that SBF gave him from an Alameda account. By Matt Stieb ftx fallout Mar. 28, 2023 Sam Bankman-Fried Charged With Offering $40 Million Bribe to Chinese Officials It’s hard to believe, but the disgraced FTX founder is in even more trouble. By Matt Stieb ftx fallout Mar. 16, 2023 Sam Bankman-Fried Got $2 Billion in Loans From His Own Company FTX’s new management said in bankruptcy court that SBF had received billions in “loa