# Roche Sajegmail Com

**Source**: https://parentdata.org/author/roche-sajegmail-com/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:03:36.013356+00:00

---

ParentData by Emily Oster ParentData is a data-driven guide through pregnancy, parenthood, and beyond. Try it for free --> Log in dewey search Log in Subscribe Trying to Conceive Pregnancy Babies Toddlers Kids Grown-Ups See All Search Signup About FAQs Articles Contact Search Ask Petey a question Subscribe Log in Welcome to ParentData Find the data-driven, judgment-free answers you’re looking for on trying to conceive, pregnancy, parenting, and beyond. Subscribe today Featured Articles In the news Sep. 26, 2025 | 3 minute read Can Leucovorin Treat Autism? Emily Oster, PhD In the news Sep. 20, 2025 | 7 minute read What’s Happening to the MMRV, Hepatitis B, and COVID Vaccines? Emily Oster, PhD In the news Sep. 7, 2025 | 6 minute read Is Tylenol Safe in Pregnancy? Emily Oster, PhD In the news Jan. 27, 2025 | 16 minute read How Can You Know If Vaccines Are Safe? Emily Oster, PhD Top searches Sleep Potty Training Alcohol Homework Breastfeeding Formula Birth Control IVF Poop Fertility Meet Emily… CEO of ParentData, mom of two, best-selling author, PhD graduate in economics from Harvard, and professor of economics at Brown University. Her books Expecting Better , Cribsheet , The Family Firm , and The Unexpected have sold over 1 million copies. Emily Oster is on a mission to provide better data on pregnancy, parenting, and personal health, so you can make confident, informed decisions that are right for you. Subscribe today Browse by topic See all Breastfeeding and Formula Food and Nutrition Health and Wellness Potty Training School Screens Sleep Sleep Training Browse by topic See all Breastfeeding and Formula Food and Nutrition Health and Wellness Potty Training School Screens Sleep Sleep Training 92% of readers say they implement information from ParentData into their parenting practices 91% of readers say that ParentData has supported their family’s health decisions 96% of readers say that reading ParentData reduced their anxiety about something that was worrying them Explore over 1,100 articles and Q&amp;As. Connect with other data-driven readers. Get personalized weekly emails in your inbox. Find instant answers to your questions with our AI-powered search tool. Subscribe today What our readers say Subscribe today "An amazing and constant source of diligent, smart discernment in a time of panic and misinformation.” "This is the single best resource out there for parents in the 21st century.” "I feel like I’ve been given a flashlight to help navigate the terrain of parenting decision-making.” "ParentData is Google that won’t send me down a panic spiral. It’s so easy to search and find answers to questions that are backed by data.” Meet our writers See all See all Emily Oster, PhD CEO, ParentData Nathan Fox, MD OB-GYN, Maternal Fetal Medicine Breonna Slocum, MD OB-GYN, Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility Gillian Goddard, MD Endocrinologist, Author of Hot Flash Christopher Worsham, MD Pulmonologist and Critical Care Physician Karey O’Hara Psychologist, Researcher Frequently asked questions Frequently asked questions How do I ask a question? You can ask Petey, ParentData’s AI librarian, a question at any time. Petey creates answers based on the universe of content on ParentData and Emily Oster’s best-selling books, along with links to relevant articles. If Petey does not have an answer, it will let our team know so we can consider the topic for the future. If you’d like to submit a question directly to Emily or our other contributors, you can do so here. What subscriptions does ParentData offer? ParentData offers several subscriptions so you can easily personalize your experience based on where you are in your TTC, pregnancy, or parenting journey. Web Access: Full access to ParentData.org and occasional newsletters from Emily in your inbox. Plus: Full access to ParentData.org plus your choice of newsletters in your inbox each week, on topics ranging from pregnancy to the post-reproductive years. Premium: Everything in the Plus subscription and more. Premium members receive personal discount codes to share with family and friends, branded ParentData swag, and exclusive access to Emily throughout the year. Free: As a free subscriber, you can read limited articles on ParentData.org and receive occasional newsletters from Emily in your inbox. How do I create an account? To log in to ParentData, click here. You will be prompted to set up an account, where you can choose your subscription level. When you set up an account, you will receive an email at the address associated with your subscription that includes a “magic link.” Once you click that link, you will be logged in indefinitely and can enjoy the website. You can also choose to login with an email and password. If you have any issues setting up an account, please email ask@parentdata.org. How do I login to access my account? To log in to ParentData, click here. You can login via a “magic link” by entering your email address and clicking the button “Send my log-in link.” If you’d prefer to log-in with your email and password, you can do so as well. If you are having trouble with the “magic link,” ensure you are opening it within a web browser and not from your email client. If you continue to have issues logging in, please email ask@parentdata.org and we’ll be happy to assist you. How do I change my subscription plan? It’s easy to change your subscription from your Account page. First, make sure you are logged in to your ParentData account. From there, you can do the following: Change paid plan: When you change your subscription plan, you are immediately moved to your newly selected plan. If you downgrade your plan, your remaining balance will be distributed to your next payment(s). Cancel: This option will downgrade you to a free subscription from a paid subscription. Your plan will remain active until the end of your billing cycle; then you will transition to a free plan. Update billing info: Change your billing information or switch to an annual or monthly billing plan. How can I change the credit card for my subscription? To change the card that’s on file, you can go to your Account page to manage payment information. What newsletters come with a Plus or Premium subscription? As a Plus or Premium subscriber, you can select the newsletters you want to receive. They are flexible, so you can sign up for as many as you like and choose what fits you and your family best. Here are our current offerings: The Latest: Emily breaks down the latest research and headlines Trying to Conceive (TTC): For anyone navigating fertility treatments or family planning with donor sperm or eggs PregnantData: A personalized guide to pregnancy, based on your due date Babies and Toddlers: Data-driven insights on parenting in the early years, ages 0 to 3 Digest: A weekly roundup of everything new on TTC, pregnancy, parenting, and more How can I select the newsletters I receive? You can customize the newsletters you receive right from your Account page. You are able to adjust your newsletter settings at any time during your subscription period. Can I gift a subscription or create a shared/household subscriptions? You can easily give a subscription to ParentData! You have the option to give a Plus or Premium gift subscription by going to your Account page and clicking “Gift a Subscription.” We do not currently offer the ability to create shared subscriptions, but we’re always gathering feedback for future improvements. How can I cancel my subscription? While we are sorry to see you go, we understand there are circumstances that require you to cancel your subscription. You can cancel by going to your Account Page and selecting ‘Cancel’ in your subscription settings. Where can I buy Emily’s books? You can find Emily’s books on pregnancy and parenting wherever books are sold and at Penguin Random House. I'm having trouble accessing articles from my phone, what should I do? Reading on your phone? When you log in to ParentData.org, be sure to check “Remember me” after entering your username and password. You’ll stay signed in, making it effortless to open every article with a single tap. Start Your 7-Day Free Trial No credit card required Full access to all ParentData features Try before you commit 0"> Please Login . Start your free trial Loading... Already have an account? Login QUESTION Where are you currently on your parenting journey? (Select all that apply) Trying to Conceive (TTC) Pregnant Enter how long you've been pregnant 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 Already a Parent Add your children’s ages Add another child Other Please make a selection. Continue SELECT BIRTHDATE Cancel Select NEWSLETTERS These are the newsletters that we recommend Enter how long you've been pregnant 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 0"> Please make a selection. Continue Loading... You’re enrolled! Enjoy your one week free trial of ParentData. --> newsletters!--> --> Continue Your Free Trial Has Ended! Upgrade to keep premium features What you get Unlimited articles Weekly newsletters Live events with Emily VIP backstage passes Ask Emily directly What you miss Only a few articles No email updates No event invites No backstage access No access to Q&A Upgrade now Continue with free plan Don’t miss your free trial Stay a little longer. Your 7 day free trial is one click away. Start your free trial Log out anyway Try ParentData for Free Hot Flash is a new weekly newsletter on navigating your health and hormones in the post-reproductive years, written by Dr. Gillian Goddard. Sign up now for free! --> I understand and agree to ParentData's Terms and Conditions . Sign up Already have an account? Log in . --> Sign Up --> Category Pregnancy Babies Toddlers Kids TTC Grown-Ups Information About Authors Data Methodology How to Partner Gift a Subscription Contact Us Resources Acco