# Laying Week 5 Odds

**Source**: http://www.grantland.com/story/_/id/7071243/laying-week-5-odds
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:14:48.480316+00:00

---

&raquo; Laying Down the Week 5 Odds Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous The Return of the Jets ➤ Next Blake Griffin on Playing Pick Up During the Lockout AP Photo/Bill Kostroun Facebook Twitter Print Bill Simmons Laying Down the Week 5 Odds When it comes to making picks for this week's NFL action, the Sports Guy refuses to stick to the games by Bill Simmons on October 18, 2011 R emember the Dolphins, Ravens, Browns, Cowboys, Redskins and Rams? They&#8217;re not playing in Week 5, our first &#8220;bye&#8221; week of the 2011 season. Even if losing Matt Moore, Joe Flacco, Sam Bradford, Rex Grossman, Colt McCoy and the RomoCoaster was a big loss for Grantland&#8217;s Bad QB League, for gambling purposes I enjoy &#8220;bye&#8221; weeks because the condensed schedule gives us more time to study the remaining games, overthink possible results, create crazy teasers or parlays, or, in the case of the column, make up fake lines for things beyond the weekend&#8217;s matchups. Here are my Week 5 picks &#133; for all kinds of things. Home teams in caps. PANTHERS (+6.5) over Saints Come on, you can&#8217;t lay this many points with the King of the Backdoor Cover, Cam Newton! It&#8217;s suicide! Steve Smith 3.0 (-4) over Steve Smith 2.0 Remember when New York&#8217;s Steve Smith took the Steve Smith mantle from Carolina&#8217;s Steve Smith? Steve Smith 3.0 features a faster hard drive, more explosiveness, a better QB and increased swagger. Everyone&#8217;s saying this is the best Steve Smith yet. Don&#8217;t worry, he&#8217;s not pulling an iPhone and releasing Steve Smith 4.0 next week only to reveal it&#8217;s the exact same phone. Darren Sproles (+5.5) over Reggie Bush That was the line last summer. And now &#133; Darren Sproles (-13.5) over Reggie Bush And climbing. How did we not know this was going to be a bigger deal? Bush went for like 15 bucks in my West Coast auction; nobody bought Sproles. Crazy. When Marques Colston finally gets rolling again, you could argue pretty convincingly that New England&#8217;s third-down offense (Hernandez, Gronkowski, Welker, Branch and electric rookie Stevan Ridley), New Orleans&#8217; third-down offense with Sproles, The Emerging Jimmy Graham (his new name), Colston, Meachem and Henderson is slightly more dangerous than Green Bay&#8217;s third-down offense (Jennings, Finley, Nelson, Jones and Starks), but as a threesome, with the pro-passing rules in place (more on this later), we&#8217;ve never seen anything quite like it. Those three have converted 112 of 203 third downs; San Diego (32-for-53) is the only other NFL team better than 50 percent; 20 of the 32 teams have completed 38 percent or less . Since 2002, only the 2002 Niners, 2004 Vikings, 2006 Colts and 2008 Colts have topped 50 percent for the season. Now we&#8217;re on pace for four in one season? My theory: We&#8217;ll remember the concussion crackdown as an unequivocal tipping point for passing dominance. A bunch of smaller tweaks have helped over the years (can&#8217;t touch the QBs, can&#8217;t jam receivers, etc.), but now that you can send receivers and tight ends over the middle ad nauseam without worrying about them getting decapitated by safeties and linebackers? It&#8217;s a different sport. Two weeks ago, the Patriots threw to Wes Welker twenty times in Buffalo. If they had run some of those same routes with him in 2002, he&#8217;d be in a coma right now. And why do you think we have so many emerging tight ends (Graham, Jermaine Gresham, Rob Gronkowski, Brandon Pettigrew, etc.) all of the sudden? Football is changing before our eyes and people aren&#8217;t even seeing it yet &#8212; the same offenses that always worked in Madden (either two TE/two WR, five WR or 4 WR/1 TE) now work in real life. In video games, you didn&#8217;t care about sending Welker over the middle 16 times and having him get pounded &#8212; he was a video-game character. Now, you can do it with the real Welker. That means three things ultimately &#133; 1. We&#8217;re going to see a boom in receiving numbers that parallels the home run numbers during the steroids era. Welker really might finish with 160 catches and 2,000 yards. It&#8217;s not crazy. 2. Green Bay, New Orleans, New England and (possibly) San Diego have a distinct advantage this season &#133; and I think they&#8217;re slowly starting to realize it. 3. Peyton Manning must be going nuts. Eagles (-3) over BILLS The Bills can&#8217;t rush the passer (Philly&#8217;s had protection issues), love to throw the ball (Philly&#8217;s secondary has to come around at some point, right?), lucked out with takeaways so far (+8, including 2 TDs) and just aren&#8217;t as talented. Put it this way: If Buffalo wins this game, then we have to (a) write off the 2011 Eagles, (b) give Buffalo 2011 pole position for the &#8220;Place Where Home-field Advantage Means the Most,&#8221; (c) circle the wagons (I don&#8217;t know what this means, or how it applies to the Bills, but I&#8217;ll go with it), and (d) adjust the following line &#133; The &#8220;Everybody Believes In Us&#8221; Factor (+3.5) over &#8220;The Nobody Believes In Us&#8221; Factor The 2010-11 Heat, then the 2011 Red Sox, now the 2011 Eagles &#8212; in the 24/7 Sports Coverage/Hyperbole/Beating-Every-Angle-Into-The-Ground era, you should do everything possible to avoid becoming an attention-getting favorite with a giant bull&#8217;s-eye on your back. Had I been running the Eagles, I would have gone the opposite way after the Nnamdi Asomugha signing &#8212; instead of allowing the &#8220;Dream Team&#8221; thing to get momentum, I would have called a team meeting and told Michael Vick and LeSean McCoy, &#8220;Hey guys, we&#8217;re about sign Asomugha &#8212; when it happens, can you bitch to the press about how we should have signed an offensive lineman so everyone can start writing about Philly&#8217;s in-house dissension and overlook the fact that we&#8217;re effing loaded on both sides? Just trust me, it&#8217;s for the best.&#8221; 2011 Andy Reid (-2.5) over Every Other Andy Reid A classic Andy season thus far: The Eagles have outgained their opponents by 275 yards, notched 25 more first downs, held the ball for 16-plus more minutes &#133; and they&#8217;re 1-3. Last week&#8217;s Niners debacle featured Andy&#8217;s usual goal-line struggles, an inexplicable pass/run ratio (how can a team that led 23-3 finish with a 2-to-1 pass/run ratio) and the 573rd time I made the &#8220;Andy needs to hire a 14-year-old pimply faced Madden junkie to help him with clock management down the stretch&#8221; joke (as Mike Lombardi pointed out, it&#8217;s the umpteenth straight year that Andy botched the &#8220;how do you handle your timeouts around the two-minute warning?&#8221; dilemma, which isn&#8217;t really a dilemma because there&#8217;s only one way to handle it). And then there&#8217;s &#133; Juan Castillo&#8217;s Hiring as Philly&#8217;s Defensive Coordinator (+17) over Rick Perry&#8217;s Presidential Campaign You work as Philly&#8217;s offensive line coach for 13 solid years &#133; and suddenly, you&#8217;re given seven weeks post-lockout to figure out a defense with new parts, figure out its strengths and weaknesses, game plan and coach it? Philly&#8217;s Regrets for Michael Vick&#8217;s Nine-Figure Extension (+4.5) over Adrian Peterson&#8217;s Regrets for Signing a Nine-Figure Extension in Minnesota Even the biggest Vick fan would admit this: These next three months are make-or-break for him. He hasn&#8217;t had a relevant playoff moment in seven years . He&#8217;s 2-5 in his past seven games (dating back to last year). There&#8217;s mounting evidence that he&#8217;s better in video games, highlight reels and fantasy leagues than in real life, and his durability is always going to be suspect &#133; but if he misses the playoffs with this team and these weapons? Yikes. Chiefs (+2) over COLTS Bengals (-2) over JAGUARS BYE WEEK (-3) over Rams Here are four of our six Andrew Luck Sweepstakes contenders (not counting the Dolphins and Vikings, and not counting the Bengals, who inherited 2011&#8217;s &#8220;Good Bad Team&#8221; void once the Niners made it clear in Philly that they&#8217;re slightly better than that). Who&#8217;s tanking? The unexpectedly incompetent Rams should keep playing hard because they&#8217;re in the NFC West (where you&#8217;re never really out of it). The Jags, Vikings and Chiefs have coaches fighting for their jobs and won&#8217;t roll over &#133; yet. I&#8217;m keeping my eye on the Dolphins &#8212; if you were going with a &#8220;Suck for Luck&#8221; plan, wouldn&#8217;t you keep Tony Sparano, make up a fake Chad Henne season-ending shoulder injury and sign Sage Rosenfels? Yes. Yes you would. Meanwhile, the Colts keep getting crushed by injuries (the latest: Melvin Bullitt and Gary Brackett) and they weren&#8217;t talented to begin with. If anyone&#8217;s smart enough to say &#8220;roll over and play dead,&#8221; it&#8217;s Bill Polian. If Indy blows this week&#8217;s Chiefs game, their next three are on the road: Cincy, New Orleans, Tennessee. Hello, 0 and 8! My unofficial Luck Sweepstakes odds: Colts: -250; Dolphins +160; Rams: +180; Chiefs: +200; Jaguars: +220; Vikings: +300; the Field: +250. I&#8217;m parlaying Indy with the over of 23,475.5 for &#8220;Should Indy keep Luck and trade Peyton to a contender?&#8221; stories in 2012. Andy Dalton (-4.5) over Blaine Gabbert Conversation with my son in four years &#133; Son: Hey, Dad, is it true the L.A. Jaguars passed on Andy Dalton in the 2011 draft? Me: Yup. They gave up the no. 49 pick to move up six spots and take Gabbert. Son: We could have just stayed put and grabbed the Red Rifle! This sucks. Me: For God&#8217;s sake, just root for the Patriots already. Please. FOR THE LOVE OF GOD!!!!!!!!! Jack Del Rio (+225) over Leslie Frazier (+400), Tony Sparano (-350), Todd H