# Four Ways Leaders Can Empower People For How Work Gets Done

**Source**: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/worklab/four-ways-leaders-can-empower-people-for-how-work-gets-done
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:44:55.016196+00:00

---

Four Ways Leaders Can Empower People for How Work Gets Done Skip to Main Content WorkLab All Stories Leadership Culture Innovation Collaboration Performance Wellbeing WorkLab All Stories Leadership Culture Innovation Collaboration Performance Wellbeing Work Trend Index AI at Work Guides Podcast About Microsoft 365 Blog Newsletter AI-powered assistant Briefing Four Ways Leaders Can Empower People for How Work Gets Done In times of uncertainty, people are ready for software that helps them code their own solutions, and for artificial intelligence tools that let them focus on whatГўВҖВҷs important January 26, 2023 Illustration by Israel Vargas F Fraying supply chains. Economic headwinds. Changing expectations around hybrid work. The rapid transformations of the past few years have fundamentally reshaped work and life as we know them. ItГўВҖВҷs clear that the agility and resilience of every organization rest on a workforce empowered with tools that enable them to work more efficiently and flexibly than ever before. raying supply chains. Economic headwinds. Changing expectations around hybrid work. The rapid transformations of the past few years have fundamentally reshaped work and life as we know them. ItГўВҖВҷs clear that the agility and resilience of every organization rest on a workforce empowered with tools that enable them to work more efficiently and flexibly than ever before. Download For True Digital Transformation, Prioritize CollaborationГўВҖВ”and Autonomy That shift isnГўВҖВҷt about overburdening your teams or deprioritizing innovation. ItГўВҖВҷs about being more effective, enabling people to do their best work with processes and tools that reduce friction, unlock innovation and creativity, and reduce busywork to help every individual focus on the work that matters most. To take stock of how people feel about the digital productivity tools they use today and those they need to succeed in the future, Microsoft surveyed 2,700 employees and 1,800 business decision makers (BDMs) in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Japan. We asked questions like, Do people feel empowered by the tools they currently have? Are teams equipped to collaborate effectively in a world of flexible work? Can new technology like AI and low-code and no-code tools help solve their challenges and open up new opportunities? 9 out of 10 people want simpler ways to automate daily tasks so they can focus on the work that matters. The survey spanned a range of job functions and industriesГўВҖВ”from marketing, sales, and customer service to finance, supply chain, and IT. This group included hybrid employees: about two-thirds of those surveyed either work from home or only part time in the office. The results offer a window into how technology is helpingГўВҖВ”and hinderingГўВҖВ”people today, along with fresh insights into the tools and processes leaders should adopt to help people be more energized, empowered, and productive. The survey findings point to four key principles that can guide business leaders in 2023: Empower people to have more say when it comes to new technology initiatives Use collaborative apps to stay connected and share information in the flow of work Accelerate innovation by equipping anyone in the organization with low-code tools Help people feel more fulfilled and engaged by implementing AI and automating busywork 1. Empower people to have more say when it comes to new technology initiatives TodayГўВҖВҷs employees are hungry for better digital tools. 87% of employees believe pursuing digital transformation is more important now than ever before, but only half of them (54%) say they are among the decision makers when it comes to those efforts. (For BDMs that figure is 94%.) Respondents say their teams would benefit most from solutions that help them be more agile (84%), make information more accessible across the organization (86%), and allow them to automate tasks (86%)ГўВҖВ”freeing time to focus on work that matters. At present, however, outdated technologyГўВҖВ”including different departments within an organization using different softwareГўВҖВ”is creating silos that make it challenging for people to share information related to digital transformation goals (72%), and existing tools generate more administrative tasks and busywork (74%). Employee Empowerment Stakeholders across the organization want employees to have a say in digital ГўВҖВЁtransformation initiatives. Chart showing that 84% of business decision makers and 79% of employees think itГўВҖВҷs important to receive employee buy-in to guide a digital transformation to success. Illustration by The TOM Agency These shortcomings point to a gap between what leadership and technology departments consider to be priority investments in business software and tools, and the actual needs of a workforce often dispersed across locations. While 84% of surveyed business decision makers say digital transformation projects remain a top priority, 61% of employees say they are not an integral part of that process. And 70% say that organizational policies limit their ability to proactively explore or implement digital solutions on their own. ГўВҖВңThe saying is that technology is easy and people are hard,ГўВҖВқ says Nicole Forsgren, a partner at Microsoft Research. People, essentially, are the most important part of an organization, but theyГўВҖВҷre also the most complex. ГўВҖВңIf you remove all agency from people, if they canГўВҖВҷt contribute, if they canГўВҖВҷt make any decisions, it can be really discouraging.ГўВҖВқ The result is a disconnect: whatever investments in digital solutions the organization is making, many individuals donГўВҖВҷt have much say in the matter. People overwhelmingly want initiatives to shift from being led by the IT department to being led by people across the organization, with 85% of respondents agreeing that people across all departments need to be involvedГўВҖВ”not just IT or senior leadership. ГўВҖВң If you remove all agency from people, if they canГўВҖВҷt contribute, if they canГўВҖВҷt make any decisions, it can be really discouraging. ГўВҖВқ Nicole Forsgren, partner at Microsoft Research For leaders, having a system and process in place through which teams can push for new tools is key. Of one company that does this, Forsgren says, ГўВҖВңThey have an internal support structure with separate tiersГўВҖВ”gold, silver, and so onГўВҖВ”where workers can advocate for an expansion of tools, and also retirement of tools.ГўВҖВқ Take action: Get people involved with digital business investments: create a continuous feedback loop to inspire excellence. Accelerate adoption of low-code tools to fuel innovation and help employees gain new skills. 2. Use collaborative apps to stay connected and share information in the flow of work Flexible work is here to stay. Two-thirds (66%) of surveyed employees have the option to work either at a company location or remotely, with nearly all (91%) of those respondents working remotely at least one or two days a week. As organizations navigate this new world of work, 85% of employees cited collaboration tools as one of the most necessary parts of their companyГўВҖВҷs digital transformation efforts. ГўВҖВңCollaboration is a mindset,ГўВҖВқ says Emily He, corporate vice president of business applications at Microsoft. ГўВҖВңPeople want to be able to collaborate with their colleagues and partners right then and there, whether theyГўВҖВҷre working on a customer situation or trying to resolve a supply chain issue. Collaboration capabilities need to be infused and embedded in everything we do.ГўВҖВқ Integration Is Essential Instead of fragmented tools that don&#x27;t integrate with day-to-day job functions, ГўВҖВЁpeople want a single, integrated platform. Chart showing that 64% of employees agree the lack of integration between their organizationsГўВҖВҷ tools and processes makes it difficult to collaborate across teams. Illustration by the TOM Agency At the same time, 59% of employees feel that the tools they use to collaborate do not align with how their teams prefer to work. The tools donГўВҖВҷt integrate with day-to-day processes, which makes it difficult to collaborate across teams, according to 64% of employees, and nearly three out of four (72%) wish the tools they use to collaborate were compatible with one another, instead of being highly fragmented. At least 7 in 10 cite inaccurate data, the inability to access and share decentralized data, and teams working from different sets of data as key challenges their companies need to address. ГўВҖВң The future is going to be all about turning your ideas into something people can touch and use. ГўВҖВқ Emily He, Microsoft corporate vice president of business applications Compounding the problem, says Maribel Lopez, founder and principal analyst at Lopez Research, is the current hybrid nature of work itself. Collaboration tools, she notes, need to function seamlessly, whether an employee is at home or in the office or somewhere in between. And many people are not sitting at a desk in front of a computer. ГўВҖВңIf youГўВҖВҷre in retail, people are roaming the floor serving customers,ГўВҖВқ she says. ГўВҖВңThe technology they carry has to allow them to share and access information in real time.ГўВҖВқ Asked what would work best for them, nearly 9 in 10 respondents (86%) pointed to the same solution: a single, centralized platform or portal where teams can collaborate in multiple ways. This solution would not only break down silos between people but also make it easier to access, share, and work together on data across the organization. This is especially crucial given the challenges organizations expect to face over the next year. Take action: Consider an audit of your organizationГўВҖВҷs current collaboration tools to identify gaps and areas for improvement. Together with employees, develop KPIs for the ideal collaboration toolГўВҖВ”a list of mandatories that reflect both employee and company needs. Centralize and organize resources so that people are using consistent, current data for better efficiencies and integration. 