# After Five Years As Rejected A 12B Waterfront Ballpark Site In Oakland For 9 Acres On The Strip

**Source**: https://thenevadaindependent.com/article/after-five-years-as-rejected-a-12b-waterfront-ballpark-site-in-oakland-for-9-acres-on-the-strip
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:29:03.970875+00:00

---

After five years, A’s rejected a $12B waterfront ballpark site in Oakland for 9 acres on the Strip - The Nevada Independent Nevada Legislature 2025 Indy Home Stories Policy Tracker Promise Tracker Legislators Resources Newsletters Support us After five years, A’s rejected a $12B waterfront ballpark site in Oakland for 9 acres on the Strip Kaval ‘saddened’ deal didn’t work out but city leaders blame team for various missteps Howard Stutz A&#x27;s stadium Economy Gaming Legislature SHARE Editor’s Note: This story is the second of a two-part series on the potential move of the Oakland A’s to Las Vegas. To read the first story which focuses on the reactions of fans and players, click here . OAKLAND – An hour after the Oakland Athletics closed out a 2-0 win over the Texas Rangers at the Oakland Coliseum, a large debris pile caught fire at the Schnitzer Steel/Radius Recycling plant next to the site where the city and the ballclub had hoped to build a new waterfront baseball stadium. The third such blaze since 2018 at the Schnitzer site, which is bordered by the Port of Oakland, sent billows of smoke above the city and across the East Bay. Even as the flames were extinguished by the next day, the fire’s remnants continued to smolder, much like the back-and-forth scorched dealings between Oakland’s leadership and the A’s ownership, which dissolved in their own smoky bonfire. Schnitzer has been at the same location since 1965 and put up several legal roadblocks the A’s have blamed for keeping them away from its preferred waterfront location. The complications with the plant are just additional fuel on the ongoing dumpster fire. After Oakland’s decade-long effort to keep the American League baseball team from relocating from its home since 1968, the A’s are seemingly on their way to Las Vegas. The team rejected three different Oakland stadium sites — including the waterfront location — and spent the past two years on a “parallel path,” keeping alive talks with the city while exploring some 20 potential locations around the Las Vegas Valley.&nbsp; A’s leadership walked away from negotiations with Oakland officials in April when it announced the franchise would relocate to Las Vegas. A month later, the team pivoted from its initial off-Strip site to a 9-acre location on Las Vegas Boulevard. The A’s spent the next few months lobbying Nevada lawmakers and the governor to approve $380 million in public financing for the team to build a $1.5 billion, 33,000-seat retractable roof stadium. The pending move to Las Vegas still needs approval from Major League Baseball and the Las Vegas ballpark won’t be ready until 2028 . Before the deal with Nevada was announced, Oakland leaders believed they were close to reaching an agreement on an open-air 35,000-seat ballpark along the waterfront at the Howard Terminal, an unused 55-acre location in the Port of Oakland near downtown that would include 6 million square feet of mixed-use development, including commercial buildings and high-rise residential units. The estimated price of the entire project was $12 billion . Downtown San Francisco can be seen behind the Schnitzer Steel/Radius Recycling plant next to the Howard Terminal in the Port of Oakland on Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023. (David Calvert/The Nevada Independent) The port is one of three primary locations for shipping commerce on the West Coast along with Seattle-Tacoma and Long Beach, California. Officials from the facility said they were supportive of the terminal site being transformed to house a Major League Baseball stadium “There were so many different hurdles that we actually lifted,” Oakland Mayor Sheng Thao said in a July interview. She said she believes professional sports add to a city’s overall attraction. Oakland has already seen two teams leave: the NFL Raiders to Las Vegas and NBA’s Golden State Warriors across the bay to San Francisco. She didn’t want to watch another one go away. “It wasn't just the city of Oakland. It was a whole California effort,” Thao said of the drawn-out process to keep the A’s. “You go through all that [and] you think that you're going to have an honest partner to work with. This is what you receive on the back end.” According to the A’s, Schnitzer Steel presented one of several barriers obstructing the Howard Terminal stadium plans. The plant, which shares a border with the port, filed multiple lawsuits to block the development of the baseball stadium. During an interview last week, A’s President Dave Kaval called the waterfront land near downtown Oakland “an amazing site” but said along with delays caused by Schnitzer’s lawsuits, the site would require a 15-year development timeline. The A’s wouldn’t be able to move into a new ballpark in Oakland until sometime after 2030 — far too long for a team with a low payroll and few outside revenue sources. “I'm saddened that we weren't able to pull it off because [the designers] had such an incredible vision,” Kaval said. “We had private capital willing to go into that location.” Oakland officials disputed Kaval’s claims that legal issues with Schnitzer Steel stalled the Howard Terminal site. The California Supreme Court refused to review lower court rulings earlier this year on the lawsuits. “The A's ownership group had selected the Howard Terminal site and insisted on a massive, multibillion-dollar project that included substantial residential, commercial and retail space as well as a ballpark,” the mayor’s office Chief of Communications Pati Navalta said in an email to The Nevada Independent . “The conditions and length of the project timeline were entirely dependent on those two decisions made by the ownership group, including Dave Kaval.” City officials said the Howard Terminal has been approved for use as a stadium site by the Bay Conservation Development District and they submitted a 10,000-page environment impact report that removed other risks to the project. Oakland resident and longtime city government observer Michael Keough said the A's never submitted a development agreement for a stadium to be voted on by the council. “The hangup was focused on the 3,000 housing units and millions of square feet of retail and office space in a massive $12 billion project that the A's also wanted,” Keough said.&nbsp; Left: Unused cranes at the Howard Terminal that were used to transfer giant containers to and from ships are seen at the Port of Oakland on Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023. (David Calvert/The Nevada Independent). Right: Courtesy rendering of the proposed stadium for the Oakland A's at the Howard Terminal. Views across San Francisco Bay The A’s and the City of Oakland spent much of the past five years focused on the Howard Terminal location for the new ballpark. When the ever-present Bay Area fog isn’t rolling across the horizon, the site offers views across the water of downtown San Francisco, the San Francisco Bay Bridge and the Golden Gate Bridge. Renderings of the development showed the open-air waterfront ballpark, surrounded by walkable parklike settings and high-rise buildings. Several of the large stationary cranes used to lift containers off cargo ships remained as a homage to the location’s former use. Kaval said former Oakland Mayor Libby Schaff suggested the Howard Terminal site to the A’s after an idea to use downtown Oakland’s Laney Community College as a stadium site fell apart. Documentation Thao provided to Major League Baseball Commissioner Rob Manfred during a July meeting at the All-Star Game in Seattle shows the city sponsored legislation to facilitate the project, planned to create an Enhanced Infrastructure Financing District and agreed to fund the A’s $360 million in off-site infrastructure costs and secured more than $425 million in public money. The Howard Terminal was also backed as a stadium location by the Port of Oakland because it was no longer usable without millions of dollars in renovations to service container ships that span up to 1,200 feet in length. The site is used as a storage location for shipping containers and a decommissioned Navy vessel the U.S.S. John Glenn is docked at the terminal. Robert Bernardo, communications director for the Port of Oakland, said the Howard Terminal’s large cranes are obsolete. Left: Oakland A's president Dave Kaval inside the Legislature for a meeting in Assembly Speaker Steve Yeager's office on Wednesday, April 26, 2023. Right: Robert Bernardo, communications director for the Port of Oakland, points to a location at the Howard Terminal on Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023. (David Calvert/The Nevada Independent) Bernardo said the 1,300-acre location has more than enough room for expansion after adding a decommissioned military site in 2006. He added that the growth of Jack London Square as a waterfront entertainment district, which is a short walk from the Howard Terminal, was another selling point. “There was an opportunity to activate Jack London Square [by connecting it] with the baseball stadium,” Bernardo said. Developers were also creating plans to build pedestrian overpasses above the railroad tracks that run alongside the Howard Terminal. Bernardo said the rail tracks are still part of the port’s shipping process for the containers and an Amtrak line offers passenger service between Oakland and Sacramento. The only drawback was that the site lacks a Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) station. Oakland representatives said a station might have been included in the next phase of BART development. Molly Mayburn, who had been the city’s Howard Terminal’s project manager for the past four years up until last week, said unlike the A’s deal in Las Vegas, the stadium in Oakland would have been owned by the team. “They were going to finance it and take on this much larger project,” Mayburn said. “They came to us and said, ‘Not only do we want to stay in Oakland, but we want to be real estate developers." Left: Seats throughout the 47,000-seat Oakland Coliseum show their age. Center: The leftfield foul