# 12699016

**Source**: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/12699016/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:55:12.695888+00:00

---

Neighborhood disadvantage moderates associations of parenting and older sibling problem attitudes and behavior with conduct disorders in African American children - PubMed This site needs JavaScript to work properly. Please enable it to take advantage of the complete set of features! Clipboard, Search History, and several other advanced features are temporarily unavailable. Skip to main page content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Log in Show account info Close Account Logged in as: username Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Access keys NCBI Homepage MyNCBI Homepage Main Content Main Navigation Search: Search Advanced Clipboard User Guide Save Email Send to Clipboard My Bibliography Collections Citation manager Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Save citation to file Format: Summary (text) PubMed PMID Abstract (text) CSV Create file Cancel Email citation Email address has not been verified. Go to My NCBI account settings to confirm your email and then refresh this page. To: Subject: Body: Format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) MeSH and other data Send email Cancel Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Add to My Bibliography My Bibliography Unable to load your delegates due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Your saved search Name of saved search: Search terms: Test search terms Would you like email updates of new search results? Saved Search Alert Radio Buttons Yes No Email: ( change ) Frequency: Monthly Weekly Daily Which day? The first Sunday The first Monday The first Tuesday The first Wednesday The first Thursday The first Friday The first Saturday The first day The first weekday Which day? Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Report format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) PubMed Send at most: 1 item 5 items 10 items 20 items 50 items 100 items 200 items Send even when there aren't any new results Optional text in email: Save Cancel Create a file for external citation management software Create file Cancel Your RSS Feed Name of RSS Feed: Number of items displayed: 5 10 15 20 50 100 Create RSS Cancel RSS Link Copy Full text links American Psychological Association Full text links Actions Cite Collections Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Permalink Permalink Copy Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Page navigation Title &amp; authors Abstract Publication types MeSH terms Grants and funding LinkOut - more resources Title &amp; authors Abstract Publication types MeSH terms Grants and funding LinkOut - more resources J Consult Clin Psychol Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2003 Apr;71(2):211-22. doi: 10.1037/0022-006x.71.2.211. Neighborhood disadvantage moderates associations of parenting and older sibling problem attitudes and behavior with conduct disorders in African American children Gene H Brody &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Xiaojia Ge ,&nbsp; Su Yeong Kim ,&nbsp; Velma McBride Murry ,&nbsp; Ronald L Simons ,&nbsp; Frederick X Gibbons ,&nbsp; Meg Gerrard ,&nbsp; Rand D Conger Affiliations Expand Affiliation 1 Department of Child and Family Development, Center for Family Research, University of Georgia, Athens 30602-4527, USA. gbrody@arches.uga.edu PMID: 12699016 DOI: 10.1037/0022-006x.71.2.211 Item in Clipboard Neighborhood disadvantage moderates associations of parenting and older sibling problem attitudes and behavior with conduct disorders in African American children Gene H Brody &nbsp;et al. J Consult Clin Psychol . 2003 Apr . Show details Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID J Consult Clin Psychol Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2003 Apr;71(2):211-22. doi: 10.1037/0022-006x.71.2.211. Authors Gene H Brody &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Xiaojia Ge ,&nbsp; Su Yeong Kim ,&nbsp; Velma McBride Murry ,&nbsp; Ronald L Simons ,&nbsp; Frederick X Gibbons ,&nbsp; Meg Gerrard ,&nbsp; Rand D Conger Affiliation 1 Department of Child and Family Development, Center for Family Research, University of Georgia, Athens 30602-4527, USA. gbrody@arches.uga.edu PMID: 12699016 DOI: 10.1037/0022-006x.71.2.211 Item in Clipboard Full text links Cite Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Abstract Data from 296 sibling pairs (mean ages 10 and 13 years), their primary caregivers, and census records were used to test the hypothesis that African American children's likelihood of developing conduct problems associated with harsh parenting, a lack of nurturant-involved parenting, and exposure to an older sibling's deviance-prone attitudes and behavior would be amplified among families residing in disadvantaged neighborhoods. A latent construct representing harsh-inconsistent parenting and low levels of nurturant-involved parenting was positively associated with younger siblings' conduct disorder symptoms, as were older siblings' problematic attitudes and behavior. These associations were strongest among families residing in the most disadvantaged neighborhoods. Future research and prevention programs should focus on the specific neighborhood processes associated with increased vulnerability for behavior problems. PubMed Disclaimer Publication types Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov&#x27;t Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Research Support, U.S. Gov&#x27;t, P.H.S. Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search MeSH terms Adolescent Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Adult Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Aged Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Aged, 80 and over Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Attitude* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Black or African American* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Child Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Conduct Disorder / psychology* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Culture Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Female Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Humans Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Male Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Middle Aged Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Parenting* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Pilot Projects Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Residence Characteristics* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Sibling Relations* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Grants and funding P2C HD042849/HD/NICHD NIH HHS/United States MH48165/MH/NIMH NIH HHS/United States LinkOut - more resources Full Text Sources American Psychological Association Ovid Technologies, Inc. Medical MedlinePlus Health Information Full text links [x] American Psychological Association [x] Cite Copy Download .nbib .nbib Format: AMA APA MLA NLM Send To Clipboard Email Save My Bibliography Collections Citation Manager [x] NCBI Literature Resources MeSH PMC Bookshelf Disclaimer The PubMed wordmark and PubMed logo are registered trademarks of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Unauthorized use of these marks is strictly prohibited. Follow NCBI Twitter Facebook LinkedIn GitHub Connect with NLM Twitter SM-Facebook SM-Youtube National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike Bethesda, MD 20894 Web Policies FOIA HHS Vulnerability Disclosure Help Accessibility Careers NLM NIH HHS USA.gov