# A1 Must Read Stories

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/tag/a1-must-read-stories/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:07:17.196282+00:00

---

A1: Must-Read Stories - The Athletic NFL MLB NCAAF NBA NHL WNBA Fantasy Football Golf Premier League Tennis NCAAM NCAAW College Sports Global Sports Soccer Women&#x27;s Soccer MLS NWSL Peak Formula 1 Olympics Sports Business Sailing Opinion Betting Fantasy Baseball Memorabilia and Collectibles Culture Motorsports NASCAR Women&#x27;s Hockey MMA Boxing The Pulse Newsletter Cities WNBA Finals Game 1 F1 Singapore GP Connections: Sports Edition Today&#x27;s News A1: Must-Read Stories Out of his hometown's spotlight — and expectations — Mitch Marner embraces a new start in Las Vegas After years of playoff disappointment and fan discontent, the former Maple Leafs star is feeling the love in his new surroundings. Dan Robson 110 Padres GM A.J. Preller hoops, puts ketchup on steak and builds winners no matter the cost Brittany Ghiroli and Dennis Lin 76 Meet the Weeks brothers: A 'whirlwind' 24 hours with the proudest family in football Brian Hamilton 43 His father's murder drove Mike Evans to the NFL, a 'big brother' taught him how to stay there Zak Keefer 68 Four VPs, others affiliated with Detroit Tigers accused of misconduct toward women Brittany Ghiroli and Alex Andrejev 761 Advertisement More Stories 'Why be jealous?': In the NIL age, a new archetype for a college backfield Penn State's Kaytron Allen and Nick Singleton won't get in each other's way. Everything they want is in front of them. Brian Hamilton 34 Jayden Daniels doesn't seek the spotlight; it's coming for him anyway Daniels authored the most successful season ever for a rookie quarterback by being himself. He's not about to change heading into Year 2. Zak Keefer 36 The bust files: How NFL teams break young quarterbacks Finding a franchise quarterback remains job No. 1 for anyone in charge of an NFL roster, so why do they keep screwing it up? Zak Keefer 513 A classic New York golf course vanished. 80 years later, it reappeared in the Midwest The Lido is a course that’s still coming to be understood. Just like the original. Brendan Quinn 142 Brian Kelly, Lincoln Riley and two college football powerhouses at the same crossroads A little less than four years ago, just three days apart, a pair of heavyweight programs introduced two new, high-wattage coaches. Brian Hamilton 80 Stalking has become an unsettling part of sports landscape: Key takeaways from our investigation Here's what we learned from last week's series that examined the stalking of sports figures and the deep toll it exacts on victims. Carson Kessler and Nathan Fenno 21 Advertisement Pain took football away from Andrew Luck; what brought him back to Stanford? Luck walked out on one locker room that needed him. He wasn't ready to walk away from another. Zak Keefer 372 The catfishing scam putting fans and female golfers in danger Inside the social media scheme turning fans against athletes: 'There's really two victims' Carson Kessler and Gabby Herzig 643 The epicenter of stalking in sports? Why tennis stands apart Stalking experts say that tennis has particular conditions and characteristics that make its players targets, regardless of the era. Charlie Eccleshare 134 Aaron Donald was one of the NFL's toughest players. A stalker left him living in fear Though most stalking victims are women, the issue remains deeply problematic for all athletes. Nathan Fenno 403 ‘I’m sitting behind the bench': Inside sports' escalating stalking problem Many stalking cases go unreported in the media and to police. But even a partial list indicates an alarming pattern. Carson Kessler 601 Since 2020, there have been at least 52 stalking cases involving sports figures The Athletic utilized news reports, social media and court filings to compile a tally of alleged stalking (or similar fixated behaviors). Alex Andrejev 24 Advertisement What can MLB learn from the Savannah Bananas? A lot, it turns out Banana Ball is wacky, but it's also a competitive brand of baseball that prioritizes fun and fan experience. Brittany Ghiroli 918 The Hockey Canada trial could have been a reckoning. It was something else The eight-week trial proved challenging to manage, leading to two jury dismissals and eventually the judge-only decision. Dan Robson and Katie Strang Open champion Scottie Scheffler doesn’t need to explain himself. The answer is in the beginning “Even as a kid, I don’t think he ever dreamed these things." Brendan Quinn 149 Indiana basketball turned outside the family to reclaim glory. Will it work? The Hoosiers haven’t won a national title in nearly 40 years. Darian DeVries, their seventh coach this century, hopes to change that. Brian Hamilton 108 Can the NFL overcome Trump’s anti-Canada rhetoric? The Bills are banking on it For the Bills, growing their fan base and corporate foundation in Southern Ontario can keep them viable long after Josh Allen retires. Tim Graham 1888 MLBPA investigating agent following allegations of financial misconduct Phillies outfielder Johan Rojas alleges that agent Yasser Mendez persuaded him to invest more than $450,000 in baseball academy he owned. Brittany Ghiroli 48 Advertisement One more story from the last of his kind Why is Art Spander, nearly blind and unable to type his own stories, still covering events at 86? Because he is the job. And because of Liz. Brendan Quinn 186 ICE's go-to charter airline for deportations also flew NCAA teams, Inter Miami and more From March through May of this year, GlobalX operated an estimated 62 percent of deportation flights. Nathan Fenno and Carson Kessler 404 See More National Boxing Bundesliga Champions League Championship College Football College Sports Copa America Copa del Rey Cricket Culture Cycling Europa League European Championship FA Cup Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Basketball Fantasy Football Fantasy Hockey Fantasy Premier League FIFA Club World Cup FIFA Men&#x27;s World Cup FIFA Women&#x27;s World Cup Formula 1 Gaming Global Sports Golf International Football La Liga League Cup League One League Two Memorabilia &amp; Collectibles Men&#x27;s College Basketball Mixed Martial Arts MLB MLS Motorsports NASCAR NBA NFL NHL NWSL Olympics Opinion Peak Premier League Sailing Scottish Premiership Serie A Soccer Sports Betting Sports Business Tennis Top Sports News WNBA Women&#x27;s College Basketball Women&#x27;s Euros Women&#x27;s Hockey Women&#x27;s Soccer The Athletic Ink Podcasts Headlines US Arizona Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Buffalo Carolina Chicago Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Dallas Denver Detroit Houston Indiana Jacksonville Kansas City Las Vegas Los Angeles Memphis Miami Minnesota Nashville New Orleans New York Oklahoma Oregon Orlando Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento San Antonio San Diego Seattle St. Louis Tampa Bay Utah Washington DC Wisconsin Canada Calgary Edmonton Montreal Ottawa Toronto Vancouver Winnipeg Partners Collectibles by eBay Odds by BetMGM Streaming by Fubo Tickets by StubHub Subscribe Start Subscription Group Subscriptions HQ About Us Careers Code of Conduct Editorial Guidelines Business Inquiries Press Inquiries Support FAQ Forgot Password? Contact Us Terms of Service Newsletters The Pulse The Bounce The Windup Prime Tire Full Time Until Saturday Scoop City The Athletic FC MoneyCall Red Light © 2025 The Athletic Media Company, A New York Times Company Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Support RSS Sitemap