# Beanie Babies For The Brainrot Era

**Source**: https://techcrunch.com/podcast/beanie-babies-for-the-brainrot-era/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:30:04.727800+00:00

---

Beanie Babies for the brain-rot era | TechCrunch TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps Disrupt 2025 Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech &amp; Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government &amp; Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media &amp; Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Crunchboard Contact Us Beanie Babies for the brain-rot era Anthony Ha , Kirsten Korosec , Maxwell Zeff , Theresa Loconsolo Aug 22, 2025 Labubu, the ugly-cute plush toy from Chinese company Pop Mart, is turning into a massive business — and it&#8217;s on track to make $1 billion this year , exceeding the sales of Barbie and Hot Wheels. And while Labubus are physical objects, not digital ones, they epitomize the invasion of an over-the-top online aesthetic into the offline world, described in a recent New Yorker essay as “IRL brain rot.” On Friday&#8217;s episode of the Equity podcast, your hosts Kirsten Korosec, Max Zeff, and Anthony Ha try to understand why Labubu has become so popular and what it says about the collapsing divide between the internet and the real world. Are Labubus more than just the latest iteration of &#8217;90s Beanie Babies? Listen to the full episode to hear more about: Google’s cringey, celebrity-filled Pixel event Self-driving startup Nuro’s $203 million Series A , with Nvidia joining as an investor OpenAI’s attempt to woo the media after a rocky launch for GPT-5 A fresh $1 billion funding for AI startup Databricks Why VCs are excited about robotic startups like FieldAI As always, Equity will be back for you next week, so don’t miss it! Equity is TechCrunch’s flagship podcast, produced by Theresa Loconsolo, and posts every Wednesday and Friday.&nbsp; Subscribe to us on Apple Podcasts , Overcast , Spotify and all the casts. You also can follow Equity on X and Threads , at @EquityPod. Credits: Equity is produced by Theresa Loconsolo with editing by Kell. We’d also like to thank TechCrunch’s audience development team. Thank you so much for listening, and we&#8217;ll talk to you next time. We&#8217;re always looking to evolve, and by providing some insight into your perspective and feedback into TechCrunch, you can help us! Fill out this survey to let us know how we&#8217;re doing. Anthony Ha Anthony Ha is TechCrunch&#8217;s weekend editor. Previously, he worked as a tech reporter at Adweek, a senior editor at VentureBeat, a local government reporter at the Hollister Free Lance, and vice president of content at a VC firm. He lives in New York City. View Bio Kirsten Korosec Transportation Editor Kirsten Korosec is a reporter and editor who has covered the future of transportation from EVs and autonomous vehicles to urban air mobility and in-car tech for more than a decade. She is currently the transportation editor at TechCrunch and co-host of TechCrunch&#8217;s Equity podcast. She is also co-founder and co-host of the podcast, &#8220;The Autonocast.&#8221; She previously wrote for Fortune, The Verge, Bloomberg, MIT Technology Review and CBS Interactive. You can contact or verify outreach from Kirsten by emailing kirsten.korosec@techcrunch.com or via encrypted message at kkorosec.07 on Signal. View Bio Maxwell Zeff Senior AI Reporter Maxwell Zeff is a senior reporter at TechCrunch specializing in AI. Previously with Gizmodo, Bloomberg, and MSNBC, Zeff has covered the rise of AI and the Silicon Valley Bank crisis. He is based in San Francisco. When not reporting, he can be found hiking, biking, and exploring the Bay Area&#8217;s food scene. You can contact or verify outreach from Maxwell by emailing maxwell.zeff@techcrunch.com or via encrypted message at mzeff.88 on Signal. View Bio Theresa Loconsolo Audio Producer Theresa Loconsolo is an audio producer at TechCrunch focusing on Equity, the network&#8217;s flagship podcast. Before joining TechCrunch in 2022, she was one of 2 producers at a four-station conglomerate where she wrote, recorded, voiced and edited content, and engineered live performances and interviews from guests like lovelytheband. Theresa is based in New Jersey and holds a bachelors degree in Communication from Monmouth University. You can contact or verify outreach from Theresa by emailing theresa.loconsolo@techcrunch.com . View Bio October 27-29, 2025 San Francisco ONE-WEEK BUNDLE FLASH SALE Founder Bundle Offer: Land your investor and sharpen your pitch. Save 15% when you bring 4-9 founders. Investors Bundle Offer: Discover your next breakout startup. Save 20% when you bring 4-9 investors. Bundle offer ends October 3. Register Now Most Popular A new a16z report looks at which AI companies startups are actually paying for Dominic-Madori Davis Salesforce launches enterprise vibe-coding product, Agentforce Vibes Rebecca Szkutak AI recruiter Alex raises $17M to automate initial job interviews Marina Temkin Vibe-coding startup Anything nabs a $100M valuation after hitting $2M ARR in its first two weeks Marina Temkin The AI services transformation may be harder than VCs think Connie Loizos Famed roboticist says humanoid robot bubble is doomed to burst Connie Loizos Spotify to label AI music, filter spam and more in AI policy change Sarah Perez Latest Equity Episodes See More Startups AI slop, government stops, and startup uncertainty Theresa Loconsolo Anthony Ha Kirsten Korosec Maxwell Zeff 9 hours ago AI California just drew the blueprint for AI safety regulation with SB 53 Theresa Loconsolo Rebecca Bellan 2 days ago Startups From $100B OpenAI deals to $100K visa fees Theresa Loconsolo Anthony Ha Maxwell Zeff Sep 26, 2025 Startups How Chipiron&#8217;s rethinking the future of MRI Rebecca Bellan Theresa Loconsolo Sep 24, 2025 X LinkedIn Facebook Instagram youTube Mastodon Threads Bluesky TechCrunch Staff Contact Us Advertise Crunchboard Jobs Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy RSS Terms of Use Code of Conduct H1-B Visa GPT Pulse Grok Steph Curry TechCrunch Disrupt Tech Layoffs ChatGPT © 2025 TechCrunch Media LLC.