# Chris Lehmann

**Source**: https://www.thenation.com/authors/chris-lehmann/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:56:06.696093+00:00

---

Chris Lehmann | The Nation --> Log In Email * Password * Remember Me Forgot Your Password? Log In New to The Nation ? Subscribe Print subscriber? Activate your online access Skip to content Skip to footer Magazine Newsletters Subscribe Log In Search Subscribe Donate Magazine Latest Archive Podcasts Newsletters Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts The Nation About Events Contact Us Advertise Current Issue Chris Lehmann lehmannchris Chris Lehmann is the DC Bureau chief for The Nation and a contributing editor at The Baffler. He was formerly editor of The Baffler and The New Republic , and is the author, most recently, of The Money Cult: Capitalism, Christianity, and the Unmaking of the American Dream (Melville House, 2016). The Government Shutdown Is Based on a 16-Year-Old Lie The Government Shutdown Is Based on a 16-Year-Old Lie In 2009, Republicans falsely claimed that the Affordable Care Act would benefit undocumented immigrants. They’re still peddling the same bullshit. Oct 1, 2025 / Chris Lehmann The Latest New Democratic Think Tank Is a Dead End The Latest New Democratic Think Tank Is a Dead End The Searchlight Institute, founded by former senate staffer Adam Jentelson, epitomizes the careerist tendencies of white-collar workers on the Hill. Sep 23, 2025 / Chris Lehmann Ad Policy Hakeem Jeffries Is the Kind of Democrat Voters Have Lost Faith In Hakeem Jeffries Is the Kind of Democrat Voters Have Lost Faith In With most New York Democrats endorsing their party's candidate for mayor, the two minority leaders in Congress remain holdouts. Sep 16, 2025 / Chris Lehmann Why Is “The Washington Post” Whitewashing Epstein’s Stomach-Churning Birthday Book? Why Is “The Washington Post” Whitewashing Epstein’s Stomach-Churning Birthday Book? In their social circle, Trump and Epstein were so identified as predators that the pair’s trafficking of young women would be instantly recognized as fodder for a joke. Sep 10, 2025 / Chris Lehmann Why the Media Allows MAGA to Cover Up Their Lies With More Lies Why the Media Allows MAGA to Cover Up Their Lies With More Lies The MAGA movement can “walk back” outrageous statements, and the press hardly asks a follow-up. Sep 9, 2025 / Chris Lehmann What Makes Democrats So Afraid of Zohran Mamdani? What Makes Democrats So Afraid of Zohran Mamdani? With Trump’s power grabs escalating, the Democratic establishment is still taking the time to fret over a rising star in its own party. Sep 3, 2025 / Chris Lehmann Trump’s Attempt to Fire Lisa Cook From the Fed Is a Naked Power Play Trump’s Attempt to Fire Lisa Cook From the Fed Is a Naked Power Play The president’s targeting the Federal Reserve governor over a technicality is blatantly politically motivated. Aug 28, 2025 / Chris Lehmann Trump’s Occupation Could Cost Billions Trump’s Occupation Could Cost Billions And DC residents will be footing much of the bill. Aug 26, 2025 / Chris Lehmann Democrats Need to Stop Letting Trump Set the Terms of Engagement Democrats Need to Stop Letting Trump Set the Terms of Engagement With every White House action, from mass deportation to domestic deployment of federal troops the “opposition party” has accepted the premise and failed to offer an alternative. Aug 22, 2025 / Chris Lehmann Trump Targets Mail-In Voting, and the Democrats Phone in Their Counter-Strategies Trump Targets Mail-In Voting, and the Democrats Phone in Their Counter-Strategies Trump has launched an all-out assault on civic freedoms, but the Democrats aren’t yet giving their base something to vote for. Aug 19, 2025 / Chris Lehmann Go to archive page 1 1 Go to archive page 2 2 Go to archive page 3 3 &hellip; Go to archive page 33 33 Go to next archive page Next Ad Policy Ad Policy Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts OppArt Poetry Letters Magazine Current Issue Masthead Archive Subscription Services Reprints More About Us Contact Us Advertise Nation Events Nation Shop Nation Travels Nation Podcasts Newsletters Follow Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube RSS Founded by abolitionists in 1865, The Nation has long believed that independent journalism has the capacity to bring about a more democratic and equitable world. Donate Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility Statement Help Careers Nation Fund Privacy Manager x