# Mr Beast Tv Series Amazon Youtube 1235854631

**Source**: https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/tv/tv-news/mr-beast-tv-series-amazon-youtube-1235854631/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:54:39.921758+00:00

---

MrBeast TV Series: Amazon Wins Bidding War For YouTuber Skip to main content Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to expand search form Got a tip? The Hollywood Reporter homepage Newsletters Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up site categories News Film TV Music Awards Lifestyle Business International Video Charts Lists Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Menu Click to expand search form The Hollywood Reporter homepage Read Next: Sean &#8220;Diddy&#8221; Combs Sentenced to Four Years, Two Months in Prison Over Mann Act Violations Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up BREAKING Sean “Diddy” Combs Sentenced to Four Years, Two Months in Prison Over Mann Act Violations close Live Feed Home TV TV News MrBeast Strikes Amazon Deal For Biggest Competition Series in TV History The most popular content creator on YouTube has struck a deal with Amazon MGM for his first streaming series after the studio wins a bidding war. By James Hibberd , Lesley Goldberg March 18, 2024 8:00am Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Logo text MrBeast is headed to Amazon . The hugely popular YouTube star has struck a deal with Amazon MGM Studios for his first traditional TV series: a competition described as &#8220;the biggest reality competition series in television history.&#8221; The project is based on his YouTube show and titled Beast Games . It will feature 1,000 contestants competing for a $5 million cash payout. The prize is touted as the biggest single prize in the history of television and streaming. Sources say Amazon outbid at least one major streaming rival to make the deal with MrBeast, a.k.a. Jimmy Donaldson, who is the most popular content creator on YouTube. Donaldson also negotiated the right to retain creative control of the production. Related Stories Movies SAG-AFTRA Slams AI Actress: &quot;Tilly Norwood Is Not an Actor -- It Has No Life Experience to Draw From, No Emotion&quot; Music K-pop Stars ATEEZ Want to Keep Performing Even When They&#039;re Grandfathers &#8220;My goal is to make the greatest show possible and prove YouTubers and creators can succeed on other platforms,&#8221; said MrBeast in a statement. &#8220;Amazon gave me the creative control I need to try and make it happen. I hope to make the YouTube community proud.&#8221; MrBeast will serve as the show&#8217;s host and an executive producer for the show, which will stream on Prime Video. He&#8217;ll also continue to make his YouTube series. &#8220;MrBeast has captured the attention and imagination of fans of all ages, from all walks of life, and all over the world,&#8221; said Jennifer Salke, head of Amazon MGM Studios. &#8220;We are excited to work with Jimmy and his talented&nbsp;team to bring his brilliant, high production, and stakes-raising concepts to Beast Games for our global customers to experience.&#8221; Previously, the first season Netflix&#8217;s Squid Games: The Challenge set the record for biggest reality TV payout with its $4.56 million prize. Donaldson has been creating YouTube content since 2016 and has a whopping 245 million subscribers to his channel. He has created nearly 800 videos, many of which are high-end productions &mdash; such as his real-life Squid Game contest , for example, which racked up 588 million views. His family-friendly videos typically feature stunts and acts of philanthropy, such as paying for cataract surgeries to help 1,000 blind people see again. He&#8217;s given away millions in food and supplies for those in need. He&#8217;s built his own studio for creating content, a $10 million facility in North Carolina. In February, Donaldson told Time magazine that his channel brings in $600 million to $700 million per year, which is re-invested back into his productions. &#8220;Each video does a couple million in ad revenue, a couple million in brand deals,&rdquo; Donaldson said. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve reinvested everything to the point of &mdash; you could claim &mdash;stupidity, just believing that we would succeed. And it&rsquo;s worked out &#8230; I just want to be the best and I want to make the best content possible.&#8221; Read More About: amazon Mr. Beast THR Original Video THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe Sign Up More from The Hollywood Reporter Live Feed Grace Van Patten Says Everything Is Out in the Open After Amanda Knox Finale, Teases &#8216;Tell Me Lies&#8217; Grey&#039;s Anatomy Eric Dane Explains Why He Was Absent at Emmys Despite Planned ‘Grey’s Anatomy’s’ Tribute The Comeback Lisa Kudrow&#8217;s ‘The Comeback’ Final Season Adds John Early, Abbi Jacobson Live Feed ‘Scrubs’ Revival Adds Vanessa Bayer, Joel Kim Booster to Cast Live Feed &#8216;Chicago Fire&#8217; Boss, Star Christian Stolte Unpack Season 14 Premiere&#8217;s Repercussions Sunday Night Football New England Patriots vs. Buffalo Bills: How to Watch &#8216;Sunday Night Football&#8217; Without Cable Essential Reads TV Premiere Dates 2025: The Complete Guide By Rick Porter &#8216;The Office&#8217; Turns 20: An Oral History of Season 1 From the Writers Who Shaped It By Rick Porter The 10 Best Medical Shows of All Time, Ranked By Daniel Fienberg Logo text WEEKLY NEWSLETTER Inside the business of TV with breaking news, expert analysis and showrunner interviews Email Address Subscribe Today Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter SEE MY OPTIONS Sign Up PMC Logo Most Popular Insider Claims Nicole Kidman &amp; Keith Urban's Separation Is 'One-Sided' Federal Judge Denies Motion to Dismiss by Kasseem ‘Swizz Beatz’ Dean in 1MDB Scandal Case NHL Franchise Valuations Ranking List: From Maple Leafs to Blue Jackets Audio Of Cardi B Going Off Over Ice Spice Surfaces Online: "I'mma Beat Her A**" You may also like NFL on Record Pace as TV/Streaming Windows Grow 8% to 20M Viewers 5 hours ago Michael Feinstein’s Revamped 1930s Home Above L.A.’s Sunset Strip Can Be Yours for $4 Million 5 hours ago Sean “Diddy” Combs Sentenced To Just Over 4 Years In Prison On Prostitution Conviction 5 hours ago Subscriber Support Get the Magazine Customer Service Back Issues The Hollywood Reporter About Us Careers Contact Us Accessibility Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Follow Us Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram LinkedIn LinkedIn Threads Threads TikTok TikTok X X YouTube YouTube Newsletter Sign Up Sign Up Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip Sign Up Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Close the menu The Hollywood Reporter homepage Log In News Expand news menu Latest News Culture &amp; Politics LA Wildfires Obituaries LA/Local THR Investigates Film Expand film menu News Features Reviews Box Office Heat Vision TV Expand tv menu News Features Reviews Ratings Live Feed Heat Vision The Fien Print Music Expand music menu Music News Music Industry News Music Features Film and TV Music News Grammys K-Pop Country Music Awards Expand awards menu News Awards Chatter Podcast Feinberg Forecast Behind The Screen The Race THR Presents Oscar Season Hub Lifestyle Expand lifestyle menu Person of Interest News Style Shopping Arts Real Estate Rambling Reporter Business Expand business menu THR, Esq Report Features Unions / Labor Film / TV Tax Credits Signings / Representation THR Charts Expand thr-charts menu Weekly Streaming Ratings Chart Weekly Broadcast Ratings Chart Weekend Box Office Chart Weekly Broadway Grosses Chart More Essentials Expand more-essentials menu International News Video THR Podcasts Featured Voices Subscribe to Logo text Follow Us Follow THR on Facebook Follow THR on Instagram Follow THR on LinkedIn Follow THR on Threads Follow THR on TikTok Follow THR on X Follow THR on YouTube Alerts &amp; Newsletters Your Email Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. optional screen reader About Us Careers Contact Us Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. ad