# Amazon Backs Federal Bill To Legalize Marijuana .Html

**Source**: https://www.cnbc.com/2021/06/01/amazon-backs-federal-bill-to-legalize-marijuana-.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:45:12.753152+00:00

---

Amazon backs federal bill to legalize marijuana Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Cryptocurrency Futures &amp; Commodities Bonds Funds &amp; ETFs Business Economy Finance Health &amp; Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim&#x27;s Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown NEW! My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Stock Lists Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news &amp; videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech Amazon backs federal bill to legalize marijuana and adjusts its drug testing policy for some workers Published Tue, Jun 1 2021 6:48 PM EDT Updated Tue, Jun 1 2021 7:34 PM EDT Annie Palmer @in/annierpalmer/ @annierpalmer WATCH LIVE Key Points Amazon on Tuesday said it backs federal legislation to legalize marijuana. The company said it is changing its drug testing policy and will no longer screen some workers for cannabis. Amazon is also adjusting its system that measures worker productivity, which has been a subject of scrutiny in the past. In this article AMZN Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos Alex Wong | Getty Images Amazon is throwing its weight behind federal legislation to legalize marijuana and pledging to no longer screen some of its workers for the drug. In a blog post Tuesday, Amazon&#x27;s consumer boss, Dave Clark, said the company supports the Marijuana Opportunity Reinvestment and Expungement Act, reintroduced in the House late last month . The MORE Act would decriminalize cannabis at the federal level, expunge criminal records and invest in impacted communities. &quot;We hope that other employers will join us, and that policymakers will act swiftly to pass this law,&quot; Clark wrote. Amazon said it would adjust its corporate drug testing policy for some of its workers. The company will no longer include marijuana in its drug screening program for any positions not regulated by the Department of Transportation, Clark said. &quot;In the past, like many employers, we&#x27;ve disqualified people from working at Amazon if they tested positive for marijuana use,&quot; Clark said. &quot;However, given where state laws are moving across the U.S., we&#x27;ve changed course.&quot; Clark said Amazon is also changing its system that measures worker productivity, known as &quot;time off task.&quot; Amazon tracks productivity rates among its warehouse workers, logging the number of packages they pick, pack and stow each hour. If workers take a break from scanning packages for too long, Amazon&#x27;s internal systems will log it as a time off task and generate a warning, which can later lead to firings. The measurement system was designed to identify issues with workers&#x27; tools and &quot;only secondarily to identify under-performing employees,&quot; Clark said. Starting today, Clark said, Amazon will measure time off tasks over a longer time period. &quot;We believe this change will help ensure the Time off Task policy is used in the way it was intended,&quot; he added. Amazon&#x27;s time off task policy has previously come under scrutiny from employees and labor advocacy groups who argue it makes working conditions more strenuous and that it&#x27;s used as a tool to surveil workers. These groups have also said Amazon&#x27;s relentless pace of work contributes to rising injury rates among employees. In his final letter to shareholders in April, outgoing CEO Jeff Bezos argued that Amazon&#x27;s performance goals aren&#x27;t unreasonable. However, he acknowledged that Amazon needs &quot;a better vision for employees&#x27; success&quot; and vowed to make the company &quot;Earth&#x27;s Best Employer and Earth&#x27;s Safest Place to Work.&quot; WATCH: A closer look at Amazon&#x27;s warehouse injuries watch now VIDEO 2:33 02:33 A closer look at Amazon&#x27;s warehouse injuries News Videos Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing &amp; Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance CNBC on Peacock Join the CNBC Panel Supply Chain Values Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Ad Choices Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Privacy Policy CA Notice Terms of Service © 2025 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by