# Accelerating Scientific Breakthroughs With An Ai Co Scientist

**Source**: https://research.google/blog/accelerating-scientific-breakthroughs-with-an-ai-co-scientist/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:29:09.308834+00:00

---

Accelerating scientific breakthroughs with an AI co-scientist Jump to Content Research Research Who we are Back to Who we are menu Defining the technology of today and tomorrow. Philosophy We strive to create an environment conducive to many different types of research across many different time scales and levels of risk. Learn more about our Philosophy Learn more Philosophy People Our researchers drive advancements in computer science through both fundamental and applied research. Learn more about our People Learn more People Research areas Back to Research areas menu Research areas Explore all research areas Research areas Back to Research areas menu Explore all research areas Foundational ML &amp; Algorithms Algorithms &amp; Theory Data Management Data Mining &amp; Modeling Information Retrieval &amp; the Web Machine Intelligence Machine Perception Machine Translation Natural Language Processing Speech Processing Foundational ML &amp; Algorithms Back to Foundational ML &amp; Algorithms menu Algorithms &amp; Theory Data Management Data Mining &amp; Modeling Information Retrieval &amp; the Web Machine Intelligence Machine Perception Machine Translation Natural Language Processing Speech Processing Computing Systems &amp; Quantum AI Distributed Systems &amp; Parallel Computing Hardware &amp; Architecture Mobile Systems Networking Quantum Computing Robotics Security, Privacy, &amp; Abuse Prevention Software Engineering Software Systems Computing Systems &amp; Quantum AI Back to Computing Systems &amp; Quantum AI menu Distributed Systems &amp; Parallel Computing Hardware &amp; Architecture Mobile Systems Networking Quantum Computing Robotics Security, Privacy, &amp; Abuse Prevention Software Engineering Software Systems Science, AI &amp; Society Climate &amp; Sustainability Economics &amp; Electronic Commerce Education Innovation General Science Health &amp; Bioscience Human-Computer Interaction and Visualization Responsible AI Science, AI &amp; Society Back to Science, AI &amp; Society menu Climate &amp; Sustainability Economics &amp; Electronic Commerce Education Innovation General Science Health &amp; Bioscience Human-Computer Interaction and Visualization Responsible AI Our work Back to Our work menu Projects We regularly open-source projects with the broader research community and apply our developments to Google products. Learn more about our Projects Learn more Projects Publications Publishing our work allows us to share ideas and work collaboratively to advance the field of computer science. Learn more about our Publications Learn more Publications Resources We make products, tools, and datasets available to everyone with the goal of building a more collaborative ecosystem. Learn more about our Resources Learn more Resources Programs &amp; events Back to Programs &amp; events menu Shaping the future, together. Collaborate with us Student programs Supporting the next generation of researchers through a wide range of programming. Learn more about our Student programs Learn more Student programs Faculty programs Participating in the academic research community through meaningful engagement with university faculty. Learn more about our Faculty programs Learn more Faculty programs Conferences &amp; events Connecting with the broader research community through events is essential for creating progress in every aspect of our work. Learn more about our Conferences &amp; events Learn more Conferences &amp; events Collaborate with us Careers Blog Search play silent looping video pause silent looping video Home Blog Accelerating scientific breakthroughs with an AI co-scientist February 19, 2025 Juraj Gottweis, Google Fellow, and Vivek Natarajan, Research Lead We introduce AI co-scientist, a multi-agent AI system built with Gemini 2.0 as a virtual scientific collaborator to help scientists generate novel hypotheses and research proposals, and to accelerate the clock speed of scientific and biomedical discoveries. Quick links AI co-scientist paper Gene transfer discovery paper Transfer re-discovery paper Share Copy link × In the pursuit of scientific advances, researchers combine ingenuity and creativity with insight and expertise grounded in literature to generate novel and viable research directions and to guide the exploration that follows. In many fields, this presents a breadth and depth conundrum, since it is challenging to navigate the rapid growth in the rate of scientific publications while integrating insights from unfamiliar domains. Yet overcoming such challenges is critical, as evidenced by the many modern breakthroughs that have emerged from transdisciplinary endeavors. For example, Emmanuelle Charpentier and Jennifer Doudna won the 2020 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their work on CRISPR , which combined expertise ranging from microbiology to genetics to molecular biology. Motivated by unmet needs in the modern scientific discovery process and building on recent AI advances , including the ability to synthesize across complex subjects and to perform long-term planning and reasoning , we developed an AI co-scientist system . The AI co-scientist is a multi-agent AI system that is intended to function as a collaborative tool for scientists. Built on Gemini 2.0, AI co-scientist is designed to mirror the reasoning process underpinning the scientific method. Beyond standard literature review, summarization and “deep research” tools, the AI co-scientist system is intended to uncover new, original knowledge and to formulate demonstrably novel research hypotheses and proposals, building upon prior evidence and tailored to specific research objectives. Empowering scientists and accelerating discoveries with the AI co-scientist Given a scientist’s research goal that has been specified in natural language, the AI co-scientist is designed to generate novel research hypotheses, a detailed research overview, and experimental protocols. To do so, it uses a coalition of specialized agents — Generation , Reflection , Ranking , Evolution , Proximity and Meta-review — that are inspired by the scientific method itself. These agents use automated feedback to iteratively generate, evaluate, and refine hypotheses, resulting in a self-improving cycle of increasingly high-quality and novel outputs. play silent looping video pause silent looping video AI co-scientist overview. Purpose-built for collaboration, scientists can interact with the system in many ways, including by directly providing their own seed ideas for exploration or by providing feedback on generated outputs in natural language. The AI co-scientist also uses tools, like web-search and specialized AI models, to enhance the grounding and quality of generated hypotheses. Illustration of the different components in the AI co-scientist multi-agent system and the interaction paradigm between the system and the scientist. The AI co-scientist parses the assigned goal into a research plan configuration, managed by a Supervisor agent. The Supervisor agent assigns the specialized agents to the worker queue and allocates resources. This design enables the system to flexibly scale compute and to iteratively improve its scientific reasoning towards the specified research goal. AI co-scientist system overview. Specialized agents ( red boxes , with unique roles and logic); scientist input and feedback ( blue boxes ); system information flow ( dark gray arrows ); inter-agent feedback ( red arrows within the agent section). Scaling test-time compute for advanced scientific reasoning The AI co-scientist leverages test-time compute scaling to iteratively reason, evolve, and improve outputs. Key reasoning steps include self-play –based scientific debate for novel hypothesis generation, ranking tournaments for hypothesis comparison, and an "evolution" process for quality improvement. The system's agentic nature facilitates recursive self-critique, including tool use for feedback to refine hypotheses and proposals. The system's self-improvement relies on the Elo auto-evaluation metric derived from its tournaments. Due to their core role, we assessed whether higher Elo ratings correlate with higher output quality. We analyzed the concordance between Elo auto-ratings and GPQA benchmark accuracy on its diamond set of challenging questions, and we found that higher Elo ratings positively correlate with a higher probability of correct answers. Average accuracy of the AI co-scientist (blue line) and reference Gemini 2.0 (red line) responses on GPQA diamond questions, grouped by Elo rating. The Elo is an auto-evaluation and is not based on an independent ground truth. Seven domain experts curated 15 open research goals and best guess solutions in their field of expertise. Using the automated Elo metric we observed that the AI co-scientist outperformed other state-of-the-art agentic and reasoning models for these complex problems. The analysis reproduced the benefits of scaling test-time compute using inductive biases derived from the scientific method. As the system spends more time reasoning and improving, the self-rated quality of results improve and surpass models and unassisted human experts. Performance of the AI co-scientist improves as the system spends more time in computation. This can be seen in the automated Elo metric gradually improving over other baselines. Top: Elo progression of the best rated hypothesis. Bottom: Elo progression of the average of top-10 hypotheses. On a smaller subset of 11 research goals, experts assessed the novelty and impact of the AI co-scientist–generated results compared to other relevant baselines; they also provided overall preference. While the sample size was small, experts assessed the AI co-scientist to have higher potential for novelty and impact, and preferred its outputs compared to other models. Further, these human expert preferences also appeared to be concordant with the previously introduced Elo auto-evaluation metric. Human experts assess