# 31027932

**Source**: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31027932/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:18:26.659635+00:00

---

Systematic Review of Surgical and Nonsurgical Interventions in Normal Men Complaining of Small Penis Size - PubMed This site needs JavaScript to work properly. Please enable it to take advantage of the complete set of features! Clipboard, Search History, and several other advanced features are temporarily unavailable. Skip to main page content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Log in Show account info Close Account Logged in as: username Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Access keys NCBI Homepage MyNCBI Homepage Main Content Main Navigation Search: Search Advanced Clipboard User Guide Save Email Send to Clipboard My Bibliography Collections Citation manager Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Save citation to file Format: Summary (text) PubMed PMID Abstract (text) CSV Create file Cancel Email citation Email address has not been verified. Go to My NCBI account settings to confirm your email and then refresh this page. To: Subject: Body: Format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) MeSH and other data Send email Cancel Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Add to My Bibliography My Bibliography Unable to load your delegates due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Your saved search Name of saved search: Search terms: Test search terms Would you like email updates of new search results? Saved Search Alert Radio Buttons Yes No Email: ( change ) Frequency: Monthly Weekly Daily Which day? The first Sunday The first Monday The first Tuesday The first Wednesday The first Thursday The first Friday The first Saturday The first day The first weekday Which day? Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Report format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) PubMed Send at most: 1 item 5 items 10 items 20 items 50 items 100 items 200 items Send even when there aren't any new results Optional text in email: Save Cancel Create a file for external citation management software Create file Cancel Your RSS Feed Name of RSS Feed: Number of items displayed: 5 10 15 20 50 100 Create RSS Cancel RSS Link Copy Full text links Silverchair Information Systems Full text links Actions Cite Collections Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Permalink Permalink Copy Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Page navigation Title &amp; authors Abstract Publication types MeSH terms LinkOut - more resources Title &amp; authors Abstract Publication types MeSH terms LinkOut - more resources Sex Med Rev Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2020 Jan;8(1):158-180. doi: 10.1016/j.sxmr.2019.01.004. Epub 2019 Apr 23. Systematic Review of Surgical and Nonsurgical Interventions in Normal Men Complaining of Small Penis Size Giancarlo Marra &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Andrew Drury &nbsp; 2 ,&nbsp; Lisa Tran &nbsp; 3 ,&nbsp; David Veale &nbsp; 4 ,&nbsp; Gordon H Muir &nbsp; 5 Affiliations Expand Affiliations 1 Department of Urology, San Giovanni Battista Hospital and University of Turin, Turin, Italy; Department of Urology, King&#x27;s College Hospital and King&#x27;s College London, London, UK. 2 South London and Maudsley National Health Service Foundation Trust, London, UK. 3 The Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King&#x27;s College London, London, UK. 4 The Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King&#x27;s College London, London, UK; South London and Maudsley National Health Service Foundation Trust, London, UK. 5 Department of Urology, King&#x27;s College Hospital and King&#x27;s College London, London, UK. Electronic address: gordonhmuir@gmail.com. PMID: 31027932 DOI: 10.1016/j.sxmr.2019.01.004 Item in Clipboard Systematic Review of Surgical and Nonsurgical Interventions in Normal Men Complaining of Small Penis Size Giancarlo Marra &nbsp;et al. Sex Med Rev . 2020 Jan . Show details Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Sex Med Rev Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2020 Jan;8(1):158-180. doi: 10.1016/j.sxmr.2019.01.004. Epub 2019 Apr 23. Authors Giancarlo Marra &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Andrew Drury &nbsp; 2 ,&nbsp; Lisa Tran &nbsp; 3 ,&nbsp; David Veale &nbsp; 4 ,&nbsp; Gordon H Muir &nbsp; 5 Affiliations 1 Department of Urology, San Giovanni Battista Hospital and University of Turin, Turin, Italy; Department of Urology, King&#x27;s College Hospital and King&#x27;s College London, London, UK. 2 South London and Maudsley National Health Service Foundation Trust, London, UK. 3 The Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King&#x27;s College London, London, UK. 4 The Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King&#x27;s College London, London, UK; South London and Maudsley National Health Service Foundation Trust, London, UK. 5 Department of Urology, King&#x27;s College Hospital and King&#x27;s College London, London, UK. Electronic address: gordonhmuir@gmail.com. PMID: 31027932 DOI: 10.1016/j.sxmr.2019.01.004 Item in Clipboard Full text links Cite Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Abstract Introduction: Evidence on penile enhancement interventions is lacking. Nonetheless, many non-evidence-based solutions are readily available. Aim: To investigate enhancement and nonenhancement interventions in men without penile abnormalities seeking to increase penis size. Methods: We performed a systematic review with no time restrictions adhering to the PRISMA guidelines. Studies with fewer than 10 cases or including men with organic penile pathologies or previous penile surgeries were excluded. Main outcome measures: When available, treatment efficacy was evaluated based on patient satisfaction, penile size increase, and complications. Results: We included 17 studies, assessing a total of 21 interventions in 1,192 men screened, with 773 followed up after nonsurgical (n = 248) or surgical (n = 525) treatment. The quality of the studies was poor in terms of methodology for patient selection and outcomes assessment. The vast majority of series reported normal penile size. Among nonsurgical treatments, extenders increased flaccid length (but by &lt;2 cm), injectables increased girth but were associated with a high complication rate, and vacuum devices did not increase size. Surgical interventions included suspensory ligament incision (the most used method; n = 12), tissue grafting (autologous, n = 2; dermal fat, n = 3, ex vivo, n = 2), flaps (n = 2), and penile disassembly (n = 1). Some men reported a significant size increase; however, complications were not infrequent, and none of the techniques was externally validated. When provided, counseling was effective, with the majority of men coming to understand that their penis was normal and unwilling to undergo any further treatment. Conclusion: Treatment of small penis in normal men is supported by scant, low-quality evidence. Structured counseling should be always performed, with extenders eventually used by those still seeking enhancement. Injectables and surgery should remain a last option, considered unethical outside of clinical trials. Marra G, Drury A, Tran L, et al. Systematic Review of Surgical and Nonsurgical Interventions in Normal Men Complaining of Small Penis Size. Sex Med Rev 2020;8:158-180. Keywords: Outcome Measures; Penile Dysmorphic Disorder; Penile Enhancement; Small Penis; Small Penis Syndrome; Treatment. Copyright © 2019 International Society for Sexual Medicine. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. PubMed Disclaimer Publication types Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov&#x27;t Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Systematic Review Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search MeSH terms Humans Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Male Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Organ Size Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Patient Satisfaction Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Penis / anatomy &amp; histology* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Penis / surgery* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search LinkOut - more resources Full Text Sources Elsevier Science Ovid Technologies, Inc. Silverchair Information Systems Full text links [x] Silverchair Information Systems [x] Cite Copy Download .nbib .nbib Format: AMA APA MLA NLM Send To Clipboard Email Save My Bibliography Collections Citation Manager [x] NCBI Literature Resources MeSH PMC Bookshelf Disclaimer The PubMed wordmark and PubMed logo are registered trademarks of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Unauthorized use of these marks is strictly prohibited. Follow NCBI Twitter Facebook LinkedIn GitHub Connect with NLM Twitter SM-Facebook SM-Youtube National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike Bethesda, MD 20894 Web Policies FOIA HHS Vulnerability Disclosure Help Accessibility Careers NLM NIH HHS USA.gov