# Noam Tibon Movie October 7Th From Fauda Creators In Works 1235958629

**Source**: https://deadline.com/2024/06/noam-tibon-movie-october-7th-from-fauda-creators-in-works-1235958629/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:11:53.736089+00:00

---

Noam Tibon Movie &#039;October 7th&#039; From &#039;Fauda&#039; Creators In Works Skip to main content Open Mega Menu Got A Tip? deadline-logo-svg Deadline Follow Us: site categories TV Film Awards Awards Hub Digital Issues Box Office Biz International Politics Theater Reviews Obits Video Events Contenders Television: Docs+Unscripted+Variety Television Film: Nominees Film: Documentary Film: International Film: Los Angeles Film: London Sound &amp; Screen Television Film Other For The Love Of Docs Visual Effects + Screen Festivals North America Sundance Toronto Telluride SXSW Tribeca Europe Venice Cannes Zurich Berlin/EFM Middle East Red Sea Asia Tokyo Insider News Alerts Menu deadline-logo-svg Deadline Read Next: ‘Taylor Swift: The Official Release Party Of A Showgirl’ Review: Pic Pulls Back The Curtain &amp; Provides A Study Of Singer&#8217;s Work Ethic In Traditional Fan Experience Got A Tip? Tip Us Home Film News &#8216;October 7th&#8217; Film Written By &#8216;Fauda&#8217; Creators In Works At Leviathan Productions By Matt Grobar Matt Grobar Senior Film Reporter More Stories By Matt K-Pop Star Eric Nam Latest In Talks For Thriller &#8216;Loser&#8217; From Colleen McGuinness &amp; Radio Silence Ruby Cruz, Eric Berryman &amp; Janeane Garofalo To Star In Comedy &#8216;Souvenir&#8217; From David Ketterer Spencer Quinn Shephard Sets Cast For Netflix Drama Series &#8216;The Body&#8217; View All June 4, 2024 9:49am 13 Comments Services to share this page. Share on Facebook Post Share to Flipboard Email Show more sharing options Share on LinkedIn Pin it Submit to Reddit Post to Tumblr Share on WhatsApp Print This Page 'October 7th' scribes Avi Issacharoff and Lior Raz Allen Berezovsky/Getty Images EXCLUSIVE : Leviathan Productions has enlisted Avi Issacharoff and Lior Raz , creators of the hit Israeli series Fauda , to script October 7th , a narrative feature telling the harrowing true story of Noam Tibon . A grandfather and retired Israeli general, Tibon garnered international attention when he rescued his family from the hands of Hamas terrorists who had invaded their kibbutz &mdash; with his story, capturing the Israeli spirit of resilience in the face of adversity. Related Stories Acquisitions Leviathan Productions Acquires Remake Rights To French Thriller &lsquo;The Man In The Basement&rsquo; Documentary Paramount+ To Unveil Doc &lsquo;We Will Dance Again&rsquo; On October 7 Terror Attack In Israel This Fall Noam Tibon, the subject of Leviathan&#8217;s October 7th Alexi J. Rosenfeld/Getty Images Ben Cosgrove will produce the film telling that story for Leviathan Productions, with Jessica Kasmer-Jacobs and Talia Harris Ram exec producing. Noam Tibon and his son, Amir Tibon, will serve as consultants on the project. October 7, 2023 was of course the shocking and tragic day when Hamas launched a coordinated land, sea, and air assault on Israel from the Gaza Strip, resulting in nearly 1,200 deaths, primarily of Israeli citizens. Marking the deadliest day for Israel since its independence, the day saw the country declare itself in a state of war for the first time since the Yom Kippur War in 1973, marking the beginning of a conflict that is ongoing. Watch on Deadline &#8220;When faced with the horrors of that fateful day, Noam Tibon immediately charged into danger to protect his family,&#8221; said Lior Raz and Avi Issacharoff, whose Faraway Road Productions is part of Candle Media. &#8220;His gripping story &ndash; which transcends any religion, country, or conflict &ndash; beautifully reflects the sacrifices we are willing to make for those we love. We are proud to help amplify Noam&#8217;s bravery and to provide some hope and inspiration during these difficult times.&#8221; Issacharoff and Raz are best known for co-creating the hit political thriller series Fauda , which has aired four seasons on Netflix since 2015. Starring Raz, and drawing on the duo&#8217;s experiences in the Israel Defense Forces, the series examines the human stories on both sides of the Israel-Palestine conflict. Over the course of its run, it&#8217;s won numerous accolades at both the Israeli Academy Awards and the Israeli TV Academy Awards, garnering international attention. Thus far, the duo have also partnered to create the series Ghosts of Beirut and Hit &amp; Run for Showtime and Netflix, respectively. Founded by veteran film producer Cosgrove and bestselling author Josh Foer, Leviathan Productions is an independent production company focused on acquiring and developing mass-market films and television content based on Jewish history, folklore, and literature, as well as stories about Israel. Most recently, the company acquired remake rights to the recent French thriller The Man in the Basement , also announcing a feature adaptation of Victoria Saker Woeste historical work, Henry Ford&#8217;s War on Jews and the Legal Battles Against Hate Speech . Other previously announced Leviathan projects include adaptations of Leonard Slater&#8217;s book The Pledge , the novel The Secret Chord by Pulitzer Prize-winner Geraldine Brooks, and Anna Ziegler&#8217;s play Photograph 51 , as well as a horror film inspired by the Golem legend, which they&#8217;ve tapped A Series of Unfortunate Events &#8216; Daniel Handler to script. Issacharoff and Raz are represented by Artists First, UTA, and Ziffren Brittenham. Gary Barkin represented Leviathan Productions in the deal, with The Deborah Harris Agency repping Noam and Tibon alongside attorney Eric Feig. Must Read Stories Hide Articles &#8216;Taylor Swift: Showgirl&#8217; Eyes $30M Debut As &#8216;Smashing Machine&#8217; Taps Out ‘The Official Release Party Of A Showgirl’ Is A Study Of Taylor Swift&#8217;s Work Ethic Sean Combs Gets More Than Four Years In Prison; Quick Appeal Expected Take Off, Eh? Fox Cancels Animated Comedy &#8216;The Great North&#8217; After Five Seasons Read More About: Avi Issacharoff Development Leviathan Productions Lior Raz Noam Tibon October 7th 13 Comments Subscribe to Deadline Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Sign Up 13 Comments Dahila on June 4, 2024 6:45 pm As horrible as 10/7 was for the innocent victims&#8230; will this doc mention anything about the brutal occupation of the Palestinians for the last 75 years as well? Or that fact that 15,000 children have been slaughtered since? Or will this be whitewashed as Hollywood usually does? Jaime on June 5, 2024 6:29 am While the death of one innocent civilian on either side is a TRAGEDY, let us remember that the UN&#8217;s own review of the dead showed the number of children killed is FAR, FAR, FAR below what Hamas&#8221; Health Minister claimed!!! ALSO, remember (how conveniently you forget!!) that there hasn&#8217;t been one Israeli or Jew in Gaza since 2005!!! Yes, I also believe that that the Palestinians (who never used that name before &#8217;67!!!) should be free. GET RID OF THE MURDEROUS TYRANNYCAL RULE OF THE HAMAS TERROR ORGANIZATION. STOP TEACHING YOUR CHILDREN THAT MURDERING JEWS BRINGS HONOR TO YOUR PEOPLE. LEARN TO LIVE IN PEACE WITH YOUR NEIGHBORS, AND THEN YOU&#8217;LL BE ON YOUR WAY TO HAPPINESS, FREEDOM AND PROSPERITY. ISRAEL IS BACK IN ITS ANCESTRAL LAND&lt; AND WIKLL NOT DISSAPPEAR. JEWS HAVE SURVIVED THE STRONGEST AND MOST GLORIOUS EMPIRES IN HISTORY; we&#039;ve been raped, dispersed and murdered throughout history. Our enemies are sonly remembered by the glorious ruins still standing. YOU WILL NEVER, NEVER, NEVER succeed where the far mightier empires of yore and the 20th century lost. learn to live with reality, before you are destroyed by the juices of you own irrational hatred then and only then you will prosper and be be happy!!!! Dahlia on June 5, 2024 11:13 am Even though most of us have seen the genocide live streamed on our phones&#8230;.keep telling your indoctrinated self these delusional, despicable justifications for the slaughter of innocent children&#8230; You sound very unhinged Jaime. Is this also how you feel about Native Americans? Or the Irish who were being starved by the Brits? Or Black people living in the Jim Crow south? Jewish people are not the only people who have suffered. Many people have. The horrendous crimes the IDF have done, and are doing are just as vile as what Hamas did. The collective punishment of Palestinians is pure evil. Nothing you can say can refute this. A J on June 5, 2024 3:30 am Go to Hamas for your Issues. Israel doesn&#8217;t attack or kill children. dahila on June 5, 2024 11:20 am There will be genocide museums and documentaries about what Israel has done to the Palestinians one day just as there are already millions of museums and movies made for what jewish people went through. Hell yeah on June 4, 2024 12:52 pm This is going to be awesome &#8211; FAUDA is incredible. Anonymous on June 4, 2024 11:09 am Is the theme of the movie gonna be the competence of Mossad, or the competence of Netanyahu&#8217;s government? Anonymous on June 4, 2024 11:25 am It should be about the evil of Hamas but also the sexism of the establishment that ignored warnings from female soldiers that an attack was being planned in the weeks leading up to October 7. And yes, the gross incompetence of Netanyapuke. Anonymous on June 4, 2024 9:53 am ….because everyone wants this…. David on June 4, 2024 11:35 am Nobody wanted tbe October 7th massacre and tbe ongoing hostage crisis as well Anonymous on June 4, 2024 10:42 am Antisemites, jihadists and Marjorie Taylor Greene will call it the feel good movie of the year. Anonymous on June 9, 2024 5:33 am That makes absolutely no sense at all. Rat Basterd on June 4, 2024 10:31 am You misspelled &#8220;needs&#8221; Sidebar Trending on Deadline 1 &#039;Taylor Swift: Showgirl&#039; Struts $29M-$31M, &#039;The Smashing Machine&#039; Hits The Mat With $6M-$7M, &#039;One Battle After Another&#039; Heads To $100M WW - Box Office 2 ‘Taylor Swift: The Official Release Party Of A Showgirl’ Review: Pic Pulls Back The Curtain &amp;