# Love In The Time Of Sickle Cell Disease

**Source**: https://harpers.org/archive/2023/08/love-in-the-time-of-sickle-cell-disease/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:47:19.756627+00:00

---

Love in the Time of Sickle Cell Disease, by Krithika Varagur --> Signed In via Institutional Access Sign In Subscribe Account Account Sign in to access HarperГўВҖВҷs Magazine We've recently updated our website to make signing in easier and more secure Sign in to Harper's Learn more about using our new sign-in system Hi there . You have 1 free article this month. Connect to your subscription or subscribe for full access You've reached your free article limit for this month. Connect to your subscription or subscribe for full access Connect Subscription Subscribe Update login Make changes to your subscription Support and FAQ Log out Thanks for being a subscriber! Update login Make changes to your subscription Support and FAQ Log out Get Access to Print and Digital for $25.99 per year. Subscribe for Full Access About Archive Authors Gala Newsletters Shop Podcast Events Subscribe Search 175 Years Current Issue Sections The Latest Search About Archive Authors Gala Newsletters Shop Podcast Events Subscribe Search August 2023 Issue [Letter from Lagos] Love in the Time of Sickle Cell Disease Download PDF Adjust Share WhatГўВҖВҷs the cost of rolling the genetic dice? by Krithika Varagur , Illustrations by Katherine Lam S ubomi Mabogunje fell for Nkechi Egonu within hours of meeting her in 2004, in his hometown of Ijebu-&thinsp;Ode, a trading hub in southwest Nigeria. They worked at a state-run broadcast TV station, thrown together by the National Youth Service Corps. He was speechless on the day Nkechi first walked into work. While Subomi was thin and bespectacled, she was petite and zaftig, with her hair in a ballerina bun, and coldly immune to the stares that trailed her across the office. Her swaggering personality was also the opposite of his reserved one; she was outspoken in the stationГўВҖВҷs weekly news meeting, and top brass quickly promoted her to program presenter. She was the most exciting person, Subomi felt, who had ever walked into his hometown. He found the courage to speak to Nkechi one weekend when they were assigned to do community service, clearing overgrown grasses near a government building. Subomi went, despite his habitual avoidance of strenuous physical activity. ГўВҖВңYouГўВҖВҷre too good for this kind of work, ehe ?ГўВҖВқ Nkechi teased, furrowing her brows. ГўВҖВңLocalsГўВҖВҷ discount,ГўВҖВқ he joked, and she laughed. With his hollow cheekbones, frail body, and elongated fingers, he was clearly what some uncharitable onlookers would call a ГўВҖВңsicklerГўВҖВқГўВҖВ”&thinsp;one of up to six million people in Nigeria with sickle c ell disease, a group of inherited blood disorders that turn red blood cells from soft discs into rigid crescents, frequently leading to blood clots that can cause pain episodes, called ГўВҖВңcrises,ГўВҖВқ and serious complications in most major organs. But Nkechi never shied away from him. A few days later, the officeГўВҖВҷs radio transmitter stopped working, so Nkechi and Subomi had nothing to do except talk. After work, they made a beeline for a local dive bar housed in a car wash. Within a few weeks, they were inseparable. From the beginning, Nkechi knew that she and Subomi had ГўВҖВңno business dating.ГўВҖВқ His genotype was SS: he had two abnormal S genes for hemoglobin, the oxygen-&thinsp;carrying protein in his blood. NkechiГўВҖВҷs genotype was AS: she had one abnormal S gene and one normal A gene. Like an estimated quarter of all Nigerians, she was a silent carrier. There was a 50ГӮ percent chance that any child they had would suffer from sickle cell disease like their father. This was no light prospect. SubomiГўВҖВҷs own childhood had been marred by secrecy and shame over his condition. Nkechi, meanwhile, had lost four cousins to the disease. Those deaths might be understood as products of an earlier, benighted time, when the average Nigerian knew far less about genetic testing and disease management. Today, however, there was a growing consensusГўВҖВ”&thinsp;particularly in their college-&thinsp;educated, upper-&thinsp;middle-&thinsp;class milieuГўВҖВ”when it came to passing on two sickle cell genes: donГўВҖВҷt risk it. But how, and when, do you weigh risk against attachment? Nkechi revealed her genotype just days after meeting Subomi, and he didnГўВҖВҷt stop loving her. He liked that she held he r ground, didnГўВҖВҷt worry about the future, and could make even his stolid father laugh. She also had a quick temper, but he preferred her foot-&thinsp;stomping, door-&thinsp;slamming outbursts to his quieter family life, shuttling between two parents who often lived apart. ГўВҖВңBut why, dude?ГўВҖВқ Nkechi asked him in those early months, in her broad, Americanized diphthongs. He wasnГўВҖВҷt sure, he said. She was something that had happened to him, like a coconut dropping on your head while youГўВҖВҷre walking down the street. By the end of her service year, Nkechi had fallen in love with Subomi, too, but she thought it shouldnГўВҖВҷt last. In March 2005, she moved back to Lagos alone. Subomi simply followed her. In April 2006, she broke up with him at a fried chicken restaurant, screaming about how stupid, how uneducated , it would be for them to stay together. They reconciled a week later. She broke up with him again in January 2008, sitting in his parked car. That separation lasted a month. Nkechi was just shy of thirty when she initiated their third breakup in late July 2009. She met him on a Friday evening at home and calmly told him that they had to find other people to marry before it was too late. As the oldest of six, she was starting to feel uneasy that neither she nor her siblings had married or started families, unusual for Nigerians of their generation. She had even talked to a genetic counselor at the Sickle Cell Foundation Nigeria (SCFN), in Lagos, who had advised her to end the relationship. (Though a representative from the foundation told me that this is against their policies.) There were too many obstacles. ГўВҖВңA marriage is not just between two people,ГўВҖВқ Nkechi reminded Subomi. They talked and cried for three hours as the sun set, and she kept crying all the way home on the lurching bus. They were tears of grief, but also relief. She had finally, and responsibly, severed this unwieldiest of attachments. Subomi didnГўВҖВҷt sleep much that night. Early the next morning, he started driving to his fatherГўВҖВҷs house in Ijebu-&thinsp;Ode. That afternoon, something told Nkechi to call him to make sure he had arrived safely. SubomiГўВҖВҷs boss picked up the phone. ГўВҖВңIs Subi there?ГўВҖВқ she asked, confused. ГўВҖВң Oh, itГўВҖВҷs you, Nkechi. I was actually just about to call you,ГўВҖВқ Nkechi recalls him saying over a crackling connection. ГўВҖВңSubomiГўВҖВҷs had an accident.ГўВҖВқ Less than an hour outside Lagos, SubomiГўВҖВҷs sedan had been rear-&thinsp;ended, hit a truck, and flipped over. Paramedics had taken him to the hospital and dialed the last received call on the phone they fished from SubomiГўВҖВҷs pocket. NkechiГўВҖВҷs mouth went dry. At dawn, she began a long bus journey to the hospital, where she ran into SubomiГўВҖВҷs mother. They found Subomi in the ICU, in a coma. Nkechi held his motherГўВҖВҷs hand as the doctor explained SubomiГўВҖВҷs prognosis. It could be hours, days, weeks, or months before he woke up, if he woke up at all. Nkechi had to work on Monday, but she returned to Ibadan on Friday afternoon, inaugurating a regular weekend pilgrimage. She sat by SubomiГўВҖВҷs bed all day, napping at a nursing studentsГўВҖВҷ dorm nearby. Perhaps, his doctor offered, playing SubomiГўВҖВҷs favorite songs or movies could help. Nkechi made him a mixtape with his favorite songs by Kenny G, Enya, and the Nigerian gospel singer Tim Godfrey, which she had played on a loop day in and day out. His mother started to visibly relax whenever Nkechi walked through the hospital doors. Nkechi, for her part, put their breakup out of her mind. On Saturday, September 5, she showed up as usual and was stunned to find Subomi awake. She screamed with joy and clasped his hands. ГўВҖВңHappy birthday, Nkechi,ГўВҖВқ he told her. Everyone near his bed turned to her and paused. Was he crazy? But it was, in fact, her thirtieth birthday; Subomi had glanced at the date on some paperwork. Nkechi started to laugh. Everyone then agreed that he could go home soon, and he was discharged a few weeks later. Subomi still faced a long road to recovery, and he was intermittently bedridden. Nkechi substituted her weekend trips to Ibadan with visits to his motherГўВҖВҷs house in Lagos. She guided him through complicated stretches, gave him sponge baths, and crawled on the floor beside him as he learned how to walk again. Remarkably, he was on his feet within six monthsГўВҖВ”&thinsp;and, despite everyoneГўВҖВҷs concern, didnГўВҖВҷt suffer any sickle cell crises during his convalescence. When Nkechi got up to leave, he started to ask her when they were getting married. ГўВҖВңWe are broken up,ГўВҖВқ she would remind him. ГўВҖВңI have no recollection of that,ГўВҖВқ he would say. ГўВҖВңOr did you forget I was in a monthlong coma?ГўВҖВқ It was hard for her to gauge his sincerity. In the new year, Subomi could not only walk but drive again, and as he regained strength, the flame of NkechiГўВҖВҷs attraction flickered. She didnГўВҖВҷt try to put it out. For once, none of their family members were asking probing questions about the future. One afternoon in August, when Nkechi was making sure SubomiГўВҖВҷs bed was comfortable, he pulled a pink tourmaline ring from his pocket. Later, NkechiГўВҖВҷs mind would cycle through the past six yearsГўВҖВ”&thinsp;their chance meeting in Ijebu-&thinsp;Ode, those afternoons at the car-wash bar, breaking and making up in Lagos, the accident, his convalescenceГўВҖВ”&thinsp;and she would wonder if they were making the right choice. But in that moment, and without hesitation, she said yes. N igeria is the sickle cell capital of the world. Its residents account for about half of all new annual cases of severe hemoglobin disorders worldwide. Sickle cell disease is one of the worldГўВҖВҷs most prevalent autosomal recessive genetic disorders; the sickle cell t