# 37979946

**Source**: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37979946/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:54:37.576886+00:00

---

Perspectives on APRN prescribing of medications for opioid use disorder: Key barriers remain - PubMed This site needs JavaScript to work properly. Please enable it to take advantage of the complete set of features! Clipboard, Search History, and several other advanced features are temporarily unavailable. Skip to main page content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Log in Show account info Close Account Logged in as: username Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Access keys NCBI Homepage MyNCBI Homepage Main Content Main Navigation Search: Search Advanced Clipboard User Guide Save Email Send to Clipboard My Bibliography Collections Citation manager Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Save citation to file Format: Summary (text) PubMed PMID Abstract (text) CSV Create file Cancel Email citation Email address has not been verified. Go to My NCBI account settings to confirm your email and then refresh this page. To: Subject: Body: Format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) MeSH and other data Send email Cancel Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Add to My Bibliography My Bibliography Unable to load your delegates due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Your saved search Name of saved search: Search terms: Test search terms Would you like email updates of new search results? Saved Search Alert Radio Buttons Yes No Email: ( change ) Frequency: Monthly Weekly Daily Which day? The first Sunday The first Monday The first Tuesday The first Wednesday The first Thursday The first Friday The first Saturday The first day The first weekday Which day? Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Report format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) PubMed Send at most: 1 item 5 items 10 items 20 items 50 items 100 items 200 items Send even when there aren't any new results Optional text in email: Save Cancel Create a file for external citation management software Create file Cancel Your RSS Feed Name of RSS Feed: Number of items displayed: 5 10 15 20 50 100 Create RSS Cancel RSS Link Copy Full text links Elsevier Science Free PMC article Full text links Actions Cite Collections Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Permalink Permalink Copy Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Page navigation Title &amp; authors Abstract Figures References Publication types MeSH terms Grants and funding LinkOut - more resources Title &amp; authors Abstract Figures References Publication types MeSH terms Grants and funding LinkOut - more resources J Subst Use Addict Treat Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2024 Feb:157:209215. doi: 10.1016/j.josat.2023.209215. Epub 2023 Nov 18. Perspectives on APRN prescribing of medications for opioid use disorder: Key barriers remain Susan A Chapman &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Leah Fraimow-Wong &nbsp; 2 ,&nbsp; Bethany J Phoenix &nbsp; 3 ,&nbsp; Matthew Tierney &nbsp; 4 ,&nbsp; Joanne Spetz &nbsp; 5 Affiliations Expand Affiliations 1 University of California San Francisco School of Nursing, Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, 490 Illinois Street, 12th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94143, United States of America. Electronic address: susan.chapman@ucsf.edu. 2 UCSF School of Medicine, 533 Parnassus Ave, San Francisco, CA 94143, United States of America. Electronic address: leah.fraimow-wong@ucsf.edu. 3 University of California San Francisco School of Nursing, Department of Community Health Systems, 2 Koret Way, 5th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94143-0608, United States of America. Electronic address: beth.phoenix@ucsf.edu. 4 University of California San Francisco School of Nursing, Department of Community Health Systems, 2 Koret Way, 5th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94143-0608, United States of America. Electronic address: matt.tierney@ucsf.edu. 5 Philip R. Lee Institute for Health Policy Studies, School of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, 490 Illinois Street, 7th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94158, United States of America. Electronic address: joanne.spetz@ucsf.edu. PMID: 37979946 PMCID: PMC11092094 DOI: 10.1016/j.josat.2023.209215 Item in Clipboard Perspectives on APRN prescribing of medications for opioid use disorder: Key barriers remain Susan A Chapman &nbsp;et al. J Subst Use Addict Treat . 2024 Feb . Show details Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID J Subst Use Addict Treat Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2024 Feb:157:209215. doi: 10.1016/j.josat.2023.209215. Epub 2023 Nov 18. Authors Susan A Chapman &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Leah Fraimow-Wong &nbsp; 2 ,&nbsp; Bethany J Phoenix &nbsp; 3 ,&nbsp; Matthew Tierney &nbsp; 4 ,&nbsp; Joanne Spetz &nbsp; 5 Affiliations 1 University of California San Francisco School of Nursing, Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, 490 Illinois Street, 12th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94143, United States of America. Electronic address: susan.chapman@ucsf.edu. 2 UCSF School of Medicine, 533 Parnassus Ave, San Francisco, CA 94143, United States of America. Electronic address: leah.fraimow-wong@ucsf.edu. 3 University of California San Francisco School of Nursing, Department of Community Health Systems, 2 Koret Way, 5th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94143-0608, United States of America. Electronic address: beth.phoenix@ucsf.edu. 4 University of California San Francisco School of Nursing, Department of Community Health Systems, 2 Koret Way, 5th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94143-0608, United States of America. Electronic address: matt.tierney@ucsf.edu. 5 Philip R. Lee Institute for Health Policy Studies, School of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, 490 Illinois Street, 7th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94158, United States of America. Electronic address: joanne.spetz@ucsf.edu. PMID: 37979946 PMCID: PMC11092094 DOI: 10.1016/j.josat.2023.209215 Item in Clipboard Full text links Cite Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Abstract Introduction: Deaths from drug overdoses are rising dramatically in the United States. Treatment for opioid use disorders may include behavioral treatments as well as medications for opioid use disorders (MOUD). Buprenorphine can be prescribed by physicians, nurse practitioners (NPs), other advanced practice registered nurses (APRNs), and physician assistants (PAs) and required a training and a federal waiver until recently. The number of NP MOUD prescribers grew steadily over the past decade, but research has identified state-level scope of practice regulations as a barrier to NP MOUD prescribing. This article explores the contributions of, and remaining barriers faced by NP and other APRN MOUD prescribers. We describe qualitative findings from a study of NPs and other key stakeholders involved in MOUD treatment in four states with two differing levels of regulatory structure. Methods: In this qualitative study, we conducted site visits and semi-structured interviews with NPs and other APRNs, physicians, clinic managers, and regulators in four states including New Mexico and West Virginia (full practice authority for NPs), and Ohio and Michigan (which require physician supervision). Interview notes were entered into a qualitative software package and coded and reviewed by two members of the research team. Data were grouped into key themes. Results: A total of 76 participants participated in individual or small group interviews in the four states. We found key themes and several subthemes that describe NP practice in MOUD. Participants described key contributions of NP engagement in MOUD, including increasing access, serving rural areas, the unique role of psychiatric NPs, and the value of the nursing model of care in working with people with substance use disorders (SUD). Participants also identified barriers including scope of practice regulations, other regulatory barriers, stigma, and lack of supportive services to address psychosocial needs. Conclusions: The waiver requirements were eliminated at the end of 2022 in federal budget legislation. Other barriers for NP and other APRN prescribers remain and should be addressed in practice, and in state and federal regulations. Research needs to explore the impact of the waiver elimination on MOUD prescribing and access to services. Keywords: Access to treatment; Medications for opioid use disorder (MOUD); Nurse practitioners. Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. PubMed Disclaimer Figures Figure 1. Timeline of Federal Regulations regarding… Figure 1. Timeline of Federal Regulations regarding Buprenorphine Prescribing, 2000-Present Figure 1. Timeline of Federal Regulations regarding Buprenorphine Prescribing, 2000-Present Figure 1. Timeline of Federal Regulations regarding… Figure 1. Timeline of Federal Regulations regarding Buprenorphine Prescribing, 2000-Present Figure 1. Timeline of Federal Regulations regarding Buprenorphine Prescribing, 2000-Present See this image and copyright information in PMC References Ahmad F, Cisewski J, Rossen L, &amp; Sutton P. (2023). Provisional drug overdose death counts. National Center for Health Statistics. https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nvss/vsrr/drug-overdose-data.htm Andraka-Christou B, Page C, Schoebel