# 13906 A 5 Minute Trick For Fresher Tomatoes

**Source**: http://food52.com/blog/13906-a-5-minute-trick-for-fresher-tomatoes
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:57:56.674346+00:00

---

A 5-Minute Trick for Fresher Tomatoes This Week&#x27;s Mood: Dinner &amp; a Movie This Week&#x27;s Mood: Dinner &amp; a Movie Schoolhouse Dansk Search Shop New Best Sellers Exclusively at Food52 Featured Makers Kitchen Kitchen Utensils &amp; Tools Kitchen Storage &amp; Organization Countertop Organization Food Storage Kitchen Linens Cutting Boards Coffee &amp; Tea Accessories Knives Cookware Frying Pans &amp; Skillets Baking &amp; Roasting Pans Dutch Ovens &amp; Stock Pots Sauce &amp; Saute Pans Cookware Sets Tabletop Dinnerware Glassware Table Linens Flatware &amp; Serving Utensils Serveware Outdoor Entertaining Home Organization &amp; Storage Cleaning &amp; Laundry Bath Towels &amp; Accessories Vases &amp; Decorative Objects Clocks &amp; Lighting Candles &amp; Candle Holders Planters Shop All Recipes Popular Quick and Easy 5 Ingredients or Fewer Cocktails Appetizers Ingredients Chicken Steak Salmon Pasta Potato Rice Meals &amp; Dishes Breakfast Lunch Dinner Salad Sweet Treats Lifestyle Vegetarian Vegan Gluten-Free Alcohol-Free Drinks Tools &amp; Techniques One Pot Sheet Pan No Bake Grill Life Travel Hosting &amp; Entertainment Parenting Pets Kitchen Sink Crafts &amp; Hobbies Community View All Food Recipes How To &amp; Hacks Meal Planning Baking Trending &amp; Seasonal Drinks Community Hotline View All Home Style &amp; Design Cleaning &amp; Organizing Outdoors Renovation Home Tours View All Watch Shop All Shop New Best Sellers Exclusively at Food52 Featured Makers Kitchen Kitchen Utensils &amp; Tools Kitchen Storage &amp; Organization Countertop Organization Food Storage Kitchen Linens Cutting Boards Coffee &amp; Tea Accessories Knives Cookware Frying Pans &amp; Skillets Baking &amp; Roasting Pans Dutch Ovens &amp; Stock Pots Sauce &amp; Saute Pans Cookware Sets Tabletop Dinnerware Glassware Table Linens Flatware &amp; Serving Utensils Serveware Outdoor Entertaining Home Organization &amp; Storage Cleaning &amp; Laundry Bath Towels &amp; Accessories Vases &amp; Decorative Objects Clocks &amp; Lighting Candles &amp; Candle Holders Planters Shop all Shop Recipes All Recipes Popular Quick and Easy 5 Ingredients or Fewer Cocktails Appetizers Ingredients Chicken Steak Salmon Pasta Potato Rice Meals &amp; Dishes Breakfast Lunch Dinner Salad Sweet Treats Lifestyle Vegetarian Vegan Gluten-Free Alcohol-Free Drinks Tools &amp; Techniques One Pot Sheet Pan No Bake Grill Life All Life Travel Hosting &amp; Entertainment Parenting Pets Kitchen Sink Crafts &amp; Hobbies Community Shop all Life Food All Food Recipes How To &amp; Hacks Meal Planning Baking Trending &amp; Seasonal Drinks Community Hotline Shop all Food Home All Home Style &amp; Design Cleaning &amp; Organizing Outdoors Renovation Home Tours Shop all Home Watch Account 0 Items in your Cart Your shopping cart is empty. Continue Shopping A 5-Minute Trick for Fresher Tomatoes This trick—which only takes 5 minutes—may be the answer to avoiding refrigerator-chilled, flavorless tomatoes. By Leslie Stephens Published On August 21, 2015 This trick—which only takes 5 minutes—may be the answer to avoiding refrigerator-chilled, flavorless tomatoes. A few weeks ago, when our Test Kitchen Manager Derek was doling out tomatoes that wouldn&#x27;t survive the weekend in the office, I made the mistake of offering that he put them in the refrigerator. A genuine look of shock came over him as he said, &quot;Put them in the refrigerator? I could never do that to a tomato!&quot; Over the next few weeks, I started to recognize just how much refrigerators can affect tomatoes&#x27; taste —the cold temperatures cause them to lose their flavor and become mealy. This loss of flavor and degradation of textured is because the cold can halt the flavor-producing enzymes in tomatoes that thrive at room temperature. New research suggests, however, that the same could be true of the opposite. A recent article from Quartz brings to light new research from plant physiologist Jinhe Bai, who&#x27;s found that dipping tomatoes in warm water before chilling them may help them retain their flavor . He took tomatoes fresh from the vine and dipped them into 125° F water, then chilled them—and he found that the flavor remained. We decided to test the theory, albeit in a slightly flawed form (our tomatoes were store-bought, so it&#x27;s likely that they were chilled before we ever reached them), but the findings may surprise you : The method: We purchased two store-bought tomatoes and placed one in a water bath at 125° F for five minutes, then refrigerated both overnight. We allowed both tomatoes to come to room temperature (which in itself helps them recover from refrigeration ), invited members of the Food52 to blind taste test of each tomato, then asked each person to pick their favorite tomato. The findings: Of the 10 team member asked to try the tomatoes, eight of ten said that the pre-heated tomato was their favorite . Of those who chose the pre-heated tomato, almost all cited a &quot;more tomato-y&quot; taste—though to different degrees. Caroline , our Assistant Editor, determined more &quot;essence of tomato&quot; and our C.O.O. Bridget said that it was &quot;infinitely better.&quot; Amanda , our Design Editor, was perhaps the most specific, saying of the non-treated tomato, &quot;This is like chewing on paper—you know when paper disintegrates in your mouth? You’ll remember when you try this tomato.&quot; She chose the pre-heated version. But Kristen , our Executive Editor, said that she felt the texture was slightly better. Conclusion: The pre-heated tomato had an 80% success rate, but many of the people who liked it said that its flavor was almost imperceptibly better. In a pinch, you&#x27;ll find us dipping our tomatoes in warm water before refigeration—better safe than sorry! What are some of your tricks for keeping tomatoes fresher longer? Tell us in the comments below! Photo by James Ransom Our best tips for eating thoughtfully and living joyfully, right in your inbox. Subscribe Company About Us DEI Vision Press Jobs Affiliate Program Get Help Contact &amp; FAQ Gift Cards Advertising Inquiries Social Facebook Instagram Pinterest TikTok YouTube © 2025 Food52, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Code of Conduct Accessibility Policy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. When you visit our website, we collect and use personal information about you using cookies. You may opt out of selling, sharing, or disclosure of personal data for targeted advertising (called &quot;Do Not Sell or Share&quot; in California) by enabling the Global Privacy Control on a compatible browser. See our Privacy Policy for further information. Accept