# How To Access Retirement Funds Early

**Source**: https://www.madfientist.com/how-to-access-retirement-funds-early/#comments
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:06:31.908806+00:00

---

How to Access Retirement Funds Early If you've enjoyed the last 9 years of ad-free content and want to say thanks, here's how → Order Album! --> Main menu Skip to content BLOG PODCAST ABOUT RESOURCES LAB CARDS How to Access Retirement Funds Early Updated on November 8, 2024 285 Comments I&#8217;ve written a lot about the benefits of tax-advantaged accounts and why they are especially beneficial for people planning on retiring early . I&#8217;ve even created a real-time experiment to prove that utilizing tax-advantaged accounts is the best way speed up your journey to financial independence. What I haven&#8217;t done yet though is write a comprehensive post about all the ways you can access the money in retirement accounts prior to standard retirement age. Today, I plan to fill in that missing piece of the puzzle and also determine which early-withdrawal method is best for early retirees. Early-Withdrawal Penalty The problem with tax-advantaged accounts is that you could be forced to pay a 10% penalty when withdrawing your money before you turn 59 1/2 years old. Since these accounts are for retirement (in the normal sense of the word), the penalty is the government&#8217;s way of discouraging you from spending the money early. Luckily, there are loopholes you can exploit to get around the penalties so you can access this money during early retirement. Standard Retirement is Part of Early Retirement Before we dive into the various withdrawal methods though, it&#8217;s worth stating something obvious that people seem to miss. Normal retirement is part of early retirement. Here&#8217;s a highly-detailed diagram to help explain this even further: People have said to me that they aren&#8217;t contributing to their 401(k)s because they plan on retiring early. That&#8217;s insane! Even if you plan to retire early, you still need money to live on in your 60s, 70s, and beyond so why not pay for those years with tax-deferred (or potentially tax-free) money? Everyone should utilize retirement accounts for standard-retirement-age spending but for people who think they&#8217;ll have more in their retirement accounts than they&#8217;d ever be able to use after they turn 60 and want to start accessing that money during early retirement, here are your options&#8230; Roth Conversion Ladder The first method for accessing tax-advantaged money early is the Roth IRA Conversion Ladder. Here&#8217;s how it works&#8230; When you leave your job, immediately roll your 401(k)/403(b) into a Traditional IRA. Since all of these accounts are very similar, tax-wise, this conversion can be done immediately and there are no penalties or tax consequences to worry about. If you think you&#8217;ll need to access some of your retirement account money in five years, convert the amount you think you&#8217;ll need from your Traditional IRA to a Roth IRA. You will pay tax on the amount you convert so make sure you&#8217;re in a low tax bracket when performing the conversion and only convert as much as you need. Wait five years. While you&#8217;re waiting, you can do additional conversions so that you have money to access in years 6, 7, etc. After five years, you can take out the amount you converted without paying any additional penalties or taxes (you were taxed in Step #2 when you executed the Traditional-to-Roth conversion). Here&#8217;s a sexy graphic I created that lays out the process: I know people often try to explain these concepts on forums and elsewhere on the internet so here&#8217;s a direct link to this image, in case you want to share it: www.madfientist.com/roth-conversion-ladder-graphic Pros The pros of this method are: You can minimize your taxes because you can choose which years you do the conversion based on your income in those years. If your income is low enough, you could potentially execute tax-free conversions, which would mean you will never have to pay any tax on that money! If you don&#8217;t need to use the money, you can leave the conversions in your Roth to grow tax free until you do need to use them. Cons You have to wait five years after executing the conversion to withdraw the money without penalty. You pay tax on the conversion five years before you can use the money so you lose out on the tax-free growth that money could have provided. 72(t) Substantially Equal Periodic Payments (SEPP) Another popular early-withdrawal method is 72(t) Substantially Equal Periodic Payments (SEPP). Here&#8217;s how it works: When you leave your job, immediately roll your 401(k)/403(b) into a Traditional IRA. Determine how much you think you&#8217;ll want to withdraw from your retirement accounts every year until you turn 59.5 Calculate the three possible withdrawal amounts (see this IRS document for more info ) and pick the one that is closest to the number you decided in Step #2. Speak with a tax professional to ensure that your Step #3 calculation were correct. Withdraw (and pay tax on) that amount every year. Depending on the method you used to calculate the withdrawal amount, you may need to adjust the amount you withdraw every year. (Optional) If you find that you need to withdraw more money or you don&#8217;t need to withdraw as much, you can change the IRS method you use to calculate your withdrawals only once so make sure you&#8217;re happy with your change. Continue making the withdrawals for five years, or until you turn 59.5 (whichever is longer). If you stop the withdrawals or if you withdraw the incorrect amount, you could face steep penalties so definitely don&#8217;t do that! Here is another sweet graphic, depicting the SEPP 72(t) process: And here&#8217;s another handy link specifically for this image: www.madfientist.com/sepp-72t-graphic Pros You pay tax on the withdrawal in the same year you spend the money so your money can grow tax-free for as long as possible. You can start withdrawals immediately after early retirement so if you don&#8217;t have a lot of money in taxable accounts to hold you over, you can start tapping into your retirement accounts right away. Cons 72(t) distributions usually require help from a tax professional to set up correctly. You must continue withdrawals until standard retirement age, whether you need the money or not. You must continue withdrawals, whether it makes sense to or not (which means you could be forced to sell when the markets are down). If you stop withdrawals or withdraw the incorrect amount, you could be forced to pay a penalty on all 72(t) distributions you&#8217;ve received, even in previous years. Pay the Penalty Another method I didn&#8217;t even consider until recently is to just pay the 10% early-withdrawal penalty and take money out of your retirement accounts whenever you need it. Since I try to avoid penalties whenever possible, I never considered this as an option but Joshua Sheats from the Radical Personal Finance podcast brought this strategy to my attention recently. One of his podcast listeners suggested that even if you plan to pay the 10% early-withdrawal penalty, it still makes sense to contribute to tax-advantaged accounts over ordinary taxable accounts. This is quite a surprising conclusion so to see if the listener&#8217;s theory was correct, he ran some numbers (listen to this Radical Personal Finance podcast episode to hear him describe this in more detail). He then asked me to run some of my own numbers to see if I reached the same conclusion and I did. My analysis is described below and was a big part of the reason I decided to write this post. So simply taking money out of your retirement accounts early and paying the penalty is a viable option and has the following pros and cons: Pros No advanced planning is necessary You can access the money immediately, whenever you need it, and you don&#8217;t have to pay tax in advance. Cons You have to pay a 10% early-withdrawal penalty, in addition to the taxes owed. Other There are a few other ways you can avoid paying the 10% early-withdrawal penalty that are worth mentioning briefly. For example, you can withdraw retirement account money early if you become disabled or if you use the money to pay for education expenses or for a first-time home purchase. None of those strategies are particularly useful for early-retirement planning though so I won&#8217;t elaborate on them here. You are also able to use IRA funds to pay for medical expenses that exceed 10% of your gross income so if you aren&#8217;t lucky enough to have access to the Ultimate Retirement Account , you could potentially use your IRA to pay for medical expenses during early retirement (although you&#8217;ll still have to pay tax on the withdrawals whereas you wouldn&#8217;t with an HSA). Comparison Now that we&#8217;ve described the various options, let&#8217;s see how they stack up against each other by running some numbers on a hypothetical early-retirement scenario. Assumptions Imagine a 30-year-old woman who plans to retire when she turns 40. Once she retires, she won&#8217;t need to access the money in her retirement accounts from age 40 to 45 but she&#8217;s going to need to withdraw $9,000 of her money per year from the age of 45 through to when she turns 60. She&#8217;s in the 25% tax bracket during her remaining 10 working years and will drop down to the 15% marginal tax bracket when she retires. She has $18,000 of pre-tax money to contribute to an account every year during her career so lets see what her options are: Scenario 1 &#8211; Taxable The first scenario is she just contributes money to a taxable account. This is the easiest option and what most people would do if they knew they needed to access that money before standard retirement age. Since she&#8217;ll be taxed on the money before she puts it into the taxable account, she&#8217;ll only be able to add $13,500 ($18,000 &#8211; 25% tax) to her investments every year. She will also be taxed on the growth of those funds at 15%, since the funds are in a taxable account. When sh