# Kanye West My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy Good Fridays Songs Ranked

**Source**: https://www.theringer.com/music/2020/11/23/21590642/kanye-west-my-beautiful-dark-twisted-fantasy-good-fridays-songs-ranked
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:58:28.463505+00:00

---

The Rosewood Ranking: An Obsessive Rundown of Every ‘My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy’ and G.O.O.D. Friday Kanye Song, Plus a Few Extras - The Ringer Discover anything Discover anything Videos Podcasts The Latest The Latest Fantasy Football Rankings Fantasy Football Rankings NBA NBA NFL NFL TV TV Movies Movies MLB MLB The Ringer 107 The Ringer 107 Music Music Soccer Soccer Events Events The Streaming Guide The Streaming Guide Simmons Pod Simmons Pod Rewatchables Rewatchables Big Picture Big Picture Russillo Pod Russillo Pod The Watch The Watch Higher Learning Higher Learning House of R House of R The Town The Town Plain English Plain English By Justin Sayles , Charles Holmes Nov. 23, 2020, 11:30 am UTC • 38 min Music The Rosewood Ranking: An Obsessive Rundown of Every ‘My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy’ and G.O.O.D. Friday Kanye Song, Plus a Few Extras To mark the 10th anniversary of Mr. West’s magnum opus, we’re headed back to Obama’s first term to figure out what was the best of Ye’s best Music The Rosewood Ranking: An Obsessive Rundown of Every ‘My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy’ and G.O.O.D. Friday Kanye Song, Plus a Few Extras To mark the 10th anniversary of Mr. West’s magnum opus, we’re headed back to Obama’s first term to figure out what was the best of Ye’s best Luca Romeo By Justin Sayles , Charles Holmes Nov. 23, 2020, 11:30 am UTC • 38 min Justin Sayles: Charles, we have a big album anniversary that we have to face today. It’s for My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy , Kanye West’s magnum opus/mea culpa that came out on November 22, 2010. (Do not ask me how old I was on that date, or I will forward this Google doc straight to HR.) This anniversary is difficult to deal with—at the time of its release, so many people declared it a nearly perfect album. (In fact, Pitchfork stamped it as fully perfect, awarding it a 10.0, something it wouldn’t do for another album for a decade .) The hyperbole made sense back in those heady days of the first Obama administration. Kanye was at the peak of his craft and returning from a yearlong shame walk following his infamous 2009 VMAs incident. The music was ambitious, the Hawaiian recording sessions took on mythic status, and the features were pure critic bait (he introduced Bon Iver’s Justin Vernon to a hip-hop audience, even if their definitive collaboration wouldn’t come until “Hold My Liquor” three years later). But all of these ideas seem quaint now, with a dramatically changed hip-hop landscape, a Kanye-Trump friendship and comical presidential bid, a borderline disastrous Wyoming detour and gospel album, and “Poopy-di scoop” all sitting between MBDTF and the present. But they’re still worth exploring. In fact, you’ve done so: In the first episode of your new podcast, The Ringer Music Show , you spoke to Kanye collaborators about the who, what, where, and why of that album. And let me say, I learned a lot, and I think even the biggest Kanye stans will. So let’s not rehash that all here. Instead, I want to do something you suggested we do for this anniversary. I want to rank every Kanye song and feature from the MBDTF era, or as it’s known to diehards, the Rosewood era. Charles, do you want to begin by explaining what Rosewood is and why this matters in the Kanye story? Charles Holmes: The Rosewood Movement was part fashion movement, part respectability politics masked as rehabilitation. In short, Kanye forced all of his G.O.O.D. Music artists, entourage, and weed carriers to wear Dior Homme’s Black Classic Skinny Suit that retailed for $2,200 in 2010 at all times. “That’s the Rosewood mentality, like affluence, like not cursing loud in public, pulling out chairs for your lady, opening up doors,” West explained to DJ Clue . On a macro level, it’s also a nice distinction for this time period for MBDTF , G.O.O.D. Fridays, and the features he dropped before and after. JS: OK, so taking the songs from the album, the G.O.O.D. Friday free releases (which sadly aren’t available outside of shitty YouTube uploads and illegal Soundcloud links), and guest spots, we’ve got 30 or so tracks to work with. That means we’ve got a lot of words to write. So let’s begin, starting with the absolute worst Kanye-related track of that era … Kanye West performs at the 2010 BET Awards Kevin Mazur/WireImage Level 6: O.K. Music 30. “Deuces (Remix)” (Chris Brown single) CH: In retrospect, it’s wild that “Deuces” was such a hit a decade ago that Chris Brown could unite Rick Ross, Drake, T.I., Kanye West, Fabolous, and André 3000 for a remix. The song has aged about as well as any 2010s song that was in heavy rotation on Hot 97 can, meaning it’s quite honestly terrible. Kanye’s verse is especially egregious, considering lines like “You should have a travel agent, ’cause you a trip / You should make your own toilet tissue since you the shit,” weren’t left on the cutting room floor. JS: It’s a little sad listening to André, who was in the middle of an iconic five-year run of features, relegated to mop-up duties, which he sleepwalks through here. His verse is also a tough listen after sitting through Ye, Fabolous, and Ross, in particular; when Dre says, “Get your minds out the gutter,” he may as well have been talking to them. This song proves only that Chris Brown brings the worst out of everyone around him. Related The Top 100 Albums in the Rick Rubin Extended Universe, Ranked The Top 100 Albums in the Rick Rubin Extended Universe, Ranked The Ringer’s 50 Best Outkast Songs, Ranked The Ringer’s 50 Best Outkast Songs, Ranked The Secret History of ‘My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy,’ 10 Years On The Secret History of ‘My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy,’ 10 Years On Related The Top 100 Albums in the Rick Rubin Extended Universe, Ranked The Top 100 Albums in the Rick Rubin Extended Universe, Ranked The Ringer’s 50 Best Outkast Songs, Ranked The Ringer’s 50 Best Outkast Songs, Ranked The Secret History of ‘My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy,’ 10 Years On The Secret History of ‘My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy,’ 10 Years On 29. “The Joy” (G.O.O.D. Fridays) JS: Charles, I suspect ranking this song so low will get us yelled at on Twitter, but I’m not a huge fan of “The Joy,” and I’ve never been as proud to work with you as when I discovered you felt similarly. It’s somewhat of a waste of Curtis Mayfield and Pete Rock, my all-time favorite producer and one of the key people in elevating sampling into high art. But high art is not what happens here. The beat is fine—a relaxed, minimalist excursion that would’ve likely been an interlude on any of Pete’s LPs. But to me, the song is destroyed by some of the cringiest Kanye lyrics of the era. Like, look at this shit: She in her birthday suit ‘cause of the damn cake Now there’s crumbs all over the damn place (Uh-huh) And she want me to cum all over her damn face And: So next time you see me on your fallopian Though the jewelry’s Egyptian, know the hunger’s Ethiopian Maybe I’m a prude, but I never want to hear Ye say cum or fallopian . People love this song, though—so much so that it was tacked onto 2011’s Watch the Throne . What’s up, Charles? Are we right, or is it the kids who are wrong? CH: This is the perfect example of a song where everyone involved is so enamored of the sample that they collectively decide not to show up in any other regard. If someone had a gun to my head and told me to recite one lyric from this song, I’d just have to tell someone to feed my cat, Sushi, ’cause I’m not making it. 28. “Chain Heavy” (G.O.O.D. Fridays) CH: I’m almost positive Kanye premiered this song standing on a table and rapping it a cappella to the Facebook office. Also, totally forgot this was the same year David Fincher’s The Social Network was released, which might explain our relationship to Mark Zuckerberg at the time of MBDTF . Zuck had yet to upend all of American democracy in 2010, so he was still in the midst of his myth-making years, which is similar to Rosewood-era Kanye. Nevertheless, “Chain Heavy” always sounded better as a snippet. JS: I have this song slightly higher in my personal rankings, mainly because I’m a sucker for Q-Tip production and Consequence features. But I think “Chain Heavy” got buried a little by virtue of being the last song in the G.O.O.D. Friday series before the release of MBDTF . By that point, Ye had to know he was dropping outtakes. 27. “Runaway Love (Remix)” (G.O.O.D. Fridays) CH: Back in 2010, Kanye placing Raekwon on a baby-faced Justin Bieber single was an expert troll job disguised as some genius idea. Besides the novelty of putting Raekwon’s razor-like voice over the bubblegum hit, this G.O.O.D. Friday track was seen as filler even back then. JS: Charles, does the “Wu-Tang Clan Ain’t Nuthing ta F’ Wit” sample mean anything to you? CH: I have a long and complicated relationship with the Wu-Tang Clan. It mostly stems from the fact that I come from a small town in New Jersey where my seventh grade teacher was white, in his mid-20s, and didn’t see a problem with gloating to one of his only Black students that he didn’t know as much Shaolin as he did. White bros love them some Wu-Tang, but after some soul searching I realized I wouldn’t allow the Wu to be gentrified in my life. So that’s a long way of saying “Wu-Tang Clan Ain’t Nuthing ta F’ Wit” means a lot to me and Kanye should’ve just stayed away from it. JS: I wonder what other rappers “cool teachers” have ruined for kids. Like, there’s definitely some English teacher in Missouri that never misses the opportunity to talk to his students about MF Doom. My next question: This is one of Bieber’s first “hip-hop” tracks. That means it may be indirectly responsible for “Maria I’m Drunk,” on which he arguably outrapped Travis Scott and Young Thug. (The latter sounds borderline blasphemous, but it’s true.) Does that make this remix a net positive? CH: Kanye put the battery in Biebervelli’s back, so yes. Honestly, I’d like to see the Chef and JB on a track together in 2020. I’m posi