# How A Mens Dress Shirt Should Fit

**Source**: https://www.artofmanliness.com/articles/how-a-mens-dress-shirt-should-fit/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:38:43.558820+00:00

---

How a Men&#039;s Dress Shirt Should Fit | The Art of Manliness How a Men&#039;s Dress Shirt Should Fit | The Art of Manliness Menu random podcast Get Style Clothing Accessories Facial Hair Ties Get Strong Fitness Health Program Review Get Social Family Fatherhood Relationships Social Skills Get Skilled How To Manly Know-How Outdoor/Survival Podcast Books Random Find more of the Art of Manliness: Instagram Feedly Facebook Twitter YouTube Search Clothing Accessories Facial Hair Ties A Man’s Guide to the Rugby Shirt 5 Ways to Wear an OCBD With Style Men Don&#8217;t Dress Like Boys How to Wear a White T-Shirt With Style The Dos and Don&#8217;ts of Applying Cologne Did Commandos Go Commando? A Man&#8217;s Guide to Fragrance: How to Choose and Wear Cologne My Go-To Sunglasses for Summer How to Trim Your Eyebrows Your No-Nonsense Guide to Choosing the Right Beard Style How to Grow a Beard: The One and True Guide Beard Oil FAQs: Answering All Your Pressing Beardly Questions Skill of the Week: Tie a Full Windsor Necktie Knot How to Tie a Tie Skill of the Week: Put a Dimple in Your Tie Skill of the Week: Tie a Scarf 5 Different Ways Browse all Get Style Fitness Health Program Review What My Workout Has Looked Like Lately Podcast #1,086: Build Muscle Without the B.S. — A Straightforward Guide to Size and Strength How to Turn Treading Water Into a Legit Workout Skill of the Week: Effectively Traverse the Monkey Bars Skill of the Week: Tape a Sprained Ankle Podcast #1,084: Overdiagnosed — How Our Obsession with Medical Testing and Labels Is Making Us Sicker A Man’s Guide to Blood Pressure: What It Is, Why It Matters, and How to Keep It in Check Podcast #1,076: The Microbiome Master Key — How 100 Trillion Bacteria Influence Your Weight, Mood, and All-Around Health The Insanely Difficult Standards of History&#8217;s Hardest P.E. Program Which Fitness Program Is Right for You? A Review of the MovNat Workshop Strengthen Your Tribe: A Report on the Atomic Athlete Vanguard Browse all Get Strong Family Fatherhood Relationships Social Skills A Back-to-School Game Plan for Dads Podcast #1,056: The 80/80 Marriage — A New Model for a Happier, Stronger Relationship Podcast #1,039: What&#8217;s Behind the Rise of Parent-Child Estrangement? Take the D Word Off the Table Podcast #1,085: The Preparation — An Adventure-Driven, Skill-Building Alternative to College for Young Men Podcast #1,072: Men Don&#8217;t Run in the Rain — And 7 Other Essential Lessons for Being a Man The Dad Instinct: How Fathers Prepare Kids for the Wider World The 4 Parenting Styles (And Which One Is Best) The Yearly Marriage Checkup Podcast #1,068: Building Tribe — How to Create and Sustain Communities of Men Podcast #1,060: No, There Isn&#8217;t a Loneliness Epidemic (And That May Be an Even Bigger Problem) Podcast #1,058: The Science of Porn: Myths, Facts, and Overlooked Issues Podcast #1,087: Why You Need the Good Stress of Socializing Podcast #1,070: How to Have the Manners and Charm of a Proper English Gentleman How to Flirt Like It&#8217;s 1995 Podcast #1,052: Stop Saying Um (And Fix the Other Vocal Tics That Are Sabotaging Your Speaking) Browse all Get Social How To Manly Know-How Outdoor/Survival Skill of the Week: Sharpen a Pocket Knife How to Drive a Tank How to Do a Brush Pass Like a Cold War Spy Skill of the Week: Properly Fold the American Flag Skill of the Week: Heel-And-Toe Shift Skill of the Week: Make a Rope Swing (And Fly Like Tarzan) Skill of the Week: Jump From a Height Into Water How to Use a Multimeter Skill of the Week: Cross a Piranha-Infested River Skill of the Week: Fire a Flare Gun Skill of the Week: Open a Coconut (With or Without Tools) Podcast #1,078: From Plane Crashes to Terrorist Attacks — Who Survives, and Why Browse all Get Skilled in: Clothing , Featured , Style Antonio &bull; September 12, 2019 &bull; Last updated: September 25, 2021 How a Men&#8217;s Dress Shirt Should Fit Dress shirts are a men&#8217;s wardrobe staple and a sartorial workhorse that can go from dressy to sharp casual and from the office to date night at a pub. Button-ups look great with a more formal suit, while button-downs can be worn under a sport coat, with chinos and a tie, or alone with a pair of jeans. And dress shirts are not only thoroughly versatile, they&#8217;re also pretty universally handsome and flattering &#8212; at least, if they fit well.&nbsp; Unfortunately, many men are walking around in dress shirts that decidedly do not fit well &#8212; being either too small, or most frequently, 1-2 sizes too big. While the wearers themselves may not notice it, other people will. Poorly-fitting dress shirts give you a look that&#8217;s unprofessional, sloppy, and just generally less sharp than it could be. The reason most men wear dress shirts that don&#8217;t fit them right, is that they don&#8217;t realize that when they get them off the rack, they&#8217;re typically not ready to wear. No off-the-rack shirt is going to fit your measurements perfectly. So once you buy a dress shirt, your next step is to take it to a skilled tailor ( here&#8217;s how to find one ), so he can adjust it so it fits you just right. Alternatively, you can buy a custom-made dress shirt that&#8217;ll fit you nicely from the get-go. Not all adjustments can readily be made by a tailor, so you&#8217;ll still want to buy an off-the-rack dress shirt that fits as well as possible from the start (though it&#8217;s better to buy a little big than small, so the tailor has something to work with). To aid in your selection process, and enable you to know what later adjustments to make, below we explain what mistakes to avoid in the fit of a dress shirt and how each detail of it should ultimately look and lay.&nbsp; Dress Shirt Collar Fit The collar of your dress shirt has one main job: to frame your face . Without a well-fitted collar, you end up with a noticeably unbalanced garment. That&#8217;s why you should pay close attention to the collar when you first try something on. A bad collar can make a $200 shirt look sloppy, while a great one can make a $20 shirt look amazing. Too Tight: The collar is close enough to actually pinch the skin underneath. You&#8217;ll feel it right away, and it&#8217;s quite uncomfortable. It would be impossible to place a finger between the neck and collar without stretching or tugging. Too Loose: The collar doesn&#8217;t touch the neck, but rests on the whole area surrounding it, almost like the collar of a coat that was lazily hung up. There&#8217;s also a gap that&#8217;s large enough to squeeze in about four fingers. Just Right: The proper fit means that the collar touches the skin all the way around the neck, but doesn&#8217;t press against it. You&#8217;re able to slip two fingers comfortably in between your neck and the collar at any point. Dress Shirt Shoulder Fit Too Tight: The shoulder points are shifted in from your shoulders and towards the neck. Part of the sleeves may also end up resting over the shoulders, causing wrinkles.&nbsp; Too Loose: The shoulder points slump off the shoulders and down onto your upper arms. The shirt is prone to ballooning and making your upper body look bigger. It&#8217;s hard to adjust these points, so don&#8217;t bother having it tailored. Just Right: This is where the shoulder points sit perfectly at the edge of your shoulders, where the plane of the shoulder meets the plane of the outer arm. The armscye (the hole where the sleeve joins the shirt body) is large enough that it doesn&#8217;t cause tugging or twisting of the shoulder seam, which allows you to move your arms freely and comfortably. Dress Shirt Torso Fit Too Tight: You&#8217;ll notice that the buttons strain to close, which causes wrinkles to form around the buttonholes. The tightness may also cause some pulling on the sleeves, putting pressure on the shoulder seams. Too Loose: The excess fabric tends to billow around your waist or chest. This is the kind of shirt that causes “muffin-topping” from the waist area. The solution here is to have the torso brought in, to simply size down, or to try another brand with a better fit. Just Right: You&#8217;ll have no problem buttoning up this shirt. The underside of the placket (where the buttons and buttonholes meet) is supposed to rest lightly against the midpoint of your ribcage. The shirt can be tucked in without any billowing. Dress Shirt Sleeve Fit Too Tight: Wearing the shirt with your arms hanging down, you&#8217;ll get a “pinching” feeling when your elbow or shoulder moves. The sleeves will limit your movement and show off way too many wrinkles. Too Loose: The sleeves have so much slack that they naturally create folds of cloth all over, especially around the cuff. It&#8217;s likely there are over 3 inches of excess fabric in the sleeves, so they should either be brought in or sized down. Just Right: The sleeve should be slightly wider at the upper arm than the cuff, with a smooth, even taper. There&#8217;s also some looseness (about 1-2 inches of fabric) when the arms are hanging down straight. This gives you sufficient freedom of movement. Dress Shirt Sleeve Length Too Short: This is where either the wrist bones are left exposed, or the cuffs get hidden completely underneath the sleeves of your jacket. Neither situation makes the shirt look good, so you&#8217;ll need to find a different brand with longer sleeves. Too Long: &nbsp;The sleeves extend all the way to the heel of your hands. This leads to some fabric bunching up at the point where the cuffs end. When you wear a watch, it&#8217;s going to be covered by the sleeve&nbsp;every time. Just Right: The sleeves come all the way down to the hinge of your wrist and just cover the large wrist bone. When you&#8217;re wearing a jacket, about 1/2 inch of shirt cuff is seen beyond the end of the jacket sleeves. The cuff should also touch (and in some postures cover) your watch whenever you wear it. Dress Shirt Sleeve Cuff Fit Too