# The Selling The Scandal

**Source**: http://www.newrepublic.com/article/the-selling-the-scandal
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:40:08.643191+00:00

---

The Selling of the Scandal | The New Republic Skip Navigation The New Republic The New Republic LATEST BREAKING NEWS POLITICS CLIMATE CULTURE MAGAZINE NEWSLETTERS PODCASTS VIDEO The New Republic The New Republic The New Republic The New Republic The New Republic LATEST BREAKING NEWS POLITICS CLIMATE CULTURE MAGAZINE NEWSLETTERS PODCASTS VIDEO The New Republic The New Republic The New Republic David Grann / September 28, 1998 The Selling of the Scandal Hulton Archive/Getty Images In most political campaigns, there are moments when things begin to shift irrevocably to one side--moments when, in the midst of all the handshakes and speeches and fund-raisers, history actually gets made. This happened most starkly in 1974 after Richard Nixon resigned, and more surprisingly in 1994 when Republicans unveiled the Contract with America. But there was little on this warm July night in North Carolina's Second District to suggest that anything momentous was about to happen that might change the course of the 1998 elections, or set off a panic in the White House, or provoke headlines halfway across the world in Tokyo. In fact, as far as Dan Page could tell, there was nothing happening at all. The 32-year-old Republican challenger was sitting in his campaign headquarters on New Bern Street in downtown Raleigh, staring blankly at the phone. Every few minutes, his campaign manager, Jack Hawke, would stick his head in and ask if he'd made any more fundraising calls, and Page would nod. No one had given anything in days … or was it weeks? "I'm Dan Page and I'm running for Congress," he'd say shyly, waiting for the inevitable click. What was the point? His opponent, Democratic Congressman Bob Etheridge, already had more than $400,000. Page got up and looked around the room. The second-hand desks were chipped, the rug stained with coffee and cigar ashes. Unused "Page for Congress" stickers spilled out of boxes onto the floor. It was the kind of mess that came from abandonment rather than activity. The only thing of value there was an $800 computer, with a screen saver that seemed to mock him: "Dan Page for Congress … he's smarter than a sack of owls." As he slipped into the corridor, trying to escape, the two-term state senator passed an empty office, once inhabited by the campaign's finance chairman and field director, whom Hawke had been forced to let go for lack of money. Finally, as Page headed downstairs to his car, Hawke approached him--only not about the fund-raising calls. "We've got to pick a fight," he said. Page nodded, leaning over the hood of his car. "How?" he asked. Still unsure himself, Hawke smiled. "We roll the dice." A week later, Hawke arranged a meeting with the Strategy Group, a fledgling political consulting firm in Ohio known for its "edgy" advertising spots. It started as a typical session on how to exploit television; by the end, it would change not only the direction of the Page campaign but the focus of local elections across the country. On Thursday morning, two young consultants from the Strategy Group gathered in the cluttered conference room at Page headquarters, along with Hawke and his right-hand man. As they sipped black coffee, the ad guys distributed an eight-page memo marked "confidential": "The objective of the ad campaign must be to first and foremost properly introduce to the general electorate--they must like and trust you." To do this, the memo recommended running a series of positive spots in October that would portray Page as "fighting for our values" and inoculate him against any attacks for being rated one of the most "ineffective" legislators in the State House. After that they could go negative. To Hawke, this was chickenshit. They needed to hit hard now, he said, not later. Hawke's longtime partner, Robert Jones, agreed. "We're like a sailboat right now, sittin' there with no wind." As they searched for a gust, a single sentence in the memo caught their attention: "Should the Clinton scandal escalate into a definable crisis, we may want to consider … portraying Etheridge and the Democrats as silent co-conspirators." "That's it!" Hawke exclaimed. Jones, who had worked with the famed Clinton-hater Cliff Jackson in Arkansas during the 1992 presidential campaign, began to fiddle excitedly with his cigar. Page, he noted, had advocated character-building education in schools. He even sang in his church choir. "It's perfect," he said. Well, maybe not perfect. It was not yet clear, after all, that the Clinton scandal had escalated into a "definable" crisis. "We haven't even done a poll yet," said Rex Elsass, one of the consultants. Such a strategy might alienate voters or, worse yet, the National Republican Campaign Committee (NRCC)--the group that determines which candidates are worth funding. The committee had already warned candidates to stay mum, not wanting to risk its eleven-seat majority in the House over an issue most Americans wanted just to go away. In January, GOP pollster Frank Luntz circulated a memo saying, "It would be a grave error to be seen as taking political advantage of such an unfortunate situation." And, until that morning, not a single challenger had broken with this unofficial policy. "Let's be the skunk at the garden party," Hawke said. Despite fears of reprisals from Washington, they all began to shout out ideas, scribbling them down on a pad: "Christian values," "character counts," and "get picture with Clinton and Etheridge side by side." Now it was Elsass, the skeptic, who urged them on. If we're going to do it, he said, we might as well do it before Clinton testifies and anyone else does it. "Maybe: we'll end up on CNN," he said. It was only then that the candidate walked into the: room and saw everyone smiling. Hawke glanced at his Mickey Mouse watch. "Sorry I'm late," said Page. Hawke grinned. "Let's go get some barbecue." Politics and advertising have always had the slight whiff of the con. "Truth doesn't matter as much as the perception of the truth," Hawke likes to say. In The Selling of the President 1968, Joe McGinniss observed that the American voter demanded the "illusion that the men he chooses to lead him are of finer nature than he." But, even though campaigns have marketed this illusion for more than four decades, the Page ad that came over the fax the very next day was something different. It was no longer the selling of the candidate. Rather, it was the selling of the scandal. At once nervous and excited by their own audacity, Hawke, Jones, and Page scrutinized each line in the ad: (Scene starts with slow motion, black-and-white footage of the president.) Voice over: "His is the most corrupt administration in American history." (Headlines of Clinton scandals. Use the best of the worst.) "Dishonoring our heritage." (Clinton footage slow motion. Freezes.) "And who stands with Bill Clinton, even now?" (Photo of Etheridge and Clinton together.) "Liberal Bob Etheridge." (Same photo. Zoom in on Etheridge. Graphic: "Liberal Bob Etheridge.") "Etheridge gives Bill Clinton a standing ovation." (Washington Post article highlighted to show "greeted with a standing ovation.… "Pull line in article out to large scope and highlight it over a picture of a smiling Etheridge. Same graphic: "Liberal Bob Etheridge.") "Applauding Clinton's values, not ours." (Headline from USA Today or other magazine Time/Newsweek … showing Monica Lewinsky and negative headline.) "What kind of man stands silent while corruption triumphs?" (Simple morph shot of Etheridge changing to Clinton.) "Who will restore our Christian values?" (Warm shot of a country church at sunset.) "Senator Dan Page." (Footage of Dan Page. Strong close-up. Graphic: "Conservative Senator Dan Page.") "Dan Page believes character counts and morality matters." (More footage of Dan and family. Graphic: "Dan Page: Character Counts. ") "Because we are one nation under God, not men." (Shot of country road and fence at sunset. Graphic: "Conservative Dan Page … Standing Up for Our Values.") They argued over each word. Jones opposed the phrase "Christian values." "Does that mean we're against Jewish values?" he wondered. Hawke worried that "the most corrupt administration in American history" might be too subjective. And Page didn't like the morphing idea. "I don't want to suggest that Etheridge is Clinton," he said. Satisfied after several revisions, they sent the copy back to the Strategy Group, where one of the producers later noted: "Anything that uses less words and allows for more image is great with us." But, when Hawke informed party officials in Washington of his plan, he was chastised so severely he began to question himself. Trying to appease his doubts, he dialed his friend Carter Wrenn, who in 1990 masterminded one of the most infamous and effective TV spots in campaign history: the "white hands" ad for Senator Jesse Helms, which Helms's black opponent labeled racist. "Am I doing the right thing?" Hawke asked. Wrenn said he couldn't figure out why no one had done it yet--which was all Hawke needed to hear. The candidate, however, still had qualms. A reserved, devout Baptist who had stumbled into politics just a few years earlier and prayed before each meal, Page worried the ads might be unchristian. Several hours before they were to air, he called his preacher at the Central Baptist Church, Tom Wagoner, and read him the script. "I don't want to be assassinating anyone's character," Page said. Wagoner listened quietly. "Sometimes," he explained, "the truth hurts." The Etheridge camp had expected some sort of negative campaign all along. In a June 5 fundraising letter, the incumbent warned that Page would be ready with attack ads they couldn't even imagine: "No matter what people say, when that mud hits, it sticks." Etheridge knew this as well as anyone. In 1996, he had won in part because of a TV spot that essentially accused his opponent, GOP Representative David Funderburk, of lying about a car accident