# 13543 Instead Of Throwing Away Your Greens Make Them Into Meatballs

**Source**: http://food52.com/blog/13543-instead-of-throwing-away-your-greens-make-them-into-meatballs
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:51:43.067842+00:00

---

Instead of Throwing Away Your Greens, Make Them into &quot;Meatballs&quot; This Week&#x27;s Mood: Dinner &amp; a Movie This Week&#x27;s Mood: Dinner &amp; a Movie Schoolhouse Dansk Search Shop New Best Sellers Exclusively at Food52 Featured Makers Kitchen Kitchen Utensils &amp; Tools Kitchen Storage &amp; Organization Countertop Organization Food Storage Kitchen Linens Cutting Boards Coffee &amp; Tea Accessories Knives Cookware Frying Pans &amp; Skillets Baking &amp; Roasting Pans Dutch Ovens &amp; Stock Pots Sauce &amp; Saute Pans Cookware Sets Tabletop Dinnerware Glassware Table Linens Flatware &amp; Serving Utensils Serveware Outdoor Entertaining Home Organization &amp; Storage Cleaning &amp; Laundry Bath Towels &amp; Accessories Vases &amp; Decorative Objects Clocks &amp; Lighting Candles &amp; Candle Holders Planters Shop All Recipes Popular Quick and Easy 5 Ingredients or Fewer Cocktails Appetizers Ingredients Chicken Steak Salmon Pasta Potato Rice Meals &amp; Dishes Breakfast Lunch Dinner Salad Sweet Treats Lifestyle Vegetarian Vegan Gluten-Free Alcohol-Free Drinks Tools &amp; Techniques One Pot Sheet Pan No Bake Grill Life Travel Hosting &amp; Entertainment Parenting Pets Kitchen Sink Crafts &amp; Hobbies Community View All Food Recipes How To &amp; Hacks Meal Planning Baking Trending &amp; Seasonal Drinks Community Hotline View All Home Style &amp; Design Cleaning &amp; Organizing Outdoors Renovation Home Tours View All Watch Shop All Shop New Best Sellers Exclusively at Food52 Featured Makers Kitchen Kitchen Utensils &amp; Tools Kitchen Storage &amp; Organization Countertop Organization Food Storage Kitchen Linens Cutting Boards Coffee &amp; Tea Accessories Knives Cookware Frying Pans &amp; Skillets Baking &amp; Roasting Pans Dutch Ovens &amp; Stock Pots Sauce &amp; Saute Pans Cookware Sets Tabletop Dinnerware Glassware Table Linens Flatware &amp; Serving Utensils Serveware Outdoor Entertaining Home Organization &amp; Storage Cleaning &amp; Laundry Bath Towels &amp; Accessories Vases &amp; Decorative Objects Clocks &amp; Lighting Candles &amp; Candle Holders Planters Shop all Shop Recipes All Recipes Popular Quick and Easy 5 Ingredients or Fewer Cocktails Appetizers Ingredients Chicken Steak Salmon Pasta Potato Rice Meals &amp; Dishes Breakfast Lunch Dinner Salad Sweet Treats Lifestyle Vegetarian Vegan Gluten-Free Alcohol-Free Drinks Tools &amp; Techniques One Pot Sheet Pan No Bake Grill Life All Life Travel Hosting &amp; Entertainment Parenting Pets Kitchen Sink Crafts &amp; Hobbies Community Shop all Life Food All Food Recipes How To &amp; Hacks Meal Planning Baking Trending &amp; Seasonal Drinks Community Hotline Shop all Food Home All Home Style &amp; Design Cleaning &amp; Organizing Outdoors Renovation Home Tours Shop all Home Watch Account 0 Items in your Cart Your shopping cart is empty. Continue Shopping Instead of Throwing Away Your Greens, Make Them into &quot;Meatballs&quot; Hold onto your carrot tops! And onion tops! And turnip tops! And beet greens, too. You can turn all of those greens into a delicious snack. By Alexandra Stafford Published On July 17, 2015 We&#x27;re serious about keeping farmers market produce on the menu all year long. Alexandra Stafford of Alexandra Kitchen shows us how to store, prep, and make the most of it, without wasting a scrap. Today: Hold onto your carrot tops! And onion tops! And turnip tops! And beet greens, too. You can turn all of those greens into a delicious snack. A few months ago, I discovered a fritter recipe that both quelled my anxiety about the indundation of dark leafy greens and made me wish it would never end. The recipe comes from Twelve Recipes by Chez Panisse’s Cal Peternell , who, one evening as a snack for his family, fried little balls of sautéed greens mixed with stale bread and onions. His family devoured the balls, mistaking them for real meatballs and thus earning them the name “fried greens meatlessballs.” In early spring, I made the meatlessballs with chard and kale, the two greens Peternell suggests. When CSA season began, I used turnip and beet greens, then broccoli rabe and mustard greens. Every green I tried worked. I soon found myself churning out meatlessballs every Tuesday evening, the day I pick up my farmshare. For once, I found myself using the roots&#x27; greens in their prime, not salvaging them from the vegetable bin at the end of the week. I discovered, too, I could make the mixture ahead of time and store it in the fridge until dinnertime. My family loves them and, as Peternell notes in Twelve Recipes , “the hot little balls make a nice snack or appetizer, but also are good later, to eat at room temperature out of hand on the go.” I like them cold, days later, straight from the fridge. Unfortunately, just as I found my meatlessballs rhythm, the weather turned, and in our weekly CSA newsletter, the farmers assured us we could look forward to heat-loving crops—cucumbers, zucchini, peppers, and tomatoes—in the weeks ahead. The season of greens was nearing its end. Featured Video See all Food52 videos On Tuesday, I picked up my vegetable share to discover the worst had come true: not a leaf in site. Despite the warning from the farmer, I wasn’t ready for the change, for crunchy Greek salads , stewy zucchini gratins , dripping tomato tartines . Could I somehow make the season of meatlessballs persist through the warmer months? I scanned my share. There were carrots, green tops intact, and lots of onions, pure white oblong bulbs goosenecking into stiff, bright green stalks. Perhaps the meatlessballs could have one last hurrah? I gave it a go, quickly pulsing the carrot and onion greens in the food processor—finely chopped greens, I have learned, help the balls hold their shape—before sautéing them with the onions, garlic, cumin, and cilantro. I folded in the feta, breadcrumbs, and egg, then fried them up as usual, in cherry-sized portions, using a fork to turn them every few minutes until they turned golden all around. Once again, the recipe didn’t let me down. This batch tasted a little grassier, a little greener, but they were just as delicious and disappeared just as quickly. Meatlessballs? I’d say miraculousballs. But once you&#x27;ve made your fair share of fried greens meatlessballs, there&#x27;s more to do with those carrot and onion greens: For the carrots: Remove the greens from the roots and store both parts in a bag in the refrigerator. Carrot greens will tire more quickly than their roots, so they should be used quickly. Purée the greens into pesto, toss with roasted carrots, and drop dollops of burrata over top —call it a meal with a loaf of crusty bread. Carrot greens can also be stuffed into chicken cavities, added to soups and stocks, or minced into chimichurri, salsa verde, and green harissa. Keep in mind that carrot greens can be bitter and adjust seasonings accordingly. For the onions: Assuming you are handling recently harvested onions that haven’t been cured for long-term storage, remove the greens from the bulbs and store both in the refrigerator. The tender portions of the greens can be left attached to the onion bulb, which can be sliced and braised or grilled or sautéed . The tender portions can also be removed completely and sautéed alone, as you would use an onion. or finely chopped and used like fresh scallions . The tougher portions of the greens can be frozen and reserved for adding to meat and vegetable stocks. Fried Greens Meatlessballs Serves 3 to 4 as an appetizer 1 bunch greens 3 tablespoons olive oil or grapeseed oil 1 small yellow onion, diced Salt, to taste 2 cloves garlic, chopped 1/2 cup cilantro 1 tablespoon cumin seeds 1 cup fresh breadcrumbs 1/4 cup crumbled feta 1 or 2 eggs Oil for frying See the full recipe (and save and print it) here. Photos by Alexandra Stafford Our best tips for eating thoughtfully and living joyfully, right in your inbox. Subscribe Company About Us DEI Vision Press Jobs Affiliate Program Get Help Contact &amp; FAQ Gift Cards Advertising Inquiries Social Facebook Instagram Pinterest TikTok YouTube © 2025 Food52, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Code of Conduct Accessibility Policy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. When you visit our website, we collect and use personal information about you using cookies. You may opt out of selling, sharing, or disclosure of personal data for targeted advertising (called &quot;Do Not Sell or Share&quot; in California) by enabling the Global Privacy Control on a compatible browser. See our Privacy Policy for further information. Accept