# Gq Hype Kenji Lopez Alt

**Source**: https://www.gq.com/story/gq-hype-kenji-lopez-alt
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:55:01.633711+00:00

---

J. Kenji López-Alt Is Cooking Up a New Kind of Perfection | GQ Skip to main content STYLE SHOPPING CULTURE GROOMING WELLNESS GQ SPORTS THE GQ BOX VIDEOS Menu Menu Newsletters Menu Menu STYLE SHOPPING Expand New Arrivals Under $250 Office Style Editors&#x27; Wishlists Watches Sneakers On Sale Now All Shopping CULTURE GROOMING WELLNESS GQ SPORTS VIDEOS THE GQ BOX MORE MEN OF THE YEAR NEWSLETTERS Search Search Sign In Lifestyle J. Kenji López-Alt Is Cooking Up a New Kind of Perfection The Internet’s most beloved cooking guru has a buzzy new book and a fresh new perspective: He’s letting go of perfectionism, turning his back on “bro cook culture,” and working out his own highly personal recipe for modern success. By Brett Martin Photography by Ian Allen March 2, 2022 The columnist, author, and YouTube star in his kitchen at home in Seattle. Save Story Save this story Save Story Save this story All products featured on GQ are independently selected by our editors. However, we may receive compensation from retailers and/or from purchases of products through these links. GQ Hype: It&#x27;s the big story of right now. I know this kitchen : the range with its broken starters. The worn gray kitchen mat in its vaguely Arabic lattice print. The hideaway pantry shelves that slide out on smooth casters, like the archive stacks in a library. The brick wall of knives of every size, shape, and provenance. Aside from the key light and miniature camera hanging above the stove, those knives are the only obvious sign that this is anything more than your average, nicely appointed kitchen on a hilly, tree-lined Seattle street—that it is, in fact, the domestic and professional headquarters of J. Kenji López-Alt. It is quite possible that you know the kitchen too, or at least its output. It’s where López-Alt shoots Kenji’s Cooking Show, the YouTube series he launched in April 2020, which quickly amassed 1.1 million subscribers. It’s the place where, for the past year and a half, he has tested and developed recipes for his New York Times column and the articles he writes for Serious Eats, the food site where he got his start and for which he remains a culinary consultant. More recently, this is where he perfected the ideas and the dishes featured in his new cookbook, The Wok: Recipes and Techniques , the follow-up to his massively successful debut, The Food Lab, of which there are now a million copies in print. He takes most of his own food photos here too. In the dining room next door, there’s a stack of digitally printed fake tabletops, for the purposes of shooting finished dishes, usually by the diffuse Pacific Northwest sunlight coming in the window. When López-Alt’s hands are required for a shot, his five-year-old daughter is on shutter duty. If you’re conversant with the behavior of protein strands in eggs; if you have strong opinions about the varying heat-transfer properties of cast iron and carbon steel; if you have reverse-seared your prime rib or blasted pretty much anything besides crème brûlée with a culinary torch, chances are you owe a debt to López-Alt’s kitchen. (Not incidental to his popularity has been his suggestion that the virtues of learning about food and feeding your loved ones are best achieved by buying a home flamethrower.) In this home kitchen, and previous iterations in New York and Northern California, López-Alt has spent a decade and a half influencing and changing how America cooks and thinks about food. On this morning, López-Alt pads around the kitchen in socks, hair in a small topknot, preparing to shoot an episode of Kenji’s Cooking Show . Despite his YouTube success—he has six times as many subscribers as, say, Alison Roman, and more than twice as many as the entire New York Times Cooking channel—López-Alt takes an assiduously casual approach to the show, shooting episodes only when the spirit moves. “The rule is that it has to be something I was already cooking for my family, and I have to be alone in the house,” he says of the videos, for which he accepts no sponsorships, relying on YouTube ad sales for revenue. “To me, it has to remain a fun side project.” Otherwise, López-Alt (whose wife, Adriana, is a digital cryptographer and principal security engineer at Square) enforces a strict two-day work week: Thursdays he takes his daughter out of school; this winter they’ve usually gone skiing. Mondays and Wednesdays he spends with his newborn son. He builds wooden shelves. He practices piano. All the while, his YouTube “side project” has brought in around $200,000 in the past year. Given the intensity of López-Alt’s early persona, this frankly dreamy state of affairs comes as something of a surprise. But then maybe it shouldn’t. While he has consistently marched to the beat of his own drummer, it’s a drummer that seems to routinely lead him into the center of the zeitgeist: He became a restaurant chef at just the moment that job began its revolutionary shift from a working-class trade to a vaunted profession. He moved to media just as food began dominating the cultural conversation. He was right on time for the parallel rise of the blogosphere and of nerd culture—particularly that bro-heavy intersection that fetishized analytics, pop culture, arguing online, and playing with fire. So, should it come as a surprise to find him here in 2022, an avatar for the widespread reexamination of life and work priorities that’s come along with the Great Resignation? The two of us had begun the day at a Chinese grocery store, where we’d gone to pick up ingredients for a few recipes for The Wok that López-Alt planned on filming for Kenji’s Cooking Show . From there, we’d headed to Zylberschtein’s Delicatessen &amp; Bakery, in Pinehurst, to grab bagels—a food that López-Alt takes especially seriously. He had recently caused a mini uproar online after comments he’d made praising the local bagel scene to a Seattle Times writer were taken as a declaration that Seattle’s bagels are better than New York’s. López-Alt and his family moved to the city last year from San Mateo, California, and his eating, as chronicled on Instagram, has been closely watched in his new home. Another Times headline called him “Seattle’s Most Powerful Food Influencer.” In a previous life, that lofty position might have included calling out restaurants he found wanting, but time, the pandemic, and a few stressful years as an owner of a restaurant himself (of Wursthall, in San Mateo, which López-Alt left when he moved north) have changed his ways. He now pursues a policy of praising things he likes and ignoring things he doesn’t. The influence, in any event, is apparently real: The owner of Zylberschtein’s stuck his head outside to thank López-Alt for a recent post on the restaurant’s pastrami, which had been selling out ever since. López-Alt grew up in Manhattan, so he has some authority on such matters. His family lived near Columbia University, where his father and his maternal grandfather taught genetics and organic chemistry, respectively. His grandparents, who had followed his mother when she emigrated from Japan, lived in the apartment directly below the Alts. A basket on a string connected the two apartments’ windows, sending the day’s Japanese newspaper down and returning with treats from Grandma. Japanese was López-Alt’s first language. (The all-but-unused J. in his name is for James; he added López when he and his wife, who is from Bogotá, combined their last names.) López-Alt attended Dalton and then MIT, where he studied biology, tracked to follow his father and grandfather into science. He soon realized he had no taste for the cloistered drudgery of research, preferring instead the fast-paced, practical-minded laboratories of professional kitchens around Boston—he did stints at prestigious restaurants from the likes of Barbara Lynch and Ken Oringer. “It wasn’t just to piss my mother off, but it did piss my mother off,” López-Alt says. “She still thinks I made the wrong decision, but that I just got lucky. Which is probably true.” (He did graduate, with a degree in architecture, and his mother has recently been partially mollified by his New York Times column.) López-Alt eventually found a middle ground in 2006, when he moved to the test kitchen at Cook’s Illustrated, the beloved publication that applies rigorous experimentation, scientific principles, and a certain Yankee dryness to its recipes. In 2009, he contributed a piece on hamburgers to Serious Eats, then a three-year-old website in search of a clear identity. Its founder, Ed Levine, suggested that he start a food science column. López-Alt went home and turned in more than 2,000 words on boiling eggs, complete with charts, diagrams, photos of eggs at every interval of temperature and time, a discussion of water pH values, and more. Also, a lot of egg puns. “It was one of those things where you read it and you go, Holy shit, who thinks of this stuff?” Levine says. “His talent was just screaming at me.” The post got 10 times as many views as any recipe the site had published before. López-Alt got $30, which Levine stresses was $5 more than the site’s going rate. López-Alt wrote all kinds of things for Serious Eats, from reviews to essays, but it was “The Food Lab,”conceived as a sort of kitchen Mythbusters, that all but single-handedly transformed the site. Recipes came to rule the day, trumpeted as “the Best,” “the Perfect,” and “the Ultimate” versions of their kind—now a near universal trope for recipe sites in search of clicks. López-Alt was not the first to explain cooking through science, or apply scientific rigor to recipe development, but his writing was tailor-made for that optimistic online moment: natural, funny, rife with pop culture references, and giddy with the infinite space the internet promised. He was like a Bill Simmons of the smashburger. (Though, when I mention Simmons as a possible influence, he tells me he has never heard the name.) He was willing to ta