# Pkar

**Source**: https://c01.purpledshub.com/bbcsciencefocus/tag/pkar/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:49:27.316690+00:00

---

pkar &#8211; BBC Science Focus BBC Science Focus Eine weitere Purple DS HUB Sites Website Tag: pkar MPB mpb.com From the editor FROM THE EDITOR Five-a-day, eight hours of sleep, 2,500 calories… recommended daily allowances or amounts make me anxious. It’s my fault, I rarely meet them. It’s not just these guidelines either, I don’t think that there are any ‘public health commandments’ that I follow. Exercise for 150 minutes every week? Nope. Two litres of water [&hellip;] The best science images of 2022 THE BEST SCIENCE IMAGES OF 2022 WHEN IT COMES TO PHOTOGRAPHY, THE JAMES WEBB SPACE TELESCOPE STOLE THE SHOW, WITH VISUALS THAT REMINDED US WHAT AN OUTRAGEOUSLY BEAUTIFUL PLACE THE UNIVERSE CAN BE. BUT TO TELL THE TRUTH, OVER THE LAST 12 MONTHS THERE WAS NO SHORTAGE OF MIND-BLOWING IMAGES THAT CHANGED OUR PERSPECTIVES. HERE’S [&hellip;] Conversation CONVERSATION Your opinions on science, technology and BBC Science Focus LETTER OF THE MONTH WRITE IN AND WIN! The writer of next issue’s Letter Of The Month wins a bundle of brilliant sci-fi books from Pan Macmillan. The prize includes the space opera Children Of Memory, by award-winning author Adrian Tchaikovsky; the atmospheric Gothic sci-fi [&hellip;] Buy Subscriptions buysubscriptions.com/JS23SP Like modern humans, homo naledi harnessed fire for light, warmth and cooking PALAEONTOLOGY Artificial sweeteners in sugar-free foods can kill antibiotic-resistant bactreria BIOLOGY AI can predict the risk of heart disease by analysing a single chest x-ray MEDICINE World&#8217;s oldest meal found in 550-million-year-old fossils PALAEONTOLOGY Bats grunt like death metal singers to talk to their roostmates ZOOLOGY &larr; older