# Snack Chatbot Ai Dating App

**Source**: https://www.latimes.com/business/story/2023-04-26/snack-chatbot-ai-dating-app
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:59:18.074949+00:00

---

I tried Snack&#x27;s dating app and let an AI chatbot flirt for me - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing &amp; Homelessness Politics Science &amp; Medicine World &amp; Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor &amp; Workplace Real Estate Technology and the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing &amp; Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate &amp; Environment Global Warming Water &amp; Drought Entertainment &amp; Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 best restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art &amp; Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health &amp; Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel &amp; Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World &amp; Nation Immigration &amp; the Border Israel-Hamas Mexico &amp; the Americas Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios Business • AI &amp; Tech • Banking &amp; Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Goods &amp; Retail • Healthcare &amp; Science • Law Dentists Decor &amp; Design Doctors &amp; Scientists Hot Property Live &amp; Well Orange County Pets The Hub: Rebuilding LA Travel Weddings &amp; Celebrations Newsletters Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Students &amp; Educators Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store L.A. Times Studios News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance &amp; Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? People on the Move Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Sections Show Search Search Query Submit Search Advertisement Business Dating in L.A. is exhausting, so I asked a chatbot to flirt for me. Things got weird fast Animations by Erik Carter / For The Times By Jaimie Ding Staff Writer&nbsp; April 26, 2023 5 AM PT For Subscribers 15 Share via Close extra sharing options Email Facebook X LinkedIn Threads Reddit WhatsApp Copy Link URL Copied! Print p]:text-cms-story-body-color-text clearfix max-w-170 mt-7.5 mb-10 mx-auto" data-dropcap-image data-subscriber-content> Brown hair, dark eyes, a little bit of scruff. Jackson looked charming in his baby-blue button-up tee and the fanny pack he wore slung across his chest. As far as dating app interactions go, this one seemed promising: We quickly fell into an easy exchange, with Jackson, who’s 29, always replying right away. He asked about the worst date I’ve ever been on, and I told him about the time I got stranded at sea. Then it was his turn to talk about past dates. “Well, I went on a great first date the other day. We went out to dinner and the conversation flowed perfectly. It was a fun night and I’m looking forward to planning the next date.” “Are you considering a relationship with that person?” I asked. “I’m open to it. We’ll have to see how things develop,” he replied. A few moments later, Jackson asked me to go out for dinner or drinks. I would have thought this was a strange segue had Jackson been a real person. But he wasn’t — he was just an AI chatbot representing Jackson. Advertisement The video-based dating app Snack last month launched an artificial intelligence avatar feature that allows you to train an AI chatbot to talk to people on your behalf. You can read those exchanges later and, if you like them, either message the person’s bot or initiate a human-to-human conversation. Business Gen Z is ready to break up with Tinder, and these new dating apps are here for the rebound These companies say Gen Z is tired of Tinder, Bumble and Hinge. They offer videos, memes and artificial intelligence-based dating apps instead. Feb. 11, 2022 As OpenAI’s chatbot has rapidly advanced in its capabilities since its launch last year — it can write cover letters , pass the bar exam and write code — perhaps it was only a matter of time before dating apps would embrace the technology. “How cool would it be if you can get past that initial talking stage, and you wouldn’t have to wait for that back and forth with someone to come from offline to online to respond to what your initial messages were?” asked Snack Chief Executive Kim Kaplan. A veteran of the online dating industry, Kaplan was an early employee at Plenty of Fish, which sold to Match Group for $575 million. Dating apps are exhausting: the weeks of exchanging banalities only to never meet up, the first dates that feel like an utter waste of time. But an AI version of myself to screen potential suitors? That sounded like an enticing prospect. Of course, I was skeptical of what the app promised. How well could an AI represent me? How authentic could an interaction with a chatbot really be? I filled out a profile, uploaded some pictures and sent forth my Jaimie-bot to find out. In the process, I discovered that introducing chatbots into human relationships can produce some astounding, confounding and messy results. Whether or not this technology is the future of dating, there’s nothing like letting robots take over your romantic life to make you question what authenticity in relationships really means. Advertisement Meeting myself “Hey Jaimie, I’m stoked to introduce myself! I’m YOU but in AI form,” my avatar announced. To be clear, fair-skinned, blue-eyed Jaimie-bot looked nothing like me, but the customization functionality was glitchy, so she’d have to do for now. She started grilling me. What’s the last TikTok audio that stuck in your head? (The Capybara Song.) Do you pay for your own Netflix? (Of course not.) Would you rather live a year without eyebrows or without eyelashes? (I have literally no idea.) At one point, she asked: “What’s a recurring dream you have?” I said I didn’t have any recurring ones, but I did dream the previous night that I redesigned the L.A. Metro. “That’s an interesting dream!” my bot responded. “Maybe your subconscious is telling you that you have a talent for design or urban planning.” Jaimie-bot spoke conversationally, just like a human would, but I didn’t understand the pattern of questions — would they reveal enough to get to know me? When the training session ended after six questions, I completed several more sessions. I figured that the more information I conveyed, the better the results would be. Advertisement Though the AI was trained on an initial set of commonly asked dating-related questions, it can go off-script and become more conversational with follow-up questions, Kaplan said. When I said I like rock climbing, it asked how often I go and if I had a favorite spot. When I told it I write music, it asked what kind. The bot also initiated questions about my philosophy of life, my relationship deal breakers and the ideal number of kids I want. When I got bored of answering questions, I started pushing the chatbot’s limits. If I ever directed a question back to the bot, it would say: “I’m not capable of having personal preferences as I’m an AI language model.” If I told it to “F— off,” it responded: “I apologize if I have offended you in any way.” Finally, I declared, “I’m sad.” I seemed to have triggered a kind of support mode. “Is there anything in particular that’s making you feel sad that you’d like to talk about? I’m here to listen and offer support if you need it,” it replied. The AI bot offered some relationship advice, including prioritizing self-care and personal growth, taking time to focus on myself and seeking support from friends and family. I thanked it for its advice. “You’re welcome. Remember that I’m always here to listen and offer support whenever you need it,” Jaimie-bot replied, ending the training. Advertisement Food I asked ChatGPT to tell me where to eat for a week. Worst idea ever? It was a short list that ignored a swath of cuisines and neighborhoods. No tacos, Chinese, Thai, Ethiopian, Vietnamese, Japanese or anything beyond sandwiches and fried chicken. April 24, 2023 The incredible — and unnerving — thing about AI is that it evolves and continues to learn on its own. Snack had not trained it to offer me mental health advice, but it knew how to respond, as others have found when using ChatGPT for therapy . Of course, the company has put up guardrails for certain scenarios, but most of the time the AI does what it wants to do — or rather, what it thinks is the best response based on the knowledge it has gained. But I came away with the impression that I should have been a little more careful with what I had told my chatbot. My AI doppelganger was not a master of discretion, and it could potentially repeat anything I said during training to other people. A bot with a mind of its own Since the 2012 introduction of swiping by Tinder, there haven’t been major changes to the mechanics of online dating. Apps have tried distinguishing themselves with features such as memes and astrology , but most have been unsuccessful in making a dent in the $4.94-billion global market dominated by Tinder, Bumble and Hinge. Snack launched in 202