# How Much Energy Does Chatgpt Use

**Source**: https://epoch.ai/gradient-updates/how-much-energy-does-chatgpt-use
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:17:45.397221+00:00

---

How much energy does ChatGPT use? | Epoch AI Publications & Commentary Papers & Reports Newsletter Podcast Data & Resources Datasets Overview AI Benchmarking AI Models ML Hardware GPU Clusters AI Companies Resources AI Trends & Statistics Data Insights Projects FrontierMath GATE Playground Distributed Training Model Counts About About Us Our Team Careers Consultations Our Funding Donate Latest Contact Search epoch.ai Search Enter a query to search for results Placeholder Newsletter How much energy does ChatGPT use? Gradient Updates How much energy does ChatGPT use? Cite Comments Published Feb 07, 2025 Authors Josh You Credit to Alex Erben and Ege Erdil for substantial help with research and calculations. In this issue, “we” refers to our collective judgment. A commonly-cited claim is that powering an individual ChatGPT query requires around 3 watt-hours of electricity, or 10 times as much as a Google search. 1 This is often brought up to express concern over AI’s impact on the environment, climate change, or the electric grid. However, we believe that this figure of 3 watt-hours per query is likely an overestimate. In this issue, we revisit this question using a similar methodology, but using up-to-date facts and clearer assumptions. We find that typical ChatGPT queries using GPT-4o likely consume roughly 0.3 watt-hours, which is ten times less than the older estimate. This difference comes from more efficient models and hardware compared to early 2023, and an overly pessimistic estimate of token counts in the original estimate. For context, 0.3 watt-hours is less than the amount of electricity that an LED lightbulb or a laptop consumes in a few minutes. And even for a heavy chat user, the energy cost of ChatGPT will be a small fraction of the overall electricity consumption of a developed-country resident. The average US household 2 uses 10,500 kilowatt-hours of electricity per year, or over 28,000 watt-hours per day. 3 This estimate of 0.3 watt-hours is actually relatively pessimistic (i.e. erring towards high energy costs), and it is possible that many or most queries are actually much cheaper still. However, this will vary with use case—queries with long input lengths or with longer outputs (e.g. using reasoning models) may be substantially more energy-intensive than 0.3 watt-hours. And training and inference for future models may consume much more energy than using ChatGPT today. See this spreadsheet for sources for everyday electricity uses. Stay one step ahead Get the latest from Gradient Updates in your inbox Subscribe Estimating the energy cost of a query ChatGPT and other chatbots are powered by large language models (LLMs). Running these models (also known as inference ) requires compute, and the chips and data centers that process that compute require electricity, roughly in proportion to the amount of compute required. Below, I’ll walk through a summary of how to estimate the compute and energy cost of a ChatGPT query. You can find a more detailed version with arguments for every assumption in the appendix . ChatGPT actually runs on several different models, but let’s use GPT-4o as a reference model, because this is still OpenAI’s leading general-purpose model. OpenAI’s new reasoning models (o1, o3-mini, and the upcoming o3) likely require more energy, but are probably less popular, at least right now. In particular, OpenAI’s new Deep Research product, which is rate-limited and requires their $200/month subscription tier, is certainly far more compute-intensive than a simple ChatGPT query. Meanwhile, GPT 4o-mini is smaller and cheaper than GPT-4o. We’ll discuss these other models in more detail in a later section. LLMs generate outputs in units called tokens —for OpenAI, a token represents 0.75 words on average. Floating-point operations (FLOP) is a standard unit for measuring compute, and generating a token requires approximately two FLOP for every active parameter in the model. We previously estimated that GPT-4o has roughly 200 billion total parameters (likely between 100 and 400 billion). It is also most likely a mixture-of-experts model, meaning not all of these parameters are activated at once. Pessimistically taking the high estimate of total parameters, and assuming ¼ are activated at a time suggests 100 billion active parameters. This means that 2 * 100 billion = 200 billion FLOP are needed to generate one token. I assume that a typical number of output tokens per query is 500 tokens (~400 words, or roughly a full page of typed text). This is somewhat pessimistic—for example, Chiang et al. found an average response length of 261 tokens in a dataset of chatbot conversations. This is also assuming text-based conversations—it’s unclear how many tokens are needed in conversations with GPT-4o’s advanced voice mode, and we don’t consider the cost of generating images here. This leads to 500 * 2 * 100 billion = 1e14 FLOP for a GPT-4o query with 500 output tokens. There is also an additional cost for queries with lengthy inputs, which I discuss below. Next, we can find the energy cost of this compute based on the power consumption of the necessary AI chips: I assume that OpenAI uses Nvidia H100 GPUs for ChatGPT inference. These have a power rating of 700 watts, but H100 clusters can consume up to ~1500 W per GPU due to the overhead costs of servers and data centers. 4 H100s can perform up to 989 trillion (9.89e14) FLOP per second . At that rate, it takes 1e14 / 9.89e14 ~= 0.1 seconds of H100-time to process a query (though in reality, many queries are processed in parallel in batches , so end-to-end generation time is much longer than this). However, GPUs can’t actually achieve their max FLOP/second output in practice. I use 10% as a rough estimate of typical utilization rates for inference clusters. This increases the number of GPUs needed to process queries by 10x, so roughly one second of H100-time is required to process a ChatGPT query. On the flip side, average power consumption per GPU will be less than 1500 W in practice. One estimate from the literature suggests that inference GPUs may consume around 70% of peak power on average. 5 Putting this together: one second of H100-time per query, 1500 watts per H100, and a 70% factor for power utilization gets us 1050 watt-seconds of energy, which is around 0.3 watt-hours per query. This is around 10 times lower than the widely cited 3 watt-hour estimate! One last factor to account for is the cost of processing input tokens. This is negligible for simple questions that are manually typed, but when the inputs are very long, processing inputs becomes significant relative to the cost of generating outputs. Some chatbot use cases involve uploading large documents, codebases, or other forms of data, and GPT-4o supports an input window of up to 128,000 tokens. In the appendix , we estimate that a long input of 10k tokens (similar to a short paper or long magazine article) would substantially increase the cost per query to around 2.5 watt-hours , and a very long input length of 100k tokens (equal to roughly 200 pages of text) would require almost 40 watt-hours of energy. Note that this input processing is an upfront cost, so if you have an extended chat exchange after uploading a long document, this cost is not incurred with each message. Additionally, it is almost certainly possible to dramatically improve how the cost of processing inputs scales with very long inputs, but we’re not sure if OpenAI has done this yet. 6 Why is our estimate different from others? The original three watt-hour estimate, which has been widely cited by many different researchers and media outlets, comes from Alex de Vries (2023) . The most important reason our estimate differs is that we use a more realistic assumption for the number of output tokens in typical chatbot usage. We also base our estimate on a newer and more efficient chip (NVIDIA H100 vs A100), and a model with somewhat fewer active parameters. In the original estimate, De Vries cites a February 2023 estimate from SemiAnalysis of the compute cost of inference for ChatGPT. This calculation assumed 175B parameters for GPT-3.5 (vs our assumed active parameter count of 100B for GPT-4o), running on A100 HGX servers (less efficient than the more modern H100), and most importantly, assumed 4000 input tokens and 2000 output tokens per query. This is equivalent to 1500 words, which is likely quite unrepresentative of typical queries (for context, it is about half as long as this newsletter issue, besides the appendix ). De Vries then converts this compute cost to energy using the A100 server’s max power capacity of 800 W per GPU, while we assume servers consume 70% of peak power. In addition, Luccioni et. al. measured a ~4 Wh energy consumption per query for BLOOM-176B, a model comparable in size to GPT-4o. However, this was for a model deployed for research purposes in 2022: their cluster handled a relatively low volume of requests, likely with low utilization, and didn’t use batching, a basic inference optimization that is standard in any commercial deployment of LLMs (see the appendix for more details on this paper). What about other models besides GPT-4o? While GPT-4o serves as our reference model, there are numerous other models available both within ChatGPT and in chatbot products from other companies. OpenAI offers GPT-4o-mini, which, based on its API pricing at under one-tenth the cost of GPT-4o, likely has a significantly smaller parameter count 7 and therefore energy cost. In contrast, OpenAI’s o1 and o3 reasoning models may consume substantially more energy to operate. o1’s parameter count (and cost per-token) is unclear, but its compute and energy costs per query are most likely higher due to the lengthy chain-of-thought that it generates. This cost is even higher with the $200/month o1 pro , which uses the same o1 model but scales up inference compute even further. The newly-released o3-mini deserves specia