# Bill Ackman

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/bill-ackman/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:25:25.662437+00:00

---

Bill Ackman - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: Bill Ackman side quests July 10, 2025 Bill Ackman Got Smoked in a Pro Tennis Doubles Tournament You can’t buy athleticism. By Matt Stieb politics July 3, 2025 Bill Ackman Dumps Cuomo, Embraces Adams The billionaire said that Cuomo is “not up for the fight” against Zohran Mamdani. By Nia Prater the business of brokering June 30, 2025 ‘Anybody That Says They’re Leaving Ain’t Leaving’ Is the real-estate industry’s tantrum over Mamdani a big bluff? By Matthew Sedacca politics June 26, 2025 Zohran Mamdani’s Enemies Turn Their Eyes to Eric Adams Some opponents to Mamdani’s campaign are considering backing Mayor Eric Adams, while Bill Ackman floated drafting a new name for a write-in campaign. By Nia Prater who’s selling Nov. 15, 2024 Bill Ackman Is Getting Out of the Beresford The hedge-fund billionaire is selling two units for a total of $20 million. By Adriane Quinlan the money game Aug. 2, 2024 How Bill Ackman’s $25 Billion IPO Plan Went Bust (at Least for Now) The culture-warrior CEO of hedge fund Pershing Square failed to raise $25 billion. He’ll probably try again. By Kevin T. Dugan the money game Feb. 12, 2024 Bill Ackman Strikes Back His fight has made him the public face of a billionaire class anxious it no longer rules the world. By Reeves Wiedeman bill ackman Jan. 19, 2024 Everyone Bill Ackman Is Fighting The ever-expanding list of individuals and institutions the billionaire investor is at war with. By Kevin T. Dugan he said/he said Jan. 17, 2024 What Really Happened Between Joe Biden and Bill Ackman The two men did exchange barbs — perhaps jokingly — at a hedge-fund dinner. They were not talking about Biden’s deceased son. By Michelle Celarier just asking questions Jan. 17, 2024 Why Bill Ackman’s Case Against Business Insider Is a Fantasy Columbia law professor Edward Klaris explains why the billionaire’s defamation claims don’t hold legal water. By Matt Stieb scandals Jan. 7, 2024 Neri Oxman and Claudine Gay Cases Show We Need New Rules on Plagiarism Bill Ackman helped bring down Gay. Oxman, his wife, is now under attack. This system isn’t working. By Christopher Sprigman the money game Oct. 23, 2023 The Three Tweets That Broke the Gloom Over the U.S. Treasury Markets Bill Ackman is a bond vigilante no more. By Kevin T. Dugan the money game Oct. 18, 2023 The $24 Trillion Problem Haunting Wall Street The Treasuries market is the largest in the world, but nobody knows why it’s coming apart at the seams By Kevin T. Dugan the money game Sept. 2, 2021 The Big SPAC Crackdown SPACs have seen a massive two-year boom, resulting in a wave of companies going public. That might be coming to an end. By Michelle Celarier the money game July 23, 2021 The Not-So-Happy Story of the World’s Biggest SPAC Billionaire hedge-funder Bill Ackman and a gang of retail investors on Reddit were both very excited about a deal. Now, no one is. By Jen Wieczner the new girlfriend rollout Apr. 20, 2018 Now Brad Pitt Is ‘Infatuated’ With MIT Professor Neri Oxman Let’s take a look at Pitt’s tabloid rollout. By Allie Jones June 23, 2017 Joe Biden Owned a Hedge-Fund Billionaire Who Mocked Him Over His Late Son “Look, I don’t know who you are, wiseass,” Biden reportedly said. By Adam K. Raymond Mar. 30, 2017 Hedge Fund Giant Bill Ackman Admits Valeant Investment Was a ‘Big Mistake’ His firm, Pershing Square Capital, took $4 billion in losses on an investment in pharma company. By Jen Kirby Mar. 14, 2017 Bill Ackman Finally Cuts His Losses on Valeant The billionaire hedge-fund manager staked his reputation on turning around the controversial pharmaceutical company. That was a bad bet. By Eric Levitz shortages July 15, 2016 Judgment Day Has Come for Herbalife — and Bill Ackman Seems to Feel Just Fine The FTC didn’t take the harshest action possible. But the settlement could cause problems for the nutritional-shake purveyor going forward. By Michelle Celarier pyramid schemes Apr. 12, 2016 Ackman Makes a Star Turn, While Losing Billions He’s featured prominently in a hot-ticket new documentary — and might be hoping that the film helps turn around a bad year at Pershing Square. By Michelle Celarier white men with money and sore quads Feb. 27, 2013 Hedge-Fund Manager’s Personal Flaws Conveniently Summed Up by Bike Ride “His mind wrote a check that his body couldn’t cash.” By Kevin Roose white men with money and grudges Jan. 25, 2013 Schoolyard Fight on CNBC Casts ‘Bully’ Against ‘Little Jewish Boy’ Carl Icahn takes on Bill Ackman over Herbalife, with amazing results. By Kevin Roose white men with money and nutrient shakes Jan. 10, 2013 Derpalife: How a Health-Supplement Company Became a Hedge-Fund Pissing Match What is the Ackman-Loeb Herbalife feud really about? By Kevin Roose books Dec. 6, 2010 Borders Makes a Bid for Barnes & Noble Bill Ackman finances Borders’s $960 million takeover bid to buy Barnes & Noble. By Nitasha Tiku aw shucks Oct. 14, 2010 Bill Ackman Can’t Help That He’s Awesome and People Want to Get Close to Him “The investing world’s version of Elvis” is simply irresistible. By Jessica Pressler stuyvesant town Sept. 28, 2010 Stuyvesant Town to Go to Auction Next Week October 4 is the big day for the complex’s 25,000 residents. By Chris Rovzar stuyvesant town Sept. 16, 2010 Judge Negs Bill Ackman’s Stuyvesant Town Foreclosure Plan And we’re back to square one. By Chris Rovzar real estate Sept. 13, 2010 Pershing Square and Winthrop Realty Offer Co-op Plan, Partnership With Stuyvesant Town Tenants Your move, CW Capital. By Chris Rovzar real estate Aug. 13, 2010 Ackman Lays Out His Plan for Stuyvesant Town Here’s what his co-op conversion plan would look like. By Chris Rovzar real estate Aug. 10, 2010 Bill Ackman Has His Hands All Over Stuyvesant Town Or at least all up in one very key part of its debt. By Chris Rovzar white men with money May 26, 2010 Today’s Ira Sohn Conference: Who Will Cry? Bill Ackman, or the recipient of David Einhorn’s annual smackdown? By Jessica Pressler titans of finance are people too Mar. 2, 2010 Larry Fink Is a Real Human Being With Feelings and Emotions Just because he runs a firm with a market cap of $40 billion doesn’t mean he’s just an automaton. By Jessica Pressler white men who aren’t afraid to cry June 1, 2009 Bill Ackman Explains How He ‘Lost Control of His Emotions’ at Last Week’s Target Meeting The activist investor explains himself in a 5,000-word letter. By Jessica Pressler ackmanimal May 28, 2009 Bill Ackman Had a Dream The activist investor cries, evokes Martin Luther King Jr. and JFK, after losing fight with Target board. By Jessica Pressler white men with money May 26, 2009 Hedge Funds Sharpen Blades in Preparation for Annual Conference Tomorrow’s the annual Ira Sohn Research Investment Conference offers a chance for hedge fund managers to show off. By Hugo Lindgren white men with money May 12, 2009 Bill Ackman Doesn’t So Much Raid Companies As Cuddle Them Really Hard The gadfly investor discussed his proxy battle against Target at a “town hall”-style meeting with investors yesterday. By Jessica Pressler white men with rubber duckies Apr. 30, 2009 Hedge-Funder Bill Ackman Has Fishies in His Shower The Pershing Square manager has put his home on the market, and allows us a glimpse into his shower. By Jessica Pressler white men with money Apr. 21, 2009 Let Them Eat Index Funds And also Big Macs. By Hugo Lindgren white men with money Apr. 17, 2009 Avast! Hedge-fund Pirate Bill Ackman Sets His Sights on Big Banks It’s a humble plan, but he believes it will work. By Jessica Pressler company town May 6, 2008 Rent Stabilization Not As Stable As Before Plus, Skadden’s role in the failed Microsoft-Yahoo talks, what Perez Hilton is doing in James Frey’s new novel, and the rest of today’s industry gossip. Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us About New York Magazine Newsletters Help Contact Press Media Kit We’re Hiring Privacy Terms Ad Choices Accessibility Do not sell or share my personal data New York is a Vox Media Network . &copy; 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All rights reserved.