# Updates Billionaire Pandemic

**Source**: https://inequality.org/great-divide/updates-billionaire-pandemic/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:39:43.677358+00:00

---

Updates: Billionaire Wealth, U.S. Job Losses and Pandemic Profiteers - Inequality.org Home Topics Corporate Power Culture Education Environment Executive Pay Gender Inequity Health Housing International Labor Philanthropy Policy Racial Equality Taxes Technology Wealth Concentration All Articles Articles Facts Inequality and Covid-19 Income Inequality Wealth Inequality Racial Economic Inequality Global Inequality Gender Economic Inequality Inequality and Health Inequality and Taxes Inequality and the Care Economy Inequality and Philanthropy Resources Inequality Weekly Organizations Inequality Quotes by Historic World Leaders Books Our Work Reports Books Policy Development About Newsletter Action Donate Press enter to search About Newsletter Action Donate Home Topics Corporate Power Culture Education Environment Executive Pay Gender Inequity Health Housing International Labor Philanthropy Policy Racial Equality Taxes Technology Wealth Concentration All Articles Articles Facts Inequality and Covid-19 Income Inequality Wealth Inequality Racial Economic Inequality Global Inequality Gender Economic Inequality Inequality and Health Inequality and Taxes Inequality and the Care Economy Inequality and Philanthropy Resources Inequality Weekly Organizations Inequality Quotes by Historic World Leaders Books Our Work Reports Books Policy Development Wealth Concentration Updates: Billionaire Wealth, U.S. Job Losses and Pandemic Profiteers Check back for our regular updates on U.S. unemployment and billionaire wealth. Articles March 18, 2024 by Chuck Collins Since the beginning of the pandemic, the Institute for Policy Studies has tracked the explosive growth of U.S. billionaire wealth — one of the most disturbing signs of inequality during a crisis that has devastated ordinary families. April 1, 2025 update 2025 Is Shaping up to Be a Banner Year for Global Oligarchs The ranks of global billionaires has grown by 247 in the past year, bringing up the total worldwide to 3,028, according to Forbes&#8217; annual survey of the wealthy published April 1. The combined wealth of the nine-figure club is now $16.1 trillion, up $2 trillion from a year ago. There are 902 billionaires in the United States as of the newest survey, up from 813 in 2024. However, the Forbes data release is dated March 7, 2025, and there has been significant market volatility since then. There are now three billionaires in America with more than $200 billion in estimated wealth: Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg, and Jeff Bezos. And there are 15 billionaires with more than $100 billion each and combined wealth of $2.4 trillion. For comparison, that&#8217;s more wealth than the &#8220;poorest&#8221; 1,500 billionaires combined. The oligarchy continues to rig the rules of the economy to get more wealth and power, meaning we should anticipate the first trillionaire within a decade. As Forbes observes about Donald Trump: “He’s giving the billionaire class more control over the government than ever before. His right-hand man is the planet’s richest person. His administration includes at least ten billionaires and billionaire spouses.” Trump — who Forbes fawningly calls “America’s billionaire-in-chief” — saw his personal fortune more than double over the last year, from $2.3 billion to $5.1 billion. Forbes reports that “before moving back into the White House, [Trump] padded his cash piled with a very lucrative move into crypto. Between that and his Trump Media &amp; Technology Group going public just after Forbes locked in its 2024 rankings, the president’s net worth has more than doubled.” The top four billionaires are U.S. nationals, and their individual wealth are: Elon Musk of Tesla/X and SpaceX with $342 billion (up from $252.5 billion in September 2024, but down from $428 billion on January 1, 2025). It’s worth noting that prior to the 2020 pandemic, Musk’s wealth was valued just under $25 billion. Mark Zuckerberg of Meta with $216 billion, up from $113 billion from the 2020 survey. Jeff Bezos of Amazon with $215. billion. Larry Ellison of Oracle fame with $192 billion. This is what oligarchy looks like! January 3, 2025 update 2024 Billionaire round-up At the close of 2024 there were 813 billionaires in the United States with a combined total wealth of $6.72 trillion, according to an analysis of the Forbes wealth data. The total number of billionaires has remained constant since the outlet published its 38th annual World’s Billionaire List on April 2, 2024. But the combined wealth of the nine-figure club increased by $1 trillion over the last 9 months, from $5.7 trillion at the beginning of April to $6.72 trillion at the end of 2024. The top five billionaires and their individual wealth are: Elon Musk of Tesla/X and SpaceX with $428 billion (up from $252.5 billion in September 2024). Jeff Bezos of Amazon with $235.2 billion. Larry Ellison of Oracle fame moving into number three spot with $210.5 billion, surpassing Marc Zuckerberg. Mark Zuckerberg of Meta with $204.4 billion. Larry Page of Google, with $157.6 billion. There are now 15 U.S. billionaires with more than $100 billion each. Their combined wealth totals $2.4 trillion. When Forbes started tracking wealth in 1982, there were only 13 billionaires on the list of America’s 400 wealthiest individuals . A person had to have a mere $75 million to join that exclusive list of 400 — today, that number has spiked to $3.2 billion. Dynastic families closed 2024 huge pools of wealth: Walton: Seven members of the Walton Family with a combined wealth of $404.3 billion. Mars: Six members of the Mars family with a combined wealth of $130.4 billion. Koch: Two members of the Koch family have a combined wealth of $121.1 billion. Many top billionaires have seen their wealth surge since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. On March 18, 2020, Elon Musk had wealth valued just under $25 billion. By 2024 year’s end, his wealth soared to an unfathomable $428 billion. Jeff Bezos saw his wealth rise from $113 billion on March 18, 2020 to $235.2 billion in the Dec 31, 2024 on the back of Amazon’s ravenous growth. Three Walton family members — Jim, Alice and Rob — saw their combined assets increase from $161.1 billion on March 18, 2020 to $317 billion in the September 13, 2024 survey. September 17, 2024 update 801 U.S. billionaires hold a combined $6.22 trillion in wealth There are now 801 billionaires based in the United States with a combined wealth totaling $6.22 trillion, according to Institute for Policy Studies analysis of the Forbes Real Time Billionaire List . The total number of billionaires is down 11 people as of September 13, 2024 from April when Forbes published their 38 th annual World’s Billionaire List . Despite that decline in the number of billionaires, the total wealth of the exclusive nine-figure-club grew by $500 billion over the last five months. The top five billionaires and by individual wealth are: Elon Musk of Tesla/X and SpaceX with $252.5 billion Jeff Bezos of Amazon with $204.8 billion Larry Ellison of Oracle fame moving into number three spot with $197 billion, surpassing Mark Zuckerberg Mark Zuckerberg of Meta with $182 billion Warren Buffett of Berkshire Hathaway with $141 billion. There are now a total of 12 billionaires with more than $100 billion each. For context, the first person to cross the $100 billion personal wealth threshold — Jeff Bezos — only did so in 2018. When Forbes started tracking wealth in 1982 there were only 13 billionaires on the Forbes 400 list and it took $75 million to join the list. Today, a person needs have a minimum of $3.2 billion to make the cut. Among the wealthiest families on the Forbes list: Walton: Six members of the Walton Family have a combined wealth of $349.3 billion Mars: Six members of Mars family have combined wealth of $142.7 billion Koch: Two members of Koch family have a combined wealth of $141.6 billion Many top billionaires have seen their wealth surge since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. On March 18, 2020, Elon Musk had wealth valued just under $25 billion. By the start of the next year he became the richest person in the world with a net worth of $185 billion. After a decline of his assets from the acquisition of Twitter (now X) and falling Tesla valuations, Musk&#8217;s wealth has almost reached its 2022 peak with $252 billion. Jeff Bezos saw his wealth rise from $113 billion on March 18, 2020 to $204 billion in the September 13, 2024 survey. Three Walton family members — Jim, Alice, and Rob — saw their combined assets increase from $161.1 billion on March 18, 2020 to $286 billion this September. March 18, 2024 update Total U.S. Billionaire Wealth: Up 88 Percent over Four Years Four years ago, the United States entered the Covid-19 pandemic. Forbes published its 34th annual billionaire survey shortly after with data keyed to March 18, 2020. On that day, the United States had 614 billionaires who owned a combined wealth of $2.947 trillion. Four years later, on March 18, 2024, the country has 737 billionaires with a combined wealth of $5.529 trillion , an 87.6 percent increase of $2.58 trillion, according to Institute for Policy Studies calculations of Forbe s Real Time Billionaire Data . (Thank you, Forbes !) The last four years have been great for particular billionaires: On March 18, 2020, Tesla CEO Elon Musk had wealth valued just under $25 billion. By May 2022, his wealth had surged to $255 billion. As of March 18, 2024, Musk is at $188.5 billion, more than a seven-fold increase in four years. Over four years, Amazon founder Jeff Bezos has seen his wealth increase from $113 billion to 192.8 billion, even after paying out tens of billions in a divorce settlement and donating tens of billions to charity. Three Walton family members — Jim, Alice, and Rob — are the principal heirs to the Walmart fortune. They saw their combined assets rise from $161.1 billion to $229.6 billion. In 2020, only one billionaire – Jeff Bezos – had $100 billion or more. Toda