# New Chanel Belt Bag.Html

**Source**: https://www.thecut.com/2022/02/new-chanel-belt-bag.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:08:33.995749+00:00

---

A Bonbon for the Hip: Chanel Belt Bag Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Style Self Culture Power Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission go for broke A Bonbon for the Hip A tiny, charming bag. By Camille Okhio Feb. 17, 2022 Go For Broke A photo series showcasing the items that bring us joy. save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Photo: The Posternaks Go For Broke A photo series showcasing the items that bring us joy. Photo: The Posternaks Melding bubblegum pink worthy of Elle Woods with a classic quilt, Chanel’s new purse introduces lighthearted merriment into an otherwise serious investment. This minuscule belt bag is only four inches at its widest point — a scale that laughs openly at the idea of function. It’s candy for the closet: cute and exploding with flavor at $2,225. Available at select CHANEL Boutiques Nationwide. For more information, please call (800) 550 0005. Thank you for subscribing and supporting our journalism . If you prefer to read in print, you can also find this article in the February 14, 2022, issue of New York Magazine. Want more stories like this one? Subscribe now to support our journalism and get unlimited access to our coverage. If you prefer to read in print, you can also find this article in the February 14, 2022, issue of New York Magazine. More From 2022 spring fashion issue Catching New Yorkers Mid-Delivery Let’s Get High Fashion Fair Did It First See All Tags: style fashion spring fashion spring fashion issue 2022 go for broke chanel new york magazine shopping spring fashion digital issue 2022 More Show Comment A Bonbon for the Hip Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission The Cut Shop 28 Best Sneakers for Women in Every Single Style I’m on the Hunt for the Best Sunscreens Without a White Cast 31 Best Luxury Candles That Double As Great Gifts Most Viewed Stories Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time The Woman Who Ate Only Fruit Your Daily Horoscope by Madame Clairevoyant: October 3, 2025 I Was Not Familiar With Your Game, Travis Kelce Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Why I Got a Neck-Lift at 41 Years Old The Man Who Speaks Fashion Sign In to Comment Most Popular Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time The Woman Who Ate Only Fruit Your Daily Horoscope by Madame Clairevoyant: October 3, 2025 I Was Not Familiar With Your Game, Travis Kelce 18 Well-Read People on How, Exactly, They Find the Time Sorry to Ask, But Why Are Nicki Minaj and Cardi B Feuding Again? The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Why I Got a Neck-Lift at 41 Years Old The Man Who Speaks Fashion The Latest sex diaries 8 mins ago The Sober Event Planner Sleeping With a Client In this week’s story, a 32-year-old woman gives her crush a blowjob to reduce his stress before a big event. life of a showgirl 6:16 p.m. The Showgirl Doesn’t Get a Standing Ovation Taylor Swift was once untouchable — but is her reputation as pop’s best songwriter over? music 5:37 p.m. Taylor Swift’s Famous Friends Are Loving The Life of a Showgirl Sabrina Carpenter, Nikki Glaser, and whoever posts for the New Heights podcast are all amped about the album. do i need this? 5:33 p.m. Here’s What You Need From Gap’s Studio Collection Every piece worth buying from the brand’s fall drop. the kardashians 5:28 p.m. Apropos of Nothing, Kim Kardashian Is Producing an Elizabeth Taylor Doc What a day to be learning this news. power 4:47 p.m. Diddy Has Been Sentenced to More Than Four Years in Prison The judge said the sentence was required to show “that exploitation and violence against women is met with real accountability.” music 4:40 p.m. No, Taylor Swift Is Definitely Online At least, she was when she made The Life of a Showgirl . prime day 4:06 p.m. The Early Prime Day Beauty Deals Our Editors Recommend Start shopping the sale now with tools from Shark Beauty and more. taylor swift 3:37 p.m. Taylor Swift’s Engagement Ring Is Having a Great Rollout Good for her. celebrity breakups 3:06 p.m. In Other News, Lori Loughlin and Her Husband Are Separated There’s no better day to quietly uncouple. travel week 2:42 p.m. These Are the Best Over-the-Ear Headphones for Sound and Style AirPods Max aren’t the only headphones out there. always shopping 2:30 p.m. 25 Best Wedding Shoes for Every Kind of Bride According to a recent bride. prime day 2:00 p.m. These Bella Hadid–Approved Headphones Are on Sale And they’re worth the hype. paris fashion week 1:43 p.m. A Night Out With Kristy Sarah Scott at Schiaparelli From viral videos to the front row, Scott is making Paris Fashion Week her stage. weddings 1:30 p.m. This Is What Your Wedding Gift Says About You Gift ideas for the plus-one, the third wheel, and everyone in between. cut chats 1:02 p.m. The Life of a Showgirl Is No 1989 Taylor Swift’s new album has some high points but lacks the punch and clarity of her previous collaborations with Max Martin. celebrity friendships 12:45 p.m. Who Did Taylor Swift Write ‘CANCELLED!’ About? While Blake Lively and Brittany Mahomes are at the top of our guess list, too, there are some other names to consider. the approval matrix 12:00 p.m. The Approval Matrix: The Life of a One-Term Mayor Our guide to what’s highbrow, lowbrow, brilliant, and despicable. fangirls 11:55 a.m. Nicki Minaj Really Loves ‘Wood’ The rapper took a break from her feud with Cardi B to livetweet The Life of a Showgirl . horny police 10:38 a.m. I Was Not Familiar With Your Game, Travis Kelce “Wood” might be the horniest Taylor Swift track ever. More Stories Email You\&#x27;ll receive the next newsletter in your inbox. *Sorry, there was a problem signing you up. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice and to receive email correspondence from us. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. or Already a subscriber? Sign In What is your email? This email will be used to sign into all New York sites. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive email correspondence from us. Enter your email: Please enter a valid email address. Submit Email or Connect with Google Connect with Facebook Sign in | Subscribe Today Sign In To Continue Reading Create Your Free Account edit email Sign in with Facebook Sign in with Google Choose a password to create an account: Enter your password or sign in with a different email Forgot Password? Password must be at least 8 characters and contain: Lower case letters (a-z) Upper case letters (A-Z) Numbers (0-9) Special Characters (!@#$%^&*) This password will be used to sign into all New York sites. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive email correspondence from us. Sign In Create Account You’re in! As part of your account, you’ll receive occasional updates and offers from New York , which you can opt out of anytime. Continue Reading or Already a subscriber? Sign In What is your email? This email will be used to sign into all New York sites. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive email correspondence from us. Enter your email: Please enter a valid email address. Submit Email or Connect with Google Connect with Facebook Sign in | Subscribe Today Sign In To Continue Reading Create Your Free Account edit email Sign in with Facebook Sign in with Google Choose a password to create an account: Enter your password or sign in with a different email Forgot Password? Password must be at least 8 characters and contain: Lower case letters (a-z) Upper case letters (A-Z) Numbers (0-9) Special Characters (!@#$%^&*) This password will be used to sign into all New York sites. By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Policy and to receive email correspondence from us. Sign In Create Account You’re in! As part of your account, you’ll receive occasional updates and offers from New York , which you can opt out of anytime. Continue Reading Already a subscriber? Sign In View Account Log Out Already a subscriber? Sign In View Account Log Out * please try a longer search Have an Account? Log In Style Self Culture Power Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us About The Cut About New York Magazine Newsletters Help Contact Press Media Kit We’re Hiring Privacy Terms Ad Choices