# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=American%20Psychologyist&title=Contexts%20of%20child%20rearing:%20Problems%20and%20prospects&author=U%20Bronfenbrenner&volume=34&issue=10&publication_year=1979&pages=844-850&
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:18:27.468874+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.03 sec) My profile My library Lookup Contexts of child rearing: Problems and prospects. U Bronfenbrenner - American psychologist, 1979 - psycnet.apa.org U Bronfenbrenner American psychologist, 1979 • psycnet.apa.org Contends that, as yet, child psychology remains a science of development-out-of-context. More is known about children than about the environments in which they live or the ecological conditions that foster psychological growth. On the basis of the limited knowledge available, 4 propositions are offered specifying environmental properties presumed critical to human development. In addition to certain patterns of activity and interpersonal relations occurring within the settings containing the growing child, such conditions include the … Abstract Contends that, as yet, child psychology remains a science of development-out-of-context. More is known about children than about the environments in which they live or the ecological conditions that foster psychological growth. On the basis of the limited knowledge available, 4 propositions are offered specifying environmental properties presumed critical to human development. In addition to certain patterns of activity and interpersonal relations occurring within the settings containing the growing child, such conditions include the existence of supportive links between settings—especially between home, school, and work place. The progressive erosion of such links in contemporary American society is seen as contributing to the disorganization of families, schools, and other childrearing settings with consequent disruption of the socialization processes essential to the development of cognitive competence and socially constructive behavior. Research designs for testing the validity of this analysis are suggested. They include experimental strategies for increasing the participation of children and adults in each other&#39;s worlds.(29 ref)(PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2016 APA, all rights reserved) American Psychological Association Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 3255 Related articles All 5 versions Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help