# Wework Flexible Coworking Office Space Pandemic

**Source**: https://www.vox.com/recode/22193428/wework-flexible-coworking-office-space-pandemic
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:50:50.669835+00:00

---

How WeWork coworking space survived the coronavirus pandemic | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo The pandemic could have crushed WeWork. It may have saved it instead. Free speech needs fearless journalism Free speech is endangered; unbiased and trustworthy news is elusive. In a time of noise, confusion, and spin, we’re committed to clarity, truth, and depth — even when it’s hard. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join now Technology The pandemic could have crushed WeWork. It may have saved it instead. How do you make a business out of sharing office space when no one is going to the office? by Rani Molla Dec 22, 2020, 1:00 PM UTC Share Gift WeWork is still working. | Tomohiro Ohsumi/Getty Images Rani Molla was a senior correspondent at Vox and has been focusing her reporting on the future of work. She has covered business and technology for more than a decade — often in charts — including at Bloomberg and the Wall Street Journal. Last year, WeWork failed to become a public company after a high-profile implosion full of intrigue, excess, and downright foolishness. Miraculously, one year and one pandemic later, the coworking company is not only still kicking, but it stands to ride post-Covid-19 office trends to profitability and an IPO &mdash; if it can hold on long enough. A company that rents out trendy shared and private office space, WeWork has made a number of critical changes that have helped it hold on while facing a pandemic that kept people home and away from offices. Some of the most important changes, however, happened before the coronavirus took hold. Last year, the company ditched its founder, Adam Neumann, who had created a company culture that was more in line with the most outrageous tech company than something as quotidian as real estate. As he sought a tech company valuation for the office subleasing company, Neumann&rsquo;s hard partying, profligate spending, and poor judgment derailed that goal and nearly destroyed the company. A new CEO, Sandeep Mathrani, took over this February and was charged with righting the company&rsquo;s mission, cutting costs, and excising a destructive company culture in order to bring the once highly valued unicorn back from the brink. WeWork&rsquo;s upheaval meant that the company was already forced to be agile in order to avoid destruction before the pandemic. But the company&rsquo;s perseverance is also a testament to the strength of the flexible office market, a real estate sector that focuses on short leases and move-in-ready space, in addition to coworking. Indeed, so-called flexible office space has proved surprisingly hardy during the pandemic, given that its business had been predicated, in part, on the idea of squeezing as many people into as little square footage as possible. With the arrival of a vaccine, those issues are seeming less important. Meanwhile, flexible space&rsquo;s value proposition is looking more attractive for companies trying to contend with the uncertainty of a more dispersed workforce spending more of their days at home. &ldquo;We believe, based on our data and history, that flex is going to be a very viable alternative when interest in office space rebounds,&rdquo; Julie Whelan, global head of occupier research at the commercial real estate firm CBRE, said in a recent briefing about flexible office space. &ldquo;It will come out of this stronger than it went in.&rdquo; So to comprehend WeWork&rsquo;s remarkable recovery, you need to know more about flexible office space and its prospects. Why flexible office space has a future There&rsquo;s no getting around the fact that the pandemic has been rough on owners and operators of office space, including flexible space, which people can get rid of more easily. Only a small portion of people have returned to the office. In Manhattan, the biggest office market, just 10 percent of office workers have come back , and some may never do so. But while new leases are down, few are relinquishing flexible office space. The amount of leased flexible office space in the top 23 US markets was 67.1 million square feet at the end of the third quarter this year, according to the commercial real estate services giant Cushman & Wakefield, up 2.5 percent from where it was at the end of 2019. WeWork and its competitors like Knotel and Industrious &mdash; all of which lease ready-to-use office space to individuals and companies &mdash; have slowed their rapid growth but haven&rsquo;t had to downsize much. They&rsquo;ve retained enough business to keep them afloat during the pandemic and are looking forward to a time when their flexible space is more attractive than regular long-term office leases. Industrious says it thinks it will max out on fitting new customers into its existing space next year. The attraction to flexible office space is that businesses can more easily adjust to trends like the hybrid office , in which people go into the office less often and for different reasons than they used to. They also provide a stopover for companies still trying to figure out what the future will bring. Real estate experts say that rather than shying away from the space, companies &mdash; especially big ones &mdash; are planning to increase their flexible space footprints and making it a bigger part of their portfolio in the future. Some 86 percent of companies plan to use flexible space as a key part of their real estate strategies in the future, according to a report by CBRE that surveyed about 80 companies around the globe. They&rsquo;re also highly likely to favor leasing in buildings that have flexible space offerings. JLL, a commercial real estate services company, predicts that 30 percent of all office space will be flexible by 2030. Jonathan Wasserstrum, CEO of the digital commercial real estate brokerage SquareFoot , thinks it could happen sooner. Demand for flexible options on his platform increased 15 percent in 2020. The reasons for the move to flexible space are myriad, and in general, they represent an acceleration of trends apparent before the pandemic. Surprisingly, real estate experts don&rsquo;t think that shared space will be as scary in the future as it&rsquo;s been during the pandemic, thanks to widespread adoption of safety measures and, perhaps more importantly, a vaccine on the way. &ldquo;Anyone who manages an office environment, including flexible space providers, has been tasked with putting protocols in place to increase safety at work, such as air filtration, social distancing, enhanced cleaning, mask usage, etc.,&rdquo; CBRE&rsquo;s Whelan said. &ldquo;As long as safety protocols are in place and followed, we don&rsquo;t see flexible space being different than other types of office space.&rdquo; In fact, the pandemic has made such space more attractive. &ldquo;For corporate occupiers considering spacing needs, having flexibility is exactly what they would want because of things like this pandemic,&rdquo; Paul Leonard, a managing consultant at CoStar Advisory Services, told Recode. That is, if something bad happens, companies want to be able to relinquish their rental expenses more quickly than if they signed a traditional office lease. They&rsquo;re willing to pay a premium to mitigate uncertainty. But the main reason for wanting more flexible space, according to the CBRE survey, is to provide places for companies&rsquo; increasingly mobile workforce to work. Going forward, most companies plan on adopting a so-called hybrid model where some of their employees work from home some of the time. The rest of the time, they&rsquo;ll need office space. Flexible space helps accommodate office space in a wider variety of locations to reflect a dispersed workforce. It can also more easily be acquired and relinquished than traditional office space. Flexible space is ascendant as businesses are reconsidering the purpose of the office , according to David Smith, Americas head of occupier research at Cushman & Wakefield. &ldquo;Instead of having just an office space, we&rsquo;ll have a workplace ecosystem,&rdquo; Smith told Recode. That means people may not go to a main office every day by default, but instead go there &ldquo;more for learning development, collaborating, mentoring, socializing.&rdquo; In other words, businesses still need office space, but they need it for different reasons than they used to. Offices for many will function as a welcome reprieve from working from home, especially for people with roommates or children or too-small apartments. And companies like WeWork are uniquely positioned to provide office space for people and companies not quite sure what the future will hold. WeWork’s miraculous turnaround No one could&rsquo;ve predicted that WeWork would still be at the forefront of office trends in 2020. Its new path to profitability and perhaps even a public listing is especially extraordinary considering how bad things were and how far it fell in the past few years. Though it&rsquo;s a tech company in name only , WeWork had once been a Silicon Valley darling with a lofty valuation of $47 billion and the biggest banks tripping over themselves to help make it a public company. But the process of going public brought to light the company&rsquo;s shocking financial mishaps and cultural ethos. The year before it intended to go public, the company was losing $1.6 billion on $1.8 billion in revenue. Losing money is nothing new for tech startups, but those losses were the product of even larger issues about corporate governance and bad