# Asynchronous Communication

**Source**: https://doist.com/blog/asynchronous-communication/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:27:39.466550+00:00

---

What is asynchronous communication? Plus, how to implement it The front page About the newsletter Start here The async toolkit The async quiz Try Twist May 17, 2022 What the heck is asynchronous communication anyway? And what you can do to start implementing it, whether you&#x27;re an individual contributor or a team leader. By Amir Salihefendic Illustration by Yin Weihung Study after study after study into remote work has clarified that remote workers are more productive than their office-bound counterparts. What’s not entirely clear is why. Yes, people gain back time (and sanity) by avoiding rush hour commutes. They avoid the distractions of the office . They regain a sense of control over their workdays. They have more time to dedicate to family, friends, and hobbies. But apart from the commute, all of those benefits aren’t necessarily the result of location independence, but rather the byproduct of asynchronous communication — giving employees control over when they communicate with their teammates. Teams who try to go remote without putting in place tools, workflows, and norms for asynchronous communication will fail. Not only does async produce the best work results, but it also lets people do more meaningful work and live freer, more fulfilled lives. It's a game-changer even for co-located teams, but it's an absolute must for teams collaborating remotely. And as workers flex their current power in a tight labor market, it's the only way companies can give employees the flexible schedules they're demanding . Drawing on the experience of my own fully remote, async-first company, Doist , I'll explain what asynchronous communication is, how it drives team productivity and employee well-being, and the concrete steps you can take to start building a more asynchronous workplace. What is asynchronous communication? Simply put, asynchronous communication is when you send a message without expecting an immediate response . For example, you send an email. I open and respond to the email several hours later. In contrast, synchronous – or real-time – communication is when you send a message and the recipient processes the information and responds immediately . In-person communication, like meetings, are examples of purely synchronous communication. You say something, I receive the information as you say it, and respond to the information right away. But digital forms of communication, like real-time chat messaging, can be synchronous too. You send a message, I get a notification and open up Slack to read the message and respond to what you said in near real-time. Even email is treated as a synchronous form of communication. A 2015 study conducted by Yahoo Labs found that the most common email response time was just 2 minutes. Asynchronous communication isn't primarily about tools — though the right ones help — it's about team culture and habits. Real-time communication Asynchronous communication Communication requires all team members to be present simultaneously, in meetings and video calls or respond quickly to work chats or emails. Everyone is tied to more or less the same work schedule. Prioritizes speed of collaboration. Communication happens in writing or prerecorded video with team members catching up and responding on their own schedules. Everyone can work when it works best for them. Prioritizes focus and flexibility. Before we dig into the benefits of a more async approach to teamwork, let’s look at why we should question our current, real-time ways of working and communicating. 🧮 Curious how async your team is? Get your async score → The problem with real-time, all-the-time communication If employees are consistently more productive when working away from the office, there’s something broken about the modern workplace. According to the Harvard Business Review article “ Collaborative Overload ”, the time employees spend on collaboration has increased by 50% over the past two decades. Researchers found it was not uncommon for workers to spend a full 80% of their workdays communicating with colleagues in the form of: Email – on which workers spend an average of six hours a day Meetings – time spent in meetings since the pandemic forced companies to go remote has ballooned by 253% Instant messaging apps — the average Slack user sends an average of 200 messages a day , though 1,000-message power users are “not the exception” As one office worker told New York Magazine, “I used to wake up and turn off the alarm and check Tinder. Now I wake up and check Slack.” This trend toward near-constant communication means that the average knowledge worker must organize their workday around multiple meetings with the time in between spent doing their work half-distractedly with one eye on email and Slack. To make matters worse, the rise of mobile technology means that workplace communication is no longer limited to the physical workplace or work hours. We can, and do, check email and respond to messages at any time, day or night. As a result, we’re never fully off the clock. As one office worker told New York Magazine , “I used to wake up and turn off the alarm and check Tinder. Now I wake up and check Slack.” Slack boasts that users spend 9+ hours per workday connected to the app. This highly synchronous way of working would at least be understandable if it produced results, but there is more and more evidence that all the real-time communication overhead makes it hard to focus, drains employees’ mental resources, and generally makes it more challenging to make meaningful progress on work. I’ve written before about why we’re betting against real-time team messaging apps , but it’s worth summarizing the core problems and generalizing it to most forms of synchronous communication: It leads to constant interruptions. Synchronous communication leads to constant context switching which fragments people's attention, making it difficult to focus on cognitively demanding work. Interruptions split people’s attention and make it more difficult to make meaningful progress on work. High-value, cognitively-demanding activities — like coding, writing, designing, strategizing, and problem-solving — require long periods of deep, focused work . Synchronous communication requires constant context switching and makes creating large, uninterrupted chunks of time during the workday impossible. It prioritizes being connected over being productive. In real-time environments, you’re incentivized to stay connected and available at all times. If you disconnect, discussions will move on before you even have a chance to respond to or even see them. To avoid missing out on crucial decisions and discussions, people always try to be online and in as many meetings as possible, hurting their well-being and productivity. It creates unnecessary stress. The expectation of being constantly available means that workers lack control over their schedules. They spend their workdays attending meetings and responding to requests rather than proactively setting their own agenda. One study found that people compensate for the time lost to workplace interruptions by attempting to work faster, leading to “more stress, higher frustration, time pressure, and effort”. A 2022 Microsoft study found that people often cope by working a "second shift" in the evening when they know they won't be interrupted. This type of synchronous culture quickly leads to burnout. It leads to lower quality discussions and sub-optimal solutions. When you have to respond immediately, people don’t have time to think through key issues thoroughly and provide thoughtful responses. Your first response to any given situation is often not your best response. &quot;Writing is thinking. To write well is to think clearly. That&#39;s why it&#39;s so hard.&quot; — David McCullough Give your team the tools to think well. pic.twitter.com/L2hJ5PDnSs &mdash; Twist (@TwistWork) January 25, 2022 The benefits of asynchronous communication Most people accept meetings and interruptions as just a part of doing business, but some companies — like GitLab , Zapier , Automattic , Buffer , and my own Doist — are embracing a more asynchronous approach to collaboration. Here are some of the core benefits of giving employees more control over when they connect to communicate with their team: Control over the workday leads to happier and more productive employees. In an async environment, there are no set work hours. Employees have total control over how they structure their workdays to fit their lifestyles, biorhythms , and responsibilities, from childcare to simply running an errand. Some Doisters work during the night as it suits them the best. I spend an hour with my kids every morning and no one inside my async organization notices. One Wall Street Journal survey showed that workers want flexible hours even more than they want remote work. Async incentivizes higher-quality communication over knee-jerk responses. Async communication is admittedly slower (at least in the immediate sense), but it also tends to be of higher quality. People learn to communicate more clearly and thoroughly to avoid unnecessary back-and-forths. They have the time to think through a particular problem or idea and provide more thoughtful responses. Instead of knee-jerk responses, people can reply when they’re ready. (As an added benefit, when people have the time to think through their responses, there tend to be fewer unthinking outbursts. Over the last decade, we haven't had a single serious HR issue.) Better planning leads to less stress. Advanced planning is a must when last-minute ASAP requests aren’t an option. People learn to plan their workloads and collaborations more carefully to give enough time for coworkers to see and respond to their requests. This leads to less stressful collaborations and ultimately higher quality work. Deep work becomes the default. Because employees don’t have to stay on top of each message as it comes in, t