# Nfl Trump Buffalo Bills Canada

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/6479455/2025/07/09/nfl-trump-buffalo-bills-canada/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:27:27.784450+00:00

---

Can the NFL overcome Trump’s anti-Canada rhetoric? The Bills are banking on it - The Athletic NFL Teams Scores &amp; Schedule Standings Fantasy NFL Odds NFL Picks NFL Draft Podcasts Scoop City Newsletter Quarter-Season Superlatives Front Office Rankings Can the NFL overcome Trump’s anti-Canada rhetoric? The Bills are banking on it Tim Graham July 9, 2025 Updated July 10, 2025 Share 1.9K Wayne Kretz always knew what to expect. For nearly a decade, Niagara Sports Trips took buses full of Canadian fans over the U.S. border for Buffalo Bills and Sabres games. The excursions became so popular that Kretz could sell out as many as four 56-passenger motor coaches, thanks in large part to patrons of his other business, the Manhattan Bar &amp; Grill, a member of the Bills Backers bar network in St. Catharines, Ontario. Advertisement The buses usually took the Peace Bridge to cross the world’s longest undefended border, slowing to 30 mph over the Niagara River before pulling into the U.S. Customs and Border Protection processing center. On each trip, officers had passengers exit the buses and file through the building to scan their passports. “For the most part, it’s pretty quick,” Kretz said. “No problems.” Kretz isn’t sure anymore. Neither are his customers, and that might be a problem for the NFL, the Bills in particular. The NFL craves Canada more than ever. There’s untapped corporate money, growth in youth football, philanthropic connections and long-term fans to help build a league with massive, global plans. Buffalo, a small-market club with 60 percent of its market population lying across the border, needs it most. But are Canadians in the mood to play along? For some, the idea of entering the United States has shifted not so much logistically as symbolically. It started after Donald Trump was elected president for a second time and floated the idea of making Canada the 51st state. Trump belittled Canada’s economic wherewithal, called Prime Minister Justin Trudeau “governor” and threatened a trade war . In February, Trump reportedly told Trudeau he believed the 1908 treaty that demarcates the 5,525-mile border is invalid and in early March enacted 25 percent tariffs on Canadian exports. The Canadian reaction was furious, and the branding came fast : “Elbows up,” as if protecting the country’s independence now required going Gordie Howe against American aggressions. Canadian fans booed “The Star-Spangled Banner” at the 4 Nations Face-Off hockey tournament in Montreal in February, an act repeated before Toronto Raptors games in Scotiabank Arena and NHL games at rinks throughout the country. In April, Canada’s Liberal Party rode the Trump-related backlash to a stunning election victory, with new Prime Minister Mark Carney declaring annexation “will never happen.” But just two weeks ago, Trump reasserted his desire to make Canada the 51st state “because Canada relies entirely on the United States. We don’t rely on Canada.” Advertisement Border crossings into the U.S. have plummeted. In a June Rolling Stone column , New York Times best-selling author Guy Lawson, a Canadian, said Trump’s “lurid attempts” and “deranged lunge” at annexation have made the relatively simple act of entering the U.S. “not just taboo – it’s a kind of betrayal, even borderline treasonous.” Kretz received a similar message from his customers. On April 14, he was forced to cancel the trip to watch the Toronto Maple Leafs play in Buffalo, typically his most popular hockey package. “Every time I posted on social media about the trip, we got slammed for being anti-Canadian,” Kretz said. “‘I wouldn’t go over there,’ and ‘How dare you?’ and ‘How unCanadian can you be!’ Not only was I not selling tickets, but I was getting bad publicity.” Every other major league has Canadian footing. The Blue Jays and Raptors enjoy national followings. The NHL features seven markets. MLS has teams in Toronto, Montreal and Vancouver. Despite the proliferation of international games in Europe and Latin America, no NFL regular-season contest has been played in Canada since the commercially disastrous Bills Toronto Series ran from 2008-12. The most recent league event was a 2019 preseason exhibition between the Oakland Raiders and Green Bay Packers in Winnipeg, played on an 80-yard field over safety concerns with IG Field’s substandard artificial turf. The NFL, however, still wants Canada to catch on. “We operate as a league with no teams and no games currently,” NFL Canada general manager Gavin Kemp said. “It’s a very competitive landscape, but I think we hold our own pretty well.” The NFL has given seven clubs nationwide Canadian marketing rights through its Global Markets Program, an initiative that allows advertising, sponsorship deals, youth football development, fan engagement and broader brand promotion in 21 international locales. The Seattle Seahawks and Minnesota Vikings were the first to receive Canadian rights in 2021, followed by the Detroit Lions last year and the Arizona Cardinals in March. Advertisement The Bills were one of only three clubs not participating in the Global Markets Program until the league assigned them to Canada in June, a surprising delay for the franchise with arguably the most to gain there. Buffalo is unusual, even compared to fellow border metros Detroit and Seattle. NFL bylaws define a club’s home territory as everything within a 75-mile radius from where it plays. That includes a lot of Great Lakes water near Orchard Park, but it also covers Toronto, home to more residents than Chicago. Around 21 percent of Canada’s population is within the Bills’ home territory. Now, with the Global Markets Program rights, the Bills can market their brand from Newfoundland to Yukon should they choose. “Regardless of the climate, we’re going into Toronto,” said Pete Guelli, the Bills’ executive vice president and chief operating officer. “The passion for the Bills in that market has not subsided at all with what’s been happening.” The Bills have roughly 8,000 Canadian season-ticket holders, 11 percent of Highmark Stadium’s seating capacity. As the new $2.2 billion stadium goes up across Abbott Road and PSLs still are being sold to existing customers, Bills chief strategy officer Kate Hussmann said Southern Ontario accounted for 18 percent of those who paid a deposit to get on the waiting list. Northward growth seems natural. But before the Bills could look ahead, they had to reckon with the botched mess behind them. For generations, Buffalo sports fans have harbored an uneasy view that Toronto was always lurking. They long feared that after Bills founder Ralph Wilson died, the team would relocate 90 miles up Queen Elizabeth Way and into the behemoth’s waiting embrace. They loathed Wilson’s decision to let communications mogul and aspiring NFL owner Ted Rogers essentially buy the rights to several games and stage them in the Rogers Centre, the downtown home to his Blue Jays. Ticket prices were exorbitant. Matchups were uninspiring. Many Bills fans refused to go on principle. Those who made the trek squinted at football from baseball sight lines in a domed stadium that felt lifeless. Tailgating was illegal. Advertisement “If they had handled that situation years ago the right way, Toronto would probably have its own NFL team right now,” Raptors analyst and Bills season-ticket holder Jack Armstrong said. “A world-class city with economic might and sheer population, it’s almost insulting when I hear people say the NFL couldn’t make it in Toronto.” Singer Jon Bon Jovi attends the AFC Championship Game between the Patriots and Broncos in Denver on Jan. 19, 2014. (Elsa / Getty Images) Wariness over losing the Bills to Toronto intensified when Wilson died in 2014 and rock star Jon Bon Jovi emerged as a leading candidate to buy the team. Bon Jovi had no Western New York ties and a substantial amount of Toronto money, backed by the Rogers family and Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment, then chaired by Larry Tanenbaum. A Bills fan group launched by Trump operative Michael Caputo — the future president also was trying to purchase the franchise — orchestrated a highly successful boycott of Bon Jovi’s music on Western New York juke boxes and radio stations. Vitriol was so fierce that, after losing to Terry and Kim Pegula’s record $1.4 billion bid, Bon Jovi walked away from his NFL dreams and vowed never to perform in Buffalo again. Shortly after the Pegulas took over, the remainder of the Bills Toronto Series was terminated. For nearly a decade, the franchise made no formal push north. “What can the Bills do more than they already do? The answer, quite frankly, is ‘everything’ because what the Bills do currently is nothing,” said Michael Naraine, a sports management professor at Brock University in St. Catharines who worked on the Bills Toronto Series from 2007-09. The PR land mines are mostly gone, eradicated by the Pegulas’ commitment, a sparkling stadium with contemporary amenities and a 30-year lease to quell any abandonment angst. Bills fans shouldn’t feel threatened by Toronto anymore. “We’ve got a big dog in our back yard,” Naraine said, “and we’ve been ignoring it because we’re afraid it’s going to eat our lunch.” Perched atop his stool at Handlebar Hanks Roadhouse, a Bills Backers bar in Welland, Ontario, Jonah Miller mused that sports is but a “momentary seriousness.” Advertisement For instance, when Blue Jays slugger Jose Bautista’s three-run home run beat the Texas Rangers in the 2015 American League Division Series. “Jose’s bat flip is what it’s all about, but it’s just a moment in time,” said Miller, a 34-year-old HVAC technician. “I had to get up and go to work the next morning.” Miller is a diehard Maple Leafs fan and considers himself Bills-adjacent, but he has close friends and family who love them. “So I get pumped up about the Bills because I ride or die with my boys,” Miller said. But a deep loyalty belongs to his country. “Americans took i