# Senate Repeal Obamacare Failed Mccain

**Source**: https://www.vox.com/2017/7/28/16054694/senate-repeal-obamacare-failed-mccain
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:05:10.366413+00:00

---

The Senate had 3 Obamacare repeal bills. It has now voted against them all. | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo The Senate had 3 Obamacare repeal bills. It has now voted against them all. Free speech needs fearless journalism Free speech is endangered; unbiased and trustworthy news is elusive. In a time of noise, confusion, and spin, we’re committed to clarity, truth, and depth — even when it’s hard. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join now Politics The Senate had 3 Obamacare repeal bills. It has now voted against them all. by Sarah Kliff Jul 28, 2017, 5:56 AM UTC Share Gift Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images The Senate failed to pass its Obamacare repeal bill early Friday morning after three Republican senators &mdash; Lisa Murkowski (AK), John McCain (AZ), and Susan Collins (ME) &mdash; voted against the effort. This is the third day in a row that the Senate has voted down a health care bill. On Tuesday, the chamber rejected the Better Care Reconciliation Act , which would repeal and replace Obamacare. On Wednesday, it came down against the Obamacare Repeal Reconciliation Act , a straight repeal bill. And in a dramatic debate that began Thursday morning and stretched into Friday night, the chamber rejected the Health Care Freedom Act , a bill that whittled down Republicans&rsquo; ambitions to repealing the individual mandate (which would still leave 16 million Americans without coverage). Three bills dead in one week now leaves the Senate with few, if any, options. The Republican caucus does not have any extra bill drafts floating around at this point. It only has options that it doesn&rsquo;t like &mdash; and no clear sense of where to go next. The HCFA wasn&rsquo;t a bill that senators loved much from the start. Many were openly critical of the actual policy (which would spike premiums in the individual market) and tethered their vote in favor of the bill to a promise that the House wouldn&rsquo;t turn around and vote it into law. Still, through Thursday afternoon, the HCFA seemed to gather steam. A handful of senators, including McCain, liked the idea of using the bill to start a conference committee with the House and keep the debating moving forward. This group held a press conference late Thursday, saying they would support the HCFA so long as the House guaranteed it would go to conference committee. This was not a guarantee the House could give, however. While House Speaker Paul Ryan did put out a statement suggesting he&rsquo;d be open to and would even encourage a conference process, it wasn&rsquo;t enough to win over McCain. After an hour of lobbying on the Senate floor &mdash; including discussions with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Vice President Mike Pence &mdash; McCain crossed the floor to huddle with Democrats. Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California gave him a big hug. It&rsquo;s not clear where Senate Republicans go from here, with their repeal options currently exhausted. They have a caucus that strongly supports repealing and replacing Obamacare but little path left to get there. See More : Health Care Obamacare Policy Politics More in this stream See all Obamacare repeal isn’t dead as long as Republicans control Congress By Sarah Kliff Republicans will not vote on Graham-Cassidy — admitting defeat on Obamacare repeal again By Andrew Prokop Susan Collins opposes Graham-Cassidy, and Obamacare repeal looks dead By Dylan Scott Most Popular The chaos at the Pentagon, explained Podcast Jane Goodall’s most radical message was not about saving the planet Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword This is, objectively, the worst pasta shape The Supreme Court fight over whether gay and trans people can be “cured,” explained Today, Explained Understand the world with a daily explainer, plus the most compelling stories of the day. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Politics Hamas responds to Trump’s peace plan A reality check on Trump’s Gaza peace plan Will TrumpRx save me money on drugs or not? Podcast The chaos at the Pentagon, explained Trump’s “war” with drug cartels, briefly explained Democrats are doing more to resist Trump than their voters think The Logoff 31 minutes ago The Logoff 31 minutes ago Hamas responds to Trump’s peace plan The latest on Trump’s Gaza peace plan, briefly explained. By Cameron Peters Politics An hour ago Politics An hour ago A reality check on Trump’s Gaza peace plan The president’s relationships with Netanyahu and Putin have something in common. By Joshua Keating Health 11:00 AM UTC Health 11:00 AM UTC Will TrumpRx save me money on drugs or not? The president’s new plan to slash drug prices is “a splashy announcement without a lot of substance.” By Dylan Scott Podcasts Oct 2 Podcast Podcasts Oct 2 The chaos at the Pentagon, explained Why Trump is sticking with Pete Hegseth. By Devan Schwartz and Noel King The Logoff Oct 2 The Logoff Oct 2 Trump’s “war” with drug cartels, briefly explained Why Trump is claiming drug cartels are attacking the US. By Cameron Peters Politics Oct 2 Politics Oct 2 Democrats are doing more to resist Trump than their voters think There’s only so much you can do without a majority. By Christian Paz Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Vox Vox logo Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok About us Our staff Ethics &amp; Guidelines How we make money Contact us How to pitch Vox Newsletters Privacy Notice Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Settings Licensing Accessibility Platform Status Careers © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved