# 2014 Mlb Trade Value Rankings Part 2

**Source**: http://grantland.com/features/2014-mlb-trade-value-rankings-part-2/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:50:43.030903+00:00

---

&raquo; MLB Trade Value, Part 2 Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous Everybody Loves Mike ➤ Next Eye of the Beholder Muideen Ogunmola Facebook Twitter Print Baseball MLB Trade Value, Part 2 With the hot stove smoking and the winter meetings looming, we conclude our annual ranking of baseball’s 50 most valuable assets by Jonah Keri on December 4, 2014 Y esterday, we revealed Part 1 of our annual MLB Trade Value ranking. Today, we’re rounding out the list by dissecting baseball’s 35 most valuable chips. If you need a refresher on the rules that define this thought experiment, head back to yesterday&#8217;s piece; if you&#8217;re all caught up, proceed accordingly. And remember, last year’s rankings appear in parentheses. Note: All contract figures are via Cot’s . Group 7: Young, Cheap, Really Good Pitchers Ed Zurga/Getty Images 35. Yordano Ventura (NR), SP, Kansas City Royals 34. Sonny Gray (HM), SP, Oakland A’s 33. Gerrit Cole (26), SP, Pittsburgh Pirates The past season reminded us that young pitchers can be a giant land mine , and in turn reinforced that the productive ones who make it through their early big league years unscathed are immensely valuable. Ventura, Gray, and Cole are three prime examples. The 23-year-old Ventura, the youngest and wispiest of the bunch, evokes images of young Pedro Martinez, parlaying his (barely) 6-foot, 180-pound frame into a flamethrowing machine that heaved more 100 mph fastballs last season than any other starting pitcher. Pushing the Pedro comparison any further would be patently unfair, of course, and the Royals have to be thrilled with a guy who gave them 30 regular-season starts as a rookie, produced a park-adjusted ERA 25 percent better than league average, shook off some minor concerns over a late-season shoulder issue, and still had enough in the tank to fire seven shutout innings in Game 6 of the World Series. Meanwhile, Cole and Gray, who are just 24 and 25 years old, respectively, both delivered consolidation years: Cole allowed more runs than in 2013, but ramped up his strikeout rate to an even one per inning; Gray posted slightly inferior peripheral stats than in his 64-inning debut season, but established one of the best curveball-slider combinations in the game and tossed 219 effective innings. These three are young, cheap, highly effective, and healthy. Further improvement could push them even higher up this list next year, and team-friendly contract extensions could make them nearly untouchable. Group 8: I Say AND-Rel-Ton, You Say And-REL-Ton, Let’s Call the Whole Thing Off Scott Cunningham/Getty Images 32. Andrelton Simmons (39), SS, Atlanta Braves Here&#8217;s what two MLB talent evaluators had to say about the Braves’ 25-year-old shortstop after I showed them a preliminary version of the top 50: More Trade Value Rankings Bill Simmons on the NBA Bill Barnwell on the NFL Jonah Keri on MLB All Trade Value! 1. “Simmons is an awesome defender. AWESOME. Hard for me to bite down that a guy with a .290 on-base is the 35th-most valuable asset in baseball.” 2. “He needs to be higher for me — in the 10-20 range. It&#8217;s a crazy-good contract, and he&#8217;s a better hitter than what he has shown. Plus the defense is so good at the most important position.” I compromised, because both gentlemen made fair points. But, man, this one&#8217;s tough. Though he entered the league just two-plus years ago, Simmons has already drawn comparisons to Ozzie Smith thanks to his defensive brilliance, which is saying something considering that the Wizard might’ve been the most valuable defender in baseball history. [mlbvideo id=&#8221;35722799&#8243; width=&#8221;600&#8243; height=&#8221;336&#8243; /] Evoking a name like Ozzie’s is a huge deal, but quantifying how much value Simmons (or any player) brings defensively remains difficult. According to Baseball-Reference, Simmons generated 5.4 WAR in 2013 and 3.9 in 2014 with his glove alone ; Nelson Cruz, who led baseball with 40 homers last year, generated 4.2 WAR with his bat . If we believe those numbers, we accept that the Braves have a player who, before even picking up a bat, generates as much or more value than the sport&#8217;s top power hitter. Paired with his youth and favorable contract (six more years for a total of just $56 million), that defensive impact would seem to make Simmons ludicrously valuable. Simmons&#8217;s total WAR (3.5) was lower than his dWAR last year, however, which brings us to the rub: There are still major questions about his bat. His line plunged to .244/.286/.331 in his second full season, with his homer total dropping from 17 in 2013 to seven last year. In total, Simmons clocked in as the sixth-worst everyday hitter in the majors last year on a park-adjusted basis. One baseball insider I spoke to said Simmons looked uncomfortable and off-balance at the plate last season, making it incredibly tough for him to square up pitches and drive them, despite his overall athletic ability. It’s also worth noting that, as spectacular as Simmons is at short, advanced defensive metrics like Defensive Runs Saved and Ultimate Zone Rating might overstate his value a bit. Until a new measure like StatCast gives us detailed, play-by-play-driven numbers for every player in baseball, the defensive stats we have are basically estimates, which we can&#8217;t fully trust in small samples. It&#8217;s a given that any team would want Simmons in its infield or highlight reel. It&#8217;s less clear where he currently ranks among the game&#8217;s greats. Group 9: The Place Where Grounders Go to Die Hyoung Chang/The Denver Post/Getty Images 31. Troy Tulowitzki (18), SS, Colorado Rockies 30. Nolan Arenado (NR), 3B, Colorado Rockies The Braves have a human vacuum cleaner patrolling the left side of their infield, but the Rockies have two in Tulowitzki and Arenado. Tulo’s a well-known two-way star by now, but those outside Colorado might not be as familiar with the 23-year-old Arenado, whose two Gold Glove Awards in his first two seasons are justified by the numbers . Though he’s not in Tulowitzki’s class as a hitter, Arenado’s combination of excellent contact skills and burgeoning power (even after adjusting for Coors Field) makes him a potential star. Tulo and Carlos Gonzalez may be the faces of the franchise right now, but the development of young players like Arenado and Corey Dickerson — both Rockies property for at least the next five years — could play a bigger role in the team’s attempted return to relevance. That’s partly due to questions surrounding Tulowitzki’s long-term status. He looked like Ted Williams at the beginning of 2014, hitting well over .400 while roping line drives all over the park and launching titanic home runs, but he&#8217;s also 30 years old and has been crushed by injuries, averaging just 88 games per year over the past three seasons. Granted, he was so dominant in 2014 that he posted a 5.5 WAR despite logging just 91 games. And yes, the dearth of talent at shortstop would create molten-hot demand in certain corners if new GM Jeff Bridich ever made Tulo available. Still, given his age, his injury history, and the six years and $114 million (plus a seventh, $15 million club option year) remaining on his contract, only a select group of bidders would actually emerge. It&#8217;s not hard to envision the Dodgers handing over half their prospects to get Tulo, even with farm system devotees Andrew Friedman and Stan Kasten at the helm; conversely, it&#8217;s nearly impossible to imagine Friedman’s former team in Tampa Bay even picking up the phone. Group 10: Cardinal Rules Harry E. Walker/MCT/Getty Images 29. Yadier Molina (12), C, St. Louis Cardinals 28. Adam Wainwright (21), SP, St. Louis Cardinals From 2011 through 2013, Molina batted .313/.361/.481, making him the NL&#8217;s 16th-best hitter in that span. When he hits like that, he&#8217;s arguably the best player on the senior circuit, an offensive threat and a defensive magician by any metric. But his numbers fell off sharply last season (.282/.333/.386), with injuries limiting Molina to his lowest games-played total (110) since his rookie year in 2004. If that drop-off continues, he’ll be another Simmons, an all-world defender with iffy offensive value — only he&#8217;ll be 32 years old and owed $43 million over the final three years of his contract (plus a $2 million buyout or $15 million salary for his 2018 mutual option year). This ranking is banking on some positive regression in 2015 and beyond; if that doesn&#8217;t happen, he won&#8217;t be in this rarefied air much longer. Wainwright is actually a year older than his batterymate, and his contract is even more expensive, at $78 million over the next four years. The right-hander&#8217;s strikeout rate fell below 20 percent last season for the first time since 2008, though, and his 90 mph fastball leaves him in the middle of the pack for missing bats. He owed some of his 2014 success to an unusually high 78 percent strand rate and career-low .267 batting average on balls in play despite ranking in the middle in ESPN&#8217;s hard-hit average stat. Still, it&#8217;s foolish to go overboard poking holes in Wainwright’s game. He posted a 2.88 FIP last season and remains a walking advertisement for Dave Duncan’s approach to limiting hard contact, befuddling hitters with a knee-buckling curveball down in the zone. Bottom line: He’s an ace, he’s essential to the Cardinals’ success, and he’s not going anywhere anytime soon. Group 11: Building Blocks Scott Cunningham/Getty Images 27. Julio Teheran (HM), SP, Atlanta Braves 26. Freddie Freeman (38), 1B, Atlanta Braves Teheran is 23 years old, wields three excellent out pitches , just completed a season in which he fired 221 innings with a 2.89 ERA, and is owed just $29.6 million over the next five years (or $41.6 million if the Braves pick up his 2020 