# Hunter Biden

**Source**: https://www.newyorker.com/tag/hunter-biden
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:24:30.817032+00:00

---

Hunter Biden | The New Yorker Skip to main content Newsletter Search Search The Latest News Books &amp; Culture Fiction &amp; Poetry Humor &amp; Cartoons Magazine Puzzles &amp; Games Video Podcasts Goings On Shop 100th Anniversary Open Navigation Menu Menu Hunter Biden Our Columnists Biden’s Pardon of Hunter Further Undermines His Legacy By granting clemency to his son, the President put his family above the American people. Daily Comment The Bidens Can’t Let Go The President’s family has defended him by invoking his past. But these arguments aren’t landing, since the case against his Presidency is that he isn’t even capable of leading as he could twelve months ago. The Political Scene Podcast Hunter Biden’s Conviction and Trump’s Risk to the Justice Department in 2024 “It defies imagination to think that this is a case that would have existed in any other context than the context of Biden being in the White House,” Susan B. Glasser says. Dispatch Is Hunter Biden a Scapegoat or a Favored Son? The portrait that has cohered at his Wilmington trial is of a precious commodity, a man whom others conspire lovingly to shield. Letter from Biden’s Washington The Crazy Collapse of the House G.O.P.’s Impeachment Case Against Biden “A Big Russian Intelligence Op” flops on Capitol Hill. Cultural Comment Hunter Biden and the Things Left Unsaid The President’s son is a ubiquitous topic of conversation. But, in four Biden-family memoirs, silence is the undercurrent that tugs at a voluble, demonstrative clan. Our Columnists Why Republicans Are Complaining About the Hunter Biden Special Counsel That They Asked For Eager to shift attention from the crimes and malfeasances of their own likely Presidential candidate, Republicans are more than happy to move the goalposts on the Hunter Biden case. News Desk Is the F.B.I. Truly Biased Against Trump? An agent turned whistle-blower claims that the Bureau was eager to investigate Hunter Biden&#8212;but protected Rudy Giuliani. The Political Scene Podcast Hunter Biden and the Mechanics of the “Scandal Industrial Complex” A stalled plea deal, political missteps of First Families past, and Speaker McCarthy’s step toward impeaching the President over his son. The Political Scene Podcast The Family Heritage That Led to Hunter Biden How the previously untold history of the Bidens illuminates the story of the President’s second son. Letter from Biden’s Washington What Joe Biden Didn’t Say to Narendra Modi Whether “hypocritical pivot” or pure pragmatism, the President had more than one reason to skip the lectures on democracy. Our Columnists The Hunter Biden Plea Deal Leaves House Republicans in a Pickle The White House can now point out that it let the legal process take its course, which is what has happened. The Political Scene What the Twitter Files Reveal About Free Speech and Social Media The company’s internal documents were supposed to prove a progressive agenda&#8212;mostly, they have exposed the limitations of the platform and its new owner. Cultural Comment “My Son Hunter” Is Not the Hunter Biden Movie We Need, or the One We Deserve The Breitbart film is an amateurish, often batshit satire-cum-thriller-cum-melodrama-cum-propaganda-organ, which switches between modes with the unexpectedness of a Surrealist cutup. Satire from The Borowitz Report Tucker Carlson Calls Trump’s Theft of Nuclear Secrets Less Worrisome Than Hunter Biden’s Use of Joe’s Netflix Password “If both of these things happened, what Hunter did was far worse,” Carlson said. Election 2020 Commentary Trump at the Debate Was Like America in 2020: Not Winning In the end, the topic that matters isn’t Hunter Biden but the pandemic. Satire from The Borowitz Report New Poll Shows Trump Losing to Hunter Biden In the most ominous news for the President, if the former Vice-President’s son were somehow prosecuted, convicted, and locked up, voters would still choose him over Trump by a double-digit margin. Our Columnists Donald Trump’s Debt to China The Chinese financial investments that end up funding Trump’s office buildings are the mirror image of the trade deficit that has cost the United States millions of jobs. Satire from The Borowitz Report Fox to Address Coronavirus Crisis with Three-Part Series on Hunter Biden “People are worried, they’re scared, and they don’t know where to turn for accurate information,” Sean Hannity said. Daily Comment Lindsey Graham Wants Hunter Biden Investigated&#8212;Just Not Right Now Opening the door to witnesses by having Biden testify will likely mean closing the door on whatever defenses Donald Trump might have left. More Stories News Books &amp; Culture Fiction &amp; Poetry Humor &amp; Cartoons Magazine Crossword Video Podcasts 100th Anniversary Goings On Manage Account Shop The New Yorker Buy Covers and Cartoons Condé Nast Store Digital Access Newsletters Jigsaw Puzzle RSS About Careers Contact F.A.Q. Media Kit Press Accessibility Help User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. The New Yorker may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Instagram Tiktok Threads X Facebook LinkedIn YouTube