# What Is Scarce When Quality Is Abundant

**Source**: https://dougshapiro.substack.com/p/what-is-scarce-when-quality-is-abundant
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:47:28.914226+00:00

---

What is Scarce When Quality is Abundant - by Doug Shapiro Subscribe Sign in What is Scarce When Quality is Abundant Where Does Value Accrue? Doug Shapiro Oct 22, 2023 4 2 Share [Note that this essay was originally published on Medium] Vizcom rendering of my sketch Many of my recent posts explore the following idea: the last decade in film and TV was defined by the disruption of content distribution and the next decade will be defined by the disruption of content creation. The premise is that over the next five-seven years several technologies, particularly AI (including GenAI), will further blur the quality distinction between professionally-produced (or “Hollywood”) content and creator or independent content, resulting in effectively “infinite” quality. This idea raises a lot of questions, some of which I’ve tried to answer in posts like Forget Peak TV, Here Comes Infinite TV , How Will the Disruption of Hollywood Play Out? and AI Use Cases in Hollywood . But here’s another question: what becomes scarce when quality is abundant? Where will value accrue in an abundant quality world? Tl;dr: In analyzing any industry, it’s critically important to understand which resources are abundant and which are scarce. That’s because value accrues to the scarce resource in a value chain and, accordingly, it shifts along the chain when the relative abundance/scarcity of resources changes. Hollywood will need to prepare for abundant quality content. Last year, Hollywood released about 15,000 hours of new TV episodes and films in the U.S. Creators upload 500 hours of content to YouTube each minute, or over 250 million hours per year. If consumers consider just 0.01% of this to be competitive with Hollywood, that would double Hollywood’s annual output; if they consider 0.1% competitive, it would be 20x. AI is set to democratize high production values. At the same time, many consumers’ definitions of quality are shifting away from high production values — and therefore lowering the bar — at least some of the time. YouTube is already the most streamed service in the U.S. to TVs, equivalent to Hulu, Disney+, HBO Max, Peacock and Paramount+ combined. Or, consider that Mr. Beast’s last video, which is performing near his average, got enough viewing to be a top 10 series on Netflix globally. So, what becomes scarce (and more valuable) when quality becomes abundant? A few things: consumer time and attention; hits; marketing prowess; curation; fandom and community; IRL experiences; premium IP; library; and (maybe) certain picks and shovels. Big media companies should invest in scarce resources where they can. One opportunity is a much more purposeful effort to cultivate fandom, or what I refer to as “fanchise management.” Below, I discuss what this might mean in practice. Thanks for reading The Mediator! Subscribe for free to receive new posts and support my work. Subscribe Scarcity, Abundance and Value In analyzing any industry, understanding the relative scarcity and abundance of key resources is critically important for two simple reasons: 1) value accrues to whomever controls the relatively scarce resource(s); and 2) when the relative abundance and scarcity of resources changes, value shifts along the value chain. Value Flows to the (Relatively) Scarce Resource The idea that value flows toward scarce resources is a foundational concept in economics. Somewhere in the second or third chapter of every Econ 101 textbook is a discussion of market structures. It usually includes a few charts with a bunch of intersecting supply, demand, marginal revenue and marginal cost lines that illustrate the differences between pricing, profits, consumer surplus and producer surplus (among other things) for different market structures. The two extremes in these textbooks, perfect competition and monopoly, illustrate why value flows to the scarce resource. In perfect competition, no company controls the key resources, all competitors are price takers and they generally only earn enough profit to offset their cost of capital (if that), earning no economic profit. In a monopoly, at the other extreme, one company controls the scarce resource. As a result, it can set prices and extract profits above its cost of capital. The graphs usually look something like Figure 1. As shown, relative to a perfectly competitive firm, a monopoly extracts much more producer surplus (and consumers extract less consumer surplus) — because it controls the scarce resource(s). Figure 1. Value Flows to Whomever Controls the Scarce Resource Note: Consumer surplus is the difference between what consumers would be willing to pay and the market clearing price; producer surplus is the difference between the price at which producers would be willing to supply and the market clearing price; and dead weight loss is the loss to society from market inefficiency (i.e., units that could have been bought/sold but are not). Source: Every economics textbook ever. Value Shifts When Relative Scarcity and Abundance Change It follows that when the relative scarcity and abundance of key resources changes (and consequently who controls the scarce resource(s) changes), value shifts along the chain. Industries are often disrupted expressly because a key input that was scarce becomes abundant and entry barriers fall. As an example, here’s an excerpt from Web3 Could be Even More Disruptive than You Think describing the shifting relative scarcity and abundance of bandwidth and processing power over the last 60–70 years : · In the first enterprise computing systems, local bandwidth was cheap and processing power was expensive. Dumb terminals were connected over a local area network to a centralized mainframe, which performed the processing. · In 1971, Intel invented the microprocessor and processing power became more abundant than bandwidth. That change birthed the modern computer industry and everything related to it — the PC, peripherals, consumer software, enterprise software, video games and mobile phones, etc., etc. · With all that distributed (and eventually commoditized) processing power in place, capital flowed toward the new scarce resource, bandwidth. During the ’90s and ’00s billions of dollars were spent laying fiber and putting up cell towers which, along with improved multiplexing technologies, compression algorithms and network architectures, flipped the script again, making bandwidth relatively inexpensive and processing power again relatively scarce. In turn, from cheap bandwidth emerged the cloud, the SaaS business model, streaming media and mobile gaming, among many other things. The biggest beneficiaries of technological change are those who can anticipate which resources will become abundant and which will become scarce and are able to squander the abundant resource to corner the scarce one. The Math of Abundant Quality Video Let’s turn to the math. To use round numbers, Hollywood put out around 15,000 hours of new film and TV content in 2022 in the U.S. That includes 496 films with an average running time of about 100 minutes, or about 800 hours of film content. As shown in Figure 2, last year there were an estimated 2,000 original series on TV in the U.S., including almost 600 scripted series . Assuming an average of 10 episodes per series and 40 minutes per episode, that is another 13,000 hours of original video. So, we’ll call it 15,000 total, if we’re rounding up. Figure 2. There Were ~2,000 Originals on TV in the U.S. Last Year Source: Variety Insight by Luminate, Variety Intelligent Platform analysis. By contrast, in 2019 YouTube disclosed that 500 hours of new video are uploaded every minute, or 30,000 hours per hour. That is double the amount of new content released annually by Hollywood and equivalent to Netflix’s entire domestic library — every hour . And keep in mind that was in 2019. It has surely increased since then. Figure 3. A Vast Amount of Content is Uploaded to YouTube Source: YouTube Newfronts presentation, May 2019. But let’s stick with the 30,000 hours per hour (or over 250 million hours per year). Obviously, most of that is not considered competitive with professionally-produced, Hollywood content. But consider this: if 0.01% of it is, that would equate to ~30,000 hours of new, competitive content produced annually by independent creators, or double Hollywood’s annual output. If 0.1% is considered competitive, that would be 20x what Hollywood produces per year. Either way, it would be enough to completely upend the supply-demand dynamic. If 0.01% of independent content is considered competitive with Hollywood, that would equate to 2x Hollywood output annually. Defining “Quality” How realistic is it that consumers will eventually consider 0.01% or even 0.1% of independent content to be of sufficiently good quality to compete with Hollywood? Pretty realistic. There are two primary reasons for this. The first, which is causing hand wringing throughout Hollywood, is that AI is democratizing high quality production. In a recent post ( AI Use Cases in Hollywood ), I discussed in detail both current and potential future AI use cases in film and TV production and why (and how) they may dramatically reduce production costs. The second reason, which is more subtle, is that many consumers’ definition of quality is shifting away from high production values. The assertion that independent content will increasingly be able to compete with Hollywood content is sometimes misconstrued to mean that the production values of independent content will match the upper echelon of blockbuster movies and premium TV. I’m not making that case. The question is not whether the production values of independent content will be comparable to the best Hollywood output, it is whether consumers will consider it competitive for similar use cases based on their own definitions of quality . The question is not whether the production values of independent content will be comparable, it is whether c