# T Magazine

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:49:21.692683+00:00

---

T Magazine - The New York Times Skip to content Skip to site index Today’s Paper Advertisement SKIP ADVERTISEMENT Supported by SKIP ADVERTISEMENT The New York Times Style Magazine Design &amp; Interiors Food Travel Fashion Beauty Culture Art Video Highlights T 25 The 25 Most Influential Magazine Covers of All Time Four editors, a creative director and a visual artist met to debate and discuss the best of print media — and its enduring legacy. By Kurt Soller Liz Brown Jason Chen James Draney Miguel Morales Laura Regensdorf and Michael Snyder Credit What Happens When a Fashion Show Goes Wrong Seven designers on their biggest mishaps. By Kin Woo Credit Thomas McCarty 1 Piece, 10 Budgets Quilts That Play with Color and Pattern Whether striped, checked or neither, these textiles are sure to enhance any room. By Tom Delavan Credit Courtesy of the brands The T List Pearls to Wear Every Day Plus: a Surrealist exhibition in New York, floating saunas and more recommendations from T Magazine. Credit Andreas Engstrand Our Favorite Home Offices The best work spaces, from a minimalist sanctuary in Sweden to an experimental round study in Japan. By T Magazine Credit Chris Mottalini Great Spaces A House Music Icon on the Energizing Power of “Wanna Be Startin’ Somethin’ ” Crystal Waters praises the subtle orchestration on the track, co-produced by Michael Jackson and Quincy Jones, and the rousing chant at the end. By Coco Romack Credit Jordan Taylor Fuller My Favorite Song Everything You Need to Know About Retinol, Skin-Care’s ‘Superhero’ Ingredient An expert-approved guide to a multitasking cosmetic with a wide range of benefits — from clearing congested pores to reducing the appearance of wrinkles. By Kari Molvar Credit Rodrigo Saldaña On Beauty This Classic Beverly Hills House Was Preserved and Renewed Billy Cotton brought a contemporary touch to one of the last remaining historically intact midcentury houses in the city’s Trousdale Estates development. By Alexa Brazilian and Joyce Kim Credit Joyce Kim Boots Made For More Than Just Walking A roundup of flat, knee-high styles that are both practical and pleasing to the eye. By Jaclyn Bloomfield Credit Courtesy of the brands 1 Piece, 10 Budgets Advertisement SKIP ADVERTISEMENT Design and Interiors More in Design and Interiors › Quilts That Play with Color and Pattern Whether striped, checked or neither, these textiles are sure to enhance any room. By Tom Delavan Credit Courtesy of the brands Our Favorite Home Offices The best work spaces, from a minimalist sanctuary in Sweden to an experimental round study in Japan. By T Magazine Credit Chris Mottalini A 300-Year-Old Manor That Epitomizes British Maximalism In the gentle hills of the Cotswolds, the accessories designer Lulu Guinness has indulged her magpie tendencies. By Aimee Farrell and Marcus Quigley Credit Marcus Quigley In Manila, a Singular Home With Global Influences The decorator Junie Rodriguez has created a space for his sister in the Philippines that reflects many cultures and traditions — but most of all his own. By Kurt Soller and Anu Kumar Credit Anu Kumar In the Swiss Alps, a 16th-Century House Filled with a Lifetime of Art The dealer Gian Enzo Sperone now prefers to spend his days at his remote mountain retreat, far from the influential New York gallery he opened in the 1970s. By Nick Haramis and Ricardo Labougle Credit Photograph by Ricardo Labougle. Artwork on wall, left: Lucio Fontana, “Concetto Spaziale,” 1961 © 2025 Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York /SIAE, Rome Food More in Food › Why Ice Cream and Wine Make the Perfect Pairing Plus: accessories that celebrate vice, rubber furniture and more from T’s cultural compendium. Credit Harriet Langford A 100-Year-Old Parisian Cafe Gets a New Life Plus: maximalist jewelry, textiles designed by Sheila Hicks and more recommendations. Credit Mickaël Bandassak The 25 Essential Dishes to Eat in London Six of the city’s top chefs came together to determine the most delicious and memorable plates in the British capital. By Alice Newell-Hanson Joel Hart Lauren Joseph Kate Maxwell David Paw and Jo Rodgers Credit Sophie Kirk When Word Got Out, the Guest List Nearly Doubled As evidenced by a recent opening party, Galerie Sardine, on Long Island’s East End, has quickly become a sought-out destination for art, food and togetherness. By Kate Guadagnino Credit Liz Sanders A New York Restaurant With a Californian ‘Aura’ Plus: Sofia Coppola collaborates on a striped shirt, English-made cutlery and more recommendations from T Magazine. Credit Sean Davidson Advertisement SKIP ADVERTISEMENT Fashion More in Fashion › Pearls to Wear Every Day Plus: a Surrealist exhibition in New York, floating saunas and more recommendations from T Magazine. Credit Andreas Engstrand What Happens When a Fashion Show Goes Wrong Seven designers on their biggest mishaps. By Kin Woo Credit Thomas McCarty Boots Made For More Than Just Walking A roundup of flat, knee-high styles that are both practical and pleasing to the eye. By Jaclyn Bloomfield Credit Courtesy of the brands The Rise of the Statement Coat Whether oversize, fuzzy or dramatically retro, fall’s finest outerwear is sure to stand out. By Fumi Nagasaka and Ben Perreira Credit Photograph by Fumi Nagasaka. Styled by Ben Perreira Are Knitted Shoes the Coziest Fall Accessory of All? Woolly, tweedy, fuzzy materials add warmth and tactile appeal to the season’s heels and bags. By Kyoko Hamada Credit Photograph by Kyoko Hamada. Set design by Theresa Rivera Travel More in Travel › Why Wild Swimming Is the Most Luxurious Hotel Amenity of All These properties offer easy access to enticing natural waters, from a crystal blue Caribbean cove to bracing Scottish lochs. By Tom Vanderbilt Credit Courtesy of the Rockhouse Hotel The Seoul Neighborhood That’s a Destination for Inventive Cocktails Plus: voluptuous pendant lamps, kooky-cool bag charms and more from T’s cultural compendium. Credit Courtesy of Zoo Sindang/TDTD The Spanish Coastline That Feels Like a Dream Much of Salvador Dalí’s work was inspired by the Costa Brava’s natural splendor. This less-explored stretch of the Mediterranean is as bewitching as ever. By Kate Maxwell Credit Mikel Bastida Small, Luxurious Ships That Cater to Never-Cruisers Five options for travelers who want to go by boat but prefer well-appointed yachts to floating cities. By Matthew Kronsberg Credit Courtesy of Guntû A Riad With a Rooftop Pool in Marrakesh Plus: playful knitwear, new takes on Classical plinths and more recommendations from T Magazine. Credit Lucie Barzizza Advertisement SKIP ADVERTISEMENT Culture More in Culture › The 25 Most Influential Magazine Covers of All Time Four editors, a creative director and a visual artist met to debate and discuss the best of print media — and its enduring legacy. By Kurt Soller Liz Brown Jason Chen James Draney Miguel Morales Laura Regensdorf and Michael Snyder Credit A House Music Icon on the Energizing Power of “Wanna Be Startin’ Somethin’ ” Crystal Waters praises the subtle orchestration on the track, co-produced by Michael Jackson and Quincy Jones, and the rousing chant at the end. By Coco Romack Credit Jordan Taylor Fuller The Next Big Thing in Pop Culture: Public Bathrooms In fashion, film and beyond, restrooms have become sites of creative inspiration. By Jameson Montgomery Credit Hugh Hayden, “Hughmans” (2024) © Hugh Hayden, courtesy of Lisson Gallery Can’t Find That Coat You Saw? Or That Sofa? Or That Hat? Get in Touch! In our new series, we help readers track down the objects and styles they can’t stop thinking about. By T Magazine Credit From left: Getty Images; via Pat McGrath Labs; courtesy of Artemest; courtesy of DWR; via Selfridges Rob Reiner Takes the Mel Brooks Questionnaire The comedy legend devised a personality test for us. First up: the “Spinal Tap II” director. Credit From left: Emma McIntyre/Getty Images; Neilson Barnard/Getty Images Art More in Art › What Happens to Artists’ Studios After They Die? In defiance of the usual pace of change in New York City, more of these spaces are being left untouched, becoming intimate monuments to a creative life. By M.H. Miller and Jason Schmidt Credit Jason Schmidt He Spent Weeks Crawling Around a Pile of Salt In a world of constant instability, these artists are testing the limits of endurance. By Kate Guadagnino and Stephanie Noritz Credit Terence Koh, “Nothingtoodoo,” 2011, performance at Mary Boone Gallery. Photo: Matthu Placek An Artist Who’s Been Using the Same Woodblock for Over 15 Years Chakaia Booker discusses printmaking and evolving old patterns. By Precious Adesina Credit Hannah Price for The New York Times An Artist Asks, ‘Have I Just Become Fuel for the Fire?’ Wary of being reduced to an art world commodity, Rose B. Simpson tries to stay true to herself and her community. Here, her story in five works. By Zoë Lescaze and Sean Donnola Credit Sean Donnola What Disability Art Means Now As the U.S. rolls back aid and protections, these contemporary artists are making the art world, at least, more open. By Julia Halperin and Melody Melamed Credit Melody Melamed Advertisement SKIP ADVERTISEMENT Beauty More in Beauty › Everything You Need to Know About Retinol, Skin-Care’s ‘Superhero’ Ingredient An expert-approved guide to a multitasking cosmetic with a wide range of benefits — from clearing congested pores to reducing the appearance of wrinkles. By Kari Molvar Credit Rodrigo Saldaña How to Apply Makeup to Mature Skin Expert advice from a supermodel, a fashion designer and a makeup artist on adapting your beauty regimen with age. By Zoe Ruffner Credit Cleveland: Francois Durand/Getty Images; products: courtesy of the brands How to Do a Perfect Smoky Eye Expert advice from a makeup artist, a model and a fashion designer. By Laura Regensdorf Credit Hay: courtesy of Batsheva Hay; products: courtesy of the brands Beauty Essentials to Help You Beat the Heat This Summer The face mists, claw clips and handy gadgets