# Nba Draft Crapshoot Repick 1995

**Source**: http://grantland.com/features/nba-draft-crapshoot-repick-1995/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:46:26.176358+00:00

---

&raquo; The Ultimate Crapshoot Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous Nathan Fielder’s Awkward Moment ➤ Next Ladies and Gentleman Facebook Twitter Print NBA The Ultimate Crapshoot How crazy is the NBA draft? Just look at what would happen if we redid the top picks from the past 19 years. by Bill Simmons on June 25, 2014 F irst things first — I love the 2014 NBA draft. Any time you can bake me a draft soufflé that’s crammed with multiple tremendous-upside-potential guys, multiple red-flag guys, multiple panic-stricken teams, multiple workout-fueled lottery climbers and multiple teams desperately trying to trade up or down, I’m going to devour that thing. You already have the following pieces in play and the draft hasn’t even started yet: • The consensus best prospect (Kansas center Joel Embiid) is being compared to Hakeem Olajuwon AND Greg Oden, he&#8217;s watching the draft from L.A. because he just had foot surgery, he may or may not have something called &#8220;soft bone density&#8221; … oh, and he’s probably not going in the top three and might drop lower than that. • Someone who entered Australian basketball witness protection one year ago (Dante Exum) and chose to avoid all competitive situations over playing college basketball somehow climbed into the top four. • One of the most incompetent franchises of the last seven to eight years (Cleveland) has the first pick … and, of course, they can’t decide what to do because why would we expect anything less from Cleveland? • Best of all, we have a consensus top four (Andrew Wiggins, Jabari Parker, Embiid and Exum), then a swollen second-tier of enticing prospects (Noah Vonleh, Marcus Smart, Aaron Gordon, Julius Randle, Elfrid Payton, Nik Stauskas, Doug McDermott, Gary Harris), which means that half the teams in the top 12 will screw up. Somehow, someway, they WILL screw up. Which brings me to a bigger point: You know how you make an NBA general manager miserable? Stick him in a loaded lottery. It&#8217;s one thing to play the guessing game with Otto Porter, Alex Len, Ben McLemore and a one-legged Nerlens Noel; none of those guys will haunt you. But if you&#8217;re picking between Wiggins, Parker, Embiid and Exum, or you have your choice of Vonleh, Smart, Gordon and Randle? Now that&#8217;s a nightmare. Someone Who Knows Things told me that multiple teams are shopping 2014 lottery picks for the same reason that Minnesota&#8217;s Flip Saunders doesn&#8217;t want a top-eight lottery pick for Kevin Love. Basically, they&#8217;re a little scared to make the pick. The Cavaliers might flip no. 1 to Philly (for no. 3 and no. 10) or Orlando (for no. 4, no. 12 and something else) for extra assets, but more importantly, because two or three other teams would decide that Wiggins-Parker-Exum-Embiid dilemma for them. As weird as it sounds, they&#8217;d be off the hook. You know what else is weird? Recent history says the Cavaliers SHOULD trade down. The draft is more of a crapshoot than anyone realizes. For instance, let&#8217;s say the NBA retroactively blew up the 2013 draft and allowed every franchise to redraft in the same order: Cleveland first, Orlando second, Washington third, and so on. The first five picks would probably unfold this way. 1. Cleveland: Michael Carter-Williams 2. Orlando: The Greek Freak 3. Washington: Victor Oladipo 4. Charlotte: Steven Adams 5. Phoenix: Anthony Bennett Here&#8217;s where those players were selected one year ago: 11. Michael Carter-Williams 15. Greek Freak 2. Victor Oladipo 12. Steven Adams 1. Anthony Bennett Yup … three of the 2013 draft&#8217;s four best assets weren&#8217;t top-10 picks. What if I told you this wasn&#8217;t an aberration? What if I told you that, other than the no. 1 overall spot, your draft position matters less than we thought? What if I told you that tanking was overrated, and that Philly&#8217;s 2014 tanknado masterpiece might have been a waste of time? 1 I never fully comprehended this until I combed through every NBA draft since 1995, the first year that high schoolers and one-and-doners started hijacking the process. (Eventually, hard-to-evaulate foreign players would join them.) Then, I re-ranked everyone from those 19 drafts, placing them in the following categories: • Superduperstar (*****) • All-Timer (****) • Franchise Guy (***) • All-Star (**) • Quality Starter (*) • Starter • Lottery Rotation Guy • Rotation Guy • Lottery Whiff (or Possible Lottery Whiff) • Not Good Enough to Be Mentioned • Hasheem Thabeet From there, I tried to answer the following questions … Question 1: How important was it to get the first overall pick? That spot yielded two superduperstars (LeBron and Duncan), two all-timers (Howard and Iverson), three franchise guys (Davis, Rose and Griffin) and five All-Stars (Irving, Wall, Yao, Brand and Martin). Three others (Joe Smith, Andrea Bargnani and Andrew Bogut) became quality starters for a few years. Three crapped out: Greg Oden, Kwame Brown and Michael Olowokandi. And it&#8217;s too soon to decide on Anthony Bennett, especially if you have a soft spot for undersized, poorly conditioned forwards who suffer from sleep apnea. (I&#8217;m a sap, but I still think he&#8217;ll be a top-five player from that draft.) The final numbers: In six of the last 19 drafts, the first pick became the best player in his draft. Twelve of 19 times, he became one of the three best picks. (My conclusion: It&#8217;s good to get the no. 1 overall pick. Wow, aren&#8217;t you glad I&#8217;m here! Hold on, this is about to get more interesting.) Question 2: Were the no. 2 and no. 3 overall picks sure things? No! No!!!!!!! Only three no. 2s and three no. 3s became top-three players from their drafts, only 19 percent in all (7-for-38). Our only All-Timer? Durant in 2007. Our only franchise player? Carmelo in 2003. That&#8217;s it. For 19 drafts. You had a better chance of drafting a punch line, as the gentlemen who selected Michael Beasley (second), Derrick Williams (second), Thabeet (second), Adam Morrison (third) and Darko Milicic (second) would tell you. Question 3: Is there any rhyme or reason to landing a superduperstar, franchise player or even an all-timer? A top-five pick gives you a better chance, just not an overwhelmingly better chance. There were 23 “special” rookies in the past 19 drafts. I put their draft spots in parentheses. Superduperstars: Duncan (1), LeBron (1), Kobe (13) All-Timers: Iverson (1), Howard (1), Durant (2), Garnett (5), Wade (5), Nowitzki (9), Nash (15) Franchise Guys: Griffin (1), A. Davis (1), D. Rose (1), Carmelo (3), C. Paul (4), Westbrook (4), Harden (3), R. Allen (5), Love (5), Curry (7), McGrady (9), P. George (10), Pierce (10) Good luck finding a pattern: seven of 23 were picked first, nine of 23 were picked 2-through-5, and seven of 23 were picked 6-through-16. Durant and Carmelo were the only sure things. Multiple teams blew it with Paul, Curry, Pierce, Wade and Love. 2 Nowitzki and George were high-ceiling prospects who panned out and then some. Kobe, Garnett and T-Mac were undervalued high schoolers. Harden and Allen went in the right spots to the right teams. And Nash … who the heck can figure out what happened with Nash??? He&#8217;s probably the one mega-outlier — well, until Tyler Ennis becomes the next post-lottery Canadian point guard to win two MVPs and get his own Grantland series . Question 4: Is there any rhyme or reason to snaring one of the best three picks in an NBA draft, period? I know, I know … we’re dealing with a fairly small sample size, and I’m definitely not trying to out-FiveThirtyEight anyone over at FiveThirtyEight. This column is for entertainment purposes only, and really, just a convoluted excuse for me to redraft everyone from 1995 through 2013. But here’s where the best, second-best and third-best players were drafted over the past 19 years. Best picks: nos. 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 2, 2, 4, 4, 5, 9, 9, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15, 28 Second-best picks: nos. 1, 1, 1, 1, 3, 3, 4, 5, 5, 6, 7, 9, 9, 9, 11, 15, 21, 43, 57 Third-best picks: nos. 1, 1, 2, 3, 3, 3, 3, 3, 5, 5, 8, 10, 14, 15, 17, 30, 34, 47, 48 That&#8217;s 57 picks in all. Twelve of 57 were drafted first overall; 18 of 57 were drafted 2-through-5; 16 of 57 were drafted 6-through-14; and 10 of 57 were drafted 15th or later. Even if you don&#8217;t land a top-five pick, there remains a 40 percent chance of drafting a top-three player. If you don&#8217;t get a top-three pick, you maintain about a SIXTY percent chance of landing one of the best three players. But hey, keep tanking your buns off, everybody. Question 5: What’s the single weirdest anomaly you discovered during this admittedly primitive process that’s bound to enrage people who despise small sample sizes? The no. 9 pick yielded two &#8220;best&#8221; picks (Marion and Nowitzki) and three &#8220;second-best&#8221; picks (Noah, Iguodala and McGrady), a higher final number than the no. 2 and no. 3 overall picks combined. I mean … we&#8217;re supposed to make sense of that? Let&#8217;s say you&#8217;re running the Jazz, picking fifth on Thursday and feeling confident that Wiggins, Parker, Embiid and Exum won&#8217;t be there. You&#8217;re looking at Vonleh, Smart, Gordon, Randle and Doug McDermott, who should never go fifth, but you&#8217;re the Jazz and you love white guys more than Justin Bieber loves hooking up with backup dancers. Recent history suggests that you have only a 20 percent chance of picking the right guy EVEN WITH THE FIRST CHOICE OF THOSE FIVE GUYS. Actually, it’s just as likely that one of the next three guys (Elfrid Payton, Gary Harris, Nik Stauskas) will become better pros than everyone you’ve been studying so painstakingly. So, what do you do? As always with these things, I turn to my trusty acronym, WWBBD? And here&#8217;s what Bill Belichick would do — he&#8217;d play the percentages and trade down. That might not be hi