# Blackpink Lisa Jennie Rose Jisoo New Music 1354784

**Source**: https://www.rollingstone.com/music/music-features/blackpink-lisa-jennie-rose-jisoo-new-music-1354784/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:50:22.442643+00:00

---

Blackpink&#039;s Jennie, Jisoo, Lisa and Rosé, on New Music and More &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo Music How Blackpink Went From Strangers to Sisters to Pop Supernovas Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Music How Blackpink Went From Strangers to Sisters to Pop Supernovas They're the world’s biggest girl group, turning out banger after banger. But before they could get there, Jennie, Jisoo, Lisa, and Rosé had to become a family By Haeryun Kang Haeryun Kang Blackpink&#8217;s Jisoo on Fame, Mental Health, and (Maybe) Going Solo Jennie on Blackpink’s Unique Brand of Hip-Hop and What People Get Wrong About Her Rosé on the Power of Vulnerability and Why Blackpink Is Family View all posts by Haeryun Kang Peter Ash Lee for Rolling Stone May 23, 2022 I n an otherwise ordinary Seoul neighborhood, the headquarters of YG Entertainment rise like a giant spaceship above the Han River. YG is one of South Korea&rsquo;s largest entertainment agencies, producing international K-pop stars, as well as, more recently, actors and models. Opened in 2020, its new complex extends nine stories aboveground and five below. The upper floors are brightly lit and open: meeting rooms with huge windows, an employee cafeteria, even a pho restaurant. Hundreds of YG employees walk busily about. There are screens everywhere, showcasing YG&rsquo;s huge roster.&nbsp; The underground floors feel more like a secret den: This is where artists practice in dance studios, record music, and trainees mingle with the stars. And it&rsquo;s where Blackpink , the world&rsquo;s most popular girl group, are recording songs for their next album, their first since the early days of the pandemic. Once the album (due sometime later this year) is complete, the flurry of activity will start again, giving the YG employees something new to buzz about and sending the lives of the group&rsquo;s four members &mdash; Jennie, Jisoo, Lisa, and Ros&eacute; &mdash; into overdrive. Jennie, who like her bandmates on this April afternoon is dressed down and wearing very little makeup, takes a deep breath before describing what&rsquo;s ahead. &ldquo;These days&thinsp;.&thinsp;.&thinsp;.&thinsp;I think every day, &lsquo;OK, how do I prepare myself for my next busy two years?&rsquo;&thinsp;&rdquo; she says, alternating between Korean and English. After the interview, she&rsquo;ll hop on a flight to attend Coachella and stop by the L.A. flagship store for the eyewear brand Gentle Monster. She&rsquo;s an ambassador for the brand, as well as Chanel. The other three members have similar gigs, for the likes of Celine (Lisa), Saint Laurent (Ros&eacute;), Dior (Jisoo), and more. Just earlier this year, all four were gallivanting around Paris, with front-row seats at fashion week.&nbsp; Blackpink are one of the most popular artists to ever come out of South Korea. They&rsquo;re the most-followed music act on YouTube; on the streets of Seoul, you see them everywhere, from tiny screens in elevators to billboards on skyscrapers. Even the South Korean president has credited the group, among other cultural exports, for &ldquo;giving hope and happiness to many around the world.&rdquo; In the U.S., Blackpink have filled arenas and collaborated with stars like Lady Gaga and Cardi B. &ldquo;From the management and business side, we did have our view and vision to the States and outside of Asia,&rdquo; says Daniel Hong, the CEO of YG&rsquo;s U.S. branch. &ldquo;Who doesn&rsquo;t want to perform in the States?&rdquo; Editor’s picks The 250 Greatest Albums of the 21st Century So Far The 100 Best TV Episodes of All Time The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century Their last LP, called simply The Album, sold around 1.2 million copies in less than a month after its 2020 release, making Blackpink the first million-selling K-pop girl group. In the first quarter of 2021, YG reported an 84 percent jump in revenue over the previous year, largely thanks to Blackpink. Their massive success is part of the Korean Wave, which refers loosely to the global popularity of South Korea&rsquo;s cultural industry.&nbsp; Blackpink photographed in Seoul, South Korea, on April 9, 2022, by Peter Ash Lee. Photograph by Peter Ash Lee for Rolling Stone. Fashion direction by Alex Badia. Produced by Katt Kim at MOTHER. Set design by Minkyu Jeon. Styling by Minhee Park. Hair by Lee Seon Yeong. Makeup by Myungsun Lee. Nails by Eunkyoung Park. Jisoo, Top and Bottom: Courreges; Earring: Cartier. Lisa, Top: Ganni; Pants: Songe Creux. Rosé, Top and Bottom: Courreges; Corset: Dion Lee; Vest: Saint Laurent by Yoox. Jennie, Dress: Jean Paul Gaultier (Gaultier Paris by Sacai) &ldquo;I feel proud of them, like I am being loved,&rdquo; says Jeong Yujung, a 23-year-old from Busan, South Korea. Jeong is a Blink, one of the millions of Blackpink fans around the world. &ldquo;When I see them being photographed or performing with these global stars, I feel proud. Of course, the disadvantage is we don&rsquo;t see them as often in Korea.&rdquo;&nbsp; Blackpink&rsquo;s music projects an explosive, larger-than-life force that&rsquo;s both invigorating and addictive. They make serious bangers, mixing powerful hip-hop beats with house, EDM, and more. Their videos are filled with bursts of color and inventive dancing, embodying YG&rsquo;s characteristic dedication to &ldquo;swag&rdquo; &mdash; a term emblazoned in large letters in one of the company&rsquo;s bathrooms &mdash; and fiercely independent womanhood. &ldquo;Rather than emphasizing how cute or feminine they are,&rdquo; Yujung notes, &ldquo;Blackpink&rsquo;s confidence seems to stem from a certainty about themselves as individuals. Like, &lsquo;If you don&rsquo;t like me, you&rsquo;ll regret it! I&rsquo;m lovable and cool, you just don&rsquo;t know it.&rsquo;&thinsp;&rdquo; Related: Buy the Collector&#8217;s Edition Box Set featuring Blackpink here In person, Blackpink are more down-to-earth. They&rsquo;re prone to laughter, constantly talking over one another. &ldquo;My mom and dad are proud of me, but I don&rsquo;t feel like a world star,&rdquo; says Jisoo in Korean, chatting in a conference room and wearing a beige mask she occasionally pulls down to slurp on iced coffee. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m the same person that started training in high school. My social standing may have changed, but to me, I&rsquo;m just&thinsp;.&thinsp;.&thinsp;.&thinsp;too me.&rdquo;&nbsp; &ldquo;More than anyone, we want to be ordinary girls,&rdquo; says Jennie. &ldquo;Sure, there are times when we talk about what kind of influence we could have. But what we actually love is talking about our cats, dogs, good food, and pretty places.&rdquo;&nbsp; Blackpink come from diverse backgrounds. Lisa (real name: Lalisa Manobal), 25, is from Thailand, a dancer and rapper who spits fierce rhymes in multiple languages. Ros&eacute; (Roseanne Chaeyoung Park), also 25, was born in New Zealand and grew up in Australia. She&rsquo;s the guitar-playing, high-note-hitting main vocalist with the &ldquo;golden voice,&rdquo; as fans love to point out. Twenty-six-year-old Jennie Kim, the group&rsquo;s main rapper, grew up in Seoul and New Zealand, before joining YG in 2010. She&rsquo;s been living in Seoul with her mother for the past year. There&rsquo;s no leader in Blackpink, but sometimes Jennie feels like one, calm and collected, often answering the more difficult questions on behalf of the group. And 27-year-old Jisoo Kim grew up in Gunpo, about 20 miles south of YG headquarters; she&rsquo;s the lead vocalist and an expert harmonizer, both quick-witted and philosophical in interviews.&nbsp; These days, Blackpink are spending as much of this comparatively quiet time as possible with family and friends. &ldquo;I feel like I&rsquo;m recharging myself,&rdquo; says Jisoo. &ldquo;My life these days is not too busy, because we&rsquo;re not actively performing yet. I want to come back with music quickly. I live alone, but my parents are in the same apartment building, so we share meals together.&rdquo;&nbsp; Lisa recently returned to Bangkok for the first time in three years, to celebrate her birthday. &ldquo;My mom and dad are getting old,&rdquo; she says wistfully, speaking in both English and Korean. &ldquo;Whenever I have time, I want to return to Thailand. I don&rsquo;t want to waste my time. I want to see them as often as I can.&rdquo;&nbsp; Ros&eacute;, who had Covid four weeks ago, apologizes for her dry cough while munching fried rice at that pho restaurant. As a child in Melbourne, she would play piano and guitar and sing until so late that her parents and sister Alice (who all live in Seoul now) had to take turns telling her to stop. She recently picked up her guitar for the first time in ages. In both Korean and English, she talks about recording her voice on an iPad, exploring and playing and experimenting. &ldquo;I hadn&rsquo;t been doing that for the past two or three months,&rdquo; she says. &ldquo;Caught up in life. I even told my mom, &lsquo;I want to be by myself for the next few days.&rsquo; So she didn&rsquo;t come over.&rdquo;&nbsp; Despite their massive success, Blackpink&rsquo;s path wasn&rsquo;t easy. And while cats, dogs, good food, and pretty places are indeed topics of discussion, they are also figuring out larger questions about their music, their individual voices, and who they are.&nbsp; Outside YG&rsquo;s bustling HQ, amid mom-and-pop stores, &ldquo;We wash your cars by hand&rdquo; signs, and an unmemorable apartment building called &ldquo;Korea Proud,&rdquo; life is quieter. Cherry blossoms fall like snow over the alleyways of the Hapjeong-dong neighb