# Critique

**Source**: https://proteanmag.com/category/critique/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:57:39.970746+00:00

---

Criticism &amp; Essays Archives &#8226; Protean Magazine An independent, ad-free leftist magazine of critical essays, poetry, fiction, and art. Categories Critique &amp; Essays News Analysis Reviews Interviews Poetry Fiction Shop Products Cart About Us Submissions Support Us [Excerpt] Witness to the Hellfire of Genocide September 23, 2025 This excerpt is drawn from Mousa Alsadah’s foreword to the collected writings of Wasim Said—a Gaza survivor who, writing as he fled the killing, recorded stories of unthinkable horror and suffering. Said&#8217;s writings are being published as &#8220;Witness to the Hellfire of Genocide: A Testimony from Gaza,&#8221; forthcoming from 1804&hellip; Before the After July 25, 2025 Kate Wagner&#8217;s essay in Protean: Issue V explores the art and life of the Yugoslavian painter France Micheli , who was an interpreter of nature, ritual, and, in many ways, an interrogator of death. His introspective yet universalizing work, like his famous depictions of the folk deity Kurent, breath with&hellip; Zionism Breaks June 22, 2025 From Issue V: Philosopher, theorist, and critic Alberto Toscano reads the works of Italian thinkers and Jewish leftists Franco Fortini and Furio Jesi, who grappled with the ethical necessity of confronting Zionism. Toscano considers Zionisms of the past and present as ideologies that have &#8220;technicized” religio-historical myth. Poetry Begins at STOP: Etel Adnan &#038; Arabic April 26, 2025 In &#8220;Poetry Begins at STOP: Etel Adnan &#038; Arabic,&#8221; Huda Fakhreddine examines place, time, and anti-colonial memory in Arabic literature, concluding that &#8220;A poem in itself is survival, and a poem written post-extermination is a victory.&#8221; I Wish You&#8217;d Known the City: On The Films of Mohammad Malas April 22, 2025 Syrian director Mohammad Malas&#8217;s films attempt to preserve the memory of Quneitra, the Syrian town destroyed by Israel in 1974. With Israel again invading Syrian territory, Séamus Malekafzali introduces the filmmaker&#8217;s mournful, &#038; newly relevant oeuvre. Bandung&#8217;s Ghosts April 18, 2025 From Issue V: The original ambitions laid out at the Bandung Conference, which began 70 years ago today, for a &#8220;Thirld World&#8221; movement were far more radical than the eventual historical incarnation. Pranay Somayajula examines the contradictions of nationalism and statehood that conspired to ensure the internationalist vision’s shortcomings. Bird Flu and Other Assorted Pestilences April 6, 2025 What’s behind the current state of alarm around avian influenza? Abby Cartus examines the epidemiological science and how action is constrained by the political context—namely, RFK Jr., the Trump administration, and the nation&#8217;s worsening anti-science and anti-vaccine attitudes. Capital&#8217;s Grave [Excerpt] February 9, 2025 In this excerpt from her newest title, Capital’s Grave, upcoming from Verso Books, Jodi Dean introduces her provocative new thesis: capital may not be dead, but it is digging its own grave. The End of Resistance History January 20, 2025 As the Biden administration is swept into the dustbin, Charlotte Rosen wonders: what was the liberal Hashtag-Resistance &#8220;Twitterstorian&#8221;? And, as a product of the first Trump term, what did commentators like Heather Cox Richardson morph into during Biden? Policing the New Crisis December 27, 2024 Ryan Moore weighs the convulsions of our present neoliberalism against the rise of Thatcherism, by way of reference to Stuart Hall and his co-authors&#8217; classic text on Thatcherite ideology and hegemony, Policing the Crisis. Older Posts → JOIN US Facebook Twitter Instagram About Us Submissions Support Us Critique &amp; Essays News Analysis Reviews Interviews Fiction Poetry Shop Cart My Account CLOSE &nbsp; Loading Comments... &nbsp; Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website