# Taylor Swift Ticketmaster Congress Anti Trust

**Source**: https://www.latimes.com/entertainment-arts/music/story/2022-11-17/taylor-swift-ticketmaster-congress-anti-trust
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:47:22.448924+00:00

---

Ticketmaster cancels Friday sale of Taylor Swift tickets - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing &amp; Homelessness Politics Science &amp; Medicine World &amp; Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor &amp; Workplace Real Estate Technology and the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing &amp; Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate &amp; Environment Global Warming Water &amp; Drought Entertainment &amp; Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 best restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art &amp; Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health &amp; Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel &amp; Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World &amp; Nation Immigration &amp; the Border Israel-Hamas Mexico &amp; the Americas Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios Business • AI &amp; Tech • Banking &amp; Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Goods &amp; Retail • Healthcare &amp; Science • Law Dentists Decor &amp; Design Doctors &amp; Scientists Hot Property Live &amp; Well Orange County Pets The Hub: Rebuilding LA Travel Weddings &amp; Celebrations Newsletters Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Students &amp; Educators Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store L.A. Times Studios News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance &amp; Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? People on the Move Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Sections Tap to enable a layout that focuses on the article. Focus mode Show Search Search Query Submit Search Advertisement Music More bad news for Swifties: Ticketmaster cancels Friday on-sale for Taylor’s Eras tour Taylor Swift. (Evan Agostini / Invision / Associated Press) By&nbsp; August Brown Staff Writer Contact Nov. 17, 2022 Updated&nbsp; 3:56 PM PT Share via Close extra sharing options Email Facebook X LinkedIn Threads Reddit WhatsApp Copy Link URL Copied! Print p]:text-cms-story-body-color-text clearfix mb-10 md:max-w-170 md:mx-auto" data-subscriber-content> After 48 hours of outcry from frustrated fans, Ticketmaster preemptively canceled Friday’s public on-sale for Taylor Swift’s Eras stadium tour. “Due to extraordinarily high demands on ticketing systems and insufficient remaining ticket inventory to meet that demand, tomorrow’s public on-sale for Taylor Swift | The Eras Tour has been cancelled,” the ticketing giant wrote on social media. Advertisement Following a buggy release of Eras tickets on Tuesday to customers known as Verified Fans, the company — which became part of the Live Nation conglomerate in 2010, drawing antitrust scrutiny — acknowledged on Thursday that the measures it had in place to give fans equitable access to tickets didn’t work. “The Eras on sale made one thing clear: Taylor Swift is an unstoppable force and continues to set records. We strive to make ticket buying as easy as possible for fans, but that hasn’t been the case for many people trying to buy tickets for the Eras Tour,” the company said in a statement . Around 3.5 million people preregistered for the on-sale through Ticketmaster’s Verified Fan system. Ticketmaster said typical turnout to buy tickets through this system is around 40%, and it waitlisted 2 million fans. “However, this time the staggering number of bot attacks as well as fans who didn’t have invite codes drove unprecedented traffic on our site, resulting in 3.5 billion total system requests — 4x our previous peak,” the company said. “Never before has a Verified Fan on sale sparked so much attention — or uninvited volume. This disrupted the predictability and reliability that is the hallmark of our Verified Fan platform.” Advertisement Entertainment &amp; Arts Don’t fret, L.A.: Taylor Swift ticket sales just delayed due to ‘unprecedented demand’ Anyone who has already secured tickets for Taylor Swift’s Eras tour is good to go. But others on the West Coast will have to wait until 3 p.m. Nov. 15, 2022 Swift set a record for most tickets sold in a single day on Nov. 15, but many fans nonetheless flooded social media with complaints that Ticketmaster’s site crashed, or that they’d been denied a chance at tickets after doing everything right to register. Others were dismayed to see resales going for tens of thousands of dollars almost instantly on sites like StubHub. “Even when a high demand on sale goes flawlessly from a tech perspective, many fans are left empty handed,” Ticketmaster said. “For example: based on the volume of traffic to our site, Taylor would need to perform over 900 stadium shows (almost 20x the number of shows she is doing) … that’s a stadium show every single night for the next 2.5 years. “While it’s impossible for everyone to get tickets to these shows,” Thursday’s statement read, “we know we can do more to improve the experience and that’s what we’re focused on.” Advertisement Several prominent members of Congress were not convinced. “Even if you dial back from the Taylor Swift issue, you’ve got reports of high fees and disruptions, and there’s no competition,” said Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), in an interview Thursday. “If there’s nowhere else to go, and you’re the dominant player, there are no incentives for innovation, or for thinking ‘If this falls apart, they’ll go to a competitor.’” While Klobuchar joked that recruiting Swifties to her longstanding antitrust campaign was “part of the plan all along,” she said there is bipartisan legislation being drafted to address Ticketmaster and Live Nation’s market capture. She’s also urging the Department of Justice to revisit the consent decree that allowed the two firms to merge. “Taylor Swift fans have to gather around this issue, because they’re victims of a monopoly system too,” she said. “Live Nation and Ticketmaster are the owners of venues, they’re vertically integrated and they sell the tickets. Artists are afraid to go through anyone but them, and they favor their own venues. This concept sucks, and it affects how they handle things like safety issues and fees. If you own it all, you can thumb your nose at the marketplace, and that puts this problem in the hands of the Justice Department.” In a letter to Ticketmaster and Live Nation Chief Executive Michael Rapino released Thursday morning, Klobuchar wrote that she had “serious concerns about the state of competition in the ticketing industry and its harmful impact on consumers. Reports about system failures, increasing fees, and complaints of conduct that violate the consent decree Ticketmaster is under suggest that Ticketmaster continues to abuse its market positions.” In April 2020, Klobuchar and Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Cory Booker (D-N.J.) asked the Department of Justice’s antitrust division to pursue regulations that would allow small independent music venues to compete with entertainment giants like Live Nation and AEG. In 2019, Klobuchar and Blumenthal asked the same body to investigate whether Live Nation and Ticketmaster were abiding by the terms of a consent decree overseeing the merger. “Ticketmaster’s power in the primary ticket market insulates it from the competitive pressures that typically push companies to innovate and improve their services,” Klobuchar continued in Thursday’s letter. “That can result in the types of dramatic service failures we saw this week, where consumers are the ones that pay the price.” Advertisement Other politicians spoke out about Ticketmaster, urging similar inquiries. “Daily reminder that Ticketmaster is a monopoly, its merger with Live Nation should never have been approved, and they need to be reigned in,” Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) wrote Tuesday on Twitter. “Break them up.” Rep. David Cicilline (D-R.I.), the chair of the House’s antitrust panel, posted that “Ticketmaster’s excessive wait times and fees are completely unacceptable, as seen with today’s @taylorswift13 tickets. It’s no secret that Live Nation-Ticketmaster is an unchecked monopoly.” Music Out of the woods, Taylor Swift’s ‘Midnights’ heralds the return of a pop-music mastermind After two rootsy pandemic albums, ‘Midnights’ picks up right where 2014’s ‘1989’ and 2017’s ‘Reputation’ left off. Oct. 20, 2022 In a press conference Wednesday, Tennessee’s Atty. Gen. Jonathan Skrmetti said, “We received a number of complaints and there’s been significant press coverage that the ticket sale process did not go smoothly. ... We need to look into exactly what was promised them and whether that was provided. “We’re talking about a company with an extremely dominant market share,” he continued. “I’ve heard it may be up to 70% of the concert venue ticket sales. And anytime you have that kind of concentration of market share, there’s the risk that the lack of competition will not just drive-up prices for consumers, it will also reduce the 