# Google 52M Fund Help French Publishers

**Source**: https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2013/feb/01/google-52m-fund-help-french-publishers
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:17:06.816151+00:00

---

Google sets up £52m fund to settle French publishing row | Google | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine US immigration Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art &amp; design TV &amp; radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle The Filter Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love &amp; sex Home &amp; garden Health &amp; fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Tips Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing Live events About Us UK US politics World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Football Newsletters Business Environment UK politics Science Tech Global development Obituaries Google's Eric Schmidt, left, and French President Francois Hollande sign the agreement at the Élysée Palace in Paris Photograph: Philippe Wojazer/AP Google's Eric Schmidt, left, and French President Francois Hollande sign the agreement at the Élysée Palace in Paris Photograph: Philippe Wojazer/AP Google This article is more than 12 years old Google sets up £52m fund to settle French publishing row This article is more than 12 years old Internet firm and news groups were in dispute over whether it should pay to display content in its search results Associated Press in Paris Fri 1 Feb 2013 17.45 EST Share Google will help French news organisations increase their online advertising revenue and set up a €60m (£52m) fund to finance digital publishing innovation, settling a dispute over whether the internet group should pay to display news content in its search results. The agreement, announced on Friday by the French government and Google, will give the news organisations access to advertising platforms on the internet search leader. European publishers losing money and readers had asked governments in France , Germany and Italy to make Google pay. The company threatened to stop indexing European news sites if it was charged for the content. The company said that the settlement means it does not have to pay for &quot;snippets&quot; of news content that appear on a Google search page. France had appointed a mediator to lead negotiations with French publishers and they called the deal a &quot;happy conclusion&quot;. Google&#x27;s chairman, Eric Schmidt, was present at the Elysée Palace with President François Hollande to sign the deal after what the president&#x27;s office said were &quot;intense negotiations&quot;. &quot;Our search engine generates billions of clicks each month, and our advertising solutions – in which we have invested billions of dollars – help them make money from that traffic,&quot; Schmidt said of the deal on the Google blog. The commercial agreement will allow media organisations to profit from Google advertising platforms, including AdSense and AdMob for mobile phones. Google sends some 6bn clicks a month to publishers around the world, representing a big money-making potential by selling advertising next to it and drawing in new readers. Clicking on the ads generates revenue that will be shared. It was not immediately clear how the revenue will be split, but most was expected to go to the French publishers. The growth of search engines as a way to find information has affected news organisations around the globe, and France is seeking to protect its own media groups and what they produce. In October, Hollande discussed with Schmidt a possible plan for a new tax that would make search engines pay each time they use content from French media. However, Google threatened to bar French websites from its search results if the tax was imposed. Germany is considering a similar law, and Italian editors have indicated that they too would favour such a plan. Whether the French deal could serve as a model elsewhere remains to be seen. In December, Google ended a six-year dispute with a group of French-language newspapers in Belgium, reaching agreement on a business deal based on advertising as in France. The publishers had said Google had no right to post links to their articles on Google News without payment or permission and won in court. The parties later agreed to promote each other&#x27;s services by placing Google advertising in publishers&#x27; media. The Digital Publishing Innovation Fund is aimed at helping the transformation to digital publishing by supporting work on new projects to help publishers go digital. Google has been in trouble in France over other issues, including Street View, its mapping service. Google acknowledged that vehicles taking photographs for the mapping service in several European countries also collected data from unencrypted wireless networks. In 2011, French privacy authorities fined Google €100,000 for collecting personal data from wifi networks – including emails, web browsing histories and online banking details – from 2007 to 2010. Explore more on these topics Google Digital media France François Hollande Eric Schmidt Share Reuse this content Comments ( … ) Sign in or create your Guardian account to join the discussion Most viewed Most viewed UK US politics World Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Football Newsletters Business Environment UK politics Science Tech Global development Obituaries News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints &amp; corrections Contact us Tip us off SecureDrop Privacy policy Cookie policy Tax strategy Terms &amp; conditions All topics All writers Newsletters Digital newspaper archive Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Threads TikTok YouTube Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Work for us Accessibility settings Back to top © 2025 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)