# Trump Polling Divorced Men.Html

**Source**: https://www.thecut.com/article/trump-polling-divorced-men.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:00:12.480747+00:00

---

Why Election Polls Say Divorced Men Are Falling for Trump Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Style Self Culture Power Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Close Close Search Style Fashion Beauty Parties & Red Carpet Fashion Shows Cathy Horyn The Cut Shop Self Health & Wellness Life After Roe Parenting Sex & Relationships Astrology Sports Culture Books Television Movies Music Celebrity Power Politics Work Money Crime Rebecca Traister Latest Stories Podcast About Us Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission men Divorced Men Are Falling for Trump “He says the system has screwed you over, and the only way to fix the system is to burn it down.” By Emily Shugerman , a reporter who covers women, wealth, and wellness. Oct. 2, 2024 Photo-Illustration: The Cut; Photos: Getty save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Photo-Illustration: The Cut; Photos: Getty This article was featured in One Great Story , New York ’s reading recommendation newsletter. Sign up here to get it nightly. Joshua Divens describes the end of his marriage as the “largest failure of my life.” A law-enforcement officer from a small town in Ohio, Divens married his first wife at age 19; they stayed together through more than 20 years and four attempts at marriage counseling. In 2018, Divens told his wife he wanted a divorce and filed for a dissolution — a process by which spouses come to an agreement on ending the relationship without getting the court involved. He says she responded by filing papers herself. “I got served at work, which was embarrassing,” he tells me. “It was just downhill from there.” The couple share a son, who’s now 8 years old, and it rankled Divens that his ex-wife filed for primary custody. “I said, ‘I don’t care about the house, I’ll split the pension. The only thing I’m not negotiating on is 50-50 custody.’” Divens says their split became a “knock-down drag out in court.” The rancor spilled into other areas of his personal life; Divens says several of the couple’s mutual friends cut him off. The divorce process may have driven him away from his community, but it also drove him closer to one person: Donald Trump . “It was kind of like a microcosm of what I felt like was being done to Trump” at the time. “I was accused of having multiple affairs. None of it happened.” He compares the rumors he says his social circle spread about him with accusations that the former reality-TV star colluded with Russia during the 2016 election, or that he bragged about sexual assault in the Access Hollywood tape . (Trump wasn’t saying he forcibly grabbed women’s genitals, Divens insists. He was saying they let you do it .) When guys like Divens and Trump stand up for themselves, he argues, outsiders will “totally flip your world and demonize you.” Trump has long polled significantly better with men than women and has recently made inroads with even the youngest male voters, fueling a historic 51 percent polling gap between Gen-Z women and men. But according to an analysis of polling from the conservative American Enterprise Institute, his pull may actually be strongest with divorcés like Divens. While divorced men have been trending right for at least the past two decades , the poll found some 56 percent of divorced men now support Trump — more than single men, married men, and women of any relationship status. Daniel Cox, who conducted the poll, tells me that the divorce divide started widening in the mid-2010s, around the time of Trump’s first presidential campaign and changes in how we handle sexual assault and harassment. “Politicians like Trump are saying men are getting the raw end of the deal here after the Me Too movement , and giving voice to some of the pain and challenges men are facing,” he says. “You have an undercurrent of resentment that leads them to try to leverage it for political purposes.” Whether they agreed with Trump’s policies or just related to him on a personal level, the experiences of the five divorced men I spoke with seemed to deepen their beliefs in a visceral, almost intimate way that is difficult for a bad debate performance or a splashy campaign ad to dislodge. Today, six years after his split, Divens supports Trump on nearly every issue, from the economy to foreign affairs to immigration. (“In my mind, having a secure border is an exact example of setting up a boundary,” he told me, borrowing the vocabulary of his new favorite psychologist, Jordan Peterson.) He was on his way to pick up a Trump yard sign when we chatted. “I wasn’t that outspoken back then,” he told me, referring to the time before his divorce. “But I clearly don’t have an issue vocally supporting him now.” It is a statistical rarity for a man to be the one to initiate the end of a marriage. According to a widely cited study by researchers at Stanford University, some 69 percent of divorces are set in motion by women, who are more likely to feel relieved, liberated, and happy after the split. Men, meanwhile, are more likely to feel dissatisfied with life and report a first instance of major depression. This is the place where John, a 33-year-old from Florida, found himself after his wife filed for divorce in 2021. The couple had been together for ten years, shared two daughters, and had moved cities to be near John’s wife’s family. John — who asked to go by a pseudonym to protect his privacy — says that while he’s a conservative and his ex-wife is a “down the line Democrat,” they rarely argued over politics. Her decision to leave took him by surprise. While the divorce was amicable — they still don’t have a formal custody agreement — he says the months afterward were “probably the worst spot I’ve ever been in, mentally and emotionally.” In search of an explanation for the end of his relationship, John turned to the internet. On Reddit and other message boards, he stumbled across the red-pill community — a misogynistic online space that blames women’s liberation for men’s misfortunes. While John says he disagrees with most of what he read there, he seems stuck on one popular red-pill talking point: that women’s growing workforce participation was partially to blame for declining marriage rates. “For good and bad, there’s been a lot of social mobility and economic freedom that’s been given to women,” he tells me. “And I think that’s important to take into account when you’re looking at divorce rates.” John seems aware of the red-pill community’s bad public image — the belief system has been cited in multiple mass shooters’ manifestos — and eager to distance himself from it. He insists that women’s economic empowerment is a good thing, and that men are partially to blame for not getting onboard. But the emotional turmoil of his own split still creeps out when we speak. “It makes me sad, my current situation,” he says. “I do think it’s worrying that so many women don’t see the value in [raising a family], or they don’t see the value in doing that with the men they procreate with.” This is all why, perhaps, he supports a controversial policy floated by Trump’s running mate, J.D. Vance : ending no-fault divorce. Among the misogynistic policies advanced by the Trump administration — overturning Roe v. Wade , cutting support for family-planning clinics, weakening Title IX protections, and more — ending no-fault divorce is perhaps the most blatantly patriarchal. Its implementation has reduced domestic-violence rates and improved women’s well-being , but John told me he would support, if not ending it, at least capping the amount of money the divorcing party could receive. “To upend a family like that, with zero consequences financially, is too easy a decision for some people,” he said. John and his ex-wife both worked and made equivalent salaries, which he says made dividing their assets relatively easy. But it’s been harder for him to adjust to his increased responsibilities as a parent. “I think that a lot of times men can’t distinguish or separate their roles as fathers from their roles as husbands,” he says, adding that he, too, saw his roles as husband and father as “one and the same.” He admits: “To take on 100 percent of both roles, 50 percent of the time was — I can tell it was a much harder adjustment for me than it was for her.” Deciding who is going to take care of the kids, and when, is a difficult part of any divorce. It was also a source of ideological grievance for some of the men I spoke to. Divens claims to have spent three years and $80,000 on his custody fight, and he rattles off the ways he feels family court discriminated against him: giving his wife primary custody at the outset, for example, or failing to sanction her when she withheld phone calls or visitations. “I don’t mean to be vulgar,” he told me, “but you haven’t truly been effed until you’ve been effed in family court.” There is no conclusive evidence to support the idea that family courts are broadly biased a