# Northwestern Fires Pat Fitzgerald

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/4681232/2023/07/10/northwestern-fires-pat-fitzgerald/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:03:33.758392+00:00

---

Northwestern fires coach Pat Fitzgerald amid fallout from hazing investigation - The Athletic NCAAF Teams Scores &amp; Schedule Standings Podcasts Until Saturday Newsletter Recruiting Odds Picks All-136 Ranking Latest Playoff Projections Quizzes Rivalry Rankings Northwestern fires coach Pat Fitzgerald amid fallout from hazing investigation By Brian Hamilton and Chris Vannini July 10, 2023 Updated Aug. 10, 2023 Share 574 Northwestern has fired football coach Pat Fitzgerald amid fallout from the university’s investigation into hazing allegations within the football program, university president Michael Schill said in a letter to the Northwestern community Monday. Here’s what you need to know: Fitzgerald was initially suspended for two weeks after a summary of the investigation’s findings were made public Friday. On Saturday, Schill said in a statement that he “may have erred in weighing the appropriate sanction” for Fitzgerald. The Daily Northwestern reported new details surrounding the hazing allegations earlier that day. On Monday, Schill wrote that the decision to relieve Fitzgerald of his duties came “after a difficult and complex evaluation of my original discipline decision imposed last week on coach Fitzgerald for his failure to know and prevent significant hazing in the football program.” Northwestern is expected to name defensive coordinator David Braun the interim head coach for the 2023 season, a person briefed on the matter confirmed to&nbsp; The Athletic on Thursday.&nbsp; Northwestern’s remaining football staff will return next season, a school athletics spokesperson told The Athletic . Need a full understanding of what’s going on at Northwestern ? Here’s a timeline of events. Investigation from The Athletic: How a hazing culture evolved at Northwestern’s Camp Kenosha Northwestern AD called out ‘tone deaf’ Pat Fitzgerald shirts as players, coaches laud team’s ‘great culture’ What else Schill said Schill wrote Monday that over the last 72 hours, he spent “a great deal of time in thought and in discussions with people who love our University — the Chair and members of our Board of Trustees, faculty leadership, students, alumni and coach Fitzgerald himself.” Advertisement “While I am appreciative of the feedback and considered it in my decision-making, ultimately, the decision to originally suspend coach Fitzgerald was mine and mine alone, as is the decision to part ways with him,” Schill wrote. GO DEEPER A timeline of the football controversy at Northwestern Schill also stated in the letter, “While the independent investigative report will remain confidential, it is important for our community to know the facts.” He wrote that, during the investigation, 11 current or former Northwestern football players acknowledged that hazing has been ongoing within the football program and, “In new media reporting today, still more former Northwestern football student-athletes confirmed that hazing was systemic dating back many years.” Schill said that the hazing included “forced participation, nudity and sexualized acts of a degrading nature, in clear violation of Northwestern policies and values.” “I am grateful that — to my knowledge — no student suffered physical injury as a result of these behaviors,” he wrote. “While some student-athletes believed the hazing was in jest and not harmful, others viewed it as causing significant harm with long-term consequences.” Additionally, Schill wrote that the hazing “was well-known by many in the program, though the investigator failed to find any credible evidence that coach Fitzgerald himself knew about it” and that Schill recently learned many details of the independent investigation, and spoke with the complainant and his parents. “The head coach is ultimately responsible for the culture of his team,” Schill wrote. “The hazing we investigated was widespread and clearly not a secret within the program, providing coach Fitzgerald with the opportunity to learn what was happening. “Either way, the culture in Northwestern Football, while incredible in some ways, was broken in others.” GO DEEPER Dochterman: Fixing Northwestern's culture is paramount, but program will struggle on the field now What Fitzgerald said Fitzgerald wrote in a statement Monday that he and Schill came to a “mutual agreement regarding the appropriate resolution” to the investigation’s findings. Fitzgerald said he was “surprised” to learn Schill “unilaterally revoked our agreement without any prior notification and subsequently terminated my employment.” Advertisement “Given this unexpected turn of events, I have entrusted my agent, Bryan Harlan, and legal counsel, Dan Webb from Winston &amp; Strawn LLP, to take the necessary steps to protect my rights in accordance with the law,” he wrote. Fitzgerald, a former Wildcat, also said he “dedicated myself wholeheartedly to nurturing our players, not only as athletes but also as exemplary students and members of the community.” Fitzgerald wrote that attorney Maggie Hickey “conducted a thorough investigation spanning several months into the allegations that led to my termination.” “Her investigation reaffirmed what I have always maintained — that I had no knowledge whatsoever of any form of hazing within the Northwestern football program ,” the statement said. GO DEEPER Vannini: Northwestern must reveal investigation details. Where is leadership? Backstory In its summary of the probe’s findings released Friday, Northwestern said “participation in or knowledge of the hazing activities was widespread across football players,” but the investigation did not find evidence pointing to misconduct by a specific football player or coach. Additionally, investigators did not find “sufficient evidence” that the coaching staff knew about the hazing. However, investigators discovered there had been significant opportunities to discover and report the hazing. A day later, Schill walked back his decision to issue a two-week suspension to Fitzgerald. “In determining an appropriate penalty for the head coach, I focused too much on what the report concluded he didn’t know and not enough on what he should have known,” Schill said in a letter to the Northwestern community. “As the head coach of one of our athletics programs, coach Fitzgerald is not only responsible for what happens within the program, but also must take great care to uphold our institutional commitment to the student experience and our priority to ensure all students — undergraduate and graduate — can thrive during their time at Northwestern. Clearly, he failed to uphold that commitment, and I failed to sufficiently consider that failure in levying a sanction.” Advertisement The summary revealed the complainant’s allegations involved football players pressuring team members into participating in hazing activities, often in the locker room. According to the complainant, the hazing may have started at Camp Kenosha in Kenosha, Wis., where the team used to hold training camp. A former player told The Daily Northwestern that the hazing included forced sexual acts. Schill said he learned the name of the complainant, spoke with his family and apologized for what he went through. “I was moved by what I heard from his family and by the impact the hazing had on their son. In the days ahead, I will engage with university leadership, including the Board of Trustees as well as the leadership of the Faculty Senate, and will keep you abreast of any developments as I assess future steps,” Schill wrote. Fitzgerald was preparing to enter his 18th season leading the program after being hired in 2006 following the sudden death of former coach Randy Walker. He compiled a 110-101 record during his 17-year tenure and a 5-5 mark in 10 bowl game appearances. The Wildcats finished last season 1-11, the program’s lowest win total since 1989. Northwestern opens the 2023 season at Rutgers on Sept. 3. GO DEEPER New Northwestern allegations show it's time for Pat Fitzgerald to go (Photo: Jeff Hanisch / USA Today) Oct 3, 2025 Connections: Sports Edition Spot the pattern. Connect the terms Find the hidden link between sports terms Play today&#x27;s puzzle Tagged To: College Football Northwestern Wildcats National Boxing Bundesliga Champions League Championship College Football College Sports Copa America Copa del Rey Cricket Culture Cycling Europa League European Championship FA Cup Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Basketball Fantasy Football Fantasy Hockey Fantasy Premier League FIFA Club World Cup FIFA Men&#x27;s World Cup FIFA Women&#x27;s World Cup Formula 1 Gaming Global Sports Golf International Football La Liga League Cup League One League Two Memorabilia &amp; Collectibles Men&#x27;s College Basketball Mixed Martial Arts MLB MLS Motorsports NASCAR NBA NFL NHL NWSL Olympics Opinion Peak Premier League Sailing Scottish Premiership Serie A Soccer Sports Betting Sports Business Tennis Top Sports News WNBA Women&#x27;s College Basketball Women&#x27;s Euros Women&#x27;s Hockey Women&#x27;s Soccer The Athletic Ink Podcasts Headlines US Arizona Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Buffalo Carolina Chicago Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Dallas Denver Detroit Houston Indiana Jacksonville Kansas City Las Vegas Los Angeles Memphis Miami Minnesota Nashville New Orleans New York Oklahoma Oregon Orlando Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento San Antonio San Diego Seattle St. Louis Tampa Bay Utah Washington DC Wisconsin Canada Calgary Edmonton Montreal Ottawa Toronto Vancouver Winnipeg Partners Collectibles by eBay Odds by BetMGM Streaming by Fubo Tickets by StubHub Subscribe Start Subscription Group Subscriptions HQ About Us Careers Code of Conduct Editorial Guidelines Business Inquiries Press Inquiries Support FAQ Forgot Password? Contact Us Terms of Service Newsletters The Pulse The Bounce The Windup Prime Tire Full Time Until Saturday Scoop City The Athletic FC MoneyCall Red Light © 2025 The Athletic Media Company, A New York Times Company Privacy Policy Cookie Po