# Halidou Tinto

**Source**: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halidou_Tinto
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:36:25.551663+00:00

---

Halidou Tinto - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Early years and education 2 Career Toggle Career subsection 2.1 Founding the Clinical Research Unit of Nanoro 2.2 R21 vaccine achievements 3 Appointments and awards Toggle Appointments and awards subsection 3.1 Appointments 3.2 Awards 4 References Toggle the table of contents Halidou Tinto 3 languages Deutsch Español Français Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Professor of parasitology and global health scientist Halidou Tinto is a Professor of parasitology and global health scientist with research that has contributed to understanding and combating malaria in Sub-Saharan Africa . &#91; 1 &#93; Tinto founded the Clinical Research Unit of Nanaro (CRUN) in Burkina Faso as part of the Institut de Recherche en Sciences de la Santé (IRSS). &#91; 2 &#93; Tinto is now the Regional Director of the IRSS, and throughout his career he has contributed to the study of antimalarial drug resistance and the development of malaria vaccines . &#91; 1 &#93; Tinto grew up in Abidjan , Ivory Coast , but continued his professional studies across various countries. &#91; 2 &#93; Tinto attended the University of Mali to study pharmacy , before obtaining&#160; a master's degree in microbiology and biochemistry from the University of Ouagadougou in Burkina Faso . &#91; 1 &#93; Briefly leaving the continent of Africa, Halidou Tinto went on to pursue his PhD at the Institute of Tropical Medicine Antwerp . Early years and education [ edit ] Halidou Tinto grew up in Abidjan, Ivory Coast. As a teenager in the 1980s, his initial career aspiration was to become a famous musician, with him even recording a few singles. His eye turned from music to more formal schooling due to encouragement from his father. &#91; 2 &#93; Tinto commenced his higher education with pharmaceutical studies at the University of Mali School of Medicine and Pharmacy. &#91; 2 &#93; During his studies, he took on an internship from 1995 to 1999 at Centre Muraz in Burkina Faso. &#91; 3 &#93; Much of his later research was inspired from his work in Tinga Robert Guiguemdé's lab at Centre Muraz. &#91; 2 &#93; As a research associate, he studied the epidemiology of antimalarial drug resistance. &#91; 3 &#93; In 1998, Halidou Tinto furthered his studies by obtaining a master's degree in applied microbiology and Biochemistry from the University of Ouagadougou in Burkina Faso. &#91; 1 &#93; Following his postgraduate studies, Tinto moved to Denmark for a year, where he worked on the development of new malaria combating drugs, at the Royal Danish School of Pharmacy. Upon return to Burkina Faso in 2001, he held his second research associate position, but this time at the Institute for Health Sciences Research (IRSS). &#91; 3 &#93; Going back to Europe in 2003, Tinto completed his PhD studies in 2006 at the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp. &#91; 3 &#93; His PhD focused on antimalarial drug resistance through the examination of mechanisms of malaria parasites. &#91; 2 &#93; Career [ edit ] Founding the Clinical Research Unit of Nanoro [ edit ] After completing his PhD in Belgium, Halidou Tinto turned down an opportunity to work at the University of Ohio, and instead returned to the IRSS in Burkina Faso to establish his own research unit. &#91; 2 &#93; By 2009, Tinto had created the Clinical Research Unit of Nanoro (CRUN) as part of the IRSS. &#91; 3 &#93; This unit was a standout across the continent of Africa due to its advanced infrastructure that meets the international standards to run clinical trials. &#91; 2 &#93; CRUN has developed into an equipped center that has the means to test new interventions in a GCP-compliant setting. &#91; 3 &#93; Upon its founding, CRUN only staffed 10 people, but has now developed into a 600 person workforce. Their 27 projects span areas including malaria, bacterial infections , nutrition , and cardiometabolic diseases. &#91; 2 &#93; Halidou Tinto oversaw the conduction of over 30 clinical trials at CRUN, including the GSK RTS,S phase 3 malaria vaccine trials. &#91; 4 &#93; R21 vaccine achievements [ edit ] Following 2014 up until 2022, through the IRSS in Burkina Faso, Halidou Tinto worked with Oxford University on the development of an improved RTS,S malaria vaccine, called R21/Matrix-M . &#91; 5 &#93; Tinto's research, funded by the European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership 2 (EDCTP2), Wellcome Trust , and NIHR Oxford Biomedical Research Centre, &#91; 6 &#93; conducted a clinical trial that found the new R21 vaccine to have an improved efficacy of 77% when given with a higher adjuvant dose in the 12 months following the initial 3 dose regimen. &#91; 7 &#93; This was an achievement in Tinto's career as he was the Principal Investigator in these phase 2 trials, which led to the R21 being the only malaria vaccine to meet WHO's 75% efficacy standard. &#91; 1 &#93; His research, published in 2021, and gaining WHO approval in 2022, &#91; 7 &#93; was the first achievement of its kind in the history of malaria vaccine development. &#91; 8 &#93; Appointments and awards [ edit ] Appointments [ edit ] 2014 - 2015: Scientific Director of Centre Muraz &#91; 4 &#93; 2016 - Current: Director of Research in Parasitology &#91; 3 &#93; 2016 - Current: Regional Director of Institut de Recherche en Sciences de la Santé (IRSS) &#91; 4 &#93; Awards [ edit ] Best Scientist of the Year 2021 - International Achievements Research Center &#91; 1 &#93; Tinto has also received several awards from the Europea Business Academy and its subsidiary, the "Academic Union, Oxford", which sell "fake awards", &#91; 9 &#93; as below. The name in Science 2021 - Academic Union, Oxford &#91; 4 &#93; Honorary Professor 2022 - Academic Union, Oxford &#91; 4 &#93; European Quality Award 2022 - Europe Business Academy &#91; 4 &#93; References [ edit ] ^ a b c d e f "Halidou Tinto" . achievementscenter.com . Retrieved 2022-12-31 . ^ a b c d e f g h i Samarasekera, Udani (2022-08-01). "Halidou Tinto—leading top-quality research in malaria in Burkina Faso" . The Lancet Infectious Diseases . 22 (8): 1129. doi : 10.1016/S1473-3099(22)00465-0 . ISSN &#160; 1473-3099 . PMID &#160; 35870467 . S2CID &#160; 250935693 . ^ a b c d e f g "Halidou Tinto | The AAS" . www.aasciences.africa . Retrieved 2022-12-31 . ^ a b c d e f "Leadership – CRUN" . Retrieved 2022-12-31 . ^ "Game changers: Tinto, Muyembe, Wonkam…Pioneers of African health" . The Africa Report.com . 2021-12-16 . Retrieved 2023-01-01 . ^ "Malaria Consortium - R21 malaria vaccine gives up to 80 percent protection" . www.malariaconsortium.org . Retrieved 2023-01-01 . ^ a b "Malaria: New vaccine candidate shows efficacy in clinical trials" . www.medicalnewstoday.com . 2022-09-14 . Retrieved 2023-01-01 . ^ "Malaria vaccine data 'best yet' " . SciDev.Net . Retrieved 2023-01-01 . ^ Kenber, Billy (24 July 2017). "Oxford university in fake awards farce" . The Times . Retrieved 26 July 2017 . Authority control databases International VIAF Academics ORCID 2 Scopus Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Halidou_Tinto&amp;oldid=1292489380 " Categories : Living people University of Ouagadougou alumni Parasitologists 21st-century pharmacists Epidemiologists Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Wikipedia Student Program Year of birth missing (living people) This page was last edited on 27 May 2025, at 06:15 &#160;(UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Halidou Tinto 3 languages Add topic