# Deepseek Debates

**Source**: https://semianalysis.com/2025/01/31/deepseek-debates/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:34:13.795389+00:00

---

DeepSeek Debates: Chinese Leadership On Cost, True Training Cost, Closed Model Margin Impacts &#8211; SemiAnalysis Menu Archives Popular Industry Models &amp; Research Accelerator &amp; HBM AI Cloud TCO AI Networking Datacenter Industry Foundry Industry Tokenomics Wafer Fab Equipment Core Research ChipBook Tools Die Yield Calculator Fab Map GPU Rental Pricing Semiconductor Import Export SemiAnalysis About Us Careers Compliance Events See All Models &amp; Research Accelerator &amp; HBM AI Cloud TCO AI Networking Datacenter Industry Foundry Industry Tokenomics Wafer Fab Equipment Core Research ChipBook Tools Die Yield Calculator Fab Map GPU Rental Pricing Semiconductor Import Export About Archives Careers Events Search Log in Subscribe January 31, 2025 DeepSeek Debates: Chinese Leadership On Cost, True Training Cost, Closed Model Margin Impacts H100 Pricing Soaring, Subsidized Inference Pricing, Export Controls, MLA 15 minutes 10 comments on DeepSeek Debates: Chinese Leadership On Cost, True Training Cost, Closed Model Margin Impacts By Dylan Patel , AJ Kourabi , Doug OLaughlin and Reyk Knuhtsen Share using Native tools Share Copied to clipboard Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Table of Contents The DeepSeek Narrative Takes the World by Storm DeepSeek and High-Flyer The GPU Situation DeepSeek’s Cost and Performance Training Cost Closing the Gap &#8211; V3’s Performance Is R1’s Performance Up to Par with o1? Google’s Reasoning Model is as Good as R1 Technical Achievements Training (Pre and Post) Multi-head Latent Attention (MLA) Broader Implications on Margins Commoditization of Capabilities, Endless Pursuit of Stronger DeepSeek Subsidized Inference Margins H100 Pricing Soaring &#8211; Jevon&#039;s Paradox in Action Export Control Implications, DeepSeek, and The CCP DeepSeek Capacity Limitations Subscribe for full access The DeepSeek Narrative Takes the World by Storm DeepSeek took the world by storm. For the last week, DeepSeek has been the only topic that anyone in the world wants to talk about. As it currently stands, DeepSeek daily traffic is now much higher than Claude, Perplexity, and even Gemini. But to close watchers of the space, this is not exactly “new” news. We have been talking about DeepSeek for months (each link is an example). The company is not new, but the obsessive hype is. SemiAnalysis has long maintained that DeepSeek is extremely talented and the broader public in the United States has not cared. When the world finally paid attention, it did so in an obsessive hype that doesn’t reflect reality. We want to highlight that the narrative has flipped from last month, when scaling laws were broken, we dispelled this myth , now algorithmic improvement is too fast and this too is somehow bad for Nvidia and GPUs. Dec 11, 2024 Scaling Laws &#8211; O1 Pro Architecture, Reasoning Training Infrastructure, Orion and Claude 3.5 Opus “Failures” Dylan Patel, Daniel Nishball, AJ Kourabi, Reyk Knuhtsen The narrative now is that DeepSeek is so efficient that we don&#8217;t need more compute, and everything has now massive overcapacity because of the model changes. While Jevons paradox too is overhyped, Jevons is closer to reality, the models have already induced demand with tangible effects to H100 and H200 pricing. DeepSeek and High-Flyer High-Flyer is a Chinese Hedge fund and early adopters for using AI in their trading algorithms. They realized early the potential of AI in areas outside of finance as well as the critical insight of scaling. They have been continuously increasing their supply of GPUs as a result. After experimentation with models with clusters of thousands of GPUs, High Flyer made an investment in 10,000 A100 GPUs in 2021 before any export restrictions. That paid off. As High-Flyer improved, they realized that it was time to spin off “DeepSeek” in May 2023 with the goal of pursuing further AI capabilities with more focus. High-Flyer self funded the company as outside investors had little interest in AI at the time, with the lack of a business model being the main concern. High-Flyer and DeepSeek today often share resources, both human and computational. DeepSeek now has grown into a serious, concerted effort and are by no means a “side project” as many in the media claim. &nbsp;We are confident that their GPU investments account for more than $500M US dollars, even after considering export controls. Source: SemiAnalysis, Lennart Heim The GPU Situation We believe they have access to around 50,000 Hopper GPUs , which is not the same as 50,000 H100, as some have claimed. There are different variations of the H100 that Nvidia made in compliance to different regulations (H800, H20), with only the H20 being currently available to Chinese model providers today. Note that H800s have the same computational power as H100s, but lower network bandwidth. We believe DeepSeek has access to around 10,000 of these H800s and about 10,000 H100s. Furthermore they have orders for many more H20&#8217;s, with Nvidia having produced over 1 million of the China specific GPU in the last 9 months. These GPUs are shared between High-Flyer and DeepSeek and geographically distributed to an extent. They are used for trading, inference, training, and research. For more specific detailed analysis, please refer to our Accelerator Model . Source: SemiAnalysis Our analysis shows that the total server CapEx for DeepSeek is ~$1.6B, with a considerable cost of $944M associated with operating such clusters. Similarly, all AI Labs and Hyperscalers have many more GPUs for various tasks including research and training then they they commit to an individual training run due to centralization of resources being a challenge. X.AI is unique as an AI lab with all their GPUs in 1 location. DeepSeek has sourced talent exclusively from China, with no regard to previous credentials, placing a heavy focus on capability and curiosity. DeepSeek regularly runs recruitment events at top universities like PKU and Zhejiang, where many of the staff graduated from. Roles are not necessarily pre-defined and hires are given flexibility , with jobs ads even boasting of access to 10,000s GPUs with no usage limitations. They are extremely competitive, and allegedly offer salaries of over $1.3 million dollars USD for promising candidates, well over the competing big Chinese tech companies and AI labs like Moonshot. They have ~150 employees, but are growing rapidly. As history shows, a small well-funded and focused startup can often push the boundaries of what’s possible. DeepSeek lacks the bureaucracy of places like Google, and since they are self funded can move quickly on ideas. However, like Google, DeepSeek (for the most part) runs their own datacenters, without relying on an external party or provider. This opens up further ground for experimentation, allowing them to make innovations across the stack. We believe they are the single best “open weights&#8221; lab today, beating out Meta’s Llama effort, Mistral, and others. DeepSeek’s Cost and Performance DeepSeek’s price and efficiencies caused the frenzy this week, with the main headline being the “$6M” dollar figure training cost of DeepSeek V3. This is wrong. This akin to pointing to a specific part of a bill of materials for a product and attributing it as the entire cost. The pre-training cost is a very narrow portion of the total cost. Training Cost We believe the pre-training number is nowhere the actual amount spent on the model. We are confident their hardware spend is well higher than $500M over the company history. To develop new architecture innovations, during the model development, there is a considerable spend on testing new ideas, new architecture ideas, and ablations. Multi-Head Latent Attention, a key innovation of DeepSeek, took several months to develop and cost a whole team of manhours and GPU hours. The $6M cost in the paper is attributed to just the GPU cost of the pre-training run, which is only a portion of the total cost of the model. Excluded are important pieces of the puzzle like R&amp;D and TCO of the hardware itself. For reference, Claude 3.5 Sonnet cost $10s of millions to train, and if that was the total cost Anthropic needed, then they would not raise billions from Google and tens of billions from Amazon. It&#8217;s because they have to experiment, come up with new architectures, gather and clean data, pay employees, and much more. So how was DeepSeek able to have such a large cluster? The lag in export controls is the key, and will be discussed in the export section below. Closing the Gap &#8211; V3’s Performance V3 is no doubt an impressive model, but it is worth highlighting impressive relative to what . Many have compared V3 to GPT-4o and highlight how V3 beats the performance of 4o. That is true but GPT-4o was released in May of 2024 . AI moves quickly and May of 2024 is another lifetime ago in algorithmic improvements. Further we are not surprised to see less compute to achieve comparable or stronger capabilities after a given amount of time. Inference cost collapsing is a hallmark of AI improvement. Source: SemiAnalysis An example is small models that can be run on laptops have comparable performance to GPT-3, which required a supercomputer to train and multiple GPUs to inference. Put differently, algorithmic improvements allow for a smaller amount of compute to train and inference models of the same capability, and this pattern plays out over and over again. This time the world took notice because it was from a lab in China . But smaller models getting better is not new. Source: SemiAnalysis, Artificialanalysis.ai So far what we&#8217;ve witnessed with this pattern is that AI labs spend more in absolute dollars to get even more intelligence for their buck. Estimates put algorithmic progress at 4x per year , meaning that for every passing