# Hand Painted Movie Posters From Ghana In The 80S 90S

**Source**: https://kottke.org/20/01/hand-painted-movie-posters-from-ghana-in-the-80s-90s
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:38:43.735448+00:00

---

Hand-Painted Movie Posters from Ghana in the 80s & 90s KOTTKE DOT ORG KOTTKE DOT ORG MENU Member Login Home Membership Newsletter Goods Archive + Tags About/Contact dark mode light mode Advertise here with Carbon Ads Socials & More Newsletter RSS Feed Bluesky Mastodon This site is made possible by member support . 💞 Big thanks to Arcustech for hosting the site and offering amazing tech support. When you buy through links on kottke.org, I may earn an affiliate commission. Thanks for supporting the site! kottke.org. home of fine hypertext products since 1998. Beloved by 86.47% of the web. 🍔 &nbsp; 💀 &nbsp; 📸 &nbsp; 😭 &nbsp; 🕳️ &nbsp; 🤠 &nbsp; 🎬 &nbsp; 🥔 × close posted Jan 13 @ 11:30 AM by Jason Kottke &ensp;·&ensp; gift link Hand-Painted Movie Posters from Ghana in the 80s & 90s In order to drum up business for local movie theaters in Africa (most notably in Ghana), theater owners would commission local artists to paint movie posters . When Frank Armah began painting posters for Ghanaian movie theaters in the mid-1980s, he was given a clear mandate: Sell as many tickets as possible. If the movie was gory, the poster should be gorier (skulls, blood, skulls dripping blood). If it was sexy, make the poster sexier (breasts, lots of them, ideally at least watermelon-sized). And when in doubt, throw in a fish. Or don&#8217;t you remember the human-sized red fish lunging for James Bond in The Spy Who Loved Me? &#8220;The goal was to get people excited, curious, to make them want to see more,&#8221; he says. And if the movie they saw ended up surprisingly light on man-eating fish and giant breasts? So be it. &#8220;Often we hadn&#8217;t even seen the movies, so these posters were based on our imaginations,&#8221; he says. &#8220;Sometimes the poster ended up speaking louder than the movie.&#8221; You can check out more of these amazing artworks in this Twitter thread , this BBC story , on the AIGA site , and at Poster House , which has an exhibition of these posters up through Feb 16. Update: I removed this modern-day spoof of the Ghanaian posters from the post. The tell is the reference to this amazing GIF . (thx, erik) art design Ghana movies Share