# Godot Isnt Making It

**Source**: https://www.wheresyoured.at/godot-isnt-making-it/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:48:02.722842+00:00

---

Godot Isn&#x27;t Making it Home About Better Offline Log In Subscribe Sign up Sign in Home About Better Offline Sign up Log in Subscribe Godot Isn&#x27;t Making it Edward Zitron Dec 3, 2024 23 min read Before we get going — please enjoy my speech from Web Summit, Why Are All Tech Products Now Shit ? I didn’t write the title. What if what we're seeing today isn't a glimpse of the future, but the new terms of the present? What if artificial intelligence isn't actually capable of doing much more than what we're seeing today, and what if there's no clear timeline when it'll be able to do more? What if this entire hype cycle has been built, goosed by a compliant media ready and willing to take career-embellishers at their word? Me, in March 2024. I have been warning you for the best part of a year that generative AI has no killer apps and had no way of justifying its valuations ( February ), that generative AI had already peaked ( March ), and I have pleaded with people to consider an eventuality where the jump from GPT-4 to GPT-5 was not significant, in part due to a lack of training data ( April ).&nbsp; I shared concerns in July that the transformer-based-architecture underpinning generative AI was a dead end, and that there were few ways we'd progress past the products we'd already seen, in part due to both the limits of training data and the limits of models that use said training data. In August , I summarized the Pale Horses of the AI Apocalypse — events, many that have since come to pass, that would signify that the end is indeed nigh — and again added that GPT-5 would likely "not change the game enough to matter, let alone [add] a new architecture to build future (and more capable) models on." Throughout these pieces I have repeatedly made the point that — separate to any lack of a core value proposition, training data drought, or unsustainable economics — generative AI is a dead end due to the limitations of probabilistic models that hallucinate, where they authoritatively state things that aren't true. The hallucination problem is one that is nowhere closer to being solved — and, at least with the current technology — may never go away, and it makes it a non-starter for a great many business tasks, where you need a high level of reliability. I have — since March — expressed great dismay about the credulousness of the media in their acceptance of the "inevitable" ways in which generative AI will change society, despite a lack of any truly meaningful product that might justify an environmentally-destructive industry led by a company that burns more than $5 billion a year and big tech firms spending $200 billion on data centers for products that people don't want . The reason I'm repeating myself is that it's important to note how obvious the problems with generative AI have been, and for how long. And you're going to need context for everything I'm about to throw at you. Sidebar: To explain exactly what happened here, it's worth going over how these models work and are trained. I’ll keep it simple as it's a reminder. A transformer-based generative AI model such as GPT — the technology behind ChatGPT — generates answers using "inference," which means it draws conclusions based off of its "training," which requires feeding it masses of training data (mostly text and images scraped from the internet). Both of these processes require you to use high-end GPUs (graphics processing units), and lots of them. The theory was (is?) that the more training data and compute you throw at these models, the better they get. I have hypothesized for a while they'd have diminishing returns — both from running out of training data and based on the limitations of transformer-based models.&nbsp; And there, as they say, is the rub. A few weeks ago, Bloomberg reported that OpenAI, Google, and Anthropic are struggling to build more advanced AI , and that OpenAI's "Orion" model — otherwise known as GPT-5 — "did not hit the company's desired performance," and that "Orion is so far not considered to be as big a step up" as it was from GPT-3.5 to GPT-4, its current model. You'll be shocked to hear the reason is that because "it’s become increasingly difficult to find new, untapped sources of high-quality, human-made training data that can be used to build more advanced AI systems," something I said would happen in March , while also adding that the "AGI bubble is bursting a little bit," something I said more forcefully in July . I also want to stop and stare daggers at one particular point: These issues challenge the gospel that has taken hold in Silicon Valley in recent years, particularly since OpenAI released ChatGPT two years ago. Much of the tech industry has bet on so-called scaling laws that say more computing power, data and larger models will inevitably pave the way for greater leaps forward in the power of AI. The only people taking this as "gospel" have been members of the media unwilling to ask the tough questions and AI founders that don't know what the fuck they're talking about (or that intend to mislead). Generative AI's products have effectively been trapped in amber for over a year. There have been no meaningful, industry-defining products, because, as economist Daron Acemoglu said back in May , "more powerful" models do not unlock new features, or really change the experience, nor what you can build with transformer-based models. Or, put another way, a slightly better white elephant is still a white elephant.&nbsp; Despite the billions of dollars burned and thousands of glossy headlines, it's difficult to point to any truly important generative-AI-powered product. Even Apple Intelligence, the only thing that Apple really had to add to the latest iPhone, is utterly dull, and largely based on on-device models . Yes, there are people that use ChatGPT — 200 million of them a week, allegedly , losing the company money with every prompt — but there is little to suggest that there's widespread adoption of actual generative AI software. The Information reported in September that between 0.1% and 1% of the 440 million of Microsoft's business customers were paying for its AI-powered Copilot , and in late October, Microsoft claimed that " AI is on pace to be a $10 billion-a-year business ," which sounds good until you consider a few things: Microsoft has no "AI business" unit, which means that this annual "$10 billion" (or $2.5 billion a quarter) revenue figure is split across providing cloud compute services on Azure, selling Copilot to dumb people with Microsoft 365 subscriptions, selling Github Copilot, and basically anything else with "AI" on it. Microsoft is cherry-picking a number based on non-specific criteria and claiming it's a big deal, when it's actually pretty pathetic considering its capital expenditures will likely hit over $60 billion in 2024 . Note the word "revenue," not "profit." How much is Microsoft spending to make $10 billion a year? OpenAI currently spends $2.35 to make $1 , and Microsoft CFO Amy Hood said that OpenAI would cut into Microsoft's profits this October , losing it a remarkable $1.5 billion, "mainly because of an expected loss from OpenAI" according to CNBC. A year ago, the Wall Street Journal reported in October 2023 that Microsoft was losing an average of $20 per-user-per month on GitHub Copilot — a product with over a million users. If true, this suggests losses of at least $200 million (based on documents I've reviewed, it has 1.8 million users as of a month ago, but I went on the lower end) a year. Microsoft has still yet to break out exactly how much generative AI is increasing revenue in specific business units. Generally, if a company is doing well at something, they take great pains to make that clear. Instead, Microsoft chose in August to "revamp" its reporting structure to "give better visibility into cloud consumption revenue," which is something you do if you, say, anticipate you're going to have your worst day of trading in years after your next earnings as Microsoft did in October . I must be clear that every single one of these investments and products has been hyped with the whisper that they would get exponentially better over time, and that eventually the $200 billion in capital expenditures would spit out remarkable productivity improvements and fascinating new products that consumers and enterprises would buy in droves. Instead, big tech has found itself peddling increasingly-more-expensive iterations of near-identical Large Language Models — a direct result of them all having to use the same training data, which it’s now running out of. The other assumption — those so-called scaling laws — has been that by simply building bigger data centers with more GPUs (the expensive, power-hungry graphics processing units used to both run and train these models) and throwing as much training data at them as possible, they'd simply start sprouting new capabilities, despite there being little proof that they'd do so. Microsoft, Meta, Amazon, and Google have all burned billions on the assumption that doing so would create something — be it a human-level "artificial general intelligence" or, I dunno, a product that would justify the costs — and it's become painfully obvious that it isn't going to work. As we speak, outlets are already desperate to try and prove that this isn't a problem. The Information, in a similar story to Bloomberg's, attempted to put lipstick on the pig of generative AI, framing the lack of meaningful progress with GPT-5 as fine, because OpenAI can combine its GPT-5 Model with its o-1 "reasoning" model, which will then do something of some sort, such as "write a lot more very difficult code" according to OpenAI CEO and career liar Sam Altman, who intimated that GPT-5 may function like a "virtual brain" in May . Chief Valley Cheerleader Casey Newton wrote on Platformer last week that diminishing returns in training models "may not matter as much as you would guess,"