# Liam Neeson 0311

**Source**: http://www.esquire.com/features/liam-neeson-0311
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:52:01.423740+00:00

---

Liam Neeson Interview - Liam Neeson on Movies, Life &amp;,, Natasha Richardson We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and other uses. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. Search Subscribe My Bookmarks Entertainment Style Food Drinks Sports Lifestyle News &amp; Politics Archive Newsletter About Us Follow Other Editions Your Privacy Choices Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content Entertainment Style Lifestyle Shopping News &amp; Politics Subscribe sign in Search News The Hard Luck and Beautiful Life of Liam Neeson The Hard Luck and Beautiful Life of Liam Neeson Actor, ass-kicker, widower, philosophizer, big man, funny man, capable drinker of pinot noir: may we introduce to you, the man you've known for all these years By Tom Chiarella Published: Feb 15, 2011 Media Platforms Design Team Originally published in the March issue Liam Neeson and I last spoke a week before I wrote this sentence. At that time, I asked him what he remembered about the interview I'd done with him at a restaurant in New York almost three weeks before that. He said, &quot;I remember you told me that story about your accident, and that was pretty hard for you. I remember that you made me draw that picture of my house, and I remember that we talked about Natasha. I started to worry: Why would I tell him that? Why did I speak about the hospital? And then I thought, No, he's a man. This is not some newspaper story. So I wasn't sorry. Except about your accident. That was bloody awful.&quot; Then Liam Neeson asked me what I remembered about the interview. I echoed him: &quot;You told me about your accident. You told me about your wife's accident. That was hard for you . You were upset. You got very quiet. So I traded stories. I told you something bad that happened to me. I have the picture of your house right here. I remember that your hand was shaking.&quot; &quot;You have to be careful,&quot; he told me, &quot;in how you describe it.&quot; I told him that was my job, to be careful with descriptions. Just two days before that, Liam Neeson called from the Caribbean, at the end of a holiday. &quot;I'm remembering some things I said,&quot; he told me. The phone signal was breaking up. It sounded to me like he was speaking on a satellite phone; I pictured him crouched in the body of a small plane. I scratched a note — plane? — as we spoke. &quot;I don't know if you've written the piece yet,&quot; he said. &quot;I don't know if you'll even remember what I'm worried about.&quot; Neeson was concerned that we had discussed the politics of his native Northern Ireland. The Troubles. &quot;I always forget,&quot; he told me, &quot;that I can still make it hard for my family there by saying something stupid in the press.&quot; Then he asked to reword one point — to change one word. I told him that I didn't think the IRA would receive mention in the piece. &quot;I still have to be careful,&quot; he said, before the phone crackled loud enough that I had to pull it away from my ear. &quot;I have to make it my job to be careful with my family.&quot; He didn't thank me. He didn't care if I used the quote. He just wanted to clarify that word. We made arrangements to talk in two days. Then I told him I'd seen him on TV during halftime at the Knicks — Heat game, that he looked good, that he looked happy. He told me a story about that interview, about his son, who was at the game with him. Then the phone died. I forgot to ask him whether he was on a small plane or not. Two weeks before, after our interview at the restaurant was over, Liam Neeson took his fourteen-year-old son to the Knicks — Heat game at Madison Square Garden, LeBron James's first game in New York since moving to Miami. They sat courtside. At the same time, I was having dinner with my son and his friend at a lousy little sushi place on Twenty-third Street. During that dinner, my brother texted me: &quot;Your boy Liam Neeson is being interviewed at the Knicks game.&quot; So I excused myself and went to the bar for a look. There he was, holding the same bright-blue scarf that he'd worn to our lunch. I could not hear him, but he looked happier than he had when we'd left each other. He's tall, seemingly born into a black trench coat, but thinner than he looks on television. The thing with his face is, he looks past you when he speaks. It's not that he can't make eye contact, because he can, and he does, but he reserves looking directly at you, as if the distance marauds him in particular. It makes him look perpetually concerned. This is why he played so well that stern, top-dog Greek god in Clash of the Titans, the wrathful father-assassin in the surprise action-hit Taken, and how in a little over three decades, he's played every type of epic ass-kicker from Gawain to Valjean, Oskar Schindler to Michael Collins. It's the face that's still allowing him to stack up movies years ahead of time, with roles and reprises, stretching well into the coming decade. A beguiling longevity, since 1) he's fifty-eight, and 2) his wife, Natasha Richardson, died unexpectedly in an apparently benign skiing accident just two years ago. It's the look Neeson's shooting over the shoulder of the interviewer at the Knicks game, in the same interview he tells me about later, from somewhere in the Caribbean, maybe from a plane. &quot;I had to do it, Tom, because they gave me those tickets,&quot; he says. &quot;Because, well, you just get nothing for nothing, right?&quot; Neeson speaks with more brogue than you'd expect, and somehow less, so that the same word — nothing — sounds both hissed and sung in the same sentence. &quot;And before we go on the air, the woman says to me, 'I'm going to throw you a question, something like, &quot;Mr. Neeson, if Star Wars is on one channel and Schindler's List is on the other, which one do you watch?&quot;' And oh, but that gets me started. I mean, I start to tell her, one represents six million people, six million lives, the other is just, just ...&quot; — and here he climbs the word as he says it — &quot;fantasy! But then my boy steps in and — he's so smart — says, 'Excuse me, ma'am. Why don't you say Star Wars on one channel and Taken on the other?' That's what made me happy. And I looked that way, because right before I went on, my son, he can see I'm still aggravated, so he just steps up to me and says, 'Smile, Dad, smile.' And that's my bonny boy. His mother just shines through him at moments like that.&quot; Media Platforms Design Team Unknown. That's the last word he says to me, at the conclusion of the interview. It's the name of his latest movie, another gritty Euro action-thriller, this one set in Berlin. It's the punch line of a joke I've been using since we started two and a half hours earlier: I still don't know the name of your movie. It's listed as Unknown.It's not that funny. As he walks away, he curls the fluorescent-blue scarf around his neck. I yell to him, &quot;I still don't know the name of your movie.&quot; He smiles, tugs on the scarf, says it: &quot; Unknown! &quot; and then turns to face the cold. I think two things just then: 1) Not a bad ending, and 2) that's a funny scarf. Too blue, too demonstrative and visible. The guy wants to be unseen. He just told me as much, with a story about his dead wife's poodle. It must be one of those soccer scarfs from England. I bet those are his favorite Premier League team's colors. He's promised me a follow-up call in two weeks. I make a note to ask him about that scarf. Apparently, Liam Neeson grew up in a box. That's how he draws it, anyway, on my pad, in the restaurant with half an hour to go in the interview. Four lines, four right angles. &quot;Little box,&quot; he says. &quot;Three up, three down.&quot; His childhood home. &quot;That's it, then,&quot; he says. It's a box. He had asked me what I was working on, what I'd been drawing when he arrived at the restaurant. I showed him the pages of my sketch pad; I've been drawing maps of every place I ever lived. Pictures of the rooms, houses, blocks, neighborhoods. As the interview wound down, he paged through them, asked me questions about my memory of sun porches and closets I haven't seen since 1967. The experiment of memory appeals to him. &quot;What does this do for you? Does it improve your memory some?&quot; Nah. Since the only things I can remember are places, it's more like a record. It doesn't sharpen anything. Not for me. It just passes the time. By then, I know I'm acting like Neeson, who is dismissive of memory while still possessed by it. He fooled me at first, too, into believing that he'd disconnected from the past, by pretending he couldn't remember. But by the time I handed him a pencil and asked him to draw the house he grew up in, he'd told me stories for two hours, in great and gory detail: the boxing that took him to sixteen. The jobs he'd held — forklift driver in a Guinness factory, training to be a teacher, blueprint maker for an architect. His motorcycle accident. The journey to see his dying wife. This guy ... he remembers. After he draws that box, he attaches another right next to it. What else? There's a whole series of them this way. So row houses? Yeah. Where were the windows? Up here, like this. Where was your room? I had a little box room, right up here. My sister slept over here, my parents were in the back. This was the first-floor front window. I mean, it was tiny. Did it have a little flower box under the window? No. (He draws some more.) This was a little garden. Let me see. (More drawing. Rapidly now.) Pathway onto the main pavement, a street here, just a tiny little street. See? Tiny little garden. Flowers or vegetables? Ah, Dad had a little border. Flowers here, grass there. Next-door neighbor had the same thing, you know? What's that building? That was our coal shed. And this part was a little shared piece of ground, only about as 