# The Group Chats That Changed America

**Source**: https://www.semafor.com/article/04/27/2025/the-group-chats-that-changed-america
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:27:40.695960+00:00

---

The group chats that changed America | Semafor Events Email Briefings Home politics business technology net zero gulf africa security media The CEO Signal Events EmailГӮ Briefings Podcast About SpeakersГӮ Bureau Careers Privacy ГӮВ© 2025 Semafor Inc. Home politics business technology net zero gulf africa security media The CEO Signal Events EmailГӮ Briefings Podcast About SpeakerГӮ Bureau Careers Privacy ГӮВ© 2025 Semafor Inc. D.C. BXL Lagos Riyadh Beijing SG Events Email Briefings D.C. BXL Lagos Riyadh Beijing SG Intelligent Transparent Global Home politics business technology net zero gulf africa security media The CEO Signal Events EmailГӮ Briefings Podcast About SpeakersГӮ Bureau Careers Privacy ГӮВ© 2025 Semafor Inc. Home politics business technology net zero gulf africa security media The CEO Signal The group chats that changed America Ben Smith Co-Founder and Editor-in-Chief, Semafor Apr 27, 2025, 9:23pm EDT Apr 27, 2025, 9:23pm EDT media Share Al Lucca/Semafor Post Email Whatsapp CopyГӮ link Sign up for Semafor Media: MediaГўВҖВҷs essential read. Read it now . Email address SignГӮ Up In this article: The Scoop BenГўВҖВҷs view Notable The Scoop Last Thursday morning, a bit before 10 am in Austin and nearly 11 pm in Singapore, Joe Lonsdale had enough of Balaji SrinivasanГўВҖВҷs views on China. ГўВҖВңThis is insane CCP thinking,ГўВҖВқ Lonsdale, a co-founder of Palantir, wrote to a 300-member Signal group. ГўВҖВңNot sure what leaders hang out w you in Singapore but on this you have been taken over by a crazy China mind virus.ГўВҖВқ Srinivasan, a former Coinbase chief technology officer and influential tech figure who now lives in the city-state, responded that China ГўВҖВңexecuted extremely well over 45 years. Any analysis that doesnГўВҖВҷt take that into account makes it seem like the US could have held it back.ГўВҖВқ It was a normal, robust disagreement among friends in a friendly space (as both raced to X to declare, after I emailed them about it). And it was just another day in Chatham House, a giant and raucous Signal group that forms part of the sprawling network of influential private chats that began during the fervid early days of the COVID-19 pandemic, and which have fueled a new alliance of tech and the US right. That same week in Chatham House, Lonsdale and the Democratic billionaire Mark Cuban sparred over affirmative action, and Cuban and Daily Wire founder Ben Shapiro discussed questions of culture and work ethic. AD This constellation of rolling elite political conversations revolve primarily around the venture capitalist Marc Andreessen and a circle of Silicon Valley figures. None of their participants was surprised to see Trump administration officials firing off secrets and emojis on the platform last month. I did not have the good fortune to be accidentally added to one of the chats, which can be set to make messages disappear after just 30 seconds. But their influence flows through X, Substack, and podcasts, and constitutes a kind of dark matter of American politics and media. The group chats arenГўВҖВҷt always primarily a political space,ГӮ but they are the single most important place in which a stunning realignment toward Donald Trump was shaped and negotiated, and an alliance between Silicon Valley and the new right formed. The group chats are ГўВҖВңthe memetic upstream of mainstream opinion,ГўВҖВқ wrote one of their key organizers, Sriram Krishnan, a former partner in the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz (typically styled a16z) who is now the White House senior policy adviser for AI. Of course, these are hardly the only power group chats. Anti-Trump liberals are now coordinating their responses on Signal. There are group chats for Black political elites and morning show producers. A vast and influential parallel set of tech conversations take place on WhatsApp. ThereГўВҖВҷs a big China-friendly group over on WeChat. Elite podcasters have one. AD ГўВҖВңItГўВҖВҷs the same thing happening on both sides, and IГўВҖВҷve been amazed at how much this is coordinating our reality,ГўВҖВқ said the writer Thomas Chatterton Williams, who was for a time a member of a group chat with Andreessen. ГўВҖВңIf you werenГўВҖВҷt in the business at all, youГўВҖВҷd think everyone was arriving at conclusions independently ГўВҖВ”ГӮ and [theyГўВҖВҷre] not. ItГўВҖВҷs a small group of people who talk to each other and overlap between politics and journalism and a few industries.ГўВҖВқ But there is no equivalent to the intellectual counterculture that grew up over the last five years on the tech right, and no figure remotely like Andreessen, the towering, enthusiastic 53-year old who co-founded a16z and, before that, invented the modern web browser. In February, he described the group chats to the podcaster Lex Fridman as ГўВҖВңthe equivalent of samizdatГўВҖВқ ГўВҖВ” the self-published Soviet underground press ГўВҖВ”ГӮ in a ГўВҖВңsoft authoritarianГўВҖВқ age of social media shaming and censorship. ГўВҖВңThe combination of encryption and disappearing messages really unleashed it,ГўВҖВқ he said. The chats, he wrote recently, helped produce our national ГўВҖВңvibe shift.ГўВҖВқ AD The chats are occasionally marked by the sort of thing that would have gotten you scolded on Twitter in 2020, and which would pass unremarked-on on X in 2025. They have rarely been discussed in public, though you can catch the occasional mention in, for instance, a podcast debate between Cuban and the Republican entrepreneur Vivek Ramaswamy, which started in a chat. But they are made visible through a group consensus on social media. Their effects have ranged from the mainstreaming of the monarchist pundit Curtis Yarvin to a particularly focused and developed dislike of the former Washington Post writer Taylor Lorenz. They succeeded at avoiding leaks (until, to a modest extent, this article) in part because of SignalГўВҖВҷs and WhatsAppГўВҖВҷs disappearing message features, and in part because the groups had formed out of a mix of fear and disdain for journalists they believed were ГўВҖВңout to get us,ГўВҖВқ as one member put it. Many of the roughly 20 participants I spoke to also felt a genuine sentimental attachment to the spaces, and believed in their value. One participant in the groups described them as a ГўВҖВңRepublic of Letters,ГўВҖВқ a reference to the long-distance intellectual correspondence of the 17th century. Others often invoked European salon culture. The closed groups offered an alternative to the Twitter and Slack conversations once dominated by progressive social movements, when polarizing health debates swept through social media and society in the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic. ГўВҖВңPeople during 2020 felt that there was a monoculture on social media, and if they didnГўВҖВҷt agree with something, group chats became a safe space to debate that, share that, build consensus, feel that youГўВҖВҷre not alone,ГўВҖВқ said Erik Torenberg, an entrepreneur who was the first employee of the tech community hub Product Hunt. As Krishnan was setting up a set of tech group WhatsApp chats at a16z, Torenberg independently founded a group of tech chats on WhatsApp and some more political Signal chats. ГўВҖВңTheyГўВҖВҷre having all the private conversations because they werenГўВҖВҷt allowed to have the public conversations,ГўВҖВқ Andreessen told Torenberg on a recent podcast , after joking in the name of secrecy that heГўВҖВҷd never heard of such groups. ГўВҖВңIf it wasnГўВҖВҷt for the censorship all of these conversations would have happened in public, which would have been much better.ГўВҖВқ Their creations took off: ГўВҖВңIt might not seem like it, because of all the sh*t that people still post on X, but the internet has fragmented,ГўВҖВқ the Substack author Noah Smith wrote after my inquiries for this story spilled into public Saturday. ГўВҖВңGroup chats are now where everything important and interesting happens.ГўВҖВқ Time to Build It can be hard to date the beginning of the Group Chat Era exactly. They began bubbling up in 2018 and 2019, and accelerated in earnest in the spring of 2020. As the scale of the pandemic set in that April and the weaknesses of both the US supply chain and government became clear, Andreessen fired off what would become a profoundly influential essay, ГўВҖВң ItГўВҖВҷs Time to Build ,ГўВҖВқ calling for a revival of patriotic industry and innovation. Conversations about the essay and the pandemic bubbled on Clubhouse, a flash-in-the-pan social conversation app where KrishnanГӮ was also trying to build communities. Andreessen and Krishnan discussed trying to replicate the free-flowing early Hacker News bulletin board online, and then settled on group chats, as the story theyГўВҖВҷve told friends goes. They discussed three platforms, Signal, WhatsApp, and Telegram, and discarded the third over lingering questions about its security and Russian ties. That spring, Krishnan, working as a consultant, launched a group called ГўВҖВңBuildГўВҖВқ on WhatsApp with a dozen of Silicon ValleyГўВҖВҷs elite figures. Andreessen loved it, and Krishnan began launching more ГўВҖВ”ГӮ dozens, within a year, on topics from engineering to design to project management to artificial intelligence. To the degree these chats strayed into politics, two participants said, they rarely mentioned Donald Trump. They revolved around the specific political challenges of Silicon ValleyГўВҖВҷs leaders: In the chats, executives commiserated about how to handle employee demands that they, for instance, declare that ГўВҖВңBlack Lives MatterГўВҖВқ or support policies they didnГўВҖВҷt actually believe in around transgender rights. And they strategized about how to defeat San FranciscoГўВҖВҷs progressive district attorney, Chesa Boudin. In an essay on his blog, Group Chats Rule the World , Krishnan described how ГўВҖВңevery group chat usually has one or two people that like to talkГўВҖВҰ a lot. They are critical: you need the provocateurs who inject new ideas consistently. However, almost all of them have a tendency to dominate these groups.ГўВҖВқ Andreessen was a nuclear reactor who powered many groups. Srinivasan was another. A good community-builder, Krishnan wrote, wo