# 14550 Simple Scallion Pancakes Made At Home

**Source**: http://food52.com/blog/14550-simple-scallion-pancakes-made-at-home
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:15:17.345120+00:00

---

How to Make Chinese Scallion Pancakes This Week&#x27;s Mood: Dinner &amp; a Movie This Week&#x27;s Mood: Dinner &amp; a Movie Schoolhouse Dansk Search Shop New Best Sellers Exclusively at Food52 Featured Makers Kitchen Kitchen Utensils &amp; Tools Kitchen Storage &amp; Organization Countertop Organization Food Storage Kitchen Linens Cutting Boards Coffee &amp; Tea Accessories Knives Cookware Frying Pans &amp; Skillets Baking &amp; Roasting Pans Dutch Ovens &amp; Stock Pots Sauce &amp; Saute Pans Cookware Sets Tabletop Dinnerware Glassware Table Linens Flatware &amp; Serving Utensils Serveware Outdoor Entertaining Home Organization &amp; Storage Cleaning &amp; Laundry Bath Towels &amp; Accessories Vases &amp; Decorative Objects Clocks &amp; Lighting Candles &amp; Candle Holders Planters Shop All Recipes Popular Quick and Easy 5 Ingredients or Fewer Cocktails Appetizers Ingredients Chicken Steak Salmon Pasta Potato Rice Meals &amp; Dishes Breakfast Lunch Dinner Salad Sweet Treats Lifestyle Vegetarian Vegan Gluten-Free Alcohol-Free Drinks Tools &amp; Techniques One Pot Sheet Pan No Bake Grill Life Travel Hosting &amp; Entertainment Parenting Pets Kitchen Sink Crafts &amp; Hobbies Community View All Food Recipes How To &amp; Hacks Meal Planning Baking Trending &amp; Seasonal Drinks Community Hotline View All Home Style &amp; Design Cleaning &amp; Organizing Outdoors Renovation Home Tours View All Watch Shop All Shop New Best Sellers Exclusively at Food52 Featured Makers Kitchen Kitchen Utensils &amp; Tools Kitchen Storage &amp; Organization Countertop Organization Food Storage Kitchen Linens Cutting Boards Coffee &amp; Tea Accessories Knives Cookware Frying Pans &amp; Skillets Baking &amp; Roasting Pans Dutch Ovens &amp; Stock Pots Sauce &amp; Saute Pans Cookware Sets Tabletop Dinnerware Glassware Table Linens Flatware &amp; Serving Utensils Serveware Outdoor Entertaining Home Organization &amp; Storage Cleaning &amp; Laundry Bath Towels &amp; Accessories Vases &amp; Decorative Objects Clocks &amp; Lighting Candles &amp; Candle Holders Planters Shop all Shop Recipes All Recipes Popular Quick and Easy 5 Ingredients or Fewer Cocktails Appetizers Ingredients Chicken Steak Salmon Pasta Potato Rice Meals &amp; Dishes Breakfast Lunch Dinner Salad Sweet Treats Lifestyle Vegetarian Vegan Gluten-Free Alcohol-Free Drinks Tools &amp; Techniques One Pot Sheet Pan No Bake Grill Life All Life Travel Hosting &amp; Entertainment Parenting Pets Kitchen Sink Crafts &amp; Hobbies Community Shop all Life Food All Food Recipes How To &amp; Hacks Meal Planning Baking Trending &amp; Seasonal Drinks Community Hotline Shop all Food Home All Home Style &amp; Design Cleaning &amp; Organizing Outdoors Renovation Home Tours Shop all Home Watch Account 0 Items in your Cart Your shopping cart is empty. Continue Shopping Simple Scallion Pancakes, Made at Home They may not be sophisticated, but they sure are delicious. By Betty Published On October 28, 2015 When I moved away to college, scallion pancakes were one of the first foods I learned to make. My parents used to always laugh when I ordered this dish in restaurants (in China, they’re eaten as street food but not at fine dining restaurants). To them, it gave away the fact that I grew up in America , with a palate more American than Chinese, but I didn’t care: There was something about the fragrance and flakiness of simple scallion pancakes that had me craving them over and over again. This classic dish is wildly popular (and not just in China!) and, like any traditional food, has many variations per region and family. I sometimes make it with a thin layer of egg and I occasionally whip up a dipping sauce. Most often, though, I make the simplest version: laminated dough with scallions and plenty of salt, no dipping sauce needed. Scallions provide the main flavor, which the repeated lamination allows to permeate each pancake in each flaky layer. There are so many ways to form this dough, but I find that the key to super flaky pancakes is the numerous repetitions of rolling and folding , which ensures that there is oil and scallions in every layer. It’s going to get messy; once you brush on a layer of oil, twist the dough into a coiled shape, and roll it out flat again, the oil will ooze out. But that’s okay. Constantly adding a thin layer of oil and a scattering of scallions is what creates the signature flaky layers of the pancake. Featured Video See all Food52 videos I use a cast-iron pan, but you can also use a nonstick pan. I’ve tried cooking the pancakes at various heats, but the one that works best is, somewhat surprisingly, low. Heat a pan with a thin layer of oil until it starts to shimmer, then add the pancake and let it slowly heat up, until all the layers are crisped up. At higher heat, you will get a nice outer layer, but the inner layers may not be cooked as well. All that being said, this recipe is very forgiving: Have fun with it and don’t forget to laminate repeatedly! Simple Scallion Pancakes Makes two 8-inch pancakes 2 cups flour 1 cup boiling water 1/4 cup sesame oil (approximately) 2 bunches scallions, green parts only, finely sliced Salt, for sprinkling Vegetable oil, for frying See the full recipe (and save and print it) here . Photos by Betty Liu Our best tips for eating thoughtfully and living joyfully, right in your inbox. Subscribe Company About Us DEI Vision Press Jobs Affiliate Program Get Help Contact &amp; FAQ Gift Cards Advertising Inquiries Social Facebook Instagram Pinterest TikTok YouTube © 2025 Food52, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Code of Conduct Accessibility Policy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. When you visit our website, we collect and use personal information about you using cookies. You may opt out of selling, sharing, or disclosure of personal data for targeted advertising (called &quot;Do Not Sell or Share&quot; in California) by enabling the Global Privacy Control on a compatible browser. See our Privacy Policy for further information. Accept