# Only 44 Percent Americans Trust What Cdc Has Said About Covid Poll 1671988

**Source**: https://www.newsweek.com/only-44-percent-americans-trust-what-cdc-has-said-about-covid-poll-1671988
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:45:13.100752+00:00

---

Only 44 Percent of Americans Trust What the CDC Has Said About COVID: Poll - Newsweek Latest news Donald Trump Reacts to Hamas Response to Peace Plan Nation News Politics Tech Fact Check Personal Finance Automotive Sports Better Workplaces World Russia-Ukraine Middle East China And Asia Better Planet All World News Lifestyle Family &amp; Parenting Entertainment Travel Pets Relationships Science Health Opinion My Turn All Opinion Rankings Health Finance Products Education Workplaces Corporate Responsibility All Rankings Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram YouTube TikTok Twitter/X Reddit Announcements More Unconventional Events Podcasts Vantage Readers Choice Newsweek.AI Subscribe Nation News Politics Tech Fact Check Personal Finance Automotive Sports Better Workplaces World Russia-Ukraine Middle East China And Asia Better Planet All World News Lifestyle Family &amp; Parenting Entertainment Travel Pets Relationships Science Health Opinion My Turn All Opinion Rankings Health Finance Products Education Workplaces Corporate Responsibility All Rankings Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram YouTube TikTok Twitter/X Reddit Announcements More Unconventional Events Podcasts Vantage Readers Choice Newsweek.AI News CDC Poll Joe Biden Anthony Fauci Democrats Republicans More News Article Only 44 Percent of Americans Trust What the CDC Has Said About COVID: Poll Published Jan 23, 2022 at 11:51 AM EST ... By Xander Landen Weekend Staff Writer Share Newsweek is a Trust Project member Americans trust what their employers and schools have said about the COVID-19 pandemic more than they trust what the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) has said, according to a new poll. The survey, published by NBC News , found that only 44 percent of Americans trust what the CDC has communicated about the virus. Pollsters asked respondents whether, in general, they trust what a variety of entities and public officials have said about COVID. The poll shows respondents believe their employers to be more trustworthy than any other source. Fifty-seven percent of those polled said they trust their employer's statements about COVID, and 51 percent said they trust what their child's school has said about the virus. While 44 percent said they trusted the CDC's statements, 43 percent said they did not. Eleven percent said they weren't aware of what the agency has said about COVID, or had no opinion on the matter. Two percent of respondents said they weren't sure. NBC noted that respondents' answers about the CDC reveal a partisan divide . While 69 percent of Democrats said they trusted what the agency has said about the coronavirus, only 22 percent of Republicans said they did. Thirty-seven percent of independents reported trusting the CDC. The poll surveyed 1,000 adults between January 14 and January 18, according to NBC News. Read More Prior COVID Infection Offers Some Protection, Vaccination Still Best Method: New CDC Study 4 min. read Anthony Fauci vs. Joe Rogan: Poll Reveals Americans’ Preferred Thanksgiving Guest 5 min. read COVID Now a ‘Major Cause of Death’ in Kids But Many Parents Remain Hesitant on Vaccine 20 min. read Trust in the CDC appears to have fallen over the course the pandemic. An NBC poll released in August 2020 found that 55 percent of Americans trusted the CDC's statements on the coronavirus, and that 32 percent didn't trust the agency's information. Seventy-six percent of Democrats, 38 percent of Republicans and 49 percent of independents reported trusting the agency. ... The latest NBC poll also found decreasing trust in Anthony Fauci , head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and a chief medical adviser to President Joe Biden . According to the new survey, 40 percent of Americans say they trust what Fauci has said about COVID, while 43 percent said they do not. In August 2020, 51 percent of Americans polled by NBC said they trusted Fauci's statements on the virus, while 29 percent said they did not. Even fewer respondents in the latest poll—37 percent—say the trust what Biden has said about COVID. These responses also fall along a partisan divide, NBC pointed out. While 73 percent of Democrats reported trusting the president on COVID, only 8 percent of Republicans, and 21 percent of independents did. Request Reprint &amp; Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial &amp; AI Guidelines Recommended For You Related Podcasts Top Stories Politics Supreme Court Hands Donald Trump New Immigration Win 3 min. read News Donald Trump Reacts to Hamas Response to Peace Plan 6 min. read U.S. ICE Agents Dragged Naked Children Out of Homes in Chicago Raid: Neighbors 3 min. read U.S. Donald Trump Could Be on New $1 Coin: What to Know 4 min. read News Ketanji Brown Jackson Rebukes Supreme Court’s ‘Harmful interference’ 3 min. read Politics Most MAGA Voters Back Democrats’ Key Government Shutdown Demand—Poll 4 min. read Trending Weather Winter Weather Alerts Issued for 8 States With 6 Inches of Snow To Hit 3 min. read Ro Khanna Stimulus Check Update: $2,000 Payments Proposed by Congressman 4 min. read Fast Food KFC Announces Two Major Menu Changes 3 min. read Joe Rogan Joe Rogan Issues Message Over Pete Hegseth’s Military Remarks 5 min. read cows Farmer Goes To Check on Animals, Discovers ‘1-in-179-Million Miracle’ Birth 4 min. read Opinion Opinion Will the Trump-Netanyahu Gaza Plan Work? Newsweek Writers Debate 6 min. read Opinion Swing States and Swinging Back: Dem Electoral College Math Is Getting Harder | Opinion 5 min. read Opinion A Crypto Crash is the Likely Cost of Trump’s Corruption | Opinion 5 min. read Opinion Trump Monetizing Our Visa System Is Not Smart Immigration Policy | Opinion 4 min. read Opinion The Folly of ‘Palestinian’ Statehood | Opinion 5 min. read Trending 01 Winter Weather Alerts Issued for 8 States With 6 Inches of Snow To Hit 3 min read 02 Stimulus Check Update: $2,000 Payments Proposed by Congressman 4 min read 03 KFC Announces Two Major Menu Changes 3 min read 04 Joe Rogan Issues Message Over Pete Hegseth’s Military Remarks 5 min read 05 Farmer Goes To Check on Animals, Discovers ‘1-in-179-Million Miracle’ Birth 4 min read Opinion Will the Trump-Netanyahu Gaza Plan Work? Newsweek Writers Debate By Philip Jeffery Swing States and Swinging Back: Dem Electoral College Math Is Getting Harder | Opinion By Philip Jeffery A Crypto Crash is the Likely Cost of Trump’s Corruption | Opinion By Ramsen Shamon Trump Monetizing Our Visa System Is Not Smart Immigration Policy | Opinion By Ramsen Shamon The Folly of ‘Palestinian’ Statehood | Opinion By Josh Hammer sections Nation World Lifestyle Health Opinion Rankings company About Us Masthead Careers Diversity &amp; Inclusion Mission Statement Leadership editions U.S. Edition 日本 Polska România contact Advertise Corrections Announcements Press Center Contact Us terms of use Cookie Policy Copyright Privacy Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Terms of Sale Privacy Settings sections Nation World Lifestyle Health Opinion Rankings company About Us Masthead Careers Diversity &amp; Inclusion Mission Statement Leadership editions U.S. Edition 日本 Polska România contact Advertise Corrections Announcements Press Center Contact Us terms of use Cookie Policy Copyright Privacy Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Terms of Sale Privacy Settings © 2025 Newsweek Digital LLC