# Debbie Lisle

**Source**: https://pure.qub.ac.uk/en/persons/debbie-lisle
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:43:00.419666+00:00

---

Debbie Lisle - Queen&#39;s University Belfast Skip to main navigation Skip to search Skip to main content Queen's University Belfast Home Help &amp; FAQ Home Profiles Research units Research output Projects Impacts Datasets Activities Prizes Press/Media Student theses Equipment Search by expertise, name or affiliation X View Scopus Profile Debbie Lisle Professor Professor , School of History, Anthropology, Philosophy and Politics Politics and International Relations The Senator George J Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3413-5109 Phone +44 (0)28 9097 3853 Email d.lisle qub.ac uk Room 03.002 - 25 University Square United Kingdom Accepting PhD Students PhD projects I am open to PhD applications in the fields of: - Tourism, Militarism and Everyday Life - Migration, Borders and Security - Surveillance, Visuality and Technology - New Materialism, STS and post-humanism in global politics - Media, technology and global politics - Creative practice accounts of global politics (esp. film and visual art) 2003 2025 Research activity per year Overview Fingerprint Network Projects (3) Research output (58) Prizes (3) Activities (178) Press/Media (11) Similar Profiles (6) Supervised Work (7) Personal profile Research Interests General Research Interests: My research engages with a number of contemporary debates in International Relations, International Political Sociology and beyond, most notably around issues of failure, mobility, security, borders and technology. My earlier work explores the relevance of cultural and visual artifacts (e.g. contemporary travel writing, museum exhibits, photographs, art, war films) to world politics, and I have examined the long-standing relationships between war and tourism. My current work examines the way that failure is being made productive in the global register. My research interests include the following: Productive Failure: My current research project examines the way failure is made productive in the global resgister as a way to respond to pressing crises. It draws out the 'toxic positivity' of this narrative of failure, and traces the effects and consequences of rampant optimism when it is deployed by global leaders, managers and policy-makers. This is contrasted with a very different 'archive of the already-failed' which turns to the way populations have always made do in the ruins of productivity and progress. Borders, Technology, Security: I have been involved in a number of collaborative projects exploring the role of security technologies at border sites. Of particular interest for me is how failure operates through technology, and how different actors (e.g. border guards, scientists and engineers, regular and irregular migrants, security agents) have competing understandings of failure and its consequences. I have published jointly-authored work tracing the development of specific border technologies for detecting CBRNE materials; issues of automation, circulation and mobility; and the connected mobilities of tourism, terrorism, humanitarianism and migration. Tourism, Militarism, Everyday Life: My book Holidays in the Danger Zone: Entanglements of War and Tourism (University of Minnesota Press, 2016) offers a genealogy of how the worlds of leisure intersect with the worlds of violence in unexpected ways, and how global politics needs to acknowledge the constitutive circuits of leisure that support prevailing geopolitical imaginaries. I am particularly interested in the relationship between leisure, recreation and resilience in modern military culture and beyond, and have published work examining the relationship between resilience and leisure in the US Army. More broadly, I have explored the securitization of tourist sites in the aftermath of 9/11, and how sites of leisure are securitized and militarized in unexpected ways (e.g. the London Olympics) War, Representation, Surveillance: Drawing from my earlier work on visuality and representation, I am interested in how war is represented across visual and cultural realms (e.g. in museums, photography, art, films). My work has examined the encounters that tourists have in sites of war, war exhibitions and war museums, and I have been involved in museum efforts to think critically and creatively about how to represent the Troubles in Northern Ireland. More recently, I have become interested in how visualities of war operate at the more-than-representational register, for example, how visual technologies are productive of war and conflict (e.g. drones, surveillance, governmentality). Teaching Undergraduate and Masters Teaching: My general teaching areas are International Relations, Global Politics, Visual Culture, Science and Technology Studies, Cultural Studies, Media Studies and Contemporary Social and Political Theory. I contribute to International Relations teaching at all levels in the School and I run my own third year module entitled War, Visual Culture and Surveillance which looks at representations of war (e.g. photography, film, museums, media), new modes of surveillance (e.g. drones) and the role of visual technologies in the execution of war. I am the pathway convener for the taught MA in International Relations, and I contribute to School modules on Contemporary Security as well as cross-Faculty MA teaching on Visual Politics. I am also the new pathway convener for the taught MA in Global Security and Borders which starts September 2016. Teaching Areas of PhD Supervision: I am happy to supervise PhD students in the general areas of International Relations, Critical Security Studies, Visual Culture, Mobility, Materiality, Poststructuralism, Critical War Studies, Urban Politics and Cultural Studies. More specifically, I can supervise projects exploring the relationship between International Relations and the Cultural and Visual realms, either those focusing on the representational register (e.g. those analysing film, travel writing, the media, contemporary literature, museums, photography, art and performance) or those focusing on practice and everyday life (e.g. the Olympics, urban security, travel and tourism). Some of the current projects I am supervising include: The Practice-Network of EU Border Technologies Re-imagining the Troubles Exhibit at the Ulster Museum Emotion, Affect and Fear in post 9/11 Everyday Spaces Memory, Ethics and the Libyan Intervention Female Suicide Bombers: Gender, Ethnicity and mass media Expertise related to UN Sustainable Development Goals In 2015, UN member states agreed to 17 global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all. This person’s work contributes towards the following SDG(s): Fingerprint Dive into the research topics where Debbie Lisle is active. These topic labels come from the works of this person. Together they form a unique fingerprint. 6 Similar Profiles Tourism Social Sciences 100% Logic Social Sciences 44% Politics Social Sciences 43% Technology Social Sciences 42% International Relations Social Sciences 38% Travel Social Sciences 37% Political Sociology Social Sciences 37% Infrastructure Social Sciences 36% View full fingerprint Collaborations and top research areas from the last five years Recent external collaboration on country/territory level. Dive into details by clicking on the dots or Select a country/territory from the list Dive into details Select a country/territory to view shared publications and projects Close Select a country/territory from the list Explore network further Projects Projects per year 2012 2012 2014 2016 1 Active 2 Finished Projects per year R2179PAI: Leverhulme Interdisciplinary Network on Cybersecurity and Society (LINCS) McCall, C. (PI), Archard, D. (CoI), Bourne, M. (CoI), Crookes, D. (CoI), Dickson, B. (CoI), Donnan, H. (CoI), Kurugollu, F. (CoI), Lisle, D. (CoI), Liu, W. (CoI), MacCarthaigh, M. (CoI), McCanny, J. V. (CoI), McLaughlin, K. (CoI), Miller, P. (CoI), Morison, J. (CoI), O'Neill, M. (CoI), Sezer, S. (CoI) &amp; Walker, T. (CoI) 18/12/2014 → … Project : Research R1450PAI: Treating People as Objects? Ethics, Security and the Governance of Mobility Walker, T. (PI), Bourne, M. (CoI), Bulley, D. (CoI), Johnson, H. (CoI), Lisle, D. (CoI) &amp; Sokhi-Bulley, B. (CoI) 28/08/2014 → 30/12/2016 Project : Research R1259PAI: HANDHOLD; Science, Security and Power in Action Bourne, M. (PI), Degenhardt, T. (CoI), Hayward, K. (CoI), Johnson, H. (CoI), Linton, D. (CoI), Lisle, D. (CoI) &amp; Spence, I. (CoI) 01/08/2012 → 30/09/2014 Project : Research Technology Development 100% shape context 33% Science and Society 33% Policy Making 33% Social Scientists 33% Research output Research output per year 2003 2005 2006 2007 2010 2013 2016 2017 2018 2019 2021 2025 2025 27 Article 12 Chapter 8 Chapter (peer-reviewed) 3 Book/Film/Article review 8 More 3 Other contribution 2 Book 2 Comment/debate 1 Other report Research output per year Research output per year Border trajectories: foregrounding durability and friction Lisle, D. , 24 Apr 2025 , The Oxford handbook of international political sociology. Goddard , S. E., Lawson, G. &amp; Sending, O. J. (eds.). Oxford University Press , p. 619–638 20 p. (Oxford Handbooks). Research output : Chapter in Book/Report/Conference proceeding › Chapter (peer-reviewed) › peer-review Political Sociology 100% Global Politics 100% Transversality 50% Autonomy 25% Counter-Conducts 25% 1 Downloads (Pure) Irretrievable failure: life in the ruins of utopian dreaming Coward, M. &amp; Lisle, D. , 24 Sept 2025 , (Early online date) In: European Journal of Social Theory. 19 p. Research output : Contribution to journal › Article › peer-review Open Access File Utopian 100% Ruin 100% Dreaming 100% Hope 100% Crisis 33% 1 Downloads (Pure) Making it worse: productive failure as global common sense Lisle, D. , 09 May 2025 , (Accepted) In: International Political Sociology. 21 p. Research output : Contribution to journal › Ar