# How To Invest A Million Dollars

**Source**: https://www.bloomberg.com/features/how-to-invest-a-million-dollars/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:43:34.680189+00:00

---

Where to Invest $1 Million: World Cup, Energy, Munis, Farmland Skip to content Bloomberg the Company &amp; Its Products The Company &amp; its Products Bloomberg Terminal Demo Request Bloomberg Anywhere Remote Login Bloomberg Anywhere Login Bloomberg Customer Support Customer Support Bloomberg Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world For Customers Bloomberg Anywhere Remote Login Software Updates Manage Products and Account Information Support Americas +1 212 318 2000 EMEA +44 20 7330 7500 Asia Pacific +65 6212 1000 Company About Careers Inclusion at Bloomberg Tech at Bloomberg Philanthropy Sustainability Bloomberg Beta Communications Press Announcements Press Contacts Follow Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Products Bloomberg Terminal Data Trading Risk Compliance Indices Industry Products Bloomberg Law Bloomberg Tax Bloomberg Government BloombergNEF Media Bloomberg Markets Bloomberg Technology Bloomberg Pursuits Bloomberg Politics Bloomberg Opinion Bloomberg Businessweek Bloomberg Live Conferences Bloomberg Radio Bloomberg Television News Bureaus Media Services Bloomberg Media Distribution Advertising Company About Careers Inclusion at Bloomberg Tech at Bloomberg Philanthropy Sustainability Bloomberg Beta Communications Press Announcements Press Contacts Follow Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Products Bloomberg Terminal Data Trading Risk Compliance Indices Industry Products Bloomberg Law Bloomberg Tax Bloomberg Government BloombergNEF Media Bloomberg Markets Bloomberg Technology Bloomberg Pursuits Bloomberg Politics Bloomberg Opinion Bloomberg Businessweek Bloomberg Live Conferences Bloomberg Radio Bloomberg Television News Bureaus Media Services Bloomberg Media Distribution Advertising Bloomberg Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world For Customers Bloomberg Anywhere Remote Login Software Updates Manage Contracts and Orders Support Americas +1 212 318 2000 EMEA +44 20 7330 7500 Asia Pacific +65 6212 1000 Sign In Subscribe Search Live TV Markets Chevron Down Economics Industries Tech Politics Businessweek Opinion More Chevron Down US Edition Chevron Down Menu Subscribe Where to invest $10,000 $100,000 $1,000,000 $100,000 in Asia Where to invest $10,000 $100,000 $1,000,000 $100,000 in Asia Where to Invest $1 Million Right Now Six experts offer timely ideas on where to deploy a big chunk of cash. Illustration: Isabel Seliger By Kristine Owram November 27, 2018 | Updated on November 16, 2022 Read the latest edition of How to Invest $1,000,000 here . Get our new personal finance newsletter delivered weekly to your inbox. Sign up here. Uncertainty has been the name of the investing game for most of 2022. Consider the reaction to cooler-than-expected US inflation data for October: Investors were euphoric, with the S&P 500 posting its best reaction to a CPI report on record. However, a key part of the yield curve also inverted , indicating the risk of a recession is growing. Meanwhile, central banks around the world are expected to keep hiking interest rates until inflation is firmly under control, and the northern hemisphere is heading into what could be a long, cold winter of high energy prices resulting from Russia’s war on Ukraine. The lack of clarity on the future makes it difficult to know where to put your money, especially if you’re a high-net-worth investor. We spoke to six experts about where they’d invest $1 million right now. Ideas include municipal bonds, European and Japanese equities, and dividend-paying US stocks like Exxon Mobil and PepsiCo. We also asked our experts how they would deploy $1 million toward a personal passion project. Suggestions range from investing in farmland to opening a language school to splurging on a VIP trip to Qatar for the World Cup. --> --> Q4 2022 Q3 2022 Q1 2022 Q2 2021 Q1 2021 Q4 2020 Q3 2020 Q2 2020 Q1 2020 Q3 2019 Q2 2019 Q1 2019 Q4 2018 Kent Insley Chief investment officer, Tiedemann Advisors At Tiedemann, one area in the public markets that we find super interesting is energy infrastructure and assets that are poised to benefit from the transition away from higher-carbon sources of energy, like coal. These include publicly traded infrastructure companies in the midstream energy sector, such as natural gas pipelines, storage facilities and LNG exporters. That also includes renewable energy developers in the form of regulated utilities and publicly traded infrastructure partnerships. You can create a portfolio of 20 to 30 companies that trades at a valuation discount to the S&P 500, has a dividend yield near 5% and a growth rate that is more stable but equal to the market. You can position yourself to benefit from this structural growth opportunity. These are also real assets that provide inflation protection, given their replacement cost rises over time, and their customer contracts include inflation escalators, which provide a natural hedge. Another way to play it from Insley: A personal passion of mine and priority investment area for us at Tiedemann is venture capital focused on climate solutions and inclusive innovation. We think we partner with some of the best venture firms that are focused on this area. They have already demonstrated a successful track record and process of investing in clean tech, battery storage, carbon capture, and the electrification of everything. The reason deals are still getting done today in this area — whereas other parts of venture capital have slowed significantly — is people recognize the sheer size and scale of the addressable market. There are studies that suggest we’re gong to need to spend $32 trillion over the next decade just to meet the carbon-reduction targets that the world’s largest economies have set. We think we have found some of the best in the industry to execute on that opportunity. And the companies that they have in their portfolio, they never really experienced the valuation bump that other segments of the tech industry did. Therefore, we’re being offered what we think are very attractive valuations and tackling some of the world's biggest problems. — Amanda Albright Maria Elena Lagomasino Chief executive officer, WE Family Offices I’d put it into investment-grade muni bonds. In this kind of environment, you don’t really want excitement, you want security. I think you want a decent return and you want to basically be in a low-risk situation. You can get a return between 6% and 8% on a tax-adjusted basis. State and local governments are in great shape financially. They got a lot of money transfers from the federal government during Covid. Then the economy came back from Covid and their sales taxes increased as people went out and spent more money. And their property taxes are increasing because property prices went up over the last two years. Another way to play it from Lagomasino: My passion is to support fellow entrepreneurs. Having been born in Cuba, I would love to be able to make a larger impact on Cuban micro-entrepreneurs. I currently work with a foundation, Proyecto Cuba Emprende, that supports business training to help Cuban micro-entrepreneurs acquire skills to grow their businesses. An extra million dollars to this project would go a long way. Since 1960, there has been no private sector in Cuba, so these business skills were lost. Now that the government allows for some forms of private enterprise, there is an opportunity to train these entrepreneurs. This way, they can support themselves and their families, create jobs, and become part of a “private” sector. — Amanda Albright Marko Papic Partner and chief strategist, Clocktower Group Doom and gloom is all the rage right now, with bull-bear spreads plumbing decade lows, an indicator that everyone and their chocolate Labrador is bearish. However, investors may be missing the macro setup, which is increasingly looking like early 2016. First, nearly every developed-market central bank has already committed to some sort of a pause (dare we say, “pivot?”). Even the FOMC took the hint. The world is just waiting on Jay Powell to come to the consensus view of the median central banker, which is far more dovish than Powell’s latest press conference performance . Second, China has begun to stimulate the real estate sector, with the PBOC also reviving the all-important pledged supplementary lending facility, which in 2016 funded the shanty town renovation program. With rumors swirling that Beijing is also at the end of its patience with its Covid Zero policy, all signs are pointing to a paradigm shift in China. If the Fed pivots and China puts a floor in growth, 2023 will be a year to deploy assets outside the US, particularly in European and Japanese equities (our favorites are the unloved industrials, commodities, copper and oil), and emerging markets (Latin America specifically, but also Indonesia and South Africa). What about China itself? It is an absolute fact that the end of Beijing’s “collective leadership” makes the country more brittle and difficult to invest in over the long term. However, as a short-term trade, investors should take Chinese stocks seriously in 2023. Commodity stocks, consumer-oriented ADRs, and health-care companies should all benefit from Beijing’s pivot. Another way to play it from Papic: I suggest investors get a taste of global multipolarity by blowing $100,000 on a VIP trip to Qatar to watch the World Cup. The field of competitive soccer nations is as wide open this year as ever, which makes the tournament a great comparison to the geopolitical era that we are in. It seems both the World Cup and global power are up for grabs. A front row seat to the 2022 World Cup would be a great way to see a different sort global volat