# Kevin Mayer Tom Staggs Walt Disney Bob Iger 1235451330

**Source**: https://deadline.com/2023/07/kevin-mayer-tom-staggs-walt-disney-bob-iger-1235451330/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:57:13.063724+00:00

---

Disney CEO Bob Iger Taps Kevin Mayer, Tom Staggs As Consultants Skip to main content Open Mega Menu Got A Tip? deadline-logo-svg Deadline Follow Us: site categories TV Film Awards Awards Hub Digital Issues Box Office Biz International Politics Theater Reviews Obits Video Events Contenders Television: Docs+Unscripted+Variety Television Film: Nominees Film: Documentary Film: International Film: Los Angeles Film: London Sound &amp; Screen Television Film Other For The Love Of Docs Visual Effects + Screen Festivals North America Sundance Toronto Telluride SXSW Tribeca Europe Venice Cannes Zurich Berlin/EFM Middle East Red Sea Asia Tokyo Insider News Alerts Menu deadline-logo-svg Deadline Read Next: Treasury Department Considers Minting $1 Trump Coin Got A Tip? Tip Us Home Business News Disney CEO Bob Iger Taps Kevin Mayer, Tom Staggs As Consultants; Former Disney Executives Are Co-CEOs Of Candle Media By Jill Goldsmith Jill Goldsmith Co-Business Editor More Stories By Jill Free Press&#8217; Bari Weiss Poised To Take Top Role At CBS News WNBA, Versant&#8217;s USA Network Set Expanded Rights Deal Through 2036 Disney Sends Cease And Desist Letter To Character.ai For Copyright Infringement As Studios Move To Protect IP View All July 31, 2023 8:16am 40 Comments Services to share this page. Share on Facebook Post Share to Flipboard Email Show more sharing options Share on LinkedIn Pin it Submit to Reddit Post to Tumblr Share on WhatsApp Print This Page Kevin Mayer and Tom Staggs ABC/Courtesy Bob Iger , with pressure mounting on multiple fronts, has turned to former top Disney executives Tom Staggs and Kevin Mayer , hiring them as consultants to the media giant as it defines its strategy. The two will take a hard look at ESPN, said a person familiar with the situation. Given their years of experience both in and outside of Disney, it seems likely they&#8217;d weigh in across other areas of the company, as well. The two are now co-CEOs of Candle Media, a company they founded in 2021 with backing from the Blackstone Group. Related Stories Legal Nirvana &#039;Nevermind&#039; Album Cover Child Porn Lawsuit Dismissed For The Final Time - Update Executives Kimmel Corporate Fallout Continues: Irate Shareholders Have Nothing Yet From Disney About Suspension; Legal Threat Looms With Tuesday Expiration Date For Documents A Candle spokesperson declined comment. A Disney rep wasn&#8217;t immediately available. Watch on Deadline The news comes after Iger dropped a bombshell interview with CNBC where, among other things, he said linear television &#8220;may not be core&#8221; to Disney&#8217;s business. Speaking on the sidelines of the Sun Valley conference, he told the network that Disney is looking at a range of strategic options for linear TV, including with ESPN, although he asserted that sports &ldquo;stands tall&rdquo; when compared with the rest of the TV landscape. Disney recently positioned ESPN as its own corporate division and plans to roll out a direct-to-consumer ESPN streaming offering at some point. Staggs and Mayer both had strong runs at Disney. Well-liked Staggs served as chief financial officer, chief operating officer and head of parks in a rotation along the road to a presumed bump up to the top job once Iger left. But he was sidelined for that job and left the company in 2016. Mayer rose from a key role in strategy planning to lead Disney&rsquo;s direct-to-consumer and international operations, including the launch of Disney+. He was also considered a front-runner for CEO but Iger, who stepped down from Disney in 2020, named Bob Chapek as his successor to the pervasive surprise of Wall Street and Hollywood. Mayer left to become CEO of juggernaut TikTok but departed amid the Trump administration&rsquo;s legal crusade against the Chinese-owned video-sharing platform. The two longtime friends and colleagues created Candle Media and have rapidly amassed a significant content portfolio over the past several years including Hello Sunshine and Moonbug. Disney stock is up 3.10% in late morning trading, outpacing the broader market. Iger recent extended his contract but still needs to name a successor as CEO, as well as CFO following the abrupt departure of Christine McCarthy. The names Staggs and Mayer came up frequently and wistfully on Wall Street as potential replacements for Chapek as his regime floundered. Investors can always hope, but it&#8217;s not at all clear the advisory gig could or would lead to a broader role at the company for either. &nbsp; Puck was the first to report the news of the duo coming on as consultants. More to come&#8230; Must Read Stories Hide Articles &#8216;Taylor Swift: Showgirl&#8217; Eyes $30M Debut As &#8216;Smashing Machine&#8217; Taps Out ‘The Official Release Party Of A Showgirl’ Is A Study Of Taylor Swift&#8217;s Work Ethic Sean Combs Gets More Than Four Years In Prison; Quick Appeal Expected Take Off, Eh? Fox Cancels Animated Comedy &#8216;The Great North&#8217; After Five Seasons Read More About: Bob Iger Breaking News Kevin Mayer Tom Staggs Walt Disney 40 Comments Subscribe to Deadline Get our Breaking News Alerts and Keep your inbox happy. Sign Up 40 Comments Anonymous on August 1, 2023 11:18 am Think again Blackrock along with other institutional investors own 65% of Disney and if they weren&#8217;t happy with it they would unload it, Blackrock is still involved in Disney, BTW they along with other institutional investors own 57% of WBD. Diversity is here to stay. Anonymous on August 1, 2023 11:13 am Oh look another MAGA, give the woke crap a rest, if Disney wants to attract everyone in the world beside WHITE people they better keep doing the diversity thing. Newsflash in the U.S. the WHITE birth rate is declining, give it a few more years and WHITES will be in the minority. Disney wants to attract everyone not just WHITES. Anonymous on July 31, 2023 8:10 pm Yes, the Diversity hires of&#8230; Sean Bailey, Dana Walden, Alan Bergman, Kevin Feige, Kathleen Kennedy, Pete Docter, Jimmy Pitaro, Steve Asbell, David Greenbaum, Matt Greenfield, Jon Landgraf, Craig Erwich, Jill Tiefenthaler, Jennifer Lee and Josh D&#8217;Amaro. Pretty much every single leader at Disney is WHITE. You clearly don&#8217;t have much understanding of the company or it&#8217;s business. Where did you come up with this fantasy? Did you read this in your DeSantis Fan-Fiction coloring booking or something? Anonymous on July 31, 2023 5:15 pm Bringing in two money guys to help parcel it all up for the fire sale. Iger Needs To Beg Murdoch To Buy Back Assets on July 31, 2023 11:16 am Disney needs cash and Rupert Murdoch has plenty of extra billions, ironically thanks to Iger. Disney should keep the Marvel IP&#8217;s, and Nat Geo and sell everything else back to Murdoch. Disney buying 21st Century Fox was a huge mistake. $71.3 Billion dollars for assets he still doesn&#8217;t know what to do with. Murdoch understand this more than anyone. He famously over paid for that dinosaur Myspace and let the LA Dodgers slip away. Older Comments &rarr; Sidebar Trending on Deadline 1 &#039;Taylor Swift: Showgirl&#039; Struts $29M-$31M, &#039;The Smashing Machine&#039; Hits The Mat With $6M-$7M, &#039;One Battle After Another&#039; Heads To $100M WW - Box Office 2 Trump Now &quot;Seriously Considering&quot; Pardon For Sean Combs Ahead Of Sentencing; White House Officially Says Nothing 3 ‘Taylor Swift: The Official Release Party Of A Showgirl’ Review: Pic Pulls Back The Curtain &amp; Provides A Study Of Singer&#039;s Work Ethic In Traditional Fan Experience 4 &#039;Smiling Friends&#039; Team Launches New L.A.-Based Animation Studio 5 Taylor Swift&#039;s &#039;Life of a Showgirl&#039; Breaks Multiple Spotify Records In First Day 6 Adam Driver &amp; Anne Hathaway To Star In Military Drama &#039;Alone At Dawn&#039; From Ron Howard And Amazon MGM Studios 7 Sean Combs Gets Four Years Behind Bars In Sex-Trafficking Case; Appeal Expected Quickly 8 Tyler Perry&#039;s &#039;Sistas&#039; Sets Season 9 Return Date At BET, Unveils Midseason Trailer 9 &#039;The Great North&#039; Canceled By Fox After Five Seasons 10 How &#039;Chicago Med&#039; Handles Maggie&#039;s Storyline Following Marlyne Barrett&#039;s Break From Series deadline-logo-svg Deadline Signup for Breaking News Alerts &amp; Newsletters Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Latest Business News Treasury Department Considers Minting $1 Trump Coin Free Press&#039; Bari Weiss Poised To Take Top Role At CBS News R&amp;CPMK To Undergo Revamp As Part Of Parent IPG&#039;s Cost-Savings Plan For Structure Streamlining Thomas Haden Church Signs With Paradigm Marketplace Newswire Deadline About Us Advertise Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility AdChoices California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Sitemap TV Film Awards Box Office Business International Connect with Us Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks Have a Tip? We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our annonymous form. Send Us a Tip Stay in the Know Sign up for our breaking news alerts Your Email Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. PMC Deadline is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 Deadline Hollywood, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Va