# Home

**Source**: https://www.metaculus.com/home/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:45:56.244748+00:00

---

Metaculus Questions Tournaments Services News Questions Tournaments Questions Questions More Log in Sign Up a / 文 Log in Sign Up Forecasting for a complex world Metaculus offers trustworthy forecasting and modeling infrastructure for forecasters, decision makers, and the public. 🗳️ US Democracy Threat Index ❓ Top Questions ⏳ AI 2027 🗞️ In the News 🦾 AI Forecasting Benchmark 💎 Metaculus Cup 🌍 AI Pathways 🏛️ POTUS Predictions What will the highest percentage of overall compute capacity held by a single organisation be on January 1, 2028? 24.4% Will the WHO declare an avian influenza virus in humans a Public Health Emergency of International Concern before 2030? 60% What percentage of new vehicle production will be electric in the US in 2027? 23.4% What percentage of primary energy in the United States will come from solar in 2031? 7.92% Will there be a major nuclear accident before 2030? 11% Will Iran possess a nuclear weapon before 2030? 25% Will there be active warfare between the United States and China before 2027? 3% What annual real return will the S&amp;P 500 realize 2022-2031? 5.52 %/yr When will the first weakly general AI system be devised, tested, and publicly announced? 26 Jun 2027 How much revenue will the U.S. market for clean meat generate, in the fiscal year 2027, in 2019 USD? 2422 million USD What will be the World GDP in 2028 in trillions of 2010 USD? 112 trillion USD Will global malaria mortality rates be reduced by 90% when compared with 2015 rates, by 2030? 15% See All Forecasts Focus Areas We create forecasts and advance research, decision making, and policy in four main topic areas. biosecurity Improving global health by understanding infectious diseases and preparing for future pandemics See Forecasts AI progress Exploring the future of artificial intelligence technologies and the impacts to society See Forecasts nuclear security Quantifying global risks to keep us safe and secure for a flourishing future See Forecasts climate change Predicting long-term shifts in temperature and weather patterns caused by human activity See Forecasts Forecasting Tournaments Join our tournaments and predict real world events, timelines, and impacts and win prizes for accuracy. Fall 2025 AI Forecasting Benchmark Tournament $ 50,000 Prize Pool Closes Mar 5, 2026 Metaculus Cup Fall 2025 $ 5,000 Prize Pool Closes Jan 3, 2026 RAND x Metaculus Policy Challenge $ 10,000 Prize Pool Closes Jan 17, 2026 AI Pathways Tournament $ 5,000 Prize Pool Closes Jul 1, 2031 See All Tournaments Research &amp; Updates Our partners use Metaculus forecasts to gain insight into complex challenges and decisions. Sep 2025 Report: Pro Forecasters Expect Steady NIH and NSF Funding Despite proposed reductions from the Trump Administration, a new Metaculus report indicates that Ame... Sep 2025 Introducing the US Democracy Threat Index When does political conflict become institutional crisis? Are courts being defied? Is voting access ... Aug 2025 Introducing Comments of the Week Forecasts are more informative and useful to your fellow forecasters and to the wider public when th... Jul 2025 Monitor AI’s Expansion Across Society With the AI Diffusion Index Metaculus has partnered with Convergence Analysis to launch the AI Diffusion Index based on their re... Jun 2025 Q1 AI Benchmark Results: Pro Forecasters Crush Bots By Ben Wilson and John Bash Main Takeaways Top Findings: Pro forecasters significantly outperform... See More Posts Engage with Metaculus Learn how you can partner with Metaculus to host a forecasting tournament, collaborate on forecasting research, hire our Pro Forecasters for custom projects, or set up a private forecasting space for your organization. We love working with non-profits in our core focus areas. If you’re a non-profit seeking forecasting and modeling capacity or are interested in collaborating on a grant, please reach out! Contact Us About API FAQ forecasting resources For Journalists Contact Careers Guidelines Privacy Policy Terms of Use