# Montenegro Fugitives Ayvazyan Fbi Pandemic Fraud

**Source**: https://www.latimes.com/california/story/2022-07-21/montenegro-fugitives-ayvazyan-fbi-pandemic-fraud
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:07:59.983745+00:00

---

Two California fugitives flee FBI to luxury Montenegro exile - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing &amp; Homelessness Politics Science &amp; Medicine World &amp; Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor &amp; Workplace Real Estate Technology and the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing &amp; Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate &amp; Environment Global Warming Water &amp; Drought Entertainment &amp; Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 best restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art &amp; Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health &amp; Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel &amp; Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World &amp; Nation Immigration &amp; the Border Israel-Hamas Mexico &amp; the Americas Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios Business • AI &amp; Tech • Banking &amp; Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Goods &amp; Retail • Healthcare &amp; Science • Law Dentists Decor &amp; Design Doctors &amp; Scientists Hot Property Live &amp; Well Orange County Pets The Hub: Rebuilding LA Travel Weddings &amp; Celebrations Newsletters Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Students &amp; Educators Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store L.A. Times Studios News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance &amp; Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? People on the Move Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Sections Show Search Search Query Submit Search Advertisement California How two L.A. COVID swindlers dodged the FBI and joined the European jet set Sunset in the Porto Montenegro marina in Tivat, Montenegro. (Ranko Maras / Getty Images) By Michael Finnegan Staff Writer&nbsp; July 21, 2022 5 AM PT For Subscribers 132 Share via Close extra sharing options Email Facebook X LinkedIn Threads Reddit WhatsApp Copy Link URL Copied! Print p]:text-cms-story-body-color-text clearfix max-w-170 mt-7.5 mb-10 mx-auto" data-dateline data-subscriber-content> TIVAT, Montenegro&nbsp;—&nbsp; The private jet banked eastward as it ascended out of Lisbon. After passing Madrid and Barcelona, it flew over the Mediterranean and the Italian peninsula — Rome on the left, Naples on the right. Listen to the story The husband and wife enjoying the plush cabin with their black dog were convicted swindlers from Los Angeles on the sixth day of a daring getaway. With police worldwide on alert to arrest them, they had slipped off to Portugal and hoped to vanish in the Balkans by nightfall. The FBI sought the public’s help in catching fugitives Richard Ayvazyan and Marietta Terabelian. (FBI) Their destination was Montenegro, a mountainous nation a few hundred miles up the Adriatic coast from Greece — an appealing alternative to prison in the United States. At sunset, the splendor of the rugged shoreline came into view as the chartered Cessna Citation VI descended into Tivat , a posh town on the stunning Bay of Kotor, framed by the steep slopes of the Dinaric Alps. There, the couple would shed their identities as Richard Ayvazyan and Marietta Terabelian, leaders of a family fraud ring that collected $18 million in pandemic relief for sham businesses in the San Fernando Valley. It was one of the many lurid scams by grifters who lied to get rescue loans during the 2020 lockdowns. Forged Mexican passports with photos expertly embedded would clear the couple’s way into Montenegro. Rich and Mary were adopting new names worthy of a 19th century novel: Roberto Niko De Leon and Nataly Rose Perez Garcia. Yet the moment was bittersweet. Back home in Tarzana, the couple had abandoned two sons, then 16 and 14, and a daughter, 15. In his goodbye note, Ayvazyan had claimed he and their mom had no choice. “While I am writing this our tears are dripping on our breakfast table,” he wrote. He promised that the family would someday reunite. “Without saying too much, we both love you more than anything in this world.” In Montenegro, the danger of arrest would be constant. It was sloppiness that had undone the couple’s COVID-19 scam, and one small mistake was all it would take to upend their new life as rich Mexican expats in Tivat. Where they stashed most of their stolen money remains a mystery, but it’s clear there was plenty left for lavish spending in a town that travel guides call the next Monte Carlo. Advertisement Subscribers get exclusive access to this story We’re offering L.A. Times subscribers special access to our best journalism. Thank you for your support. Explore more Subscriber Exclusive content . Within days of their Sept. 3 arrival, Ayvazyan and Terabelian rented an apartment in Porto Montenegro , Tivat’s most exclusive neighborhood. Once a rundown Yugoslav shipyard, it was redeveloped in recent years as an upscale marina with cafés, bars and restaurants, gourmet grocery stores, Dior and Rolex shops, art galleries, high-end residential buildings and a five-star hotel . Scores of superyachts were moored at the docks one recent afternoon, many of them registered in Malta, Gibraltar and Panama. Wealthy Russians and other foreigners are a mainstay of Porto Montenegro’s clientele. For California outlaws laying down roots, the social codes of its shopkeepers — be polite but never pry — would be an alluring amenity. Porto Montenegro, a marina complex in Tivat, Montenegro. (Michael Finnegan / Los Angeles Times) “I need to know nothing,” one of them told a pair of reporters: one from The Times; the other from the Center for Investigative Journalism of Montenegro . “I know them as Niko and Natalia. I don’t need to know more.” California For Subscribers Diamonds, gold, luxury homes: Inside one L.A. family’s $18-million COVID-19 fraud A San Fernando Valley family was caught creating fake businesses to get pandemic disaster loans, then spending the money on houses, gold and diamonds. July 16, 2021 Of more than a dozen people interviewed in Tivat about their encounters with the couple, none was willing to be quoted by name. Several said it would be bad for business to be associated with American crooks on the lam. Advertisement From afar, Montenegro might seem like a good place to disappear. But in this insular nation of 620,000 people, wedged between Albania and Croatia, it is hard for outsiders to blend in. “Everybody knows everybody,” and a small commotion stirs curiosity far and wide, said Dejan Boljević, the Montenegro police supervisor in charge of searches for foreign fugitives. “In Los Angeles, maybe you don’t know who are your neighbors,” he said. “Here, you know what they are eating for lunch.” Ayvazyan and Terabelian made themselves at home. They had a Range Rover and a BMW shipped from Los Angeles. Both cars had California plates, according to the FBI. Montenegro police say Richard Ayvazyan and Marietta Terabelian had this BMW shipped from California to Montenegro in late 2021. (Montenegro Police) Using his De Leon alias, Ayvazyan opened an account at Banka Hipotekarna and got a temporary Montenegro residency permit. He also registered a real estate business, calling it Leon Enterprises. Apart from the 1-euro filing receipt from a ministry, no sign of its operations could be found. After a couple of months, Ayvazyan and Terabelian rented a second residence on the outskirts of Tivat: a waterfront villa with a swimming pool and panoramic view of the bay. From the upstairs terrace, they could gaze at little fishing boats bobbing on the water and, in winter, the snow-capped peaks beyond. Richard Ayvazyan and Marietta Terabelian rented this residence on the outskirts of Tivat. (Milos Vujovic) They kept the apartment in Porto Montenegro and, at some point, rented another, according to the police. Why they needed three places is unknown. Neighbors recalled seeing the Range Rover — and the black dog too — at both the villa and the apartment complex. Some locals were puzzled by the scant details they picked up about the couple’s background. “De Leon” hinted that he was a Mexican of Greek origin, they said. Waterfront villa with a pool and panoramic view of the bay. (Milos Vujovic) Advertisement Terabelian, who once ran a Sherman Oaks hair salon for kids called Little Rock Stars, was friendly, vendors recalled. A cashier at a shop in Porto Montenegro recalled that “Nataly” once needed help finding a real Christmas tree, because the ones she saw for sale in Tivat were plastic. “She is very nice to me,” the cashier said after a peek at Terabelian’s mug shot on a visitor’s phone. Terabelian acquired a reputation as a generous tipper. One merchant recalled joking with a co-worker that tips that big rarely come from people whose money was hard-earned. Richard Ayvazyan when he was a fugitive in Montenegro in 2021 or 2022, according to local police. (Montenegro Police) Back in Los Angeles, FBI a