# The Reason Habits Are So Hard To Change And How To Address It

**Source**: http://lifehacker.com/5503080/the-reason-habits-are-so-hard-to-change-and-how-to-address-it
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:59:07.935210+00:00

---

The Reason Habits Are So Hard to Change (and How to Address It) | Lifehacker Skip to Main Content View our Bluesky Page (Opens in a new tab) View our Instagram Page (Opens in a new tab) View on Facebook Page (Opens in a new tab) View our Youtube Page (Opens in a new tab) View our Twitter Page (Opens in a new tab) $refs.firstMenuItem.focus());"> Latest Tech Best Picks Entertainment Health Reviews Home & Garden Deals Comparisons Hacks #Deals Live Blog: The Best Sales We’ve Found, All in One Place query=evt.target.value' x-on:keyup="onKeyUp" x-on:keydown="onKeyDown" @click="onKeyUp" @click.outside="results={}" placeholder="Search Lifehacker" /> 0"> Search Result Latest Tech Best Picks Entertainment Health Reviews Home & Garden Deals Comparisons Hacks #Deals Live Blog: The Best Sales We’ve Found, All in One Place (e.target !== $refs.button && e.target.closest('button') !== $refs.button) && close($refs.button)" :class="{ 'border border-black': toggled }"> Copied The Reason Habits Are So Hard to Change (and How to Address It) Adam Pash March 26, 2010 0" onClick="window.openweb.scrollToComments('5503080')"> Adam Pash Table of Contents Table of Contents We all know it can be tough to change a deeply ingrained habit, but behavior blog Psychology Today highlights a study explaining why exactly it's so damn hard. A study conducted by researchers from the Wellcome Trust Centre for Neuroimaging at University College London put participants in a situation in which they had to play referee making a sports call&mdash;judging if a tennis ball is in or out. The participants made the call by lifting their finger from a pressed key on a keyboard. If they didn't lift their finger, that meant they'd stick with the default choice, and the default varied between "in" and "out" per participant. The results: As my shopping habits (and the researchers) predicted, participants were more likely to stick with the default when the decision was difficult. It didn't matter whether the default was in or out. If they couldn't make a confident choice, they essentially chose to do nothing. And as the researchers point out, this tendency led to more errors. So next time you're trying to make a change, figure out what your current default is, and remind yourself exactly why it isn't working. Then look for ways to change your default (clean out your fridge, set up direct deposit) so you don't have to fight the old default as often. And feel free to be your own cheerleader when the going gets rough. Look for the first evidence (a pound lost here, a dwindling credit card statement there) that what you're doing is paying off. The status quo is seductive, and we all need a little encouragement to lift our fingers off the keyboard. The article points out that these findings also help explain why people are so eager to try things like diet fads&mdash;these formulas feel scientific, so they define a new default that we feel like we can trust. It's worth keeping in mind next time you're having trouble kicking an old habit. Photo by quinn.anya . What do you think so far? Why Habits Are Hard to Change (And Printers Hard to Buy) [Psychology Today] The Daily Newsletter Ready to do everything better? Jordan Calhoun Editor in chief Get daily tips, tricks, and tech guides from Jordan and the team. The Daily Newsletter Ready to do everything better? Get daily tips, tricks, and tech guides from Jordan and the team. Subscribe to Lifehacker&apos;s Newsletter Loading... Sign Up Success! Use this instead By clicking Sign Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . Adam Pash Latest See More Fitness What You Get With Each of Whoop&#039;s Pricing Tiers October 3, 2025 Shopping Lifehacker Deals Live Blog: The Best Sales We’ve Found, All in One Place October 3, 2025 Fitness How Peloton&#039;s New &#039;Club Peloton&#039; Ranking System Works October 3, 2025 Keep Scrolling for Next Article Lifehacker has been a go-to source of tech help and life advice since 2005. Our mission is to offer reliable tech help and credible, practical, science-based life advice to help you live better. Our Mission Our Team Newsletter Latest Tech Food Entertainment Health Home & Garden Relationships Deals Hacks &nbsp; #Deals Live Blog: The Best Sales We’ve Found, All in One Place About Ziff Davis (Opens in a new tab) Privacy Policy Terms of Use Advertise Accessibility Do Not Sell My Personal Information &copy; 2001-2025 Ziff Davis, LLC., A ZIFF DAVIS COMPANY. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Lifehacker is a federally registered trademark of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any affiliation or the endorsement of Lifehacker. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant. AdChoices Image AdChoices Better Business Bureau (BBB) Logo TRUSTe Logo Ziffmedia Logo CNET Logo ZDNET Logo PCMag Logo Mashable Logo Askmen Logo ExtremeTech Logo IGN Logo Speedtest Logo