# La La Land City Of Stars

**Source**: https://theasc.com/articles/la-la-land-city-of-stars
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:12:17.120352+00:00

---

The American Society of Cinematographers | La La Land: City of Stars Subscribe Home Society Members Constitution, Bylaws, &amp; Policy Committees ASC Future Practices ASC Vision Origins Scholarship Mentorship Milestones Events Connect MITC ASC MITC Committees MITC Reports ASC Media Hash List ASC Framing Decision List StEM2 ASC Photo Gallery American Cinematographer News Articles New Products Historical Espanol Photo Gallery Feature Profile Videos Tech Tips ASC Clubhouse Conversations ASC Museum Minute Podcasts Archive Clubhouse Conversations ASC Awards Deadlines 2025 Nominees ASC Awards Photos/Press Entries News Master Class ASC+ Donate Store Search Sign In Home Society Members Constitution, Bylaws, &amp; Policy Committees ASC Future Practices ASC Vision Origins Scholarship Mentorship Milestones Events Connect MITC ASC MITC Committees MITC Reports ASC Media Hash List ASC Framing Decision List StEM2 ASC Photo Gallery American Cinematographer News Articles New Products Historical Espanol Photo Gallery Feature Profile Videos Tech Tips ASC Clubhouse Conversations ASC Museum Minute Podcasts Archive Clubhouse Conversations ASC Awards Deadlines 2025 Nominees ASC Awards Photos/Press Entries News Master Class ASC+ Donate Store Search Search Search Mounted on a Hydrascope telescopic crane, the camera captures Sebastian and Mia’s movie date. Feature February 27, 2017 Linked In " target="_blank"> --> La La Land : City of Stars Linus Sandgren, FSF infuses Los Angeles with heightened reality and a colorful glow in writer-director Damien Chazelle's musical throwback. Mark Dillon American Cinematographer news articles videos podcasts Archive Español American Cinematographer news articles videos podcasts Archive español Unit photography by Dale Robinette. Additional photos by Linus Sandgren, FSF. All images courtesy of Lionsgate. Both romantic comedy-drama and homage to the golden age of the Hollywood musical, writer-director Damien Chazelle's La La Land is rooted in the present, yet imbued with a timeless quality. As it opens, Sebastian (Ryan Gosling) and Mia (Emma Stone) meet confrontationally in a Los Angeles traffic jam and go their separate ways, not realizing how much they have in common. They are two among thousands of young L.A. denizens struggling to make it in showbiz. He’s a frustrated jazz pianist, talented but committed to a traditional style that can't earn him a living. She’s a barista and wannabe actress who can’t get beyond soul-crushing auditions and an alienating Hollywood scene. The camera — rigged on an Oculus Remote Head mounted to a crane — captures a song-and-dance number with Stone and Gosling. They cross paths again when Mia is lured into a restaurant by an affecting musical performance. She finds Sebastian at the keys, submerged in a free-form jazz piece that's too off-script for his boss (J.K. Simmons). She wants to compliment him but he brushes her off. It takes one more chance meeting for a mutual attraction to emerge from beneath their bickering repartee, and it’s brought to life in the song-and-dance number "A Lovely Night." Romance blooms but gets complicated as R&B singer Keith (John Legend) persuades Sebastian to join his touring band the Messengers, and Mia makes one last play to jump-start her thespian dream. She and Sebastian come to realize that given the demands of their career goals and budding relationship, something's gotta give. Sebastian is a frustrated jazz pianist. Gaffer Brad Hazen adjusts the light on Gosling. Angling in for a close-up on Gosling. Capturing coverage on the backing band. Chazelle, 30 at the time of filming, proved to be one of the industry's most exciting young talents with 2014’s Academy Award-winning Whiplash (shot by Sharone Meir) — also a music-themed project, though in essence a psychological drama. For La La Land he teamed with director of photography Linus Sandgren, FSF, appreciating the latter's work with director David O. Russell on American Hustle and Joy . They hit it off in their initial meeting. "Damien is a strong storyteller, and he's very clear when he describes his vision," recalls Sandgren on the line from London, where he is shooting Lasse Hallström’s period fantasy The Nutcracker . "[Damien] is also a director with a big, romantic heart. I especially fell for his sincere love for classic cinema filmmaking, and for the original music for the film [by Justin Hurwitz, Benj Pasek and Justin Paul] that he played for me. I was surprised by the melancholic theme, and could immediately sense how this would impact the emotions of the story and make it a very different [kind of] musical.” Cinematographer Linus Sandgren, FSF measures the light on set. In a separate interview, Chazelle says, "One of the things I love most about Linus is that he has an old soul. He's in love with analog filmmaking, celluloid, Technicolor and old lenses. And yet he has this youthful energy and a tech-savvy brain that's all about finding new ways to do things. That epitomizes where I want this movie to live. I'm trying to hark back to certain old traditions but hopefully show you something you haven't seen before." The director screened musicals for the crew to get them into the intended spirit. He cites influences from 1930s-1960s Hollywood, noting, "That tradition of musicals composed directly for the screen — where there's interplay among music, image, story, character and dance — was magical. La La Land started with this idea of taking that style of storytelling and applying it to a modern setting." Caitlin (Sonoya Mizuno), Tracy (Callie Hernandez), Mia and Alexis (Jessica Rothe) enjoy a girls’ night out. Particularly inspiring were French director Jacques Demy's 1960s-era The Umbrellas of Cherbourg (shot by Jean Rabier) and The Young Girls of Rochefort (shot by Ghislain Cloquet). "Even though they're completely heightened, magical movies,” Chazelle says, “they are resolutely stories about ordinary people, shot where they're set, and have this quality of real life that seeps through the artificiality of the genre." During 10 weeks of preproduction together, Chazelle and Sandgren storyboarded and considered their approach. "Damien didn't want the film to feel like at first it's a realistic drama and then suddenly the characters break out into a magical dance number," Sandgren says. Two cameras are employed simultaneously for a dialogue scene. Chazelle adds, "It should be like one continuous piece of music that flows from one state of being to another, and hopefully so seamlessly that you don't notice the gear shift. A lot of that burden fell on Linus' shoulders, because we decided early on that one of the key unifying things would be the camera, which needed a consistent personality, whether it was a musical number, a realistic scene or in-between. The length of takes, when the camera would move, and the color palette would stay consistent." Sandgren suggests that Chazelle is more influenced by classic Hollywood aesthetics than by any particular film, guided by emotion in storytelling more than convention. "Some filmmakers of that time told their stories just the way they felt was right to tell it, and Damien has a lot of that," the cinematographer says. "He follows his own taste when deciding how to make a film. He might tell the story in one way and then suddenly take another turn. He doesn't necessarily follow any rules." The crew shoots a scene in which Mia rushes to meet Sebastian at a movie theater. Forty-two days of principal photography began in August of 2015 in and around L.A. While they both now call the city home, East Coast native Chazelle and Stockholm-born Sandgren bring an outsider's point of view and found a shared aesthetic in terms of how they wanted to portray the iconic town. "Damien wanted to show the blue nights and twilights of Los Angeles — maybe they're not always like that, but you might remember them that way — and those beautiful old gas-style streetlights from some parts of the city,” Sandgren says. “We also both loved Los Angeles' grittiness. Lincoln Boulevard might be considered ugly, but we love its telephone poles at magic hour.” He adds that production designer David Wasco, whose L.A. projects include Pulp Fiction , “shared his great knowledge of the city of Los Angeles, and presented his brilliant designs and visions for the sets with great passion, and we had a very tight collaboration on the colors of the film.” The filmmakers made a concerted effort to shoot just before or after sunset for many exterior shots, such as when Sebastian, high on new love, walks alone on a pier; when the couple strolls together across a bridge; and when, toward the beginning of the film, they dance in the hills overlooking the city. R&B singer Keith (John Legend) persuades Sebastian to join his band, the Messengers. The camera angles into position for a performance scene. The latter sequence was captured in a single take at a location that Sandgren recalls finding on a first scout. “Having rehearsed and [blocked] the choreography of the dance and camera on the lot, [we were] now facing the reality,” the cinematographer says. “With a 300-foot [cliff] on one side of the road and a U-turn behind us, it seemed impossible to light at first sight and — being on a slope — very complicated to shoot. On top of this, [it had] to be shot in one single six-minute take at magic hour. In that moment it was quite a bit of stress, but [ultimately] I think that is part of the beauty of filmmaking — to reach these obstacles, lay them out as puzzles, and try to figure them out.” Chief lighting technician Brad Hazen, who has worked with Sandgren on commercials, “found a way to squeeze two condors along the slope just inches outside of frame left and frame right, and rigged them with LED lights,” Sandgren says. Down the hill for the beginning of the shot, they placed a 90K (15x6K) Bebee light. The production rehearsed the 27-mark crane move for the entire day, and shot five