# Bills

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/nfl/team/bills/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:23:05.201752+00:00

---

Buffalo Bills - News, Schedule, Scores, Roster, and Stats - The Athletic NFL Teams Scores &amp; Schedule Standings Fantasy NFL Odds NFL Picks NFL Draft Podcasts Scoop City Newsletter Quarter-Season Superlatives Front Office Rankings Buffalo Bills (4-0) · 1st in AFC East NFL Week 5 schedule rankings: Top 5 Sunday games most likely to light up the scoreboard Our NFL Week 5 schedule rankings are in search of scoring — points, points, points. Steven Louis Goldstein How Bills roster could change in coming weeks, plus the challenge of improved Patriots Joe Buscaglia 23 What's Trending in the NFL: Early season storylines we got completely wrong Saad Yousuf 46 NFL quarter-season superlatives and early lessons as teams find their identities Mike Jones 130 NFL Week 5 picks against the spread: Who wins the Baker Mayfield-Sam Darnold duel? Vic Tafur 53 Advertisement More Stories Patriots' Stefon Diggs looking like a No. 1 WR again ahead of return to Buffalo The 31-year-old receiver got off to a solid start but picked it up last week against the Panthers. Can he become Drake Maye's go-to option? Chad Graff 53 Are Bills destined for Super Bowl? Why NFL Projection Model makes them heavy favorites The Chiefs look vulnerable. The Ravens are struggling. Is this finally the year of the Buffalo Bills? Austin Mock 84 Bills Collectibles POWERED BY UNGRADED 2024 NFL Panini Donruss Optic Josh Allen #19 Team Logo /32 Buffalo Bills 1 available $399.99 View Listing UNGRADED 2024 Panini Donruss - Downtown! Josh Allen #2 1 available $600.00 View Listing UNGRADED 2022 Flawless NFL Josh Allen GOLD /25 Relic Buffalo BILLS QB #PJA Patch Encased 1 available $550.00 View Listing GRADED 2018 Panini Prizm Silver Josh Allen RC #205 GM 10 Buffalo Bills Rookie Card 1 available $449.50 View Listing Trevor Lawrence settles in, Puka Nacua keeps producing, more Week 4 thoughts: Quick Outs Lawrence has found renewed life in Liam Coem's scheme, while Nacua keeps leveling up his game. Derrik Klassen 13 Why Jackson Hawes might be the Bills' future at tight end The fifth-round pick has becoming the most impactful rookie this season. Joe Buscaglia 53 Advertisement Which 2025 NFL Draft picks have excelled so far? Our early All-Rookie Team Emeka Egbuka, Abdul Carter and Carson Schwesinger are among the early standouts from this year's draft class. Dane Brugler 155 NFL MVP odds: Josh Allen pulls ahead after Lamar Jackson injury Josh Allen is the clear favorite, but the contenders are shuffling. Hannah Vanbiber 46 Super Bowl odds: Bills build a sizable lead while the second tier shrinks The Bills are gaining separation as the favorite to win the Super Bowl while the Chiefs made a move this week. Scott Phillips 7 NFL Week 5 Power Rankings: Ravens' fall continues, Giants head over heels after first win The Week 5 NFL Power Rankings find the Eagles and Bills still on top, with the Ravens falling. A surprising win has the Giants on the rise. Josh Kendall and Chad Graff 269 The Satchel: Submit your Bills questions to Tim Graham Submit your Bills questions to Tim Graham. Tim Graham 102 Cole Bishop's interception revives Bills as they remain undefeated: 'Just hell of a play by him' Bishop's play helped spark a Bills defense that had been struggling against the winless Saints. Joe Buscaglia 44 Advertisement James Cook's hot start shows he was worth the money: 'It's something special' Cook is proving he was right to demand what some considered too much. Tim Graham 27 Saints-Bills takeaways: Josh Allen accounts for 3 TDs as Buffalo remains undefeated Allen led the Bills on a four-play, 60-yard drive in the fourth quarter to pull away from the Saints The Athletic NFL Staff 65 Bills might have best chance at elusive No. 1 seed this season, plus a look at Saints matchup The Bills have long coveted the No. 1 seed and all that comes with it. Joe Buscaglia 49 What's trending in the NFL: 5 reasons to hop on the Detroit Lions bandwagon Why the two-time defending NFC North champions still feel like an underdog story to root for. Saad Yousuf 48 NFL Week 4 picks against the spread: Why Titans-Texans is the game of the week Do we dare pick the Titans (again) in a battle of 0-3 teams? Meanwhile, we like a Ravens bounceback and Bengals upset at Mile High. Vic Tafur 86 Are 49ers, Chargers really Super Bowl contenders? NFL Projection Model ranks 3-0 teams Austin Mock's NFL Projection Model provides a look at each undefeated team's chance to make the playoffs. Austin Mock 71 Advertisement Bills defense can't get off field on third downs; zooming in and out on the issues Some of the struggles have come from using inexperienced players. Joe Buscaglia 71 Which NFL teams have the best front offices? Head coaches and execs cast their votes We asked 29 coaches and executives for the "who" and the "why" when it comes to the league’s best in football operations. Jeff Howe 508 Super Bowl odds: Ravens don't wobble at 1-2 while surprise 3-0 contenders rise Three unexpected contenders remain undefeated, but the top five in Super Bowl odds have staying power. Hannah Vanbiber 34 Week 4 NFL Power Rankings: 49ers, Bears rise as injuries take their toll on QBs Justin Herbert, Caleb Williams looked like stars in leading their teams to victory, but not every QB situation inspires as much confidence. Chad Graff and Josh Kendall 413 See More NFL Teams AFC East Bills Dolphins Jets Patriots AFC North Bengals Browns Ravens Steelers AFC South Colts Jaguars Texans Titans AFC West Broncos Chargers Chiefs Raiders NFC East Commanders Cowboys Eagles Giants NFC North Bears Lions Packers Vikings NFC South Buccaneers Falcons Panthers Saints NFC West 49ers Cardinals Rams Seahawks National Boxing Bundesliga Champions League Championship College Football College Sports Copa America Copa del Rey Cricket Culture Cycling Europa League European Championship FA Cup Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Basketball Fantasy Football Fantasy Hockey Fantasy Premier League FIFA Club World Cup FIFA Men&#x27;s World Cup FIFA Women&#x27;s World Cup Formula 1 Gaming Global Sports Golf International Football La Liga League Cup League One League Two Memorabilia &amp; Collectibles Men&#x27;s College Basketball Mixed Martial Arts MLB MLS Motorsports NASCAR NBA NFL NHL NWSL Olympics Opinion Peak Premier League Sailing Scottish Premiership Serie A Soccer Sports Betting Sports Business Tennis Top Sports News WNBA Women&#x27;s College Basketball Women&#x27;s Euros Women&#x27;s Hockey Women&#x27;s Soccer The Athletic Ink Podcasts Headlines US Arizona Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Buffalo Carolina Chicago Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Dallas Denver Detroit Houston Indiana Jacksonville Kansas City Las Vegas Los Angeles Memphis Miami Minnesota Nashville New Orleans New York Oklahoma Oregon Orlando Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento San Antonio San Diego Seattle St. Louis Tampa Bay Utah Washington DC Wisconsin Canada Calgary Edmonton Montreal Ottawa Toronto Vancouver Winnipeg Partners Collectibles by eBay Odds by BetMGM Streaming by Fubo Tickets by StubHub Subscribe Start Subscription Group Subscriptions HQ About Us Careers Code of Conduct Editorial Guidelines Business Inquiries Press Inquiries Support FAQ Forgot Password? Contact Us Terms of Service Newsletters The Pulse The Bounce The Windup Prime Tire Full Time Until Saturday Scoop City The Athletic FC MoneyCall Red Light © 2025 The Athletic Media Company, A New York Times Company Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Support RSS Sitemap