# 61621 Pitchfork Acquired By Conde Nast

**Source**: https://pitchfork.com/news/61621-pitchfork-acquired-by-conde-nast/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:59:31.191707+00:00

---

Pitchfork Acquired by Condé Nast | Pitchfork Skip to main content Open Navigation Menu Menu Newsletter Search Search News Reviews Best New Music Features Lists Columns Video Open Navigation Menu Menu Newsletter Search Search News Pitchfork Acquired by Condé Nast Pitchfork to join the company’s esteemed editorial brands, including Vogue , Vanity Fair , The New Yorker , GQ , and Wired By Pitchfork October 13, 2015 Save Story Save this story Save Story Save this story We have some very exciting news: Pitchfork has been acquired by Condé Nast , the media company that owns Vogue , Vanity Fair , The New Yorker , GQ , and Wired , among many other esteemed editorial brands, and we’re honored to join their family. This is an extraordinary moment for us. In February, Pitchfork will celebrate its 20th birthday. We launched in 1996, when online magazines barely existed, and the internet’s potential as a publishing platform was just becoming clear. Gradually, Pitchfork’s readership increased, and so did the scope of our coverage. We opened additional sections, providing a home for both emerging and seasoned voices. We started a music festival in Chicago , and another in Paris . We introduced video programming to the site in 2008, and ventured into the world of print with The Pitchfork Review in 2013. Each of these endeavors are now integral components of Pitchfork, and with Condé Nast’s experience and resources, all of them will have greater opportunities to grow and flourish. Condé Nast believes, as we do, that Pitchfork has built an editorial voice that stands strongly alongside its others, and that the integrity of that voice— and our opinions— are fundamental to our identity. We’re incredibly fortunate to have found in Condé Nast a group of people who share every aspect of our focus. Their 100+ years of experience in building brands marked by editorial integrity makes them a natural fit for Pitchfork, and their belief in what we do, combined with their additional expertise, will allow us to extend our coverage across all platforms while remaining true to the ideals that have made Pitchfork the most trusted voice in music. Thanks for reading; we’re excited to share what’s to come. Tags News The most trusted voice in music Instagram X Facebook YouTube Tiktok Video Lists &amp; Guides Podcast Masthead RSS Pitchfork Music Festival Chicago Pitchfork Music Festival London Pitchfork Music Festival Paris Pitchfork Music Festival CDMX All Events User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Newsletter RSS Feeds Contact Accessibility Help Advertising © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Pitchfork may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Entertainment