# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Journal%20of%20Family%20Psychology&title=Sibling%20effects%20on%20substance%20use%20in%20adolescence:%20Social%20contagion%20and%20genetic%20relatedness&author=R%20Rende&author=C%20Slomkowski&author=E%20Lloyd-Richardson&author=R%20Niaura&volume=19&issue=4&publication_year=2005&pages=611-618&pmid=16402876&doi=10.1037/0893-3200.19.4.611&
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:02:41.083933+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.03 sec) My profile My library Lookup [PDF] researchgate.net Sibling effects on substance use in adolescence: social contagion and genetic relatedness. R Rende, C Slomkowski… - Journal of Family …, 2005 - psycnet.apa.org R Rende, C Slomkowski, E Lloyd-Richardson , R Niaura Journal of Family Psychology, 2005 • psycnet.apa.org Prior research on sibling contagion for substance use has not attended to individual differences in the sibling relationship that may be influenced by genetic similarity. The authors utilizing data on a sample of twin and nontwin siblings participating in the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health (Add Health). Although monozygotic twins had the highest levels of sibling contact and mutual friendships, the pattern of results for other sibling types were not consistent with genetic models, and biometric analysis indicated that shared … Abstract Prior research on sibling contagion for substance use has not attended to individual differences in the sibling relationship that may be influenced by genetic similarity. The authors utilizing data on a sample of twin and nontwin siblings participating in the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health (Add Health). Although monozygotic twins had the highest levels of sibling contact and mutual friendships, the pattern of results for other sibling types were not consistent with genetic models, and biometric analysis indicated that shared environmental factors influenced these sibling relationship features. Application of DeFries-Fulker regression models provided evidence that sibling contact and mutual friendships represent a source of social contagion for adolescent smoking and drinking independent of genetic relatedness. The results are interpreted using a social contagion framework and contrasted with other competing models such as those focused on the equal environments assumption and niche selection.(PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2016 APA, all rights reserved) American Psychological Association Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 171 Related articles All 9 versions Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help