# Ed Yong

**Source**: https://www.theatlantic.com/author/ed-yong/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:42:54.656211+00:00

---

Ed Yong, The Atlantic Skip to content Site Navigation The Atlantic Popular Latest Newsletters Sections Politics Ideas Fiction Technology Science Photo Economy Culture Planet Global Books AI Watchdog Health Education Projects Features Family Events Washington Week Progress National Security Explore The Atlantic Archive Play The Atlantic Games Listen to Podcasts and Articles The Print Edition Latest Issue Past Issues Give a Gift Search The Atlantic Quick Links Audio Crossword Puzzle Magazine Archive Your Subscription Popular Latest Newsletters Sign In Subscribe Ed Yong Ed Yong is a former staff writer at The Atlantic . He won the Pulitzer Prize for Explanatory Reporting for his coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic. Ed is also the recipient of the George Polk Award for Science Reporting, as well as several other awards. He is the author of I Contain Multitudes , a New York Times best seller, and the forthcoming title An Immense World . Latest Fatigue Can Shatter a Person Everyday tiredness is nothing like the depleting symptom that people with long COVID and ME/CFS experience. Ed Yong July 27, 2023 María Medem Who’s the Cutest Little Dolphin? Is It You? Humans talk to their babies in a very particular way—and so do dolphins. Ed Yong June 26, 2023 Wild Horizons / Universal Images Group / Getty The Cancer-Drug Shortage Is Different Fourteen crucial chemotherapies are currently in shortage. Why does this keep happening? Ed Yong June 26, 2023 Justin Sullivan / Getty These Animals Shouldn’t Be Alive, Much Less Sprinting Snow flies have adapted to keep running in subzero temperatures, but their time is running out. Ed Yong May 31, 2023 Anne Sustar / The Atlantic. The Fight Over Animal Names Has Reached a New Extreme Forget changing only the names that honor the horrors of the past. Some biologists now argue no species should ever be named after a single individual. Ed Yong May 25, 2023 Photo-illustration by The Atlantic. Sources: Library of Congress; Getty. One of Evolution’s Biggest Moments Was Re-created in a Year A unique experiment shows how multicellular organisms might have evolved from single-celled ancestors. Ed Yong May 12, 2023 William Ratcliff The Sea-Urchin Murderer Has Finally Been Apprehended Most such mysteries go unsolved. But in this case, a crack team of scientists quickly found a culprit. Ed Yong April 24, 2023 Photo illustration by The Atlantic. Source: Ian Hewson / Cornell University. Long COVID Is Being Erased—Again What was once outright denial has morphed into a subtler dismissal. Ed Yong April 19, 2023 Illustration by Paul Spella / The Atlantic; Getty The Pandemic’s Legacy Is Already Clear All of this will happen again. Ed Yong September 30, 2022 The Atlantic Long COVID Has Forced a Reckoning for One of Medicine’s Most Neglected Diseases Only a couple dozen doctors specialize in chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS). Now their knowledge could be crucial to treating millions more patients. Ed Yong September 26, 2022 Katie Martin / The Atlantic; Getty The Atlantic Daily Get our guide to the day’s biggest news and ideas, delivered to your inbox every weekday and Sunday mornings. See more newsletters Email Address Sign Up Your newsletter subscriptions are subject to The Atlantic&#x27;s Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions . Ideas That Matter Subscribe and support more than 160 years of independent journalism. Subscribe Popular Links About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Reprints &amp; Permissions Podcasts Radio Atlantic Good on Paper The David Frum Show How to Age Up Autocracy in America Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Atlantic Editions Newsletters Follow facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin flipboard About Our History Careers Contact Help Center Contact Us Atlantic Brand Partners Press Reprints &amp; Permissions Podcasts Radio Atlantic Good on Paper The David Frum Show How to Age Up Autocracy in America Subscription Purchase Give a Gift Manage Subscription Group Subscriptions Atlantic Editions Newsletters Follow facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin flipboard Site Information Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices privacy-options Advertising Guidelines Terms &amp; Conditions Terms of Sale Responsible Disclosure Site Map TheAtlantic.com © 2025 The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply