# R I P Gop How Trump Is Killing The Republican Party 20160518

**Source**: http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/r-i-p-gop-how-trump-is-killing-the-republican-party-20160518
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:57:01.621527+00:00

---

R.I.P., GOP: How Trump Is Killing the Republican Party &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo Politics R.I.P., GOP: How Trump Is Killing the Republican Party Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Politics R.I.P., GOP: How Trump Is Killing the Republican Party Donald Trump crushed 16 GOP opponents in one of the most appalling, vicious campaigns in history. His next victim? The entire Republican Party By Matt Taibbi Matt Taibbi Contact Matt Taibbi on X Forgiving Student Debt Alone Won’t Fix the Crisis Trump’s Gone, So What’s Next for the Democrats? Big Pharma’s Covid-19 Profiteers View all posts by Matt Taibbi May 18, 2016 I ndianapolis, Indiana, May 3rd, 2016, a little before 8:30 p.m. Texas Sen. Ted Cruz strode onstage beneath a gorgeous stained-glass relief in the city&#8217;s Union Station. The hall was doubling as a swanky bar for an upscale local hotel, and much of the assembled press was both lubricated and impatient. The primary had been called for Donald Trump more than an hour before. What was the holdup? &#8220;God bless the Hoosier State!&#8221; Cruz said to whoops and cheers after he finally emerged. He was surrounded by a phalanx of American flags, family members and his gimmick running mate of six and a half days, Carly Fiorina , who stared out at the crowd with her trademark alien-abducted smile. Cruz glanced back and forth across the room with that odd, neckless, monitor-lizard posture of his. He had to know the import of this moment. Nothing less than the future of the Republican Party had been at stake in the Indiana primary. A Cruz loss effectively meant ceding control of the once-mighty organization to Trump, a seemingly unrepentant non-Republican more likely to read Penthouse than the National Review. Before the vote, Cruz put it this way: &#8220;We are at the edge of a cliff, staring downward.&#8221; Now, Cruz was over that cliff, having been trounced 53 to 36 percent in his last-gasp effort to keep Trump from the nomination. In a detail the film-buff candidate Cruz would appreciate, he left Indiana with the same number of delegates as future senator John Blutarsky&#8217;s grade-point average in Animal House : zero-point-zero. Still, Cruz looked like he was ready for the &#8220;Was it over when the Germans bombed Pearl Harbor?&#8221; speech. He was going to fight. &#8220;Will we hold fast to our founding values of rewarding talent, hard work and industry?&#8221; he asked. &#8220;Or will we continue on that path of creeping socialism that incentivizes apathy and dependency?&#8221; The crowd roared. &#8220;Will we keep America safe from the threats of nuclear war and atomic terrorism?&#8221; he thundered. &#8220;Or will we pass on to future generations a land devastated and destroyed by the enemies of civilization?&#8221; Editor’s picks The 250 Greatest Albums of the 21st Century So Far The 100 Best TV Episodes of All Time The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century More raucous cheers. Cruz smiled. If he has a good quality, it is that he&#8217;s not easily deterred by criticism. As he took the stage that night, he surely knew that former Speaker of the House John Boehner had recently called him &#8220;Lucifer in the flesh,&#8221; and that fellow senator Lindsey Graham had said, &#8220;If you kill Ted Cruz on the floor of the Senate, and the trial was in the Senate, nobody could convict you.&#8221; Likewise, when it was revealed Cruz once stated that one has no inherent right to &#8220;stimulate one&#8217;s genitals,&#8221; his college roommate Craig Mazin popped up to call him a hypocrite who&#8217;d whacked it plenty in college. During the campaign, surprising numbers of Americans were even willing to believe Cruz might also be the Zodiac Killer. The infamous Bay Area murders began two years before Cruz was born, but 38 percent of Floridians at one point believed Cruz either was or might be the Zodiac.&nbsp; R.I.P., GOP: How Trump Is Killing the Republican Party , Page 1 of 10 Page 2 Sign Up In this article: Bernie Sanders, Carly Fiorina, David Brooks, Donald Trump, Economy, Election 2016, GOP, Hillary Clinton, Jeb Bush, Mitt Romney, Paul Ryan, Republican National Convention, Republicans, Ronald Reagan, Ted Cruz Politics Politics News More News ‘Swiftboating’ Is Beyond Dirty Politics Commentary By Michael Embrich ‘Hostage Taking’: Trump Is Hurting Americans to Force Dems to Cave on Shutdown Out of Office By Nikki McCann Ramirez Welcome to Portland, Where Trump's Fever Dream Is America's New Nightmare &#039;Life During Wartime&#039; By Tim Dickinson Dem Says Mike Johnson Is Delaying Her Swearing-In to Prevent Epstein Vote Meeting the Threshold By Nikki McCann Ramirez Jen Psaki on Kimmel, Kamala, and Trump’s ‘Incredibly Fragile Ego’ Q+A By Tim Dickinson Read more A Peek Behind the Curtain: Inside Taylor Swift's Glitzy 'Official Release Party of a Showgirl' Release Party 40 minutes ago Abbey Road Music Photography Awards Unveil 2025 Winners Best Moments 43 minutes ago Trent Reznor And Atticus Ross’ Future Ruins Fest Cancelled Over 'Logistical Challenges' Called Off 1 hour ago Sean Combs Sentenced to Over 4 Years in Prison Diddy Trial 4 hours ago Top stories newsletter A Cultural Force That Transcends Generations Enter your Email By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Go to PMC.com Most Popular J.K. Rowling Slams &#039;Ignorant&#039; Emma Watson as Their Rift Intensifies; Author Claims Watson Once Wrote Her a Note Expressing Sympathy Over Anti-Trans Backlash Bill Burr Defends Performing at Controversial Riyadh Comedy Festival: &quot;They&#039;re Just Like Us&quot; Insider Claims Nicole Kidman &amp; Keith Urban&#039;s Separation Is &#039;One-Sided&#039; Federal Judge Denies Motion to Dismiss by Kasseem ‘Swizz Beatz’ Dean in 1MDB Scandal Case You might also like ‘Good Boy’ Review: Telling a Ghost Story From a Dog’s POV, Ben Leonberg Teaches an Old Genre Some Nifty New Tricks 6 hours ago 19 Breast Cancer Products That Are Helpful for Patients &amp; Survivors 3 hours ago ‘Anemone,’ ‘After the Hunt’ Shake Up New York Film Festival as ‘One Battle’ Heads Into Second Weekend — Screen Talk 33 minutes ago NFL on Record Pace as TV/Streaming Windows Grow 8% to 20M Viewers 1 minute ago Rolling Stone Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture Staff Contact Advertise Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Use AdChoices PMC Entertainment California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Accessibility Policy on Anonymous Sources Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Newsletter Signup Enter Your Email Subscribe Got a Hot News Tip? We want to hear it. Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Rolling Stone is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 Rolling Stone, LLC. All rights reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Log In Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Music News Features Lists Album Reviews Live Reviews Artists You Need To Know Songs You Need To Know RS Country RS Latin Politics News Features Lists TV &amp; Movies News Features Lists Recaps Reviews Video &amp; Photos Photos Videos The Cover Musicians on Musicians RS LIVE Culture News Features Lists Creators RS Gaming RS Films RS Recommends Reviews RS Essentials RS Audio Awards Gift Guides Culture Council Subscription Icon Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Alerts &amp; Newsletters Email Address By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. ad