# Jason Isaacs Flashing Scene The White Lotus Kimmel 1235411025

**Source**: https://www.rollingstone.com/tv-movies/tv-movie-news/jason-isaacs-flashing-scene-the-white-lotus-kimmel-1235411025/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:24:32.023475+00:00

---

Jason Isaacs Says a &#039;Second Flashing&#039; Was Cut From &#039;The White Lotus&#039; &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo TV &amp; Movies Jason Isaacs Says There Was a ‘Second Flashing’ Scene Cut From ‘The White Lotus’ Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Exposed Jason Isaacs Says There Was a ‘Second Flashing’ Scene Cut From ‘The White Lotus’ The actor admitted that his character’s full frontal moment on the HBO series was meant to be longer By Emily Zemler Emily Zemler Dave Chappelle Says &#8216;It&#8217;s Easier to Talk&#8217; in Saudi Arabia Than the U.S. Watch Addison Rae Showcase &#8216;Diet Pepsi&#8217; on &#8216;Fallon&#8217; The Yardbirds Co-Founder Chris Dreja Dead at 79 View all posts by Emily Zemler August 19, 2025 Jason Isaacs on ‘Jimmy Kimmel Live.’ YouTube/Jimmy Kimmel Live Jason Isaacs appeared on Jimmy Kimmel Live to discuss his Emmy nomination for The White Lotus and guest host Tiffany Haddish did her best to get him to talk about his full frontal nude scene. The actor has previously been reluctant to be part of the conversation about the scene, which involved his character Timothy Ratliff accidentally exposing himself to his children, played by Patrick Schwarzenegger, Sam Nivola, and Sarah Catherine Hook. But Haddish remained fixated on whether or not it was a prosthetic, even spraying Isaacs with water when he seemed to dodge her questions. &#8220;It made another appearance,&#8221; Isaacs revealed after Haddish sprayed him and said &#8220;I want to know about the penis!&#8221; He noted that it was &#8220;funnier the second time&#8221; because the kids yelled, &#8220;Dad, put it away!&#8221; &#8220;But the rest of the scene didn&#8217;t work,&#8221; Isaacs recalled. &#8220;And I said, &#8216;Mike, you cut my second dick [scene].&#8221; The actor affirmed that creator Mike White didn&#8217;t keep both scenes in the episode, but delighted Haddish by being willing to discuss his penis. &#8220;You never can talk about penis too much with me,&#8221; she told him. In March, after the episode in question aired, many viewers speculated about whether it was Isaacs&#8217; real member or a prosthetic. In an interview with&nbsp; CBS Mornings , Isaacs addressed the conversation around his character&rsquo;s body part being shown on TV while also dodging anchor Gayle King&rsquo;s question about whether it was actually prosthetic. A lot of people are debating it. It&rsquo;s all over the internet,&rdquo; Isaacs&nbsp; said . &ldquo;And it&rsquo;s interesting because the best actress this year is&nbsp;Mikey Madison at the Oscars. And I don&rsquo;t see anybody discussing her vulva, which was on television all the time&#8230; I think it&rsquo;s interesting that there&rsquo;s a double standard for men. But when women are naked &mdash; Margaret Qualley as well, in&nbsp; The Substance , nobody would dream of talking to her about her genitalia or her nipples or any of those things. So, it&rsquo;s odd that there&rsquo;s a double standard when it comes to discussing [this].&rdquo; The actor later clarified his comments and apologized. &ldquo;I said the wrong words in the wrong way. I used the phrase &lsquo;double standard,&rsquo; which I didn&rsquo;t mean at all,&rdquo; he told&nbsp; Variety . &ldquo;There is a [different] double standard &mdash; women have been monstrously exploited and men haven&rsquo;t.&rdquo; Trending Stories Taylor Swift Conquers Her Biggest Stage Ever on ‘The Life of a Showgirl’ Hayley Williams Confirms Morgan Wallen Is the ‘Racist Country Singer’ She Sings About Taylor Swift’s ‘The Life of a Showgirl’ Is Officially Here He Grew Obsessed With an AI Chatbot. Then He Vanished in the Ozarks He added, &ldquo;I absolutely should not have mentioned those two actresses, whom I respect enormously. Mikey Madison I&rsquo;m a massive fan of. My point wasn&rsquo;t that men have had a harder time than women &mdash; that would be absurd. Women have had a monstrous time on camera forever, and I hope to God that is changing.&rdquo; For what it&#8217;s worth, Nivola and Hook confirmed &nbsp;to TV Insider that, yes, Isaacs did wear a prosthetic. And he seemed to like wearing it. &ldquo;It was a prosthetic,&rdquo; added Hook. &ldquo;He was very excited to do it. I think he took pride in the prosthetic.&rdquo; Nivola added, &ldquo;He&rsquo;s like, &lsquo;It&rsquo;s my fake dick scene today!&rsquo;&rdquo; In this article: HBO, Jason Isaacs, Jimmy Kimmel Live, Late-Night TV, Mike White, The White Lotus, Tiffany Haddish TV &amp; Movies TV &amp; Movies News More News Jane Goodall Talks Life, Death, Putting Trump on a Spaceship in 'Famous Last Words' Interview Final Statement By Jon Blistein Who Wants to See Cillian Murphy Have a Nervous Breakdown? Movie Review By David Fear How Did a Documentary on George Orwell Become the Scariest Movie of 2025? Movie Review By David Fear Bill Burr Defends Riyadh Comedy Fest Performance, Details ‘Mind-Blowing’ Experience ‘Just Like Us’ By Charisma Madarang ‘Hero for the Planet’: Leonardo DiCaprio Writes Tribute to ‘Dear Friend’ Jane Goodall ‘Carry the Torch’ By Charisma Madarang Read more Trent Reznor And Atticus Ross’ Future Ruins Fest Cancelled Over 'Logistical Challenges' Called Off 56 minutes ago Sean Combs Sentenced to Over 4 Years in Prison Diddy Trial 4 hours ago Tomorrow X Together on Their New Era, Contract Renewal, and What the Future Holds Exclusive 5 hours ago Eric Dane Missed the 2025 Emmys Because of a Head Injury That Required Stitches Ouch 5 hours ago Top stories newsletter A Cultural Force That Transcends Generations Enter your Email By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Go to PMC.com Most Popular J.K. Rowling Slams &#039;Ignorant&#039; Emma Watson as Their Rift Intensifies; Author Claims Watson Once Wrote Her a Note Expressing Sympathy Over Anti-Trans Backlash Bill Burr Defends Performing at Controversial Riyadh Comedy Festival: &quot;They&#039;re Just Like Us&quot; Insider Claims Nicole Kidman &amp; Keith Urban&#039;s Separation Is &#039;One-Sided&#039; Federal Judge Denies Motion to Dismiss by Kasseem ‘Swizz Beatz’ Dean in 1MDB Scandal Case You might also like ‘Taylor Swift: The Official Release Party of a Showgirl’ Review: Taylor Swift Introduces the 12 Music Videos From ‘The Life of a Showgirl.’ But Only One of Them Is Great 3 hours ago 19 Breast Cancer Products That Are Helpful for Patients &amp; Survivors 2 hours ago ‘Anemone,’ ‘After the Hunt’ Shake Up New York Film Festival as ‘One Battle’ Heads Into Second Weekend — Screen Talk 1 hour ago NFL on Record Pace as TV/Streaming Windows Grow 8% to 20M Viewers 31 minutes ago Rolling Stone Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture Staff Contact Advertise Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Use AdChoices PMC Entertainment California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Accessibility Policy on Anonymous Sources Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Newsletter Signup Enter Your Email Subscribe Got a Hot News Tip? We want to hear it. Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Rolling Stone is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 Rolling Stone, LLC. All rights reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Log In Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Music News Features Lists Album Reviews Live Reviews Artists You Need To Know Songs You Need To Know RS Country RS Latin Politics News Features Lists TV &amp; Movies News Features Lists Recaps Reviews Video &amp; Photos Photos Videos The Cover Musicians on Musicians RS LIVE Culture News Features Lists Creators RS Gaming RS Films RS Recommends Reviews RS Essentials RS Audio Awards Gift Guides Culture Council Subscription Icon Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Alerts &amp; Newsletters Email Address By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. ad