# Taylor Swift Ticketmaster Eras Statement

**Source**: https://www.latimes.com/entertainment-arts/music/story/2022-11-18/taylor-swift-ticketmaster-eras-statement
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:38:24.448499+00:00

---

Taylor Swift blames Ticketmaster for fans&#x27; ticket meltdown - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing &amp; Homelessness Politics Science &amp; Medicine World &amp; Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor &amp; Workplace Real Estate Technology and the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing &amp; Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate &amp; Environment Global Warming Water &amp; Drought Entertainment &amp; Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 best restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art &amp; Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health &amp; Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel &amp; Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World &amp; Nation Immigration &amp; the Border Israel-Hamas Mexico &amp; the Americas Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios Business • AI &amp; Tech • Banking &amp; Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Goods &amp; Retail • Healthcare &amp; Science • Law Dentists Decor &amp; Design Doctors &amp; Scientists Hot Property Live &amp; Well Orange County Pets The Hub: Rebuilding LA Travel Weddings &amp; Celebrations Newsletters Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Students &amp; Educators Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store L.A. Times Studios News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance &amp; Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? People on the Move Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Copyright © 2025, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Sections Tap to enable a layout that focuses on the article. Focus mode Show Search Search Query Submit Search Advertisement Music Taylor Swift feels your pain: She likens fans’ Ticketmaster woes to ‘bear attacks’ Taylor Swift let loose on Ticketmaster on Friday after fans struggled this week to get Eras tour tickets. (Evan Agostini / Invision / Associated Press) By&nbsp; Christie D’Zurilla Staff Writer Follow Nov. 18, 2022 9:52 AM PT Share via Close extra sharing options Email Facebook X LinkedIn Threads Reddit WhatsApp Copy Link URL Copied! Print p]:text-cms-story-body-color-text clearfix mb-10 md:max-w-170 md:mx-auto" data-subscriber-content> Well. Taylor Swift is not happy with Ticketmaster. Not happy at all. Swift has finally spoken out about the ticketing disaster that played out this week as frustrated fans tried — and often failed — to buy tickets to the “1989” singer’s Eras concert tour. “Well. It goes without saying that I’m extremely protective of my fans,” she wrote in a statement posted Friday in her Instagram Stories . “We’ve been doing this for decades together and over the years, I’ve brought so many elements of my career in house. I’ve done this SPECIFICALLY to improve the quality of my fans’ experience by doing it myself with my team who care as much about my fans as I do.” Music More bad news for Swifties: Ticketmaster cancels Friday on-sale for Taylor’s Eras tour On Thursday, Ticketmaster released a statement meant to assuage fans shut out from purchasing Eras tickets. Next: a potential congressional investigation. Nov. 17, 2022 The implication? Ticketmaster doesn’t care about you like T-Swift cares about you. It was “excruciating” to watch the situation unfold this week, the singer-songwriter said, given that she had “no recourse” to improve it. Advertisement Friday’s planned public sale of Swift tickets was canceled Thursday due to “extraordinarily high demands on ticketing systems and insufficient remaining ticket inventory to meet that demand,” Ticketmaster said. That happened after people who registered in advance and got presale codes through the company’s “Verified Fan” process found themselves bumped out of line repeatedly as the Ticketmaster system crashed. Entertainment &amp; Arts Don’t fret, L.A.: Taylor Swift ticket sales just delayed due to ‘unprecedented demand’ Anyone who has already secured tickets for Taylor Swift’s Eras tour is good to go. But others on the West Coast will have to wait until 3 p.m. Nov. 15, 2022 “There are a multitude of reasons why people had such a hard time trying to get tickets and I’m trying to figure out how this situation can be improved moving forward,” Swift said. “I’m not going to make excuses for anyone because we asked them, multiple times, if they could handle this kind of demand and we were assured they could,” she said without ever mentioning Ticketmaster by name in her statement. “It’s truly amazing that 2.4 million people got tickets, but it really pisses me off that a lot of them feel like they went through several bear attacks to get them.” Advertisement Music Ticketmaster has Taylor Swift fans seeing red as Swifties get shut out of tour presale Taylor Swift announced her ‘Eras’ tour on Tuesday, but fans are already having trouble securing a spot for presale tickets. Here’s what they’re facing. Nov. 1, 2022 The “bear attacks” started weeks ago , when fans struggled even to register for possible presale access via the Verified Fan system. Then the West Coast presale was delayed for several hours Tuesday as Ticketmaster struggled to cope with demand. Ticketmaster explained the situation Thursday as it announced there would be no tickets going on sale to the public at large, as had been planned. The company blamed the situation on bots — and on the fans themselves. “[T]his time the staggering number of bot attacks as well as fans who didn’t have invite codes drove unprecedented traffic on our site, resulting in 3.5 billion total system requests — 4x our previous peak,” the company said. Advertisement “Never before has a Verified Fan on sale sparked so much attention — or uninvited volume. This disrupted the predictability and reliability that is the hallmark of our Verified Fan platform.” Entertainment &amp; Arts Don’t fret, L.A.: Taylor Swift ticket sales just delayed due to ‘unprecedented demand’ Anyone who has already secured tickets for Taylor Swift’s Eras tour is good to go. But others on the West Coast will have to wait until 3 p.m. Nov. 15, 2022 Swift set a record Tuesday for the most tickets sold after about 3.5 million people preregistered for the on-sale through the Verified Fan system. Ticketmaster said the typical turnout to buy tickets through this system is around 40%, and it waitlisted 2 million fans. In her note, Swift also spoke to those fans who wanted tickets but didn’t get them. “[M]y hope is to provide more opportunities for us to all get together and sing these songs,” she wrote. “Thank you for wanting to be there. You have no idea how much that means.” Times staff writer August Brown contributed to this report. More to Read FTC sues Ticketmaster and Live Nation over concert ticket resale practices Sept. 18, 2025 MLB ticket issues create entry delays at Dodger Stadium and other ballparks Sept. 8, 2025 FTC alleges group fraudulently flipped Taylor Swift seats on Ticketmaster Aug. 19, 2025 Music Entertainment &amp; Arts The biggest entertainment stories Get our big stories about Hollywood, film, television, music, arts, culture and more right in your inbox as soon as they publish. By continuing, you agree to our Terms of Service and our Privacy Policy . Enter email address Agree &amp; Continue Christie D’Zurilla Follow Us X Email Christie D’Zurilla is an assistant editor for entertainment news on the Fast Break team. A graduate of USC, she joined the Los Angeles Times in 2003 as a copy editor, started writing about celebrities in 2009 and has more than 36 years of journalism experience in Southern California. More From the Los Angeles Times Music If you like these tracks from ‘The Life of a Showgirl,’ try these Taylor Swift songs next Television Taylor Swift apparently has a lot to brag about with Travis Kelce (especially in bed) Oct. 3, 2025 Music Future Ruins, Nine Inch Nails’ film-music festival, is canceled Oct. 3, 2025 Music Before Taylor Swift rolled out ‘Father Figure,’ George Michael’s estate gave her props Oct. 3, 2025 Most Read in Music Music Taylor Swift’s ‘The Life of a Showgirl’ is an immaculate act of damage control Oct. 2, 2025 Music ‘This is the record that properly represents us’: Inside AFI’s journey to its definitive album Oct. 3, 2025 Music Mariah Carey and Michael Jackson did a duet, she says, but the world has to wait to hear to it Oct. 2, 2025 Music Hayley Williams says Morgan Wallen is the ‘racist country singer’ she refers to in her song Oct. 2, 2025 Subscribers are Reading For Subscribers Almost no one is building new apartments in Los Angeles. Here’s why L.A. Affairs: He roots for Trump and the Dodgers. Could we stay married? ‘Now there is nothing for us’: Towns disappear when wildfire survivors can’t rebuild How one man in East L.A. ended up with the world’s most famous feet He’s made the most incendiary movie of the year. But Paul Thomas Anderson remains an optimist Advertisement Latest Music Cannibal Corpse’s death 