# The Gop Clown Car Rolls On 20151117

**Source**: http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/the-gop-clown-car-rolls-on-20151117
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:15:29.377659+00:00

---

The GOP Clown Car Rolls On &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo Culture The GOP Clown Car Rolls On Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Culture The GOP Clown Car Rolls On On the campaign trail with the most dishonest, bumbling and underqualified pack of presidential candidates in history By Matt Taibbi Matt Taibbi Contact Matt Taibbi on X Forgiving Student Debt Alone Won’t Fix the Crisis Trump’s Gone, So What’s Next for the Democrats? Big Pharma’s Covid-19 Profiteers View all posts by Matt Taibbi November 17, 2015 Florida Sen. Marco Rubio is one of the few "plausible" establishment candidates in the GOP primary. Illustration by Victor Juhasz N ot one of them can win, but one must. That&#8217;s the paradox of the race for the 2016 Republican presidential nomination, fast becoming the signature event in the history of black comedy. Conventional wisdom says that with the primaries and caucuses rapidly approaching, front-running nuts Donald Trump and Dr. Ben Carson must soon give way to the &#8220;real&#8221; candidates. But behind Trump and Carson is just more abyss. As I found out on a recent trip to New Hampshire, the rest of the field is either just as crazy or as dangerous as the current poll leaders, or too bumbling to win. Disaster could be averted if Americans on both the left and the right suddenly decide to be more mature about this, neither backing obvious mental incompetents, nor snickering about those who do. But that doesn&#8217;t seem probable. Instead, HashtagClownCar will almost certainly continue to be the most darkly ridiculous political story since Henry II of Champagne, the 12th-century king of Jerusalem, plunged to his death after falling out of a window with a dwarf.&nbsp; Just after noon, Wednesday, November 4th. I&#8217;m in Hollis, New Hampshire, a little town not far from the Massachusetts border. The Hollis pharmacy is owned by Vahrij Manoukian, a Lebanese immigrant who is the former chairman of the Hillsborough County Republican Committee. If you come into his establishment looking for aspirin, you have to first survive dozens of pictures of the cannonball-shape businessman glad-handing past and present GOP hopefuls like Newt Gingrich, Rick Santorum and Rudy Giuliani. Primary season is about who most successfully kisses the asses of such local burghers, and the big test in Hollis today is going to be taken by onetime presumptive front-runner Jeb Bush . Despite its ideological decorative scheme, the Manoukian pharmacy has some charming small-town quirks you wouldn&#8217;t find in a CVS. There&#8217;s a section of beautiful handmade wooden toys, for instance. There&#8217;s also a pair of talkative parrots named Buddy and Willy perched near the cash registers. Editor’s picks The 250 Greatest Albums of the 21st Century So Far The 100 Best TV Episodes of All Time The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century While waiting for the candidate to arrive, I try to make conversation. &#8220;Who are you voting for this year?&#8221; &#8220;Hello,&#8221; says Willy. &#8220;Is Jeb Bush going to win?&#8221; &#8220; Rooowk! &#8221; the bird screeches, recoiling a little. It seems like a &#8220;no.&#8221; Bush comes in a moment later and immediately hears the birds squawking. A tall man, he smiles and cranes his head over the crowd in their direction. &#8220;Whose dog is that?&#8221; he cracks. Technically, that is the correct comic response, but the room barely hears him. For Bush, Campaign 2016 has been a very tough crowd.&nbsp; It&#8217;s hard to recall now, but a year ago, it appeared likely that Bush would be the Republican nominee. He had a lead in polls, and some Beltway geniuses believed Republican voters would favor &#8220;more moderate choices&#8221; in 2016, pushing names like Mitt Romney, Chris Christie and this reportedly &#8220;smarter&#8221; Bush brother to the top of the list. The GOP Clown Car Rolls On , Page 1 of 8 Page 2 Sign Up In this article: Election 2016, Jeb Bush, John Kasich, Marco Rubio, Republicans Culture (Sub)Culture News More News Dave Chappelle Says 'It's Easier to Talk' in Saudi Arabia Than the U.S. Oh the Irony By Tomás Mier and Emily Zemler Theo Von Addresses 'Choppy' Filmed Comedy Show: 'I'll Eat Failure for Breakfast' Being Honest By Tomás Mier Brennan Lee Mulligan Is Saving the World, One Dungeons and Dragons Game at a Time RS Gaming By Elisabeth Garber-Paul He Grew Obsessed With an AI Chatbot. Then He Vanished in the Ozarks Missing Person By Miles Klee Jane Goodall, Trailblazing Primatologist and Environmental Activist, Dead at 91 Obituary By Jon Blistein Read more Sean Combs Sentenced to Over 4 Years in Prison Diddy Trial 2 hours ago Tomorrow X Together on Their New Era, Contract Renewal, and What the Future Holds Exclusive 4 hours ago Eric Dane Missed the 2025 Emmys Because of a Head Injury That Required Stitches Ouch 4 hours ago Taylor Swift, Young Miko, Mariah the Scientist and All the Songs You Need to Know Songs You Need To Know 5 hours ago Top stories newsletter A Cultural Force That Transcends Generations Enter your Email By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Go to PMC.com Most Popular J.K. Rowling Slams &#039;Ignorant&#039; Emma Watson as Their Rift Intensifies; Author Claims Watson Once Wrote Her a Note Expressing Sympathy Over Anti-Trans Backlash Bill Burr Defends Performing at Controversial Riyadh Comedy Festival: &quot;They&#039;re Just Like Us&quot; Insider Claims Nicole Kidman &amp; Keith Urban&#039;s Separation Is &#039;One-Sided&#039; Federal Judge Denies Motion to Dismiss by Kasseem ‘Swizz Beatz’ Dean in 1MDB Scandal Case You might also like Tonatiuh on ‘Kiss of the Spider Woman’ and How He Wants Hollywood to See Him: ‘I’m Not a Latin Actor. I’m a Great Actor’ 4 hours ago 19 Breast Cancer Products That Are Helpful for Patients &amp; Survivors 1 hour ago ‘Anemone,’ ‘After the Hunt’ Shake Up New York Film Festival as ‘One Battle’ Heads Into Second Weekend — Screen Talk 2 hours ago NFL on Record Pace as TV/Streaming Windows Grow 8% to 20M Viewers 2 hours ago Rolling Stone Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture Staff Contact Advertise Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Use AdChoices PMC Entertainment California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Accessibility Policy on Anonymous Sources Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Newsletter Signup Enter Your Email Subscribe Got a Hot News Tip? We want to hear it. Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Rolling Stone is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 Rolling Stone, LLC. All rights reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Log In Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Music News Features Lists Album Reviews Live Reviews Artists You Need To Know Songs You Need To Know RS Country RS Latin Politics News Features Lists TV &amp; Movies News Features Lists Recaps Reviews Video &amp; Photos Photos Videos The Cover Musicians on Musicians RS LIVE Culture News Features Lists Creators RS Gaming RS Films RS Recommends Reviews RS Essentials RS Audio Awards Gift Guides Culture Council Subscription Icon Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Alerts &amp; Newsletters Email Address By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. ad