# S11121 006 0036 3

**Source**: https://doi.org/10.1007/s11121-006-0036-3
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:39:36.072886+00:00

---

Universality of Effects: An Examination of the Comparability of Long-Term Family Intervention Effects on Substance Use Across Risk-Related Subgroups | Prevention Science Skip to main content Log in Menu Find a journal Publish with us Track your research Search Cart Home Prevention Science Article Universality of Effects: An Examination of the Comparability of Long-Term Family Intervention Effects on Substance Use Across Risk-Related Subgroups Original Paper Published: 03 June 2006 Volume 7 , pages 209–224, ( 2006 ) Cite this article Prevention Science Aims and scope Submit manuscript Richard Spoth 1 , Chungyeol Shin 1 , Max Guyll 1 , Cleve Redmond 1 &amp; … Kari Azevedo 1 Show authors 817 Accesses 78 Citations 9 Altmetric Explore all metrics Abstract This study extends earlier investigation of family risk-related moderation of two brief, family-focused preventive interventions. It examines effects on the trajectories of substance initiation over a period of six years after a pretest assessment, evaluating whether effects were comparable across higher- and lower-risk subgroups. The two interventions, designed for general-population families of adolescents, were the seven-session Iowa Strengthening Families Program (ISFP) and the five-session Preparing for the Drug Free Years program (PDFY). Thirty-three rural public schools were randomly assigned to either the ISFP, the PDFY, or a minimal contact control condition. Curvilinear growth curve analyses were used to evaluate the universality of intervention effectiveness by testing for risk moderation of intervention effects on school-level substance use trajectories of initiation of alcohol and illicit substance use. Results were most consistent with the interpretation that both interventions provided comparable benefits for both outcome measures, regardless of family risk status. Findings are discussed in terms of their implications for implementing universal preventive interventions in general populations. This is a preview of subscription content, log in via an institution to check access. Access this article Log in via an institution Subscribe and save Springer+ from $39.99 /Month Starting from 10 chapters or articles per month Access and download chapters and articles from more than 300k books and 2,500 journals Cancel anytime View plans Buy Now Buy article PDF USD 39.95 Price excludes VAT (USA) Tax calculation will be finalised during checkout. Instant access to the full article PDF. Institutional subscriptions Fig. 1 Fig. 2 Similar content being viewed by others Family Risk and Protective Influences on Adolescent Substance Use in Global Context Chapter © 2024 Screening for Adolescent Risk Behaviors: Preliminary Evidence for a Family Functioning Tool Article 14 August 2023 Associations between Family Factors and Youth Substance Use Across the Rural-Urban Continuum: A Person-/Variable-Centered Approach Article 25 August 2023 Explore related subjects Discover the latest articles, books and news in related subjects, suggested using machine learning. Children, Youth and Family Policy Development across Lifespan Health Psychology Outcomes research Substance Abuse Disorder Systems or Family Therapy Notes For purposes of this study, analyses examining differential attrition across experimental conditions were extended to the 12th-grade follow-up assessment. Two 2 (Condition: Intervention vs. Control) × 2 (Attrition status: Attritted vs. Retained) analyses of variance (ANOVA) were conducted for each outcome measure, with one ANOVA focusing on PDFY-control comparisons and the other ANOVA focusing on ISFP-control comparisons. No significant Condition × Attrition status interaction effects were found for either of the outcome variables between the 6th grade pretest and the 12th-grade follow-up. At each of the six waves of data collection, the numbers of participating families who had also completed all possible preceding assessments from posttest through the final assessment were 551, 458, 419, 374, and 344, respectively, which corresponds to an average wave-to-wave retention rate of 87.7%. Over the six year course of the study, 28% of all respondents (23% ISFP, 35% PDFY, 27% control) made an inconsistent report on at least one of the three lifetime alcohol use items; 4% of all respondents (4% ISFP, 5% PDFY, 3% control) made an inconsistent report on at least one of the two lifetime illicit substance use items. Although inconsistent with assumptions for the specific statistical model used to analyze the reported results, parallel, exploratory analyses were conducted in which individual initiation scores were allowed to freely change across data collection waves. These analyses were performed to help gauge the robustness of the findings reported. The pattern of statistically significant results remained unchanged (see also Spoth, Redmond, &amp; Shin, 2001 ). For the purpose of our power analyses for both measures we used a minimal difference of 12-months of delay in initiation between the higher- and lower-risk subgroups as our criterion. We selected this criterion because there is a case to be made that a difference of less than 12 months would be of questionable practical significance. This conclusion is based on consideration of prevalence data from Grant and Dawson ( 1997 ) that links age of initiation during adolescence to the development of alcohol use disorders in adulthood. A 12-month difference between higher- and lower-risk groups would correspond to only about a 3% difference in the risk associated with developing an alcohol use disorder in the future for the current sample. It should also be noted that a 12 month difference represents only about half of the intervention effect when ignoring risk grouping on most initiation measures. We calculated the results of the school-level power analyses on the alcohol initiation measure for the range of 12–18 months of initiation delay. In the one-tailed case for ISFP they range from .75 to .95 and, for PDFY, they range from .68 to .93. Power was markedly lower for analyses focusing on illicit substance initiation, ranging from .16 to .25 for ISFP, and from .18 to .29 for PDFY. We considered the possibility of conducting analyses at the individual-level in order to attain greater power. However, conducting individual-level analyses was not desirable in this case, for two reasons. First, individual-level responses on the outcome variables were quite discontinuous in shape across time. That is, individual trajectories of use would often “jump” abruptly from one assessment to the next. Thus, the individual-level outcome data are not well described by growth curve trajectories in general, nor by the logistic growth curve used in the current analysis. As a result, the model provided a poor fit to the individual-level data. By contrast, school-level responses are formed by averaging the individual-level responses, a procedure that produces trajectories that are more continuous across time and better described by growth curve modeling. Second, the individual-level analyses actually possessed less statistical power due to the fact that there was much greater variation among individual-level responses than among school-level responses. That is, even though the individual-level analyses did tend to benefit power insomuch as they increased degrees of freedom, this gain was more than offset by the greater imprecision of the parameter estimates. More general results associated with the fitting of logistic growth curves to initiation outcome measures through six years following pretest—regardless of family risk status—are provided by Spoth, Redmond, Shin, and Azevedo ( 2004 ). To avoid undue lengthiness and to maintain focus on evaluating intervention-control differences in the context of lower- and higher-risk families, we do not reproduce those more general results, and instead refer the interested reader to the cited report. In comparison to linear trajectory models, greater care is required to correctly interpret the meaning of the parameters of S-shaped nonlinear trajectory models. For example, the lack of statistically significant intervention-control differences on parameters associated with maximum values (as captured by the parameters, α P and α S ) should not be interpreted as meaning that there were no intervention-control differences in the levels of substance use at the 12th grade (the final wave of data assessment). Rather, null findings for should be interpreted as meaning that the estimated growth trajectories of the two conditions will ultimately– at some later point in time –approach maximum limits that are not statistically different from each other. If one wishes to test for intervention and risk status effects on a particular outcome, it is necessary to appropriately adapt the traditional growth curve model, as described in the Appendix. References Achenbach, T. M., &amp; Edelbrock, C. (1983). Manual for the child behavior checklist and revised child behavior profile . Burlington, VT: Author. Google Scholar Akers, R. L. (1977). Deviant behavior: A social learning approach (2nd ed.). Belmont, CA: Wadsworth Press. Google Scholar August, G. J., Realmuto, G. M., Hektner, J. M., &amp; Bloomquist, M. L. (2001). An integrated components preventive intervention for aggressive elementary school children: The Early Risers program. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology , 69 (4), 614–626. Article PubMed CAS Google Scholar Azevedo, K., Redmond, C., Lillehoj, C., &amp; Spoth, R. L. (2003). Contradictions across in-school and in-home reports of adolescent substance use initiation . Poster presented at the Society for Prevention Research 11th Annual Meeting, Washington, DC. Baron, R. M., &amp; Kenny, D. A. (1986). The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: Conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , 51 , 1173–1182. Article PubMe