# 24048 Best Kale Salad Restaurant Style Trick

**Source**: https://food52.com/blog/24048-best-kale-salad-restaurant-style-trick
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:19:39.123468+00:00

---

This Restaurant-Style Kale Salad Will Change Your Mind About Kale Salad This Week&#x27;s Mood: Dinner &amp; a Movie This Week&#x27;s Mood: Dinner &amp; a Movie Schoolhouse Dansk Search Shop New Best Sellers Exclusively at Food52 Featured Makers Kitchen Kitchen Utensils &amp; Tools Kitchen Storage &amp; Organization Countertop Organization Food Storage Kitchen Linens Cutting Boards Coffee &amp; Tea Accessories Knives Cookware Frying Pans &amp; Skillets Baking &amp; Roasting Pans Dutch Ovens &amp; Stock Pots Sauce &amp; Saute Pans Cookware Sets Tabletop Dinnerware Glassware Table Linens Flatware &amp; Serving Utensils Serveware Outdoor Entertaining Home Organization &amp; Storage Cleaning &amp; Laundry Bath Towels &amp; Accessories Vases &amp; Decorative Objects Clocks &amp; Lighting Candles &amp; Candle Holders Planters Shop All Recipes Popular Quick and Easy 5 Ingredients or Fewer Cocktails Appetizers Ingredients Chicken Steak Salmon Pasta Potato Rice Meals &amp; Dishes Breakfast Lunch Dinner Salad Sweet Treats Lifestyle Vegetarian Vegan Gluten-Free Alcohol-Free Drinks Tools &amp; Techniques One Pot Sheet Pan No Bake Grill Life Travel Hosting &amp; Entertainment Parenting Pets Kitchen Sink Crafts &amp; Hobbies Community View All Food Recipes How To &amp; Hacks Meal Planning Baking Trending &amp; Seasonal Drinks Community Hotline View All Home Style &amp; Design Cleaning &amp; Organizing Outdoors Renovation Home Tours View All Watch Shop All Shop New Best Sellers Exclusively at Food52 Featured Makers Kitchen Kitchen Utensils &amp; Tools Kitchen Storage &amp; Organization Countertop Organization Food Storage Kitchen Linens Cutting Boards Coffee &amp; Tea Accessories Knives Cookware Frying Pans &amp; Skillets Baking &amp; Roasting Pans Dutch Ovens &amp; Stock Pots Sauce &amp; Saute Pans Cookware Sets Tabletop Dinnerware Glassware Table Linens Flatware &amp; Serving Utensils Serveware Outdoor Entertaining Home Organization &amp; Storage Cleaning &amp; Laundry Bath Towels &amp; Accessories Vases &amp; Decorative Objects Clocks &amp; Lighting Candles &amp; Candle Holders Planters Shop all Shop Recipes All Recipes Popular Quick and Easy 5 Ingredients or Fewer Cocktails Appetizers Ingredients Chicken Steak Salmon Pasta Potato Rice Meals &amp; Dishes Breakfast Lunch Dinner Salad Sweet Treats Lifestyle Vegetarian Vegan Gluten-Free Alcohol-Free Drinks Tools &amp; Techniques One Pot Sheet Pan No Bake Grill Life All Life Travel Hosting &amp; Entertainment Parenting Pets Kitchen Sink Crafts &amp; Hobbies Community Shop all Life Food All Food Recipes How To &amp; Hacks Meal Planning Baking Trending &amp; Seasonal Drinks Community Hotline Shop all Food Home All Home Style &amp; Design Cleaning &amp; Organizing Outdoors Renovation Home Tours Shop all Home Watch Account 0 Items in your Cart Your shopping cart is empty. Continue Shopping This Restaurant-Style Kale Salad Will Change Your Mind About Kale Salad Thanks to one simple trick. By Grant Melton Published On April 22, 2019 It’s not uncommon to feel as if you’ve seen every rendition of kale salad that exists. I’d certainly felt similarly for years—until recently, when I had the kale salad at Haven’s Kitchen , an all-day cafe/event space/cooking school/all around food lover’s paradise. This isn’t just another kale salad recipe. It changed my mind about kale salad. What makes it stand out is the clever technique that instantly transforms it into something extraordinary...or should I say eggs traordinary? (Because all you need are a couple eggs.) “I freaked. Honestly! It’s so simple,” said Ali Cayne, owner of Haven&#x27;s Kitchen, when she first learned of the clever method. “I&#x27;d never done it or heard of it, and it was mind-blowing.” Before you make any assumptions, know that this isn’t your typical put-a-fried-egg-on-top move. In this case, the lightly crisped, runny yolked eggs don’t go on the salad. They go in the salad. Join the conversation This isn’t just another kale salad recipe. It changed my *mind* about kale salad. Once the chopped greens are dressed and the salad is tossed with pretty much anything you like, a couple fried eggs go right on top. A second vigorous mix with a pair of tongs, allows the yolks to mix with the vinaigrette creating a rich, viscous dressing similar to a Caesar, only way easier. “The egg yolks help bind the salad together,” explained Haven&#x27;s Kitchen Chef Adi Fracchia, who’d relied on this pro-tip at home while craving a “yummy and satisfying but secretly healthy” dinner, but only had a few minutes to cook. In addition to being the magical ingredient in the creamy dressing, the warmth of the eggs wilt the kale slightly, tenderizing it without having to do a pre-dressing oil massage that many recipes suggest, not to mention they speckle the salad with little bits of salty fried eggs. The salad was such a hit with the Haven’s Kitchen staff that it occasionally appears on the seasonally rotating menu in the super-chic cafe. But the salad hasn’t just won the hearts of the HK crew and bustling cafe goers, it’s also a favorite of Cayne’s children. “They love eggs and the adventure of a fun dish that they get to hunt for stuff in. So finding the bits of fried egg white and cheese is fun for them,” says the mother of five. “They also love breadcrumbs when I have the bandwidth to make them.” You can make Chef Adi’s version with quick-pickled onions and garlicky thyme-flecked breadcrumbs or try the technique with a version of your own. And since the salad is so versatile, you can make it as simple or as sophisticated as you like. “Sometimes I just toss with olive oil, Parm, lemon zest, and Maldon,&quot; added Cayne. &quot;The yolk does the rest.” How do you make your kale salad? Tell, tell in the comments! Our best tips for eating thoughtfully and living joyfully, right in your inbox. Subscribe Company About Us DEI Vision Press Jobs Affiliate Program Get Help Contact &amp; FAQ Gift Cards Advertising Inquiries Social Facebook Instagram Pinterest TikTok YouTube © 2025 Food52, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Code of Conduct Accessibility Policy This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. When you visit our website, we collect and use personal information about you using cookies. You may opt out of selling, sharing, or disclosure of personal data for targeted advertising (called &quot;Do Not Sell or Share&quot; in California) by enabling the Global Privacy Control on a compatible browser. See our Privacy Policy for further information. Accept