# Heres Proof Some Pollsters Are Putting A Thumb On The Scale

**Source**: http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/heres-proof-some-pollsters-are-putting-a-thumb-on-the-scale/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:50:39.947286+00:00

---

Here&#8217;s Proof Some Pollsters Are Putting A Thumb On The Scale | FiveThirtyEight Skip to main content FiveThirtyEight Search Search ABC News Menu Here&#8217;s Proof Some Pollsters Are Putting A Thumb On The Scale Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Politics Sports Science Podcasts Video Interactives ABC News This is an archived site and is no longer being updated. New 538 articles can be found at www.abcnews.com/538. Nov. 14, 2014 , at 1:58 PM Here&#8217;s Proof Some Pollsters Are Putting A Thumb On The Scale By Nate Silver Filed under Polling It’s time to stop worrying about outliers and start worrying about inliers . Earlier this year, my colleague Harry Enten documented evidence of pollster “herding” — the tendency of polling firms to produce results that closely match one another, especially toward the end of a campaign. 1 What’s wrong with the polls agreeing with one another? The problem is that it’s sometimes a case of the blind leading the blind. Take a look at the polls conducted in this year’s Senate race in Iowa, for example: This chart depicts every likely voter poll conducted over the final nine weeks of the campaign and how each compared to the polling average at the time. (We’ll get into more detail about how this polling average is calculated later on.) In September, when many voters (and pollsters) were just tuning into the race, there was plenty of diversity in the Iowa polls. A Loras College poll completed on Sept. 5 put Democrat Bruce Braley ahead by almost 5 percentage points against Republican Joni Ernst. Just 10 days later, Quinnipiac University completed a poll showing Ernst up by 6 points instead. That would soon be followed by a Selzer &amp; Company poll for the Des Moines Register that had Ernst ahead by the same 6-point margin. By the end of the campaign, however, the polls were in much stronger agreement. Twelve of the final 13 surveys had the race at somewhere between a 1-point lead for Braley and a 4-point lead for Ernst — a tight consensus suggesting a narrow edge for the Republican. Even Quinnipiac had Iowa tied in its final poll . The lone exception was Selzer’s final poll for the Des Moines Register, which had Ernst up by 7 points — a result that pollster J. Ann Selzer would take an awful lot of grief about despite her stellar track record . Better ignore that “outlier” poll from Selzer, right? Nope, not in this case. Ernst ended up winning by 8.5 percentage points . Most polls correctly identified Ernst as the winner, but Selzer’s poll was the only one in the final days to come close to her margin of victory. It’s not the inaccuracy of the polling average that should bother you — Iowa was one of many states where the polls overestimated how well Democrats would do — so much as the consensus around such a wrong result. This consensus very likely reflects herding. In this case, pollsters herded toward the wrong number. In the Iowa chart, the shaded gray area represents the polling average plus or minus 3.5 percentage points. You can see how a number of polls fell outside the shaded area in September but that only the Selzer poll did in the final week or two of the race. The 3.5 point range is important because it reflects sampling error : the intrinsic, unavoidable uncertainty introduced by taking a random sample of voters rather than surveying the whole population. Specifically, it’s the standard error associated with a poll sampling 800 voters — the typical size of a Senate poll this year — in estimating the margin between the candidates. The standard error is not quite the same thing as the more familiar margin of error , but it gets at the same idea. 2 Whereas the “true” result 3 should fall within the margin of error 95 percent of the time, it should fall within the range established by the standard error about 68 percent of the time. This necessarily implies that about 32 percent of results should fall outside the standard error. 4 As I said, sampling error is unavoidable — an intrinsic part of polling. If you’ve collected enough polls and don’t find that at least 32 percent of them deviate from the polling average by 3.5 percentage points, 5 it means something funny — like herding — is going on. In fact, 32 percent is an optimistic estimate. It accounts for sampling error alone and not the other sources of uncertainty in polling . It’s hard to reach certain voters and hard to know who will turn out to vote , especially in midterm elections. News events can change the campaign after you’ve conducted your poll. But sampling error alone produces considerably noisier polling than you might expect. The next table (click to expand) consists of a series of simulations where I’ve conducted “polls” by drawing random numbers from a normal probability distribution with a standard error of 3.5 percentage points. To make things more familiar, I’ve calibrated the numbers so they’re distributed around an average that matches how the Senate polling looked late this year. In Iowa, for instance, the average has Ernst ahead by 2 percentage points and the standard error of 3.5 points is distributed around that number. People would have freaked out if some of these results were released in the end stages of this year’s campaign. Look at all those “outliers”: One poll has Republican Cory Gardner up by 8 points in Colorado. Another one has Democrat Mark Udall ahead by 4! Republican Bill Cassidy leads by 9 points in one Louisiana poll. But Democrat Mary Landrieu is leading in another! Two polls have the Democrat Michelle Nunn ahead in Georgia. Another has Republican David Perdue up 12 points! Are these polls skewed? No. This is exactly what polls should look like under ideal conditions — when sampling error is the only thing they have to worry about. Under real-world conditions, where there are other sources of uncertainty, the polls should vary even more than this. But by the end of the campaign this year, the polls in most states varied only within a narrow range. The next chart describes how much polls across all this year’s Senate races deviated from the polling average in their states at the time they were conducted. 6 The polling average is calculated as follows: Each new poll is compared against other polls of the same state conducted somewhere between one day and 21 days beforehand. 7 In calculating the average, I used a maximum of one poll (the most recent one) from each polling firm and didn’t compare a polling firm against itself. 8 These averages should closely resemble those from sites like Real Clear Politics . Note that they are trailing averages — they don’t reflect any data from after the poll was conducted. I’m limiting the analysis to cases where there had been at least three other polls conducted in the previous 21 days, enough that we have a reasonable sense of where the consensus stood on the race. There’s a lot going on in this chart, so let’s take a look and then talk about it. The gray circles represent the results of individual polls (about 300 of them). They show the absolute difference between the new poll and the polling average (without regard to whether the new poll was more Democratic- or Republican-leaning than the average). The data is noisy. But the red trend line, which is based on loess regression , 9 reflects how much polls were typically deviating from the polling averages. In early September, for example, the typical poll deviated from the polling average by about 3.5 percentage points. As the election season wore on, new polls hewed somewhat more closely to the polling averages. But the change was marginal until the final week or two of the campaign, when they started to track it much more closely. By the eve of the election, new polls came within about 1.7 percentage points of the polling average. Perhaps you could construct some rationale, apart from herding, for why the polls behaved this way. Maybe it became easier to predict who was going to vote and that made methodological differences between polling firms matter less. As a more technical matter, the volume of polling increased as the election approached; this presents some complications, which I address in the footnotes. 10 But there are two dead giveaways that herding happened. One is the unusual shape of the curve. Rather than abiding by a linear progression, it suddenly veers toward zero in the final week or so of the campaign. What happened during this period? It’s when pollsters were releasing their final polls of the campaign — the ones they think posterity will judge them by. These polls were included in the final Real Clear Politics averages and received a heavy weight in the final FiveThirtyEight forecast. The impolite way to put it is that this was CYA (cover-your-ass) time for pollsters. Some that had produced “outlier” results before suddenly fell in line with the consensus. The other giveaway is the one we discovered before in Iowa. By the end of the campaign, new polls diverged from the polling averages by less than they plausibly could if they were taking random samples and not tinkering with them. As I mentioned before, an 800-person poll has a standard error of 3.5 percentage points because of sampling error alone. A related calculation is the average error introduced by sampling. As a rule of thumb, the average error is equal to about 80 percent of the standard error — or in this case, about 2.8 percentage points. This is the theoretical limit on how accurate polls can be. Even if pollsters knew, for instance, that David Perdue would win by exactly 7.9 percentage points in Georgia (as he did), they’d still miss this result by 2.8 points on average when collecting 800-person samples. In fact, however, the new polls deviated from the polling average by less than 2 points by the end of the campaign. How did that happen? To be clear, I’m not accusing any pollsters of faking results. But some of them were probably “putting their thumbs on the scale,” manipulating assumptions in t