# 18Mag Edexperiences.Html

**Source**: http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2011/09/18/magazine/18mag-edExperiences.html?ref=magazine
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:50:17.138565+00:00

---

The Educational Experiences That Change a Life - NYTimes.com Home Page Today&apos;s Paper Video Most Popular Times Topics Search All NYTimes.com Magazine World U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Sports Opinion Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos comments Published: September 14, 2011 The Education Issue The Educational Experiences That Change a Life The intellectual glamour couple of Oak Forest High, Frank Lloyd Wright&#x2019;s Baghdad, a draconian English boarding school ... &#xA0; &#xA0; Michael Bloomberg &#xA0; &#xA0; Zaha Hadid &#xA0; &#xA0; Lewis Lapham &#xA0; &#xA0; Caterina Fake &#xA0; &#xA0; Robert Storr &#xA0; &#xA0; Junot Diaz &#xA0; &#xA0; Michelle A. Rhee &#xA0; &#xA0; Pico Iyer &#xA0; &#xA0; David Leonhardt &#xA0; &#xA0; Gay Talese &#xA0; &#xA0; Wes Anderson &#xA0; &#xA0; Amy Klein &#xA0; &#xA0; Patterson Hood &#xA0; &#xA0; Lisa Randall &#xA0; &#xA0; George Saunders Spencer Tucker Saturday Morning at the Museum By Michael Bloomberg , Mayor, New York City When I was growing up, Saturday mornings meant one thing only to me: a trip to the Boston Museum of Science. I loved science &#x2014; still do &#x2014; and there was nowhere else I&#x2019;d rather be. The museum&#x2019;s instructors would give these fascinating two-hour lectures and demonstrate the laws of physics using hands-on experiments. They would also quiz us on the museum&#x2019;s exhibits, and all the kids would try to show off by having every answer. Those visits to the museum stretched my mind in ways that my schoolwork didn&#x2019;t. They taught me to listen, question, test and analyze. Figuring out how things work &#x2014; and how they can work better &#x2014; is what led me to become an engineer, a technology entrepreneur, a philanthropist and a mayor. I guess I can count my lucky stars that there were no Saturday morning cartoons when I was kid. Philip Sinden A Liberal Nun in Baghdad By Zaha Hadid , architect The teachers who taught sciences in the school I went to when I was growing up in Baghdad were all from the university, and so the levels of the science courses were really incredible. The headmistress, who was a nun, was very interested in the education of women, so in a way she was a kind of pioneer in that part of the world. We were all these girls from different religions &#x2014; Muslim, Christian, Jewish &#x2014; we had no ideas what our religions were. As in so many places in the developing world at the time, the &#x2019;60s, there was an unbroken belief in progress and a great sense of optimism. People respected history but also believed in liberating themselves from the pressure of history. They were creating a new Arab state &#x2014; democratic, liberal, open to education, and that carried with it also an interest in building. One reason I became interested in architecture is that I remember being taken to an exhibition &#x2014; I was only 6 or 7 years old, but I remember seeing models and things &#x2014; of Frank Lloyd Wright&#x2019;s plan for Baghdad. Matthew Septimus The Price of Fur in Byzantium By Lewis Lapham , editor, Lahpham&apos;s Quarterly I don&#x2019;t now remember the name of the don assigned to conduct my first tutorial at Cambridge University in the autumn of 1956, but I remember the setting &#x2014; late-afternoon fog, coals burning in an ancient grate, the don in academic gown seated behind a silver tea service. Five months earlier I graduated from Yale University with the intention of becoming a licensed historian who could be counted upon to attach the name of a dead poet or an unhorsed king to the appropriate zeitgeist. My tutor was delighted to learn of my ambition. Great news, he said, but maybe you could spare a few moments for the 12th century? I managed to sustain the illusion of scholarship for about the length of time it takes to see five deals of blackjack. When I exhausted my supply of talking points, the tutor poured us both a second cup of tea, and for the next quarter of an hour, he asked questions about aspects of the 12th century that I had possibly overlooked. In Byzantium, for instance, the prices bid and asked for Russian fur and Christian slaves? My failure to hazard even so much as a plausible guess moved the don to a murmur of mild regret. Yes, well, he said, you Americans have this wonderful talent for broad statement and grand abstraction that hasn&#x2019;t been granted to their poorer cousins here in England. Before reaching the general theory, you see, we like to have in hand a passing acquaintance with at least some of the facts. Richard Morgenstein Smaller, Better By Caterina Fake , co-founder, Flickr and Hunch When I was 9 and 10 years old, there was a program in the New Jersey public schools for &#x201C;gifted children.&#x201D; Several afternoons a week, we would be excused from our regular classrooms and go to a separate room with a separate teacher, Mrs. Lachel. One semester I wrote and directed a play, cast it, designed costumes, built sets and finally performed it for the whole school. Another time Mrs. Lachel and I joined a parapsychological society, then devised tests for telepathy and tested all the teachers and principals. (We found no evidence of psychic ability.) The program was cut due to lack of funding, and by middle school I was back in the regular classes of roughly 25 students to a teacher. I continued to accumulate A&#x2019;s, cutting classes whenever I could, learning nothing. It is because of the experience I had in the gifted program that I decided to home-school my daughter. That model &#x2014; an adult serving a small number of children, helping them learn what they themselves want to learn &#x2014; seemed the best, and maybe only, way to learn. I have little recollection of what I was taught in my class of 25, but I remember everything I learned in my class of 3. Lyle Ashton Harris The Lifelong Incomplete By Robert Storr , artist and critic Back in the 1960s Bruno Bettelheim gave a talk to my senior class in high school. He explained that in prewar Vienna he studied several subjects in depth as a graduate student &#x2014; chiefly art and philosophy, as I recall &#x2014; but each time stopped short of completing the final requirements because doing so would have decided his professional fate prematurely, given his many intense interests. (Hitler then prevented his receiving a doctorate in psychology, his ultimate field.) He told us to beware of committing to anything until we knew for sure what we wanted to be, but recommended that we set out to become dedicated ABD (all-but-degree) students of everything that excited our minds. Biographers say that Bettelheim was a compulsive fabulist, but I am grateful for his insight even if the story he told wasn&#x2019;t true. His example &#x2014; fictional or real &#x2014; was more useful to me than all the &#x201C;practical&#x201D; advice I was given. Luis Blackaller In Mrs. Crowell&apos;s Library By Junot Diaz , author I remember her as a small woman, but what do I know? I was small myself. She&#x2019;s in none of the official photographs I have from my elementary-school days, but in my memory, my first librarian is a gentlewhitewoman who wore glasses and was exceedingly kind to this new immigrant. I do not remember her voice, but I do remember that every time I saw her, she called me to her desk and showed me with an almost conspiratorial glee a book she had picked out for me, a book I always read and often loved. Every now and then you get lucky in your education and you make a teacher-friend; Mrs. Crowell was my first. By second grade she was allowing me to take out more books than the prescribed limit. By third grade I was granted admission to her librarian&#x2019;s office. My love of books was born of hers. As a newcomer with almost no knowledge of the country in which I&#x2019;d found myself, I was desperate to understand where the hell I was, who I was. I sought those answers in books. It was in Mrs. Crowell&#x2019;s library that I found my first harbor, my first truly safe place in the United States. I still feel a happy pulse every time I see a library. I&#x2019;m with Borges in imagining Paradise as &#x201C;a kind of library.&#x201D; Where instead of angels there will be a corps of excellent librarians. Randy Sager Calvin in Motion By Michelle A. Rhee , founder and chief executive, Students First When I was teaching second grade in Baltimore, there was an adorable but disruptive boy in my class named Calvin. He talked over me, talked over his friends and couldn&#x2019;t participate in an appropriate way. I was constantly urging him to sit still and be quiet, and I even held one of those awfully serious what-do-we-do meetings with his father. Nothing worked. Until the day I put a dustpan in Calvin&#x2019;s hand. It all started when he threw a pile of pencil-&#xAD;sharpener shavings all over the room during story time. I gave Calvin the dustpan and a brush and told him to clean up the mess. Then, I proceeded with the story. As I read, I heard Calvin mumbling while he twirled around with that dustpan. After a few minutes, to my astonishment, I realized Calvin was answering my questions about the story. He sounded like a model student. Never before had I imagined that I would get Calvin on task by telling him to do an activity that was entirely unrelated to my lesson. Because Calvin was a kinesthetic kid, or a physical learner, he could only focus on school if he was up and moving. From that day on, Calvin would play with manipulative toys and sometimes even take a lap around the classroom while I was instructing. He taught me that all kids learn in wildly different ways and that all children are reachable and teachable. Derek Shapton Boarding-School Blues By Pico Iyer , author Older boys were allowed to beat younger ones at my 15th-century English boarding school, and every boy had to run a five-mile annual steeplechase through the sludge and rain of an October day, as horses d