# How To Live Your Best Vanlife

**Source**: https://www.theverge.com/2017/9/15/16311668/how-to-live-your-best-vanlife
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:02:09.516935+00:00

---

How to live your best #vanlife | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. How to live your best #vanlife Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech Gadgets Close Gadgets Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Gadgets Circuit Breaker Close Circuit Breaker Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Circuit Breaker How to live your best #vanlife Brent Rose has lived in a van for over two years. Here’s what made it possible. If you buy something from a Verge link, Vox Media may earn a commission. See our ethics statement. by Brent Rose Close Brent Rose Last published Apr 24 Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Brent Rose Sep 15, 2017, 3:34 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads If you buy something from a Verge link, Vox Media may earn a commission. See our ethics statement. Once upon a time I went through a breakup and it sucked very much, thank you. We&rsquo;d been living together for five years, and when it came time to figure out where I wanted to live next, I realized that I didn&rsquo;t want to commit to an apartment, a city, or even a state. So, instead, I bought a van . It was a 2006 Freightliner Sprinter that was already converted into a small Class B RV by Gulf Stream, model name Vista Cruiser G24. After five months of exhaustive research, it was the only van I could find that had the exact layout I was looking for. But as a writer that covers a lot of tech and gadgets, I knew that if I wanted to be able to continue working from the road (mandatory), I was going to have to make some modifications so it could keep up with my geeky lifestyle. And if I was going to be living in it full time, I wanted it to have as many creature comforts as possible. So I made some upgrades. A lot of upgrades. By the time I hit the road on July 15th, 2015 for a road trip that I would call Connected States , my van (Ashley &ldquo;The Beast&rdquo;) was properly equipped, and it&rsquo;s continued to evolve. I&rsquo;m now more than two years in and I&rsquo;ve learned a lot over that time. The following is my list of the best gear for #vanlife. Note: because the van I ended up buying was already converted, it already had the basics included. We&rsquo;re talking about a bed, a fridge and microwave, a toilet, shower, and sink, plus holding tanks for fresh, gray, and black water. These things are obviously important but the focus of this piece is on upgrades beyond the basics. Photo by Brent Rose for The Verge First step: Power up The first and largest upgrade I made was an overhaul the electrical system. It was the single most expensive addition, but also the most worth it. (This upgrade cost about one-fifth of what I paid for the van itself. Ouch.) Because this dealt with drilling, running wires behind panels, and things that could catch fire and/or explode if done improperly, I decided to have professionals do it, and I took the van to AM Solar in Springfield, OR. They were reputed to be the best in all the forums I&rsquo;d read, and they did not disappoint. They managed to squeeze two 160 watt solar panels onto my roof, for a total of 320 watts. Not at all bad for a smaller rig. The power runs down into an extremely beefy 3000 watt hybrid Magnum Energy inverter/charger , and then into a custom built 200 amp-hour lithium battery array. This might sound like overkill, but it wasn&rsquo;t. Photo by Brent Rose for The Verge Photo by Brent Rose for The Verge The &ldquo;house battery&rdquo; (i.e. the battery for living, not for the engine) that my van came with was a standard, 80aH AGM battery. They&rsquo;re cheaper, but once you drain them past 50 percent there&rsquo;s a serious voltage-drop and you risk damaging the battery, so you really only get 40 usable amp-hours. Lithium batteries, while very pricey, are not only more power-dense, but you can drain them as far as 20 or even 10 percent before you get much voltage drop, and you aren&rsquo;t likely to damage them. That means that now I had more like 160-180 usable amp-hours of energy per charge, and it fit in the same space as the old AGM battery. Lithium also charges quicker (it can pull up to 80 amps from the alternator when my engine is running) and can let out its juice faster, too, which is where that big 3,000-watt inverter comes in. Before, if I wanted to microwave something or even use the van&rsquo;s hot water heater for a shower, I either had to be plugged into shore power (which I rarely am) or using my noisy propane generator, which isn&rsquo;t exactly incognito. Now I can run either appliance, and keep all of my gadgets charged via AC outlets, off of the battery, completely silently. It was a total game-changer. Photo by Brent Rose for The Verge Getting connected As someone who works on the internet, having reliable internet access is kinda important. Fast 4G mobile internet is one of the primary reasons why there are so many #vanlifers these days. I’ve driven more than 60,000 miles, zigzagging around the U.S. and two products have served me extremely well. The first is the Verizon Jetpack MiFi 6620L which has covered me just about everywhere in the country for most of the first two years of this journey. For basically everywhere else, I’m using the ZTE Falcon Z-917 on T-Mobile’s network, which has delivered solid speeds even in squirrely canyons. Both seem to have stronger antennas and deliver faster data speeds compared to phones on the same networks. These devices have a bit of help, too. I’ve been using the WeBoost Drive 4G-X signal booster. A small antenna magnetically attaches to the roof of the van and connects to a box (which I’ve now permanently wall-mounted), that plugs into a DC outlet. It isn’t night and day, but it typically adds 1-2 bars of reception when it’s turned on, so I basically just always leave it on. When I was in Big Bend National Park in Texas I had zero reception. When I turned it on I got one bar, which was enough to make a phone call and text my family back home. The only times I had no signal from either Verizon or T-Mobile and the WeBoost didn’t help was when I was in extremely remote areas or deep into National Parks. If things get really desperate, I have the Garmin inReach Explorer+ satellite communicator . Not only does it have offline topographic maps, but it allows me to send and receive text messages via satellite. There’s also an SOS button you can hit which will immediately send in search and rescue no matter where you are. I also carry this with me whenever I’m hiking or mountain biking alone. I consider it a good insurance policy. I’ve shuffled phones a few times but for the last year I’ve been using the Google Pixel XL with a Verizon SIM, and it’s been extremely solid. It’s fast, battery life is reliable, and the photos it takes are unbeatable amongst phones. I also have a T-Mobile SIM which I swap in when needs be. Photo by Brent Rose for The Verge Locking it down So, I&rsquo;ve got a fair amount of gadgets in here and I&rsquo;m often out of the van exploring, and/or parking in unfamiliar neighborhoods, so I need to keep my stuff and myself safe. So I got a top-of-the-line security system from Viper. This included the 5806 system , plus GPS SmartStart . It&rsquo;s a two-way system so if my alarm goes off my keychain will ring even if I&rsquo;m up to a mile away and I&rsquo;ll get an alert on my phone, even if I&rsquo;m across the country. It also has a microphone so it can detect the sound of shattering glass. It adds an extra layer of security, but it&rsquo;s made for a few humorous moments. Apparently, my sneeze sound like glass breaking, as does accidentally dropping my keys on the floor. The smartphone app isn&rsquo;t a gimmick either. I can see exactly where I parked and even unlock the van for a friend to grab something when I&rsquo;m elsewhere. It also lets me start the van remotely, which is nice in winter. But even with that killer security system, I wanted some extra protection. So I completely dismantled one of my precious cabinets and I installed the Viking Security Safe VS-38BL with biometric fingerprint scanner. It’s big enough to fit my laptop, cameras, hard drives, and microphones, no problem. I’ve also installed it in such a way that there’s no way to get it out of the van without completely disassembling the bed, which would take a lot of time. The fingerprint scanner is kind of excessive, but hey, it’s supposed to be a teched-out van so I decided to go all in, and it does make it easier to open in the dark. If things ever get really dire, I have this flashlight: the Vipertek VTS-195 . It has a powerful 400 lumen beam. Oh and