# Waymo Permit New York City Nyc Rides.Html

**Source**: https://www.cnbc.com/2025/08/22/waymo-permit-new-york-city-nyc-rides.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:17:05.162066+00:00

---

Waymo gets permit to test autonomous vehicles in New York City Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Cryptocurrency Futures &amp; Commodities Bonds Funds &amp; ETFs Business Economy Finance Health &amp; Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim&#x27;s Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown NEW! My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Stock Lists Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news &amp; videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech Waymo granted first permit to begin testing autonomous vehicles in New York City Published Fri, Aug 22 2025 9:27 AM EDT Updated Fri, Aug 22 2025 4:31 PM EDT Samantha Subin @samantha_subin WATCH LIVE Key Points Waymo received its first permit from the Department of Transportation to start testing in New York City with a trained specialist. The Alphabet subsidiary will start testing eight vehicles in Manhattan and Downtown Brooklyn through late September. Waymo said in June it filed permits to test its cars in the city and has hit expansion mode nationwide. In this article GOOGL Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Waymo self-driving cars with roof-mounted sensor arrays traveling near palm trees and modern buildings along the Embarcadero, San Francisco, California, February 21, 2025. Smith Collection/gado | Archive Photos | Getty Images Waymo is getting one step closer to rides in New York City . The Alphabet autonomous vehicle subsidiary received its first permit from the New York Department of Transportation on Friday to start testing in New York City, Mayor Eric Adams announced Friday. The rollout is the city&#x27;s first autonomous vehicle testing launch. Waymo will start testing up to eight vehicles in Manhattan and Downtown Brooklyn through late September with the potential to extend the program. New York state law requires the company to have a driver behind the wheel to operate. &quot;We&#x27;re a tech-friendly administration and we&#x27;re always looking for innovative ways to safely move our city forward,&quot; Adams said in a release. &quot;New York City is proud to welcome Waymo to test this new technology in Manhattan and Brooklyn, as we know this testing is only the first step in moving our city further into the 21st century.&quot; Read more CNBC tech news OpenAI&#x27;s Sora 2 is putting safety and censorship to the test with stunningly real videos Amazon faces FAA, NTSB probe after two delivery drones crashed into crane in Arizona Jeff Bezos says AI is in an industrial bubble but society will get &#x27;gigantic&#x27; benefits from the tech Perplexity AI rolls out Comet browser for free worldwide The news comes just two months after the company said it filed permits to test its cars in the city with a trained specialist behind the wheel. Waymo has hit expansion mode on its services nationwide, launching in Austin this year and expanding its San Francisco-area operations in March. Waymo also plans to bring autonomous vehicles to Atlanta; Miami; and Washington, D.C., and recently said it will start operations in Philadelphia as it looks to break further into the Northeast market. Waymo&#x27;s CEO said the company surpassed 10 million robotaxi trips in May. For years, autonomous vehicle companies have sought to introduce their technology to the Big Apple, with Waymo previously taking a crack at it in 2021. At that time, the company rolled out some cars in certain areas of the city for manual driving and data collection . New York City has also expressed interest in bringing autonomous vehicles to the city. Last year , the Adams administration implemented a series of safety requirements for responsible testing in the city and opened a permit program. As part of the permit, Waymo must regularly meet and report data to DOT and work closely with law enforcement and emergency services. Don’t miss these insights from CNBC PRO Trump&#x27;s $100,000 visa plan could hit these companies the hardest Goldman Sachs raises S&amp;P 500 target for year-end China isn&#x27;t begging for Nvidia anymore. Here are homegrown tech plays to watch Bitcoin could soon have a big global buyer that has shunned it up to this point WATCH: Waymo begins testing self-driving cars with human drivers in New York and Philadelphia watch now VIDEO 0:28 00:28 Waymo begins testing self-driving cars with human drivers in New York and Philadelphia Executive Edge Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing &amp; Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance CNBC on Peacock Join the CNBC Panel Supply Chain Values Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Ad Choices Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Privacy Policy CA Notice Terms of Service © 2025 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by