# 1165.Short

**Source**: https://www.bmj.com/content/310/6988/1165.short
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:00:26.494835+00:00

---

--> Mortality associated with moderate intakes of wine, beer, or spirits | The BMJ Our New BMJ website does not support IE6 please upgrade your browser to the latest version or use alternative browsers suggested below. - Google Chrome - Safari - Firefox Skip to main content Intended for healthcare professionals Subscribe My Account My email alerts BMA member login Login Username * Password * Forgot your log in details? Need to activate BMA Member Log In Log in via OpenAthens Log in via your institution Edition: US UK South Asia International Our company Toggle navigation --> The BMJ logo Site map --> Search Search form Search Search Advanced search Search responses Search blogs Toggle top menu Research At a glance Research papers Research methods and reporting Minerva Education At a glance Clinical reviews Practice Minerva Endgames State of the art What your patient is thinking Rapid recommendations Student News & Views At a glance News Features Editorials Analysis Opinion Head to head Editor&#039;s choice Letters Obituaries Careers Rapid responses Campaigns At a glance Better evidence Climate change Divestment from fossil fuels Patient and public partnership Too much medicine Wellbeing The BMJ Collections Jobs Doctor Jobs UK Hospital Jobs UK GP Jobs UK International Jobs Archive For authors Hosted Research Mortality associated... Mortality associated with moderate intakes of wine, beer, or spirits Papers Mortality associated with moderate intakes of wine, beer, or spirits BMJ 1995 ; 310 doi: https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.310.6988.1165 (Published 06 May 1995) Cite this as: BMJ 1995;310:1165 Article Related content Metrics Responses Peer review Morten Gronbaek , research fellow a , Allan Deis , statistician b , Thorkild I A Sorensen , professor a , Ulrik Becker , chief physician c , Peter Schnohr , consultant d , Gorm Jensen , chief physician d a Danish Epidemiology Science Centre, Institute of Preventive Medicine, Copenhagen Hospital Corporation, Copenhagen, Denmark b Danish Committee for the Assessment of Substandard Lives, Lyngby, Copenhagen c Alcohol Unit, Department of Medical Gastroenterology, Hvidovre Hospital, University of Copenhagen d Copenhagen City Heart Study, Department 7117, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen Correspondence to: Dr M Gronbaek, Institute of Preventive Medicine, Kommunehospitalet, DK-1399 Copenhagen, Denmark. Accepted 23 February 1995 Abstract Objective : To examine the association between intake of different types of alcoholic drinks and mortality. Design : Prospective population study with base-line assessment of alcohol intake, smoking habit, income, education, and body mass index, and 10-12 years' follow up of mortality. Setting : Copenhagen city heart study, Denmark. Subjects : 6051 men and 7234 women aged 30-70 years. Main outcome measure : Number and time of cause-specific deaths from 1976 to 1988. Results : The risk of dying steadily decreased with an increasing intake of wine—from a relative risk of 1.00 for the subjects who never drank wine to 0.51 (95% confidence interval 0.32 to 0.81) for those who drank three to five glasses a day. Intake of neither beer nor spirits, however, was associated with reduced risk. For spirits intake the relative risk of dying increased from 1.00 for those who never drank to 1.34 (1.05 to 1.71) for those with an intake of three to five drinks a day. The effects of the three types of alcoholic drinks seemed to be independent of each other, and no significant interactions existed with sex, age, education, income, smoking, or body mass index. Wine drinking showed the same relation to risk of death from cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease as to risk of death from all causes. Conclusion : Low to moderate intake of wine is associated with lower mortality from cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease and other causes. Similar intake of spirits implied an increased risk, while beer drinking did not affect mortality. Key messages Key messages Alcohol in small doses is assumed to protect against ischaemic heart disease In this study drinkers of three to five glasses of wine a day had half the risk of dying as those who never drank wine Beer and spirit drinkers experienced no such advantages, and three to five drinks of spirits a day was associated with increased mortality The U shaped risk function may be a result of a combination of the risk functions of wine, beer, and spirits Introduction During the past decade several large population studies have shown a U shaped relation between alcohol intake and mortality for both men and women throughout adulthood. 1 2 3 4 5 6 In a recent study we found that the U shape persisted when the effects of other risk factors, such as smoking and obesity, were controlled for. 7 Furthermore, neither a higher prevalence of disease at baseline nor an increased number of former drinkers among non-drinkers can explain the U shape. 7 8 The risk function for all cause mortality may be the result of combined effects of a decreasing risk of coronary heart disease and an increasing risk of cirrhosis, cancers, and violent deaths, due to an increasing intake. 4 St Leger and colleagues 9 and more recently Renaud and colleagues 10 found an inverse relation between incidence of coronary heart disease and wine consumption in different countries but no such relation for beer consumption. This suggests that the type of alcoholic drink, in addition to alcohol itself, influences the risk of heart disease. Some studies have addressed the issue of type of drink and death from heart disease but did so rather superficially and gave conflicting results. 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 In a recent paper specifically addressing this question Klatsky and Armstrong suggested that people who drink wine may be better protected against death from coronary heart disease than those who drink other alcoholic beverages, but proper risk functions were not estimated. 18 We assessed the effects of different types of alcoholic drinks on the risk of death from all causes and from cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease, while taking into account sex, age, socioeconomic conditions, smoking habits, and body mass index. Subjects and methods POPULATION The study population comprised a random, age stratified sample of 19698 out of 87172 individuals aged 20 or more living in the Osterbro area of Copenhagen in 1976. During 1976-8 the Copenhagen city heart study examined by questionnaire 14223 subjects (6511 men, 7712 women; response rate 72.2%). A detailed description of the study procedure has been published previously. 19 The present analysis concerns a sample of 13285 subjects (6051 men, 7234 women) aged 30-79. EXAMINATION PROCEDURES The subjects filled in a self administered questionaire about various issues related to health, including alcohol intake, smoking habits, school education, and household income. Weight in light clothes and height without shoes were measured, and from these the body mass index (weight(kg)/(height(m) 2 )) was calculated. Alcohol intake—The subjects were asked in multiple choice form whether they drank beer (bottles), wine (glasses), or spirits (units) “hardly ever/never,” “monthly,” “weekly,” or “daily.” If a subject drank alcohol daily then he or she had to report the average number of drinks of each type taken each day. One bottle of beer contains 12 g of alcohol, and this may be considered the average for the other types of drinks. If a subject abstained from drinking alcohol because he or she was receiving treatment (for example, disulfiram) or because of dipsomania (n=17) then this was noted, and the subject was excluded from the analysis. Smoking habits—The subjects reported if they had never smoked, were former smokers, or current smokers. Former smokers were divided into groups according to duration (in years) of non-smoking, and current smokers according to amount of tobacco (in grams smoked each day). For the analysis five groups were defined: subjects who had never smoked; former smokers who had not smoked for more than five years; former smokers who had not smoked for five years or less; smokers of 1-19 g tobacco daily; smokers of more than 19 g daily. FOLLOW UP We followed the survival of the population sample until 1 January 1988, using the unique person identification number in the national central person register. We obtained causes of death, as recorded on death certificates, from the National Board of Health. Death from cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease was defined according to the International Classification of Diseases, eighth revision, as codes 410.0 to 445.9. Each subject was observed from their initial examination (1976–8) until 1 January 1988, or until death (2229), disappearance (one), or emigration (39) if these occurred earlier. STATISTICAL ANALYSIS Data were analysed with multiple Poisson regression models. 20 The mortality was assumed to be constant within each 10 year age interval. A subject who was observed in more than one age group contributed with corresponding observation time in both groups. Further details of the model analysis have been described previously. 7 The model included subjects' age, sex, and intakes of beer, wine, and spirits and the first order interactions between these variables. Each type of alcoholic drink was classified as never drunk; drunk monthly; drunk weekly; one to two drinks a day; or three to five drinks a day. Subjects having more than five drinks a day of beer, wine, or spirits were excluded from this analysis because there were too few cases in some of the groups (see table I). Exclusion of subjects who had more than five drinks a day of one type of alcoholic drink meant that some subjects who had less than five drinks daily of the other types were excluded. In this model first order interactions were tested. The criterion for inclusion was significance at the 5% level. We added the following covariates to this reduced model: smoking, body mass index, sc