# Device Searches At The Us Border Hit Record High New Data Shows

**Source**: https://techcrunch.com/2025/08/20/device-searches-at-the-us-border-hit-record-high-new-data-shows/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:59:38.761031+00:00

---

Device searches at the US border hit record high, new data shows | TechCrunch TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps Disrupt 2025 Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech &amp; Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government &amp; Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media &amp; Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Crunchboard Contact Us In Brief Posted: 12:29 PM PDT · August 20, 2025 Image Credits: Joe Raedle / Getty Images Zack Whittaker Device searches at the US border hit record high, new data shows U.S. border agents searched more electronic devices during a three-month period than ever before, according to new government statistics.&nbsp; The data shows that U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the agency tasked with immigration screening at the U.S. border, searched 14,899 devices of international travelers between April through June, a 17% rise on the previous record high recorded in early 2022. Most of these searches are &#8220;basic,&#8221; where U.S. border agents demand the password to the traveler&#8217;s device and look through its contents without using equipment. While citizens cannot be denied entry to the U.S., their devices can be seized indefinitely for refusing a device search. Visitors can decline, but they&#8217;d face rejection from the country. The constitutionality of border searches remains a hotly debated topic, with split judicial opinions across the country , but an issue that the U.S. Supreme Court has yet to consider.&nbsp; (via Wired ) We&#8217;re always looking to evolve, and by providing some insight into your perspective and feedback into TechCrunch and our coverage and events, you can help us! Fill out&nbsp; this survey &nbsp;to let us know how we&#8217;re doing and get the chance to win a prize in return! Techcrunch event Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss the 20th anniversary of TechCrunch, and a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. San Francisco | October 27-29, 2025 REGISTER NOW Topics border search , cybersecurity , In Brief , privacy , Security , Trump Administration , U.S. Customs and Border Protection October 27-29, 2025 San Francisco ONE-WEEK BUNDLE FLASH SALE Founder Bundle Offer: Land your investor and sharpen your pitch. Save 15% when you bring 4-9 founders. Investors Bundle Offer: Discover your next breakout startup. Save 20% when you bring 4-9 investors. Bundle offer ends October 3. Register Now Newsletters See More Subscribe for the industry’s biggest tech news TechCrunch Daily News Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage. TechCrunch Mobility TechCrunch Mobility is your destination for transportation news and insight. Startups Weekly Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly. StrictlyVC Provides movers and shakers with the info they need to start their day. No newsletters selected. Subscribe By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . Related Security Hacking group claims theft of 1 billion records from Salesforce customer databases Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai Zack Whittaker 10 hours ago Apps How developers are using Apple&#8217;s local AI models with iOS 26 Ivan Mehta 11 hours ago Security Hackers are sending extortion emails to executives after claiming Oracle apps&#8217; data breach Zack Whittaker 1 day ago Latest in Security Security Hacking group claims theft of 1 billion records from Salesforce customer databases Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai Zack Whittaker 10 hours ago Security Hackers are sending extortion emails to executives after claiming Oracle apps&#8217; data breach Zack Whittaker 1 day ago TechCrunch Disrupt 2025 Last chance alert: Founder and Investor Bundle savings for TechCrunch Disrupt 2025 ends tomorrow TechCrunch Events 1 day ago X LinkedIn Facebook Instagram youTube Mastodon Threads Bluesky TechCrunch Staff Contact Us Advertise Crunchboard Jobs Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy RSS Terms of Use Code of Conduct H1-B Visa GPT Pulse Grok Steph Curry TechCrunch Disrupt Tech Layoffs ChatGPT © 2025 TechCrunch Media LLC.