# Microsoft Google Chrome Windows Store Removal

**Source**: https://www.theverge.com/2017/12/19/16797358/microsoft-google-chrome-windows-store-removal?ref=wheresyoured.at
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:58:57.936416+00:00

---

Microsoft removes Google’s Chrome installer from the Windows Store | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Microsoft removes Google’s Chrome installer from the Windows Store Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech Google Close Google Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Google Microsoft Close Microsoft Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Microsoft Microsoft removes Google’s Chrome installer from the Windows Store by Tom Warren Close Tom Warren Senior Editor Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Tom Warren Dec 19, 2017, 8:04 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads Tom Warren Close Tom Warren Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Tom Warren is a senior editor and author of Notepad , who has been covering all things Microsoft, PC, and tech for over 20 years. Google published a Chrome app in the Windows Store earlier today , which just directed users to a download link to install the browser. Microsoft isn&rsquo;t impressed with Google&rsquo;s obvious snub of the Windows Store, and it&rsquo;s taking action. &ldquo;We have removed the Google Chrome Installer App from Microsoft Store, as it violates our Microsoft Store policies,&rdquo; says a Microsoft spokesperson in a statement to The Verge . Citing the need to ensure apps &ldquo;provide unique and distinct value,&rdquo; Microsoft says &ldquo;we welcome Google to build a Microsoft Store browser app compliant with our Microsoft Store policies.&rdquo; That&rsquo;s an invitation that Google is unlikely to accept. There are many reasons Google won&rsquo;t likely bring Chrome to the Windows Store, but the primary reason is probably related to Microsoft&rsquo;s Windows 10 S restrictions. Windows Store apps that browse the web must use HTML and JavaScript engines provided by Windows 10, and Google&rsquo;s Chrome browser uses its own Blink rendering engine. Google would have to create a special Chrome app that would adhere to Microsoft&rsquo;s Store policies. Google’s Chrome “app” in the Windows Store Most Windows 10 machines don&rsquo;t run Windows 10 S, so Google probably won&rsquo;t create a special version just to get its browser listed in the Windows Store. Google can&rsquo;t just package its existing desktop app into a Centennial Windows Store app, either. Microsoft is explicit about any store apps having to use the Edge rendering engine. The Verge understands Google created this installer app to combat the fake Chrome apps that can be found in the Windows Store, a problem Microsoft has been trying to address for years . Google&rsquo;s workaround has now been removed from the Windows Store, so Windows 10 users will have to continue using Microsoft Edge to access the download site for Chrome if they want to access Google&rsquo;s browser. This isn&rsquo;t the first time Microsoft and Google have battled over browsers or platforms. Both companies fought over a YouTube app for Windows Phone , Microsoft targeted Google with &ldquo;Scroogled&rdquo; commercials , and Microsoft has also criticized Chrome&rsquo;s battery usage . We&rsquo;ve reached out to Google to see if this is a battle that will continue, but the company is not commenting on the removal. Update 4PM ET : article updated to note Google is not commenting on Microsoft&rsquo;s app removal. Follow topics and authors from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates. Tom Warren Close Tom Warren Senior Editor Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Tom Warren Google Close Google Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Google Microsoft Close Microsoft Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Microsoft Tech Close Tech Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Tech Most Popular Most Popular Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store Behold: The Lego Game Boy has already been modded to play games for real Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Satya Nadella appoints a new CEO to run Microsoft’s biggest businesses With a Friend like this, who needs enemies? The Verge Daily A free daily digest of the news that matters most. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Tech Amazon’s Fire TV Stick 4K is getting a new name soon Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom Sony shrinks PS5 Slim storage in the US, too Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads A bundle with Amazon’s biggest smart display and a stand just got its biggest discount The quest for every Gap store playlist ever Amazon’s Fire TV Stick 4K is getting a new name soon Cameron Faulkner Oct 3 Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom Tina Nguyen Oct 3 Sony shrinks PS5 Slim storage in the US, too Jay Peters Oct 3 Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Tom Warren Oct 3 A bundle with Amazon’s biggest smart display and a stand just got its biggest discount Brandt Ranj Oct 3 The quest for every Gap store playlist ever Mia Sato Oct 3 Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories Oct 3 With a Friend like this, who needs enemies? Oct 3 I’ve fallen into Sora’s slippery slop Oct 3 I tried Amazon and Google’s new smart home gadgets, ask me anything! Oct 3 The quest for every Gap store playlist ever Oct 3 Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom Oct 3 Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved