# Auto Dealerships Are The Most Powerful Middlemen 11188891.Php

**Source**: https://www.chron.com/business/texanomics/article/Auto-dealerships-are-the-most-powerful-middlemen-11188891.php
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:36:48.166247+00:00

---

Auto dealerships are America&#x27;s most powerful middlemen Chron Logo Hearst Newspapers Logo Skip to main content Newsletters About Us Contact Chron Advertise with Us Careers Newsletters Terms of Use Privacy Notice News Space Parks &amp; Wildlife US News Houston &amp; Texas News World News Transportation Weather Politics Science &amp; Environment Education Food &amp; Drink Sports Texans Rockets Astros High School Colleges Culture Travel Music TV &amp; Film Arts &amp; Theater Texas Crafted Business Salute to Nurses Small Business Mgmt Top Workplaces Work Life Shopping Gulf Coast Puzzles Classifieds Legal Notices Place Legal Notices Obituaries Place an Obituary Jobs Cars Real Estate Place Real Estate Agent / Broker Ad Best Of Sponsor Content Sponsor Content: Business Chron Logo Newsletters Top Stories: Trump makes offer to UT Austin | Texas pizza chain in trouble | Make Chron your preferred Google source Business | Texanomics Auto dealerships are America&#x27;s most powerful middlemen In the direct-to-consumer, ecommerce era, Tesla can&#x27;t sell you a car By Lydia DePillis , Houston Chronicle Updated June 2, 2017 8:07 a.m. The only place you're allowed to buy a truck.&nbsp; Gene J. Puskar/AP Three times, Tesla has attempted to persuade the Texas legislature to allow it to sell its electric cars directly to consumers, bypassing the dealerships that current law protects. Three times, following the death of the latest bill last week , it has failed. And again, at a time when the internet is squeezing out all forms of brokers and middlemen, the more than 16,000 auto dealers in America have proven astonishingly difficult to dislodge. Advertisement Article continues below this ad The way they&#x27;ve done it is no mystery, of course. Originally, car manufacturers operated through franchised dealers as a more convenient way to reach customers. Over time, those dealers started advocating for themselves, winning passage of laws in all 50 states that require automakers to sell through intermediaries — their dealerships. Now, they&#x27;re a powerful lobby, as both small business owners in every American city and as large public companies like Houston&#x27;s own Group 1 Automotive. In the run-up to the 2013 legislative session, according to calculations by the advocacy group Texans for Public Justice, dealership interests spent $2.5 million on campaign contributions and $780,000 on lobbying. Tesla spent less than half that. Money speaks volumes, even to Texas legislators supposedly committed to free markets and less regulation, as they&#x27;ve already demonstrated this session in requiring craft breweries to sell their product to a distributor and then buy it back before they can serve it in their own taprooms. And in the case of cars, as with beer, consumers lose out. It would be easy for a lawmakers to convince themselves otherwise, because dealerships have mounted an aggressive defense of their public value. Their argument goes like this: Unlike manufacturers, dealers have an economic incentive to offer better services, in order to get referrals and repeat business. They don&#x27;t make much money on car sales themselves, but rather on warranty maintenance and financing. Advertisement Article continues below this ad If automakers were allowed to sell direct to consumers, dealers and some analysts argue that they would revoke their franchise contracts, consolidate their points of sale, and then jack up prices. One study suggested that having many outlets selling the same brand in the same market can lower prices through competition. Most economists , regulators, and consumer advocates beg to differ. In 2009, the Department of Justice outlined how manufacturers could save money by making cars to order, rather than maintaining large inventories that are expensive to maintain, and lower prices for consumers. If you think about it, in the mandatory franchise system, the auto manufacturer still sets a floor on prices: Even competing fiercely against each other, dealers can&#x27;t consistently sell below the price they pay for cars and stay in business for long. Average profit margins for dealers are 2.2 percent, according to the National Association of Auto Dealers. So dealers would have to bring prices down a lot before consumers get a better deal than they would if the middleman and his markup didn&#x27;t exist at all. Advertisement Article continues below this ad That&#x27;s partly why the Federal Trade Commission under both Republicans and Democrats has pushed for state laws that ban direct manufacturer-to-consumer sales to be relaxed, saying that consumers should be free to choose the way they purchase products, rather than have sales channels be prescribed by government. Groups such as the Consumer Federation of America, Consumers for Auto Reliability and Safety agree. Tesla&#x27;s argument is a case in point. They say that no dealer would be equipped to communicate the special qualities of their cars, and that in order for electric vehicles to gain traction in an internal-combustion dominated market, they need to be able to sell in more innovative ways. The feud runs deeper than that: Auto dealers have long fought fuel economy requirements and other environmental measures that would advantage zero-emissions vehicles. So far, the American auto manufacturers have stayed mostly quiet in dealers&#x27; legislative fights across the country. Even though the Detroit Three might benefit from selling direct to consumers, the current system works okay for them, and General Motors especially has been working to keep Tesla at a competitive disadvantage. In fact, Michigan, the center of the U.S. auto industry, has tightened its dealership protections in recent years rather than loosened them. Advertisement Article continues below this ad International automakers, like Nissan and Honda, are a different story. As newer entrants to the American market, they designed their franchise networks after most of the protections for dealerships were established, meaning they&#x27;re better adapted to modern population patterns. Nevertheless, their trade group filed a letter to the FTC last year in favor of allowing direct sales, saying that doing so would encourage flexibility and innovation. Now, none of this means that dealerships don&#x27;t have value, in that they operate in places that auto manufacturers might avoid, and provide services that manufacturers wouldn&#x27;t bother with. But allowing direct sales also doesn&#x27;t mean franchises would disappear. The past century has been a long progression of companies outsourcing non-core functions, such as sales; Ford and GM may find that they&#x27;re better served by allowing their dealers to continue to operate rather than trying to do it themselves. Advertisement Article continues below this ad If dealerships provide the value they say they do, they shouldn&#x27;t need government to force car shoppers into their showrooms. House hunters aren&#x27;t required to buy homes through realtors, and yet many of them hire one anyway, because of the knowledge that experts provide. The next time this issue hits the legislature — which it surely will — lawmakers should consider voting to de-regulate auto sales, and then running on it. Campaign cash might speak loudly, but voters win elections. June 2, 2017 | Updated June 2, 2017 8:07 a.m. Lydia DePillis Business reporter, Houston Chronicle Lydia DePillis covers the economics of everything in Texas. Previously, she was a business reporter at the Washington Post, a tech reporter at The New Republic, and a real estate reporter at the Washington City Paper. She's from Seattle.&nbsp; Most Popular 1 . Texas restaurant chain files for bankruptcy amid $12M debt 2 . Texas college cancels afternoon classes amidst historic football season 3 . Texas book chain loses another popular store 4 . Mariners fans show no class in Astros&#x27; grave dancing 5 . Massive, 70-foot-deep sinkhole threatens Texas highway Shopping Ride longer with the best cycling gear for hot weather From apparel to bike racks, here are cycling gear essentials that keep you moving safely even when the temperatures are high. This one-time deal on Microsoft Office is a no-brainer for Windows users During Deal Days, you can grab your own Microsoft Office Professional 2021 lifetime license for Windows now for just $39.97 (reg. $219.99) while supplies last. ASUS ROG Strix Scar 18 (2025) review: An unmatched portable gaming behemoth Designed for gamers who demand both portability and raw power, the ASUS Strix Scar 18 is a serious alternative to a gaming rig. Here's our review. Breville&#x27;s compact Bambino Plus espresso machine is currently 20% off If you don't have a ton of countertop space, you'll love this quality home espresso machine. Get Breville's Bambino Plus Espresso Machine for 20% off. EXPED MegaMat Auto review: Your car’s backseat just turned five-star Turn your SUV into a hotel room on wheels with this 4-inch-thick EXPED MegaMat Auto mattress designed to fit around wheel wells. Read our review. Slim, waterproof, rechargeable: Meet the $20 tracker you’ll actually use Keep your essentials safe and sound with the MagTag Ultra Slim Tracker Card, just $19.97 until October 12. LATEST NEWS Sports Houston horse racing vet charged after allegedly grooming teen employee Gregory Ford was arrested in Florida last week and charged with sexual battery of a minor. Houston &amp; Texas TikTok detectives swarm Houston bayous amid serial killer rumors "Houston bayou killer where you at—still outside looking for you." Space Texas family gets surprise as NASA equipment lands on farm The family thought it was just a balloon—until NASA called. Education Trump makes an offer to UT Austin—its response turns heads Texas leans in—California shuts it down. Wildlife Houston bayou trail opens as serial killer buzz grows Over the past two weeks, six bodies have been found in or near Houston's bayous. Wildlife H