# Good Ideas For Bad Times

**Source**: http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/11/29/good_ideas_for_bad_times?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:54:50.497234+00:00

---

Good Ideas For Bad Times &#8211; Foreign Policy There appears to be a technical issue with your browser This issue is preventing our website from loading properly. Please review the following troubleshooting tips or contact us at [email&#160;protected] . Close Skip to navigation Skip to search Skip to main content Skip to footer Foreign Policy Get analysis and alerts more quickly in the mobile app. Install Show expanded website navigation Back to Foreign Policy Magazine home page Latest Regions Asia &amp; the Pacific China Middle East &amp; Africa Americas Europe Newsletters By submitting your email, you agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Use and to receive email correspondence from us. You may opt out at any time. Enter your email Sign Up Editors’ Picks Evening roundup with our editors’ favorite stories of the day World Brief Your guide to the most important world stories of the day China Brief The latest news, analysis, and data from the country each week Situation Report Weekly update on what’s driving U.S. national security policy FP Weekend A curation of our best book reviews, deep dives, and other reads Africa Brief Essential analysis of the stories shaping geopolitics on the continent South Asia Brief Weekly update on developments in India and its neighbors The Reading List Curated guides on geopolitics and current affairs Latin America Brief One-stop digest of politics, economics, and culture Southeast Asia Brief A weekly dispatch with news from the region’s 11 countries View All Newsletters FP Live Latest Trending: U.S. government shutdown Trump’s speech to generals Argentina bailout Website Search and Account Management Search Icon Search this website Search Search Preferences My FP Feed Saved Articles Newsletters Magazine Archive Subscription Settings FAQs Log Out Sign In Sign In Global intelligence for your team Global intelligence for your team SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Global intelligence for your team Global intelligence for your team Show expanded website navigation Lists: Good Ideas For Bad Times Share icon Share Copy Link icon Copy Link Link copied to clipboard Email icon Email Facebook icon Facebook Bluesky icon Bluesky X icon X LinkedIn icon LinkedIn WhatsApp icon WhatsApp Reddit icon Reddit Save icon Save Create an FP account to save articles to read later. Sign Up ALREADY AN FP SUBSCRIBER? LOGIN Download icon PDF Downloadable PDFs are a benefit of an FP subscription. Subscribe Now ALREADY AN FP SUBSCRIBER? LOGIN Gift Copy Link icon Copy Link Link copied to clipboard Email icon Email WhatsApp icon WhatsApp Gifting articles is a subscriber benefit. Subscribe Now ALREADY AN FP SUBSCRIBER? LOGIN This article is an Insider exclusive. Contact us at [email&#160;protected] to learn about upgrade options, unlocking the ability to gift this article. Back to Foreign Policy Magazine home page Preferences My FP Feed Saved Articles Newsletters Magazine Archive Subscription Settings FAQs Log Out Sign In Sign In Global intelligence for your team Global intelligence for your team SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Global intelligence for your team Global intelligence for your team Latest Newsletters World Brief Editors’ Picks Africa Brief China Brief Latin America Brief South Asia Brief Southeast Asia Brief Situation Report The Reading List FP Weekend See All Topics Trump’s second term Shadow government War in Ukraine Crisis in the Middle East U.S. foreign policy Trade and economics U.S.-China competition Artificial intelligence Regions Asia &amp; the Pacific China Middle East &amp; Africa Americas Europe FP Live How Oct. 7 Changed the World October 7 Why Young Americans Are Swinging Right October 9 See All Podcasts Illustration with Adam Tooze headshot on a green background with the text Ones &amp; Tooze Ones and Tooze Illustration with a male spy headshot and the text I Spy I Spy FP Live podcast logo Foreign Policy Live See All Magazine Fall 2025 Issue Fall 2025 Issue Print Archive See All Collections The AI Arms Race The Trade Wars FP Analytics In-depth Special Reports Issue Briefs Power Maps and Interactive Microsites FP Simulations &amp; PeaceGames Synthesis Reports Insight Briefs &amp; Spotlights Graphics Database See All Events FP @ WHS October 12 From Plans to Action October 12 FP @ COP30 November 12 Where we'll be this year See All Search Search Icon Additional Navigation Bluesky icon Follow FP on Bluesky X icon Follow FP on X LinkedIn icon Follow FP on LinkedIn Instagram icon Follow FP on Instagram Facebook icon Follow FP on Facebook FP SOLUTIONS FP Analytics FP Events FP Studios Simulations and Peacegames Advertise with FP Country Reports Subscription Services Your FP Account Group Subscriptions Reprint Permissions FP Magazine Archive Buy Back Issues EDUCATION Graduate Education Guide FP for Education Institutional Access ABOUT FP Writer&#039;s Guidelines Meet the Staff Work at FP Contact FP Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Terms of Use Accessibility Bluesky icon Follow FP on Bluesky X icon Follow FP on X LinkedIn icon Follow FP on LinkedIn Instagram icon Follow FP on Instagram Facebook icon Follow FP on Facebook Foreign Policy Magazine is a division of Graham Holdings Company. All contents (c) 2025, Graham Digital Holding Company. All rights reserved. Foreign Policy, 655 15th St NW, Suite 300, Washington, DC, 20005. Powered by WordPress VIP This article was published more than 14 years ago Lists Good Ideas For Bad Times A look at the innovative thinkers and bold ideas that kept 2010 from being a total wash. By Charles Kenny , the director of technology and development and a senior fellow at the Center for Global Development. fp-placeholder-social-share-3-2 Economics Health Africa November 28, 2010, 3:44 AM Was there any news this year that wasn't bad for poor people? Natural catastrophes seemed to be almost deliberately targeting the world's worst off, from the earthquake in Haiti to floods in Pakistan. A number of the countries that can least afford to fail have pinned their hopes on mineral wealth, which, at least according to conventional wisdom, harms more than it helps. Others look to foreign aid or paychecks sent home from overseas, but those are in tight demand as we face yet another year of grim numbers for global finance, budget cuts in rich countries, and toughening immigration rules. The poor need more from the world's governments and its big givers just as austerity is coming back into fashion. Was there any news this year that wasn&#8217;t bad for poor people? Natural catastrophes seemed to be almost deliberately targeting the world&#8217;s worst off, from the earthquake in Haiti to floods in Pakistan. A number of the countries that can least afford to fail have pinned their hopes on mineral wealth, which, at least according to conventional wisdom, harms more than it helps. Others look to foreign aid or paychecks sent home from overseas, but those are in tight demand as we face yet another year of grim numbers for global finance, budget cuts in rich countries, and toughening immigration rules. The poor need more from the world&#8217;s governments and its big givers just as austerity is coming back into fashion. And yet, all the bad news came with a surprising upside. Driven by the need to do more with less, the year&#8217;s boldest innovators turned up better, simpler ways to use our shrinking resources to improve global quality of life: ideas like creating demand for development so that poor people can better help themselves and handing money directly to those who need it, as well as new approaches to measuring and mapping that offer better, faster information about what aid needs to go where. This moment of global insecurity has also called into doubt some old shibboleths &#8212; not least that national borders as we know them are good and that resource wealth is bad. In what sometimes looked like the worst of times, it was actually the best of times for ideas &#8212; and these ideas will shape how the world recovers in the years to come. Illustration by Guy Billout for FP Reversing the resource curse: The notion that countries with plentiful natural resources will end up plagued by coup attempts and corruption, à la Bolivia or Chad, might have finally been put to rest after a long run that started when Richard Auty came up with the &#8220;resource curse&#8221; catchphrase in the early 1990s. The U.N. Development Program issued a report this year suggesting that resource-rich countries are actually doing better on measures of human development &#8212; particularly education and health &#8212; than resource-poor countries. The U.N. study echoed earlier findings showing a modest bump in growth between 1970 and 2000 for countries with large mineral deposits, agricultural land, and forests. Resource-curse-boosting studies by analysts including Jeffrey Sachs have looked at the level of natural resource exports and found a link between heavy exports and disastrous results for development. But the new research points out that dependence on exporting natural resources (as opposed to banking or software) generally means that a country is poor and uncompetitive to begin with; so the recent discovery of oil reserves in Ghana or mineral deposits in Mongolia doesn&#8217;t necessarily imply that either country is about to drive off a cliff. Ulet Ifansasti/Getty Images Selling the good life: For the last 20 years, a widespread assumption among those who work on solving the world&#8217;s problems has been that people know what they need, but governments stand in their way. Increasingly, that&#8217;s looking a bit old-fashioned. The demand side matters, even when you&#8217;re talking about something like quality of life: Sometimes you have to persuade people to want what they need. This can just mean a basic statement of fact, as with social entrepreneur Kamal Kar &#8216;s brilliantly modest solution for open-field defecation, the practice of people relieving themselves among their crops, wh