# Andrew Luck Reveals Why Walked Away Nfl

**Source**: https://www.espn.com/nfl/insider/insider/story/_/id/35163936/andrew-luck-reveals-why-walked-away-nfl
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:00:29.336738+00:00

---

Andrew Luck finally reveals why he walked away from the NFL - ESPN Andrew Luck finally reveals why he walked away from the NFL --> Skip to main content Skip to navigation &lt; &gt; Menu ESPN scores NFL NBA MLB NCAAF WNBA NHL Soccer More Sports Boxing NCAA Cricket F1 Gaming Golf Horse LLWS MMA NASCAR NLL NBA G League NBA Summer League NCAAM NCAAW NWSL Olympics PLL Professional Wrestling Racing RN BB RN FB Rugby Sports Betting Tennis TGL UFL WWE X Games Editions Where to Watch Fantasy Bet Watch NFL Home Scores Schedule Standings Stats Teams Odds Power Rankings Depth Charts Fantasy Football Where To Watch Draft Standings Coaches Super Bowl Eliminator Challenge Expert Picks Football Power Index Futures NFL History Injuries Pigskin Pick'em Players Schedule Odds Total QBR Super Bowl Winners Transactions Weekly Leaders Win Rates Playoff Picture Tickets Andrew Luck finally reveals why he walked away from the NFL Indianapolis Colts 3y Seth Wickersham Lapsed fan's guide to the NHL season: Biggest storylines, top contenders, key players to know Detroit Red Wings 12h Greg Wyshynski The NHL's top regression candidates for 2025-26: Geekie, Scheifele, more Winnipeg Jets 2d Rachel Kryshak Ravens rule out QB Jackson due to hamstring Baltimore Ravens 3h Jamison Hensley Commanders' Daniels officially a go vs. Chargers Washington Commanders 2h John Keim Hill returns to Dolphins' facility, speaks to team Miami Dolphins 5h Marcel Louis-Jacques Rangers focusing manager search on Schumaker Texas Rangers 5h Mets begin staff overhaul after missing playoffs New York Mets 5h Tajh Ariza, ex-NBA veteran's son, picks Oregon Oregon Ducks 47m Jeff Borzello and Paul Biancardi Tarleton State coach Gillispie under investigation Tarleton State Texans 8h Pete Thamel Ex-Ravens, Syracuse DL Arthur Jones dies at 39 Syracuse Orange 46m How The Rock transformed his body -- and mind -- into Mark Kerr 10h Anthony Gharib The A'ja Wilson text that turned around the Aces' season -- and how Bam Adebayo helped craft it Las Vegas Aces 11h Michael Voepel Ranking the top 15 players in the WNBA Finals Las Vegas Aces 11h Michael Voepel and Charlie Creme Our guide to every Week 5 NFL game: Matchup previews, predictions, picks and nuggets San Francisco 49ers 12h NFL Nation, +2 More Are the Eagles the worst 4-0 team ever? Where does Nacua's start rank all time? What history tells us about five trends New York Giants 12h Aaron Schatz How did the Browns decide on starting QB No. 41? Inside their 'intentional' methods Cleveland Browns 13h Daniel Oyefusi No team has repeated in a quarter century. Are the Dodgers different? Los Angeles Dodgers 11h Alden Gonzalez MLB playoff mega-preview: World Series odds, likely MVPs and how far all 8 remaining teams will go Boston Red Sox 20h ESPN Bama's shot at revenge, high stakes in the ACC and the 29 biggest games of Week 6 Louisville Cardinals 12h Bill Connelly Another year, another set of struggles: Can Clemson, Dabo turn it around again? Clemson Tigers 12h David Hale Paolo Banchero, Trae Young: Breaking down 10 names that could define NBA season New York Knicks 11h Tim Bontemps Knicks legends ride camels, 76ers go golfing: Top scenes from Abu Dhabi series New York Knicks 1d ESPN staff Last-minute pickups for Week 5: Jaxson Dart, Brenton Strange among top options 12h Matt Bowen Don't be surprised if ... Cook leads RBs in season scoring, Daniels is top-five QB 12h Eric Karabell Man United need to face reality: Amorim is not the club's biggest issue 14h Rob Dawson Haaland is on pace to surpass Messi and Ronaldo's best seasons. Is that good for Man City? 13h Ryan O'Hanlon 'He fought too many times': How the loss to Ankalaev forced Pereira to change 11h Brett Okamoto Taylor Swift 10, Purdue 0: Can the Boilermakers break the 'curse' vs. Illinois? Purdue Boilermakers 9h ESPN Staff Air Force's alternate uniforms inspired by F-16 headline top threads for college football Week 6 UL Monroe Warhawks 9h ESPN Staff Haters' guide to the Mannings vs. the Gators Florida Gators 2d Jeremy Willis Phillies' 9-9-9 Challenge box for 2025 postseason to feature 'fun size' hot dogs Philadelphia Phillies 47m J.J. Post Seattle Mariners' crab helmet tops 2025 new ballpark grub Texas Rangers 31m Anthony Gharib The time for experimentation is over: USMNT squad sees Pochettino's World Cup vision come into focus 1d Jeff Carlisle College football betting: Why Bama could move ahead early against Vandy Alabama Crimson Tide 12h Pamela Maldonado College football betting: Why Tommy Castellanos sets up FSU for success vs. Miami Florida State Seminoles 12h Pamela Maldonado Wetzel: Collier comments reflect WNBA's core problem: How it sees Caitlin Clark 2d Dan Wetzel Tottenham takeover: Top scenes from Vikings-Browns in London Pittsburgh Steelers 6h ESPN Staff Bills' 'Cold Front' Rivalry uniforms, Bucs and Seahawks' throwbacks top NFL Week 5 threads Los Angeles Chargers 3h Anthony Gharib Transfer rumors, news: Mexico's Mora on Arsenal, City, Madrid, Barça radar 8h ESPN Fantasy basketball: Eric Karabell's 'Do not draft' list, including Ball, Morant, Embiid 12h Eric Karabell Fantasy basketball draft guide: All you need to win your league this season 12h ESPN Fantasy Fantasy hockey cheat sheet: The names you need to know when you draft your team 8h ESPN Fantasy Give me a reason to draft this guy! Late round fantasy hockey picks 1d Sean Allen Fantasy baseball: Way-too-early 2026 top-50 rankings 6h Eric Karabell Latest Madden ratings: Puka Nacua rises, Lamar Jackson falls Los Angeles Chargers 2h Oliver Brandt EXCLUSIVE CONTENT Get ESPN+ Andrew Luck finally reveals why he walked away from the NFL Seth Wickersham Dec 6, 2022, 08:00 AM ET Close Senior Writer for ESPN.com and ESPN The Magazine Joined ESPN The Magazine after graduating from the University of Missouri. Although he primarily covers the NFL, his assignments also have taken him to the Athens Olympics, the World Series, the NCAA tournament and the NHL and NBA playoffs. Follow on X Email THE DAY AFTER he retired, Andrew Luck reached into the shower in the bedroom at his Indianapolis condo and turned the knob. He stepped back and waited for the water to get hot. It was the afternoon of Aug. 25, 2019, and he was in a fog over what he had done. When Luck had told Indianapolis Colts executives that he was going to walk away from football, they didn't believe him. Couldn't fathom it. "When you going to turn it on?" they asked two weeks before the season began. "I'm not," Luck said. When he had told his teammates he hadn't been able to live the life he wanted to live, they said they understood. Didn't argue. They said they'd seen his pain and now sensed his relief. But his eyes dampened and his face reddened when he told them. He knew they wanted him for a shot at a Super Bowl, and he knew he wasn't going to deliver. He also knew, no matter how guilty he felt, that he wasn't going to change his mind. When it came time to tell the rest of the world, Luck wrote it down. He sat at the counter in his kitchen and composed a retirement speech. He wrote longhand on a notepad and then typed parts and pieces into his laptop, polishing and rearranging as he went, titling it: ALUCK - FIRST DRAFT. It was strange to write. Usually, retirements are celebratory events at the end of storied careers. Nobody, not even Luck, would be celebrating this one. He used phrases like "I have a lot of clarity in this" and "it is the right decision for me." The cycle of getting hurt, rehabbing, getting hurt again, had brought him to this place, he said. A place where it was time to "remove himself from football." The sports world was stunned. This was a generational quarterback. A quarterback on track for the Hall of Fame. A quarterback who'd just won the Associated Press NFL Comeback Player of the Year Award. A rare quarterback who seemed born to do what he was doing. This was Andrew Luck. How could he walk away? He delivered his speech, with trembling conviction. And the next day, at home, he couldn't pick an emotion. They were all tangled together, relief mixed with mourning, guilt mixed with a profound unburdening, a dozen thoughts and feelings that he couldn't name or even really describe. He had no idea what came next, or how hard it would be to find out. All he knew was that he didn't have to pretend anymore. He stepped into the shower and stood under the water, and with the steam rising started to cry. ALMOST THREE YEARS later, on a May morning in Indianapolis, Andrew Luck is holding a fishing rod and sliding into waders in a dirt parking lot a few miles from his house. He's 33 now. He just said goodbye to his wife, Nicole Pechanec, and dropped off their 3-year-old daughter, Lucy, at preschool. Another daughter, Penelope, is due in two months. After Luck retired from the Colts, he tried to find new outlets for his obsessions. He makes a perfect cappuccino, the whole beans purchased from a local shop where he always tips generously. Skiing fills his need for an outdoor physical act that requires total concentration, with speed and danger. Cycling provides the rush of skiing but in warm weather, and is easier on the joints. Rowing is something Nicole encouraged. And he loves fishing for all the usual reasons: the quiet and detachment, the hope and adrenaline, the fact that he can go alone or with friends. He stands outside his black Audi sedan, fiddling with gear, and threads his line. A group of kids watches him from a distance. Luck is slimmer and more defined than he was in his playing days. His eyes are under a heavy brow, conveying little and absorbing everything. He is still famous around town, for the hope he once provided and the fading hope that he could still one day provide it again. He snakes through woods, down to a quiet river. There are some small rocks set up on a bank, where Lucy arranged them a few days ago when she came here with her daddy. That makes him smile. He steps into the water, cold and clear and perfect for bass, and le