# 28234756

**Source**: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28234756/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:00:25.195363+00:00

---

A Comparison of Nurse Practitioners, Physician Assistants, and Primary Care Physicians&#x27; Patterns of Practice and Quality of Care in Health Centers - PubMed This site needs JavaScript to work properly. Please enable it to take advantage of the complete set of features! Clipboard, Search History, and several other advanced features are temporarily unavailable. Skip to main page content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Log in Show account info Close Account Logged in as: username Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Access keys NCBI Homepage MyNCBI Homepage Main Content Main Navigation Search: Search Advanced Clipboard User Guide Save Email Send to Clipboard My Bibliography Collections Citation manager Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Save citation to file Format: Summary (text) PubMed PMID Abstract (text) CSV Create file Cancel Email citation Email address has not been verified. Go to My NCBI account settings to confirm your email and then refresh this page. To: Subject: Body: Format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) MeSH and other data Send email Cancel Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Add to My Bibliography My Bibliography Unable to load your delegates due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Your saved search Name of saved search: Search terms: Test search terms Would you like email updates of new search results? Saved Search Alert Radio Buttons Yes No Email: ( change ) Frequency: Monthly Weekly Daily Which day? The first Sunday The first Monday The first Tuesday The first Wednesday The first Thursday The first Friday The first Saturday The first day The first weekday Which day? Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Report format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) PubMed Send at most: 1 item 5 items 10 items 20 items 50 items 100 items 200 items Send even when there aren't any new results Optional text in email: Save Cancel Create a file for external citation management software Create file Cancel Your RSS Feed Name of RSS Feed: Number of items displayed: 5 10 15 20 50 100 Create RSS Cancel RSS Link Copy Full text links Wolters Kluwer Full text links Actions Cite Collections Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Permalink Permalink Copy Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Page navigation Title &amp; authors Abstract Publication types MeSH terms LinkOut - more resources Title &amp; authors Abstract Publication types MeSH terms LinkOut - more resources Comparative Study Med Care Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2017 Jun;55(6):615-622. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0000000000000689. A Comparison of Nurse Practitioners, Physician Assistants, and Primary Care Physicians&#x27; Patterns of Practice and Quality of Care in Health Centers Ellen T Kurtzman &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Burt S Barnow Affiliations Expand Affiliation 1 *School of Nursing †Trachtenberg School of Public Policy and Public Administration, The George Washington University, Washington, DC. PMID: 28234756 DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0000000000000689 Item in Clipboard Comparative Study A Comparison of Nurse Practitioners, Physician Assistants, and Primary Care Physicians&#x27; Patterns of Practice and Quality of Care in Health Centers Ellen T Kurtzman &nbsp;et al. Med Care . 2017 Jun . Show details Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Med Care Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2017 Jun;55(6):615-622. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0000000000000689. Authors Ellen T Kurtzman &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Burt S Barnow Affiliation 1 *School of Nursing †Trachtenberg School of Public Policy and Public Administration, The George Washington University, Washington, DC. PMID: 28234756 DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0000000000000689 Item in Clipboard Full text links Cite Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Abstract Background: Under the Affordable Care Act, the number and capacity of community health centers (HCs) is growing. Although the majority of HC care is provided by primary care physicians (PCMDs), a growing proportion is delivered by nurse practitioners (NPs) and physician assistants (PAs); yet, little is known about how these clinicians' care compares in this setting. Objectives: To compare the quality of care and practice patterns of NPs, PAs, and PCMDs in HCs. Research design: Using 5 years of data (2006-2010) from the HC subsample of the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey and multivariate regression analysis, we estimated the impact of receiving NP-delivered or PA-delivered care versus PCMD-delivered care. We used design-based and model-based inference and weighted all estimates. Subjects: Primary analyses included 23,704 patient visits to 1139 practitioners-a sample representing approximately 30 million patient visits to HCs in the United States. Measures: We examined 9 patient-level outcomes: 3 quality indicators, 4 service utilization measures, and 2 referral pattern measures. Results: On 7 of the 9 outcomes studied, no statistically significant differences were detected in NP or PA care compared with PCMD care. On the remaining outcomes, visits to NPs were more likely to receive recommended smoking cessation counseling and more health education/counseling services than visits to PCMDs (P≤0.05). Visits to PAs also received more health education/counseling services than visits to PCMDs (P≤0.01; design-based model only). Conclusions: Across the outcomes studied, results suggest that NP and PA care were largely comparable to PCMD care in HCs. PubMed Disclaimer Publication types Comparative Study Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Research Support, U.S. Gov&#x27;t, P.H.S. Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search MeSH terms Community Health Centers* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Databases, Factual Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Nurse Practitioners* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Physician Assistants* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Physicians, Primary Care* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Practice Patterns, Physicians&#x27;* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Primary Health Care Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search United States Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search LinkOut - more resources Full Text Sources Ingenta plc Ovid Technologies, Inc. Wolters Kluwer Other Literature Sources scite Smart Citations Miscellaneous NCI CPTAC Assay Portal Full text links [x] Wolters Kluwer [x] Cite Copy Download .nbib .nbib Format: AMA APA MLA NLM Send To Clipboard Email Save My Bibliography Collections Citation Manager [x] NCBI Literature Resources MeSH PMC Bookshelf Disclaimer The PubMed wordmark and PubMed logo are registered trademarks of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Unauthorized use of these marks is strictly prohibited. Follow NCBI Twitter Facebook LinkedIn GitHub Connect with NLM Twitter SM-Facebook SM-Youtube National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike Bethesda, MD 20894 Web Policies FOIA HHS Vulnerability Disclosure Help Accessibility Careers NLM NIH HHS USA.gov