# Trump Post Office Election.Html

**Source**: https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/17/opinion/trump-post-office-election.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-01T13:40:39.012860+00:00

---

Opinion | Trump&#x27;s Post Office Mess Is Meant to Exhaust You - The New York Times Skip to content Skip to site index Today’s Paper Opinion | The Post Office Mess Is Meant to Exhaust You. Don’t Let It. https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/17/opinion/trump-post-office-election.html Share full article Advertisement SKIP ADVERTISEMENT You have a preview view of this article while we are checking your access. When we have confirmed access, the full article content will load. Opinion Supported by SKIP ADVERTISEMENT The Post Office Mess Is Meant to Exhaust You. Don’t Let It. Trump is “flooding the zone.” It’s a form of modern censorship. Aug. 17, 2020 Video Credit Credit... By Nicholas Konrad/the New York Times Share full article By Charlie Warzel Opinion writer at large. In the Trump era, news doesn’t break, it invades. It doesn’t respect nights or weekends. Many journalists live at the whim of President Trump’s Twitter feed. A rattled off Friday afternoon tweet from Mr. Trump about banning TikTok or a late night hint of an executive order means a weekend of wild goose chases around answering a fundamental question: Can he even do that? It’s not just journalists who feel this exhaustion. Over the last four years I’ve had countless conversations where friends, family, sources and random acquaintances remark that they’ve felt forced to learn about the minutiae of the government during the Trump administration: the Hatch Act, the emoluments clause, the parliamentary procedure of impeachment. Lately we’ve added epidemiology, medical supply chains and antigen testing. This sudden literacy is not a result of a newfound passion for civics but a reaction to a torrent of lies and disinformation from the president and his associates. People are confused and scared. Norms and institutions they took for granted are under threat. They want to know: Can he even do that? But the exhaustion feels more acute in recent days. For instance, Mr. Trump’s effort to cripple the U.S. Postal Service by denying it essential funding and by installing loyalists in executive positions who are behind cutting overtime and removing sorting machines and collection boxes. It’s an attempt, by the president’s own admission , to influence the November election by suppressing mail-in voting. The president has also tried to suggest that voting by mail is a new phenomenon (it is absolutely not). Then there’s Mr. Trump’s choice to float the racist and baseless suggestion that Kamala Harris might not meet the citizenship requirements for the vice presidency, despite her being born in California. Other Republicans have followed suit and tried to dispute that Ms. Harris is Black. It’s an attempt that is, as my colleague Jamelle Bouie wrote, destined to fail. But the attacks are not really about winning in the so-called marketplace of ideas. The examples are everywhere. Like Mr. Trump’s musings that he might look into a pardon of Edward Snowden (who he once called a traitor), or his trial balloon tweet about postponing the presidential election. Or his suggestion Monday that he could run for a third term. We are having trouble retrieving the article content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings. Thank you for your patience while we verify access. If you are in Reader mode please exit and log into your Times account, or subscribe for all of The Times. Thank you for your patience while we verify access. Already a subscriber? Log in . Want all of The Times? Subscribe . Related Content Advertisement SKIP ADVERTISEMENT Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2025 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Accessibility Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Canada International Help Subscriptions Manage Privacy Preferences