# Group14 Lands 463M From Sk Porsche And Others To Make Silicon Anodes For Evs

**Source**: https://techcrunch.com/2025/08/20/group14-lands-463m-from-sk-porsche-and-others-to-make-silicon-anodes-for-evs/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:47:06.034708+00:00

---

Group14 lands $463M from SK, Porsche, and others to make silicon anodes for EVs | TechCrunch TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps Disrupt 2025 Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech &amp; Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government &amp; Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media &amp; Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Crunchboard Contact Us Image Credits: SweetBunFactory / Getty Images Climate Group14 lands $463M from SK, Porsche, and others to make silicon anodes for EVs Tim De Chant 1:50 PM PDT · August 20, 2025 Battery materials startup Group14 announced Wednesday it has closed a $463 million funding round to expand its manufacturing footprint, a sign that investors remain confident in the future of electric vehicles. The startup manufactures silicon anode materials, which significantly boost the storage capacity of lithium-ion batteries. Group14 currently operates three factories, two in the U.S. and one in South Korea. Despite headlines about softening demand growth for electric vehicles, the global market for lithium-ion batteries remains strong. Over the next decade, it&#8217;s expected to grow more than 15% annually, quintupling in size, according to Precedence Research. And automakers and investors are still in pursuit of companies working on technology that will make EVs more efficient and affordable. The round was led by battery manufacturer SK with participation from ATL, Lightrock, Microsoft, Porsche , and OMERS. Alongside the round, Group14 also announced it had “acquired full ownership” of a joint venture with SK in South Korea, which includes its BAM 3 factory. SK had owned 75% of the JV. When asked whether the value of the JV transaction was included in the Series D total, Group14 spokesperson Kristen Caron said the company was “not disclosing any additional details about the round.” Silicon has long been targeted as a potential replacement for graphite, today’s go-to anode material, because it can hold up to 10 times more electrons. But with every charge and discharge, pure silicon anodes have a tendency to crumble as the material expands and contracts, something that graphite is more resistant to. Startups like Group14 and its competitor Sila have accommodated silicon’s propensity to swell by creating structures that keep silicon in place without sacrificing the anode’s overall integrity. Group14’s material is a scaffold with internal voids that hold the silicon, giving it room to expand.&nbsp; The material itself can be blended with graphite or replace it entirely. Many companies still opt for the latter because of graphite’s inherent stability. But the more silicon used, the more energy a single cell can store. Group14 says its material can improve energy density by up to 50% and cut fast-charging times below 10 minutes. Techcrunch event Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss the 20th anniversary of TechCrunch, and a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025 Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Hugging Face, Elad Gil, Vinod Khosla — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before doors open to save up to $444. San Francisco | October 27-29, 2025 REGISTER NOW We&#8217;re always looking to evolve, and by providing some insight into your perspective and feedback into TechCrunch and our coverage and events, you can help us! Fill out&nbsp; this survey &nbsp;to let us know how we&#8217;re doing and get the chance to win a prize in return! Topics battery materials , Climate , electric vehicles , EVs , Lightrock , lithium ion batteries , Microsoft , OMERS Ventures , Porsche , silicon anode , SK , Transportation Tim De Chant Senior Reporter, Climate Tim De Chant is a senior climate reporter at TechCrunch. He has written for a wide range of publications, including Wired magazine, the Chicago Tribune, Ars Technica, The Wire China, and NOVA Next, where he was founding editor. De Chant is also a lecturer in MIT’s Graduate Program in Science Writing, and he was awarded a Knight Science Journalism Fellowship at MIT in 2018, during which time he studied climate technologies and explored new business models for journalism. He received his PhD in environmental science, policy, and management from the University of California, Berkeley, and his BA degree in environmental studies, English, and biology from St. Olaf College. You can contact or verify outreach from Tim by emailing tim.dechant@techcrunch.com . View Bio October 27-29, 2025 San Francisco ONE-WEEK BUNDLE FLASH SALE Founder Bundle Offer: Land your investor and sharpen your pitch. Save 15% when you bring 4-9 founders. Investors Bundle Offer: Discover your next breakout startup. Save 20% when you bring 4-9 investors. Bundle offer ends October 3. Register Now Most Popular Salesforce launches enterprise vibe-coding product, Agentforce Vibes Rebecca Szkutak AI recruiter Alex raises $17M to automate initial job interviews Marina Temkin Vibe-coding startup Anything nabs a $100M valuation after hitting $2M ARR in its first two weeks Marina Temkin The AI services transformation may be harder than VCs think Connie Loizos Famed roboticist says humanoid robot bubble is doomed to burst Connie Loizos Electronic Arts will reportedly be acquired for $50B Amanda Silberling Spotify to label AI music, filter spam and more in AI policy change Sarah Perez Loading the next article Error loading the next article X LinkedIn Facebook Instagram youTube Mastodon Threads Bluesky TechCrunch Staff Contact Us Advertise Crunchboard Jobs Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy RSS Terms of Use Code of Conduct H1-B Visa GPT Pulse Grok Steph Curry TechCrunch Disrupt Tech Layoffs ChatGPT © 2025 TechCrunch Media LLC.