# Bernard Bergemar Owns Mindgeek Pornhub Redtube Youporn Ft 2020 12

**Source**: https://www.businessinsider.com/bernard-bergemar-owns-mindgeek-pornhub-redtube-youporn-ft-2020-12
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T01:12:01.046190+00:00

---

Bernard Bergemar Owns MindGeek, PornHub, RedTube, YouPorn: FT - Business Insider Business Insider Subscribe Newsletters Search Business Strategy Economy Finance Retail Advertising Careers Media Real Estate Small Business The Better Work Project Personal Finance Tech Science AI Enterprise Transportation Startups Innovation Markets Stocks Indices Commodities Crypto Currencies ETFs Lifestyle Entertainment Culture Travel Food Health Parenting Politics Military &amp; Defense Law Education Reviews Tech Streaming Tickets Home Kitchen Style Beauty Gifts Deals Video Big Business Food Wars So Expensive Still Standing Boot Camp Subscribe My account Log in Newsletters US edition Deutschland &amp; Österreich España Japan Polska TW 全球中文版 Get the app Tech Pornhub is owned by a mysterious businessman through a &#x27;complex network of subsidiaries&#x27; that have kept his identity a secret until now, according to a new report By Allana Akhtar Follow Allana Akhtar Every time Allana publishes a story, you’ll get an alert straight to your inbox! Enter your email Sign up By clicking “Sign up”, you agree to receive emails from Business Insider. In addition, you accept Insider’s Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . Bernard Bergemar owns much of MindGeek, which runs major sites like Pornhub, RedTube, and YouPorn, the Financial Times reported. Ethan Miller/Getty Images 2020-12-17T16:37:20Z Share Facebook Email X LinkedIn Reddit Bluesky WhatsApp Copy link lighning bolt icon An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt. Impact Link Save Saved Read in app Add us on This story is available exclusively to Business Insider subscribers. Become an Insider and start reading now. Have an account? Log in . The Financial Times published an explosive report that said the businessman Bernard Bergemar owned much of MindGeek, which runs major porn sites like Pornhub, RedTube, and YouPorn. Bergemar and other owners of MindGeek have stayed away from public scrutiny because they own stake in a "complex network of subsidiaries" belonging to the porn company, FT reported. Pornhub recently took down all videos from unverified creators after Mastercard and Visa withdrew support for their services from the platform . Former content moderators at MindGeek recently told Business Insider the firm allowed questionable videos to live on the site. Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories . The businessman Bernard Bergemar owns MindGeek, which runs major porn sites including Pornhub, RedTube, and YouPorn, according to an explosive report from the Financial Times . The publication said Bergemar's name had been known only in a "small circle" of MindGeek power players until the report came out. Before the FT story's publication, a Google search result showed only three results for Bergemar's name. Pornhub, a private company, declined to comment, saying it does not discuss financial information. A company spokesperson would not confirm their identity after multiple requests. Bergemar owns shares in a majority of MindGeek subsidiaries, which allow him to be the biggest beneficiary of the company, FT reported. MindGeek pays license fees for the "complex network of subsidiaries" and owes them millions of dollars in dividends, the FT report said. "The opaqueness surrounding the company's financing also covers management," FT's Patricia Nilsson wrote. "The names of many of the company's senior executives who feature in corporate filings do not appear in internet searches, leaving little or no trace of who they are." A Business Insider investigation previously found no evidence that supports the existence of multiple Pornhub executives quoted in press releases and news articles. Read more: Former Pornhub moderators describe lax rules while being ordered to watch up to 1,200 videos per day: 'Our job was to find weird excuses to keep videos on our sites' Related stories Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Pornhub recently took down all videos from unverified creators , which had accounted for most of the site's content, after Mastercard and Visa withdrew their services from the platform . The move came after a New York Times opinion article said there was child pornography on Pornhub, but sex workers and porn performers told Vice the credit-card companies' move could lead to lost income. Pornhub has long faced scrutiny over accusations that it does not do enough to remove sex-trafficking content and child pornography. Former content moderators at MindGeek recently told Business Insider the firm let questionable videos live on the site. "Our job was to find weird excuses to keep videos on our sites," a moderator said. Victims of a sex-trafficking operation filed a $40 million lawsuit against MindGeek on December 15, Vice's Samantha Cole reported . Read more: Pornhub has been widely covered for its marketing savvy. But its most-quoted executives are nearly invisible, and it's unclear if they actually exist. MindGeek recorded more than $460 million in revenue in 2018, according to FT. Google data reviewed by the publication showed more people have searched "Pornhub" than "coronavirus" or "Trump" in the past month. Recommended video Read next Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know HOME Subscribe This story is available exclusively to Business Insider subscribers. Become an Insider and start reading now. Have an account? Log in . Legal &amp; Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Privacy Policy Accessibility Code of Ethics Policy Reprints &amp; Permissions Disclaimer Advertising Policies Conflict of Interest Policy Commerce Policy Coupons Privacy Policy Coupons Terms Your Privacy Choices Company About Us Careers Advertise With Us Contact Us News Tips Company News Awards Masthead Other Sitemap Stock quotes by finanzen.net Corrections International Editions AT DE ES JP PL TW Copyright &copy; 2025 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . Jump to Main content Search Account