# Wrist Animated Watch Illustrations Matt Johnston

**Source**: http://www.theverge.com/2014/6/30/5857286/wrist-animated-watch-illustrations-matt-johnston
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:49:03.010740+00:00

---

Animated wristwatch illustrations show the beauty of classic timepieces | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI Hamburger Navigation Button The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Hamburger Navigation Button Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters The Verge Daily Installer Verge Deals Notepad Optimizer Regulator The Stepback Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Animated wristwatch illustrations show the beauty of classic timepieces Comments Drawer Comments Loading comments Getting the conversation ready... Design Close Design Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Design Animated wristwatch illustrations show the beauty of classic timepieces by Jacob Kastrenakes Close Jacob Kastrenakes Executive Editor Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Jacob Kastrenakes Source Wrist and Dezeen Watch Store Jun 30, 2014, 3:58 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads Jacob Kastrenakes Close Jacob Kastrenakes Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Jacob Kastrenakes is The Verge’s executive editor. He has covered tech, policy, and online creators for over a decade. All eyes may be on smartwatches right now , but there's still a lot to love when it comes to traditional wristwatches too. Over at Wrist , designer and developer Matt Johnston has been recreating some of his favorite watches in illustrations for the web. "Watches are the perfect medium for design," Johnston tells Dezeen Watch Store . "They combine typography, color, and movement to create a functional work of art you can wear on your wrist." Johnston’s illustrations are stylish (and stylized) interpretations that make these watches all look incredible. Though you can’t interact with their dials and buttons on the website, the watches do display the correct date and time. Johnston plans to add a new watch every other week, some of which will be originals created himself. Other illustrations have come from contributors, bringing the site up to a total of seven entries at the moment. Follow topics and authors from this story to see more like this in your personalized homepage feed and to receive email updates. Jacob Kastrenakes Close Jacob Kastrenakes Executive Editor Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All by Jacob Kastrenakes Design Close Design Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed. Plus Follow See All Design Most Popular Most Popular Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store Behold: The Lego Game Boy has already been modded to play games for real Microsoft is about to launch free Xbox Cloud Gaming with ads Satya Nadella appoints a new CEO to run Microsoft’s biggest businesses Everything is terrorism in Trump’s America The Verge Daily A free daily digest of the news that matters most. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Design Microsoft’s new Office icons are more curvy and colorful Sharge’s magnetic fan-cooled SSD doubles as a USB hub Figma made its design tools more accessible to AI agents The Wacom One, now one size bigger The SSD version of LaCie’s iconic Rugged drive gets a speed boost This stand can automatically lift, tilt, and turn your laptop toward you Microsoft’s new Office icons are more curvy and colorful Tom Warren Oct 1 Sharge’s magnetic fan-cooled SSD doubles as a USB hub Andrew Liszewski Sep 24 Figma made its design tools more accessible to AI agents Jess Weatherbed Sep 23 The Wacom One, now one size bigger Jess Weatherbed Sep 17 The SSD version of LaCie’s iconic Rugged drive gets a speed boost Andrew Liszewski Sep 15 This stand can automatically lift, tilt, and turn your laptop toward you Antonio G. Di Benedetto Sep 5 Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories Oct 3 With a Friend like this, who needs enemies? Oct 3 I’ve fallen into Sora’s slippery slop Oct 3 I tried Amazon and Google’s new smart home gadgets, ask me anything! Oct 3 The quest for every Gap store playlist ever Oct 3 Trump rolled YouTube into paying for his ballroom Oct 3 Apple pulls ICEBlock from the App Store The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved