# Catalog.Php

**Source**: https://www.hup.harvard.edu/catalog.php?isbn=9780674008984)—and
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:00:26.734784+00:00

---

Reclaiming Public Housing — Harvard University Press Skip to main content NEW BOOKS 25% OFF : Use Code NEW25 Harvard University Press - home Books New Bestsellers New Releases Forthcoming Books Catalog Subjects Economics &amp; Business History Philosophy Politics Science &amp; Nature All Subjects Classics in Translation Loeb Classical Library Murty Classical Library of India Dumbarton Oaks Medieval Library The I Tatti Renaissance Library Series The Charles Eliot Norton Lectures The W. E. B. Du Bois Lectures The Nathan I. Huggins Lectures I Tatti Studies in Italian Renaissance History Wonders of the World All Series Partners Harvard University Asia Center Harvard Ukrainian Research Institute Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and Collection Peabody Museum Press Harvard Graduate School of Design All Partners Features Resources About Index Reclaiming Public Housing A Half Century of Struggle in Three Public Neighborhoods Lawrence J. Vale Hardcover Add to shopping bag $85.00 Harvard University Press books are not shipped directly to India due to regional distribution arrangements. Buy from your local bookstore, Amazon.co.in, or Flipkart.com. This book is not shipped directly to country due to regional distribution arrangements. Pre-order for this book isn't available yet on our website. This book is currently out of stock. Edit shipping location Buy elsewhere Dropdown items Amazon Barnes and Noble Bookshop.org Waterstones Amazon Flipkart ISBN 9780674008984 Publication date: 12/30/2002 In Reclaiming Public Housing , Lawrence Vale explores the rise, fall, and redevelopment of three public housing projects in Boston. Vale looks at these projects from the perspectives of their low-income residents and assesses the contributions of the design professionals who helped to transform these once devastated places during the 1980s and 1990s. The three similarly designed projects were built at the same time under the same government program and experienced similar declines. Each received comparable funding for redevelopment, and each design team consisted of first-rate professionals who responded with similar "defensible space" redesign plans. Why, then, was one redevelopment effort a nationally touted success story, another only a mixed success, and the third a widely acknowledged failure? The book answers this key question by situating each effort in the context of specific neighborhood struggles. In each case, battles over race and poverty played out somewhat differently, yielding wildly different results. At a moment when local city officials throughout America are demolishing more than 100,000 units of low-income housing, this crucial book questions the conventional wisdom that all large public housing projects must be demolished and rebuilt as mixed-income neighborhoods. View More Praise This is an outstanding book that makes a significant contribution to both the literature on public housing and the literature on urban neighborhoods in the U.S. The weaving together, in a detailed but comprehensive manner, of the complete histories of these three projects and their surrounding neighborhoods is masterly. Even though the book contains a great amount of information, it is easy to read and remains interesting throughout. There is simply no other book like this. &mdash;Karen Franck, New Jersey Institute of Technology This is an extraordinary work. I know of no one who has put such sustained scholarly effort and skill into an examination of the details of commonplace urban life, and I know of no one who has put so much thoroughness and energy into public housing case studies. The range of detail is astonishing, but it is packaged in a well-written narrative, not a dreary commentary on some social science tables. Altogether it is an extraordinary work because its intense scholarship witnesses its call for respect. &mdash;Sam Bass Warner, author of Streetcar Suburbs: The Process of Growth in Boston, 1870-1900 Vale is an extraordinary urban historian. His language has a clarity and a lilt and the stories he tells are presented in a lively style and with a fine attention to detail. Incorporating the comments of some of the hundreds of people whom he interviewed, and mining archival materials, Vale weaves together a lively chronology of three public housing developments, the environment in which they grew, and the challenges they faced. This is a top-notch piece of work. &mdash;Rachel G. Bratt, Tufts University Professor Lawrence J. Vale offers a detailed and multilayered analysis of the history of the three Boston public housing projects -- West Broadway, Franklin Field, and Commonwealth. This interdisciplinary study not only relies on traditional archival sources such as the Boston Housing Authority Records and the John F. Collins Papers but uses more than three hundred interviews with public housing residents Vale effectively uses the history of all three projects to prescribe actions to salvage the large-scale public housing. The book, which should be added to the short list of must-read studies of public housing, is persuasively argued, clearly written, and effectively argued. Its findings have significance far beyond Boston The larger lessons given by this excellent study have relevance to scholars, officials, and activists committed to salvaging public housing. &mdash;Robert B. Fairbanks, Journal of American History [ Reclaiming Public Housing ] is based on rich historical studies of three Boston public housing projects initiated between 1949 and 1954 that were selected for redevelopment in the 1980s after slipping into serious crises One of the strengths of this study is its comparative approach Those looking for simple "one-size-fits-all" solutions will be disappointed. Vale doesn't believe that private or public management is inherently better, that design determines outcomes, or that mixing incomes will necessarily improve community social capital. What he does believe is that, despite decades of often brutal mismanagement, tenants can be effectively engaged to work with concerned management to find solutions to some of the problems that have accumulated This is a well-researched, carefully nuanced story of three distinctive urban places. Not only will it provide a variety of insights into the politics of public housing redevelopment, it is also a captivating read along the way. &mdash;Alan Smart, Canadian Journal of Urban Research View More Author Lawrence J. Vale is Professor of Urban Studies and Planning, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Book Details 496 pages, 58 halftones, 25 maps, 18 line illustrations 6-3/8 x 9 inches Harvard University Press Social Science / Sociology Social Science From this author From the Puritans to the Projects Lawrence J. Vale Recommendations Urban Legends Peter L&#039;Official The Urban Commons Daniel T. O&#039;Brien Off the Books Sudhir Alladi Venkatesh Why the Garden Club Couldn't Save Youngstown Sean Safford From the Puritans to the Projects Lawrence J. Vale &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Search Home Search site Search for Error Sorry, there was an error adding the item to your shopping bag. OK Expired session Sorry, your session has expired. Please refresh your browser's tab. Refresh Get the latest offers and news from Harvard University Press Email Continue Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram Harvard University Press New Releases Bestsellers Meet Our Editors Privacy Policy Contact Us Cookies Management Harvard University Press New Releases Bestsellers Meet Our Editors Privacy Policy Contact Us Cookies Management &copy; 2025 President and Fellows of Harvard College Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy Site by AREA&nbsp;17 Main navigation Books New Bestsellers New Releases Forthcoming Books Catalog Subjects Economics &amp; Business History Philosophy Politics Science &amp; Nature All Subjects Classics in Translation Loeb Classical Library Murty Classical Library of India Dumbarton Oaks Medieval Library The I Tatti Renaissance Library Series The Charles Eliot Norton Lectures The W. E. B. Du Bois Lectures The Nathan I. Huggins Lectures I Tatti Studies in Italian Renaissance History Wonders of the World All Series Partners Harvard University Asia Center Harvard Ukrainian Research Institute Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and Collection Peabody Museum Press Harvard Graduate School of Design All Partners Features Resources About Index An item has been added to the cart Added to shopping bag View shopping bag Indexes Authors Series Partners Subjects Series A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Authors A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Partners A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Subjects A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Share Share site Copy to clipboard Unavailable Harvard University Press titles are not shipped directly to India due to local distribution arrangements. Unavailable in country . Edit shipping location Shopping Bag Your shopping bag is currently empty. Add items to your shopping bag, to complete check out. View New Releases Set your location Your location It looks like you're in &nbsp . Would you like to update your location? Country of location Select country Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote D&#039;Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curacao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador