# Nina Luo

**Source**: https://www.thenation.com/authors/nina-luo/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:56:26.693585+00:00

---

Nina Luo | The Nation --> Log In Email * Password * Remember Me Forgot Your Password? Log In New to The Nation ? Subscribe Print subscriber? Activate your online access Skip to content Skip to footer Magazine Newsletters Subscribe Log In Search Subscribe Donate Magazine Latest Archive Podcasts Newsletters Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts The Nation About Events Contact Us Advertise Current Issue Nina Luo Nina Luo is an organizer and political strategist with more than decade of experience organizing and leading dozens of campaigns of all kinds. Currently, she is a senior strategist at the Working Families Party building a new philanthropic model and community. Previously, she was Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s political director. She can be reached by email at [email&#160;protected] . Left Organizing Is in Crisis. Philanthropy Is a Major Reason Why. Left Organizing Is in Crisis. Philanthropy Is a Major Reason Why. Progressive philanthropy lacks good strategy, so too many of our organizations are hollow—and that left us unable to prevent a second Trump term. Jan 16, 2025 / Nina Luo Ad Policy Ad Policy Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts OppArt Poetry Letters Magazine Current Issue Masthead Archive Subscription Services Reprints More About Us Contact Us Advertise Nation Events Nation Shop Nation Travels Nation Podcasts Newsletters Follow Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube RSS Founded by abolitionists in 1865, The Nation has long believed that independent journalism has the capacity to bring about a more democratic and equitable world. Donate Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility Statement Help Careers Nation Fund Privacy Manager x