# Wikipedia In The Flesh

**Source**: https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2022/04/25/wikipedia-in-the-flesh
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:56:04.769977+00:00

---

Wikipedia, in the Flesh | The New Yorker Skip to main content Newsletter Search Search The Latest News Books &amp; Culture Fiction &amp; Poetry Humor &amp; Cartoons Magazine Puzzles &amp; Games Video Podcasts Goings On Shop 100th Anniversary Open Navigation Menu Menu Dept. of Knowledge Wikipedia, in the Flesh A group of comics discuss how to explore the strangest corners of human knowledge&#8212;via Wikipedia articles such as “List of soups” and “List of sexually active popes”&#8212;in front of a live audience. By Naaman Zhou April 18, 2022 Save this story Save this story Save this story Save this story Annie Rauwerda Illustration by João Fazenda There are more than 6.4 million English-language articles on Wikipedia, covering knowledge as useful as “Bee removal” and as specific as “List of people who have lived in airports.” If compressed, the entire online encyclopedia would take up only twenty gigabytes. (Source for this claim? The Wikipedia article “Size of Wikipedia.”) On a recent Tuesday, four friends gathered via Google Meet to work out a way to turn Wikipedia into a tight ninety-minute show, to take place in downtown Manhattan, the following Friday. Three were local comedians; the fourth was Annie Rauwerda, a University of Michigan senior, studying neuroscience, who is the founder of the popular Instagram account @DepthsofWikipedia. Rauwerda, twenty-two, is a year older than Wikipedia itself. For @DepthsofWikipedia, she ferrets out and posts the most esoteric extracts from the Web site—which is to say, from the collective sum of human knowledge. Some recent articles posted: “Timeline of the far future”; “Unknot,” a mathematical concept of the least-knotted possible knot; “Judaism in Rugrats.” The Instagram account has more than eight hundred thousand followers, including John Mayer, Neil Gaiman, and Julia Fox. Grimes follows on TikTok. In March, the account went mildly viral for spotlighting the earliest-known bar joke, in ancient Sumerian. “A dog walked into a tavern and said, ‘I can’t see a thing. I’ll open this one.’ ” (“The humor of it,” the Wikipedia entry read, “is probably related to the Sumer way of life and has been lost.”) The other day, after Rauwerda finished a class in which she dissected the brain of a fly, she joined the Google Meet call, with her cat, to discuss “Depths of Wikipedia LIVE !,” the first in-person event for this inherently online community. Tickets sold out; she was nervous. Reassuring words came from Reed Kavner, who hosts a PowerPoint-based comedy show. In the other squares were Ena Da and Juan Nicolón, from Uruguay. The plan was to mix comic presentations with games of audience interaction. Rauwerda would m.c.; Nicolón was down to do a ten-minute set drawing on the Wikipedia article “List of soups.” Rauwerda, scrolling, said, “I just opened it. Guess what I landed on? Tiger-penis soup!” “This is why you’re good at this, Annie,” Kavner said. Other events: Wikipedia racing, where contestants start on one page and race to another via hyperlinks, and a game called Citation Needed. Rauwerda ran through her opening remarks, which included slides on “Polar bear jail,” “Breast-shaped hill,” and “Unrequited love.” “I might delete this?” she said, pausing on a slide called “Zenzizenzizenzic.” “I just felt like mentioning that, you know, x to the eighth power is called zenzizenzizenzic?” Kavner said, “Cool reveal.” They discussed a game in which audience members guess which article is longer: “List of fictional worms” or “List of sexually active popes.” The answer was worms. Kavner suggested offering bonus points to anyone who could name a fictional worm or a sexually active pope. Rauwerda asked Kavner whether he had the names of the hundred and thirty-odd people who had bought tickets. “I’m just curious if any, like, big-league Wikipedians are there,” she said. “If I say something that’s kind of jokey . . .” She paused. “I just don’t want, at any point, to encourage vandalism”—inserting fake facts into articles—“or to disparage the very impressive democracy that happens on Wikipedia all the time.” “Everyone knows you’re coming at this in good faith,” Kavner said. Someone brought up a meme from a “Simpsons” episode in which Lisa has a dream about being in a band of losers—“Garfunkel, Messina, Oates, and Lisa!”—who get booed every time they go onstage. Then she wakes up: “Why would they come to our concert just to boo us?” she asks. Backstage, on the night of the event, Rauwerda, in white high-heeled boots, said that she was still thinking about the “Simpsons” meme. “Why would they come to our show just to boo us?” she said, nervously. A few minutes later, she went onstage and opened with the Sumerian dog joke; it killed. ♦ Published in the print edition of the April 25 & May 2, 2022 , issue, with the headline “Wikipedian.” Naaman Zhou is a member of The New Yorker’s editorial staff. He was previously a reporter for the Guardian Australia. More: Comedians Wikipedia Shows Instagram College students University of Michigan Read More Annals of Technology Tim Berners-Lee Invented the World Wide Web. Now He Wants to Save It In 1989, Sir Tim revolutionized the online world. Today, in the era of misinformation, addictive algorithms, and extractive monopolies, he thinks he can do it again. The Musical Life Debbie Gibson’s Pavarotti Period The eighties pop princess returns to the Metropolitan Opera, where she sang in the Children’s Chorus, and shows off her new memoir, “Eternally Electric.” Embodiment Dept. Anthony Roth Costanzo Finds His Diva The countertenor searches for the right look to conjure Maria Callas for his starring role in the new production of “Galas.” Backstage Dept. Jeanine Tesori, Young-Adult Whisperer The award-winning composer of “Fun Home” gave her Juilliard students a prompt for a song-writing assignment: “How do you view the world?” Podcast Dept. The Leftist Podcaster Who Studies Online Radicalization Joshua Citarella sees his YouTube show “Doomscroll” as a “tactical media experiment” to funnel young internet users toward esoteric left-wing ideas. Photo Booth Stephen Shore’s Precocious Adolescent Eye A new book titled “Early Work” reveals that the acclaimed American photographer barrelled into the medium fully formed. Critic’s Notebook Adebunmi Gbadebo and the Mysteries of Clay The aftereffect of a new ceramics show, “Watch Out for the Ghosts,” at the Nicola Vassell Gallery, is of feeling . . . pricked. Poems “What I Might Sing” “Last Friday, I was thinking of Whitney Houston, / and, because of you, I was thinking too of America.” Profiles Carol Burnett Plays On The ninety-two-year-old comedy legend has influenced generations of performers. In a string of recent TV roles, she has been co-starring with some of her closest comedic heirs. Critics at Large Our Fads, Ourselves Labubus are the latest hard-to-find objects to capture the popular imagination. What can speculative manias of the past tell us about the enduring appeal of collectibles? Locals Dept. Mahmoud Khalil, Back Home Cooking his mother’s maqluba recipe, the Palestinian activist describes his detention in Louisiana: losing fifteen pounds and a cleaning contest with pizza as a prize. Then and Now Dept. Where the Waters Once Flowed A local photographer tracks down the ghosts of former springs and wells in New York City. News Books &amp; Culture Fiction &amp; Poetry Humor &amp; Cartoons Magazine Crossword Video Podcasts 100th Anniversary Goings On Manage Account Shop The New Yorker Buy Covers and Cartoons Condé Nast Store Digital Access Newsletters Jigsaw Puzzle RSS About Careers Contact F.A.Q. Media Kit Press Accessibility Help User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. The New Yorker may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Instagram Tiktok Threads X Facebook LinkedIn YouTube