# Letters Editor 0

**Source**: https://www.thenation.com/letters-editor-0/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:13:10.855316+00:00

---

Letters to the Editor | The Nation --> Log In Email * Password * Remember Me Forgot Your Password? Log In New to The Nation ? Subscribe Print subscriber? Activate your online access Skip to content Skip to footer Magazine Newsletters Subscribe Log In Search Subscribe Donate Magazine Latest Archive Podcasts Newsletters Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts The Nation About Events Contact Us Advertise Current Issue Ad Policy Letters to the Editor &nbsp; The form below enables readers to send letters to the editor and submit corrections. If you need customer service click here or tech support click here . The Nation welcomes letters—no longer than 300 words—about something published in the print magazine or on the website. Letters are subject to editing for reasons of space and clarity. The print edition of The Nation can only run a small number of the letters received.&nbsp; The Nation reserves the right to publish your letter, unless it is labeled &#8220;not for publication.&#8221; By filling out this form, you give The Nation permission to publish this letter. Please include your postal address and telephone number. We will not publish these or use them for any reason other than to contact you about this letter. Full Name Job Title and Institution/Organization Email Address City State / Province / Region Country Telephone Area Code - Phone Number Title of Nation piece Letter to the editor Click Here to Send Your Message Submit Reset &nbsp; Ad Policy Sections Politics World Economy Culture Books &#038; the Arts OppArt Poetry Letters Magazine Current Issue Masthead Archive Subscription Services Reprints More About Us Contact Us Advertise Nation Events Nation Shop Nation Travels Nation Podcasts Newsletters Follow Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube RSS Founded by abolitionists in 1865, The Nation has long believed that independent journalism has the capacity to bring about a more democratic and equitable world. Donate Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility Statement Help Careers Nation Fund Privacy Manager x