# Best Pitchers Mlb History Part 2

**Source**: http://grantland.com/features/best-pitchers-mlb-history-part-2/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:18:18.288361+00:00

---

&raquo; The Pitching Championship Belt, Part 2 Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous The &#8216;Madden&#8217; Curse Comes to WWE ➤ Next Stop Making Sense Facebook Twitter Print MLB The Pitching Championship Belt, Part 2 Which of these historic aces wore the undisputed MLB crown? by Bill Barnwell on July 3, 2014 Click here for Part 1 and the methodology. 1990-92: Roger Clemens We kick off the ’90s with Clemens&#8217;s best season as a Red Sox pitcher. After posting a 3.13 ERA and failing to make the All-Star team in 1989, Clemens bounced back in a big way, going 21-6 with a sumptuous 1.93 ERA in 228.1 IP. In August alone, he went 6-0 while allowing just six runs in six starts. 666?!? Does this mean Clemens is the Antichrist ?!? 1 He posted a 0.97 ERA altogether in the second half, but that somehow wasn&#8217;t enough to win him the Cy Young Award. Well-respected veteran Bob Welch, who died last month, went 27-6 with a 2.95 ERA in 1990 to claim his first and only Cy Young crown. Clemens, having produced 10.6 bWAR to Welch&#8217;s 3.0, finished second. Clemens would finish second to no one in 1991. He led the American League in ERA (2.62), strikeouts (241), and innings pitched (271.1), winning 21 of 28 Cy Young first-place votes. (The other seven first-place votes were split among three Twins pitchers, which is not something you say every day.) Clemens would lead the American League in ERA (2.41) for a third consecutive season in 1992, but his 18-11 record was only enough to get him to third in the Cy Young balloting. Dennis Eckersley and Jack McDowell finished ahead of him despite combining for fewer bWAR (8.2) than what Clemens produced on his own (8.8). The burly Texan would never be the same again in a Boston uniform; he posted a 4.46 ERA in 1993, and after throwing 225 innings or more in each of his first seven seasons, he failed to do so again until 1996 — his final year with the organization. Let&#8217;s check back in with him later. &nbsp; 1993-96: Greg Maddux Looking back, the strange thing about Maddux is that it all kinda came out of nowhere. He posted solid ERAs in the minors after being drafted out of high school in the second round, but strikeout and walk rates are usually better indicators of professional success, and his ranged from mediocre to middling . In his last season spent primarily as a minor leaguer, 1986, Maddux threw 192 innings across Double-A and Triple-A and struck out just 100 batters while walking 45. He posted a 5.52 ERA in 31 innings for the Cubs as a 20-year-old September call-up that season, and he went 6-14 with a 5.61 ERA at age 21 for the North Siders a year later. And then … he posted a 114 ERA+ in 249 innings, made the All-Star team, and was a five-win player on average (by bWAR) over the subsequent 21 seasons. Maddux was not the runaway favorite to win the Cy Young Award in 1992, but he did anyway, by posting a 2.18 ERA. There was no question about his standing after he signed with the Braves as a free agent that offseason. He would win Cy Young Awards in each of his first three seasons with the team. Put it this way: There have been seven seasons in MLB history when a pitcher who qualified for the ERA award posted an ERA+ of 250 or better. Nobody has more than one … except for Maddux, who pulled the feat off in consecutive seasons (1994 and 1995). He wasn&#8217;t quite as good in 1996, with John Smoltz winning the Cy Young and Kevin Brown posting a 1.89 ERA, but Maddux was still well above average and had been so dominant over the previous three seasons that I can&#8217;t imagine anybody picking against him at the end of &#8217;96. Oh, and there is that iconic commercial , too. &nbsp; 1997-98: Roger Clemens At the end of 1997, though? You might have a case. Maddux was still very impressive, leading the league in winning percentage in 1997 and the NL in ERA in 1998. Other pitchers just raised their game. Pedro Martinez claimed his first Cy Young in 1997, thanks to a 1.90 ERA over 241.1 innings with the Expos. The AL Cy Young winner, though, was a rejuvenated Clemens. Now in Toronto, Clemens delivered on his four-year, $40 million contract with a 11.9 bWAR season, leading the AL in wins (21), innings pitched (264), strikeouts (292), and ERA (2.05). Park and league adjustments actually leave him with a better ERA+ than Martinez. He wasn&#8217;t much worse in 1998, either. Clemens claimed the Cy Young for a second consecutive season, this time unanimously, while beating out Martinez, who had been traded to the Red Sox over the winter. He led the AL in ERA and was tied with David Cone and Rick Helling for the league lead in wins. After forcing a trade to the Yankees during the subsequent offseason, though, Clemens would post a 4.60 ERA, which opened up the door for … &nbsp; 1999-2000: Pedro Martinez It&#8217;s safe to say these two seasons were penciled in from about the first moment this project was considered. If anything, we underrate Martinez&#8217;s peak because it was the opposite of the Koufax peak; it came in a hitter&#8217;s park during the height of the steroid era. Translate his 2000 line to the 1963 Dodgers and Martinez would have gone 19-5 with a 1.00 ERA. The real problem is picking which of the two seasons is better. 2000 is generally considered superior, because Martinez&#8217;s ERA fell from 2.07 to 1.74; his 291 ERA+ is the best season from any starter since 1880. On the other hand, he was also a much luckier pitcher in 2000; Martinez posted a .237 BABIP that year after an out-of-character .325 BABIP the previous season. 2 FIP regresses that figure toward league average and credits Martinez with a 1.39 FIP in 1999, the second-best FIP in the history of baseball. 3 Martinez was more productive in 2000, but in terms of the things he could control, he might very well have been a better pitcher in 1999. In either case, we&#8217;re splitting hairs; it&#8217;s almost surely the best two-season stretch by any pitcher in the history of baseball. I&#8217;ll spoil it for you: Martinez doesn&#8217;t appear on this list again. It seems impossible, but it’s true. He was injured and started only 18 times in 2001, and while he was very good when he did make it onto the mound, the 2.39 ERA he posted didn&#8217;t match the heights of 1999 and 2000. He led the American League in ERA in 2002 (2.26) and 2003 (2.22), but failed to reach 200 innings in either season and didn&#8217;t win the Cy Young. Martinez was great for a few more seasons, but he was never again the best. &nbsp; 2001-02: Randy Johnson Johnson won the NL Cy Young during both of Martinez&#8217;s memorable seasons in the American League, so when Martinez slipped because of injury, it was always going to be Johnson&#8217;s title to lose. He didn&#8217;t. Johnson went 45-11 over this two-year run, winning two more Cy Young Awards to make it four straight. 4 He famously led the Diamondbacks to a World Series win in 2001 by winning five games in the postseason, including Game 7 of the World Series with four outs of relief on zero days&#8217; rest. And the second-best pitcher in baseball over those two years was probably Curt Schilling, Johnson&#8217;s teammate in Arizona. Johnson was injured and missed most of 2003, and after an impressive 2004, he was traded to the Yankees in a deal that didn&#8217;t really work out for either side. While he probably could have carried on into his fifties as a terrifying LOOGY , he retired in 2009 and became a photographer, which is awfully cool. He&#8217;s most recently been documenting his trip to Southeast Asia on Twitter . &nbsp; 2003: Roy Halladay For the first time since 1983, there&#8217;s no obvious candidate to fill the open position of Best Pitcher Alive. Johnson is hurt. Schilling missed a month and a half and threw only 168 innings. Martinez missed a month and threw only 186.2 innings. Mark Prior is a viable candidate, given that he finishes the 2003 season having thrown 328 innings of 2.74 ERA baseball over two seasons with the Cubs; little did we know at the time that he had only 329 innings of professional baseball left to go. The best combination of track record and recent production, though, is Halladay. After badly flaming out during 2000 and being sent to rebuild his confidence and career in High-A Dunedin, Halladay returned to the majors a much more efficient and effective pitcher, cutting his walk rate dramatically while working longer into games. He was impressive in a half season in 2001 and made the All-Star team in a 19-7 campaign in 2002 before throwing 266 innings in 2003, an innings total that is totally anachronistic considering the era and Halladay&#8217;s age (26) at the time. He went 22-7 with nine complete games, struck out a league-high 6.38 batters for every one he walked, and finished fifth in the AL in ERA. As an ace seemingly transported from another time, he won 26 of 28 Cy Young votes. Unfortunately, in 2004, Halladay got hurt and pitched only 133 innings of relatively ineffective baseball. He&#8217;d be back in the running for this award, though, in 2005 and beyond. &nbsp; 2004-06: Johan Santana Santana was one of the causes célèbres of the then-nascent baseball blogosphere, having been preceded by the likes of Jackie Rexrode, Erubiel Durazo, and Roberto Petagine. A Rule 5 pick out of the Astros organization in 1999, Santana stuck on the Minnesota roster as a long reliever and spot starter. By 2002, he was on the roster for good with a killer changeup in tow; he struck out 10.3 batters per nine innings and posted a 3.04 ERA across 266.2 innings in a swing role, eventually moving into the starting rotation by the end of 2003. 2004 was his first full year as a starter, and Santana immediately turned into a staff ace: He went 20-6 while leading the American League in strikeouts (265) and ERA (2.61). He slipped a teeny bit in 2005, finishing up 16