# Porsche 959 Nissan R32 Gt R

**Source**: https://www.roadandtrack.com/news/a46867668/porsche-959-nissan-r32-gt-r/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:00:38.220259+00:00

---

This Is the Porsche 959 Nissan Bought to Make the R32 GT-R We use technologies that provide information about your interactions with this site to others for functionality, analytics, targeted advertising, and other uses. Learn more in our Privacy Notice. Search About Us Join Now All Access R&amp;T Experiences Shop R&amp;T News Reviews Car Culture Exclusives Performance Car of the Year Contact Follow Newsletter Send Us a Tip Your Privacy Choices Privacy Notice Terms Of Use Skip to Content News Reviews Culture Exclusives Gear Send Us a TIp Sign Up Join Now sign in News This Is the Porsche 959 Nissan Bought to Make the R32 GT-R This Is the Porsche 959 Nissan Bought to Make the R32 GT-R When designing the R32 Skyline GT-R, Nissan applied to Porsche to purchase a 959 as a development study. Porsche, which reportedly lost money on every 959 it built, declined. But an enterprising Nissan executive pulled a fast one, and that is how we have this car. By Brendan McAleer Published: Feb 20, 2024 4:36 PM EST Save Article View Photos Photos Courtesy of Broad Arrow Auctions With fewer than 300 production models built in the initial run in 1987 and 1988, every Porsche 959 is special. The 959 was not just a technological tour de force for Porsche, but the company's best guess at what the future would hold. With all-wheel-drive and sequential twin-turbocharged flat-six power , it is the grandfather of every modern 911 Turbo, and still spry enough to keep up to its progeny on a backroad. But coming up for sale at this year's Amelia Auctions is a 959 of such unusual pedigree that it inspired not one lineage of performance juggernauts, but two: both the aforementioned 911 Turbo, and the car known as Godzilla. Lot number 220 is a 1988 959 SC anointed by the experts at former racer Bruce Canepa's specialist workshop south of San Jose. For that reason alone it is a jewel, one infused with careful upgrades that enhance its performance to equal that of a modern supercar without losing the spirit of the 959. Also, just look at it. With its dark green paint and rich mahogany-brown leather, it's the equal of any of the best work to leave Aston Martin's factory. View Photos Photos Courtesy of Broad Arrow Auctions “I only want to start with original cars, the best of the best,” says Bruce Canepa, speaking by phone from his shop. “At this point, the cars find us – people know we are looking, and I get calls all the time.” Related Story How Canepa Made the Ultimate Porsche Better Canepa might as well be named Mr. 959 . Decades ago, when the 959 was relatively unknown in the U.S., he was instrumental in pushing through the Show And Display law that allowed for limited-production cars to be road-legal in the US, with restrictions. He handled the importation of probably the best-known 959s, those of Microsoft co-founders Paul Allen and Bill Gates. Over the years, the Canepa garages have serviced or sold approaching one-third of all 959s ever made. Especially if you want to drive your 959 – and they are built to be driven, not put on a plinth – Canepa's the guy you want to see. View Photos Photos Courtesy of Broad Arrow Auctions Which is why when a retired Nissan engineer was looking for a home for a 959 that had been quietly tucked away for over 30 years, the message made its way to Bruce. As it turned out, back in the late Eighties, Nissan applied to Porsche to purchase a 959 as a development study. Porsche, which reportedly lost money on every 959 it built, declined. So, some enterprising Nissan executive pulled a fast one, getting an unnamed Belgian national to order a 1988 959 Komfort in Polar Silver, then having the car shipped directly to Yokohama. Here, it was pulled to pieces as Nissan studied the possibilities of an all-wheel-drive system that was tuned for performance, not just extra grip in snowy or otherwise slippery conditions. While the 959's Porsche-Steuer Kupplung (PSK) all-wheel-drive system differed mechanically from Nissan's Advanced Total Traction Engineering System (ATTESA ET-S), the engineers of the latter clearly learned something in their dissection of the 959 . Related Story How Nissan One-Upped the Porsche 959 Nissan's R32 GT-R showed up with ATTESA ET-S apportioning twin-turbocharged straight-six power to the road, and beat the pants off the competition in touring car racing. An Australian journalist dubbed it Godzilla, and the legend was set. As for Nissan's 959, it was sold to an engineer who never road-registered it. It remained barely driven for years, eventually turning up at Canepa with fewer than 1000 miles on the odometer. View Photos Photos Courtesy of Broad Arrow Auctions The Canepa 959 SC treatment is a multi-year, no expenses spared process. The cars are fitted with the lighter, simpler, fixed suspension of the 959 Sport models, and receive the 18” wheels the road car was always supposed to have along with modern rubber. The flat-six engine is torn down and rebuilt around Borg-Warner turbochargers that give it well over 800 hp. A prospective owner selects a one-of-one color combo, as no two of these cars will be made the same. “At this point, we will build 50 of these,” Canepa says, hinting that there are a half-dozen 959 projects on the go at present, including one in Porsche's glorious Rubystone. “The demand is there. But only 50.” View Photos Photos Courtesy of Broad Arrow Auctions The winning bid for this ultimate expression of the 959 will have to be a strong one, with initial estimates in the mid-$3M range. But for that you're getting a car that can show a clean pair of heels to a modern Lamborghini while still feeling small and agile as the 1980s 911 it shares DNA with. And, at the same time, it's the sole 959 that can claim to have inspired modern versions of both the 911 Turbo and the mighty Skyline GT-Rs. Put it another way, in-period, this car's chief rival was the Ferrari F40 , and a tidy example of one of those would cost roughly the same – and be more than four times more common . Every 959 is special. This example is especially so. It's the stuff of dreams whether you are a devotee of Luftgekuhlt or the Fast and Furious franchise. The hammer comes down on February 29 th . A car-lover’s community for ultimate access &amp; unrivaled experiences. JOIN NOW Brendan McAleer Contributing Editor Brendan McAleer is a freelance writer and photographer based in North Vancouver, B.C., Canada. He grew up splitting his knuckles on British automobiles, came of age in the golden era of Japanese sport-compact performance, and began writing about cars and people in 2008. His particular interest is the intersection between humanity and machinery, whether it is the racing career of Walter Cronkite or Japanese animator Hayao Miyazaki's half-century obsession with the Citroën 2CV. He has taught both of his young daughters how to shift a manual transmission and is grateful for the excuse they provide to be perpetually buying Hot Wheels. Spotlight Defender D7X-R Wants to Conquer the Desert For One Driver, 72 Hours of Racing Is No Big Deal The Ferrari F80 Is a Silent Killer Tested: 2026 Chevrolet Silverado EV Trail Boss Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Alpine Wins 6 Hours of Fuji, WEC's 100th Race Is Tail of the Dragon Worth the Hype? The Rise of Ferrari’s New Young Talents The 2026 Toyota GR Corolla Is Much Stiffer Pearley: Where's My Fox-Body Mustang GTD? Best Luxury Sports Cars for 2025 and 2026 Why McLaren Insists Piastri’s Baku GP Was a 'One-Off' The Bentley Bentayga Is an Ultra-Lux Tow Barge Advertisement - Continue Reading Below About Us New Cars News Press Room How We Test Cars Send Us a Tip Car Rankings Newsletter Contact Us Advertise Online Customer Service Gear and Accessories Subscribe Community Guidelines Media Kit A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2025 Hearst Autos, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Notice CA Notice at Collection Your CA Privacy Rights/Shine the Light DAA Industry Opt Out Terms of Use Site Map Your Privacy Choices: Opt Out of Sale/Targeted Ads