# Amp

**Source**: https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/revealed-the-brutal-reality-for-mechanics-as-f1s-calendar-expands/6960259/amp/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:56:21.770329+00:00

---

Revealed: The brutal reality for mechanics as F1's calendar expands Formula 1 All Series Formula 1 MotoGP NASCAR Cup WEC IndyCar WRC IMSA FIA F2 Home News Schedule Results Standings Videos Drivers Teams Formula 1 News Schedule Results Standings Photo galleries Videos Drivers Teams Ratings Live MotoGP News Schedule Results Standings Photo galleries Videos Drivers Teams NASCAR Cup News Schedule Results Standings Photo galleries Videos Drivers Teams IndyCar News Schedule Results Standings Photo galleries Videos Drivers Teams WEC News Schedule Results Standings Photo galleries Videos Drivers Teams IMSA News Schedule Results Standings Photo galleries Videos Drivers Teams Open wheel Formula E News Schedule Results Standings Photo galleries Drivers Teams FIA F2 News Videos Schedule Results Standings Drivers Teams FIA F3 News Videos Schedule Results Standings Drivers Teams Super Formula News Videos Schedule Results Standings Drivers Teams F1 Academy News Schedule Photo galleries Results Standings Indy NXT News Videos Schedule Results Standings Drivers Teams Rally WRC News Schedule Results Standings Photo galleries Videos Drivers Teams Dakar News Photo galleries Videos Drivers Teams Sportscars Le Mans News Schedule Photo galleries Videos Super GT News Videos Schedule Bikes Moto2 News Videos Schedule Results Standings Drivers Teams Moto3 News Videos Schedule Results Standings Drivers Teams World Superbike News Schedule Results Standings Videos Drivers Teams Other NASCAR NASCAR XFINITY News Schedule Results Standings Photo galleries Videos NASCAR Truck News Schedule Results Standings Photo galleries Videos NASCAR Euro News Videos Schedule Touring Supercars News Schedule Results Standings Photo galleries Videos Drivers Teams DTM News Schedule Results Standings Photo galleries Videos Drivers Teams All Series News Schedule Results Standings Videos Drivers Teams All Series Sign up for free Get quick access to your favorite articles Manage alerts on breaking news and favorite drivers Make your voice heard with article commenting. Sign in Edition Global Quick links: Schedule 2025 Photo Galleries Videos F1 Singapore Grand Prix News Recommended for you NASCAR Truck Roval chaos in Turn 1, Lap 1 as title favorites wreck Prime NASCAR Truck Prime NASCAR Truck Charlotte II 1 h NASCAR Truck Roval chaos in Turn 1, Lap 1 as title favorites wreck NASCAR driver Ryan Vargas to compete at Monster Jam Prime NASCAR XFINITY Prime NASCAR XFINITY 1 h NASCAR driver Ryan Vargas to compete at Monster Jam Analysis: Can Max Verstappen beat the McLaren pair in Singapore? Prime Formula 1 Prime Formula 1 Singapore GP 3 h Analysis: Can Max Verstappen beat the McLaren pair in Singapore? Rene Rast announces DTM exit on eve of 2025 finale Prime DTM Prime DTM Hockenheim 4 h Rene Rast announces DTM exit on eve of 2025 finale Ferrari fined for Charles Leclerc pitlane clash with Lando Norris at F1 Singapore GP Prime Formula 1 Prime Formula 1 Singapore GP 4 h Ferrari fined for Charles Leclerc pitlane clash with Lando Norris at F1 Singapore GP Charles Leclerc outlines pitlane confusion that caused FP2 crash with Lando Norris Prime Formula 1 Prime Formula 1 Singapore GP 5 h Charles Leclerc outlines pitlane confusion that caused FP2 crash with Lando Norris Jamie Chadwick urges tougher penalties after "super clumsy" Charles Leclerc-Lando Norris clash Prime Formula 1 Prime Formula 1 Singapore GP 5 h Jamie Chadwick urges tougher penalties after "super clumsy" Charles Leclerc-Lando Norris clash Helmut Marko: "Fast, aggressive" Alex Dunne the type of driver "Red Bull likes" Prime Formula 1 Prime Formula 1 Singapore GP 5 h Helmut Marko: "Fast, aggressive" Alex Dunne the type of driver "Red Bull likes" Special feature Formula 1 Revealed: The brutal reality for mechanics as F1's calendar expands Formula 1’s ever-growing calendar, allied to the punishing presence of triple-headers, has pushed the sport’s travelling staff to the limit. Jonathan Noble Edited: Dec 27, 2021, 9:18 AM Copy link Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on WhatsApp Share on Linkedin Share on Pinterest Share on Viber Add as a preferred source Grand prix racing’s chiefs have always tried to give the impression that they are doing their best to manage the difficulties those that working in the pitlane face. However, as F1’s calendar looks set to explode even more in the future, and triple headers are now the norm, many within the paddock have expressed some private concerns that they don’t appear to be being listened to, as things look set to get even worse for them in the future. While some team bosses have cruelly suggested that anyone who doesn’t like the gruelling work demands can simply go and find another job outside F1, losing a bunch of staff needlessly through burnout is not a solution that suits the sport best for the long term. Motorsport.com has heard the story of what life is really like on the road for a mechanic right now, and just why things are close to a breaking point. Speaking anonymously to a team member who travels with the F1 circus, he reveals how life has changed for mechanics in recent years, what impact the bigger calendar is having for those in the garages, and just what F1 can do to help make a better future for all those involved. Here are his words... The mechanic's viewpoint There is no hiding from the fact that life on the road as a Formula 1 mechanic is tough. It has always been that way, and none of us do it because we are after an easy time. We all love F1, and know that being a part of grand prix racing is something that requires you to dig deep. But, as the calendar has expanded and the triple-headers become a norm, things have hit a breaking point for a lot of people who work in the garages. The working hours are a lot. From the Wednesday before a race until the Sunday night afterwards, it's a minimum of 12-hour days every day. You don't realise what that takes out of you until you go back to work in the factory and a normal eight-hour day is almost comical because it feels so short! In fact, you don't realise what an abnormal life it is on the road until you actually come back home. What makes it especially tough is the fact that it is so relentless, with no recovery time. You work from the moment you get off the plane, and that can be after a really crappy flight where you have been crammed in economy class and got little to no sleep. After the end-of-season triple-header in Mexico, Brazil, and Qatar, the combination of punishing economy flights, late timetables and timezone changes meant everyone was absolutely shattered, and that is when I think I saw people struggling the most. The peak tiredness when it hits is a horrible, horrible thing. When you are away from your loved ones and on the road, you can feel so alone. Then, when you are coming home on a Monday morning or Monday evening, and you haven't slept properly in days, that then affects how you feel in your personal time. It means your relationships can suffer – either because you are agitated with your partners or you've got other things on your mind. And that's not fair on you nor them. You are not just mentally fatigued, you are physically drained as well. As the season wears on, there are a hell of lot of injuries happening. The teams do have doctors and physios to help look after you, but the easiest solution is to pump you with painkillers to just keep you going. There is no way in a million years that a regular doctor would give you what we are given to keep us going. For those that don't want to go down the painkiller route, they turn to alcohol, and that's not especially good either. Max Verstappen, Red Bull Racing RB16B, arrives on the busy pre race grid Photo by: Simon Galloway / Motorsport Images On top of all this, the COVID rules have added another stress point, especially as teams like to manage the timing of the tests in terms of what is best for them rather than what is best for the individual. Some teams don't want you to test too early in case that puts you out for qualifying or the race. Instead they prefer for you to wait until as late as you can for your pre-return PCR. But if there is a problem and the test result doesn't come back for any reason, then it's the mechanic who suffers as he has to stay away from home for yet another day to go and get retested. One day extra doesn't seem a lot, but it all adds up when everyone is so tired and just wants to be home with their loved ones. It is typical of a lack of empathy from the teams about what they are putting people through. Between the stress of test results being processed in time so we can all go home, the requirement to self-isolate in the UK, and the calendar changes on short notice, we have had to give up so much of our lives to F1 so that people at the top can make more money while we get nothing in return. On top of the sheer tiredness and being away from home so much, it is difficult to balance the relentlessness of it with the really high expectations that are placed upon everyone in the garage to work at their highest level. Nobody wants to make a car in which a driver retires or crashes, so everyone is absolutely wired into it. And that just adds to the stress. The drivers, and all the factory personnel, are relying on you to perform at 100% and not to make any errors. But anyone can make mistakes. We're only human, and I've made plenty in my time. When you do, there is just this silent disappointment from others. You get asked about why you let it happen, why you weren't more aware of things, and it's difficult to take that in on top of everything else. Then you start doubting yourself. It throws you, and you risk making even more mistakes because you start getting more stressed about it. It's mentally fatiguing. The pressures of all that, plus the tiredness triggered by the number of races and the triple-headers, has got to a point where the atmosphere in the garages can be very toxic at times. And that toxicity co