# Elections 2018 Gerrymandering Redistricting Midterms

**Source**: https://www.vox.com/2018/9/4/16769988/elections-2018-gerrymandering-redistricting-midterms
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:47:04.160471+00:00

---

Elections 2018: the next decade is on the ballot | Vox Skip to main content The homepage Vox Vox logo Explainers Politics Culture Advice Listen Podcast Watch Video Menu The homepage Vox Vox logo Navigation Drawer Login / Sign Up close Close Search Video Watch Podcast Listen Crossword Play Explainers Politics Culture Advice Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters Become a Member Facebook Instagram Youtube RSS TikTok Vox Vox logo The next decade is on the ballot in 2018 Free speech needs fearless journalism Free speech is endangered; unbiased and trustworthy news is elusive. In a time of noise, confusion, and spin, we’re committed to clarity, truth, and depth — even when it’s hard. We rely on readers like you to fund our journalism. Will you support our work and become a Vox Member today? Join now Explainers The next decade is on the ballot in 2018 To reverse Republican gerrymandering, Democrats must win key races this fall. by Andrew Prokop Sep 4, 2018, 11:00 AM UTC Share Gift Christina Animashaun/Vox Andrew Prokop is a senior politics correspondent at Vox, covering the White House, elections, and political scandals and investigations. He’s worked at Vox since the site’s launch in 2014, and before that, he worked as a research assistant at the New Yorker’s Washington, DC, bureau. It sounds absurd, but Democratic voters might actually be underestimating the significance of the midterm elections. By now, it&rsquo;s well understood that the outcome will be enormously consequential for the future of Donald Trump&rsquo;s presidency. But these coming elections are not just a battle to control Congress next year &mdash; they&rsquo;re a battle to control it for the next decade. Whoever emerges victorious in key November races will have a huge amount of power over the next congressional redistricting &mdash; a crucial event in national politics that comes up only once every ten years. Last time around, Republicans dominated the process and walked away with such slanted district maps that they&rsquo;ve held the House of Representatives easily ever since. &ldquo;The next decade is essentially on the ballot in the fall of 2018,&rdquo; David Daley, an author who wrote a book about the last redistricting , told me. &ldquo;And if Democrats don&rsquo;t win key elections this fall that allow them to have seats at the table in 2021, the party could face another decade in the wilderness.&rdquo; The specific reason this year&rsquo;s contests matter so much is that hundreds of the politicians who will have a say in redistricting in key states &mdash; mostly governors and state senators in places like Ohio, Michigan, and Florida &mdash; will be elected and locked in to serve four-year terms. That is: they&rsquo;ll be the people who will redraw the lines in 2021. So the more of these races Democrats win, the better positioned they&rsquo;ll be to to wipe out the existing, heavily pro-Republican House and state legislature maps in all these states. Few of these races feature candidates who&rsquo;ve gained viral fame, and most of them continue to fly under the radar nationally &mdash; but they&rsquo;ll be incredibly consequential. &ldquo;So many people don&rsquo;t understand that around 800 legislators elected this year will draw the lines,&rdquo; says Jessica Post of the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee. We&rsquo;re currently living amidst the consequences of Democrats losing the redistricting game. Republicans dominated these key elections before the 2010 maps were drawn, and they took full advantage of their triumph. Their triumphs in governor&rsquo;s races and state legislatures across the country allowed them to lock their newfound House of Representatives majority in place, and build in similar advantages in state legislative maps too. These maps have made it extremely difficult for Democrats to win majorities ever since &mdash; in the House in 2012, even winning more votes nationwide left the party well in the minority. That could change this year, but only if Democrats win the popular vote not just narrowly but overwhelmingly. And Democrats&rsquo; woes are broader than just gerrymandered House maps. Institutional features of the Senate and presidential contests appear to disadvantage them too, posing the risk of an anti-majoritarian political crisis. Reformers held out hope that the Supreme Court would restrict partisan gerrymandering, but justices have so far avoided the issue . So it&rsquo;s now clear Democrats&rsquo; only path toward reversing the GOP&rsquo;s structural advantage in the House is to win back power in the states, through hundreds of specific races, a large share of which take place this year. The good news, in Democrats&rsquo; eyes, is that this time around they have a plan &mdash; and, if a blue wave does materialize in November, it would go a long way toward helping them execute it. Democrats got crushed in redistricting last time Democratic operative Kelly Ward had an up-close view of the last redistricting disaster for her party while it was unfolding, back in early 2010, just two years into Barack Obama&rsquo;s presidency. (Don&rsquo;t confuse her with Kelli Ward, the Republican who just lost an Arizona Senate primary. ) Ward had just taken a job at the DCCC, the party&rsquo;s committee for House of Representatives campaigns. She says she was brought in because the situation for the party &mdash; which then controlled the House &mdash; looked so dire that Democrats needed more help. The economy was in grim shape, with unemployment near 10 percent, and President Obama and his new health care law were both unpopular. &ldquo;You had a lot of incumbents getting very scary polling,&rdquo; Ward recounts. &ldquo;Some hadn&rsquo;t been in trouble in 20 years.&rdquo; This terrible political climate came at the worst possible time &mdash; not only could Democrats lose big in 2010, but the specific contests up that year meant that loss could doom the party in 2011&rsquo;s redistricting as well. The problem was that while Democrats were struggling to try and hold onto their majorities in Congress, many lower-profile state legislature races were also on the docket around the country &mdash; but getting far less attention and money. &ldquo;By that point, everyone&rsquo;s house was on fire,&rdquo; recalls Carolyn Fiddler, who then worked at the DLCC, the party&rsquo;s state seat campaign committee. &ldquo;Soliciting resources for this long-term, esoteric thing was incredibly difficult. There was a general lack of awareness on the part of progressives about what these downballot races meant for the next 10 years of policies.&rdquo; The wave turned out to be a tsunami. Democrats lost a staggering 63 House seats, tipping control to Republicans. This dashed Obama&rsquo;s hopes of passing any more sweeping liberal laws the remaining two years of his first term. In state elections, though, the news was even worse. &ldquo;I call the 2010 election the longest night of my life,&rdquo; Fiddler, who now works for Daily Kos Elections , says. &ldquo;Knowing what those results meant for the next decade of American politics was incredibly depressing.&rdquo; Democrats lost six governorships on net, and nearly 700 state legislature seats. But their true disaster was in where those losses were concentrated: in swing states like Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and Florida, where the GOP gained total political control. These were the states that mattered most for redistricting &mdash; and Republicans could now redraw maps there while cutting Democrats out of the process entirely. That&rsquo;s exactly what they did &mdash; often through secretive and legally dubious methods, as Daley chronicled in his book, Ratf**ked . In Michigan, a GOP staffer enthusiastically emailed about cramming &ldquo;ALL of the Dem garbage&rdquo; into certain districts. In Ohio, Republicans spent months secretly map-drawing in a hotel room they called the &ldquo;Bunker.&rdquo; In Florida, the GOP set up a phony public redistricting process for show, and made the real decisions in a &ldquo;shadow&rdquo; operation behind the scenes. All this paid off spectacularly &mdash; aided by gerrymandered maps (and, some analysts argue , the geography of where each party&rsquo;s voters happen to live), the GOP has held the House easily ever since, even when they won fewer votes in House races nationwide, as in 2012. This killed any hope of more liberal legislation under President Obama, and allowed President Trump&rsquo;s tax bill to become law. The House even helped make President Trump: Aggressive investigations by the Republican majority helped unearth the email scandal that dogged and perhaps doomed Clinton&rsquo;s presidential campaign. Since then, that same Republican majority has been mostly uninterested in seriously investigating the conflict-of-interest-ridden Trump presidency. All in all, Republicans have now controlled the House of Representatives for 20 of the past 24 years. Analysts believe the built-in GOP advantage in the House maps means Democrats need a 6-or 7-point popular vote victory just to narrowly retake the chamber. Simply winning more votes nationwide, as the party did in 2012, doesn&rsquo;t even get them close. Even beating Republicans by 5 percentage points nationwide could still mean Democrats fall short. How to win the game of redistricting Kelly Ward, of the National Democratic Redistricting Committee, reviews the state level races that helped Republicans dominate the last redistricting process. Christina Animashaun/Vox Leading Democrats are well aware that the party leadership inexcusably dropped the ball on redistricting last time around. So in October 2016, a group of Democratic leaders &mdash; led by former Attorney General Eric Holder &mdash; decided to do something about it. They announced the launch of a new group called the National Democratic Redistricting Committee &mdash; acronymed in Wash