# Revolting Cruelties How Panorama Exhibitions Of 1857 Built Support For Colonial Rule In Britain

**Source**: https://scroll.in/article/1045951/revolting-cruelties-how-panorama-exhibitions-of-1857-built-support-for-colonial-rule-in-britain
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:31:52.088068+00:00

---

Revolting cruelties: How panorama exhibitions about 1857 built support for colonial rule in Britain Newsletters Gift Membership Become a member Subscribe Get app Sign in Take Scroll With You Download the app to read our award-winning journalism on the go and stay up-to-date with our notifications. Get the app ANDROID iOS Gift Membership Home Common Ground The India Fix Eco India The Latest The Reel Magazine Video Trending How returning stolen artifacts can distort history rather than serve cultural justice Why musician Zubeen Garg’s death has unleashed a storm of anger in Assam ‘The Game: You Never Play Alone’ review: A passable thriller with a doughty heroine This yield from Jharkhand’s trees might hold the key to rural livelihoods Opinion: Could India be considered complicit in Israel’s genocide in Gaza? ‘Gandhi: The End of Nonviolence’: Rediscovering Gandhi in new ways to understand a fractious society India’s Himalayan hydropower, infrastructure push is having a deadly ripple effect India, China to resume direct flights after five years from October 26 Insights from a Gandhian approach to solid waste management in urban India Jane Goodall (1934-2025): The necessity of hope Indian cricket history: How the Bombay team became an indomitable force in the Ranji Trophy The reality of the ‘zero-waste’, circular economy Sections Politics Culture India World Film and TV Music Books and Ideas Business and Economy Science and Technology In Pictures Announcements Bookshop The Field Pulse Elections 2024 Ad OTHERS ARE Reading 1 How returning stolen artifacts can distort history rather than serve cultural justice 2 Why musician Zubeen Garg’s death has unleashed a storm of anger in Assam 3 ‘The Game: You Never Play Alone’ review: A passable thriller with a doughty heroine 4 This yield from Jharkhand’s trees might hold the key to rural livelihoods 5 Opinion: Could India be considered complicit in Israel’s genocide in Gaza? 6 ‘Gandhi: The End of Nonviolence’: Rediscovering Gandhi in new ways to understand a fractious society 7 India’s Himalayan hydropower, infrastructure push is having a deadly ripple effect 8 India, China to resume direct flights after five years from October 26 9 Insights from a Gandhian approach to solid waste management in urban India 10 Jane Goodall (1934-2025): The necessity of hope visual history Revolting cruelties: How panorama exhibitions about 1857 built support for colonial rule in Britain Larger-than-life panorama paintings of the uprising evoked patriotism, heightened nationalism and jingoism among middle-class English audiences. Sonal Apr 16, 2023 &middot; 11:30 am Read in App Henry Martens, CC BY 2.5, via Wikimedia Commons The revolt of 1857 that began with sepoys rising up against the East India Company in Meerut is one of the largest mass uprisings against the British empire in the 19th century. The revolt, involving soldiers and civilians, began in May 1857 and was finally suppressed in all parts of India only by November 1858. But it shook the foundation of the East India Company’s rule in India and had far-reaching consequences both in England and India. Though British officials sought to dismiss the conflict merely as a “sepoy mutiny”, the English press and the public were rattled by the revolt. How did ordinary English people form their impressions of an event that involved people of their nationality in a far-off foreign land? As it turns out, panorama exhibitions – precursors to modern-day cinema theatre – proved to be the widest reaching, most impactful means of artistic representation of the revolt. Panorama paintings, made within months of an episode during the peak of British imperialism in India, became a means of popular illustrated historical information. A steel engraving of ‘Blowing up of the Cashmere Gate at Delhi, 14 Sept. 1857’. Credit: Darley and Ridgway, public domain, via Wikimedia Commons. Pamphlets, periodicals, panoramas Of course, news of the uprising in Meerut, Delhi and other places, especially Lucknow and Kanpur, Bihar Bengal, Jhansi, was covered in detail by newspapers, pamphlets and periodicals. The general public, however, turned to visual depictions of the revolt. Scenes of the revolt were available as lithographs, wood engravings and photographs. Theatre was another popular means of showing the “adversaries” that the East India Company’s army had to face during the rebellion. However, all these media had a limited audience. But in 19th-century Europe, America, Canada, Australia, panorama exhibitions were the central means of mass entertainment for a paying public. Patented in 1789 by Irish painter Robert Barker as “ la nature à coup d’oeil ” (French for “nature at a glance”), the panorama involved viewing platforms from which the audience could see life-sized images painted across the circumference of a circular rotunda. From 1792, these exhibitions came to be known as “panoramas”. Cross-section of the rotunda in Leicester Square where the panorama of London was exhibited (c.1801). Credit: Robert Mitchell, public domain, via Wikimedia Commons. Viewers were given a descriptive key to follow the scenes and sequence of the events depicted; the key could be retained as a souvenir. Most panoramas did not survive, but what exists are the descriptive keys, advertisements in periodicals and hand-bills. On some occasions, a panorama lecturer guided the audience. The earliest panorama exhibition on an episode from India was the “ Storming of Seringapatam in 1799” when East India Company and British forces defeated Mysore ruler Tipu Sultan. Created by Robert Kerr Porter, the 2,250-square-foot panorama was exhibited at the Lyceum in London from April 1800 to January 1801, and then several other cities on both sides of the Atlantic. With this success, many more panoramas on India soon followed showing cities and landscapes like Bombay, Banaras, Calcutta, the Himalayas among others. An engraving of the "Storming of Seringapatnam", based on the panorama by Robert Kerr Porter. Credit: Giovanni Vendramini, CC0, via Wikimedia Commons. Panoramas of the 1857 revolt Among the military battles waged by the British East India Company in India in the 19th century, the revolt of 1857 was one of the most widely viewed. Robert Burford, one of the most successful panorama proprietors and painters of the time in England, brought to viewers in London a panorama depicting the fight between the British troops and rebels in Delhi, and the siege of Lucknow. The 360-degree panorama was exhibited at The Panorama at Leicester Square, from January 1858 to February 1859 and cost one shilling to view. The panorama called “The Action Between her Majesty’s Troops and the Sepoys at Delhi” showed key places associated with the revolt such as streets, mosques, the imperial palace and soldiers in action. Another panorama by him was titled the “Siege of Lucknow”. Burford, Robert, a description of a view of the city of Delhi, with an action between Her Majesty's troops and the revolted Sepoys, on exhibition at the Panorama, Leicester Square, London; Printed by WJ Golbourn, 6, Princes Street, Leicester Square, 1858. Credit: in public domain via Yale Center for British Art. The Spectator reported on April 17, 1861, of the scenic beauty of Lucknow depicted along with the buildings occupied by the rebels. Both panoramas describe the spot from where the viewer was seeing the panorama. In the case of Delhi, the view was from the South esplanade while in Lucknow the spectator was standing on top of the Residency viewing the city. Panoramists worked closely with East India Company soldiers and officers who had basic skills in drawings. Most depictions were derived from newspaper reports or were based on first-hand accounts of the witnesses in England. Scenes in these panoramas depicted the massacre of the British by the rebels against the backdrop of the places where the conflict occurred. Others included depictions of rebel soldiers being punished by being tied to cannon and blown off and East India Company soldiers fighting the rebels valiantly. These depictions, accompanied by the use of lights and viewing angles, created an illusion of reality, evoking patriotism and even jingoism among viewers. Upon seeing depictions of the massacre, audiences were either enraged at the mutineers or filled with sympathy for their soldiers, probably heightening a sense of nationalism. In 1858, “Slaughter of Women and Children at Cawnpore – Mutiny Panorama” by Henry Box Brown, an abolitionist and immigrant to England, was displayed at St James Hall. The Illustrated London News described the panorama as “revolting” because of the violence depicted, and even sought its withdrawal. An engraving of the 1857 revolt in Kanpur. Images and details in the panorama on the revolt in Kanpur had prompted viewers to call for its withdrawal. Credit: Charles Ball, CC0, via Wikimedia Commons. The depictions and textual descriptions of panoramas reinforced imperial ideology. For instance, the opening sentences of Burford’s panorama of the “Siege of Delhi” left no room for the audience to view the mutiny in any other light than what was described to them as a “conspiracy” against the Empire. After briefly describing the the history of Delhi, the text says, “...It has of late attained a most unenviable notoriety and painful interest, from having been the centre of a mighty conspiracy to overturn the British Empire in the East, and to exterminate, without any exception, every Christian in India…” The text goes on to the lament the “diabolical” and “revolting cruelties” of the revolt while justifying the “retribution”: “…and in furtherance of such object, has been the scene of the most fearful crimes and revolting cruelties that the most atrocious and diabolical natures could conceive—the dreadful but just retribution for which, that has been so quickly inflicted on the perpetrators, forms the principal subject of the present Panorama”. Experts 