# 2025 02 10.Html

**Source**: https://nymag.com/magazine/toc/2025-02-10.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:52:42.573357+00:00

---

New York Magazine: February 10, 2025 Issue Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Issue Contents Browse Issues by Year 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Table of Contents February 10, 2025 Cover Story Boomers to the Rescue They’re keeping the city afloat via gifts to their adult children. Plus: 14 Nosy Conversations With People Whose Parents Give Them Money and The Sneaky Ways Parents Transfer Money to Their Adult Children By Madeline Leung Coleman On the Cover: Photo-illustration by Maurizio Cattelan and Pierpaolo Ferrari for New York Magazine. Creative direction by TOILETPAPER. Styling by Elisa Zaccanti. Grooming by Lorenzo Zavatta. Source photograph by Frankie Alduino. Support more than 50 years of award-winning journalism. Subscribe to Magazine Give a Gift features After Lorne The succession anxiety looming over Saturday Night Live ’s 50th anniversary. By Reeves Wiedeman Big Food Gets Jacked What’s driving America’s bottomless appetite for protein? By Chris Gayomali Intelligencer Free Country Elon Musk bets on scapegoating and speed Encounter Spencer Pratt, the reality-TV fixture getting a hero edit after the Palisades fire. Disunion Searching for escape in Colombia. Strategist Best in Class An exceptional innerspring mattress. Best Bets Kumail Nanjiani’s special-occasion coffee beans, Big Light alternatives, and corduroy coats for the unhorsed. Best in Class Superior window shades. The Look Book Warms up with some of the world’s best squash players at Grand Central. Design Hunting The artist who zhuzhed their rental with a can of pink paint. The Restaurant Review Zimmi’s is like an Old Country inn where the details are just right. Openings Danny Meyer wants you to check out his View. The Culture Pages The Reluctant Romantic With the new Bridget Jones, Leo Woodall might have sealed his heartthrob fate. The Making of an All-Time Oscars Villain Emilia Pérez — and its star — went from progressive darling to culture-war land mine. As Seen at Sundance Dispatches from an underwhelming festival. The Art Review A Caspar David Friedrich retrospective brings the grandeur of solitude to the Met. The Theater Review The provocative language of Sanaz Toossi’s English. The Architecture Review The Atrium in Bed-Stuy matches Daniel Libeskind’s deconstructivism with community building. To Do: February 12–26 Twenty-five picks for the next two weeks. Departments ‘New York’ Crossword Matt Gaffney’s latest puzzle. Comments: Week of February 10, 2025 Readers sound off on affluent young Trump supporters. The Approval Matrix: Week of February 10, 2025 Our deliberately oversimplified guide to who falls where on our taste hierarchies. Latest Issues Browse Other Issues Here » September 22, 2025 September 8, 2025 The September Issue of the Cut August 25, 2025 August 11, 2025 July 28, 2025 To buy previous issues, go to our New York magazine store . Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us About New York Magazine Newsletters Help Contact Press Media Kit We’re Hiring Privacy Terms Ad Choices Accessibility Do not sell or share my personal data New York is a Vox Media Network . &copy; 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All rights reserved.