# Widows And Orphans

**Source**: https://www.openbible.info/topics/widows_and_orphans
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:52:25.472850+00:00

---

What Does the Bible Say About Widows And Orphans? OpenBible.info Geocoding Topical &#160;Bible Labs Blog What does the Bible say about ? A &#8227; B &#8227; C &#8227; D &#8227; E &#8227; F &#8227; G &#8227; H &#8227; I &#8227; J &#8227; K &#8227; L &#8227; M &#8227; N &#8227; O &#8227; P &#8227; Q &#8227; R &#8227; S &#8227; T &#8227; U &#8227; V &#8227; W &#8227; Y &#8227; Z 100 Bible Verses about Widows And Orphans James 1:27 ESV / 3,122 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful Religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this: to visit orphans and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself unstained from the world. Isaiah 1:17 ESV / 2,367 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful Learn to do good; seek justice, correct oppression; bring justice to the fatherless, plead the widow's cause. Psalm 146:9 ESV / 1,797 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful The Lord watches over the sojourners; he upholds the widow and the fatherless, but the way of the wicked he brings to ruin. Psalm 68:5 ESV / 1,747 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful Father of the fatherless and protector of widows is God in his holy habitation. Zechariah 7:9-10 ESV / 1,387 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful &#8220;Thus says the Lord of hosts, Render true judgments, show kindness and mercy to one another, do not oppress the widow, the fatherless, the sojourner, or the poor, and let none of you devise evil against another in your heart.&#8221; Exodus 22:22 ESV / 1,337 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful You shall not mistreat any widow or fatherless child. Psalm 82:3 ESV / 1,292 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful Give justice to the weak and the fatherless; maintain the right of the afflicted and the destitute. Exodus 22:22-24 ESV / 1,240 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful You shall not mistreat any widow or fatherless child. If you do mistreat them, and they cry out to me, I will surely hear their cry, and my wrath will burn, and I will kill you with the sword, and your wives shall become widows and your children fatherless. Deuteronomy 27:19 ESV / 1,083 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful &#8220;&#8216;Cursed be anyone who perverts the justice due to the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow.&#8217; And all the people shall say, &#8216;Amen.&#8217; Job 29:12-13 ESV / 1,033 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful Because I delivered the poor who cried for help, and the fatherless who had none to help him. The blessing of him who was about to perish came upon me, and I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy. Hebrews 13:1-25 ESV / 1,021 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful Let brotherly love continue. Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. Remember those who are in prison, as though in prison with them, and those who are mistreated, since you also are in the body. Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled, for God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterous. Keep your life free from love of money, and be content with what you have, for he has said, &#8220;I will never leave you nor forsake you.&#8221; ... James 2:1-26 ESV / 1,014 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. For if a man wearing a gold ring and fine clothing comes into your assembly, and a poor man in shabby clothing also comes in, and if you pay attention to the one who wears the fine clothing and say, &#8220;You sit here in a good place,&#8221; while you say to the poor man, &#8220;You stand over there,&#8221; or, &#8220;Sit down at my feet,&#8221; have you not then made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? Listen, my beloved brothers, has not God chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which he has promised to those who love him? ... 1 Timothy 5:5 ESV / 957 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful She who is truly a widow, left all alone, has set her hope on God and continues in supplications and prayers night and day, Isaiah 1:23 ESV / 954 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful Your princes are rebels and companions of thieves. Everyone loves a bribe and runs after gifts. They do not bring justice to the fatherless, and the widow's cause does not come to them. Jeremiah 7:5-7 ESV / 938 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful &#8220;For if you truly amend your ways and your deeds, if you truly execute justice one with another, if you do not oppress the sojourner, the fatherless, or the widow, or shed innocent blood in this place, and if you do not go after other gods to your own harm, then I will let you dwell in this place, in the land that I gave of old to your fathers forever. Deuteronomy 10:18 ESV / 905 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful He executes justice for the fatherless and the widow, and loves the sojourner, giving him food and clothing. Deuteronomy 14:28-29 ESV / 882 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful &#8220;At the end of every three years you shall bring out all the tithe of your produce in the same year and lay it up within your towns. And the Levite, because he has no portion or inheritance with you, and the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow, who are within your towns, shall come and eat and be filled, that the Lord your God may bless you in all the work of your hands that you do. John 14:18 ESV / 876 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful &#8220;I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you. Psalm 68:4-5 ESV / 870 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful Sing to God, sing praises to his name; lift up a song to him who rides through the deserts; his name is the Lord ; exult before him! Father of the fatherless and protector of widows is God in his holy habitation. Deuteronomy 14:29 ESV / 866 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful And the Levite, because he has no portion or inheritance with you, and the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow, who are within your towns, shall come and eat and be filled, that the Lord your God may bless you in all the work of your hands that you do. 1 Timothy 5:8 ESV / 858 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful But if anyone does not provide for his relatives, and especially for members of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. Psalm 94:6 ESV / 845 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful They kill the widow and the sojourner, and murder the fatherless; Lamentations 5:3 ESV / 826 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful We have become orphans, fatherless; our mothers are like widows. Psalm 10:14 ESV / 823 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful But you do see, for you note mischief and vexation, that you may take it into your hands; to you the helpless commits himself; you have been the helper of the fatherless. James 2:14-17 ESV / 820 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him? If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, &#8220;Go in peace, be warmed and filled,&#8221; without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that? So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. Exodus 22:21-24 ESV / 816 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful &#8220;You shall not wrong a sojourner or oppress him, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt. You shall not mistreat any widow or fatherless child. If you do mistreat them, and they cry out to me, I will surely hear their cry, and my wrath will burn, and I will kill you with the sword, and your wives shall become widows and your children fatherless. 1 Timothy 5:3 ESV / 808 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful Honor widows who are truly widows. Revelation 1:1 ESV / 805 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his servants the things that must soon take place. He made it known by sending his angel to his servant John, Proverbs 23:10 ESV / 784 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful Do not move an ancient landmark or enter the fields of the fatherless, Jeremiah 7:6 ESV / 770 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful If you do not oppress the sojourner, the fatherless, or the widow, or shed innocent blood in this place, and if you do not go after other gods to your own harm, Job 29:12 ESV / 767 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful Because I delivered the poor who cried for help, and the fatherless who had none to help him. Job 31:16 ESV / 739 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful &#8220;If I have withheld anything that the poor desired, or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail, 1 Timothy 5:1-6:21 ESV / 723 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful Do not rebuke an older man but encourage him as you would a father, younger men as brothers, older women as mothers, younger women as sisters, in all purity. Honor widows who are truly widows. But if a widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show godliness to their own household and to make some return to their parents, for this is pleasing in the sight of God. She who is truly a widow, left all alone, has set her hope on God and continues in supplications and prayers night and day, ... Malachi 3:5 ESV / 702 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful &#8220;Then I will draw near to you for judgment. I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, against the adulterers, against those who swear falsely, against those who oppress the hired worker in his wages, the widow and the fatherless, against those who thrust aside the sojourner, and do not fear me, says the Lord of hosts. Psalm 146:1-149:9 ESV / 686 helpful votes Helpful Not Helpful Praise the Lord ! Praise the Lord , O my soul! I will praise the Lord as long as I live; I will sing praises to my God while I have my being. Put not your trust in princes, in a son of man, in whom there is no salvation. When his breath departs, he returns to the earth; on that very day his plans perish. Blessed is he whose help is the God of Jacob, whose hope is in the Lord hi