# Iconic Nyc Businesses Closed 2020 Pandemic.Html

**Source**: https://www.curbed.com/article/iconic-nyc-businesses-closed-2020-pandemic.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:01:23.074984+00:00

---

Farewell to Iconic NYC Businesses Closed During the Pandemic Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Menu Close Close Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York About Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Menu Menu Menu Close Close Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York About Newsletters New York App Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment Search Close Every product is independently selected by editors. Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission. reasons to love new york Farewell to the Places That Made New York What It Was Saying good-bye to Gem Spa, Gavin Brown’s Enterprise, the Staten Island Yankees, and more. By The Editors Contributions by Diana Budds , David Colman , Joe DeLessio , Jeffrey Deitch , Jane Starr Drinkard , Alexis Swerdloff , Matt Taber , and James D. Walsh Dec. 9, 2020 So Long, Friends A send-off to the many places, big and small, that closed in 2020. save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Comment The making of a Gem Spa egg cream, 2006. Photo: Larry Fink/ So Long, Friends A send-off to the many places, big and small, that closed in 2020. The making of a Gem Spa egg cream, 2006. Photo: Larry Fink/ This year, we have devoted New York’ s annual “Reasons to Love New York” issue to a celebration of the go-tos that have closed since the pandemic struck . A wake for the places that defined our lives here — that gave us community and let us try on new identities in return for our money. The bars where we came together for after-work drinks, the boxing gym where everybody thinks they’re in an action movie, the gallery that trusted you to build a cloud, the coffee shop where you were left alone to read, the restaurant with the full bar where you’d find yourself trying to eat after an all-night bender, the place that was so of its moment that it became a relic and then (deservedly) an icon. All gone. And sadly, probably, more to come before the city returns to its purpose: a place of gathering. We’ll be sharing these tributes all week on Curbed. Retailer John Jovino Gun Shop Little Italy, first opened in 1911 Weegee in his police radio car, ca. 1942. He lived above the John Jovino Gun Shop. Photo: Unidentified Photographer, [Weegee in his police radio car, New York], ca. 1942 International Center of Photography Anthony Imperato, third-generation owner: I remember going to the shop with my father when I was 7 or 8 in the mid-1960s. Centre Market Place was a fascinating block. There were six gun and police-equipment shops; Louis Luncheonette, which served the everyday police officer; and, on the corner of Grand Street, Headquarters Tavern, which served the upper echelon of the NYPD, and the reporters’ shack full of guys from the Brooklyn Eagle and the Journal-American. All of these newspaper guys would wait outside. It was a vibrant street that smelled of gun leather, oil, and coffee. It was the backstreet of police headquarters, so there were police officers everywhere. The fingerprinting station was across the street and down the steps, so police cars would pull up in the morning, and the night’s catch of gamblers, prostitutes, and bank robbers would be lined up to be photographed. My father came back from the Korean War, and his family was in the upholstery business but he started helping out in the gun shop, which was owned by my mother’s father. My father eventually transformed it into a wholesale police-equipment business and bought out my grandfather. The other shops survived on police headquarters and new officers buying their equipment and the rest of the guys replacing their equipment. Then the city, at some point, went to its own equipment bureau and began selling those items at near cost. Jovino and one other had wholesale businesses, so they kept afloat, but in fact the retail business for the store was over by the mid-1980s. We moved around the corner to Grand Street in 2003. My father passed away in 2007, but I kept it open all this time just for sentimental reasons. You can’t make a living selling guns in New York City. We had an incredible clientele. Literal kings and queens, United Nations people, actors, comedians, rock-and-roll stars. For the sake of privacy, I won’t mention their names. Actually, I’ll tell you one story. One day, in comes the comedian David Brenner. He had been driven down from the Upper East Side by a chauffeur. He purchased a pair of Colt Python revolvers. Somehow we forgot to give Brenner his change. So Brenner leaves and goes back to the Upper East Side, but soon after, he calls and says, “I paid for those things in cash, and your guy never gave me my change. What do I have to do to go to a gun shop and get held up?” I brought him his change. — As told to James D. Walsh corner store Gem Spa East Village, first opened ca. 1921 Pedestrians outside Gems Spa (later Gem Spa), at Second Avenue and St. Marks Place, 1966. Photo: Fred W. McDarrah/Getty Images A St. Marks Place mainstay. “ ‘The candy store’ was what our family called it,” remembers Diana Stewart , a descendant of its founders. It was Goldfeder’s from around ’21 to ’57, until it was renamed. Family legend is that my Great-grandpa Nathan ‘invented’ the egg cream. He made the chocolate sauce with a ‘secret recipe’ in the shop; thus Gem Spa became known as the birthplace of the egg cream.” More recently, it was a bodega, selling drinks, bongs, magazines, and, in the summer, an extensive selection of cheap sunglasses. Department store Century 21 Bay Ridge, first opened in 1961 Original store founded in Bay Ridge, later expanding to its flagship near the World Trade Center; high-fashion bargain palace for New Yorkers and tourists alike. Eventually grew to 13 locations but went into bankruptcy liquidation in September. All branches were closed by December. I try not to pay full price for anything. So a few months before my wedding, I went to Century 21, where I have successfully hunted bargains since I was a teenager. There, hanging in a far-off corner next to some skirts, I saw a Valentino dress. It was covered in intricate, hand-embellished crystal and sequined embroidery and had panels of rose lace, layers of tulle, and concealed-zip cuffs (for rolling up my sleeves on the dance floor). It cut in at the waist in just the right spot, had just-puffy-enough sleeves, and hit below the knees. It was originally many, many thousands of dollars but on sale for 90 percent off. Later, googling, I found out that Leslie Mann wore the same style to the Valentino show in Paris, fall-winter 2012. — Alexis Swerdloff restaurant Gotham Bar and Grill Greenwich Village, first opened in 1984 David Rockwell, architect: I first went to Gotham in 1985 or 1986. I thought of it as this ultimate kind of urban experience. It just felt like a destination, a sort of fantasy of what a New York City restaurant was from every point of view. One of the things that creates such a strong memory of a restaurant is the movement path. I remember the experience of coming up to the host and then making a left to step up to the bar; that elevated bar gave you a kind of stage. When you came into the dining area, you had to turn left to look into the room where you’ve got that long view down toward the window. I was also attracted to the quality of light in the space. Those balloon light fixtures went from being original to being dated to being iconic. They cast a light that was a lot like a photo studio’s — just soft, beautiful light. It had this urban-loft feeling that was so comforting. I took inspiration from it when I designed Nobu back in ’94. I went to Gotham over and over again at different parts of my life. It was a very grown-up room, and I had a chance to grow up in that room. I always was drawn toward eating in the open space in the middle, which is interesting because I tend to like banquettes and corners. A lot of the restaurants I designed would give me a hard time about why I was having lunch at other places and not theirs. Gotham always felt like neutral territory to me. It was kind of like a living room for New York, which is a rare quality restaurants can achieve. — As told to Diana Budds Restaurant Lucky Strike Soho, first opened in 1989 Grand Street between West Broadway and Greene was the center of the vanguard art world in the early 1990s. Artists Space, the Drawing Center, and influential galleries like Pat Hearn and Colin de Land’s American Fine Arts drew a hundred or more visitors every Saturday afternoon. Many of us ended our gallery visits at Lucky Strike: Keith McNally, the proprietor, understood the type of understated retro décor and simple menu that the art crowd preferred. The restaurant had a slightly shabby, welcoming feel. It looked like it had been there since the 1940s. The menu was an updated version of what would have been served at a bar and grill in the 1950s. Artists don’t like to talk about food when they go to a restaurant. In the early days, the crowd at the bar in the front room of Lucky Strike was three deep. I would visit regularly around 10 p.m. on weekdays with Jeff Koons, who liked to talk about art over a few beers (back when we both drank beer). It wasn’t just artists and writers at the bar — there were Wall Street traders and t