# Teeth Dentistry Drills Dentures And Dentistry

**Source**: https://web.archive.org/web/20231130121157/https://www.express.co.uk/life-style/health/565139/teeth-dentistry-Drills-Dentures-And-Dentistry
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:09:23.342647+00:00

---

Drills, Dentures And Dentistry gives us a look into old dentistry practices in Britain | Express.co.uk Express. Home of the Daily and Sunday Express. Discount codes Puzzles Horoscopes Express Rated Shop Paper Newsletters Login Register Your Account Newsletters Bookmarks Sign Out Uk Us 6 &deg;C Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Find us on Snapchat Find us on Youtube Search HOME News Politics Royal Showbiz &amp; TV Sport Comment Finance Travel Life &amp; Style Diets Style Health Garden Property Life Food Cars Tech Express Wins Home Life &amp; Style Health Nothing but the tooth: The history of dentistry in Britain NO ONE relishes a trip to the dentist but it’s hardly a matter of life or death. By Adrian Lee 00:01, Fri, Mar 20, 2015 | UPDATED: 10:07, Fri, Apr 10, 2015 Link copied Bookmark REX Dentistry has such a gruesome history that even having dental work today causes concern For our ancestors however a bad case of toothache could be precisely that. The profession was a back-street horror show for hundreds of years, run by ham-fisted amateurs who were sure to leave their patients in agony – if they survived. Extraction was almost the only treatment available for toothache until the middle of the 19th century. Tens of thousands of people died from botched treatment, infections and other complications so it was hardly surprising that the dentist’s chair was regarded with sheer terror. If you were lucky there might be a tot of whisky to numb the pain but otherwise all that was offered was a prayer. “For most of our history a visit to the dentist was a nightmare,” says historian Professor Joanna Bourke, who presents a new documentary on the subject. “Agonising toothache, horrifying extractions and barbaric tools have cast a large shadow over our dental past.” Until relatively recently rotten and neglected teeth were part of daily life. Proper dentists didn’t exist until the 1800s and prior to that the care of the nation’s mouths was in the hands of blacksmiths and barbers who doubled as surgeons. They wielded pliers for pulling teeth or devices resembling bottle openers which relied on the hapless patient’s jaw for leverage. Agonising toothache, horrifying extractions and barbaric tools have cast a large shadow over our dental past Professor Joanna Bourke In 1665, the year of the Great Plague, it is estimated that one in ten other deaths in London were linked to toothache. Fraudsters seized their opportunity by offering useless quack cures. For many years it was believed that toothache was caused by a worm burrowing in the jaw. However in the late 18th century more efforts were made to understand dentistry. In 1771 John Hunter, a failed doctor, published his ground-breaking book titled Natural History Of The Human Teeth. He suggested a scientific approach and devised names for all the teeth, which are still used today. He made exquisitely detailed drawings showing the interior of the mouth and roots of teeth, which were used for teaching. Yet not all his pioneering ideas, which included a recommendation to clean teeth regularly and the impact of diet, have stood the test of time. He also proposed transplanting teeth from the living and the dead and it became a craze. The rich paid the poor to give up their pearly whites but with them came a risk of infection and disease. “Human teeth became a prize asset to be bought and sold,” says Professor Bourke. “Grave robbers could make today’s equivalent of £10,000 a night by stealing teeth from corpses. These grisly trophies from the dead were used to make lifelike dentures.” The fad reached fever pitch in 1815 when 50,000 men died at the Battle of Waterloo. The sound of gunfire had barely subsided before scavengers arrived on the battlefield to pull out the teeth of the dead and dying. They flooded the market so even the toothless middle classes could afford new teeth. The history of teeth cleaning is also examined. In the era before toothpaste some bizarre methods were used with varying success. Abrasives such as ground-up oyster shells were placed on the finger and rubbed into teeth but this technique scraped away the enamel exposing the nerves. Brick dust and soot were also tried. In 1780 William Addis created the first mass-produced toothbrushes, hand-made from pig’s bristle but at 6d each they were expensive and often shared. The arrival of affordable sugar from the West Indies led to soaring cases of tooth decay. In 1874 a tax on the commodity was repealed and for the first time the working classes could indulge their sweet tooth. Drills were introduced in the Victorian era. They rotated slowly but as a method of removing the rotten part of a tooth at least it was an alternative to the dreaded extraction. Nitrous oxide, also known as laughing gas, was the first chemical used for pain relief. It was pioneered by American dentist Horace Wells but he struggled to perfect the correct mix of gas and air. His efforts were initially discredited and other solutions tried including chloroform but doses were not precise and deaths were common. Cocaine was also used as a painkiller, injected into the jaw in liquid form. The needles used were huge but it was safer than chloroform with the added advantage of targeting the source of pain. However in the early 20th century dentistry was still so expensive that some people chose to have all their teeth pulled to spare themselves a lifetime of pain. Professor Bourke says: “Having all your teeth removed was considered the perfect gift for a 21st birthday or a newly married bride.” The foundation of the NHS in 1948 made dental care affordable for all and in the first nine months four million cavities were filled and queues formed outside surgeries. Fluoride in water and toothpastes also made a big difference to the health of our teeth while treatments improved. Today a trip to the dentist is more about attaining the perfect smile than a source of agony but one in 10 of us remains scared of the experience. Professor Bourke concludes: “Centuries of pain and terror are embedded in the fabric of our society. We still can’t seem to forget dentistry’s long and bloody history.” l Drills, Dentures And Dentistry: An Oral History, BBC Four, March 30, 9pm. Related articles Jessie J broke teeth six times in a week Mum all smiles with teeth makeover - after dentist hell left her mouth like a 'bombsite' Giraffe Kelly’s check-up is a tall order for brave dentist Become an Express Premium member Support fearless journalism Read The Daily Express online, advert free Get super-fast page loading Start 30-day FREE trial Teeth Most read in Health Latest videos Spice Girls star reveals she was left with £700 and was shopping in Aldi after leaving ex Michael McIntyre's The Wheel viewers say show is 'fixed' after contestant wins huge sum Celebrity Big Brother 'lines up' second X Factor icon alongside Louis Walsh The 1% Club viewers left fuming throughout ITV show over 'technical issue' Pete Doherty diagnosed with type 2 diabetes as he shares health woes John Lewis to offer in-store blood tests to millions of Brits to help slash NHS waitlist Six signs in the fingernails that can indicate serious health problems A&E; doctor shares six signs of prostate cancer as 'diagnoses are increasing' 'The best way to lower your cholesterol' - nutritionist's four dietary tweaks The skin condition that could mean you're at higher risk of heart disease Doctor shares key symptoms of genital psoriasis - and who is at risk 'I'm a gastroenterologist - here are three breakfast foods you should avoid' Doctor shares three reasons you shouldn't pee in the shower Nine heart-related symptoms heart surgeon warns to take seriously 'I'm a neuroscientist - here's why you should never add dairy to your coffee' ‘I’m a longevity expert - here are six things to do daily if you want to live longer' The UK market town with 'unique character' named one of the happiest places to live 'I'm a heart surgeon - here are five dinner ideas to keep your heart health in check' 'I'm a cardiologist - here are my top four ways to prevent a heart attack' Adding everyday ingredient to coffee could endanger those with high blood pressure The '30 minute' diet that could help burn fat and lower cholesterol SEARCH CONNECT WITH US Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Snapchat Check our YouTube channel Subscribe to our rss feed TODAY'S PAPER Sunday, 25th February 2024 See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. News UK World Politics Royal US Weather Science History Weird Nature Sunday Obituaries Latest News Brexit European Union Theresa May Angela Merkel Donald Trump The Queen Kate Middleton Meghan Markle Diesel Cancer Diabetes Dementia YouTube InYourArea mynewsassistant Showbiz &amp;&nbsp;TV TV &amp; Radio Celebrity News Sport Football Tennis Transfer news Premier League Manchester United Liverpool Arsenal Chelsea Tottenham Hotspur Manchester City West Ham Everton Celtic Rangers F1 Boxing UFC Cricket Rugby Golf NFL Racing NBA Comment Express Comment Columnists Finance City &amp; Business Personal Finance The Crusader Travel Travel News UK Europe America Africa Asia Cruise City breaks Beach Holidays Express Rated Best VPN Best Sky Deals Best Mattress Best Dating Sites Best UK Broadband Deals Freeview Samsung Sky Android Apple Black Friday Entertainment Films Music Books Theatre Gaming Express Wins Life &amp; Style Diets Style Health Garden Property Life Food Cars Tech Beauty Box Subscription EXPRESS.CO.UK Play Express Wins Apps Puzzles Horoscopes Discount codes Partner Stories Shop Hopsmore Beer Club Paper Sitemap Site Archive About Us Social Media Journalists How to Complain Report a Tech Issue Advertising Affiliate advertising Cookies Settings Privacy Policy AI Notice Cookie Policy Terms &amp; Conditions Community Standards Developed by Netro42 Syndication and L