# Eddie Murphy

**Source**: http://www.grantland.com/story/_/id/7189740/eddie-murphy?view=print
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:51:48.197938+00:00

---

&raquo; The Career Arc: Eddie Murphy Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous The Best Pizza in the South ➤ Next The Beginning of the End for the NCAA Lester Cohen/Getty Images Facebook Twitter Print Movies The Career Arc: Eddie Murphy With talk of a career renaissance being thrown around, the Sports Guy pays his respects to the funniest super-duper star he's ever experienced by Bill Simmons on November 10, 2011 &#8220;T here&#8217;s this little box that African-American actors have to work in, in the first place, and I was able to rise above that box.&#8221; — Eddie Murphy, Rolling Stone (Nov. 10, 2011 issue) W e don&#8217;t consider Eddie Murphy as a pioneer because he never overcame anything. Or so we thought. Bill Russell, Jackie Robinson and Oscar Robertson overcame the worst kind of prejudice imaginable. Muhammad Ali did the same and became part of the Vietnam movement. Sidney Poitier and Bill Cosby broke ground for African-Americans in their respective fields and paved the way for everyone who followed. Richard Pryor pushed racial boundaries while barely containing his seething anger about them. Eddie? He was just funnier than everyone else. That&#8217;s it. His color mattered, but not as much as it could have. Eventually, he transcended race the way Ali and Jordan did, and Will Smith does right now. We came to think of him as Eddie and Eddie only. Over the last 30 years, Eddie enjoyed too much success and made too much money; his career became governed by a higher degree of difficulty, almost like we collectively started squeezing his strike zone in 1989 and never stopped. Ask anyone under 35 what they think of Eddie and they&#8217;ll probably say, &#8220;Hasn&#8217;t been funny for 15 years.&#8221; Ask anyone from 35 to 50 what they think and they&#8217;ll say either, &#8220;One of the funniest ever&#8221; or &#8220;Loved that guy, wish he stopped making so many shitty movies.&#8221; We don&#8217;t argue about Eddie, we don&#8217;t celebrate him, we don&#8217;t really do anything. You&#8217;re not exactly going out on a limb by praising Eddie Murphy. It&#8217;s much more interesting to say he sucks, or that he isn&#8217;t nearly as good as he once was. Eddie could have shaped that discussion by giving more interviews, making a viral video or three, grabbing meaty supporting parts in indie movies, returning to stand-up clubs, or doing anything else to shed that &#8220;hasn&#8217;t been funny in 15 years&#8221; rap. Even an occasional Saturday Night Live hosting gig — something he could have ripped off in his sleep — would have done the trick, but Eddie hasn&#8217;t returned to 30 Rock since he left. 1 He swerved the other way publicly, taking seemingly safe roles and barely interacting with the media: partly to protect his privacy, and partly because of an embarrassing incident in 1997, when Eddie&#8217;s car was pulled over in the wee hours, in a relatively seedy part of Hollywood, with a transvestite prostitute in the passenger&#8217;s seat … and Eddie driving. He claimed to be giving her a ride (the &#8220;Good Samaritan&#8221; defense), few believed him, and we never really heard from Eddie again. He just kept cranking out those kids&#8217; movies. Well, until this weekend. At age 50, Eddie Murphy is making a comeback of sorts by co-starring in Ben Stiller&#8217;s new action comedy, Tower Heist . The consensus seems to be, &#8220;Fairly entertaining movie, but more importantly, Eddie is Eddie again.&#8221; You know, the Eddie we loved (and in my case, revered), not the dude from the kids&#8217; movies. He even consented to a few interviews this time around, including a candid one in Rolling Stone that should have resonated more than it did. Let&#8217;s dive into Eddie&#8217;s IMDb page and figure out what happened to his career, why it happened, when things turned … and why we have so much trouble remembering it quite the right way. STAGE I: THE COMET &#8220;I bet you could figure out the combined grosses of people who came off Saturday Night Live in the movies — me, Adam Sandler, Will Ferrell, Mike Myers, Bill Murray, Dan Aykroyd. I bet it&#8217;s like $15 billion. That show&#8217;s like Harvard for the comic actor. When you come off that show and get into the movie business, it&#8217;s like you&#8217;re moving into slow motion for a couple of years. You&#8217;ve been working like a crazy person in this pressure cooker, then you&#8217;re in the movies, just sitting in your trailer.&#8221; 2 SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE (1980-1984) Eddie came to SNL right when black TV characters were being marginalized as tokens and parodies. That wasn&#8217;t always the case. In the mid-to-late 1970s, Fred Sanford ( Sanford and Son ), George Jefferson ( The Jeffersons ), James and J.J. Evans ( Good Times ), Benson ( Soap ), James Hayward ( The White Shadow ), and even wisecracking pipsqueak Arnold Jackson ( Diff&#8217;rent Strokes ) carried themselves with dignity, stood up for themselves, railed against prejudice, used humor to disarm uncomfortable situations, talked frankly about the plight of poor people and, over and over again, handed some insensitive white person his comeuppance. By 1981, that spirit had faded away. George and Arnold had been neutered. James, Fred and JJ were long gone. Benson had been defanged and spun off into his own show. The White Shadow was getting canceled, and only after CBS&#8217; deplorable effort to rescue it by making it whiter. Career Arc Tracking your favorite actors, athletes, and public figures. You know which black characters got to stick around? People like The Love Boat &#8216;s Isaac, a good-natured bartender who happily pointed at the camera in the opening credits. Heyyyyyyyyyyyy! I&#8217;m the token black guy! Would anyone like a pina colada? You always knew what you were getting from Isaac: He&#8217;d serve some drinks, laugh at everyone else&#8217;s jokes, and on those rare occasions when a black actress came on the show (say, Lola Falana), you knew Isaac was stepping in because God forbid a white character talked to her. Of the top twenty shows from the 1981-82 season, only one revolved around black characters ( The Jeffersons ) and only one other even featured a black character ( The Love Boat ). Of the quality dramas that year, only Hill Street Blues bothered to incorporate black characters — police officers Bobby Hill and Neil Washington, both relegated to supporting roles because that&#8217;s just how it went in the early 80s. So on Saturday Night Live (and television in general), 19-year-old Eddie stood out … to say the least. For its first five years, Garrett Morris had been SNL &#8216;s weak link, its least funny cast member, someone who seemed fifteen years older than everyone else, someone who never fit in … and, of course, someone who was black. Great. Viewers never latched onto any Garrett character except for his Chico Esquela; the show&#8217;s writers never respected him, repeatedly making him dress in drag and even humiliating him by casting him as the monkey in a Wizard of Oz sketch (which would cause an Internet riot if it happened now). According to 1985&#8217;s fantastic SNL book, Saturday Night: A Backstage History of Saturday Night Live by Doug Hill and Jeff Weingrad (now out of print, because God forbid we could read it), a deeply depressed Morris started freebasing to cope with his unseemly plight. That only caused their writers to bury him even more. For a cutting-edge comedy show that became such a pop-culture phenomenon in the late 1970s (and a ratings smash), it&#8217;s kind of startling how white SNL really was. Only the show&#8217;s diverse musical acts and Richard Pryor&#8217;s electric hosting job in 1975 — dead honky — saved it from any real criticism. During the show&#8217;s first seven seasons (139 shows in all), only five blacks hosted the show: Pryor, Ray Charles, Cicely Tyson, O.J. Simpson and Bill Russell. Five! By sheer coincidence, a show that desperately needed diversity stumbled into one of the most talented young celebrities who ever lived … and on top of that, someone created by God to appear on that show every weekend. I can&#8217;t even think of an athletic parallel. He&#8217;s the most talented SNL cast member ever, the only one to host the show when he was starring on it. Of the biggest stars in SNL history — Eddie, Ferrell, Myers, Dana Carvey, John Belushi, Chevy Chase, Gilda Radner, Sandler, Billy Crystal, Bill Murray, Aykroyd in some order — only Eddie broke into show business on the show. 3 He was a cast member at 19, the show&#8217;s meal ticket by 20, a movie star by 21, and a full-fledged superduperstar by 22. Tell me when we&#8217;ll see that again. Eddie never catered to SNL &#8216;s mostly white audience, that&#8217;s for sure. His most popular running sketch was &#8220; Mr. Robinson&#8217;s Neighborhood ,&#8221; which was basically Mr. Rogers in the projects (and almost always ended up with him escaping the police). His most popular &#8220;Weekend Update&#8221; character was Raheem Abdul-Muhammed (who vented about various injustices while always finding a way to play the race card). His most popular running characters were Mr. Robinson, Velvet Jones (a goofy pimp) and Dion (a gay hairdresser who wanted to sleep with various black celebs). His most popular celebrity imitations were Stevie Wonder (someone who had always been off-limits in the black community), James Brown and Michael Jackson (two other black icons), Little Richard Simmons (just a genius creation) and Buckwheat (the retroactively offensive Little Rascals character). His edgiest sketches always involved Eddie tapping into the black/white thing: like &#8220;Images&#8221; by Tyrone Green (a poem by a convict about killing white people) or &#8220;Kill the White People&#8221; (Tyrone&#8217;s rasta band singing that song in front of an all-white audience). Watch t