# dreameshort.com

**Source**: https://dreameshort.com/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:50:42.148944+00:00

---

DreameShort , the new way to watch and dream DreameShort We make great stories alive DreameShort Home Download Dive into the Fantastic Drama World! Try the all-new lightning-fast drama experience! GET IT ON Google Play Download on the App Store Love From Our Users Part of the rave reviews received from our users DreameShort is an incredible drama app that keeps me hooked with its captivating storylines and brilliant performances. Highly recommended! I can&#x27;t get enough of DreameShort! The app&#x27;s diverse range of genres and top-notch production values make it my go-to platform for immersive storytelling. DreameShort has revolutionized the way I watch TV dramas. The app&#x27;s user-friendly interface and vast collection of high-quality shows make it a must-have for any drama enthusiast. DreameShort is a game-changer in the world of TV drama apps. It offers a seamless streaming experience, and I love how it constantly introduces fresh and exciting content. Love From Our Users Part of the rave reviews received from our users DreameShort is an incredible drama app that keeps me hooked with its captivating storylines and brilliant performances. Highly recommended! DreameShort has revolutionized the way I watch TV dramas. The app&#x27;s user-friendly interface and vast collection of high-quality shows make it a must-have for any drama enthusiast. DreameShort is a game-changer in the world of TV drama apps. It offers a seamless streaming experience, and I love how it constantly introduces fresh and exciting content. I can&#x27;t get enough of DreameShort! The app&#x27;s diverse range of genres and top-notch production values make it my go-to platform for immersive storytelling. CONTACT US service@dreameshort.com TikTok Official ABOUT About LEGAL Privacy Policy Terms of Service Content Guide Copyright © DreameShort . All Rights Reserved. DreameShort Way to the Best Dramas... Install Now To provide you with a perfect listening experience, help us enhance site navigation, and analyze site usage, please click &quot;Accept All Cookies&quot; to agree with us to obtain your cookie information. Click Cookie Policy and Privacy Policy to learn more Accept All Cookies Cookie Settings Your Cookies Settings Strictly necessary cookies Always Active Performance/Analytical Cookies Functionality Cookies Advertising/Targeting Cookies Navigate with Selected Cookies Accept All Cookies These cookies are essential in order to enable you to browse and use related functions on the website. They perform functions like ensuring the website pages load quickly, and preventing any fraudulent payment activity, etc. You may set up your browser to block or prompt you for these cookies, but some website features may not work due to such settings. Our website currently mainly uses the following strictly necessary cookies: Cookie Name Domain Description Created and Stored by DreameShort sensorsdata2015jssdkcross .dreameshort.com To identify user information. 1st party _fbp .dreameshort.com To identify Facebook pixel. 1st party sb fr .facebook.com To record the information regarding the Third-party account (Facebook) login, please find details at https://www.facebook.com/policies/cookies 3rd party We make use of analytic cookies to analyse how our visitors use our website and to monitor website performance. These cookies collect information about how you use our website, such as which pages are visited most by users. These cookies help us calculate traffic and traffic sources in order to measure and improve the performance of our website, help us understand which pages are popular, which are not, etc. If you disable these cookies, we will not be able to know when you visited our website. Our website currently uses the following performance cookies: Cookie Name Domain Description Created and Stored by N/A N/A N/A N/A These cookies enable our website to remember the choices you made or the information you filled in while browsing, such as your username, language setting, or your region, to provide you with more personalized services. If you choose to disable these cookies, we will not be able to provide you with these personalized services. Our website currently uses the following functional cookies: Cookie Name Domain Description Created and Stored by N/A N/A N/A N/A These cookies collect information about browsing habits associated with your device, and are used to recommend advertisements that interest you more, to limit the number of times you see them, and to help measure the effectiveness of the advertising campaigns. If you disable these cookies, it is possible that the advertisements (including our advertisements) may continue to be displayed in front of you when browsing the website, but these advertisements are not displayed according to your personal interests. Our website mainly uses the following advertising/targeting cookies: Cookie Name Domain Description Created and Stored by N/A N/A N/A N/A