# It Factor Nfl Quarterback Intangibles

**Source**: http://grantland.com/features/it-factor-nfl-quarterback-intangibles/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:43:28.439544+00:00

---

&raquo; The It Factor Search Search Search Menu Search Features The Triangle The Hollywood Prospectus Contributors Podcasts Video Quarterly ESPN.com ➤ Previous Mind Games ➤ Next The Glue Facebook Twitter Print NFL The It Factor There’s a secret trait that seems to rule the NFL. What is it? Who has it? How do you get it? And what happens when you lose it? by Bill Barnwell on August 27, 2014 I f you want to succeed in the NFL, you simply have to have that &#8220;It Factor.&#8221; The defending Super Bowl champions are led by a quarterback, Russell Wilson, who, Jon Gruden said , &#8220;had the &#8216;it&#8217; factor unlike any quarterback I&#8217;ve met.&#8221; Bears head coach Marc Trestman says , &#8220;The &#8216;it&#8217; factor is a prerequisite to play quarterback in the NFL.&#8221; And conversation about the three first-round quarterback prospects in this year&#8217;s draft was dominated by chatter about who had the It Factor and who lacked it. Clearly, people within the NFL believe the It Factor 1 matters. But what on earth is an It Factor? Where did it come from? And does it actually tell us anything about an NFL player&#8217;s chances of succeeding? I used LexisNexis to search newspaper coverage of pro and college football teams to try to find the answers. What Is It? What does &#8220;It Factor&#8221; mean? As I suggested when Shea Serrano and I wrote about great fictional quarterbacks , &#8220;It Factor&#8221; can mean just about anything you want it to mean, truthfully. The word is often synonymous with &#8220;intangibles,&#8221; which itself has been twisted to mean something like &#8220;things that can&#8217;t be measured that we will try to measure anyway.&#8221; Toughness, leadership, and bravery are familiar qualities we associate with intangibles, and likewise, they come up very frequently in articles and quotes about the It Factor. Click here for more from our 2014 NFL preview. The It Factor is more all-encompassing than intangibles, though. It&#8217;s not enough to be tough and brave; to have the It Factor, you have to be charismatic. Quarterbacks with it don&#8217;t just show up for practice; as Brock Osweiler&#8217;s college-era It Factor profile noted, he &#8220;doesn&#8217;t just direct the offense during Arizona State practices, he works the room.&#8221; Tyler Wilson went to the Manning Passing Academy and was awed by Peyton and Eli&#8217;s ability to &#8220;walk in a room and light it up.&#8221; It can be a marketing tool, too; Jadeveon Clowney&#8217;s agent, Bus Cook, noted before the draft that his client &#8220;has that &#8216;it&#8217; factor and he has the smile, like [Michael] Jordan and Tiger [Woods].&#8221; It&#8217;s the same thing baseball scouts used to call &#8220;the good face.&#8221; It&#8217;s at least tangentially related to other overused buzz phrases of the modern era. When you have the It Factor, you have swagger, which has evolved into a commoditized version of confidence. It&#8217;s something former HBO Sports president Ross Greenburg saw in Mark Sanchez before the Jets started their season of Hard Knocks . &#8220;He definitely has the It Factor,&#8221; Greenburg said. &#8220;He&#8217;s got the charismatic smile and a swagger on and off the field. It&#8217;s the way he walks, the way he talks, the way he acts around his teammates.&#8221; As you might expect, the It Factor is also often code for &#8220;This guy is winning more than his skills say he should,&#8221; because we are somehow still in the habit of assigning wins and losses to quarterbacks here in 2014. It&#8217;s often ascribed to some sort of knowledge of how to win, like there&#8217;s a secret formula to winning that requires you to do some Dan Brown cryptography work to outscore the opposition. Artrell Hawkins, then a Patriots player, articulated this well during the 2006 season in comparing a rookie passer to his quarterback, Tom Brady. &#8220;He&#8217;s a wonderful athlete. I think he knows how to win,&#8221; Hawkins said. &#8220;I can honestly say that Tom has it and I think this kid has that &#8216;it&#8217; quality, too, that is kind of intangible. You can&#8217;t really put your hands on it, but he finds ways to win and that&#8217;s what you want in a leader.&#8221; The kid in question? Vince Young. Where Did It Come From? The idea of the It Factor comes from a surprising place. Although I saw suggestions that the likes of Darrell Royal were saying that a guy had &#8220;it&#8221; as early as the mid-’70s, and plenty of coaches have used the term in the present day to describe what they saw in players from the past, nobody was using the term &#8220;It Factor&#8221; during the 20th century. The closest I could find in a newspaper search was Miami Herald columnist Greg Cote referring to the &#8220;need-it Factor&#8221; and &#8220;must-have-it Factor&#8221; in 1991, concepts that would later be critical to the growth of Cold Stone Creamery. Instead, the It Factor is the spawn of shocking bedfellows. While I found various references to the idea of an It Factor as early as 1987, football stayed out of the hunt for a long time. In 2002, Bravo started airing a reality show called, of all things, The It Factor , with one episode featuring a then-unknown Jeremy Renner. The show lasted two seasons before being canceled. I don&#8217;t believe that football coaches were blowing off tape sessions to sit in front of their televisions and watch struggling actors try to make it, but the show did serve to bring the phrase into the national lexicon. By 2004, football finally bit. A San Francisco Chronicle profile of Norm Chow contained a quote from a certain someone who would know. &#8220;Coach Chow calls it the &#8216;It&#8217; factor,&#8221; said USC starting quarterback Matt Leinart. Chow tried to explain the term: &#8220;It&#8217;s something like chutzpah or the ability to handle stressful situations, but there isn&#8217;t a real description.&#8221; Leinart was It Factor patient zero. After he went 17-of-32 with two picks before pulling out a late win against Notre Dame in the middle of the 2005 season, the scouts could not be contained. &#8220;Leinart in the Notre Dame game was him in a nutshell. He didn&#8217;t play great the whole game through,&#8221; an anonymous scout told the Los Angeles Times ’ Sam Farmer . &#8220;But with the game on the line, making that audible at the end — just the guts, the charisma. He has the &#8216;it&#8217; factor.&#8221; Another scout compared him to &#8220;a left-handed Tom Brady,&#8221; while a third noted the chill factor: &#8220;I was standing behind him during pat-and-go at the Washington State game. Just watching him, with that band playing, you get the chills. He&#8217;s just got that air of quiet leadership.&#8221; Six weeks later, with Leinart preparing for that famous Rose Bowl game against Texas, the Dallas Morning News took the bait . &#8220;Matt Leinart sauntered into the Beverly Hilton lobby looking like one would expect Matt Leinart to look at 9 a.m. on New Year&#8217;s Day,&#8221; Brad Townsend wrote. &#8220;Just-rolled-out-of-bed hair — but not too messy. Two-day-old stubble. USC sweats slightly disheveled, California-cool pretty boy image intact. In terms of the &#8216;it&#8217; factor, Broadway Joe Namath entering Super Bowl III had little on Sunset Boulevard Matt as he enters Wednesday night&#8217;s Rose Bowl national title game.&#8221; Leinart, of course, would lose that game to the aforementioned Young, who is a case study in his own right. Strangely, even in these quotes, you can see why these onlookers bestowed Leinart with the It Factor and why that consequently hurt him as a pro. The line between cool and uninterested can be awfully slim, especially in the NFL. As chic as Leinart sounds arriving at the Hilton at 9 a.m., coaches prefer the guy who dresses up in a suit and shows up an hour early so he can get to the film room. Townsend is implying, at least a tiny bit, that Leinart was out late in a hot tub with a bunch of coeds, which is exactly what Leinart did as a pro . (Not judging.) That &#8220;quiet leadership&#8221; mentioned by the anonymous scout was likely interpreted as timidness or lack of fire at the NFL level. And while Leinart was able to pull out a win despite his awful performance against Notre Dame — because Reggie Bush ran for 160 yards and three touchdowns before Leinart won the game with a two-minute drive — the ugly first 58 minutes against the no. 9 Fighting Irish meant more than the final two. 2 Outside of a couple stray quotes from Gary Kubiak during Leinart&#8217;s time with the Texans about how his backup passer still had that It Factor, Leinart simply lost the It Factor somewhere along the way. Leinart isn&#8217;t the only one to have the It Factor and lose it. But how do you even get the It Factor to begin with? How Do You Get the It Factor? That&#8217;s easy: You get somebody to write or say that you have the It Factor, which is easier than you might think. There seem to be a few characteristics associated with It Factor membership: You&#8217;re a quarterback. In print, there are about 35 mentions of a quarterback having the It Factor for every instance of a player at another position possessing that rarest of essences. Quarterbacks are often leaders on their teams, but is it really more likely that somebody like Colt McCoy possesses the It Factor 3 than a young superstar like Rams pass-rusher Robert Quinn or a talented veteran stalwart like Browns left tackle Joe Thomas? Why can&#8217;t a left guard or an outside linebacker have the It Factor? After you get past the quarterbacks, the distribution of It Factor attributions goes in strange directions. I found stories on several kickers who were credited with having the It Factor, including Swayze Waters, an undrafted free agent at the time who now kicks in the CFL. Centers like Olin Kreutz and Matt Birk picked up the plaudits. &#8220;[Birk] just has that personality that bri