# Cigarette Smoking In United States.Html

**Source**: https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/campaign/tips/resources/data/cigarette-smoking-in-united-states.html
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:36:39.707284+00:00

---

Burden of Cigarette Use in the U.S. | Data and Statistics | Campaign Resources | Tips From Former Smokers | CDC and tags on every page of your site. --> Skip directly to site content Skip directly to search Español | Other Languages An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People Search Submit Tips From Former Smokers ® Burden of Cigarette Use in the U.S. Español (Spanish) Print Minus Related Pages Current Cigarette Smoking Among U.S. Adults Aged 18 Years and Older By Sex | By Age Group | By Race/Ethnicity | By U.S. Census Region &nbsp;| By Education | By Marital Status | By Annual Household Income | By Sexual Orientation | By Health Insurance Coverage | By Disability | By Generalized Anxiety Disorder Cigarette smoking remains the leading cause of preventable disease and death in the United States. Cigarette smoking kills more than 480,000 Americans each year. 1 Cigarette smoking cost the United States more than $600 billion &nbsp;in 2018, including more than $240 billion in healthcare spending and nearly $372 billion in lost productivity. 1,2,3,4 In 2022, an estimated 11.6% (28.8 million) of U.S. adults currently smoked cigarettes. Current cigarette smoking was defined as smoking &ge;100 cigarettes during a lifetime and now smoking cigarettes either every day or some days. 5 On This Page Current Cigarette Smoking Among U.S. Adults Aged 18 Years and Older References Learn how smoking and secondhand smoke affect specific groups, including smoking-related statistics. Read more Percentage of persons aged &ge;18 years who reported cigarette use &ldquo;every day&rdquo; or &ldquo; some days&rdquo; at time of survey and reported smoking at least 100 cigarettes during their lifetime. 5 The cigarette smoking rates of adults within the United States, organized by sex. &nbsp;By Sex Percentage Male 13.1% Female 10.1% The cigarette smoking rates of adults within the United States, organized by age. By Age Group (yrs) Percentage 18&ndash;24 5.3% 25&ndash;44 12.6% 45&ndash;64 14.9% &ge;65 &nbsp; 8.3% The cigarette smoking rates of adults within the United States, organized by race/ethnicity. By Race/Ethnicity Percentage White, non-Hispanic 12.9% Black, non-Hispanic 11.7% Asian, non-Hispanic 5.4% Hispanic 7.7% Other, non-Hispanic 14.9% NOTE: 2021 tobacco product estimates for American Indian/Alaska Native adults were not statistically reliable. The cigarette smoking rates of adults within the United States, organized by U.S. Census region. &nbsp;By U.S. Census Region Percentage Northeast 10.4% Midwest 14.0% South 12.4% West 8.9% The cigarette smoking rates of adults within the United States, organized by level of education. By Education (adults aged &ge;25 yrs) Percentage 0&ndash;12 yrs (no diploma) 20.1% GED 30.7% High school diploma 17.1% Some college, no degree 16.1% Associate degree (academic or technical/vocational) 13.7% Undergraduate degree (bachelor&rsquo;s) &nbsp; 5.3% Graduate degree (Master&rsquo;s, doctoral or professional) &nbsp; 3.2% The cigarette smoking rates of adults within the United States, organized by marital status. By Marital Status Percentage Married/Living with partner 10.4% Divorced/Separated/Widowed 16.8% Single/Never married/Not living with partner 10.9% The cigarette smoking rates of adults within the United States, organized by annual household income. By Annual Household Income Percentage Low Income 18.3% Middle Income 12.3% High Income 6.7% The cigarette smoking rates of adults within the United States, organized by sexual orientation. &nbsp;By Sexual Orientation Percentage Heterosexual/Straight 11.4% Lesbian/Gay/Bisexual 15.3% The cigarette smoking rates of adults within the United States, organized by health insurance coverage. By Health Insurance Coverage Percentage Private insurance 8.6% Medicaid 21.5% Medicare only (aged &ge;65 yrs) 8.4% Other public insurance 13.9% Uninsured 20.0% The cigarette smoking rates of adults within the United States, organized by disability/limitation. &nbsp;Has a Disability Percentage Yes 18.5% No 10.9% The cigarette smoking rates of adults within the United States, organized by serious psychological distress. Regularly Having Feelings of Severe Psychological Distress&dagger;&dagger;&dagger;&dagger; Percentage Yes 28.1% No 10.9% The cigarette smoking rates of adults within the United States, organized by serious psychological distress. Were ever told by a healthcare provider that they had depression &sect;&sect;&sect;&sect;&sect; Percentage Yes 19.4% No 9.9% &dagger;&dagger;&dagger;&dagger; Serious psychological distress was assessed using the recoded question &ldquo;Experienced serious psychological distress &ndash; K6 scale&rdquo;, which was recoded from the answers to the 6-item Kessler scale: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22351472/ References U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The Health Consequences of Smoking&mdash;50 Years of Progress: A Report of the Surgeon General . Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health, 2014 [accessed 2019 Feb 1]. Xu X, Shrestha SS, Trivers KF, Neff L, Armour BS, King BA. U.S. Healthcare Spending Attributable to Cigarette Smoking in 2014. Preventive Medicine.&nbsp; https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ypmed.2021.106529 . [accessed 2021 May 17]. Cornelius ME, Loretan CG, Jamal A, et al. Tobacco Product Use Among Adults &mdash; United States, 2021 . MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2023;72:475&ndash;483. Max W, Sung HY, Shi Y. Deaths from secondhand smoke exposure in the United States: economic implications. &nbsp;American Journal of Public Health 2012;102(11): 2173&ndash;80. Cornelius ME, Malarcher A, Jamal A, Schecter A, Tynan M, VanFrank B. Adult Smoking Cessation &mdash; United States, 2022. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2024;73:633&ndash;641. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.15585/mmwr.mm7329a1 Cornelius ME, Loretan CG, Wang TW, Jamal A, Homa DM. Tobacco Product Use Among Adults &mdash; United States, 2020 . MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2022; 71:397&ndash;405. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Tobacco Use Among U.S. Racial/Ethnic Minority Groups&mdash;African Americans, American Indians and Alaska Natives, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, Hispanics: A Report of the Surgeon General . Atlanta, Georgia: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health, 1998 [accessed 2019 Feb 1]. Martell BN, Garrett BE, Caraballo RS. Disparities in Adult Cigarette Smoking&mdash;United States, 2002&ndash;2005 and 2010&ndash;2013 . Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 2016; 65:753&ndash;758. DOI: https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/65/wr/mm6530a1.htm &nbsp;[accessed 2019 Feb 1]. Gentzke AS, Wang TW, Cornelius M, Park-Lee E, Ren C, Sawdey MD, Cullen KA, Loretan C, Jamal A, Homa DM. Tobacco Product Use and Associated Factors Among Middle and High School Students &ndash; National Youth Tobacco Survey, United States, 2021 . Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, 2022; 71(No. SS-5):1&ndash;29. Kaplan RC, Bandiwala SI, Barnhart JM, Casta&ntilde;eda SF, Gellman MD, Lee DJ, P&eacute;rez-Stable EJ, Talavera GA, Youngblood ME, Giachello AL. Smoking Among U.S. Hispanic/Latino Adults: The Hispanic Community Health Study/Study of Latinos . American Journal of Preventive Medicine 2014;46(5):496&ndash;506 [accessed 2019 Feb 1]. King BA, Dube SR, Tynan MA.&nbsp; Current Tobacco Use Among Adults in the United States: Findings From the National Adult Tobacco Survey . American Journal of Public Health 2012;102(11):e93&ndash;e100 [accessed &nbsp;2019 Feb 1]. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults&mdash;United States, 2005&ndash;2013 . Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 2014;69(47):1108&ndash;12 [accessed 2019 Feb 1]. Institute of Medicine. Combating Tobacco in Military and Veteran Populations . Washington: The National Academies Press, 2009 [accessed 2019 Feb 1]. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Quick Stats: Current Smoking Among Men Aged 25&ndash;64 Years, by Age Group and Veteran Status&mdash;National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), United States, 2007&ndash;201&nbsp; [PDF &ndash; 863KB] . Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 2012;61(45):929 [accessed 2019 Feb 1]. Odani S, Agaku IT, Graffunder CM, Tynan MA, Armour BS. Tobacco Product Use Among Military Veterans &mdash; United States, 2010&ndash;2015. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2018;67:7&ndash;12. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.15585/mmwr.mm6701a2 &nbsp;[accessed 2018 Dec 19]. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Trends in Smoking Before, During, and After Pregnancy&mdash;Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, United States, 40 Sites, 2000&ndash;2010 . Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 2013;62(SS06)1&ndash;19 [accessed 2019 Feb 1]. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. AIDS.gov: HIV and Smoking &nbsp;[last updated 2018 Nov 8; accessed 2019 Feb 1]. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Health Resources and Services Administration. Guide for HIV/AIDS Clinical Care, 2014 [accessed 2019 Feb 1]. Mdodo R, Frazier EL, Dube SR, Mattson CL, Sutton MY, Brooks JT, Skarbinski J. Cigarette Smoking Prevalence Among Adults With HIV Compared With the General Adult Population in the United States: Cross-Sectional Surveys . Annals of Internal Medicine 2015;162:335&ndash;44 [accessed 2019 Feb 1]. Frazier, EL, Sutton, MY, Brooks, JT, Shouse, RL, Weiser, J. Trends in c