# Privacy Notice

**Source**: https://www.voxmedia.com/legal/privacy-notice
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:37:43.381857+00:00

---

Privacy Notice - Vox Media Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes mobile Vox Media homepage Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media main menu Company Networks Enterprises Advertising News Careers Contact More Company Guidelines &amp; Policies Diversity &amp; Inclusion Corporate Citizenship Networks Curbed The Cut The Dodo Eater Grub Street Intelligencer New York Magazine NowThis PS Punch SB Nation The Strategist Thrillist The Verge Vox Vulture Enterprises Chorus Coral Vox Media Studios Vox Media Podcast Network Epic Advertising Concert Vox Creative The Explainer Studio Podcasts Media Kit New York Magazine Editorial Calendar New York Magazine Print Advertising Specs The Cut Print Advertising Specs News Vox Media News In The Press Vox Product Blog Careers Career Openings Fellowships Contact ✕ Privacy Notice Updated and Effective as of January 30, 2023 We have prepared this privacy policy (“Privacy Policy”) to explain to you how we collect, use, and share information and Personal Data we obtain through your use of the Internet sites, applications and online services (“Services”) that are operated by, controlled by or affiliated with Vox Media, LLC, and any of its subsidiaries, affiliates, brands and entities that it controls, including those listed at corp.voxmedia.com and any other affiliated sites and applications for which a link to this Privacy Policy appears (collectively “Vox,” “we,” “us,” or “our”). This Privacy Policy only covers information collected through the Services and via direct communications between you and Vox Media, LLC, and, unless otherwise notified to you, does not cover any information collected at any other website, application or otherwise by us (unless specifically stated), including when you call us, write to us, or communicate with us in any manner other than through the Services. By using the Services, you consent to such collection, use and sharing of your information and Personal Data and agree to the terms of this Privacy Policy. We will only process your Personal Data in accordance with applicable data protection and privacy laws. Table of Contents Information We Automatically Collect Cookies/Tracking Technologies Information You Choose To Submit Information We Receive From Other Sources Information Use Social Network and Platform Integration Our Information Sharing Practices Anonymous Data Public Information Users Outside of the United States and Consent to Transfer How We Respond to “Do Not Track” Signals Advertising Choice/Opt-Out From Communications Retaining, Modifying and Deleting Your Personal Data Security Links Children’s Privacy Sensitive Personal Data Important Information for California Residents: Your California Privacy Rights Privacy Disclosures for Virginia Residents Privacy Disclosures for Nevada Residents Privacy Disclosures for European Data Subjects Data Subject Request Reporting Changes Contact Us Information We Automatically Collect Categories of Information. We and our third-party service providers (including any third-party content, advertising, and analytics providers) automatically collect certain information from your device or web browser when you interact with the Services to help us understand how our users use the Services and to target advertising to you (which we will refer to in this Privacy Policy collectively as “Usage Data”). For example, each time you visit the Services we and our third-party service providers may automatically collect your location, IP address, mobile device identifier or other unique identifier, browser and computer type, Internet service provider used, clickstream information, access time, the Web page you came from, the URL you go to next, the Web page(s) that you access during your visit and your interaction with content or advertising on the Services. We may contract with third parties to collect this information on our behalf for analytics purposes. Purposes For This Information. We and our third-party service providers use such Usage Data for a variety of purposes including to diagnose problems with our servers and software, to administer the Services, to gather demographic information and to target advertising to you on the Services and elsewhere online. Accordingly, our third-party advertising networks and ad servers will also provide us with information, including reports that will tell us how many ads were presented and clicked on the Services in a manner that does not identify personally any specific individual. The Usage Data we collect is generally non-identifying, but if we associate it with you as a specific and identifiable person, we will treat it as Personal Data. Cookies/Tracking Technologies We use tracking technologies, such as cookies, local storage, and pixel tags. Cookies and Local Storage Cookies and local storage may be set and accessed on your computer. Upon your first visit to the Services, a cookie or local storage will be sent to your computer that uniquely identifies your browser. “Cookies” and local storage are small files containing a string of characters that is sent to your computer’s browser and stored on your device when you visit a website. Many major Web services use cookies to provide useful features for their users. Each Web site can send its own cookie to your browser. Most browsers are initially set up to accept cookies. You can reset your browser to refuse all cookies or to indicate when a cookie is being sent; however, if you reject cookies, you will not be able to sign in to the Services or take full advantage of our Services. Additionally, if you clear all cookies on your browser at any point after setting your browser to refuse all cookies or indicate when a cookie is being sent, you will have to again reset your browser to refuse all cookies or indicate when a cookie is being sent. For more information, please read our Cookie Policy . Pixel Tags We also use “pixel tags,” which are small graphic files that allow us and third parties to monitor the use of the Services and collect Usage Data. A pixel tag can collect information such as the IP address of the device that downloaded the page on which the tag appears; the URL of the page on which the pixel tag appears; the time (and length of time) the page containing the pixel tag was viewed; the type of browser that retrieved the pixel tag; and the identification number of any cookie previously placed by that server on your computer. We use pixel tags, either provided by us or by our third-party advertisers, service providers and ad networks, to collect information about your visit, including the pages you view, the links you click and other actions taken in connection with our sites and Services and use them in combination with our cookies to provide offers and information of interest to you. Pixel tags also enable ad networks to serve targeted advertisements to you when you visit the Services or other websites. Log Files A log file is a file that records events that occur in connection with your use of the Service, such as your service use data. We collect log files and other usage information when you access, use and interact with the Services (even if you have not created an account or logged into your account on the Services), including IP address, date and time that you signed up for an account, language setting, browser type, operating system type, internet service provider, referring/exit pages, page you requested, user agent, date and time stamps, clickstream data, and information about your search and click activity. Device Fingerprinting Device fingerprinting is the process of analyzing and combining sets of information elements from your device’s browser, such as JavaScript objects and installed fonts, in order to create a “fingerprint” of your device and uniquely identify your device and apps. App Technologies, Customization, and Usage There are a variety of tracking technologies that may be included in our apps that allow us to collect information about your installation, use, and updating of our apps as well as information about your device, including your unique mobile device identifier (“UDID”) and other technical identifiers. More specifically, these tracking technologies allow us to collect data about your device and your use of our apps, the pages, videos, other content, or ads you see or click on during your visit and when and for how long you do so, and items you download. These tracking technologies are not browser-based like cookies and cannot be controlled by browser settings. For example, our apps may include third party SDKs, which is code that sends information about your use to a server, and is in effect the app version of a pixel. These SDKs allow us to track our conversions and communicate with you across devices, bring you advertising both on and off the Services, customize the app to your interests and preferences and link such across platforms and devices, and provide you with additional functionality, such as the ability to connect our Service with your social media account. Location-Identifying Technologies GPS, WiFi, Bluetooth, and other location-aware technologies may be used to collect location data when you enable location-based services through your device. Location data may be used for purposes such as verifying your device’s location and delivering or restricting relevant content and advertising based on that location. In addition, we use a variety of other technologies that collect similar information for security and fraud detection purposes essential to the operation of our sites and business. For more information about the use of cookies and similar technology on our Service, please review Section 13 of this Privacy Notice and our Cookies and Tracking Technologies Policy . You can also find more information about cookies and how they work, what cookies have been set on your computer or mobile device and how to manage and delete them here and here . Information You Choose To Submit Yo