# Michael Lewis

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/michael-lewis/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T22:54:24.478021+00:00

---

Michael Lewis - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: Michael Lewis books Oct. 17, 2023 Twilight of the Heroes of Capitalism How Michael Lewis got duped by Sam Bankman-Fried. By David Roth the money game Oct. 3, 2023 The 3 Most Important Things to Know About Michael Lewis’s SBF Book Here’s the best of what is in the book — and the biggest things Lewis missed. By Kevin T. Dugan the money game Sept. 6, 2023 That’s What I Call Ponzinomics With Sam Bankman-Fried, Gisele, and a credulous Michael Lewis at the zenith of crypto hype. By Zeke Faux allegedly Aug. 16, 2023 The Blind Side Author Michael Lewis Denies Lawsuit Allegations “It’s outrageous how Hollywood accounting works, but the money is not in the Tuohys’ pockets.” By Bethy Squires games Aug. 16, 2023 The Michael Oher Story Has Always Been Complicated The film that purported to portray his life was terribly flawed – and now there’s a reckoning. By Will Leitch podcasts Apr. 2, 2019 April Podcast Preview: Cops , True Crime, and Michael Lewis Plus a guide to surviving natural disasters. By Nicholas Quah tv deals Oct. 31, 2018 The Obamas’ First Netflix Project Will Be Adapting This Book About Trump The Fifth Risk explores how Trump’s administration has destroyed the government from within. By Jackson McHenry lit parade Oct. 10, 2018 Michael Lewis’s The Fifth Risk Breaks Through the Trump Book Noise In a stormy season of Trump exposés, Lewis’s explainer of government (dys)function earns the highest praise. By Hillary Kelly q&amp;a Oct. 2, 2018 Michael Lewis on His New Book About Trump’s Wholesale Destruction of Government “No matter where I went in my mind, they said to me, ‘No, it’s worse.’” By Gabriel Debenedetti books Sept. 21, 2018 The Big-Money, Big-Deal Books of the Fall All the season’s probable (or wannabe) best sellers, from Michelle Obama, Michael Lewis, Sally Field, David Blight, and (sorry) Tucker Carlson. By BORIS KACHKA audiobooks Sept. 20, 2018 Audiobooks Are the New E-books, Except They Might Keep Growing The rise of audiobooks is a tech story, and the battle for its future involves the same players as the e-book wars. By BORIS KACHKA audiobooks July 31, 2018 The Coming Storm Is Riveting, But Why Is It an Audiobook? In his latest project, Michael Lewis investigates America’s crisis of kleptocracy. By Nicholas Quah casting couch Sept. 5, 2017 Michael Lewis Says Hollywood Won’t Adapt Flash Boys Because It Has an Asian Lead The nonfiction best seller is about Bradley Katsuyama, a real person of Asian descent. By Tolly Wright donald trump Dec. 7, 2016 Michael Lewis on the Psychological Quirks Trump Exploited to Become President Riffing off his new book, the author explains that he is extremely worried about Donald Trump’s personality and thirst for certainty. By Jesse Singal Dec. 6, 2016 Reading Michael Lewis’s New Book Made Me More Worried About Donald Trump Some leaders are really good at understanding that humans are flawed decision-makers. Others … well, you know. By Jesse Singal behavioral economics June 3, 2016 Michael Lewis’s Next Book Will Be About the Godfathers of Behavioral Economics This ought to be good. By Jesse Singal q&amp;a Nov. 29, 2015 Michael Lewis on The Big Short “They should have broken up the banks.” By Jessica Pressler movie review Nov. 29, 2015 The Big Short Turns the Financial Meltdown Into a Heist Comedy Director Adam McKay invents his own glorious goofball syntax: part business thriller, part stand-up comedy, with a liberal dash of NPR didacticis. By David Edelstein Nov. 29, 2015 The Big Short Will Make You Furious All Over Again About 2008 The pitchfork mobs didn’t quite make it to Wall Street. So seven years later, the man who brought you Anchorman decided to give it another go. Nov. 29, 2015 Michael Lewis on The Big Short “They should have broken up the banks.” By Jessica Pressler castings Jan. 13, 2015 Christian Bale and Ryan Gosling Join Brad Pitt’s Big Short Adaptation It’ll be directed by Anchorman ’s Adam McKay. By Nate Jones cups May 15, 2014 Toni Morrison, George Saunders, and Michael Lewis Are Now Published by Chipotle On cups. By Amanda Dobbins flash boys Apr. 1, 2014 9 Gripes From a High-Frequency Trader The author “didn’t bother to understand” the world of high-frequency trading, according to this industry honcho. By Kevin Roose flash boys Apr. 1, 2014 What It’s Like to Star in a Michael Lewis Book Ronan Ryan, the hero of Lewis’s new book Flash Boys , on working with the best-selling author. By Kevin Roose wall street Mar. 31, 2014 Michael Lewis Beefing With a Banker, Right on Time How else to celebrate publication of his new book? By Joe Coscarelli market folly Mar. 31, 2014 Should You Be Worried About High-Frequency Trading? Or is digital front-running a rich man’s problem? By Kevin Roose flash boys Mar. 28, 2014 Michael Lewis: Flash Boys Could Shake Wall St. The star author’s latest is out Monday and he’s expecting big impact. By Boris Kachka Mar. 24, 2014 Adam McKay Is Directing a Movie About the Economic Crisis Writer/director Adam McKay (Anchorman(s), Step Brothers) has found his next movie. McKay has signed on to develop Michael Lewis’s book, The Big […] By Bradford Evans adaptations Mar. 24, 2014 Adam McKay to Write and Direct The Big Short The Michael Lewis book. By Amanda Dobbins ink-stained wretches Sept. 11, 2012 The White House Helped Edit Michael Lewis’s Barack Obama Story Vanity Fair agreed to quote-approval. By Joe Coscarelli ink-stained wretches Aug. 19, 2012 Michael Lewis Given ‘Extensive’ Access to Obama The Moneyball author’s piece will appear in Vanity Fair ’s October issue. By Caroline Bankoff tv Oct. 24, 2011 Michael Lewis’s Home Game Headed to ABC But who will play Tabitha Soren? By Amanda Dobbins Oct. 24, 2011 ABC Scores Comedy From Moneyball Author Are you ready for some heart-warming family comedyyyyyyyyyyyyyy? Oh, I guess that’s actually a football reference rather than a baseball […] By Halle Kiefer movies Sept. 26, 2011 Michael Lewis to Adapt Liar’s Poker Himself He’ll write the screenplay for his 1989 financial book. By Amanda Dobbins lawsuits Feb. 28, 2011 Our Four Favorite Excerpts From The Big Short Lawsuit Against Michael Lewis New Jersey asset manager Wing Chau has a literary-minded legal team. By Nitasha Tiku moneyballs Jan. 13, 2011 Note: When Using Fake Bills, Do Not Keep Them in Your Underwear This is what we learned from today’s Stupid Crime of the Day. By Jessica Pressler loose threads July 30, 2010 Soon You Can Shop Zara Online; Tom Ford Hires Women’s Shoe Consultant Also, model Catherine McNeil has quite a few pages in September’s Australian ‘Vogue.’ exclusive June 24, 2010 Brad Pitt Moving Quickly on Adapting Michael Lewis’s The Big Short First ‘Moneyball,’ now this. By Claude Brodesser-Akner oh no he didn’t June 24, 2010 Michael Lewis Asks for Trouble “Goldman Sachs is doomed.” By Jessica Pressler books Mar. 5, 2010 Michael Lewis Is the Latest Person to Overlook Harry Markopolos Hugo Lindgren looks at two new crisis books. By Jessica Pressler the industry Feb. 2, 2010 Exclusive: Pitt Options Michael Lewis’ New Book Scott Rudin backed down, and now Pitt may star. By Claude Brodesser-Akner all eli all the time Nov. 30, 2009 Do the Giants’ Coaches Trust Eli Even Less Than We Do? Play-calling seems a vote of no-confidence. By Hugo Lindgren news reel Nov. 18, 2009 Blind Side Author Michael Lewis on Its Adaptation “The best writer in Hollywood is a dead writer.” By Jada Yuan bald men with money July 28, 2009 Baldness Not a Requirement for Working at Goldman Sachs It’s merely *encouraged.* By Jessica Pressler ink-stained wretches Mar. 18, 2009 Vanity Fair ’s Fishy Tales From Iceland No one cared about the tiny island until it collapsed. Now it’s worthy of some tall tales. By Jonas Moody the downturnaround Mar. 4, 2009 The Downturnaround Kills Its Idols Even the best financial minds of our time have made mistakes. By Hugo Lindgren the industry Oct. 17, 2008 Will Ferrell to Honor George W. Bush on Broadway Plus: Brad Pitt does math! By Nick Confalone ink-stained wretches Oct. 8, 2008 Graydon Carter Steals From His Sister He hired writer Michael Lewis away from sister publication ‘Portfolio.’ By Chris Rovzar Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Fol