# Ultimate Guide To Etihad Partners

**Source**: https://thepointsguy.com/guide/ultimate-guide-to-etihad-partners/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-01T05:34:33.408112+00:00

---

The ultimate guide to booking travel with Etihad Airways partners - The Points Guy Skip to content Menu Go to Home Page Subscribe Advertiser disclosure Search The Points Guy Advertiser disclosure ADVERTISEMENT Guides The ultimate guide to Etihad Airways partners: How to earn and redeem Etihad Guest miles Andrew Kunesh Andrew Kunesh Contributor Andrew is a former senior editor at The Points Guy. He's been a miles and points fanatic since 2014 and previously wrote for Upgraded Points and Credit Karma. Outside of the travel world, Andrew is a technology enthusiast, craft coffee aficionado and — despite now living in NYC — a Chicagoan at heart. Ben Smithson Ben Smithson Senior writer Ben Smithson is a travel loyalty expert based in London. also contributed to this story Nov. 29, 2023 • 16 min read Jump to section Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Copy URL Email The cards we feature here are from partners who compensate us when you are approved through our site, and this may impact how or where these products appear. We don’t cover all available credit cards, but our analysis, reviews, and opinions are entirely from our editorial team. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information. Update : Some offers mentioned below are no longer available. View the current offers here . Etihad is well known for its posh business- and first-class products , but did you know that the airline has a powerful loyalty program? The airline has partnerships with nearly two dozen airlines, giving you many options for earning and redeeming Etihad Guest miles during your travels. Despite not being a member of a major airline alliance, Etihad has a broad range of airline partners worldwide. The airline has several non-airline partnerships that can help you earn Etihad Guest miles quickly. These partnerships let you earn miles when staying at hotels, renting cars and making everyday purchases with select American Express , Capital One and Citi credit cards . Here&#x27;s a look at Etihad Guest&#x27;s powerful partnerships. Earning Etihad Guest miles with partner airlines BEN SMITHSON/THE POINTS GUY Etihad&#x27;s partners have unique earning charts with varying rates. Air Canada Etihad awards up to a 125% bonus on miles flown on Air Canada flights. The earning chart is extensive and has different earning rates for flights within Canada, as well as a chart for all other flights, including flights between Canada and the U.S., so make sure you&#x27;re using the right chart to calculate your earnings. Another thing to remember is that some Air Canada domestic fares earn no miles when credited to Etihad. Therefore, it&#x27;s in your best interest to double-check the award chart to make sure your fare class will earn you miles. Air New Zealand You can earn Etihad Guest miles on all Air New Zealand flights at 100% of the distance flown for economy and premium economy or 150% for business class. You can find an up-to-date earning chart on the Etihad website . Multiply the distance of your flight by the percentage listed next to your booking class to see how many miles you&#x27;ll earn on your partner flight. Daily Newsletter Reward your inbox with the TPG Daily newsletter Join over 700,000 readers for breaking news, in-depth guides and exclusive deals from TPG’s experts Email address Sign up By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy . You may unsubscribe at any time. Air Serbia Etihad Guest has two Air Serbia earning charts: one for short and mid-haul flights and another for its long-haul route to New York. Miles earned are based on class of service and distance flown, so you&#x27;ll earn more miles for longer flights. You can view these earnings charts on Etihad&#x27;s website . Etihad Guest&#x27;s Air Serbia short- and mid-haul earning chart. ETIHADGUEST.COM Unfortunately, Economy Light fares — commonly referred to as &quot;White&quot; fares — aren&#x27;t eligible to earn Etihad Guest miles. Thankfully, these fares are only sold on intra-Europe flights, so you will earn at least 25% of the miles flown in all other fare classes. Etihad Guest&#x27;s Air Serbia long-haul earning chart. ETIHADGUEST.COM Air Europa You&#x27;ll earn Etihad Guest miles on SkyTeam member Air Europa based on the distance of your flight and fare class for up to 150% of the miles flown for full-fare business class. Note that several discounted economy fares are not eligible to earn Etihad Guest miles. You can see the latest Air Europa earning chart on Etihad&#x27;s website . Air France-KLM ZACH GRIFF/THE POINTS GUY Etihad announced on Monday, Nov. 27, that the airlines have launched frequent flyer reciprocity , enabling travelers to earn and redeem miles across the airline groups. When you travel on an eligible Air France- or KLM-marketed and -operated ticket with your Etihad Guest membership, you&#x27;ll earn Etihad Guest miles based on your fare class and the flight distance from 20% for &quot;every discounted economy class&quot; up to 275% for first class. You can refer to this page (Air France) and this page (KLM) and select &quot;Miles you&#x27;ll earn&quot; to see how many Etihad miles you&#x27;ll earn on Air France and KLM. Related: You can now book Etihad with Air France-KLM Flying Blue miles — and it can be a great use of transferrable points All Nippon Airways All Nippon Airways — commonly called &quot;ANA&quot; — is based in Tokyo and flies to most major cities in the U.S., Asia and the South Pacific. It also has extensive service in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Per the airline&#x27;s earning chart , you&#x27;ll earn Etihad miles on all ANA flights. Earning rates are pretty standard with ANA: You&#x27;ll earn 50% to 150% of miles flown, with the 150% being reserved for paid first-class tickets. You can also credit your ANA flights to Star Alliance carriers and Virgin Atlantic. We recommend you use a tool like Where To Credit to find the best partner to credit your miles. American Airlines American miles have long been among the best ways to book Etihad awards; likewise, you can score excellent value when booking certain American Airlines award flights with Etihad Guest miles. You can earn Etihad Guest miles based on your fare class and the distance of your flight. Based on the current earning chart , you can earn between 25% and 250% of miles flown, depending on your fare class. American Airlines earning chart. ETIHADGUEST.COM Asiana Airlines Asiana is based in South Korea, with flights to major cities in Asia, Europe and North America. You can earn up to 135% of miles flown when crediting Asiana miles to Etihad Guest, but note that many of the airline&#x27;s international economy fares are only eligible for 50% of miles earned. Additionally, domestic flights on Asiana offer different economy mileage rates than international flights. You can view the latest Asiana earning chart on Etihad&#x27;s website . Brussels Airlines ZACH GRIFF/THE POINTS GUY Brussels Airlines is a Lufthansa Group airline based in Belgium. While most of the airlines&#x27; routes are intra-Europe, it also offers extensive service to West Africa and nonstop flights to New York&#x27;s John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) and Washington, D.C.&#x27;s Dulles International Airport (IAD). You&#x27;ll earn between 25% and 150% of miles flown when you credit Brussels Airlines flights to Etihad Guest. See the airline&#x27;s earning chart for more details. Brussels Airlines earning chart. ETIHADGUEST.COM El Al The flag carrier of Israel offers flights to nearly 50 destinations, including Europe, the Middle East and North America. You can earn a minimum of 25% Etihad Guest miles for discounted economy-class tickets and up to 175% miles for full-fare business-class flights. Garuda Indonesia Garuda Indonesia is the largest airline in Indonesia, with hubs in Jakarta at Soekarno-Hatta International Airport (CGK) and four other major cities in Indonesia. You can earn up to 200% of miles flown when you credit Garuda Indonesia flights to Etihad Guest. Unfortunately, the airline&#x27;s cheapest economy tickets only earn 25% of miles flown with Etihad Guest, so make sure to assess all of your crediting options. Garuda Indonesia earning table. ETIHADGUEST.COM Gulf Air Gulf Air is an international airline based in Bahrain, with connections available to major cities in the Middle East, Asia, Europe and Africa. You can earn up to 175% of miles flown when crediting Gulf Air flights to Etihad . The carrier often has solid deals from Europe to the Middle East, so this can be an interesting way to see another region, experience a new airline and rack up Etihad miles simultaneously. Hainan Airlines Hainan Airlines is a Chinese carrier offering flights to major cities in Asia, Europe, North America and the South Pacific. The carrier has a relatively new fleet with many of its long-haul routes being operated by a mixture of Boeing 787 and Airbus A350 aircraft. Hainan Airlines&#x27; Etihad earning chart awards miles for nearly all booking classes (except some discount economy), with both domestic and international business-class tickets earning up to a generous 250% of miles flown. Korean Airlines NICK ELLIS/THE POINTS GUY Korean Airlines is the flag carrier of South Korea and is well known for its great service and excellent first-class flights . You can earn up to 180% of miles flown when crediting Korean Airlines international flights to Etihad Guest, with most fare classes eligible. Korean Air earning chart. ETIHADGUEST.COM Malaysia Airlines Malaysia Airlines is a Oneworld member and the flag carrier of Malaysia, connecting the country to major destinations worldwide. The airline currently serves major destinations in Asia, Europe and the South Pacific. You can earn up to 150% of miles flown when crediting Malaysia Airli