# October 7Th Special Heroism

**Source**: https://www.tbn.org/programs/october-7th-special-heroism
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:46:02.428231+00:00

---

October 7th Special - The Heroism | Trinity Broadcasting Network Skip to main content Search Search Header icons menu Donate Prayer Contact Us TBN Shop Main navigation TBN Live Video on Demand Broadcast Schedule Channel Finder Watch Programs Praise Stakelbeck Tonight Better Together Show All Programs People Kirk Cameron Joyce Meyer Dr. Robert Jeffress Sheila Walsh Joel Osteen Show All People Watch TBN TBN Live Video on Demand Broadcast Schedule Channel Finder TBN Networks Faith Topics Giving Donor Opportunities Living Legacy TBN Ambassadors Ways To Give Double Your Donation Request Info All Offers Donate Now About Meet TBN About TBN Family of Networks Blog History Press Releases Help/FAQs TBN Newsletters TBN Mobile &amp; TV Apps Careers The TBN Shop Bottom links TBN2ndChance.org - Prison Ministry Trilogy Publishing Trilogy Animations Header icons menu Donate Prayer Contact Us TBN Shop Search Search Toggle navigation &times; Channel finder YouTube TV Download the TBN App TBN Programs October 7th Special - The Heroism October 7th Special - The Heroism Witness the Tragic Events of October 7, 2023, and Their Profound Impact In this gripping four-part documentary series , award-winning Israeli American filmmaker Dan Gordon provides an in-depth look at the tragic and momentous events that took place near Gaza on October 7, 2023 . Through powerful storytelling and exclusive interviews, Gordon sheds light on the horror, heroism, hatred, hysteria, history, and hope that emerged from this fateful day. As a reserve duty captain in the Israel Defense Forces with nearly 50-years of experience in Hollywood, Gordon brings a unique perspective to this compelling series. He takes viewers on an emotional journey, exploring the ramifications and implications of October 7th for Israel and the world. Don't miss the premiere of this groundbreaking documentary series on TBN, starting with two pre-specials: A Walk By Faith Honor Thy Father Followed by four episodes: The Horror The Heroism Hysteria, Hatred, and History The Hope For more details about the program, check out our blog article here . Tune in to TBN on June 14 for the premiere of Dan Gordon's October 7, 2023 documentary series and experience this powerful journey for yourself. Part 2 of 4 Part DocuSeries - THE HEROISM The Heroism - October&nbsp;7th represented a complete failure of the senior levels of the Israeli military and intelligence establishments. It was their darkest day. But incredibly Israel's citizens; its paramedics, police, individual soldiers, farmers, clerks, dj's and not a few grandparents, stepped into the gap and bought with their gallantry enough time for Israel's military to regroup and recover. They literally stepped into the gap and saved not only their families but the state of Israel. With, courage, skill, resilience, unflagging faith and self sacrifice, they saved themselves, their neighbors and their country. it was their finest hour. &nbsp; Featured Episode Jun 21, 2024 October 7, 2023: The Heroism October 7th represented a complete failure of the senior levels of the Israeli military and intellig... Watch This Episode Episode Details Recent Episodes Show All Episodes Jun 21, 2024 October 7, 2023: The Heroism Episode Details Load More Show All Watch October 7th Special - The Heroism No Monthly Fee Watch on your TV with: App Store Google Play Description &nbsp; Stream Free Teachings &amp; Music that Blesses You. Fuel Your Faith with Sermons, Worship, Conferences, and More. Link Subscribe Today Stay in the loop with all things TBN Social links Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Footer buttons menu TBN Live Video on Demand Donate Now Download Our App App Store Google Play Subscribe to TBN+ and Watch Anywhere Android TV Apple TV Amazon Fire TV Roku Watch TBN+ Channel Finder Programs People Give Ways to Give Donate Donation Offers Prayer Requests About About Careers Contact Help Sign Up For Mail Newsletter Footer menu TBN Stations, Public Files &amp; Compliance FCC Applications Privacy Terms Sitemap Copyright &copy; 2025 TBN - Trinity Broadcasting Network. All Rights Reserved. Broadcasting Since 1973. Trinity Broadcasting Network is the 'D.B.A.' of Trinity Broadcasting of Texas, Inc., a Texas religious non-profit church corporation holding 501(C)(3) status with the Internal Revenue Service. Donations to Trinity Broadcasting Network are Tax Deductible to the extent permitted by law. EIN: 74-1945661 &times; SIGN UP TO RECEIVE BY MAIL --> --> --> Watch TBN links