# Scholar Lookup

**Source**: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Journal%20of%20Family%20Psychology&title=Toward%20dissemination%20of%20evidence-based%20family%20interventions:%20Maintenance%20of%20community-based%20partnership%20recruitment%20results%20and%20associated%20factors&author=R%20Spoth&author=S%20Clair&author=M%20Greenberg&author=C%20Redmond&author=C%20Shin&volume=21&issue=2&publication_year=2007&pages=137-146&pmid=17605536&doi=10.1037/0893-3200.21.2.137&
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:00:22.653723+00:00

---

Google Scholar Loading... The system can&#39;t perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between &nbsp;—&nbsp; e.g., 1996 Saved to My library Done Remove article Sorry, some features may not work in this version of Internet Explorer. Please use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox for the best experience. Articles Case law Profiles My profile My library Alerts Metrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar 1 result ( 0.04 sec) My profile My library Lookup [PDF] nih.gov Toward dissemination of evidence-based family interventions: maintenance of community-based partnership recruitment results and associated factors. R Spoth , S Clair, M Greenberg … - Journal of Family …, 2007 - psycnet.apa.org R Spoth , S Clair, M Greenberg , C Redmond, C Shin Journal of Family Psychology, 2007 • psycnet.apa.org A major challenge in the dissemination of evidence-based family interventions (EBFIs) designed to reduce youth substance use and other problem behaviors is effective and sustainable community-based recruitment. This understudied topic is addressed by a preliminary study of 14 community–university partnership teams randomly assigned to an intervention condition in which teams attempted sustained implementation of EBFIs with two cohorts of middle school families. This report describes attendance rates of recruited families … Abstract A major challenge in the dissemination of evidence-based family interventions (EBFIs) designed to reduce youth substance use and other problem behaviors is effective and sustainable community-based recruitment. This understudied topic is addressed by a preliminary study of 14 community–university partnership teams randomly assigned to an intervention condition in which teams attempted sustained implementation of EBFIs with two cohorts of middle school families. This report describes attendance rates of recruited families maintained over time and across both cohorts, along with exploratory analyses of factors associated with those rates. When compared with community-based recruitment rates in the literature, particularly for multisession interventions, relatively high rates were observed; they averaged 17% across cohorts. Community team functioning (eg, production of quality team promotional materials) and technical assistance (TA) variables (eg, effective collaboration with TA, frequency of TA requests) were associated with higher recruitment rates, even after controlling for community and school district contextual influences. Results support the community–university partnership model for recruitment that was implemented in the study. American Psychological Association Show more Show less Save Cite Cited by 159 Related articles All 13 versions Privacy Terms Help About Scholar Search help