# Innovations For Poverty Action Ethiopian Office

**Source**: https://www.openphilanthropy.org/grants/innovations-for-poverty-action-ethiopian-office/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:16:54.344432+00:00

---

Innovations for Poverty Action — Ethiopian Office | Open Philanthropy Partner With Us Focus Areas Cause Selection Global Health &#038; Wellbeing Abundance &#038; Growth Economic Growth in Low- and Middle-Income Countries Effective Giving &#038; Careers Farm Animal Welfare Global Aid Policy Global Health &#038; Development Global Health R&#038;D Global Public Health Policy Scientific Research Global Catastrophic Risks Biosecurity &#038; Pandemic Preparedness Forecasting Global Catastrophic Risks Capacity Building Potential Risks from Advanced AI Other Areas History of Philanthropy Grants Research &#038; Updates Blog Posts In the News Research Reports Notable Lessons About Us Grantmaking Process How to Apply for Funding Careers Team Operating Values Stay Updated Contact Us Close menu Partner With Us Focus Areas Cause Selection Global Health &#038; Wellbeing Abundance &#038; Growth Economic Growth in Low- and Middle-Income Countries Effective Giving &#038; Careers Farm Animal Welfare Global Aid Policy Global Health &#038; Development Global Health R&#038;D Global Public Health Policy Scientific Research Global Catastrophic Risks Biosecurity &#038; Pandemic Preparedness Forecasting Global Catastrophic Risks Capacity Building Potential Risks from Advanced AI Other Areas History of Philanthropy Grants Research &#038; Updates Blog Posts In the News Research Reports Notable Lessons About Us Grantmaking Process How to Apply for Funding Careers Team Operating Values Stay Updated Contact Us Mobile Navigation Toggle Innovations for Poverty Action — Ethiopian Office Visit Grantee Site Focus Area: Global Health &amp; Development Organization Name: Innovations for Poverty Action Amount: $2,800,000 Award Date: February 2023 Table of Contents Photo courtesy of Innovations for Poverty Action Open Philanthropy recommended a grant of $2,800,000 over five years to Innovations for Poverty Action (IPA) for general operational support and to open a new office in Ethiopia. IPA does research to measure the impact of anti-poverty interventions and works to share these results with policymakers and other key decision-makers. This falls within our focus area of global health and development . Related Items Global Health &amp; Development Innovations for Poverty Action — Mindset Engagement in Cash Transfers Good Ventures awarded a grant of $350,000 to Innovations for Poverty Action (IPA) to support a randomized controlled trial (RCT) run by Richard Sedlmayr and colleagues in collaboration... Read more Global Health &amp; Development PATH — Health Technical Support Unit Open Philanthropy recommended a grant of $704,461 to PATH to provide technical assistance through a technical support unit (TSU) to support the Ministry of Health in the... Read more Global Health &amp; Development Malaria Consortium — Nigerian ITN Campaign Open Philanthropy recommended a grant of $9,381,474 to Malaria Consortium to support the procurement and distribution insecticide-treated nets (ITNs) in the Nigerian state of Ondo. See GiveWell's page... Read more Back to Grants Database Sign up for news about our grants, research, and more: We&#8217;re Hiring! Press Kit Governance Privacy Policy Stay Updated Mailing Address Open Philanthropy 182 Howard Street #225 San Francisco, CA 94105 Email info@openphilanthropy.org Media Inquiries media@openphilanthropy.org Anonymous Feedback Feedback Form &copy; Open Philanthropy 2025 Except where otherwise noted, this work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial 4.0&nbsp;International License. We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie Settings Accept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE &amp; ACCEPT