# Meet The Investor Who Bet Early On Warby Parker Dollar Shave Club And Glossier 9809Fc9Ea1E

**Source**: https://marker.medium.com/meet-the-investor-who-bet-early-on-warby-parker-dollar-shave-club-and-glossier-9809fc9ea1e
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:58:00.342899+00:00

---

Meet the Investor Who Bet Early on Warby Parker, Glossier, and Dollar Shave Club | by Lawrence Ingrassia | Marker Sitemap Open in app Sign up Sign in Medium Logo Write Search Sign up Sign in Marker · Marker was a publication from Medium about the intersection of business, economics, and culture. Currently inactive and not taking submissions. Member-only story Meet the Investor Who Bet Early on Warby Parker, Glossier, and Dollar Shave Club While most VCs were focused on software, Kirsten Green at Forerunner Ventures saw the potential of the direct-to-consumer revolution Lawrence Ingrassia 14 min read · Feb 13, 2020 -- 4 Share Press enter or click to view image in full size Kirsten Green speaks onstage at the 2018 Forbes Women’s Summit at Chelsea Pier in New York City. Photo: ANGELA WEISS/AFP via Getty Images U sually, the pitches from entrepreneurs arrive electronically. Occasionally, they arrive in the mail. At times, they even arrive hand-delivered by a particularly eager young person hoping to stand out by conveying an I’ll-do-anything-to-succeed passion. Their destination: 1161 Mission Street, Suite 300, in San Francisco. It’s the office of Forerunner Ventures, Kirsten Green’s venture capital firm. The pitches, however they arrive, never stop coming. Each year, there are 2,500, give or take. July 2018 was a typical month: 198 business proposals, including 67 wanting to launch new online brands (cosmetics, shoes, toiletries, clothing, you name it), another 64 pitching “platforms” (mostly for selling goods on mobile devices), 16 new retail concepts, and 18 e-commerce marketplaces. Green and her team of a half dozen colleagues sift through all of them. About one in 10, perhaps 200 to 250 a year, get invited to present their ideas to Green in person. Like pilgrims heading to Mecca, the entrepreneurs trek to Forerunner’s office just south of… -- -- 4 Published in Marker 99K followers · Last published Apr 20, 2022 Marker was a publication from Medium about the intersection of business, economics, and culture. Currently inactive and not taking submissions. Written by Lawrence Ingrassia 76 followers · 5 following Responses ( 4 ) See all responses Help Status About Careers Press Blog Privacy Rules Terms Text to speech