# 29135

**Source**: http://www.focus.com/images/view/29135/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:03:47.554979+00:00

---

Telepathy - Powering Successful Brands --> --> --> --> --> --> --> Powering Successful Brands Home About Brands Portfolio Inquiries About Telepathy For more than 25 years , Telepathy has provided compelling, memorable identities to companies across the globe who are shaping our tomorrow. Telepathy offers a curated collection of resonant domain names with strong brand appeal. Matching a product or service with an intuitive brand is a growth accelerator. A great business deserves a powerful domain name. Brands Built on Our Domains The following dynamic organizations are among the hundreds of businesses that have chosen a domain name provided by Telepathy, Inc. as their online identity. Crackle.com Video Streaming Moz.com SEO Expertise Parallels.com Windows® on Your Mac StraightTalk.com Wireless for Less Bustle.com Online Women's Magazine Fon.com Global WiFi Network Mention.com Real-time Media Monitoring upwards.com Stance.com Reimagining Socks craftwork.com Thumbtack.com Find Local Professionals Stylus.com Consumer Trend Analysis Beaker.com Life Science Recruiting Sweeten.com Renovation Matchmaker Gremlin.com Failure Analysis Beet.com Process Optimization Tools Colossal.com Augment.com Augmented Reality Solutions Troupe.com Group Travel Fully.com Reimagining Office Furniture Abogado.com Spanish Language Legal Services SongCast.com Discover Emerging Musicians smoothly.com Your Daily Gut, Skin and Hair Support " Cohere.com AI Powered Text Generation Verily.com Turning Health Data Into Healthier Lives Scriba.com Premier Tax Services for Ambitious Individuals and Businesses Clasp.com The Missing Link to Lasting Talent FutureCommerce.com BrightCity.com Dedicated to Health and Wellness for All Breaking.com Empowering Biology to Eliminate Plastic Waste All trademarks, service marks, trade names, trade dress, product names and logos appearing on the site are the property of their respective owners. The inclusion of a company in this section does not state or imply any endorsement of Telepathy by that company, merely that its domain name was sourced from Telepathy. Our Domain Portfolio Domain names available through Telepathy include... [ Switch to List View ] abalone.com acero.com activetravel.com actualize.com afterglow.com alertly.com aquamarine.com ardor.com attention.com autonow.com barbells.com barium.com bauble.com bigcheese.com bioscience.com bobble.com boon.com brandnew.com brawn.com breaking.com cadmium.com calidad.com carver.com chaperone.com cherub.com choicefoods.com chord.com clearest.com climactic.com companionship.com competitiveedge.com computereducation.com corinth.com coupe.com cruise.tv damsel.com detects.com detours.com diameter.com diction.com donna.com easyride.com ecosupply.com electoralcollege.com empleos.com energizing.com episode.com etoile.com figurehead.com financialsecurity.com flextime.com flowerchild.com focus.com gallium.com gangway.com geometric.com georgiapeach.com georgiapeaches.com glossy.com glow.nz goldfinch.com greenaction.com greentechnology.com handstand.com headland.com healthexpert.com help.tv hickory.com imagery.com impeachment.com intellectualproperty.com jennifer.com jester.com joni.com juliet.com juncture.com kalamazoo.com karel.com keith.com knave.com ledge.com luckynumbers.com mascara.com mobia.com modesta.com monumental.com movieworld.com naturalcare.com nurtures.com oktoberfest.com opt.com parametric.com periwinkle.com petrel.com phoebe.com pick.com plenum.com pluma.om poplin.com promote.com pulsate.com pulsation.com pulses.com pump.com quaver.com rabid.com rafaela.com rango.com renewabletechnology.com resort.tv ride.com rosalind.com s-n.com salud.com sandcastle.com sassy.com savor.com scalene.com schoolspirit.com science.co.uk seattle.tv silent.com silkworm.com skizone.com smartbed.com snowman.com speakout.com stratos.com strontium.com struts.com stun.com superfine.com texascars.com treating.com trueromance.com vasa.com vermin.com waterquality.com websafe.com welfare.com wheelbarrow.com whimsy.com whirlwind.com wildwest.com windpower.com wordsmith.com zany.com ...and thousands more! The Power of a Great Name When we founded the company in 2016, securing the domain Fair.com was anything but easy. However, very quickly we saw great returns with respect to customer recognition, service adoption, website exposure, and SEO. Interview with Scott Painter, CEO at Fair.com We sell an intangible product and at the end of the day, we’re in the trust business. Owning Cover.com has lent an extra level of legitimacy to the brand and this, in turn, has translated into sales. Karn Saroya, Co-founder & CEO at Cover.com [Acquiring Teamwork.com] was the best business move of my life. Teamwork.com being a one word domain gave us instant credibility and we started getting bigger customers, more referrals, and being written about more. CEO Peter Coppinger on His $675,000 Acquisition of Teamwork.com Getting the Ring.com domain name was critically important to the company's success, giving them an unforgettable brand and instant credibility that helped turned their product into a household name. On the $1 Million Acquisition of Ring.com Ultimately, $1.5 million is a lot to spend on a domain. But Sumo is a brand we will have forever. I've come around on the importance of branding because it shows our customers, future employees and competition that we're serious and here to stay. Why I Spent $1.5 Million on Sumo.com If you're going to own an enduring brand, you need to own that domain. The Domain Story of Extend.com Woven was able to go to market with Woven.com as its domain rather than Woven.app or an alternative. Campos said this is critical to the company's success as it grows its userbase organically. How Woven Acquired Woven.com An ultra-premium domain name like Voice.com can help a company achieve instant brand recognition, ignite a business, and massively accelerate value creation. MicroStrategy on the $30 Million Sale of Voice.com Domain Name Inquiries To enable efficient responses to domain name inquiries, all inquiries regarding Telepathy's domain names are handled through SecuredOffers.com . &copy; 2025 Telepathy, Inc. &middot; All Rights Reserved. admin@telepathy.com +1.202.656.0030 P.O. Box 11077, Washington, DC 20008 Back to Top