# 21394561

**Source**: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21394561/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:34:36.070810+00:00

---

Six-year sustainability of evidence-based intervention implementation quality by community-university partnerships: the PROSPER study - PubMed This site needs JavaScript to work properly. Please enable it to take advantage of the complete set of features! Clipboard, Search History, and several other advanced features are temporarily unavailable. Skip to main page content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Log in Show account info Close Account Logged in as: username Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Access keys NCBI Homepage MyNCBI Homepage Main Content Main Navigation Search: Search Advanced Clipboard User Guide Save Email Send to Clipboard My Bibliography Collections Citation manager Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Save citation to file Format: Summary (text) PubMed PMID Abstract (text) CSV Create file Cancel Email citation Email address has not been verified. Go to My NCBI account settings to confirm your email and then refresh this page. To: Subject: Body: Format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) MeSH and other data Send email Cancel Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Add to My Bibliography My Bibliography Unable to load your delegates due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Your saved search Name of saved search: Search terms: Test search terms Would you like email updates of new search results? Saved Search Alert Radio Buttons Yes No Email: ( change ) Frequency: Monthly Weekly Daily Which day? The first Sunday The first Monday The first Tuesday The first Wednesday The first Thursday The first Friday The first Saturday The first day The first weekday Which day? Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Report format: Summary Summary (text) Abstract Abstract (text) PubMed Send at most: 1 item 5 items 10 items 20 items 50 items 100 items 200 items Send even when there aren't any new results Optional text in email: Save Cancel Create a file for external citation management software Create file Cancel Your RSS Feed Name of RSS Feed: Number of items displayed: 5 10 15 20 50 100 Create RSS Cancel RSS Link Copy Full text links Wiley Free PMC article Full text links Actions Cite Collections Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection: Name must be less than 100 characters Choose a collection: Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Permalink Permalink Copy Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Page navigation Title &amp; authors Abstract Figures References Publication types MeSH terms Grants and funding LinkOut - more resources Title &amp; authors Abstract Figures References Publication types MeSH terms Grants and funding LinkOut - more resources Multicenter Study Am J Community Psychol Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2011 Dec;48(3-4):412-25. doi: 10.1007/s10464-011-9430-5. Six-year sustainability of evidence-based intervention implementation quality by community-university partnerships: the PROSPER study Richard Spoth &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Max Guyll ,&nbsp; Cleve Redmond ,&nbsp; Mark Greenberg ,&nbsp; Mark Feinberg Affiliations Expand Affiliation 1 Partnerships in Prevention Science Institute, Iowa State University, ISU Research Park, Building 2, Suite 2400, 2625 North Loop Drive, Ames, IA 50010, USA. rlspoth@iastate.edu PMID: 21394561 PMCID: PMC3727665 DOI: 10.1007/s10464-011-9430-5 Item in Clipboard Multicenter Study Six-year sustainability of evidence-based intervention implementation quality by community-university partnerships: the PROSPER study Richard Spoth &nbsp;et al. Am J Community Psychol . 2011 Dec . Show details Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Am J Community Psychol Actions Search in PubMed Search in NLM Catalog Add to Search . 2011 Dec;48(3-4):412-25. doi: 10.1007/s10464-011-9430-5. Authors Richard Spoth &nbsp; 1 ,&nbsp; Max Guyll ,&nbsp; Cleve Redmond ,&nbsp; Mark Greenberg ,&nbsp; Mark Feinberg Affiliation 1 Partnerships in Prevention Science Institute, Iowa State University, ISU Research Park, Building 2, Suite 2400, 2625 North Loop Drive, Ames, IA 50010, USA. rlspoth@iastate.edu PMID: 21394561 PMCID: PMC3727665 DOI: 10.1007/s10464-011-9430-5 Item in Clipboard Full text links Cite Display options Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Abstract There is a knowledge gap concerning how well community-based teams fare in implementing evidence-based interventions (EBIs) over many years, a gap that is important to fill because sustained high quality EBI implementation is essential to public health impact. The current study addresses this gap by evaluating data from PROSPER, a community-university intervention partnership model, in the context of a randomized-control trial of 28 communities. Specifically, it examines community teams' sustainability of implementation quality on a range of measures, for both family-focused and school-based EBIs. Average adherence ratings approached 90% for family-focused and school-based EBIs, across as many as 6 implementation cohorts. Additional indicators of implementation quality similarly showed consistently positive results. Correlations of the implementation quality outcomes with a number of characteristics of community teams and intervention leaders were calculated to explore their potential relevance to sustained implementation quality. Though several relationships attained statistical significance at particular points in time, none were stable across cohorts. The role of PROSPER's continuous, proactive technical assistance in producing the positive results is discussed. PubMed Disclaimer Figures Figure 1. Study timeline: Team factor assessment… Figure 1. Study timeline: Team factor assessment waves and implementation cohorts. Study timeline showing temporal… Figure 1. Study timeline: Team factor assessment waves and implementation cohorts. Study timeline showing temporal relationships between team factor assessment waves and implementation cohorts of the family-focused and school-based interventions. Shaded regions denote academic years, during which all interventions were conducted. Arrows indicate which team factor assessment wave data were used to predict individual cohort’s implementation quality outcome data in analyses. The instructor-related implementation factors were assessed during implementation of the school-based interventions, and were used to predict school-based implementation quality outcomes observed in the same cohort. See this image and copyright information in PMC References Bandura A. Social learning theory. Prentice Hall; Englewood Cliffs, NJ: 1977. Becker MH. The Health Belief Model and Personal Health Behavior. Health Education Monographs. 1974;2(4):324–473. Botvin GJ. Life Skills Training: Promoting heath and personal development. Princeton Health Press; Princeton, NJ: 1996. Botvin GJ. Life Skills Training: Promoting health and personal development. Princeton Health Press; Princeton, NJ: 2000. Bracht N, Kingsbury L. Community organization principles in health promotion: A five-stage model. In: Bracht N, editor. Health Promotion at the Community Level. Sage; Newbury Park, CA: 1990. Show all 37 references Publication types Multicenter Study Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search MeSH terms Adolescent Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Case-Control Studies Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Community-Institutional Relations* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Evidence-Based Practice Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Family Health Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Humans Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Iowa Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Longitudinal Studies Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Models, Organizational Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Outcome Assessment, Health Care* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Pennsylvania Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Resilience, Psychological Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Rural Health Services / organization &amp; administration* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search School Health Services / organization &amp; administration Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Social Work / organization &amp; administration* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Universities* Actions Search in PubMed Search in MeSH Add to Search Grants and funding R01 DA013709/DA/NIDA NIH HHS/United States DA013709/DA/NIDA NIH HHS/United States LinkOut - more resources Full Text Sources Europe PubMed Central PubMed Central Springer Wiley Medical MedlinePlus Health Information Miscellaneous NCI CPTAC Assay Portal Full text links [x] Wiley Free PMC article [x] Cite Copy Download .nbib .nbib Format: AMA APA MLA NLM Send To Clipboard Email Save My Bibliography Collections Citation Manager [x] NCBI Literature Resources MeSH PMC Bookshelf Disclaimer The PubMed wordmark and PubMed logo are registered trademarks of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Servic