# 2201Q

**Source**: https://www.dallasfed.org/research/surveys/tbos/2022/2201q#tab-tssos
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:47:39.775436+00:00

---

Special Questions - Dallasfed.org Skip to main content News and Events Careers Economy Economy Data Regional data U.S. data International data Energy data DataBasics Research Data Center (RDC) --> Regional economy Texas New Mexico Louisiana Dallas Fed Surveys Economic analysis Beige Book Economic indicators Texas Economic Update Texas Employment Forecast U.S. Economy Trimmed Mean PCE Market Value of Government Debt Weekly Economic Index International Economy Database of Global Economic Indicators International House Price Database Mexico Update Global Institute Events Conferences Global Perspectives Energy Center for Energy and the Economy Dallas Fed Energy Survey Energy in the Eleventh District Energy Indicators Energy Slideshow Publications Dallas Fed Economics Southwest Economy Special reports Working papers Economists Focus areas/topics Banking Banking Banker resources Consumer resources Reserves maintenance Risk and surveillance Lending Discount Window Payments & financial services FedNow Financial services Reporting Financial reporting Regulatory reporting Structure reporting (NIC) Contacts Events Publications and reports Banking and finance articles Banking Conditions Survey Current Banking Risks Eleventh District Banking Trends Community Community Communities blog In-depth reports Opportunity Zones in Texas Small Business Credit Survey Las Colonias in the 21st Century Community topics Small business Workforce development Community Reinvestment Act Advance Together initiative Digital access initiative Our people Events Education Education Classroom Resources Building Wealth lesson plans Classroom-ready presentations Publications Building Wealth Everyday Economics Navigate: Exploring College and Careers Student programs Personal finance workshop --> Events Tours Our People About Us About Us What we do Reserve Banks and the Fed Counties in our district Our branches El Paso Houston San Antonio Holiday schedule Work with us Transparency President Lorie Logan About Lorie 360° Listening Tour Calendar Public speaking events Our people Leadership team Regional executives Boards of directors Economists Dallas Fed advisory councils Federal Advisory Council Office of Minority and Women Inclusion Speeches Lorie Logan speeches and publications Leadership speeches Request a speaker Connect with us Attend our events Visit our exhibits Help us track the economy Ask a question or find a contact Do business with us News and Events Careers Home Economy Surveys Economy Economy home Data Regional data U.S. data International data Energy data DataBasics Research Data Center BigTex High-Performance Computing Regional Regional economy Texas New Mexico Louisiana Dallas Fed surveys Agricultural Banking Conditions Dallas Fed Energy Texas Manufacturing Texas Service Sector Economic analysis Beige Book Economic Indicators Texas Economic Update Texas Employment Forecast Mexico and border region All regional analysis Southwest Economy U.S. U.S. economy home Trimmed Mean PCE Market Value of Government Debt Weekly Economic Index All U.S. data International Global Institute International economy International House Price Database Database of Global Economic Indicators International data Energy Center for Energy and the Economy Energy research Dallas Fed Energy Survey Energy in the Eleventh District Energy Indicators Energy slideshow Publications Dallas Fed Economics Southwest Economy Special reports Working papers More publications Our people Economists Research analysts Visiting scholars Events Conferences Global Perspectives Seminars Request a speaker Focus areas/topics Surveys Special Questions January 31, 2022 Special Questions For this month&rsquo;s survey, Texas business executives were asked supplemental questions on the impact of COVID-19 and labor market conditions. Results below include responses from participants of all three surveys: Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey, Texas Service Sector Outlook Survey and Texas Retail Outlook Survey. All Manufacturing Service Sector Retail Texas Business Outlook Surveys Data were collected January 18&ndash;26, and 371 Texas business executives responded to the surveys. data files with a full history of results. --> 1. Has your business been impacted over the past month by the current surge of COVID-19? &nbsp; Jan. '22 (percent) No 27.0 Yes&ndash;positively 3.0 Yes&ndash;negatively 70.0 NOTE: 387 responses. 1a. If your business has experienced a negative impact, please indicate any that apply. &nbsp; Jan. '22 (percent) Increased absenteeism 83.3 Reduced productivity due to alternative work arrangements 46.7 New or worsened hiring difficulty 43.6 New or worsened supply-chain disruptions 43.6 Lower demand 25.3 Partially shut down business operations temporarily 13.6 Fully shut down business operations temporarily 1.6 Other 5.1 NOTES: 257 responses. This question was only posed to those negatively impacted over the past month by the current surge of COVID-19. 2. Are you currently trying to hire or recall workers? May. '19 (percent) Feb. '20 (percent) Apr. '21 (percent) Jul. '21 (percent) Oct. '21 (percent) Jan. '22 (percent) Yes 71.4 65.5 60.1 68.7 67.9 68.4 No 28.6 34.5 39.9 31.3 32.1 31.6 NOTE: 367 responses. 2a. Are there any impediments to hiring or recalling workers? Please select all that apply. Apr. '21 (percent) Jul. '21 (percent) Oct. '21 (percent) Jan. '22 (percent) Lack of available applicants/no applicants 66.7 75.9 75.5 73.3 Workers looking for more pay than is offered 33.8 40.8 50.6 53.4 Lack of technical competencies (hard skills) 41.2 35.1 44.6 43.0 Lack of experience 38.4 32.2 36.1 32.7 Lack of workplace competencies (soft skills) 26.9 25.7 34.1 30.7 Inability to pass drug test and/or background check 19.9 22.9 22.1 17.5 Lack of child care, including school interruptions&nbsp; 11.6 11.4 9.2 15.9 Fear of COVID-19 infection 8.3 6.5 11.2 15.5 COVID-19 exposure or infection* 13.5 Other 10.6 7.8 7.2 4.8 None 9.7 0.0 4.8 2.4 *This answer added to the survey in January 2022. NOTES: 251 responses. This question was only posed to those currently trying to hire or recall workers. *This question was posed only to respondents that answered other than &ldquo;No Effect&rdquo; to &ldquo;Demand for products or services&rdquo;. **This question was posed only to respondents that answered other than &ldquo;No Effect&rdquo; to &ldquo;Number of employees&rdquo;.--> 2b. How has the availability of applicants changed over the past month? Jun. '21 (percent) Jul. '21 (percent) Aug. '21 (percent) Oct. '21 (percent) Jan. '22 (percent) Improved significantly 0.0 0.5 2.2 0.5 1.6 Improved slightly 17.0 24.9 22.1 18.2 12.5 No change 47.8 47.6 46.4 46.0 40.8 Worsened slightly 20.1 16.8 23.2 26.7 35.9 Worsened significantly 15.1 10.3 6.1 8.6 9.2 NOTES: 184 responses. This question was only posed to those noting a lack of available applicants/no applicants. 3. How did your firm&rsquo;s employee quit rate, including retirements, over the last six months compare to pre-COVID levels? &nbsp; Jan. '22 (percent) Much higher 13.1 Slightly higher 36.0 No change 46.9 Slightly lower 3.8 Much lower 0.3 NOTE: 367 responses. Survey respondents were given the opportunity to provide comments. These comments can be found on the individual survey Special Questions results pages , accessible by the tabs above . Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey Data were collected January 18&ndash;26, and 95 Texas manufacturers responded to the survey. data files with a full history of results.--> 1. Has your business been impacted over the past month by the current surge of COVID-19? &nbsp; Jan. '22 (percent) No 27.7 Yes&ndash;positively 2.1 Yes&ndash;negatively 70.2 NOTE: 94 responses. 1a. If your business has experienced a negative impact, please indicate any that apply. &nbsp; Jan. '22 (percent) Increased absenteeism 97.0 New or worsened supply-chain disruptions 59.1 New or worsened hiring difficulty 57.6 Reduced productivity due to alternative work arrangements 51.5 Partially shut down business operations temporarily 13.6 Lower demand 9.1 Fully shut down business operations temporarily 1.5 Other 0.0 NOTES: 66 responses. This question was only posed to those negatively impacted over the past month by the current surge of COVID-19. 2. Are you currently trying to hire or recall workers? May. '19 (percent) Feb. '20 (percent) Apr. '21 (percent) Jul. '21 (percent) Oct. '21 (percent) Jan. '22 (percent) Yes 72.7 57.1 70.7 80.2 78.0 83.0 No 27.3 42.9 29.3 19.8 22.0 17.0 NOTE: 94 responses. 2a. Are there any impediments to hiring or recalling workers? Please select all that apply. Apr. '21 (percent) Jul. '21 (percent) Oct. '21 (percent) Jan. '22 (percent) Lack of available applicants/no applicants 75.7 84.4 82.1 71.8 Workers looking for more pay than is offered 32.9 44.2 52.6 57.7 Lack of technical competencies (hard skills) 51.4 40.3 52.6 52.6 Lack of workplace competencies (soft skills) 32.9 24.7 41.0 38.5 Lack of experience 42.9 37.7 42.3 32.1 Inability to pass drug test and/or background check 30.0 29.9 29.5 26.9 Fear of COVID-19 infection 2.9 3.9 7.7 14.1 COVID-19 exposure or infection* 10.3 Lack of child care, including school interruptions&nbsp; 8.6 9.1 6.4 9.0 Other 10.0 5.2 6.4 2.6 None 4.3 0.0 2.6 2.6 *This answer added to the survey in January 2022. NOTES: 78 responses. This question was only posed to those currently trying to hire or recall workers. *This question was posed only to respondents that answered other than &ldquo;No Effect&rdquo; to &ldquo;Demand for products or services&rdquo;. **This question was posed only to respondents that answered other than &ldquo;No Effect&rdquo; to &ldquo;Number of employees&rdquo;.--> 2b. How has the availability of applicants changed over the past month? Jun. '21 (percent) Jul. '21 (percent) Aug. '21 (percent) Oct. '21 (percent) Jan. '22 (percent) Improved significantly 0.0 1.5 1.8 0.0 1.8 Improved slightly 13.0 20.0 23.6 18.8 12.5 No change 44.4 50.8 43.6 43.8 44.6 Worsened slightly 24.1 15.4 