# newyorker.com

**Source**: https://www.newyorker.com/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:29:31.560631+00:00

---

The New Yorker Skip to main content The New Yorker Newsletter Search Search Open Navigation Menu Menu The Latest News Books &amp; Culture Fiction &amp; Poetry Humor &amp; Cartoons Magazine Puzzles &amp; Games Video Podcasts Goings On Shop 100th Anniversary Donald Trump’s Shutdown Power Play The President learned in 2019 how to undercut Congress in a funding fight, and he’s been making the same move ever since, Susan B. Glasser writes. Dots Today’s Mix How New Mexico Became a Sanctuary State for Health Care Since Roe v. Wade was overturned, the number of abortion clinics there has doubled. With strong protections for gender-affirming treatment, and now universal child care, the state is betting on a progressive vision. By Rachel Monroe The Complexities of Trans Gun Ownership In the face of threats and harassment, some trans Americans are becoming gun owners&#8212;only to be targeted by the same movements that claim to defend gun rights. By Grace Byron Why Does Taylor Swift Think She’s Cursed? “The Life of a Showgirl,” the artist’s new album, is full of cringey sexual innuendo, millennial perfectionism, and an obsession with her haters that wears thin. By Amanda Petrusich Can the Democrats Take Free Speech Back from the Right? The opportunity is there, but the Party’s establishment would have to confront the issue that has prompted more recent censorship than any other. By Jay Caspian Kang Dots Personal History Glowworms In the punt on the river in the cave, beneath the dim light of glowing worms, it was thoughts of my own death that consumed me. By Ann Patchett Dots Through Friday, New Yorker wall art is 20% off! Purchase covers and cartoons using the code FALL2025. Browse and buy » The Lede A daily column on what you need to know. Why Democrats Shut Down the Government Listen Listen Having the fight is the point. Winning it is a different matter. By Jon Allsop Is Donald Trump’s Sweeping Gaza Peace Plan Really Viable? Listen Listen Many doubts prevail, but the deal is “political gold” for Benjamin Netanyahu either way. By Robin Wright Why We Know So Little About Medicines During Pregnancy Listen Listen Trump’s attacks on Tylenol come after decades in which many women were excluded from medical studies. By Rachel Pearson Eric Adams Slips Out the Side Door The Mayor makes official what has been obvious for some time, and ends his reëlection campaign. By Eric Lach The Politics of Faith After Charlie Kirk Listen Listen The future of American democracy could depend on whether Christians see themselves as warriors or servants. By Michael Luo Grace and Disgrace Listen Listen Hope lies not in expecting a late-in-life conversion experience in the Oval Office but in carrying out the ordinary work of civic life. By David Remnick The Flimsy, Dangerous Indictment of James Comey The charges against the former F.B.I. director may be the start of Donald Trump’s long-threatened drive to use the Justice Department to go after his enemies. By Ruth Marcus Dots Profiles Carol Burnett Plays On The ninety-two-year-old comedy legend has influenced generations of performers. In a string of recent TV roles, she has been co-starring with some of her closest comedic heirs. By Rachel Syme Listen Dots Have confidential information to share with our newsroom? Send us a tip » The Critics The Current Cinema “After the Hunt” Is a Pleasurably Ludicrous House of Cards In Luca Guadagnino’s film, Julia Roberts plays a Yale professor forced to choose sides when a student accuses a colleague of sexual assault. By Justin Chang The Front Row What to See in the 2025 New York Film Festival’s Second Week This year’s Revivals section spotlights a hidden classic by a major modern filmmaker whose new movie is equally great. By Richard Brody Critics at Large One Paul Thomas Anderson Film After Another Listen Listen With “One Battle After Another,” the beloved auteur is working outside his typical period-film framework. What is he trying to say about America today? With Vinson Cunningham , Naomi Fry , and Alexandra Schwartz Podcast Dept. The Leftist Podcaster Who Studies Online Radicalization Listen Listen Joshua Citarella sees his YouTube show “Doomscroll” as a “tactical media experiment” to funnel young internet users toward esoteric left-wing ideas. By Chris Wiley Pop Music The Uneasy Prophecies of Cate Le Bon Listen Listen The Welsh musician’s latest album, “Michelangelo Dying,” offers strange solace in chaotic times. By Rumaan Alam Critic’s Notebook An Intimate Chronicle of Kanye West’s Fall from Grace The rapper and producer has become a pariah, running for President and praising Hitler. A new documentary gives insight into what went wrong. By Andrew Marantz Dots Peruse a gallery of cartoons from the issue » What We’re Reading A true-crime novel inspired by a grisly murder allegedly committed by three teen-agers in northern Minnesota; an elegant, timely biography of the Jewish physician Magnus Hirschfeld; a volume of new and selected poems by the twenty-fourth Poet Laureate of the United States, Ada Limón; and more. Dots Goings On Recommendations on what to read, eat, watch, listen to, and more. Man Ray’s Deadpan Wit on Display at the Met Vince Aletti on a sensational exhibit featuring the artist’s refined experiments with rayographs. Plus: the FiDi outpost of Barcade, and more suggestions from our critics . The Unexpected Sweetness of Bill and Ted’s “Waiting for Godot” Helen Shaw reviews Alex Winter and Keanu Reeves’s new rendition of the 1954 Samuel Beckett tragicomedy. A Chicken-Finger Joint from the Masterminds Behind Thai Diner Listen Listen Helen Rosner visits Mommy Pai’s, which serves high-octane flavors out of a takeout window. Exploring the Intricacies of Memory Listen Listen Ada Limon , the former U.S. Poet Laureate, recommends five texts that interrogate how we narrate the past. Dots Annals of Technology Tim Berners-Lee Invented the World Wide Web. Now He Wants to Save It In 1989, Sir Tim revolutionized the online world. Today, in the era of misinformation, addictive algorithms, and extractive monopolies, he thinks he can do it again. By Julian Lucas Listen Dots Our Columnists Infinite Scroll The Age of Enshittification Listen Listen In a new book, the technology critic Cory Doctorow expands on a coinage that has become bleakly relevant, in Silicon Valley and beyond. By Kyle Chayka Critic’s Notebook Adebunmi Gbadebo and the Mysteries of Clay Listen Listen The aftereffect of a new ceramics show, “Watch Out for the Ghosts,” at the Nicola Vassell Gallery, is of feeling . . . pricked. By Doreen St. Félix Q. & A. The Stunning Reversal in U.S.-India Relations Why is Donald Trump turning on his ideological ally Narendra Modi? By Isaac Chotiner Open Questions Should College Get Harder? Listen Listen A.I. is coming for knowledge work, and yet college seems to be getting easier. Does something need to change? By Joshua Rothman Dots A Reporter at Large Have Cubans Fled One Authoritarian State for Another? In the past few years, as many as two million people have escaped the island’s repressive regime and collapsing economy. Those who’ve made it to the U.S. face a new reckoning. By Jon Lee Anderson Listen Dots Ideas The Art of the Impersonal Essay Listen Listen In my experience, every kind of writing requires some kind of self-soothing Jedi mind trick, and, when it comes to essay composition, the rectangle is mine. By Zadie Smith Putting ChatGPT on the Couch Listen Listen When I played doctor with the chatbot, the simulated patient confessed problems that are real&#8212;and that should worry all of us. By Gary Greenberg Where the Battle Over Free Speech Is Leading Us Listen Listen Doxing, deplatforming, defunding, persecuting, firing, and sometimes killing&#8212;all are part of an escalating war over words. What happens next? By Louis Menand The Exacting Magic of Film Restoration Listen Listen Each year, at a festival in Bologna, movies that were once lost or damaged come back to life. By Anthony Lane Dots The New Yorker Interview Chris Kraus Reinvents the True-Crime Novel Her début, “I Love Dick,” was an epistolary memoir of erotic obsession that redefined the form. In “The Four Spent the Day Together,” she turns another genre on its head. By Jennifer Wilson Dots Persons of Interest Listen Listen Richard Linklater’s Uncompromising Artists By Justin Chang Ezra Klein Argues for Big-Tent Politics By David Remnick Listen Listen How One J6er Has Been Emboldened by His Pardon By Charles Bethea Listen Listen Jessica Reed Kraus, from Mommy Blogger to MAHA Maven By Clare Malone Dots Books Gertrude Stein’s Love Language How a self-appointed genius found her ideal helpmate. By Judith Thurman Listen Dots Limited-edition anniversary totes, T-shirts, hats, and more are now available in The New Yorker Store. Browse and buy » Puzzles &amp; Games Take a break and play. The Crossword A puzzle that ranges in difficulty, with the occasional theme. Solve the latest puzzle The Mini A bite-size crossword, for a quick diversion. Solve the latest puzzle Laugh Lines Can you place the cartoons in chronological order? Play this week’s game Cartoon Caption Contest We provide a cartoon, you provide a caption. Enter this week’s contest Name Drop Can you guess the notable person in six clues or fewer? Play a quiz from the vault Dots In Case You Missed It Letter from California My House Burned in the L.A. Fires. What Happens Now? A devastated community fights for rebirth. The Weekend Essay Listen What It’s Like to Get Really, Really High Climbers are often chasing a rush. Was I cheating by using some help to get there? Books Listen The Uses and Abuses of “Antisemitism” How a term coined to describe a nineteenth-century politics of exclusion would become a diagnosis, a political cudgel, and a rallying cry. The Weekend Essay Listen The Ritual of Civic Apology More than a century after driving out their Chinese residents, cities across the West are saying sorry, with parks, plaques, and p