# Katy Perry

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/katy-perry/?start=100
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:23:17.901487+00:00

---

Katy Perry - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: Katy Perry friendship Aug. 13, 2020 Sia Says She Helped Katy Perry Out of Her ‘Breakdown’ “Getting No. 1s does nothing for your inside,” Sia said. By Justin Curto ellen is mean Aug. 4, 2020 Katy Perry Decides Now Is the Time to Defend Ellen DeGeneres “I want to acknowledge that I have only ever had positive takeaways from my time with Ellen.” By Justin Curto missing July 16, 2020 Have You Seen Orlando Bloom’s Dog? Mighty is missing. By Justin Curto my single is dropping July 10, 2020 Katy Perry’s New Single Reminds Us All to “Smile” Or at least fake it ‘til you make it. By Zoe Haylock new albums July 9, 2020 Katy Perry Sends In the Clown (Memes) Her new album will be titled Smile and it relies on a lot of clown imagery. By Hunter Harris rock the vote June 15, 2020 Katy Perry, Black Eyed Peas Headline Rock the Vote Democracy Summer Concert On top of everything else, it’s an election year. By Halle Kiefer bless this mess May 29, 2020 At Least Chromatica Wasn’t As Bananas As These 12 Recent Album Rollouts Including three Kanye West releases, obviously. By Justin Curto extremely online May 28, 2020 Ariana Grande Loves Jordan Firstman’s ‘Wild’ Impressions Talking with the Instagram comedian Grande called a “walking deck of Cards Against Humanity cards.” By Chris Murphy the videodome May 15, 2020 Watch a Pregnant Katy Perry Frolic in a Field of ‘Daisies’ in New Music Video She also poses nude by a babbling brook. By Chris Murphy happy mother’s day May 10, 2020 Katy Perry Wears Silliest Costume to Sing Most Gut-Wrenching Disney Song Good luck hearing “Baby Mine” on Mother’s Day and not sobbing. By Halle Kiefer celebrity Apr. 27, 2020 Where Does Katy Perry Get These Things? Katy Perry debuted yet another enormous costume. By Sangeeta Singh-Kurtz it’s called fashion Apr. 27, 2020 Katy Perry Dressed As a Bottle of Hand Sanitizer on Last Night’s American Idol No, that’s not a quarantine-induced hallucination. By Justin Curto phew Apr. 5, 2020 Finally, a Gender Reveal That Didn’t Involve Explosives Katy Perry announced her baby’s sex using only frosting and a face. By Claire Lampen music Mar. 18, 2020 Katy Perry’s ‘Dark Horse’ Copied Christian Rap Song, Federal Jury Finds Perry, her collaborators, and her label will have to pay $2.78 million in damages. By Halle Kiefer katy perry Mar. 5, 2020 Katy Perry Talks Pregnancy Reveals, Both Viral and ‘Bespoke’ You had to have been there. By Rebecca Alter babies Mar. 5, 2020 Katy Perry Is Indeed Pregnant She teased the announcement in a trailer for her new music video. By Amanda Arnold the videodome Mar. 5, 2020 Yes, Katy Perry Is Pregnant. No, She’s ‘Never Worn White’ in New Music Video No, she’s never worn white … with [Bloom]. By Chris Murphy my single is dropping Mar. 4, 2020 Is Katy Perry Trying to Tell Us Something (About Pregnancy) in New Video Teaser? “Never Worn White” comes out tonight. By Jordan Crucchiola imagined conversations Mar. 2, 2020 What Do Taylor Swift and Katy Perry Text About? Pete Buttigieg? Coronavirus? The Sopranos ? By Kelly Conaboy keeping up with the royals Feb. 5, 2020 Prince Charles Wants Katy Perry to Sing to His Plants He appointed her the ambassador of his British Asian Trust. Perhaps the plant singing is why? By Claire Lampen keeping up with the royals Feb. 5, 2020 In Today’s Mad Libs, Katy Perry and Prince Charles Are Collaborating in Asia Drop the single already. By Devon Ivie my single is dropping Dec. 2, 2019 Katy Perry’s ‘Cozy Little Christmas’ Video Is a Cozy Little Acid Trip A perfect escape from holiday stress. By Justin Curto hot takes Oct. 31, 2019 All of Prince’s Pop-Culture Hot Takes From His New Book, The Beautiful Ones He thought we needed a new word for what Beyoncé does. By Justin Curto fixations Oct. 28, 2019 I Think About This a Lot: Vin Diesel’s Odd Dance to Katy Perry The actor’s weird 2014 video shows he was actually way ahead of the curve on social media. By Freddie Campion my single is dropping Oct. 16, 2019 Katy Perry Lives Her Biker-Girl Fantasy in ‘Harleys in Hawaii’ Video Vroom, vroom. By Justin Curto bradley cooper party pooper Sept. 23, 2019 Bradley Cooper, Game Fiend, Got Too Competitive on Oprah’s Vacation Cooper would be that one uncle who ropes everyone into playing Monopoly and then flips the table when he loses. By Rebecca Alter woof Sept. 2, 2019 Never Really Rover: Watch Katy Perry’s New ‘Small Talk’ Music Video Just because it’s rover doesn’t mean it’s really rover. By Rebecca Alter relationships Aug. 23, 2019 Orlando Bloom Says Being With Katy Perry Is a ‘Mountain to Climb’ Don’t be a perv; he meant emotionally. By Zoe Haylock misconduct Aug. 12, 2019 Katy Perry’s ‘Teenage Dream’ Video Co-Star Accuses Her of Sexual Misconduct Model Josh Kloss says the singer was inappropriate with him at a social event. By Jordan Crucchiola my single is dropping Aug. 9, 2019 Hear Katy Perry’s New Breakup Banger ‘Small Talk’ Isn’t it weird that you date people, then ignore them at parties? By Bethy Squires celebrity Aug. 5, 2019 Bradley Cooper Helps Katy Perry Get Far From the Shallow After the singer became stuck to a dinghy while vacationing in Italy. By Hannah Gold feuds June 18, 2019 Taylor Swift and Katy Perry’s Reconciliation Sounds Exhausting “We didn’t know if we were ever gonna really tell people about it,” Swift said of their friendship. By Amanda Arnold easter eggs June 17, 2019 Every Easter Egg in Taylor Swift’s ‘You Need to Calm Down’ Music Video More fodder for the Kaylor truthers awaits. By Jill Gutowitz where’s the beef? June 11, 2019 Taylor Swift and Katy Perry Have Cemented Their Alliance With Cookies The long war is officially at an end. By Anne Victoria Clark swellness May 31, 2019 I Want to Go on Katy Perry’s Wellness Retreat Katy Perry’s new music video takes us to a kaftan-clad utopia. By Anna Silman song review May 31, 2019 Katy Perry’s ‘Never Really Over’ Is the Comeback Single She Desperately Needed Her new Zedd-produced single is a slight return to the motivational fare Katy Perry’s best at. By Craig Jenkins met gala 2019 May 7, 2019 Katy Perry’s Hamburger Outfit Led to Some Beautiful Moments From a Céline Dion kiss to a Jennifer Lopez bathroom encounter. By Lisa Ryan met gala 2019 May 7, 2019 This Jennifer Lopez and Katy Perry Bathroom Video Is 15 Seconds of Awkwardness What happens in the Met Gala bathroom … By Devon Ivie proposals Feb. 26, 2019 Orlando Bloom’s Proposal to Katy Perry Keeps Getting Cornier Katy Perry is opening up about how her fiancé popped the big question. By Amanda Arnold celebrity engagements Feb. 15, 2019 Katy Perry and Orlando Bloom Got Engaged With a Giant Flower Ring Legolas proposed on Valentine’s Day. By Madeleine Aggeler celebrity Dec. 3, 2018 Katy Perry Paid $50,000 to Go on a Date With Her Own Boyfriend But it was for charity! By Opheli Garcia Lawler lawsuits Nov. 30, 2018 Kesha and Lady Gaga Called Katy Perry ‘Mean’ for Not Denouncing Dr. Luke Their text exchange was released in a new court filing. By Victoria Bekiempis the one that got away Sept. 21, 2018 Josh Groban As Shocked As You Are Katy Perry Called Him ‘The One That Got Away’ “I was not expecting that. It was a double-take and a spit of my coffee when I saw that.” By Halle Kiefer lawsuits Aug. 27, 2018 Katy Perry Denies Dr. Luke Raped Her in Newly Unsealed Deposition The allegation, and Kesha’s communication about it with Lady Gaga, is a central point in Dr. Luke’s defamation suit against Kesha. By Halle Kiefer depositions Aug. 21, 2018 Katy Perry Wants Her Dr. Luke–Kesha Deposition Sealed Perry’s lawyer is arguing that the testimony could “cause ‘significant harm’ to her ‘career and reputation.’” By Dee Lockett vulture lists Aug. 20, 2018 Every VMAs Video of the Year Award, Ranked From Worst to Best From that one super dated Dire Straits video to multiple Beyoncé videos, to that Neil Young video that got him banned from MTV for a while. By Larry Fitzmaurice witness July 18, 2018 Katy Perry Says She Had ‘Situational Depression’ After Negative Album Reaction She also spent a week at a mental-health retreat. By Dee Lockett June 15, 2018 Dr. Luke Denies Music Exec Told Kesha, Lady Gaga About Katy Perry’s Alleged Rape “Oh what