# Larry David

**Source**: https://nymag.com/tags/larry-david/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:13:00.623445+00:00

---

Larry David - New York Magazine Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Menu Menu Close Close Search Intelligencer Politics Technology Business Ideas The Cut Style Self Culture Power The Cut Shop Vulture TV Movies Comedy Music Books Art Theater What to Stream Curbed Cityscape Design Hunting The Real Estate Best of New York The Strategist Gift Guides Sales Beauty Home Kitchen Fashion Travel Tech & Electronics Fitness Kids & Babies Grub Street Restaurants & Bars The Thousand Best The Magazine Crossword Current Issue Subscribe Gift Subscriptions Buy Back Issues More About New York App New York Shop Newsletters Podcasts Videos Best Doctors Top Rated Lawyers Sign In Subscribe Search Like Us Follow Us Follow save d Find this story in your account&#x2019;s &#x2018;Saved for Later&#x2019; section. Search Search Close Displaying all articles tagged: Larry David hahas and uhohs Apr. 25, 2025 Bill Maher Says Larry David ‘Lost the Argument’ by Playing ‘the Hitler Card’ Claiming David’s op-ed parodying Maher’s dinner with Trump was “kind of insulting to 6 million dead Jews.” By Jason P. Frank careers Apr. 21, 2025 Carol Leifer’s Many Comedy Lives She wrote on SNL ’s weirdest season, dozens of Seinfeld episodes, and the Conan-hosted Oscars. She’s got stories. By Andy Hoglund tv review July 17, 2024 On Curb Your Enthusiasm , Larry Is Forever Going to Larry HBO’s longest-running scripted series is going out exactly as it started: with more examples of petty behavior than you ever dreamed possible. By Jen Chaney goodbyes Apr. 11, 2024 Larry’s One True Love In the choppy ocean of Larry David’s life on Curb , the water’s calm when he’s with Jerry Seinfeld. By Jesse David Fox roll the laserdisc Apr. 8, 2024 J.B. Smoove Had Curb ’s Last Best Joke Turns out Seinfeld wasn’t a show about nothing. By Emma Alpern vulture lists Apr. 8, 2024 Every Episode of Curb Your Enthusiasm , Ranked From the bad to the pretty, pretty good. By Kenny Herzog and Larry Fitzmaurice overnights Apr. 8, 2024 Curb Your Enthusiasm Finale Recap: A Free Man A send-up of the maligned Seinfeld finale brings Larry’s oeuvre full circle. By Sarah Nechamkin on set Apr. 5, 2024 Good-bye to the Enduringly Beige Interiors of Curb Your Enthusiasm Through 12 seasons, Larry stuck with what he liked: wrought iron, stone, an overstuffed couch. By Gracie Hadland age quiz Apr. 5, 2024 Can You Tell Which Larry David Is Older? (We Doubt It) Larry David has not aged. Can you tell the difference between a photo of him from the present day and one from 20 years ago? By Jesse David Fox endings Apr. 5, 2024 American Jewish Comedy Sings a Swan Song Larry David’s Curb Your Enthusiasm is ending — and so is the culture it represented. By P.E. Moskowitz catchphrases Apr. 4, 2024 Everything Larry David Found to Be ‘Pretty, Pretty Good’ on Curb He’s a famously positive guy. By Jesse David Fox thank you for your service Apr. 3, 2024 10 Times Larry David Was Curb ’s Unappreciated Hero Why are you booing him? He’s right! By Michael Boyle overnights Apr. 1, 2024 Curb Your Enthusiasm Recap: No Happy Ending Larry is outed as a COVID-spreading hypocrite in the series’ penultimate episode. Will the public forgive him? By Sarah Nechamkin overnights Mar. 25, 2024 Curb Your Enthusiasm Recap: Handers and Tossers There are two types of people in this world. Larry is one of them. By Sarah Nechamkin a long talk Mar. 22, 2024 J.B. Smoove on Being Curb ’s Biggest Fan Turned Star “My wife always told me, ‘You’re going to be on that show one day.’” By Jason Diamond overnights Mar. 18, 2024 Curb Your Enthusiasm Recap: Wisenheimers Larry is caught going “downtown,” and his theories of the unconscious are put to the test. By Sarah Nechamkin chat room Mar. 15, 2024 Everybody Wants Curb ’s Susie Essman to Yell at Them “Larry saves me for himself.” By Emma Alpern overnights Mar. 11, 2024 Curb Your Enthusiasm Recap: Rachel and the Rug Merchants In a world of liars and cheats, Larry channels Honest Abe. By Sarah Nechamkin overnights Mar. 4, 2024 Curb Your Enthusiasm Recap: Defamatory Brick In an episode dedicated to the late Richard Lewis, Larry pays tribute to some of the best moments of Curb and Seinfeld past. By Sarah Nechamkin in memoriam Mar. 1, 2024 The Most Essential Richard Lewis Episodes of Curb Your Enthusiasm A salute to “the most pretentious man in the world” and Larry David’s kindred bastard. By Charles Bramesco overnights Feb. 26, 2024 Curb Your Enthusiasm Recap: A Breakfast Grudge Larry is still riding on the coattails of his accidental heroism. By Sarah Nechamkin overnights Feb. 19, 2024 Curb Your Enthusiasm Recap: The Brain and the Balls A near-perfect homecoming episode sees Larry test his luck. By Sarah Nechamkin overnights Feb. 12, 2024 Curb Your Enthusiasm Recap: A Cause Célèbre Larry accidentally becomes a political hero. By Sarah Nechamkin overnights Feb. 5, 2024 Curb Your Enthusiasm Season-Premiere Recap: The Beginning of the End A clever nod to the Seinfeld finale shows just how much Curb ’s ending is on Larry David’s mind. By Sarah Nechamkin vulture op-eds Feb. 1, 2024 Elmo’s Dad Should Have Defended His Son From Larry David For shame! By Rebecca Alter pretty pretty pretty good Dec. 14, 2023 HBO to Curb Your Curb Your Enthusiasm Cravings for the Last Time The 12th and final season begins airing February 4. By Jennifer Zhan collaboration June 6, 2023 Natasha Lyonne and Ayo Edebiri Freestyled a Larry David Marvel-Movie Concept Let’s curb Kevin Feige’s enthusiasm. By Jason P. Frank shhhh Apr. 11, 2023 That Succession Moment Had a Code Name: Larry David He is the harbinger of death, the destroyer of worlds, the curber of enthusiasm. By Rebecca Alter the law Nov. 17, 2022 Celebrity Crypto Ambassadors Get Caught in the FTX Crash Larry David, Tom Brady, Giselle Bündchen, Stephen Curry, and others are named in a class-action lawsuit. By Zoe Guy what’s the deal with docs? Mar. 1, 2022 Larry David Curbs HBO Documentary on His Life He reportedly “didn’t love” The Larry David Story , which was set to premiere Tuesday night. By Justin Curto style Dec. 9, 2021 The Best Part of Curb Your Enthusiasm Is Susie’s Insane Shirts Susie Green is boldly reinventing what it means to wear a top. By Danielle Cohen trailer mix Oct. 13, 2021 COVID Doesn’t Exist in Curb Your Enthusiasm ’s Season 11 Trailer But Richard Lewis does! By Devon Ivie front row Sept. 13, 2021 Why the Heck Was Larry David at New York Fashion Week? He looked prettty prettty bored. By Emilia Petrarca streaming Sept. 1, 2021 Seinfeld Is Moving to Netflix October 1 What’s the deal with streaming rights? By Rebecca Alter mysteries Aug. 19, 2021 But Why Was He Wearing Two Shirts? Questions concerning a grocery store dust-up between Larry David and Alan Dershowitz. By Claire Lampen drama Aug. 18, 2021 Larry David and Alan Dershowitz are Beefing on Martha’s Vineyard The girlies are fighting. By Bethy Squires lorde June 11, 2021 Lorde’s ‘Solar Power’ Was Inspired by Larry David’s Vacation Home She was “on Martha’s Vineyard with my good friend Cazzie, staying at her house.” By Rachel Handler purell June 30, 2020 Curb Your Enthusiasm to Return for Season 11, Hopefully With a Mask Episode Season 10 literally ended with a Purell fire. By Rebecca Alter last night on late night Apr. 12, 2020 Don’t Stand, Don’t Stand So, Don’t Stand So Close to SNL ’s Bernie Sanders “Whatever you do, stay the hell away from me.” By Devon Ivie stop and chat about this Apr. 4, 2020 Larry David Doesn’t Think Woody Allen ‘Did Anything Wrong’ After Reading Memoir “It’s a fantastic book, so funny.” By Devon Ivie pretty pretty pretty good Apr. 1, 2020 Larry David Has a Coronavirus PSA for All the ‘Idiots Out There’ You know who you are. By Devon Ivie coronavirus Mar. 30, 2020 Larry David Barges Onto Ezra Koenig’s Show to Pat Germaphobes on the Back “There’s too much contact between people. Even sex… it’s enough. People gotta do something about the sex.” By Halle Kiefer get the look Feb. 25, 2020 How to Dress Like Larry David, Casual Fashion Icon According to Curb Your Enthusiasm ’s costume designer. By Caroline Reilly twitter Feb. 11, 2020 Donald Trump’s Curb Your Enthusiasm Tweet Makes No Sense This is not to say that any of his other tweets make sense though. By Megh Wright dog news Jan. 8, 2020 Larry David Adopted a Dog and Named Him Bernie Perfect. By Megh Wright trailer mix Dec. 11, 2019 The Curb Your Enthusiasm Season 10 Trailer Features Jon Hamm and Lots of F-Bombs Larry David’s series f- - -in’ returns to HBO next month. By Megh Wright the time is near Dec. 1, 2019 Curb Your Enthusiasm Teaser: Larry David’s Been Waiting On This Toast for Years The show’s long-promised Season 10 premieres in January. By Halle Kiefer sitcoms Sept. 21, 2019 Seinfeld Reruns to Air on Viacom Networks in 2021 Including Comedy Central, TV Land, and Paramount Network. By Josef Adalian books Dec. 14, 2018 Cool Girl Cazzie David Is Writing a Book It’s an essay collection inspired by her famous family. By Dee Lockett patience Oct. 22, 2018 Curb Your Enthus