# 2403.14123

**Source**: https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14123
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:54:57.767449+00:00

---

[2403.14123] AI and Memory Wall Skip to main content We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate &gt; cs &gt; arXiv:2403.14123 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About --> Computer Science > Machine Learning arXiv:2403.14123 (cs) [Submitted on 21 Mar 2024] Title: AI and Memory Wall Authors: Amir Gholami , Zhewei Yao , Sehoon Kim , Coleman Hooper , Michael W. Mahoney , Kurt Keutzer View a PDF of the paper titled AI and Memory Wall, by Amir Gholami and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract: The availability of unprecedented unsupervised training data, along with neural scaling laws, has resulted in an unprecedented surge in model size and compute requirements for serving/training LLMs. However, the main performance bottleneck is increasingly shifting to memory bandwidth. Over the past 20 years, peak server hardware FLOPS has been scaling at 3.0x/2yrs, outpacing the growth of DRAM and interconnect bandwidth, which have only scaled at 1.6 and 1.4 times every 2 years, respectively. This disparity has made memory, rather than compute, the primary bottleneck in AI applications, particularly in serving. Here, we analyze encoder and decoder Transformer models and show how memory bandwidth can become the dominant bottleneck for decoder models. We argue for a redesign in model architecture, training, and deployment strategies to overcome this memory limitation. Comments: Published in IEEE Micro Journal Subjects: Machine Learning (cs.LG) ; Hardware Architecture (cs.AR); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC) Cite as: arXiv:2403.14123 [cs.LG] &nbsp; (or arXiv:2403.14123v1 [cs.LG] for this version) &nbsp; https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2403.14123 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Amir Gholami [ view email ] [v1] Thu, 21 Mar 2024 04:31:59 UTC (293 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled AI and Memory Wall, by Amir Gholami and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) TeX Source Other Formats view license Current browse context: cs.LG &lt;&nbsp;prev &nbsp; | &nbsp; next&nbsp;&gt; new | recent | 2024-03 Change to browse by: cs cs.AR cs.DC References &amp; Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar a export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation &times; loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) IArxiv recommender toggle IArxiv Recommender ( What is IArxiv? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status Get status notifications via email or slack