# Batgirl Shelved Warner Bros 1392407

**Source**: https://www.rollingstone.com/tv-movies/tv-movie-news/batgirl-shelved-warner-bros-1392407/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:45:52.804191+00:00

---

&#039;Batgirl&#039;: Why Warner Bros. Decided to Pull the Plug &#x000D7; Skip to main content Rollingstone Logo Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture RS Recommends Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to Expand Search Input Rollingstone Logo TV &amp; Movies &#8216;Batgirl&#8217; Blindside: Why Warner Bros. Decided to Pull the Plug Facebook X email Got A Tip? Account Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Log In TV &amp; Movies &#8216;Batgirl&#8217; Blindside: Why Warner Bros. Decided to Pull the Plug One source says test audiences thought the movie "was like a bad TV show" — and another says a planned Supergirl feature could be next on the chopping block By Tatiana Siegel Tatiana Siegel Contact Tatiana Siegel by Email DOJ Preps Charges Against Former ABC News Producer High-Profile Push to Alert Sexual-Assault Victims of Grace Period to Sue Abusers Filmmaker Behind Banned Holocaust Movie Sues Facebook, Meta for $700M View all posts by Tatiana Siegel August 3, 2022 Leslie Grace as Batgirl DC/HBO MAX Another day, another DC drama. Warner Bros. Discovery has killed its $78 million Batgirl movie six months after it wrapped production. Adding insult to injury, the film&rsquo;s cast members didn&rsquo;t receive a heads up and were &#8220;blindsided,&#8221; sources say. The DC Extended Universe film that stars In the Heights &rsquo; Leslie Grace as Barbara Gordon, a.k.a. Batgirl, was poised to stream on HBO Max or receive a theatrical release. In a shocking turn of events, it will get neither and is being shelved altogether. But why the abrupt move? Sources say the film began testing with audiences on July 14, and while Grace&rsquo;s performance was embraced, the overall feedback was harsh. One source familiar with audience testing for the film likened it to &ldquo;a bad episode of TV,&rdquo; while another said &ldquo;it&rsquo;s definitely not theatrical.&rdquo; The new regime at WBD, headed up by David Zaslav, has handed down a mandate that DC films should be released theatrically or not at all. With Batgirl , studio executives faced a situation where they could spend another $7 million to $9 million in postproduction and special-effects costs &mdash; and perhaps more in reshoots &mdash; to try to get the movie to a place where it could stand alongside some of DC&rsquo;s similarly small gambles, like the upcoming Shazam! Fury of the Gods , whose budget is $125 million. The consensus, according to the latter source, was that no amount of reshoots, editing, or effects could elevate Batgirl to that level, and the decision was made &ldquo;to not throw good money after bad.&rdquo;&nbsp; The studio declined comment for this story but did offer a statement on Tuesday about Grace, calling her &ldquo;an incredibly talented actor and this decision is not a reflection of her performance.&rdquo; Grace offered her own response to the news in a social media post early Wednesday morning. &#8220;I am proud of the love, hard work and intention all of our incredible cast and tireless crew put into this film over 7 months in Scotland,&#8221; she wrote on Instagram . &#8220;I feel blessed to have worked among absolute greats and forged relationships for a lifetime in the process!&#8221; Editor’s picks The 250 Greatest Albums of the 21st Century So Far The 100 Best TV Episodes of All Time The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century DC Films, which has never achieved the same financial success as the Marvel films from Disney, has endured several headaches over the past 18 months. In the run-up to the March 2021 release of Zack Snyder&rsquo;s Justice League on HBO Max, a number of executives and producers were targeted viciously by the Snyder Cut fandom , whose ranks were later found to contain a significant amount of fake accounts. The studio has no plans to work with Snyder again, though remnants of his vision can still be seen in some of the upcoming films, such as the Aquaman sequel, Aquaman and the Lost Kingdom . And t his spring, Amber Heard&rsquo;s troubled involvement in the DC universe became public knowledge during her defamation trial versus her ex-husband Johnny Depp, when jurors learned that Heard was nearly booted from that film due to a lack of chemistry with her co-star, Jason Momoa. Technically, Batgirl was part of the so-called SnyderVerse, given that J.K. Simmons, who plays Commissioner Gordon, appeared in the Snyder Cut of Justice League . In a telling sign of how far the studio is looking to distance itself from Snyder, a source says documentary filmmaker Leslie Iwerks recently asked to license clips from the 2021&nbsp; Justice League for a film on the history of DC and was told there is only one&nbsp; Justice League : the 2017 incarnation. Warner Bros. also finds itself in another difficult position with the upcoming movie The Flash . The film&rsquo;s star, Ezra Miller, has been arrested multiple times this year and the actor&rsquo;s behavior has become increasingly erratic . Though The Flash standalone movie remains on track for a 2023 release, the studio decided to hit the pause button on any future projects involving Miller, including possible appearances in the DC Extended Universe, as happened in the Peacemaker finale in February, when Miller made a surprise cameo. Now, the prospect of other DC films being squashed looms. Insiders say Supergirl , which is in development, is not likely to move forward. Sasha Calle, who plays the caped superheroine, is introduced in the upcoming The Flash . Supergirl was going to spin off of the Miller-led tentpole. As Zaslav&rsquo;s entertainment empire takes shape, films well beyond the DC universe have found themselves on the chopping block, like Scoob! Holiday Haunt . In the wake of the Batgirl news, press speculation mounted that a House Party reboot from producer LeBron James also was getting axed, given that it was quietly removed from its July 28 debut slot on HBO Max. But a knowledgeable source says the opposite is true and the comedy is now poised for a theatrical release. In this article: Batgirl, Warner Bros. TV &amp; Movies TV &amp; Movies News More News Jane Goodall Talks Life, Death, Putting Trump on a Spaceship in 'Famous Last Words' Interview Final Statement By Jon Blistein Who Wants to See Cillian Murphy Have a Nervous Breakdown? Movie Review By David Fear How Did a Documentary on George Orwell Become the Scariest Movie of 2025? Movie Review By David Fear Bill Burr Defends Riyadh Comedy Fest Performance, Details ‘Mind-Blowing’ Experience ‘Just Like Us’ By Charisma Madarang ‘Hero for the Planet’: Leonardo DiCaprio Writes Tribute to ‘Dear Friend’ Jane Goodall ‘Carry the Torch’ By Charisma Madarang Read more Trent Reznor And Atticus Ross’ Future Ruins Fest Cancelled Over 'Logistical Challenges' Called Off 18 minutes ago Sean Combs Sentenced to Over 4 Years in Prison Diddy Trial 3 hours ago Tomorrow X Together on Their New Era, Contract Renewal, and What the Future Holds Exclusive 4 hours ago Eric Dane Missed the 2025 Emmys Because of a Head Injury That Required Stitches Ouch 5 hours ago Top stories newsletter A Cultural Force That Transcends Generations Enter your Email By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Go to PMC.com Most Popular J.K. Rowling Slams &#039;Ignorant&#039; Emma Watson as Their Rift Intensifies; Author Claims Watson Once Wrote Her a Note Expressing Sympathy Over Anti-Trans Backlash Bill Burr Defends Performing at Controversial Riyadh Comedy Festival: &quot;They&#039;re Just Like Us&quot; Insider Claims Nicole Kidman &amp; Keith Urban&#039;s Separation Is &#039;One-Sided&#039; Federal Judge Denies Motion to Dismiss by Kasseem ‘Swizz Beatz’ Dean in 1MDB Scandal Case You might also like Tonatiuh on ‘Kiss of the Spider Woman’ and How He Wants Hollywood to See Him: ‘I’m Not a Latin Actor. I’m a Great Actor’ 3 hours ago 19 Breast Cancer Products That Are Helpful for Patients &amp; Survivors 2 hours ago ‘Anemone,’ ‘After the Hunt’ Shake Up New York Film Festival as ‘One Battle’ Heads Into Second Weekend — Screen Talk 2 hours ago NFL on Record Pace as TV/Streaming Windows Grow 8% to 20M Viewers 1 hour ago Rolling Stone Music Politics TV &amp; Movies Culture Staff Contact Advertise Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Use AdChoices PMC Entertainment California Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices EU Privacy Preferences Accessibility Policy on Anonymous Sources Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Newsletter Signup Enter Your Email Subscribe Got a Hot News Tip? We want to hear it. Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. Rolling Stone is a part of Penske Media Corporation. &copy; 2025 Rolling Stone, LLC. All rights reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum ARTnews Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Log In Welcome Manage Account Manage Print Account Sign Out Music News Features Lists Album Reviews Live Reviews Artists You Need To Know Songs You Need To Know RS Country RS Latin Politics News Features Lists TV &amp; Movies News Features Lists Recaps Reviews Video &amp; Photos Photos Videos The Cover Musicians on Musicians RS LIVE Culture News Features Lists Creators RS Gaming RS Films RS Recommends Reviews RS Essentials RS Audio Awards Gift Guides Culture Council Subscription Icon Follow Us Facebook Instagram TikTok X YouTube Alerts &amp; Newsletters Email Address By providing your information, you 