# Mass Vaccination Site Volunteer Physician Burnout.Html

**Source**: https://slate.com/technology/2021/04/mass-vaccination-site-volunteer-physician-burnout.html
**Extracted**: 2025-09-30T23:18:02.497526+00:00

---

What it’s like to volunteer at a mass vaccination site as a former physician. Advertisement Advertisement Skip to the content Slate Shop Games Newsletters Sign In Account Activating this button will toggle the display of additional content Account Sign out Slate homepage News &amp; Politics Culture Technology Business Life Advice Podcasts Menu Open menu Close menu Menu News &amp; Politics Culture Technology Business Life Advice Podcasts Search Activating this button will toggle the display of additional content Light Dark Auto Subscribe Slate Shop Games Newsletters Sign in Account Sign out Slate homepage Account * Waves Goodbye to the Audience Submit search Enter query Activating this button will toggle the display of additional content Light Dark Auto Medical Examiner Between Service and Survival I quit medicine in 2019. And then the pandemic happened. By Chrissie DyBuncio April 12, 2021 5:17 PM The mass COVID-19 vaccination site at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles on Feb. 23. Mario Tama/Getty Images Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment It’s early Sunday morning at one of Los Angeles’ mass COVID-19 vaccination sites, and there’s already a problem. The list of volunteers was just distributed, but the job assignments failed to populate. Nobody knows who they’re supposed to be for the day. A flustered coordinator yells out, “Licensed professionals to the left! Unlicensed volunteers come to the right! Doctors, over here to the front!” I shuffle my way over to the bare spot of asphalt where the doctors are supposed to stand, and find myself in a group that includes a woman carrying a backpack designed to double as a chair and multiple people wearing hats with neck protection. There is an abundance of moisture-wicking material. “Let’s go around and introduce ourselves and our specialties,” one of the doctors says. I panic. I feel like a fraud calling myself a physician, so I turn away and pretend like I’m not part of their circle. There I was, chock full of years of education, degree in hand, unable to do anything of use except stay home and wash my &nbsp; hands. Technically, I’m a doctor. I graduated from medical school and have over $350,000 in student loan debt. But I quit my OB-GYN residency in late 2019, less than halfway in, meaning I’ll virtually never be employable practicing medicine. I chose this new, ambiguous identity for myself because practicing medicine had turned me into a version of myself that I hated: I snapped back at patients, I resented everyone around me, I once watched a dying woman sob and clocked it as an inconvenience. By the time I left, my actions felt like survival reflexes instead of conscious choices. Quite simply, I was burnt out, a casualty of a medical system that overtaxed its providers even before the pandemic. What’s more, I knew that if I ever recovered, there were endless opportunities for further moral injury and marrow-deep exhaustion around every turn. To keep pursuing life as a doctor was to try to build a life on a foundation of toothpicks, capable of being felled with a heavy sigh. As I left the hospital for the last time, just months before the first cases of an unexplainable pneumonia were detected in Wuhan, China, I was completely unaware of just how big a seismic wave I was escaping. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement I spent the pandemic in the strange role of an outsider: a nonessential worker, a lay person, a civilian. I listened to my friends from medical school and residency vent about what it was like to watch hospitals already strained to the brink pushed into crisis mode. I read the headlines about inadequate protection for hospital staff , the relentless heartbreak of the job that led at least one physician to die by suicide , health care workers having to decide between taking care of their patients or taking care of themselves —all the problems that had existed in medicine long before strands of RNA in crown-shaped capsules made their way around the globe, but now much, much worse. I felt guilty. There I was, chock full of years of education, degree in hand, unable to do anything of use except stay home and wash my hands. I tried to sign up to volunteer at testing sites, but they wanted full-time, weekslong commitments. Part of me felt like I should upend my life and enlist. But I had already found a full-time job working in medical education. Most of all, I had found a quiet contentment in my new post-doctor life, and I didn’t want to lose it. Advertisement Many months later, when mass vaccination becomes a reality, a doctor friend tells me they need licensed volunteers at the administration sites. Once I find the site to sign up, I open up the calendar and see an ocean of white, waiting for names of providers like me. I type my name in. As the day of my volunteer shift approaches, a familiar feeling creeps back into my body: dread. It is how I felt daily before the majority of my shifts as an OB-GYN resident (and especially if I was slated to work a 24-hour shift that often stretched out to almost 30, or before a string of night shifts when I lived like a vampire). I find myself engaging in old habits: The day before, I strictly monitor my activity, declaring to my fiancé that I cannot take a long walk because I need to preserve my energy. I meter out my hours before bed, counting back from when I have to wake up. I set out everything I will need in the morning: scrubs, compression socks, a jacket with my name embroidered on the breast with “M.D.” attached to the end, so that I can put them all on as fast as possible. Completing this ritual feels like being in the presence of an old enemy. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement The morning of, I drive west on the freeway on a route I know well. It is early enough that I follow the moon all the way to the distribution site, watching it behind a pelt of clouds dyed pink. I park my car and watch two large tourist buses pull up behind me and lines of travel nurses spill out onto the asphalt. They’ve been contracted to work at these sites for a few months and are staying at a nearby hotel. I’m told via email before I show up that physicians can be assigned to the vaccine mixing, administration, or observation jobs. I secretly hope I get to do the mixing or administering—which involves actually giving people their shots—but after the whole assignment debacle, I’m assigned to observation. Later, I find out this is because a volunteer tried to steal some vials of vaccine, so now all volunteer physicians are automatically observers. Advertisement There are 18 lanes of cars being directed at the over 200 volunteers. Someone tells me there are 2,400 appointments scheduled for that day. The first stop is an entire parking lot away from where I’m standing, and I don’t see or know how patients are getting registered or vetted. The first thing I can see are metal storage containers that punctuate the spaces between lanes and people in full PPE running in and out of them wielding syringes. Once the vaccine is injected in each patient’s deltoid, they barrel their cars over to us doctors to be observed. Advertisement Our job is to signal to the drivers when to move their cars forward, ask them to turn off their engines, chat with them about how they’re feeling and whether or not they have any worrisome symptoms as they wait for the requisite 15 minutes after the vaccine is given. If we think that they’re having a severe adverse reaction, like their throat closing up, then we can inject some epinephrine and call an ambulance. If there’s nothing concerning, when each patient’s observation time is up, we are to clear them for departure by removing a piece of blue painter’s tape that was slapped onto their windshield. Advertisement Advertisement “The most dangerous thing out here is the driving,” our group leader barks out. “Every day so far, there have been close calls, so don’t get hit by a car if you can help it.” I am a glorified parking attendant, complete with an orange vinyl reflective vest. But as I look around, the dread I have been feeling over the last 24 hours dissipates; in its place is excitement bundled up with warmth and gratitude. I can’t believe I’m finally here and that I get to help. Advertisement Advertisement Each driver’s side window I approach has a beaming face on the other side of it. “I’ve been waiting for this day for ages!” one man says. “This is the first vaccine I’ve ever gotten,” quips another, “and the most important,” he adds, nodding to himself. My favorite car is one with four nonagenarians, all beaming at me beneath masks and clear face shields, the thin, sunspotted skin around their eyes crinkling into an accordion that betrays the breadth of their smiles underneath. I congratulate each one as if they have just graduated from college. Even a mishap is amusing: One woman and I are doing a little celebratory dance when our supervisor’s words come back to haunt me. While we’re waving our arms up in the air, we both realize that her car is gliding forward. In all of her excitement, she has forgotten to put her car in park. “Oops!” We both exclaim to each other, laughing. In that first hour of the day, each car holds another opportunity to see how medicine can bring joy and relief. The expanse of the parking lot I’m standing in, with its endless lines of snaking cars and hundreds of volunteers, is the closest I’ve come to holding the enormity of the pandemic in my mind at once. And, as has happened to me so many times before, I’m humbled by the role medicine plays in it all. Medicine seeks to heal our most basic needs, problems that begin as the cells of one body fight against the cells of another, devoid of intention, obedient only to the laws of physics and concentration gradients. Advertisement Advertisement This was before I was so exhausted that I just barged in and dribbled out a small apology while silently thinking, Just let m