# Human Rights Campaign Refuses Money From Disney Until Meaningful Action Is Taken To Combat Floridas Dont Say Gay Or Trans Bill

**Source**: https://www.hrc.org/press-releases/human-rights-campaign-refuses-money-from-disney-until-meaningful-action-is-taken-to-combat-floridas-dont-say-gay-or-trans-bill
**Extracted**: 2025-10-04T00:34:32.225755+00:00

---

HRC | Human Rights Campaign Refuses Money from Disney Until… Skip to Content Cookies in use The Human Rights Campaign uses cookies to improve your site experience. By using this site, you agree to our use of cookies. To learn more, please read our Privacy Policy. Accept More Information Choose a Location Close Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Human Rights Campaign Shop Donate Search Menu Human Rights Campaign Close Our Work Resources Get Involved About In Your Area News Search Manage Your Membership Equality Magazine Careers Press Contact bluesky instagram threads tiktok linkedin facebook youtube Shop Donate Press Releases Human Rights Campaign Refuses Money from Disney Until Meaningful Action is Taken to Combat Florida’s “Don’t Say Gay or Trans” Bill by Elizabeth Bibi • March 9, 2022 Share on Bluesky Threads LinkedIn Facebook Email Washington, D.C. — Today, the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) — the nation’s largest lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer civil rights organization — responded to a statement by Bob Chapek, CEO of the Walt Disney Company, at Disney’s quarterly shareholder meeting. His statement was the company’s first public statement of opposition to Florida’s House Bill 1557 or the Don’t Say Gay or Trans bill. This legislation would censor teachers from talking about LGBTQ+ issues or people, preventing all students from experiencing inclusive classrooms. After remaining silent as the bill made its way through the Florida state legislature over the past few weeks, Chapek spoke out against pending anti-LGBTQ+ legislation and spoke up for LGBTQ+ people in Florida and across the country. In his statement, Chapek shared that Disney recently joined more than 150 other companies on a national business statement opposing anti-LGBTQ state legislation organized by HRC and Freedom for All Americans. He also pledged a significant financial donation to LGBTQ+ organizations. In response to Mr. Chapek’s statement, Joni Madison, Interim President of the Human Rights Campaign, released the following statement: “The Human Rights Campaign will not accept this money from Disney until we see them build on their public commitment and work with LGBTQ+ advocates to ensure that dangerous proposals, like Florida’s Don’t Say Gay or Trans bill, don’t become dangerous laws, and if they do, to work to get them off the books. Businesses have had and continue to have a major impact in the fight for LGBTQ+ rights, from marriage equality to the defeat of House Bill 2 in North Carolina and beyond. While Disney took a regrettable stance by choosing to stay silent amid political attacks against LGBTQ+ families in Florida — including hardworking families employed by Disney — today they took a step in the right direction. But it was merely the first step. “HRC encourages Disney, and all employers, to continue to fight for their employees – many of whom bravely spoke out to say their CEO’s silence was unacceptable – and the LGBTQ+ community by working with us and state and local LGBTQ+ groups to ensure these dangerous anti-equality proposals that harm LGBTQ+ families and kids have no place in Florida. Every student deserves to be seen, and every student deserves an education that prepares them for health and success — regardless of who they are. This should be the beginning of Disney’s advocacy efforts rather than the end.” Joni Madison , Interim President, Human Rights Campaign Contact Us To make a general inquiry, please visit our contact page. Members of the media can reach our press office at: (202) 572-8968 or email press@hrc.org. Topics: State &amp; Local Advocacy Love conquers hate. Donate Today Love is Love 100% of every HRC merchandise purchase fuels the fight for equality. Shop Now Join millions of supporters by signing up for the HRC newsletter. Email * (Required) Zip code * (5 digits) (Required) Sign Me Up You'll receive email updates from HRC. You can unsubscribe at any time. bluesky instagram threads tiktok linkedin facebook youtube Manage Your Membership Adjust your membership details Equality Magazine The nation&#039;s largest-circulation LGBTQ+ magazine Careers Full-time positions, fellowships and internships Press Press releases, corporate assets Contact Department contacts, membership inquiries Terms &amp; Conditions Privacy Policy Copyright Complaint Notice The Human Rights Campaign, All Rights Reserved Leaving Site Close You are leaving HRC.org By clicking &quot;GO&quot; below, you will be directed to a website operated by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation, an independent 501(c)(3) entity. Go