# Marco Rubio Nearing Reckoning In Florida Primary Likens Donald Trump To Third World Strong Men

**Source**: https://archive.nytimes.com/www.nytimes.com/politics/first-draft/2016/03/12/marco-rubio-nearing-reckoning-in-florida-primary-likens-donald-trump-to-third-world-strong-men/
**Extracted**: 2025-10-03T23:13:11.801405+00:00

---

Marco Rubio, Nearing Reckoning in Florida Primary, Likens Donald Trump to &apos;Third-World Strongmen&apos; - First Draft. Political News, Now. - The New York Times Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times First Draft | Marco Rubio, Nearing Reckoning in Florida Primary, Likens Donald Trump to &#x2018;Third-World Strongmen&#x2019; Close search Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Supported by FirstDraft --> Mar.12, 2016 May. 13, 2016 May. 12, 2016 May. 11, 2016 May. 10, 2016 May. 9, 2016 May. 6, 2016 May. 5, 2016 May. 4, 2016 May. 3, 2016 May. 2, 2016 Politics Newsletter: Sign Up Follow Us &#xA0; &#xA0; Political News, Now. 12:42 pm ET 12:42 pm ET By Jeremy W. Peters Marco Rubio, Nearing Reckoning in Florida Primary, Likens Donald Trump to &#x2018;Third-World Strongmen&#x2019; 12:42 pm ET 12:42 pm ET By Jeremy W. Peters Photo Senator Marco Rubio during a campaign event on Saturday in Largo, Fla. Mr. Rubio likened Donald J. Trump to a third-world dictator. Credit Sam Hodgson for The New York Times LARGO, Fla. &#x2013; Senator Marco Rubio, in his strongest and most emotional condemnation yet of Donald J. Trump&#x2019;s incendiary brand of politics, likened Mr. Trump to a third-world dictator who was leading the country dangerously close to a boiling point. And for the first time Mr. Rubio questioned whether he could support Mr. Trump as the Republican nominee. &#x201C;Most countries around the world that are failures are because they deposit their hopes in a person, a strong leader who comes forward and says &#x2018;Put me in power. And I will make the country better,&#x2019;&#x201D; Mr. Rubio said in an interview Saturday with The New York Times. &#x201C;That&#x2019;s exactly what he&#x2019;s doing,&#x201D; Mr. Rubio continued. &#x201C;The rhetoric reminds me of third-world strongmen.&#x201D; As he campaigned in Central Florida three days before the primary that will most likely decide his fate as a presidential candidate, Mr. Rubio sounded at times as if he was in a state of disbelief about the turn the presidential race has taken. &#x201C;There&#x2019;s going to be a reckoning no matter how this election turns out,&#x201D; he said. &#x201C;And I just don&#x2019;t know if that&#x2019;ll happen in time. I hope it does.&#x201D; &#x201C;But you mark my words,&#x201D; he added, his voice growing sharper. &#x201C;There will be prominent people in American politics who will spend years explaining to people how they fell into this.&#x201D; Mr. Rubio began the day with a news conference condemning Mr. Trump for inciting supporters who have punched and beaten demonstrators. &#x201C;This is a frightening, grotesque and disturbing development in American politics,&#x201D; Mr. Rubio said of the violence at Mr. Trump&#x2019;s events, which reached such a pitch on Friday night in Chicago that the real estate developer was forced to cancel an event that had drawn thousands of people. Mr. Rubio had previously said that if he were not the Republican nominee, he would support whoever was, even if it were Mr. Trump. &#x201C;I still at this moment continue to intend to support the Republican nominee,&#x201D; he said at the news conference, pausing to contemplate his words. &#x201C;But,&#x201D; he added, &#x201C;it&#x2019;s getting harder every day.&#x201D; Mr. Rubio spread the blame for the anger coursing through American politics &#x2013; to the protesters, the media and the left, which he said too often tries to stifle dissent. But he reserved his harshest words for Mr. Trump. &#x201C;We are being ripped apart as a country,&#x201D; he said. Though Mr. Rubio has taken on Mr. Trump more directly and forcefully as his own campaign for president lost altitude over the last two weeks, he was never as forthright or as angry as he appeared on Saturday. The toll of a long and difficult campaign was showing on Mr. Rubio, who has been facing growing questions and even doubts from some of his own supporters about whether he can continue in the race much longer. At times he sounded almost despondent, questioning not just the ugly turn the presidential campaign has taken but the future of the American political system. Mr. Rubio continued to vent when he took the stage at a campaign rally here outside Tampa on Saturday morning. &#x201C;I&#x2019;m not sure what happens next,&#x201D; he dolefully told the crowd of about 200, a smaller gathering than he had been drawing just a week ago. &#x201C;No matter what our political differences may be, who wants to live in a country where everybody hates each other?&#x201D; Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook , Twitter and the First Draft newsletter . Fri. Mar. 11 41 Posts Mon. Mar. 14 10 Posts About First Draft First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation. Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com . Politics Newsletter We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day&apos;s political events and expected stories. Sign Up Follow Us @NYTPolitics Follow us on Facebook RSS Feed &#xA9; 2017 The New York Times Company Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions