# [99% Invisible] Fishing In The Night

**Source**: https://99percentinvisible.org/?p=45336
**Atlas ID**: 223297
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.150008

---

Fishing In The Night - Episode Text Transcript - 99% Invisible Skip to Content Toggle Navigation Episodes Series The 99% Invisible Breakdown Not Built For This According to Need Judas and the Black Messiah Podcast Articles of Interest Articles About The Show The Staff Contact Press Sponsors Pitch Newsletter Subscribe SiriusXM Podcasts+ Apple Podcasts SiriusXM Pandora Ways to Listen Book Store Submit Search YouTube TikTok Instagram Threads Reddit Discord Bluesky 99% Invisible Newsletter 100% Fascinating Email Address Yes Please! By submitting this form, you acknowledge that you have read the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , that you understand them, and that you agree to be bound by them.  If you do not agree to be bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy, you may not use the 99% Invisible website and services. see recent newsletter Close Episode 627 Fishing In The Night Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Transcript Category Sounds Date 05.13.25 Producer 99PI ROMAN MARS: This is 99% Invisible. I’m Roman Mars. I love podcasts. But like many people who work in this industry, my first love was the radio. I got my start working at my college radio station, WOBC 91.5, at Oberlin College. My musical taste and sense of humor were shaped by the DJs at WFMU in New Jersey. And my professional radio career and this very show began at my favorite public radio station, KALW 91.7, here in the Bay Area. But there’s a whole other radio universe that I have a lot less experience with. Shortwave radio is the less used but further reaching cousin of AM and FM. It requires a completely different radio set. Long before the internet, shortwave connected people all across the globe instantaneously. And it became an information battleground and powerful propaganda tool. This week, we are bringing you the first episode in the second season of The Divided Dial. It’s a series from on-the-media and long-time 99PI contributor Katie Thornton. In Season One, Katie explored the history of political talk radio and how the radical right came to dominate the airwaves in the U.S. But her new four-part season is all about shortwave. I’ll let Katie take it from here. DAVID GOREN: Zenith Trans-Oceanics. KATIE THORNTON: This is such a cool radio with a little… KATIE THORNTON: Last summer, I met up with a journalist and radio fan named David Goren. DAVID GOREN: These are, like, beautiful radios… KATIE THORNTON: I went to his house in Brooklyn, New York, so that we could listen to the radio together–not any old radio, not AM or FM, nothing you can pick up in your car, but shortwave radio, the little known cousin of AM and FM, with fuzzy stations that can reach insanely far distances. David’s been listening to shortwave since he was a kid in the ’70s, when his uncle gave him a radio. DAVID GOREN: And I turn it on, and it’s, like, the radio leapt out of my hand with the North American Service of Radio Moscow. KATIE THORNTON: Suddenly, the world was all within reach, available to him right there in this box. DAVID GOREN: In the seventh grade, I became the expert on the next five-year plan in the Soviet Union, the economic plan… KATIE THORNTON: Today, he’s part of the Library of Congress’ Radio Preservation Task Force. And together, on a sweaty Thursday afternoon last July, we sat down to hear what we could find on the shortwave dial today. Just like when David was a kid, we heard lots of government-run stations, like Radio Marti. DAVID GOREN: The U.S. Broadcasting news and information to Cuba. KATIE THORNTON: Voice of Islamic Republic of Iran. DAVID GOREN: China Radio International broadcasting in Spanish. Let’s see, anything else strong? KATIE THORNTON: On other days, David has picked up English language shows from North Korea… DAVID GOREN: And they have very strident, you know, military stuff… KATIE THORNTON: And news from Cuba… DAVID GOREN: This is Radio Rebelde–Radio Rebel–and it goes back to the revolution… KATIE THORNTON: On the shortwaves, the global tussle for influence plays out 24/7. But we didn’t just hear news and propaganda. DAVID GOREN: Well, let’s just go up the dance… KATIE THORNTON: There were beeps and bloops–coded messages sent between amateur radio operators or between government officials who used the short waves to send military data or secret instructions. DAVID GOREN: Let’s see what else we have… KATIE THORNTON: And some of what we heard just sounded like normal radio, with lots of music and preaching. RADIO PREACHER: Strong is the Lord and the power of his might against the wiles of the devil… RADIO END TIMES MINISTER: It was hidden just to hide the meaning and the power of the divine name. It is inherent in the name of Yah… KATIE THORNTON: That’s an end times ministry that also preaches that the Earth is flat. DAVID GOREN: Which is very interesting because a shortwave radio wouldn’t propagate in a flat earth–you know–but… Details, details. KATIE THORNTON: In just about an hour of surfing the shortwaves, we heard prayer and propaganda, news and conspiracy theories, so many languages, and some really decent jams from all over the globe. I felt like I had been welcomed into a club that was somehow secret and yet right there for anyone to join. And I know it’s cliche, but there was something magical about tuning into the world, training my ear to listen through the crackle, hearing the distance. As it turns out, this practice of scanning the dial, finding out what you can hear and from how far away, is a century-old art. It was popular among radio’s early adopters. These early “distance fiends,” as they were known, uncovered something very strange about how radio waves traveled through space. And what broadcasters did with that information completely altered the trajectory of the 20th century. This is Season Two of The Divided Dial. I’m your host, Katie Thornton. I’ve worked in radio since I was a teenager–sometimes behind the scenes, sometimes behind the mic. In Season One, I investigated how right-wing talk took over AM and FM radio. But in all my years of radio research, I’d never really learned about shortwave radio before. And listen, I’m not gonna tell you that shortwave radio is as influential today as the AM and FM talk radio we covered in Season One. It’s not. But I–and I think you–love the medium of radio. So, this season, we’re diving into the often failed promise of a medium that was once ubiquitous, connecting people around the world long before the internet ever did. But like the internet, shortwave also took a turn for the chaotic. Over the next four episodes, I’m going to explain how shortwave radio became a propaganda tool for governments at war and then a propaganda tool for American right-wing extremists and cults. And we’ll explore what a little-known battle playing out on the short waves right now between radio fanatics and Wall Street can tell us about what happens when we cede control of our public airwaves. That’s all coming up on this season of The Divided Dial. But let’s get back to the story. Radio broadcasting–as in from one to many–it didn’t start on shortwave. It started on AM, taking off around 1920. And AM was inherently local. RADIO HOST #1: Daniel Larsen and Mrs. Lester Larson, happy birthday… KATIE THORNTON: Signals reached up to 50, maybe 75 miles. RADIO HOST #2: By the way, down Texas way, your home state, and take a bow, will you now? RADIO HOST #3: Up there in Lake Geneva says happy birthday to us. You know it’s her birthday, too… KATIE THORNTON: But at night, those listening at home noticed something strange. As the sun set, more stations emerged from the static. And they weren’t coming from down the street or the next town over. Sometimes listeners in New York… WAAM: Edison Studios, WAAM, located at… KATIE THORNTON: Would hear stations from Chicago… CFL: CFL, Chicago… KATIE THORNTON: A listener in Kansas might hear an opera or a boxing match from the East Coast. After dark, it was like the world cracked open, and distant stations faded in and out on ghostly, mysterious winds. Most people had never heard a faraway voice–period. Long-distance telephone calls were the costly domain of dignitaries and government officials, and even those were fed across long, scratchy copper lines. A disembodied voice, without a wire, without a fee, from hundreds of miles away? That awed and baffled people–even scientists, some of whom believed that radio, perhaps, could be used to communicate with the dead. But of course, there was an explanation for these voices in the night. INSTRUCTOR: Let us follow through the steps and the processes in transmitting or sending radio messages… KATIE THORNTON: Here’s what was happening: the way AM normally works is that radio waves get shot from the top of a tall tower, which is often on top of the tall hill. INSTRUCTOR: The radio messages leave the antenna as electromagnetic waves and travel with the speed of light… KATIE THORNTON: The waves travel over the ground, basically line of sight, from the tower to you. It’s called a “ground wave,” and it’s the thing that fades out a few dozen miles from the tower. But when you shoot out an AM signal, there’s another thing that happens–almost a byproduct. INSTRUCTOR: Radio waves are set out in all directions… KATIE THORNTON: It’s called a “skywave.” And the skywave goes up into the atmosphere. SUSAN DOUGLAS: The lower layers of the ionosphere–which are about 45 to 75 miles above the Earth’s surface–they’re like a huge sponge during the day, and they absorb the signals that pass through them. KATIE THORNTON: Susan Douglas is a professor of communication and media at the University of Michigan. She says that these lower layers of the atmosphere are made up of ions that get all charged up by the sun. And in the daylight, those layers are where radio waves go to die. SUSAN DOUGLAS: But at night, when the sun sets, these layers disappear. And the ones above them–they combine to form a dense layer. And it acts like a mirror to sky waves. KATIE THORNTON: At night, these skywaves–the sort of byproduct of AM transmission–they keep going until they bounce off this other layer of the ionosphere. And they come back down to Earth vast distances away. INSTRUCTOR: When these waves strike the antenna of a receiving set, this entire process is reversed. We hear sound originating at that very moment, hundreds or even thousands of miles away… KATIE THORNTON: That’s what these late-night AM radio listeners were hearing–a radio wave that had ricocheted off the ionosphere to get to them. And it rocked their world. Long-distance channel surfing became a fad, called “fishing in the night,” with listeners casting out into the aether and seeing what they could catch. SUSAN DOUGLAS: They had a map on the wall with map tacks. And every time they reeled in a station, they would put a map tack on where that broadcast emanated from. “Was it Kansas City? Was it Washington, D.C.?” Wherever. KATIE THORNTON: Radio manufacturers ran ads with slogans like, “Concerts from 14 cities in one evening.” In newspaper editorials, distressed housewives and sometimes husbands lamented that their significant other was spending every evening out in their “radio shack.” But while AM broadcast listeners burned the midnight oil to marvel at all the faraway stations, there was one group of people who weren’t so surprised by radio’s ability to go long. They were the amateur radio operators–what you might know as “ham radio”–basically guys who weren’t broadcasting but were tinkering with radio equipment just to chat, one-to-one, like long distance walkie talkies. Back in the days before broadcasting, almost all radio transmission was one-to-one. The radio waves were mostly used by ship captains or the military and the hams who were just having fun. But in World War I, the U.S. government got worried about interference on those AM airwaves. So, they eventually assigned specific frequencies for ships, for the military, and for those meddling amateurs. SUSAN DOUGLAS: They were kicked down to the waves that were thought utterly worthless–shortwaves. KATIE THORNTON: Back then, people thought the shortwaves with short wavelengths–picture a really tight squiggly line–just wouldn’t go very far. Even Guglielmo Marconi, the father of radio, thought that longer wavelengths would mean longer distances. But the amateurs weren’t put off. SUSAN DOUGLAS: They began experimenting with them. KATIE THORNTON: And as it turned out, the short waves weren’t the short end of the stick. SUSAN DOUGLAS: They were getting really far. They were getting stations in Australia and New Zealand or stations in England and France. KATIE THORNTON: For the most part, reception was clearer at night. But it didn’t have to be dark to go the distance. SUSAN DOUGLAS: Amateurs reported spanning distances as great as 10,000 miles, which was unthinkable. Australia and New Zealand were described in the fall of 1923 as a “bedlam of Yankee signals.” KATIE THORNTON: The amateurs proved something huge. Shortwave could do round the clock what AM could only do at night. It could use the ionosphere as a springboard. And this changed the game for AM broadcasters who wanted their station to reach more people. In 1923, Pittsburgh’s KDKA–the country’s first commercial radio station–they got their station on shortwave and reached as far as South Africa. New shortwave stations started up in Switzerland and Japan and Venezuela. And with the scars of World War I still fresh, this burgeoning international medium was a source of hope. MICHELE HILMES: There was a lot of utopian discourse around radio that–you know–having allowed people to communicate across all these borders, there would be no more wars. KATIE THORNTON: Michele Hilmes is a retired professor of media studies who has written a lot about radio. MICHELE HILMES: That would solve all kinds of problems. Just a huge enthusiasm over the possibilities of shortwave as a medium. KATIE THORNTON: Entire magazines were devoted to helping people discover new shows on international radio. Listeners would write to far-flung stations, and the stations would reply with these beautifully decorated cards branded with the station name and maybe some imagery that evoked the national culture of wherever they were broadcasting from. They’re called “QSL cards.” It’s international code for “I confirm receipt of your transmission.” Shortwave listeners around the world amassed collections of these ornate cards–tangible evidence of their part in an ethereal, global community. By the late 1930s, almost all home radio sets had AM and shortwave settings. But the peacenik aspirations for shortwave didn’t last. MICHELE HILMES: It was the first time that human beings had had it in their power to be heard around the world. And a lot of governments figured out that this could be a really powerful tool for the common good–but also, of course, for the waging of wars. KATIE THORNTON: Lots of the world’s governments had taken to the short waves by the 1930s, but no nation used them quite like Germany. AXIS SALLY: This is Germany calling. We are going to present tonight a regular play entitled Visions of Invasion… KATIE THORNTON: Giessen, Germany’s state-run shortwave service, had spent years building a large following in America and around the world, playing things like orchestral music. But in time, they started pushing out Nazi propaganda, tailored for specific countries, in 12 different languages. And with its own festering Nazi movement, the U.S. was a key target. MICHELE HILMES: You had people like Axis Sally. AXIS SALLY: This is Berlin calling. And I’d just like to say that, when Berlin calls, it pays to listen… MICHELE HILMES: She was an American living in Berlin. She became the first American woman to be convicted of treason after the war, but she was broadcasting into the United States on shortwave. AXIS SALLY: Women of America waiting for the one you love, thinking of a husband who has been sacrificed by Franklin D. Roosevelt… MICHELE HILMES: You might have heard of a person called Lord Haw-Haw. LORD HAW-HAW: The great exodus from Britain is well underway… MICHELE HILMES: He was a British man named William Joyce who was working in Germany, broadcasting on their shortwave service. LORD HAW-HAW: The rich and affluent are removing themselves and their valuables as fast as they can… KATIE THORNTON: There was also a big band called Charlie and His Orchestra, run by the German Ministry of Propaganda. They’d take popular big band and swing songs and add or change lyrics to berate Roosevelt or denigrate Jewish people. CHARLIE AND HIS ORCHESTRA: All the Jewish family has a brand new heir. He’s their joy heaven-sent, and they proudly present Mr. Franklin D. Roosevelt Jones. Yes, there is. Yes, there is… MICHELE HILMES: They were trying to persuade Americans that the Germans had the right side in the war and that it was crazy for them to fight. CHARLIE AND HIS ORCHESTRA: Non-intervention, how he shows it, his decision to send troops alone… KATIE THORNTON: The U.S. government had banned all editorializing on domestic radio stations during the war, making it illegal for Americans to promote the Nazi cause on the AM airwaves. But the feds didn’t have any control over shortwave broadcasts beaming in from Germany. So, the content was still there for the many Americans who wanted to listen. Journalists at CBS and NBC launched counteroffensives. SUSAN DOUGLAS: The networks had what were called “shortwave listening posts” in New York. KATIE THORNTON: Susan Douglas again. SUSAN DOUGLAS: And they had people who were fluent in foreign languages monitoring international shortwave broadcasts. KATIE THORNTON: And then, they turned their findings into entertainment, like the hit CBS radio series hosted by a popular detective novelist named Rex Stout. It was called Our Secret Weapon. REX STOUT: The truth is a weapon that isn’t secret in our country, but it’s a big secret to the people who live in Germany, Japan, and Italy. Our enemies don’t have this weapon. They don’t dare let their people know the truth… KATIE THORNTON: Every week, radio sleuth Stout debunked enemy shortwave propaganda. REX STOUT: First, a broadcast of the official German news agency on August 2nd… GERMAN NEWS AGENCY: The meeting between Churchill and Stalin was very excited and hysterical. It assumed a dramatic– REX STOUT: On August 8th, being that England… GERMAN NEWS AGENCY: This morning Churchill shook hands with Stalin at the Kremlin… REX STOUT: As we now know, Churchill actually arrived in Moscow on August 12th. You can’t beat that for a scoop… KATIE THORNTON: The rest of the Allies were also busy fighting Germany’s shortwave radio propaganda. It was during World War II that the BBC ramped up what would come to be known as the World Service on shortwave. BBC WORLD SERVICE: This is London calling in the overseas service of the British Broadcasting Corporation… KATIE THORNTON: They broadcast news to the world with just a bit of pro-ally spin. BBC WORLD SERVICE: And the Danes have already had a taste of what German protection means. A better word for it would be “plunder,” for the Germans are seizing goods and property at will… KATIE THORNTON: And in early 1942, the U.S. followed suit. The federal government debuted its shortwave radio service, The Voice of America, with an in-language broadcast to Germany. THE VOICE OF AMERICA: This is a voice speaking from America. Our voices are coming to you from New York, across the Atlantic Ocean to London… KATIE THORNTON: The Voice of America started as a government-run radio show. And they partnered with networks like NBC and CBS to get it out worldwide. NBC and CBS were already broadcasting overseas via shortwave. But shortwave quickly proved so central to the war effort that the U.S. government did something unprecedented. They nationalized all the roughly one dozen shortwave stations broadcasting from U.S. soil, filling the international airwaves with approved broadcasts. THE VOICE OF AMERICA: Daily, at this time, we shall speak to you about America and the war. The news may be good or bad. We shall tell you the truth… KATIE THORNTON: And for the most part, they did that, if a bit selectively. Michelle Helms… MICHELE HILMES: They were walking a fine line between willful propaganda and putting a good spin on things. KATIE THORNTON: As the U.S. sent more troops into battle, it used shortwave to boost morale. SUSAN DOUGLAS: They began to transmit entertainment programming via shortwave to the troops. KATIE THORNTON: Susan Douglas again. SUSAN DOUGLAS: And this was so important during holidays like Christmas and New Year’s when there you are freezing and alone and scared. MICHELE HILMES: They had programs that would allow troops to speak to people back at home, you know? “Oh, here’s mailbag! And we have letters from soldiers.” And they would read them aloud. THE VOICE OF AMERICA: “Dear Mother, tonight I’m very lonely. I’ve never written that before, and maybe it’s a shock to you And then again, maybe you’ve read between the lines and have known it all along…” MICHELE HILMES: There was a very popular program called GI Jive with Jill. GI JILL: Hi, you fellas. This is GI Jill with GI Jive… THE VOICE OF AMERICA: You know, the World Series. THE WORLD SERIES: The 1942 World Series broadcast is… MICHELE HILMES: You gotta have the World series. THE WORLD SERIES: Yankees right front five to nothing has become… MICHELE HILMES: The Voice of America was very highly respected, and many people think that it did a great deal to help us win the war. KATIE THORNTON: By the end of the Second World War, The Voice of America blanketed much of the world. It ran in about 40 languages. But they were about to get lots of company on the airwaves because, in the Cold War, the shortwaves exploded. That’s coming up after the break… [AD BREAK] KATIE THORNTON: This is On the Media. I’m Katie Thornton, host of OTM’s Divided Dial series. We’re right in the middle of Episode One of our second season. Before the break, we heard about how groups like the VOA dominated the shortwaves at the end of World War II. But during the Cold War, shortwave would become so much more. RADIO PK: Radio PK… RADIO IRAN: This is Tehran, Radio Iran… AUSTRALIAN FORCES RADIO: The Australian Forces Radio… RADIO MOSCOW: You are tuned to the North American Service of Radio Moscow… KATIE THORNTON: The VOA, the BBC, the Soviet Union, China, Egypt, Iran, Argentina, and so many others were on shortwave, broadcasting their national identity to the world in stories and song. They were joined by newly decolonized nations, like Libya and Ghana, whose leaders saw the shortwaves as a way to promote their independence and to fuel an international anti-colonial movement. But the global superpowers–the U.S. and the Soviet union–were two of the most dominant voices on shortwave. And shortwave became one of the most ferocious battlegrounds of the Cold War. At bat for the Soviet Union was Radio Moscow. Founded in 1929, the USSR’s government-run network broadcast in over 70 languages. With news, propaganda, and human interest stories, it offered a Soviet alternative to the BBC and the VOA. RADIO MOSCOW: America hit a new high in crime. And according to FBI reports to the president, nearly half of the criminals were young people. The causes of this menacing situation are well known. The pornographic pictures distributed among adolescents and the exhibitions of abstract paintings and statues that say nothing to either the heart or the mind… KATIE THORNTON: The BBC and the VOA were expanding too, sending more and more coverage over the Iron Curtain. But the United States government wanted to reach people in Eastern Europe with messages that weren’t so obviously propaganda as the literal voice of America. So, they lied. RADIO FREE EUROPE: Radio Free Europe gets through with the truth every day… KATIE THORNTON: Debuting in 1950, Radio Free Europe was a flame-throwing, anti-communist shortwave network. RADIO FREE EUROPE: Into the closed communist countries of Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania go the facts the people are not allowed to hear–the truth–the truth that helps them hold on to the will and the drive. KATIE THORNTON: It was portrayed as grassroots, run by emigres and exiles. And it did employ those folks. But secretly, it was funded by the CIA, which was busy meddling in global politics and supporting pro-capitalist coups during these Cold War years. [SEGMENT FROM RADIO SVOBODNA] KATIE THORNTON: Staff at Radio Free Europe launched weather balloons into the Eastern Bloc and airdropped over 300 million leaflets instructing listeners on how to tune in. CHARLIE AND HIS ORCHESTRA: Radio Free Europe calling Czechoslovakia… KATIE THORNTON: The Soviet Union did not like any of this. They spent tons of money trying to drown out Western broadcasts. They’d flood the short waves with ear splitting noises that listeners recalled sounding like a buzz saw or a machine gun. Sometimes the battle went beyond the airwaves, like when a Czechoslovakian double agent poisoned the salt shakers at Radio Free Europe’s Munich office. That plot was foiled before any of the 1,200-plus employees sat down for lunch. Years later, a Radio Free Europe journalist died after allegedly being stabbed with a poison-tipped umbrella. But these U.S.-run shortwave stations weren’t just beaming out journalism. WILLIS CONOVER: Willis Conover speaking. This is the Voice of America Jazz Hour. The music of jazz parallels the freedom that we have in America–something that not every country has… KATIE THORNTON: In the 1950s and ’60s, music, especially jazz, was a key component in the U.S. government’s shortwave campaign. LOUIS ARMSTRONG: This is The Voice of America… KATIE THORNTON: The federal government ran a jazz ambassador program that sent musicians, like Louis Armstrong and Duke Ellington, on tours around the world. They focused on countries that the Soviet Union was also hoping to win over. All the while though, many of these very same musicians faced racism and segregation at home. And on the shortwaves, Radio Moscow and others were ready to exploit this contradiction. RADIO FREE DIXIE: The revolutionary people of Cuba sympathized with all people who struggle for social justice… KATIE THORNTON: In the early 1960s, Cuba’s government-run service, Radio Havana, regularly beamed this show, Radio Free Dixie, up to the United States. RADIO FREE DIXIE: It is in this spirit that we proudly allocate the following hour in an act of solidarity, peace, and friendship with our oppressed North American brothers. Radio Free Dixie invites you to listen to the free voice of the South… KATIE THORNTON: Radio Free Dixie was hosted by U.S. Black power activist Robert F. Williams. He was on the lam in Cuba, fleeing drummed up charges that were later dropped. And he broadcast a perspective that couldn’t be found in the mainstream U.S. media. ROBERT F. WILLIAMS: One Negro goes to the White House as a member of the President’s cabinet, while another is gunned down like a wild dog for using a white folks’ toilet. It should be more than clear to us that if we are ever going to be free, we must liberate ourselves… KATIE THORNTON: Outlets like Radio Moscow and Radio Havana won followers around the world with their mix of propaganda and just factual reporting on civil rights abuses in the U.S. Governments saw winning people over on shortwave as a key path to winning the Cold War. So, even after the CIA’s secretive role at Radio Free Europe was revealed in the early 70s, not much changed. In fact, Congress increased its budget. And they kept pumping out news and tunes. Increasingly, they played the defiant and oh-so-American sound of rock music, which was heavily censored in the USSR and Eastern Bloc. On the U.S.’s government-run, taxpayer-funded shortwave stations, they broadcast groups like Metallica and Mötley Crüe to listeners around the world. KICKSTART MY HEART: Woah, yeah Kickstart my heart, give it a start Whoa… KATIE THORNTON: By the early 1980s, the U.S. government’s shortwave stations reached an estimated 80 million people each week. It took tons of manpower, and it was a huge infrastructure project, too. The government had miles upon miles of fields filled with antennas. But one man didn’t think that was enough. RONALD REAGAN: We’re as far behind the Soviets and their allies in international broadcasting today as we were in space when they launched Sputnik in 1957… KATIE THORNTON: On the home front, Ronald Reagan had vetoed public broadcasting budgets and overseen a massive deregulation of the airwaves that allowed for big businesses and conservative and religious broadcasters to dominate AM and FM radio–you know, Season One of The Divided Dial. But on international radio–on shortwave–the great deregulator had no qualms about spending taxpayer dollars. He poured public money into the VOA and Radio Free Europe. RONALD REAGAN: I’m pleased to call on Director Wick and Minister Filali to sign this agreement, an important step towards strengthening the signal of the Voice of America… KATIE THORNTON: Reagan’s administrators wrung their hands over what to do about rock music. Lots of them didn’t believe it represented the best of Western culture. But after long internal debates, they decided to keep the rebellious racket going on the shortwaves. Meanwhile, on the journalism side, Reagan led a shakeup by sidestepping one of The Voice of America’s long held tenants: the idea that a free press is the U.S.’s best advertisement. Sure, that idea hadn’t always been perfectly executed, but Reagan opted instead for more heavy-handed anti-communist propaganda. Reagan’s VOA ran explicit editorials on behalf of the administration. Many longtime leaders resigned, replaced by more amenable colleagues, including Richard W. Carlson, father of right-wing bloviator Tucker Carlson. And it was Reagan who launched a costly new shortwave service targeting Cuba with hardline anti-communist messages. RONALD REAGAN: Today, I’m appealing to the Congress. Help us get the truth through, to support our proposal for a new radio station, Radio Marti, for broadcasting to Cuba… KATIE THORNTON: While public broadcasting floundered at home, government-subsidized propaganda and bad hair metal reverberated on shortwave, from the U.S. to the world. In its first seven decades of life, shortwave transformed from an idealistic experiment in global cooperation into a hardened government tool of information warfare. And then in the late 1980s, much of the medium’s reason for being crumbled. REX STOUT: In Eastern Europe, which the Soviets had held by force since World War II, Mikhail Gorbachev said that Moscow would no longer interfere… NEWSCASTER #1: Serious fighting begins in the early morning, a staccato of machine gun bursts punctuated by cannon fire… NEWSCASTER #2: In the last weeks and months, we’ve seen one Communist party after the other in Eastern Europe knocked off its perch by the people… KATIE THORNTON: The Cold War was over. On this medium that seemed almost tailor-made for propaganda, there was vacancy–airtime for rent. And in the U.S., a particular group of people was ready to snatch it up. RADIO HOST #4: You must form your militia unit… RADIO HOST #5: Say no heed to the federal government, which is a counterfeit enemy foreign government… RADIO HOST #6: Are you a white woman, such as myself, who is sick of being harassed and tormented? Call Aryan Nation for a whiter, brighter America… RADIO HOST #7: We don’t want to have to kill you. We hope to not have to kill you. But we can kill you. And if need be, we will kill you! Well, what are a few lives in the grand scheme of liberty? BILL CLINTON: I’m sure you are now seeing the reports of some things that are regularly said over the airwaves in America today… BRAD HEFNER: These stations and the programs grew. And they took over and they dominated… J.R. LIND: What is associated in the public’s mind was shortwave. It’s no longer the BBC World Service. Now it’s the guys who helped Timothy McVeigh bomb a federal building… KATIE THORNTON: Next time on The Divided Dial, it’s the shortwave story you’ve never heard: the private citizens who took over a fringe medium with a fringe message and used it to build a movement that fundamentally changed mainstream U.S. politics. ROMAN MARS: Katie Thornton, it’s so nice to have you back on the show. I love that episode. KATIE THORNTON: Thank you so much, Roman. It’s great to be here. Thanks for having me back. ROMAN MARS: I’m so excited to hear the rest of this series. So, what made you want to do a series on shortwave radio at this moment, which is not the peak of shortwave radio usage. But it’s something that is so fascinating and so cool. KATIE THORNTON: Yeah, you know, it’s definitely not the peak of shortwave radio usage. The internet really sort of took a bite out of it. But I was really interested in shortwave radio in part because I love radio and I had never really heard much about shortwave. I started volunteering at FM radio stations when I was in my teens. I worked at them throughout my teens and 20s. I obviously still make radio today. Like, I love radio. I love what it can do. I love that it moves through the air at the speed of light and it magically shows up in a box in your kitchen or your car or wherever. I think it’s just sort of this magical thing. And yet, I had never really heard about shortwave. And a friend of mine, after the first season of The Divided Dial came out, was like, “Hey, do you know about this station? It’s, like, really powerful. It reaches every continent. It’s, like, a shortwave radio station.” And I remember thinking, “Shortwave? Is that still a thing? That’s, like, a Cold War medium, right?” That’s the only context I had for it. And so I really wanted to find out what the history was, what it’s like today, and some weird stuff that’s gonna be coming up in the future on the shortwaves. ROMAN MARS: So, one of the things you mentioned very briefly in the episode we just heard is something I’m completely fascinated by, and that is QSL cards. So, first of all, can you describe what a QSL card is, again, for people who are unfamiliar? KATIE THORNTON: Yeah, absolutely. A QSL card is almost, like, a combination thank you card and postcard that broadcasters send out. So, they really started sort of in the late teens and early ’20s, when amateur radio operators were first starting to send their signals across the country, across national borders, and across the world. And they wanted to know, like, how far they were reaching. Natural curiosity–you’ve got this new technology. You’re, like, bouncing it off the ionosphere. You’re like, “Where can you hear me?” And so these people who were out there on the shortwaves–they would basically say, “Hey, if you’re hearing this, please write me a letter. Please tell me where you are. Please tell me what you’re listening on. And, like, what did you think of the program? Did it come through pretty clear?” and things like that. So, the listeners would send these letters. And the people who were putting the transmissions out there would send them these beautifully decorated cards as sort of thank you notes back. The broadcaster got information about just how far their signal was reaching, and the listener got to sort of amass this collection that really showed off, like, “Here’s how good I am at listening to the radio. I have all these cards from all over the world, and they’re all incredible.” ROMAN MARS: So, before we talk about the sort of design of the physical cards themselves, what does “QSL” actually stand for? KATIE THORNTON: Yeah, great question–one that I had as well. I was slightly disappointed by the answer. It’s not an abbreviation. It is just part of what’s called “Q code.” It’s an international code that’s basically an assortment of three letters–Q followed by two other letters and then they mean something. Like, if you’re transmitting in Morse code and on shortwave, QSL means: “I confirm receipt of your transmission.” And so it’s sort of like a shorthand for the same way you would hear on CB radio truckers communicating with one another like, “10-4”–things like that. Yeah, it’s like a little language. ROMAN MARS: So, I’ve seen collections of these QSL cards, and they’re really beautiful. So, could you describe to the audience what they look like? KATIE THORNTON: Yeah. They really are so beautiful. I mean, some of some of them are quite simple. They have, like, your handle. For the amateur radio operators in particular, you’ll have a series of letters and numbers that you go by on the radio. It’s like your licensed name. And so some of them are just sort of that plain text. But some people would decorate their cards super beautifully–something personal to them or personal from where they were broadcasting from. But the people who really went wild with the decorations were the broadcast stations. So, on radio, you have one-to-one transmission. That would be a lot of amateur operators. They’re just trying to make contact from one person to another person across a vast distance. But starting in the ’20s, you started to have broadcasting on shortwave. So, that’s from one to many. It’s actually a term that early broadcasters borrowed from agriculture. When you broadcast seeds, you basically scatter seeds all over the place. So, you’re just trying to hit as many people, in the case of radio broadcasting, as possible. And so after… There were some early AM stations that ended up transmitting their signal on shortwave and getting into different countries. And a lot of these stations, especially by the ’30s and the ’40s, were owned by governments. And so a lot of the broadcast stations–a lot which are run by governments–they went wild with the decorations on the QSLs. But yeah, these stations would really use the QSL cards as an opportunity to paint a picture of how they wanted their home country to be perceived and understood on the global stage. ROMAN MARS: And they’re kind of like tourist picture postcards. I mean, they have maps. And they have, you know, highlighted features of the landscape and things like that. They’re really beautiful. KATIE THORNTON: Absolutely. They’re so beautiful. They are like postcards. Imagine if the official government tourism bureau was like, “We will make a postcard to represent everything about our country in one image.” That’s sort of what they were trying to do with the QSLs. It was almost sort of, like, an element of this broader soft power campaign. How do we want to broadcast ourselves not just in sound, but in imagery to the rest of the world? So there’s, like, beautiful maps, there’s food items, there is clothing that is specific to regions– Architectural feats would maybe be depicted, sometimes in an artistic style that was specific to that country. They’re colorful. They’re beautiful. The fonts are amazing to watch change over time. One of the things that I love about these QSLs is how many of them have radio imagery. They’re all so excited about the fact that they’re using radio, especially the ones from the ’30s, ’40s, and ’50s. They all have that sort of radiographic of the lightning bolts, which to me is so cool because how do you demonstrate the power and the excitement of this invisible thing? It’s obviously got to be lightning bolts. ROMAN MARS: And so what is the status of QSL cards today? Like, is this still something people do? I imagine they’re collector’s items because the world of shortwave is a very… I don’t know. It’s a very active subculture of very dedicated people. KATIE THORNTON: Yes, absolutely it is. Absolutely it is. And it is still active. Certainly they’re collectors items. These are beautiful historic objects, really. But there are still QSL cards that are going out today. I talked to a ton of people, a ton of broadcasters, and a ton of listeners. And I was at a station where I was going through the QSL letters–the initial letter where somebody’s asking for a card. I was going through them with the station owner. And they had gotten letters from all over the place–from the U.S. and far beyond. And so I was going through this stack of letters where it’s like, “Here’s what I heard. Here’s how the reception was.” And then, in turn, he would mail back the station’s QSL. It’s down from its heyday, just like a lot of things in the shortwave world are. But it’s still very much happening today, which is really neat. ROMAN MARS: So, before we wrap up, could you tell me a little bit more about the whole series and where it’s headed from here? KATIE THORNTON: Yeah, well, the second episode is dropping on May 14th. This next episode is really going to dive into the pretty little known role that shortwave radio played in the rise of the American right, especially sort of in the ’90s and into the 2000s. We’re also going to go visit a very particular kind of peculiar station operating out of the U.S.–one of the most powerful broadcasting facilities on the planet that I did not know existed until quite recently. They play some very interesting material. And then we sort of end the series–the fourth episode–by talking about what’s going on in the shortwaves today and what’s happening in the future on the shortwaves because, as I talk to people, I learned that there is a battle going on on the shortwaves right now that is really representative. I think it says a lot about how we value or don’t value our public airwaves. ROMAN MARS: Well, I’m so glad that the series is back. The first series of The Divided Dial was amazing. It won a Peabody Award, and now I’m so excited to hear the second season. And it’s all going to be released on On the Media’s podcast feed and on the airwaves. So, thank you so much for being back with us. KATIE THORNTON: Thank you so much for having me. It was great to talk with you about this. ROMAN MARS: The Divided Dial was created by Katie Thornton and WNYC’s On the Media. Edited by OTM’s executive producer Katya [CAT-ya] Rogers, with music and sound design by Jared Paul. The series was also supported by the Fund for Investigative Journalism. 99PI’s executive producer is Kathy Tu. Kurt Kohlstedt is the digital director. Delaney Hall is our senior editor. The rest of the team includes Chris Berube, Jayson De Leon, Joe Rosenberg, Martín Gonzalez, Christopher Johnson, Vivian Le, Lasha Madan, Swan Real, Jeyca Medina-Gleason, and me, Roman Mars. The 99% Invisible logo was created by Stefan Lawrence. We are part of the SiriusXM podcast family, now headquartered six blocks North in the Pandora building… in beautiful… uptown… Oakland, California. We are all over Bluesky, and our Discord server is thriving. There’s a link to those, as well as every past episode of 99PI, at 99PI.org. Episode Credits The Divided Dial was created by Katie Thornton and WNYC’s On the Media. Edited by OTM’s executive producer Katya Rogers, with music and sound design by Jared Paul. The series was also supported by the Fund for Investigative Journalism. Our interview with Katie Thornton was produced by Emmett FitzGerald and Kelly Prime. Explore Architecture Infrastructure Cities Objects Sounds Visuals Technology History More in Sounds A 700-Foot Mountain of Whipped Cream Episode 286 - A 700-Foot Mountain of Whipped Cream Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Three Records From Sundown Episode 141 - Three Records From Sundown Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download The Sound of the Artificial World Episode 15 - The Sound of the Artificial World Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download The Divided Dial Episode 517 - The Divided Dial Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Symphony of Sirens, Revisited Episode 79 - Symphony of Sirens, Revisited Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Whomst Among Us Let The Dogs Out Episode 389 - Whomst Among Us Let The Dogs Out Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Archives Vintage Skynet: AT&T’s Abandoned... Kurt Kohlstedt - Vintage Skynet: AT&T’s Abandoned... Interrobang Episode 314 - Interrobang Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Masking for a Friend Episode 399 - Masking for a Friend Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Rooftop Roads: Ancient Iranian Town Where... Kurt Kohlstedt - Rooftop Roads: Ancient Iranian Town Where... The Batman and the Bridge Builder Episode 432 - The Batman and the Bridge Builder Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download 99% Uncovered: Behind the Scenes with 99pi... Kurt Kohlstedt - 99% Uncovered: Behind the Scenes with 99pi... Leave a Comment Share Share on Twitter Share on Facebook Share on Tumblr Share via Email Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Δ More in Sounds Episode 01 - 99% Noise Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Transcript Episode 97 - Numbers Stations Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Transcript Episode 236 - Reverb: The Evolution of Architectural Acoustics Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Transcript Episode 43 - The Accidental Music of Imperfect Escalators Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Transcript All Categories Architecture Infrastructure Cities Objects Sounds Visuals Technology History © 99% Invisible Privacy Policy & Terms of Service Cookie settings Episodes Articles About Store Support the Show Your donations are vital to keeping us independent and strong! Contributions are used for: Paying our exceptional staff Paying outside contributors Travel costs for more ambitious stories Weekly Pakistani buffet Donate Newsletter Signup Hey there beautiful nerd! Sign up to for the 99PI newsletter to get our 1/week email with: Excerpts and links to latest episodes and articles Periodic, exclusive updates on 99PI goings-on Email Address Yes Please! By clicking this box, you acknowledge that you have read the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , that you understand them, and that you agree to be bound by them.  If you do not agree to be bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy, you may not use the 99% Invisible website and services. Minimize Maximize Play Pause Mute Unmute Previous in Playlist Jump backward 15 seconds | Jump forward 15 seconds Next in Playlist Update Required To play the media you will need to update your browser to a version that supports HTML5. Minimize Maximize Playlist Playlist Drag and drop to reorder. Your playlist is stored within your cookies, clearing your browser data may remove your playlist. Nothing here yet! Feel free to browse the archives to add episodes. More