# [99% Invisible] Roman Mars's Guide to San Francisco

**Source**: https://99percentinvisible.org/?p=46180
**Atlas ID**: 229831
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:31.012577

---

Episode GYG 01 Roman Mars’s Guide to San Francisco Play Pause Click to enlarge image Cities Category Cities Date 07.11.25 Producer 99PI Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Transcript Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Leave a Comment In this bonus episode sponsored by GetYourGuide , Roman shares some of his favorite stories about San Francisco, the city in his backyard, starting with the most famous building in the city. Over the course of the tour, we’ll visit the once-hated, now-largely-beloved Transamerica Pyramid and view (in some cases literal) sides of the arguments for and against; pass through POPOs (which stands for “publicly owned private spaces”), including plazas, terraces, atriums, little parks, and even rooftop parks … and discuss four key criteria that make small urban spaces work; walk by a slightly leaning tower that is locally famous for an apparently intractable tilt; and then wrap things up over Roman’s favorite work of large-scale engineering: the Golden Gate Bridge, complete with its own Half Way to Hell Club, made up of workers who fell whole working on its construction but were saved by a net below. The Bancroft Library, Construction Photographs of the Golden Gate Bridge collection, BANC PIC 1905.14258:032–PIC This bonus episode of 99% Invisible is brought to you by GetYourGuide . So you’ve booked your flights, you’ve booked your accommodations, but why wait for your adventure to start when you arrive at your destination? Anticipation is part of the adventure. With GetYourGuide, planning becomes an experience in itself. Feed your excitement by digging into their wide range of experiences and offerings. Choose from over 150,000 experiences, including guided tours, sightseeing excursions, adventure activities, museum tickets and more. With flexible booking options, mobile tickets, and millions of verified reviews, you’ll find everything you need to simplify trip planning and book the best things to do in thousands of destinations worldwide. GetYourGuide provides in-depth experiences that will help you engage in the world in a more meaningful way, and you’ll meet cool people in the process. Discover and book for your next trip at getyourguide.com . Enjoy 99pi? Subscribe to the podcast! iTunes RSS Feed Get the latest from 99pi each week in your inbox Email Address Yes Please! By submitting this form, you acknowledge that you have read the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , that you understand them, and that you agree to be bound by them.  If you do not agree to be bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy, you may not use the 99% Invisible website and services. Enjoy 99pi? Subscribe to the podcast! Subscribe Subscribe Credits This bonus episode was produced and edited by Roman Mars. Mix by Martín Gonzalez. Music by Swan Real. Special thanks to Jamie Lasher, Dara Mihaly, and Sean Mihaly of Ignitours. You can do the exact same tour that I did with Jamie by going to getyourguide.com and searching for the Downtown Architecture and Public Art Tour. Jamie was so great. My family had a fantastic time.