# [99% Invisible] The Return of Con Law

**Source**: https://99percentinvisible.org/?p=45843
**Atlas ID**: 229836
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:31.013668

---

Episode 631 The Return of Con Law Play Pause Click to enlarge image History Category History Date 06.10.25 Producer 99PI Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Transcript Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Leave a Comment In President Trump’s first term, Roman Mars treated the U.S. Constitution like a warm blanket, something to turn to for comfort as Trump stomped all over the country’s laws and centuries of precedence. Roman even enlisted his neighbor and constitutional law professor, Elizabeth Joh, to co-host the podcast What Trump Can Teach Us About Con Law . But in Trump’s second term, Elizabeth says we the people must act as the warm blanket to the Constitution, lending it support and affirming our belief in its importance. And in order to do that, we must understand it. And so we bring you The 99% Invisible Breakdown: The Constitution . Each month, Roman and Elizabeth will tackle a different section of this 7600-word document so we can treat the Constitution as a text to be analyzed, dissecting its meaning and understanding the historical context and present-day applications. The second half of each episode will be an installment of What Trump Can Teach Us About Con Law , where we look at a recent event through the lens of constitutional law. Enjoy 99pi? Subscribe to the podcast! iTunes RSS Feed Get the latest from 99pi each week in your inbox Email Address Yes Please! By submitting this form, you acknowledge that you have read the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , that you understand them, and that you agree to be bound by them.  If you do not agree to be bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy, you may not use the 99% Invisible website and services. Enjoy 99pi? Subscribe to the podcast! Subscribe Subscribe Credits This episode was produced by Elizabeth Joe, Isabel Angel, and me, Roman Mars. Mixed by Martin Gonzalez. You can find us online at Learnconlaw.com . Our theme music is provided by Doomtree Records, the Midwest hip hop Collective. You can find out more about Doomtree Records, get merch and learn about who’s on tour at Doomtree.net . Additional music by Swan Rial and Epidemic Sound. We are part of the Sirius XM podcast family.