# [99% Invisible] Adapt or Design

**Source**: https://99percentinvisible.org/?p=45539
**Atlas ID**: 229837
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:31.013825

---

Episode 630 Adapt or Design Play Pause Click to enlarge image Objects Category Objects Date 06.02.25 Producer Kurt Kohlstedt Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Transcript Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Leave a Comment Last year, 99pi ‘s Kurt Kohlstedt suffered a serious injury that initially rendered his right arm and hand both completely numb and paralyzed. Tests revealed severe damage to his right brachial plexus, an essential network of nerves between the arm and spinal cord. Kurt was told to expect a partial recovery spanning years, and has since regained limited use of his impacted limb. New everyday challenges have led him to seek accessible design solutions, which in turn set the stage for Adapt or Design , a twelve-part project of 99% Invisible in three acts. A full set of summaries and links can be found at 99pi.org/adapt The first act is a six-article mini-series, Single Handed , that delves into inclusive designs for people with one functional hand. The second is a three-article micro-series, Broken Plexus , addressing assistive designs for long-haul recoveries. The third, dubbed Left to Write , is a three-piece set about adaptive one-handed keyboards and typing systems. In this episode, Kurt and Roman discuss AoD topics including immediate post-injury problems and solutions , such as laced shoe hacks , left-handed pants , magnetic backpack buckles , and adaptive e-reader accessories . They also compare various single-handed keyboard designs as well as Kurt’s custom system for one-handed touch-typing on a two-handed keyboard, which can be replicated across different computers and is freely available for anyone to download, set up, and adapt to their own needs ! This project marks the one-year anniversary of Kurt’s debilitating injury … but this year also features some more upbeat milestones, including: the fifth anniversary of The 99% Invisible City: A Field Guide to the Hidden World of Everyday Design , a New York Times Bestseller about built environments co-authored by Kurt Kohlstedt & Roman Mars. It will also be Kurt’s tenth year with 99pi this fall! 99% Invisible The 99% Invisible City: A Field Guide to… Article The 99% Invisible City: A Field Guide to the Hidden World of Everyday… Psst! Adapt or Design: A Project in Three Acts Wait. You’re still here, and not on main project hub page ?! Well then: below you’ll find a brief overview of each act as well as boxed links to the beginning articles of each constituent series. Explore and enjoy! 99% Invisible Single Handed (1 of 6): Design Adaptations… Article Single Handed (1 of 6): Design Adaptations for Living with One… First, Single Handed is a six article mini-series about adaptive designs for people operating with one functional hand. It centers on everyday challenges and accessible design solutions, including creative shoelace mods , left-handed pants , crossbody-hacked backpacks , assistive e-reader accessories, and more . 99% Invisible Broken Plexus (1 of 3): Designing a… Article Broken Plexus (1 of 3): Designing a Recovery Workbook to Work Out… Next, over the course of three articles, Broken Plexus covers designing an organized exercise workbook , optimizing slings and braces , and the seeking out apparel to accommodate sensory nerve damage . 99% Invisible Left to Write (1 of 3): Adaptive Keyboards… Article Left to Write (1 of 3): Adaptive Keyboards & Writing Technologies for… Lastly, Left to Write compares adaptive keyboards , reviews the iterative design process Kurt used to develop a custom one-handed keymap for touch-typing on two-handed keyboards, as well as instructions for converting your QWERTY into a single-handed KURTY . Visit 99pi.org/adapt to explore all of Adapt or Design Enjoy 99pi? Subscribe to the podcast! iTunes RSS Feed Get the latest from 99pi each week in your inbox Email Address Yes Please! By submitting this form, you acknowledge that you have read the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , that you understand them, and that you agree to be bound by them.  If you do not agree to be bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy, you may not use the 99% Invisible website and services. Enjoy 99pi? Subscribe to the podcast! Subscribe Subscribe Credits This episode was produced by Kurt Kohlstedt along with Roman Mars and Isabel Angell, and edited by Kelly Prime and Joe Rosenberg. Special Thanks Additional appreciation to Chris Hong for physical (and emotional) support in crafting versions of the KURTY Single-Handed Half-Board Keymap; plus Adapt or Design editorial assistance from David Kohlstedt, Sally Kohlstedt, and Michael Waggoner; as well as logo design input from Joanna Stagg and Veronica Vergoth. Shout out to MN Star for loaning me an array of assistive technology hardware; and gratitude to various neurologists, neurosurgeons, physical and occupational therapists, and other medical specialists, at the Mayo Clinic, Allina Health, Courage Kenny, and elsewhere for providing rehabilitation resources and assistance. Bonus thanks to my colleagues in general for your patience with an increasingly unwieldy project and story.