# [99% Invisible] A Beetle By Any Other Name

**Source**: https://99percentinvisible.org/?p=43974
**Atlas ID**: 229905
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:31.052384

---

The Titanic's Best Lifeboat - Episode Text Transcript - 99% Invisible Skip to Content Toggle Navigation Episodes Series The 99% Invisible Breakdown Not Built For This According to Need Judas and the Black Messiah Podcast Articles of Interest Articles About The Show The Staff Contact Press Sponsors Pitch Newsletter Subscribe SiriusXM Podcasts+ Apple Podcasts SiriusXM Pandora Ways to Listen Book Store Submit Search YouTube TikTok Instagram Threads Reddit Discord Bluesky 99% Invisible Newsletter 100% Fascinating Email Address Yes Please! By submitting this form, you acknowledge that you have read the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , that you understand them, and that you agree to be bound by them.  If you do not agree to be bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy, you may not use the 99% Invisible website and services. see recent newsletter Close Episode 632 The Titanic’s Best Lifeboat Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Transcript Category History Date 06.24.25 Producer Joe Rosenberg ROMAN MARS: This is 99% Invisible. I’m Roman Mars. [MY HEART WILL GO ON] ROMAN MARS: The 1997 blockbuster film Titanic is remembered for many things: this Celine Dion song that was everywhere, the sheer scale of the production, its record 11 Oscars, the names of its two main characters… ROSE DEWITT BUKATER: Jack! JACK DAWSON: Rose! ROSE DEWITT BUKATER: Jack! Jack! JACK DAWSON: Rose! ROSE DEWITT BUKATER: Jack! Jack! JACK DAWSON: Listen, Rose… ROMAN MARS: But in real life, the actual Titanic–the one that sank on April 15th, 1912–is mainly remembered for something else, so much so that James Cameron’s script couldn’t not mention it. ROSE DEWITT BUKATER: I did the sum in my head. And with the number of lifeboats times the capacity you mentioned–forgive me–but it seems that there are not enough for everyone aboard… THOMAS ANDREWS: About half, actually. Rose, you miss nothing, do you? ROMAN MARS: There are countless films about the Titanic, most of them called Titanic. And in almost all of them, the lack of lifeboats is kind of the whole point. BRUCE ISMAY We have lifeboats. We must launch them, at once. Get everyone off the ship. OFFICER: That won’t be entirely possible… PASSENGER: They say it’s nothing, but they’re lying. There’s water below. And now somebody says there aren’t enough lifeboats for the men! ROMAN MARS: Even the Nazis took time away from the war, in 1943, to discuss the matter of lifeboats in their own Titanic film, Titanic. OFFICER: Die Titanic zinkt! PASSENGER: Die Titanic zinkt? Aber wir haben immer noch ein Rettungsboot. OFFICER: Das Rettungsboot wird für den dritten Teil der Passagiere ausreichen… JOE ROSENBERG: The Titanic lifeboat narrative is so ingrained in our collective consciousness at this point that when I informed my dad that I was working on an episode about the Titanic, before I had a chance to say anything more, he just blurted out, “Ah, yes, if only they had carried more lifeboats.” ROMAN MARS: That’s 99PI producer Joe Rosenberg. JOE ROSENBERG: Because, film or no film, it’s just something we’ve all grown up learning–that when the RMS Titanic set out on its maiden voyage, the owners and authorities, confident that the ship was unsinkable, did not require it to carry a full complement of lifeboats. ROMAN MARS: So, when the Titanic collided with an iceberg and sank in the frigid waters of the North Atlantic, roughly 1,500 passengers–more than half of the people on board–died for lack of lifeboat space. JOE ROSENBERG: And look, it’s true there weren’t enough lifeboats for everyone on the Titanic. It’s also true that, ever since, international regulations have required large passenger ships to carry enough life boats for all on board. But the more you learn about the history of lifeboats and how they worked, the more you realize that the standard story about Titanic’s lifeboats isn’t entirely correct. ROMAN MARS: For most of human history, the onboard lifeboat you are likely picturing in your head right now did not exist. A ship might have a boat, but it wasn’t there to save lives. JOE ROSENBERG: Even as late as the 18th century, on a typical wooden sailing ship, what few boats were on board were mostly for taking cargo and a few crew members to and from shore. But there were no boats for the whole crew to get on just in case the ship sank. For starters, there wouldn’t have been any room. Decks in the age of sail were busy, crowded places with lots of gear and rigging. ROMAN MARS: If Jack had tried to pull that King of the World crap on a British man-of-war, he would have been shoved overboard. JOE ROSENBERG: So, if your ship did sink, there wasn’t much you could do. You might try to signal for help by firing a cannon or lighting a fire and hope that someone came to your rescue. But for the most part, things were very improvisational. JOE ROSENBERG: Did crews in the early modern period train or organize for sinking scenarios? What would have been the standard procedure, if anything? HELEN DOE: “Trained,” I think, is probably too strong a word. JOE ROSENBERG: Right. And so was it every man for himself, or was it– HELEN DOE: It would depend on how well you got on with your shipmates, I guess. JOE ROSENBERG: Helen Doe is a maritime historian who has written about the early history of lifeboats in the UK. Helen says that most shipwrecks actually occur near shore. But even if someone on shore saw your distress signal, you couldn’t always count on the lousy landlubbers to save you. Yes, there were many daring and heroic rescues, but sometimes the locals either didn’t have any boats or took one look at the rough seas and thought, “You know what? I’m good here.” ROMAN MARS: Given the odds involved, the only real strategy when it came to maritime safety was not to sink. No one gave much, if any, thought to how to save lives once you started sinking. HELEN DOE: And let’s also remember that there was a different view of attitudes to life and death. Life was short, it could be very brutal. So, the early mariners were very phlegmatic about drowning. A lot of them deliberately would not learn to swim because they considered that–should they be in the sea–it would just prolong their agony. JOE ROSENBERG: Wow. I was actually going to ask if that was another kind of urban legend, but that is very true. HELEN DOE: That’s very true, and it’s the way things were. ROMAN MARS: At least until 1785. That’s when a British carriage-builder, named Lionel Lukin, filed a patent for the world’s first known boat designed with the specific purpose of saving lives at sea. Lukin’s key innovation was to line the boat’s hull with sealed air pockets and cork to help keep it buoyant, even in the most difficult conditions. HELEN DOE: It was just called an “unimmergible.” A wonderful word, “unimmergible boat” was his pamphlet for his patent. JOE ROSENBERG: Yeah, it really rolls off the tongue in a late 18th century kind of way. JOE ROSENBERG: Less than a decade later, the Englishmen William Woudhave and Henry Greathead improved on Lukin’s design. Their boat’s hull rose steeply upward at both ends so that only the middle of the boat would ever take on water, while the bow and stern remained above the waterline, making it even more difficult to sink. It could also accommodate a crew of 12. HELEN DOE: Because when you get out to a wreck, you’ve got the wind and the weather, you have got flotsam and jetsam all over the place, so you’re trying to manage the boat, keep the boat steady, and have people there who can get somebody over the side of the boat. If you’ve ever tried to take a body–a live person–out of the water, over the side of a boat, you’ll know what I mean. Not easy. JOE ROSENBERG: But perhaps the most important improvement was that the boat wouldn’t capsize. HELEN DOE: This was not just unimmergible, it would right itself as well. There’s a difference between not sinking and also something that, when it turns over, automatically rights itself. This is one of the earliest ideas for a self-righting boat. ROMAN MARS: And somewhere along the way, these unimmergible, self-righting, life-saving vessels were finally dubbed “lifeboats.” JOE ROSENBERG: Now, you might think of a lifeboat as being, by definition, a boat that goes on a ship. But there still wasn’t enough room for lifeboats on a ship’s deck at this point. So, instead, the earliest lifeboats were meant to be launched by people on shore, not unlike Coast Guard rescue boats today. That meant people on board a sinking ship still didn’t have any reliable way to save themselves. ROMAN MARS: But that changed in the mid-nineteenth century, when the Age of Sail gave way to the Age of Steam. A steamship’s engine was tucked away inside its hull. With no sails or rigging to bother with, the deck could finally be put to other uses, including lifeboats. JOE ROSENBERG: Transatlantic steamers also carried a lot more passengers, at first hundreds and eventually thousands, many of them immigrants bound for the Americas. JOE ROSENBERG: Did they bill it as safer than the sailing ships? HELEN DOE: Well, no, they didn’t bill it necessarily as safer because–you’ve got to remember–early steamships did have a nasty propensity occasional to blow up, which slightly alarmed some people. JOE ROSENBERG: And so, with an eye towards customer safety, shipping companies slowly began putting more and more lifeboats on board. ROMAN MARS: But what they found was that, although lifeboats launched from shore performed well, lifeboats on ships were rarely able to save anyone. MIKE BRADY: The simple fact was that the presence of lifeboats on a ship was no guarantee of survival. JOE ROSENBERG: Mike Brady is a maritime history researcher and the creator of the YouTube channel OceanLiner Designs. Mike says lifeboats on ships were only useful in ideal situations, when the water was calm and you were sinking slowly and close to land. But the rest of the time, lifeboats were a gamble. ROMAN MARS: Shipboard lifeboats were more ungainly and cheaply built than their shore-based counterparts. They were designed to carry as many passengers as possible, not a rescue crew. And mariners quickly realized that it’s one thing to send a boat into a raging sea from shore and pick up survivors, it’s quite another to get people onto a boat from a moving deck and then lower that boat into the raging storm. MIKE BRADY: It’s just not happening because if a, you know, 400-foot-long ship struggled, then you would not want to point to a relatively tiny 30-foot wooden boat and say, “Don’t worry, this is what will save you.” ROMAN MARS: If your ship was severely listing–that is tilting too much to one side–then already you could only get half your boats off. The other half would get stuck against the ship’s exposed hull. And even the boats you could lower would encounter some serious problems. MIKE BRADY: Imagine the ship’s listing over about 15, 20 degrees to one side. The boat is then swinging too far out. You’ve got boats that are being lowered down–maybe successfully–but then being smashed back against the hull of the ship and spilling their occupants out into the sea. JOE ROSENBERG: And that’s if the crew didn’t drop you, which sometimes they did. ROMAN MARS: An onboard lifeboat is generally attached with ropes to a crane called a davit. In those early days, the crew was supposed to lower the boat from the davit into the water by slowly letting the ropes out by hand. But a lifeboat could weigh multiple tons. And exhausted, panicked mariners could sometimes lose their grip. MIKE BRADY: But the other part of it is that, in order for lifeboats to actually work–in order for the theory to play out that passengers board these lifeboats and they’ve escaped the sinking of ship–then the question is, now what? JOE ROSENBERG: Even piloted by a trained crew member, a lifeboat was open-topped at the mercy of the elements and often had few or no provisions. Okay if you’re close to land, but not if you are far out at sea. HELEN DOE: Some of the concern was, well, is it going to be a good idea to have lots of people in small boats in the middle of the Atlantic when there’s just going to be greater risk of exposure and less likelihood of being rescued? To what purpose? MIKE BRADY: And plenty of lifeboats that did successfully get away from sinking ships simply disappeared or were found decades later washed up with their complement dead inside–all over the world. JOE ROSENBERG: But perhaps the worst case scenario was what happened to the SS Clallam, a small passenger steamer that ran into trouble in heavy seas off the coast of British Columbia. ROMAN MARS: Certain the ship was sinking, the men nobly lowered the women and children into the ship’s only three lifeboats. Two tipped during lowering. The third capsized in the waves. All of the women and children died. Most of the men, who stayed on board the ship, were rescued the next morning. MIKE BRADY: It’s a shocking thing that to go for the lifeboat–to actually go for this thing that’s designed to save your life–seals your fate. And it cements probably in the public mind a little bit, when they see disasters like this, that–yeah–the lifeboat is possibly useful in some scenarios, but probably stands as more of a symbol of absolute last resort, absolute this is all we’ve got, rather than a tried and trusty safety feature that is your first option. JOE ROSENBERG: If anything, lifeboats were kind of like the old-fashioned version of the life vest under your seat. Do you know if those things work? I don’t either. You just hope it doesn’t come to that. ROMAN MARS: But at the turn of the 20th century, the shipping industry hit upon a new strategy–one that would have long-term consequences for safety at sea. MIKE BRADY: Because eventually, as the technology is beginning to improve, shipping companies turn their focus to the ships themselves–and the ship becomes the lifeboat. ROMAN MARS: “The ship becomes the lifeboat” may sound like a contradiction in terms, but it marked a new paradigm in shipbuilding. JOE ROSENBERG: The idea behind this new mantra, “the ship is its own best lifeboat,” was to make ships so sturdy, so reliable, with so many safety features and redundancies, that there would rarely be any need to get in an actual lifeboat. Instead, in most emergencies, the safest boat would be the ship itself. ROMAN MARS: In this new way of thinking, collisions were still best avoided. But they were ultimately okay because these new ships could take a hit. JOE ROSENBERG: Ships began to be constructed with stronger plated steel and with crucial redundancies such as double-bottomed hulls. A hull would also have multiple compartments sealed with water-tight bulkheads so that any flooding from a breach could be contained to a small area and the ship could stay afloat. Ships were also getting bigger, which made them stabler in rough seas. TIM MALTIN: Size is definitely equated with safety. JOE ROSENBERG: Tim Maltin is a historian, author, and television presenter. And he says that ocean liner passengers, when given the choice, always went for the biggest, newest ships. TIM MALTIN: Some of the immigrants traveling would only travel in a four-funnel vessel because they would regard it as safer than a three-funnel vessel and safer than two-funnels and safer than a one-funnell vessel. So, it was kind of like the more funnels you had, the safer she was. JOE ROSENBERG: And even if your big four-funnel vessel did sink, it was now more likely to sink slowly over the course of several hours instead of a few minutes. MIKE BRADY: And that was no mistake. A lot of thought had gone into not just how the ship would behave in the event that she almost sinks, but actually how she would behave in the event that she did sink. ROMAN MARS: Almost every new ocean liner in the early 20th century was described in casual conversation as “unsinkable.” But the ships’ designers never totally believed it. Instead, they believed that, in the last resort, a ship should be designed to sink well. JOE ROSENBERG: But it wasn’t just the ship that was safer. As more and more passenger vessels made their way across the Atlantic, the ocean itself was no longer a vast empty place with no other soul in sight. Tim says it was more like a busy freeway. TIM MALTIN: And in fact, you couldn’t go about anywhere you wanted on the North Atlantic. There were very strict lanes, both for east going traffic and west going traffic. And those lanes were 60 miles apart. And the idea was that there would always be a ship coming along. ROMAN MARS: But the linchpin that really made everything come together wasn’t just bigger ships or stronger ships or subdivided ships or even more ships. It was that, if your ship got into any trouble, you could finally call for help. MIKE BRADY: The introduction of the Marconi wireless telegraph–this cannot be overstated as being the biggest development probably in safety of life at sea at the time because suddenly ships didn’t have to be within visual distance. They could communicate with each other around the clock out to 400, 500 miles at night time. And it meant that suddenly the ships out at sea that were forming a vast highway formed basically a communications network. JOE ROSENBERG: Now, if your ship was sinking, a radio message could be sent out and picked up by nearby vessels in the ship’s sea lane, who could then come to the rescue. MIKE BRADY: And the idea becomes that if a ship does somehow start to sink, then it will sink slowly enough and evenly enough that help will be able to come and all the passengers will be able to be transferred off the vessel. JOE ROSENBERG: But at the same time as all these innovations–perhaps even because of them–the design of shipboard lifeboats changed very little. Instead, they took on a far humbler and frankly more achievable role. TIM MALTIN: Lifeboats were not an end destination. Lifeboats were purely to ferry people to a nearby waiting liner. JOE ROSENBERG: So, even as ocean liners grew larger and larger, their builders never saw any need for a full complement of lifeboats. Between any two ships, there’d be enough, with plenty of time for them to make multiple trips between vessels. ROMAN MARS: Now that the ship was its own lifeboat, the idea of providing simultaneous lifeboat space for everyone was never taken seriously. MIKE BRADY: It’s just considered ridiculous because you’re relying on conditions actually even being good enough to get everybody into the boats and to get those boats away safely and for those people to survive an extended period of time in open top boats. It seems so inconceivable there would ever be a scenario where all of those things happen. ROMAN MARS: Until, on April 1912, they did. FREDERICK FLEET: Is there anyone there? JAMES PAUL MOODY: Yes, what do you see? FREDERICK FLEET: Iceberg, right ahead! ROMAN MARS: That’s after this… [AD BREAK] ROMAN MARS: And we’re back with producer Joe Rosenberg. JOE ROSENBERG: We like to tell a certain story about the Titanic, about human beings’ hubris, about overconfident designers and reckless ship owners, all drunk on a kind of unbridled, pre-World War techno-optimism, and of course about how all that misplaced pride is the reason there weren’t enough lifeboats on the night the Titanic sank. And that’s true. But it’s also not the truth. TIM MALTIN: These are not easy things to talk about what went wrong because, like, all the things that people think went wrong–they did not go wrong and they are not the things that went wrong. JOE ROSENBERG: Both Tim MaltIn and Mike Brady say there is a lot the standard narrative has backward, starting with the fact that, as forms of travel go, the RMS Titanic, operated by White Star Lines and launched in April 1912, actually was exceptionally safe. TIM MALTIN: Yeah, I mean, Joe, I don’t want to shock the listeners, but I think the White Star Line and Titanic did pretty much everything right. MIKE BRADY: Yeah, in 1912, there’s absolutely no question that the Titanic was the best built and safest passenger ship to be on. All the lessons they’d put into place, all the lessons that learned the hard way from horrible loss of life, but then also the lessons learned from when things went extremely well–and Titanic was the culmination of all of this learning. JOE ROSENBERG: Everything mentioned earlier–the double-bottomed hull, the extensive compartmentalization, and the sheer size of Titanic–all of it worked to the ocean liner’s advantage. ROMAN MARS: As for lifeboats, it was well known that the requirements set by the British Board of Trade hadn’t kept up with the size of the newest ships. To compensate, White Star Lines both reduced the total number of passengers on Titanic and added four additional collapsible lifeboats just in case. JOE ROSENBERG: Taken all together, the Titanic really was its own best lifeboat. That didn’t mean it couldn’t sink. ROMAN MARS: On the night of April 14, 1912, the passengers and crew of the Titanic all marveled at a North Atlantic Ocean that was unusually calm, clear, and cold. Ice warnings had been issued from ships ahead of Titanic in the sea lane, so the crew were keeping a keen eye out for icebergs. JOE ROSENBERG: At 11:39 p.m., Titanic’s forward lookouts spotted an iceberg straight ahead. With the captain off duty, the course of action fell to the bridge’s ranking officer. What followed was a Rube Goldberg-like sequence of events that would see each of the Titanic’s safety features defeated one by one. ROMAN MARS: Starting with its compartmentalized steel hull because, under normal circumstances, the hull could have handled hitting the iceberg. TIM MALTIN: So, in the inquiry afterwards, it was asked what would have happened if Titanic had gone straight on into the iceberg without even trying to move left or right. And they calculated that Titanic would have stayed afloat. It would have squashed in her first few compartments, but it would be like a motor car putting on its brakes. JOE ROSENBERG: Except doing that probably would have killed several dozen crew members. So, the Titanic’s ranking officer on deck did something that likely made sense at the time. He ordered the crew to stop the engines and turn the ship in an effort to avoid a collision. ROMAN MARS: But the maneuver was executed too late. And instead of missing the ship or colliding with it head on, the iceberg scraped along Titanic’s right starboard side. TIM MALTIN: So, Titanic was designed to have a collision with any vessel, however you like, okay? She was also designed to, like, ram into a rock or something like that or a lighthouse or land or a cliff. JOE ROSENBERG: Or an iceberg! TIM MALTIN: Exactly. But what she wasn’t designed to do is have the kind of side swipe down the first 200 feet of the ship. JOE ROSENBERG: Those few hundred feet were one of the most vulnerable parts of Titanic, a section below the waterline but above the ship’s double layered bottom. ROMAN MARS: The iceberg ground against the single layered hull, buckling the rivets between its steel plates. Water began leaking into several of Titanic’s forward compartments. JOE ROSENBERG: The Titanic could have up to four of her front compartments flooded and still not sink–an exceptional degree of redundancy. TIM MALTIN: And in fact, the damage wasn’t that much. The problem with the damage was that it was into that crucial fifth compartment. So, unfortunately, that was her Achilles heel in the sense of it was outside her design envelope. ROMAN MARS: One by one, the five compartments began to flood. TIM MALTIN: And that meant that the weight of water in the first five compartments–they dragged the Titanic down by the bow. And then, if you imagine an ice cube tray that you’re filling with water, what happened was that as they pulled down the top of the bulkhead in the next compartment, the water would overflow into the next and the next and the next. ROMAN MARS: Eventually, all of the compartments would be compromised. The Titanic was going to sink. JOE ROSENBERG: But the Titanic wasn’t totally defeated yet because, as expected, there was another ship in Titanic’s sea lane close enough to come to the rescue: The California. ROMAN MARS: The Titanic’s captain had already ordered the radio operator to send out a distress signal strong enough for the Californian to hear. From there, the rescue effort was supposed to play out calmly and rationally, just as it had with other recent sinkings. TIM MALTIN: What’s interesting is, in 1912, there was no 24-hour radio watch. And unfortunately, the radio operator of the Californian had actually turned in for the night just before Titanic sent a distress signal. JOE ROSENBERG: Shipboard radios were still a new technology. At the time, their focus was on transmitting private correspondence. It just hadn’t occurred to anyone yet that no one would be listening when a ship was in trouble. ROMAN MARS: Against all planning and odds, everything now hinged on Titanic’s last and least reliable line of defense: its lifeboats. JOE ROSENBERG: And let’s be clear, this is not the part of the story where the lifeboats come in and save the day and all of their weaknesses turn out to be strengths. The lifeboats did what lifeboats normally did. They [BLEEP] sucked. ROMAN MARS: The Titanic’s crew had never performed a lifeboat drill at sea. And when the women and children were ordered to abandon ship, the ship’s davit system for launching the lifeboats turned out to be incredibly difficult to operate. Passengers hustled onto the deck on a freezing, moonless night–watched as the tiny, open-topped boats jerked and creaked and banged against the hull on their long way down to the invisible water eight stories below. Understandably, at first, most people refused to get on them. JOE ROSENBERG: And while the lifeboats were glitching their way down to the water, the Titanic was doing its job. It was sinking well–maybe, if anything, too well. MIKE BRADY: Her design had been that she would sink evenly and slowly. And that’s exactly what Titanic does. So, the ship is sinking very, very slightly. So, passengers can’t tell that it’s sinking. TIM MALTIN: So, actually, Titanic looks at this time absolutely fine. She’s warm. The lights are on. The band is playing. People are having drinks at the bar. Why would I take that risk of going in a tiny rowing boat when I can clearly take my chances with the biggest ship in the world? JOE ROSENBERG: Making matters worse, word had spread among the passengers that a distress signal had gone out. They didn’t yet understand that the only ship close enough had never received it. Everything around the passengers flashed the same reassuring and now familiar message over and over again: The ship was what was safe. The ship was the lifeboat. ROMAN MARS: The passengers’ faith in the ship made an already terrible situation even worse. With most people refusing to board the lifeboats, the first took off only half loaded. One boat, with a capacity of 40, was launched with seven crew members and just five passengers. JOE ROSENBERG: Only when the deck’s sharpening angle became obvious did the thousands of passengers still on board, many who had just arrived on deck from second and third class, scramble to save themselves. The surge caused the later round of lifeboats to go off severely overloaded. ROMAN MARS: In the rush, the ropes for lowering one of the boats got stuck and had to be sawed through by hand with a penknife. A different boat barely avoided being crushed when another was almost lowered on top of it. Another flipped over before entering the water. And some passengers attempted to jump onto boats from the deck above and missed. But all of that only served to mask a more fundamental problem. MIKE BRADY: So, the question is, would more boats have made a difference? I think there were enough crew to get the boats away, but the time was so narrow and so limited. In fact, the crew worked so hard, even though it was literally freezing outside. Second Officer Charles Lightoller–he was soaked with sweat to get all the boats away. So, the crew worked like absolute lions, but they still just ran out of time. ROMAN MARS: The lifeboat simply took too long to lower into the water. Ultimately, the crew was only just able to set off the last of the regular boats and two of the spare collapsible boats that Titanic’s designers added earlier. The last two collapsibles were never launched. JOE ROSENBERG: Even with better training, the crew could only have launched a handful more boats–nowhere near enough for the 1,500 people still on board. MIKE BRADY: So, I don’t see there being enough time. You’re not going to be getting 40 or 50 boats off Titanic in the space of an hour. JOE ROSENBERG: The truth is, no number or arrangement of lifeboats was going to work. ROMAN MARS: But when the survivors were picked up later that morning and the world learned what had happened, none of this mattered because the same implausible sequence of events that made Titanic look bad made lifeboats look great. TIM MALTIN: And the reason for that is that the only people that were rescued from the Titanic were all in lifeboats. ROMAN MARS: What most people didn’t realize, including many survivors, was that this was only because of the very particular conditions of that one night. JOE ROSENBERG: Instead of the normally rough North Atlantic waters, in which lifeboats often floundered, the ocean on the night of the sinking was universally described as a sea of glass. They didn’t know it, but this was life-saving for the survivors crowded into small, open-topped, severely overloaded boats. ROMAN MARS: Meanwhile, the ocean water, which freezes at a lower temperature than freshwater, was 28 degrees Fahrenheit. Of the people with life jackets who did not make it onto a lifeboat before the ship sank, only a tiny handful survived. TIM MALTIN: One gentleman had strapped himself to a door, another one was on a staircase that was floating. In other words, people who’d managed to keep themselves out of the water–they were still alive. JOE ROSENBERG: Oh, so someone really did survive on a door. That’s not just movie magic. TIM MALTIN: No, that is one of the true things in the film. ROMAN MARS: In the immediate wake of the disaster, the stark math of who survived and who didn’t provided the Titanic’s story with a simple moral. Lifeboats meant life. MIKE BRADY: Never mind the fact, of course, that were conditions to be any different, Titanic’s boats probably wouldn’t have performed as well. The big lesson gets distilled down to if there had been more lifeboats on Titanic, more people would have survived. JOE ROSENBERG: It’s impossible to overstate just how quickly this belief took hold in the public imagination after the Titanic disaster–that if a ship got into trouble, your best way to survive was to get on a lifeboat. And therefore, it was critical that a ship have enough lifeboats for every person on board. ROMAN MARS: Ship designers and veteran seamen of the time knew that, in most scenarios, onboard lifeboats remained of only limited use. But it didn’t matter. JOE ROSENBERG: Two weeks after the Titanic sank, the crew of another White Star ocean liner actually went on strike, refusing to work until the ship carried enough lifeboats for everyone. MIKE BRADY: Yeah, so it’s a full-blooded mutiny. But it was a statement. “If there aren’t enough boats for all of us, we’re not going to work.” And that had not happened before. You know, the crews of ships hadn’t really thought that way ever. So, it is a huge departure and a huge shift towards awareness for safety for all at sea, not just for passengers. JOE ROSENBERG: In 1914, just two years later, an international treaty made the practice of lifeboats for all mandatory. That treaty, called SOLAS, for Safety of Life at Sea, has been signed by 168 countries and is still in effect today. ROMAN MARS: Ironically, that requirement is more useful now than it was in 1914. The world may have learned the wrong lesson from Titanic, but since then, lifeboat technology has caught up with our expectations. They’re still only to be used as a last resort. Even now, the ship remains its own best lifeboat. But modern lifeboats can be launched faster and are far safer on the water than their 20th century predecessors. And on very rare occasions, having enough lifeboats for everyone has actually proven crucial. JOE ROSENBERG: So, I guess, even if it’s not the lesson we should have learned from the Titanic, in the final analysis, it turns out everyone really does deserve a spot on a lifeboat–even Jack. JOE ROSENBERG: I really think there’s only one question to ask when it comes to Titanic, which is: Was there space for Jack on that door, or would he have taken them both down with him? MIKE BRADY: I like that James Cameron took that so seriously. He tested it recently with two actors in a tank. JOE ROSENBERG: He did? Oh, I didn’t know this! He did? MIKE BRADY: He did. He got a replica of the panel and two people about the same size as Jack and Rose and found conclusively that two people on the panel could have survived. JOE ROSENBERG: I knew it! I knew it! I knew it this whole time! ROMAN MARS: 99% Invisible was produced this week by Joe Rosenberg, and edited by Lasha Madan. Additional editing by Kelly Prime. Mix by Martín Gonzalez. Music by Swan Real and George Langford. Fact-checking by Graham Hacia. Special thanks this week to our guest Helen Doe. Helen’s book One Crew is a history of the first ever nation-wide lifeboat service, Britain’s Royal National Lifeboat Institution. We ended up cutting a whole section of this story about the RNLI’s incredible history, so we strongly recommend you check out Helen’s book. We’ll have links to that, as well as more work from Tim Maltin, and Mike Brady’s youtube channel Oceanliner Designs, on our website. Kathy Tu is our executive producer. Kurt Kohlstedt is our digital director. Delaney Hall is our senior editor. The rest of the team includes Chris Berube, Jayson De Leon, Emmett FitzGerald, Christopher Johnson, Vivian Le, Jeyca Medina-Gleason, and me, Roman Mars. The 99% Invisible logo was created by Stefan Lawrence. We are part of the SiriusXM Podcast Family, now headquartered six blocks north in the Pandora building… in beautiful… uptown… Oakland, California. You can find us on all the usual social media sites–mostly Bluesky these days–as well as our own Discord server. There’s a link to that, as well as every past episode of 99PI, at 99pi.org. Episode Credits This episode was produced by Joe Rosenberg, and edited by Lasha Madan. Additional editing by Kelly Prime. Mix by Martín Gonzalez. Music by Swan Real and George Langford. Fact-checking by Graham Hacia. Special thanks this week to our guest Helen Doe. Helen’s book One Crew is a history of the first ever nation-wide lifeboat service, Britain’s Royal National Lifeboat Institution. We ended up cutting a whole section of this story about the RNLI’s incredible history, so we strongly recommend you check out Helen’s book. We’ll have links to that, as well as more work from Tim Maltin, and Mike Brady’s youtube channel Oceanliner Designs, on our website. Explore Architecture Infrastructure Cities Objects Sounds Visuals Technology History More in History The Infantorium Episode 381 - The Infantorium Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Mini-Stories: Volume 1 Episode 241 - Mini-Stories: Volume 1 Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Rounding Down: 40+ Popular Stories From the... 99PI - Rounding Down: 40+ Popular Stories From the... Welcome to Jurassic Art Redux Episode 439 - Welcome to Jurassic Art Redux Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Return of the Yokai Episode 403 - Return of the Yokai Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download The Kirkbride Plan Episode 373 - The Kirkbride Plan Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Archives The Yin and Yang of Basketball Episode 199 - The Yin and Yang of Basketball Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Roman Mars Describes Chicago As It Is Episode GX 01 - Roman Mars Describes Chicago As It Is Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Knox Boxes to the Rescue: In Case of... Kurt Kohlstedt - Knox Boxes to the Rescue: In Case of... Home on Lagrange Episode 217 - Home on Lagrange Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Roman Mars Describes Santa Fe As It Is Episode GX 02 - Roman Mars Describes Santa Fe As It Is Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Hostile Terrain: Tank Traps, Fake Towns... Kurt Kohlstedt - Hostile Terrain: Tank Traps, Fake Towns... Leave a Comment Share Share on Twitter Share on Facebook Share on Tumblr Share via Email Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Δ More in History Kurt Kohlstedt - Floor M: Avoiding Unlucky Numbers Amounts to Design by Omission Cultural fears of specific numbers can lead to... [Read More] Episode 472 - Mini-Stories: Volume 13 Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Transcript Episode 610 - Mini-Stories: Volume 20 Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Transcript Episode 470 - The Three Santas of Slovenia Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Transcript All Categories Architecture Infrastructure Cities Objects Sounds Visuals Technology History © 99% Invisible Privacy Policy & Terms of Service Cookie settings Episodes Articles About Store Support the Show Your donations are vital to keeping us independent and strong! Contributions are used for: Paying our exceptional staff Paying outside contributors Travel costs for more ambitious stories Weekly Pakistani buffet Donate Newsletter Signup Hey there beautiful nerd! Sign up to for the 99PI newsletter to get our 1/week email with: Excerpts and links to latest episodes and articles Periodic, exclusive updates on 99PI goings-on Email Address Yes Please! By clicking this box, you acknowledge that you have read the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , that you understand them, and that you agree to be bound by them.  If you do not agree to be bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy, you may not use the 99% Invisible website and services. Minimize Maximize Play Pause Mute Unmute Previous in Playlist Jump backward 15 seconds | Jump forward 15 seconds Next in Playlist Update Required To play the media you will need to update your browser to a version that supports HTML5. Minimize Maximize Playlist Playlist Drag and drop to reorder. Your playlist is stored within your cookies, clearing your browser data may remove your playlist. Nothing here yet! Feel free to browse the archives to add episodes. More