# [99% Invisible] Revisiting The 99% Invisible City

**Source**: https://99percentinvisible.org/?p=34212
**Atlas ID**: 229824
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:31.011257

---

Episode 416 Revisiting The 99% Invisible City Play Pause Alt cover design by Raphael Geroni Click to enlarge image Cities Category Cities Date 09.09.25 Producer Kurt Kohlstedt Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Transcript Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Leave a Comment We’re excited to celebrate the 5th anniversary of The 99% Invisible City, a NYT Bestseller by Roman Mars and Kurt Kohlstedt , with a guided audio tour of beautiful downtown Oakland, California. Together, we’ll dive into different everyday designs , using examples from the blocks around our old office as jumping-off points. You can also order the book today on Amazon , Barnes & Noble , and Bookshop (internationally: the UK , Canada and Australia ). The audiobook read by Roman is available on Audible and Libro.fm . A limited number of signed copies are also in stock at B&N! Interior book layouts designed by Raphael Geroni in collaboration with the authors and HMH In this episode, we explain how anchor plates help hold up brick walls; why metal fire escapes are mostly found on older buildings; what impact camouflaging defensive designs has on public spaces; who benefits from those spray-painted markings on city streets, and more. https://99percentinvisible.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/99pi-city-book-release-video.mp4 Drawing from stories in the book, we talk about everything from stoplights and crosswalks to speed cushions and easement plaques. Some of these elements you’ve probably noticed before, but you’re still bound to learn something new about the roles they play in cities. The 99% Invisible City chapter five book illustration by Patrick Vale Then stick around for a behind-the-scenes look at the book as we answer a series of fan-submitted questions about how it was created, delving into the writing , illustration , and design processes . 99% Invisible 99% Revealed: Graphic Design Surprises… Article 99% Revealed: Graphic Design Surprises Hidden Inside The 99pi City In The 99% Invisible City: A Field Guide to the Hidden World of Everyday Design , Roman and Kurt uncover engaging stories about all the thought that goes into our cities. Over the course of 400 pages, we explore the origins and other fascinating tales behind power grids, fire hydrants, street signs, safety patterns, and so much more. 99% Invisible Limited Edition: Order Your Signed Copy of… Article Limited Edition: Order Your Signed Copy of The 99% Invisible City With beautiful line drawings throughout by artist Patrick Vale , this volume will captivate anyone curious about design processes, urban environments, and the unsung marvels of the world around them. Check out our book page for more info , including tour recordings, book reviews, special offers, and other 99% Invisible City details! 99% Invisible The 99% Invisible City: A Field Guide to… Article The 99% Invisible City: A Field Guide to the Hidden World of Everyday… Enjoy 99pi? Subscribe to the podcast! iTunes RSS Feed Get the latest from 99pi each week in your inbox Email Address Yes Please! By submitting this form, you acknowledge that you have read the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , that you understand them, and that you agree to be bound by them.  If you do not agree to be bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy, you may not use the 99% Invisible website and services. Enjoy 99pi? Subscribe to the podcast! Subscribe Subscribe