# [99% Invisible] The 99PI Anniversary Special: 15 for 15

**Source**: https://99percentinvisible.org/?p=46178
**Atlas ID**: 229825
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:31.011398

---

Episode 641 The 99PI Anniversary Special: 15 for 15 Play Pause Click to enlarge image History Category History Date 09.02.25 Producer 99PI Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Transcript Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Leave a Comment This year marks the 15th anniversary of 99% Invisible! If our little design podcast were a person, it would be old enough to have a provisional driver’s license in some states or celebrate a quinceañera. Since we first launched on September 3rd, 2010, we’ve spent 15 years telling stories about design, architecture, and the choices we make that shape our world. That’s 15 years of taking the time to stop and read the plaque, and 15 years of you, our incredible listeners, sending us the most amazing observations about the built environment that we never would have noticed on our own. To celebrate this milestone, we decided to do something a little different. Instead of our usual deep dive into one particular design story, Roman Mars is answering 15 eclectic questions submitted by listeners and staff – questions about the show, about design, and about Roman himself. This anniversary episode offers a behind-the-scenes look at the stories and people that have made 99% Invisible what it is today. It’s our way of celebrating all the invisible things that have become a little more visible over the past decade and a half. Enjoy 99pi? Subscribe to the podcast! iTunes RSS Feed Get the latest from 99pi each week in your inbox Email Address Yes Please! By submitting this form, you acknowledge that you have read the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , that you understand them, and that you agree to be bound by them.  If you do not agree to be bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy, you may not use the 99% Invisible website and services. Enjoy 99pi? Subscribe to the podcast! Subscribe Subscribe Credits This episode was produced and edited by Vivian Le. Mix by Martín Gonzalez. Music by Swan Real. Special thanks to our wonderful listeners who submitted questions for Roman to answer!