# [99% Invisible] Neil Young’s iPod Killer

**Source**: https://99percentinvisible.org/?p=45746
**Atlas ID**: 229830
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:31.012438

---

Episode 635 Neil Young’s iPod Killer Play Pause Click to enlarge image Objects Category Objects Date 07.15.25 Producer Chris Berube Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Transcript Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Leave a Comment Neil Young is one of the most decorated and popular musicians of the 20th century. But he’s much more than a legend of classic rock. In fact, he’s taken some pretty big swings throughout his storied career. He’s filled an entire California ranch house with model trains. He’s made an experimental electronic music album that baffled his fans. He even directed a baffling sci-fi film starring the band Devo . But perhaps his most radical experiment was his attempt to build a music player that would rival the iPod. Young’s device, called Pono after the Hawaiian word for “righteous”, rolled out in 2015. It took the form of a yellow equilateral triangle, and was marketed as a way to listen to higher quality audio files, and experience a richer sound quality than what was available from tech giants like Apple. Young recruited celebrity pals like Tom Petty and Elton John to hype up his new music player, and promised that listeners would fall in love with higher resolution audio. But ultimately, it never found an audience. Critics were very mixed on the Pono, with some arguing the listening experience was no better than the cheaper audio players already on the market. After a few short years, Young stopped producing Ponos, and the curio was largely forgotten, or remembered only as a punchline. But for the device’s tenth anniversary, writer Nate Rogers has made a reappraisal, provocatively titled “What if we were Wrong About Pono?” In it, he argues Neil Young and his cohorts were ahead of their time, and that the yellow triangular bauble looks a whole lot better after a decade of devaluing music and the people who make it. Perhaps the Pono is a noble project, one we just weren’t ready for. Phil Baker and Neil Young wrote a book about their experience with the Pono in 2019, called To Feel the Music . Enjoy 99pi? Subscribe to the podcast! iTunes RSS Feed Get the latest from 99pi each week in your inbox Email Address Yes Please! By submitting this form, you acknowledge that you have read the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , that you understand them, and that you agree to be bound by them.  If you do not agree to be bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy, you may not use the 99% Invisible website and services. Enjoy 99pi? Subscribe to the podcast! Subscribe Subscribe Credits This episode was produced by Chris Berube, and edited by Kelly Prime. It was adapted from Nate Rogers’ article for Stereogum magazine, which was published on January 13th, 2025. In the episode, we heard from Rogers, former Pono developer Phil Baker, and John Atkinson, retired editor of Stereophile.