# [All the Hacks with Chris Hutchins] The Best Deals for Vacation Rentals, Exchanges, Fractionals, Timeshares and More!

**Source**: https://www.allthehacks.com/vacation-homes
**Atlas ID**: 229909
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:31.056653

---

The Best Deals for Vacation Rentals, Exchanges, Fractionals, Timeshares and More! Advertiser Disclosure Chris Hutchins and this site are part of an affiliate sales network and receives compensation for sending traffic to partner sites, such as CardRatings, Bankrate.com and MileValue.com. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. This site does not include all financial companies or all available financial offers. Terms apply to American Express benefits and offers. Enrollment may be required for select American Express benefits and offers. Visit americanexpress.com to learn more. Close Podcast All Podcast 247 By Category Travel, Points + Miles 77 Money + Investing 72 Life + Work 107 Newsletter Credit Cards Deals Products Products Hotel Upgrade Program Credit Card Optimizer Card Transfer Partners Delegation Guide Gift Cards About About Stuff I Use Podcast Coaching Contact Membership Listen Apple Podcasts Overcast Spotify YouTube PocketCasts Search Search All the Hacks with Chris Hutchins × Listen Apple Podcasts Overcast Spotify YouTube PocketCasts Nov. 9, 2022 The Best Deals for Vacation Rentals, Exchanges, Fractionals, Timeshares and More! The player is loading ... The Best Deals for Vacation Rentals, Exchanges, Fractionals, Timeshares and More! Your browser does not support the audio tag. Travel, Points + Miles Show Notes Transcript #86: Host Chris Hutchins delves into the topic of vacation homes in today’s solo episode.  He explores the pros and cons of vacation home options, including home rentals and exchanges, fractional ownerships, vacation real estate investment funds, and timeshares. Chris also discusses his family’s experience owning timeshare properties, shares special offers for ATH podcast listeners, and more. Partner Deals Pacaso: Free early access to listings and $2,500+ in closing credits For all the deals, discounts and promo codes from our partners, go to: chrishutchins.com/deals Resources Mentioned Higher-End Vacation Home Rental sites AvantStay Wander (email hello@wander.com and mention ATH to get $250 off) Haven In Villas of Distinction Vacation Home Rental sites Airbnb Vrbo Cabo Villas Home Exchange Home Exchange Love Home Swap People Like Us Third Home Couchsurfing My Place Fractional Ownership Pacaso My 5 Homes Private Residence Clubs The Orchard Timbers Resorts Vacation Real Estate Investment Funds Equity Residences Destination Clubs Inspirato Inspirato Pass Blog: Luxury Pass Reviews Exclusive Resorts Destination Club Comparison List: Sherpa Report Timeshares Rent or Buy Secondhand Red Week Tug2 Koala Day Passes to Resorts: Resort Pass Rent Private Pools: Swimply (<- $25 off) Full Show Notes Introduction of vacation home episode ( 00:00 ) Where to find no-upfront-cost vacation home rentals, including higher-end properties ( 04:33 ) Home exchange: Chris breaks down the different types of stays you can choose from ( 06:41 ) Equity and non-equity: two categories of vacation property programs that require upfront investment ( 12:42 ) Fractional ownership ( 16:08 ) Vacation investment real estate funds ( 21:00 ) Destination clubs ( 23:42 ) Timeshares ( 32:15 ) Timeshare question: Are exchanges available for timeshare owners? ( 36:23 ) The downside of buying a timeshare from an existing owner ( 37:35 ) Chris’ takeaway on timeshares ( 39:39 ) Want to go to a nice place for the day or a few hours? Check out these two companies ( 40:58 ) Connect with Chris Newsletter | Membership | X | Instagram | LinkedIn Editor’s Note: The content on this page is accurate as of the posting date; however, some of our partner offers may have expired. Opinions expressed here are the author's alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, hotel, airline, or other entity. This content has not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of the entities included within the post. Listen On Featured Episodes Top 50 Ways to Upgrade Your Life, Money, and Travel from 200+ Episodes How to Live Your Rich Life with Ramit Sethi Cash Back vs. Points: Are We Doing It All Wrong? Building Wealth Through Boring Businesses and Other Contrarian Ways To Live and Invest with Codie Sanchez 50+ Ways to Earn More Points and Miles Without Spending More Leveraging Tax-Advantaged Accounts to Maximize Your Wealth with Katie Gatti Tassin Die With Zero: Net Fulfillment Over Net Worth with Bill Perkins Making an Easy $3k/mo from Online Deals with Kai Mastering the Secret Language of Charismatic Communication with Vanessa Van Edwards Finding Happiness, Success and Deep Purpose with Arthur Brooks The Psychology of Money with Morgan Housel Redeeming Points and Miles for Max Value (and What Not To Do!) with Nick Reyes Best Bank Account Setup to Earn Interest on All Your Cash Travel, Points + Miles Podcast How Much Are Points and Miles Worth in 2025? How I Saved $10,000+ on Luxury Hotels See all → Recent Episodes Contrarian Takes on Money, Risk, and Retirement with Tyler Gardner How Much Are Points and Miles Worth in 2025? How I Saved $10,000+ on Luxury Hotels Smarter Strategies for Retirement, Wealth Building, and Taxes with Michael Kitces Deep Dive on Capital One Credit Cards and Miles (+ Why I Love Them) Earn More Points with New Cards, Bonuses, and Challenges in 2025 Top Airline & Hotel Transfer Partners to Maximize Your Points with Greg the Frequent Miler Mini Retirements: How to Take a Break Sooner That Could Also Boost Your Career and Income with Jillian Johnsrud 18 Tactics for Booking Travel with Points & Miles See all → Most Popular If you’re new, I recommend starting here 👇 What started as an award-winning podcast to teach folks how to upgrade their life, money and travel has grown into an online community with resources on money tactics, travel tips, time optimizations, and much more. The podcast, hosted by Chris Hutchins, is still the driving force, but members are saving thousands (sometimes tens of thousands) of dollars annually, and this is just the beginning! About Podcast Newsletter Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Deals Credit Cards Member Page Products Reviews Gift Cards Membership © 2024 ATH Media LLC