# [Articles of Interest] 6. Punk Style

**Source**: https://99percentinvisible.org/episode/punk-style-articles-of-interest-6/
**Atlas ID**: 229921
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:31.070179

---

Punk Style: Articles of Interest #6 - Episode Text Transcript - 99% Invisible Skip to Content Toggle Navigation Episodes Series The 99% Invisible Breakdown Not Built For This According to Need Judas and the Black Messiah Podcast Articles of Interest Articles About The Show The Staff Contact Press Sponsors Pitch Newsletter Subscribe SiriusXM Podcasts+ Apple Podcasts SiriusXM Pandora Ways to Listen Book Store Submit Search YouTube TikTok Instagram Threads Reddit Discord Bluesky 99% Invisible Newsletter 100% Fascinating Email Address Yes Please! By submitting this form, you acknowledge that you have read the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , that you understand them, and that you agree to be bound by them.  If you do not agree to be bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy, you may not use the 99% Invisible website and services. see recent newsletter Close Episode AOI 06 Punk Style: Articles of Interest #6 Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Transcript Category Objects Date 10.12.18 Producer Avery Trufelman Just a warning that this episode contains mature language. Roman Mars: I remember the first day I got to college, I was in line at some bakery in the town and a woman pulled me out and said, “I just want to talk to you because I’m a Christian woman and I worry about people like you, and your relationship with Satan.” (laughs) Avery Trufelman: My boss, Roman Mars. AT: What were you wearing that day? RM: I was… I think it must have been a band t-shirt and flannel or something? It was nothing! AT: Like a band t-shirt. One particular shirt. RM: So if you met me from the age of 14 to 19, I was probably wearing this one Hüsker Du t-shirt. By the time I stopped wearing it, you know, it went from basically white to gray to almost kind of clear? (laughs) And so to keep it all together, I put little safety pins across the top to keep it all together. AT: Was that because you saw other people doing that? RM: No, so I remember in high school, there was very little punk presence. You were called a skater if you wore weird clothes or listened to the bands I listened to. This is going to sound so weird, that quizzical look on your face, but in central Ohio in the late 80s, there wasn’t a concept of what like, a hardcore punk was. There was no…I was called a skater, and rocks were thrown at me, even though I never rode a skateboard before. AT: People threw rocks at you? RM: Oh shit yeah. This was different. Yeah, skaters were hated by everybody. AT: So why bother getting dressed up? Why bother to stand out, especially if people are actively throwing rocks at you. Like, why bother? RM: Yeah, it’s weird because I don’t know. I don’t know why I wanted to have that fight all the time but….I had to. AT: There is this myth, that it’s frivolous or unproductive to care about how you look. Clothing and fashion get trivialized a lot. But think about who, culturally, gets associated with clothing and fashion: young people, women, queers, and people of color. Groups of people who, historically, haven’t been listened to, have expressed themselves on their bodies, through their style, their hair, their tattoos, their piercings, and what they wear. Don Letts: You’ve got to understand. Black, working-class kid, that’s the only way we had to express ourselves was through the music we listened to and the clothes we wore. AT: This is Don Letts, a legendary DJ and filmmaker and creator of the documentary Punk Attitude. DL: I’ve always engaged with the look because you know, in black culture we’ve been forced to express ourselves in a very punk rock way. In what is a very white world, we’ve only been left the fringes to operate within. Do you understand? So that’s forced us to do weird things like come up with reggae, for instance. Which is actually formed by a lack of technology, not because you’ve got it. Do you know what I mean? It’s the definition of punk, hip-hop, two turntables and a microphone! I mean if that ain’t a form of black punk rock, what is? AT: Punk Rock, in the classic sense, in the way it sounds and the way it looks, emerged from a place of disenchantment and dissolution. DL: I already was pretty alienated, being black. But by the mid-70s, it’s interesting; because society had managed to alienate its white youth. AT: We’re talking specifically London society. DL: You gotta set the scene a little bit. We’re talking about the mid-70s, so times were tough. We’re talking about an almost social crisis. Economic, political, and financial, you know? We’re talking about three day weeks. Power cuts and strikes and massive unemployment. The rise of the national front, and it just felt like England was constantly fucking gray man. I mean, I was lucky, I had a soundtrack to ease my pain. I had the reggae! But my white mates not so lucky. AT: Now there are a lot of different opinions as to where punk music came from and what its influences were. And whether it started in Detroit or New York or whatever, it’s widely agreed the music came from somewhere in the United States DL: Everybody thinks England invented punk! Rubbish! But they were smart enough to give it a look. AT: The look of punk, that started in London. DL: It wasn’t invented here, they just gave it a style. Which is not to be sniffed at! Because that music and style combination? It’s a deadly combination! AT: And the look of punk, like traditional 70s British punk, is so iconic. Think the green mohawk, the leather jacket, the plaid mini skirt. And a look that iconic, that specific, it doesn’t just happen by accident. Someone designed it. AT- Hi! Are you open? (SHOP EMPLOYEE) Yes! AT: On 430 Kings Road in London, there’s a little shop. It looks like a little shack, it’s tiny. Don Letts remembers the first time he went there. DL: I found myself wandering up and down the Kings Road Chelsea, which was like the major fashion high street in the UK, in London. And I wandered into this store called either Too Fast To Live, Too Young To Die, or Let it Rock, because he kept changing the name of the store. And I walked into this kind of Aladdin’s cave of subculture and Malcolm was there and Vivienne was there. AT: Vivienne Westwood and Malcolm McLaren. The couple that owned the shop in the 70s. They had started out selling records and then moved into clothing. DL: And I struck up a relationship with these guys, and it was probably one of the most fortuitous meetings I’ve ever had. AT: Vivienne Westwood was in her early 30s, a primary school teacher and a mother of two who had sewed all the clothes in her living room. She had no formal training but had grown up sewing her own clothes out of necessity. Malcolm McLaren was in his mid-20s, lived in this kind of, world of ideas. DL: The countercultural riots in 68 when, you know, where Paris, Grosvenor Square, Kent state, all this stuff! Those are the things he could talk to me about. I don’t know, the situationists movement in France. Stuff I would have never fuckin’ heard about! AT: The situationists were really important to Vivienne and Malcolm. As early as the 1950s, situationist theorists declared that artists and thinkers were morally obligated to break down the divides between art and life. To fuse art with everyday existence, so that art could not be cleaved away and etherized and put into galleries and academies. And the way to do this, the situationists said, to fuse art and life, is for artist and activists to be provocateurs. To create dramatic, outlandish interruptions in the every day, to expose the absurdity of the status quo. Art and protest were to be on the streets, with no barriers, for everyone. In their faces, whether they wanted it or not. DL: Yeah the whole idea of being subversive, thinking out of the box. Being Punk! AT: But the look of punk still wasn’t quite born yet. In their pursuit of testing limits, of merging art and life, Vivienne Westwood and Malcolm Mclaren were constantly changing the shop and the style of the clothing sold within it. Claire Wilcox: They’d close it down, rename it and reopen it again. AT: And it’s not like their stores were failures. They were changing the face of 430 Kings Road because they wanted to! CW: Malcom Mclaren got bored, and he wanted to move on, and so did Vivienne. AT: This is Claire Wilcox, senior curator at the Victoria and Albert Museum. By the way, Vivienne Westwood herself declined to be a part of this story, but Claire Wilcox has interviewed Westwood and curated an incredible exhibit of the many phases of her work. CW: It’s this idea of always outrunning their audiences. They were always one step ahead. They never rested on their laurels; they kept moving, and changing, gathering momentum. AT: They were kind of like anthropologists. They’d get really intrigued by a certain subculture and they’d build the shop around it. 430 Kings Road had an iteration where it sold dandy rocker clothes, another making more leather, biker-inspired stuff. And then in 1974, Vivienne and Malcolm turned 430 Kings Road into a shop called SEX. CW: It was called SEX. AT: One word. All caps. CW: What Vivienne said about being interested in clothing used in the sex industry. The latex, the rubber, was that she appreciated it for its strange kind of beauty. AT: The sign just said SEX in big pink plush letters. The clothes inside were leather and rubber and covered in straps, skin tight and androgynous. CW: And she said the mix of clientele when it was called Sex ranged from, as she said, people with a perverse interest in these types of garments and then kids off the street just wanting to be fashionable. So, it was sort of this hybrid moment. AT: Malcolm and Vivienne knew how to shock. No one had stuff like theirs. DL: No, their mohair tops? Some of their t-shirts? Fucking cool. I nearly died trying to put on a rubber t-shirt once. Seriously, that’s not a joke. I didn’t put the talcum powder thing on, nobody told me about that shit, and nearly died with this thing wrapped around my neck trying to get it off. AT: On trips to New York, Malcolm and Vivienne discovered the burgeoning American punk music scene, which was blooming in interesting new ways. And so, upon his return to London, Malcolm decided that he wanted to manage a band of his very own. He and Vivienne gathered some kids who worked at and hung around 430 Kings Road, and formed them into a group, named The Sex Pistols. AT: But it’s not like The Sex Pistols were just a clever ruse to sell clothes? DL: No. Listen, it was a fortuitous combination for those things to work together but that was wasn’t anything weird! The style of the music in this country, it’s so important! So I don’t think that there was any shame in that. AT: Malcolm and Vivienne wrote some of the lyrics for the Sex Pistols, which were about, you know, anarchy in the UK and bad mouthing the queen. This was not your mother’s rock & roll. It was the anti-band, the anti-music built to shock. Kind of for politics? But also kind of to just shock people, like a situationist happening. Although maybe that’s giving Malcolm too much credit, I don’t know how planned out this was. DL: Malcolm wanted to create Malcomworld. What his endgame was, I have no fucking idea. I think, I don’t think Malcolm did, to be honest. He did make up a lot of shit as he went along. A lot of things that kind of ended up in chaos he pretended that he orchestrated, but that’s ok. You know. What was your question? AT: This new movement demanded a new look. A new store. So in 1977, 430 Kings Road was reincarnated again. This time it was called “Seditionaries” and this is the iteration of the store in which punk fashion would truly emerge CW: In a way, Seditionaries was a line in the sand because here you had the tree emerging of music and fashion, McLaren’s two main loves. AT: The chapters of 430 Kings Road all compounded on each other. Elements of Edwardian dandy, rocker, biker, and sex worker all combined, catalyzed with hard fast music and political imagery. Michael Costiff: Uh, it’s a ripped up union jack held together with safety pins! AT: This is style icon Michael Costiff, a longtime neighbor of 430 Kings Road. Over the years, Michael and his wife Gerlinde bought so many Westwood clothes, their collection was acquired by the Victoria and Albert Museum. MC: So beautifully cut, the trousers. AT: Really? MC: Yeah, and they sort of sit and they’ve got this big wide belt, a little bit hipster almost. AT: Michael is showing me a pair of his old Bondage trousers, which look like a straight-jacket for your legs. They’re loaded down with zippers and chains and straps hanging off them. And there’s a strap that ties your knees together. Which Michael assures me is less limiting than you’d think. MC: And you know, it was absolutely no bother to walk. It didn’t alter anything. There was nothing you couldn’t do with your knees tied together. AT: These bondage trousers of Michael’s were black, but there were versions in plaid, and some had kilts you could clip on to the front and back, or little towels and other things that would hang off them. DL: The last time I had a conversation with Bob Marley we had an argument about the bondage trousers that I was wearing. He didn’t like them, he thought they looked like mountaineer trousers. AT: Vivienne’s clothes turned people into strange sculptures. She played with the human form, binding the legs together, or extending sleeves down to the floor, and pushing the body into new angles. MC: All the things were sort of cut differently, you know? With one sleeve higher, with the neck hole to one side, and then you pulled the fabric in different ways. it was all rather fabulous. CW: As a sartorial movement, it was resolved, it was well-crafted. It was not cheap. It was not cheap, the clothes were not cheap. AT: In other words… DL: Fucking expensive! But call it what it was though, it was clothes as art, without a doubt. AT: Those first punk clothes weren’t dirty, grungy, sloppy, they were fabulous and strange. DL: The thing about Vivienne’s clothes is they were clothes as art. You gotta understand that. CW: Vivienne has always taken great pride in crafting her clothes very carefully. You get this extraordinary sort of marriage of craft and care and you know, downright outrageousness. AT: So outrageous that other shops started to copy Vivienne’s designs. CW: Lots of people copied those looks. Once the genie was out of the bottle, the whole of kings road was selling variations upon a theme. MC: There’s loads to go with the punk look. You know, you’ve got studding, and wristbands, and leather harness, you know, loads of ephemera you could add onto it. So it gave loads of people a chance to have a business. AT: Punk was easy to rip off. Michael showed me some imitation bondage trousers that used to belong to his wife. They were made by another shop called BOY. MC: Those were copies. BOY copied all of Vivienne’s things and did them much cheaper, in cheaper fabrics, further down the Kings Road. Yeah. which was kind of cool because it gave more people a chance to wear the clothes. Vivienne hated BOY. She said, “Oh my maybe I should set my shop on fire cuz they’d have to do the same!” (laughs) AT: But the other side of this coin, was that individuals could imitate these looks very easily as well, and sort of elaborate on them. MC: You know, tape, and bandages, and god knows what. Bits of chain… AT: Vivienne had created a style lexicon that anyone could play around with. MC: Lavatory chain, safety pin. You know, it was a very do it yourself ethic. AT: I mean, you could go into your own wardrobe right now, and rip stuff up and put it back together and make it punk. And that DIY part? That Vivienne loved. MC: It gave a chance for the kids with no money to develop a do-it-yourself version of that. AT: Vivienne Westwood, after all, didn’t have any training as a seamstress. She just figured out how to do these things. So anyone could, and should, follow her lead. CW: It was part of this shared movement of rebellion that these clothes could be adopted and customized and adapted by anybody. Wherever you came from, however rich or poor. However old you were. Whatever sex you were, you could take these clothes on and perhaps you might save up to buy a pair of bondage trousers, but you’d customize your own t-shirt. AT: Punk became grassroots. As Vivienne herself has said, “It wasn’t invented from the streets. It was the other way around.” It turned into a movement. CW: So I think in a way it was a joyful explosion of taking control of your own identity. AT: And before the internet, this look was cross-pollinated between New York and London by touring bands, like The Sex Pistols and the Ramones. Monica Sklar: And so there started to be this back and forth dialog, a little bit, between the two scenes, but they were visually very different. AT: Monica Sklar, Fashion historian and author of the book Punk Style. She says the New York look was based in functionality. MS: With New York being jeans, t-shirts, using safety pins for functional purposes. AT: But the London look, thanks to Vivienne Westwood, was rooted in art aesthetic. As bands toured and cultures mixed, spheres of influence spread across the US. MS: And then it would go around the country, and go around the globe. Other scenes would come to fruition and take on their own bed of influence. AT: Depending on bands, on the weather, on the local culture, punk became reinterpreted. MS: Whether it’s San Diego, whether its DC, whether it’s Detroit, London, New York, Minneapolis, had a large series of bands and style leaders. And then as those individuals and their stuff, whether it’s them personally traveling around, or as their zine makes it around, or their music that gets to the next place, their style goes with them. AT: Note how Monica Sklar said their style went with them. Not their fashion. MS: This goes way beyond punk or subculture, but especially in the united states, fashion is associated with entire groups of people that are often relegated as secondary. AT: Women, queers, people of color and youth. Fashion is the realm of the historically powerless. MS: And so people don’t want to talk about things that are associated with them, but they do have this huge awareness of style and how important style is. AT: Style, according to sociologist Michael Brake, is a combination of 3 elements. Image MB: Image, so what are we looking at? AT: Demeanor MB: What’s our attitude when we’re wearing it? AT: And this concept called “argot.” MB: Argot, this French concept of slang and secret language and secret coding. AT: Kind of like jargon. Special words or phrases that only insiders in a group would know. MB: All together it’s that embodiment. And so being able to have image, demeanor, and argot with authenticity is true punk style. AT: In other words, it’s part of what makes you authentic or a poser. If you have the right style, And for punks, it was this ceaseless hunt to sniff out true punk style. It was a lot of looking for little clues. Hints of authenticity. Trying to figure out who was on your side, and who was a sellout. It was constant, and it was exhausting. In fact, only shortly after Seditionaries opened in the late 70s, Vivienne Westwood herself grew tired of it. She said, “ I got tired from looking at clothes from this point of view of rebellion. I found it exhausting. After a while, I wasn’t sure if I was right. I’m sure that if there is such a thing as the Anti-Establishment, it feeds the Establishment.” DL: If you give something a label, then that’s all it can be. And the whole thing about punk is it’s ever-evolving. And for some people they got stuck on this early definition: it’s about fast guitars, it’s about mohawks, safety pins, leather jackets. No man, that was like one screaming shout that got you through the door. You weren’t supposed to get stuck there! You know, you get on this ladder, and you smart? You keep climbing! AT: Into the 80s, a lot of London punks kept climbing. Members of punk bands peeled off to learn how to actually play their instruments and experiment with like, synthesizers. Dl: The interesting thing about post-punk is, all of a sudden people are kind of honest about what they really liked. AT: And Vivienne Westwood taught herself how to tailor. Like, gave herself a real formal training. CW: So she embarked on this mission to self-educate herself through looking at 17th, 18th, 19th-century dress. AT: And this is not DIY. These are not garments that anyone could copy. Subsequent lines of Vivienne’s played with corsetry, ball gowns, suits and evening clothes. Using nicer materials, toying with elements of history and even nostalgia; stuff that was not punk. CW: Punk clothing was two-dimensional, it can be laid flat. However, when she learns how to tailor, and this is a very difficult practice that she taught herself, her clothes become more and more three dimensional. AT: As her views of authority and establishment became multidimensional, her garments gained dimensions as well. DL: So, you see, the development of her skill running alongside the development of her interest in history, and also her, not rejection of punk, because I always think it will be part of her. But her moving on from always being on the defense, always being involved in some kind of conflict. Political, sartorial, conflict with the world. AT: That store, on 430 Kings Road, it still belongs to Westwood. Ever since 1980, it’s been called World’s End and it has a giant clock on the front, with its arms spinning backward. And if you go there today, there’s not really a band of misfits that hang out there. But there are a lot of Japanese tourists who come to pilgrimage. Vivienne Westwood is one of the most famous clothing designers in the world now. I mean she’s huge. She doesn’t have the time to speak to me for this podcast. But she is the reason why I wanted to talk about clothing. Because in 2009, I heard her say this thing to the New York Times and I haven’t been able to stop thinking about it since. “The paradox is that people think that if they wear something simple and non-saying, that somehow they themselves will emerge all the more stunning and beautiful from it. It’s not true, it might be true, no, it’s not even true of Christy Turlington. You know, no, no, I don’t want to see Christy Turlington in a t-shirt and jeans. Why not if you’re born somebody, you know, a freak of beauty, why not look like a goddess? Why not?” I think everyone knows that feeling when you’re dressed in an outfit you really like. When you look good and you feel good. That is an essential power of clothing. Aside from, you know, covering your body, or keeping you warm. It has the power to give you confidence. It’s why Roman dresses up when he goes to do a live performance. RM: I have lots of options in ties and I have lots of options in pocket squares and stuff like that, and that, I have fun with that. To perform and to actually show respect, that I care about these things to an audience. That’s what that signals to me. And also I like it, I think I look good. AT: And the thing punk did, was push the boundaries of what looks good. It’s not about looking perfect or clean or rich. It incorporated people of all ages, and bodies, and backgrounds, and ideas, and gave them that confidence. It pushed our ideas of beauty, and Professor Monica Sklar knows this firsthand. MS: Beauty standards were pushed and pushed. I was fired from a record store, a RECORD STORE, as a youth for having an eyebrow piercing. And now I’m a professor and curator and vice president of the national society of my profession and I have it. AT: And really, this is the power of what fashion designers can do. Something that appears strange or scary or expensive at first can trickle down through the cycle of trends. And maybe, in time, come to expand notions of what’s acceptable, so more people can feel comfortable expressing their own style. Their own cocktail of image, demeanor and argot, however it manifests. And this myth, that it’s frivolous or unproductive to care about how you look, or what you wear, is completely bunk. To not have to think about how you present, or to assume that you can somehow dress in a way that is neutral or non-saying, that is a massive, massive privilege. Whether we like it or not, we’re all speaking with our clothes. And we might as well give a good hard think about what we want to say. Episode Credits Production & Music Articles of Interest was created by Avery Trufelman; this episode was edited by Joe Rosenberg; Sasami Ashworth wrote the theme songs for the show; music by Rebecca Redman, Shannon Bodrogi, Jenna Marx, and Mai Oseto of the band SOAR; Graham Hacia did the fact checking; Kelley Coyne did the mix; photography by Matty Lynn Barnes ; Roman Mars is the executive producer. Special thanks to Sonnet Stanfill, Ella Ravilious, Brendan Cormier, Marianne Mccune, and the online library Bloomsbury Fashion Central as well as Delaney Hall, Emmett Fitzgerald, Vivian Le, Kurt Kohlstedt and the rest of the 99pi team Explore Architecture Infrastructure Cities Objects Sounds Visuals Technology History More in Objects The IKEA Effect: How Effort Imbues Everyday... Kurt Kohlstedt - The IKEA Effect: How Effort Imbues Everyday... A Fantasy of Fashion: Articles of Interest... Episode AOI #7 - A Fantasy of Fashion: Articles of Interest... Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Tilt & Turn: Ingenious Three-in-One... Kurt Kohlstedt - Tilt & Turn: Ingenious Three-in-One... Loud and Clear Episode 214 - Loud and Clear Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Froebel’s Gifts Episode 349 - Froebel’s Gifts Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Single Handed (6 of 6): Hand Lenders Point... Kurt Kohlstedt - Single Handed (6 of 6): Hand Lenders Point... Archives Holdout Episode 130 - Holdout Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download On Verges: Exploring Roadside Landscape... Kurt Kohlstedt - On Verges: Exploring Roadside Landscape... The Great Restoration Episode 178 - The Great Restoration Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Roman Mars Describes Chicago As It Is Episode GX 01 - Roman Mars Describes Chicago As It Is Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Solve for X: Deciphering Calibration Marks... Kurt Kohlstedt - Solve for X: Deciphering Calibration Marks... Three Things That Made the Modern Economy Episode 348 - Three Things That Made the Modern Economy Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Comments (31) Share Share on Twitter Share on Facebook Share on Tumblr Share via Email Sarah Mahoney 10.12.18 04:22 PM More episodes please! Yoga pants would be a fun topic. Uggs/Bean Boots. Reply Martin 10.13.18 09:29 AM Where’s  can I buy the ending song Reply David Bovill 10.17.18 12:04 AM Yep – me too. Basically you go to supply a link to the music. It’s a crime otherwise. Arne 10.13.18 12:25 PM The variations on the musical outro for AIC have been interesting and beautiful. This one for #6 was the best yet (oh, and this series was super interesting, too!) Reply Erin 10.13.18 07:14 PM Don’t have Twitter so I’ll say it here: this is an excellent series and I hope you do a 2nd season. Reply Adam 10.14.18 06:18 AM Hello. I enjoyed the Articles of Interest series, and I loved listening to Don Letts talk about the history of punk. There is one thing you got wrong, though: Neither McLaren not Westwood had any hand in writing the Sex Pistols songs “Anarchy In The UK” or “God Save The Queen,” or any of the songs on Never Mind The Bollocks. They were all written primarily by John Lydon (Johnny Rotten) and Glen Matlock. Thanks for the series! Reply Kyle 10.14.18 11:26 PM More Please! Reply Derek Lyons 10.15.18 06:43 AM Can you tell me where to find the song during this episode “There’s a Portrait Painted on the Things We Love”? Reply 99pi 10.19.18 10:53 AM Full song is now embedded on 99pi.org/aoi ! Shalom Craimer 10.15.18 10:02 AM This series was amazing. Definitely upholding the values of high-quality content that I’ve expect from 99% Invisible. Kudos, well done, and thank you for creating it! Reply Myra Groenewegen 10.15.18 10:03 PM Yes, Yes, Yes!  Please do more podcasts on this themes and other long, involved investigations of simple things.  Starting simple and going deep is great when done this well. Reply cdmoore 10.16.18 12:10 PM If you want to do a story on Vivienne Westwood, just do a story on Vivienne Westwood.  She’s amazing and completely deserves it.  However, Malcolm McLaren never had an original idea of his own, and any discussion of punk fashion should start with Richard Hell, who created the “punk” look Malcolm ripped off for his shop in England (McLaren admitted as much). A picture of Richard Hell — https://www.knowyourbassplayer.com/bass-players-blog/2015/3/10/richard-hell Note Richard Hell’s torn shirt, spiked hair, safety pins holding his clothes together (it’s necessary to keep it from falling apart), the DIY designs on his shirt (couldn’t afford to buy nice stuff), and slogans written on his clothes or body.  That’s a look that anyone could pull off, even if they were broke and especially if they didn’t have access to a fashion hub like King’s Row. Reply Erin 12.10.18 11:27 AM I never thought I’d see someone mansplaining punk rock fashion but here we are. JA 06.24.19 07:48 PM While listening to this, early on I knew I’d be visiting the comments to see if anyone else had brought this up. Richard Hell is widely credited as being the forerunner of the original punk look by wearing torn, street urchiny clothes — and so the U.S. is thought to be the source of the original look. While I feel that this story overlooks this by crediting Westwood nearly completely and saying she single-handedly created an entire language of style for people to adopt and make their own, it’s apparent that she definitely combined the NY look with the S&M influence. I really enjoyed this episode but I feel like a more complete version of this story would have outright covered the difference in opinion of where it originated or perhaps just talk about the two style lineages more equally. Juha Bly 12.11.19 04:44 AM Mansplaining? Where, Erin? I see additional information not mentioned in the episode. Or did you mean the episode itself? Luis 10.17.18 10:47 AM Fantastic! Thanks for doing this. Would love to see more images too. Reply Scarlett Gonzales Cortes 10.17.18 11:32 AM More Images of the clothing items Please! Reply Chris 10.31.18 04:46 AM yes, it would be so awesome if there were photos to go along with this series. that’s the one thing missing, it’s hard to picture these stories Claire 10.20.18 11:21 AM I am totally loving this series!  This episode my favorite. I lived in London in the early 80s and fondly remember cruising Kings rd and visiting Westwoods shop. I could not afford her work (just working as a waitress at the time) and my wardrobe came from Oxfam shoppes tweaked by my imagination. I love fashion, and used to spend alot of time thinking/obsessing about it.  However, in the last twenty years I am increasingly aware of the carbon footprint of fashion. I’m afraid to say, yes, fashion is frivoulous when you think about the challenges the world’s population faces.  The garment industry is incredibly polluting: from monoculture of industrial cotton, dyeing, petroleum based synthetics and plastic clothing that is non biodegradable.  And the fact alot of clothing made in sweat shops untenable. People need way fewer clothes than the fashion industry wants you to consume.  . AS a Catholic school uniform school wearer for 12 years I can tell you it is easy to be an individual even wearing a uniform.  Looking into ecological consequences of our clothing/fast fashion addiction would make a great episode.  Lifecycle implications are part of design too. Meanwhile I am really happy with my capsule wardrobe of natural fibers in navy and black thrifted from local shops, many pieces I have owned for 30 plus years.  I actually have a lovely black cotton velvet v neck shirt my mother bought in 1955 that still looks great.    Unfortunately I no longer have any of the great punk pieces I made in London! Reply Tim L 10.20.18 11:27 AM So much for engagement with your audience, I guess. I too would be interested in the name of the song at the end, “There’s a Portrait Painted on the Things We Love”. Reply 99pi 10.20.18 12:42 PM It’s embedded on the main miniseries page at 99pi.org/aoi Tim L 10.20.18 11:55 AM Thanks for posting a link to the theme song! I searched all over trying to find a place I could buy it. Reply Snips 10.23.18 08:07 AM Yes, another season please. And I want to get this theme song from Sasami, but it’s not on her SoundCloud!? Reply Ajinkya 10.24.18 10:01 AM Can you please continue this Reply Mary Ivy Noone 10.26.18 03:27 PM I loved this series. More please! Reply J Rizzo 10.30.18 10:10 AM Can you post reference to the sociologist’s work? The information related to “image demeanor argo” Reply claudia 10.30.18 01:38 PM THANK YOU so much for doing this podcast, and all of the ones in this series. This story LITERALLY changed my attitude of who i have become in life. I am an artist and having worked in the corporate world for so long i rather lost my way of who i was. I was there, i was a punk rocker or at least tried to be. It was freedom! And over the years i forgot about it, until i heard the beautiful British voice of a man yelling at me to “stop being just a clothes horse”, and vivienne westwood saying “be a goddess, why not?” (ha! i know they did not say that to me, but that’s what i heard :) MY GOD did i need to hear that! So i am letting my freak flag fly as high as i can possibly get it :) !!! Please find more stories. Sadly i did not win the billion dollars lottery or else i would have given you and bruno mars a gazillion dollars to keep making me and the rest of the world happy. Until then, you all will have to make do with my annual donation :) Reply Callie 10.30.18 03:43 PM Dear Avery Trufelman, I loved this series! I am really interested in fashion and clothing, but also in politics, queer-feminism, anti-racism, intersectionality an post-colonial theory. This series brought all these things together really beautifully. I was saving up every episode like a little treasure. Also: i recently started studying anthropology and i was thinking about basing my self study project on this series. So thank you! I would really appreciate a second season! Greetings, Callie Reply Lauren 11.12.18 10:20 AM Thanks for the fantastic reporting on this series! I love 99pi, and I’m hoping the team returns to the Articles of Interest soon! Reply Jergy 11.18.18 05:49 PM I think there’s nothing wrong with liking fashion, but in this episode the word “privilege” is used very selectively, using the term to dismiss those who see fashion as superficial and wasteful, but without also applying it to those early punk consumers who paid for such expensive attire just for the look. Privilege cuts both ways in this case, though I think most would say that being able to focus one’s time and energy on fashion is the greater of the two signifiers of privilege.  Just go outside and see for yourself. Power to those who can transcend.  If you like fashion, that’s cool.  If you don’t, that’s also cool. Reply Shazam 07.05.19 03:56 AM I agree with Jergy.  The use of the word privilege here, spoken from the privileged sounded smug and rang hollow.  It’s hard to imagine anyone more privileged than the producers of 99 percent invisible.  Try telling people doing physical labor that their jeans and tee shirts are signifiers of privilege. Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Δ More in Objects Kurt Kohlstedt - Tsunami Stones: Ancient Japanese Markers Warn Builders of High Water Residents of Aneyoshi, Japan, heeded the warnings of their... [Read More] 99PI - Flip Side: 10 Stories Behind the 99pi Challenge Coins & Symbols So you finally got your 99% Invisible challenge coin,... [Read More] Kurt Kohlstedt - Single Handed (6 of 6): Hand Lenders Point Out Adaptive Designs &... Each of the five pieces in this miniseries,... [Read More] Episode 344 - The Known Unknown Play Pause Add to Queue Remove from Queue Download Transcript All Categories Architecture Infrastructure Cities Objects Sounds Visuals Technology History © 99% Invisible Privacy Policy & Terms of Service Cookie settings Episodes Articles About Store Support the Show Your donations are vital to keeping us independent and strong! Contributions are used for: Paying our exceptional staff Paying outside contributors Travel costs for more ambitious stories Weekly Pakistani buffet Donate Newsletter Signup Hey there beautiful nerd! Sign up to for the 99PI newsletter to get our 1/week email with: Excerpts and links to latest episodes and articles Periodic, exclusive updates on 99PI goings-on Email Address Yes Please! By clicking this box, you acknowledge that you have read the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , that you understand them, and that you agree to be bound by them.  If you do not agree to be bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy, you may not use the 99% Invisible website and services. Minimize Maximize Play Pause Mute Unmute Previous in Playlist Jump backward 15 seconds | Jump forward 15 seconds Next in Playlist Update Required To play the media you will need to update your browser to a version that supports HTML5. Minimize Maximize Playlist Playlist Drag and drop to reorder. Your playlist is stored within your cookies, clearing your browser data may remove your playlist. Nothing here yet! Feel free to browse the archives to add episodes. More