# [EconTalk] Hemingway, Love, and War (with David Wyatt)

**Source**: https://www.econtalk.org/hemingway-love-and-war-with-david-wyatt/
**Atlas ID**: 223240
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.138279

---

Hemingway, Love, and War (with David Wyatt) - Econlib Liberty Fund Network Econlib Liberty Fund OLL Adam Smith Works Law & Liberty EconLog Blog Browse by Author Browse by Topic Browse by Date Search EconLog RSS Subscribe EconTalk Latest Episodes Browse by Date Browse by Guest Browse by Category Browse Extras Search EconTalk RSS Feeds Articles Latest Articles Liberty Classics Browse by Author Browse by Date Search Articles Books Books Bios Books by Date Books by Author Search Books Encyclopedia Index Browse by Author Browse by Title Biographies Search Encyclopedia Guides Index #ECONLIBREADS College Topics High School Topics Subscribe to QuickPicks Search Guides Videos Index Search Videos Liberty Fund Network Econlib OLL Adam Smith Works Library of Law & Liberty Home / Hemingway, Love, and War (with David Wyatt) Aug 25 2025 What can Ernest Hemingway teach us today about the morality of war, the eternal and transient nature of love, and how to write a masterpiece? Listen as author and teacher David Wyatt talks with EconTalk's Russ Roberts about Hemingway's epic For Whom the Bell Tolls. Topics include Hemingway's role in the wars of the 20th century, the book's context and themes, and its lasting influence on American literature and writing about war. LISTEN NOW: Comment ● READ TRANSCRIPT ● DELVE DEEPER 17 DOWNLOAD RELATED EPISODE Reading, Writing, and Fighting (with Mark Helprin) For many men, surviving the test of battle intensifies the joy of being alive. A provocative claim, perhaps, but to novelist Mark Helprin, simply a fact, and one that drives his new book about men who commit themselves fully both... EXPLORE MORE Related EPISODE Kevin McKenna on Solzhenitsyn, the Soviet Union, and In the First Circle Russian Literature Professor Kevin McKenna of the University of Vermont talks with EconTalk host Russ Roberts about the life and times of Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn. This is the opening episode of the EconTalk Book Club for Solzhenitsyn's masterpiece In the First... EXPLORE MORE Browse our archive of 800+ episodes containing over ten years of podcasts Explore audio transcript, further reading that will
                    help you delve deeper into this week’s episode, and
                    vigorous conversations in the form of our comments
                    section below. READER COMMENTS LEAVE A COMMENT READ COMMENT POLICY Ethan Aug 25 2025 at 9:27am Reply Thanks for the great conversation. I only wish you had mentioned Hemingway’s religion and that of his characters.  Anselmo’s battle with forgiveness and his return from El Sordo’s where his prayer is a comfort and even the boy at El Sordo’s who, in his last moments, switches from spouting Communist Rhetoric and platitudes for comfort to Hail Mary’s. I think “A Clean Well-Lighted Place” is the most profound meditation on religion and the struggle for meaning in a post-religious world.  I am glad it was mentioned. And in the “Sun Also Rises” when Jake leaves the Church and the holy water dries from his hands in the sun as his religion dries from himself.  Jake’s struggle with prayer and his awkward mechanized attempt at religion are mine.  Hemingway’s religiosity is so opaque when contrasting the man with his characters. Thucydides Aug 25 2025 at 2:22pm Reply Professor Wyatt repeatedly refers to the Nationalist side in the Spanish Civil War as “fascist.”  This is tendentious and historically not accurate. The Nationalist coalition covered a spectrum of parties, including royalists (the Carlists), syndicalists, and commercial and agricultural interests. Basically, all those who feared a communist takeover. It also included the Falange which could be described as somewhat similar in ideology to Italian fascism, but the Falange was not in control. The war started when the Army responded to the use by the Republicans of regular police to carry out assassinations on their opposition. Hemingway’s romantic attachment to the Republican side was ill-founded.  There is a story, perhaps apocryphal, that John Dos Passos questioned him on this, and was told that anyone taking a more balanced approach could never get another book published in New York. For more on this possibility, see https://grok.com/share/bGVnYWN5_35a08625-dcc4-44ed-8ce3-a0c3efaa2d40 Dos Passos, initially attached to the Republican side, became disillusioned at the atrocities perpetrated by the pro-Soviet elements in their coalition. It is best to refer to the two sides as the Nationalists and the Republicans. The term fascism has become an all-purpose epithet on the Left, and its use is best avoided. Nick Ronalds Sep 1 2025 at 4:01pm Reply Great insight and agree with your recommendation on the use and misuse of “fascism”. Kevin Ryan Aug 25 2025 at 4:08pm Reply I very much enjoyed both the book and the podcast.  I would however make a few comments. (SPOILERS) 1) Personally I did think there were a few issues that grated with modern sensibilities.  (To be clear, this is not meant as a criticism).  To me the most material were a) the relationship with Maria, given her age and vulnerability;  and b) Maria’s  rapists (and presumably killers of her parents) being ‘Moors’ – Franco’s Moroccan troops, I assume; 2) The book did come across to me as much more critical of the Republicans.  A number of key reasons for this, imo, including – we spent much more time with the Republicans so saw more of their flaws, the power of Pilar’s story and its earlier placement in the book, the Anarchists being especially awful.  We saw few crimes by the Nationalists (exception being Maria’s family and the Moors).  It seemed to be considered a sufficient crime to be called a ‘fascist’ without any elaboration on what this implied.  (In Pilar’s story civilians were killed for being rich (or not rich members of the local ‘Fascist Club’); 3) The actual Republican partisans/guerillas Jordan met in the bridge-blowing operation, however, came across as, to varying degrees, brave, thoughtful and articulate.  I was even able to sympathise with Pablo – he did seem a more realistic character; 4) I thought it interesting that a number of the peasant Republicans were struggling with the atheistic/ anti-clerical policy; 5) As most listeners will know, participation in the Civil War by non-Spaniards was not limited to Germans, Italians, Russians and Americans.  There were people from many other countries with varying degrees of support from their governments, and not all on the same side. Shalom Freedman Aug 26 2025 at 2:21am Reply This conversation provides great insight into Hemingway’s longest and to my adolescent feeling most boring piece of fiction. Like Russ I was a teenage passionate enthusiast of his stories and still consider him one of the greatest short-story writers I have read. This conversation however touches on many aspects of Hemingway’s work and life in an incomplete and in my view often mistaken way. First and above all, it does not understand how essential the early famous Hemingway style is to the Hemingway ethic and the concept of ‘grace under pressure.’ All this is illustrated by the novel which made Hemingway known to the world ‘The Sun Also Rises.’   The novel opens with the sentence ‘Robert Cohn was once middleweight boxing champion of Princeton’ Robert Cohn is the anti-hero of the book, and the reason that he is opposed to the Hemingway hero is that he is overly demonstrative emotionally. The Hemingway hero in contrast speaks primarily through action showing ‘grace under pressure’, Heminway’s style strongly influenced by the King James version of the Bible is one in which conjunctions are the heart of simple clear sentences. Nothing is overdone or overexpressed, the actions speak for themselves. ‘Grace under pressure’ is the elegance, the courage, the dignity which the bullfighter the prize-fighter the soldier shows when acting in great danger. Among Heminway’s character problems was the kind of mild-gentlemanly anti-Semitism he shared with his friend and rival F. Scott Fitzgerald. This was prior to the Shoah and nothing like the kind of fanatical Jew-hated today but it is in ‘The Sun Also Rises’, and also in the stories. Suicide was unusually prevalent in Hemingway’s family including his father one of his sons and his niece the actress Muriel Hemingway. But like many post-mortems, it has more than one possible cause including his having lost his ability to write, and his lifelong love of the bottle’s effect on his brain. Hemingway was an overwhelmingly powerful figure but also a ridiculous one. His famous remark about having edged out old Turgenev but not being ready yet to get in the ring with Tolstoy is a good example of this. Yet all in all a truly great writer is hard to find and he is one of them. Stella Aug 26 2025 at 4:31pm Reply I enjoyed listening to this program. Thank you. However I thought you were going to attach a link to a previous interview about George Orwell. [Hi, Stella. We do link to it. It’s in the Delve Deeper section. For your convenience, it’s: Christopher Hitchens on Orwell –Econlib Ed. ] Ben Service Aug 27 2025 at 3:06am Reply We just did a Hemingway book called to have and have not for our tough guy book club (it’s an international club started in Melbourne Australia) and I can’t say that I loved it but am glad I read it as it was a great snapshot back to history, I’ll probably give another Hemingway a go at some point. Would you ever do a podcast about grapes of wrath?  I know it is an anti capitalist view of the world and would love your take on it or maybe Mike Munger.  It is a book that haunts me and keeps me on the left side of politics, maybe I need to read Atlas Shrugged as a counterpoint view or would love a suggestion of the best book for a counterpoint to grapes of wrath. Nick Ronalds Sep 1 2025 at 11:54am Reply Regarding “Grapes of Wrath” and the “left side of politics”. Steinbeck is probably unaware that the depression was caused by government policy, not capitalism. To take one of many examples, gov’t policy was to “raise prices”on the (wrong and foolish) theory that the fall in price level was a cause, rather than a symptom, of recession/depression. Toward that goal they did things like paying farmers to destroy a quarter of the cotton crop, slaughter millions of pigs and pregnant sows, and reduce acreage of crops like wheat, corn, rice, tobacco, cotton, and milk. They did a lot more that was disastrously counterproductive and guess what? These policies didn’t help a hungry and suffering population! A number of books have been written on the economically counterproductive record of the New Deal. It wouldn’t seem to me that this record and the depression would justify a “left side of politics”. Pablo Aug 27 2025 at 8:24am Reply Dear Russ, Loved this episode. Salud. Kevin Ryan Aug 28 2025 at 4:50am Reply Surely not THE Pablo?? Russ Roberts Aug 28 2025 at 7:26am Reply Good one. Justin Dock Aug 28 2025 at 10:48am Reply I can’t seem to find for the life of me the compilation of Hemingway’s wartime correspondence.  If it’s convenient. Can you please post here or email?  Thank you Russ Roberts Aug 29 2025 at 2:57am Reply You can find it in the Delve Deeper section for the episode listed below: By-Line Ernest Hemingway, a collection of his journalism. Nick Ronalds Sep 1 2025 at 8:43am Reply Inspired by this episode I’m re-reading the book. I remember the thing that turned me off the first time: his use of “the/thou”. Spanish, like many (all?) European languages, has a familiar and formal mode of address, “tu” and “usted”. English used to have it in the form of “thou” and “you”. The problem is, though is archaic and sounds absurdly stilted and formal to the modern ear, not informal. So Hemingway’s attempt to demonstrate informality using “thou” completely backfires. How could Hemingway not realize this? Sometimes he uses semi-Spanish locutions in the dialogue, such as saying “in the business of the train he was enormous”. Sorry, that’s not English. We might say “… he was fanatastic” or “formidable”. I hate to say it, but when it comes to dialog, Hemingway has a tin ear. Nick Ronalds Sep 3 2025 at 11:33am Reply As I was thinking about it again, it occurred to me: Could Hemingway and his editor (the almost-as-famous Max Perkins) have assumed, and been correct, that readers of the day would understand the use of thee/thou as conveying the “familiar” form of speech? Certainly, today’s average reader of literature is less familiar with grammar, history, and language than the average reader of the 1920s. I can’t quite convince myself though that Hemingway made the right choice in resorting to that archaic English usage. Even knowing what he intended, I get the totally wrong vibe from it. Nick Ronalds Sep 1 2025 at 8:45am Reply Sorry, meant “you/thou”, not “the/thou”. William Hope Sep 2 2025 at 8:42pm Reply I thought Hemingway was taking a shot at the Republican leadership’s competency and the international volunteers naivety. The farce at the end with Robert’s message where everyone in Madrid (including the Nationalist spies) knows about the offensive is telling. He continually poked fun at Robert for wanting to teach Spanish in Spain, admitting he didn’t share the politics while being 100% for the cause, lecturing how dumb superstition is after continually begging to know his fortune, leaving someone else to guard his equipment on the night before the attack, being a know-it-all, the ill-advised romantic relationship that he knows is a bad idea but fools himself into going through with it. The part where he mentioned there’s no way to get at the evil falangists because they don’t fight in the army is worth mentioning too. Seemed very disillusioned with the whole conflict. LEAVE A COMMENT Cancel reply Your Name: required required Email Address: required, not displayed required, not displayed Website URL: optional optional Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Enter your email address to subscribe to our monthly newsletter: DELVE DEEPER Watch this podcast episode on YouTube: Hemingway, Love, and War (with David Wyatt) . Live-recorded audio and video. This week's guest: David Wyatt's Home page This week's focus: For Whom the Bell Tolls, by Ernest Hemingway at Amazon.com. * Hemingway, Style, and the Art of Emotion, by David Wyatt at Amazon.com. * Additional ideas and people mentioned in this podcast episode: By-Line Ernest Hemingway: Selected Articles and Dispatches of Four Decades, by Ernest Hemingway. William White, ed. A Moveable Feast: The Restored Edition, by Ernest Hemingway at Amazon.com. * The Garden of Eden, by Ernest Hemingway at Amazon.com. * This Is My Best: Great Writers Share Their Favorite Work, by Kathy Kiernan and Retha Powers at Amazon.com. * The Things They Carried, by Tim O'Brien at Amazon.com. * A few more readings and background resources: "For whom the Bell Tolls," by John Donne (1572-1631). Allpoetry.com. Christopher Hitchens on George Orwell . EconTalk. "Pablo Picasso, Guernica" by Lynn Robinson. SmartHistory.org, March 27, 2025. Video. "For Whom the Bell Tolls" . Film starring Gary Cooper and Ingrid Bergman. IMDb. The Hemingway Letters Project . A few more EconTalk podcast episodes: Reading, Writing, and Fighting (with Mark Helprin) . EconTalk. Kevin McKenna on Solzhenitsyn, the Soviet Union, and In the First Circle . EconTalk. More related EconTalk podcast episodes, by Category: Literature, Reading, and Writing War, Peace, Violence Biography, Intellectual History History ALL ECONTALK CATEGORIES * As an Amazon Associate, Econlib earns from qualifying purchases. AUDIO TRANSCRIPT Time Podcast Episode Highlights 0:37 Intro. [Recording date: July 28, 2025.] Russ Roberts: Today is July 28th, 2025, and my guest is Professor of English and author David Wyatt of the University of Maryland. He teaches and writes about 20th century American literature, including Ernest Hemingway. Our topic for today is Hemingway's novel, For Whom the Bell Tolls . David, welcome to EconTalk. David Wyatt: Thanks for having me, Russ. Happy to be here. Russ Roberts: I want to let listeners know that there will be some spoilers, so if you want to enjoy the book without those, please read it before you listen to this episode. 1:07 Russ Roberts: Now, the novel is set in the Spanish Civil War, which isn't even 100 years old, but is probably forgotten by many. Give us a thumbnail sketch of the war. What was it about, and what was Hemingway's involvement? David Wyatt: You can see the Spanish Civil War as a run-up to World War II, a proxy war in which various countries took sides in the initial fight between fascism and democracy. It took place in Spain from 1936 to 1939, and it was a war that was perhaps timed at that point in history because Spain had never had its French Revolution. In France, it was a class war as well--the military, the aristocracy, the church, the bankers on one side, and a whole array of a different class of persons on the other. France kept fighting this war, you might say, for the next 150 years. Spain never had such an outbreak. And, so, in some sense, the pressures that were released in France, and in Germany and Italy in the 19th century came to a head in Spain in the 1930s because of the growing gap, you might say, between the haves and the have-nots. In the 1930s, mid-'30s, the Popular Front was elected to run the country and it was called a Republic; and this movement was an attempt to redistribute land, money, power. And it was resisted by the powers that be. When the Front came in, they began an attack on the clergy and the churches, and there was some killing of priests. At this point, the forces on the right decided to take arms, and under Francisco Franco, they began a rebellion against the elected government called the Republic. So, on the one hand, you had Franco and his Fascists. On the other hand, you had this newly-elected Republic. So, it was a war between, you might say, the old guard and the new. And, into this war came support from Germany and Italy for Franco and the Fascists; and the Soviet Union supports the Republic. So, it's a proxy war in that sense. And, what happens is that the support from the Fascists is much more effective than it is from the Soviet Union. There's also an American contingent: About 3,000 American soldiers or volunteers formed the Abraham Lincoln Brigade. And, Robert Jordan, the protagonist of For Whom the Bell Tolls , is a kind of member of that brigade. These Americans fought for the Republic. When I say that this Fascist support was more effective, you see this in the novel when the planes come and bomb El Sordo. These are planes--German and Italian planes, probably mostly German planes. So, Franco and his Fascists were much more well-equipped than the other side. Hemingway loved Spain, and he had been going there since the early 1920s--probably his favorite country in Europe. When the war breaks out, he decides he wants to cover it. He's a war correspondent. He was a correspondent in the Turkish Wars, Spanish Civil War, World War II. He went to the wars. So, he spends four visits in Spain: gets there in 1937--about, what, half a year or so, nine months after the war begins. He sets up headquarters in Madrid, and there he falls in love with Martha Gellhorn, another war correspondent, and this is when their affair begins and will eventually lead to his divorce from Pauline Pfeiffer and his marriage with Martha. So, he goes to the war, he goes to the front, he's often in action. He's not carrying a gun, but he's very close to the front lines in many cases. He befriends the great photographer Robert Capa, the war photographer, and he says at one point, 'We were never happier than when we thought the Republic had a chance to win.' Of course, the Republic lost, Franco wins, and for the next 30 years, Spain exists under a kind of right-wing oppression, which eventually is lifted in the 1970s. 5:47 Russ Roberts: So, the other thing I just want to add about the Spanish Civil War: First, many intellectuals got involved, typically on the side of the Republic and the Communists. George Orwell famously broke with communism after seeing what happened in the Spanish Civil War--lost a lot of friends. We did an episode with Christopher Hitchens on that long, long time ago, which we'll link to. But the other thing I want to add is that--so the war goes 1936 to 1939. It ends with Franco ascending as dictator, a position he holds till 1975. Hemingway was clearly on the side of the Republic against the Fascists. Robert Jordan, the protagonist, is clearly on the side--he's fighting for the Republic against the Fascists. And the book is banned in Spain until 1968. Which is really amazing. And then, the other thing I just want to add is this was a very brutal conflict. I read--I suppose it's accurate--200,000 people died. There was bombing of civilians, which was, as you suggested, another prelude to the tragedy of World War II's bombing of civilians in London, and Japan, and Germany. And it's a brutal, brutal thing. Guernica , Picasso's painting, is an example of that. When does Hemingway--so the war goes 1936 to 1939. When does Hemingway write this book, when does it come out, and how is it received? David Wyatt: He begins writing it in late 1938, early 1939, and he spends about nine or 10 months writing it. It's published in 1940. It's very well received, and a movie with Gary Cooper and Ingrid Bergman is made fairly quickly thereafter. Many of Hemingway's books were made into films. So, you might say it's percolating inside of him during the four visits he makes to Spain, and he finally decides to sit down and write what became his longest novel. Russ Roberts: For those of you who haven't read--this is fiction, obviously--but those of you who have not read Hemingway's wartime correspondence, I recommend it. There's a collection of that from his writing on World War II that is really quite extraordinary, and it clearly--he was up close to many wartime battles and situations. Now, I mentioned that Orwell soured on Communism after his experience in Spain. Hemingway, my understanding is he was criticized both by the Left and the Right for this book. The Left felt it wasn't pro-Republic enough. The Right obviously didn't like it. I mentioned it was banned in Spain. Did he ever comment or write after the war beyond this publication of this book, and reflect back on the Spanish Civil War? David Wyatt: I'm not sure I can answer that question fully. I don't recall any such comment. [SPOILER in this paragraph] I would say this about your point, which is that, in this novel, clearly Robert Jordan has taken a side, and he's very passionate about support of the Republic. But , in Hemingway's treatment of the enemy, of the other--particularly Lieutenant Berrendo, who ends up riding into the sights of Robert's rifle on the last page of the book--he gives that character, who is an enemy figure, an inner life, a kind of dignity, and a kind of respect. So that, in a strange way, this book avoids a kind of ideological side-taking. It shows a lot of the flaws in the strategy being promoted by his own side. At one point, Robert tries to call off the entire blowing of the bridge. So, he's quite honest about the deficiencies, you might say, in the side that Robert is supporting. [END SPOILER] And, it's a novel, so it's not an ideological tract, and in that sense, he wants to give even the other side the dignity of at least having an inner life. Not that he ever agreed with the ultimate values or the triumph of the Fascists. But as a novelist, it was important to him to not turn the enemy into cardboard figures. Hemingway, in this novel, I think, masters what I'd call the art of empathy--of feeling for and with almost every character that he presents. And this is part of the reason why I love the book so much, is that it seems to me a much more full-hearted, generous, and affirmative book than anything he had previously written. Russ Roberts: And, it's a fantastic observation that they're not cardboard figures. More than that, the characters on Robert Jordan's side--we don't hear much, almost nothing, directly from the characters on the other side, the Fascists. We do get their inner world a little bit. But, from the Robert Jordan side, there's an immense amount of discomfort at killing, even though they're the enemy, because a lot of times they're seeing the faces of the men that they're killing. They understand that: they do feel they're doing something they think they should be doing, and they respect that. And, in varying amounts--and part of the power of the book is how differently different characters cope with that moral challenge--in varying amounts, they have guilt, shame, and a feeling of a loss of humanity in their execution of the job of wartime killing. And it's, I think, extraordinary. And, you're right: they're all--even the most flawed characters, of which Pablo is probably the most despicable, gets his day in court in the reader's mind, and has a few redeeming moments, even though he's probably the least likable of the group. David Wyatt: Two responses: one about the point about killing. Early on, Anselmo, the old man, he says, 'I'm an old man who will live until I die,' and eventually, he is killed near the end. Anselmo raises the issue of killing, and he asks a question early on of Robert: 'Who forgives?' 'Who forgives,' Anselmo says, 'since we no longer have God?' A pretty astonishing thing for a Spanish--not a peasant, exactly--but working man, to say. And, the novel takes up the whole issue of forgiveness, or what I would call self-forgiveness. That is, how do you live with the things you have done that you--for which you might need to seek forgiveness? Killing among them. But there are lots of other sins, if you will, that Robert and others contemplate in their own lives. Pablo, as you mentioned, Pablo is the great figure of change. I think this novel is about whether or not people can change, or grow, or learn. It's a novel of education , and that's one of the words Robert applies to himself. He says, 'I was learning very fast,' near the end. [SPOILER in this paragraph] Pablo gets three chances. Not just two, he gets three chances. Two times he betrays the band. And he finally comes back, and then, when he finally comes back, he comes back with the detonators and with some more men. So, he helps out a bit at the end. And he fights well at the end, although he loses all of his men. [END SPOILER] So, through Pablo, I think Hemingway is exploring the whole issue of change, and in Pablo's case, he doesn't change: he vacillates. Change, for Hemingway, is when you turn against the self you have been, and you learn--you're educated--to live differently. And, this is what Robert undergoes in this book. He undergoes it because, unlike any other character in the earlier novels, he is given a past. Hemingway gives him memory. He gives him memory. 14:41 Russ Roberts: I just want to say one strange thing about the pace. And then I want to ask you something else. But there's a weird tension in that time moves extremely slowly in this book. We're waiting, everybody's waiting. We're waiting for this mission to reach its conclusion. And, in a way, that's what the whole book is. In a minute, we'll talk about why it's so much more than that. But on the surface, it's just a bunch of people waiting around to do something they think they have to do. They know it's dangerous, they think it's important, it's not easy, and they get it done. So, you can feel the clock kind of just ticking, ticking, ticking. And, at the same time, time is speeding up tremendously. You gave one example. You talk about his feeling that he's learning very quickly. And I think that's a--we think of life's lessons. I feel I'm a little bit wiser, perhaps, than I was 50 years ago when I first read this book. This is my second read. But, as you get older, you start thinking, 'Yeah, I understand some things I didn't understand before.' And, Robert Jordan is a young man, and he gets those lessons. And, at the same time, he has this whirlwind romance with Maria that he expects might only last three days. He gets three and a half-ish days, and we'll come back and talk about that. But, just on this issue of time, there's this weird rubbing-your-stomach-and-patting-your-head thing going on, where time is incredibly slow. And: When is this going to happen? This mission to get the dispatch to General Golz is just interminable--and they're waiting. And, at the same time, he's hurtling towards the end of the book, and many, many things are happening at an accelerated pace. I hadn't realized that until we talked. I think that's an extraordinary achievement, to have those two things going on at the same time. David Wyatt: Well, that's a brilliant description of the two tensions at work. On the one hand, it's a book about the proper timing of an explosion--the blowing of the bridge--and that's going to be the climax. On the other hand, it's 470 pages. It's only 70 hours of time that are covered. So, it's a very long book about a very short time. Hemingway's earlier novels have been fairly short books, or modest in length, about months or even years. So, here he takes up the challenge of how to fill the time, which is, for him, an important step, because Frederic Henry had talked about killing time: 'I just want to be with Catherine. The rest of the time I was happy to kill.' Jake Barnes in The Sun Also Rises can't really enter time. He's been cut off from it literally. So, this is a book which immerses us in the moment--in very quotidian moments of eating stewed rabbit, mushrooms, of drinking absinthe--but especially the time in the book: there's the present, of course, the very intense present and the waiting you talk about. But there's also these recursions into memory, into the personal past, into dreams, into stories--the great story that Pilar tells about the taking of the town in Chapter 10. So, in all kinds of ways, Hemingway has to find a strategy that will allow him to fill the time rather than to kill it. And, for me, the most important examples of that are Chapters 30 and 31, where Jordan remembers his father and his mother, and his [inaudible, grand-?]. And then the next chapter with Maria, their last night together, where she tells him her personal story. People are given a story, and we therefore learn what it is that they need to learn, based upon what they have come out of. 18:49 Russ Roberts: And maybe that's the answer to my next question, which was: even though not much happens, the pace never flags. It's a page-turner. You read it with great anticipation. And, how does Hemingway do that? Well, one way I guess he does it is with the flashbacks and the memories, which sort of slow down the pace of anticipation. Any other thoughts on that, on the pacing? David Wyatt: Well, I think he wanted two things. He wanted the sense of apprehension you're talking about, of expectant waiting, and he also wanted to show how life goes moment by moment--the quotidian, the everyday, the banal, the cooking, the looking, the savoring, and the lovemaking, of course. Time is always made for love in Hemingway, although it rarely goes as well between two people as it does between these two. It's kind of a magical thing, this love affair. It happens very suddenly. They fall in love without any prelude, they're quickly in bed, and you believe in this because you understand this is a heightened experience given the apprehension, the pressure which they're up against. And so, people have complained about the love affair. They've complained about the characterization of Maria, who is quite young. But my sense is this is a romance. Hemingway was a great partisan of romance, which is to say of a heightened reality to which many of us may in our lives aspire, but rarely reach. And he's giving us, therefore, an image of what might be possible for them, and maybe for us. Russ Roberts: Yeah. No, I love this idea that you can live 70 years in 70 hours, and Robert Jordan is constantly wondering. He doesn't know what his fate will be. He's trying to convince himself that that's enough. That time is inherently ambiguous and elastic, and an extraordinary 70 hours could be, quote, "enough." It's an interesting way to live. David Wyatt: Well, he talks very explicitly about time. He talks about the difference between duration and intensity, and you can argue that duration has been a problem for his characters heretofore, especially for Jake and for Frederic. Intensity is what Frederic experiences in almost every moment. And so it's a model of how to penetrate duration and to live a full life. And of course, Hemingway needed the pressure of war very often--most of his novels deal with it--to kind of create that back-pressure, which heightens the intensity and the importance of the love. At one point, he says, 'I wish there was more time,' and we do, too. But the great thing is, he, Hemingway, has already given us that. This book has so much more time in it, in the sense of incident, memory, dreams, and all the rest that make it such a rich experience. 22:20 Russ Roberts: Now, there's two very powerful flashbacks or stories retold. What's fabulous about those two flashbacks: one highlights the cruelty of the Republicans, and one highlights the cruelty of the Fascists. I think they're both told by women, which is interesting. Women are often the victims of war. It's an incredibly effective way to let him comment on the inhumanity of human beings to each other, especially during wartime. David Wyatt: Well, yes. Pilar tells the first story, and Maria tells the second. Chapter 10, Pilar gives this beautiful rendition of how the Republicans in Pablo's band took the town, and then they march the Fascists out--people they deem to be Fascist--between two lines of men holding flails. They beat them, and then they throw them off the cliff. And, this is an example of where Hemingway allows the other --the enemy, if you will: the Fascists in this case--to become humanized. Each one has a story. Some behave badly, some behave well. But, Don Guillermo is a Fascist, as Pilar says, 'Because of the religion of his wife,' and he honors that. So, he takes that side. When he is marched out between the two lines, his wife yells out something about, 'I go with thee, I want to go with thee,' and he turns with tears in his eyes and gestures toward her, and then he's mocked by the men with the flails. And, at this point, your sympathy is clearly with him . This is a man who, because of his loyalty to his wife, has perhaps chosen the less sympathetic side. And, we sympathize with the two of them as she witnesses him going to his death. And, the terrible thing about this whole incident is that it seems like a victory, because the chapter ends with the line about, 'And, the next week or the next day, the Fascists came and retook the town. So, much for that victory.' And Pablo later feels true regret about what he did. So, that's an example of Hemingway complicating side-taking. If I might, I just would turn to Maria's example. When Maria tells Robert about her rape and the hair-cutting that she endured when the Fascists took her town. And there again, they kill her parents. And, this is an amazing echo: When Maria's mother sees her husband being dragged out and about to be shot, she yells out to him in the same way that Don Guillermo's wife had yelled out to him. So, there's a parallel being drawn; and suddenly the differences between these two sides collapse in this moment, you might say, of filial or of marital loyalty. We'll get back, I hope, to Maria's story because I think it's a very important part of the book. But, you're right: these are both stories told by women. 25:40 Russ Roberts: Talk about Hemingway's interest in grace under pressure. It's a theme that runs throughout the book. It runs really throughout Hemingway's life. You talked about how a lot of his books take place during wartime. A lot of his life took place around danger. He was a war correspondent in World War II, as we've mentioned. He, I think, drove an ambulance in World War I? Is that correct? Do I have that right? David Wyatt: Yes. Yes. Russ Roberts: He is close to the conflict in the Spanish Civil War as a correspondent. He likes bullfights, and I think he ran with the bulls when he was younger-- David Wyatt: Pamplona. Yeah-- Russ Roberts: So, he's very interested in grace under pressure--handling difficult situations with aplomb. One of the characters says, 'Help me, oh Lord, tomorrow to comport myself as a man should in his final hours.' And it's very sad actually, that line--it's an incredible line. It's a beautiful line. But, reading the book, it's hard not to remember that Hemingway's final hours were--he took his own life. Robert Jordan's father kills himself in For Whom the Bell Tolls --in the memories you talk about where he reminisces about his youth and his father and grandfather. Hemingway's father took his life. Hemingway takes his own life. I mean, you could argue he wanted to make sure he could comport himself well as a man should in his final hours, and that was his way of doing it given his situation. But, talk about grace under pressure. David Wyatt: Well, it's a phrase that Hemingway deployed. I don't think he used it in one of his novels. I think it might have been in Death in the Afternoon , the bullfighting book. I'm not sure where the phrase--I can't locate where it arose. But it's become a real shibboleth in Hemingway studies. I both admire the ambition behind the phrase, but I also am aware that his characters often failed to achieve it, and he's interested in showing them failing at it. For instance, Francis Macomber runs from the lion in "The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber," and then is given a second chance to stand firm when the buffalo charges. That's a story about change, and acquiring grace because you've been publicly shamed. So, there's often a failure to meet the standard that then allows a character to try again. [SPOILER in this paragraph] Hemingway's--rather, Jordan's--father you mentioned is a good example of the case. He shoots himself, and the gun is given to Robert Jordan, who rides up to this lake in Montana and tries to drop it into the lake. But, as he holds the gun in front of himself before he drops it, he sees himself holding the gun, and that image is mirrored so that he's looking at himself as if he were trying to shoot himself. This is a rehearsal. This is a chance for the young Robert to rehearse for the moment in which he will have to contemplate taking his own life as well, which comes near the end when he's been wounded. He's in so much pain, he's not sure he can stand it. 'Should I do that business my father did or not?' he asks himself. And, he really seriously contemplates, and he understands he may be driven to it by pain. It's not graceless; but it's awkward, it's embarrassing. He finally manages to compose himself. The pain somehow lessens. [END SPOILER] And, earlier on, he talks about being embarrassed by his father, and being embarrassed by the farewell at the train where his father weeps. So, the father is a male figure who constantly falls short of this norm, and yet Robert finds himself forgiving him, and also sees himself being tempted to imitate him. But, finally, not so much through grace of his own, but the simple bodily grace of the pain retiring, he is allowed to remain alive until the end. And that's important. Robert does not die in this book. We know he's going to die. We almost know from the beginning because very early on--I think it's Pablo, one of the characters in the cave--who says, 'If you are wounded in this thing of the bridge, would you be willing to be left behind?' That utterly forecasts what's going to happen. So, we're told --virtually told--right away what's going to happen, and we're back to this issue of waiting. We have to live with this apprehension for the entire book. So, we know this. And Hemingway loves to predict his endings at the very start, and then we have to live with that pressure. Russ Roberts: Yeah. Sorry for the spoilers for those of you who haven't read the book yet, but it is foreshadowed in all kinds of ways. Pilar reads this poem--there's a really wonderful, extraordinary discourse between Robert Jordan and Pilar about mysticism. She believes in it. Robert Jordan, presumably speaking on Hemingway's behalf, does not. He does get an unfortunate data point in favor of her view. But, he also does a pretty good job giving her argument its due, and in a respectful way. 31:38 Russ Roberts: I want to talk about the narrative voice in the book for a minute. So, Hemingway is writing this in the late 1930s. And, by the way, I don't know if it's correct--I saw this on ChatGPT [Generative Pre-trained Transformer]--that the gap between when he submitted the manuscript and when the book came out was, like, three months. I thought, 'Well, those were the days.' They kind of moved that along quickly. I know they had the incentive to do so. The Spanish War was front and center in people's minds then, but it was kind of extraordinary. But, he's writing this in the late 1930s. So, he's writing this after Ulysses by Joyce. He's writing it after The Sound and the Fury and Faulkner's work. He's writing it after Virginia Woolf. And, he is famous stylistically for short, clipped sentences. And yet, reading this after 50 years from the first time I read it, I was shocked at how much stream of consciousness there is--something closer to the style of a Faulkner or a Joyce. Not the same level of intensity, of course. But, what it does, in my reading--and I want your take--I saw that in the Kindle version, by the way, it gives you the first few pages of the original manuscript, which is written in first person, and he crosses out the 'I' and he puts 'he.' So, he writes the book in third person. And yet, you feel like it's in first person. And, one of the reasons you do is that, for more than one character--mainly Robert Jordan, but for others as well--you get into their head, and you get their stream of consciousness in longer sentences than you normally associate with Hemingway. David Wyatt: Well, that's a key point. My argument in my book about Hemingway is that the early style, which is the style for which most people remember him, is something that changes. And by the mid-1930s, with the two non-fictional books, Green Hills of Africa and Death in the Afternoon , he's already shifting away from that clipped style of omission and of short sentences to a much more meditative, reflective, recursive style, which finally culminates in this book. What this book is about is thinking. There's not much thinking that goes on in the earlier books in the sense of willful going into the mind. Robert, or rather Frederic and Jake Barnes, each only have one memory in the entirety of their novels--a memory of home--and it sort of befalls them. But ordinarily, they try not to think because there's too much that they're haunted by, and they don't want to allow themselves to go there. Robert is given an immense freedom to think. He even talks to himself. He talks to himself in the second person, in the third person. He's fully allowed an inner life. Hemingway calls this--he calls thinking 'mental conversation.' And he uses that phrase at the end of "Big Two-Hearted River," which is the last story in In Our Time , in a passage he eventually cut--a passage at the end of the last story in which Nick is walking back from fishing, and he begins to think--and he's a writer, it turns out--and he thinks about Cézanne and wanting to write the way Cézanne painted the country. And, he has all kinds of fantasies about his future writing career. Hemingway cut that all out. He says, 'This story does not need mental conversation.' Robert gets mental conversation, and that's the difference. We get to go inside of a person and watch how a mind works. 35:14 Russ Roberts: So, I want to give an example of his style that I just think is--it was my favorite example probably in the book. The passage I'm going to read is about death and life. We'll come back and we'll talk just about death in a minute. But this passage is memorable because of the way he talks about life. And, what he's going to say in this passage is: yanno, life's pretty great. But he manages to say this in such an extraordinary way. So, he says, "If one must die, he thought, and clearly one must, I can die. But I hate it." Dying was nothing and he had no picture of it nor fear of it in his mind. But living was a field of grain blowing in the wind on the side of a hill. Living was a hawk in the sky. Living was an earthen jar of water in the dust of the threshing with the grain flailed out and the chaff blowing. Living was a horse between your legs and a carbine under one leg and a hill and a valley and a stream with trees along it and the far side of the valley and the hills beyond. Ach, that's so great. David Wyatt: Well, I'm so glad you chose that because I was thinking of reading it myself today. That's El Sordo. That's El Sordo thinking about the fact that he's going to be bombed to death, and he, too, is given this extraordinary passage. And, look at those sentences. They each begin with the gerund 'living.' That's the repetition for which Hemingway is so famous. But, in this case, it's not a sense of being trapped in a capturing pattern: it's a celebration of the Spanish Earth. And, this is a book not about--it's certainly a book in which people die, but it is really a book about how to live. That's what Hemingway is finally coming to be able to show us. And, there are so many instances in which there's a kind of sense of fullness of experience, even though it's shadowed by what we know is coming, because it's been announced from the beginning: We are given more time. Russ Roberts: Yeah. What's amazing--well, a couple of things I didn't remember until you just mentioned it. I forgot this is El Sordo. So, El Sordo is not a particularly romantic character, and yet he is given this meditation on life. It's not a statement. In a way, those things are not life. What do you mean, 'the hills beyond,' and what do you mean, 'the earthen jar'? It's an incredibly poetic passage that is, I would say, a perfect example of 'show, don't tell.' And, it allows us to imagine a down-to-earth character like Sordo having a soul with a richness that could express itself this way, right? 'Living was a hawk in the sky.' No, it's not. So, what is he saying? He's saying that our experience of the earth really is a vivid part of being alive. It's an unbelievable passage. It's pure poetry. David Wyatt: Well, Hemingway loved landscape and writes about it as powerfully as anybody who ever lived. And, to situate yourself in a place and to take it in visually, orally, its taste, its smells--he's a great poet of sensation, Hemingway. And, he loves food and drink. There are many wonderful meals concocted in this book. Russ Roberts: That's true. David Wyatt: And so, it's given to someone like El Sordo who, as you say, is not a major character, but he's a compelling one because he is up on the top of the hill, taking his stand, because Berrendo and his men will eventually come and overrun the hill, and the planes have done their work for them. And, yet he's given--this is an example of what I mean by the generosity toward characters--he's given this, as you call it, a very poetic meditation. Russ Roberts: That's amazing. I forgot about how good the food is. They're eating a bunch of very primitive food and drink, and there are very nice conversations or descriptions of alcohol. And, the passage on absinthe, where he's--do you have that? David Wyatt: Here it is. It's on page 51: Robert Jordan pushed the cup toward him. It was a milky yellow now with the water, and he hoped the gypsy would not take more than a swallow. There was very little of it left. And, he calls it a 'warming, idea-changing, liquid alchemy.' And then, I guess this is not where he remembers Paris, but--yes, he does. Yeah, you go on, and he remembers Paris--the chestnut trees and all the rest. Russ Roberts: Where's that? So, read that part. David Wyatt: Okay: There was very little of it left, and one cup of it took the place of the evening papers, of all the old evenings in cafes, of all chestnut trees that would be in bloom now in this month, of the great slow horses of the outer boulevards, of bookshops, of kiosks, and of galleries, of the Parc Montsouris, of the Stade Buffalo, and of the Butte Chaumont, of the Guarantee Trust Company, and the Île de la Cité, of the Foyot's old hotel, and of being able to read and relax in the evening; of all the things he had enjoyed and forgotten, and that came back to him when he tasted that opaque, bitter, tongue-numbing, brain-warming, stomach-warming, idea-changing, liquid alchemy. Now, that's an example of that kind of sentence you were talking about. It's almost a run-on sentence because the mind keeps associating, and recalling, and re-experiencing this catalog of memory. The style, therefore, has to capture that motion of mind. Russ Roberts: Yeah, and that's as close as he's going to get to the madeleines of Proust--the ability of food or drink to evoke memory. David Wyatt: Mm-hmm. Exactly. Memory is so important in this book because it's been a fugitive commodity for most of Hemingway's characters--male characters. And, to be given the privilege and the power of recall--the reason that Robert and Maria can have their last night, and he can open himself up to her story, which is very painful for him--he says, 'Don't tell it. Don't tell it.' He doesn't want to listen. 'Nay, I must tell it.' And, she makes him listen, and he finally surrenders. The reason he can listen to her memories, which are mostly painful, is because in the prior chapter he has had his reckoning in memory with his father. He has been embarrassed once again by all that went on between them, by how his father ended his life, and yet he's also forgiven him. So, by having Robert go into that, you might say, unresolved past, which he at least in imagination now resolves, he can then turn to the woman he loves and allow her to bring up her memories, and then facing those. Part of what Hemingway was getting at is that in a mature love, the male character has to face the fact that the woman has a prior history--in this case, a sexual history, a terrible assault, and a trauma that she carries with her. And, he, if he's going to really love her, has to be willing to listen, to take that in, and to not be derailed by the fact that she's had a prior life. 43:58 Russ Roberts: Yeah. I want to shift gears and talk about what is kind of a strange interlude in the book, and I'm curious what you make of it. Robert tries to get a message to General Golz, so he sends Andres on what is kind of a tragicomic, madcap, bizarro mission. And, in a way, it serves to heighten the tension because it delays the inevitable moment when we have to see what happens to the bridge, but it's almost a digression. It's comic. There are numerous moments of comedy in this cross-country journey. It almost doesn't fit, and you could argue it could have been cut. Why do you think he kept it, and what was he trying to do there with that story? David Wyatt: It's a really good question. I was looking over those four chapters. There are four interpolated chapters that follow Andres as he tries to get through the lines to bring the message that Robert wants to send to his superiors. You used the word 'digression,' and that's exactly what it is. Hemingway is learning the art of digression, which is another way to extend the time. The last day--the sort of beginning of the assault on the bridge and all that happened subsequently--fills 70 pages. The last 70 pages of this book are given to this fairly brief interval. How to heighten the tension, as you suggest? Well, you interpolate these four digressive chapters, through which we have to wait to get back to what it is we really are, at this point, most caring about. And I think it's, again, giving everybody more time. And, you could argue all of the memories, all the great meals, the story that Pilar tells about the taking of the town--these are all digressions, in a sense, from the linear momentum of the assault on the bridge. The actual action of the story could be reduced to a short story. So, the rest of the book is this filling out of Robert's experience--both his immediate, his past experience, and his future expectations. Because the night with Maria, they talk about, 'We'll go to Madrid. We'll cut your hair. You'll look like Garbo,' and it's a complete 'making believe.' That's the phrase Hemingway uses. They're both making believe because, at some level, they both expect what's going to happen. And, yet they're given this beautiful interval. Hemingway describes it as a complete embracing of what would not be. And this is about believing in a fiction. And, Hemingway is coming to understand the value of this. He's always known it, but the ultimate fiction that these characters live out and believe in is romantic love. The other one, I suppose, is, shall we say, historical change--trying to fight a war to change a country for the better. And so, he's highlighting for us how any of us who are involved in a love relationship have pitched into a fiction--a thing we only make true by continuing to believe in it. It's something we make up. It's not a given. It's made, and they make love in the very brief time they have. And, it's real, it's true, insofar as they believe in it. Russ Roberts: Yeah, and besides the events that are going to frustrate that imagined future, they're a weird mismatch. He's an English teacher from the Western United States, and she's an uneducated teenager, perhaps. Maybe--she's clearly much younger than he is. And, we believe it anyway also. There's something really quite beautiful about it. I know he got criticized some for that romance being a little, as you suggested earlier, maybe a little implausible, but it didn't feel implausible to me. It was really quite beautiful. The other thing I felt about the interlude of the delivering of the message was this: here we have--I thought this was incredibly effective. Not so much in the moment. When I was reading, I'm thinking, 'Come on, come on, come on. Let's get to it. Okay, then.' You just know it's not going to go well. It's not going to end well. It's like, 'Let's get through it. I want to find out what happens.' But, when I reflect back on that digression, it's quite extraordinary because Robert Jordan is on the ground, literally, through a good chunk of the book. He is in the trench--in the trenches, as we say about soldiers. He's got the pine needles around him, and he's immersed in it. And, he's so immersed in it that it's an extraordinary meditative experience that we experience alongside him as he prepares for what he knows will be the decision-making, the emotional challenges and threats to his ability to complete his mission. And then, we've got the generals, the people in the headquarters, who are either corrupt essentially--as Marty is corrupt--or it's Golz, who we have all this hope for, who says basically, 'Well, it's probably not going to work, but maybe it will.' And, it's to contrast his--I don't know what you would call it--ambivalence, uncertainty, casualness even--about this moment in the war, with Jordan's and his team who are living this with this unimaginable intensity. So, that does give it an incredible power that I don't think I appreciated when I was reading it. I only get it now. David Wyatt: Well, I think Orwell is very good, too, on the whole chaotic nature of this resistance--the shifting alliances, the strange cooperations. It's a civil war, and it attracts all kinds of hangers-on as well as competent supporters. So, I think that the larger strategy of the war, even the kind of principled aims, were so often compromised--as they are in all wars--but this one in particular was a very ugly, destructive civil war, which of course ended in more than 30 years of Fascist repression. Hemingway couldn't go back to Spain for almost 15, 20 years. He goes back finally in the late 1950s to write a book about bullfighting, but he was denied, you might say, the ability--or denied himself the ability--to return to his most beloved country because he was so heartbroken about what had happened. 51:51 Russ Roberts: I want to read a quote about death, which always kind of hovers over this book alongside life, although these two quotes illustrate that. The first is: he's talking about death. "Everyone has to do this one day or another." There's a certain recognition of the inevitability. And then, shortly after that sentence, he says--the character, I think it's Robert Jordan--"I hate to leave it is all. I hate to leave it very much, and I hope I have done some good in it." And, then, just after that: "The world is a fine place and worth the fighting for, and I hate very much to leave it." I thought that was a credo, maybe--certainly for Robert Jordan, but probably for Hemingway, too. David Wyatt: He continues, "And, you had a lot of luck, he told himself, to have had such a good life." And, later on in that same paragraph, he talks about: "There's no one thing that's true. It's all true." Which is, for him, a major thing to say--for Hemingway and for Robert both--because it's a movement away from a kind of credo or a rigid code to accepting, I suppose, all kinds of experiences and points of view. What you just read us reminds us of how much time we spend inside of Robert's head. He's been injured now, and he's thinking back on his life, and it's a beautiful and prolonged meditation. At one point, he says, "I hope I've done some good in it. I've tried to with what talent I had," and then he corrects it and he italicizes the next sentence, " Have, you mean. All right, have. " He brings it into the present tense. Whatever we had, we have; and he has it to the end. [SPOILER in this paragraph] He accepts it all. He forgives what he can forgive, and he affirms how good it was. That word 'good' is one of Hemingway's favorite words. He's often seeking--his characters are seeking--for the good place. The phrase occurs in this book, too. And so, he's able to say farewell. My favorite saying in the book is, 'I go with thee,' when he says to [inaudible 00:54:21], 'I go. You must go. You must go. I'm wounded. You must go. I go with thee,' and she says, 'No, no. I stay. No, I go with thee.' [END SPOILER] What he means is it's a literal statement, he says--I want to be accurate. It's literally true. If she leaves and she survives, he goes with her--thee--and the 'thee' of course reflects the head quote from John Donne, 'Ask not for whom the bell tolls, it tolls for thee.' So, he's the 'thee-ness' in the book rather than 'you'--Hemingway uses 'thee,' the formal 'thee'--It's a kind of echo of Donne. But, it's a beautiful thing to say to somebody because it's true. People go with other people who survive them and remember and love them, and that's what Hemingway's affirming--that kind of immortality. 55:02 Russ Roberts: Yeah, that's beautiful. Amazing. I think you may have said this before we started taping, I don't remember, but you said this is your favorite novel of Hemingway's. Is it your favorite American novel? What else would be in the running if it's not, or if it's close? David Wyatt: The Sound and the Fury ; Beloved ; The Grapes of Wrath ; American Pastoral , Philip Roth. I guess if you had to sort of reel off five titles. The Great Gatsby . So, yeah, those are books I teach and love, and there are many, many others, but those come to mind pretty easily. Russ Roberts: I forget the name of the book, I don't know where I read it, but I have a collection of Hemingway's non-fiction writing that includes the war correspondence I mentioned. But, it also includes this extraordinary day he spends out on the water with a young aspiring writer who somehow manages to get Hemingway to take him along and to ask dumb questions. It could be a fictional character that he made up for this purpose to let Hemingway opine on the art of writing. And, he says two things in there I've never forgotten, even though it's been 50 years or so since I read them. I told you before we started taping that I read almost everything Hemingway wrote when I was young and loved the short stories, but not so much the novels. And, it's fun to come back and read the novels now--to read this one, which I lovedd the second time more than I did the first time. Maybe it's because I'm older and a little closer to death as a result of reading it at my age. But, in that essay with the aspiring writer, the story he tells--there's two things I've never forgotten. One is: stop writing when you know what's going to happen next because it'll help you get started the next day, and that's a piece of advice I've taken to heart. It's very hard to follow, but it's fantastic advice. But, the second thing he says in there, which is hilarious, and your list reminds me: he says to this kid, 'You have to read other writers because you have to know who you have to beat,' meaning: Whose writing do you have to surpass? And, of course, he was friends with Fitzgerald, and you could argue he surpassed Fitzgerald. But, I wonder if he was happy with his career. I think about the following, and I want you to comment on it. He wins the Nobel Prize in 1954. He was born in 1900, I think. So, he is roughly 50-- David Wyatt: 1899. Russ Roberts: Okay, so he is 50; hasn't turned 55 yet when he wins the Nobel Prize. So, he wins the Nobel Prize, and then in 1961, seven years later, he kills himself in Ketchum, Idaho with a shotgun. Nothing he does between 1954 and 1961 is very well received, and certainly posthumously is not well received. And, I wonder--I'm not going to speculate on his personal psychology, because I'm sure it's complicated, but I wonder how much despair he endured, how much bitterness he endured at the end of his life when he did not feel he was beating the competition. He wasn't writing at the peak of his powers. Or do you disagree? David Wyatt: I disagree, in a sense, that I would say that the posthumous career--I've written a bit about this--is much richer than people realize. And, if you take A Movable Feast , which is published in 1964--Mary puts it together, his fourth wife--it's probably the most beloved book he ever wrote--his memoir. Russ Roberts: Love that book. David Wyatt: Well, this is a posthumous book. Then, in 1970, we get Islands in the Stream , which is a much-underrated, again, war novel set in Bimini and Cuba. Then we get, in 1986, The Garden of Eden , a very controversial book, but it changed Hemingway studies. Because of all the gender-bending in that book, all the role playing, and the switching of gender behavior, it reoriented the field and allowed people to begin to see in Hemingway--kind of looking back through the lens of The Garden of Eden --that he was not championing some kind of masculine code, but was much more interested in vulnerability and what I call the pathos of gender. The fact that we're each assigned something called a gender at birth, which can feel very limiting as an identity. And, there are more books than I've even enumerated that were being written and worked on in those last years. So, he was actually quite productive, but what he couldn't do was finish. And so, what had to happen was that other people--editors--had to finish for him. And, there are more books by Hemingway published after he died than while he was alive, especially if you now include the Letters Project, this beautiful project Cambridge University Press is doing of his collected letters, which are--it's an astonishingly rich undertaking. I think there's six or seven volumes. There probably will be 13 or 14 or more by the time we're finished. Russ Roberts: Well, I'm a huge fan of A Movable Feast . I recommend it also. You want to recommend two or three short stories that somebody who is never read them might start with and that you particularly enjoy? David Wyatt: Well, I just pulled a book off the shelf at the house I'm renting called This Is My Best , where in the 1940s, maybe the 1950s, writers pick one story or poem to have featured in this volume. Hemingway picked "The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber," which is a very long short story--his greatest short story. In this, again, the generosity toward a character who is given a second chance. I love "Now I Lay Me," which is a Nick Adams story about a wounded veteran who lies in bed listening to the silkworms chew the leaves and engages in a process of remembering back, which is the beginning of this project of allowing memory to intrude. And, of course, what he remembers are his mother and his father. And then, I guess "Hills Like White Elephants," which is a story in which a young couple, not married, are at a train station in Spain, and they're discussing something he wants her to do. It's never named, but it's an argument that builds in tension, and it's pretty clear that it has something to do with an unwanted pregnancy. And, that story shows Hemingway--again, this issue of side-taking--siding with both parties, but especially trying to enter into the subjectivity of the female character with sympathy and understanding. Russ Roberts: And, I would just add the story, "A Clean, Well-Lighted Place," just because I love that title. It captures something about being a writer and a frequenter of cafes and bars, and it's a lovely line. David Wyatt: It is. 1:03:09 Russ Roberts: How has his reputation risen and fallen since his death? David Wyatt: Well, it's been, I think, a bit of a rollercoaster ride. I think it fell off due to all kinds of forces and fashions. All I can say: I think it's recovered a considerable amount of standing because of the deeper attention given to the posthumous work, and the Letters Project, and the various biographies that have continued to be generated. When I teach Hemingway, my students fall in love with it, and especially my female students. They see a tenderness and a vulnerability that has been occluded by the myth of the Hemingway Code, which I think is a complete misconstrual of what he's really up to. And so, if you give people a chance to be exposed to the full breadth of the career, they have the experience you've had in rereading For Whom the Bell Tolls . They discover a man of deep feeling, of human compassion, and of careful attention to the things that make up what we call living a life. Living , to use El Sordo's word. Living. That's his gift--is to make us feel that we are in it, that we're living it as we're reading it. Russ Roberts: Do you think he'll be read in 100 years, and if one of his books remains, will it be this one? David Wyatt: I'm not sure it'll be this one. He will be read. I just read a biography of Tim O'Brien, the author of "The Things They Carried," which is probably--that story, "The Things They Carried," is the most anthologized, reprinted story, I think, written in the 20th century. Of course, it's a Vietnam War story. But, O'Brien acknowledges more than once his debt to Hemingway. So, writers survive because they are refigured by other writers, and Hemingway keeps being refigured as new talent arises, reads him, and is inspired by him. I have no fear for his survival as a major figure, and I just think it's a matter of surrendering to the reading experience, and you'll be carried away. Russ Roberts: My guest today has been David Wyatt. We've been talking about Ernest Hemingway's For Whom the Bell Tolls . David, thanks for being part of EconTalk. David Wyatt: My pleasure. Thanks for having me. Econlib The Library of Economics and Liberty Liberty Fund, Inc. 11301 N. Meridian Street Carmel, IN 46032-4564, USA econlib@libertyfund.org About About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Publications Books Articles EconTalk EconLog Videos Resources Quickpicks CEE Encyclopedia College Guides High School Guides Sign up for our newsletter Enter your email address to subscribe to the Econlib monthly newsletter. » Liberty Fund, Inc. 11301 N. Meridian Street Carmel, IN 46032-4564, USA info@libertyfund.org © 2024 Econlib, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Part of the Liberty Fund Network. Insert/edit link Close Enter the destination URL URL Link Text Open link in a new tab Or link to existing content Search No search term specified. Showing recent items. Search or use up and down arrow keys to select an item. Cancel