# [EconTalk] How Teams Succeed (with Colin Fisher)

**Source**: https://www.econtalk.org/how-teams-succeed-with-colin-fisher/
**Atlas ID**: 223239
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.138016

---

How Teams Succeed (with Colin Fisher) - Econlib Liberty Fund Network Econlib Liberty Fund OLL Adam Smith Works Law & Liberty EconLog Blog Browse by Author Browse by Topic Browse by Date Search EconLog RSS Subscribe EconTalk Latest Episodes Browse by Date Browse by Guest Browse by Category Browse Extras Search EconTalk RSS Feeds Articles Latest Articles Liberty Classics Browse by Author Browse by Date Search Articles Books Books Bios Books by Date Books by Author Search Books Encyclopedia Index Browse by Author Browse by Title Biographies Search Encyclopedia Guides Index #ECONLIBREADS College Topics High School Topics Subscribe to QuickPicks Search Guides Videos Index Search Videos Liberty Fund Network Econlib OLL Adam Smith Works Library of Law & Liberty Home / How Teams Succeed (with Colin Fisher) Sep 8 2025 What makes some groups thrive while others crash and burn? According to organizational-behavior scholar Colin Fisher , the real villains are rarely individuals, but dysfunctional teams and organizations. Listen as he and EconTalk's Russ Roberts discuss the reasons for the free-rider problem and the importance of meaningful, well-defined tasks to incentivize synergy. They speak about why most team-building exercises are usually a waste of time, and why the best way to build trust is simply to do the work. Finally, they explore the role of great leaders from Steve Jobs to Bill Belichick in elevating groups into teams, and offer lessons from history's great projects for increasing productivity. LISTEN NOW: Comment ● READ TRANSCRIPT ● DELVE DEEPER 4 DOWNLOAD RELATED EPISODE Learning to Think Like Someone Else (with David Marquet) Former submarine commander David Marquet joins EconTalk's Russ Roberts to explore how distancing--thinking like someone else, somewhere else, or sometime else--can unlock better choices in business and life. They talk about leadership without giving orders, how to empower teams, and what it means... EXPLORE MORE Related EPISODE David Deppner on Leadership, Confidence, and Humility Can a great leader or manager be humble in public? Or is exuding confidence, even when it may not be merited, a key part of leadership? In this episode of EconTalk, host Russ Roberts talks with David Deppner, CEO of... EXPLORE MORE Browse our archive of 800+ episodes containing over ten years of podcasts Explore audio transcript, further reading that will
                    help you delve deeper into this week’s episode, and
                    vigorous conversations in the form of our comments
                    section below. READER COMMENTS LEAVE A COMMENT READ COMMENT POLICY Alan Clift Sep 8 2025 at 3:41pm Reply For feeling close to others in the retreat, is it because of the task ?  Those that avoid communication met their task. Gary Lynne Sep 8 2025 at 11:41pm Reply Enjoyed the “team performance” dialogue, but, missed the need to also have “optimal inequality.” That is, especially in sports team performance, extreme inequality in compensation packages tends to do badly against optimal inequality… enough incentive without creating resentment which naturally arises with extreme differences in compensation.  Said reality is also likely true in the economy more generally, which needs optimal inequality for economic performance. But, then, that comes out of Dual Interest Theory (DIT) in Metaeconomics, a theory the mainstream Single Interest Theory in Microeconomcis ideology refuses to consider!  But, that is ok… DIT is based in empirical reality and some day will rule! Ben Service Sep 9 2025 at 9:34pm Reply The interesting counterpoint to the calculators in the Manhattan project working harder once they knew what they were doing after Feynman suggested it is once some Gestapo members realised what higher goal they were working for they stopped working hard.  The trick there I guess was keeping people just doing their jobs and not thinking about the higher goal.  There must be a lot of jobs and communities where it is optimal to keep the higher goal out of peoples minds. We recently did Alone in Berlin (or Every Man Dies Alone is another translation of the original Jeder stirbt für sich allein) for book club and the Gestapo inspector Escherich eventually kills himself after he caught Otto and realised that Otto was the good guy and he himself was working for the badies. Ben Riechers Sep 10 2025 at 9:47am Reply I think the interview was great. I connected with Russ’s comment about preparing the soil and Colin Fisher’s comments on creating the structure for success. Comments on teambuilding were excellent.  As someone whose personal relationships typically start as a result of a shared mission or interest, I believe Colin Fisher appropriately challenged the misguided approach of going off somewhere for a team building exercise. Regarding psychological safety, business leaders and most people consider the downside potential of the wrong decision.  The downside can stifle many of us or perhaps lead to analysis paralysis. If we can mitigate the risk enough, we are more willing to make those tough decisions. People motivated by a vision are probably not as constrained as people who are motivated by their own personal survival or success. Politicians always have someone to blame which mitigates their personal risk of bad decision making. If there is no personal risk to a bad decision, a lot of bad decisions will probably be made. LEAVE A COMMENT Cancel reply Your Name: required required Email Address: required, not displayed required, not displayed Website URL: optional optional Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Enter your email address to subscribe to our monthly newsletter: DELVE DEEPER Watch this podcast episode on YouTube: How Teams Succeed (with Colin Fisher) . Live-recorded audio and video. This week's guest: Colin Fisher's Home page This week's focus: The Collective Edge: Unlocking the Secret Power of Groups, by Colin M. Fisher at Amazon.com. * Additional ideas and people mentioned in this podcast episode: "Identifiability as a Deterrant to Social Loafing: Two Cheering Experiments," by Kipling Williams, Stephen Harkins, and Bibb Latané. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , 1981. "Motivation through the Design of Work: Test of a Theory," by Richard Hackman and Greg R. Oldham. Organizational Behavior and Human Performance , 1976. Steve Jobs, by Walter Isaacson at Amazon.com. * Chasing Stars: The Myth of Talent and the Portability of Performance, by Boris Groysber at Amazon.com. * A few more readings and background resources: Max Weber. Biography. Concise Encyclopedia of Economics . Amy Edmondson and psychological safety: "Learning from Mistakes is Easier Said Than Done: Group and Organizational Influences on the Detection and Correction of Human Error," by Amy C. Edmondson. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, Vol. 32, Issue 1, March 1996. Psychological Safety . Amy C. Edmondson. "Case Study: Critical Success Factors for Creating Superb Self-Managing Teams at Xerox," by Ruth Wageman. Compensation and Benefits Review, September 1997. A few more EconTalk podcast episodes: Learning to Think Like Someone Else (with David Marquet) . EconTalk. David Deppner on Leadership, Confidence, and Humility . EconTalk. Discussions about silent retreats: Michael Easter on the Comfort Crisis . EconTalk. Robert Wright on Meditation, Mindfulness, and Why Buddhism is True . EconTalk. Sam Harris on Meditation, Mindfulness, and Morality . EconTalk. More related EconTalk podcast episodes, by Category: Marketing, Management, Strategy, and Leadership Theory of the Firm/Business, Capitalism ALL ECONTALK CATEGORIES * As an Amazon Associate, Econlib earns from qualifying purchases. AUDIO TRANSCRIPT Time Podcast Episode Highlights 0:37 Intro. [Recording date: July 31st, 2025.] Russ Roberts: Today is July 31st, 2025, and my guest is author and scholar of organizational behavior, Colin Fisher of University College London's School of Management. He's the author of The Collective Edge: Unlocking the Secret Power of Groups, which is our topic for today. Colin, welcome to EconTalk. Colin Fisher: Thanks so much for having me, Russ. 0:58 Russ Roberts: What is the collective edge? Colin Fisher: The collective edge is the often-ignored and overlooked power that we have when we're in groups and that so much of what we do at work, what we do at home, is in groups. We're influenced by even imagining that we might be in a group or other people who we identify with. And yet for how important they are in human behavior, we're shockingly bad at them: that we ignore the influences they have on us, that we're pushed to conform in ways that are incompatible with our own goals and our own well-being, and that we can see they really make a mess of things when we don't pay attention to them. So, I'm hoping the collective edge is understanding really how to harness and control and push around these unseen and ignored forces of group dynamics. Russ Roberts: Well, you know, it's funny: most of us have had an experience with what is called a group project, and most of those experiences are negative--for a whole bunch of reasons. I'm sure you have many thoughts on that, but it's interesting that that's a school project. But, a lot of our work life is group work and a lot of our social life is group work, the organizations we're part of. So, talk about the difference--to start with--between a group and a team. And, if you want, you can talk about why you think we have such a bad taste in our mouth about our high school or college group projects. Colin Fisher: Well, people's struggle with group projects kind of keeps me in business--that, if it came naturally to us, we wouldn't need somebody like me to study this, to teach about it, and organizations and governments to ask for help with this because it is something that's really tough. So, when we say group, we could be referring to everything from very broad social categories like Americans, or British people, or spelunkers, or jugglers, that--these sort of big, big social categories that describe people. But, a team is a small, bounded, interdependent group that's come together to accomplish a goal of some sort, that there's some purpose to their being together. Now, it's not that we suddenly--there's some demarcation point where you graduate from being a group into being a team. It's more like a continuum of what I would call groupiness; and I call it groupiness because the scientific term is 'group entititivity,' which is really unpleasant to say or to spell. So, I think 'groupiness' sums it up a little bit better. And that the groupier your group is--so, when we move from being a social category to people who actually interact. You're a crowd. You're actually, sometimes a crowd graduates into having some shared purpose. You're on a subway, the train gets stuck and somebody gets sick. We might suddenly go from having a crowd to people who are actually trying to do something together and that kind of we gradually can make our way towards being a team. But this is important because real teams are primarily the vehicle by which human problems get solved. That, the big breakthroughs, the scientific breakthroughs, the great musical albums, all the sports teams we look up to, the discoveries that are going to change the world--those are almost entirely done by groups and teams, and that these real teams are the ones who, they're so great when they're actually working, but that it also feels so rare that they can work together well. 4:56 Russ Roberts: Yeah. I mean, team--unlike group, team has a nice sound. We all want to be on the team. But of course, sometimes that word has the word 'dysfunctional' in front of it. We don't want to be part of a dysfunctional team. And, most economists--I'm an economist--most economists would say that the biggest challenge that teams face or groups face is the Free Rider Problem. You did not use that term, but you talk about slacking, you talk about effort, motivation--and I think we will probably get into both of those. They run throughout the book. But, in general, there's this tension between, 'Great; there's more than one person who is working on this,' and 'Oh my gosh, everybody who is working on this going to say, well, it's not my problem.' So, what else would you add to the mix? Or is that a sufficient summary of the challenge of trying to get the kind of synergy you write about that that groups need to be successful? Colin Fisher: I mean, the Free Rider Problem, which the social psychologists usually will call social loafing, but they're essentially the same thing-- Russ Roberts: Much better term-- Colin Fisher: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think the reason I think I don't use the term 'free rider' is because it's usually not entirely free, right? In most of our groups, it's not that somebody truly doesn't contribute at all. It's really our accounting of how much effort people should be putting forward to collective tasks. And, the economists are absolutely right that it's baked into our psychology that, when accountability for any outcome gets diffused across larger groups of people, that we don't try as hard. And that there's some great psychological experiments of this that show that even when we believe there are other people who are doing some task with us--the classic study by Bibb Latané and colleagues is about cheering. So, you're in a little room cheering and they either tell you there's a whole bunch of other people doing it and they pipe some noise into your headphones; or that you're doing it alone. And that when you believe there's other people, you try less hard. You have less output. So, this is absolutely a problem in any group situation, and that the way that we generally can solve these things is by having real shared purpose and shared commitment to our goals. And, that the kind of flip side of that is that when we really strongly identify with other people--and our friends and family are the best examples of this--we actually will try harder than we would on our own behalf. Right? So, it can cut both ways. And that's what's so special about groups, is: yeah, if it's something we don't care about, if it's people we don't identify with and it's just a bunch of nameless other people who happen to be doing the same task at the same time, we'll try less hard. But if we really strongly identify with the other people in the group, the purpose that we're working towards, then we actually might try more than we would if we were working alone. So, groups can be both the cause of and the solution to these kinds of effort and free rider problems. 8:22 Russ Roberts: I think economists at their worst tend to see these kinds of challenges as an incentive problem--which they are, but it's an incentive problem, the way economists sometimes think of it too narrowly. They'll say, 'Well, I have a temptation to let the other people carry the load, so I'll slack, or loaf, or free-ride.' And so, what we need to do--again, this is the parody of the bad economist--we need to incentivize people. So, we need to tell them either that they're going to get a grade independently of the group. Or we might sometimes say, 'Well, the whole group is going to get the same grade.' And that way, the other group members will work hard. And, I don't know if--I'm sure I've told this story before, but this is one of my favorite examples of incentives applied creatively. Walter Williams, who used to be my colleague before he passed away back when I was at George Mason, would tell students on the first day of class that if their cell phone goes off during class, the people on either side of them will lose five points on their overall grade. And, people of course get really mad. That's really unfair. Yeah, it is. He'd say, I'm sure--I don't know what he really said, but I'm sure he'd say, 'Yeah, it is.' And, of course, the effect of that is you don't just worry about your own phone being off, because people are absent-minded sometimes. But, the idea of losing points because your neighbor didn't turn off their phone is so unbearable that of course at the start of class, everybody turns left and right and says, 'Is your phone off? Is your phone off?' So, again, that's a natural way economists would bring incentives into play. But, what I love in your book, and as the occasional leader of a group reminds me of its importance, is the task itself. You just summarized it as purpose . Talk about why task and purpose are so important. Colin Fisher: Yeah. I mean, I think the flip side of this in a lot of group projects--so, to come back to we're both professors who've been teaching a bunch of group projects--and that when I see my colleagues complain about, 'Oh, we're so concerned about free riders and that people are not going to try hard on these projects, and that's going to drag down other people's grades,' my first thing is: 'What assignment are you giving them? What task are you giving to this group?' Because, tasks are one of the most powerful forces in determining whether or not people will collaborate effectively. And that, well-designed work--so, this research comes largely from my mentor, Richard Hackman, who came up with Work Design Theory--and that basically said, 'If you give people whole pieces of work where they can see the outcome of their labor and its effect on whoever happens to be using it'--so, if you're in an organization, that you actually see it through to the client. If you're doing a report, that you see your supervisors use it, or whoever is on the other end of it. And that people understand its significance. So, it's got to be important to somebody. And that this, often, is something we fall down in. We sometimes throw work to groups that's not important. Sometimes as professors, we throw projects to groups because, 'Oh, I don't know what else to do with this. Let's just turn it into a group project.' So, it's got to be, have, what we call 'task identity,' where we can see the result of our labor in the final product. It's got to have task significance. And that we also have to have autonomy over our work processes. That, human beings--and this comes up with some of the issues with incentives--human beings don't like feeling controlled. So, when we believe that someone else is the master of our own fate and our own destiny, we tend to try less hard. And that, in a much more practical, managerial sense, if you've got a micromanaging boss that tells you every step of the way to go on some kind of project, when something goes wrong, that's now their fault. That's not your fault anymore. So, groups are most motivated when they have work that has these different qualities. And, also--what I skipped there was feedback from the work itself. So, when things have this character, like, I use the analogy of Pac-Man a lot, where if you have a bunch of dots on the screen, and you're taking your little Pac-Man around and it's eating up the dots, you see your progress towards the goal as you're doing the work. And the problem in organizations, in a lot of group projects, and for students is that the tasks don't have this quality. That, we're not sure how much progress we made. We had a two-hour meeting, how much closer to the goal are we? I'm not so sure. Can I see the actual outcome of my labor on the project that we're creating? Or in some cases, can I even see the project that we're creating? Do I understand why it's important and what its impact on users, clients, whoever is going to be? And so, when we give groups bad, what we would call impoverished tasks that don't have these qualities, it's no wonder they don't work hard, because we gave them essentially bad work. 13:54 Russ Roberts: At some point, you talk about the importance of measurability. And, I think--or I'd say it differently: I'd say specificity and measurability. I think you probably talk about both. Not every task can be made specific. Not every goal , excuse me, can be made specific. And not every goal is measurable. And, if you make it a measurable goal, you risk people working toward the measure rather than what your real goal is. But, I would put all that as an improvement over what I think is often the default mechanism, which is, 'Let's all just try harder,' or, 'Let's focus more on this task over the next X months.' That's not going to get you anywhere. And, you've got to--the feedback on that could help. But, if it's a vague goal like that, you're not going to be able to give effective feedback. You're not going to be able to encourage, you're not going to be able to help people improve who want to get better. And I think it's just such an enormous challenge in any organization and any activity, trying to create a goal and then a set of tasks that align. And, it's very hard. Colin Fisher: Yup. I mean, that's absolutely--in my mind one of, if not the most important roles as a leader, or manager, or anybody who is trying to collaborate with others--that, I'm saying, 'Oh, let's have really important, significant tasks.' But, there's an inherent tension in things that are really important--that we want to have a more just and peaceful world, or we want to eliminate poverty. Right? Those are, as you say, inherently less specific, more abstract, more difficult to figure out how we're going to measure them than much more concrete goals where it's, like, 'Okay, let's complete this video game level in the next five minutes.' Those are really easy things to measure. So, this kind of tension between the importance of a goal which tends to correlate with its abstractness, and trying to come up with these clear, important, measurable goals is at the heart of, I think, everything that leaders and managers should be paying attention to. Now, I think the first-order thing--it's a sort of 101 answer to this question--is just: it is much more common that people could make the goals that they have clearer and more measurable. And that there are some low-hanging fruit ways to do it. It's just that we get caught up in all the other pressures we have on ourselves. We don't think those things through, or we do think them through, but we don't communicate them to everybody else. So, we may have an idea of, 'Oh, this is the measure I want to use. This is the goal I want to achieve.' But then, we don't have that discussion as a group. So, some people think one thing; some people think something else. But then, the second-order thing is: Can we have a vision of the future where this goal is achieved? So, even if we don't know exactly how we're going to measure this as we go along, can we paint a vivid picture that we can all share of what this future will look like? And so in the book, I talk about JFK [John Fitzgerald Kennedy] charging NASA [National Aeronautics and Space Administration] with putting a man on the moon within 10 years. Now, there's lots of little goals that go underneath that, but that's a vivid picture that everyone at the organization could rally around. Then they could start to deconstruct that larger goal into smaller goals on their own, as was appropriate for their part of the organization. So, that kind of challenge when you have those abstract goals is to say, 'Well, how can I paint a more vivid version of a future where that abstract goal has been achieved?' Russ Roberts: Yeah, I think the challenge for leaders and managers is that that particular goal is a great example, because it's a vivid picture. It's exhilarating. You know you'd be proud to be part of it. But, for some people--I'm sure it was--but it's impossible. And so, I think the challenge alongside those stretch goals is figuring out how to make them credible. And, I think that's a great part of being a successful leader that is vague, but it's hugely important. Colin Fisher: Absolutely. Another part of the way this gets taught in business schools most of the time is with the acronym SMART goals. They're Specific, they're Measurable, and then some people say Achievable for the A, some people do something else. Some people do Realistic for the R. So, the A and the R are a little squishier. And then Time-bound. But, there's something getting at this idea of psychological: if we don't think we can achieve a goal, then we try less hard. If we really believe it's impossible, then we're not going to engage our best effort in it. 19:09 Russ Roberts: Well, you talk about people being on the team, that the boundaries are clear. And, I think about Steve Jobs and the Isaacson biography where early on he's got some project that they're trying to do. It's going to be the release of some Apple product. And he says, 'Well, we'll get it done by'--and he says some date. And I think they laugh. I think his engineers, just, 'No, no, when are we really going to try to get it done?' And, he just said, 'No.' And, he said the date again. It might've been next Wednesday. It was absurd. I think it was actually they had released a beta version for themselves that was so messed up. He said, 'So, we got to fix these things. I think we need a week and a half.' He said, 'How long do you think it'll take?' They said, 'Six months.' And, he said, 'No; we'll get it in a week and a half.' It was something that crazy. And, one of the reasons I think he was a great leader and manager is that people wanted to work with him, which is hard to understand because he was very tough and not very friendly or easy to work with. But, they did want to be part of that great task, and they knew that if they hung out with him, they would do great things. So, when he'd say that, and they'd go, 'Well, that's impossible,' and he'd walk away, instead of saying, 'Well, he's a jerk, of course we're not going to do this,' they all started thinking, how are we going to get this done and keep on track? And, that's an incredible art, really, personality-wise and vision-wise, to get that to happen. Colin Fisher: Yeah, I mean, I think--Steve Jobs, it's an interesting case because he's in some ways such a dichotomy. He had these great visions of what the future would be and was good at communicating them to, as you say, rally around a lot of people to him. And then, he did a lot of things that I think, honestly, if he had been better about encouraging others to contribute their ideas and creating what we would call a more psychologically safe environment around him, they might've been even better. Or he might not have been kicked out of Apple in the first place and needed to come back. I think the danger in looking at these biographies of leaders who achieved a lot is that everyone does some stuff great. Almost nobody does everything really, really perfectly. And, that rather than thinking of it as something that's intrinsic, that's a trait of those people, I like to think of it more in terms of the functions that we need to achieve for any group. And I think some of the leaders who maybe don't get quite the acclaim of the Steve Jobses of the world are the ones who just do what needs doing in the group. And sometimes that's articulating this great vision for the world; and sometimes it's being part of a government, being a mid-level government official, and rallying everyone together to provide more effective services for the people in the country. There's a great example that I know Richard Hackman had studied--I wish I could remember his name off the top of my head--but he was a holdover from the Carter Administration into the Reagan Administration. Obviously the people who had been appointed on his team were mostly Democrats. They had been appointed by Jimmy Carter, and they were staying on to help with the transition to the Reagan Administration. And, he gave this great speech about the importance of the work that they were going to do, and why it was important to put their political differences aside and make sure that we all stay on, and we all keep trying hard, even though all these things around us are changing. I think the leadership that's not just 'I'm going to change the world in a way that's going to be really, really visible and everybody's going to see it'--I think our culture really prioritizes this kind of, what I would call this increasingly cult of individualism, that says, 'We want to see these great individuals and tell their stories,' rather than to say, 'Apple is a great company; it's got a great story. There are a lot of people who have contributed to that over the years.' And that Steve Jobs may be an easier, you know, kind of handle for us to understand that story and its twists and turns. But that, the likelihood, if we really dig into it from other people's perspectives, of how that came to be, isn't just about Steve Jobs. Right? It's about an entire group of people. And, I haven't dug into this particular story as much, but every time there's a scientific discovery or a great company that's really associated with a single individual, when you start digging underneath that, you find a great group that was around them. That, really, nobody does this stuff on their own. So, finding a way for us to understand these accomplishments not just as heroic individual accomplishments, but truly as collective accomplishments, because I think that represents reality better. 24:43 Russ Roberts: Yeah, I mostly agree with that. I think in the case of Jobs--let me partially agree with you and then I'll push back a little bit and you can respond. I think I agree with you in the sense that I think there is a terrible mistake made in reading biographies of great men and women and deciding, 'Oh, I'll steal that trick from that one. Then I'll just announce a stretch goal and I'll just walk away when they say it's impossible the way Steve Jobs did.' In which case you're probably going to--you're fired. Because you have not sufficiently prepared the soil for that kind of strategy. At the same time, leadership is not unimportant. Of course, people do it together. We don't know exactly why Bill Belichick was unsuccessful once Tom Brady left. He was successful when he wasn't there earlier. When he had Matt Cassel for a year, he was really good. So, maybe he just got old and wasn't as focused. But, obviously there's incredible synergy when teams work well together. It's never a single person. But, I think the real insight that I got from your book--part of it is this idea that the collective is important. But, I think more importantly than that, more important than that, is this understanding of what excites people and what makes it exhilarating to be part of a successful team. And, I am going to beat a dead horse here, because we've been talking about it for 10 minutes: but I think task and purpose are enormously important. They're not just, like, 'Oh, it's one of the things you need to tell the group.' The reason I emphasize it is because it's hard to remember . Each individual on the team has specific job descriptions, often. And they inevitably tend to think, if they're not careful, that that's their job. It's not their job. Their job is to achieve the greater goal, whatever it is that the organization is pushing toward. And I think leadership is really about reminding people of that in a way that makes their heart sing, rather than is a boring mantra that they get sick of hearing. And, that's hard. It's not easy to do. Because everybody forgets it. Colin Fisher: Absolutely. So, I definitely don't disagree with anything you said towards the end there. Right? That, bringing tasks to life, to keep people in touch with the purpose of the work that they're doing, is such a fundamental part of leadership. And, I mean, this goes even back to the foundations of studying organization. If we look back all the way to Max Weber, his idea of charisma was that we're going to have these increasingly bureaucratic organizations that are going to be more and more depersonalized. That, we're going to be further and further away from seeing the impact of our work, from really feeling these human connections. That, where the word 'charisma' really came to be associated with leadership was from these writings of Weber, where he's, like: 'We're going to need people who bring these tasks that bureaucrats are doing to life, because they're going to be faced with this problem.' So, I mean, I think that's been fundamental to a lot of ideas about leadership for a hundred-some-odd years now. And, I think that's completely true. And that tasks end up being overlooked. That we have--I think a lot of people look at tasks as given. And some of that problem comes from looking to examples from sports, like Bill Belichick. Like, you know what all football coaches, all sports coaches, have at their disposal that you don't have if you're a middle manager, is you have really well-designed tasks. [More to come, 28:54] Russ Roberts: And outcomes. And really clear outcomes. WL [World Leading]. Colin Fisher: Yep, that's right. Everyone's got these huge advantages when we're trying to learn from sports coaches. And there's this work sports coaches just don't have to do in terms of specifying some of these concrete goals, and structuring tasks, and structuring roles in ways that just aren't done in most organizations. For the most part, we don't have things that are as good as sports, because people would do it for fun if it was as good as sports. Like, I mean, we don't need--almost none of us go home and do the group projects we're assigned in school for fun, but plenty of people go play sports on the weekend on their own. So, tasks are completely overlooked as this. But, I think when we look back at the stories of great sports coaches--and this is again not to take away from all the great things they did--sometimes the accomplishment is bringing together those particular people at those particular time. So, like, the--all the coordinators, and the coaching, and the infrastructure that was around when Matt Cassel was the coach of the Patriots--I was living in Boston at that time, too-- Russ Roberts: Quarterback-- Colin Fisher: Yeah, yeah. So, that was around this unheralded quarterback when Tom Brady gets hurt. That mattered, too. Those people were really highly thought of, and there was a lot of other stuff going on. And so, I'm not--although I'm willing to give an individual leader like Belichick credit for, as you sort of say, preparing the ground for a time when something like that could happen, I don't think if we take Bill Belichick and move him around to other teams and other infrastructure, independent of these other people, that we would necessarily see the same kind of results. And, there's actually--there's a great study of this by Harvard Business School Professor Boris Groysberg and his colleagues. They looked at investment analysts, and that's a culture where they hire stars away. Other firms hire stars from other firms. And, they looked at whether they hired just the individual star or whether they also took the admin team with them. And they found the portable star's performance was really only portable when you hired their team. When you just took the star, it took them a long time to get off the ground. And, in a lot of cases, you never see that performance become portable. So, this again speaks to this idea that, like, individuals are different in their talent. And I'm not trying to say they don't. But I think that too many people think only in terms of individuals differing in their talent and assessing individual performance, and then overlooking the role of the team, the task, and the work that they're doing in trying to understand what's going to help us accomplish our goals. Russ Roberts: I mostly agree with that, for sure. 32:06 Russ Roberts: I'm going to close this section out with a story that came to mind when I was reading your book, and I don't think about it enough in my own job. I think it's a beautiful illustration of this principle that task and purpose matter. It's a story that Richard Feynman tells in--I think it's in-- Surely You're Joking , his memoir. So, they're working on the Manhattan Project, and it's frustrating because they have these very complicated calculations. They have calculators, but that's a person, not a device. There are these large machines--I forget what they're called--but the calculators are the people who are operating the machines doing the calculations. They're very complex, and it's going very slowly, and everybody's frustrated. They're trying to decide how to improve the motivation and speed of the people who are working on the calculations. I think they're almost all, if not all, women. They're debating this. And, again, the bad economist says, 'Maybe we should give them a raise, or maybe we should incentivize them with a bonus.' But, Feynman at one point in this meeting says, 'Do they know what they're working on?' And, everybody looks at him like, 'Of course not. We can't--we're working on the atomic bomb. I mean, we can't tell them what they're working on. They don't know. Of course, they don't know.' They're just doing the most dreary, boring thing in the world. They're punching in numbers. And of course, that's not what they're doing. That's what they think they're doing, or that's what they perceive they're doing. What they're actually doing, perhaps, is saving Western civilization and their country. And, Feynman says, 'How about we tell them?' And, they all look sheepish and, 'Well, oh, maybe that's a good idea.' And, eventually, of course, they do tell them. And productivity goes through the roof, because all of a sudden they're part of something--part of something that they feel passionate about. They're part of something they feel passionate about that's important . So, it's a beautiful example of how it's so easy to ignore those levers if you're not careful. Colin Fisher: Absolutely. I love that story. I may steal that from you. I told you that. Russ Roberts: I knew you'd like it. Steal away. Colin Fisher: Yeah, yeah. No, I think that's exactly what the message of the book is. And, what I think one of the most important lessons from research is that so much of, I think, what managers are--I don't think they're taught it explicitly, but they are taught that they are supposed to be these saviors who can cajole people into trying harder, that through the strength of their personality and charisma. And yet, when you're up against people who don't know what they're working on, they don't know why it's important, they don't even know what they're doing, or they have different ideas of what they're doing so they can't coordinate, and you have poorly designed, dreary, repetitive tasks, you're going to lose. No amount of charisma is going to overcome bad work. You're always going to see people not trying as hard as they could. Whereas when you tell people why work is important, you trust them to do that work, and give them autonomy on the process--not the outcome that they're trying to achieve, but how they're going to achieve that outcome--then you see better results. And, I mean, I think that's been borne out over the years by just tons and tons of research about how structure--the structure of collaboration--mostly the goals and the task, but also some other facets of it--really governs the motivation and performance of groups. 36:00 Russ Roberts: I want to talk about another aspect of team performance that you raise. I have trouble saying it with a straight face because I think we share our view of this--and that's team building. The idea of team building and team-building exercises makes sense: Teams surely will perform better when they have learned to interact with each other, when they have fun together, when they learn to trust each other. These are all things that happen in team-building exercises. I want to say for the record, I don't think I've ever put a team of mine through that ordeal. But, I don't think you're a fan of it. And so, talk about why not. It seems like a good idea. What's wrong with it? You say it's based on a flawed premise. What's wrong with that? Colin Fisher: I love the question, because when I tell people what I study, it's like, 'Oh, I study teams. I teach about leading teams.' So, many people think I'm going to be this big fan of team building exercises. Russ Roberts: Why not? Colin Fisher: Yeah. And so, many people, that's what they know about this field. And, when I say it's based on a flawed premise, this comes back to the idea that, before we can work together, we've got to have trust first. If I don't trust you, we can't work together. And so, the first step is going to be some time where we get to know each other, so then we can start to trust one another. But, this turns out not to be very true. And there are a couple of reasons for that. One is that when we say the word 'trust,' we're conflating a couple of different things. That, there's what psychologists would call relational trust, which means I trust you with my deepest, darkest secrets. I know you've got my best interests at heart, mostly in a kind of socio-emotional sense. A lot of times we have this with our family and our friends. Now, a lot of team-building exercises are geared toward building that socio-emotional trust, where we're comfortable telling each other things about our lives, our families, our interests, and so forth. But, there's another kind of trust, which we would call instrumental trust or task-based trust. That means when I ask you to do a task, you are going to do it to the standard that would satisfy me. And, it turns out that that task-based trust tends to be what's more important when we are working in an organization. And, these two kinds of trust are not as correlated with one another as you might think. So, I can think of a lot of my friends and family members who I would not trust to do work to my satisfaction if we found each other on the team together. We don't need-- Russ Roberts: Not naming any names, of course. Colin Fisher: Yeah. No, no. Russ Roberts: Just hypothetical. Colin Fisher: Of course, it's--yeah. Not you, if you're listening [?]-- Russ Roberts: Yeah, exactly-- Colin Fisher: But yeah, someone else. So, this idea that, 'Oh, let's have these exercises,'--which over the years have been increasingly focused on socio-emotional trust: that, they're about disclosure about our feelings, and our past, and all these other kinds of things--is going to then lead us to work-based trust--the task -based trust that we need when we're working together--is just fallacious. That's not true. The two things don't correlate that well. And, the best way to get task-based trust is to do tasks together. Right? When we start working together, I'm going to see: Do you deliver things the way I need them delivered to do my work? And, am I going to do the same for you? So, rather than having team-building exercises that are decoupled from the tasks--where we go off-site, go to the outdoors, do trust falls, and reveal our secrets--we're much better off if we just do the task. And, if the task is too important for us to make mistakes on the first time, to create work-like, task-like simulations that allow us to build this task -based trust. Now, of course, it's true: We do need to trust each other a little bit. We need to be able to say, 'When you're not doing what I need you to do, I have to be able to say that to you, and vice versa .' Because our primitive brains are so afraid of ostracism, we're very hesitant to do that. We don't like to feel like, 'Oh, this other person is not going to like me, and so I'm not going to give them feedback. I'm not going to tell them what I need.' So, we do have to overcome that, and that's absolutely a really important thing to do. But, I would reverse the way I think a lot of people who use team-building exercises think of this logically and say, 'Let's first work together, and then through that work together, let's figure out how we can tell each other the stuff we need to tell each other to get this work done.' And, that we're going to create an environment of what Harvard scientist Amy Edmondson calls psychological safety: that, we feel like we can ask questions, we can make mistakes, we can push each other, and give each other difficult feedback without the fear of ostracism. And, that kind of trust is really important for getting work done. So, it's kind of reversing this logic of 'let's do trust-building stuff first and then get to work,' and say, 'No, let's get to work. Then through doing that work, or something close to it, we're going to build up the kind of trust that we really need.' 41:50 Russ Roberts: Listeners know I've been on a number of silent meditation retreats. And one of the things that's striking to me about that experience is that, with a few exceptions, you're generally not speaking to anyone in the group. So here's, let's say, 50 people going through a set of exercises of contemplation, mindfulness, meditation--some guided, some not. And, the strange thing about this experience--and at the meals, you're not allowed to talk to the other people. If you want the salt, you can't even gesture at them. You just go get it yourself. You can't communicate, is a better way to say it--either verbally or non-verbally--with the other people. And yet, at the end of the experience, you feel incredibly close to these people, because you've gone through something together that was very powerful. If it works out, if it's done well. And, that may be an illusion. I'm open to the fact that you actually aren't close to them, because you actually haven't shared secrets and so on with them. And yet, when I think about it, there is a certain paradox here. Because, when you say the way you build the team and trust is through the work itself, when you think about teams--I'll go back to sports for a minute--a team that makes a lot of personal, individual members make personal sacrifices to get to the goal of a championship: I mean, we're talking about physical pain. We're not saying they should try a little harder on Sunday. It's more people playing with injuries and doing what they need to do. It's interesting how hard it is to replicate that in subsequent years. It's not just that it's hard to repeat and win a championship again. Often the team that succeeded in that year doesn't do well in the subsequent year, even when the personnel is very similar. I'd love your thoughts on that. Do you think that is a leadership failure? Do you think it's, 'Well, we made it to the top of the mountain, we don't need to try again?' And I say that because there's a certain military aspect to sports--the enduring of pain in the pursuit of a shared goal. In the military, it often persists. In sports, not so much. What are your thoughts on that? Colin Fisher: So, I think there's a couple of interesting things there. What both sports and the military, I think, do really well is they actually do practice a lot of this stuff. Russ Roberts: It's true. Colin Fisher: When we want a sports team to do well, they have training camp. Right? And a lot of the stuff happens at training camp besides doing the work, but a lot of it is doing the work. Russ Roberts: What we'd call bonding--right?--and the creating of a cohesive group, the shared goal, etc. Colin Fisher: Yeah, absolutely. And I think that we see--when I teach this, I use Coach K, Mike Krzyzewski from Duke University's kind of pitch to the U.S. Olympic team, when he's getting together all these highly accomplished professionals who, as you say, have already been to the top of the mountain. They're already really rich, and we need them to work really hard together during this camp so they can match an increasingly competitive other set of teams. And, what it does come back to is a lot of what we were talking about: to paint this picture of the future, to impress upon them this important shared goal that we all share. It's absolutely true in the history of both military and sports that when you're in the field, playing hurt, and trying to grit your teeth and get through the pain to the next thing, your caring and compassion for your fellow group members, for your fellow teammates, does matter. That's a really important thing. But, usually, we don't want that to be purely dyadic. In other words, I don't want it to be, 'Oh, Russ is my best friend, so I'm going to try really, really hard when it's Russ, but I'm not going to try really, really hard when it's Dan.' And so we need that to infuse the whole group; and that really requires this kind of shared identity that comes from: one, even knowing who is part of your group--which in organizations is shockingly uncommon. There's one study that said only 7% of top management teams know who the other members of the top management team are. They all give different numbers of people who are even on the team. Only 7% of them all give the same number. 93% of them have at least some disagreement on how many people are on this team. Like I said, in sports and these other things, we have a lot of advantages. It's like, 'Who is on the team?' Well, I know who is on my team, and I know I can share an identity with them, and all these things. So, those are definitely important things. Sustaining performance over time is really hard. When you're talking about--we've been talking a lot about football, where, in the NFL [National Football League] they've got 16 games in the season-- Russ Roberts: Seventeen, now. Colin Fisher: Oh, right. Yes. I know that, but I messed that one up: 17 games in the season now. And, there are a lot of injuries to the team. And I think there's a fair amount of randomness that's baked into those kinds of team situations. But, sustaining team performance over time is of course hard. When you build up one goal and achieve it, there's always going to be a little bit of a letdown when you're trying to say, 'Hey, let's do the same thing again that we've already done.' You do need some skill in spinning that into something new. But I think that's--it's a less common problem outside of a situation like sports. We don't have the analogy to winning a championship when you're a design team, or a consulting team, and these kinds of things are a little bit different. And the number of shots you get at things are also different. And, of course, people still get sick. Life still happens to people. But, we don't have the sort of, like, randomness that we have, especially in the NFL. I do think it's, of course, a leadership challenge. So, it sounds like we both have a lot of familiarity with Boston sports--the Celtics last year coming off a championship. That was a tough follow-up season. We saw a lot of the injury luck there. But, I don't know that I would say, 'Oh, there was some kind of leadership problem,' for a team not repeating. I think that's a common and challenging thing for teams to cope with. It takes a lot of luck to win championships in highly competitive environments in the first place. As long as you're not imploding--and in the book, I talk about some bands that were one-hit wonders. They succeed, and then they completely turn on each other, usually because the pressure for individual members to get more of the credit for themselves overrides the collective goal after they've succeeded once. Russ Roberts: Yeah, I just realized something else, though, which is--it's somewhat true of music as well, but certainly in sports--it's a zero-sum game. There's one champion, and everyone else is a non-champion. It's also public, so everyone is exposed. When you think about most situations that people listening to this episode will deal with, which is in a work environment: one, everybody could win, year after year. It's possible. It's not like sports. You can have successful companies be successful every year. There's no real metric of the best company. You could argue that there's one. And then, the individual members aren't exposed to those ego challenges that musicians at the top, at the highest level, and athletes at the highest level have to deal with. 50:41 Russ Roberts: Now, you have a lot to say about group size. I don't want to go into it. I encourage our listeners to read the book. But, spoiler: three to seven is the ideal size. But, you say one other thing I want to emphasize that I love, because it's a very small thing, but I think it's not unimportant. You say, One final note on group size: groups that are too big are common because many groups try to solve problems by adding more members. Missing a particular skill, or expert, project running behind--let's add someone. Groups of all stripes, from top management teams to PTAs [Parent-Teacher Associations], from boards of directors to book clubs, almost always grow in number over time, because asking people to leave is uncomfortable, but asking them to join is easy. End of quote. That is a credible insight about all kinds of areas of life that's not unimportant. And, I want to salute you for that. It's a wonderful insight about the challenges of dealing with other people. Colin Fisher: Thanks so much. I appreciate your calling that out. It's always good to hear which little parts are resonating. Yeah, I mean, I think it's so important. When I'm working with an organization, this is almost always where a lot of our work is: where they're saying, 'Hey, I've got a team of 20.' And, I'm like, 'Great. You can't do all the work with all 20 people. You've got to make some decisions about who is going to do this part of it and who is going to do this part.' And, the egos and the politics come into it to the point that a lot of managers don't want to engage with this problem. They'd rather just invite all 20 people to the meeting rather than deal with the discomfort of saying, 'Actually, only these six people are going to deal with this task.' But, although the word committee or task force can again evoke some of these group project ideas in our head, they often sound unpleasant. That's usually the path that will help us thread the needle between saying, 'I've already got these 20 people, I want all 20 of them to stay engaged, broadly.' But, having meetings with all 20 of them is a recipe for accomplishing nothing. I mean, everyone knows this, and everyone still does it--which is, again, what keeps me in business here--that a meeting with 20 people is going to be largely a one-way communication. We're not going to hear what everybody thinks. We're not going to get everybody's perspectives and information unless we're having an extremely long meeting. So, we're already set up for failure by doing that. And so, I think there are some situations--I think senior leadership teams often are the situation, or boards of directors--where they would be better served by asking some people to leave. But, in the absence of that, saying, 'Well, here's a discrete task that we're going to do, and I'm going to have a task force or committee do that, and that task force or committee will have three to seven members.' Just making that the default mode by which we actually do the work, and making these meetings of all 20 of us to be the exception and not the rule. 54:15 Russ Roberts: You mentioned Amy Edmondson earlier. In the book, you talk about her research on teams of nurses and adverse drug effects. This was really the kind of insight that is so easy to overlook, and it's so powerful. So, what did she find? Colin Fisher: Yeah, I mean, this was such a great study. It's a real classic, where Edmondson--Amy and I actually both had the same mentor in Richard Hackman. So, Amy was setting out to test this model with these nursing teams in a couple of hospitals; and their main metric for nursing team performance in the hospital was adverse drug events. So, the number of times that the patient had a bad reaction to the drug, often because the wrong drug was prescribed or administered, or it was administered incorrectly. So, it was seen as this measure of errors, essentially. Russ Roberts: Semi-objective, too, which is a plus. You don't want the judgment to be, 'Well, the nurse wasn't so nice, so a seven instead of a nine.' Colin Fisher: Yeah, you don't want that. So, it sounds objective, and certainly the hospital thought it was objective. So, she measured some things about the stuff we've been talking about--how clear the goals were, the quality of the tasks, et cetera --in these groups. And she found the exact opposite of what Hackman's theory would predict. The teams with the best structure--they had the clearest goals, they had the best tasks, they had autonomy, they had all the good stuff we've been talking about--were reporting more adverse drug events than the teams that were what we would call poorly structured. So, it looked like these well-structured teams were making more mistakes, completely contrary to the theory. She dug underneath that and started interviewing the nursing teams: this is such a puzzling result, how could this be? What she found was that it wasn't that the well-structured teams were making more mistakes. They were just reporting more mistakes. So, the well-structured teams are like, 'These are really dangerous events. Of course, you have to report them.' Whereas the poorly structured teams were saying, 'Oh, you don't want to be the one to make a mistake, so you have to think twice before you're going to tell your manager about this thing happening.' And so their threshold for reporting things was just much, much higher. So, they reported far less adverse drug events. And this is really the discovery of this idea of psychological safety, where she went, 'Oh, there's this difference in climate that is emerging.' It's definitely correlated with how well-structured these teams are, but it's also independent of that. And, this is where I think leadership behavior matters a lot. Leaders have a ton of influence on how psychologically safe a group is--a lot from the perspective of how easy it is to kill psychological safety. It just takes blaming people a couple of times, yelling once or twice, and then people become much more hesitant to speak up. They become hesitant to admit when they've made mistakes, even when it's life or death. These kind of human dynamics can really warp our perspective of how well teams are doing if we're not paying attention to both the metrics we're using and to how psychologically safe these groups and teams really are. Russ Roberts: Well, I love it, because so many times in policy analysis and economic analysis, somebody is explaining something that isn't true. They have data--and that's great. Data is exciting, data is objective--or at least so we think. And then, they discover that not everything gets reported, or what gets called the thing they're trying to explain sometimes didn't actually happen. They changed the definition, and now it looks like it's up 25% when in fact nothing is different. So, it's just a beautiful example of that. 58:49 Russ Roberts: I want to close with a quote which I found provocative. You say, "Structure is king." Explain that. What do you mean by structure, and why is it so important? Colin Fisher: So, structure are mostly the things we were talking about at the beginning of the conversation. Structure is the composition of the team--so, the team size, the mix of knowledge, skills, and perspectives around the team. The quality of the goals, the quality of the task. And something we didn't talk quite as much about: social norms, especially around norms for sharing information and the kind of communication that we do. So, those aspects collectively make up group structure. And then, the foil to those would be coaching. Coaching is looking at the ongoing group process and saying: I'm either going to intervene to help motivate the members by giving that rah-rah speech at halftime, or we're changing our strategy and I'm going to help us do something different to beat the opponent. Now, we take a lot of this from sports, so it always seems like coaching matters a lot. But, a lot of times in those situations everyone's got the same structure. But the rest of the time we're in groups that may be very poorly structured, that are not composed carefully. They've got way too many people, they have unclear goals, or members don't share a perspective on what those goals are. They have poorly-designed tasks, where they don't understand why what they're doing is important, or they don't even understand what they're doing. They don't see the outcome, they don't see the impact of their labor on those outcomes. And, when we have bad structure, coaching the team is very unlikely to help. So, there's one study I talk about in the book that actually takes these apart in Xerox customer service teams, where they did vary in how well structured they were, and also the quality of the coaching they got. Some coaching is quite bad. Right? We've all had managers who come in and micromanage and yell at us and do a bunch of things that we would say is not only not good, but it's counterproductive--it's harming the team. So, in this study, Ruth Wageman found that for teams that were well structured, they benefited from good coaching. If they had a good coach who could come in and really increase their sense of purpose, help motivate them, help them develop strategies, they performed better. But, the poorly structured teams didn't benefit from good coaching. You could coach them up all you wanted: they still didn't perform very well. And, the reverse was true with this kind of bad coaching--these counterproductive, micromanaging things. Well-structured teams, yeah, their performance suffered a teeny, teeny bit from these bad coaching behaviors, but not very much. But, the poorly structured teams really dropped off when they had these bad coaches. So, it was really a situation where the rich get richer and the poor get poorer. But it showed that when you pit the effects of structure and the effects of coaching against one another, structure is going to win. And, that's why I said in the book, structure is really king. If you've got a problem, if you don't fix your structure first and you turn straight to coaching--which is what a lot of managers do: They've got a problem; they're, like, 'Oh, people aren't working that hard. Rather than looking to the task and the goals, I'm going to go in there and give them a speech, and I'm going to motivate them and help them perform better.' That kind of thing is generally destined to fail. Russ Roberts: My guest today has been Colin Fisher. His book is The Collective Edge . Colin, thanks for being part of EconTalk. Colin Fisher: It was a pleasure, Russ. Thanks so much for having me. Econlib The Library of Economics and Liberty Liberty Fund, Inc. 11301 N. Meridian Street Carmel, IN 46032-4564, USA econlib@libertyfund.org About About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Publications Books Articles EconTalk EconLog Videos Resources Quickpicks CEE Encyclopedia College Guides High School Guides Sign up for our newsletter Enter your email address to subscribe to the Econlib monthly newsletter. » Liberty Fund, Inc. 11301 N. Meridian Street Carmel, IN 46032-4564, USA info@libertyfund.org © 2024 Econlib, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Part of the Liberty Fund Network. Insert/edit link Close Enter the destination URL URL Link Text Open link in a new tab Or link to existing content Search No search term specified. Showing recent items. Search or use up and down arrow keys to select an item. Cancel