# [EconTalk] Let Me Be Forgotten (with Lowry Pressly)

**Source**: https://www.econtalk.org/let-me-be-forgotten-with-lowry-pressly/
**Atlas ID**: 223243
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.139263

---

Let Me Be Forgotten (with Lowry Pressly) - Econlib Liberty Fund Network Econlib Liberty Fund OLL Adam Smith Works Law & Liberty EconLog Blog Browse by Author Browse by Topic Browse by Date Search EconLog RSS Subscribe EconTalk Latest Episodes Browse by Date Browse by Guest Browse by Category Browse Extras Search EconTalk RSS Feeds Articles Latest Articles Liberty Classics Browse by Author Browse by Date Search Articles Books Books Bios Books by Date Books by Author Search Books Encyclopedia Index Browse by Author Browse by Title Biographies Search Encyclopedia Guides Index #ECONLIBREADS College Topics High School Topics Subscribe to QuickPicks Search Guides Videos Index Search Videos Liberty Fund Network Econlib OLL Adam Smith Works Library of Law & Liberty Home / Let Me Be Forgotten (with Lowry Pressly) Aug 4 2025 What do we lose when every moment is recorded, every action scrutinized, and every past mistake preserved? Philosopher and author Lowry Pressly joins EconTalk's Russ Roberts to discuss why privacy isn't just about secrets or information control, the necessity of spontaneity, the importance of moral growth, and what we need to become fully human. From photography to forgetting, surveillance to selfhood, this episode challenges our assumptions about what it means to be seen--and unseen--in a data-driven world. LISTEN NOW: Comment ● READ TRANSCRIPT ● DELVE DEEPER 7 DOWNLOAD RELATED EPISODE The Past and Present of Privacy and Public Life (with Tiffany Jenkins) A paradox of our time is our willingness to bare all to strangers while worrying about who exactly is watching us online and anywhere else. Listen as author Tiffany Jenkins discusses her book, Strangers and Intimates, with EconTalk's Russ Roberts.... EXPLORE MORE Related EPISODE Abby Smith Rumsey on Remembering, Forgetting, and When We Are No More You might think your tweets on Twitter belong to you. But in 2010, the Library of Congress acquired the entire archive of Twitter. Why would such a majestic library acquire such seemingly ephemeral material? Historian Abby Smith Rumsey, author of... EXPLORE MORE Browse our archive of 800+ episodes containing over ten years of podcasts Explore audio transcript, further reading that will
                    help you delve deeper into this week’s episode, and
                    vigorous conversations in the form of our comments
                    section below. READER COMMENTS READ COMMENT POLICY Shalom Freedman Aug 4 2025 at 9:03am Very often I listen with great interest to one of the conversations on ‘Conversations for the Curious’ and feel that while I am trying to understand what is being said I am misunderstanding and thinking about something else. And so, if I make a comment, it is off the mark and irrelevant. I think that is especially true in this conversation. When I heard the word ‘oblivion’ here my thoughts did not turn to questions of privacy and protection from undue interference in others in knowing about oneself, but rather to questions of death and disappearance forever of all that we are. When I tried to get on track and understand what was really spoken about here, I kept thinking about another question, the question of how people are using the Internet to pour out information about themselves in order to leave some trace of themselves and escape oblivion. In other words, I was thinking of the very opposite of efforts at privacy, secrecy and self-protection but thinking of vain efforts at self-preservation through self-revelation. So, I really feel I owe an apology to Lowry Pressly and Russ Roberts for commenting when it might have been wiser and more moral to keep my misunderstanding to myself. Gregg Tavares Aug 4 2025 at 4:15pm I have strong sympathy for the ideas from this presentation. I certainly get that dancing alone in private is a different experience than dancing when others are watching. I also get that someone seeing me through the windows of my residence is different than someone taking a picture. That said, I am very curious about the future. I have not read the Ted Chiang story mentioned near the end of the talk. I have seen the season 1 episode of Black Mirror where most people have constant recording of their vision and can reference it. I found that episode fascinating but also extremely frustrating. No positives were presented like say, maybe rape and date rape goes to zero when you know your actions are likely to be recorded. Maybe corporate shenanigans goes down when it’s possible any and every meeting participant could leak the conversations. That future is quickly arriving. Maybe it’s 10 or 20 years away but unlike the Black Mirror episode, the usage of a constantly on camera on your face is super compelling. I’m sure there will be replies saying people don’t want to live in that world but to me it’s inevitable. Google (and Meta?) have shown demos where some AI is watching the video of your life and then you can ask it questions. You’re out, you forgot to write down that restaurant you looked up at home. So you ask the AI: You: “Hey AI, what was that restaurant I was looking up before I left” AI: “That was Samping Asia at National and Motor. Would you like me to forward the address to your car?” You’re reading a book, you see a word, phrase, place you don’t know. Today you can Google it but tomorrow you can just say “Is this a real place?”.  The AI looks and sees what you’re reading and says “Avonlea is not a real place but it’s based on Cavendish on Prince Edward Island” You’re talking with a friend. They recommend a book. You don’t want to interrupt the conversation so you don’t write it down. A few days later you ask the AI, “Hey AI, what was that book my friend Andrea recommended?”.  AI: “That was ‘The Story of Your Life’ by Ted Chiang”. I’m probably not making compelling examples and if you’re a luddite or dislike these ideas you’ll probably rebel. To me though, they’re inevitable. 97% of people in the USA have a smartphone. I expect some day, 97% of people in the USA will have the camera built into their eyes. It might sound impossible today but I’m confident it’s coming. You can watch the demos from Google I/O 2025 and see the non-implanted versions already close. The point being, rebel all you want, you’ll be in the minority. It’s coming. Get used to it. That was a long detour but the relevance to this talk is, beliving in that future, I wonder how society will change. For example, it could be that everyone starts supressing themselves. We see that today with people afraid to express certain opinions for fear of cancellation. On the other hand, maybe a few generations in, people will just get used to the idea that nothing is private and nothing is important. No one cares to see people in embarrassing situations because everyone realizes everyone else does it so it’s boring. Or maybe showoff TikTok culture will just get 10x worse. Note: I’m not saying I’m necessarily looking 100% forward to this future. I’m instead only saying that I think it’s coming and I think it’s fun to think about how society will change because of it. Museums, Immagration stations, often have “no photography allowed” signs. What will happen with 95% of the population has augmented their eyes with digital eyes and turning them off is akin to turning off part of their brain? Kevin Ryan Aug 4 2025 at 4:49pm My comment is on photographs rather than the main subject of this episode. I speak as someone whose wife has, in recent years, been increasingly unhappy with (iPhone) photos being taken of her (while vacationing), as they rarely produce an image she likes, but is ok with my including her in a short video panning the location we are visiting. So I’m very much aligned with Russ’s ‘I’m the movie, not the still’ comment. However, Russ also expressed satisfaction with his output as an informal photographer at social functions.  Taking great photos which capture something meaningful about someone’s child – maybe from a look in their eye. The point I want to make is that photos that look good are also stills.  It is largely a matter of chance what one gets in the still when one takes a photo of a moving person.  If people like the photo, that is fine in itself.  But it is a mistake to believe that the still is telling you anything meaningful about the photo’s subject.  The expression they have at the precise moment the photo is taken will rarely provide any useful insight. Dylan Wiliam Aug 5 2025 at 7:46am This was a good example of a conversation that made me think of something in a completely different way from the way I had before. As I listened, I made two connections that may be of interest. The first was related to the idea that seeing something is different from making a permanent record of it, such as a photograph. It made me think of the distinction in many legal systems between slander and libel, where defamation that results in a permanent record, such as something defamatory that is written, or spoken remarks that are recorded, is regarded as more serious than things that leave no permanent record. My mind then leapt to the episode of Econtalk with Mike Munger who talked about the work of Bruno Leoni, and his arguments that law should be discovered from what a society believes, rather than determined by those who think they know what society needs. Second, the quotation from Werner Herzog reminded me of the final scene in the BBC’s TV dramatization of Frederic Raphael’s “The Glittering Prizes” which has a voice-over from a book written by the main character, Adam Morris: “They asked him how he had managed for so long to lead a double life. He replied that nothing could be easier. As long as he could keep just one chamber of his castle locked and its contents safe from scrutiny.” (Source: https://www.thejc.com/life/a-writers-journey-interview-with-frederic-raphael-e1mdnas9 ) Mike Polen Aug 5 2025 at 1:55pm I think I get the most out of your interviews with people who I generally disagree with. This one is no exception this one is no exception. I am glad you have such a variety of guests as I think you’re one of the best interviewers on the planet. I did have a slight pause when the guest said “Most crimes are committed by first offenders, most violent crimes by people the person knows.” I am not a crime statistics expert, but I have listened to many podcasts  and read a few blogs, and this statement, seemed incorrect. a quick Google search leads me to something like 66% of crimes committed are done or repeat offenders. Some interesting stats for 2005-2014: https://www.prisonpolicy.org/graphs/sex_offense_recidivism_2019.html I completely agree that ypu need humility, not just in marriage, but in all aspects of life. Ibelieve knowledge is an illusion,. it is an illusion that I have been living in most of my life,. Keep up the good work! Karl Aug 5 2025 at 11:08pm I enjoyed the podcast.  It was thought provoking. Two things stood out to me: 1) Lowry Pressly said that “most crimes are committed by first-time offenders”.  Off the top of my head that didn’t seem correct.  A quick web search found this study from ASU: https://popcenter.asu.edu/content/analyzing-and-responding-repeat-offending indicating that half of all crimes are committed by prolific offenders.   “Most crimes” seems to be an overstatement. My guess is that the majority of criminals are first -time offenders and don’t repeat, but a majority of crimes are committed by repeat offenders. 2) While I agree that criminal branding is barbaric and wrong, I find it ironic that many and perhaps most repeat criminals brand themselves with tattoos from prison and gang affiliations and that is a status symbol to them. Dr. Duru Aug 11 2025 at 1:39pm I had to struggle with this podcast. I have frequently remarked to friends and my kids how great it would have been to have recordings of myself when I was a kid, of the speeches I made, of the games I played, etc… As the years pass, these memories get ever fainter. Where is the value to me letting those memories disappear just because the still does not capture the full essence of my state at that time when my brain is doing a worse and worse job of it? And because I don’t have the full portfolio of pictures and videos that I wish I had of myself and my experiences, I treasure the archive of such things of my kids, friends, and family all the more. I understand how we can act differently when we know we are being recorded, but I think the trade-off in some cases, like the one I am describing, is worth it. Finally, would we critique books in the same way because they are “static words” that cannot hope to fully convey all that happened in a given moment of time? Or would we criticize journalism in the same way because people may act differently because they know reporters are looking to share with the world what they see and hear from their perspective? Comments are closed. Enter your email address to subscribe to our monthly newsletter: DELVE DEEPER Watch this podcast episode on YouTube: Let Me Be Forgotten (with Lowry Pressly) . Live-recorded audio and video. This week's guest: Lowry Pressly's Home page Lowry Pressly on X . This week's focus: The Right to Oblivion: Privacy and the Good Life, by Lowry Pressly at Amazon.com. * Additional ideas and people mentioned in this podcast episode: The Past and Present of Privacy and Public Life (with Tiffany Jenkins) . EconTalk. Exhalation, by Ted Chiang at Amazon.com. * A few more readings and background resources: "The Neighbors." Arne Svenson photographs. "Mad German Auteur, Now in 3-D!" Interview with Werner Herzog by Chris Heath. GQ Magazine, April 29, 2011. A few more EconTalk podcast episodes: Susan Athey on Machine Learning, Big Data, and Causation . EconTalk. Jessica Riskin on Life, Machinery, and the Restless Clock . EconTalk. Paul Pfleiderer on the Misuse of Economic Models . EconTalk. Jessica Todd Harper on Beauty, Family, and Photography . EconTalk. Michael Munger on Permissionless Innovation. Mike Munger discusses Schiller's Tanze (Dance) metaphor. EconTalk. Vernon Smith and James Otteson on Adam Smith. Contains discussion of the impartial spectator and implementing moral self-guidance. EconTalk. More related EconTalk podcast episodes, by Category: Technology and Information Philosophy and Methodology ALL ECONTALK CATEGORIES * As an Amazon Associate, Econlib earns from qualifying purchases. AUDIO TRANSCRIPT Time Podcast Episode Highlights 0:37 Intro. [Recording date: July 10, 2025.] Russ Roberts: Today is July 10th, 2025, and my guest is writer and teacher Lowry Pressly of Stanford University, where he is in the Department of Political Science, the McCoy Family Center for Ethics and Society, and the Stanford Civics Initiative. Our topic for today is his book, The Right to Oblivion: Privacy and the Good Life . Lowry, welcome to EconTalk. Lowry Pressly: Thank you. It's a pleasure to be here. Russ Roberts: I want to tell listeners with children, we may touch on some adult topics in this conversation. You may want to screen this accordingly. 1:09 Russ Roberts: We recently had Tiffany Jenkins on EconTalk to talk about the boundary between the public and private sphere. Today we're going to look at related issues, but from a totally different perspective. And, I want to start with a question. I love the word 'oblivion,' Lowry, but what do you mean by the right to oblivion? Lowry Pressly: Well, first I should say that I chose the word 'oblivion' as a sort of deliberately distancing or defamiliarizing word for what it is that privacy gives us, both to those who are outside of privacy and those who are inside of it, protected. And, the reason I did that is because I think we've lost sight of just the huge variety of different kinds of concealment and obscurity there are, and of their differences. So, just to list a couple off the top of my head: there's privacy, of course, but you've got secrecy, confidentiality, anonymity, mysteries, the forgotten, the lost. These are all ways to not know something. There are all kinds of barriers to our perception and knowledge. And, my working assumption, and something I argue for throughout the book, is that we have different words for these different kinds of not knowing because they're meaningfully different, and they're different not just for the person within who is protected in some way, but also everybody without. So, the point of the book is to think about what is the specific form of unknowing, or the specific type of barrier to knowledge or perception that privacy is--what role it plays in our lives--and how it's different from secrecy, and so on. And, I chose 'oblivion' for a variety of reasons related to what I think the substantive kind of unknowing that privacy produces is, but also because there is this parallel history of talking about the private life or the private sphere that draws from liberal political thought, which is basically about a realm where state or societal intervention in the lives of individuals is unjustified for moral reasons, having to do with how important it is for us to live our own lives. But, that's not what we mean when we talk today about privacy as a kind of epistemic barrier. Russ Roberts: Well, it can be, as you mention in the book. And in particular, I think what I love about your emphasis on oblivion is that when we think of privacy as information--which is the modern obsession with technological surveillance, technological knowledge about ourselves that is taken by, often, corporations and used for profit, sometimes to our benefit, sometimes to our harm--this inevitable focus on information as a commodity that I can keep to myself or let out into the world is missing an enormous part of what is concerning about a lack of privacy. So, talk a little bit about why information is important, of course, but it's not anything close to the whole story. Lowry Pressly: Yeah. So, the contemporary way of thinking about privacy--and when I say the contemporary way of thinking about privacy, I mean basically people who are paid to think about privacy: philosophers, lawyers, activists, and so on--I think it's mistaken, and mistaken in part because it is, as you say, fixated or kind of grounded in the idea of information. But, I say all that just to issue a disclaimer that I think ordinary folks understand what privacy is. It animates so much of our day-to-day lives. And so, I think our practices of privacy--the people who aren't paid to think about privacy or privacy activists--actually really do have a good understanding of what it does in our lives, what it's for. And so, part of what I'm trying to do is rescue that common-sense idea against the sort of information-saturated view of the privacy theorists. So, privacy theorists think of privacy today basically, I think, through the lens of privacy settings on social media. What privacy is for is to control who can see certain types of your information, what the audience is--maybe to protect it, to prevent certain access to it, to make sure it, quote, "flows" to intended recipients. And, I think there are problems with this on a conceptual level. I just don't think that's what we think privacy is. It's not what we've always thought privacy was. It's a new idea dating roughly to the 1970s or 1980s--not coincidentally, the long start of the digital age. But, it's also a dangerous idea, I think, because what it does--even the defenders of privacy against the forces of surveillance in state and private life--what they do is they take for granted that some information about us is always going to pre-exist the moral questions of privacy. And, that's a really weak defense against who we take today to be the greatest threats to privacy: surveillance companies, or the state, or whatever. Because they care very little about how we draw the boundaries of our audience for our information--just so long as the information about us is created, to which obviously they have access to. But, your privacy settings on Instagram or Facebook or whatever never give you the option of creating no information at all, because that's the business model and profit engine of these companies. 7:38 Russ Roberts: And it's part of, you know, what I've complained about as well: the quantification of the human experience. The idea that everything that we do, everything that we want to maximize, everything that we want to--all the life hacks--they're all about information, they're all about data. They're all about using it more effectively, or keeping it from you because I don't want you to have it. In an extreme--in the old days--it might be my income. But, today it's my shopping habits, and it might be my heart rate, or my steps, or where I am, or where I've been. And, it's true that the modern world quantifies our human experience in ways that were not imaginable 25 years ago. Some of those are valuable to other people to get power over me. Sometimes they're used to make money. But, I think you make an incredible insight: that, because there is so much of the human experience that is not quantifiable--a view I hold dearly as well--that focusing on information or data as the most important aspect of privacy is missing a huge part of what's important about privacy, and is also misleading about what's important about being human. Lowry Pressly: Yeah. So, I begin the book with a line, something like, 'We live in a time blinded by information.' And, I agree with you totally. What I mean by that isn't what you sometimes hear about signal and noise: there's just so much--and there's misinformation, disinformation--we don't know what to believe. But something deeper--and exactly what you were saying--that we've just come to understand so much of human life, both what we know of it and what we don't, in the language of information, or data, or the quantifiable. So, as we do that--of course, there might be economic or ideological reasons, connected to economics, for thinking that--but, the one outcome of that is: as we increasingly understand the human condition, experience, the human being, and so on, as something that is essentially quantifiable, we lose sight of parts of experience that either aren't quantifiable, or resist quantification, or maybe are destroyed, corrupted, or changed by the quantification of it. So, I mean, it sounds very abstract. But, one example is a moving experience you had at a symphony or something, or a poem you like, or love. These things, when you try to put them into words, when you try to put a distinct, exhaustive definition on them--or, to say nothing of quantifying them--they're deflated a little bit. But what I would say, just in addition to all the stuff that you said, which I agree with: I do think there are lots of extremely valuable, and exciting, and profound parts of the human experience that aren't quantifiable. But, I don't think that is sort of a natural fact about the human being in the same way it is that we are bipeds, and we are mammals, and the heart works in the way that it works, and so on. These are social facts about the person that consist in the way we understand human beings, human life. And, it's entirely feasible--because we have examples in history and anthropology--that we would come to conceive of the human being and human life, over obviously a long durée, as something different. And so, part of the argument I'm making in my book is similar to what you were just saying--a sympathetic thing with it--is that we need to take note of what we're doing in terms of understanding human life, because we might turn out to reimagine it in a way that we would rather not. We would lose what you were referring to as sort of unquantifiable experiences. 11:56 Russ Roberts: But there's another part to it, which I never, I think, fully appreciated until I read your book. And, I want to say to listeners, this is an utterly fascinating book. It's dense, it's not easy to read all the time, but there's so many ideas in it, and so many ways of looking at the human experience that are, I think, different from what we usually come across. It's a really extremely interesting and unusual book. And, one of the things you write about early on--and we'll go into it, I hope, in some detail--is that when you quantify something, you tend to freeze it. To take a simple example, a trivial example: What's my temperature right now, my body temperature? It's 98.6. Well, I might want to go outside and go into a different environment. And, the 98.6 is a statement about a point in time. And, that's true about much more interesting aspects of me. As you point out: How much I care for someone, what I'm willing to do for someone. Even if I could capture that with a number, once you put a number on it, you tend to think of it as you now know what it is. I've measured it. And, many of these things are about potentiality and what I might want to become. So, I thought to get at this, I thought we'd talk a little bit about your insights into photography and the Arne Svenson project. I don't know if I'm pronouncing his name correctly. But why don't you describe what Svenson did, and why it was controversial, and your take on it. Lowry Pressly: So, Arne Svenson is an artist, a photographer living in Lower Manhattan, and he receives as a gift a telephoto camera lens from a birder friend. And, what he does with that is he starts taking pictures, from his apartment, of the glass-fronted high-rise across the street in Lower Manhattan--so the apartments of his neighbors. And, he takes lots and lots of pictures for a very long time. And, no prurient intent here--just is a sort of art project. And, no one would have ever known, except that he showed some of the, I guess, what he just thought were the best photos at a gallery in New York. And, they are interesting and quite beautiful, and we have to--let's be honest--quite provocative. So, the show got some press, and the neighbors found out. And they weren't happy. They felt that their privacy had been violated, even though he could have seen them with his naked eye from--I mean, this is the experience of living in New York or a large city. There's just--you look into lots of windows, and not everyone covers them. There are different expectations of being seen there at home. And, the neighbors said, yeah, that's fine. We expect that people will look in, but it's different when someone has a camera. And so, a couple of them sued him. I should also mention that none of the pictures--or only one of the pictures--showed someone who was identifiable and a child, and he removed those from the show. Russ Roberts: So, the remainder of the pictures--people's knees, elbows, their back when they're bending over to reach for something--they're just people in their mundane, everyday life. It's not nudity. It's voyeurism, but it's a particular kind of observational look at everyday life. It's very powerful. Lowry Pressly: Yeah. And, I recommend that listeners can Google Arne Svenson, The Neighbors , and look at the pictures, and you'll see that they are quite beautiful. And, some of them are actually pretty funny. There'll be one where a hung curtain just obscures somebody's face. So, you can tell he knows that he's flirting with a line about invasion of privacy here. Anyway, so some of these neighbors sued him, took it to the court in New York. And the court held that actually Svenson had invaded their privacy. They called it a literal home invasion. Yet, he won the case because the court decided that the photographs were works of art protected by the First Amendment. But, the court said, 'Well, there's a new technology here that enables new kinds of privacy violations, and the legislature really ought to do something about that.' And, what's funny is: a little more than a hundred years earlier, a court--maybe the same court in New York State--said the same thing about the same technology, about photography when it was just coming on the scene. Although this was a photograph taken in a public theater. So, the question arises--and I think this is kind of what our intuition is --I think most of us would feel the same--that there's something different about when someone takes a picture of us through our window than just looks. And so, the question is: Well, what's different about that? What's invasive? And, as you pointed out, the difference seems to turn on what is the difference between ordinary perception and living memory--which is fluid, it's in flux. We don't always see everything. We miss lots of stuff in our vision. We have blind spots. Our memory changes constantly every time we remember it, we know now. Versus the photograph, which creates something that is fixed . Almost like a piece of information about the moment that doesn't change over time. That we can scrutinize; that is almost like a fact of what this person or thing or whatever looked like at the moment that the lens snaps. 18:16 Russ Roberts: And then, the question is--I mean, there's a lot of things to say about this. I have a friend who is a wonderful portrait photographer, and when he takes a portrait of a--a posed portrait, now we're not talking about a candid on the street--but he takes a posed portrait. He says, first one serious. If you say to someone, 'I'm going to take your picture.' If they say to you, 'Take my picture,' they beam at you. They give you a very unrealistic smile. And, sometimes it's a smile they only make when they pose for a picture. They don't know how to make a natural smile when they pose. So, they do this very artificial thing. And, my friend says, first one's serious. And, I use this myself now, often, and it's fantastic. The person--sometimes they can't do it, and they start laughing or giggling, and sometimes it's with two people, and you get a great shot of them trying to be serious. It's a very nice candid shot. But, sometimes they reveal things about themselves in that first photo that are striking, and it's why portraiture can be so extraordinary. And, reading your discussion of these issues, I wondered--when I take a great portrait--forget the fact, again, I'm not talking about a candid shot, but a shot of a friend, or a relative, or someone at a party, and I'm the unofficial photographer, and I capture something--a look in their eye--let's say it's a vulnerability--and it makes it a great photograph. And, you show it to them, and they go, 'Wow, that's fantastic.' Or you take a picture of their kid, and they realize you've captured something about their kid. And I love doing that. What's wrong with it? Why is there that particular moment in time that is captured in that second--what's wrong with that? Lowry Pressly: Yeah, I wouldn't say anything is necessarily wrong with it, but the idea that you're drawing out there with those examples--about the relation of a person to this particular kind of technology, and how something about that person is revealed--is at the heart of privacy. I mean, this was the original idea that gave birth to calls for a moral and legal right to privacy. And, it's interesting also--I just want to note before I go into that--that in your example, or the portraitist, or the picture you take that gets the vulnerable look, we see this as discovering something about the person. Even the language--candid photograph, candid form, like, freely speaking. But, no, the candid photograph speaks freely about the person who it's of because they're not guarded in some way. So, the photographer who discovers that vulnerable look discovers something about the person that the person hadn't shared intentionally, hadn't willed. They might not even know about themselves. And, we do think that's what makes the great portraitist, great portraitists, distinct from long ago, when they were painted portraits, when they were supposed to show universals, not personals--wealth, status, and so on. And, those were the clues that were read into. So, one interesting thing about privacy is that it's a relatively new idea. It's a distinctly modern idea. Comes from the second half of the 19th century, and particularly the end of it. And everyone during that era who was talking about privacy--writing about it, I should say--they really want to make clear that this is a new moral idea, a new right in reaction to new developments of modernity. And the main development they have in mind--there are, of course, others like urbanization, and a big one was the development and spread of newspapers as the first real mass media--but the big thing for the first privacy advocates was the photograph camera, and particularly the snapshot camera. So, not the one that you have to pose for, for a long time in a studio when you can't move--so everybody has the same expression, kind of a guardedness, there's no expressiveness. But, the snapshot camera that can capture what we would call a candid moment, but a moment out of time that might be too fleeting for us to perceive in our ordinary round[?]. And, there's nothing bad about that. It's exciting and good, and we think we get insight into people. The reason that the Victorians--and I think people still--care about having that kind of picture taken when we don't want it taken is the idea that we still have that something--as you noted in your example--is revealed about us. There's some kind of inner truth that comes out and is fixed almost as like a fact about us in this medium that we take to be an indisputable mirror on the world. And, those truths might be truths that we don't avow. I'm saying 'truths' here in quotation marks, but that's the way we think about it. There might be facts about us that we disavow, or we didn't know about, or whatever. So, it seems like--and this was the 19th-century view, and I think the intuition continues--that the candid photographer is sort of forming us, defining our personality in a way that subverts our own will, our own sense of who we are. They're reaching into us and generating facts about us. And, you can sort of imagine--it's not hard when I hear myself say that--to hear an analogy to our time, and the generation of information about people, albeit by more diffuse and invisible means. 24:29 Russ Roberts: But, it's such a strange thing. We think back to this example of the photographer taking the neighbors. One argument would be: There's no harm done, and we may come back to that theme. It's an important theme here. There's no harm done. You take a picture of me, just one picture. I might take a picture on a street of you without your knowledge, and I might keep it on my phone and enjoy it because I think it's a good photograph. I might put it on a website. I used to do that. I feel, not because of your book, but I don't feel comfortable doing that. I think it's wrong. And, there's all kinds of legislation, regulations about what you can do with people when they're out in public. But, the example you mentioned in passing, which you talk about in the book of the stage--the photograph of the actress on stage. She's in public. She's not behind her bedroom window with a curtain, a gauzy curtain across it that may hide her face. She's deliberately in a setting where she wants people to look at her; but she doesn't want her photograph taken. And I think for some moderns, that's a sign of neurosis. I mean, come on. If anything, she wants the photograph taken and spread around. What's your argument defending her? What was her argument? And, tell us what you think of it. Lowry Pressly: I mean, the argument there is basically the one that we were just giving. But, let me say that I don't want to be taken to say that it's harmful to have one's photograph taken, or that it's bad to take pictures, or that these are--there are serious moral stakes in all picture taking. On the one hand, the intuitions about the Svenson photos and about photography in general, which we still have, I think reveal a certain view of the person which we still have. And, it's the kind of view of the person that makes privacy relevant to us. We thought we were different. We might not need it in the same way. But also, because we really care, we can't--these examples really activate strong moral intuitions in us. And they're very low-stakes examples, having your picture taken. I mean, if your neighbor is taking pictures of you every day through their window, that might seem higher stakes, for reasons it'd be interesting to think about. But, I like these low stakes, low harm stakes, high moral intuitions of badness examples. Because I think what they do is, by being so seemingly low stakes in terms of harm, but activating such a strong moral response, they point us to a kind of expressive value about what privacy does. Writ large. So it's not just about taking photos, obviously. These are sort of niche examples, but they are good examples of what privacy's value is more broadly. And so, the argument for the unwanted photograph, for not wanting--just in general--what they called in the 1890s, Kodak fiends, driving the world crazy by taking pictures everywhere--the reason to complain about that, at least in terms of privacy, has to do with exchanging a certain quantity of un-informationalized, unquantified--just say, life as it's lived in the flux and ambiguity that it does have--for a sort of fact of the matter about it, for information. So, they had, people in the 1890s--and ever after--responding to all kinds of different developments in terms of privacy, from the invention of the census to passports, to hotel registers, and school records, and all kinds of stuff: They complained in terms of privacy about basically the same thing. Which is the increasing informationalization of human life--that there are just more and more domains of human life that before were known and remembered and experienced in the sort of protean, ambiguous flux of normal perception and memory. And, those were being replaced with registers of information, facts of the matter--things that are unambiguous about who this person is, where they are, and what the weather was like, and so on. And, I think so, even though individually some of these things may even seem silly, like school records or passports or something, or public photographs, taken together, they do express a certain widely-held common moral view of--that human life is better in a variety of ways, when it has--I won't say when it has more--when more aspects of it are unknown or ambiguous. In my terms, when it has more oblivion; but when it has a sufficient quantity. And if it's diminished beyond a certain threshold, whatever that is, we're left worse off as a society, and not just the individuals who are having their pictures taken on the street, or whatever. 30:01 Russ Roberts: Well, I want to come back to that actress, because the way I understood you when you wrote about this section of the book is as follows. I'm out in public: I'm a public person--an actress or some kind of celebrity--and I want you to look at me. I'm performing. I may literally be on stage, or I may be holding a press conference. I'm doing something where I've invited you to look at me. And, what do you see? Well, you see a thousand things. You might see a flash of anger, you might see charm, you might see joy. All these things are going to flash across my face. And if we think about it as a high-speed movie, [?Russ makes sound effect possibly indicating high-speed playback of a movie] you see all this rich panoply of emotions on my face. But, instead I take one photograph. And in that one, look, I just happened to capture you looking insecure. And, you could have seen that--going back to the Arne Svenson example of him looking--he could have seen somebody's elbow without his camera. But, you catch that, and you capture it, and you freeze it, and by definition, you're missing the richness of who I am. And, there's two things happening there--this is what I learned from your book. One is: I don't like, potentially, that you have taken one data point--to reduce it to this information conversation--taken one data point when there's a thousand. And, you said, 'Oh, that's a picture of her.' But, the other point is, is that there's an enormous difference between you watching me in the moment in, say, a conversation, versus you taking a GoPro, or through your Meta-, some weird Google glasses you've got that allow you to take a video of me while we're talking. And, I want to interact with you unobserved in that way. I don't mind being observed . I want you to--I want to talk to you, I want to show you my emotions, I want to connect with you. But, once you can preserve it and look at it later, that's a different thing. And, all of a sudden, quote, "I'm on camera," right? Obviously I'm on camera with your eyes when we're having a conversation. But once you record it, a different thing is happening. And, your intuition that that's different was fascinating to me, because I think it is different. And, it's very hard, and we're both struggling to put it into words of why that's different. But, one of the concepts you use that I found so provocative is this idea of accountability. And, sometimes I just want to be unaccountable. I want to be looked at but not recorded. I might want to be listened to but not seen. I might just want to call you on the phone. And, that allows me to not have to hold my face in a certain visage when I'm interacting with you. All these things are different aspects of how I interact with others, and they're all different. And, once you freeze them with a camera or a video--a photograph or a video--I don't like it because it's not me . I'm the movie. I'm not the still. And, even the movie bothers me because I want to have you have the memory of our conversation, not the video of it. And, those are two different human experiences. Lowry Pressly: Absolutely. So, you could think about the stage performer, but in the same way, a conversation partner or somebody living under surveillance, in a surveillance society or a prison or something--once the actress or the interlocutor is aware that there's some kind of document that's being made that's going to be taken away--well, we become self-aware, we become self-conscious. We're thinking about where that's going to go. So, we are, in an almost literal manner of speaking, in two places at once. And being in two places at once makes it very hard to be fully in the place that you are. So, for the actress to lose yourself in the role, the here and now--to just be in that--well, that becomes very hard if you understand that everything you're doing now is going to appear in some sort of future context. And of course, this is also the disciplining force of surveillance. It makes us second guess what we're saying. And what is true, I think--and this comes out in what you were saying--what's true about the performer or the interlocutor who is being photographed or video recorded is also true for the audience, for the one who is doing the photographing or the recording. That person is also, in a sense, in two places at once. If you look through a camera, you're seeing the object that you're looking at, but you're also seeing the photograph that it will one day be. You're thinking forward into the future. Now you see everyone--I am guilty of this--if I see something interesting, I automatically take a picture of it, as an instinct. And, I'm not fully there with that object, or with the other person. So, I think one of the real, profound discoveries for me in the process of writing this book and thinking a long time about privacy, was to really understand that the benefits of privacy, as we've just been discussing, aren't just for the one who exercises the right or for who the privacy protects. It's not just for the performer on the stage, not just for the person talking to the potential GoPro interlocutor. But also, for the other person--the person on the outside, the person who we would think, well, privacy is just protecting against; but no, in this example and in others, it gives them something, too. There's kind of a public good, or a shared good, of individual privacy. And, I think it's been--this is another one of the sort of errors we've made in thinking about privacy, both sort of conceptual and moral, but also strategic and political--is thinking about it only in terms of a very, very individualistic good, and not something that benefits, as you pointed out, all parties to the transaction. Russ Roberts: Yeah. I'm trying to cure myself of the habit of taking my phone out every time I see something that I think is video-worthy or photo-worthy. 36:54 Russ Roberts: I think one of the phrases that came to my mind while I was reading your book is a phrase I've always loved, and I suddenly am thinking about it in a different way, which is: 'Dance as if no one is watching.' Now, that phrase actually is--what it means is--which is the opposite--it means that when you're dancing in public, pretend no one is watching. Which isn't easy to do; and I'm not even sure it's a good idea. But, the idea of dancing when literally no one is watching, is one of the great human experiences. If you've ever been alone in a quiet house and cranked up your stereo to something that makes you dance, and you start dancing, and there's no one there--so no one's going to capture it on their phone, you're not capturing it on your own as a selfie--you're just letting yourself sing, your body, through your body, to be together with the music. It's a glorious thing. And, I'm not sure it's good to bring that into the public sphere. But, we now live in a world where we dance as if everyone is watching. It's all a performance. And, what you're suggesting, which I love, is that when we see something as a group that we think is powerful and important, if we're always taking out our phones, we're making sure that people dance as if everyone is watching. And we're losing something. So, talk about that. Lowry Pressly: Yeah. So I mean, one thing to notice, and this has come out so far in our conversation also, is that you're dancing in both cases. Dancing as if everyone's watching, dancing as if no one's watching--maybe the dance is the same. But, I think we would all agree that it's not really the same dance. It's not really the same experience. Something changes. From the perspective of dance as if no one's watching, something's lost. But of course, we might be professional dancers; we might want to also dance in front of people. So, I don't want to say that it's always bad or always; or it is always a loss, but maybe the thing that's gained--dancing in front of others--is valuable, too. But it's just, in the same way that we're trying to think about the substantive goods of privacy that aren't just about controlling my data or whatever, I think it's useful to think about the two different kinds of dances. What makes them different, what's valuable about the one where no one's watching? And it's another good example for the central claim that privacy isn't about controlling information. In other words, privacy isn't the same as secrecy. Because I'll admit here for your many listeners that I do that all the time. I love putting on music and dancing by myself at home. So, it's not a secret, now. Nevertheless, when I go do it, as you all know, can expect me to do later today, I will be in private. There will be something there. It won't be a secret that I'm doing it. I'm here announcing it to the world. Nevertheless, privacy will give me something in that case. It will give me that different kind of dance. And, I mean, I don't want to loop all the way back to your first question about oblivion, but I will say another reason that I chose that word to describe the particular form of unknowing that we get from privacy, both inside and without, is that if you dance with no one's watching, that recommendation, that encouragement is an encouragement to be oblivious to the others. It's not to go hide in the bathroom and do your dance there. It's to act as if no one were here. And, to the extent that you succeed will be determined by the extent to which you are able to make yourself oblivious, or at least pantomime, obliviousness to the others. And, that's a particular kind of not knowing, where you think, okay, there's not--I mean, even if it's just a sort of imitation or pantomime, as if no one was watching, as if you were oblivious. In that case, you're not only not being viewed or whatever, but what makes you particularly freed in that state is that you're just completely unaware. It doesn't occur to you that there would be people watching you. And, that's the great freedom of obliviousness. 41:43 Russ Roberts: And, talk about why that's important. You say at one point, quote, And yet it is a basic assumption of agency and moral responsibility that we are to a significant extent accountable for the sorts of persons we turn out to be. All this means that for human agents, living a life takes persistent effort. You have to keep it up if you would be anyone at all. And, you argue--and again, this is a totally novel idea for me--that we as human beings need moments and places where we are oblivious, not because it's, 'Oh, I'm going to be irresponsible, I can do whatever I want. I don't have to worry about somebody judging me,' but also judging myself . I can just be . Why is that important, and why is that oblivion that we can have when we are in private--why is that important for my own personal wellbeing and development? Lowry Pressly: So, the quote that you read gives a view of why it would be important, not from the point of view of that it feels good, or it's nice or whatever, but actually from the point of view of the value of its opposite --the sort of accountability of human agency, of becoming one kind of person rather than another. So, like, a basic premise of human agency is that it's up to us, the kind of people we become. And, for that to be the case, we need others to take us seriously. You can imagine how debilitating or alienating it would be if nobody ever took you seriously. If everybody--and this is a way that--this is like the famous way that siblings will bully a younger sibling or something by pretending they're invisible for a week or something. If nobody took you seriously--your actions seriously, the way that you were as reflecting on the kind of person you were--that would be enormously alienating. It would be terrible. So, we want that. We want to be accountable. We want for the kinds of people we are to direct our own lives and have that be reflected back at us from the world. So, that's an enormous good--just a real fundamental, foundational good for human life. But, it's not easy to be the kind of person, kind of creature, about whom that's true. It can be exhausting. And so, the bit that you were reading, it comes from an argument where it says: Well, for that good of agency--of being accountable for the kind of people we turn out to be--we need periods, spaces, the access to these periods and spaces, where we can be off the hook. Where we can, either on the one hand, rest from that quite difficult but very important work of becoming the kind of person one becomes. But, also--and this is an older idea all the way back to the beginnings of our thinking about privacy in the 19th century--to have a space for spontaneity, for self-surprise. And, this connects our discussion about the performer or the interlocutor. If you're on the hook for--I mean, personally, not in terms of legal or moral responsibility--but if everything that you say or do is going to be reflected back to you from the eyes of the public as part of who you are, well, then you're going to be enormously constrained in what you feel free to do, how spontaneous you feel free to be, how comfortable you are with potentially unpleasant, and certainly unbidden and unexpected, surprises about yourself. I mean, that's just the goal of the sort of panoptical or surveillance society and state-- is to make sure that people always feel accountable. The great--or the big and highly effective surveillance states are touchstones--East Germany or something--long before the kind of technology that we all carry in our pockets today to surveil ourselves all the time. They're enormously effective. And, they weren't effective because they had this great technological expertise, but because they instilled a kind of doubt into society. And the doubt was whether I can ever have a space where I'm unaccountable. Whether there might be a microphone, or whether my friend or lover might be an informant. And, the lack of confidence in those kinds of spaces where one can be unaccountable or off the hook for the sort of things one says and does has a very, very powerful disciplining influence on people's lives. And so, there are strong political reasons you might want this--having to do with that discipline and human freedom--but also, I think, just the very basic facts of agency need us to have places to come apart. Even as we have to recognize and acknowledge that that coming apart is only going to be valuable if it is paired with coming together in public--becoming the kind of person that we become, being accountable for ourselves. So, you need both. Russ Roberts: Yeah, I think it's a powerful idea because generally being accountable is a good thing. But, it's too big a burden to bear for human beings to wear that cloak all the time. 47:36 Russ Roberts: I'm going to read a long quote to give the flavor of what you're saying in a different way. You say, quote, There is yet another way that being unaccountable contributes to well-being, which relates to the sense of the unaccountable that is perhaps closest to oblivion: that which is obscure to scrutiny, resistant to rational explanation, mysterious, or ineffable. The unaccountable in this sense is that which resists the exhaustive explanation that we aspire to when we speak of accounting for some phenomenon or action. Although as agents, we need to be accountable for ourselves, that capacity is imperfect. The limits of self-knowledge, self-control, and self-determination mean that we can never fully account for ourselves. There is no place to stand outside of oneself or one's life with which to conduct such an accounting. And, in any case, we all have our blind spots and dark spots that refuse to surrender their opacity no matter how long we stare into them. But, these lacuna are not only failures of introspection and self-governance, they're also sources of the sense that one's life has meaning, depth, and a quality essentially resistant to instrumentalization and control. Poetry and music gesture in the direction of these ineffable zones of human experience; tragedy gives them moral character. That such unaccountable elements of the self exist is an empirical claim, but we can make it normative and turn it toward privacy by adding the thought that this zone of experience and self-relation is unaccountable not because it is hidden or secret, but rather because something is lost in the attempt to put it on display or translate it into information. Close quote. I mean, it's just a beautiful passage you've written there, getting at this idea that I sometimes just need to turn it off--my self-improvement mode and my self-awareness mode. And, it goes so against most of our philosophical intuitions. Lowry Pressly: Yeah. I think that's right. I think--and thank you for reading that passage. You said it better than I could say it. Because I am oblivious to even my own book. I've written this big book about not knowing to make a virtue of my vices. But, it's interesting, when we talk about oblivion, or not knowing, or privacy even. As you were reading that, and your gloss on it--which was so beautiful--what you're recognizing is that human beings are complicated, extraordinarily complex and exciting and interesting. And, we often need goods that can be in conflict with one another, that might even be opposed, that we need at different times. And, that seems like just an ordinary, common-sense recognition to make about human life. And yet there's something--or for some reason, it seems to me that privacy and the associated kinds of goods about forgetting, or not knowing in this particular way, and so on--rarely gets the benefit of that recognition. That it's always--or not always, but certainly most often--discussed in sort of absolute terms. So, like, 'What do you mean you could be unaccountable? What about criminals?' And this sort of thing. Or, 'You can have privacy or you can have security.' These things are put into--privacy is put into a stark balance with other things where other goods aren't. We rarely talk about freedom and security in the same way, as if they were essentially opposed. And so, part of my motivation here--I don't think I'm revealing, I'm dropping new truths on people's heads. I think part of what I wanted to do with the book is say, 'Hey, we already recognize these things.' My examples aren't from the history of--I mean, there are philosophers in the book, and it's a work of philosophy, but they're not trying to draw from the history of professional philosophers' thinking about things, but rather from ordinary life and the kinds of things we do and think about. So, I wanted to say, actually, we have this stronger, more maybe ambivalent, but certainly more profound view of privacy already. And, I just want to remind us, in a sense, of what we have. And maybe what we're at a risk of losing, by coming to think of it in these stark binary terms, or as being concerned primarily with information. 52:43 Russ Roberts: Let's talk about forgetting, which you just mentioned. What's the value of forgetting? Again, it would seem to be--forgetting is bad. I mean, I should remember things and learn from them. Why is forgetting a good idea? Lowry Pressly: Yeah, I wish I had a better memory. Russ Roberts: Me, too. Lowry Pressly: But, yeah: so this is another--the book as a whole is arguing for limits to what we can know. And not just any limits, because one of the big claims that I mentioned a couple of times is different limits are different. They play different roles in our lives. We might want some, but not others. We might want them in some certain contexts, and on. So, secrecy and privacy--secrecy is my big foil for privacy. But, that limits don't just inhibit us or restrict us or make us smaller, but actually limits, and limits of the right sort, give us something. And so, one of this is privacy. Another one is forgetting. And so, that could be a sort of, at least in terms of oblivion, as privacy produces the not-knowing I call oblivion in the present moment, memory does with regard to the past. And that's where the word 'oblivion,' I think, has its most natural and certainly common usage as the root word for 'forgetting' in Romance languages, and so on. And so, my argument isn't that we need to forget more. I really wish I could remember more. But like the not-knowing of privacy, it is to recognize that actually this limit to what we can know, and understanding it in a particular way, plays a valuable role in our lives. Gives us a sense of depth, gives us a sense of possibility, or the idea that I can be different from the way that I was. And also, gives a sense of depth to human life, which is--so I'll say that the depth one really quick, and then quickly about the penultimate one I said about being different. And, we could talk more about this if you want. But, to the extent that we think of what we don't know, what we can't remember--we don't think this way, but if we did--by analogy to privacy, as hidden from me, a secret as being some information that I just can't get at, as opposed to just being unreachable by me, but being gone, we have a different view of the human person. And, for reasons I argue, it's a shallower view, and certainly a more sort of paranoid, self-surveilling view. And, I think the other benefit of forgetting that I mentioned is maybe a bit more obvious--and this ties into contemporary debates over the right to be forgotten--which is that being able to forget, let's say for me, maybe some horrible missteps I've made, or whatever, these make me a better agency, less anxious or concerned, or convinced that I'll do it again, if I have to do it. And, the idea that those around me won't know about, I don't know--let's say I was this incorrigible punk as a teenager, which isn't too far from the truth. The idea that that's not going to sort of precede me everywhere I go, that others won't know about my past, that that'll recede into the past, makes my view of the future seem a lot more open. It makes it seem a lot more possible for me to be different than the way that I was. And, this might be true for individual memories, but it's certainly true for, let's say, the collective memory of society around us. Russ Roberts: I think it's related to the claim earlier about the frozen nature of a still photograph. You give a dramatic example of a murderer who serves a prison term and comes out, and should every--you only use his initial--should every encounter he has now for the rest of his life be preceded by that knowledge? 'Hi, I'm so-and-so the murderer,' when he introduced himself to somebody in a cafe,' or, 'I'm so-and-so. If you Google me, you'll find out I murdered somebody, but I did 20 years in prison.' And at the same time, should that person now be free for that to be forgotten, either by himself--which I think could be very beneficial in allowing him to become someone different--or should he carry that burden, right? It's a tough question. Lowry Pressly: It's a tough question. And, that question, the way you phrased it is in terms of theories of punishment. And, that's the way a lot of it is discussed. And I just note that it's interesting that we would discuss memory and collective memorialization as a punishment --or at least as a potential punishment--just points to the ambivalent nature of memory, but also to its social force . And, my view about that, I see the--of course when it comes to the murderer and his interest in meeting people who, when they Google him--and this is really sort of at the heart of this thing where we now have discussion about the right to be forgotten because we all Google, not all of us, but it's extremely common--Google people before we meet them, we essentially became private detectives overnight; and we compile a dossier on the people we're going to meet before we meet them. And, I don't think we appreciate how strange that is, that in the past 10 years, we've all become private detectives who make a dossier on the people we meet, everyone we meet. It's just become common practice to me, which is extremely wild. And, what's even stranger is that it just has receded into invisibility. It's become common practice. But, the idea that he has an interest in that not happening to him--even though he has committed one of the greatest crimes anyone could commit, served his time, and so on--to me is I think that he has that sort of interest and right for the same reasons that I'm against the practice of criminal branding. I think criminal branding is barbaric. They used to--in ancient times, they would brand someone's face. I think it's barbaric, any part of the body. And, the point of the brand wasn't to cause pain, wasn't to keep someone in a prison. It was meant to be a permanent punishment by making it such that this person could never meet someone without knowing that they had been a slave, or that they had--this is like The Scarlet Letter, even though this was sewed on Hester Prynne's clothes--then you never meet somebody without them knowing immediately , before you even say your name, the worst thing about your past, or at least just something about your past. And, that's an incredible constriction of human freedom. But of course, we think some constrictions of human freedom, like incarceration or something, might be justified. But also, it's just beyond that. I think it's an immense --and this is my main reason that I'm against both criminal branding and this sort of the digital version of it--is that it's an immense injury to a person's sense of self-as-an-agent. Because, what it's meant to do is not protect the people who see the brand, or who find out, because at that point you're already within arm's length. If they were going to do something, they would do it. Most crimes are committed by first offenders, most violent crimes by people the person knows. And, presumably this person is, at least the murderer, has served his time and proven that he's no longer more of a threat than those of us who haven't committed a crime yet. Statistically, maybe, he's less. But, what it's meant to do is to sort of crush his sense--the branded one's sense--that they could ever be different. That this is: You will never outrun this thing that happened in your past. And that to me seems like a really barbaric punishment, not that's effected on the face, or the dossier, or whatever, but on the, let's say, the human soul or spirit. Russ Roberts: And we're picking, because it makes it dramatic--as you say--a heinous crime. 1:01:42 Russ Roberts: But, think about the thousand examples in our own lives of inconsiderateness, and selfishness, or cruelty, pettiness. Think of all the complicated mistakes we make as human beings, and imagine one of them being marked on you. Or worse: you have a blow-up in public that illuminates your imperfection, and people know about it and talk about it. And, in today's world, sometimes it goes viral. And, I don't think you quote Whitman--and I'm not a big Walt Whitman fan. But I think Whitman said, 'I contain multitudes.' And, I think one of the things you're getting at that's profound is that all of us contain multitudes. Any one moment of weakness or imperfection should not be front and center all the time. And, it's a burden--you say, it's a burden on the soul--that's not--I'm not sure I feel that way about--I think murder might be a special case, with a few other horrible things. But, when we think about it more generally, we don't want to be summed up by one moment when we have a thousand that are on the other side. And, yet, where's my gold star for that , that you're not seeing? And I think--and it gets at the fact that, as human beings, we have trouble remembering that--the gold stars. The person sits across from us who has a moment of imperfection, maybe in public or in our presence. And we tend to label them. And then, that's over. When we know that for our own selves, we're richer than that. We have more in our multitude. We have more--we contain multitudes. And, we can imagine, if we're careful enough, that people are more complicated. But, when you see the one thing, and it's with them all the time--on their face, for whatever version of it we're talking about--it's not accurate. Lowry Pressly: And, the Whitman quote is, I think, really profound because Whitman, he wrote "I contain multitudes" as a way of not saying, 'Look at me. Look how special and full of multitude--look how multitudinous I am.' But, rather as a way of connecting, of showing some sort of shared universal human basis with everyone . So, it's a fundamentally sort of democratic, shared multitudinous: the idea that we have all of these things isn't something special about us, but rather is something we have in common. And what a miracle, how wondrous that is. And, I think this goes all the way back, I think, to the beginning of the first thing you said about quantification, and the way that we think so much in terms of data, information, and so on. Because, I think on some fundamental level, the cultural and personal impulse towards quantification, information, even the focus on very specific identity categories, is to some extent at odds with that idea of multitudinousness. So, even if I say, 'Well, I contain multitudes, and here they are: Multitude A, B, C, and D. Here's the information about myself.' And, 'Look, I have 10,000 data points. What multitudes.' The kind of thinking that comes from seeing the world in terms of information, or the binary of one thing or another, is, I think, fundamentally opposed at a very basic level to multitudinous. Because, for something to be quantified, for it to be a piece of information, it doesn't matter if you have 10,000. Each piece of information has to be discrete, has to be unambiguous. And so, if we think about people and the world, even if in their immense complexity, as being composed--or at least in principle, being able to be composed--of just a myriad of discrete data points that are at least in theory knowable and identifiable, is one that's against--yeah, it's against the idea that we contain ambiguous, so it's that we have aspects of us that are protean and malleable. And, as I said before, this isn't a natural fact about human beings, but rather that we do contain multitudes depends on us thinking that way. If one day we came to think that we don't contain multitudes, or if there are lots of systems of beliefs still around today that don't think this way, then I think we would be less well off. Russ Roberts: That's beautiful. 1:06:40 Russ Roberts: I want to quote--I'm going to read a quote that you have of Werner Herzog, which I found quite haunting. And, it's a quote, but in one part of it, there's a bracketed word, which is the word peering . So, otherwise, other than that, it's a literal quote of Herzog. Incidentally, I forgot this quote. I forgot who said it. And I read this part of your book very, relatively long ago--like, a month ago--and then I'm finishing the book today, and I'm thinking, 'Isn't there a quote from somebody about darkness, and light, and psychotherapy, and self-awareness? I wonder who said it?' I got on ChatGPT [Generative Pre-trained Transformer] and Claude, and I'm trying to find it. I eventually find it. And I think, 'Oh great. I'll get Lowry's opinion of this quote.' Well, you taught it to me. Here it is. We're talking about Werner Herzog, the director. He says, 'Explaining and scrutinizing the human soul, [peering] into all its niches and crooks and abysses and dark corners, is not doing good to humans. We have to have our dark corners and the unexplained. We will become uninhabitable in a way an apartment will become uninhabitable if you illuminate every single dark corner and under the table and wherever--you cannot live in a house like this anymore. And you cannot live with a person anymore--let's say in a marriage or a deep friendship--if everything is illuminated, explained, and put out on the table.' [[Pressly quoting Werner Herzog. Inserted word "[peering]" in Pressly original.] Close quote. Now, this goes against the whole idea of much of psychoanalysis, psychotherapy: You need to bring everything out, dredge it up, go into your past, remember everything. And, you need to expose it and put it out on the table, and that way you can heal yourself. And, Herzog is saying the exact opposite: There are things you need to push down, repress, and keep them in the dark. How do you justify that? Why do you think that's--I understand it's not a universal sentiment for every situation. But, what's he getting at there that's important or valuable? Lowry Pressly: So, I would say that I don't read him--[inaudible 01:09:03] that is sympathetic to my view--I don't read him as saying that there needs to be some things pushed into the dark. We need to keep--certain things are shameful or secret, and we shouldn't be telling anyone about them. I don't think that's what he's saying because he's talking about a marriage, or a close friendship, or something where we actually do know these kinds of secrets about one another. And that's also an idea from psychotherapy and Freudian psychoanalysis--that nothing's lost, everything--the things that might be forgotten are gone. They're actually pushed down. They're sedimented. They're somewhere down there, and so we need to dig them up. But, whatever is your past, your memories, they're not actually forgotten. They don't recede into oblivion, but rather they're like secrets or hidden things in your past, that now you have to be really paranoid about, on the one hand, but also try to discover. And so, I see Herzog--like, my argument--as arguing against that. Saying that, yeah, we have things that we repress. Yeah, we have secrets. Yeah, we have all of this. But, seeing all of human life as being like that, thinking that that as sort of describes the whole boundaries of what we are--that all of the things that we don't know about ourselves, that our dark regions, and dark corners, and so on, and unexplained--are dark and unexplained because there's something there that we're either repressing, or that we haven't become aware of, or whatever, but it is in principle illuminable--that is a dangerous and also just, I think, a really impoverished view of the human person. I take him to be saying that the human person--and I would say society--is like that apartment that he mentions. That if it is just completely glaringly illuminated at all times, it's a hard place to live, and it's in some ways inhuman. So, we need dark corners, I think he says. We need the un explained. And, I don't think what he means there is we need to--there need to be pressing things about us, or even trivial things, that we just, 'Ah, whatever. I don't care about that,' or, 'I won't explain it,' or things that we should not want other people to attend to. But rather, we need to cultivate within us, and within our society's zones of obscurity, about which we don't know anything. We don't know what's on the other end of the darkness. That's what real darkness is like. Not darkness that hides something, but actual, profound, deep darkness. We don't know what's on the other side of it. Nevertheless, that darkness--that limit to our knowledge--is in our apartment, is in ourselves. So, we have limits to what we can know in society, but also in introspection, in our relationships with others that we bump up against. But, we don't see those limits as concealing something from us, as hiding something. But, rather we see them as being a limit beyond which there is just a region of beyondness to us that we can't reach, we can't exhaust or know, we can't instrumentalize, and so on. And, that is a view of the human person, and human society, that contains a great deal more depth, and mystery, and capacity for surprise and rebirth, than one in which everything that is in that Herzog's darkness is hidden, or secret, or repressed. Russ Roberts: I think he's saying one other thing, or at least I learned one other thing from it. Which is that--and this is something you learn from marriage or a close friendship--you feel an injustice, or you're accused of an injustice, and you play back the tape in your mind and you realize, 'Nope, I was right.' I did the right thing, and my friend or my wife is misremembering this, and let's bring it out in the light. Let's play the tape. Let's get the video. Let's get the CCTV--the closed circuit television--of that conversation we had three weeks ago at breakfast. And I'm going to show her--she's going to show me--how it really was. And, that's not available, that tape. And, your mind has--it's an illusion to think you can bring that into the light and settle it. And, it's one of the deepest things I think you learn from marriage, is that your self-righteousness is usually--it's either wrong, it's a fake memory. We don't have the tape. And, it's much better to just say, 'Maybe I was wrong and I'm going to learn from it.' But, the idea that you could just get that big flashlight and illuminate that dark corner from childhood, from two years ago, from last week, it's just an illusion. And it's a dangerous, unhelpful illusion for interacting with other human beings who have the same challenges you do. Lowry Pressly: Yeah. As you'll know from the book, I have also learned a lot from marriage, and much of it appears in there. And, in that case, it seems really--I mean, the desire to prove one's self-righteousness and run back the tape is inevitable and hard to avoid and never successful. But, it does seem important for the quality of the relationship. And, I think this scales down to the relationship with oneself and also broadly to the sort of kind of society we have. It seems important for the relationship between spouses, or romantic partners, that there is no tape to be run back. That there is no information about it. There's no fact of the matter. And so, recognizing that between the two of you requires a negotiation, requires a sort of commitment to our mutual vulnerability of--in the face of our fallible memories, to say nothing of our fallible way of behaving in the present. And that kind of commitment, I think, is not just like a deal you make every time you get in an argument about how we're going to resolve this dispute, but is a much more profound commitment about your relationship to each other, or the role in the world of your relationship: that there is a sort of mutual--well, yeah--mutual commitment in the face of this profound and ineradicable vulnerability. And, I think that's a valuable thing, even. I think our disputes would be more easily resolved--you'd certainly want this in court, if we had a tape to run back of everything. Then we would just figure it out, and we wouldn't have to fight about it. We'd just go check the tape. But, we would lose something, I think, in the quality and the depth of our relationship, even as we became more efficient, or precise, or exact about resolving disputes. And there's a great short story that you might enjoy if you haven't read it, by the sci-fi writer Ted Chiang on this, whether it's basically imagining the--if we did have a tape to run back. It's called The Truth of Fact, The Truth of Feeling , and it's a sort of Black Mirror -type premise predating the Black Mirror show. But, what makes Chiang such a good writer, and his story so good, is he explores it through the really emotionally potent relationship of family. And, I think it's a great story and a great way to think about this issue. 1:16:54 Russ Roberts: Well, just thinking about the ineffable, hard-to-capture aspect of human experience: I think we imagine, incorrectly, we think, 'Well, we don't have the tape, of course, of that Wednesday morning breakfast. But, I have the transcript: it's in my head.' And, we forget that a transcript, which we think of as a fact, as information, is incredibly ambiguous. It leaves out the raised eyebrow, it leaves out the chuckle. Sometimes it's put in, '[chuckle]' in brackets, in the transcript, right? But, was that a cruel chuckle, or was that a self-awareness, nervous chuckle? And, all those complexities of the human experience are really hard to capture. And, even the video, of course, is also going to mislead us. As we know, video evidence is often terribly flawed; but we don't have anything close to that. And, I think it's better just to appreciate the complexity of our interactions and language and the ambiguity of it. Lowry Pressly: Yeah, I think that's true, and it's one of the broader--not just the broader arguments of the book, but what's coming out of this conversation is that there is an aspect of human life, from the relationship to oneself, to others, that either we talked about limits to knowing--so, privacy, or memory, or whatever, but also--so that needs those, but also that needs a different kind of limit, which is the limit of how much of life is made sort of unambiguous. Or, and this has sort of a dialectical relationship to that: How much of that, of unambiguity, do we want, do we demand from life? So, when it comes to knowing oneself and another, how much certainty, how much information do I demand? How tolerant am I of ambiguity, of certainty, of irony, of not knowing? Do I need to know if I don't have--I don't have, as you might expect, given the book, I don't have a smartwatch health tracker, but let's suppose I had one. Do I feel that I'm bereft of self-knowledge, that I know myself less if I don't have it or something: 'Oh, what's my heartbeat doing? I need to know.' They're all subtle and small, and they seem seemingly laughable in isolation, but I think they're all indicative of a cultural shift that predates the 21st century by a little bit, or maybe by another century to the beginning of privacy maybe, but which seems really in overdrive now. And, it's hard to see when you're going through it. But, if we don't see it as we're going through it, then I think we stand really to lose these valuable aspects of human life that depend upon what you were describing: the ambiguity, the flux and flow of human life as it's lived, undatified, off the screen, off camera. Russ Roberts: My guest today has been Lowry Pressly. His book is The Right to Oblivion . Lowry, thanks for being part of EconTalk. Lowry Pressly: Oh, it's been so great. Thanks for having me. Econlib The Library of Economics and Liberty Liberty Fund, Inc. 11301 N. Meridian Street Carmel, IN 46032-4564, USA econlib@libertyfund.org About About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Publications Books Articles EconTalk EconLog Videos Resources Quickpicks CEE Encyclopedia College Guides High School Guides Sign up for our newsletter Enter your email address to subscribe to the Econlib monthly newsletter. » Liberty Fund, Inc. 11301 N. Meridian Street Carmel, IN 46032-4564, USA info@libertyfund.org © 2024 Econlib, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Part of the Liberty Fund Network.